Abstract Acid-base terminology including the use of SI units is reviewed. The historical reasons why nomograms have been particularly used in acid-base work are discussed. The theoretical basis of the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation is considered. It is emphasized that the solubility of CO 2 in plasma and the apparent first dissociation constant of carbonic acid are not chemical constants when applied to media of uncertain and varying composition such as blood plasma. The use of the Henderson—Hasselbalch equation in making hypothermia corrections for P co 2 is discussed. The Astrup system for the in vitro determination of blood gases and derived parameters is described and the theoretical weakness of the base excess concept stressed. A more clinically-oriented approach to the assessment of acid-base problems is presented. Measurement of blood [H + ] and P co 2 are considered to be primary data which should be recorded on a chart with in vivo CO 2 -titration lines (see below). Clinical information and results of other laboratory investigations such as plasma bicarbonate, P o 2 , P 50 are then to be considered together with the primary data. In order to interpret this combined information it is essential to take into account the known ventilatory response to metabolic acidosis and alkalosis, and the renal response to respiratory acidosis and alkalosis. The use is recommended of a chart showing the whole-body CO 2 -titration points obtained when patients with different initial levels of non-respiratory [H + ] are ventilated. A number of examples are given of the use of this [H + ] and P co 2 in vivo chart in the interpretation of acid—base data. The aetiology, prognosis and treatment of metabolic alkalosis is briefly reviewed. Treatment with intravenous acid is recommended for established cases. Attention is drawn to the possibility of iatrogenic production of metabolic alkalosis. Caution is expressed over the use of intravenous alkali in all but the severest cases of metabolic acidosis. The role of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on tissue oxygenation is stressed and use of intravenous sodium phosphate as an alternative to intravenous bicarbonate is mentioned.
Abstract At pH 7.0, 20°, both in the absence and presence of phosphates, the time course of n-butyl isocyanide binding to deoxyhemoglobin is biphasic, and the two kinetic phases can be isolated spectrally and identified with the properties of the α and β chains. Under all conditions at this pH, both the association and dissociation rate constants of the β chains are at least 10 times larger than the corresponding α chain rate constants, which indicates that the β heme site is much more accessible to this isocyanide than the α heme site. However, the spectral and functional heterogeneity observed in the kinetic and equilibrium data at pH 7.0 is absent at pH 9.1. This would appear to indicate that the chains possess similar ligand-binding properties at alkaline pH. For stripped hemoglobin in 0.05 m 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)2,2',2''-nitriloethanol (bis-tris), pH 7.0, 20°, the affinities of the chains within deoxyhemoglobin (defined by the reaction Hb4 + X ⇌ Hb4X) are roughly equivalent, the affinity of the deoxy α chains being slightly greater than that of the β chains. For unstripped hemoglobin in 0.1 m Pi, pH 7.0, the affinity of the deoxy α chains appears to be slightly lower than that of the β chains. At pH 7.0, the addition 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate to samples of stripped hemoglobin allows the generation of populations of partially saturated intermediates which contain n-butyl isocyanide bound preferentially to β heme sites. Thus, the most striking effect of phosphates is a lowering of the ligand affinity of the α chains relative to that of the β chains within the deoxy tetramer. A detailed analysis has been performed on both equilibrium and kinetic data obtained with stripped hemoglobin in 0.05 m bis-tris, pH 7.0. In order to fit both types of data with a single set of rate constants, the tetramer had to be considered as the minimum unit of function, and within this unit, the structural transition from deoxy-like to oxy-like hemoglobin was postulated to occur only after three ligand molecules had been bound. From the resultant values assigned to this set of rate constants, the total free energy of interaction per binding site was calculated to be ∼2.0 kcal per mole which is 0.3 kcal per mole smaller than the value which has been reported for the oxygen reaction. This result, coupled with the remarkable effects of phosphates and pH on the manifestation of chain differences, suggests the need for caution not only in comparing results obtained under different experimental conditions but also in using results obtained with one ligand to predict the behavior of hemoglobin with another.
Abstract A phosphorylated form of phosphoglycerate mutase has been isolated from incubations of the enzyme with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-2,3-32P. 3-Phosphoglycerate, 2-phosphoglycerate, or glycolate-2-P remove the radioactive phosphoryl group from the phosphorylated enzyme purified by filtration on Sephadex G-25. In the presence of 3-phosphoglycerate or 2-phosphoglycerate, the 32P liberated is transferred from the enzyme to the acceptor while glycolate-2-P causes its release as 32Pi. The pH and time dependence of the release of the 32P from the phosphorylated enzyme at 46 ° agree with the lability of 3-phosphohistidine. After alkaline hydrolysis of the 32P-phosphorprotein, the radioactivity behaves on ion exchange like synthetic 14C-phosphohistidine. Electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels containing sodium dodecyl sulfate indicates that the combining weight of the 32P-contaimng species is 27,000, which is about half of the reported molecular weight.
Abstract The fluorescent substance 8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonate (HPT) has been shown to combine with deoxyhemoglobin with a stoichiometry of 1 molecule of HPT per hemoglobin tetramer. It is displaced with the same stoichiometry by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and by inositol hexaphosphate. When added to human hemoglobin solutions of low ionic strength it diminishes oxygen affinity. HPT has been used to study anion release associated with carbon monoxide binding. This occurs late in the reaction with hemoglobin A at pH 6, probably after 3 molecules of CO have been bound, and somewhat earlier at pH 7.5. Release is earlier with des-his(β146) hemoglobin, hemoglobins Hiroshima (β146 asp), Chesapeake (α92 leu), and hemoglobin A treated with p-mercuribenzoate. In static titrations with carbon monoxide there was good proportionality between ligand binding and anion release. With oxygen as ligand there was little or no lag between oxygen binding and anion release in kinetic experiments at low ligand concentrations. Detailed analysis suggests that more than two hemoglobin conformations are required to account for the results. The chief kinetic contribution to cooperativity in the CO binding reaction due to the combination velocity constants occurs after binding of 3 CO molecules.
The inhibitory effects of acellular and cellular hemoglobin (Hb) solutions on endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation were investigated in rabbit thoracic aortic strips. As acellular Hb solutions, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG)-depleted Hb and pyridoxylated Hb were examined. Cellular Hb solutions included washed human fresh red cells and liposome Hb encapsulated with pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP). The tissues were precontracted with phenylephrine (PE), after which acetylcholine (ACh) was added to elicit a steady-state relaxation. Acellular Hb solutions cumulatively reversed ACh-induced relaxation, and these inhibitory effects reached a plateau at 10 micrograms/ml. Increasing oxygen affinity by pyridoxylation had little effect on this. In contrast, both red cells and liposome Hb solution showed moderate inhibitory effects, and they reached a plateau at 1 mg/ml. These findings indicate that acellular Hb solutions are more potent inhibitors than cellular Hb solutions by a factor of about 100, and that the encapsulation of Hb is a preferable method to mimic the red cell.
Abstract ::: Adaptation of Sherpas to high altitude has been studied and compared with that of Caucasians acclimatized to high altitude. Sherpas living permanently at 4000 m above sea level do not have increased hematological parameters (i.e., red cell number, hematocrit, hemoglobin content, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate/hemoglobin ratio) and have a higher affinity of blood for oxygen as compared with acclimatized Caucasians. Sherpas permanently living at low altitude, on the contrary, have lower affinity of blood for oxygen than do Caucasians living at comparable altitude and are mildly "anemic,". Various other red cell biochemical parameters (possibly related to adaptation to altitude) have also been studied in the same population. We suggest that Sherpas are genetically better adapted to high altitude than are Amerindians living on the Peruvian highlands, possibly as a consequence of a much more prolonged exposure to such an ecological factor of selection as high altitude.
Human erythrocyte hexokinase (ATP: D-hexose 6-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.1) was inhibited competitively with respect to MgATP2- by glucose-6-P (Ki - 10.8 muM) and fructose-6-P (Ki = 160 muM). Low concentrations of inorganic phosphate were competitive with respect to glucose-6-P and fructose-6-P, although higher concentrations of Pi were not able to overcome completely the inhibition by the hexose phosphates. The results are consistent with a model in which hexokinase exists in equilibrium either as free or phosphate-associated enzyme, the latter having a reduced but still substantial affinity for hexose phosphate. An alternative explanation could be found in the presence of two different enzymes, one with a high affinity for glucose-6-P being sensitive to regulation by Pi, one with a lower affinity for glucose-6-P being insensitive to Pi. A similar but less pronounced effect of Pi, was found on the inhibition by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (Ki = 4.0 mM). Pi in the absence of inhibitor was also a competitive inhibitor with respect to MgATP2- (Ki = 20 mM). Furthermore a competitive inhibition with respect to MgATP2- was found by fructose 1,6-diphosphate (Ki = 4.3 mM), glycerate-3-P (Ki = 3.8 mM), glycerate-2-P (Ki = 12.5 mM), MgADP- (Ki = 1.0 mM) and MgAMP (Ki = 1.7 mM).
The concentrations of free magnesium, [Mg(2+)](free), [H(+)], and [ATP] are important in the dehydration of red blood cells from patients with sickle cell anemia, but they are not easily measured. Consequently, we have developed a rapid, noninvasive NMR spectroscopic method using the phosphorus chemical shifts of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to determine [Mg(2+)](free) and pH(i) simultaneously in fully oxygenated whole blood. The method employs theoretical equations expressing the observed chemical shift as a function of pH, K(+), and [Mg(2+)](free), over a pH range of 5.75-8.5 and [Mg(2+)](free) range 0-5 mm. The equations were adjusted to allow for the binding of hemoglobin to ATP and DPG, which required knowledge of the intracellular concentrations of ATP, DPG, K(+), and hemoglobin. Normal oxygenated whole blood (n = 33) had a pH(i) of 7.20 +/- 0.02, a [Mg(2+)](free) of 0.41 +/- 0.03 mm, and [DPG] of 7.69 +/- 0.47 mm. Under the same conditions, whole sickle blood (n = 9) had normal [ATP] but significantly lower pH(i) (7.10 +/- 0.03) and [Mg(2+)](free) (0.32 +/- 0.05 mm) than normal red cells, whereas [DPG] (10.8 +/- 1.2 mm) was significantly higher. Because total magnesium was normal in sickle cells, the lower [Mg(2+)](free) could be attributed to increased [DPG] and therefore greater magnesium binding capacity of sickle cells.
The blood levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate have been studied in 16 acute asthmatics and a group of healthy controls. No significant difference was found, but asthmatics had higher haemoglobin concentrations.
Previous studies point to the acidic amino-terminal segment of band 3, the anion transport protein of the red cell, as the common binding site for hemoglobin and several of the glycolytic enzymes to the erythrocyte membrane. We now report on the interaction of hemoglobin with the synthetic peptide AcM-E-E-L-Q-D-D-Y-E-D-E, corresponding to the first 11 residues of band 3, and with the entire 43,000-Da cytoplasmic domain of the protein. In the presence of increasing concentrations of the peptide, the oxygen binding curve for hemoglobin is shifted progressively to the right, indicating that the peptide binds preferentially to deoxyhemoglobin. The dissociation constant for the deoxyhemoglobin-peptide complex at pH 7.2 in the presence of 100 mM NaCl is 0.31 mM. X-ray crystallographic studies were carried out to determine the exact mode of binding of the peptide to deoxyhemoglobin. The difference electron density map of the deoxyhemoglobin-peptide complex at 5 A resolution showed that the binding site extends deep (approximately 18 A) into the central cavity between the beta chains, along the dyad symmetry axis, and includes Arg 104 beta 1 and Arg 104 beta 2 as well as most of the basic residues within the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site. The peptide appears to have an extended conformation with only 5 to 7 of the 11 residues in contact with hemoglobin. In agreement with the crystallographic studies, binding of the peptide to deoxyhemoglobin was blocked by cross-linking the beta chains at the entrance to the central cavity. Oxygen equilibrium studies showed that the isolated cytoplasmic fragment of band 3 also binds preferentially to deoxyhemoglobin. The binding of the 43,000-Da fragment to hemoglobin was inhibited in the cross-linked derivative indicating that the acidic amino-terminal residues in the intact cytoplasmic domain also bind within the central cavity of the hemoglobin tetramer.
Reduced concentrations of red cell organic phosphates and increased hemoglobin--oxygen affinity have been reported during and following cardiac bypass surgery. Some have related these changes to low concentrations of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in stored blood while others have related them to use of the pump oxygenator. There was a 10% decrease in DPG concentration in seven dogs on cardiac bypass although the animals received no transfusions. In 16 patients who received 0 to 7 units of blood during cardiac bypass there was a decrease of 10% in the red cell DPG concentration from the preoperative value, but it did not relate to the concentration of DPG in the transfused blood bags. The magnitude of the decrease was not sufficient to impair oxygen delivery severely. The results suggest that a re-evaluation of indications for the use of fresh red cells in cardiac surgery is necessary.
Using guinea pigs, a study was conducted on the effects of KBT-3022, a new anti-platelet agent, on hemorheological properties in various tests including blood filterability, blood viscosity, shear stress-induced red blood cell (RBC) deformability and contents of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Oral administration of KBT-3022 at 1 and 10 mg/kg significantly increased blood filterability, and significantly reduced blood viscosity at 10 mg/kg without changing the hematocrit, plasma fibrinogen concentration or plasma viscosity. KBT-3022 (10 mg/kg, p.o.) improved RBC deformability in response to shear stress, which was evoked by passing the blood through a thin tube
Abstract Human erythrocytes were found to metabolize bicarbonate as evidenced from studies of incorporation of bicarbonate- 14 C into acid-stable compounds. Ribulose diphosphate or ribulose 5-phosphate and ATP were the substrates. Erythrocytes contain ribulose diphosphate carboxylase (carboxydismutase) and phosphoribulokinase, both of which were partially purified. Products of the metabolism of ribulose diphosphate in hemolyzates of erythrocytes were 3-phosphoglycerate and pyruvate. Ribulose diphosphate carboxylase was purified 70-fold from hemolyzates by treatment with Sephadex G-100, DEAE-cellulose, and ammonium sulfate. Phosphoribulokinase activity was demonstrated as alkali-labile phosphate produced from ribose-5-P, and as 14 C of bicarbonate incorporated into acid-stable compounds. It could be demonstrated in a 40% saturated ammonium sulfate precipitate of hemolyzates, or purified by treatment of hemolyzates with Sephadex G-100, calcium phosphate gel, and Sephadex G-25. It is believed the synthesis of 3-phosphoglycerate in a sequence alternate to glycolysis may effect the magnitude of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes, while the metabolism of bicarbonate may explain reported improved viability of erythrocytes stored under CO 2 .
1. The oxygen affinity in vitro, haematological indices, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and plasma inorganic phosphate were determined in 20 patients with chronic ventilatory failure and in 20 healthy non-smokers of similar age. 2. No significant difference was observed between the mean oxygen affinity or phosphate concentrations of the patients and healthy subjects but the mean haemoglobin and packed cell volume were significantly higher in the patients. 3. There was a positive correlation between plasma and intraerythrocytic pH which was similar in both patients and healthy subjects. 4. The arteriovenous difference in oxygen saturation in vivo (directly measured at cardiac catheterization) correlated closely with that calculated from the individual patient's oxygen affinity determined in vitro and arterial and mixed venous oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions, suggesting that oxygen affinity in vitro accurately reflects the curve in vivo.
Two-dimensional paper chromatography was used to partition the acid-soluble phosphates in the erythrocytes of normal newborn infants, infants with erythroblastosis fetalis and adults. ::: ::: The inorganic phosphate concentration was higher in the fresh red cells of normal and erythroblastotic infants and rose more during incubation for four hours than in the cells of adults. ::: ::: The amount of erythrocyte adenosine-5’-triphosphate in the adults exceeded the quantities found in the cells of the two groups of babies. ::: ::: The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level was greater in the erythrocytes of adults and infants with erythroblastosis than it was in the normal infants and incubation for four hours resulted in a sharper decrease of this compound in cells of the normal and erythroblastotic infants than in the adults.
BACKGROUND ::: Exchange transfusion is a mainstay in the treatment of sickle cell anemia. Transfusion recipients with sickle cell disease (SCD) can be transfused over 10 units per therapy, an intervention that replaces circulating sickle red blood cells (RBCs) with donor RBCs. Storage of RBCs makes the intervention logistically feasible. The average storage duration for units transfused at the Duke University Medical Center is approximately 2 weeks, a time window that should anticipate the accumulation of irreversible storage lesion to the RBCs. However, no metabolomics study has been performed to date to investigate the impact of exchange transfusion on recipients' plasma and RBC phenotypes. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Plasma and RBCs were collected from patients with sickle cell anemia before transfusion and within 5 hours after exchange transfusion with up to 11 units, prior to metabolomics analyses. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Exchange transfusion significantly decreased plasma levels of markers of systemic hypoxemia like lactate, succinate, sphingosine 1-phosphate, and 2-hydroxyglutarate. These metabolites accumulated in transfused RBCs, suggesting that RBCs may act as scavenger/reservoirs. Transfused RBCs displayed higher glycolysis, total adenylate pools, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, consistent with increased capacity to deliver oxygen. Plasma levels of acyl-carnitines and amino acids decreased, while fatty acids and potentially harmful phthalates increased upon exchange transfusion. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Metabolic phenotypes confirm the benefits of the transfusion therapy in transfusion recipients with SCD and the reversibility of some of the metabolic storage lesion upon transfusion in vivo in 2-week-old RBCs. However, results also suggest that potentially harmful plasticizers are transfused.
Diabetes is associated with a fluctuating impairment in oxygen transport of the erythrocytes. This impairment is correlated with hyperglycemia by the formation of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbAIC) and with inhibitory factors of glycolysis i.e. hypophosphatemia and acidosis which lower the concentration of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Diabetic angiopathy may be the ultimate result of innumerable microvascular responses to discrete hypoxic injuries associated with increased plasma permeation through the vessel walls. It is shown that two additional risk factors for atherosclerosis--smoking and hypertriglyceridemia may also lead to arterial wall hypoxia by changing the position of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve.
We have measured oxygen binding properties for red cell suspensions and stripped hemolysate of Xenopus laevis (XL) in order to answer the question whether XL hemoglobin exhibits a Root effect. The present results show that under physiological conditions XL red cells do not exhibit all the criteria for a Root effect. Compared to human Hb A, stripped XL hemoglobin has a low oxygen affinity, a normal alkaline Bohr effect and a lower interaction with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, its physiological allosteric effector in red cells. The values for the Hill coefficients are lower than those for human hemoglobin but XL Hb remains cooperative (n50 approximately 2), even at pH values below 6. Attempts to mimick some of the criteria for the Root effect were carried out in pure Hb A solution upon addition of potent allosteric effectors. This leads to low cooperativity and less than 100% oxygen saturation under room air at acidic pH. Under these conditions, mammalian or XL Hb have a maximum proton release at pH approximately 8 and an increased reverse Bohr effect. By contrast, a Root effect Hb exhibits a maximum proton release at neutral pH with the absence of reverse Bohr effect. Therefore the Root effect in fish Hb and the extreme stabilization of the T-state with effectors in mammalian Hb are not an identical phenomenon. Without crystallographic analyses of fish Hb exhibiting a Root effect, the molecular interpretation of this functional property still remains unexplained.
Phosphoglyceromutase (2,3-diphospho-D-glycerate phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.5.3) has been purified from sheep muscle. The enzyme has a specific activity of 828 units/mg and is stable for several months at 0–2 °C in 0.1 μ phosphate buffer, pH 7.0. The Km for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPGA) is 0.003 mM; the Km for 3-phosphoglycerate is 9.0 mM. A small amount of DPGA-phosphatase activity was associated with the enzyme.At pH 5.4 and 7.0 sheep phosphoglyceromutase was shown to be homogeneous by sedimenting as a single sharp peak in the ultracentrifuge and by the appearance of a single band on both disc gel and cellulose acetate electrophoresis. The sedimentation coefficient of the enzyme at pH 7.0 was 4.1 S, the diffusion constant 7.21 × 10−7 cm2/s, and the molecular weight calculated from both the-sedimentation and gel filtration data was of the order of 51 000.Disc gel electrophoresis of the enzyme at pH 9.3 revealed the presence of three protein components which were shown to be charge isomers.Titration of the...
Yeast phosphoglycerate mutase (EC 2.7.5.3) is a tetramer of mo1.W. 110700 (Sasaki et al., 1970) which catalyses the interconversion of 2-and 3-phosphoglycerate. The reaction requires the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate which acts as a primer rather than a true cofactor, since it does not participate in every catalytic cycle of the enzyme (Grisolia & Cleland, 1968) . Rose et al. (1975) have isolated a reaction intermediate containing a phosphorylated histidine residue, and Britton and his co-workers (Britton &Clarke, 1972; Brittonet al., 1972) haveshown that thereactionoccursviaaPingPongtype mechanism with the phosphate on the enzyme exchanging for the sugar phosphate.
Exchange transfusion significantly decreased plasma levels of markers of systemic hypoxemia like lactate, succinate, sphingosine 1-phosphate, and 2-hydroxyglutarate. These metabolites accumulated in transfused RBCs, suggesting that RBCs may act as scavenger/reservoirs. Transfused RBCs displayed higher glycolysis, total adenylate pools, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, consistent with increased capacity to deliver oxygen. Plasma levels of acylcarnitines and amino acids decreased, while fatty acids and potentially harmful phthalates increased upon exchange transfusion.
Abstract The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate hydrolytic activity of rabbit muscle mutase, which allows the release of one phosphate group from 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, is greatly enhanced by glycolate 2-P ( K α 28 μ M ). The low K m for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate of 0.6 μ M allows a rapid and complete reaction. Either phosphate release or phosphoglycerate formed can be used to measure 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, allowing greater ease of measurement and accuracy than currently used procedures. All the necessary reagents, including enzymes, are available commercially.
A comparison of concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine-triphosphate (ATP) in the red cells of cretins and normal controls living at 3,700 m in the Nepal Himalayas has shown t
The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was increased in whole venous blood of patients with various cancers, including those of breast, ovary, lung and colon, but not rectum, compared with age-matched controls. Higher values, increasing with age, were also found in patients with Hodgkin's disease and other lymphomas. This abnormality is considered to be due to increased synthesis of the metabolite by the tumour tissue.
Abstract Various monosaccharides, including ribose, mannose, galactose, and urea, in combination with glucose, were studied to determine their efficacy in supporting the formation of pyruvate, lactate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP in Rana ridibunda erythrocytes. Lactate formation was found to increase during the course of incubation in the presence of all the substrates. None of the studied substrates maintained cellular ATP levels. About 0.36 μmole of lactic acid per hour was produced for each μmole of ribose that was metabolized. The presence of 1 mM Na-iodoacetate accelerated the loss of ATP and lactate in the presence of either glucose or ribose. Additionally, ouabain suppressed lactate formation from ribose alone, as well as in combination with glucose. From the metabolic substrates studied, ribose was shown to be the most efficient substrate to support Rana ridibunda erythrocyte metabolism. Mannose, galactose and urea may also be used as alternative metabolic substrates by Rana ridibunda erythrocytes.
The effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) upon three partially purified enzymes from human erythrocytes, 5-phosphoribosyl-l-pyrophosphate synthetase (PRibPP synthetase, E.C.2.7.6.1), IMP:pyrophosphate phosphoribosyltransferase (E.C.2.4.2.8 HPRibTase) and AMP:pyrophosphate phosphoribosyltransferase (E.C.2.4.2.7 APRibTase) has been studied kinetically. PRibPP synthetase was not greatly inhibited at physiologic concentrations of 2,3-DPG at optimal phosphate concentration, but it was inhibited appreciably by 2,3-DPG at physiologic phosphate levels. Both HPRibTase and APRibTase were inhibited by 2,3-DPG at its normal intracellular concentration. 2,3-DPG is a competitive inhibitor with respect to the substrates, ribose-5-phosphate and 5-phosphoribosyl-l-pyrophosphate. The Ki values for these inhibitions are given and the possible physiologic significance of these findings are discussed.
Abstract The concentrations of phosphorylated carbohydrate intermediates in erythrocytes from patients with uremia were determined by anion exchange analysis. The elevated values for organic phosphate in freshly drawn blood could be accounted for almost entirely by the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate present. The hexose diphosphate and guanosine triphosphate concentrations were slightly elevated. When these blood samples were stored at 4 °C. for 14 and 21 days, the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate, hexose diphosphate, and guanosine triphosphate concentrations were greater than those for stored erythrocytes from healthy individuals. After extracorporeal hemodialysis of a patient with uremia, the elevated predialysis concentrations of these phosphorylated compounds decreased.
Red cell glycolytic intermediates and enzymes in term infants in the first year of life were correlated with the fetal hemoglobin concentration (%F), intra- and extracellular venous pH, plasma inorganic phosphorus (Pi) and pyruvate kinase (PK) activity. Changes in the non-age-dependent enzymes phosphoglycerate kinase, enolase, and phosphofructokinase correlated most significantly with the postnatal decline in %F (P less than 0.001), not the age of the red cell population, as reflected in PK activity. The age-dependent enzymes, hexokinase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, however, correlated well with PK activity (P less than 0.001). The concentration of glucose-6-phosphate did not correlate significantly with the postnatal decline in %F (P greater than 0.05) or PK (P greater than 0.10), but correalted significantly with the plasma Pi concentration (P less than 0.001). "Total triose phosphate" and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate did not correlate with Pi. It appears from these studies that an extracellular factor, Pi alters the pattern of glycolytic intermediates in term infants and that the postnatal changes in phosphoglycerate kinase, enolase, and phosphofructokinase are unique to the "fetal" red cell and reflect passage from fetal to "adult" erythropoiesis.
Abstract Haemoglobin Aalborg (Gly74 (E18)β → Arg) has a reduced oxygen affinity, in both the absence and the presence of organic phosphates: it has a raised affinity for organic phosphates, and it is moderately unstable. By contrast, haemoglobin Shepherds Bush (Gly74 (E18)β → Asp) has an increased oxygen affinity in both the absence and the presence of organic phosphates, a diminished affinity for organic phosphates and is also unstable. We have determined the crystal structure of deoxyhaemoglobin Aalborg at 2·8 A resolution and compared it to the structures of deoxy- and oxyhaemoglobin A and of deoxyhaemoglobin Shepherds Bush. The guanidinium group of Arg74(E18)β protrudes from the haem pocket and donates hydrogen bonds to the E and F helices. The carboxylate group of Asp74(E18)β forms a hydrogen bond only with residue EF6 and is partially buried, which may be why haemoglobin Shepherds Bush appears to be more unstable than haemoglobin Aalborg. To discover why the latter has a low oxygen affinity, we superimposed the B, G and H helices of haemoglobin A, whose conformation is known to be unaffected by ligand binding, on those of haemoglobin Aalborg. This also brought helices E and the haems into superposition, but revealed a shift of the F helix of deoxyhaemoglobin Aalborg towards the EF-corner. This shift is opposite to that which occurs on ligand binding and on transition to the quaternary oxy-structure, and is linked to an increased tilt of the proximal histidine residue away from the haem axis. Since the relative positions of helices E and F and of the haem group are thought to be the main determinants of the changes in oxygen affinity, the shift of helix F may account for the reduced oxygen affinity of haemoglobin Aalborg. The shift may be due to a combination of steric and electrostatic effects introduced by the arginine residue's side-chain. The effects of the arginine and aspartate substitutions at position E18β on the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate affinity are equal and opposite. They can be quantitatively accounted for by the electrostatic attraction or repulsion by the oppositely charged side-chains.
A 14-month-old child who had a haemolytic episode when he was 5 years old, and with psychomotor retardation, was found to have decreased red cell hexokinase activity. The mutant enzyme was characterized by an increased affinity for glucose associated with an increased inhibition constant for glucose-1,6-diphosphate. Affinity for Mg ATP2-, heat stability and pH-optimum were normal. The isozymic pattern of the red cell enzyme was normal but all the molecular forms were present in reduced amounts. The kinetics of decay of hexokinase during cell ageing was also normal. Glucose consumption of the hexokinase deficient cells was 60-65% of the controls while the amount metabolized through the hexose monophosphate shunt was unchanged. Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and glucose-6-phosphate levels were normal in the proband but reduced in the erythrocytes of his parents, who were heterozygous for the defect but had normal haematological data. Comparison with the 13 previously reported cases of hexokinase deficiency confirms the broad phenotypic variability that characterizes this disorder.
Abstract Oxygen-linked effects of inositol hexaphosphate occur in heme-containing non-alpha chains isolated from normal human hemoglobin, fetal hemoglobin, and the abnormal human hemoglobin Abruzzo, beta143(H21) His leads to Arg. The occurrence of these effects implies that the chains undergo ligand-linked conformational changes. Inositol hexaphosphate lowers the oxygen affinity of isolated beta and gamma chains by differential binding to their deoxy conformations. Neither 2,3-diphosphoglycerate nor inorganic phosphate produces such an effect. In the case of Abruzzo beta chains, the binding of inorganic phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is also oxygen-linked. Stripped beta chains isolated from hemoglobin Abruzzo have much higher oxygen affinity than beta chains isolated from HbA. Their higher oxygen affinity and enhanced allosteric interactions with phosphates account, in large part, for the abnormal functional behavior of the hemoglobin Abruzzo tetramer. In this hemoglobin variant the substitution of arginine for histidine at beta143 involves a residue known to interact with anionic allosteric effectors of hemoglobin. It is of interest that the effect of inositol hexaphosphate observed with isolated gamma chains is comparable to the effect observed with isolated beta chains, even though the gamma143 position is occupied by an uncharged serine residue.
The stability constants for the binding of magnesium ions to phosphoenolpyruvate, 2- and 3-phosphoglycerates, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, Pi, glucose 6-phosphate, isocitrate, glutamate and NAD have been determined spectrophotometrically in the presence of 8-hydroxyquinoline at 25 and 37 degrees C. Estimates of potassium binding constants have also been calculated for phosphoenolpyruvate and 2- and 3-phosphoglycerate and compared with previously published values.
BACKGROUND ::: Mechanical cell salvage is increasingly used during cardiac surgery. Although this procedure is considered safe, it is unknown whether it affects the red blood cell (RBC) function, especially the RBC aggregation, deformability, and the contents of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). This study examines the following: (1) whether the cell salvage procedure influences RBC function; and (2) whether retransfusion of the salvaged blood affects RBC function in patients. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Forty patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass were randomly allocated to a cell saver group (n = 20) or a control group (n = 20). In the cell saver group, the blood aspirated from the wound area and the residual blood from the heart-lung machine were processed with a continuous-flow cell saver before retransfusion. In the control group this blood was retransfused without processing. The RBC aggregation and deformability were measured with a laser-assisted optical rotational cell analyzer and 2,3,-DPG by conventional laboratory test. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The cell saver procedure did not influence the RBC aggregation but significantly reduced the RBC deformability (p = 0.007) and the content of RBC 2,3-DPG (p = 0.032). However, in patients receiving the processed blood, their intraoperative and postoperative RBC aggregation, deformability, and 2,3-DPG content did not differ from those of the control patients. Both groups of patients had a postoperative drop of RBC function as a result of hemodilution. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The mechanical cell salvage procedure reduces the RBC deformability and the cell 2,3-DPG content. Retransfusion of the processed blood by cell saver does not further compromise the RBC function in patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass.
ABSTRACT Developmental changes of blood oxygen pressure are instrumental for the regulation of blood oxygen affinity (via ATP/2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration) and carbonic anhydrase (CA) synthesis in red cells of chick embryos. Hypoxia is the physiological stimulus for the coordinated onset of synthesis of CA and 2,3-DPG in late chick embryos, whereas the higher blood oxygen pressure prevailing in early—and midterm embryos suppresses CA and 2,3-DPG synthesis and increases red cell ATP. This mechanism guarantees flexible adaption of the oxygen affinity to the prevailing oxygen pressure. At least two hormonal effectors seem to be involved in the PO2-dependent regulation: (a) a heat-labile, low molecular weight compound of embryonic chick plasma that stimulates CA and 2,3-DPG synthesis and (b) an antagonistically-acting, short-lived metabolite present in the blood of normoxic and hyperoxic embryos, whose activity/concentration should be reduced with falling PO2. While the identity of the CAII ...
Background ::: ::: Studies are currently under way examining whether the age of stored red blood cells (RBCs) affects clinical outcome in transfusion recipients. The effects of storage duration on the RBC storage lesion are well documented, while fewer studies are available regarding the effect of RBC production method. In this study, we compared in vitro RBC quality variables and markers of inflammatory response in apheresis and whole blood (WB)-derived RBCs, specifically those prepared after an overnight room temperature hold (RTH) of WB. ::: ::: ::: ::: Study Design and Methods ::: ::: SAGM RBCs, prepared from WB after overnight RTH (n = 10), were compared to SAGM RBCs prepared using an apheresis device (Alyx, n = 10). As a control, SAGM RBCs were also prepared within 2 hours of WB collection (2-hr WB, n = 10). All RBCs were stored at 4°C for 42 days with weekly assay of in vitro variables, cytokines and/or chemokines, and neutrophil activation after incubation with RBC supernatant. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results ::: ::: RTH WB RBCs exhibited decreased levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate acid (2.3 μmol/g hemoglobin [Hb] ± 2.1 vs. 13.7 ± 1.3 μmol/g Hb) and morphology (160 ± 10 vs. 192 ± 5) on Day 1 and increased hemolysis (0.45 ± 0.21% vs. 0.31 ± 0.09%) and microparticles (6.1 ± 2.8/103 RBCs vs. 3.9 ± 1.1/103 RBCs) on Day 42 compared to apheresis RBCs. Gro-α and ENA-78 cytokine levels were significantly higher in RTH WB than Alyx RBCs during storage. CD11b expression was highest in neutrophils exposed to supernatant from RTH WB RBCs (p < 0.05). ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: ::: RBC preparation method has a meaningful effect on the RBC storage lesion, which should be taken into account in addition to length of storage.
31P NMR spectra of the human heart are usually contaminated by signals that originate from blood. The main blood signals are 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), which overlap and sometimes obscure the signal of myocardial inorganic phosphate used to calculate intracellular pH and to monitor metabolic changes in the heart. In this work we demonstrate, first, that even without proton decoupling the resolution of such spectra can be high enough to evaluate intracellular inorganic phosphate of myocardium in about 70% of the spectra and, second, that extracellular inorganic phosphate from blood contributes a signal in the chemical shift region of the 2-phosphate signal of 2,3-DPG.
Cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate synthetase (cDPGS) catalyzes the synthesis of cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate(cDPG) by formation of an intramolecular phosphoanhydride bond in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. cDPG is knownto be accumulated to high intracellular concentrations (>300 mM) as a putative thermoadapter in somehyperthermophilic methanogens. For the ﬁrst time, we have puriﬁed active cDPGS from a methanogen, thehyperthermophilic archaeon
The formation of complexes of vanadate with 2-phosphoglycerate and 3-phosphoglycerate have been studied using 51V nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Signals attributed to two 2,3-diphosphoglycerate analogues, 2-vanadio-3-phosphoglycerate and 2-phospho-3-vanadioglycerate, were detected but were not fully resolved from signals of inorganic vanadate and the anhydride formed between vanadate and the phosphate ester moieties of the individual phosphoglycerates. Equilibrium constants for formation of the two 2,3-bisphosphate analogues were estimated as 2.5 M-1 for 2-vanadio-3-phosphoglycerate and 0.2 M-1 for 2-phospho-3-vanadioglycerate. The results of the binding study are fully consistent with non-cooperativity in the binding of vanadiophosphoglycerate to the two active sites of phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM). 2-Vanadio-3-phosphoglycerate was found to bind to the dephospho form of phosphoglycerate mutase with a dissociation constant of about 1 x 10(-11) M at pH 7 and 7 x 10(-11) M at pH 8. Three signals attributed to histidine residues were observed in the 1H NMR spectrum of phosphoglycerate mutase. Two of these signals and also an additional signal, tentatively attributed to a tryptophan, underwent a chemical shift change when the vanadiophosphoglycerate complex was bound to the enzyme. The results obtained here are in accord with these vanadate-phosphoglycerate complexes being much more potent inhibitors of phosphoglycerate mutase than either monomeric or dimeric vanadate. The dissociation constant of 10(-11) M for 2-vanadio-3-phosphoglycerate is about 4 orders of magnitude smaller than the Km for PGM, a result in accordance with the vanadiophosphoglycerates being transition state analogues for the phosphorylation of PGM by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Human red blood cells (RBCs) have a lifespan of approximately 120 days, during which, they travel approximately 240 km making 170,000 circuits through the heart to different tissues and organs. Circulating RBCs must constantly squeeze through narrow capillaries [1] [2] [3] , producing 'wear and tear' during which surface sialoglycoproteins and sialic acids (SAs) are sheared off. The structures and properties of the cells therefore change, and the cells age. The amount of membrane SA in an old RBC (aged about 90-120 days) is approximately 30% less than that of a young cell(aged 1-30 days) [4] . The deformability of the cell membrane, the oxygen-carrying capacity, and the amounts of Na + , K + -ATPase, Ca ++ Mg ++ -ATPase, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) also decrease concurrently [5] . Red blood cells unfit for circulation are recognized and phagocytized by the reticuloendothelial system. The mean survival time of old RBCs is usually not more than 30 days [6] . In a freshly drawn RBC unit, old RBCs comprise~16% of the total RBCs [5] .
The exchanges of phosphate between cellular and intracellular compartments have been studied in a number of cell types. In each case the entry of phosphate into the cell seems to be associated with metabolic processes at the cell surface (1). For example, in red blood cells, the uptake of Pro-labelled phosphate is to a large measure dependent on glycolysis (2). It has a high temperature coefficient (3) and is blocked by metabolic inhibitors (2). Studies of precursor relationships and also of phosphate turnover in red cell stroma suggest that phosphate enters the cell by incorporation in the membrane into glycolytic intermediates such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP (4, 5). In muscle, precursor relationships with 1 ~ also suggest that phosphate enters the cell v/a some phosphorylation reaction (6). However, the latter studies involve the technical difficulty of distinguishing extra-and intracellular orthophosphate in the muscle mass. Autoradiographic studies (7) lend support to the phosphorylation concept. In sea urchin eggs formation of ATP at the cell surface seems to be an integral part of the mechanism of phosphate entry (8).
Intracellular phosphates are mostly present as organic phosphate compounds, such as creatine phosphate and ATPs; intracellular phosphate stores are also found in red cells as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which partly controls the O 2 release to tissues by hemoglobin in red cells. Roughly 70% of the phosphate is absorbed in the duodenum and jejunum, through a sodium-dependent active transport, a process stimulated by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D 3 (1,25(OH) 2 D); moreover, parathyroid hormone (PTH) and low-phosphate diets can stimulate intestinal absorption of phosphate by exerting effects on vitamin D. For instance, hypophosphatemia can stimulate activity of the renal 1a-hydroxylase (1a(OH)ase) to increase the synthesis of 1,25(OH) 2 D.
Effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) on the deformability of human erythrocytes was examined with a rheoscope under shear stress of 8–82 dyn/cm2. With increasing 2,3-DPG in erythrocytes (from 5 to 15 mM/1 cells) by incubating with inosine and pyruvate in isotonic 50 mM phosphate-buffered saline, erythrocyte deformability under uniform shear stress was remarkably impaired. But reduction of 2,3-DPG (from 5 to 2.2 mM/1 cells) did not affect the deformability. In 2,3-DPG-enriched erythrocytes, increased intracellular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), decreased intracellular pH, and increased contents of ATP and IMP (and ITP) were observed. (1) When the MCHC (i.e., the internal viscosity) was normalized by suspending in hypotonic medium, the deformability of 2,3-DPG-enriched erythrocytes was greatly improved, but still decreased. (2) The change of intracellular pH between 6.5 and 7.5 (as compared adjusting to same MCHC) did not alter the deformability. (3) The changes of purine nucleotides, ATP (0.6–2.1 mM/1 cells), IMP (0–0.9 mM/1 cells) and ITP (0–0.5 mM/1 cells) did not alter the erythrocyte deformability. In conclusion, decreased deformability of erythrocytes induced by augmentation of 2,3-DPG is due mainly to the increased internal viscosity and due partly to the increased membrane viscoelasticity.
Familial and congenital polycythemia, not due to high oxygen affinity hemoglobin or reduced 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes, is common in the Chuvash population of the Russian Federation. Hundreds of individuals appear to be affected in an autosomal recessive pattern. We studied six polycythemic Chuvash patients <20 years of age from unrelated families and 12 first-degree family members. Hemoglobins were markedly elevated in the index subjects (mean +/- standard deviation [SD] of 22.6 +/- 1.4 g/dL), while platelet and white blood cell counts were normal. Although performed in only three of the index subjects, serum erythropoietin concentrations determined by both radioimmune and functional assays were significantly higher in polycythemic patients compared with first-degree family members with normal hemoglobin concentrations. Southern blot analysis of the Bgl 2 erythropoietin gene polymorphism showed that one polycythemic subject was a heterozygote, suggesting the absence of linkage of polycythemia with the erythropoietin gene, assuming autosomal recessive inheritance. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the GGAA and GA minisatellite polymorphic regions of the erythropoietin receptor gene showed no evidence of linkage of phenotype with this gene. We conclude that Chuvash polycythemia may represent a secondary form of familial and congenital polycythemia of as yet unknown etiology. This condition is the only endemic form of familial and congenital polycythemia described.
Bromberg et al. have reported interesting observations on a new abnormal haemoglobin in which histidine H21(143)β is replaced by glutamine1. In normal deoxyhaemoglobin, the side chain of this histidine binds 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and in normal oxyhaemoglobin it is free2–4. In the absence of DPG our electron density maps show it to be free and surrounded merely by water in both the normal deoxy and oxy forms5, 6, which implies that this side chain can have no measurable effect on the oxygen affinity; yet Bromberg et al. find the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin Little Rock to be high even in the absence of DPG.
A new variant of hereditary hemolytic anemia in a family due to high adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is reported. The increase in ATP levels varied from 83 to 105% in the family members. Low 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels and low 2,3-diphosphoglyceromutase activity were observed in three family members, with normal glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and pyruvate kinase activity.
The divalent cation ionophore, A23187, was employed as a means to load fresh human erythrocytes with calcium, and the capacity for accumulation was characterized. Erythrocytes exposed to A23187 in calcium-containing media rapidly accumulated calcium in millimolar quantities. The final cellular concentration was dependent upon medium calcium concentration and the size of the cellular organophosphate pool. When ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate contents were depleted or repleted, the cellular calcium content changed proportionally. Calcium loading of fresh erythrocytes produced no discernible change in the cellular concentrations of ATP or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Calcium accumulation was also accompanied by loss of cellular potassium and H2O, deterioration of cell filterability, and spheroechinocytic transformation.
The archaebacterium Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum was grown in continuous culture at 65 degrees C in a phosphate-limited medium at specific growth rates from 0.06 to 0.28 h-1 (maximum growth rate [mu max] = 0.36 h-1). Cyclic-2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cyclic DPG) levels ranged from 2 to 20 mM in Pi-limited cells, compared with about 30 mM in batch-grown cells. The Monod constant for Pi-limited growth was 5 nM. Pi uptake rates were determined by following the disappearance of 32Pi from the medium. Interrupting the H2 supply stopped the uptake of Pi and the release of organic phosphates. Little or no efflux of Pi occurred in the presence or absence of H2. Pi uptake of cells adapted to nanomolar Pi concentrations could be accounted for by the operation of one uptake system with an apparent Km of about 25 nM and a Vmax of 58 nmol of Pi per min per g (dry weight). Uptake curves at 30 microM Pi or above were biphasic due to a sevenfold decrease in Vmax after an initial phase of rapid movement of Pi into the cell. Under these conditions the growth rate slowed to zero and the cyclic DPG pool expanded before growth resumed. Thus, three properties of M. thermoautotrophicum make it well adapted to live in a low-P environment: the presence of a low-Km, high-Vmax uptake system for Pi; the ability to accumulate cyclic DPG rapidly; and a growth strategy in which accumulation of Pi and cyclic DPG takes precedence over a shift-up in growth rate when excess Pi becomes available.
Session I - Oxygen Measurements in Blood and Tissue.- A Method for Simultaneous Measurements of Bioelectric Activity and Local Tissue PO2 in the CNS.- Oxygen Fields Induced by Recessed and Needle Oxygen Microelectrodes in Homogeneous Media.- The Application of Histological Analysis for the Localization of Tissue PO2 and Local Blood Flow with the Example of the Glomus Caroticum of the Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus).- A Method for Measuring Oxygen Uptake Rate Distributions Over the Surface Zone of Excised Tissues Using a 91-Cathode Electrode.- Monitoring of PO2 in Human Blood.- A New Approach to the Experimental Measurement of Mean Tissue PO2.- Pyrene Butyric Acid: A Non-Invasive Probe for In Situ Intracellular Oxygen Concentration.- Kryomicrophotometry as a Method for Analyzing the Intracapillary HbO2 Saturation of Organs Under Different O2 Supply Conditions.- Quantitative Fluorescence Photometry with Biological Fluids and Gases.- Control of Electrode Aging by a Periodic Anodization Technique.- Session II - Blood Oxygenation.- Effects of 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate on Functional Properties of Hemoglobin and on Glycolysis of Human Erythrocytes.- The Effect of Red Cell 2,3-DPG Changes Induced by Diabetic Ketoacidosis on Parameters of the Oxygen Dissociation Curve in Man.- The Influence of MgCl2 on the O2-Hb-Binding Curve of Human Hemoglobin Under Intracellular Conditions.- Oxygen Transport and Hemodynamics of Stroma-Free Hemoglobin Solutions.- Oxygen Transport on Mount Everest: The Effects of Increased Hematocrit on Maximal O2 Transport.- Measurement of Oxygenation and Deoxygenation of a Single Red Cell of Chicken Embryo by Means of a Microphotometer.- Session III - Tissue Respiration.- Cellular Control of Mitochondrial Respiration.- Influence of Hemoglobin Oxygen Affinity on Oxidation Reduction State of Cytochrome aa3 in Perfused Liver.- Problems in Determination of Oxygen Dissociation of Avian Blood.- Metabolic and Electron Microscopic Studies Post Mortem in Brain Mitochondria.- Early Structural Changes in Mitochondria in Response to Acute Reductions in Capillary Flow.- The Induction of Cytochrome P-450 by Hypoxia.- Session IV - Oxygen Diffusion in Blood and Tissue.- Diffusion of Oxygen in Plasma and Blood.- Facilitated Diffusion of Oxygen in Red Blood Cell Suspensions.- Measurement of Diffusivity and Metabolic Rate of O2 and CO2 in Respiring Tissue.- Facilitated Diffusion of CO and Oxygen in the Presence of Hemoglobin or Myoglobin.- The Measurement of the Fraction of Oxygen Carried by Facilitated Diffusion.- Measurement of Diffusion Parameters with Noble Metal Electrodes.- Session V - Mathematical Models to Describe Oxygen Transport in Blood and Tissue.- A Generalized Advancing Front Model Describing the Oxygen Transfer in Flowing Blood.- A Theoretical Model of the Respiratory Function of Blood.- Some Model Results on Hemoglobin Kinetics and Its Relationship to Oxygen Transport in Blood.- The Mechanical Basis for Fick's Law and Its Generalizations.- A Stochastic Model for the Transport of Oxygen to Brain Tissue.- Models for O2 and CO2 Transfer in Macroscopic Flow Channels and Their Physiological Implications.- Session VI - Oxygen Supply of the Central Nervous System.- Correlation Between the Redox State, Electrical Activity and Blood Flow in Cat Brain Cortex During Hemorrhagic Shock.- Cortical NADH, pO2, Electrical Activity and Arterial Blood Pressure Oscillations in Hypoxaemia.- The Effect of Decapitation on the Oxidation-Reduction State of NADH and ECoG in the Brain of the Awake Rat.- Cerebral Oxygen Supply in Brain Edema and During Ventriculo-Cisternal Perfusion.- Tissue Responses to Hypoxia, Shock and Stroke.- Cerebral Oxygenation in Arterial Hypoxia.- Theoretical and Experimental Aspects of Brain Tissue Oxygenation Dynamics.- Session VII - Oxygen Supply of the Central Nervous System.- Local Tissue PO2 and Microflow of the Brain Cortex Under Varying Arterial Oxygen Pressure.- An Analysis of Ion Distribution in Brain Following Anoxia.- Comparison of Oxygen Tension in the Spinal Cord and Globus Pallidus During Hyperbaric Oxygen Exposure of Rats Under Pentobarbital Anesthesia.- Autonomic and Pharmacological Control of Oxygen Autoregulation Mechanisms in Brain Tissue.- Effects of So-Called "Cerebral Blood Flow Increasing" Drugs on Tissue-Oxygenation of the Brain.- Session VIII - Oxygen Supply of Different Organs.- Oxygen Supply to the Open Rabbit Cornea.- Studies on Retinal Oxygenation.- A System for In Vivo Measurement of Oxygen in Intraocular Tissue.- The O2 Supply of the Isolated Cell-Free Perfused Rat Kidney.- Effect of Vasopressors and Hemorrhage on Intrarenal Oxygenation.- Renal Tissue Oxygenation During Hypoxic Hypoxia.- Corneal Oxygen Supply Conditions.- Session IX - Common Aspects of Oxygen Supply.- Cellular Oxygen Concentration.- The Role of Carotid Chemoreceptors in the Regulation of Arterial Oxygen Transport under Hypoxia with and without Hypercapnia.- Pulmonary Tissue Oxygen Requirement.- Oxygen Delivery and Utilization in Hypoxic Dogs Made Acidemic and Alkalemic.- Evidence Against Local Control of Intestinal Tissue Oxygenation by Myogenic Mechanisms.- Effect of Ionizing Radiation on Liver Microcirculation and Oxygenation.- A Factor in Longitudinal Tissue Gradients: Red Cell Carriage.- Effects of Dopamine and Epinephrine on Intestinal Blood Flow and Oxygen Uptake.- Session X - Respiratory Gas Exchange and Metabolism in Tumor Tissue.- In Vivo Utilization of Oxygen and Glucose by Neoplastic Tissue.- O2 Supply Conditions in Tumor Tissue In Vivo.- Pathophysiological Aspects of Glucose Uptake by the Tumor Tissue Under Various Conditions of Oxygen and Glucose Supply.- Solution of the Diffusion Field Equation of Substrate Concentration in the Intercapillary Region Considering the Decrease in Substrate Consumption in the Unsaturated Region of Cancer Cell Glycolysis and Respiration.- Computation of Glucose and O2 Concentration Distribution in the Intercapillary Region of Intact Tumor Tissue Considering the Decrease in Substrate Consumption in the Unsaturated Region of Cancer Cell Glycolysis and Respiration.- Mesenchyme Theory on the Increase in Resistance Experienced During Repetition of Cancer Therapy Processes.- Session XI - Respiratory Gas Exchange and Metabolism in Tumor Tissue.- Studies on the Ability of the Tumor Respiration In Vivo to Fulfill Its Physiological Functions.- Control Mechanisms of Oxygen and Glucose Utilization in Tumours.- Oxygen Distribution in Tumours: Influence on Cell Proliferation and Implications for Tumour Therapy.- Preliminary Observations of Oxygen Levels in Microcirculation of Tumors in C3H Mice.- The Distribution of Oxygen Consumption Rates in Some Tissues Before and after X-Irradiation.- Session XII - Oxygen Supply of Muscle Tissue.- Mechanisms of Circulation Metabolism Coupling in Skeletal Muscle.- Spontaneous Oscillations of PO2 in Muscle Tissue.- Tissue PO2, VO2, Venous PO2 and Perfusion Pressure in Resting Dog Gracilis Muscle Perfused at Constant Flow.- Effect of a Shift of the Oxygen Dissociation Curve on Myocardial Oxygenation at Hypoxia.- Tissue Blood Flow and Oxygenation During Large Vessel Surgery.- Mechanisms of Increased Tissue Oxygen Delivery Following Release of Arterial Occlusion in Canine Skeletal Muscle and Skin.- Mean Myoglobin Oxygen Tension During Exercise at Maximal Oxygen Uptake.- Oxygen Transport in Skeletal Muscle: Capillary Geometry in Longitudinal Section.- The Measurement of Myocardial Microflow and Its Reaction to Hypoxia and Hypercapnia.- Session XIII - Perinatal Oxygen Supply.- Oxygen Uptake of the Guinea Pig at Decreased and Increased Maternal Placental Blood Flow.- Development and Adaptation of Heart Mitochondrial Respiratory Chain Function in Fetus and in Newborn.- Experimental and Theoretical Analysis of Oxygen Transport in Fetal Brain.- Fetal and Placental O2 Consumption and the Uptake of Different Metabolites in the Ruminant and Horse During Late Gestation.- Continuous PO2 and Heart Rate Recording in the Human Newborn.- A Comparison of Transcutaneous and Arterial PO2 in Sick Neonates.- Effect of Umbilical Artery Catheters on Oxygen Supply to Extremities.- Tissue Oxygen Available (O2a) as a Criterion for the Effectiveness of Continuous Positive Pressure Breathing (CPPB).- Contributors.
Background: Ex vivo cold storage of red blood cells (RBCs) for transfusion has long been associated with hypothermic storage lesions. It has been proposed that liposomes can be used to mitigate hemorheological elements of RBC membrane storage lesions. This study aimed to determine the appropriate liposome treatment time and assess the effects of liposome treatment on RBC's hemorheological and metabolic profiles. Materials and Methods: Unilamellar liposomes were synthesized to contain a bilayer of 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DOPC):cholesterol (7:3 mol%). Packed human RBCs (n = 4) were divided into untreated control (HEPES-NaCl solution) and liposome-treated samples (2 mM DOPC liposomes) and treated at days 2, 21, and 42 of hypothermic storage. RBC quality assessment included percent hemolysis, deformability, aggregation, hematological indices, microvesiculation, supernatant potassium, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Results: Among the parameters affected by...
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) may inhibit the platelet release reaction and the irreversible aggregation of human blood platelets induced by adenosine diphosphate, epinephrine, or norepinephrine. The effects of 2,3-DPG on platelet aggregation were more pronounced in cases with low hematocrit (less than 30 percent). Dipyridamole and vincaminor potentiated the antiaggregating effect of 2,3-DPG. Erythocytes (10-3 to 10-4 per microliter) exhibited a similar antiaggregating effect, especially when secured from anemic patients.
Incubation of human hemoglobin (Hb) A with glycineamide (Gly-NH2) in the presence of trypsin gives rise to two bands of approximately equal amount on the isoelectric focusing gel. Structural analyses, including digestion with trypsin and carboxypeptidases A and B, have shown that one is unmodified Hb A and the other is Gly-NH2(142 alpha) Hb in which Gly-NH2 is bound to the COOH-terminal residue of the alpha subunit (Arg 141 alpha) via peptide bond. Gly-NH2(142 alpha) Hb exhibits slightly increased affinity for oxygen and slightly reduced heme-heme interaction as compared with normal Hb A. Although Gly-NH2(142 alpha) Hb exhibits normal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effect, the alkaline Bohr effect and chloride effect are diminished. These oxygen binding properties are attributable to abolished binding of chloride to the anion binding site positioned between the alpha-amino group of Val 1 alpha and the guanidinium group of Arg 141 alpha. Gly-NH2(142 alpha) Hb restores normal oxygen binding properties upon trypsin digestion which removes Gly-NH2 from the COOH terminus of the alpha subunit.
Cryopreservation with impermeable protectants has great significance on storage of human red blood cells. It has become feasible to use glycerol free cryopreservation for human red blood cells. This study focuses on the effect of intracellular trehalose or glucose on human red blood cells cryopreserved in the presence of polymer. Red blood cells were cryopreserved for 48 h-72 h at -80 degrees C. The data showed that the loading efficiency of glucose was significantly higher than that of trehalose, but trehalose loading process induced more hemolysis than glucose loading process. Compared with the other groups, the combination of intracellular glucose, PVP, and human serum albumin can significantly decrease the percent hemolysis after cryopreservation (P<0.01). However, the percent hemolysis induced by intracellular trehalose was less than that induced by extracellular trehalose, but the difference was not significant (P<0.05). The adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) level and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) level of cryopreserved red blood cells were significantly less than those of fresh red blood cells. However, sugars can provide certain protection for ATP and 2, 3-DPG compared with red blood cells cryopreserved in the absence of sugars. The protection of glucose on the metabolic function was more than that of trehalose. Cryopreservation can increase the percentage of cells with exposed phosphatidylserine (PS), but the ability of trehalose to maintain PS normal distribution is higher than that of glucose. Furthermore, intracellular sugars can protect membrane integrity of cryopreserved red blood cells, although a small portion of cells appeared spherocytic or echinocytic shape. Finally, most membrane proteins of cryopreserved red blood cells were similar to the membrane proteins of fresh red blood cells, but trehalose can result in loss of glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPD) and peroxiredoxin 2. In conclusion, it is feasible to cryopreserve red blood cells using polymer, human albumin and sugars as main protectants. The cryoprotective effect of glucose may be better than that of trehalose in the presence of PVP and human serum albumin, because sugar loading process causes more cell injuries in case of trehalose compared to glucose, and these injuries in turn manifest themselves during subsequent cryopreservation and thawing. In the future, finding an approach to decrease the injuries during trehalose loading process still is critical.
The basic hypoxia-erythropoietin mechanism operating in adult mammals seems to be established already during fetal life. However, several studies indicate that regulation of erythropoiesis in the neonate differs from the adult. A significant fall in Hb occurs postnatally in almost all mammals and is termed the early anemia. Perturbation of erythropoiesis during this period offers an opportunity to distinguish between anemic-hypoxia dependent and independent regulatory mechanism of erythropoiesis in the neonatal mammal. The early anemia is iron responsive in pigs, mice, rats and rabbits. The rabbits were given iron parenterally and the mice were hypertransfused. Thus, two very different methods were used to avoid the early anemia. We have also studied untreated neonatal rats and preterm infants. The main parameters studied were: plasma erythropoiesis stimulating factor(s) (ESF), Hb, PCV, reticulocyte count, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, PO2 50%, available O2, total red cell volume and weight gain. The early anemia in mice and rabbits is accompanied by a marked rise in plasma ESF, as determined by a cell culture assay. Our studies so far show that the marked rise in plasma ESF only in part is due to low Hb/PCV. The data indicate that anemic-hypoxia independent mechanisms are involved in the regulation of erythropoiesis in the neonatal mammal. In accordance with observations in preterm infants, these mechanisms could be related to the rapid growth and matruation per se. It is also notable that the start of rise in Hb/PCV in untreated mice, rats and rabbits seems to be related to the time of weaning. Together with the observed effect of iron-supplementation in the rabbit, this suggests that the rate of erythropoiesis during the period of the early anemia has been restricted by the availability of iron and/or other essential nutritional factors, and not by the production capacity of the erythron.
Hemoglobin (Hb) is a ubiquitous oxygen-carrying molecule found throughout nature in almost all animal species. In humans, it exists as a 64,000 Dalton tetrameric protein comprised of two α-globin chains (141 amino acids each) and two β-globin chains (146 amino acids each), and is found within red blood cells at an extremely high concentration (32 g Hb/dl). Also present in red cells in equimolar amounts is 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), which interacts with the Hb as an allosteric effector to lower the affinity of Hb for oxygen (Benesch & Benesch, 1969).
Abstract Cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG), a metabolite exclusively present in methanogenic bacteria, was separated from other phosphate-containing compounds in extracts of Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum by means of isotachophoresis. The detection limit was 100 pmol per injected sample. Quantification of intracellular concentrations of cDPG with the isotachophoretic assay and with a spectrophoto-metric cDPG assay gave comparable results, but the isotachophoretic assay was faster, less laborious and more sensitive. A possible involvement of cDPG in the energy metabolism was indicated by studies of Mb. thermoautotrophicum in batch and continuous cultures.
Thirteen patients who were survivors of sudden unexpected cardiac arrest in the community were followed up for up to 3 years. All showed an anomalous relation between erythrocyte levels of oxygen dissociation (P50) and 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid (2,3-DPG). This could not be explained by hemoglobinopathy, carbon monoxide or methemoglobinemias. Because lactate accumulation in red blood cells may alter oxygen dissociation, whole blood and red blood cell lactate levels were measured. An average of 4.4 measurements per patient were obtained over a mean time of 5.6 months of the post-hospital phase of the follow-up period, which had a total mean duration of 22 months. The patients did not have overt congestive heart failure and were not acidotic (mean venous pH = 7.35). Lactate levels were elevated (mean = 15.1 mg/100 ml ± 0.8 mg/100 [standard error of the mean], compared with normal values of 7.6 mg/100 ml ± 1.4 mg/100 ml; P < 0.01). When lactate was plotted against red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, a positive curvilinear relation was found (r2 = 0.12, P < 0.05). The production of lactate in chronic ischemia may increase red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate through glycolysis. The expected effect on oxygen dissociation of this increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is offset by a counterbalancing leftward shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve by an increase in red blood cell lactic acid. When lactate was compared with left ventricular ejection fraction, there was a significant negative correlation (r = 0.86, P < 0.01). Serial 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiograms (mean 4 per patient) were analyzed for changes in quantity and severity of ventricular arrhythmia at the time of lactate determinations. Six patients had lactate level variation of more than 30 percent, and five of these six patients had an increase in quantity and severity of ventricular ectopic activity when their lactate levels were in the higher range. We conclude that elevated resting lactate levels correlate with impaired ventricular function, and fluctuations in a given patient may identify changes in clinical and electrophysiologic status.
Normal human erythrocyte phosphofructokinase (ATP: D-fructose-6, P-1-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.11; PFK) has recently been shown to consist of a heterogeneous mixture of five tetrameric isozymes: M4, M3L, M2L2, ML3, and L4 (M, muscle type; L, liver type). In the light of these findings, we have investigated the molecular basis of the inherited erythrocyte PFK deficiency associated with myopathy and hemolysis (Tarui disease). The propositus, a 31-yr-old male, suffered from muscle weakness and myoglobinuria on exertion. He showed mild erythrocytosis despite laboratory evidence of hemolysis. In his erythrocytes a metabolic crossover point was found at the level of PFK; 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was also significantly reduced. The PFK from the patient's erythrocytes consisted exclusively of the L4 isozyme, and there was a complete absence of the other four. The leukocyte and platelet PFKs from the patient showed normal activities, chromatographic profiles, and precipitation with anti-M4 antibody. These studies provide direct evidence that in Tarui disease the M-type subunits are absent; but the liver- and platelet-type subunits of PFK are unaffected. The paradox of mild erythrocytosis despite hemolysis reflects the decreased production of 2,3-DPG.
Background: Patients with Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) often require transfusions to minimize disease burden, increase oxygen carrying capacity, and prevent tissue hypoxia. Furthermore, patients with significant complications such as stroke or acute chest syndrome depend on red blood cell exchange transfusion (RBCX) to maintain a decreased percentage of hemoglobin S in circulation and prevent further SCD complications. Red blood cells (RBCs) stored for transfusion develop a storage lesion over time. This is in part due to depleted 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and ATP, which can be reversed by biochemical rejuvenation of RBCs. The FDA-approved rejuvenation process has been shown to normalize hemoglobin oxygen affinity, decrease in-bag hemolysis, and increase RBC deformability. Therefore, we hypothesized that rejuvenation of RBC units prior to RBCX would be associated with diminished loss of hemoglobin A between treatment sessions and increased post-RBCX p50 (the partial pressure of oxygen at 50% hemoglobin saturation, a measure of oxygen affinity). Methods: Following approval by the Duke University Health System IRB we recruited 4 SCD patients maintained crisis-free on chronic RBCX for the past 3 months. The study had an open-label, crossover design of standard (S) and rejuvenated (R) RBCX sessions in the following sequence: S-R-R-R-S-S. To assess rejuvenation benefit to chronic RBCX SCD patients, we first developed a calculation of perseverance of RBCs given during RBCX using an exponential decay model, and then applied rejuvenation to the final 2-4 donor units given in RBCX, which ensured that approximately 30-40% of post-RBCX circulating RBCs would be rejuvenated. Rejuvenation was performed by trained blood bank personnel according to the rejuvenation solution manufacturer9s instructions on RBC units between 14-21 days old. The primary outcome for the study was time-normalized change in Hemoglobin A between RBCX treatments (derived from hemoglobin electrophoresis results), with our secondary outcome being change in p50 before and after RBCX. This study is partially funded by Zimmer Biomet. We report preliminary results demonstrating feasibility of this approach. Results: At this time we have completed 8 standard RBCX and 3 rejuvenated RBCX sessions. Preliminary data are presented in Table 1. A total of 10 rejuvenated units have been transfused with no adverse events reported. Despite the low sample size, it was clear that rejuvenation attenuated the p50 decrease seen after RBCX. Hemoglobin electrophoresis data is not yet available as no subjects have had a scheduled RBCX session since their initial rejuvenated RBCX session. RBC rejuvenation was feasible but logistically complicated due to the time and personnel required for the rejuvenation process, and complex coordination between the subjects, the apheresis service, and the blood bank was required for successful implementation. One subject did not present for a scheduled RBCX, resulting in the discard of 4 units of rejuvenated RBCs. Conclusion: Red cell rejuvenation holds promise as a way of maximizing the exchange transfusion benefit to the most at risk SCD patients. We additionally plan to evaluate change in RBC microparticles before and after standard and rejuvenated RBCX sessions in these patients. Rejuvenation as currently performed provides some technical challenges, such as increased RBC unit processing time and greater required coordination with clinical service. Disclosures Landrigan: Zimmer Biomet: Employment, Research Funding. Shah: Novartis: Other: Speaker; Alexion: Other: Speaker. Welsby: Zimmer Biomet: Research Funding.
The effects of iron deficiency anemia and iron treatment on blood gas and acid-base balance at rest and during exercise were studied. Eight Sri Lankan males and 13 females were randomly divided into an iron treatment or placebo group. Their initial hemoglobin (Hb) levels were 6.2 +/- 0.5 and 5.5 +/- 0.7 g/100 ml (mean +/- SEM) with serum iron levels of 41 +/- 8 and 30 +/- 6 micrograms/100 ml, respectively. Hemoglobin concentration was increased significantly within 7 days after iron treatment to 7.2 +/- 0.4 g/100 ml. Resting lactate was higher than normal, while base excess, buffer base, and actual bicarbonate were lower, maintaining a normal pH. Heart rates during exercise at a given work load and lactate production following exercise decreased after the elevation of Hb. Venous blood PCO2 rose as Hb concentration increased, preceding a significant increase in resting O2 content, 16 days after iron treatment. With anemia, O2 delivery is potentially maintained by a shift of the O2-dissociation curve to the right due, in part, to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. There was no significant change in PO2 or Hb-O2% saturation following exercise or iron treatment. These data suggest that severe iron deficiency anemia results in lactate accumulation in blood even at rest but pH is maintained within normal limits. It was also suggested that severe anemia may impair CO2 transport capacity of blood which could limit continuation of muscle metabolism.
BACKGROUND ::: For the past 30 years, red blood cell (RBC) storage systems have been licensed in the United States based on the demonstration that 24-hour in vivo recovery was greater than 75% and hemolysis was less than 1%. Now additional requirements for storage system licensure have being added. The meaning and value of these new requirements have been questioned. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: The literature regarding the performance of present and suggested new tests for RBC licensure was reviewed. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: (51) Cr 24-hr in vivo recovery has an intrinsic 4% error of measurement whereas the error in measures of hemolysis is less than 0.1%. Both measures have large donor-dependent end-of-storage variability; nevertheless, they have successfully guided RBC storage system development for six decades. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are difficult to measure accurately and international shared-sample studies suggest 6 and 11% coefficients of variation across laboratories. There is no readily available way to measure the oxygen equilibrium curve accurately. The new failure criteria provide no useful information and randomly fail good products. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Attempts to expand the useful regulatory requirements for RBC storage system licensure are limited by poor understanding of the storage lesion and its effect of RBC performance. Measures of (51) Cr 24-hour in vivo recovery remain critical and resources for this measure are limiting. The interaction between limited testing resources and large donor variability remains a major limit on RBC storage system development. It is important that new required tests contribute meaningful information and not make development and licensure of better products more difficult.
Abstract In order to decrease significantly the oxygen affinity of human hemoglobin, we have associated the mutation βF41Y with another point mutation also known to decrease the oxygen affinity of Hb. We have synthesized a recombinant Hb (rHb) with two mutations in the β chains: rHb βF41Y,K66T. In the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, additive effects of the mutations are evident, since the doubly mutated Hb exhibits a larger decrease in oxygen affinity than for the individual single mutations. In the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the second mutation did not significantly increase the P 50 value relative to the single mutations. However, the kinetics of CO binding still indicate combined effects on the allosteric equilibrium, as evidenced by more of the slow bimolecular phase characteristic of binding to the deoxy conformation. Dimer-tetramer equilibrium studies indicate an increase in stability of the mutants relative to rHb A; the double mutant rHb βF41Y,K66T at pH 7.5 showed a K 4,2 value of 0.26 μm. Despite the lower oxygen affinity, the single mutant βF41Y and double mutant βF41Y,K66T show only a moderate increase of 20% in the autoxidation rate. These mutations are thus of interest in developing a Hb-based blood substitute.
Blood was stored for different periods of time in three solutions 1) ACD solution 2) a less acidic medium and 3) a neutral solution containing citrate and phosphate buffer. At the beginning of the storage period the pH of the blood ranged from 6.8 (ACD) up to 7.4 (neutral solution). Furthermore the effect of the addition of adenine to each of these three solutions was tested. In some experiments storage of blood with final hematocrit values of about 66% instead of the usual about 40% was also investigated. With the two more neutral media hemolysis and glycolysis were more pronounced than in the acidic medium. Addition of adenine to the three solutions decreased hemolysis and increased glycolysis but its effect was much more pronounced in the two more neutral media. It was possible to maintain the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the erythrocytes if the cells were kept in a neutral solution, although this method gave a more rapid drop in the ATP level. In the more acid solutions the concentration of ATP remained higher, but the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate rapidly disappeared. No major differences were observed between blood preserved in ACD solution with hematocrit of about 66% and the usual hematocrit of about 40%.
The dependence of the erythrocyte pyruvate kinase (PK)-catalyzed reaction on the glycolytic intermediates glucose-6-phosphate (Gluc-6-P), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and the nucleotides ADP and ATP was studied in normal individuals and 14 patients with PK deficiency. The Gluc-6-P concentrations in the erythrocytes are markedly elevated (4- to 6-fold) in 9 patients with severe hemolytic anemia compared to those 5 exhibiting a mild clinical course (up to 2-fold increased). 2,3-DPG is elevated up to 2 times compared to the controls whereas the measured ADP and ATP only slightly deviate from the normal range. Control experiments showed that these elevations of Gluc-6-P and 2,3-DPG do not depend on the number of reticulocytes. In enzyme kinetic terms, Gluc-6-P shifts the Hill coefficient to smaller values, i.e. suppresses the positive cooperativity (sigmoidal reaction kinetics), found in normal and some of the mutant enzymes and shift the noncooperative enzymes of some patients to an enzyme exhibiting negative cooperativity. The negative cooperativity already present in the enzymes of some of the patients suffering from severe hemolytic anemia becomes more pronounced upon addition of Gluc-6-P. Apparently 2,3-DPG acts as an antagonist to Gluc-6-P in increasing the Hill coefficient, i.e. enhancing the positive cooperativity of the normal enzyme. It shifts the hyperbolic patients' enzymes to a sigmoidal reaction type and the enzymes of those patients with negative cooperativity to a hyperbolic type. ADP and ATP show a similar behavior as 2,3-DPG, but additionally inhibit the enzyme at higher concentrations. The influence of all four phosphates on the Michaelis constant varies depending on the type of cooperativity, in some cases increasing and in some cases decreasing K0.5 PEP. With 7 of the patients, all of them with severe clinical course, a genetic analysis of their R-type PK gene was performed and genetic defects have been identified in the coding sequence. The found changes in the amino acid sequence and their corresponding location in the tertiary structure of the PK subunit can satisfactorily explain the alterations of the regulatory properties of the mutant enzymes thus allowing to establish a good correlation between altered structural and functional properties of the deficient enzyme and the severeness of the course of the disease.
Abstract Large changes were found in red cell concns of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inositol polyphosphate, ATP and inorganic phosphate in the chicken and the White Pekin duck during embryonic development and soon after hatching.
The recent reports of the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) on hemoglobin affinity for oxygen suggested that this substance may play a role in man's adaptation to acidosis and alkalosis.A study of the effect of induced acidosis and alkalosis on the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve of normal man was therefore carried out, and the mechanisms involved in the physiological regulation of hemoglobin oxygen affinity examined.In acute changes of plasma pH there was no alteration in red cell 2,3-DPG content. However, there were changes in hemoglobin oxygen affinity and these correlated with changes in mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC). With maintained acidosis and alkalosis, red cell 2,3-DPG content was altered and correlated with the changes in hemoglobin oxygen affinity. Both of these mechanisms shift the hemoglobin oxygen dissociation curve opposite to the direct pH (Bohr) effect, and providing the rate of pH change is neither too rapid nor too large, they counteract the direct pH effect and the in vivo hemoglobin oxygen affinity remains unchanged. It is also shown that approximately 35% of the change in hemoglobin oxygen affinity resulting from an alteration in red cell 2,3-DPG, is explained by effect of 2,3-DPG on the red cell pH.
Abstract Electrophoretic analyses of human red cell hemolyzates in cacodylate, Veronal, and phosphate buffer media at different ionic strengths and pH values yield a variety of patterns. After dialysis against these media and subsequent dialysis against a standard 0.05 M cacodylic acid buffer (Γ/2 = 0.033, pH 6.5), the electrophoretic patterns are of a uniform type. The concentration of a slow-moving component (B) in these patterns is related to the concentration of organic phosphate. The electrophoretic patterns for (a) crystalline hemoglobin, (b) a hemolyzate dephosphorylated by alkaline phosphatase, and (c) a hemolyzate dialyzed against a Veronal buffer at pH 8.6 are almost identical and are characterized by the presence of small concentrations of Component B. Trace amounts of organic phosphates are present in these solutions. The addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, tri-, or dinucleotides to crystalline hemoglobin solutions or to hemolyzates of aged red cells increases the Component B concentration. It is concluded that a hemoglobin-organic phosphate complex is responsible for Component B in the electrophoretic patterns of red cell hemolyzates analyzed in cacodylate buffers.
Hemoglobin affinity to oxygen, enzyme activity and metabolite concentration of carbohydrate metabolism were determined in erythrocytes of rats which were administered insulin solution. A valid decrease of the hemoglobin value P50 (pressure of hemoglobin half-saturation with oxygen), as well as a decrease of the enzyme activity of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate shunt and increase of the activity of regulatory glycolysis enzymes--hexokinase and pyruvate kinase in erythrocytes with multiple introduction of hormones to animals have been established. Such changes in rat erythrocytes were registered with the simultaneous effect of insulin and hypoxic hypoxia evoked by the "lift" of rats in the altitude chamber to the conditional altitude of 9000 m. It is found out that preliminary injection of insulin considerably increases survivability of rats under hypoxic hypoxia at great altitudes.
BACKGROUND ::: Red blood cells stored as concentrates or suspensions in additive solutions change rapidly their oxygen affinity mainly due to the loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). When collected in CPD with half of the normal concentration of citrate and citric acid (0.5CPD) and stored in a new additive solution (Erythro-Sol), 2,3-DPG is better maintained. No studies of the oxygen affinity of red cells stored under these conditions have been published. In Erythro-Sol, red cells have a satisfactory in vivo recovery for 49 days but the conditions after 28 days, within which time most red cell units are transfused, have not been investigated. Of importance is also to be able to make platelet concentrates (PCs) from 0.5CPD blood. Little data are available concerning the clinical usefulness of platelets prepared from 0.5CPD buffy coats (BCs). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Blood was collected in 0.5CPD, held at 20 degrees C for 3-4 h, then separated with the bottom-and-top technique into red cells, plasma and BC. In a storage experiment with 6 U the 2,3-DPG and P50 values were determined weekly and a number of in vitro parameters were tested on day 28. In 6 donors the in vivo recovery and survival of red cells were determined using a single-chromium technique. Transfusions of 212 0.5CPD-Erythro-Sol red cell units were given to hematological patients under supervision. PCs derived from pools of 0.5CPD BCs suspended in PAS2 (T-Sol) were transfused to 20 thrombocytopenic patients and compared with CPD-BC-PCs suspended in PASI. Corrected count increments (CCI) were determined. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The erythrocyte 2,3-DPG and P50 values were normal or slightly subnormal initially but increased to supernormal levels during the 1 week, and remained at these levels for a further 1-3 weeks; the 2,3-DPG was two thirds of normal after 28 days, the P50 was 3.72 +/- 0.28 kPa after 14 days and 2.84 +/- 0.41 after 28 days (mean +/- SD). The P50 values corresponded closely (r2 = 0.903) to 2,3-DPG. The in vivo recovery of 4-week-stored red cells was 89.6 +/- 5.5% and the T50 was 32.2 +/- 2.0 days. No adverse effects were observed in the transfusions. The CCI values did not differ between test and control groups; in both, 3- to 5-day-stored PCs gave lower CCI than fresh (0-2 days) PCs. Patients with acute myeloid leukemia AML (n = 11) had significantly lower CCI values than patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, myeloma and lymphoma (n = 9; CCI 1 h: p = 0.001; CCI 24 h: p = 0.006). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Red cells stored in Erythro-Sol sustain a normal or slightly lowered oxygen affinity for 2-4 weeks, their viability is excellent, and they are well tolerated in clinical transfusions. Platelets prepared from 0.5CPD-BCs cause CCI, of the same magnitude as CPD-BCs.
In 86 infants postnatal changes of oxygen half saturation pressure (P50) of blood and erythrocytes, oxygen capacity, fetal hemoglobin, and plasma and red cell hydrogen ion concentrations have been reexamined considering, in addition, age-related changes of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). The results obtained indicate that 1) the well known differences of P50, of newborn and adult blood as well as 2) the increasing P50 after birth depend on both the relationship between fetal and adjilt hemoglobin and red cell 2,3-DPG. Mean red cell 2,3-DPG concentration, which is similar in the newborn and the adult (4 β mol/ml RBC), has been found increased by 25 percent after the third day of extrauterine life. This increase is neither due solely to changes in red cell H+ ion concentration nor to changes of oxygen capacity, both of which correlate inversely with 2,3-DPG. Although later on mean red cell 2,3-DPG surpasses the normal adult level, a gradual decrease between the third and ninth week could be observed followed by another increase in the third month.
Genetically based modifications of hemoglobin (Hb) function that increase blood-O2 affinity are hallmarks of hypoxia adaptation in vertebrates. Among mammals, felid Hbs are unusual in that they have low intrinsic O2 affinities and reduced sensitivities to the allosteric cofactor 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). This combination of features compromises the acclimatization capacity of blood-O2 affinity and has led to the hypothesis that felids have a restricted physiological niche breadth relative to other mammals. In seeming defiance of this conjecture, the snow leopard (Panthera uncia) has an extraordinarily broad elevational distribution and occurs at elevations above 6000 m in the Himalayas. Here, we characterized structural and functional variation of big cat Hbs and investigated molecular mechanisms of Hb adaptation and allosteric regulation that may contribute to the extreme hypoxia tolerance of the snow leopard. Experiments revealed that purified Hbs from snow leopard and African lion exhibited equally low O2 affinities and DPG sensitivities. Both properties are primarily attributable to a single amino acid substitution, β2His→Phe, which occurred in the common ancestor of Felidae. Given the low O2 affinity and reduced regulatory capacity of feline Hbs, the extreme hypoxia tolerance of snow leopards must be attributable to compensatory modifications of other steps in the O2-transport pathway.
Abstract Within seven to 10 days after initiation of total intravenous hyperalimentation with solutions lacking added inorganic phosphate, five of eight adults were found to be significantly hypophosphatemic (serum inorganic phosphate less than 1 mg per 100 ml). Associated with this hypophosphatemia was a decrease in erythrocyte glucose-6-phosphate, fructose-6-phosphate, 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2-phosphoglyceric acid, phosphoenolpyruvate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate, and a marked increase in the concentration of "total triosre phosphates." The reduction in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate was accompanied by a striking increase in the red cell's affinity for oxygen. In an additional patient studied prospectively, the changes in erythrocyte metabolism were initially manifested by a slight rise in the "total triose phosphates," which was rapidly followed by alterations similar to those described above. These findings suggest that in vivo red-cell glucose metabolism is c...
Objective:To explore the effectiveness and stability of the blood group RhD antigen on human erythrocyte modified by the methoxypolyethylene glycol(mPEG) and the changes in the structure and function of the modified erythrocyte.Method:The human erythrocyte with positive RhD blood group was modified with 2.0mmol/L mPEG-SPA.The agglutinate responsiveness with anti-D antibody,the stability combining mPEG,and the electron microscopy morphology were observed in modified and unmodified erythrocytes.Osmotic fragility,cholesterol content,acetyl cholinesterase(AchE,EC 3.1.1.7) activity,Na+-K+ ATPase(EC 3.6.3.9) activity in erythrocyte membrane,spontaneous hemolysis,2,3-diphosphoglycerate(2,3-DPG) level,erythrocyte sedimentation rate(ESR) were detected in modified and unmodified erythrocytes.Result:The agglutinate responsiveness with anti-D antibody of the erythrocyte modified in 0.5 mmol/L,1.0 mmol/L,2.0 mmol/L,2.5 mmol/L,and 5.0 mmol/L mPEG-SPA were 50% agglutinate,visible agglutinate,negative,negative,negative,and negative,respectively.There was no agglutinate responsiveness with anti-D antibody of the modified erythrocyte preserved in 4℃ for 2 weeks or in 37℃ for 2 days,while there was positive responsiveness with anti-D antibody of the unmodified erythrocyte in same conditions as the modified erythrocyte.The electron microscopy morphology of modified erythrocyte was smooth discoid shape and normal cell size same as that of the unmodified erythrocyte.The indicators detected in modified and unmodified erythrocytes were,respectively:2,3-DPG:(71.00±12.88) mmol/L and(65.13±13.98)mmol/L,ESR:(2.75±2.05)mm/h and(8.00±3.82) mm/h,IDmax:(0.98±0.18) and(0.98±0.29),spontaneous hemolysis:(2.27±0.28)% and(1.32±0.32)%,osmotic fragility:(0.44±0.06)% and(0.44±0.03)%,cholesterol contents in membrane:(0.10±0.03) g/L and(0.10±0.06) g/L,Na+,K+-ATPase activity:(4.83±1.27) U/mg and(5.41±1.32)U/mg,AchE activity:(27.88±5.09) U/mg and(29.68±4.16)U/mg.ESR of modified erythrocyte was slower than that of unmodified erythrocyte and spontaneous hemolysis of modified erythrocyte was a slight increase compared with that of unmodified erythrocyte(P0.05),but both results of modified erythrocyte were in their normal ranges.Conclusion:Blood group RhD antigen in the erythrocyte could be effectively and stably covered by 2.0 mmol/L mPEG-SPA.There were morphology in normal discoid shape and cell size,cell membrane structure,cell deformation,and ability to deliver oxygen in modified erythrocyte the same as that in unmodified erythrocyte.
. Red cell organic phosphates and especially 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), lowers the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin (Hb) and shifts the oxygen dissociation curve to the right. Because of the importance of 2,3-DPG (as regulator of the oxygen affinity of Hb), determinations were carried out on: 45 normal children, 7 children with iron deficiency anemia and 35 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In normal children with Hb of 12.69±1.60 g/100 ml, 2,3-DPG was 14.90±0.68 μmoles/g Hb. In children with iron deficiency anemia (Hb 7.94±1.20 g/100 ml), 2,3-DPG was 20.87±3.11 μmoles/g Hb. 2,3-DPG was normal (14.11±0.88 μmoles/g Hb), in 16 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who had never relapsed, while in 19 patients with a history of one or more relapses, 2,3-DPG levels were increased (22.05 ±2.75 μmoles/g Hb). No good explanation may be offered for the high 2,3-DPG levels in these leukemic children.
Abstract We determined the effects of anemia of prematurity on myocardial, metabolic, and erythropoietic functions. Twelve anemic (hemoglobin range, 65 to 78 gm/L) infants without symptoms (gestational age, (mean ± SD) 28 ± 2 weeks; birth weight, 1178 ± 326 gm) were studied at a postconceptional age of 35 ± 1.6 weeks. All measurements were done before and 36 to 48 hours after a transfusion of packed erythrocytes. Cardiac output, heart rate, and myocardial function were assessed. Oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production, resting energy expenditure, arterial oxygen pressure for 50% hemoglobin saturation, and the concentrations of erythropoietin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were also determined. After transfusion, increased hemoglobin level (75 ± 4 to 150 ± 16 gm/L) and decreased oxyhemoglobin affinity (20.8 ± 1.7 to 23.6 ± 2.1 gm/L; p p p EDIATR 1994;125:278-82)
Hb Gàmbara is a new hemoglobin variant with abnormal beta chains that has been found in three out of four members of a family of Lombardy origin (Gàmbara, Brescia, Northern Italy). The affected subjects led a normal life, but they had modest erythrocytosis and mild (compensated) hemolysis with slight splenomegaly. Their abnormal hemoglobin was about 52% of the total hemoglobin, and was shown to be stable by the isopropanol test. Whole blood P50 of the proband was 19.3 Torr, Bohr effect was decreased (-0.25), as well as the molar ratio between the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level and total hemoglobin of erythrocytes (0.68). The purified abnormal hemoglobin was characterized by an altered oxygen affinity, low n-factor, chloride, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effects. The Bohr effect was about 40% of the normal control. The abnormal hemoglobin moved faster than Hb A at alkaline electrophoresis, and split into two fractions, probably due to the formation of hybrid tetramers (alpha 2 beta A beta X). The reversed phase high performance liquid chromatogram from the tryptic digest of the aminoethylated abnormal beta chain subunits indicated the presence of an extra peptide, beta T-9, 10, replacing the individual peptides beta T-9 and beta T-10. Finally, the proband's DNA, drawn from a suitable segment of the beta structural gene (exon 2), revealed a nucleotide sequence carrying the heterozygous mutation AAG-->GAG at codon 82. This led to a Lys-->Glu substitution at position 82(EF6) of the beta chain.
Abstract 1. 1. The hemoglobin oxygen affinity of “stripped” hemolysate from Bufo marinus was sensitive to the allosteric cofactors ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate which occur in toad erythrocytes. 2. 2. The affinity constants were not appreciably affected by changes in inorganic ions in the concentration range likely to be of physiological significance. 3. 3. The P 50 of toad blood of pH 7.9 and p CO 2 = 7.2 mmHg was 56.7 ± 3.1 mmHg at 30°C, with Hill's coefficient, n = 2.8. 4. 4. The P 50 was not significantly changed following 11–14 days hypoxic acclimation of the toads at p O 2 = 31 mmHg, 28°C, despite a significant rise in 2,3-DPG from 28.3 ± 3.2 to 35.1 ± 2.5 μ mol/gHb. 5. 5. These data suggest that phosphate-hemoglobin interactions are not adaptive in the sense of having been scrutinised by natural selection, but are part of a package of regulatory mechanisms reflecting phenotypic plasticity. The inherent dangers of extrapolation from molecular to physiological studies are emphasised.
Abstract Preservation of red cell viability and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels requires maintenance of relatively high pH levels. When red cells are stored in plastic bags, a bicarbonate buffer system has the unique advantage that the acid formed can leave the storage container by diffusing, as CO 2 , through the plastic material. Provided that the plastic is sufficiently permeable to carbon dioxide, and that there is an adequate ratio of plastic surface to blood stored, excellent maintenance of 2,3-DPG and viability is possible for periods of 42 days.
The primary organic phosphate modifiers of haemoglobin function are DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) in the toad Bufo marinus and ATP in the lizard Trachydosaurus rugosus. Myo-IP6 (myoinositol hexaphosphate) and myo-IPs (myo-inositol pentaphosphate) are more effective than ATP or DPG in reducing the oxygen affinities of the haemoglobins of B. marinus, T. rugosus and man, while ATP and DPG are about equally effective. Competition experiments indicate that ATP, DPG and myo-IP6 bind to the same site or sites on the haemoglobins of each of the species. These findings, and those of others, are interpreted as evidence that the evolution of an organic phosphate binding site on the haemoglobin of an ancient vertebrate pre-adapted haemoglobin for interaction with a set of organic phosphates having certain structural features in common.
Abstract The concentrations of glycolytic intermediates, including 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, were similar in rat reticulocytes and erythrocytes. There were striking differences, however, in the content and kind of water-soluble nucleotides. Reticulocytes contained much higher concentrations of ATP, GTP, UTP and CTP and had nucleotides not detected in the mature cell including UDP-acetylhexosamine, guanosine diphosphomannose and an unidentified cytidine compound. A large fraction of the total GTP found in the reticulocyte was in the form of a 1:1 complex of ferric iron with GTP.
1. Oxygen dissociation curves have been measured for human haemoglobin solutions with different concentrations of the allosteric effectors 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate and inositol hexaphosphate. 2. Each effector produces a concentration dependent right shift of the oxygen dissociation curve, but a point is reached where the shift is maximal and increasing the effector concentration has no further effect. 3. Mathematical models based on the Monod, Wyman & Changeux (1965) treatment of allosteric proteins have been fitted to the data. For each compound the simple two-state model and its extension to take account of subunit inequivalence were shown to be inadequate, and a better fit was obtained by allowing the effector to lower the oxygen affinity of the deoxy conformational state as well as binding preferentially to this conformation.
Effects of genotype and ethanol consumption by pregnant mothers on hemoglobin (Hb) and red-cell levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and glutathione (GSH) of their progeny were studied in mice. Three lines of mice were used, one selected for high body weight, another selected for low body weight, and an unselected control. An ethanol solution [10% (v/v)] was given ad lib to the females at the time of joining them with males and continued through the pregnancy. Another group received distilled water for drinking throughout. Blood samples from the progeny of both these groups were taken at 10 weeks of age and analyzed for Hb, ATP, DPG, and GSH levels. Alcohol drinking during pregnancy resulted in lower levels of DPG in the red blood cells of progeny of the lines selected for high and low body weight and the reverse in the unselected line. Maternal alcohol consumption had no effect on Hb, APT, and GSH levels in the red blood cells of the progeny of any of the three lines. Females of both selected lines had higher levels of DPG than males. Artificial selection for body weight resulted in a positively correlated response in the level of red-cell DPG and GSH in the progeny.
Deoxygenation of erythrocytes produced marked changes in their 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra in the superconducting spectrometer. Most significantly, all intracellular and extracellular phosphates underwent downfield shifts. In fully deoxygenated blood the extracellular phosphates showed downfield shifts that were dependent upon packed cell volume, when added pyrophosphate was used as a measure of extracellular chemical shift behavior. This effect on extracellular signals was attributed to the paramagnetic contribution of deoxyhemoglobin to the "bulk" magnetic susceptibility of the red cell suspension. Line broadening was observed in deoxygenated whole cell systems but not in hemolysates, as a result of paramagnetic susceptibility gradients across the cell membrane. The degree of downfield shift upon deoxygenation was of different magnitude for each intracellular phosphate [2-P of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) greater than 3-P of 2,3-DPG greater than inorganic phosphate greater than ATP phosphates], independent of packed cell volume but dependent on the degree of deoxygenation of hemoglobin. When deoxygenation shift effects in adult cells were compared to those of cord blood cells containing 70% fetal hemoglobin, it was found that 45% of the 2,3-DPG shift effects were attributable to binding of that compound to hemoglobin. By use of a nonphysiologic phosphate analogue, methylphosphonate, as an internal reference, it was found that an increase in pH of deoxy cells contributed to the downfield shift of inorganic phosphate. In hemolysates, the methylphosphonate - inorganic phosphate chemical shift difference was found to be pH dependent, with a sensitivity of (-) 0.39 pH unit/ppm, independent of the hemoglobin oxygenation state.
BACKGROUND ::: Hemoglobin (Hb) has peroxidase (POD)-like activity. We found that the addition of albumin to human Hb purified from venous erythrocytes increased its POD-like activity. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We treated human Hb with a Blue-Toyopearl column of immobilized albumin, compared the treated Hb and native Hb for POD-like activity, the level of Hb-bound 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and the absorption spectrum, and found that treatment with albumin released 2,3-DPG from Hb, resulting in a tense-relaxed (T-R) conversion and increased POD-like activity. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The addition of human, mouse, rat, or bovine albumin to human Hb increased its POD-like activity. Addition of human albumin caused the highest increase, followed by that of mouse, rat, and bovine albumin in order. Addition of rabbit or guinea pig albumin caused little or no increase in the POD-like activity of Hb. Analysis of the distribution of methionine residues in the albumins of these animals showed that human, mouse, and rat albumins have a methionine residue at position 8 in loop 3 of domain I, and human and mouse albumins have an additional methionine residue in domain I. Bovine albumin has no methionine residue at position 8 in loop 3 of domain I, but has two methionine residues at other positions in domain I. Mouse and rat albumins have no methionine residues in domain I. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: These results suggest that the methionine residue at position 8 in loop 3 of domain I is most closely involved in the T-R conversion of human Hb. The addition of 2,3-DPG to albumin or selective oxidation of the methionine residues of albumin lessened the increase in POD-like activity when albumin was added to Hb, providing supporting evidence that the methionine residue of albumin is involved in the T-R conversion. The methionine residue of albumin may have a very important role in the degradation of Hb released from erythrocytes in blood vessels.
The reaction of nitrite with deoxyhemoglobin (deoxyHb) results in the reduction of nitrite to NO, which binds unreacted deoxyHb forming Fe(II)-nitrosylhemoglobin (Hb(II)NO). The tight binding of NO to deoxyHb is, however, inconsistent with reports implicating this reaction with hypoxic vasodilation. This dilemma is resolved by the demonstration that metastable intermediates are formed in the course of the reaction of nitrite with deoxyHb. The level of intermediates is quantitated by the excess deoxyHb consumed over the concentrations of the final products formed. The dominant intermediate has a spectrum that does not correspond to that of Hb(III)NO formed when NO reacts with methemoglobin (MetHb), but is similar to metHb resulting in the spectroscopic determinations of elevated levels of metHb. It is a delocalized species involving the heme iron, the NO, and perhaps the beta-93 thiol. The putative role for red cell reacted nitrite on vasodilation is associated with reactions involving the intermediate. (1) The intermediate is less stable with a 10-fold excess of nitrite and is not detected with a 100-fold excess of nitrite. This observation is attributed to the reaction of nitrite with the intermediate producing N2O3. (2) The release of NO quantitated by the formation of Hb(II)NO is regulated by changes in the distal heme pocket as shown by the 4.5-fold decrease in the rate constant in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The regulated release of NO or N2O3 as well as the formation of the S-nitroso derivative of hemoglobin, which has also been reported to be formed from the intermediates generated during nitrite reduction, should be associated with any hypoxic vasodilation attributed to the RBC.
Special chemicals and reagents. Crystalline yeast hexokinase, triose phosphate isomerase and 3-phosphoglycerate (barium salt) were obtained from C. F. Boehringer und Soehne, Mannheim, Germany. Crystalline aldolase and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, ATP, ADP, NADH, fructose 6-phosphate (sodium salt), glucose 6-phosphate (sodium salt), fructose 1,6-diphosphate (sodium salt) and deoxyglucose were obtained from the Sigma Chemical Company, St Louis, Mo., U.S.A. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (barium salt) was obtained from Schwartz Laboratories Inc., U.S.A.
The recent reports of the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) on hemoglobin affinity for oxygen suggested that this substance may play a role in man's adaptation to acidosis and alkalosis.
Genetically based modifications of hemoglobin (Hb) function that increase blood-O 2 affinity are hallmarks of hypoxia adaptation in vertebrates. Among mammals, felid Hbs are unusual in that they have low intrinsic O 2 affinities and reduced sensitivities to the allosteric cofactor 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). This combination of features compromises the acclimatization capacity of blood-O 2 affinity and has led to the hypothesis that felids have a restricted physiological niche breadth relative to other mammals. In seeming defiance of this conjecture, the snow leopard (Panthera uncia) has an extraordinarily broad elevational distribution and occurs at elevations above 6000 m in the Himalayas. Here, we characterized structural and functional variation of big cat Hbs and investigated molecular mechanisms of Hb adaptation and allosteric regulation that may contribute to the extreme hypoxia tolerance of the snow leopard. Experiments revealed that purified Hbs from snow leopard and African lion exhibited equally low O 2 affinities and DPG sensitivities. Both properties are primarily attributable to a single amino acid substitution, β2His→Phe, which occurred in the common ancestor of Felidae. Given the low O 2 affinity and reduced regulatory capacity of feline Hbs, the extreme hypoxia tolerance of snow leopards must be attributable to compensatory modifications of other steps in the O 2 -transport pathway.
The primary organic phosphate modifiers of haemoglobin function are DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) in the toad Bufo marinus and ATP in the lizard Trachydosaurus rugosus. Myo-IP6 (myoinositol hexaphosphate) and myo-IPs (myo-inositol pentaphosphate) are more effective than ATP or DPG in reducing the oxygen affinities of the haemoglobins of B. marinus, T. rugosus and man, while ATP and DPG are about equally effective. Competition experiments indicate that ATP, DPG and myo-IP6 bind to the same site or sites on the haemoglobins of each of the species. These findings, and those of others, are interpreted as evidence that the evolution of an organic phosphate binding site on the haemoglobin of an ancient vertebrate pre-adapted haemoglobin for interaction with a set of organic phosphates having certain structural features in common.
The functional properties of haemoglobins from most classes of vertebrates have been shown to be modified by certain organic phosphates of the red blood cell cytoplasm* (Benesch et al. 1968; Johnson and Tate 1969; Gillen and Riggs 1971; Wood 1971; Misson and Freeman 1972; Anderson et al. 1973; Larkin 1973; Taketa and Nickerson 1973; Vandecasserie et al. 1973; Geoghegan and Poluhowich 1974) . The organic phosphates of the red blood cell cytoplasm so far shown to be modifiers of haemoglobin function are ADP, ATP, GTP, DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate), and myo-IP 5 (myo-inositol pentaphosphate). These organic phosphates act on human haemoglobin by binding preferentially to the quaternary deoxy form in the central cavity between the f3 subunits. Thus they place additional constraints on either, or both, the quaternary deoxy form and the deoxy conformation of the subunits, and thereby lower the overall affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen (Perutz 1970a (Perutz , 1970b Arnone 1972; Janssen and De Bruin 1973; Arnone and Perutz 1974) .
The effect of osmotically induced alterations in mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) on oxygen affinity of hemoglobin was studied in blood cells containing various concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). At normal DPG concentration (0.88 mol/mol Hb) there was a positive correlation between MCHC and whole blood oxygen affinity (P50); the magnitude of the effect, expressed as δP50/δMCHC, was 0.17, a value considerably smaller than that reported by previous investigators. At low DPG concentration ( 1.3 mol/mol Hb) no relationship between MCHC and P50 was found. The results are discussed in relation to the various changes in the intracellular milieu on osmotic manipulation, and it is concluded that the alterations of P50 are due mainly to changes in intracellular ionic strength.
Abstract Red cells utilize the 3-carbon sugar dihydroxyacetone (DHA), phosphorylating it through the activity of the enzyme, D-triokinase. Triokinase of human red cells is inhibited to only a very limited extent by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. The rate of utilization of DHA by erythrocytes therefore closely approaches the activity of the uninhibited enzyme, averaging 0.042 μmole per minute per milliliter of red cells at pH 7.4. At pH 6.6, the rate of DHA utilization was greater than at pH 7.4. The presence of DHA did not inhibit the utilization of glucose. When fresh cells were incubated with DHA, DHA phosphate and fructose diphosphate accumulated in the cells. This accumulation could be prevented partially by the addition of pyruvate, and almost completely if both pyruvate and inorganic phosphate were added. In the presence of pyruvate and inorganic phosphate there was a rapid increase in the 2,3-DPG concentration of red cells incubated with DHA. This increase was almost as rapid as that observed with inosine, pyruvate, and phosphate. Dihydroxyacetone was less effective than inosine in regenerating 2,3-DPG in red cells which had been depleted by storage in CPD solution or treatment with metabisulfite. When DHA, pyruvate, and phosphate were infused intravenously into rabbits DHA was cleared from the blood at a rapid exponential rate. The T12 was from approximately 5 to 10 minutes. Only 1 of 8 rabbits treated had an appreciable elevation of red cell 2,3-DPG levels during infusion, and this may well have been unrelated to the infusion itself. However, since rabbit red cell 2,3-DPG was less responsive than human red cell 2,3-DPG to DHA in vitro, the possibility that DHA infusion will elevate human red cell 2,3-DPG in vivo must be considered.
The effects of inorganic phosphate (Pi), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and glucose-6-phosphate (G-6-P) on labile and stable hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) synthesis were studied. After a 75 gram oral glucose administration, the rate of labile or stable HbA1c synthesis decreased in parallel to the decrease in plasma Pi concentrations. In in vitro incubations of red blood cell suspensions or hemoglobin preparations with glucose, Pi proportionally increased the rate of labile or stable HbA1c synthesis. The increase in 2,3-DPG caused by Pi explained only one fiftieth of the increased rate of labile HbA1c synthesis, and G-6-P did not affect HbA1c synthesis. The kinetic analysis of the effect of Pi showed the unchanged rate constant [K1], the decreased rate constant [K-1], and the increased rate constant [K2]. Based on these data it is concluded that Pi in its physiological range directly increases hemoglobin glycation by decreasing labile HbA1c dissociation and accelerating the Amadori rearrangement for stable HbA1c synthesis, and that Pi should be taken into account when using HbA1c to evaluate diabetic control.
Calmodulin, an abundant protein in the red cell cytosol, exerts its effects on erythrocyte membrane properties via interactions with numerous proteins. To evaluate whether calmodulin might regulate association of protein 4.1 with one of its integral membrane protein anchors, protein 4.1 binding to inside-out erythrocyte membrane vesicles (IOVs) in the presence and absence of calmodulin and Ca2+ was examined. Ca2+ plus calmodulin was found to competitively inhibit protein 4.1 association with IOVs with a Ki of 1.4 microM and a maximal inhibition of 83%. In the absence of Ca2+, calmodulin still reduce protein 4.1 binding by 43%, consistent with the known Ca2+ independent association of calmodulin with protein 4.1. Ca2+ alone had no effect on protein 4.1-membrane interactions. Digestion studies revealed that both band 3 and glycophorin sites were similarly affected by calmodulin competition, suggesting all major protein 4.1 anchors are potentially regulated. In light of other data showing regulation of the same interactions by phosphoinositides, protein kinases, and the concentration of free cytosolic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, it can be argued that association of protein 4.1 with integral protein anchors constitutes one of the more sensitively regulated interactions of the membrane.
Blood gaseous composition, mechanisms controlling hemoglobin affinity to oxygen and hemoglobin effects of a single captopril dose were assessed in 124 patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). CHF-associated hypoxemia was shown to be mixed, with the circulatory component prevailing. Hemoglobin affinity to oxygen is increased in CHF, stage IIA, and reduced in CHF, stages IIB-III. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is the principal regulator of hemoglobin affinity to oxygen its blood level increasing progressively as CHF aggravates. Hemoglobin affinity to oxygen may be reduced by captopril in patients with CHF of stages I-IIA.
AbstractFour phosphonate derivates of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), in which the phosphate group is replaced by a methylene or difluoromethylene, were successfully synthesized for use as allosteric modulators of hemoglobin (Hb) O2 affinity. The syntheses were accomplished in four steps and the reagents were converted to their potassium salts to allow for effective binding with Hb in aqueous media. O2 equilibrium measurements of the chemically modified Hbs exhibited P50 values in the range 8.9–12.8 with Hill coefficients in the range of 1.5–2.4.
Serum phosphate (S-P) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were monitored for 10 days after severe burn trauma in 16 patients treated with total parenteral nutrition, including supplementation with 25-75 mmol phosphate daily. Phosphate metabolism was previously shown to be disturbed in patients with severe burns, and hypophosphatemia has been reported to disturb oxygen transport by reducing synthesis of 2,3-DPG in the red cells. In this study, S-P was decreased in the first post-trauma week because of a negative phosphate balance the first 4 post-trauma days, but 2,3-DPG remained at normal concentrations. These findings indicate that post-traumatic disturbance in red-cell phosphate metabolism may be prevented by administration of phosphate and that such supplementation is important in the metabolic management of severely injured patients.
Two haemoglobin components have been identified and purified from fallow-deer (Dama dama) erythrocytes. They are present in similar amounts and the two tetrameric molecules share the same alpha chain, while two different beta chains are detected in the two components. The beta chains differ by 14 residues, even though they both have 145 amino-acid residues, which account for a molecular mass of 16,023 and 16,064 Da, respectively, while alpha chain has 141 residues, yielding a molecular mass of 15,142 Da. Compared with human Hb, the N-terminal region of both beta chains shows deletion of Val beta 1 and the replacement of His beta 2 by a methionyl residue, a modification which is common to most ruminant haemoglobins. Although both isolated components show a low intrinsic affinity for oxygen, meaningful differences between the two haemoglobins have been found with respect to the effect of heterotropic effectors, such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and chloride ions. In view of the high sequence homology between the two components, the different effect of heterotropic ligands has been tentatively correlated to possible localized structural variations between beta chains of the two haemoglobin components.
Abstract Dissociation of the human erythrocyte into cytoplasmic and membranous components, shows that all of the cell's intrinsic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activity is associated with the soluble component. Further fractionaction of the cytoplasm on DEAE cellulose illustrates that both 1,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activities occur coincidently within one peak. Thermal denaturation of the peak proteins at 60° results in a parallel loss in phosphatase and mutase activity. The identical phenomenon is observed in the presence of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activator, 2-phosphoglycolate. Homogeneous 1,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, which quantitatively accounts for all of the intrinsic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase within the red cell, also exhibits thermal instability at 60°. These findings suggest that the phosphoglycerate bypass in erythrocytes is under the control of a single, bifunctional enzyme.
Alterations in the patterns of hemoglycolysis (ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, glucose, lactate, pyruvate) were studied after incubation of erythrocytes from 98 patients with chronic ischemic heart disease and 27 practically healthy persons. The incubation of erythrocytes within 2 hrs enabled to detect the typical impairments in regulation of glycolysis occurring in erythrocytes of the patients as well as to find two main types of its alteration, corresponding to clinical manifestations in the circulation insufficiency.
A study of 35 patients with cystic fibrosis demonstrated that increasing severity of pulmonary involvement was associated with a mild but definite increase in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and a decrease in hemoglobin affinity for oxygen. The predominant regulators of 2,3-DPG were blood pH, cardiac output, and systemic oxygen transport. No significant relationship was observed between erythrocyte 2,3-DPG content and arterial oxygen tension. Hypophosphatemia may have prevented a greater increase in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG content. The inadequate increase in 2,3-DPG and consequent insufficient change in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity, coupled with an insufficient compensatory erythrocytic response, may adversely affect tissue oxygenation in patients with severe cystic fibrosis.
To study the physiological effects of pre-adaptation to high altitude, seven subjects were submitted to acclimatization at 4350 m followed by intermittent acclimation in a low barometric pressure chamber (5000 m to 8500 m). The subjects then spent 25 days in the Himalayas. Ventilatory and cardiac responses were studied during a hypobaric poikilocapnic hypoxic test performed both at rest and during exercise (100 W) in normoxia and in hypoxia (barometric pressure: 589 hPa, altitude: 4500 m). Haemoglobin, erythrocytes, reticulocytes, packed cell volume, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and erythropoietin (EPO) were measured. All variables were studied before pre-adaptation to high altitude (A), after the acclimatization period (B), after the acclimation period (C) and after the expedition (D). The ventilatory and cardiac responses were characterized by an increased tidal volume in hypoxia (+ 33% during exercise in B,P < 0.05; + 100% at rest and + 33% during exercise in C,P < 0.05) without any change in respiratory frequency, whereas an increased systolic blood pressure was only observed in C during exercise in hypoxia [+23 mmHg (3.07 kPa),P<0.01]. Arterial O2 saturation was higher in hypoxia in C and D, both at rest (+8.2% and +4.7%,P<0.01, respectively), and during exercise (+6.3% and +6.3%,P<0.01, respectively). Erythrocytes, haemoglobin and packed cell volume did not vary significantly. The number of reticulocytes was higher in B (+172%,P<0.05) and in C (+249%,P<0.05). EPO and 2,3-DPG increased only in C (+ 770%,P<0.01 and +23%,P<0.05, respectively). These results showed that a combination of continuous pre-acclimatization on Mont Blanc and intermittent acclimation in the hypobaric chamber triggered efficient pre-adaptation mechanisms allowing climbers to save 1 to 2 weeks of acclimatization on the mountain without clinical inconvenience.
In 20 patients undergoing open-heart surgery, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations, oxygen affinity of hemoglobin (Po2 at half saturation of hemoglobin with oxygen [P50]), hemoglobin concentration, and pH were measured repeatedly. Measurements were made before and at various times after open-heart surgery and replacement of blood loss with blood stored in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) or citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) solutions for less than 72 hours (10 cases per group). Infusion of ACD blood caused P50 and 2,3-DPG concentration to decrease significantly after the operation. The infusion of blood stored in CPD did not significantly increase the oxygen affinity. No significant changes in hemoglobin concentration or pH were observed immediately after the operation in either group. To compensate for the increased oxygen affinity, there must be a rise in cardiac output or more likely a decrease in venous Po2. The transfusion of CPD blood, therefore, is more favorable in terms of oxygen supply, particularly in patients who have had cardiac surgery.
Abstract 1. 1. The purification of phosphoglyceromutase from erythrocytes of day-old chicks is described. 2. 2. The purified enzyme migrates as a single band when electrophoresed on polyacrylamide gel containing sodium dodecyl sulphate, β-mercaptoethanol and urea. Its estimated subunit molecular weight is 26,500 daltons. 3. 3. The enzyme possessed no mutase activity in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Its K m for 3-phosphoglycerate is 6.6 × 10 −4 M and for 2,3-DPG is 8 × 10 −6 M. The enzyme exhibited 2,3-DPG phosphatase activity in the presence of 2-phosphoglycolate or pyrophosphate. These kinetic properties are identical to those of the phosphoglyceromutases of the erythrocytes of man and goat reported earlier from this laboratory. 4. 4. In contrast to the activity of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase-mutase, the phosphoglyceromutase activity in the erythrocytes did not vary in the embryo or chick from that in the adult bird.
Erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), in response to carbon monoxide (CO) hypoxemia, was studied in 12 rabbits exposed to 250 ppm CO for 3 hours. Each animal served as its own control. Individual determinations of carboxyhemoglobin, arterial oxygen content, oxygen saturation, and 2,3-DPG were made before and immediately after exposures to both CO and normal air. After CO inhalation, there was no significant change in 2,3-DPG despite an average reduction of 22% in arterial oxygen saturation. Moreover, there was no significant correlation between individual oxygen desaturations and changes in 2,3-DPG. The data imply that the 2,3-DPG mechanism offers little or no compensation for this form of hypoxia. OHIO J. SCI. 79(2): 81, 1979 Several causes of hypoxia, such as altitude exposure (Torrance et al 1970), ventilatory impairment (Edwards and Cannon 1972) and anemias (Eaton and Brewer 1968), are associated with increases of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) in red blood cells. Since 2,3DPG decreases the affinity of hemoglobin (Hb) for oxygen (Chanutin and Curnish 1967), an increase would shift the oxygen-dissociation curve to the right, promoting tissue oxygenation and thereby offering compensation for the hypoxia. Tobacco smoking and automobiles in modern society have increased the inhalation of carbon monoxide (CO), a common source of induced hypoxia. Studies of the effect of CO exposures on 2,3-DPG have produced varying results. Dinman et al (1970) exposed rats for only 10-15 minutes to high levels of CO. About half the animals showed some increase in 2,3-DPG, whereas the others did not. Astrup (1970) found that 4 of 8 human volunteers reduced their 2,3DPG after a brief CO exposure but the study had no controls. Morena et al (1974) exposed 10 rabbits for 10 minutes to CO (6-13% COHb) and observed a slight mean decrease in 2,3-DPG. RamiManuscript received 6 February 1978 and in revised form 26 June 1978 (#78-8). sey and Casper (1976) found no mean change in 2,3-DPG in 12 rabbits at any 3 hour interval during 24 hours following an exposure producing 20% COHb. In most of the above mentioned studies the exposures were markedly brief, and no assessment was made of the actual O2 deficit. Benesch et al (1968) showed that deoxyhemoglobin binds free 2,3-DPG, thereby stimulating erythrocytic glycolysis to synthesize more. This may explain why subjects at altitude produce more 2,3-DPG. Our study was designed to probe three questions: 1) Do a few hours of CO exposure resulting in 20-25% COHb produce a significant change in 2,3-DPG? 2) How much arterial O2 desaturation results from such exposures? 3) Is there a significant statistical relationship between O2 desaturation and changes in 2,3-DPG? METHODS AND MATERIALS Twelve New Zealand rabbits, weighing 4-5 kg, were selected for the study. They were exposed, one at a time, to normal air for 3 hours in a specially constructed exposure chamber. Blood was withdrawn from the ear artery and the ear vein with needle and syringe before, and immediately after, the 3 hour period. Determinations for Hb content (g/100 ml), COHb (%) and 2,3-DPG (Mmole/ml) were done for each venous sample and O2 content (vol %) was measured from arterial samples. Some of each arterial sample was perfused with 100% O2 in order to measure the full O2 capacity (vol %) . The original O2 content value then was divided
Abstract 1. 1. Newborn to 24 week old male guinea pigs were studied at 22°C and an ambient Po2 of 133 torr. The following hematological variables were measured once on each animal: hematocrit, [Hb], RBC indices, WBC differentials, and the molar ratio of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) tq [Hb]. 2. 2. [Hb] declined from 15.8 g/100ml at birth (BW = 90 g) to 12.6 g/100 ml when BW = 252 g, and then increased linearly with increasing BW. Red cell indices were nearly constant at all BWs: MCV = 81.7 μm3; MCH = 25.1 pg; and MCHC = 30.7%. In newborn guinea pigs, lymphocytes comprised the majority (73%) of WBC's, but this percentage fell to 55% in mature animals. The ratio of [2,3-DPG]/[Hb] rose from 1.40 M/M following birth to 1.95 M/M (BW = 154 g) and then declined to 0.92 M/M in mature animals. 3. 3. The relative maturity of the hematological profile in newborn guinea pigs contrasts with those in the laboratory mouse and laboratory rat.
Input parameters for the program are the arterial pH, pCO2, and pO2 (measured by a blood gas analyzer), oxygen saturation, carboxy-, met-, and total hemoglobin (measured by a multi-wavelength spectrometer), supplemented by patient age, sex, temperature, inspired oxygen fraction, fraction of fetal hemoglobin, and ambient pressure. Output parameters are the inspired and alveolar oxygen partial pressures, pH, pCO2 and pO2 referring to the actual patient temperature, estimated shunt fraction, half-saturation tension, estimated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, oxygen content and oxygen capacity, extracellular base excess, and plasma bicarbonate concentration. Three parameters related to the blood oxygen availability are calculated: the oxygen extraction tension, concentration of extractable oxygen, and oxygen compensation factor. Calculations of the 'reverse' type may also be performed so that the effect of therapeutic measures on the oxygen status or the acid-base status can be predicted. The user may ch...
Pyruvate kinase (PK)-deficient RBCs have several unexplained metabolic abnormalities, such as decreased concentrations of total adenine nucleotides (AMP, ADP, and ATP) and total (oxidized and reduced) nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). Because 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate (PRPP) is an intermediate in the synthesis of adenine nucleotides and NAD, we investigated PRPP synthetase (PRPPS), the enzyme responsible for PRPP synthesis. This enzyme is regulated, in part, by changes in its state of subunit aggregation. The proportion of aggregated PRPPS can be altered in vitro by ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Because PK-deficient RBCs have decreased ATP and increased DPG concentrations, we examined the state of subunit aggregation of PRPPS in RBCs from normal and PK-deficient subjects, using gel permeation chromatography. Young normal RBCs have more aggregated PRPPS than do older RBCs. In contrast, due to their decreased ATP and increased DPG concentrations, PK-deficient RBCs contain less aggregated PRPPS than do RBCs of comparable age without PK deficiency. These data suggest that PRPPS should be less active in vivo in PK-deficient RBCs. This may play a key role in mediating the decreases in total adenine nucleotide and total NAD concentrations in these RBCs.
To investigate the relationship between polyol pathway hyperactivity and altered carnitine metabolism in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy, the effects of an aldose reductase inhibitor, [5-(3-thienyl) tetrazol-1-yl]acetic acid (TAT), and a carnitine analog, acetyl-l-carnitine (ALC), on neural functions and biochemistry and hemodynamic factors were compared in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Significantly delayed motor nerve conduction velocity, decreased R-R interval variation, reduced sciatic nerve blood flow and decreased erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations in diabetic rats were all ameliorated by treatment with TAT (administered with rat chow containing 0.05% TAT, ∼50 mg/kg/day) or ALC (by gavage, 300 mg/kg/day) for 4 weeks. Platelet hyperaggregation activity in diabetic rats was diminished by TAT but not by ALC. TAT decreased sorbitol accumulation and prevented not only myo -inositol depletion but also free-carnitine deficiency in diabetic nerves. On the other hand, ALC also increased the myo -inositol as well as the free-carnitine content without affecting the sorbitol content. These observations suggest that there is a close relationship between increased polyol pathway activity and carnitine deficiency in the development of diabetic neuropathy and that an aldose reductase inhibitor, TAT, and a carnitine analog, ALC, have therapeutic potential for the treatment of diabetic neuropathy.
Abstract Mice were pretreated with phenobarbital, chlorpromazine, or alcohol prior to exposure to 1900 ppm carbon monoxide (CO) or 7.5% oxygen (O 2 ) environments. Pretreatment for 1 hr with chlorpromazine or ethanol increased the lethality of mice exposed to both CO and 7.5% O 2 , while 1-hr phenobarbital pretreatment had no effect on CO lethality but increased 7.5% O 2 lethality. Changes in carboxyhemoglobin concentrations that were observed were inconsistent with the alteration in CO lethality. Studies of red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations and rate of carboxyhemoglobin formation in vitro showed that the apparent affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen and CO remained unchanged following drug or alcohol pretreatments. The different effects of the pretreatments on CO and 7.5% O 2 lethality and the lack of correlation of CO lethality with carboxyhemoglobin concentrations suggests that there are other factors besides extracellular events directly associated with oxygenation of tissues which are critical determinants of the lethal potential of CO or 7.5% O 2 .
This study was concerned with the effects of prolonged muscular work in healthy subjects on erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as a mediator of acute changes in the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen. The experimental procedures were designed to elicit marked variation among exercise conditionsin factors which are known or hypothesized to effect oxy-hemoglobin dissociation in vivo, ·... namely respiratory and metabolic acid-base status, temperature, adequacy of systemic O2 transport and length of time to exhaustion. In contrast to a previous report, the only systematic effect of exercise under present conditions was a decline below resting levels in red cell 2,3-DPG which occurred at the mid-point of each work test. Neither the magnitude nor direction of change in 2,3-DPG was related to the physiologic intensity of exercise. Present findings are consistent with the contention that time is a critical determinant of any contribution the generation of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG may make to oxy-hemoglobin affinity, regardless of the apparent intensity of demand for increased O2 delivery.
In arterial blood from 250 patients we measured pH, pco2, and po2 (electrochemically) together with total-hemoglobin concentration, oxygen saturation, carboxy- and methemoglobin fractions (spectrometrically). With a previously published algorithm we calculated the effective hemoglobin concentration, total-oxygen concentration, half saturation tension, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, and two new oxygen parameters: uncompensated mixed venous oxygen tension and cardiac oxygen compensation factor. 11% of the patients have normal arterial oxygen tension, but nevertheless risk of tissue hypoxia judged from the two new oxygen parameters. This is due to a low hemoglobin concentration and/or low half saturation tension (increased hemoglobin oxygen affinity). Some patients have decreased arterial oxygen tension but normal uncompensated mixed venous oxygen tension (15%) or normal cardiac oxygen compensation factor (9%). This is due to a high hemoglobin concentration and/or increased half saturation tension. The latter varies from 2.6 to 5.2 kPa (ref.: 3.3-3.9 kPa); 36% have decreased, 27% increased values. The 2,3-diphospho-glycerate concentration varies from 2.0 to 7.9 mmol/l (ref.: 3.6-5.1 mmol/l); 14% have decreased, 30% increased values. Uncompensated mixed venous oxygen tension varies from 1.8 to 5.7 kPa (ref.: 4.5-5.5 kPaf). The cardiac oxygen compensation factor varies from 0.9 to infinity (ref.: 0.8-1.6). We conclude that the variation in the different oxygen parameters is so significant that it justifies routine calculation for all arterial blood samples where the measurement on a conventional blood gas analyzer is supplemented with measurement on one of the new multi-wavelength hemoximeters. The calculation algorithm permits calculation of all the oxygen parameters for the majority of arterial samples (84%) where the oxygen saturation is less than or equal to 0.970.
THE glycolytic intermediate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, is an intracellular regulator of the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin1,2. At high altitudes there is a direct relationship between the decreased oxygen affinity of haemoglobin and the increased concentration of diphosphoglycerate in the blood3. This was explained by Benesch et al.4 and Chanutin et al.5, who found that the binding of diphosphoglycerate to haemoglobin reduces the oxygen affinity and by our finding that the concentration of diphosphoglycerate increases when the red cells are incubated under low oxygen tension6,7, thereby releasing oxygen from haemoglobin. For the same reason, the oxygen tension is reduced during the circulation of blood from the pulmonary alveoli to the tissues; the decreased level of the diphosphoglycerate facilitates the binding of oxygen to haemoglobin in the pulmonary alveoli and the increased level of the diphosphoglycerate in the blood of the capillaries decreases the affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen. We have measured the amount of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and other glycolytic intermediates in arterial and venous blood to test this supposition.
The development of chemical modification agents that reduce the tendency of sickle hemoglobin (HbS) to aggregate represents an important chemotherapeutic goal. Methyl acetylphosphate (MAP) has been reported to bind to the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) binding site of hemoglobin, where it selectively acetylates residues, resulting in increased solubility of HbS. We have prepared [1-(13)C]MAP and evaluated the adduct formation with hemoglobin using (1)H-(13)C HMQC and HSQC NMR studies. These spectra of the acetylated hemoglobin adducts showed 10-11 well resolved adduct peaks, indicating that the acetylation was not highly residue specific. The chemical shift pattern observed is in general similar to that obtained recently using [1'-(13)C]aspirin as the acetylating agent (Xu, A. S. L., Macdonald, J. M., Labotka, R. J., and London, R. E. (1999) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1432, 333-349). Blocking the 2, 3-DPG binding site with inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) resulted in a selective reduction in intensity of adduct resonances, presumably corresponding to residues located in the 2,3-DPG binding cleft. The pattern of residue protection appeared to be identical to that observed in our previous study using IHP and labeled aspirin. Pre-acetylation of hemoglobin using unlabeled MAP, followed by acetylation with [1'-(13)C]aspirin indicated a general protective effect, with the greatest reduction of intensity for resonances corresponding to acetylated residues in the 2,3-DPG binding site. These studies indicated that both MAP and aspirin exhibit similar, although not identical, acetylation profiles and target primarily the betaLys-82 residue in the 2,3-DPG binding site, as well as sites such as betaLys-59 and alphaLys-90, which are not located in the beta-cleft of hemoglobin.
In 11 patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, oxygen (O2) affinity of red cells (P50), blood gases, ventilation, and O2 consumption were studied. Contrary to patients on maintenance hemodialysis, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and P50 were normal in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis; they were correlated with each other. Arterial O2 pressure was normal; under the conditions of dialysis with 35 mmol lactate per liter dialysis fluid a slight metabolic acidosis persisted; it was combined with a moderate respiratory alkalosis. Position had no influence upon pulmonary gas exchange with the exception of the alveolo-arterial gradient which was elevated when the abdominal cavity was filled with dialysis fluid and the patients assumed the supine position. Ventilation was in the normal range, whereas O2 consumption was low, possibly due to a reduction in muscle mass in some of the patients. It is concluded that pulmonary gas exchange and erythrocyte O2 transport were normal and that O2 requirements tended to be low in this group of patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
A fast-moving abnormal hemoglobin found in a diabetic patient was identified as beta 140 (H18) Ala----Asp. It comprised about 40% of the total hemoglobin. The beta N-terminal glycation in the abnormal hemoglobin was estimated to be 3 times as much as that in Hb A in the same blood sample. The abnormal hemoglobin was slightly unstable. Oxygen affinity of the stripped hemoglobin was decreased, but that of red cells from the carrier was slightly higher than normal because of the reduced effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
The changes in structure and function of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-hemoglobin (2,3-DPG-Hb) induced by Ln(3+) binding were studied by spectroscopic methods. The binding of lanthanide cations to 2,3-DPG is prior to that to Hb. Ln(3+) binding causes the hydrolysis of either one from the two phosphomonoester bonds in 2,3-DPG non-specifically. The results using the ultrafiltration method indicate that Ln(3+) binding sites for Hb can be classified into three categories: i.e. positive cooperative sites (N(I)), non-cooperative strong sites (N(S)) and non-cooperative weak sites (N(W)) with binding constants in decreasing order: K(I)>K(S)>K(W). The total number of binding sites amounts to about 65 per Hb tetramer. Information on reaction kinetics was obtained from the change of intrinsic fluorescence in Hb monitored by stopped-flow fluorometry. Fluctuation of fluorescence dependent on Ln(3+) concentration and temperature was observed and can be attributed to the successive conformational changes induced by Ln(3+) binding. The results also reveal the bidirectional changes of the oxygen affinity of Hb in the dependence on Ln(3+) concentration. At the range of [Ln(3+)]/[Hb]<2, the marked increase of oxygen affinity (P(50) decrease) with the Ln(3+) concentration can be attributed to the hydrolysis of 2,3-DPG, while the slight rebound of oxygen affinity in higher Ln(3+) concentration can be interpreted by the transition to the T-state of the Hb tetramer induced by Ln(3+) binding. This was indicated by the changes in secondary structure characterized by the decrease of alpha-helix content.
Seventeen dogs with chronic renal failure (CRF) were studied to evaluate the incidence, type, and etiology of anemia in CRF. A nonregenerative, normochromic, normocytic anemia was seen in 12 of 17 dogs (70.6%). There was a direct correlation between the degree of anemia and the extent of CRF as assessed by serum creatinine concentrations (P = .0386, r = .50923). Erythrocyte concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) were significantly increased in anemic animals and showed a close correlation to the degree of anemia. The high DPG concentrations may compensate for the anemia by decreasing the hemoglobin-oxygen affinity and thereby facilitating tissue oxygenation at low hematocrits. Serum concentrations of erythropoietin (Epo) were in the low to normal range, despite mild to moderate anemia, documenting a deficiency of Epo in dogs with CRF. The nonregenerative nature of the anemia supports impaired hematopoiesis as a significant etiologic factor. Other factors, such as increases in serum parathyroid hormone and phosphorus, were not found to correlate significantly with the degree of anemia, although there were significant differences between their concentrations in anemic compared with non-anemic dogs. There was no change in erythrocyte osmotic fragility with uremia. The documentation of a nonregenerative, normochromic, normocytic anemia, with failure of an appropriate increase in Epo production, supports the therapeutic use of Epo in the management of the anemia seen in CRF in the dog.
Abstract Hemoglobin of the prosimian primate Lemur fulvus fulvus is quite similar to human hemoglobin in its primary structure but is significantly different in its functional behaviour. Equilibrium and kinetic studies show that the sequence differences in Lemur hemoglobin do not affect cooperativity, but do produce a decreased oxygen affinity, a decreased Bohr effect, and a decreased response to organic phosphates. The decreased effect of organic phosphates on Lemur hemoglobin may be partially accounted for by the presence of leucine at the β2 position. This constitutes the first experimental verification of the involvement of β2 histidine in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding (proposed on the basis of a recent x-ray crystallographic study). The other functional differences cannot be readily accounted for in terms of the current stereochemical model. Tetramers of Lemur hemoglobin have an increased tendency to dissociate into dimers relative to human hemoglobin. In addition, there are greater functional differences between the α and the β chains within tetramers of Lemur hemoglobin than in human hemoglobin tetramers. Kinetic analysis shows that only one type of chain, tentatively identified as β, contributes to the pH dependence of deoxygenation of Lemur hemoglobin. This is the major kinetic expression of the pH dependence of oxygen binding observed in equilibrium studies. Comparative studies show that the exaggerated chain differences and low oxygen affinity of stripped Lemur hemoglobin are closely paralleled by the behavior of human hemoglobin in the presence of saturating amounts of inositol hexaphosphate.
Abstract Hemoglobin A (HbA) and two low oxygen affinity variants of HbA, HbPresbyterian and HbYoshizuka, were produced in transgenic pigs and purified to homogeneity by ion-exchange chromatography. These two variants contain either lysine (HbPresbyterian) or aspartic acid (HbYoshizuka) instead of the normal asparagine residue at position beta 108 in HbA. Transgenic pigs expressed these variants at a level up to 11% and were healthy. Both HbPresbyterian and HbYoshizuka exhibited low O2 affinity (P50 of 21.2 and 18.9, respectively, compared with control HbA value of 11.8 in 0.1 M NaCl, pH 7.5) and retained normal cooperativity with Hill coefficients of 2.9 and 2.5, respectively. HbPresbyterian exhibited Bohr effect comparable with HbA. In contrast, HbYoshizuka had a diminished response to changes in pH. Thus the structural basis of reduced O2 affinity of these variants appears to be distinct: the consequence of mutation at beta 108 is a function of the chemical nature of the side chain. This is further confirmed by the sensitivity of the O2 affinity of the variants to the presence of Cl-. The O2 affinity of HbYoshizuka is insensitive to changes in Cl- concentration, whereas the O2 affinity of HbPresbyterian exhibited a pronounced and dramatic chloride effect. In fact, P50 of HbPresbyterian was identical to that of HbA at very low Cl- concentrations, and the P50 increased to >40 at 0.5 M Cl-. The chloride effect was completely abolished when HbPresbyterian was stabilized at the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate pocket by interdimeric cross-linking. Molecular modeling studies demonstrate that in HbPresbyterian, Cl- can bridge the epsilon-amino group of Lys beta 108 with either the guanidino group of Arg beta 104 or the epsilon-amino group of Lys alpha 99, resulting in the stabilization of the "T" structure. The utility of these low O2 affinity hemoglobins as cell-free oxygen carriers is discussed.
In 20 patients with coronary heart disease the effect of long-term beta-adrenergic receptor blockade on the haemoglobin oxygen equilibrium was investigated. Study patients received alprenolol 200 mg twice daily for 12-41 months (mean: 24 months) as a secondary preventive measure following a myocardial infarction. While on and again following gradual withdrawal of alprenolol, the patients performed a maximum bicycle ergometer test. Haemoglobin oxygen affinity as expressed by the P50 value, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and carbon monoxide haemoglobin were measured before and following exercise. Pre-exercise P50 decreased from 25.2 +/- 0.3 mm Hg (mean +/- s.e. mean) while on beta-adrenoceptor blocker to 24.6 +/- 0.4 mm Hg in the off-treatment state (P less than 0.05). Five minutes after stopping exercise P50 was 25.1 +/- 0.3 in patients taking alprenolol as compared to 24.7 +/- 0.3 after withdrawal of the drug (P less than 0.01). It is concluded that the slight decrease in haemoglobin oxygen affinity in long-term treatment with alprenolol, which is observed in the present study probably is without clinical bearing. The question should be further elucidated by analysis of coronary sinus blood samples.
Since the work of Moon and Richards (I), the 3’P chemical shift of inorganic phosphate (Pi) has been widely used as an indicator of the pH of biological systems. In blood, the Pi resonance often overlaps the doublet resonance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and several spectral editing techniques to separate them have been suggested (2-4). However, all of those techniques require a delay of 1/2J,n(n in this method the delay between excitation and acquisition can be much less than 1/2n the 180” pulse refocuses any dephasing due to magnetic field inhomogeneity and the evolution due to chemical shift. Any evolution due to heteronuclear scalar coupling is also refocused. Consequently, both the components of the DPG doublet and Pi will have the same phase. In the second sequence, a 180” pulse is applied at the 31P and ‘H frequencies. Since the 180” proton pulse inverts the spin states of the proton spins, the evolution due to the heteronuclear scalar coupling of the DPG doublet is not refocused. Therefore at the end of the sequence, one of the resonances of the doublet would have evolved through an angle of hJpH, and the other through -rJpH (= kq5). However, the magnetization of the Pi singlet will have the same phase as before. The positions of the magnetization vectors after the two sequences are illustrated in Fig. 2 as EXP 1 a and EXP lb. The phase of the FID acquired with the sequence in Fig. 1 b is now rotated through k,$. When this FID is subtracted from that resulting from the sequence in Fig. lA, one peak of the DPG doublet cancels out, leaving the singlet from the Pi, plus the
The Bacillus subtilis genes tpi, pgm, and eno, encoding triose phosphate isomerase, phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM), and enolase, respectively, have been cloned and sequenced. These genes are the last three in a large putative operon coding for glycolytic enzymes; the operon includes pgk (coding for phosphoglycerate kinase) followed by tpi, pgm, and eno. The triose phosphate isomerase and enolase from B. subtilis are extremely similar to those from all other species, both eukaryotic and prokaryotic. However, B. subtilis PGM bears no resemblance to mammalian, fungal, or gram-negative bacterial PGMs, which are dependent on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) for activity. Instead, B. subtilis PGM, which is DPG independent, is very similar to a DPG-independent PGM from a plant species but differs from the latter in the absolute requirement of B. subtilis PGM for Mn2+. The cloned pgm gene has been used to direct up to 25-fold overexpression of PGM in Escherichia coli; this should facilitate purification of large amounts of this novel Mn(2+)-dependent enzyme. Inactivation of pgm plus eno in B. subtilis resulted in extremely slow growth either on plates or in liquid, but growth of these mutants was enhanced by supplementation of media with malate. However, these mutants were asporogenous with or without malate supplementation.
Adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations in 14 U of CPDA-1 stored red cells (PRBC) and washed red cells (WRBC) were measured to assess indirectly the quality of WRBC for neonatal transfusion after 24 h. The results indicate that there is no difference in red cell ATP and 2,3-DPG concentrations between PRBC and WRBC after a 24-hour period.
The intrinsic pKa values of protons of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) which titrate in the physiologically significant range (i.e., pH 6.8-7.8) have been determined by measuring the changes in chemical shifts of the two phosphate resonances of the molecule as a function of pH using 31P-NMR spectroscopy. While conventional acid-base titration techniques resulted in apparent pKa values of 6.39 and 7.39 for these protons, analysis of the 31P-NMR data by statistical thermodynamic methods yielded intrinsic pKa values of 6.99 +/- 0.07 and 7.28 +/- 0.04, for protons associated with the phosphates bound to carbon-3 (C-3) and carbon-2 (C-2), respectively, with an interaction energy of +0.77 kcal/mol. The free energies for the binding of protons to the C-2 and C-3 phosphates and the associated interaction energies determined by 31P-NMR were used to generate a theoretical titration curve which was essentially identical to that determined by conventional acid-base titration. The physiological implications of this work are briefly discussed.
Accurate oxygen equilibrium curves of human haemoglobin (concentration, 600 μm as haem) were determined by an automatic recording method (Imai et al., 1970) under a variety of conditions combining six different temperatures with seven sets of solute conditions, producing wide-ranging structural constraints on haemoglobin. The heat and entropy change of oxygenation for four individual steps (ΔHtand ΔSi, i = 1 to 4) were evaluated by a least-squares method directly from each set of six equilibrium curves without knowing the values of the four equilibrium constants kt. As shown in previous studies with dilute haemoglobin solutions (Imai & Tyuma, 1973; Imai & Yonetani, 1975b) ΔHi depended strongly on i; small amounts of heat were liberated at oxygenation steps involving the release of H+ and anions such as Cl−, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and inositol hexaphosphate, while large amounts of heat were liberated on the oxygenation of the R state or highly constrained T state, from which no or few non-haem ligands are released. The observed amounts of heat, when corrected for the heat of H+ and anion release associated with oxygenation, became uniform to a good approximation, indicating that the intrinsic heat of haem oxygenation is essentially equal for the four oxygenation steps, and a large part of the non-uniformity of ΔHi may be ascribed to the oxygen-linked release of the non-haem ligands. ΔSi exhibited similar behaviour. The relation, k1 ≲ k2 ≲ k3 ⪡ k4 which usually holds under physiological conditions, is a consequence of the presence of an enthalpy-entropy compensation process at the first three steps and its absence at the fourth step. The compensation temperature was around 300 K. The origin of the co-operativity cannot be specified as either an enthalpic or entropic effect. In the presence of 0.1 m-Cl− and 2 mm-2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the T to R transition at any oxygenation step is an endothermic process and haemoglobin gains entropy on the transition. The deoxy T structure is stabilised by the enthalpy term, while the oxy R structure is stabilised by the entropy term, so that the T to R transition occurs at a stop where the entropy contribution exceeds the enthalpy contribution. The present study shows that the oxygen-linked binding of non-haem ligands is very important in co-operative oxygen binding by haemoglobin, as predicted by Perutz, (1970).
1. ::: 1. The rate of 3-phosphoglycerate exchange with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate catalyzed by phosphoglyceromutase (EC 2.7.5.3) increases in the order, rabbit < yeast < chicken enzymes. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. Treatment of the chicken and of the rabbit muscle mutase with Hg2+, a procedure known to increase their 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase (EC 3.I.3.I3) activity and to decrease their mutase activity, caused 149 and 294% increase, respectively, in their rate of exchange. The phosphate activity of the yeast enzyme which is not affected by Hg2+ remained also unaffected after Hg2− treatment in so far as exchange rates between 3-phosphoglycerate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. The experimentally observed 32P incorporation from 3-phosphoglycerate into 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was close to that theoretically expected when equilibration of the reaction was reached. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. The phosphatase activity showed no direct relationship to the rate of the 32P exchange between 3-phosphoglycerate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
The oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) of hemoglobin (Hb) has been widely studied and mathematically described for nearly a century. Numerous mathematical models have been designed to predict with ever-increasing accuracy the behavior of oxygen transport by Hb in differing conditions of pH, carbon dioxide, temperature, Hb levels, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations that enable their applications in various clinical situations. The modeling techniques employed in many existing models are notably borrowed from advanced and highly sophisticated mathematics that are likely to surpass the comprehensibility of many medical and bioscience students due to the high level of “mathematical maturity” required. It is, however, a worthy teaching point in physiology lectures to illustrate in simple mathematics the fundamental reason for the crucial sigmoidal configuration of the ODC such that the medical and bioscience undergraduates can readily appreciate it, which is the objective of this basic dissertation.
A nitroxide spin-label probe was attached directly to a propionic acid group of heme in either the alpha or the beta chain of hemoglobin. The electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectrum of the spin label is altered by the spin-state change of the heme iron to which the spin label is attached. These hybrid hemoglobins showed normal optical and functional properties, indicating that the attachment of the spin label did not perturb the function of hemoglobin. Upon deoxygenation of alpha-heme-spin-labeled hemoglobin, EPR signals changed proportionally with oxygen saturation (determined by measuring absorption spectra). This result indicates that there is no binding preference between the alpha and beta chains of hemoglobin. However, the cross plot for the fraction of the EPR changes vs. the fraction of oxygen saturation deviated significantly from the diagonal straight line in response to the addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate. The deviation indicated that the EPR change precedes the optical change at low oxygen tension. This result implies that, in the presence of organic phosphate, oxygen binds preferentially to the alpha subunit of deoxyhemoglobin. This conclusion was supported by the result obtained with beta-heme-spin-labeled hemoglobin: the direction of the deviation for beta-heme-spin-labeled hemoglobin in the presence of diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate was opposite to that obtained for alpha-heme-spin-labeled hemoglobin. However, the curve deviated even in the absence of organic phosphate. This deviation for beta-heme-spin-labeled hemoglobin can be explained by the intersubunit interaction of hemoglobin. From these results, it was concluded that, in the absence of organic phosphate, oxygen combines with the alpha and beta chains with equal probability whereas, in the presence of organic phosphate, oxygen binds preferentially to the alpha chains of hemoglobin.
The metabolic activity of the red cell glycolytic pathway hexose monophosphate shunt (HMP) with dependent glutathione system was studied in patients with hyperthyroidism (n = 10), hyperlipoproteinemia (n = 16), hypoglycemia (n = 25) and hyperglycemia (n = 23). In uncontrolled diabetics and patients with hyperthyroidism the mean value of glucose phosphate isomerase (GPI), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD), glutathione reductase (GR) was increased, whereas these enzyme activities were reduced in patients with hypoglycemia. Apart from a few values of hexokinase (HK) which were lower than normal the results in hyperlipoproteinemia patients remained essentially unchanged, including the intermediates such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and reduced glutathione (GSH). While increased rates of 2,3-DPG and ATP in hypoglycemia patients were obtained, these substrates were markedly reduced in diabetics.
The effects of pH, organic phosphates (2,3-diphosphoglycerate), and temperature on the functional properties of both adult and fetal hemoglobin Sassari alpha (Asp-126-->His) have been studied. The functional properties of the adult variant are characterized by the following: (i) an oxygen affinity higher than that of normal HbA in all the experimental conditions used; (ii) a dramatic reduction of homotropic interactions (n50 very close to unity); and (iii) a significant decrease of the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which is 35% lower than that observed on HbA. The fetal variant shows an increased oxygen affinity compared with normal HbF and an almost abolished heme-heme interaction. The molecular basis of these functional differences is discussed in terms of the possible role played by the substitution of alpha (Asp-26-->His) on the stability of the R state of the molecule due to a decreased interaction at the level of alpha 1 alpha 2 contact.
The primary cause of red cell destruction in enzymopathies of anaerobic remains controversial and difficult to investigate especially because the erythrocyte population in enzymopenic patients is largely heterogeneous. We have shown that loading human erythrocytes with monospecific enzyme-inactivating antibodies could be useful in understanding the biochemical modifications occurring in enzymopenic erythrocytes and the mechanisms leading to red cell destruction. Hexokinase-inactivating antibodies were prepared and loaded in human erythrocytes using a procedure of encapsulation based on hypotonic hemolysis, isotonic resealing and reannealing. Red blood cells loaded with anti-hexokinase IgG showed 20 +/- 3% residual hexokinase activity while all other enzymes were normal. Lactate production by these cells was 30% of controls while the amount of glucose metabolized in the hexose monophosphate pathway (HMP) was unchanged under resting conditions. However, in the presence of methylene blue HMP rates were only 12% of controls. Determination of adenine nucleotide levels suggests that the antihexokinase-loaded red blood cells are not able to maintain, in vitro, their ATP level as well as their 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Osmotic fragility, methemoglobin, and reduced glutathione content were near normal. These and other properties of the antihexokinase-loaded erythrocytes were similar to those found in cases of hexokinase deficiency. When the antibody-loaded erythrocytes were chromatrographed on immobilized Protein A columns 66-70% of cells were retained by the column against 0-10% of controls suggesting that hexokinase inactivation promotes autologous IgG binding. Since the phenomenon is known to be associated with red cell phagocytosis, it could be concluded that in hexokinase deficiency red cells are mainly removed by phagocytosis, and that hemolysis probably occurs in cases of oxidative stress when the production of a large amount of reducing equivalents (NADPH) is needed but not provided by the hexokinase-deficient erythrocytes.
AIM: To observe the effects of intravenous injection of the mesenteric lymph from shock rats on the characteristics and metabolism of red blood cells(RBC),and blood viscosity in normal rats.METHODS: The mesenteric lymph samples,collected from the rats 1 to 3 h after hemorrhagic shock,centrifuged to remove all cellular components and diluted with equal volume of saline,were intravenously injected into normal rats at dose of 2 mL/kg through femoral vein within 30 min.The equal volume of saline was intravenously injected into other normal rats as controls.At 2.5 h after injection,the blood samples were collected from the abdominal aorta for determining the routine parameters,adenosine triphosphate(ATP),lactic acid(LA),2,3-diphosphoglycerate(2,3-DPG),ion concentrations of intra-and extracellular fluid of the RBC and blood viscosity.RESULTS: Intravenous injection of shocked mesenteric lymph reduced the number of RBC,the concentration of hemoglobin,the hematocrit and the content of ATP.Intravenous injection of shocked mesenteric lymph significantly increased the mean corpuscular volume(MCV),2,3-DPG,LA in RBC and the whole blood reduced viscosity.However,no obvious effect of the injection on ion concentrations of intra-and extracellular fluid of RBC,whole blood viscosity and plasma viscosity was observed.CONCLUSION: Intravenous injection of shocked mesenteric lymph causes the disorders of energy metabolism in RBC,thus increasing the MCV and whole blood reduced viscosity.Shocked mesenteric lymph damages RBC.
BACKGROUND ::: The Oxygen Status Algorithm is a computer program for interpretation of pH-blood gas measurements. Recently the facility for on-line transfer of measured data from the pH-blood gas analyzer (ABL 520) to the computer with instant calculation, graphical display, and print-out of the oxygen status and the acid-base status of the blood has been implemented. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: To describe experiences with routine application of the Oxygen Status Algorithm in an intensive care unit and to describe recent improvements of the program. ::: ::: ::: DATA SOURCES ::: Routine pH-blood gas analyses during a two year period with an average of 40 analyses per day. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Several unexpected results were disclosed, especially with respect to abnormal haemoglobin-oxygen affinity, causing suspicion of low 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and hypophosphatemia. The criteria for routine administration of oxygen could be revised on the basis of the oxygen extraction tension. The program was expanded to allow the printing of a cumulated patient report, and modified to allow calculation of the oxygen consumption rate on the basis of simultaneous measurements on the arterial and the mixed venous blood. The program and the computer hardware functioned well in continuous operation during the whole study. It proved to be difficult, however, to ensure that all measurements were supplemented by information on the patient temperature and the fraction of inspired oxygen. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The Oxygen Status Algorithm provides a more detailed description of the oxygen status and the acid-base status of the blood than currently employed. The interaction between the arterial oxygen tension, the haemoglobin oxygen capacity and the haemoglobin oxygen affinity is displayed graphically and the degree of compensation among these three properties is expressed in terms of a single quantity: the oxygen extraction tension. The program also provides an interactive interpretation, allowing a rapid prediction of the expected effect of therapeutic intervention. Nevertheless, implementation of the program in the daily routine requires an intensive educational effort among physicians as well as nurses and laboratory technicians.
Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), whole blood haemoglobin (Hb), haematocrit (Hct), mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration (MCHC) and reticulocyte percentage (Rt) were determined before and after bleeding in two groups of suckling chinchilla rabbits. One group was subjected to severe bleeding on the 12th, 15th, 18th and 21st day after birth and studied for 3 weeks, while the other was studied during the first 24 h after one severe bleeding on the 18th day. In the first group Hb and Hct fell to 2.7 g . dl-1 and 11.5%, respectively, on the 25th day. The fall was accompanied by a marked rise in Rt and decline in MCHC, reaching maximum and minimum on the 29th day, and a simultaneous, temporary decline in 2,3-DPG. In the other group the acute bleeding was accompanied by a marked fall in Hb and Hct, but no change in Rt and MCHC. 2,3-DPG was unchanged 8 h after the bleeding, but showed a rise during the following 16 h, definitely beyond the normal rise at this age. It is concluded that severe bleeding anaemia induces a rise in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG synthesis. However, the effect of the acute rise in 2,3-DPG is far from sufficient to maintain the O2 delivery capacity of the blood, and is completely offset by the influence of a subsequent change in the erythrocyte population towards younger cells with low 2,3-DPG.
The reactions of hemoglobin with oxygen and carbon monoxide are subject to regulation by the heme and the residues surrounding it and by the effectors, also known as heterotopic ligands (H+, Cl-, CO2, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate), that regulate the equilibrium between its two forms, the oxy or R-structure with high and the deoxy or T-structure with low oxygen affinity. The stereochemical mechanisms of regulation have been studied for many years using a variety of methods. What is new since the subject was last surveyed [1] is determination of the crystal structures at resolutions sufficient to resolve individual atoms of the heme and its surroundings; such structures have now been determined for deoxy, oxy, and carbon monoxyhemoglobin, and for several analogues of transition states in the reaction with oxygen and carbon monoxide. In the past much useful information about the stereochemical mechanism of hemoglobin has come from the study of abnormal human hemoglobins. Now that the genes for the α and s chains of hemoglobin and for the single chain of myoglobin have been cloned in E. coli, directed mutagenesis has provided new tools for probing the reactions of these proteins with ligands. Finally, an (unsuccessful) search for possible antisickling drugs has led to the discovery of a family of compounds which are more powerful allosteric effectors than the natural one, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and combine with sites that are far removed from the diphosphoglycerate binding site.
The changes in structure and function of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-hemoglobin (2,3-DPG-Hb) induced by Ln 3 binding were studied by spectroscopic methods. The binding of lanthanide cations to 2,3-DPG is prior to that to Hb. Ln 3 binding causes the hydrolysis of either one from the two phosphomonoester bonds in 2,3-DPG non-specifically. The results using the ultrafiltration method indicate that Ln 3 binding sites for Hb can be classified into three categories : i.e. positive cooperative sites (N I ), non-cooperative strong sites (N S ) and non-cooperative weak sites (N W ) with binding constants in decreasing order: 
Hb, as the major cytosolic protein in erythrocyte, plays a crucial role in oxygen transport from lungs to various tissues. Previous studies on the interaction of metal ions, such as Zn 2 , Cu 2 , Mg 2 and VO 2 , with Hb showed that the metal ions a¡ect Hb's oxygen a¤nity by several di¡erent mechanisms, including 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) hydrolysis and the direct binding of metal ions to Hb [10^15] . As to the e¡ect of Lns, by in vitro studies with Gd-DOTP and La-DOTP, two potential contrast agents for magnetic resonance imaging, Aime et al. [16] showed that Lns decrease the oxygen a¤nity of human HbA due to the stabilization of T-state thermodynamically. However, their results were obtained with a rather high concentration of Lns (approx. 10 33 mol/l). More recently, it was found that orally administrated CeCl 3 leads to a change in oxygen a¤n-ity of Hb in rat erythrocyte [7] . The action of Ce 3 is complicated by the shuttle between Ce(III) and Ce(IV) via a single electron transfer in physiological condition, a unique behavior among lanthanide cations. In the mechanism underlying this e¡ect, conformational changes of Hb, oxidation of heme-Fe(II) and hydrolysis of 2,3-DPG are involved. In addition, the increase in Hb content in rat erythrocytes has been interpreted as the o¡set response to the change in oxygen a¤nity. The di¡erence between in vivo and in vitro might be attributed to several factors, including Ln transport to erythrocytes and the coexistence of organic small molecules and proteins in blood.
The use of intravenous bicarbonate in the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis is controversial. Acidosis affects the cardiovascular system causing negative inotropism' 2 and peripheral vasodilatation,3 which may exacerbate hypotension and hypothermia. The risk of ventricular arrhythmias may be increased in metabolic acidosis,4 and with very low pH respiratory depression may occur. 5 Correction of the acidosis by bicarbonate, however, has not been shown to correct these abnormalities and is associated with certain risks. Without adequate replacement therapy hypokalaemia may result,6 and cerebral oedema has been linked to bicarbonate administration,7 8 although the evidence is inconclusive. 9 Further reservations about bicarbonate administration concern the effect on the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve. Low 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations shift this curve to the left,10 which is counteracted by acidosis inducing a rightward shift.11 Rapid correction of acidosis with bicarbonate may impair oxygen delivery to tissues resulting in tissue hypoxia,'2 and experiments in animal models of diabetic ketoacidosis support this view. 13 The present study was undertaken in order to clarify the effect of bicarbonate on the response of intermediary metabolites during treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis.
The most characteristic event during R B C s t o r a g e i s t h e r a p i d f a l l i n 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels. It is an allosteric modifier of hemoglobin, which helps in the release of oxygen at the end organ. The levels become undetectable within 2 weeks of storage. On transfusion, 2,3-DPG levels in transfused red cells return to 50% of normal in 7 h and to almost 95% at 72 h. The oxidized RBC membrane is pinched off and shed as microvesicles. Stored RBCs, as a result, change shape to become echinospherocytes characterized by increased fragility and loss of deformability. [1] [2] [3] In addition to this, the bioactivity of S-nitrosohemoglobin which is required for the normal physiological vasodilatation of the end arterioles rapidly falls with storage (within 3 hours ex vivo). [4] This is an open access journal, and articles are distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 License, which allows others to remix, tweak, and build upon the work non-commercially, as long as appropriate credit is given and the new creations are licensed under the identical terms. Bioactive substances, which are progressively released in the supernatant fluid during packed RBC (PRBC) storage, have the potential to prime neutrophils and mononuclear cells to produce cytokines and interleukins (ILs) such as IL-1b, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and RANTES which have a variety of inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects (transfusion-related immunomodulation [TRIM] effects) in vivo. [5] When stored blood is transfused to the recipient, it can lead to some inevitable adverse effects, which include immunomodulation and alterations in the physiology of vascular perfusion. These effects can manifest themselves, especially in the vulnerable critically ill patients owing to their already altered homeostasis and altered immunological status. [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] We aimed to observe the effect of transfusing stored blood on the clinical outcome of critically ill patients.
The Bacilus subtilis genes tpi, pgm, and eno, encoding triose phosphate isomerase, phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM), and enolase, respectively, have been cloned and sequenced. These genes are the last three in a large putative operon coding for glycolytic enzymes; the operon includes pgk (coding for phosphoglycerate kinase) followed by tpi, pgm, and eno. The triose phosphate isomerase and enolase from B. subtilis are extremely similar to those from all other species, both eukaryotic and prokaryotic. However, B. subtilis PGM bears no resemblance to mammalian, fungal, or gram-negative bacterial PGMs, which are dependent on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) for activity. Instead, B. subtilis PGM, which is DPG independent, is very similar to a DPG-independent PGM from a plant species but differs from the latter in the absolute requirement of B. subtilis PGM for Mn2 . The cloned pgm gene has been used to direct up to 25-fold overexpression of PGM in Escherichia coli; this should facilitate purification of large amounts of this novel Mn2'-dependent enzyme.
As noted above, PGM appears to be the enzyme whose inhibition allows 3PGA accumulation during sporulation and whose reactivation permits 3PGA utilization during germination (9, 19, 22) . PGM has been purified from Bacillus megaterium and Bacillus subtilis and is a member of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG)-independent PGM class (5, 23, 30). In addition, PGM from Bacillus species is unique among PGMs in that it has an absolute and specific requirement for Mn2+ (5, 9, 11, 23, 30) . This Mn2+ requirement renders the Bacillus enzyme exquisitely pH sensitive, and a model has recently been proposed in which changes in intraspore pH during sporulation and germination play a key role in modulating PGM activity and thus 3PGA accumulation and utilization (9, 19 
Insulin administration can cause or worsen experimental and human diabetic neuropathy ("insulin neuritis"). In this study, we tested the hypothesis that insulin administration impairs tissue oxygenation. We infused insulin under nonhypoglycemic conditions and evaluated its effect on endoneurial oxygen tension, nerve blood flow, and the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve of peripheral nerve in normal and diabetic rats. Intravenous insulin infusion resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in endoneurial oxygen tension in normal nerves (from 26% at 0.04 U/kg insulin to 55% at 32 U/kg). The nerves of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes were resistant, but with control of hyperglycemia this susceptibility to the endoneurial hypoxic effect of insulin returned. The reduction in endoneurial oxygen tension regressed with glycosylated hemoglobin (Y = 53.8-2.7X, where Y = %reduction in endoneurial oxygen tension and X = HbA1; r = 0.87; P = < 0.001). Diabetes or insulin administration resulted in only minimal and physiologically insignificant alterations in the oxygen dissociation curve and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate of sciatic nerve. Instead, insulin administration resulted in a reduction in nerve nutritive blood flow and an increase in arteriovenous shunt flow. When the latter was eliminated by the closure of arteriovenous shunts (infusion of 5-hydroxytryptamine), endoneurial oxygen reverted to normal. These findings indicate a deleterious vasoactive effect of insulin and may explain the development of insulin neuritis.
Abstract Ammonium heptamolybdate was an inhibitor of plant invertases. The inhibition was a linear mixed type and the constants K i and a K i were determined. α- and β-glycerophosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, glucose-1-phosphate, phosphoenolpyruvate, pyruvate and malate suppressed the inhibition. The curves of enzyme recovery against the concentrations of these activators were sigmoid. UV spectrophotometry showed complex formation between inhibitor and each activator, and indicated that sucrose did not form a complex with the inhibitor. Consequently, heptamolybdate is postulated to act by a reversible binding to the enzyme.
The effects of a one-month course of treatment with a potent anabolic steroid, methandienone (5 and 10 mg daily), and a very weak androgen and hormone precursor, dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS, 20 and 40 mg daily) and placebo on plasma testosterone, LH and FSH levels, red cell volume and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration in endurance sportsmen were studied using a double-blind test system. A highly significant decrease in mean plasma testosterone was observed after the 5 and 10 mg methandienone regimen (66 and 73%). Treatment with 40 mg of DHEAS decreased mean testosterone levels by 41% (not statistically significant). Pre-test testosterone levels were reattained about 10 days after the end of the treatment period with the higher doses of both compounds, while 2–6 weeks afterwards a significant over-compensation in mean plasma testosterone levels was observed. No significant changes in plasma gonadotropins were seen immediately after treatment with either of these steroids bu...
Abstract The concentrations of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were measured in various fractions of normal human erythrocytes separated by velocity sedimentation in isotonic saline and sucrose buffer based on their tendency to aggregate. The levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate varied most drastically in fresh erythrocytes, being lowest in fast sedimenting cells and highest in slowly sedimenting cells. This result implies that the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations is not constant in all normal human erythrocytes and that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate may be involved in the mechanism of red cell clumping in vitro.
In late chick embryos, coordinate activation of red cell carbonic anhydrase II (CAII) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) synthesis is initiated by hypoxia. The effects are mediated by unidentified hormonal effectors resident in chick plasma. In the present investigation, we have analyzed the effect of adenosine receptor stimulation on embryonic red cell CAII and 2,3-DPG synthesis. We find that primitive and definitive embryonic red blood cells from chick have an A2a adenosine receptor. Stimulation of the receptor with metabolically stable adenosine analogues causes a large increase of red cell adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) and subsequent activation of red cell CAII and 2,3-DPG production in definitive red blood cells and of CAII synthesis in primitive red blood cells. Direct stimulation of adenylyl cyclase with forskolin has the same effect. Analysis of red cell protein pattern after labeling with [35S]methionine shows that stimulation of red cell cAMP levels activates synthesis of several other proteins aside from CAII. Presence of actinomycin D inhibits cAMP-dependent changes of protein synthesis, indicating that cAMP-dependent transcriptional activation is required. In contrast to the stable adenosine receptor analogues, adenosine itself was a very weak agonist, unless its metabolism was significantly inhibited. Thus, besides adenosine, other effectors of the adenylyl cyclase system are likely to be involved in the O2 pressure-dependent regulation of red cell metabolism in late development of avian embryos.
Oxyhemoglobin dissociation curves (ODC) were performed on blood from diabetic and nondiabetic subjects with and without hypertriglyceridemia. P50 at in vivo pH was slightly lower than normal in normolipemic diabetics (25.7 versus 26.6 mmHg, p less than 0.05), in spite of increased red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (15.4 versus 14.4 mumole/g Hg, p less than 0.025). P50 at in vivo pH in diabetics with moderately elevated very low density lipoproteins (VLDL)--Type IV hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP)--was likewise found to be slightly lower than normal (25.5 versus 26.6 mmHg, p less than 0.05). In contrast, diabetics with pronounced hyperlipemia due to accumulation of chylomicrons (type I HLP) or due to accumulation of chylomicrons (type I HLP) or due to accumulation of chylomicrons as well as VLDL (type V HLP) showed markedly increased hemoglobin--oxygen affinity (P50:21.1 versus 26.6 mmHg, p less than 0.001). The change in the ODC of normolipemic diabetics is considered to be an expresssion of the presence of an increased proportion of a hemoglobin fraction (Hb Alc) with increased oxygen affinity. The additional change in the ODC of the hyperlipemic patients is thought to be secondary to accumulation of triglyceride-rich particles for the following reasons: (1) a similar increase in oxygen affinity of hemoglobin was demonstrated in familial type I HLP of nondiabetic subjects; (2) normal red cells increased their oxygen affinity when incubated in lactescent plasma; (3) in both acquired types I and V HLP the disappearance of HLP was followed by a normalization of the ODC.
Oxygen carriage and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels have been measured in the blood of seven species of Australian marsupials ranging in size from 35 to 0.03 kg. They were Red and Grey Kangaroos, Wallaroo, Tammar Wallaby, Brush-tailed possum, Potoroo, and Brown Marsupial Mouse. Oxygen affinity decreased with decrease in adult body size, standard P50 (at 36 C) varying from 24.6 torr in the largest (Red Kangaroo) to 41.9 torr in the smallest (Brown Marsupial Mouse). The relationship between P50 and body size is similar to the relationship which has been described previously for eutherian mammals. The Bohr factor (--deltalog P50/deltapH) and value for Hill n were generally in the range found for other land-dwelling mammals. All species had 2,3-DPG in their erythrocytes acting as a regulator of oxygen affinity. The polymorphism at position beta 2 in hemoglobin of the Grey Kangaroo was shown to affect the respiratory properties of the molecule. When beta 2 = histidine, which has a positively charged side chain, erythrocyte 2,3-DPG was higher, and P50 was higher, than when beta 2 = glutamine which has a neutral side chain.
Summary. Further studies have been carried out on blood of the 15-year-old Negro male from Baltimore who was the first reported case of the homozygous state for hereditary persistence of fetal haemoglobin. His red cells contain only Hb F; Hbs A and A2 have never been detected. Over a 15-year period of follow up the red cells of this individual have shown persistent microcytosis with reduced MCH and MCV values. His whole-blood p50 value is decreased, probably because of lack of interaction between Hb F and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. However, his haemoglobin level at the age of 15 years is lower than would be predicted from the degree of increased oxygen affinity. Globin-chain synthesis studies suggest that this is because he has a mild thalassaemia disorder with an α/γ-chain production ratio of about 1.5, similar to that found in β-thalassaemia heterozygotes. Thus Negro HPFH appears to be a well-compensated form of δβ thalassaemia.
Abstract An enzyme from muscle which acts on adenosine diphosphate phosphoglyceric acid and leads to the hydrolysis of the phosphate group at the 2-position of the glyceric acid moiety has been studied. The enzyme is strongly stimulated by inorgamoc pyrophosphate. This action is very specific. The enzyme also acts on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
The main goal of clinical transfusion medicine is to provide safe and effective blood products for the treatment of patients affected by a wide variety of malignant and non malignant diseases, by severe trauma, or candidate to general, cardio-vascular, orthopaedic and transplantation surgery. Moreover, pharmaceutical plasma-derived products still represent life-saving therapeutics for millions of patients. Recent advances in the field of high-tech proteomic analyses along with transfusion medicine clinical studies are increasingly showing how these two approaches may represent complementary facets. Cooperation of clinicians and researchers specialized in these two disciplines has the potential for major improvements in the treatment of patients with blood-derived therapeutics1,2,3. A primary goal in this joint agenda could be represented by the increase of our understanding of the changes that occur in each very phase of the preparation and storage of blood products, mainly during the storage of erythrocyte and platelet concentrates. Thus we could both design better storage systems and provide evidence to regulate storage more effectively. While current blood system regulation allows to guarantee a high degree of blood safety in most developed countries, future challenges might be characterized by the deepening of our knowledge about emerging transfusion transmissible infections, the role of cytokines in transfused products and the effects of blood storage lesions, all of which could still represent a significant threat to blood safety. The results of research on the above issues could be eventually translated into clinical routine practice and in advanced regulation, substantiated by renewed clinical and epidemiological approaches as well as the implementation of innovative technologies and tests on which to base the improvement of blood products’ standards. To this end, both clinical and academic efforts are fundamental. ::: ::: On this ground, over the past three years the Italian National Blood Centre (Centro Nazionale Sangue - CNS) has promoted and funded research studies involving laboratories from different universities. In particular, a scientific agreement has been recently established with the Proteomic Laboratory of Tuscia University of Viterbo, directed by Prof. L. Zolla. The final aim of this joint effort is to investigate to which extent proteomic applications are valuable tools for the study of blood products and what is their potential to improve our understanding of some crucial aspects of collection, processing and storage of blood products. ::: ::: In this framework, red blood cells (RBCs) appear to be uniquely positioned for these kinds of scientific breakthroughs. Thoughtful manipulation of RBC storage conditions coupled with observation of the proteomic consequences has a promising future. RBC storage lesions can be most generally resumed as the sum of all of the bad things that happen to RBCs during storage. In the long run, understanding erythrocyte storage lesions will presumably offer the best chance for guiding the development of better RBC storage and informing blood banking regulation4. It is well known that storage lesions include metabolic effects such as the breakdown of metabolic sugars to create lactate and protons. The protons produced by glycolysis in turn decrease pH leading to the loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Cold storage slows glycolysis, but also reduces sodium and potassium pumping, thus leading to increasingly elevated supernatant potassium concentrations with likely increased risks of adverse reactions when blood is rapidly transfused. Moreover, during storage proteins and lipids are oxidized and plasticizers from the storage bags might intercollate into the red cell membranes. Furthermore, most evident changes regard RBC morphological alterations accumulating over storage, as they undergo shape change and membrane loss. Ultimately, a number of RBCs break down during storage and a larger number fail to survive when they are returned to the circulation. The relationships of these storage lesions to the function and fate of transfused RBCs is largely unknown and increasingly attracting the attention of the scientific community. ::: ::: Rapid advances in the proteomics of RBCs and the resulting improved understanding of their changes during storage could suggest a path to cope with possible limitations of currently widespread RBC collection and storage systems; this might reveal pivotal for regulating safety and improving effectiveness of blood products. Proteomic techniques allow enumeration of RBC proteins, monitoring their oxidative decoration and damage, and following the occurrence of shed micro- and nano-vesicles. Thanks to proteomics, we now know that a RBC contains about 1,578 different cytosolic proteins5 and about 340 associated with the membrane6. While being devoid of a nucleus and thus lacking any new protein synthesis activity, the RBC protein complement to the genome is all but stable, either in vivo and in vitro. These considerations enhance the need to update this inventory of RBC structural and metabolic proteins investigating in parallel RBCs approaching the end of their lifespan (120 days in vivo) and RBCs for transfusion, which are usually stored for 42 days. As proteins in biological systems do not work on isolation - rather they form a web of complicated interactions - the knowledge of how the proteome changes over time will ultimately be coupled with the understanding of how proteins do interact either among each other or with membrane lipids and metabolic sugars. This information will hopefully allow the construction of formal mathematical models of the life of a RBC. Unfortunately, we are just at the beginning of that process. Future research efforts in RBC biopreservation science should be enriched with emerging principles, techniques and knowledge regarding the RBC interactome7, the formation of lipid rafts and other functionally important multi-protein complexes, the repair/destroy mechanisms, the response to oxidative stress, the post-translational processing, the protein sorting into the vesicles and the membrane as a place of execution of the senescence-related apoptosis-like events. This advanced, sophisticated approach would definitely contribute to the final understanding of the mechanisms that define life and death of RBCs in vivo, in storage plastic bags and in the circulation upon transfusion. This innovative and integrated molecular and in silico strategy might represent a further step towards a successful optimization of the quality and safety of RBC preservation and consequently of transfused RBCs and their clinical outcomes. ::: ::: CNS and University of Tuscia are working on the hypothesis to improve RBC storage. In particular, main emphasis is being put on the concept that better storage is more important than longer storage. So far, suggested strategies have mainly relied on correcting storage lesions by the use and continuous improvement of specific additive solutions, which tackle biochemical alterations but not oxidationinduced protein fragmentation and aggregation events. It is currently under investigation an alternative approach, which rather aims at preventing the occurrence of oxidative-stress-induced irreversible lesions targeting proteins and thus improving erythrocyte damage-free survival and viability over storage. The RBC has many defences against oxidative injury and owns evolved ways to survive despite oxidative attack. As the damage to individual proteins is clearly irreversible in the enucleated RBC system, RBCs do have tools to avoid the consequences of this ongoing damage. Since the underlying cause of irreparable denaturation of proteins following fragmentation and aggregation catalysed by free radicals is the prolonged oxidative stress to which RBCs are exposed during storage, Zolla’s group have recently suggested a storage protocol aimed at tackling the problem at its source. The pilot project proposes storing blood directly in an atmosphere of inert gas. The clinical outcome of this protocol has already been tested with respect to classical standards (haemolysis and red blood cell survival at 24 hours posttransfusion) with encouraging results; slowing in the decreases of 2,3-DPG and ATP was also observed8. In support, by using classical proteomic methods the total protein profile of RBCs stored in the absence of oxygen was compared with that of control units stored at 4°C under normal atmospheric oxygen pressure9. No signs of fragmentation or aggregation were found in RBCs stored under an atmosphere of inert gas in the medium term (during the first 2 weeks); detrimental effects began to be seen, albeit to a reduced extent, towards the end of the storage period (42 days). In other terms, from a molecular point of view, RBC concentrates stored according to this alternative protocol were potentially safer than those stored under conventional conditions. To show that better storage conditions are actually gained, biomarkers of oxidative damage/aging status of RBCs and/or changes in the protein composition of RBC membrane related to the storage period should be identified as RBC damage markers, in order to develop new technological approaches and feasible routine tests for blood component quality control and quality assurance. In this respect, storage under anaerobic conditions demonstrated a suppression of the recruitment of a series of biomarker-like proteins to the membrane which are inevitably generated by reactive oxygen species under conventional storage conditions9. These results are drawn from preliminary studies and further investigations, both molecular and clinical, are needed. In this perspective a considerable amount of research on blood proteomics is currently underway paving new paths that involve transfusion medicine and proteomics in a fascinating alliance.
REASON FOR PERFORMING STUDY ::: Despite the common use of equids as visitors to high altitude mountainous environments, there are a paucity of carefully orchestrated scientific approaches. Further, again as a function of a common perceived advantage of mules over horses in these similar environments there are needs for controlled comparisons between these 2 equids. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: To measure haematological and respiratory function in horses and mules at low altitude (225 m), at rest and post exercise. In addition the rate and magnitude of these changes were followed over a 13 day period at high altitude (3800 m) to contrast acclimatisation. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Resting and exercise venous blood samples (1 min post exercise) were obtained from 6 horses and 5 mules housed at 225 m (LA) and then transported to 3800 m (HA) for 13 days. The standardised exercise tests at both LA and HA consisted of trotting (3.0 m/sec) up an incline (6%) for 2 km. Data were analysed with repeated measures ANOVA (comparison of altitude acclimatisation and species) for changes in haematological and respiratory gases. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: At low altitude, no group differences were found with both resting (P = 0.69) and exercising (P = 0.74) heart rates. Resting PCV was 8% lower in the mules (P = 0.02) and 20% lower during exercise (P = 0.02). Horses had significantly higher 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG)/g Hb at both rest (P = 0.003) and exercise (P = 0.03). Exercise at HA increased PCV (P = 0.03) in both groups, but the increase was attenuated in the mules compared to horses. The increase with 2,3-DPG/g Hb was expressed at HA in both groups (P = 0.001) and was also attenuated in mules (P = 0.03). Both groups were alkalotic compared to LA (P = 0.001), and there were no group differences (P = 0.95). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Of the variables measured, the most notable distinction between species was identified for only PCV and 2,3-DPG with both higher in horses, at both LA and HA. While the attenuated response of PCV in mules for the same exercise might argue for an improved adaptation to altitude, the lower 2,3-DPG might not. Other variables during the exercise bout were not different between species.
The water-filled central cavity of human adult hemoglobin (Hb A) is the binding or interaction site for many different allosteric effectors. Oxygen binding titrations reveal that pyrenetetrasulfonate (PyTS), a fluorescent analogue of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, behaves like an allosteric effector. The ligation state, pH, and concentrations of other effectors (IHP, L35, and chloride) alter PyTS fluorescence for both solution-phase and sol−gel-encapsulated Hb samples. These conditions also alter the resonance Raman spectra and rates of geminate recombination of CO-ligated Hb. Together, these results demonstrate that there are conformational and functional consequences resulting from interactions between specific domains of the central cavity and individual effectors as well as from long-range synergistic effects that are mediated through the central cavity.
We have measured in red cells from fetal and adult Sprague-Dawley and Wistar rats the activities of phosphofructokinase (PFK), pyruvate kinase (PK) and diphosphoglyceromutase (DPGM) as key enzymes in the regulation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels to gather information on the possible causes of the low concentration of 2,3-DPG in fetal red cells. The most striking differences were seen with regard to PK and DPGM activities. The activity of PK was ten times higher in fetal compared to adult red cells, whereas red cell DPGM activity was absent in fetuses and high in adults. In addition, we studied postnatal changes in red cell PK and DPGM activities as well as in the 2,3-DPG concentration in Sprague-Dawley rats. The concentration of 2,3-DPG and the activity of DPGM in red cells increased to almost the adult value within 2 and 4 weeks after birth, respectively, while the activity of PK decreased concomitantly. The postnatal changes occurred similarly, when newborn rats grew up under conditions of hypoxic hypoxia at 0.46 atm (pO2=9.2 kPa). Our studies support the hypothesis that postnatal changes in 2,3-DPG levels are due to changes in the activity of certain glycolytic enzymes and that the switch from fetal-type to adult-type red cells follows a genetically determined time course.
We hypothesized that children with cyanotic congenital heart disease and moderate hypoxemia, as a result of erythrocytosis, and adequate iron stores would have low serum erythropoietin titers, low tissue oxygen delivery, and normal red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentrations. We assessed hemoglobin levels, aortic oxygen saturation, iron stores, red cell 2,3-DPG, oxygen consumption, and systemic O2 transport in 19 hypoxemic patients, aged 3 months to 8 years. Low erythropoietin titers (less than 30 mU/dl) were found in 14 patients. Patients with high erythropoietin titers had lower Pao2 (36 +/- 7 vs 49 +/- 7 mm Hg, p less than 0.01), lower aortic saturation (68 +/- 12 vs 81 +/- 9%, p less than 0.01), and higher red cell 2,3-DPG (2.47 +/- 0.34 vs 3.23 +/- 0.73 mumol/ml, p less than 0.01). Aortic oxygen saturation higher than 80% was associated with a low erythropoietin titer and a hemoglobin level below that associated with hyperviscosity. The relationship between aortic oxygen saturation and hemoglobin concentration was strong (r = 0.77). These data suggest that for children less than 8 years of age, adequate compensation for moderate hypoxemia can occur with moderate increases in hemoglobin levels.
Modern pH and blood gas equipment, combining electrochemical and optical methods, measures pH, Pco2, po2, hemoglobin concentration, oxygen saturation, carboxy-hemoglobin, and methemoglobin. Measurements in arterial and mixed venous blood and in expired air (including measurement of expiratory ventilation) allow calculation of a series of derived quantities: concentrations of bicarbonate, total carbon dioxide, base excess, standard bicarbonate, total oxygen, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; p50, arteriovenous CO2 and O2 differences, pulmonary shunting, ventilation-perfusion ratio, dead space ventilation, CO2 production, O2 consumption, respiratory quotient, energy metabolism, and cardiac output. Accurate measurement of carboxyhemoglobin even gives an opportunity of measuring blood volume.Equations are reviewed for these calculations including the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation for plasma and whole blood, the Van Slyke equation, the ODC-equation (hyperbolic tangent function), alveolar air equation, Bohr equation, an...
INTRODUCTION ::: Few studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of hypophosphatemia on cardiovascular consequences. The goal of this review was to determine whether hypophosphatemia is associated with cardiovascular consequences and to increase its awareness as a new clinical entity and a reversible cause of cardiovascular consequences. ::: ::: ::: EVIDENCE ACQUISITION ::: We searched MEDLINE and PubMed through September 2016 for primary studies that reported the relationship between hypophosphatemia and cardiovascular consequences including cardiomyopathy and arrhythmia. ::: ::: ::: EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS ::: A total of 937 articles were initially obtained. Of these articles, 921 publications were excluded according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Sixteen articles were included in this review. These articles included 3 prospective cohort studies, 1 retrospective cohort study, 7 case series or case reports, 2 case-control studies, 1 pre- vs. post-test in a single group, and 2 animal studies. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The mechanisms of hypophosphatemia in cardiomyopathy and arrhythmia have been reported to be a depletion of adenosine triphosphate in myocardial cells and decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes. Left ventricular performance seems to improve when severe hypophosphatemia is corrected, but not in those with mild to moderate hypophosphatemia. However, analyses of the relationship between cardiac function and hypophosphatemia using clinical end points have not been conducted. The association between hypophosphatemia and arrhythmia remains unclear, but anecdotal reports exist in the literature.
A manual modification of an automated method [Atkinson, K. F., Clin. Chem. 18, 1001 (1972)] for enzymatic assay of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is described, which is suitable for small laboratories. Samples are easily prepared for analysis, and preparations are stable for several months. Virtually all of the color generated in the colorimetric assay is produced by the diphosphoglycerate-catalyzed reaction. The coefficient of variation for multiple samples from a single subject was 2.4%. Delayed preparation of samples, particularly samples from some acidotic subjects, is shown to result in altered results. The enzyme method is compared with analysis by ion-exchange chromatography.
The titratable potentiometric response of hemoglobin (Hb) induced by adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is observed. The concentration-dependent effect of ATP on the anaerobic redox reaction of the protein at pH 7.0 reflects that ATP will induce stabilization of the reduced state and destabilization of the R-like (met Fe(III)) state of the metHb, when ATP concentration is lower than 3.0 mM. But when ATP concentration is between 4 and 7 mM, shift of the oxidation potential may also be observed. With reference to the study of adenosine, adenosine-5'-monophosphate, adenosine-5'-diphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the allosteric effect of ATP on Hb is discussed extensively. This study has given an electrochemical approach to the investigation of effect of ATP, an in vivo allosteric effector, on Hb in the physiological concentration range.
Erythrocytes play a key role in human and vertebrate metabolism. Tissue O2 supply is regulated by both hemoglobin (Hb)-O2 affinity and erythrocyte rheology, a key determinant of tissue perfusion. Oxygenation-deoxygenation transitions of Hb may lead to re-organization of the cytoskeleton and signalling pathways activation/deactivation in an O2-dependent manner. Deoxygenated Hb binds to the cytoplasmic domain of the anion exchanger band 3, which is anchored to the cytoskeleton, and is considered a major mechanism underlying the oxygenation-dependence of several erythrocyte functions. This work discusses the multiple modes of Hb-cytoskeleton interactions. In addition, it reviews the effects of Mg2+, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, NO, shear stress and Ca2+, all factors accompanying the oxygenation-deoxygenation cycle in circulating red cells. Due to the extensive literature on the subject, the data discussed here, pertain mainly to human erythrocytes whose O2 affinity is modulated by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ectothermic vertebrate erythrocytes that use ATP, and to bird erythrocytes that use inositol pentaphosphate.
In order to decrease significantly the oxygen affinity of human hemoglobin, we have associated the mutation betaF41Y with another point mutation also known to decrease the oxygen affinity of Hb. We have synthesized a recombinant Hb (rHb) with two mutations in the beta chains: rHb betaF41Y,K66T. In the absence of 2, 3-diphosphoglycerate, additive effects of the mutations are evident, since the doubly mutated Hb exhibits a larger decrease in oxygen affinity than for the individual single mutations. In the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the second mutation did not significantly increase the P(50) value relative to the single mutations. However, the kinetics of CO binding still indicate combined effects on the allosteric equilibrium, as evidenced by more of the slow bimolecular phase characteristic of binding to the deoxy conformation. Dimer-tetramer equilibrium studies indicate an increase in stability of the mutants relative to rHb A; the double mutant rHb betaF41Y, K66T at pH 7.5 showed a K(4,2) value of 0.26 microM. Despite the lower oxygen affinity, the single mutant betaF41Y and double mutant betaF41Y,K66T show only a moderate increase of 20% in the autoxidation rate. These mutations are thus of interest in developing a Hb-based blood substitute.
BACKGROUND ::: Clinical outcomes in transfused patients may be affected by the duration of blood storage, possibly due to red blood cell (RBC)-mediated disruption of nitric oxide (NO) signaling, a key regulator of vascular tone and blood flow. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: AS-1 RBC units stored up to 42 days were sampled at selected storage times. Samples were added to aortic rings ex vivo, a system where NO-mediated vasodilation could be experimentally controlled. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: RBC units showed storage-dependent changes in plasma hemoglobin (Hb), RBC 2,3-diphosphoglycerate acid, and RBC adenosine triphosphate conforming to expected profiles. When freshly collected (Day 0) blood was added to rat aortic rings, methacholine (MCh) stimulated substantial NO-mediated vasodilation. In contrast, MCh produced no vasodilation in the presence of blood stored for 42 days. Surprisingly, the vasoinhibitory effects of stored RBCs were almost totally mediated by RBCs themselves: removal of the supernatant did not attenuate the inhibitory effects, while addition of supernatant alone to the aortic rings only minimally inhibited MCh-stimulated relaxation. Stored RBCs did not inhibit vasodilation by a direct NO donor, demonstrating that the RBC-mediated vasoinhibitory mechanism did not work by NO scavenging. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: These studies have revealed a previously unrecognized vasoinhibitory activity of stored RBCs, which is more potent than the described effects of free Hb and works through a different mechanism that does not involve NO scavenging but may function by reducing endothelial NO production. Through this novel mechanism, transfusion of small volumes of stored blood may be able to disrupt physiologic vasodilatory responses and thereby possibly cause adverse clinical outcomes.
Foreword Preface INTRODUCTION Visual spectrophotometry Photoelectric spectrophotometry Diode array spectrophotometry Biomedical applications DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY Spectrophotometry Haemoglobin and haemoglobin derivatives Oxygen carrying properties of mammalian blood SPECTROPHOTOMETRY The laws of absorption of radiant energy Applications of Lambert-Beer's law Instrumentation Spectrophotometer performance TOTAL HAEMOGLOBIN CONCENTRATION ABSORPTIVITY AT 540 NM OF HAEMIGLOBINCYANIDE Preparation of a haemoglobin stock solution Determination of the iron concentration of the haemoglobin stock solution Determination of the absorbance at 540 nm of the haemoglobin stock solution after conversion to HiCN Calculation of the absorptivity at 540 nm of HiCN HiCN(540) as found for human and animal haemoglobin PREPARATION OF HAEMOGLOBIN DERIVATIVES Specimen procurement and handling Tonometry, erythrolysis and filtration Preparation of Hhb, O2Hb, and COHb Preparation of Hi, HiCN, and Shb DETERMINATION OF ABSORPTION SPECTRA Lightpath length Absorbance measurement Measurement of total haemoglobin Measurement of foetal haemoglobin Absorptivity calculation Influence of temperature and pH ABSORPTION SCPECTRA OF HUMAN HBA AND HBF Absorptivity of HbA: standard procedure Absorptivity of HbA: SFH procedure Absorptivity of HbF: standard procedure Comments Spectral characteristics of modified human haemoglobin ABSORPTION SPECTRA OF DOG HAEMOGLOBIN ABSORPTION SPECTRA OF RAT HAEMOGLOBIN ABSORPTION SPECTRA OF BOVINE HAEMOGLOBIN ABSORPTION SPECTRA OF PIG HAEMOGLOBIN ABSORPTION SPECTRA OF HORSE HAEMOGLOBIN ABSORPTION SPECTRA OF SHEEP HAEMOGLOBIN Absorptivity of adult haemoglobin Absorptivity of foetal haemoglobin Comments COMMENTS ON THE DETERMINATION OF ABSORPTION SPECTRA OF HAEMOGLOBIN HAEMOGLOBINOMETRY A short history The reference point of standardised haemoglobinometry The haemiglobincyanide method Haemiglobincyanide standards Routine haemoglobinometry MULTICOMPONENT ANALYSIS OF HAEMOGLOBIN DERIVATIVES The lengthy road to MCA Selected two-wavelength methods for O2Hb and COHb Multicomponent analysis Multiwavelength haemoglobin photometers MCA including Hi and HiCN Current developments OXIMETRY AND RELATED TECHNIQUES Development of oximetry Cuvette oximetry and denitometry Syllectometry Fibre optic oximetry Pulse oximetry Near infrared specroscopy THE OXYGEN BINDING CAPACITY OF HUMAN HAEMOGLOBIN Early determinations of the oxygen binding capacity of human haemoglobin Reference method for total oxygen in blood Redetermination of the oxygen binding capacity of human haemoglobin Routine determination of the oxygen capacity of human blood THE OXYGEN AFFINITY OF HUMAN HAEMOGLOBIN Instruments and procedures The normal oxygen dissociation curve of human blood Effect of temperature The Bohr and Haldane effects Effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate Effect of dyshaemoglobins Conclusions References Abbreviations and symbols Index
The potential effect of a shift to the right in the position of the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve was first suggested in 1967 [l, 51. Increased red cell organic phosphates, especially 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), decrease the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, thereby increasing the Pso. The physiologic importance of a DPG-related shift to the right was pointed out by Oski et al., who showed an increased exercise tolerance and a better hemodynamic response to exercise in a patient with increased 2,3-DPG levels secondary to a red cell pyruvate kinase deficiency [8]. Valeri et al. have demonstrated a superior hemodynamic response in anemic baboons transfused with blood rich in 2,3-DPG [14]. The combination of inosine, pyruvate, and bisodium phosphate increases 2,3-DPG and Pso to supranormal levels both in vitro [lo] and in viva [13]. This occurs because the red cells of humans and rhesus monkeys possess a purine nucleoside phosphorylase which cleaves inosine to hypoxanthine and ribose l-phosphate [9]. Ribose l-phosphate so formed is then metabolized via the hexose monophosphate shunt to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, a three-carbon precursor of 2,3-DPG (see Fig. 1).
. Serum erythropoietin has been measured before and after transfusion of blood stored in acid citrate dextrose for varying periods of time. A greater fall in erythropoietin was found following the transfusion of fresh blood than after an equal amount of stored blood in which 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations were depleted. This confirms the expectations that in vivo tissue oxygenation is influenced by the oxygen affinity of transfused blood.
Abstract An acid phosphatase from Brassica nigra (black mustard) leaf petiole cell-suspension cultures has been purified 1633-fold to a final specific activity of 1225 (μmol orthophosphate produced/min)/mg protein and near homogeneity. The native protein was a glycosylated monomer having a molecular mass of 60 kDa and a p I of 4.5. The enzyme displayed a broad pH optimum of about pH 5.6 and was heat stable. The final preparation hydrolyzed a wide variety of phosphate esters. The highest specificity constants were obtained with 3-phosphoglycerate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, PP i and phospho enol pyruvate (PEP). The enzyme was activated 1.4-fold by 4 m m Mg 2+ or Mn 2+ , but was strongly inhibited by Mo, P i , F, and several phosphorylated compounds. Subcellular localization experiments revealed that this nonspecific acid phosphatase is probably a secreted enzyme, localized in the cell wall. By contrast, B. nigra PEP phosphatase appeared to be localized in the cell vacuole. Peptide mapping via CNBr fragmentation was employed to investigate the structural relatedness of the two phosphatases. Their respective CNBr cleavage patterns were dissimilar, suggesting that B. nigra acid and PEP phosphatases are distinct polypeptides. Putative metabolic functions of these two phosphatases are discussed in relation to the biochemical adaptations of B. nigra cell-suspension cultures to nutritional phosphate deprivation.
The effects of wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), Limulus lectin, and concanavalin A on cell shape changes were examined in human erythrocytes. These agents inhibited echinocytosis in cells having elevated cytosolic Ca2+ or incorporated foreign phosphatidylcholine, but had no effect on cell stomatocytosis in response to incorporated phosphatidylserine. The role of the membrane skeleton in this selective membrane fixation was examined. WGA inhibited echinocytosis in cells previously depleted of polyphosphoinositides to reduce membrane skeleton binding to transmembrane proteins, treated with phorbol ester to enhance protein 4.1 phosphorylation, heat-treated to denature spectrin, alkylated with p-chloromercuribenzoate to dissociate glycophorin from the membrane skeleton, or subjected to elevated cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to alter organization of the spectrin-actin-protein 4.1 complex. Limulus lectin and increased concentrations of WGA also stabilized discoid shape in pronase-digested cells containing no detectable intact glycophorin. In contrast, cell digestion with sialidase abolished the shape-stabilizing effect of WGA. The results suggest that the membrane skeleton is not involved in WGA shape stabilization. Rather, they suggest that glycoproteins and glycolipids interact with the lectin to stabilize cell surface molecular associations, forming a superficial calyx that inhibits outward, but not inward, membrane bending.
Inositol diphosphate (inositol-P2) has been isolated and identified from erythrocytes (RBC) of the lungfish, Lepidosiren paradoxa. Inositol-P2 represents 6–8% of the total cell acid-soluble phosphates or 1.3 μmol/cm3 RBC. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) has been isolated and identified as a constituent of RBC of the armored catfish, Pterygoplichtys sp. 2,3-DPG is present in these cells at levels of 1.9 μmol/cm3 RBC or 11–14% of the cell phosphate. The possible role of these compounds as regulators of hemoglobin function in these species is discussed.
Abstract 1. 1. A method is presented for chromatographic separation of glycogen, glucose, phosphorylated glycolytic intermediates and nucleotides, using DEAE-Sephadex columns with linear gradient NaCl as eluent. 2. 2. The technical procedure is described in detail and results of model and recovery experiments are reported. 3. 3. When neutralized trichloroacetic acid extracts from blood cells were chromatographed and the fractions were analyzed by various chemical and enzymic methods, up to eleven different peaks were seen. The main contents of the respective peaks were glycogen, glucose, nucleotide(s), e.g. AMP, hexose monophosphates, inorganic phosphate, unknown nucleotide, ADP, hexose diphosphates, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, unknown nucleotide and ATP.
Abstract Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is an important metabolite controlling oxygen transport to tissues. To examine the effect of extracorporeal circulation (ECC) on oxygen transport we made serial measurements of 2,3-DPG in 34 patients before, during, and after bypass. Before operation 2,3-DPG was elevated in 14 patients. The 2,3-DPG levels in the oxygenator prime were below normal in 5 instances, probably due to the age of the banked blood used to prime. Slight 2,3-DPG changes were measured after operation, but the levels at the conclusion of ECC were within normal limits. The possible mechanisms of these changes in 2,3-DPG are discussed.
We investigated the effect of temperature (19, 30, 37, and 43 degrees C) on the p50 value for normal human blood at pco2 = 5.72 kPa (43 mmHg), at various pHs (range 7.0 to 7.6) and molar ratios of [2,3-diphosphoglycerate]/[Hb4] (range 0.4 to 2.4). The d(log p50)/d(pH) coefficient varied from 0.39 at 19 degrees C to 0.35 at 43 degrees C. The relationship between log p50 and 1/T (T = degrees Kelvin) was linear under the experimental conditions used, and the d(log p50)/d(1/T) coefficient varied between -2138 at pH 7.0 and -2162 at pH 7.6, independent of the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Assuming that the effect of pco2 on the p50 value is the same at 19, 30, and 43 degrees C as at 37 degrees C, one can use the reported coefficients to calculate the p50 value for normal human blood under conditions of temperature, pH, pco2, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations prevailing under physiological and pathological conditions. The p50 value calculated by empirical equations, taking into account the effect of temperature, correlated well with the values for p50 determined experimentally (y = 0.9774x + 0.453; r = 0.998; n = 60), with an SD of 52 Pa (0.39 mmHg).
Hemoglobin Milledgeville, a new hemoglobin structural variant, was identified in three members of a black American family. The oxygen affinity of blood and hemoglobin samples from the affected individuals was markedly increased (p50 O2 of whole blood 11–15 mmHg at 37°C, pH 7.4), and the abnormality was associated with mild erythrocytosis. ::: ::: The variant hemoglobin did not separate from Hb A by electrophoresis or by chromatography or isoelectric focusing, and efforts to isolate an abnormal globin chain were also unsuccessful. The Hb A2 fraction as well as Hb A from erythrocytes of affected individuals exhibited increased oxygen affinity, indicating that the altered oxygen equilibrium was the result of a hemoglobin α chain abnormality. Fractionation of trypsin and chymotrypsin digests of isolated α chains demonstrated a single abnormal peptide representing a Pro → Leu substitution at α 44 (CD2). ::: ::: Properties of Hb Milledgeville include low cooperativity (n = 1.1−1.4), a normal alkaline Bohr effect (Δlogp50Δ pH = −0.62), and normal interaction with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The α CD2 proline residue normally participates in the formation of the α1β2 subunit interface in the deoxy quaternary conformation, but not in oxyhemoglobin; the leucine substitution may produce destabilization of the deoxy conformation with a resulting shift in equilibrium toward the oxy conformation.
In 16 healthy caucasian volunteers (mean age: 22.2 years) the influence of whole body UV-irradiation on the oxygen transport properties of erythrocytes was investigated. Four hours after irradiation with UV (using the minimal erythema dose, MED) no variation of haemoglobin concentration, hematocrit, mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration, pH or standard bicarbonate could be found, whereas inorganic plasma phosphate (Pi), calcium, the intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), the activity of erythrocytic phosphofructokinase (PFK) and pyruvatekinase (PK) increased significantly. The half saturation tension of oxygen (P50-value) tended to increase. The increase of Pi causes--via a stimulation of the glycolytic pathway--an increase in 2,3-DPG concentration and thus results in a shift of the oxygen dissociation curve. It is therefore possible to enhance tissue oxygenation by whole body UV-irradiation.
Abstract Measurement of red-cell volume, plasma volume and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in five patients with panhypopituitarism and one patient with isolated growth-hormone deficie...
The major function of hemoglobin, which is known as a highly advanced allosteric protein, is the transportation of oxygen and carbon dioxide between the lung and the tissues. Hemoglobin not only has the capability of binding a large quantity of oxygen but also the property of releasing oxygen in tissues where the pressure of oxygen is reduced with increase in the pressure of carbon dioxide. Thus, the blood can efficiently carry oxygen from the lung to the tissues. This physiological phenomenon is related strongly to the interaction between the higher structure of hemoglobin and various kinds of ions, e.g., H+, HCO3-, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) have been studied in marasmic kwashiorkor before re-feeding, after re-feeding, and in control children. P 50 and 2,3-DPG level are normal on admission, but high after re-feeding. Patients studied on admission were separated into 2 groups according to whether they presented active erythropoiesis (group I) or erythroblastopenia (group II). In group I, the sum 2,3-DPG + ATP correlates with the hemoglobin level. In group II, the sum 2,3-DPG + ATP correlates with the blood pH but not with the hemolobin level. It is suggested that marasmic kwashirokor anemia is an adaptation to a reduced metabolic activity. The hematological picture could proceed in 2 stages in this disease. In a first stage, the erythropoiesis is normal or increased because of the existence of a decreased red cell life span; a low hemoglobin level is observed, but there is no apparent hypoxia. At a more advanced stage of the disease, the tissue metabolism falls dramatically, the erythropoiesis is no loner stimulated, and the erythrocyte volume decreases notably.
Whole human blood was examined by (31)P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Individual phosphates (alpha,beta,gamma) of ATP were identifiable, and two microenvironments appeared to be present for this molecule. When sequential recordings of freshly collected blood were made, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was observed to decrease in association with a concomitant increase in inorganic orthophosphate. When aged cells containing little 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were incubated in the presence of inosine and pyruvate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate formation could be demonstrated. These results show that cellular metabolism can be recorded directly in intact cells by (31)P nuclear magnetic resonance.
Osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH) is caused by inadequate blood supply leading to death of the osteocytes. Subsequently it progresses to collapse of the femoral head and advanced joint destruction. ::: ::: Medical Ozone (MO) causes an increase in the red blood cell glycolysis rate. This leads to the stimulation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate which leads to an increase in the amount of oxygen released to the tissues. Production of prostacyline, a vasodilator, is also induced by O3. ::: ::: Intra-articular injection of M.O. is often proposed as a conservative treatment for osteoarthritic pain particularly in the knees because it is less expensive or aggressive than other methods, like Hyaluronic acid and total knee replacement. ::: ::: Therefore, it is important to evaluate for the possibility to apply the method at first intraarticularly in hips and then to document its efficacy to patients with avascular necrosis of the femoral head. We prefer to use ultrasound images that ensure the safety and the precision of the injection. ::: ::: We treated a 43 years old female patient with a dominant pain in the left hip and to a lesser extent to the sacroiliac joint for approximately 3 months, grade ??? Steinberg after previous Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO) before. Our treatment was weekly for seven times, intraarticularly, at volume 5 ml and concentration 40mgr O3/ml O2 and in the upper posterior edge 3ml of MO in the same concentration. The evaluation with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed improvements after the MO treatment and the clinical status gradually improved during the treatment with the patient walking without assistance after the final injection, pain free. ::: ::: The positive outcome of the first case of ONFH treated with intraarticular MO injections led us to believe that this method values further studies.
Abstract The effect of the xanthone derivative 2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)-6-(1- H -tetrazole-5-yl)xanthen-9-one (BW A440C) on red cells was studied. When added to stored red cells at a concentration of 6 mM, greatly improved preservation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was observed. There was no effect on internal pH of the erythrocyte. At a concentration 0.500 mM, many red cell enzyme activities were inhibited completely. At a 0.050 mM concentration, however, inhibition of pyruvate kinase and diphosphoglycerate phosphatase was most striking. Inhibition of either of these enzymes could result in elevation of 2,3-DPG levels. BW A440C in concentrations which elevated 2,3-DPG levels in humans caused a decrease in 2,3-DPG levels in rabbits and markedly impaired the viability of 21-day stored rabbit erythrocytes.
Hemolysates were prepared according to standard methods and were stripped of organic phosphates and other ionic cofactors as described previously ). The isoHb composition of hemolysates from each mouse strain was confirmed by using thin-layer isoelectric focusing (PhastSystem, GE Healthcare Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ). Using a modified diffusion chamber, O 2 equilibria of Hb solutions were measured in 10 mm HEPES buffer, pH 7.4, at constant temperature, 37°. The met-Hb enzymatic reducing system of Hayashi et al. (1973) was used to prevent oxidation of ferrous heme. Changes in the absorbance of Hb solutions were recorded in conjunction with stepwise changes in the partial pressure of O 2 [PO 2 ] inside the chamber (prepared using cascaded Wösthoff gas-mixing pumps; Weber 1981 Weber , 1992 ). Values of P 50 (the PO 2 at 50% oxygenation of the heme groups) and n 50 (Hill's cooperativity coefficient at P 50 ) were interpolated from linear Hill plots (log ([OxyHb]/[Hb]) vs. log PO 2 ). The P 50 values for the stripped (i.e., cofactor-free) hemolysates provide an inverse measure of the intrinsic Hb-O 2 binding affinities of the major and minor isoHbs occurring in their natural relative concentrations. To test for differences in cofactor sensitivity between the d-and p-type Hbs, we measured O 2 -equilibrium curves for each sample in the absence of allosteric cofactors (stripped hemolysates), in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), in the presence of Cl À ions (added as potassium chloride, KCl), and in the presence of both cofactors [(Cl 
The plateau pika (Ochotona cuzoniae) is a small, nonhibernating mammal that inhabits alpine meadows above 3000 m, and is a keystone species on the Qinghai-Tibetan plateau ecosystem ( Fig. 1 ). Over the course of evolution, the plateau pika has acquired a remarkable tolerance to hypoxia and the cold plateau environment by improving the utilization of oxygen (Du et al., 1982) , increasing the resting metabolic rate, and having a nonshivering thermogenesis (Li et al., 2001) . A number of strategies that are used by the pika to adapt to the harsh environment have been elucidated. These strategies include: 1) an increase in erythrocyte count, reduction in the mean corpuscular volume (Ye et al., 1994) , changes in hemoglobin (Hb) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations (Ge et al., 1998) , and an increase in the oxygen affinity to Hb (He et al., 1994) ; 2) adaptation to its environment in terms of hepatic function, metabolism (Li et al., 1986) , and neuroendocrine function (Du et al., 1983 , Wu et al., 2001 ; 3) blunted hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and thinwalled pulmonary arterioles (Ge et al., 1998) ; and 4) higher capillary densities, mitochondrial density, and concentration of myoglobin (for heart) in heart and lung . All these strategies reveal that the pika's adaptation to high altitudes occurs at both the physiological and biochemical levels.
ABSTRACT: Studies on the frozen storage of human blood products have benefited veterinary transfusion medicine in recent years, but the long-term cryopreservation of canine red blood cells (RBCs) has not yet been thoroughly investigated. Further, no studies are available with respect to the frozen storage of leukocyte-depleted canine red blood cells (LD-RBCs). The objective of the current study was to investigate time-dependent effects of long-term frozen storage on leukocyte-depleted canine RBCs. Twelve healthy adult dogs meeting the criteria for blood transfusion were used in the study. Whole blood samples (450 ± 45 ml) collected from each dog were centrifuged for 5 min at 22 °C and 4200 × g in a cryogenic microcentrifuge and concentrated RBC (pRBC) suspensions were obtained. Leukocyte depletion was achieved by filtration (2.6 log 10 ). Then, the filtrated samples were prewashed three times in 0.9% NaCl solution and were allocated into three subgroups to be evaluated at three different time points (Day 0, Month 4 and Month 6). The samples for cryopreservation were subjected to glycerolisation and then stored at -80 °C for 4-and 6-month periods. At the end of this period pRBC units were thawed by manual agitation in a water bath maintained at 36-38 °C, centrifuged and then washed in a consecutive series of 12%, 1.6% and 0.9% of NaCl + 0.2 dextrose solutions. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), supernatant haemoglobin (SupHb), sodium (Na + ) and potassium (K + ) levels, residual glycerol concentrations and haemograms of thawed and deglycerolised pRBC samples were evaluated together with those of Day 0. Sterility tests were performed on all samples for bacterial contamination. No statistically significant differences were noted except for Hct and SupHb levels. No bacterial contamination was noted in any of the samples on the basis of sterility tests. It was found that the described glycerolisation procedure could be a method of choice in the cryopreservation of leukocyte-depleted pRBCs (LD-pRBCs) since no negative effect was observed on the quality of the products and long-term frozen storage did not cause RBC destruction.
Whole human blood was examined by 31p nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Individual phosphates (a,O,-y) In this study, we have used 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (31P NMR) to identify phosphorus compounds in intact human erythrocytes and to record metabolic changes directly in intact erythrocytes incubated in vitro. We have detected the individual phosphate groupings (a,,By) of ATP in intact erythrocytes and have determined that there may be at least two microenvironments for this molecule. In addition, changes in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were followed immediately after withdrawal of blood, as well as during incubation of aged cells in the presence of added inosine and pyruvate at 250.
Recently, Moon and Richards (1) applied the technique of a1P NMR to the study of rabbit whole blood and hemolysates, and were able to estimate the intracellular pH of carbon monoxide-treated rabbit erythrocytes by measuring the pHinduced changes in chemical shifts of the 2-and 3-phosphates of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Abstract The carbon constituents of the barium-insoluble fraction of trichloroacetic acid extracts of human erythrocytes have been isolated by ion exchange chromatography as adenine, ribose-5-phosphate, 3-monophosphoglycerate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The phosphoglycerates showed a high turnover rate with glucose carbon, adenine none, and ribose-5-phosphate possibly a trace.
BACKGROUND ::: Maritime medical capability may be compromised by blood resupply. Air-dropped red blood cells (RBCs) is a possible mitigation factor. This study set out to evaluate RBC storage variables after a simulated parachute air drop into the sea, as limited data exist. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: The air load construction for the air drop of blood was subject to static drop assessment to simulate a worst-case parachute drop scenario. One control and two test Golden Hour shipping containers were each packaged with 10 RBC units. The control box was not dropped; Test Boxes 1 and 2 were further reinforced with waterproof boxes and underwent a simulated air drop on Day 7 or Day 8 postdonation, respectively. One day after the drop and once a week thereafter until Day 43 of storage, RBCs from each box were sampled and tested for full blood counts, hemolysis, adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, pH, extracellular potassium, glucose, lactate, deformability, and RBC microvesicles. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The packaging configuration completed the air drop with no water ingress or physical damage. All units met UK specifications for volume, hemoglobin, and hemolysis. There were no significant differences for any of the variables studied between RBCs in the control box compared to RBCs in Test Boxes 1 and 2 combined over storage. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The test proved that the packaging solution and the impact of a maritime air drop as performed in this study, on Day 7 or Day 8 postdonation, did not affect the in vitro quality of RBCs in SAGM over storage for 35 days.
Large white pig and human blood oxygen affinities are different due to different primary structures of hemoglobin. Empirical equations are reported to predict the oxygen partial pressure at half-saturation of hemoglobin (p50) from known values for pH, pCO2 and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, with an accuracy of +/- 0.82 torr.
Double-headed aspirin [bis(3,5-dibromosalicyl) fumarate] selectively cross-links hemoglobin molecules between Lys 82β1 and Lys 82β2 and increases solubility of deoxy-Hb S (Walder et al., J. Mol. Biol., 141:195, 1980 and Kikugawa et al., J. Biol. Chem., 257: 7525, 1982). We reacted this reagent with the mixture of Hb A and Hb S and the mixture of Hb S and Hb York (β146His→Pro). Crosslinked asymmetrical hybrid hemoglobins (α2 β-β S and α2 β Y-β S) were produced in high yields in addition to the cross-linked parent hemoglobin molecules. Results on electrophoresis, gel electrofocusing, ion exchange column chromatography, mechanical stability and oxygen binding properties showed that the cross-linked asymmetrical hybrid hemoglobins had properties intermediate between those of the cross-linked parent hemoglobins. Oxygen affinities of the cross-linked asymmetrical hybrids were not affected by the addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) or inositol hexaphosphate, probably due to the presence of a fumaryl group a...
1. Oxygen dissociation curves for concentrated human haemoglobin solutions (1.6 mmol dm-3 in haem) have been measured by mixing known quantities of oxy- and deoxyhaemoglobin solutions and measuring the resulting partial pressure of oxygen with an oxygen electrode. 2. Observations in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate support previous conclusions derived from experiments at low haemoglobin concentrations, the validity of which has been questioned. 3. The two affinity state model of Monod, Wyman & Changeux (1965) does not fully describe the actions of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and a model in which this allosteric effector not only binds preferentially to the T state but also lowers the oxygen affinity of this state gives an improved fit to the data.
We investigated the effect of mexicor on functional indices of erythrocytes and the structure of myocardial microcirculation in rats suffering from traumatic brain injury (TBI). At 3, 7, and 12 days after TBI, we measured the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and the degree of erythrocyte aggregation and their electrophoretic mobility (EPME) in the blood of rats, as well as analyzing sections of the left ventricular myocardium. The first day after the TBI, we observed a decrease in EPME, an increase of erythrocyte aggregation, and an increase of 2,3-DFG concentration in erythrocytes as compared with intact animals. Intraperitoneal injection of mexicor led to an increase of EPME and 2,3-DPG level and reduced the aggregation of erythrocytes, which was most pronounced during the 3–7 days of the post-traumatic period. Improved functional parameters of erythrocytes were accompanied by the dynamics of regenerative processes in the heart. Intraperitoneal injection of mexicor restrained architectonic damage of microvasculature and cardiomyocytes ultrastructure of the left ventricular myocardium of the heart.
Abstract In twelve hypoxemic patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) correlated significantly with arterial Po 2 (p 2 . Arterial pH seems to be the best predictor of red cell 2,3-DPG in acute hypoxemia and metabolic acid-base disorders while arterial Po 2 or a related factor is pre-eminent in stable COPD.
Incubation of sickle cells with cystamine, a thiol reagnet, resulted in the formation of an intracellular S-ethylamine derivative. The rate of the reaction was dependent upon the cystamine concentration, the temperature, and the duration of the incubation. The cystamine-treated cells demonstrated a marked inhibition of sickling under hypoxic conditions, a decrease in their mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, and a significant increase in their oxygen affinity. The oxygen affinity of these cells was less dependent on their mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration than that of untreated sickle cells. The minimum gelling concentration of S-ethylamine doxyhemoglobin S was slightly increased. Cystamine did not affect the intracellular pH nor the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level. The exact contribution of the interrelated factors in cystamine inhibition of sickling (changes in oxygen affinity, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, and minimum gelling concentration) has yet to be determined.
SUMMARY Phosphofructokinase (PFK) has been previously suggested as being responsible for the.differences in glycolytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels in two inbred populations of Long-Evans hooded rats. The enzyme's in vivo activity appears to be greater in animals with high levels of DPG and i??wfln those with low levels of this metabolite. In an initial attempt to characterize any structural differences in the red cell PFK enzyme of the two rat strains, we have performed a heat inactivation study. Our results show that the red cell PFK in animals with low levels of DPG is more heat labile relative to that in animals with high levels. This data provides further evidence that the genetic locus determining DPG levels may be the PFK structural gene.
When soluble extracts of the extreme acidothermophilic archaeon Sulfolobus solfataricus were incubated with [γ-32P]ATP, several proteins were radiolabeled. One of the more prominent of these, which migrated with a mass of ∼46 kDa on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), was purified by column chromatography and SDS-PAGE and subjected to amino acid sequence analysis via both the Edman technique and mass spectroscopy. The best match to the partial sequence obtained was the potential polypeptide product of open reading frame sso0417, whose DNA-derived amino acid sequence displayed many features reminiscent of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-independent phosphoglycerate (PGA) mutases [iPGMs]. Open reading frame sso0417 was therefore cloned, and its protein product was expressed in Escherichia coli. Assays of its catalytic capabilities revealed that the protein was a moderately effective PGA mutase that also exhibited low levels of phosphohydrolase activity. PGA mutase activity was dependent upon the presence of divalent metal ions such as Co2+ or Mn2+. The recombinant protein underwent autophosphorylation when incubated with either [γ-32P]ATP or [γ-32P]GTP. The site of phosphorylation was identified as Ser59, which corresponds to the catalytically essential serine residue in bacterial and eucaryal iPGMs. The phosphoenzyme intermediate behaved in a chemically and kinetically competent manner. Incubation of the 32P-labeled phosphoenzyme with 3-PGA resulted in the disappearance of radioactive phosphate and the concomitant appearance of 32P-labeled PGA at rates comparable to those measured in steady-state assays of PGA mutase activity.
Objective:To observe the changes of whole blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate after exercise training,and to investigate the relation between 2,3-DPG and sports anemia.Method:28 members of the Chinese youth team of taekwondo and middle-distance race team of a sport school were the subjects.According to gender and results of hemoglobin(Hb),the subjects were divided into female sports anemia(n=8),female control(n=10),male sports anemia(n=4) and male control(n=6).Hemiglobincyanide method and UV-test method was used to measure the Hb and 2,3-DPG in blood research samples respectively.Result:there were significant decreases in serum Hb of subjects between sports anemia and control group(female sports anemia group 119.75±6.48 mmol/l,female control 134.40±6.74 mmol/l,male sports anemia 09.75±11.50 mmol/l and male control 144.00±7.04 mmol/l,P0.01).Whether or not considering gender,there were not significant difference between sports anemia group and control group in whole blood 2,3-DPG and erythrocyte 2,3-DPG.Conclusion:Experimental result of 2,3-DPG in whole blood and erythrocyte showed that the 2,3-DPG in sports anemia group was not significantly higher than that of control group.Therefore,it is not possible to study the mechanism of sports anemia based only on the right shift in the oxygen dissociation curve of hemoglobin.
Measurements were made of lactate, pyruvate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in 69 children admitted to the hospital in a state of diabetic ketoacidosis of different intensity. Depending on the intensity of metabolic abnormalities, the content of lactate and pyruvate was found to be increased, whereas that of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to be lowered. Measurements of the content of lactate and the lactate/pyruvate ratio enables carrying out differential diagnosis between the ketoacidotic and lactacidotic varieties of diabetic coma.
Abstract A minor hemoglobin component of human red cell hemolysate, HbA 1c , is the result of the non-enzymatic reaction of glucose with the α -amino groups of the valine residues at the N-terminus of the β -chains of human hemoglobin. In this paper, the effect of protons, chloride and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) on the functional properties of HbA 1c has been investigated in some details. Moreover, the structural modifications induced on the native molecule by the sugar moieties, studied by computer modeling, do agree with the observed functional alterations. In particular, the functional results indicate that: (a) the low-affinity conformation (or T-state) of HbA 1c is destabilized by the chemical modification per se; (b) the Bohr effect is reduced with respect to that of native HbA 0 ; (c) the affinity of the T-state of HbA 1c for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is about 2.6× lower than that of the corresponding conformational state of HbA 0 , while the R-state is less affected with, the affinity being 1.7× lower. At the structural level, computer modeling studies show that the two sugar moieties are asymmetrically disposed within the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site. In addition, molecular mechanics and dynamics calculations concerning the interaction with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate indicate that while in HbA 0 the effector can assume two different stable orientations, in glycated Hb only one orientation is possible. All together, the results show that glycation of the Val 1 residues of both β -chains does not impair the binding of DPG but imposes a different mode of binding by changing the internal geometry of the complex and the surface distribution of the positive electrostatic potential within the binding pocket.
Acceptance of lower transfusion thresholds and shorter post-operative stays results in patients leaving hospital after surgery with lower haemoglobin (Hb) than previously. We undertook a prospective observational study to assess the haematological response to post-operative anaemia and to determine the utility of quality of life (QoL) measures in assessing the impact of anaemia on such patients. Thirty patients undergoing unilateral hip arthroplasty had blood samples taken and QoL questionnaires administered pre-operatively and at 7, 28 and 56 days post-operatively. Increased erythropoiesis was evident at day 7 post-operatively. Approximately two-thirds of the post-operative Hb deficit was corrected by day 28. There was evidence of functional iron deficiency in more than one-quarter of patients at day 56. QoL scores used did not show any relationship with Hb in the post-operative period. Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) levels increased in proportion to the degree of post-operative anaemia. We concluded that substantial recovery of Hb occurs between day 7 and day 28 post-operatively. Complete recovery of Hb may be delayed beyond day 56 due to development of iron deficiency. Patients are at significant risk of developing post-operative iron deficiency depending on operative blood loss and pre-operative iron stores. Increased red cell 2,3DPG may offset the effect of anaemia on oxygen delivery. We found no evidence that anaemia produces a measurable effect on chosen QoL scores in the post-operative period.
The human erythrocyte 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM) is a multifunctional enzyme which controls the metabolism of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the main allosteric effector of haemoglobin. Several cDNA banks were constructed from reticulocyte mRNA, either by conventional cloning methods in pBR322 and screening with specific mixed oligonucleotide probes, or in the expression vector lambda gt 11. The largest cDNA isolated contained 1673 bases [plus the poly(A) tail], which is slightly smaller than the size of the intact mRNA as estimated by Northern blot analysis (approximately 1800 bases). This cDNA encodes for a protein of 258 residues; the protein yielded 34 tryptic peptides which were subsequently isolated by h.p.l.c. Our nucleotide sequence data were entirely confirmed by the amino acid composition of these tryptic peptides and reveal several major differences from the published sequence; the revised amino acid sequence of human BPGM is presented. These findings represent the first step in the study of the expression and regulation of this enzyme as a specific marker of the erythroid cell line.
The physicochemical properties of giant hemoglobin (Hb) of the marine polychaete Perinereis aibuhitensis were extensively studied and the following results were obtained. (1) Light absorption spectra of the oxy, deoxy, CO, met, and cyanomet derivatives were similar to those for human Hb, except for a somewhat peculiar shape and pH-dependence of the met derivative, and high absorbance values around 277 nm for all these derivatives of Perinereis Hb. Abnormal pH dependence for the met derivative was confirmed by powder electron parmagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy, which revealed that a water molecule does not coordinate to the heme iron as a sixth ligand. The high absorption around 277 nm is indicative of the existence of some non-heme polypeptide chains and/or a high content of aromatic residues in the molecule. (2) UV difference and derivative spectra revealed oxygenation-induced conformational changes in the protein moiety that are related to the degree of cooperativity. (3) The EPR spectrum for the nitrosyl derivative showed well-resolved triplet-triplet splittings due to 14N, indicating that the proximal residue is probably a histidine. (4) The oxygen affinity and cooperativity of this Hb were pH-dependent. Mg2+ markedly increased the oxygen affinity, the Bohr effect, and the cooperativity, which was maximal at physiological pH. CO2 and anions such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate had no effect on the oxygenation properties. Thus, different from vertebrate Hb, the oxygen-binding properties of this Hb are regulated by divalent cations which bind preferentially to the oxy form. The low temperature-dependence of oxygen affinity observed for this Hb is a sign of adaptation to the environment by this poikilothermic organism. (5) By using a graphic method, the minimal functional unit that preserves the full cooperativity (allosteric unit) was inferred to be the one containing 6 heme groups and its significance is discussed in connection with the structural hierarchy of the molecule.
Recombinant α-D-galactosidase (rGal) from soybean (Glycine max) hydrolyzed the immunodominant α-D-galactose residue from the B epitope of red blood cells. This converted type B erythrocytes to type O which are “universally” transfusable. Type B red blood cells were obtained from four different donors and enzymatically converted. Cell function parameters, including red cell indices, pH, methemoglobin, carboxyhemoglobin, osmotic fragility, hemolysis, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, cholinesterase, ATP, and antigen typing of treated ceils were compared to controls. These pilot studies indicate that rGal could have potential biotechnical application in the production of universally transfusable red blood cells.
Accurate oxygen equilibrium curves of cobalt-substituted haemoglobin (cobalto-haemoglobin) were determined by the automatic recording method of Imai et al. (1970) in a wide range of pH values and in the presence and absence of allosteric effectors such as chloride ion, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inositol hexaphosphate, and orthophosphate. Cobaltohaemoglobin preserves a full Bohr effect in accordance with earlier observations. As in ferrohaemoglobin, the Adair constants ( k 1 , i =1 to 4), which measure the oxygen affinity for the four individual oxygenation steps, depend non-uniformly on pH, indicating that the number of protons released upon oxygenation differs for each step. The effectors altered the overall oxygen affinity, the co-operativity of oxygen binding, and the Adair constants for cobaltohaemoglobin. As in ferrohaemoglobin, chloride ion, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and orthophosphate lower the overall oxygen affinity and increase the co-operativity by reducing k 1 , k 2 and k 3 without causing significant change of k 4 , while inositol hexaphosphate lowers the overall oxygen affinity by reducing all k values. In the absence of inositol hexaphosphate, the k 4 values are similar to the oxygen association constants for free chains, implying that cobaltohaemoglobin becomes free of structural constraints prior to the last step of oxygenation. Analysis according to the allosteric model of Monod et al. (1965) indicates that the metal substitution of cobalt for iron causes a drastic shift of the allosteric equilibrium towards the R structure and an increase of the oxygen affinity of the T structure. The present results are consistent with the distributed energy model of Hopfield (1973) and, by implication, support the trigger mechanism of Perutz (1970) for co-operative oxygen binding.
The effects of aged garlic extract (AGE) on lipid peroxidative damage and the deformability of erythrocytes were evaluated in rats. The deformability of erythrocytes was measured using the micropore filtration method. AGE significantly prevented the decrease of erythrocyte deformability induced by lipid peroxidation in a dose-dependent manner. The addition of AGE significantly inhibited an increase in thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and hemolysis rate and prevented the loss of intraerythrocytic ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in oxidized erythrocytes. Moreover, AGE significantly suppressed not only the hemolysis rate induced by peroxidation but also hemolysis due to nonperoxidation. These results suggest the possibility that AGE improves microcirculation and rheological blood properties and preserves the structure and function of erythrocytes not only through an antioxidant process, but also via the glycolysis pathway and membrane stabilization of erythrocytes.
MATERIALS Fresh blood samples from individuals homozygous (SS), heterozygous (AS), and doubly heterozygous (SC) for sickle hemoglobinopathy and from normal adults were drawn into EDTA as anticoagulant. The composition of this anticoagulant was 1% EDTA, 0.6% NaCI, and 6% glucose (wt/vol); it maintained a constant level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (P2-G) in the erythrocytes during a minimum period of 7 days at 4°. Cystamine dichloride (2,2-dithio-bisethylamine dichloride) was provided was determined on packed frozen and thawed cells, at 370, with a Radiometer pH meter fitted with a microelectrode unit (type E 5021a). Erythrocyte P2-G level was determined according to Rose and Leibowitz (15). Hemolysates were prepared according to Drabkin (16). Hb electrophoresis was performed on cellulose acetate strips at pH 8.6 with Tris-EDTA-borate buffer (17); the proportions of the various fractions was determined by densitometry. Solutions of S-ethylamine Hbs (cyst-Hbs) were prepared from cells that had been incubated with 2-5 mM cystamine for 1 hr at 37°. Organic phosphates and free cystamine were removed by chromatography on a column (2.5 X 40 cm) of Sephadex G-25.
Erythrocytes are a highly specialized O 2 carrier system in the body. More than 95% of cytoplasmic protein is hemoglobin (Telen & Kaufman, 1999) . Hemoglobin is the protein responsible for the oxygen-carrying capacity of erythrocytes. It provides the binding to O 2 to heme, while keeping iron in the +2 oxidation state to assure the reversibility of this binding. Hemoglobin also facilitates exchange of CO 2 (Nohl & Stolze, 1998; Telen & Kaufman, 1999) . Under normal conditions, 95% of hemoglobin is saturated with oxygen in the lungs, whereas under physiologic conditions in peripheral blood stream only 25% of oxygenated hemoglobin becomes deoxygenated. Thus, the major fraction of oxygen bound to hemoglobin is recirculated with venous blood. The use of this fraction has been suggested for the treatment of oxygen deficiency. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is a natural effector of hemoglobin. The binding affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen changes reversibly with the concentration of 2,3-DPG in the intracellular compartment. This compensates for changes in the oxygen pressure outside of the body, as the affinity of 2,3-DPG to oxygen is much higher than that of hemoglobin (Guyton & Hall, 2000) . The oxygen transport function of erythrocytes depends on the membrane being deformable and the components of the membrane play important roles in this function.
The erythrocytes of normal a d u l t s have t h e capacity t o incorporate and metabolize dihydroxyacetone (DHA) . This s u b s t r a t e has been found t o be u s e f u l f o r t h e maintenance of ' 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) i n stored red c e l l s . The metabolism of DHA by cord blood erythrocytes was examined i n an attempt t o find a s u b s t r a t e f o r DPG synthesis t h a t bypassed the e a r l y s t
32 P]ATP, several proteins were radiolabeled. One of the more prominent of these, which migrated with a mass of ϳ46 kDa on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), was purified by column chromatography and SDS-PAGE and subjected to amino acid sequence analysis via both the Edman technique and mass spectroscopy. The best match to the partial sequence obtained was the potential polypeptide product of open reading frame sso0417, whose DNA-derived amino acid sequence displayed many features reminiscent of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-independent phosphoglycerate (PGA) mutases [iPGMs]. Open reading frame sso0417 was therefore cloned, and its protein product was expressed in Escherichia coli. Assays of its catalytic capabilities revealed that the protein was a moderately effective PGA mutase that also exhibited low levels of phosphohydrolase activity. PGA mutase activity was dependent upon the presence of divalent metal ions such as Co 2؉ Interest in the members of the Archaea has grown steadily over the last two decades, stimulated to a large degree by their extremophilic lifestyles and distinct phylogenetic status. Within archaeal proteomes resides a wealth of information concerning unique metabolic pathways for extracting energy from sulfur, producing methane from CO 2 , etc., as well as biochemical and biophysical mechanisms for sustaining life processes under conditions of temperature, pH, and salinity hostile to "conventional" organisms (reviewed in references 1, 12, 23, and 37). Archaeal genomes combine unique, bacterial, and eucaryal features in a complex puzzle whose deconvolution will provide important insights into the nature and order of the evolutionary process (reviewed in references 13, 14, and 17). However, our current library of information concerning fundamental metabolic, sensory, regulatory, and other processes in the Archaea remains lacking in both breadth and depth.
Adult hemoglobin and fetal hemoglobin were obtained from Japanese monkey (Macaca fuscata) and their oxygen equilibrium characteristics were studied. (1) The oxygen affinity of fetal hemoglobin was higher than that of adult hemoglobin both in the presence and absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The presence of diphosphoglycerate lowers the oxygen affinity of adult hemoglobin much greater than does that of HbF and the diphosphoglycerate levels of red cells of adult and newborn monkeys are about the same. (2) The intensity of the Bohr effect, as expressed by -deltalogP50/deltapH, at pH 7.4 was in the order of fetal hemoglobin-diphosphoglycerate greater than adult hemoglobin-diphosphoglycerate greater than fetal hemoglobin greater than adult hemoglobin.
Abstract To investigate the mode of interactions between heme metal, bound oxygen and the distal residue at the E7 site, we have measured accurate oxygen equilibrium curves, oxygen binding relaxations following temperature-jump, and electron paramagnetic resonance spectra of natural and cobalt-substituted opossum hemoglobin, which has glutamine and histidine at the E7 site of the α chain and the β chain, respectively, and compared them with those of natural and cobalt-substituted human hemoglobin, which has histidine at the E7 site of both the α and β chains. Natural opossum hemoglobin has a lower oxygen affinity, slightly smaller and pH-dependent co-operativity, a somewhat greater Bohr effect, and a smaller effect of organic phosphates such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate on oxygen affinity as compared to natural human hemoglobin. Upon substitution of cobalt for iron, these oxygenation characteristics of opossum hemoglobin relative to those of human hemoglobin were preserved well. The behavior of the intrinsic oxygen association constants pertaining to the four oxygenation steps (i.e. the Adair constants) upon addition of the organic phosphates or pH changes indicates that the allosteric equilibrium in opossum hemoglobin is biased towards the T state as compared with that in human hemoglobin, and that the oxygen affinity of the R structure is lower for opossum hemoglobin than for human hemoglobin. The temperature-jump kinetic data indicate that the lower oxygen affinity of opossum cobalt-hemoglobin in comparison with that of human cobalt-hemoglobin can be ascribed to a decreased oxygen association rate constant. The electron paramagnetic resonance experiments on oxy and deoxy opossum and human cobalt-hemoglobins in buffered H 2 O and 2 H 2 O, including their photolysed products at a low temperature, provided the following information. The cobaltous ion of the α subunits of deoxy opossum cobalt-hemoglobin is in an environment that is similar to that for cobaltous ions of deoxy human cobalt-hemoglobin in the T state. The hydrogen bond between the bound oxygen and the residue at E7, which has been shown to exist in oxy human cobalt-hemoglobin and oxy sperm whale cobalt-myoglobin, is absent or, at least, significantly altered in the α subunits of oxy opossum cobalt-hemoglobin, probably resulting in a lower oxygen affinity. Interference by isoleucine at E11α with an oxygen molecule is suggested as an explanation for the lowered affinity of opossum iron-hemoglobin. However, no straightforward structural explanation is available for the lower oxygen affinity of the R structure and the allosteric equilibrium biased towards the T state in opossum iron-hemoglobin.
Abstract Using a stopped flow apparatus, the effects of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and pH on the hemoglobin-oxygen dissociation kinetic constants were determined. The order of kinetics was pseudo-first order between 85 and 40% saturation. Increasing the concentration of DPG increased the kinetic constants in a manner which is related to the extent of binding of DPG to hemoglobin. The dependence of the kinetic constants on pH was, however, not explained in terms of the total number of DPG bound to oxyhemoglobin. The DPG was affecting the kinetic constants in such a manner that the binding was functionally linked to the Bohr proton.
Abstract 1. 1.|An insoluble form of phosphoglycerate mutase (2,3-diphospho- d -glycerate: 2-phospho- d -glycerate phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.5.3) from rabbit muscle was prepared by mechanically immobilizing the crystalline enzyme within a water-insoluble carrier of highly cross-linked polyacrylamide. This procedure has previously been devised in our laboratory and is known to involve no covalent bonds between enzyme and carrier. 2. 2.|The kinetic behavior of the soluble and insoluble forms of this enzyme were identical in many respects, i.e. upon variation of the enzyme concentration, substrate concentration and temperature. Thus, their Michaelis constants, activation energies and susceptibilities to substrate inhibition were the same. 3. 3.|In contrast, the pH optimum of activity of the insoluble form of mutase was one whole unit lower than that of the water-soluble form, although the carrier of the insoluble enzyme was electrostatically neutral. 4. 4.|Insoluble mutase was also more sensitive to activation by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate than the soluble form. 5. 5.|A comparison between the insoluble forms of phosphoglycerate mutase and enolase, prepared by the same procedure, shows that differences between soluble and insoluble forms of these enzymes depend more on the nature of the enzyme than on that of the insoluble carrier.
Hemoglobin (Hb) Rambam, or beta69[E13]Gly-->Asp, has been identified in a German woman also suffering from non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. This is the first observation of this Hb variant in a German family thus far. The detailed evaluation of its structure using electrospray mass spectrometry revealed new minor glycohemoglobin components and showed that the attachment of glucose to the beta NH2 terminus occurred at an almost identical rate in both wild-type and mutant beta-chains. However, the introduction of a carboxyl group at beta69 seems to increase the glycation of epsilon-amino groups of lysine residues. The glycemic state in the propositus was well reflected by the total glycohemoglobin concentrations but not by the Hb A1c values, which did not reflect hemoglobin glycation in this patient. This case demonstrates that Hb A1c cannot be used reliably in the management of diabetic patients carrying Hb variants such as Hb Rambam. Functional studies of the whole blood of the heterozygous carrier demonstrated extremely low oxygen affinity, which may have been caused by increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate related to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and hyperthyroidism. None of the clinical symptoms could be directly associated to Hb Rambam.
BACKGROUND: Current additive solutions (ASs) for red cells (RBCs) do not maintain a constant level of critical metabolites such as adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate acid (2,3-DPG) during cold storage. From the literature it is known that the intracellular pH is an important determinant of RBC metabolism. Therefore, a new, alkaline, AS was developed with the aim to allow cold storage of RBCs with stable product characteristics. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Whole blood-derived RBCs (leukoreduced) were resuspended in experimental medium phosphate-adenine-guanosine-glucose-gluconate-mannitol (PAGGG-M; pH 8.2) with and without washing in the same medium. During cold storage several in vitro variables, such as intracellular pH, 2,3-DPG, ATP, and hemolysis, were analyzed. RESULTS: During cold storage, RBCs resuspended in PAGGG-M showed a constant ATP level (approx. 6 mumol/g Hb) and a very limited hemolysis ( <0.2%). The 2,3-DPG content showed an increase until Day 21 (150% of initial level), followed by a slow decrease, with at Day 35 still 100 percent of the initial level. RBCs washed in PAGGG-M even showed a continuous increase of 2,3-DPG during 35 days, with a maximum level of 200 percent of the initial value. The effect of PAGGG-M appears to be related to long-lasting effects of the initial intracellular pH shortly after production. CONCLUSION: Resuspension of RBCs in our alkaline medium PAGGG-M resulted in a RBC unit of high quality during storage for up to at least 35 days, with 2,3-DPG levels of higher than 10 mumol per g Hb, hemolysis of less than 0.2 percent, and ATP levels of higher than 5 mumol per g Hb
Parameters characterizing the hemoglobin oxygen affinity were determined in blood of 12 male patients suffering from arterial occlusive disease (AOD) of the legs and compared with data obtained earlier from healthy human subjects (controls). Due to a COHb content of 4.8% +/- 2.2% in the cigarette-smoking AOD patients, the standard oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) was left-shifted, the half-saturation pressure (P50) amounted to 24.8 +/- 1.7 mmHg (3.30 +/- 0.23 kPa), although the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration was increased to 15.3 +/- 1.7 mumol/g Hb. Correcting the effects of elevated COHb shifts the P50 to 26.3 mmHg (3.5 kPa) and increases the steepness of the ODC (Hill's "n") from 2.79 +/- 0.27 to about 2.99, which is significantly different from controls. The Bohr coefficients after acidification of blood with lactic acid (BCLac) show high values at low oxygen saturations of hemoglobin (-0.50 +/- 0.04 in AOD patients, -0.32 +/- 0.04 in controls; P less than 0.05 at 10% SO2). The cause of the alterations in hemoglobin oxygen affinity may be a reduced mean erythrocyte age, but also the influence of unknown factors generated, e.g., from anaerobic muscle metabolism in AOD.
Abstract The position of the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) is modulated by2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Decreases in 2,3-DPG concentra-tion within the red cell shift the curve to the left, whereas increases inconcentration cause a shift to the right of the ODC. Some earlierstudies on diabetic patients have reported that insulin treatment mayreduce the red cell concentrations of 2,3-DPG, causing a shift of theODC to the left, but the reports are contradictory. Three groups werecompared in the present study: 1) nondiabetic control individuals (N =19); 2) insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) patients (on insu-lin treatment) (N = 19); 3) non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus(NIDDM) patients using oral hypoglycemic agents and no insulintreatment (N = 22). The overall position of the ODC was the same forthe three groups despite an increase of the glycosylated hemoglobinfraction that was expected to shift the ODC to the left in both groupsof diabetic patients (HbA 1c : control, 4.6%; IDDM, 10.5%; NIDDM,9.0%). In IDDM patients, the effect of the glycosylated hemoglobinfraction on the position of the ODC appeared to be counterbalanced bysmall though statistically significant increases in 2,3-DPG concentra-tion from 2.05 (control) to 2.45 µmol/ml blood (IDDM). Though notstatistically significant, an increase of 2,3-DPG also occurred inNIDDM patients, while red cell ATP levels were the same for allgroups. The positions of the ODC were the same for control subjects,IDDM and NIDDM patients. Thus, the PO
INTRODUCTION ::: ::: Pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency is a life-long chronic hemolytic anemia with a variable clinical presentation, ranging from mild to life-threatening, and is associated with severe, debilitating co-morbidities. PK deficiency is caused by mutations in the PKLR gene, which in the red blood cell (RBC) results in defective pyruvate kinase isoform R (PK-R). PK-R catalyzes the final and irreversible step in glycolysis, the process on which mature RBCs rely almost exclusively to generate the energy carrier molecule, adenosine triphosphate (ATP). PK-R is thus a key enzyme for maintaining RBC energy levels, and it has been proposed that ATP levels are critical for optimally maintaining RBC membrane integrity. PK-deficient RBCs and their progenitors are characterized by changes in metabolism associated with defective glycolysis, including a build-up of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and lowered ATP levels. ::: ::: AG-519 is a potent, highly selective and orally bioavailable PK-R activator shown preclinically to have none of the aromatase inhibitory effects that were observed with AG-348, the first small molecule PK-R activator to enter clinical trials. It is hypothesized that intervention with AG-519 restores glycolytic pathway activity and normalizes RBC metabolism. Treatment of PK-deficient patient RBCs ex vivo with AG-519 results in increased ATP levels, and reductions in 2,3-DPG, consistent with pharmacological activation of PK-R enzyme activity. This analysis integrates the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) properties of AG-519 in healthy volunteers using population PK/PD modeling and simulation. ::: ::: METHODS ::: ::: PK/PD modeling using a non-linear mixed effects approach was performed to understand the pharmacokinetics of AG-519 and PK/PD relationship of AG-519 to 2,3-DPG, ATP and PK-R enzyme activity in humans. The PK/PD model integrated data from a phase 1, single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Data in single and multiple ascending dose escalation arms were included in the analysis, which comprises a total of 88 human volunteers. AG-519 dose levels ranged from 10-1250 mg. Blood was collected from all patients to assess AG-519 pharmacokinetics and levels of ATP and 2,3-DPG in blood, as well as PK-R activity. Population simulations using the final model were performed to examine the dose-exposure-biomarkers relationship. ::: ::: RESULTS ::: ::: AG-519 showed rapid absorption kinetics following oral administration. Area under the concentration-time curve of plasma AG-519 increased in a dose-proportional manner following single and multiple dosing. A three-compartment model with non-linear absorption compartment and linear elimination best described the pharmacokinetics of AG-519. Systemic clearance appeared to be time-invariant and no auto-induction was observed with multiple dosing. The PK/PD relationship between plasma AG-519 and ATP or 2,3-DPG in human volunteers was best fitted by a turnover model where the drug effect was described by an Emax model. A direct Emax model best described the relationship between plasma AG-519 and PK-R enzyme activity. Evaluation of ATP and 2,3-DPG levels and PK-R activity confirmed the potent effect of AG-519 on PK-R. A direct comparison of AG-519 target engagement and biomarker response to AG-348 will also be presented. Population PK/PD model simulations suggested that the doses selected in the phase 1 study covered a large exposure-response range of the three biomarkers, and provided a systematic and integrated framework for the understanding of AG-519 pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, as well as a rationale for dose selection in future trials. ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: ::: This study represents a comprehensive longitudinal PK/PD analysis of AG-519 in humans. This integrated PK/PD model formed the basis for understanding the exposure-response relationship of the ongoing phase 1 study and provided guidance on dose selection to inform the future development of AG-519. ::: ::: Disclosures Le: Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Cohen: Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Consultancy. Barbier: Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Merica: Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Kung: Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Kosinski: Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Biller: Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Yang: Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership.
The oxygenation of some human organs (brain, heart, kidneys, and legs) is correlated to the oxygen carrying characteristics of blood by predicting the PVO2 vs Q relationship at a given metabolic level of the organ. The effect of moderate shifts of the oxygen equilibrium curve [approximately equal to 2 Torr (0.27 kPa), comparable to the shifts caused by non-massive transfusions of blood with altered 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration] is evaluated in terms of the efficiency of organ oxygenation. The results indicate the following. (1) An increase of the P50 from 27.9 to 30.0 Torr (3.71 to 3.99 kPa), that is the consequence of an increase of the [DPG]/[Hb] ratio from 0.8 to 1.04 M/M, is advantageous for all organs, because the normal metabolic level can be maintained with a considerable reduction of Q (approximately 10%). (2) This reduction is similar to that caused by an increase of [Hb] from 160 to 182 g/L, but without increasing the blood viscosity and the vascular resistance. (3) This advantage is different for the various organs, as a function of their blood supply and metabolic level characteristics. These features were also observed at any PaO2 in the range 60-300 Torr (7.98-39.9 kPa), and when simulating acidemia or alkalemia, as well as a pH gradient across the organ.
Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), PO2 50%, whole blood haemoglobin (Hb), haematocrit (Hct) and available O2 were determined in two matched groups of suckling rabbits from the 17th to the 34th day after birth. One group was subjected to repeated bleeding, amounting to 1.0-1.5% of the body weight, on day 17, 19, 22 and 25, while the other served as control. The bleeding group had markedly lower Hb and Hct than the control group, which showed the ordinary post-natal fall in Hb. There were, however, no differences between 2,3-DPG and PO2 50% in the two groups. The changes were essentially the same as observed previously in animals in which the post-natal anaemia was avoided by iron-treatment. Thus, these and previously reported data show that the post-natal rise in 2,3-DPG and PO2 50% within wide limits is uninfluenced by marked variations in Hb, even severe bleeding anaemia, and support the assumption that the post-natal rise in 2,3-DPG and PO2 50% is dominated by processes related to the growth and maturation of the animals.
Complete dynamic oxygen equilibrium curves (O2EC) on dog whole blood were measured at 25 and 39 degrees C using a spectrophotometric micro blood film technique. O2EC were run at three CO2 levels (2, 4, and 8%) for each of three base excess levels (-10, 0, +10 meq/l). The standard curve (ph 7.4) was determined for saturations 0-0.98. At 39 degrees C the standard curve O2 pressure at half-saturation (P50) was 31.5 Torr; fixed-acid Bohr factor, -0.488; CO2 Bohr factor, -0.498; delta log P50/delta log PCO2, -0.0045. CO2 Bohr slope was linear over the pH range of 7-8. Bohr factors were not significantly saturation dependent. At 25 degrees C P50 was 15.4 Torr and CO2 Bohr factor, -0.647. The temperature coefficient (delta log P50/delta T) equaled 0.022. Dog O2EC were shown with curve-fitting techniques to be isomorphic with human blood O2EC. The absence of significant oxylabile carbamate formation in dog red blood cells (RBC) was attributed to high 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentrations, 6.23 mM/l RBC, equal to a DPG/Hb4 ratio of 1.12. A simple two-constant equation S = [(37,900)/(P3 + 205P) + 1]-1, where S is saturation and P is oxygen tension, was found to fit the dog 39 degrees C standard curve.
The marked elevation in hepatic carbamyl phosphate synthetase I (CPSI) in calorie-restricted mice, and the changes in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and in hemoglobin oxygen affinity in calorie-restricted and hypoxic humans living in Biosphere 2 suggest similarities between physiologic events in calorie restriction and hibernation. Other data from the literature strengthen this comparison. Accordingly, we hypothesize that the response to the calorie restriction regime as studied by gerontologists, rather than being a laboratory artifact, is part of a spectrum of responses to food deprivation which have adaptive value in the wild, and whose triggering mechanism may primarily involve the neuroendocrine system.
Abstract : Blood collected for transfusion purposes is usually stored in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) or citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) at 4C. These preservatives maintain red cell ATP concentrations and thus viability of the cells during storage. Since the normal oxygen affinity of hemoglobin in human blood depends on the red cell concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), this metabolic intermediate was assayed and oxygen dissociation curves performed on blood stored in ACD and CPD. Further, adenine and inosine were added and their effects on 2,3-DPG concentration and hemoglobin function studied. Hemoglobin function, expressed as p50 (the pO2 at which hemoglobin is 50% oxygenated), and 2,3-DPG concentrations were better maintained during the storage period in blood stored in CPD than in ACD. If adenine was present the p50 and 2,3-DPG levels declined more rapidly. However, adenine and inosine in CPD-stored blood allowed the p50 and 2,3-DPG to persist at near normal levels for most of the 3-week storage period. (Author)
Numerous enzyme defects-deficiency of pyruvate kinase, phosphofructo-kinase, glocosephosphate isomerase, adenylate kinase, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase and glutathione reductase--in red blood cells have been described to be connected with dyserythropoietic or refractory anemias and panmyelopathies of different origin. These enzyme deficiencies also have been demonstrated in red cells of patients with acute leukemia. Most likely the enzyme deficiencies are acquired and are not important for the origin of anemia or bone marrow insufficiency. Partial derepression of fetal genes, qualitative and quantitative perturbations of genetic expression, and posttranslational variations of the enzyme protein by low molecular factors from plasma, erythrocytes or leukemic cells have been discussed as a reason of enzyme deficiency. The decrease of glutathione reductase deficiency is dependent of FAD deficiency.
Abstract The effect of organic and inorganic phosphates on the functional properties of purified adult human hemoglobin has been investigated. Adenosine triphosphate, guanosine triphosphate, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are particularly effective in decreasing the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin and are responsible for a small change in heme-heme interaction. The di- and mononucleotides have a neglibigle effect on the log p 1 2 and n values. Hexametaphosphate causes marked changes in both the oxygen affinity and the oxygen equilibrium curve, but tripolyphosphate, tetrametaphosphate, and pyrophosphate are less effective. The oxygen affinity of hemoglobin is decreased in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate over a wide pH range. At high concentrations of phosphate buffer, diphosphoglycerate has practically no effect on the log p1 2 and n values. The results are discussed in relation to the changes in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve of stored blood.
Abstract The effects of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and other allosteric polyanions of the phosphate or sulfate ester class (inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), ATP, pyridoxamine-5'-phosphate (PMP), and inositol hexasulfate (IHS] on the solubility of deoxyhemoglobin S, and the oxygen affinity of Hb A were evaluated. Their effects on the saturation concentration (csat) indicated promotion of gelation in each case, according to the following order of molar effectiveness: IHP greater than IHS greater than DPG greater than ATP much greater than PMP. Four polybasic carboxylic acids (benzenetricarboxylate (trimesic acid), benzenetetracarboxylate (BTC), benzenepentacarboxylate (BPC), and benzenehexacarboxylate (BHC] were evaluated as well. Their order of molar effectiveness was: BHC greater than BPC greater than BTC much greater than trimesic acid. Both classes of polyanions influenced oxygen affinity in the same order as solubility. Overall, a good correlation existed between the negative charges of these nine allosteric polyanions at neutral pH and their effects on solubility and oxygen affinity. Because of its possible role in the pathophysiology of sickle cell disease, the effect of DPG on csat was examined over the pH range 6.5-7.6. While a decrease in csat was observed for DPG-saturated deoxyhemoglobin S throughout this range, the decrement observed in the physiological pH range (1.8 g/dl) was somewhat lower than that below neutral pH (3.0 g/dl); in either case the sickling tendency of SS red cells would be enhanced. Inasmuch as the intracellular concentration of DPG in sickle cell anemia may be elevated as much as 2-fold, maneuvers aimed at its reduction could be therapeutically beneficial.
Inorganic phosphate, known to stimulate erythrocyte glycolysis, is present in one of the preservatives for blood storage, citrate–phosphate–dextrose (CPD), but not the other, acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD). Both ACD and CPD were developed before it was known that erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was necessary for normal hemoglobin function. The phosphate in CPD gives a final concentration of 2 mM, which is less than the concentrations originally used to study the phosphate effect. Therefore, the present study was designed to see whether higher concentrations of phosphate would better maintain erythrocyte concentrations of 2,3-DPG during blood storage. For maintaining 2,3-DPG, 2 mM phosphate was the best; however, 5 mM phosphate was nearly as good. Ten, 15, and 20 mM phosphate were progressively worse. Also, there was very little difference between 2 and 5 mM phosphate with respect to ATP, and the highest phosphate concentration was the worst.
Asp, has been identified in a German woman also suffering from non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. This is the first observation of this Hb variant in a German family thus far. The detailed evaluation of its structure using electrospray mass spectrometry revealed new minor glycohemoglobin components and showed that the attachment of glucose to the ␤ NH 2 terminus occurred at an almost identical rate in both wild-type and mutant ␤-chains. However, the introduction of a carboxyl group at ␤69 seems to increase the glycation of ⑀-amino groups of lysine residues. The glycemic state in the propositus was well reflected by the total glycohemoglobin concentrations but not by the Hb A 1C values, which did not reflect hemoglobin glycation in this patient. This case demonstrates that Hb A 1C cannot be used reliably in the management of diabetic patients carrying Hb variants such as Hb Rambam. Functional studies of the whole blood of the heterozygous carrier demonstrated extremely low oxygen affinity, which may have been caused by increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate related to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and hyperthyroidism. None of the clinical symptoms could be directly associated to Hb Rambam.
The position of the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) is modulated by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Decreases in 2,3-DPG concentration within the red cell shift the curve to the left, whereas increases in concentration cause a shift to the right of the ODC. Some earlier studies on diabetic patients have reported that insulin treatment may reduce the red cell concentrations of 2,3-DPG, causing a shift of the ODC to the left, but the reports are contradictory. Three groups were compared in the present study: 1) nondiabetic control individuals (N = 19); 2) insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) patients (on insulin treatment) (N = 19); 3) non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients using oral hypoglycemic agents and no insulin treatment (N = 22). The overall position of the ODC was the same for the three groups despite an increase of the glycosylated hemoglobin fraction that was expected to shift the ODC to the left in both groups of diabetic patients (HbA 1c : control, 4.6%; IDDM, 10.5%; NIDDM, 9.0%). In IDDM patients, the effect of the glycosylated hemoglobin fraction on the position of the ODC appeared to be counterbalanced by small though statistically significant increases in 2,3-DPG concentration from 2.05 (control) to 2.45 µmol/ml blood (IDDM). Though not statistically significant, an increase of 2,3-DPG also occurred in NIDDM patients, while red cell ATP levels were the same for all groups. The positions of the ODC were the same for control subjects, IDDM and NIDDM patients. Thus, the PO 2 at 50% hemoglobinoxygen saturation was 26.8, 28.2 and 28.5 mmHg for control, IDDM and NIDDM, respectively. In conclusion, our data question the idea of adverse side effects of insulin treatment on oxygen transport. In other words, the shift to the left reported by others to be caused by insulin treatment was not detected. 
The position of the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) is modulated by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Decreases in 2,3-DPG concentration within the red cell shift the curve to the left, whereas increases in concentration cause a shift to the right of the ODC. Some earlier studies on diabetic patients have reported that insulin treatment may reduce the red cell concentrations of 2,3-DPG, causing a shift of the ODC to the left, but the reports are contradictory. Three groups were compared in the present study: 1) nondiabetic control individuals (N = 19); 2) insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) patients (on insulin treatment) (N = 19); 3) non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients using oral hypoglycemic agents and no insulin treatment (N = 22). The overall position of the ODC was the same for the three groups despite an increase of the glycosylated hemoglobin fraction that was expected to shift the ODC to the left in both groups of diabetic patients (HbA 1c : control, 4.6%; IDDM, 10.5%; NIDDM, 9.0%). In IDDM patients, the effect of the glycosylated hemoglobin fraction on the position of the ODC appeared to be counterbalanced by small though statistically significant increases in 2,3-DPG concentration from 2.05 (control) to 2.45 µmol/ml blood (IDDM). Though not statistically significant, an increase of 2,3-DPG also occurred in NIDDM patients, while red cell ATP levels were the same for all groups. The positions of the ODC were the same for control subjects, IDDM and NIDDM patients. Thus, the PO 2 at 50% hemoglobinoxygen saturation was 26.8, 28.2 and 28.5 mmHg for control, IDDM and NIDDM, respectively. In conclusion, our data question the idea of adverse side effects of insulin treatment on oxygen transport. In other words, the shift to the left reported by others to be caused by insulin treatment was not detected.
In a pioneering study, Benesch and Benesch (1) found that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) keeps the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) within its normal operational range. An increase of 2,3-DPG reduces hemoglobin-oxygen (HbO 2 ) affinity, i.e., causes a shift to the right of the ODC, and increases the cooperativity of the four hemoglobin chains. On the other hand, decreased levels of 2,3-DPG cause a shift to the left and reduce cooperativity.
Affinity of hemoglobin to oxygen was studied in rat erythrocytes under conditions of intraperitoneal administration of thyroxin in a dose of 0.4 mg per 100 g of animal weight each 24 h for five days. A significant right shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve is observed only on the 6th day simultaneously with the increase of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level in erythrocytes in the period under study. The results obtained from the study of the thyroxin effect on the respiratory function of hemoglobin permit recommending it as an antihypoxant.
The binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to human haemoglobin A and F was determined using an ultracentrifugation technique. The binding of the phosphocompound was much lower to haemoglobin F than to haemoglobin A, both in the oxygenated and deoxygenated states. It is concluded that this difference may explain, at least partly, the higher oxygen affinity of foetal blood. The result supports previously advanced arguments that binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to haemoglobin A takes place at βH21 His.
Abstract S-Nitrosated hemoglobin (SNO-Hb) is of interest because of the allosteric control of NO delivery from SNO-Hb made possible by the conformational differences between the R- and T-states of Hb. To better understand SNO-Hb, the oxygen binding properties of S-nitrosated forms of normal and sickle cell Hb were investigated. Spectral assays and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry were used to quantify the degree ofS-nitrosation. Hb A0 and unpolymerized Hb S exhibit similar shifts toward their R-state conformations in response to S-nitrosation, with increased oxygen affinity and decreased cooperativity. Responses to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were unaltered, indicating regional changes in the deoxy structure of SNO-Hb that accommodate NO adduction. A cycle of deoxygenation/reoxygenation does not cause loss of NO or appreciable heme oxidation. There is, however, appreciable loss of NO and heme oxidation when oxygen-binding experiments are carried out in the presence of glutathione. These results indicate that the in vivo stability of SNO-Hb and its associated vasoactivity depend on the abundance of thiols and other factors that influence transnitrosation reactions. The increased oxygen affinity and R-state character that result fromS-nitrosation of Hb S would be expected to decrease its polymerization and thereby lessen the associated symptoms of sickle cell disease.
We have studied the all or none cell response of Ca2+-dependent K+ channels to added Ca in human red cells depleted of ATP by incubation with iodoacetate and inosine. A procedure was used which allows separation and differential analysis of responding and nonresponding cells. Responding (H for heavy) cells incubated in medium containing 5 mM K lose KCl and water and increase their density to the point of sinking on diethylphthalate (specific gravity = 1.12) on centrifugation. Nonresponding (L for light) cells do not lose KCl at all. There is no intermediate behavior. Increasing the Ca concentration in the medium increases the fraction of cells which become H. No differences in the sensitivity to Ca2+ of the individual K+ channels were detected in inside-out vesicles prepared either from H or from L cells. The Ca content of H cells was higher than that of L cells. Cells depleted of ATP by incubation with iodoacetate and inosine sustain pump-leak Ca fluxes of about 15 mumol/liter cells per hour. ATP seems to be resynthesized in these cells at the expense of cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate stores at a rate of about 150 mumol/liter cells per hour. Inhibition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase by tetrathionate increased 6-8 times the measured rate of uptake of external 45Ca. This was accompanied by an increase in the fraction of H cells. All or none cell responses of Ca2+-dependent K channels have also been evidenced in intact human red cells on addition of Pb. They have the same characteristics as those in responding and nonresponding cells. The detailed study of the kinetics of Pb-induced shrinkage of red cells suspended in medium containing 5 mM K showed that changes of Pb concentration changed not only the fraction of H cells but also the rate of shrinkage of responding cells. H cells generated by Pb treatment contained significantly more lead than L cells. The above results suggest that the two all or none cell responses studied here can be explained by heterogeneity of agonist distribution among cells. Since pump-leak fluxes exist in both cases, differences of agonist distribution could be generated by heterogeneity of pumping among cells. This interpretation turns interest from K channels to Ca pumps to explain the heterogeneous behavior of red cells in response to a uniform stimulus.
An experimental procedure was worked out in which rats were subjected to an exchange of erythrocytes, followed by acute anemia by means of hemodilution. One group of rats received erythrocytes with a high concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and the other group was given erythrocytes with a low DPG concentration. The survival rate was equal in the two groups. Irrespective of DPG concentration, the rats whose hemoglobin concentration reached the lowest level died. The rats that died were also more acidotic than the others. The results indicate that the hemoglobin concentration and the pH value were more important determinants for survival than the DPG concentrations.
Abstract Hemoglobin-bound CO 2 was estimated by a procedure first described by Rossi-Bernardi et al. (1969) in which the carbamate compound is stabilized by rapid mixing with alkali and then separated from other CO 2 constituents in solution by gel filtration and ion-exchange chromatography. Carbamate equilibrium of bovine hemoglobin was studied at constant P co 2 (44 mm Hg) and varying pH as well as at constant pH (7.4) and varying P co 2 (ionic strength 0.18, temperature 37.0 °C). The difference in Z (ΔZ) between hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin appeared to be 0.11 ± 0.04 (pH = 7.40; P co 2 = 44 mm Hg) i.e. about half the value observed in human hemoglobin. ΔZ was shown to account completely for the difference in CO 2 content (C co 2 ) between hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin when in total equilibrium with CO 2 . Carbamate determinations on bovine hemoglobin specifically modified at all terminal amino groups (double-blocked carbamylated derivative) did not show any CO 2 binding at all, thus giving a final proof for the exclusive role of the terminal amino groups in CO 2 binding under physiological conditions. Attempts to calculate the ionization constant (K z ) and the carbamate equilibrium constant (K c ) of the terminal amino groups failed, suggesting that both terminal groups are not equivalent in their CO 2 binding properties. This was confirmed by the fact that earbamate data obtained at constant P co 2 and varying pH fitted binding curves derived from two sets of independent but non-equivalent binding sites. Association constants for both kinds of binding sites appeared to differ by a factor of at least 3 in hemoglobin and of about 10 in oxyhemoglobin. From determinations of hemoglobin-bound CO 2 and CO 2 content of hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin solutions in total equilibrium with CO 2 . the apparent first dissociation constant of carbonic acid was calculated as 5.71 + 0.061 pH and found to be independent of the oxygenation state of hemoglobin. In contrast with hemoglobin of other species bovine hemoglobin appeared to be not influenced by the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as far as its CO 2 -binding properties are concerned.
Studies have been performed on a 12-yr-old Chinese girl with compensatory erythrocytosis due to the presence of hemoglobin Bethesda comprising about 45% of the red cell hemoglobin. Her parents and three siblings were normal. The oxygen affinity of her blood was markedly increased: under physiological conditions (pH 7.40, 37°C). P50 was 12.8 mm Hg (normal = 26.5 mm Hg). The red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2.3-DPG) level was normal. The abnormal hemoglobin could not be separated from hemoglobin A by zone electrophoresis at pH 8.6 or isoelectric focusing on polyacrylamide gel. However, after the hemoglobin was split into free α and β chains by treatment with p-hydroxymercuribenzoate (PMB) or 6 M urea, an abnormal β chain was readily demonstrated having a higher isoelectric point (more positive net charge) than normal βA. Structural analysis of the variant β chain demonstrated the substitution of histidine for tyrosine at position 145: hemoglobin Bethesda (α2β2145His). From earlier chemical and crystallographic studies, it has been postulated that this residue is a critical determinant of hemoglobin function. Hemoglobin Bethesda was separated from hemoglobin A by column chromatography. Oxygen equilibria of purified hemoglobin Bethesda revealed an extremely high oxygen affinity (exceeding that of isolated α and β chains), and markedly reduced cooperativity. The Bohr effect of hemoglobin Bethesda was 1/3 that of hemoglobin A. However, hemoglobin Bethesda showed a significant interaction with 2.3-DPG and inositol hexaphosphate.
Incubation of human erythrocytes in inosine (10 mM), pyruvate (10 mM), phosphate (50 mM) and NaCl (75 mM) (IPP-medium)1 at pH 6.6 leads to a ca. 1000 fold increase in the concentration of 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate (PRPP) as identified and measured by 31P-NMR spectroscopy. PRPP accumulation is pH-dependent with a maximum at extracellular pH 6.60 and the maximum value of 1.3-1.6 mmol/l RBC is reached within one hour at 37 degrees C. PRPP accumulated despite high concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), an inhibitor of PRPP-synthetase. The concentration of PRPP attained correlated with the intracellular concentration of inorganic phosphate (P1). Substitution of either adenosine or adenosine plus inosine for inosine in the medium (APP or A+IPP media) did not lead to NMR detectable accumulation of PRPP, despite the same high concentrations of intracellular P1. The lack of accumulation of PRPP in adenosine containing media may be related to the higher concentrations of nucleoside diphosphates induced in these media. These results show that neither 2,3-DPG nor PRPP itself inhibit the synthesis of PRPP in the human erythrocyte under these circumstances.
Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is an important factor affecting the affinity between oxygen and hemoglobin (2). The infusion of stored blood during and after operations employing cardiopulmonary bypass produces a decrease in the 2,3-DPG concentration in erythrocytes (4,5). Low concentrations cause an increase of the oxygen affinity for hemoglobin resulting in a left shifted oxygen dissociation curve. From a high arterial oxygen tension to a given tissue pO2, less oxygen is unloaded from the blood to the tissue. In addition, blood loss and fluid replacement during and after surgery cause an acute decrease of hemoglobin, lowering the arterial oxygen content. Oxygen transport to the tissues may be compensated by an increase in cardiac output or oxygen extraction. Reduced hemoglobin concentration has been found to decrease affinity of oxygen for hemoglobin by adaptive rise in red cell 2,3-DPG (6,9). The purpose of this study was to examine the possible compensation of the progressing hemodilution by a decreasing oxygen affinity to hemoglobin in order to maintain a sufficient oxygen supply to the tissue.
Abstract This study was undertaken with a view to examine certain aspects of erythrocyte metabolism in the developing sheep foetus. The parameters measured were: the concentrations of adenosine triphosphate (ATP); 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG); and the activities of three enzymes associated with antioxidant defense, namely glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent methaemoglobin reductase (NADH-MR). The level of both, ATP and DPG, and all three enzyme activities were considerably greater in foetal erythrocytes compared to those of the mothers. These results suggest that foetal cells are better equipped to defend from oxidative insult.
Abstract HbA1c is the most prevalent of the minor human hemoglobins. It is formed by the nonenzymatic addition of glucose to the alpha-amino group of the beta chain by an initial condensation reaction and a subsequent intermolecular Amadori rearrangement. We have developed a method of analysis which utilizes high performance liquid chromatography to follow the formation of HbA1c and greatly simplifies the determination of the kinetic parameters associated with this reaction. This has allowed us to study the effects of several Hb ligands, including the hydrogen ion, on the kinetics of this glycosylation reaction. Both the initial condensation reaction and the subsequent rearrangement are shown to exhibit acid catalysis, but the rate of the condensation step is limited by the extent of protonation of the alpha-amino group. The variation in kinetic parameters as a function of hydrogen ion concentration has allowed us to determine the probable reaction mechanism of HbA1c formation by comparison to previously reported model systems of Schiff base formation and Amadori rearrangement. The formation of pre-HbA1c from deoxy-Hb shows an increased forward rate when compared to oxy-Hb. The presence of physiologic concentrations of CO2 causes a proportional decrease in both k1 and k-1. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate causes a significant increase in the keq of the formation reaction. The effects of CO and the substitution of L-glucose for D-glucose are not significant.
The genes for CA1Pase (2-carboxy-D-arabinitol-1-bisphosphate phosphatase) from French bean, wheat, Arabidopsis and tobacco were identified and cloned. The deduced protein sequence included an N-terminal motif identical with the PGM (phosphoglycerate mutase) active site sequence [LIVM]-x-R-H-G-[EQ]-x-x-[WN]. The corresponding gene from wheat coded for an enzyme with the properties published for CA1Pase. The expressed protein lacked PGM activity but rapidly dephosphorylated 2,3-DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) to 2-phosphoglycerate. DTT (dithiothreitol) activation and GSSG inactivation of this enzyme was pH-sensitive, the greatest difference being apparent at pH 8. The presence of the expressed protein during in vitro measurement of Rubisco (ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase) activity prevented a progressive decline in Rubisco turnover. This was due to the removal of an inhibitory bisphosphate that was present in the RuBP (ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate) preparation, and was found to be PDBP (D-glycero-2,3-pentodiulose-1,5-bisphosphate). The substrate specificity of the expressed protein indicates a role for CA1Pase in the removal of 'misfire' products of Rubisco.
OBJECTIVE ::: To investigate the influence of neuraminidase, an enzyme that cleaves sialic acid from the red blood cell (RBC) membrane, on RBC shape and biochemistry in critically ill patients. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN ::: Prospective, observational study and in vitro laboratory study. ::: ::: ::: SETTING ::: A 31-bed medico-surgical department of intensive care and a university-affiliated cell biology laboratory. ::: ::: ::: SUBJECTS ::: Acutely ill patients with and without sepsis and healthy volunteers. ::: ::: ::: INTERVENTIONS ::: Blood sampling in volunteers. ::: ::: ::: MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS ::: Neuraminidase activity was measured using a fluorescent assay. RBC shape was assessed by the second coefficient of dissymmetry of Pearson using a flow cytometry technique at 25 degrees C. Intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and lactate contents were also measured. Neuraminidase activity was significantly higher in septic patients compared with nonseptic patients and healthy volunteers (5.42 [4.85-6.00] vs. 4.53 [4.23-5.23] and 1.26 [0.83-1.83] mU/mL; all p < 0.05). Neuraminidase treatment modified the RBC shape in vitro in a dose-response fashion, and most of these alterations were present after 10 hours of incubation. Incubation of RBCs with phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C modified RBC shape and increased sialic acid concentrations in the supernatant, suggesting a leakage of neuraminidase from the RBC membrane. Alterations in shape were associated with increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (0.46 +/- 0.25 vs. 0.19 +/- 0.05 mumol/mL; p = 0.006) and lactate content (0.81 +/- 0.07 vs. 0.66 +/- 0.05 mmoL/L; p = 0.002). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: In sepsis, desialylation under the influence of increased neuraminidase activity may contribute to the alterations in RBC rheology. Inhibition of neuraminidase may represent a new therapeutic option to ameliorate RBC rheology and perhaps oxygen delivery to the cells.
Bisphosphoglycerate mutase (EC 5.4.2.4.) is an erythrocyte-specific enzyme whose main function is to synthesize 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (glycerate-2,3-P2) an effector of the delivery of O2 in the tissues. In addition to its main synthase activity the enzyme displays phosphatase and mutase activities both involving 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in their reaction. Using a prokaryotic expression system, we have developed a recombinant system producing human bisphosphoglycerate mutase in E coli. The expressed enzyme has been extracted and purified to homogeneity by 2 chromatographic steps. Purity of this enzyme was checked with sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel and Cellogel electrophoresis and structural studies. The bisphosphoglycerate mutase expressed in E coli was found to be very similar to that of human erythrocytes and showed identical trifunctionality, thermostability, immunological and kinetics' properties. However, the absence of a blocking agent on the N-terminus results in a slight difference of the electrophoretic mobility of the enzyme expressed in E coli compared to that of the erythrocyte.
Abstract Anodic polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of extracts of cultures of tobacco tissue Nicotiana tabacum W-38 revealed the presence of two 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenases (6PGD). The slow and the fast anodic migrating zones were designated I and II, respectively. After purification, enzymes from both zones exhibited no major differences in their affinity towards 6-phosphogluconate (6PG) or NADP + , and were found to have approximately the same pH optima and MWs (69 000–72 000). The coumarins scopoletin and esculetin showed some inhibitory effect on each isozyme at 0.4 mM. Below 0.3 mM, however, esculetin stimulated the activity of zone I when lower amounts of 6PG ( S 0.25 ) were used. The glucosylated compounds, scopolin and esculin, were much more inhibitory towards the 6PGDs than their respective aglycones. Ferulic, p -coumaric and caffeic acids seemed to have an inhibitory effect dependent on 6PG concentration. A larger inhibition was observed in each case at the lower 6PG levels used. Zone I activity appeared to be inhibited to a greater degree than zone II activity by 0.4 mM p -coumaric acid with low 6PG. Of the phenolic compounds tested, chlorogenic acid was most effective, completely inhibiting the enzyme activity at 0.4 mM. Of the non-phenolic compounds investigated, glucose 1,6-diphosphate inhibited both isoenzymes of 6PGD at lower 6PG concentrations. On the other hand, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate activated both isoenzymes up to 200% of their original activity.
UNLABELLED ::: One of the basic mechanisms of adapting to hypoxemia is a decrease in the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen. This process occurs mainly due to the increased synthesis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in the erythrocytes, as well as through the Bohr effect. Hemoglobin with decreased affinity for oxygen increases the oxygenation of tissues, because it gives up oxygen more easily during microcirculation. In foetal circulation, however, at a partial oxygen pressure (pO2) of 25 mmHg in the umbilical vein, the oxygen carrier is type F hemoglobin which has a high oxygen affinity. The commonly accepted role for hemoglobin F is limited to facilitating diffusion through the placenta. Is fetal life the only moment when haemoglobin F is useful? THE AIM OF STUDY was to create a mathematical model, which would answer the question at what conditions an increase, rather than a decrease, in haemoglobin oxygen affinity is of benefit to the body. ::: ::: ::: MATERIAL AND METHODS ::: Using the kinetics of dissociation of oxygen from hemoglobin described by the Hill equation as the basis for further discussion, we created a mathematical model describing the pO2 value in the microcirculatory system and its dependence on arterial blood pO2. The calculations were performed for hemoglobin with low oxygen affinity (adult type) and high-affinity hemoglobin (fetal type). The modelling took into account both physiological and pathological ranges of acid-base equilibrium and tissue oxygen extraction parameters. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: It was shown that for the physiological range of acid-base equilibrium and the resting level of tissue oxygen extraction parameters, with an arterial blood pO2 of 26.8 mmHg, the higher-affinity hemoglobin becomes the more effective oxygen carrier. It was also demonstrated that the arterial blood pO2, below which the high-affinity hemoglobin becomes the more effective carrier, is dependent on blood pH and the difference between the arterial and venous oxygen saturation levels. Simulations performed for the pathological states showed that acidosis and increased tissue oxygen demand lead to a broadened arterial blood pO2 range, in which the high-affinity hemoglobin is more efficient. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Contrary to the widely held view that the only response to hypoxemia is a decrease in haemoglobin oxygen affinity, it was shown that under extreme hypoxemic conditions, an increased haemoglobin oxygen affinity improves the oxygenation of tissues. It was also shown that the dominance of hemoglobin with a high oxygen affinity rapidly exceeds hemoglobin with low oxygen affinity in the case of acidosis with its accompanying high tissue oxygen extraction. In cases of extreme disruptions of the acid-base equilibrium, the dominance of high-oxygen-affinity hemoglobin spans over the entire possible range of pO2 in arterial blood.
The fate of adenine in CPD whole blood (17.3 mg/500 ml, or 0.25 mM) was evaluated during 42 days of 4 C storage. In whole blood, 95 per cent of the adenine was removed from the plasma by 42 days while the cellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels remained above 60 per cent of the initial concentration. Packed red blood cells (concentrates) were stored with the same relative quantity of adenine (0.1 mg/ml red blood cells) used in whole blood units by the addition of adenine after packing and were shown to take up adenine in a similar manner. Calculations of the initial adenine distribution indicated higher intracellular adenine concentrations than predicted from distribution equilibrium based on volume considerations. The presence of inorganic phosphate has marginal effects on adenine incorporation but does elevate ATP levels, while contributing to the reduction of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content. The free adenine equilibrium between plasma and red blood cells favors the red blood cells, suggesting adenine binding by red blood cell membranes as shown by initial distribution studies with 14C-adenine and equilibrium dialysis.
1. A major locus with two alleles is responsible for large differences in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels in Rattus norvegicus. Blood from homozygous High-DPG, homozygous Low-DPG and heterozygous animals was used to measure blood indices and red cell enzyme activities. 2. Significant differences between groups were found in DPG levels, white blood cell counts and hemoglobin levels. 3. The results suggest that none of the red cell enzymes assayed is structurally or quantitatively different in the three groups.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the preparation of several forms of carrier-hemoglobin conjugates that are being extensively investigated as blood substitutes. One of forms discussed is dextran-hemoglobin. Dextran, a clinical plasma expander, is a biocompatible polymer of mostly α -1,6-1inked glucose units. Conjugation between this polymer and human hemoglobin can be achieved by different synthetic methods. In this method, the dextran (Dx) is first derivatized with cyanogen bromide and diaminoethane to contain a free amino group, which is acylated with bromoacetyl bromide. Another form is Hydroxyethyl Starch-Hemoglobin. Like dextran, hydroxyethyl starch (Hs) is a useful plasma expander, and therefore a potentially attractive carrier for a blood substitute. To prepare for conjugation to Hb, the Hs is first converted to aminoethyl-Hs. The chapter discusses the right-shifting by periodated inositol tetrakisphosphate. The oxygen dissociation curve of hemoglobin is right-shifted inside human erythrocytes by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and inside avian erythrocytes by inositol phosphates. Before it is employed as a blood substitute, right-shifting of the free hemoglobin to increase its P 50 (half-saturation tension) for oxygen might be advantageous.
Storage of blood can depress erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels and thereby increase oxyhemoglobin affinity and potentially decrease capillary-to-tissue oxygen transport. We measured myocardial function and metabolism in isolated rabbit hearts with fixed coronary flow under basal conditions and during isoproterenol stress at 37 and 30 degrees C, comparing high and low oxyhemoglobin affinity (OHA) erythrocytes. The high OHA state resulted from standard storage conditions, which caused depressed values of DPG and P50 (the oxygen tension at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated). The low OHA erythrocytes were initially stored and then underwent biochemical treatment to restore the DPG and P50 values to normal. The low OHA cells released more oxygen, and myocardial oxygen consumption and contractile function were increased relative to the high OHA cells during both the basal and stress states at both 37 and 30 degrees C. These observations may be relevant for patients with limited coronary flow when such patients receive large transfusions of stored blood.
Background Erythrocytes are transfused to treat or prevent imminent inadequate tissue oxygenation. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration decreases and oxygen affinity of hemoglobin increases (P50 decreases) with blood storage, leading some to propose that erythrocytes stored for 14 or more days do not release sufficient oxygen to make their transfusion efficacious. The authors tested the hypothesis that erythrocytes stored for 3 weeks are as effective in supplying oxygen to human tissues as are erythrocytes stored for less than 5 h. Methods: Nine healthy volunteers donated 2 units of blood more than 3 weeks before they were tested with a standard, computerized neuropsychological test (digit-symbol substitution test [DSST]) on 2 days, 1 week apart, before and after acute isovolemic reduction of their hemoglobin concentration to 7.4 and 5.5 g/dL Volunteers randomly received autologous erythrocytes stored for either less than 5 h ("fresh") or 3 weeks ("stored") to return their hemoglobin concentration to 7.5 g/dl (double blinded). Erythrocytes of the alternate storage duration were transfused on the second experimental day. The DSST was repeated after transfusion. Results: Acute anemia slowed DSST performance equivalently in both groups. Transfusion of stored erythrocytes with decreased P50 reversed the altered DSST (P < 0.001) to a time that did not differ from that at 7.4 g/dl hemoglobin during production of acute anemia (P = 0.88). The erythrocyte transfusion-Induced DSST improvement did not differ between groups (P = 0.96). Conclusion: Erythrocytes stored for 3 weeks are as efficacious as are erythrocytes stored for 3.5 h in reversing the neurocognitive deficit of acute anemia. Requiring fresh rather than stored erythrocytes for augmentation of oxygen delivery does not seem warranted.
The relationships among hemoglobin concentration (Hb), red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and p50 were studied in 20 chronically hypertransfused patients with thalassemia major. In the nontransfused control group, which included normal individuals as well as patients with sickle cell disease or iron deficiency anemia, the Hb correlated inversely with both 2,3-DPG concentration and p50, as is well established. In contrast, however, prior to transfusion, at the nadir of Hb, patients with thalassemia major had inappropriately low 2,3-DPG concentrations and p50s. These findings occurred in all patients, regardless of whether they had received packed, leukocyte-poor, or frozen-thawed red cells. The hypothesis that the time of blood storage was a factor was excluded by repeatedly transfusing one patient with packed red cells administered within 4 hr of collection in CPDA-1. A second hypothesis, that red cell function might be impaired by the iron-overloaded thalassemic environment, was excluded by studying a newly diagnosed, newly transfused patient with aplastic anemia. In both cases, the same inability to appropriately increase 2,3-DPG and p50 as the Hb fell during the intertransfusion interval was noticed. These data suggest that red cells of chronically transfused patients are unable to adapt to the decline in Hb that occurs during the intertransfusion interval.
The model does not account for effects of FI O 2 on pulmonary vascular autoregulation, which is an important physiological compensatory mechanism 18 and may account for the underestimation of Pa O 2 by the model. The effects of metabolic acidosis/alkalosis, temperature and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) on the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve and the effects of abnormal forms of haemoglobin on pulmonary oxygen transfer have also not been modelled. The above factors may account for the relatively wide limits of agreement seen in the study. In spite of these limitations, the model is suf®ciently accurate (r= 0.93, r i =0.91, bias=+1 kPa, SD=1.5 kPa) to justify its use. The dif®culties in measuring high Pa O 2 using standard oxygen electrodes is well known. However, the range of Pa O 2 values in our patients (3.3±27 kPa) was well within the stipulated measuring range for the blood gas machine 
The completed genome sequence of the Wolbachia endosymbiont from the filarial nematode Brugia malayi (wBm; Foster et al. 2005) has generated an unrivalled resource for identification of enzymes and processes that are either lacking in mammals or differ substantially from their mammalian counterparts, warranting their further evaluation as candidate drug targets. We have identified a putative cofactor-independent phosphoglycerate mutase (iPGM) in the catalog of proteins predicted by the wBm genome sequence. Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM) catalyzes the interconversion of 2-and 3-phosphoglycerate (2-PG and 3-PG) in the glycolytic and gluconeogenic pathways that are essential in most organisms. PGM exists in two distinct forms, iPGM and cofactor-dependent phosphoglycerate mutase, dPGM (Fothergill-Gilmore and Watson 1989; Jedrzejas 2000) . The iPGM proteins are~57 kD monomers and promote the intramolecular transfer of the phosphoryl group between the monophosphoglycerates through a phosphoserine intermediate. Conversely, dPGM is~27 kD and is usually active as a dimer or tetramer. It catalyzes the intermolecular transfer of the phosphoryl group between the monophosphoglycerates and the cofactor (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) via a phosphohistidine intermediate. Furthermore, there is no similarity in either the primary sequences or three-dimensional structures of iPGM and dPGM enzymes (Fothergill-Gilmore and Watson 1989; Jedrzejas 2000) . Vertebrates possess only dPGM (Carreras et al. 1982) , which has raised the suggestion that iPGM may represent a potential drug target in pathogenic organisms which contain only that form (Fraser et al. 1999; Galperin and Jedrzejas 2001; Zhang et al. 2004) . Our genomic analysis of wBm, the Wolbachia endosymbiont from B. malayi, indicated that this bacterium encodes only iPGM which we have cloned and expressed in active form.
Background: Erythrocytes are transfused to treat or prevent imminent inadequate tissue oxygenation. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration decreases and oxygen affinity of hemoglobin increases (P50 decreases) with blood storage, leading some to propose that erythrocytes stored for 14 or more days do not release sufficient oxygen to make their transfusion efficacious. The authors tested the hypothesis that erythrocytes stored for 3 weeks are as effective in supplying oxygen to human tissues as are erythrocytes stored for less than 5 h.
In this paper an attempt will be made to analyze the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) on the oxygen affinity of intact human erythrocytes. Furthermore, the DPG-induced changes of oxygen release and Po2 in the tissues will be estimated quantitatively in a theoretical approach. Finally, an experimental procedure is proposed which might be suitable to elucidate experimentally the physiological importance of the DPG mechanism.
Phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PPRibP) synthetase activity was studied in cultured fibroblasts and lymphoblasts from a male child (patient 2-A) in whom inherited purine nucleotide and uric acid overproduction are accompanied by neurological deficits. Chromatographed or partially purified preparations of the child's enzyme showed 5-6-fold increased inhibitory constants (I0.5) for the noncompetitive inhibitors GDP and 6-methylthioinosine monophosphate but normal responsiveness to the competitive inhibitors ADP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Activation of the PPRibP synthetase of patient 2-A by Pi was also abnormal with 3-4-fold reduced apparent KD values for Pi. Superactivity of the PPRibP synthetase of this child thus appeared to result from a combination of regulatory defects; selective resistance to noncompetitive inhibitors and increased responsiveness to Pi activation. Selective growth of the patient's fibroblasts in medium containing 6-methylthioinosine confirmed the functional significance of the in vitro inhibitor resistance of the aberrant enzyme. Fibroblasts and lymphoblasts derived from patient 2-A showed increased concentrations and rates of generation of PPRibP as well as increased rates of the pathways of purine base salvage and purine nucleotide synthesis de novo. The magnitudes of these increases in the child's cells exceeded those in cells with catalytically superactive PPRibP synthetases. These alterations as well as the in vitro kinetic abnormalities in the patient 2-A enzyme were expressed to a reduced degree in fibroblasts from the child's affected mother, supporting the proposal that this woman is a heterozygous carrier for X-linked enzyme superactivity.
The cooperative effect of inositol hexakisphosphate (IHP), bezafibrate (BZF), and clofibric acid (CFA) on the spectroscopic (EPR and absorbance) properties of the nitric oxide derivative of ferrous human hemoglobin (HbNO) has been investigated quantitatively. In the presence of IHP, BZF, and CFA, the X-band EPR spectra and the absorption spectra in the Soret region of HbNO display the same basic characteristics described in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), which have been attributed to a low affinity conformation of the tetramer. Addition to HbNO of two allosteric effectors together (such as IHP and BZF, or IHP and CFA) further stabilizes the low affinity conformation of the ligated hemoprotein (i.e., HbNO). Moreover, in the presence of saturating amounts of IHP, the affinity of BZF and CFA for HbNO increases by about fifteenfold. Likewise, in the presence of both IHP and BZF, as well as in IHP and CFA, the oxygen affinity for ferrous human hemoglobin (Hb) is reduced with respect to that observed in the presence of IHP, BZF, or CFA alone, which in turn is lower than that reported in the absence of any allosteric effector. All the data were obtained at pH 7.0 (in 1.0 x 10(-1) M N-[2-hydroxyethyl]-piperazine-N'-[2-ethanesulfonic acid]/NaOH buffer system plus 1.0 x 10(-1) M NaCl), as well as at 100 K and/or 20 degrees C. The results here reported represent clearcut evidence for the cooperative and specific (i.e., functionally relevant) binding of IHP, BZF, and CFA to Hb.
Normal human erythrocytes were separated according to in vivo age by ultracentrifugation. The "young" and "old" erythrocytes had mean cell ages of approximately 40 and 79 days, respectively. "Young" erythrocytes had a lower oxygen affinity and a higher heme-heme interaction than did "old" erythrocytes. This indicates an impairment of the oxygen-carrying function of erythrocyte hemoglobin with age."Young" and "old" erythrocytes were hemolyzed yielding "young" and "old" hemoglobins. "Young" hemoglobin had a comparably lower oxygen affinity than did "old" hemoglobin when the hemolysates were dialyzed against electrolyte-free water. Exposure to sodium chloride completely obliterated this difference between the oxygen affinities and buffer values of "young" and "old" free hemoglobin. Similar exposure to potassium chloride resulted in partial obliteration of the difference between the oxygen affinities of "young" and "old" hemoglobin. Subsequent removal of sodium chloride by dialysis did not restore the pre-electrolyte differences between the oxygen affinities of "young" and "old" hemoglobin. This evidence indicates that in vivo aging is accompanied by a conformational change of the hemoglobin molecule, which is probably due to an alteration of electrostatic interactions involving the hemoglobin molecule and which is retained after hemolysis and dialysis against water but is obliterated by addition of electrolyte. It is not possible, however, to decide from the available evidence whether this molecular change occurs independently or as a result of influences by other substances, such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which also change during in vivo aging of the erythrocyte.
The alpha-globin of human hemoglobin was expressed in Escherichia coli and was refolded with heme in the presence and in the absence of native beta-chains. The functional and structural properties of the expressed alpha-chains were assessed in the isolated state and after assembly into a functional hemoglobin tetramer. The recombinant and native hemoglobins were essentially identical on the basis of sensitivity to effectors (Cl- and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate), Bohr effect, CO binding kinetics, dimer-tetramer association constants, circular dichroism spectra of the heme region, and nuclear magnetic resonance of the residues in the alpha1beta1 and alpha1beta2 interfaces. However, the nuclear magnetic resonance revealed subtle differences in the heme region of the expressed alpha-chain, and the recombinant human normal adult hemoglobin (HbA) exhibited a slightly decreased cooperativity relative to native HbA. These results indicate that subtle conformational changes in the heme pocket can alter hemoglobin cooperativity in the absence of modifications of quaternary interface contacts or protein dynamics. In addition to incorporation into a HbA tetramer, the alpha-globin refolds and incorporates heme in the absence of the partner beta-chain. Although the CO binding kinetics of recombinant alpha-chains were the same as that of native alpha-chains, the ellipticity of the Soret circular dichroism spectrum was decreased and CO binding kinetics revealed an additional faster component. These results show that recombinant alpha-chain assumes alternating conformations in the absence of beta-chain and indicate that the isolated alpha-chain exhibits a higher degree of conformational flexibility than the alpha-chain incorporated into the hemoglobin tetramer. These findings demonstrate the utility of the expressed alpha-globin as a tool for elucidating the role of this chain in hemoglobin structure-function relationships.
The O2 sensor that triggers hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction may be sensitive not only to alveolar hypoxia but also to hypoxia in mixed venous blood. A specific test of the blood contribution would be to lower mixed venous PO2 (PvO2), which can be accomplished by increasing hemoglobin-O2 affinity. When we exchanged transfused rats with cyanate-treated erythrocytes [PO2 at 50% hemoglobin saturation (P50) = 21 Torr] or with Creteil erythrocytes (P50 = 13.1 Torr), we lowered PvO2 from 39 +/- 5 to 25 +/- 4 and to 14 +/- 4 Torr, respectively, without altering arterial blood gases or hemoglobin concentration. Right ventricular systolic pressure increased from 32 +/- 2 to 36 +/- 3 Torr with cyanate erythrocytes and to 44 +/- 5 Torr with Creteil erythrocytes. Cardiac output was unchanged. Control exchange transfusions with normal rat or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-enriched human erythrocytes had no effect on PvO2 or right ventricular pressure. Alveolar hypoxia plus high O2 affinity blood caused a greater increase in right ventricular systolic pressure than either stimulus alone. We concluded that PvO2 is an important determinant of pulmonary vascular tone in the rat.
As the available hemoglobin A1 at birth ranges from 20 to 30% a possible mechanism to favor oxygen release to the tissues could be a decrease of hemoglobin A1 affinity to oxygen. This may be accomplished by an increase in blood pH soon after birth and by an elevation in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). This hypothesis is supported by Valleri and Hirsch, who described a rapid 2,3-DPG recovery of transfused depleted 2,3-DPG red cells. That being so, we carried out this current study by assaying the 2,3-DPG of cord blood from 22 newborns and at 6, 24 and 72 hours after birth, as well as those enzymes assumed to be envolved in the 2,3-DPG levels regulation. 2,3-DPG (nmoles g-1 Hb) demonstrated the following values: cord blood: 9,770 +/- 1,026; 6h: 12,773 +/- 1,726; 72 h: 11,990 +/- 728, unveiling a distinct behavior of a sharp increase of 30% by the sixth hour. This confirmed our hypothesis. Regarding the metabolic mechanisms which can account for the 2,3-DPG increase, besides the rise of blood pH, we detected a significant decrease of the 2,3-DPG phosphatase activity, which might diminish the 2,3-DPG breakdown.
The influence of somatic growth and genetic selection on the whole blood oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) was measured under standard conditions in double-muscled and dairy calves during their first 3 mo of life. Crossbreed animals were also investigated. Hemoglobin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), Cl, and Pi concentrations were also measured. The percentage of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) was determined. The influence of exogenous Cl, Pi, and pH on the OEC was also assessed. The PO2 at 50% hemoglobin saturation (P50) increased during somatic growth, probably because of the increase in DPG recorded in double-muscled neonates and to the progressive disappearance of HbF in both breeds. The oxygen exchange fraction (OEF%) was used to assess the combined influence of the OEC shift and OEC shape changes on blood oxygen desaturation under standard conditions, when the PO2 decreases within a physiological range. The OEF% showed an increase during the first month, then a stabilization. The effects of Cl, Pi, and pH in Friesian calves were similar as in adult cattle. Double-muscled neonates had a lower P50, OEF% values, and DPG concentrations and higher hemoglobin and Cl concentrations than Friesian neonates. The Pi concentration and the percentage of HbF were similar in both breeds. The pH and the Cl concentration had significantly less effect on the OEC in double-muscled than in Friesian calves. Crossbreed animals exhibited intermediate parameter values, between those recorded for double-muscled and Friesian calves. All differences between breeds progressively disappeared during the first month. These data show that blood function changes markedly in calves during the first month of life and that genetic selection can alter blood function.
Abstract Recent studies of the regulation of ketogenesis are reviewed. Under circumstances of relative or absolute insulin deficiency there is a mobilization of free fatty acids from adipose tissue to the liver. While an increased delivery of fatty acids to this organ is important in providing substrate for ketone body formation, it is emphasized that enhanced uptake of fatty acids by the liver is not sufficient in itself to initiate maximal ketogenesis. It appears likely that a major determinant of the rate of ketogenesis is competition for the fatty acid substrate between the β-oxidative and triglyceride synthesizing pathways. While it is widely held that the rate of triglyceride synthesis is primary and that only those fatty acids not utilized for esterification become available for oxidation, evidence for the reverse sequence is presented. It is considered likely that fatty acids are utilized for triglyceride synthesis only insofar as they escape uptake and oxidation in the mitochondria. Regardless of the mechanism, fatty acid oxidation is increased in the ketotic state with the consequence that acetyl-CoA production is accelerated. Since the utilization of acetyl-CoA for fatty acid synthesis and, to a much lesser extent, its oxidation in the Krebs cycle is impaired, the synthesis of acetoacetate and β-hydroxybutyrate is stimulated to a remarkable degree. The hepatic overproduction of ketones appears to be coupled to a limited capacity for their utilization by peripheral tissues, the combined effect of which accounts for the life-threatening acidosis seen in diabetic coma. From a clinical standpoint, newer studies relating to the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis have been covered, with particular attention paid to the problems of late cerebral edema, paradoxical acidification of the cerebrospinal fluid during treatment, shifts of the oxygen dissociation curve due to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate depletion and initial hypokalemia. Recommendations for therapy designed to minmize complications are presented.
In the causative agent of syphilis, Treponema pallidum, the gene encoding 3-phosphoglycerate mutase, gpm, is part of a six-gene operon (tro operon) that is regulated by the Mn-dependent repressor TroR. Since substrate-level phosphorylation via the Embden-Meyerhof pathway is the principal way to generate ATP in T. pallidum and Gpm is a key enzyme in this pathway, Mn could exert a regulatory effect on central metabolism in this bacterium. To study this, T. pallidum gpm was cloned, Gpm was purified from Escherichia coli, and antiserum against the recombinant protein was raised. Immunoblots indicated that Gpm was expressed in freshly extracted infective T. pallidum. Enzyme assays indicated that Gpm did not require Mn(2+) while 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) was required for maximum activity. Consistent with these observations, Mn did not copurify with Gpm. The purified Gpm was stable for more than 4 h at 25 degrees C, retained only 50% activity after incubation for 20 min at 34 degrees C or 10 min at 37 degrees C, and was completely inactive after 10 min at 42 degrees C. The temperature effect was attenuated when 1 mM DPG was added to the assay mixture. The recombinant Gpm from pSLB2 complemented E. coli strain PL225 (gpm) and restored growth on minimal glucose medium in a temperature-dependent manner. Increasing the temperature of cultures of E. coli PL225 harboring pSLB2 from 34 to 42 degrees C resulted in a 7- to 11-h period in which no growth occurred (compared to wild-type E. coli). These data suggest that biochemical properties of Gpm could be one contributing factor to the heat sensitivity of T. pallidum.
Since one gram of protein in food provides approximately 15 mg of phosphorus, phosphorus deficiency frequently observed in patients with protein-energy malnutrition (PEM). Chronic phosphorus deficiency in humans causes proximal myopathy. Acute hypophosphatemia may precipitate rhabdomyolysis. Plasma low phosphorus concentration suppresses erythrocyte synthesis and stores of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) , which plays an important role in the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen. Symptoms of nervous system dysfunction, such as weakness, apathy, a bedridden state, and intention tremors, are also observed in severe hypophosphatemia. Refeeding syndrome is caused by rapid refeeding in PEM, characterized by hypophosphatemia and has metabolic and clinical complications. This is potentially fatal, yet is preventable. Awareness and identification of at-risk patients is crucial to improving management.
Phagocytosis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by human mononuclear phagocytes is mediated primarily by complement receptors (CRs) but the transmembrane signaling mechanisms that regulate phagocytosis of the bacterium are unknown. We have analyzed the activation of phospholipase D (PLD) during phagocytosis of the virulent Erdman and attenuated H37Ra strains of M. tuberculosis by human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs), radiolabeled with [3H]-lyso-phosphatidylcholine. Phagocytosis of either Erdman or H37Ra M. tuberculosis in the presence of autologous non-immune serum was associated with a 2.5-3-fold increase in phosphatidic acid (PA). Definitive evidence for activation of PLD by M. tuberculosis was provided by markedly increased generation of the PLD-specific product phosphatidylethanol (PEt) (9.9-fold increases in [3H]-PEt for both Erdman and H37Ra strains compared to control, P < 0.001, n = 12), in the presence of 0.5% ethanol. Phagocytosis of opsonized zymosan (OZ), which is also mediated by CRs, was similarly associated with activation of PLD (12.2-fold increase in PEt, P < 0.001, n = 12). The competitive PLD inhibitor 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) produced concentration-dependent inhibition of PLD activity stimulated by either M. tuberculosis (-78 +/- 8%) or OZ (-73 +/- 6%). Inhibition of PLD by 2,3-DPG was associated with concentration-dependent reductions in phagocytosis of M. tuberculosis (-74 +/- 4%) and OZ (-68 +/- 5%). Addition of purified PLD from Streptomyces chromofuscus to 2,3-DPG-treated macrophages restored phagocytosis of M. tuberculosis to control levels. Inhibition of M. tuberculosis- or OZ-stimulated PA generation by ethanol was associated with concentration-dependent reductions in phagocytosis of both particles. Incubation of MDMs with either Erdman or H37Ra M. tuberculosis, or OZ, resulted in rapid (onset 1 min) and sustained (60 min) increases in the tyrosine phosphorylation (Tyr-P) of multiple MDM proteins. Prominent Tyr-P was noted in proteins of 150, 95, 72, 56, and 42 kD. The protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitors genistein and herbimycin A reduced M. tuberculosis-stimulated PLD activity by 66-84%. Inhibition of PLD activity by genistein or herbimycin A was associated with inhibition of phagocytosis of M. tuberculosis and OZ. These data demonstrate that PLD is activated during macrophage phagocytosis of M. tuberculosis or OZ, that PTKs are involved in this stimulation of PLD, and that the extent of phagocytosis of these particles is tightly coupled to activation of PLD.
Until 10 years ago our understanding of the physiologic implications of the blood oxygen dissociation curve for oxygen transport in the organism was fragmentary and fraught with contradictory experimental results and a lack of a more fundamental theoretical approach (10). A displacement of the oxygen dissociation curve to the right was supposed to enhance unloading of oxygen to the tissues and thus to represent an effective adaptational mechanism at high altitude, in the view of Aste-Salazar and Hurtado (1). After 1967 an important role of the organic phosphates, particularly 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), in the adaptation to hypoxia was invoked. More recent work, however, has suggested that this effect may be less important than originally presumed (11,15,21).
We determined normal human blood p50 at various pH values (range 7.0 to 7.6) as a function of the proportion of carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) in total hemoglobin, from 0 to 23%. The d(log p50)/d\[COHb] coefficient is 0.00848, independent of pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The derived equation allows the calculation of p50 as a function of COHb with an approximation of +/- 0.54 mmHg (about 72 Pa), and can be combined with other calculations (Clin Chem 27:1856-1861, 1981; Clin Chem 29:110-114, 1983) to predict p50 under any condition of pH within the range 7.0-7.6, ratio of [2,3-diphosphoglycerate] to [total hemoglobin\] (range 0.3-2.5), pCO2 (range 20-90 mmHg), temperature (range 19-43 degrees C), and COHb (range 0-23%).
Abstract Alterations in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve might affect calculations of arteriovenous oxygen differences and might contribute to maintenance of myocardial oxygenation in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Accordingly, we analyzed oxyhemoglobin dissociation curves by the dynamic scanning technique as well as red cell diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) determinations in peripheral venous and arterial blood samples from 43 patients with acute myocardial infarction. The oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve in these patients was shifted to the right, as reflected by an increase in p 50 values beginning as early as 2 hours and as late as 10 days after the onset of infarction. The magnitude of the p 50 shift did not correlate with initial or prevailing levels of systemic or pulmonary arterial PO 2 , red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP or cardiac index. The p 50 values in venous and simultaneously obtained arterial samples correlated closely. Peak P 50 was related to initial clinical class, size of infarct measured by serial serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) analysis and acute mortality. Results obtained indicate that shifts in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve in. patients with acute infarction may facilitate oxygen availability to marginally perfused myocardium and must be taken into account when arteriovenous oxygen differences are calculated on the basis of PO 2 or hemoglobin oximeter determinations, or both.
Intracellular pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in sickle cell amenia and normal human blood samples were measured by means of phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. To monitor the concentrations of various internal phosphorylated metabolites of intact red blood cells, heparinized blood samples were used and were incubated at 37 degrees C with 5.6% C92, 25% O2, and 69.4% N2. The 31P chemical shifts of phosphorylated compounds, such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine 5′-triphosp-ate, and inorganic phosphate, depend on pH, and by using an appropriate calibration curve, the intracellular pH of intact erythrocytes can be obtained. The intracellular pH values in fresh sickl cell blood and normal blood were found to be 7.14 and 7.29, respectively. However, the whole-blood pH, as measured by a standard pH meter, was found to be 7.54 for both types of blood. The initial concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in sickle cell blood was about 30% higher, but it was depleted much faster during incubation than that in normal blood. The difference in intracellular pH between these two types of blood samples remained constant during incubation, even after depletion of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. These results suggest that there are differences in intracellular environment between normal and sickle cell blood. Thus, 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy provides a fast, direct, continuous, and noninvasive way to monitor the intracellular environment of intact erythrocytes.
Influence of age and breed on the binding of oxygen to red blood cells of bovine calves. J. Appl. Physiol. 82(3): 784-790, 1997.-The influence of somatic growth and genetic selection on the whole blood oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) was measured under standard conditions in double-muscled and dairy calves during their first 3 mo of life. Crossbreed animals were also investigated. Hemoglobin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), Cl, and P i concentrations were also measured. The percentage of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) was determined. The influence of exogenous Cl, P i , and pH on the OEC was also assessed. The PO 2 at 50% hemoglobin saturation (P 50 ) increased during somatic growth, probably because of the increase in DPG recorded in double-muscled neonates and to the progressive disappearance of HbF in both breeds. The oxygen exchange fraction (OEF%) was used to assess the combined influence of the OEC shift and OEC shape changes on blood oxygen desaturation under standard conditions, when the PO 2 decreases within a physiological range. The OEF% showed an increase during the first month, then a stabilization. The effects of Cl, P i , and pH in Friesian calves were similar as in adult cattle. Double-muscled neonates had a lower P 50 , OEF% values, and DPG concentrations and higher hemoglobin and Cl concentrations than Friesian neonates. The P i concentration and the percentage of HbF were similar in both breeds. The pH and the Cl concentration had significantly less effect on the OEC in double-muscled than in Friesian calves. Crossbreed animals exhibited intermediate parameter values, between those recorded for doublemuscled and Friesian calves. All differences between breeds progressively disappeared during the first month. These data show that blood function changes markedly in calves during the first month of life and that genetic selection can alter blood function.
Phagocytosis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by human mononuclear phagocytes is mediated primarily by complement receptors (CRs) but the transmembrane signaling mechanisms that regulate phagocytosis of the bacterium are unknown. We have analyzed the activation of phospholipase D (PLD) during phagocytosis of the virulent Erdman and attenuated H37Ra strains of M. tuberculosis by human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs), radiolabeled with [3H]-lyso-phosphatidylcholine. Phagocytosis of either Erdman or H37Ra M. tuberculosis in the presence of autologous non-immune serum was associated with a 2.5-3-fold increase in phosphatidic acid (PA). Definitive evidence for activation of PLD by M. tuberculosis was provided by markedly increased generation of the PLD-specific product phosphatidylethanol (PEt)(9.9-fold increases in [3HI-PEt for both Erdman and H37Ra strains compared to control, P <0.001, n = 12), in the presence of 0.5% ethanol. Phagocytosis of opsonized zymosan (OZ), which is also mediated by CRs, was similarly associated with activation of PLD (12.2-fold increase in PEt, P <0.001, n = 12). The competitive PLD inhibitor 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) produced concentration-dependent inhibition of PLD activity stimulated by either M. tuberculosis (-78 -+ 8%) or OZ (-73 + 6%). Inhibition of PLD by 2,3-DPG was associated with concentration-dependent reductions in phagocytosis of M. tuberculosis (-74 --+ 4%) and OZ (-68 --+ 5%). Addition of purified PLD from Streptomyces chromofuscus to 2,3-DPG-treated macrophages restored phagocytosis of M. tuberculosis to control levels. Inhibition of M. tuberculosis-or OZstimulated PA generation by ethanol was associated with concentration-dependent reductions in phagocytosis of both particles.
We determined normal human blood p at various pH values (range 7.0 to 7.6) as a function of the proportion of carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) in total hemoglobin, from 01023%. The d(log )/d[COHb] coefficient is 0.00848, independent of pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The derived equation allows the calculation of p as a function of COHb with an approximation of ±0.54 mmHg (about 72 Pa), and can be combined with othercalculations(C/in Chem 27:1856-1861, 1981; C/in Chem 29:110-114, 1983) to predict p under any condition of pH within the range 7.0-7.6, ratio of [2,3-diphosphoglycerate] to [total hemoglobin] (range 0.3-2.5), p (range 20-90
Abstract A relatively simple procedure was devised for the purification of phosphofructokinase from rabbit liver extracts. The enzyme was purified more than 2600-fold with a yield of close to 50%. Liver phosphofructokinase migrates faster on zone electrophoresis than rabbit skeletal muscle phosphofructokinase. It also differs from muscle enzyme in stability, molecular weight, and kinetic properties. The liver enzyme behaves on Sepharose chromatography as a polymer of various states of aggregation with the largest aggregate having a particle weight of many millions. A comparison of the kinetic properties of liver and muscle phosphofructokinase revealed similarities in pH optimum, cation activation, and substrate affinity at pH 8.2. On the other hand, striking differences in kinetic control properties were observed at pH 7.0. The liver enzyme was more inhibited by ATP, less sensitive to the deinhibiting action of AMP, ADP, and cyclic 3',5'-AMP, less inhibited by citrate, phosphoenolpyruvate, phosphocreatine, 2-phosphoglycerate, and 3-phosphoglycerate, and more inhibited by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate than muscle phosphofructokinase. The results suggest that liver phosphofructokinase is less suited for anaerobic energy production than the skeletal muscle enzyme and may not be subject to the same control mechanism in vivo.
To evaluate the impact of collection procedure on the in vitro quality of red blood cells (RBC), we studied 30 units of apheresis-prepared RBC (ARBC) and 30 units of manually collected RBC (MRBC). We performed assays on day 1 and day 21 of the study, evaluating red cell mass volume (RCM); rate of hemolysis; pH, and levels of sodium, potassium, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and glucose. Eight patients with aplastic anemia received RBC transfusions of both components and their post-transfusion hematocrit (HCT) levels were compared. On day 21, we observed a significant drop of sodium and glucose levels in the ARBC group, compared with the MRBC group (P <.05). ARBC group demonstrated higher RCM that provided significantly higher HCT values to our group of anemic patients (P <.05). Hemolysis was significantly lower in the ARBC group, compared with the MRBC group (P <.05). At day 21, both groups had no detectable 2,3-DPG. Specimens from both groups retained ATP in sufficiently healthy amounts. The ARBC group demonstrated higher RCM and lower hemolysis levels compared with the MRBC group.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the microestimation, biosynthesis, and isolation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-PGA). The catalytic effect of 2,3-PGA on phosphoglyceric acid mutase from several sources and the estimation of the extent of the reaction by colorimetric or spectrophotometric methods provide sensitive and highly specific methods to estimate 2,3-PGA. The high activity for the biosynthesis of 2,3-PGA shown by extracts of chicken breast muscle-acetone powders provides the basis for a simple method which permits the isolation of large quantities of 2,3-PGA with little effort. The incubation mixture is brought to 38° and then completed with 170 ml of extract of chicken breast muscle-acetone powder. After 2 hours of incubation at 38°, the pH is adjusted to 1.85 with 2 N H 2 S0 4 , and the mixture is heated to boiling point, cooled in ice water, centrifuged, and filtered through coarse filter paper. The barium salt of the 2,3-PGA is precipitated by the addition of 2 vol. of 95% ethanol and dried over CaCl 2 in a vacuum desiccator.
Abstract An automated colorimetric method for the determination of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is described. The automated method is accurate when compared with Krimsky's 1 manual technique. It is highly reproducible with a sample rate of 20 tests per hour. Concentrations of substrate and enzyme are low, being of the same order as those required for the fluorimetric determination of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Baseline irregularity and drift have been successfully eliminated.
Hb Geelong [β139(H17)Asn → Asp] was detected in a German woman of Polish-Russian descent. It is an unstable variant which appears to increase the severity of a (β+ -thalassemic phenotype in the propositus. The electrophoretic properties of Hb A and Hb Geelong are similar on cellulose acetate in both acidic and alkaline conditions. The electrophoretic mobility and the amino acid analysis of βx T-14 indicated the substitution Asn → Asp at β139. The sequence of βXT-14 was confirmed by dansyl-Edman degradation. The slight increase observed in the P50 of whole blood is not intrinsic to the β139 substitution, but is thought to result from an increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level in response to anemia. No family studies were possible to investigate the mode of inheritance of either β+ -thalassemia or Hb Geelong in the propositus. Synthetic globin chain ratios suggest that impaired synthesis of the variant globin chain is partially responsible for the low level of Hb Geelong in peripheral blood.
Marked hypophosphatemia was discovered in 78 patients in the acute period of severe craniocerebral injury. It led to a decrease of the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) and ATP in the red cells. The reduced ATP level in the red cells was one of the causes of reduced Ca2+ ATPase activity in their membranes. Intravenous infusion of 6.8% potassium dihydrophosphate solution prevented the development of hypophosphatemia and reduction of the content of 2,3 DPG and ATP in the red cells and Ca2+ ATPase activity in their membranes, which facilitated improvement in the course of acute posttraumatic period in patients with severe craniocerebral injury and decrease of mortality.
Bisphosphoglycerate mutase is an erythrocyte-specific enzyme whose main function is to synthesize 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the allosteric effector of hemoglobin. In addition to its main 2,3-diphosphoglycerate synthase activity, the enzyme displays phosphatase and mutase activities both involving 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in their reaction. The three activities have been demonstrated to be catalysed at a unique active site. To study the structure of such an active site we have developed a recombinant system producing mutants of human bisphosphoglycerate mutase in Escherichia coli, by site-directed mutagenesis. For this purpose the human bisphosphoglycerate mutase cDNA that we had previously cloned has been used to construct a procaryotic high level expression vector bearing the "tac" promoter. Human bisphosphoglycerate mutase produced in E. coli, a species which does not normally synthesize this enzyme, represented 8% of the total soluble bacterial protein and displayed the three catalytic activities (synthase, mutase, and phosphatase) characteristic of the enzyme. Since it has been suggested that the carboxyl-terminal region may be implicated in the catalytic activity of the enzyme, three variants deleted in this part of the protein were produced. Our results indicate that a minimal deletion of 7 amino acid residues in the carboxyl-terminal portion of the human bisphosphoglycerate mutase completely abolished the three catalytic activities of the enzyme. In contrast, the effects of the deletion of the last two lysine residues were limited to a 38% reduction in the synthase activity. These results show that the carboxyl-terminal amino acid residues are either directly or indirectly implicated in the three catalytic functions of the human bisphosphoglycerate mutase, and that the two terminal lysine residues are not essential for the major part of the enzymatic mechanism of the enzyme.
A major locus (Dpg) with two alleles (d and D) controls erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels in Long-Evans rats and is closely linked to a locus (Hbb) determining a hemoglobin electrophoretic polymorphism. Glycolytic intermediate levels and phosphofructokinase (PFK) kinetic studies suggest that in vivo PFK activity differences underlie the differences in DPG levels. We report here chromatographic and immunologic evidence that rat erythrocyte PFK is composed of two isozymes which elute from DEAE-Sephadex at positions identical to those of the isozymes in platelets and liver, respectively. The percentage of platelet-type PFK is significantly (P<0.05) smaller in low-DPG (dd) hemolysates than in DD hemolysates regardless of hemoglobin phenotype. When hemolysates were prepared in a stabilizing buffer, PFK specific activity was significantly (P<0.005) higher in DD rats. These data suggest that the PFK kinetic differences may result from alterations in the isozyme composition of active PFK.
1. Orthophosphate (Pi) at low concentrations, is able to activate the glucose 6-phosphate, glucose-1,6-diphosphate or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-inhibited hexokinase (E.C. 2.7.1.1). In contrast, at high concentrations it is competitive inhibitor of MgATP2- with a Ki of 20 mM. 2. The Pi effect on inhibited hexokinase is pH dependent and becomes lower as the pH increase. The similar pH-dependence of the Ki of glucose-1,6-diphosphate with the pH-independence of the Ki of glucose 6-phosphate here reported, suggest the coincidence of the C-1 phosphate, of glucose-1,6-diphosphate and Pi binding sites. 3. Activation of uninhibited hexokinase by Pi at pH lower than the physiological ones has been demonstrated to be an artefact.
The experiments were carried out with washed human erythrocytes in order to study the effects of dibutyryl-cAMP (DB-cAMP) on glycolysis. 5 mM DB-cAMP significantly increases glucose consumption and lactate production in incubated erythrocytes. The cross-over plot of glycolytic intermediates shows that increased glycolysis is probably the result of activation of phosphofructokinase by DB-cAMP. Under the same condition DB-cAMP significantly protects the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level in incubated erythrocytes.
PATIENTS WITH POLYCYTHEMIA may need periodic phlebotomies because high blood viscosity and decreased flow enhance the risk of thrombosis and cerebrovascular accidents. ~4 We report a child with polycythemia resulting from autonomous erythropoietin overproduction, in whom phlebotomy therapy was hampered by absence of accessible peripheral veins; diverse therapeutic attempts to suppress erythropoiesis and increase red blood cell loss were used. CASE REPORT Plethora with otherwise normal physical findings was first noticed in this white girl at 2 months of age. Personal and family history were unremarkable. The only abnormal data in the hemogram were hematocrit 65% and hemoglobin 21.6 gm/dl. Irritability, insomnia, decreased activity, and persistent plethora prompted further medical attention at 9 months of age. Growth and development were normal, and physical examination yielded unremarkable findings except for plethoric appearance and mild splenomegaly. Hematocrit was 68%, and hemoglobin 29.8 gm/dl. The following studies all yielded normal or negative results: the remainder of the hemogram, arterial Po2, hemoglobin electrophoresis, hemoglobin 02 dissociation curve (both stripped and unstripped of organic phosphates), erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content, serum alpha fetoprotein and carcinoembryonic antigen concentrations, renal and liver function tests, intravenous pyelogram, sonograms of the heart, liver, and kidneys, chest radiograph, cardiac catheterization, renal and hepatic arteriograms, and a computed tomogram of the head. A red blood cell mass measurement by the standard ~Cr dilution method was 49 ml/kg (normal <32 ml). Bone marrow examination showed marked erythroid hyperplasia. Serum erythropoietin levels (kindly performed by Dr. J.
Abstract A nine year old boy with previously undiagnosed diabetes mellitus presented with severe ketoacidosis. His hyperglycemia (plasma glucose=786 mg/dl), acidosis (arterial pH=6.86), dehydration and coma responded well to therapy with intravenous fluids, bicarbonate and insulin. Potassium supplementation was given as a phosphate salt. Despite marked clinical and biochemical improvement, 28 hours after therapy was initiated he was found to have profound hypocalcemia (2.6 meq/liter), hypomagnesemia (0.8 meq/liter) and hyperphosphatemia (9.2 mg/dl). All three electrolyte levels had been normal upon admission, and they were gradually corrected with appropriate supplementation of calcium and magnesium and discontinuation of the intravenous phosphate. We interpret these iatrogenic electrolyte abnormalities in the patient described to have been the result of the massive phosphate load administered, resulting not only in hypocalcemia, but also in hypomagnesemia that inhibited parathyroid hormone release. Current recommendations suggest replacement of the potassium losses in diabetic ketoacidosis with the phosphate salt to compensate for depleted stores of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. We caution physicians that such a regimen can result in severe electrolyte disturbances which potentially may be life threatening. Judicious use of potassium phosphate as an adjunct to traditional potassium chloride therapy, and close monitoring of serum calcium, magnesium and phosphorus, appears to be a preferable therapeutic regimen than potassium phosphate alone.
Publisher Summary This chapter presents experiments designed to establish the role of band 3 as the protein responsible for information transfer between the extracellular ouabain binding site of the Na, K-ATPase and the cytoplasmic glycolytic enzymes. The three components [Na, K-ATPase/band 3/G3PDH] are linked together so closely that conformational information can be transferred through this complex from the outside of the cell to the inside. In view of the presence of binding sites for G3PDH and aldolase on band 3, experiments are carried out to determine whether conformational information could be transferred between band 3 and the glycolytic enzymes, using the 31 p resonance shift of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) to report on the conformation of MPGM for which 2,3-DPG is an obligatory substrate. The inhibitor, 4, 4’-diisothiocyano-2, 2’-stilbenedisulfonic acid (DIDS) is a specific inhibitor of anion transport in band 3. Treatment of red cells with DIDS affects the resonance of 2, 3-DPG as does treatment with the cardiac glycoside cation transport inhibitor, ouabain, which is specific to the Na, K–ATPase. The DIDS experiments show that band 3 is coupled to the glycolytic enzyme system.
My awareness of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) started over 20 years ago when I occupied a bench in a laboratory shared by my teacher Ochoa with Greenwald, who had some 20 years earlier discovered DPG in the red cell (1). Nevertheless, my interest in DPG came about in a round about way. In the late 40’s was demonstrated for the first time the use of ATP, at the enzyme level, for synthetic reactions, i.e., urea and glutamine synthesis (2). At the suggestion of Ochoa, Ratner and then I started to use 3 PGA in a generating system for ATP; a technique which, by the way, became so popular that possibly it has been forgotten, if ever recognized, that it originated with Ochoa. The need of a glycolytic system free from interfering phosphatases led me to purify phosphoglyceromutase, which up to then had been studied only in crude preparations. Possibly a misfortune was the fact that Rodwell, then one of my students was lucky in crystallizing the enzyme for the first time; since that time I have been most reluctant to lose interest in the phosphoglycerate area. Of course today with the advances in enzymology, it is only a matter of patience to achieve enzyme crystallization as pointed out recently by Theorell (3).
Abstract ::: We encountered an abnormal hemoglobin (Rahere), with a threonine residue replacing the beta 82 (EF6) lysine residue at the binding site of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which was responsible for overt erythrocytosis in two individuals of a Japanese family. Hemoglobin Rahere shows a lower oxygen affinity on the binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or chloride ions than hemoglobin A. Although a decrease in the positive charge density at the binding sites of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in hemoglobin Rahere apparently shifts the allosteric equilibrium toward the low affinity state, it greatly diminishes the cofactor effects by anions. The oxygen affinity of the patient's erythrocytes is substantially lowered by the presence of bezafibrate, which combines with sites different from those of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in either hemoglobin Rahere or hemoglobin A.
Abstract To investigate the characteristic features of diabetic neuropathy in type 2 diabetes mellitus, Otsuka Long–Evans Tokushima fatty (OLETF) rats, an animal model of human type 2 diabetes mellitus, and non-diabetic Long–Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats were fed with or without sucrose and/or an aldose reductase inhibitor, [5-(3-thienyl) tetrazol-1-yl] acetic acid (TAT), for 24 weeks, and physiological, biochemical and morphological assessments were performed. Sucrose administration caused remarkable hyperglycemia in OLETF rats but not in LETO rats. Sucrose-fed OLETF rats demonstrated delayed nerve conduction velocity, decreased coefficient of variation of R-R interval, reduced sciatic nerve blood flow, increased platelet aggregation activity, a lower concentration of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and decreased Na + /K + -ATPase activity in sciatic nerves, compared with the non-sucrose-fed OLETF and LETO rats. TAT prevented all these deficits except hyperglycemia. Sorbitol and fructose accumulation and myo -inositol depletion in tail nerves of sucrose-fed OLETF rats were ameliorated by TAT. Myelinated fiber size and density in sural nerves of sucrose-fed OLETF rats were decreased and increased, respectively, compared with non-sucrose-fed OLETF and LETO rats. These morphological abnormalities were normalized by TAT. These observations suggest that the sucrose-fed OLETF rat developed diabetic neuropathy not only electrophysiologically but also histologically, and that an aldose reductase inhibitor, TAT, possesses therapeutic value for the treatment of diabetic neuropathy.
A mathematical model is described giving the oxygen saturation fraction (s) as a function of the oxygen partial pressure (p): y - y0 = x - x0 + h X tanh [k X (x - x0)], where y = kn[s/(1-s)] and x = ln(p/kPa). The parameters are: y0 = 1.875; x0 = 1.946 + a + b; h = 3.5 + a; k = 0.5343; b = 0.055 X [T/(K - 310.15)]; a = 1.04 X (7.4 - pH) + 0.005 X Cbase/(mmol/L) + 0.07 X [[CDPG/(mmol/L)] - 5], where Cbase is the base excess of the blood and CDPG is the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the erythrocytes. The Hill slope, n = dy/dx, is given by n = 1 + h X k X [1 - tanh2[k X (x - x0)]]. n attains a maximum of 2.87 for x = x0, and n----1 for x----+/- infinity. The model gives a very good fit to the Severinghaus standard oxygen dissociation curve and the parameters may easily be fitted to other oxygen dissociation curves as well. Applications of the model are described including the solution of the inverse function (p as a function of s) by a Newton-Raphson iteration method. The po2-temperature coefficient is given by dlnp/dT = [A X alpha X p + CHb X n X S X (1 - s) X B]/[alpha X p + CHB X n X s X (1 - s)], where A = -dln alpha/dT approximately equal to 0.012 K-1; B = (lnp/T)s = 0.073 K-1 for y = y0; alpha = the solubility coefficient of O2 in blood = 0.0105 mmol X L-1 X kPa-1 at 37 degrees C; CHb = concentration of hemoglobin iron in the blood. Approximate equations currently in use do not take the variations of the po2-temperature coefficient with p50 and CHb into account.
Binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to both deoxyhemoglobin (Hb) and oxyhemoglobin (HbO2) is accompanied by an uptake of protons. A study of this proton uptake as a function of n, the mole to mole ratio of DPG and hemoglobin, yielded adsorption isotherms which could be described with one single association constant. It appeared that at pH 6.8 the proton uptake per molecule of DPG bound is larger for HbO2 than for Hb. The data showed that the binding of DPG to HbO2 is functionally significant.
Because of the strong inhibition of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase by physiologic concentrations of NADPH and ATP, only 0.1%-0.2% of its potential activity (Vmax) is estimated to be expressed in human red cells that contain low concentrations of NADP and glucose 6-phosphate. 6-Phosphogluconate dehydrogenase is also strongly inhibited by NADPH, ATP, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate under the physiologic conditions, and only about 0.2% of its potential activity is estimated to be expressed in red cells. The very low shunt pathway activity can be explained by these findings. Some human glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase variants that are associated with severe enzyme deficiency, such as Gd Union, Gd Markham, and Gd Mediterranean, have no chronic hemolytic problem. On the other hand, several variants with less severe enzyme deficiency, such as Gd Manchester, Gd Alhambra, and Gd Tripler, are associated with chronic hemolytic anemia. Examination of the enzymes from these variant subjects under simulated physiologic conditions revealed that: (1) Enzymes from the hemolytic variant subjects are strongly inhibited by a physiologic concentration of NADPH due to their high Km for NADP or low Ki for NADPH. Thus, these variant enzymes presumably cannot generate NADPH in red cells to maintain an adequate level of reduced glutathione. (2) The nonhemolytic variant enzymes are far less sensitive to the inhibition by NADPH, because of their low Km for NADP and high Ki for NADPH. These variants are also more resistant to the inhibition by ATP. The activities of these variant enzymes in red cells are estimated to be more than 30% of the normal level. In black people, the common variant A—, associated with enzyme deficiency, is less sensitive to the inhibition by NADPH, and it is probably as active as normal in red cells, under physiologic conditions.
PRPP is a substrate in the synthesis of virtually all nucleotides1 and is also an important regulator of the de novo pathways of purine2 and pyrimidine3 nucleotide synthesis. Formation of PRPP is catalyzed in eukaryotes by a family of PRPP synthetase (PRS; EC2.7.6.1) isoforms.4–6 The substrates in the reaction are MgATP and Rib-5-P, and Mg2+ and P1 are essential activators. Inhibitors of PRS activity include: purine, pyrimidine, and pyridine nucleotides; reaction products; and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.4,5,7 Human erythrocyte PRS is composed of a polypeptide subunit of 34.5 kD which undergoes concentration-dependent and effector-mediated reversible aggregation in vitro to active forms of 16 and 32 subunits.4,8 The primary structure and kinetic and physical properties of purified human erythrocyte PRS are those of the purified recombinant PRS 1 isoform.
Haemoglobin Aalborg (Gly74 (E18)beta----Arg) has a reduced oxygen affinity, in both the absence and the presence of organic phosphates; it has a raised affinity for organic phosphates, and it is moderately unstable. By contrast, haemoglobin Shepherds Bush (Gly74 (E18)beta----Asp) has an increased oxygen affinity in both the absence and the presence of organic phosphates, a diminished affinity for organic phosphates and is also unstable. We have determined the crystal structure of deoxyhaemoglobin Aalborg at 2.8 A resolution and compared it to the structures of deoxy- and oxyhaemoglobin A and of deoxyhaemoglobin Shepherds Bush. The guanidinium group of Arg74(E18)beta protrudes from the haem pocket and donates hydrogen bonds to the E and F helices. The carboxylate group of Asp74(E18)beta forms a hydrogen bond only with residue EF6 and is partially buried, which may be why haemoglobin Shepherds Bush appears to be more unstable than haemoglobin Aalborg. To discover why the latter has a low oxygen affinity, we superimposed the B, G and H helices of haemoglobin A, whose conformation is known to be unaffected by ligand binding, on those of haemoglobin Aalborg. This also brought helices E and the haems into superposition, but revealed a shift of the F helix of deoxyhaemoglobin Aalborg towards the EF-corner. This shift is opposite to that which occurs on ligand binding and on transition to the quaternary oxy-structure, and is linked to an increased tilt of the proximal histidine residue away from the haem axis. Since the relative positions of helices E and F and of the haem group are thought to be the main determinants of the changes in oxygen affinity, the shift of helix F may account for the reduced oxygen affinity of haemoglobin Aalborg. The shift may be due to a combination of steric and electrostatic effects introduced by the arginine residue's side-chain. The effects of the arginine and aspartate substitutions at position E18 beta on the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate affinity are equal and opposite. They can be quantitatively accounted for by the electrostatic attraction or repulsion by the oppositely charged side-chains.
In the present communication, effect of low doses of phosphate supplementation on short-term high altitude adaptation has been examined. Studies were carried out in 36 healthy, male, sea-level residents divided in a double blind fashion into drug and placebo treated groups. 3.2 mmol of phosphate were given orally to each subject of the drug treated group once a day for 4 days on arrival at an altitude of 3,500 m. Sequential studies were done in the subjects in both groups on the 3rd, 7th, 14th and 21st day of their altitude stay. Haemoglobin, haematocrit, erythrocyte and reticulocyte counts increased to the similar extent in both groups. Blood pH, pO2 and adenosine tri-phosphate (ATP) did not differ between the two groups. On 3rd day of the altitude stay, inorganic phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) levels in the drug treated group increased significantly as compared to the placebo group. No significant difference in inorganic phosphate and 2,3 DPG was observed later on in the two groups. Psychological and clinical tests also indicated that the drug treated subjects felt better as compared to the placebo treated subjects. The present study suggests that low doses of phosphate increases circulating 2,3-DPG concentration which in turn brings about beneficial effect towards short term high altitude adaptation.
Orthophosphate and phosphate derivatives including pyrophosphate, hexametaphosphate, ATP, ADP, and inositol hexaphosphate enhance the extent of DNA degradation by iron(II) bleomycin. These phosphate-containing compounds increase both the release of free nucleic base and that of base propenals which are DNA cleavage products, probably by enhancing the efficiency with which Fe(II) is recruited into the drug. Phosphate action occurs during drug activation prior to the attack on DNA. In addition, phosphates affect the stability of the activated drug complex, overcome the inhibition observed with high concentrations of DNA, and reduce the size of the DNA fragment necessary for reacting with the drug. Phosphate derivatives bind to iron(II) bleomycin and alter its optical spectrum. An analysis of titration data for pyrophosphate and inositol hexaphosphate indicates that each phosphate compound binds to more than one iron(II) bleomycin molecule. With ATP, ADP, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, only a single phosphate-containing compound binds to the ferrous drug complex. The affinity for ATP is sufficiently high as to suggest that the ternary complex formed in vitro may exist physiologically.
Experimental infection of hamsters with Leishmania donovani caused visceral leishmaniasis in which hematological changes occurred. The infected hamsters were anemic and reticulocyte counts were high. No significant change in the serum erythropoietin level was noted. Red cell membrane Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase and acetylcholinesterase activities increased. Osmotic fragility of the erythrocytes from infected animals increased. The level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate of the red cells increased with the degree of anemia.
The effect of exposure to simulated high altitude (4,500 m) on the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the red cell and the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin (P50) (measured at PCO2=40 mm Hg and corrected to plasma pH=7.40) was studied. It was found that a moderate physical activity is a condition for the previously reported decrease in the oxygen affinity during acclimatization to high altitude, and that this decrease is exclusively due to an increase in the concentration of 2,3-DPG in the red cell. A rapid and pronounced decrease in the extracellular concentration of inorganic phosphate was found in resting as well as exercising individuals.
To evaluate the impact of collection procedure on the in vitro quality of red blood cells (RBC), we studied 30 units of apheresis-prepared RBC (ARBC) and 30 units of manually collected RBC (MRBC). We performed assays on day 1 and day 21 of the study, evaluating red cell mass volume (RCM); rate of hemolysis; pH, and levels of sodium, potassium, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and glucose. Eight patients with aplastic anemia received RBC transfusions of both components and their post-transfusion hematocrit (HCT) levels were compared. On day 21, we observed a significant drop of sodium and glucose levels in the ARBC group, compared with the MRBC group (P <.05). ARBC group demonstrated higher RCM that provided significantly higher HCT values to our group of anemic patients (P <.05). Hemolysis was significantly lower in the ARBC group, compared with the MRBC group (P <.05). At day 21, both groups had no detectable 2,3-DPG. Specimens from both groups retained ATP in sufficiently healthy amounts. The ARBC group demonstrated higher RCM and lower hemolysis levels compared with the MRBC group.
We encountered an abnormal hemoglobin (Rahere), with a threonine residue replacing the ,682 (EF6) lysine residue at the binding site of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which was responsible for overt erythrocytosis in two individuals of a Japanese family. Hemoglobin Rahere shows a lower oxygen affinity on the binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or chloride ions than hemoglobin A. Although a decrease in the positive charge density at the binding sites of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in hemoglobin Rahere apparently shifts the allosteric equilibrium toward the low affinity state, it greatly diminishes the cofactor effects by anions. The oxygen affinity of the patient's erythrocytes is substantially lowered by the presence of bezafibrate, which combines with sites different from those of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in either hemoglobin Rahere or hemoglobin A.
Since the discovery of the role of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG)' in regulating oxygen transport (1, 2) led to the identification of the binding sites ofanionic cofactors in the hemoglobin molecule (3, 4) , an understanding of linkage between oxygen binding and cofactor binding has been sought through studies on hemoglobin variants with alterations at the 2,3-DPG binding site (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) . Recently Perutz and Poyart (10) reported that low molecular weight compounds, such as 2-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-methylpropionic acid (clofibric acid) and 2-[4-(2-p-chlorobenzamidethyl)-phenoxy]-2-methylpropionic acid (bezafibrate), have the remarkable ability to modify hemoglobin function in erythrocytes, a finding that opened the way to studies ofthe molecular control of hemoglobin function and its clinical application. The present paper describes the identification, in patients with erythrocytosis, of hemoglobin Rahere, in which a threonine residue substitutes for the 1382 lysine residue at the binding site of 2,3-DPG (5).
ABSTRACT. We investigated the relative contributions of genetic, individual environmental, and shared environmental effects on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) regulation in preadolescent children. In a population of 165 early pubescent boy and girl twin pairs (11.4 y old), of whom 63 were passive smokers, we asked: 1 ) Are there differences in the control of DPG levels between early pubertal boys and girls? 2) If present, are these differences influenced by exposure to passive cigarette smoke? Non-passive-smoking boys and girls had similar DPG levels. With exposure to passive smoke, DPG levels increased in boys ( p = 0.02) but not in girls. Analysis of variance on DPG demonstrated a parental smoking effect ( p = 0.008) and suggested an interactive effect between parental smoking and sex of the child (p = 0.08). Univariate genetic analyses suggested that genes operated at different magnitudes in boys (9%) and girls (39%) in explaining a significant portion of the variance in DPG. The magnitude of shared environmental influences was greater in boys (62%) than in girls (34%), whereas individual environmental effects were similar in boys (29%) and girls (26%). Early pubertal boys differ from girls in their regulation of DPG. Environmental stressors such as passive cigarette smoke may elicit different responses in males and females, even at an early age. The use of path analysis may provide important insights into the mechanisms and interactions of genetic and environmental effects that underly the childhood antecedents of atherosclerotic heart disease. (Pediatr Res 33: [645][646][647][648] 1993) Abbreviations DPG, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate Systemic oxygen transport is accomplished using many integrated, self-regulated organ systems. Essential components of this system include pulmonary gas exchange, blood flow, Hb concentration, and Hb affinity for oxygen (1). Organic phosphates within the red cell decrease the oxygen affinity of Hb. The most important quantitatively is DPG. The mechanism of the DPG effect on oxygen affinity involves binding of DPG to the two beta chains in the central cavity of deoxy Hb, forcing a conformational shift that drives oxygen off. Oxyhemoglobin (as well as carboxyhemoglobin) binds DPG poorly because of a stereochemically smaller central cavity created by changes in the quarternary structure of Hb with oxygenation (2). An increase in red-cell DPG compensates for an impairment in oxygen supply to tissue and is proportional to the increase in deoxyhemoglobin concentration.
As early as in 19 39 Guest and Rapoport reported a striking decrease of the red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration in patients suffering from severe diabetic ketoacidosis (1). This observation has been amply confirmed in more recent years (2,3,4,5), when interest was resurrected to investigate the regulation of red cell 2,3-DPG after Benesch and Benesch (6) and Chanutin and Curnish (7) had shown the effect of 2,3-DPG on the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. 2,3-DPG is formed as an intermediary product of red cell glycolysis; increase in hydrogen-ion concentration decreases red cell glycolysis mainly through inhibition of the phosphofructokinase step (8) and it has been widely accepted that the remarkable low erythrocyte 2,3-DPG levels in diabetic ketoacidosis — as little as 2o per cent of the normal concentration is observed — are due to this mechanism and an additional inhibition of di-phosphoglycerate mutase at lower pH (9).
Abstract Additional biochemical studies have been carried out to investigate the effects of the presence of an unstable hemoglobin (Hb Sabine) on metabolism of erythrocytes. In vitro incubation under physiological conditions of these erythrocytes for periods of 5–15 hours has been utilized to evaluate effects of various additives on metabolism of the cells. The addition of adenine to the blood stimulates adenine nucleotide biosynthesis and is effective in maintaining levels of adenine nucleotides. An excessive rate of breakdown of adenine nucleotides to hypoxanthine has been shown previously to be a major factor in the inability of these cells to maintain ATP. The addition of azide during in vitro incubation proved detrimental to the metabolism of these abnormal erythrocytes. This finding indicates that the immature erythrocytes of the blood are relying on oxidative phosphorylation to meet a portion of their energy needs. Neither pyruvate nor sucrose provided significant beneficial effects on the metabolism of the cells. Methylene blue stimulated the formation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, but proved harmful to the maintenance of adenine nucleotides. Effects of precipitation of denatured globin from hemoglobin Sabine on reduced glutathione and on the sulfhydryl enzyme, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, were also studied following in vitro incubation. The precipitating beta polypeptide chains apparently do form disulfide bridges with reduced glutathione. However, no disulfide bridge formation with glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was noted during a 15-hour in vitro incubation.
Abstract A simple procedure for purification of phosphofructokinase from rabbit erythrocytes was developed. The purified enzyme yields a single band on acrylamide gel electrophoresis. A schlieren pattern obtained from ultracentrifugation of the enzyme shows an asymmetrical peak and the major component has a sedimentation coefficient of 80 S. The results of sucrose density gradient centrifugation of fresh hemolysate show that the erythrocyte phosphofructokinase has a molecular weight of about 500,000. The molecular weight of dissociated enzyme in guanidine was determined to be approximately 53,000. Amino acid composition and a tryptic peptide map of erythrocyte phosphofructokinase are considerably different from those of skeletal muscle phosphofructokinase. Immunological reactivity of erythrocyte phosphofructokinase with antibody against muscle enzyme is less than that of muscle phosphofructokinase. Kinetic studies reveal that erythrocyte phosphofructokinase is inhibited by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and that this inhibition is released by inorganic phosphate but not by AMP or ADP. Possible physiological significance of these observations is discussed.
Animal experiments were set up mainly to derive additional diagnostic data from the study of biochemical changes after acute head injury. In standardized experiments guinea pigs were subjected in groups of 20 to three identical head injuries, each of either 1.0 J or 1.5 J intensity. The trauma was likely to result in a concussion or contusion syndrome similar to that found in man; 40 animals served as controls. During the 60 min after injury observation and measurement of body functions did not reveal signs of a shock-like condition or hypoxaemia in the traumatized animals compared with control animals. Superficial anaesthesia probably did not influence the findings. Temperature and respiration were altered significantly in all the animals receiving head injuries. Blood gas analysis showed a decrease of standard bicarbonate only after the 1.5 J injury but even though hypoxaemia was not present 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values and P50 increased, compared with the control animals. The fall of plasma lipid concentrations reported probably had to be seen as a sympathomimetic effect of the minor (1.0 J) trauma. Of special significance was the increased activity of malate dehydrogenase and aldolase, found only in the blood of severely traumatized animals, as this could serve as an early diagnostic aid for evaluating head injuries.
The aim of this study was to establish an isotachophoretic (ITP) method for the determination of the main compounds of glycolysis in human erythrocytes in order to analyze the influence of different glucose concentrations (mimicking the situation in diabetes mellitus) on this pathway. Samples for ITP were prepared by isolation of erythrocytes, lysis of the cells by heating in double-distilled water and subsequent ultrafiltration (Mr cut-off: 5000). All the main compounds of glycolysis were characterized by ITP. The influence of different glucose concentrations on the main compounds of the energy metabolism (ATP, ADP, lactate, pyruvate) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were analyzed in short- and long-time incubations.
Autotransfusion of mediastinal shed blood after open heart surgery has become a common and accepted procedure in reducing the need for homologous transfusion during the last 15 years. The objectives of the present study were to investigate the oxygen delivery capacity of autotransfused shed mediastinal blood, compared to patient-blood, during cardiopulmonary bypass and in the postoperative period. ::: ::: ::: ::: Ten consecutive patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery were studied. Mediastinal shed blood was collected in the cardiotomy reservoir and retransfused during the first 18 postoperative hours. The oxygen delivery capacity of the blood to the tissues was calculated by use of the oxygen status algorithm (OSA 2.0) programme and measurement of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration. ::: ::: ::: ::: Autotransfusion volume ranged from 450–1530 ml per patient (median 824 ml). Shed blood had a mean haemoglobin level of 8.8 g/dl and 7.4 g/dl at 1 h and 6 h of autotransfusion, respectively. There were no significant changes of 2,3-DPG concentration in the patient-blood during cardiopulmonary bypass or after autotransfusion compared to preoperative values. P50 for oxygen (3.6 and 3.6 kPa) and 2,3-DPG concentrations (5.3 and 5.1 mikromol/ml erythrocyte) in shed mediastinal blood (1h and 6h postoperatively) were not significantly different compared to patient-blood. ::: ::: ::: ::: The results demonstrate that the oxygen delivery capacity of shed mediastinal blood is maintained and that the oxygen affinity of patient-blood is not influenced by autotransfusion.
The Haldane M-value is the ratio of half-saturation pressures for O2 and CO (PO2/PCO) and is a key value of physiological and pathological models exploring CO metabolism or exposure to CO. Nevertheless, the M-values obtained from different studies and different species appear to be inconsistent. A better estimation of M-values and a consideration of interspecies variation will ensure the accuracy of CO study results and allow reliable models to be constructed. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis in order to determine and compare M-values according to species and experimental conditions. We used electronic libraries (PubMed/Embase/JSTORE) from 1895 to January 2016. For each article, we collected the following parameters: species, age, temperature, pH, atmospheric pressure, concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) or methemoglobin, and type of hemoglobin. The systematic review found 25 articles addressing the M constant, including 135 with individual data and 51 with mean values concerning mammals, laboratory animals, fish, fetal hemoglobin and invertebrates. M-values at a physiological temperature and pH were assessed only for adult (137 [119–153]) and fetal (135 [112–168]) sheep, dogs (215 [193–218]), mice (194 [118–278]) and rats (191 [177–200]). A correlation between M-values and temperature was confirmed for sheep and horses. A correlation between M-values and pH could not be inferred because there was a lack of data. M-values varied according to species. Only the influence of temperature was confirmed. A formal measurement of the M constant in the given experimental conditions should be performed for each animal model study of CO. Further homogeneous studies are necessary to compare the M-values of different animals.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses various methods concerned with the studies of new potent allosteric effectors in erythrocyte suspensions and describes examples of solution studies in the presence of these effectors, using equilibrium and kinetic methods to investigate new aspects of the allosteric equilibrium. X-Ray analyses of the hemoglobin(Hb)-compound complexes have revealed that all these compounds bind at the interface of α and β subunits deep in the water-filled central cavity at a distance from the hemes and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate(DPG)-binding site. The availability of allosteric effectors that could be used in erythrocyte suspensions would be advantageous in studying dilute Hb solutions for the following reasons: (1) inside the erythrocytes the high concentration of Hb reduces the presence of dimers to negligible amounts and (2) the presence of the cellular enzymatic reducing system continuously keeps the formation of methemoglobin to insignificant levels.
The 31P T1 spin-lattice relaxation times and nuclear Overhauser effects of 3-P and 2-P in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) have been measured in pure water solutions and in suspensions of intact erythrocytes. It was found that extremely careful purification of the water solutions from paramagnetic impurities was necessary in order to obtain reproducible results. The dominant relaxation mechanism in purified samples was shown to be the dipole-dipole interaction. Contributions from the chemical-shift anisotropy mechanism were demonstrated to be important at higher magnetic field strengths. Based upon the measurements in water solutions and intact erythrocyte suspensions it was concluded that there could be observed no significant influence of the oxygenation state of hemoglobin on the 31P T1 values of 2,3-DPG.
Intraperitoneal administration of meta-nitrobenzoic, 3,5-dinitrobenzoic, 2,4,6-trinitrobenzoic and 3,5-dinitro-4-methylbenzoic acids to the white mice in a dose equal to LD50 has induced an increase in the methaemoglobin content in their blood. Total activity of dehydrogenases of pentosephosphate pathway, content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate increase in response to the intoxication evoked by the mentioned acids. The acute intoxication does not practically change the activity of the key enzymes of antioxidant protection: superoxide-dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase.
Abstract The oxygen affinity of mouse hemoglobin is greatly lowered by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). The higher the pH, the smaller the size of the effect. The pH dependence of this shift in log p50 resembles a titration curve with an apparent pK of 7.76. This value is close to that reported for the α-NH2 groups of deoxyhemoglobin. The addition of 1 to 2 moles of 2,3-DPG per mole of hemoglobin decreases the value of n in Hill's equation. Further addition causes n to return to normal values. However, estimation of the overall free energy of interaction shows that 2,3-DPG does not affect interaction. The changes in n are therefore believed either to reflect the presence of mixtures of hemoglobins combined to varying extents with 2,3-DPG or the fact that the free 2,3-DPG concentration is continuously increasing during oxygenation. The Bohr effects at 20°, between pH 7.0 and 7.5, of hemoglobins from mouse, man, and elephant are approximately -0.52, -0.48, and -0.30, respectively; these values become -0.9, -0.7, and -0.44, respectively, in the presence of 1 mole of 2,3-DPG per mole of hemoglobin. Carbon dioxide abolishes the effect of 2,3-DPG on the oxygen equilibrium of mouse hemoglobin at pCO2 = 60 mm Hg, pH 7.3, and 20°. The higher the pCO2 the lower is the pH at which CO2 abolishes the 2,3-DPG effect. Mouse hemoglobin digested with carboxypeptidase A is devoid of a 2,3-DPG effect. In contrast, the oxygen equilibrium of hemoglobin digested with carboxypeptidase B shows a 2,3-DPG effect. We conclude that 2,3-DPG binds at the same sites as does CO2, namely at the NH2-termini of the α and β chains, but that interaction of 2,3-DPG with the β chain is functionally the most important. Mechanisms are proposed to explain both the effects of CO2 and of 2,3-DPG. The CO2, bound as carbamate (-NHCOO-), and the 2,3-DPG anion are both believed to reduce the oxygen affinity because the introduction of the negative charge interferes with the conformation change associated with oxygenation. We conclude that hemoglobins from different mammals are not physiologically equivalent and do not by themselves provide support for the theory of selectively neutral mutations. Instead, the properties of the oxygen equilibria of mammalian hemoglobins appear to reflect an adaptation of the metabolic needs of the animal.
Abstract Babesia microti , a protozoan parasite of mammalian erythrocytes was obtained from the blood of an infected human and maintained in golden hamsters, in which a parasitemia of 70% was obtained regularly. The hamsters' response—a subacute, hemolytic anemia—was studied with regard to oxygen affinity and red cell organic phosphate content. In addition, the reduced glutathione status of infected erythrocytes was observed because of the possible importance of this metabolite to parasite growth and red cell integrity. Infected animals developed a severe anemia with reticulocytosis; there occurred a 4-mm decrease in whole blood oxygen affinity without any change in erythrocytes' 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels. The glutathione content of the infected animals' erythrocytes increased twofold during the course of the infection. In uninfected animals, in which anemia and reticulocytosis had been produced by bleeding, all changes seen in infected animals were reproduced. It was concluded that the changes in the infected animals were due to the anemia and reticulocytosis alone, and that the parasite played no role in these changes apart from being a cause of anemia and reticulocytosis.
We have studied the erythrocyte enzyme phosphofructokinase (PFK) from two strains of Long-Evans rats with genetically determined differences in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels. The DPG difference is due to two alleles at one locus. With one probable exception, the genotype at this locus is always associated with the hemoglobin (Hb) electrophoretic phenotype, due to a polymorphism at the III beta-globin locus. The enzyme PFK has been implicated in the DPG difference because glycolytic intermediate levels suggest that this enzyme has a higher in vivo activity in High-DPG strain rats, although the total PFK activity does not differ. We report here that partially purified erythrocyte PFK from Low-DPG strain cells is inhibited significantly more at physiological levels of DPG (P less than 0.01) than PFK from High-DPG strain erythrocytes. Citrate and adenosine triphosphate also inhibit the Low-DPG enzyme more than the High-DPG enzyme. Therefore, a structurally different PFK, with a greater sensitivity to inhibitors, may explain the lower DPG and ATP levels observed in Low-DPG strain animals. These data support a two-locus (Hb and PFK) hypothesis and provide a gene marker to study the underlying genetic and physiologic relationships of these loci.
Background ::: ::: Over the past decade there has been a growth in the development of pathogen reduction technologies to protect the blood supply from emerging pathogens. This development has proven to be difficult for red blood cells (RBCs). However the S-303 system has been shown to effectively inactivate a broad spectrum of pathogens, while maintaining RBC quality. ::: ::: ::: ::: Study Design and Methods ::: ::: A paired three-arm study was performed to compare the in vitro quality of S-303–treated RBCs with RBCs stored at room temperature (RT) for the duration of the treatment (18-20 hr) and control RBCs stored at 2 to 6°C. Products were sampled weekly over 42 days of storage (n = 10) and tested using an array of in vitro assays to measure quality, metabolism, and functional variables. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results ::: ::: During S-303 treatment there was a slight loss of RBCs and hemoglobin (Hb < 5 g). Hemolysis, glucose consumption, and potassium release were similar in all groups during the 42 days of storage. S-303–treated RBCs had a significantly lower lactate concentration and pH compared to the paired controls. The S-303–treated RBCs had significantly higher adenosine triphosphate than the RT and control RBCs. There was a significant loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the S-303–treated products, which was also observed in the RT RBCs. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated similar RBC size, morphology, expression of CD47, and glycophorin A in all groups. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: ::: RBCs treated with S-303 for pathogen reduction had similar in vitro properties to the paired controls and were within transfusion guidelines.
OBJECTIVES ::: To evaluate changes in and the correlation between plasma phosphorus, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and P50 in children following heart surgery. ::: ::: ::: EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN ::: Prospective, observational study with factorial design. ::: ::: ::: SETTING ::: A pediatric intensive care unit in a university hospital. ::: ::: ::: PATIENTS ::: Twenty children undergoing open heart surgery for congenital heart defects. ::: ::: ::: INTERVENTIONS ::: None. ::: ::: ::: MEASURES ::: Red cell 2,3-DPG and ATP, P50, plasma phosphorus, and arterial lactate were obtained before and at 1, 8, 16, 24, 48, and 72 hours after surgery. The amount of intravenous fluid and glucose administered, and age of blood utilized were documented. Variables were analyzed by repeated measure analysis of variance followed by paired t-tests. To investigate the relationship between variables at each time point, scatterplot matrices and correlation coefficients were obtained. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: There was a reduction in plasma phosphorus, red cell 2,3-DPG, and P50 and an increase in arterial lactate at 1, 8, 16, 24, 48, and 72 hours after surgery. Red cell 2,3-DPG correlated with P50 at 1, 8 and 16 hours. The decrease in the plasma phosphorus correlated with the amounts of intravenous fluid and glucose administered on the day of surgery and on the first and second postoperative days. The age of the blood utilized correlated with the decrease in red cell 2,3-DPG on the day of surgery. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Reduction in red cell 2,3-DPG, P50, and plasma phosphorus occurs after open heart surgery in children. These changes can potentially contribute to impaired oxygen utilization in the postoperative period, when adequacy of tissue oxygenation is critical.
The efficacy of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo) for the treatment of renal anaemia is well established. To assess the effect of rHuEpo treatment on physical performance we evaluated physical working capacity, oxygen uptake and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) values at rest and during and after exercise on a bicycle spiroergometer in eight chronically haemodialysed patients. Follow-up examination was carried out after a mean of 14 weeks (range 9-19 weeks), when mean haemoglobin had increased from 7.8 to a stable value of 13.0 g/dl in response to rHuEpo treatment (P < 0.001). Physical working capacity and oxygen uptake at the anaerobic threshold (4 mmol/l blood lactate concentration) increased from 68 +/- 12 to 80 +/- 16 watts and 0.95 +/- 0.14 to 1.10 +/- 0.20 l/min, respectively (P < 0.01). DPG, which determines oxygen affinity to haemoglobin in red cells, increased by 13% from 13.7 +/- 1.5 to 15.5 +/- 2.2 mumol/g Hb (P < 0.05). With maximal exercise mean DPG values significantly decreased to a much lower level without rHuEpo treatment than after correction of anaemia. Therefore rHuEpo treatment results both in better oxygen transport capacity and reduced intraerythrocytic oxygen affinity, which is followed by improved oxygen delivery to tissues per unit of haemoglobin. These effects may explain the improvement of exercise capacity observed in dialysis patients after rHuEpo treatment.
Studies were performed to determine the contribution of red blood cells to the 31P-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrum of the canine heart in vivo and the feasibility of measuring myocardial intracellular phosphate and pH. This was accomplished by replacing whole blood with a perfluorochemical perfusion emulsion blood substitute, Oxypherol, and noting the difference in the 31P-NMR spectrum of the heart. NMR data were collected with a NMR transmitter-receiver coil on the surface of the distal portion of the left ventricle. These studies demonstrated that a small (approximately 10%) contribution from 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and phosphodiesters in the blood could be detected. The magnitude and shift of these blood-borne signals permitted the relative quantification of intracellular inorganic phosphate (Pi) content as well as intracellular pH. Under resting conditions, the intracellular ATP/Pi was 7.0 +/- 0.8 (n = 19). This corresponds to a free intracellular Pi content of approximately 0.8 mumol/g wet wt. The intracellular pH was 7.10 +/- 0.01 (n = 19). Acute respiratory alkalosis and acidosis, with the arterial pH ranging from approximately 7.0 to 7.7, resulted in only small changes in the intracellular pH (approximately 0.1 pH unit). These latter results demonstrate an effective myocardial intracellular proton-buffering mechanism in vivo.
Bis(3,5-dibromosalicyl)fumarate (I) reacts preferentially with oxyhemoglobin to cross-link the two beta 82 lysine residues within the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) binding site and as a result markedly increases the solubility of deoxyhemoglobin S. The cross-link acts by perturbing the acceptor site for Val 6 within the sickle cell fiber (Chatterjee, R., Walder, R. Y., Arnone, A., and Walder, J. A. (1982) Biochemistry 21, 5901-5909). In the present studies we have compared a large number of analogs of I to determine the structural features of the reagent required for specificity and for transport into the red cell. Both electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions contribute to the binding of these compounds at the DPG site. The optimal position for the negatively charged groups on the cross-linking agent for productive binding is adjacent to the ester as in the original salicylic acid derivatives. There is a direct correlation between the reactivity toward hemoglobin and the hydrophobicity of the substituent attached at the para position. Phenyl and substituted phenyl derivatives as in the analgesic, antiinflammatory drug diflunisal are particularly effective. These groups probably interact with hydrophobic residues of the amino-terminal tripeptide and the EF corner of the beta chains adjacent to the DPG binding site. Although bis(3,5-dibromosalicyl)fumarate is very reactive toward hemoglobin in solution, it is much less effective in modifying hemoglobin within the red cell. The reaction with intracellular hemoglobin was shown to be limited by competing hydrolysis of the reagent catalyzed at the outer surface of the erythrocyte membrane. Inactivation of the red cell membrane acetylcholinesterase with phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride did not inhibit this reaction. Introduction of a single methyl group onto the carbon-carbon double bond of the fumaryl moiety decreases the lability of the ester 10-fold, due to steric effects, and allows the reagent to be taken up by the red cell and modify intracellular hemoglobin. The kinetics of transport of the methylfumarate derivative, bis(3,5-dibromosalicyl)mesaconate, are first-order, consistent with passive diffusion. The attachment of larger alkyl groups onto the cross-link bridge further enhances the transport of the reagent into the red cell. The solubility of deoxyhemoglobin S cross-linked with the butylfumarate derivative was found to be increased by almost 10% compared to the original fumarate diester.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Dear Sir, Bodansky et al. in a letter to the editor (Diabetologia 19: 163, 1980) commented on the paper of Graham et al. (Diabetologia 18: 205, 1980) and questioned their finding of a weak positive correlation (r = 0.32) of total red cell count to glycosylated haemoglobin in 110 adult diabetic patients. However, the patient data Bodansky et al. presented for this argument had unknown sex distributions (packed cell volume smaller for females) and included patients with vascular complications and even renal insufficiency (anaemia), conditions which most often respond to hypoxia by an increase in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). It is obvious that a strong case cannot be made with such data. We recently performed a study of oxygen transport parameters in ambulatory diabetic children. By studying children as opposed to adults one avoids the influence of factors such as smoking, differences in haemoglobin concentrations according to sex, and asymptomatic cardiovascular disease, which are likely to interfere with possible associations between oxygen parameters. The Table shows our findings. Haemoglobin concentration, haematocrit and red cell 2,3-DPG concentration were all significantly elevated in the diabetic children as compared to the healthy children (p < 0.005), and haemoglobin, haematocrit and erythrocyte count correlated to glycosylated haemoglobin with correlation coefficients similar to that of Graham et al. Our interpretation of these results differs somewhat from that of Graham et al. They suggested that the greater proportion of high oxygen-affinity Hb A~ in comparatively uncontrolled diabetics may be inducing sufficient tissue hypoxia to cause the demonstrated relative polycythaemia. Our studies have shown that Hb A 1 p e r se has only a minor effect on the oxygen dissociation curve. Of more importance is the fact that high Hb A I indicates poor regulation of blood glucose often with fluctuating blood sugars. Each time the blood sugar falls and a rapid carbohydrate utilization takes place in insulin-sensitive tissues, a lowering occurs in plasma inorganic phosphate which in the red cells leads to a relative decrease in 2.3-DPG and thereby to a fluctuating condition of affinity hypoxia [1-3].
Background and Objectives The use of an autotransfusion device to wash blood of the incision site is increasing. After washing, this blood is retransfused without side effects caused by activated plasma factors and cell release products. This procedure could be extended to washing of donor blood, which may be particularly useful for red blood cells (RBCs) stored for more than 4 weeks that contain high concentrations of free haemoglobin, potassium, lactate and other metabolites. It is not known whether stored RBCs can withstand the cell washing procedure with the use of an autotransfusion device, while keeping their primary functions intact. The objective of this study was to determine the quality of RBCs, after cell washing in comparison to untreated RBCs. Materials and Methods RBCs were studied in terms of integrity (free haemoglobin), stored energy (2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate), metabolites (lactate, potassium) and physical characteristics (osmotic resistance, aggregability, deformability). Results After washing, free lactate and potassium were significantly reduced as compared to the levels before washing. The osmotic resistance of RBCs slightly improved, whereas aggregation capacity reduced after washing. Fifteen per cent of haemoglobin was lost during washing. The deformability and free haemoglobin levels remained unchanged. Conclusion Washing stored blood before transfusion may be of benefit, because the waste products are effectively removed from the stored RBC.
The uptake and incorporation of P32O4 by the cord blood erythrocytes of normal and erythroblastotic infants and the erythrocytes of adults was studied by incubating specimens in ACD at 37 C. in air. The uptake of p32 from the plasma was slower in the infants than in the adults. It was possible to demonstrate an initial "fast" phase followed by a "slow" phase in all the plasma p32 uptake experiments. The half-value time and the percentage turnover per minute indicated greater activity in the adults compared to the infants. The balance of movement of phosphorus was from red cells to plasma in all the experiments. No striking differences in phosphate metabolism were demonstrated between the normal and erythroblastotic newborns, except for the large turnover in µM of P per minute by the red cells of the latter during the first 20 minutes of incubation. ::: ::: Labeling of intraerythrocytic inorganic phosphorus (Pi), adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) proceeded more slowly in the infants than in the adults. The labeling of the erythrocyte 2,3-DPG of all the infants lagged far behind Pi and ATP whereas in the adults the r.s.a. of 2,3-DPG had equalled or exceeded the r.s.a. of Pi and ATP in four hours. It is suggested that there is decreased synthesis of phosphoglycerates by the erythrocytes of the newborn which may be due to a lower level of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity.
It is extremely important to take into account the mechanism of allosteric regulation of the affinity of hemoglobin or oxygen when an artificial oxygen carrier, intended to function in blood plasma, outside the specific erythrocyte environment, is created on its basis. It has been shown that human hemoglobin, like its polymer which circulates for a long time in the blood stream (hemoglobin polymer -HbP) [2, 5], possesses high affinity for oxygen (Pso = 16-17 mm Hg), and this makes the giving up of oxygen to the tissues difficult. A lasting reduction in affinity for oxygen has been successfully achieved by irreversible addition of an allosterir regulator, namely pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PP), to HbP [3, 7]. Nevertheless, there is undoubted interest in the investigation of the possibility of using hemoglobin with specifically and structurally determined low affinity for oxygen, very slightly reduced by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, such as bovine hemoglobin [4], as the basis of an artificial oxygen carrier.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is an independent risk factor in the development of cardiovascular disease. However, there are significant limitations in the detection of the metabolic disturbances in hyperglycemia that lead to vascular dysfunction. The goals of the study were: (i) to identify circulating metabolites discriminating T2D and normoglycemia, and (ii) to assess phenotypic correlations of identified metabolites with other cardiometabolic risk traits (CMTs). We have generated global and targeted metabolomic profiles using AB Sciex TripleTOF 5600 and Thermo Scientific Q Exactive Plus using serum samples of patients and healthy controls from a Punjabi population from India. In global profiling, we identified eight unknown molecules that currently do not match to any spectra in public databases. Additionally, serum levels of pyroglutamate, imidazole-4-acetate, tyramine-O-sulphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were significantly elevated (2–5 fold) and betaine-aldehyde was reduced (fourfold) in patients. In targeted screening of amino acids and sugars, increased concentrations of serine, inositol, and threonine strongly correlated with T2D in both genders, while N-acetyl-l-alanine was reduced (58 fold) in men and glutamine was increased (fourfold) in women. Using random forest and ROC (AUC) analyses, we further cross-validated the predictive abilities of these molecules. Inositol, serine and threonine were among the top informative biomarkers in both genders while N-acetyl-l-alanine was highly confined to men. Our study has identified several metabolites whose concentrations were altered in T2D. Although further study is needed in larger datasets, the identified metabolites (unknown or known) point towards shared etiological pathways underlie diabetes and vascular disease which can be targeted for potential therapeutics or biomarkers discovery.
To investigate various factors that possibly affect oxygen affinity of hemoglobin (Hb-O2 affinity) in chronic hemodialysis (HD) patients, we determined P50 at standard condition (P50std), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content in red blood cells, serum inorganic phosphorus (S-Pi), Hb, and arterial blood gas analysis in 55 HD patients. P50std in HD patients was higher than that in normal controls (26.6 +/- 1.6 vs. 25.4 +/- 1.4 mm Hg; p less than 0.001). We could find neither an effect of alkalizating agents for HD (acetate vs. bicarbonate) nor an effect of the underlying disease (diabetics vs. nondiabetics) on Hb-O2 affinity. There were significant positive correlations between P50std and the duration of HD therapy (r = 0.598; p less than 0.001) and between P50std and SPi (r = 0.476; p less than 0.001), contrasting with the absence of correlation between P50std and Hb. Forward stepwise multiple-regression analysis demonstrated that the duration of HD therapy played the most important roles in determining P50std, followed by SPi and PO2. These data suggest that the major factor influencing Hb-Os affinity in chronic HD therapy is the duration of the therapy and that the minor factors are SPi and PO2.
Summary. In three groups of anaemic patients, the haemoglobin-oxygen (Hb-O2) dissociation curves were shifted to the right. The red cells of these patients contained increased amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). In iron-deficiency anaemia and in megaloblastic anaemia there was a direct relationship between the degree of anaemia and the red cell 2,3-DPG concentration, but this did not hold for the miscellaneous group, and no direct relationship could be demonstrated between the degree of change in the Hb-O2 dissociation curves and the degree of anaemia in any of the groups. The greatest increase in the red cell 2,3-DPG concentration occurred in iron deficiency.
The properties are described of a hemoglobin MSaskatoon found in a French patient. ::: ::: The structural abnormality was identified solely by the use of ion-exchange chromatography. ::: ::: Absorption spectra and ESR spectra showed that only the abnormal β chains are oxidized in the fresh hemolyzate. Moreover, ESR spectra confirmed the hypothesis of a direct bond between heme iron and the new tyrosine residue of the abnormal chain. ::: ::: When studied on whole cells, the oxygen equilibrium curve showed a decreased affinity and an interaction coefficient between 2.1 and 2.3. ::: ::: The modification of the oxygen affinity was due to an important regulatory mechanism: intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate had twice the normal concentration. Although they had different oxygen binding capacities, both normal and abnormal constituents could bind the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and had their oxygen dissociation curves displaced. ::: ::: Possible intramolecular hybrids, α2βAβMS, are discussed in relation to the modified Hill coefficient value.
The role of oxygen-linked carbamate formation in the regulation of hemoglobin function under physiological conditions is largely dependent on the interaction between CO2 and other allosteric effectors, notably the organic phosphates. The α-amino groups of the α- and β-chain N-termini are the established binding sites for carbon dioxide in the physiological pH range [14] and quantitative estimates of the contributions of both sets of sites have been made for human hemoglobin, where the β-chains play the dominant role in oxygen-linked CO2 binding [6, 15, 18]. However, direct competition between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and CO2 for the β-chain N-terminal amino group results in a minor role of carbamate formation, both with respect to oxygen-linked CO2 transport as well as regulation of oxygen affmity [5, 6] of human hemoglobin, and such may be the case in all hemoglobins which have organic phosphates as dominant allosteric effectors under physiological conditions. Among mammalian hemoglobins, there are two groups where oxygen affmity in vivo is regulated independent of organic phosphates, i.e., bovine and cervidae hemoglobins and the hemoglobins of the felidae, all of which have substitutions or deletions at the organic phosphate binding site [11, 21].
Acute myocardiopathy in alloxan treated experimental dogs and rabbits was induced by subcutaneous (SQ) injection of scorpion venom from Mesobuthus tamulus concanesis, Pocock. Envenoming resulted in an initial transient hypertension (180-320 mm Hg.) followed by hypotension. Simultaneous administration of venom and species-specific scorpion antivenom (SAV) prevented hypertension and hypotension. Hypotension did not occur when SAV was given 60 min after envenoming. Blood glucose, triglycerides, cholesterol, amylase, insulin, glucagon, cortisol, hematocrit, mean corpuscular volume (MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), platelet count, red blood cell (RBC) count, hemoglobin (Hb), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and glutathione levels were increased 60 and 90 min after envenoming. Total white blood cell (WBC) count was reduced 60 min and increased 90 min after envenoming. Simultaneous administration of venom and SAV did not alter Hb, MCHC, and packed cell volume (PCV) levels, or ECG, and cardiovascular, biochemical, metabolic, and hormonal changes. Hematological parameters were reversed when SAV was given 30 and 60 min after envenoming. PCV, Hb, and MCHC values returned to normal 120 min after SAV. Alloxan-treated dogs showed increased blood glucose, cholesterol, glucagon, cortisol levels; reduced glycogen content of liver, cardiac and skeletal muscles; and reduced insulin levels and insulin/ glucagon ratio (I/G ratio). Envenoming in the alloxan pre-treated dogs further increased these levels and reduced tissue glycogen content, insulin levels, and I/G ratio. Administration of 4 U of insulin to alloxan pre-treated envenomed rabbits caused a biochemical and clinical improvement and increased glycogen content of all tissues in comparison with the values from those administered with SAV to alloxan pre-treated envenomed animals. SAV administration to envenomed alloxan pre-treated rabbits did not cause clinical or biochemical improvement. Severe scorpion envenoming causes an autonomic storm with a massive release of catecholamines and other counter-regulatory hormones; changes in insulin secretion resulting in fuel energy deficits producing multi-system-organ-failure (MSOF); and death. Administration of either insulin or SAV (through the release of insulin) appears to be the physiological basis for the control of the metabolic support to control the adverse effects triggered by counter-regulatory hormones.
. A severe deficiency in red cell 3-phosphoglycerate kinase was observed in a 62-year-old woman with haemolytic anaemia. Compared with a normal “young” red cell population with the same degree of reticulocytosis (6–7%) the 3-phosphoglycerate kinase activity was reduced to 27%. A concomitant decrease of hexokinase and pyruvate kinase (both reduced by about 30%) was observed. The activities of glucoses-phosphate dehydrogenase, phosphofructokinase, fructose-1,6-di-phosphate aldolase, gIyceraIdehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and lactate dehydrogenase were slightly increased (7 to 15%). The total glycolytic output of the deficient cells was decreased by 28% at pH 7.0, by 36% at pH 7.4 and by 34% at pH 7.6. Compared with a normal “adult” red cell population the 3-phosphoglycerate kinase activity was reduced to 42% of the control values. Hexokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and lactate dehydrogenase activities were increased by approximately 20–50%. Phosphofructokinase activity was unchanged and pyruvate kinase only slightly increased. The steady state levels of the intermediates preceding the 3-phosphoglycerate kinase step were increased 2–3 fold. The subsequent metabolites were decreased or practically unmodified. ATP, ADP, NAD+, and NADH were not affected. The reduced glutathione level was increased and the ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione was doubled. The glycolytic output and its pH-dependency were normal. The metabolic significance of the enzyme defect was assessed by the in vitro creation of cell stressing conditions, i.e. low pH and high pyruvate levels. In both cases, the 3-phosphoglycerate kinase activity became limiting at low pH, glucose-6-phosphate accumulated at a faster rate and fructose- 1,6-diphosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate disappeared more slowly in the deficient cells. After pyruvate loading these cells showed: a faster, more pronounced rise in 1,3-diphosphoglycerate and a decrease in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (slightly increased in the controls): a drop in reduced glutathione (constant in the controls): constant ATP and slightly increased 3-phosphoglycerate concentrations (both strongly increased in the controls): a slight increase in NADH (dropped to nil in the controls). Steady state glycolysis under normal conditions seemed to be affected by the enzyme deficiency. 3-phosphoglycerate kinase however, became more severely limiting a low pH or after the addition of pyruvate. In these conditions, the flow was diverted to the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate bypass, less ATP was produced and the concentration of reduced glutathione decreased. This may be assumed to have led to impairment of the ionic pump and may thus explain the increased haemolysis.
The oxygen transport function of the blood was studied in 223 patients in the early postoperative period after open-heart surgery, which included correction of acquired cardiac valve defects and aortocoronary bypass. The studied parameters comprised central hemodynamics, pulmonary gas exchange, oxygen supply and utilization, acid-base status, blood gas and lactate content, as well as erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG); Boehringer Mannheim reagents (FRG) were used. The venous blood P50 was calculated using a Severinghaus device. It was found, that the Bohr effect and temperature changes are the major factors controlling the Hb affinity to oxygen. No coefficient modifications in pH and T were detected. Patients with cardiac and pulmonary disorders showed, along with the Bohr effect and temperature influences, an additional shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. A positive relationship was revealed between the 2,3-DPG level and standard P50 value. However, the coefficient was low (0.010) at 2,3-DPG and insufficiently stable. It is most probable, that 2,3-DPG mediates the buffer effect eliminating the drastic P50 deviations and is not completely responsible for additional ODC shifts in cardiopulmonary disorders. A quantitative relationship between hypoxia and Hb affinity to oxygen was revealed. The coefficient at SO2 Y varied from -0.0025 to -0.0030 by one percent of changes in the latter. Reduction in SO2 by 15 percent in cardiopulmonary patients was equivalent to the Bohr effect at a pH fall by 0.1 unit.
Studies with phytin (Na- salt of phytic acid) have long beer. of great interest to the scientists for its diverse activityl.3 . In avian species it has been reparted to be beneficial in reducing oxygen affinity of haemoglobin, just like 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in human. It is reported to reduce effectively the proliferation of cancer cells in mammalian intestine 4 • 5 and to repress oxidation of lipids 6 .7 . Most of the beneficial effects are due to metal chelating ability of phytin 8 ,9. Due to its chelating ability pbytin reduces the bioavailability of metals when used with food­ stuff o. ll . Growth of many bacteria is greatly inhibited by d · 12 heavy metals like copper, mercury, ca mlUm etc . Entering the cell, copper is known to form complex h . S ./ 13 with some chromatop ore In treptomyces pi osus . The purpose of this study was to check whether the chelatingeffect of phytin can be extended to prokaryotic cells also. Two Gram positive bacteria and two Gram negative bacteria were selected for the study. Effect of EDT A, a known metal chelator, was checked to compare with the effect of phytin. The microorganisms for the study, two Gram negative bacteria, E. coli and a Rhizobium sp. isolated from root nodules of a leguminous herb (Melilotus
Abstract Human hemoglobin has been reacted with potassium cyanate and purified to yield three species, α2cβ2c,α2cβ2, and α2β2c, where superscript c denotes specific reaction of cyanate with the α-amino group of the particular chain. The effect of carbon dioxide on the oxygen affinity of these species in the presence and in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate has been measured. Carbon dioxide has no effect on the oxygen affinity of α2cβ2c, confirming that the usual lowering of the oxygen affinity of carbon dioxide in normal hemoglobin is mediated by the α-amino groups of the α and β chains. The lowering of the oxygen affinity of α2β2c by carbon dioxide was not affected by the presence or absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, showing that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate does not interfere with the oxygen-linked binding of carbon dioxide at the α chain α-amino group. In α2cβ2 there was a much larger effect of carbon dioxide on the oxygen affinity in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate than in α2β2c; however, on addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate the effect of carbon dioxide on the oxygen affinity of α2cβ2 was much smaller and similar to that occurring in α2β2c. This shows that there is a large difference in the carbon dioxide binding constants of the β chain α-amino group in the oxy and deoxy forms of human hemoglobin, and that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate suppresses this difference, probably by binding strongly to the β chain α-amino group of deoxyhemoglobin and displacing any bound carbon dioxide.
If leukocyte- and platelet-poor red cells have been processed and stored in closed bags, their delivery, especially on holidays, will be easy. The modified warm-centrifuge method was applied to a quadruple bag prepared for such purpose. Red cells were processed in the first bag by the centrifugation of whole blood. The supernatant plasma was transferred to the second bag. A phosphate buffer in the third bag was introduced into red cells and diluted red cells were then incubated at 37 degrees C for 1 h in an inverted position. After centrifugation, the red cell phase below the buffy coat layer was isolated using a Biotest separation apparatus and stored in the fourth bag (containing a preservative with adenine, phosphate, glucose and 0.9% NaCl solution) for 28 days at 4 degrees C. Ninety-eight percent of the leukocyte and 97% of platelets in whole blood unit were removed with a red cell recovery of 86%. Biochemical changes in stored red cells were similar to those of conventional buffy coat-removed red cells suspended in the same preservative, except for rapid decreases in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels. Since processing buffy coat-removed red cells containing few leukocytes and platelets with the present method was simple and these units might be stored for over 14 days with minimum cell damage, we suggest that the present method is useful way of processing leukocyte- and platelet-poor red cells in blood centers.
The time course of metabolic and physiological adjustment to moderate iron deficiency anemia (MIDA, 8 g Hb/dl) and to severe iron deficiency anemia (SIDA, 4 g Hb/dI) was studied in adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats at 3, 7, 14, 30, 60, 90, 150, and 360 days and 30 days, respectively. Our previous studies using the same rats used in the present study indicated that bone marrow iron was absent and plasma iron was significantly lower (p <0.001) in MIDA and SIDA relative to control. The following results with MIDA and SIDA rats are all expressed relative to control values. Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate ranged from 45 to 146% greater in MIDA over the 360-day period and was 130% greater in SIDA at 30 days. Exhaustive run time consistently averaged 64 ± 3% (SEM) less in MIDA over the time course and was further lowered to 18% in SIDA at 30 days. Heart rates of MIDA were elevated (p <0.05) at 180 days but lower (p <0.001) at 360 days in response to exercise. Resting heart rates of MIDA were the same at 180 and 360 days. Heart rates of SIDA were elevated (p < 0.05) at rest and during exercise at 30 days. Organ weight/body weight changes indicated cardiomegaly in MIDA from 90 to 150 days which reverted to normal at 360 days; splenomegaly in MIDA from 90 to 360 days; and kidney atrophy in MIDA at 60 and 90 days which reverted to normal thereafter; in SIDA cardiomegaly and splenomegaly were present at 30 days. These results indicate that the onset and magnitude of physiological and metabolic adjustments occur in proportion to the severity of the anemia, and despite compensatory adjustments in parameters related to work performance, a new stable, lowered level of work tolerance is reached. Am J C/in Nuir 1982;36:830-839.
Hemoglobin Providence Asn and Hemoglobin Providence Asp are two abnormal hemoglobins which apparently arise from a single genetic change that substitutes asparagine for lysine at position 82 (EF6) in the beta chain of human hemoglobin. The second form appears to be thr result of a partial in vivo deamidation of the asparagine situated at position beta 82. Cellulose acetate and citrate agar electrophoresis of hemolysates from patients with this abnormality shows three bands. Globin chain electrophoresis at acid and alkaline pH shows three beta chains. These three chains correspond to the normal beta A chain and two abnormal beta chains. Sequence analysis indicates that the two abnormal chains differ from beta A at only position beta 82. In the two abnormal chains, the residue which is normally lysine is substituted either by asparagine or by aspartic acid. These substitutions are notable because beta 82 lysine is one of the residues involved in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding. Additionally, beta 82 lysine is typically invariant in hemoglobin beta chain sequences. Sequence data on the two forms of Hemoglobin Providence are given in this paper. The functional properties of these two forms are described in the next paper.
The aim is to determine if a single measurement of blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate combined with gas analysis (pH, PCO 2 , PO 2 and saturation) can identify the cause of an altered blood-oxygen affinity: the presence of an abnormal haemoglobin or a red cell disorder. The population (n=94) was divided into healthy controls (A, n=14), carriers of red cell disorders (B, n=72) and carriers of high oxygen affinity haemoglobins (C, n=8). Those variables were measured both in samples equilibrated at selected PCO 2 and PO 2 and in venous blood. In the univariable approach applied to equilibrated samples, we correctly identified C subjects in 93.6% or 96.8% of the cases depending on the selected variable, the standard P 50 (PO 2 at which 50% of haemoglobin is oxygenated) or a composite variable calculated from the above measurements. After introducing the haemoglobin concentration as a further discriminating variable, the A and B subjects were correctly identified in 91.9% or 94.2% of the cases, respectively. These figures become 93.0% or 86.1%, and 93.7% or 94.9% of the cases when using direct readings from venous blood, thereby avoiding the blood equilibration step. This test is feasible also in blood samples stored at 4° C for 48 h, or at room temperature for 8 h.
Abstract A falling ball viscometer has been used to measure the increased viscosity of sickle hemoglobin solutions at varying degrees of deoxygenation. The viscosity of such solutions was found to decrease rapidly with storage. This change was hot due to methemoglobin formation or loss of a dialyzable or heat-stable cofactor. Viscosity of hemoglobin solutions was increased by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, in inositolhexaphosphate, and pyridoxal phosphate. It was decreased by high concentrations of urea and lower concentrations of cyanate and carbamyl phosphate. Measurements carried out with a falling ball viscometer may be a useful technique for the evaluation of potential desickling agents.
Abstract 2-Ethoxy-6-(5-tetrazolyl)xanthone reduces the oxygen affinity of blood by two mechanisms; firstly, by a direct effect on the haemoglobin molecule and secondly by maintaining levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in stored blood. This compound thus has potential as a blood storage additive which will improve the oxygen delivery of stored blood.
BACKGROUND Pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency is a congenital hemolytic anemia caused by deficiency of the glycolytic enzyme red cell PK (PK-R) due to mutations in the PKLR gene. PK catalyzes the last enzymatic step in the glycolytic pathway and is the main source of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production in red blood cells. PKLR mutations lead to defective proteins that are hypothesized to reduce ATP levels in red cells, leading to hemolysis. Small molecule allosteric activation of PK-R resulting in increases in ATP and decreases in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in healthy volunteers has been observed with an earlier molecule, AG-348, the first small molecule PK-R activator to enter clinical trials (Yang et al. EHA 2015, S138). AG-519 is the second small molecule PK-R activator to enter clinical trials. AG-519 is a potent, highly selective and orally bioavailable PK-R activator devoid of the aromatase inhibitory effects that were observed with AG-348. AIMS AG-519 is currently being tested in a randomized, double-blind, phase 1 study in healthy volunteers (NCT02630927), with the objective of identifying a safe and pharmacodynamically active dose and schedule to support potential ongoing development in patients with PK deficiency. Here we report the first 4 cohorts of the multiple ascending dose (MAD) phase of this study. The single ascending dose (SAD) phase of the study and the first two cohorts of the MAD phase of the study have been reported previously (Barbier et al. EHA 2016, P752). METHODS Healthymen and women (non-childbearing potential) aged 18-60 years who provided informed consent were eligible. The MAD phase of the study consisted of 5 dose cohorts. The dose levels administered were determined during interim data reviews of each completed MAD cohort, as well as data from completed SAD cohorts. At each dose level, 8 subjects were enrolled and randomized to receive AG-519 (n=6) or placebo (n=2) twice daily (BID; approximately every 12 hours) for 14 days. Safety assessments included adverse events (AEs), vital signs, electrocardiogram and clinical laboratory parameters. Serial blood samples were drawn to measure plasma concentrations of AG-519 and whole blood concentrations of 2,3-DPG and ATP for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PD) assessments. RESULTS Data are available for 32 subjects enrolled across 4 dose cohorts in the MAD phase of the study: 8 subjects each in cohort 1 (125 mg BID), cohort 2 (375 mg BID), cohort 3 (25 mg BID), and cohort 4 (300 mg BID). Blinded safety reviews indicated that multiple doses up to 375 mg have been well tolerated with no serious AEs or dose-limiting toxicities reported to date. One case of probable drug-induced Grade 2 thrombocytopenia was previously reported in 1 subject in the 375 mg cohort; the event was rapidly reversible with no clinical sequelae. The protocol was amended to require daily monitoring of platelets in subsequent cohorts and no other subjects have developed thrombocytopenia during treatment. The preliminary analysis of free testosterone and estradiol confirmed the absence of aromatase inhibitory activity. AG-519 steady-state was reached the third day after the first dose based on trough concentration values. The clearance of AG-519 after multiple doses was similar to that observed after single doses in the SAD cohorts. Dose-dependent increases in ATP in blood (Figure 1) and decreases in 2,3-DPG in blood correlated with dose-dependent increases in exposure of AG-519, with a peak effect at or below 375 mg BID. ATP response at 25 mg appears to be greater than 50% of maximal response. Results from the fifth MAD cohort, which evaluated the PD results with 10 mg BID, will be presented. ATP = adenosine triphosphate; BID = twice daily CONCLUSION AG-519 is well tolerated in healthy subjects at doses ranging from 25 mg to 375 mg BID for 14 days. The robust dose-dependent changes in ATP and 2,3-DPG concentrations in blood from healthy volunteers are consistent with increased activity of PK-R, the expected PD effect of AG-519. These data support the hypothesis that AG-519 may be able to enhance glycolytic activity in red cells of patients with PK deficiency to address the underlying cause of the disease. Disclosures Barbier:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Bodie:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Connor:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Merica:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Kung:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Le:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Yang:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Kosinski:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Silverman:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Yuan:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Bowden:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment, Equity Ownership. Cohen:Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Consultancy.
Background: It is believed that an increase in the level of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is an important compensatory mechanism that allows satisfactory tissue oxygenation in hypoxic patients. This study measured the level of 2,3-diphophoglycerate and the factors affecting its concentration, as well as the position of the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve in patients with end-stage liver disease. Methods: Fifty patients receiving liver transplantation (experimental group) and forty-five healthy donors (control group) were enrolled in this study. Arterial-mixed venous oxygen content difference, whole body oxygen delivery and consumption were measured after determining the hemodynamic parameters including cardiac output in the experimental group. The erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level was measured using assay procedures. The P50 value was used to determine the position of the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve. Results: The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level was higher in patients with end-stage liver disease than in the controls. A 0.3 g/L increase in the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration corresponded to a P50 increase in 1.2 mmHg with a rightward displacement of the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration showed a significant correlation with the PaO2, Ca-vO2, P50, and blood lactate level, but not with the hemodynamic parameters such as the cardiac index, oxygen delivery index, and pH. Conclusions: End-stage liver disease is associated with an increase in the level of the erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and P50. This is believed to be an important compensatory mechanism to allow better tissue oxygenation. An increase in the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level correlates well with the oxygenation parameters, rather than with the hemodynamic parameters. (Korean J Anesthesiol 2007; 52: 430~7)
Agitation of blood stored in plastic containers has been reported to lead to improved posttransfusion survival and it has been found that, in some media, agitation has improved erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2, 3-DPG) levels. Using CPD II media (CPD with 277.5 mM glucose and 2.04 mM adenine), we were not able to identify any improvement in levels of adenosine triphosphate, 2.3-DPG or glucose in whole blood under various agitation conditions when compared with the nonagitated control. The 2,3-DPG level was moderately improved through 28 days in the 90 per cent hematocrit packed erythrocytes but the results were not considered to be significantly beneficial to warrant agitation. Thus, the application of agitation to the CPD II blood storage system was of no great benefit in improving metabolic intermediate levels.
Rate equilibrium dialysis was used to measure the binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to human oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin A0 over the range pH 5-9, at 21.5 degrees C. This approach yielded an accurate, precise, and self-consistent set of model-independent association constants. These data were successfully fitted to a thermodynamic model which is functionally similar to a Hill equation. The isotherms generated by this fitting procedure appear to intersect at low pH and converge at high pH. This apparent convergence at high pH is consistent with results obtained by oxygen equilibria studies performed under conditions of saturating DPG. These calculated isotherms were used to determine the enhancement of the Bohr effect as a function of pH. These results are consistent with data obtained by pH stat measurements by other investigators. This paper presents the first in a series of studies that will provide a systematic characterization of the interaction between hemoglobin and DPG.
The relation between serum and red blood cell (RBC) inorganic phosphate levels, RBC 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels, RBC nucleotide phosphate (Pn), and RBC total phosphate (Pt) levels were studied during the early phases of treatment and recovery from diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). A steady drop in serum inorganic phosphate was found during the first 24 hours of insulin treatment and was most profound at 24 hours. No statistically significant changes (P>0.05) were found in red cell inorganic phosphate or nucleotide phosphate levels during the 24-hour study period. The levels of total red cell phosphate were lower in this group of patients than in nonacidotic diabetic subjects and decreased slightly after 24 hours of treatment. The red cell 2,3-DPG levels were low at the initiation of therapy and remained low during the 24-hour study period. Glucose, bicarbonate, lactate, and ketone levels fell in linear patterns with treatment. In view of the current evidence for the effects of low 2,3-DPG on oxygen delivery and the relation of low serum phosphate levels to RBC glycolysis and 2,3-DPG formation, this study reemphasizes the need for phosphate replacement during the early phases of treatment of DKA.
BACKGROUND ::: Enzymatic conversion of blood group A1B red blood cells (RBC) to group O RBC (ECO) was achieved by combined treatment with α-galactosidase and α-N-acetylgalactosaminidase. The aim of this study was to evaluate the function and safety of these A1B-ECO RBC in vitro. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: A 20% packed volume of A1B RBC was treated with enzymes in 250 mM glycine buffer, pH 6.8. The efficiency of the conversion of A and B antigen was evaluated by traditional typing in test tubes, gel column agglutination technology and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis. The physiological and metabolic parameters of native and ECO RBC were compared, including osmotic fragility, erythrocyte deformation index, levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, methaemoglobin, free Na(+), and free K(+). The morphology of native and ECO RBC was observed by scanning electron microscopy. Residual α-galactosidase or α-N-acetylgalactosaminidase in A1B-ECO RBC was detected by double-antibody sandwich ELISA method. Manual cross-matching was applied to ensure blood compatibility. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The RBC agglutination tests and FACS results showed that A1B RBC were efficiently converted to O RBC. Functional analysis suggested that the conversion process had little impact on the physiological and metabolic parameters of the RBC. The residual amounts of either α-galactosidase or α-N-acetylgalactosaminidase in the A1B-ECO RBC were less than 10 ng/mL of packed RBC. About 18% of group B and 55% of group O sera reacted with the A1B-ECO RBC in a sensitive gel column cross-matching test. ::: ::: ::: DISCUSSION ::: The conversion process does not appear to affect the morphological, physiological or metabolic parameters of A1B-ECO RBC. However, the A1B-ECO RBC still reacted with some antigens. More research on group O and B sera, which may partly reflect the complexity of group A1 the safety of A1B-ECO RBC is necessary before the application of these RBC in clinical transfusion.
Abstract An improved assay for 1,3-diphospho- d -glycerate: 3-phospho- d -glycerate phosphotransferase (EC 2.7.5.4) is obtained by adding sodium pyruvate and lactate dehydrogenase to the assay medium. Excess lactate dehydrogenase is necessary because the reaction is inhibited as the pyruvate concentration increases. The rate of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate synthesis in this system was not altered by addition of either thyroxin or 3,5,3-triiodo- l -thyronine.
Abstract Hemoglobin A hybrids with carboxymethyl groups at the alpha-NH2 termini of the alpha-chains or the beta-chains or at the termini of both chains have been prepared by reductive alkylation of the protein with glyoxylate and NaCNBH3 under controlled conditions. A hemoglobin derivative, which was selectively carboxymethylated at the NH2-terminal residues, was separated into its alpha- and beta-chains. These derivatized chains were recombined to yield alpha 2 Cm beta 2 Cm or were combined with unmodified beta- or alpha-chains, respectively, and purified to yield alpha 2 Cm beta 2 or alpha 2 beta 2 Cm. These hybrid tetramers retained their cooperativity and function (average n = 2.4). The hybrid alpha 2 Cm beta 2 had a lower oxygen affinity (p50 = 12 mm) than unmodified hemoglobin (p50 = 7 mm) and was reactive with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (p50 = 48 mm). The oxygen affinity of the derivative alpha 2 beta 2 Cm was lower (p50 = 17 mm) than unmodified hemoglobin and was affected only slightly by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (p50 = 25 mm). The tetramer carboxymethylated at all 4 NH2-terminal residues, alpha 2 Cm beta 2 Cm, exhibited a very low intrinsic oxygen affinity (p50 = 37 mm) that was further lowered to a limiting value of 50 mm by saturating amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Each carboxymethyl tetramer, except alpha 2 Cm beta 2 Cm, was reactive with chloride to lead to a lower oxygen affinity. These carboxymethylated hybrids (Hb-NH-CH2COO-) may provide a useful model system for studies on the binding of anions to hemoglobin or on the interaction of CO2 with hemoglobin to form the carbamate Hb-NH-COO-.
The effect of rapid cooling to 20-24 degrees C of whole blood immediately after collection, using 'cooling units' with butane-1,4-diol and prolonged storage up to 24 h at ambient temperature was investigated in the whole blood and the subsequently prepared plasma, buffy coat and buffy-coat-poor red cell concentrate (BC-poor RCC) in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAG M) solution. Factor VIII:C content of the plasma (n = 10), after 24 h storage was 80 +/- 3% of the initial value. In routine procedures factor VIII:C content in the plasma (n = 129 pools of 20 donor units plasma) was 0.77 +/- 0.078 IU/ml, after storage of the whole blood for 16-20 h. In whole blood (n = 10), the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content of the red cells decreased from 4.36 +/- 0.55 to 1.47 +/- 0.6 mumol/ml red cells after 24 h storage at 20-24 degrees C. After storage of the BC-poor RCC (n = 10) at 2-6 degrees C for 1 week, the 2,3-DPG had dropped to 0.76 +/- 0.46 mumol/ml red cells. During the first 24 h of storage of whole blood, the adenine triphosphate (ATP) levels of the red cells remained stable. A mean increase of 20% of the initial value was observed after addition of SAG M solution. In the BC-poor RCC the ATP slowly decreased to 81 +/- 5% after 5 weeks and to 68 +/- 6.6% of the initial value after 6 weeks storage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rat islet homogenates display both phosphoglycerate 2,3-mutase and enolase activities. When phosphoglycerate 2,3-mutase is activated by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the reaction velocity becomes close to that of enolase. The islet content in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is sufficiently high to allow virtually full activation of phosphoglycerate 2,3-mutase.
The evolution of erythrocytic hypoxia responses is reviewed by comparing the cellular control of haemoglobin-oxygen affinity in agnathans, teleost fish and terrestrial vertebrates. The most ancient response to hypoxic conditions appears to be an increase in cell volume, which increases the haemoglobin-oxygen affinity in lampreys. In teleost fish, an increase of cell volume in hypoxic conditions is also evident. The volume increase is coupled to an increase in erythrocyte pH. These changes are caused by an adrenergic activation of sodium/proton exchange across the erythrocyte membrane. The mechanism is important in acute hypoxia and is followed by a decrease in cellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and guanosine triphosphate (GTP) concentrations in continued hypoxia. In hypoxic bird embryos, the ATP levels are also reduced. The mechanisms by which hypoxia decreases cellular ATP and GTP concentrations remains unknown, although at least in bird embryos cAMP-dependent mechanisms have been implicated. In mammals, hypoxia responses appear to occur mainly via modulation of cellular organic phosphate concentrations. In moderate hypoxia, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels are increased as a result of alkalosis caused by increased ventilation.
Abstract Although highly charged polyanions, such as inositol hexaphosphate, have been clearly shown to decrease the solubility of deoxyhemoglobin S, the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), the endogenous allosteric effector within the red cell, has been more controversial. In this work we have compared the effect of DPG on the solubility of native deoxyhemoglobin S and a derivative in which the DPG binding site is blocked by crosslinking the two β82 lysine residues. At pH 6.6 and 30 °C the solubility of deoxyhemoglobin S was found to be decreased by 15% (i.e., from 18.8 to 16.0 g/dl) in the presence of saturating concentrations of DPG. Under the same conditions DPG had no effect on the solubility of the cross-linked derivative. This result establishes unequivocally that the binding of DPG within the β cleft directly facilitates the polymerization of deoxyhemoglobin S. Under physiological conditions, the solubility of deoxyhemoglobin S was found to be decreased by 6% in the presence of an equimolar concentration of DPG. A solubility decrease of this magnitude is sufficient to enhance the tendency of SS cells to sickle and may exacerbate the clinical symptoms of sickle cell disease.
Abstract : Normal hemoglobin function depends on adequate red cell levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), a compound which is poorly maintained during blood bank storage in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD). Since 2,3-DPG is better maintained in citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) and this preservative has a higher pH (5.5) than ACD (pH - 5.0), these preservatives were prepared at each pH and studied. The CPD preservatives (pH 5.0, 5.5) had similar amounts of phosphate so the differences between them, obtained by altering the buffer ratio, should relate to pH. The ACD solutions (pH 5.0, 5.5) contained no phosphate. Hemoglobin function, expressed as P50 (the p02 at 50% oxygenation, an inverse but direct measure of oxygen affinity), and 2,3-DPG were better maintained in ACD and CPD of pH 5.5. The lower pH (5.0) preservatives, whether ACD or CPD, showed rapidly declining hemoglobin function and 2,3-DPG levels. The values at the higher pH remained close to normal for 2 weeks and above those of the lower pH preservatives for most of the 4-week storage period. (Author)
Abstract 1. 1. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was determined in normal and porphyric bovine fetuses, newborns and adults by an enzymatically coupled assay. 2. 2. The erythrocyte 2,3-DPG in the normal adult bovine was 13·4 ± 2·1 mμM/ml RBC in the porphyric adult. 3. 3. The 2,3-DPG was found to be high in the youngest fetuses and progressively declined during gestation. 4. 4. After birth, 2,3-DPG increased to its highest levels followed by a gradual decline to adult levels at 2 months. Changes during the neonatal period paralleled the disappearance of Hb F. 5. 5. The pattern of changes of 2,3-DPG was similar though more pronounced in the porphyric cattle.
Abstract The association of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate with oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin was studied by means of ultrafiltration and microcalorimetry. It was found that in addition to parameters that are known to influence the binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to both species of hemoglobin (such as pH, temperature and concentration of competing anion), the association is also strongly dependent on the hemoglobin concentration. The difference between the apparent association constants for the formation of the complex of the organic phosphate with oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin is relatively small. At pH 7.3, 25° C and 0.154 M chloride this difference is only 0.6 kcal/mole of free energy favoring the Hb·DPG complex. This free energy difference increases with decreasing pH but is not strongly affected by hemoglobin concentration. The enthalpy change for the formation of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate complex with deoxyhemoglobin is 8–10 kcal/mole more exothermic than the complex with oxyhemoglobin.
Abstract The effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) on the Bohr effect of human hemoglobin has been studied by means of hydrogen ion titration techniques. The results indicate a) that both the acid and the alkaline Bohr effect are equally affected, b) that the DPG binding to deoxyhemoglobin (Hb) is much stronger than to carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO) and c) that Hb binds effectively one DPG molecule. The effect on the Bohr effect can roughly be described by assuming that upon binding two groups per tetramer change their pK from 6.8 to 7.8 and two others from 6.8 to 5.8. These groups very probably are the imidazole groups of the two histidines H21 (143)β and the two phosphate groups of DPG (second dissociation). From the experiments a value for the dissociation constant K of the Hb-DPG complex of about 10 −5 M −1 could be estimated at pH 6.2 and pH 7.5.
To investigate the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty rats, an animal model of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and non-diabetic Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka rats were fed with or without sucrose and/or cilostazol, an anticoagulant, for 8 weeks. Sucrose-fed diabetic rats showed a delayed motor nerve conduction velocity, decreased R-R interval variability of electrocardiogram, reduced sciatic nerve blood flow, increased platelet aggregability and a decreased erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration compared with non-sucrose-fed diabetic rats and non-diabetic rats. These abnormalities were significantly prevented by treatment with cilostazol without changes in the nerve tissue levels of polyols. These findings indicate that sucrose-fed Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty rats may be a useful animal model of neuropathy in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and that cilostazol may prevent the development of diabetic neuropathy by modifying vascular factors.
The erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was studied in patients with liver diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and in normal subjects. The level of 2,3-DPG in liver diseases occurred in the following increasing order: chronic persistent hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis, liver cirrhosis, and cirrhosis with hepatocellular carcinoma. A significant negative correlation between the 2,3-DPG concentration and serum albumin concentration was found in the liver diseases. The 2,3-DPG level was correlated to the serum concentration of total bile acids and to the arterial blood pH. A negative correlation was found between the arterial blood pH and the serum albumin concentration. The level of 2,3-DPG in hepatocellular carcinoma and/or liver cirrhosis was higher than that in more hypoxic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. And an increased level of 2,3-DPG was also shown in nonhypoxic patients with liver diseases. These results suggest that the level of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG increases according to the severity of the liver disease, and compared to the level in hypoxic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the level of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG is higher in both hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis.
Effects of acute and maintained isovolemic anemia on oxygen transport was studied during rest and exercise in normal males. Following 34% reduction in hemoglobin concentration (Hb), supine and standing Q rose acutely by 56% and 20%, respectively, but returned nearly to the control value by 10-14 days, producing a decrease in PVO2. Redistribution of blood flow appeared to compensate significantly for the decrease in systemic oxygen transport. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate rose by 18%, in vivo PO2 at half-saturation of hemoglobin (P50) rose by approximately 2 mm over 7-9 days and probably afforded some compensation. The relationship between VO2 and external work intensity was independent of Hb. During exercise, Q/VO2 and VE/VO2 were increased in acute anemia, but PVO2, for a given VO2, decreased below control levels. After 10-14 days the relative increase in VE with exercise persisted; the increase in Q was less pronounced; and PVO2 was further decreased. With both acute and extablished anemia maximal exercise capacity and maximal VO2 (VO2 max) decreased in proportion to the Hb reduction.
We have examined the ability of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) to cause contractions of mechanically skinned muscle fibres of frog and barnacle. InsP3 (10-500 microM) did not cause any tension development in 25 frog skinned fibres and 26 barnacle myofibrillar bundles, although contractions could be readily evoked by caffeine and by replacement of an impermeant anion by Cl-, treatments known to release calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). Four barnacle bundles did give responses to InsP3. InsP3 did not modify responses to caffeine or calcium-induced calcium release. Free Mg2+ was lowered to 40 microM and 15 mM D-2,3-diphosphoglycerate was added in order to inhibit the possible breakdown of InsP3 by inositol trisphosphatase. Neither measure revealed a response to InsP3. Arsenazo III absorbance measurements failed to detect any binding of Mg2+ (0-0.5 mM) by 0.35 mM InsP3 in our solutions. Inhibitors of SR calcium uptake (cadium, quercetin, furosemide), omission of EGTA from the solution and varying the temperature from 4 degrees to 22 degrees C also failed to reveal a response of frog skinned fibres to InsP3. The nucleotide GTP, which has been reported to enhance InsP3-induced calcium release from rat liver microsomes, had no effect at 50 microM on the response of frog fibres to InsP3. It is concluded that under conditions in which other calcium release mechanisms operate well, InsP3 is relatively ineffective at releasing calcium from the SR in amounts sufficient to induce contraction. Although we have been unable to find evidence to support the proposed role of InsP3 as an essential link in excitation-contraction coupling of skeletal muscle, we cannot entirely reject its role if essential cofactors are lost in the skinned preparations.
Hemoglobin (Hb) is an allosteric protein found mainly in red cells whose main function is to deliver oxygen from the lungs to the tissues. Hbs are tetrameric and are composed by two α-chains and two β-chains, each containing a heme group to which a single oxygen molecule binds reversibly (1) . To perform its function, Hb assumes different structural conformations with distinct O 2 affinities. The shift between these states is regulated by the presence of allosteric effectors such as organic phosphates and monovalent anions. These anions preferentially bind to the deoxy form (T-state), increasing the stability of the lowaffinity T-state compared to the high-affinity R-state, thus increasing p 50 , the O 2 pressure at half saturation (2) . In human red cells, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is the main allosteric effector of hemoglobin A (HbA), whose binding has been very well described in the literature. This phosphate has high affinity for HbA, with binding occurring at a very specific site that consists of eight cationic residues located in the central cavity of the protein (3). However, it has been shown that HbA also binds monovalent anions that also stabilize the deoxy form, reducing its affinity for O 2 . The most abundant of these physiological ions is the chloride ion (4) .
Blood storage is currently a logistical necessity for the maintenance of a readily and adequate blood supply. In recent years, there has been an evolving and escalating debate regarding a functional issue in transfusion medicine: what is the effect of storing blood products on outcome in transfusion recipients? What is the effect of storage on biochemical parameters? The latter has been answered extensively by studies on storage induced changes in stored blood. However, in most developing countries, Nigeria for example, where the required facilities for proper blood storage are scarcely used in some settings, it is likely that whole blood or blood products that are collected and stored for future use may not be at its best for therapeutic or clinical use, or may be of clinical detriment to the recipient. Recent reports suggest that transfusion of blood not stored in the approved facilities and condition was associated with the risk of postoperative complications and higher mortality rate in surgical patients as well as post transfusion complications. Retrospective cohort studies have found a correlation between red blood cell(RBC) storage duration and morbidity and mortality rates after transfusion [1] - [3] , suggesting progressive storage lesions may be responsible for adverse outcomes.The administration of whole blood or units containing cellular elements has been reported to pose many risks and potential unfavorable effects. This is basically may not be unconnected with the gradual decomposition of blood components and as a result of the bioaccumulation of product of the cellular metabolism, that is, anaerobic glycolysis, particularly when the components are not stored at the approved temperature range.The biochemical composition of the stored whole blood are bound to undergo bizarre changes. The release of H 2 O 2 and proteases by white blood cells present in unfiltered blood may also cause lysis of RBCs storage. The changes are however proportional to the storage time, temperature and other factors [4] . [5] reported that during storage, there is an increase in K + and lactate levels and a simultaneous decrease in pH and Na + levels [5] Other changes include a reduction in RBC deformability, altered RBC adhesiveness and aggregability, and a reduction in 2, 3 -diphosphoglycerate (2, 3 -DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP), bioactive compounds with proinflamatory effects also accumulate in the storage medium. These changes reduce post transfusion viability of red blood cells. A Normal blood sodium level is 135 -145 millimoles/liter (mmol/L). Storage of anticoagulated whole blood for three weeks at 4 o C under blood bank conditions may result in a rise in intracellular Na + and a fall in intracellular K + with concomitant opposite changes in Na + and K + levels in the suspending plasma. A decline in red blood cell ATP during the storage period did not appear to , ouabain-sensitive membrane ATPase activity and kinetics of activation by Na + were unaffected by the three week period of cold storage. However, when assayed at 4 o C without added Mg 2+ , simulating the conditions of storage, ATPase activity was negligible, [6] .The clinical effects beyond transfusion are uncertain, but a growing body of evidence suggests that the storage lesion may reduce tissue oxygen availability, have proinflammatory and immunomodutatory effects and influence morbidity and mortality [6] . Red Blood Cell transfused patients had worse outcomes than non-transfused patients matched for clinical variables in several studies [7] . Large-volume RBC transfusion may contribute to changes in the patients' plasma biochemical parameters (hyperkalemia) and may therefore be related not only to the volume of RBC products but also to storage duration [8] .Other changes include a reduction in red blood cell deformability, altered red blood cell adhesiveness and aggregability, and a reduction in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP. Bioactive compounds with proinflammatory effects also accumulate in the storage medium. These changes reduce post transfusion viability of red blood cells.
Of the various species, birds need high energy which is fulfilled with the increased supply of oxygen through metabolic pathways (Perutz 1983; Weber 2007) . The respiratory system of avian species differ from the mammals and a number of investigations showed that oxygen affinity of avian species is higher than the mammals (Faraci 1991; Liang et al. 2001a Liang et al. , 2001b . However, the hemoglobin from birds is functionally similar to mammalians and regulated by inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) in place of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) as an allosteric effector (Lenfant et al. 1969; Torrance and Bartlett 1970) . Further studies on the hemoglobin structures show the altered oxygen affinity upon amino acid substitutions at heme-protein contacts and the inter-subunit contacts which orchestrates the oxy and deoxy transition states of the tetramer (Jessen et al. 1991; Vallone et al. 1996; Thom et al. 2013) . It has been shown that the waterfowl species, the bar-headed goose is characterized by a remarkably higher Hb-O 2 affinity than greylag goose (Petschow et al. 1977; Rollema and Bauer 1979) , because of the Pro α119(H2) → Ala substitution which disrupts an important intradimer van der Waals contact (Perutz 1983 ).
Red blood cell (RBC) transfusion is a life-saving procedure whose primary objective is to sustain tissue and organ oxygenation in case of acute anemia due to massive hemorrhage or chronic anemia secondary to bone marrow dysfunction. RBC units, prepared by plasma removal and leukocyte depletion, are stored for 42 days [1] . This extension of RBC shelf-life is possible due to the combined application of preparation methods, suitable storage additive solutions (CPD-citrate phosphate-dextrose, saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAGM) or Optisol (AS-5)), polyvinyl chloride blood bags, and storage at 4 • C [2] . However, despite these measures, stored RBCs undergo deleterious metabolic, structural, biochemical, and molecular changes collectively referred to as "storage lesions" [3] . Storage lesions are characterized by ATP depletion, loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), glutathione (GSH), and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH/NADPH) depletion with subsequent oxidation of hemoglobin, exhaustion of the endogenous antioxidants, leakage of lactate, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), hemoglobin, and potassium ions into the suspending medium. Membrane micro-vesiculation as well as reversible and irreversible morphological changes also occur [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] .
The effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) on the Bohr effect of human hemoglobin has been studied by means of hydrogen ion titration techniques. The results indicate a) that both the acid and the alkaline Bohr effect are equally affected, b) thit the DPG binding to deoxyhemoglobin (Hb) is much stronger than to carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO) and c) that Hb binds effectively one DPG molecule. The effect on the Bohr effect can roughly be described by assuming that upon binding two groups per tetramer change their pK from 6.8 to 7.8 and two others from 6.8 to 5.8. These groups very probably are the imidazole groups of the two histidines H21 (143)0 and the two phosphate groups of DPG (second dissociation). From the experiments a value for the dissociation constant K of the Hb-DPG complex of about 10-5 m~1 could be estimated at pH 6.2 and pH 7.5.
Comparative studies on erythrocyte (RBC) metabolism in Australian marsupials and monotremes have revealed some interesting features. These include very low levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the RBC of the echidna (Kim et al., 1981) , remarkably high levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in the RBC of wombats (Agar et al., 1989) and high activities of hexokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and lactate dehydrogenase in the RBC of the brown antechinus (Agar and Godwin, 1991) . It is apparent from such studies that there is a wide variation in the metabolic needs and capabilities of RBC from our native species.
Hemodynamic parameters, lung gas exchange, hemoglobin, acid-base balance, gases, blood lactate and pO2 have been studied in 105 patients with acute cardiorespiratory disturbances (CRD) after open heart surgery. The actual P50 was determined by the venous point, using the Severinghaus blood gas analyser. The method of multidimensional regression analysis was used to study the contribution of some factors determining oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (ODC) shift. It has been shown that CRD are characterized not only by Bohr's effect and temperature impact but also by ODC shifts, which cannot be accounted for by changes in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration. As hypoxia is universal for any CRD the index of mixed venous blood saturation with O2 (Sv-O2) was considered as a factor determining hypoxic ODC shift and a numerical contribution of hypoxia to P50 changes has been determined. The coefficient in delta Sv-O2 was 0.0025-0.0030 15% Sv-O2 changes were in Bohr's effect equivalent to ODC shift, with pH changing by 0.1. The role of hypoxia in the changes of Hb-O2 affinity in CRD is discussed.
As early as in 1939 Guest and Rapoport emphasized that a striking decrease occurs in the content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) of the red blood cells of diabetics in ketoacidosis (1). The physiological implication of this finding has only recently emerged based on an appreciation of the allosteric behaviour of hemoglobin during oxygenation and of the unique effect of 2,3-DPG on the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen (2,3). An increase in the concentration of 2,3-DPG in the red blood cells will produce a shift to the right in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (ODC), thus facilitating oxygen release at the tissue level. A decrease in the 2,3-DPG content will increase the affinity of hemoglobin to oxygen, cause a shift of the ODC to the left, thus making less oxygen available. 2,3-DPG is formed as an intermediary product of glycolysis in the red cells and this fraction is decreased in acidosis due to the inhibitory effect of increased hydrogen ion and dehydration on glycolysis. In diabetic ketoacidosis there is also a significant depletion of the phosphorus stores in the body as shown by the immediate response of plasma and urinary phosphorus to insulin. With insulin treatment there occurs a precipitous fall in both plasma and urinary phosphorus level, and the plasma phosphate level may remain subnormal for as long as a week. Since inorganic phosphate (Pi) is known to act as a cofactor in the glycolysis of the red cells by stimulating both the phospho-fructokinase and the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate-dehydrogenase (4,5,6) and thereby the formation of 2,3-DPG, the concentration of Pi may be a determining factor for the rate of resynthesis of red cell 2,3-DPG and the normalization of the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen. In evaluating this possibility we have studied the interrelationship between the concentration of plasma inorganic phosphate, red cell 2,3-DPG, and the position of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve in patients in and during recovery from severe diabetic ketoacidosis.
Blood oxygen transport and tissue oxygenation were studied in 28 calves from the Belgian White and Blue breed (20 healthy and 8 hypoxaemic ones). Hypoxaemic calves were selected according to their high respiratory frequency and to their low partial oxygen pressure (PaO2) in the arterial blood. Venous and arterial blood samples were collected, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate, chloride, inorganic phosphate and hemoglobin concentrations, and pH, PCO, and PO2 were determined. An oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) was measured in standard conditions, for each animal. The arterial and venous OEC were calculated, taking body temperature, pH and PCO2 values in arterial and venous blood into account. The oxygen exchange fraction (OEF%), corresponding to the degree of blood desaturation between the arterial and the venous compartments, and the amount of oxygen released at the tissue level by 100 mL of blood (OEF Vol%) were calculated from the arterial and venous OEC combined with the PO2 and hemoglobin concentration. In hypoxaemic calves investigated in this study, the hemoglobin oxygen affinity, measured under standard conditions, was not modified. On the contrary, in vivo acidosis and hypercapnia induced a decrease in the hemoglobin oxygen affinity in arterial blood, which combined to the decrease in PaO2 led to a reduced hemoglobin saturation degree in the arterial compartment. However, this did not impair the oxygen exchange fraction (OEF%), since the hemoglobin saturation degree in venous blood was also diminished.
The response of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels in the blood and brain tissue to a craniocerebral trauma of varying severity was studied in anaesthetized rats. A trauma producing cerebral contusion was followed within two hours by a highly significant rise in DPG concentration in the blood as compared with the control animals or only mildly traumatized rats. The DPG levels in the brain tissue showed no significant differences. Similar changes in DPG concentration were observed in the blood of patients with craniocerebral injuries. The DPG-mediated increased release of oxygen to the tissues represents a compensatory mechanism and is pathognomic for craniocerebral trauma. Patients undergoing surgery with extracorporeal circulation lack this mechanism for counteracting hypoxaemia; already during thoracotomy the DPG concentration in the blood fell significantly and did not reach its original level until 72 hours after the operation. In stored, ACD stabilized, blood the DPG concentration gradually decreases. Estimations carried out over 28 days showed a continuous statistically significant loss of DPG. After 24 hours the DPG levels in stored blood had already dropped to the lower limits of normal - a fact that has to be taken into account in massive blood transfusions.
Abstract The ratio of the affinity of hemoglobin for carbon monoxide and oxygen ( M ) is unaffected by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. This is also true for fetal hemoglobin. The value of M did not differ significantly for purified preparations of Hb A and Hb F.
The amount of oxygen made available to the tissues of the body depends essentially upon pulmonary gas exchanges, cardiac output and its regional distribution, haemoglobin concentration and also upon the oxygen affinity of the haemoglobin molecule. That a standard oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve faithfully describes oxygen loading and unloading both in healthy subjects and in those suffering from pathological process has come under attack. Beside the effect of pH, PCO2 and temperature, the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve can be modified by alterations of other factors (concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, hormones, drugs). Although the shifts of the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve, expressed by variations of P50 may seem minute, the effect of these shifts, expressed in terms of the "functional value of haemoglobin" are very large. Assessment of the intensive care patient must take into account the effect of alterations of the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve which can either increase or diminish tissue oxygenation.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a common metabolic disorder in dogs, which occurs often in association with some complications, including haematological problems. Some abnormalities of erythrocyte metabolism have been described both in human patients and in dogs affected by DM. The aim of this work was to test in vitro the direct effects of hyperglycaemia and ketoacidosis on canine erythrocytes (RBCs). RBCs from healthy dogs were incubated in normoglycaemic, mild hyperglycaemic, severe hyperglycaemic and severe hyperglycaemic + ketoacidotic media. The following parameters were examined: osmotic fragility (OF), the concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG), reduced glutathione (GSH) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) and pyruvate kinase (PK), sodium (Na+) and potassium (K+) intracellular concentrations, production of lactate. In comparison with t0, incubated cells showed higher OF (P<0.001) and lower 2,3DPG (P<0.001) and ATP (P<0.001) concentrations. In comparison with normoglycaemic conditions, hyperglycaemia induced minimal changes, such as increased OF (P<0.001) and 2,3DPG (P<0.01) concentrations. Major changes were induced by hyperglycaemic + ketoacidotic media, such as increases in mean corpuscular volume (MCV), OF, PK activity and ATP concentration; this suggested that oxidative stress had occurred. In hyperglycaemic media, lactate production was not associated with glucose concentration, but the higher consumption of glucose suggests the activation of metabolic pathways other than glycolysis. These alterations could be partly responsible for some hypoxic complications during DM.
Acomplete experimental format isgiven for thereconstitution ofhumanhemoglobin fromtheseparated heme-free a-and-globin chains (a', ft') andhemin, bytwo alternative routes. Based ontheir oxygen binding properties, thereaction oftheferri-forms with reducing agent, andthere- sponse oftheoxygen binding curves topHvariation andtothe addition ofthealosteric effector 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the molecules arenative. Onereconstitution route uses direct ad- dition ofhemin totheseparated globin chains with production oftheseparated subunits, which canthen berecombined and reduced. This procedure occasions losses byprecipitation inthe heme-addition step except athigdilutions, andtheyields are low. Inthesecond pathway, either globin chain ismixed with thecomplementary untreated subunit toformthehalf-filled (with heme) intermediates, which combine stoichiometrically with hemin. Noprecipitation accompanies these reactions. For a-globin, theyield isabout 50%because ofincomplete combi- nation with theheme-containing Pchain. For-globin, theyield isbetter than 70%.Itissuggested that experiments intended totest either globin chain should usethesecond route inprep- aration forstructural orfunctional comparisons withnative hemoglobin.
Abstract 1. 1. Red cell 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (DPG) content was determined in blood of heat-acclimated and control golden hamsters ( Mesocricetus auratus ). 2. 2. DPG concentration was found to be significantly decreased in red cells of heat-acclimated hamsters. 3. 3. This reduced concentration may increase the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen.
It has been postulated that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG)-mediated changes in oxyhemoglobin affinity play an important role in oxygen delivery; however, the effect of an acute increase in affinity without changing red cell mass has not been systematically evaluated. This study was designed to measure changes in oxygen transport and oxygen consumption produced by an acute increase in oxyhemoglobin affinity caused by an autologous exchange transfusion using DPG-depleted stored blood. From each of 10 5-kg rhesus monkeys, 100 ml of blood was taken on the 1st and 3rd wk of the study and each stored in 25 ml of acid-citrate-dextrose storage solution. On the 5th wk, each animal underwent an exchange transfusion with 200 ml of its stored blood. Hemodynamic data were obtained before and 30 min after transfusion. The oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve shifted to the left (P(50) changed from 33.9 to 27.2 mm Hg), as mean red cell DPG decreased from 28.6 to 12.7 mumol/g of hemoglobin. No significant change was noted in pH, P(CO2), base deficit, arterial or venous percent saturation of hemoglobin, cardiac output, or oxygen consumption. However, a fall in mixed venous P(O2) from 35.3 to 27.9 mm Hg occurred.Thus, an acute shift of the oxyhemoglobin curve to the left was accompanied by a significant decrease in the mixed venous P(O2) without evidence of acidosis, decreased oxygen consumption, or a compensatory increase in cardiac output.
Abstract To induce anemia experimentally in rats to provide a hematocrit of 30 to 35% and provide data about the physiologic response to anemia during induction and after it is established, two methods were selected: the application of repetitive doses of phenylhydrazine and bleeding. Blood sample collection was carried out at various times, and hematologic profiles and osmotic resistance were evaluated. The morphologic features of cells and distinct organs also were examined. Results indicated similar decrease of hematocrit and hemoglobin concentration for the two experimental groups, although the reticulocyte response was higher in rats treated with phenylhydrazine, where the presence of young erythrocyte populations was linked to increases in osmotic resistance and glucose utilization. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate was induced only during the recovery phase of the study and corresponded to a gradual response to hypoxia. Histologically, marked erythroid hyperplasia was found in the bone marrow, and extramedullary hematopoiesis was seen in the spleen and liver.
The effect of four different red blood cell storage media on in vitro parameters of stored canine red blood cells was studied. The storage media included citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine (CPDA-1), two additive solutions, and an additive solution modified by the addition of plasma. Biochemical and hematologic parameters, including red cell adenosine triphosphate (ATP); 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG); pH; percent hemolysis; and supernatant sodium, potassium, and glucose were assessed immediately following preparation of the red cell concentrate and after 35 and 42 days of storage at 4 degrees C. All parameters changed significantly (p < 0.05) during storage. Significant differences due to effect of the storage media were also seen at each time period. After 35 days and 42 days of storage, CPDA-1 maintained the highest pH, potassium, and sodium values, and had the lowest 2,3-DPG, ATP (p=0.052), and glucose values. No differences were seen in hemolysis after 35 days of storage. No additional benefit was noted from the addition of plasma to the additive solution. The additive solutions compared favorably with CPDA-1.
Wholehuman bloodwasexaminedby31p nuclearmagneticresonancespectroscopy. Individual phosphates(a,O,-y) ofATP wereidentifiable, and two microenvironments appeared tobepresent forthismole- cule.Wheh sequential recordings offreshly collected bloodweremade,2,3-diphosphoglycerate was observed todecrease inassociation withaconcomitant increase in inorganic orthophosphate. When agedcellscontaining little 2,3-diphosphoglycerate wereincubated inthepres- enceof inosineand pyruvate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate formation couldbe demonstrated. Theseresults show thatcellular metabolismcan be recorded directly itk intact cells by31pnuclear magneticresonance. Inthis study, wehaveused31Pnuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (31P NMR)toidentify phosphorus compounds inintact humanerythrocytes andtorecord metabolic changes directly inintact erythrocytes incubated invitro. We have detected theindividual phosphate groupings (a,,By) ofATP inintact erythrocytes andhavedetermined thatthere maybe atleast twomicroenvironments forthis molecule. Inaddition, changes in2,3-diphosphoglycerate werefollowed immediately after withdrawal ofblood, aswell asduring incubation of agedcells inthepresence ofaddedinosine andpyruvate at 250. Recently, MoonandRichards (1)applied thetechnique of a1PNMR tothestudy ofrabbit whole blood andhemolysates, andwereabletoestimate theintracellular pH ofcarbon monoxide-treated rabbit erythrocytes bymeasuring thepH- induced changes inchemical shifts ofthe2-and3-phosphates of2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Summary On the contrary to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP), inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) reduces the affinity of human adult hemoglobin (Hb A) to the 4th oxygen molecule as well as the affinity to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd molecules. Thus, the over-all free energy of interaction (ΔF I ) increases only by about 600 cal per site and the maximum slope of the Hill plot, n, decreases significantly in the presence of 1.7 mM IHP. Therefore, the mechanism of action of IHP in lowering the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin seems to be quite different from that of DPG or ATP. The effect of DPG on the oxygen equilibrium function of human fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) is similar to but less than that on Hb A.
The hemoglobin-oxygen dissociation curve and the relationships between the parameters of tension, saturation, capacity, affinity and concentration of oxygen in the course of respiratory failure in chronic obstructive lung diseases (COLD) were studied. The study included 141 patients divided into four basic groups according to the value of pO2 (a): patients with normoxia, mild, moderate and severe arterial hypoxia. The blood-gas status was determined using the ABL-330 and OSM-3 analyzers (Radiometer A/S, Denmark). It is concluded that: 1. Presence of normoxia (pO2 and sO2 in norm) in COLD patients does not exclude abnormalities in their arterial blood oxygen transport and increased risk of tissue hypoxia. 2. Total oxygen concentration in respiratory failure is relatively stable and "independent" from the stepwise decrease of the arterial pO2, which results from the compensatory increase of the total and effective hemoglobin. 3. There are phase fluctuations of the ctO2/pO2 dissociation curve in the reference interval, expressed in the "lowering" of P50 and p90 in mild hypoxia and the "centering" or "raising" of their values in severe hypoxia. Such fluctuations are more pronounced in the p90 than in the p50. 4. The oxygen extraction tension lowers progressively (without reaching the anaerobic threshold) and the oxygen compensation factor elevates with the pO2 (a) reduction and the arising of hypercapnia and acidemia. 5. The calculated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration values are significantly higher in hypercapnics with COHb > 1% than in those with COHb < 1%. The relationships between hypoxia, oxygen affinity, hemoglobinemia and oxygen affinity as well as the dissociation curve properties in chronic respiratory failure are discussed.
The aim of this study was the quantification of inorganic phosphate (Pi) and other phosphorus metabolites by 31P NMR spectroscopy in the mouse heart muscle in situ, beating at around 600 min−1. Male adult Quacker-bush mice (mean weight 32 ± 7 g) were anaesthetized, ventilated and placed in a temperature-controlled animal holder. A purpose-built 31P NMR surface coil was positioned against the exposed left ventricular myocardium. Partial signal overlap of Pi with 2,3-DPG from chamber blood was minimized using a DEPTH pulse sequence (180°–90°–180°–180°-acq.). Quantification of phosphorus metabolites was performed using an external standard positioned directly above the surface coil. We report for the mouse myocardium in situ an intracellular free [Pi] of <0.4 mM, pH of 7.32 ± 0.1, free [Mg2+] of 0.41 ± 0.1 mM, free [ADP] of 13 ± 1.5 µM, [ATP] of 5 ± 0.5 mM and [PCr] of 14 ± 1.5 mM. The phosphorylation ratio (ATP/ADP Pi) was 1005 ± 200 mM−1 for a PCr/ATP ratio of 2.7 ± 0.3. It was concluded that the detection of free [Pi] in the mouse myocardium in situ can be greatly enhanced using a DEPTH pulse sequence. Quantification of compounds using an external standard positioned directly above the surface coil gave comparable results to estimations using internal ATP that was quantified enzymatically. The close agreement between the external and internal methods indicates that ATP is 100% NMR visible in the mouse heart in situ. Copyright © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. ::: ::: ::: ::: Abbreviations used: ::: 2 ::: 3-DPG, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate ::: ::: PP ::: phenylphosphonite ::: ::: PBS ::: phosphate buffered saline.
The mode of interaction of human hemoglobin (Hb) with the red cell membrane was investigated with special reference to the effect on oxygen binding properties and Hb-membrane binding constants. Compared to free native Hb, the membrane-bound native Hb showed a strikingly lowered oxygen affinity and smaller response to organic phosphates such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate. Similar effects of membrane binding were also observed for intermediately cooperative Hbs such as N-ethylmaleimide-treated Hb (NES-Hb) and iodoacetamide-treated Hb (AA-Hb), but very small effects were observed for non-cooperative Hb, i.e., carboxypeptidase A-treated Hb (des-His-Tyr Hb). The magnitude of the affinity lowering was in the order: NES-Hb greater than native Hb greater than AA-Hb much greater than des-His-Tyr Hb. In the presence of inositol hexaphosphate, the three chemically modified Hbs showed an increased oxygen affinity when bound to the red cell membrane, probably due to partial replacement of bound inositol hexaphosphate by membrane. The binding to membrane caused a slight decrease in cooperativity for native Hb, but no distinct change in cooperativity was observed for the three modified Hbs. These results imply: a) the red cell membrane binds to deoxyHb more strongly than to oxyHb; b) the difference in membrane binding affinity between oxyHb and deoxyHb is closely related to the quaternary structure change in the Hb molecule occurring upon oxygenation. The higher affinity of the membrane for deoxyHb than for oxyHb apparently disagrees with the conclusion drawn by earlier investigators. However, the present binding experiments by means of ultrafiltration proved that the red cell membrane actually binds to deoxyHb much more strongly than to oxyHb, validating the present conclusion based on oxygenation experiments. Our results are consistent with those obtained recently by other investigators using a synthetic peptide or the cytoplasmic fragment of red cell membrane band 3.
1. Washed human erythrocytes metabolize 1,14 muMol xylitol in 120 min under the following experimental conditions: pH 7.4 and 37 degrees C. 2. The levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP decrease during the incubation with xylitol. This decrease is not a specific effect of xylitol, but depends on the amount of C-atoms taken up. This could be shown in control experiments with fructose and glucose as substrates given separated or in combination with xylitol. The highest uptake of C-atoms has been observed with glucose plus xylitol as substrate. 3. 99% of the metabolized xylitol was recovered in the products lactate, Co2 and D-xylulose. 4. There was no measurable oxalate production from xylitol.
Inositol trisphosphate (IP3), a product of the phosphoinositide cycle, mobilizes intracellular Ca2+ in many cell types. New evidence suggests that inositol tetrakisphosphate (IP4), an IP3 derivative, may act as another second messenger to further alter calcium homeostasis. However, the function and mechanism of action of IP4 are presently unresolved. We now report evidence of muscarinic receptor-mediated accumulation of IP4 in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells, a classic neurosecretory system in which calcium movements have been well studied. Muscarine (0.4 mM) stimulated an increase in [3H]IP4 and [3H]IP3 accumulation in chromaffin cells and this effect was completely blocked by atropine (0.5 mM). [3H]IP4 accumulation was detectable within 15 sec, increased to a maximum by 30 sec and thereafter declined. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, an inhibitor of IP3 and IP4 hydrolysis, enhanced accumulation of these inositol polyphosphates. The results provide the first evidence of a rapid inositol tetrakisphosphate response in adrenal chromaffin cells, which should facilitate the future resolution of the relationship between IP4 and calcium homeostasis.
Starting from 2-phosphoglycerate the biosynthesis of cDPG comprises two steps: (i) the phosphorylation of 2-phosphoglycerate to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and (ii) the intramolecular cyclization to cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The involved enzymes, 2-phosphoglycerate kinase and cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate synthetase, were purified form Methanothermus fervidus. Their molecular and catalytic properties were characterized.
Abstract : Addition of methylene blue (MB) in concentrations of 0.001 to 0.00001 M to CPD blood resulted in lowered levels of glutathione and glutathione reductase. The levels of adenosinetriphosphate were not affected by the addition of MB. However, the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels remained higher than the control values after 21 to 42 days of storage at all MB concentrations used. Hemoglobin function was better maintained by the two lower concentrations of MB during most of the storage period. The high concentration had an adverse or opposite effect. (Author)
Regeneration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) was determined following transfusion of DPG-depleted group O red cells into group A recipients. Blood from five donors was stored in the adenine-containing solutions CPDA-1, AS-1 or AS-3 for 35 d at 4 degrees C. Post-transfusion red cell DPG and ATP were measured in separated group O red cells over a 7 d period. The studies confirmed rapid in vivo DPG regeneration with greater than or equal to 50% of the maximum level being achieved within 7 h. An average of 95% of the recipients' pre-transfusion DPG level was achieved by 72 h and by 7 d mean (+/- SEM) DPG levels relative to recipient's pre-transfusion DPG averaged 84% (+/- 13%), 92% (+/- 17%) and 84% (+/- 21%) for CPDA-1, AS-1 and AS-3 red cells, respectively. Results were comparable to those previously reported for blood stored in ACD for 15-20 d (Valeri & Hirsch, 1969; Beutler & Wood, 1969). The immediate regeneration rate, V, closely approximated first order regeneration kinetics with AS-3 red cells exhibiting double the rate of CPDA-1 red cells (P less than 0.001). AS-1 red cells exhibited an intermediate rate of regeneration which was not significantly different compared to either CPDA-1 or AS-3 (P greater than 0.05). V exhibited a significant (P less than 0.05) positive correlation with ATP levels 5-7 h post-infusion. ATP regeneration of the infused cells was rapid with a mean increase of 1.2 mumol/g Hb above post-storage levels being achieved 1 h following transfusion.
New concepts concerning the pathogenesis and therapy of diabetic ketoacidosis are reviewed. The regulation of ketogenesis by intrahepatic enzymic processes and the roles of insulin deficiency or glucagon or other counterregulatory hormone excess are summarized. Major emphasis is placed on an analysis of the use of low-dose insulin regimens for the treatment of ketoacidosis. Most patients with diabetic ketoacidosis will respond to low-dose, hourly, intravenous or intramuscular regular insulin. Low doses of insulin are as effective as high doses and have fewer associated complications of hypoglycemia and hypokalemia. Phosphorus deficiency is common in diabetic ketoacidosis and hypophosphatemia usually becomes manifest within 4 to 12 h of institution of therapy. Phosphorus supplementation is now generally recommended to replete erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and improve oxygen delivery to tissues. Coexistent and biochemically significant lactic acidosis is a relatively infrequent complication of diabetic ketoacidosis and when present is usually due to underlying disorders associated with poor tissue perfusion.
Humans migrating out of Africa encountered new conditions, including living at high altitude. Tibetans and Andean Aymaras have inhabited regions of 4,000 meters or more for ~44,000 and 14,000 years respectively (Hu et al, PLoS Genet 2017, Rademaker et al, Science 2014). There is a distinct difference in erythroid phenotypes: Aymaras are polycythemic at high altitude, while most Tibetans are not. Mutations providing an advantage in highlanders will improve fitness under hypoxic conditions,including modulation of erythropoiesis through the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) pathway. There are few shared, naturally-selected gene regions in Aymaras and Tibetans and these have different phenotypic associations (Bigham et al, Am J Hum Biol 2013). Aymara high-altitude selected haplotypes have not been published. Tibetan EPAS 1 (encoding HIF2a protein) haplotypes in part originated from ancient Denisovans and entered the Tibetan genome through introgression (Huerta-Sanchez et al, Nature 2014). Tibetan variant prolyl hydroxylase 2 (PHD2), a negative regulator of HIFs encoded by EGLN1 gene, encodes in cis both PHD2D4E and PHD2C127S which together have increased activity in hypoxia (Lorenzo et al, Nature Genetics 2014) and, together with a Tibetan EPAS 1 haplotype, protects from high altitude polycythemia (Tashi et al, JMM 2017). We and others previously identified other Tibetans haplotypes that are not unique but are enriched in Tibetans, including a "Tibetan" haplotype of PKLR encoding liver- and red cell-specific pyruvate kinase (PK) (Simonson et al, Science 2010, and Yi et al, Science 2010). We studied Tibetan-enriched haplotypes of EGLN1, EPAS1 and PKLR in 72 Bolivian Andean Aymaras, all residing at 4,000 m, and compared them with 347 Tibetans living at altitudes of 200 m and 4,300 m (Table). We genotyped PHD2D4E and PHD2C127S variants of EGLN1 and 10 Tibetan specific single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of EPAS1, 5 Denisovan and 5 non-Denisovan, each under different linkage disequilibrium (Hu et all, PLoS Genet 2017), 7 Tibetan enriched PKLR SNPs, and searched for Aymara selected variants by whole genome sequencing. The prevalence of the Tibetan-selected EGLN1 and EPAS1 haplotypes increased with increasing altitude of residence in Tibetans, suggesting a continuous evolutionary advantage (Tashi et al, JMM 2017). Aymaras did not have the PHD2D4E haplotype, and PHD2C127S was found at lower prevalence in heterozygote form. Aymaras shared two of five non-Denisovan EPAS1 SNPs selected in Tibetans; one, rs130005507 G allele, had a similar prevalence to Tibetans, but another, rs142764723 C allele, had a lower prevalence. We report that >90% of Tibetans and ~50% of Aymaras, but only ~10% of Europeans, have the "Tibetan " PKLR haplotype. Aymara females with homozygous PKLR haplotypes have lower hemoglobins than heterozygotes (p=0.022). Further, the PKLR transcript in reticulocytes decreases with increasing altitude and this progressive decrease is even more pronounced in the "Tibetan" haplotype. We found Aymaras9 selected haplotypes encoding BRINP3, NOS2, TBX5 ; these genes are associated with cardiovascular development and function but not hypoxia sensing. They are not enriched in Tibetans. We conclude that Aymara highlanders do not have the Tibetan PHD2D4E mutation or Denisovan-like EPAS1 variants. Furthermore, they share only two of five Tibetan non- Denisovan EPAS1 variants. The absence of these variants in Aymaras supports that Tibetan and Aymara high altitude inhabitants do not have the same ancestry, that they developed different evolutionary adaptations (Bigham et al, Am J Hum Biol 2013), and that Tibetans9 EGLN1 and EPAS1 mutations are unique to that part of the world. We hypothesize that decreased PK enzyme activity would be expected to increase 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) (as is shown in people with PK enzyme deficiency) and thus be beneficial to high altitude adaptation by progressively augmenting tissue oxygen delivery with increasing altitude. Based on its association with lower hemoglobin in Aymara females, the selected "Tibetan" PKLR haplotype, present in about half of Aymaras, may contribute to their hypoxic adaptation. Additional evaluation of evolutionary selected genes including PKLR, BRINP3, NOS 2, and TBX5 and their functional consequences are in progress with Aymaras living at El Alto (4,150 m), Cochabamba (2,500 m) and Santa Cruz, (416m), Bolivia. Disclosures No relevant conflicts of interest to declare.
It was shown that on the 30th-60th days of training rats to hypoxia under conditions of pressure chamber there was an increase in ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content in erythrocytes. By changing the affinity of hemoglobin to oxygen the mentioned shifts could play an important role in the improvement of oxygen supply to the tissues.
Abstract -Blood oxygen transport and tissue oxygenation were studied in 28 calves from the Belgian White and Blue breed (20 healthy and 8 hypoxaemic ones). Hypoxaemic calves were selected according to their high respiratory frequency and to their low partial oxygen pressure (PaO 2 ) in the arterial blood. Venous and arterial blood samples were collected, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate, chloride, inorganic phosphate and hemoglobin concentrations, and pH, PCO 2 and PO 2 were determined. An oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) was measured in standard conditions, for each animal. The arterial and venous OEC were calculated, taking body temperature, pH and PCO 2 values in arterial and venous blood into account. The oxygen exchange fraction (OEF%), corresponding to the degree of blood desaturation between the arterial and the venous compartments, and the amount of oxygen released at the tissue level by 100 mL of blood (OEF Vol%) were calculated from the arterial and venous OEC combined with the PO 2 and hemoglobin concentration. In hypoxaemic calves investigated in this study, the hemoglobin oxygen affinity, measured under standard conditions, was not modified. On the contrary, in vivo acidosis and hypercapnia induced a decrease in the hemoglobin oxygen affinity in arterial blood, which combined to the decrease in PaO 2 led to a reduced hemoglobin saturation degree in the arterial compartment. However, this did not impair the oxygen exchange fraction (OEF%), since the hemoglobin saturation degree in venous blood was also diminished. (32) 
Thyroid hormones influence numerous physiological and biochemical events in cells, and are essential for healthy growth and development of neurological and skeletal systems. They have catabolic effects on muscle and adipose tissue and regulate cholesterol synthesis and degradation. Thyroid hormones have positive ionotropic and chronotropic effects on the heart (Scott-Moncrieff 2007). Thyroid hormones markedly stimulate Na + K + ATPase activity, which is connected to Na + and K + transport through the plasma membrane (Schaafsma et al. 2002; Slob et al. 2004 ). This process increases ATP utilisation. As a great part of oxygen consumption in the whole organism maintaining this transport system, the principal effect of the thyroid gland on the basal metabolism is expected to be correlated exactly with this effect. Thyroid hormones increase the metabolic rate and oxygen consumption of most tissues, with the exception of the adult brain, testes, uterus, lymph nodes, spleen and anterior pituitary (Ferguson 1988; Freake and Oppenheimer 1995). They increase the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate production in erythrocytes, which facilitates oxygen release from haemoglobin and they stimulate the generation of heat. This supports the hypothesis that total thyroxine concentrations should vary in relation to ambient temperature and should reflect seasonal variation, too (Freake and Oppenheimer 1995).
It has been postulated that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG)-mediated changes in oxyhemoglobin affinity play an important role in oxygen delivery; however, the effect of an acute increase in affinity without changing red cell mass has not been systematically evaluated. This study was designed to measure changes in oxygen transport and oxygen consumption produced by an acute increase in oxyhemoglobin affinity caused by an autologous exchange transfusion using DPG-depleted stored blood.
HbO 2 ) is not a simple chemical equilibrium characterized by an equilibrium constant. Instead, O 2 binds cooperatively with Hb, altering its tetrameric conformation and switching the O 2 binding properties. The process is adequately described by the HbO 2 and MbO 2 dissociation curves, in which the square hyperbola for MbO 2 shows a stiff high O 2 affinity (P 50 = 2.9 mmHg) and the sigmoidal shape for HbO 2 shows a lower O 2 affinity (P 50 = 23 mmHg) (2). P 50 is the pO 2 necessary to half-saturate these O 2 -binding proteins ( Figure  2 ). The sigmoidal shape of the HbO 2 saturation/dissociation curve has fascinated scientists for a long time and fostered the concepts of cooperativity and changes in biochemical properties by protein conformation. In the tissues, the HbO 2 dissociation curve is shifted to the right, implying less affinity of Hb towards O 2 , by the Bohr effect which is caused by the reversible combination of CO 2 to Hb protein amino groups after diffusion of CO 2 from the tissues to the RBC. The Bohr effect in arterioles and capillaries effectively improves tissue oxygenation and is also favored by the simultaneous decrease in pH and by changes in RBC metabolites, as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2). Other factors such as temperature increase or NO (8) also shift the curve to the right. It is important to emphasize that this rightward shift only occurs at a pO 2 below 60 torr (70 microM O 2 , 8 kPa) which indicates a more effective O 2 supply to the tissues when metabolic stress, such as exercise or sepsis, takes place.
The principal component of normal adult human hemoglobin Ao, was equilibrated under various conditions with 13CO2. In addition, derivatives containing specifically carbamylated NH2-terinal groups in alpha or beta chains, or both, were prepared by treatment with cyanate, and equilibrated likewise to allow the identification of specific resonances observed by 13C nuclear magnetic resonance. In deoxyhemoglobin, a resonanance at 29.2 ppm upfield of external CS2 was assigned to the alpha chain terminal adduct, and one at 29.8 ppm to the beta chain terminal adduct. In the liganded state as the CO derivative, the terminal adduct on both chains showed a common resonance position at 29.8 ppm. Small effects of pH on the resonance positions were observed. Under certain conditions, a resonance was observed at 33.4 ppm, probably not ascribable to a carbamino compound. A carbamino resonance that became prominent at higher pH was found at 28.4 ppm, and is tentatively ascribed to one or more adducts on epsilon amino groups. The beta chain resonances in particular are minimized by the presence of inositol hexaphosphate or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Quantitative analysis of the resonance intensities shows that the effects of conversion from the deoxy to the liganded state in reducing the degree of carbamino adduct is much more pronounced for the beta than for the alpha chains.
Measurements of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (EGOT) in erythrocytes were performed on normal and iron deficient patients. The results show a significant elevation in the level of 2,3-DPG per red blood cell (RBC) and per gram of hemoglobin and an elevation of EGOT in the iron-deficient subjects. There was no correlation between rise in the levels of 2,3-DPG and EGOT. Neither 2,3-DPG nor EGOT correlated with the level of hemoglobin or with the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC). Adenosine triphosphate was not elevated in the iron-deficient patients. Thus, elevation of 2,3-DPG level in iron deficiency cannot be explained only by a decrease in hemoglobin concentration. Other factors such as cell age and intraerythrocytic pH may influence the level of 2,3-DPG in this and possibly other anemic states.
A LTHOUGH OUR understanding of the various parameters influencing the collection, separation, and storage of blood cells has progressively improved during past decades, with the exception of apheresis technologies, there have been surprisingly few advances in the practice of routine blood collection and component separation. This review attempts to summarize recent developments and to suggest steps that might be taken to improve the quality of stored red blood cells (RBCs) to maximize their safety and their benefits for the transfused recipient. The RBC is a highly specialized cell .without a nucleus and devoid of protein synthesis. This means that it has to rely on its original contents of enzymes and other proteins for the whole of its limited lifetime. In addition, because it lacks mitochondria, it cannot use oxidative phosphorylation for adenosine triphosphate (ATP) regeneration but has to rely on metabolizing glucose to lactate. This results in a net gain of 2 moles of ATP, 2 H +, and 2 moles of lactate per 1 mole of glucose metabol ized--an ineffective mechanism for energy supply compared with mitochondrial oxidation via the citric acid cycle. Approximately 10% of the metabolic flux passes by way of the pentose phosphate pathway in which oxygen is consumed and carbon dioxide formed. A simplified metabolic outline is presented in Figure 1, which also illustrates some substances that can be used to influence the metabolism under in vitro storage conditions. The most important function of RBCs, oxygen transport, exposes the cell to toxic oxygen species, free oxygen radicals such as O 2 and OH', and to hydrogen peroxide. For protection against denaturation by peroxidation of the lipids in the membrane bilayer, its proteins and enzymes, a number of antioxidants such as vitamin E are available in both the liquid and cellular components of the blood, and redox machinery is provided within the red cell. A highly flexible membrane is essential for rapid uptake and release of oxygen and carbon dioxide. In this way, the RBC will have a great contact surface area between its own membrane and that of the capillaries as it rolls through these vessels like a small wheel with a big flat tire. This rolling also helps mix the viscous intracellular content. The degree of saturation of the RBC hemoglobin (Hb) and its dependence on the surrounding partial pressure of oxygen (pO2), can be graphically represented by a sigmoidal curve, the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC). The inflection point of this curve is at 50% Hb saturation. This point, the p50, normally has a value of approximately 3.6 kPa (27 mm Hg). The factors that most potently influence p50 are pH (H + and CO2) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). As pH is lowered, the ODC is shifted to the right, which means that the affinity of Hb for oxygen is reduced, oxygen is less readily bound and more readily released. In the normally functioning lung, pO2,is sufficiently high to result in nearly complete saturation, at both normal and moderately rightshifted ODC. In the peripheral circulation, the pH is lower than in the lungs, which promotes oxygen release. If the ODC is left-shifted, less oxygen will be delivered at a certain pO2. Because of competition between 2,3-DPG and oxygen at the same site on the Hb molecule, an increased concentration of 2,3-DPG will cause reduced oxygen affinity and a right shift of the ODC. Patients with chronic anemia usually have an increased erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration and a right-shifted ODC, which seems to give some compensation for the lower concentration of circulating cellular Hb. All currently used methods for the liquid storage of RBCs result in depletion of 2,3-DPG, generally after I to 2 weeks of storage. These RBCs will have a left-shifted ODC, greater oxygen affinity, and may supply less oxygen to the tissues. Cells with depleted 2,3-DPG will normalize within 48 to 72 hours after transfusion. 1-3
Abstract 1. 1. Incubation of human, rat, cow, sheep, dog, rabbit and monkey erythrocytes with phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) resulted in increased intracellular 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). 2. 2. Physiologic temperature (37°C) and a pH less than 6.5 were required for transport and metabolism of PEP in rat and monkey erythrocytes. 3. 3. Although erythrocytes from all species (except pig) exhibited PEP transport and metabolism, hemoglobin oxygen affinity (HOA) was affected only in species whose hemoglobins are sensitive to 2,3-DPG. 4. 4. These results suggest that the effect of PEP incubation on HOA is mediated through 2,3-DPG.
It is fundamental in the conceptual model of sickle cell disease that rigid red cells resulting from polymerization of sickle hemoglobin inhibit blood flow, resulting in tissue hypoxia and even infarction. However, measurement of tissue oxygen levels has been underinvestigated, particularly in patients. In this issue of Pediatric Blood & Cancer, Quinn and Dowling report the results of exploratory description of non-invasive tissue oximetry measurements in children with sickle cell disease at steady state, and relate them to measurements by transcranial Doppler that are accepted surrogate markers for risk of stroke in children with sickle cell disease. ::: ::: Tissue oximetry measures the oxygen saturation of hemoglobin within the tissue using light in the near infrared spectrum, much as standard pulse oximetry measures oxygen saturation in primarily arterial blood [1]. Near infrared light penetrates tissue more deeply, detecting oxygen saturation in a mixed arterial, venous and capillary bed approximately 1.7 cm deep. The use of near infrared light spectroscopy (NIRS) monitoring of cerebral oxygenation has been growing in the neonatal intensive care unit, cardiac surgery and other critical care settings. The application of tissue oximetry monitoring in sickle cell disease would seem to be a logical application of this new technology. However, only limited results have been published in this area up until now. ::: ::: In this issue, Quinn and Dowling find that 75% of children with sickle cell anemia have lower cerebral oximetry measurements than the normal reference range. This is consistent with Nahavandi and colleagues at Howard University who used a very early generation NIRS instrument to measure cerebral oxygenation in a pilot study of 27 adults with sickle cell disease compared to controls [2]. Nahavandi found that the mean cerebral oxygen saturation was significantly lower in the group with SS disease compared to 14 healthy and 5 anemic controls (47.7% vs. 61.3% vs. 59.8%, P< 0.0001). ::: ::: Quinn and Dowling link two abnormal physiological measurements together, the cerebral oxygen saturation and the cerebral blood flow velocity, the latter validated as risk predictor of stroke in children with sickle cell disease. Additionally, they show preliminary evidence of asymmetric localization of cerebral hemisphere desaturation to the side detected to have abnormal transcranial Doppler velocity. Does one cause the other? Hypothetically, vasculopathy such as stenosis in the cerebral arteries could lead to decreased regional blood flow and impaired tissue oxygenation, promoting risk of stroke. The converse hypothesis is also tenable based on known autoregulation pathways of cerebral blood flow: Regional brain ischemia due to sickle cell anemia stimulates a compensatory cerebral vasodilatory response that increases blood flow velocity. If this is true, it might help to explain why increased cerebral blood flow velocity predicts stroke risk even when associated with increased total cerebral blood flow in the absence of arterial stenoses [3]. ::: ::: What are the causes or consequences of low cerebral oxygen saturation? In a multivariable analysis, Quinn and Dowling find that the independent correlates of cerebral desaturation are anemia, age and pulse oximetry. Each one of these variables merits separate discussion. ::: ::: Anemia is significantly correlated to low cerebral oxygenation as indicated by NIRS (rho = 0.38, P < 0.001). Improvement in anemia by blood transfusion was immediately accompanied by immediate improvement in cerebral oximetry values. This was also reported by Nahavandi, who observed in 7 sickle cell adults that simple transfusion prompted a rise in cerebral oxygen saturation from 32 ± 2.4% to 45.2 ± 3.6% (P < 0.0001). In their subgroup with limited numbers, the post-transfusion cerebral oxygen saturation correlated very closely with the total hemoglobin level (r = 0.811, P < 0.001). These consistent findings of lower cerebral oximetry values with more severe anemia in sickle cell disease are reminiscent of recent findings of Vichinsky and colleagues, who show that more severe anemia is associated with worse neurocognitive function in adults with sickle cell anemia [4]. ::: ::: Older age is associated with progressively lower cerebral oxygen saturation among the children screened with NIRS oximetry by Quinn and Dowling (Spearman rho = -0.55, P < 0.001). Although correlation to age was not tested by Nahavandi et al., analysis of the raw data provided in their paper on 20 patients in steady state yields remarkably similar correlation in adulthood (rho = -0.60, P = 0.0048)[2]. Combined with Vichinsky's observations [4], these three cross-sectional studies imply the grim picture that the most anemic patients with sickle cell anemia generally have cerebral hypoxia and impaired cognitive performance only worsens with age. ::: ::: The finding of a lower cerebral oxygen saturation as a risk marker by Quinn and Dowling parallels previously published work from Quinn and from several other groups showing in sickle cell patients that low systemic oxygen saturation is a biomarker associated with risks of high cerebral blood flow velocity, cardiopulmonary complications and death [5-8]. Lower saturation detected by these different instruments may be reflecting in part the same biological factors and overlapping clinical risks. ::: ::: Oxygen saturation is not precisely the same as oxygen concentration, since hemoglobin saturation is a function of not only the partial pressure of oxygen, but also of the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin, which is long known to be low in sickle cells. Sickle erythrocytes have high intracellular concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which decreases oxygen affinity (increased P50), lowering oxygen saturation at any given oxygen tension [9]. Is it possible that lower oxygen saturation in both cerebral and systemic measurements in sickle cell patients is partly a surrogate marker of decreased oxygen affinity of erythrocytes? This is not a trivial matter, because experimentally reduced red cell oxygen affinity in severely anemic mice interferes with microvascular oxygen delivery and extraction even without sickle cell anemia [10]. Furthermore, an increased percentage of deoxyhemoglobin S would be expected to promote sickling and microvascular sludging. ::: ::: Further research will be required to determine whether low cerebral and systemic oxygen saturation measurements in sickle cell disease directly reflect low oxygen delivery to the brain or alternatively represent an increased pool of deoxyhemoglobin S that increases its polymerization and sickling. Additional investigations with tissue oximetry will contribute to these answers.
BACKGROUND ::: Canadian Blood Services has been conducting quality monitoring of red blood cell (RBC) components since 2005, a period spanning the implementation of semiautomated component production. The aim was to compare the quality of RBC components produced before and after this production method change. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Data from 572 RBC units were analyzed, categorized by production method: Method 1, RBC units produced by manual production methods; Method 2, RBC units produced by semiautomated production and the buffy coat method; and Method 3, RBC units produced by semiautomated production and the whole blood filtration method. RBC units were assessed using an extensive panel of in vitro tests, encompassing regulated quality control criteria such as hematocrit (Hct), hemolysis, and hemoglobin (Hb) levels, as well as adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, extracellular K(+) and Na(+) levels, methemoglobin, p50, RBC indices, and morphology. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Throughout the study, all RBC units met mandated Canadian Standards Association guidelines for Hb and Hct, and most (>99%) met hemolysis requirements. However, there were significant differences among RBC units produced using different methods. Hb content was significantly lower in RBC units produced by Method 2 (51.5 ± 5.6 g/unit; p < 0.001). At expiry, hemolysis was lowest in Method 2-produced RBC units (p < 0.05) and extracellular K(+) levels were lowest in units produced by Method 1 (p < 0.001). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: While overall quality was similar before and after the production method change, the observed differences, although small, indicate a lack of equivalency across RBC products manufactured by different methods.
Phosphorus NMR can measure myocardial tissue pH from the chemical shift of inorganic phosphate (Pi) in isolated buffer-perfused hearts, but in vivo the Pi peak originating from the myocardium is obscured by the resonance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in the blood, making pH difficult to determine. Taking advantage of the fact that most of the interfering DPG is within the cardiac chambers and is rapidly flowing out of the sensitive volume of our coil, we developed a pulse sequence which would separate myocardial Pi signal from interfering DPG. We tested this method on a flow phantom and in living rat heart, using exogenous glycerol phosphate as a blood-pool marker. The results indicated that signal from moving and nonmoving substances could be separated, and derived values for myocardial pH and PCr/Pi ratio were consistent with previous estimates. This method should be useful for studying myocardial acid-base physiology with NMR.
Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels in- crease in hyperthyroidism. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of thyroid hormones on red blood cell (RBC) 2,3-DPG levels. Erythrocyte suspensions, prepared from whole blood samples of healthy volunteers, were incubated with 4 ng/mL 3,5,3�-triiodothyronine (T3) and 0,15 �g/mL 3,3�,5,5�-tetraiodothy- ronine (T4) at 37°C for 1 hour. These incubations were also done in the presence of inhibitors that exert effect on the enzymes of the Rapoport-Luebering cycle (RLC) in which 2,3-DPG is formed. Diphosphoglycerate mutase (DPGM) and phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) were inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide (NEM; 750 mg/L) and suramin (SUR; 3 mmol/L), respectively. Triiodothyronine, T3 � NEM, and T3 � SUR incubations all caused an increase in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG levels compared with controls. When erythrocytes were incubated with T3 in the presence of both inhibitors, however, no increase in 2,3-DPG levels was observed. These data suggest that thyroid hormones may control 2,3-DPG accumulation in RBCs.
Changes of osmolality (Osm) were measured by freezing-point determination in true plasma of 10 healthy subjects. This was done after equilibration with CO2 (0.5-10.0%), after the addition of lactic acid (10 and 20 mmol/l), and after deoxygenation. The graph for the dependence of Osm on CO2 partial pressure (PCO2) in oxygenated blood resembles the classical CO2 absorption curve. The increase of Osm with PCO2 (approximately 0.2 mosmol . kg H2O-1 . Torr-1) is almost as great as the increase in dissolved CO2 plus bicarbonate (HCO-3). Addition of lactic acid shifts the curve upward by only 0.6 mosmol/mmol because of displacement of HCO-3. Deoxygenation has no significant effect at constant PCO2 despite an increase in [HCO-3]. This is probably due to the binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to hemoglobin. It can be seen in the Osm-pH diagram that differences between CO2 and lactic acid titration largely disappear. For each lactic acid concentration there is a linear dependence corresponding to the linear [HCO-3]-pH relation in plasma. At constant pH, Osm increases after deoxygenation. The observed in vitro relation might explain part of the osmolality increase during physical exercise.
It took about forty years after GREENWALD discovered in 1925 (1) 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) to be a major constituent of red blood cells (RBC) before the first reports were published concerning the functional significance of this compound. While CHANUTIN and CURNISH detected the binding of 2,3-DPG to hemoglobin (2), BENESCH and BENESCH (3) as well as CHANUTIN (4) almost simultaneously demonstrated the effects of this binding on the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin.
Abstract : Red cells obtained from human, monkey and canine subjects were stored in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) over a six week period and periodically tested for mid saturation point (P50), pH, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels. In addition, blood obtained from dogs kept chronically anemic and also from those undergoing daily exercise was stored and compared to the other groups. The anemic and exercised groups were found to have higher than normal DPG values, with only the exercise group showing corresponding elevation in P50 levels. The results showed a general decrease in all tested values with storage. (Modified author abstract)
I. Relationship Between Red Cell Metabolism and Function.- Session 1 - A. Chanutin, Chairman.- Binding of Organic Phosphates to Hemoglobin A and Hemoglobin F.- Effect of Glutathione and Some Other Substances on the Oxygen Dissociation Curve of Hemoglobin and Experimental Therapy of Hemmorrhagic Shock with Solutions Enriched with Glutathione.- Variation in 2, 3-Diphosphoglycerate and ATP Levels in Human Erythrocytes and Effects on Oxygen Transport.- Binding of 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to Oxyhemoglobin Levels and Effect of DPG on Oxygen Affinity of Normal and Abnormal Blood.- Session 2 - C.-H. deVerdier, Chairman.- Dependence of Oxyhemoglobin Dissociation and Intraerythrocytic 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate on Acid-Base Status of Blood I. In vitro Studies of Reduced and Oxygenated Blood.- II. Clinical and Experimental Studies.- Erythrocyte Glycolytic Intermediates and Cofactors Correlated with the Haemoglobin Concentration in Human Neonates and Adults.- Studies of Red Cell Glycolysis and Interactions with Carbon Monoxide, Smoking, and Altitude.- II. Metabolic Control Mechanisms in the Red Cell.- Session 3 - A. Chanutin, Chairman.- General Features of Metabolic Control as Applied to the Erythrocyte.- The Enzymes 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate Metabolism in the Human Red Cell.- Metabolism of 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate in Red Blood Cells Under Various Experimental Conditions.- III. Interaction of the Cardiac, Pulmonary, and Erythrocyte Systems in Respiratory Homeostasis.- Session 4 - R. Grover, Chairman.- The Respiratory Function of the Blood.- Systemic Oxygen Transport.- Adaptation to Hypoxia.- Adaptation of the Red Blood Cell to Muscular Exercise.- A Comparison of Mechanisms of Oxygen Transport Among Several Mammalian Species.- IV. Erythrocyte Function after Blood Storage.- Session 5 - G. Bartlett, Chairman.- Patterns of Phosphate Compounds in Red Blood Cells of Man and Animals.- Biological Alterations Occurring During Red Cell Preservation.- The Prediction of Poststorage Red Cell Viability from ATP Levels.- Application of a Mechanized Method for the Determination of Different Glycolytic Intermediates in the Routine Quality Control of Red Cells.- Red Cell 2,3-DPG, ATP, and Creatine Levels in Preserved Cells and in Patients with Red Cell Mass Deficits or with Cardiopulmonary Insufficiency.- The Hemoglobin Function of Blood Stored at 4 C.- Appendix - Discussion of Papers in Order of Presentation.
A total of 13 metabolites thought to be possibly inhibitory were tested for their influence on PGM isozyme activities, each at several different concentrations. The analysis of statistical significance was based on enzyme activities obtained by densitometric measurements of starch gels. Five of the substances were found to inhibit PGM activity, three of which definitely and a further one probably led to a significantly stronger inhibition of the isozymes of the PGM2 locus than of PGM1 isozymes. They are (1) fructose-1,6-diphosphate, (2) adenosine triphosphate, (3) citrate, and (4) possibly 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Thus, PGM1 isozymes proved to function better in hard or perhaps marginal metabolic conditions. Related evolutionary aspects are discussed.
We examined the blood of four dasyurid marsupials, all small, active insectivores and/or carnivores, to establish if there were any specializations in oxygen transport. All four species had hemoglobins with a low affinity for oxygen. This was demonstrated by high $P_{50}$'s (the partialpressure of oxygen [PO₂] at which the hemoglobin is half-saturated with oxygen) of the whole blood (means of 38.3-59.8 mmHg) and of red cells suspended in a physiological buffer (means of 41.6-49.0 mmHg) at a CO₂ tension of 43 mmHg. There was a strong correlation betuween increase in body mass over three orders of magnitude and increase in the oxygen affinity of the whole blood. The effects of changing CO₂ tensions on the oxygen affinity of whole blood were measured as △log $P_{50}/{\Delta}log$ PCO₂; mean values ranged from 0.25 to 0.373. Values for △log $P_{50}/{\Delta}pH$ wuere measured for red-cell suspensions; means values ranged from -0.40 to -0.481. The introduction of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate significantly decreased th...
Abstract Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM), an important enzyme in the glycolytic pathway, catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group between the 2 and the 3 positions of glyceric acid. The gene coding for the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate independent monomeric PGM from Bacillus stearothermophilus (57 kDa), whose activity is extremely pH sensitive and has an absolute and specific requirement for Mn 2+ , has been cloned and the enzyme overexpressed and purified to homogeneity. Circular dichroism studies showed at most only small secondary structure changes in the enzyme upon binding to Mn 2+ or its 3-phosphoglycerate substrate, but thermal unfolding analyses revealed that Mn 2+ but not 3-phosphoglycerate caused a large increase in the enzyme's stability. Diffraction-quality crystals of the enzyme were obtained at neutral pH in the presence of 3-phosphoglyceric acid with ammonium sulfate as the precipitating agent; these crystals diffract X rays to beyond 2.5-A resolution and belong to the orthorhombic space group C 222 1 with unit cell dimensions, a = 58.42, b = 206.08, c = 124.87 A, and α = β = γ = 90.0°. The selenomethionyl version of the B. stearothermophilus protein has also been overexpressed, purified, and crystallized. Employing these crystals, the determination of the three-dimensional structure of this PGM by the multiwavelength anomalous dispersion method is in progress.
The effect of oral disodium ethane-1-hydroxy-1,1-diphosphonate, EHDP (20 mg kg-1 day-1) and placebo given for 28 days on plasma inorganic phosphate (Pi) red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and oxygen affinity of hemoglobin was evaluated in 14 insulin-treated diabetics and 5 healthy volunteers. EHDP significantly increased mean Pi (diabetics: 1.18 to 1.67 mmol/l, p less than 0.01, controls: 1.03 to 1.71 mmol/l, p less than 0.02) and P50 at in vivo pH of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (diabetics: 25.4 to 26.6 mmHg, p less than 0.02; controls: 26.3 to 28.9 mmHg, p less than 0.02). Pi and P50 were correlated in both diabetics and in controls (p less than 0.05). 2,3-DPG increased when the diabetics were on EHDP (p less than 0.005). The study emphasizes the importance of Pi on red cell function and indicates that an elevation of Pi tends to counteract the defect in oxygen release capacity of the red cells in diabetic subjects.
Previous studies (Benesch et al., 1972, 1973, 1975) have shown that a variety of specifically modified hemoglobins having a wide range of functional properties can be prepared by reacting human hemoglobin with different pyridoxal compounds and then reducing the products with sodium borohydride. In particular, the modified hemoglobins (αPLS‡‡Abbreviations used: PLP, pyridoxal 5′-phosphate; PLS, pyridoxal 5′-sulfate; NFPLP, 2-nor-2-formylpyridoxal 5′-phosphate; DPG, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; HbXL, αβ-NFPLP-βα hemoglobin.)2β2, α2(βPLP)2 and αβ-NFPLP-βα have been characterized, respectively, as the reduced products of the reactions of pyridoxal 5′-sulfate with the NH2-termini of the α chains, pyridoxal 5′-phosphate with the NH2-termini of the β chains, and 2-nor-2-formylpyridoxal 5′-phosphate (which contains two reactive aldehyde groups) with one amino group from each β chain to form a stable cross-link between the β chains. In this paper, we report the three-dimensional structures of the deoxy forms of these hemoglobins as determined by X-ray diffraction methods. ::: ::: We find the pyridoxal side chains of these hemoglobins to be oriented as follows. ::: 1. ::: (1) The PLS side chains of (αPLS)2β2 are positioned so that each sulfate group replaces a weakly bound inorganic anion to form salt bridges between the newly formed secondary amine of valine 1α and the guanidinium ion of arginine 141 on the opposite α chain. The pyridoxal ring interacts with residues of the H-helix on the same α chain to which it is attached. ::: ::: 2. ::: (2) In α2(βPLP)2, the PLP phosphate groups are located very near the positions occupied by the phosphate groups of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the deoxyhemoglobin-DPG complex, and serve as permanently bound counterions for the basic side chains of histidine 143, histidine 2, and lysine 82 of both β subunits. Each pyridoxal ring displaces a firmly bound inorganic anion and interacts with residues of the EF corner on the same β chain to which it is attached. ::: ::: 3. ::: (3) In the case of αβ-NFPLP-βα, we find that the cross-link is asymmetric with the 2′ and 4′ carbons of NFPLP joined to the amino nitrogens of lysine 82β1 and valine 1β2, respectively. The phosphate group replaces the firmly bound inorganic anion mentioned above, and the 3-oxygen of the pyridoxal ring interacts with the imidazole group of histidine 143β1. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Relative to the structure of deoxyhemoglobin A, no significant changes in α chain tertiary structure are observed for (αPLS)2β2, only small changes in β chain tertiary structure occur in α2(βPLP)2, but exceptionally large perturbations to the structure of one β chain result from the cross-link in αβ-NFPLP-βα. The relationships between the structures of these hemoglobin derivatives and their functional properties are discussed.
Recent n.m.r. studies of intact red cells are described. With $^1$ H n.m.r. the normal high resolution spectra of red cells, even at high fields, are relatively uninformative because the very large number of resonances from the cells merge into a broad envelope. If a simple 90- $\tau$ -180 $^\circ$ spin echo pulse sequence is used, however, many resonances can be resolved. These include signals from haemoglobin histidines, glutathione, lactate and pyruvate. $^{13}$ C and $^{31}$ P signals have also been seen with a spectrometer converted to observe these nuclei essentially simultaneously. N.m.r. is well suited to monitor the time course of events after a perturbation of the cell system. Lactate increase, glutathione recovery after oxidation and alkylation of glutathione by iodoacetate can all be observed directly in red cell suspensions by means of $^1$ H spin echo n.m.r. This method has also been used to measure isotope exchange ( $^1$ H- $^2$ H) of lactate and of pyruvate at both the C-3 and the C-2 positions, and some of these exchange rates can be interpreted in terms of the activity of specific enzymes in the cells. $^1$ H spin echo n.m.r. has also been used to obtain information about the transport rates of small molecules into cells. By means of the $^{13}$ C/ $^{31}$ P spectrometer and \lbrack $^{13}$ C-1\rbrack glucose, the $^{13}$ C enrichment of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) can be monitored at the same time as the levels of 2,3-DPG, ATP and inorganic phosphate are observed by $^{31}$ P n.m.r.
OBJECTIVE ::: To determine the variables predicting the change of plasma phosphate over the first 24 hr period in intensive care in patients with acute respiratory failure. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Fifty-seven patients were studied prospectively in a university teaching hospital intensive care unit (ICU). Thirty two patients were classified as having acute respiratory failure and a primary respiratory system diagnosis (group I), 10 were classified as having acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema (group II) and 15 were general ICU patients (group III). Arterial blood specimens at intensive care unit admission (T0) and at 24 hr post-admission (T24) were assayed for multiple plasma biochemical parameters including phosphate (PO4) and red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Timed urine collections were used to determine 24 hr urine phosphate loss and renal phosphate threshold concentration (RTP). During the measurement period glucose-free fluids only were infused. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Fifty seven patients had a mean (+/- SD) age of 67 +/- 12 years and Apache II score of 22 +/- 6. The plasma PO4 at T0 was 1.55 +/- 0.71 mmol/L and showed a significant 24 hr decrease of 0.55 mmol/L (p < 0.0001) at T24. Hypophosphataemia at T0 was observed in 26% of patients. Red blood cell 2,3-DPG was not elevated at T0 (13.5 +/- 3.3 umol/gHb) and showed a non-significant increment over 24 hr. Urine phosphate loss over the 24 hr period was 21.8 +/- 14.0 mmol with RTP being reduced below the lower reference range limit in groups I (0.65 +/- 0.29 mmol/L) and II (0.57 +/- 0.29 mmol/L). The naive form of phosphate change (PO4T24-PO4T0) was significantly related to initial plasma PO4 and was subject to regression to the mean, which was estimated to have inflated the relationship by 25%. The appropriate form of phosphate change was found to be log ratio T24/T0 phosphate. Independent predictors of log ratio T24/T0 phosphate were 24 hr change (T24-T0) in both 2,3-DPG and arterial pH, RTP, prescription of aminophylline (categorical factor) and the interaction of aminophylline and RTP (R2 = 0.65, ordinary least squares regression). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Twenty-four hour plasma phosphate decrement in intensive care unit patients was multi-factorial and was attended by a lowered renal threshold phosphate concentration.
The content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was studied in the red blood cells of 145 patients with diabetes mellitus. A significant (P less than 0.001) increase in 2,3-DPG (8.10 +/- 0.42 mc mol/l of red blood cells) was seen in the diabetic patients as compared with that of the healthy subjects (4.50 +/- 0.40 mc mol/l ml of red blood cells). A rice in 2,3-DPG concentration is not dependent on the patients' age, duration, severity and type of the disease. The determination of a 2,3-DPG level maybe used for evaluation of tissue hypoxia in patients with diabetes mellitus.
Abstract Bundles of fibers of hemoglobin S in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate have been prepared from stirred solutions and examined by electron microscopy. The bundles are found to contain ordered arrays of fibers in an eight-stranded form, with strands staggered by 37 A, as characterized by optical and computer transforms. The characteristic reflections observed for individual fibers are also seen for large areas of the bundles, indicating the presence of the same form of the fibers throughout the bundles. Since 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is the natural hemoglobin cofactor, the structure observed in these studies is likely to bear a close correspondence to the structure in vivo .
The deformability of the erythrocyte membrane is believed to depend upon component interactions in the spectrin, actin and band 4.1 complex. Phosphate metabolites, such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) will dissociate spectrin from actin and band 4.1. This dissociation by 2,3 DPG is highly pH dependent but does not involve divalent cations, 2,3 DPG hydrolysis or spectrin dephosphorylation. In intact erythrocytes the concentrations of 2,3 DPG and the lipid, triphosphatidyl inositol, are sufficient to cause increased labilization in the spectrin, actin and band 4.1 network.
Haemoglobins (Hb) in their purified state exhibit a great deal of variation in terms of absolute affinities for oxygen and their susceptibility to control by effectors such as chloride, carbon dioxide, protons and organic phosphates, namely, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). This is generally thought to be a reflection of both the variable oxygen tension in which organisms live and the variable oxygen demands of their respiring tissues
Abstract The influence of several anions, such as ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inositol hexaphosphate, K4[Fe(CN)6] and K3[Co(CN)6], on the O2 binding of Hb A and the binding of n-propyl isocyanide to Hb A dependent upon pH was investigated. Known organic anions as well as inorganic polyanions and even inorganic phosphate ions decreased the affinity of Hb for ligands and increased the Bohr effect. The allosteric effectiveness of the anions investigated varied and was most pronounced with inositol hexaphosphate. By graphical extrapolation of the curves obtained from the pH dependence, which agree with a theoretical curve based on four equilibria, a shift of the ionization constant of a “heme-linked” group to a higher pK′ in the presence of allosteric anions was demonstrated. Furthermore it was demonstrated by ESR measurements that in the presence of inorganic phosphate, the high-low-spin ratio is changed by enhanced high-spin proportion, suggesting that the contact of iron with the proximal histidine (F8) is weakened. Finally, a favoring of tetramerization in the presence of ATP was found indicating that the α1β2-contact plane might be changed by allosteric anions.
The objective of the present study was to obtain information about the duration of tissue hypoxia in patients with iron deficiency anemia. That fact is of importance for the determination of the duration of maintenance iron therapy. The level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was studied during the treatment, after the correction of anemic syndrome and after 60-day out-patient department treatment. The data obtained revealed that the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was considerably elevated, as compared with the norm, before the treatment. After the active treatment and correction of anemic syndrome it was decreased, but remaining above the norm. By the 60th day of the out-patient department treatment the decrease continued and the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate approached the norm.
The relationship between the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in red blood cells as a biological indicator of tissue hypoxia and diabetic neuropathy, and the effect of a potent aldose reductase inhibitor, (2S,4S)-6-fluoro-2'5'-dioxospiro [chroman-4,4'-imidazolidine]-2-carboxamide (SNK-860), on both were investigated in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Diabetic rats demonstrated significantly delayed motor nerve conduction velocity and reduced sciatic nerve blood flow. Altered biochemical features in the sciatic nerves, including a marked accumulation of sorbitol and fructose, myo-inositol depletion and decreased Na+/K(+)-ATPase activity were also detected in diabetic rats. These defects were accompanied by a decrease in the red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration. Treatment with SNK-860 partially or completely ameliorated these abnormalities. These observations suggest that a decrease in the red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration is one of the factors contributing to tissue hypoxia, which results in diabetic neuropathy, and that this decrease is mediated through an aldose reductase inhibitor-sensitive pathway.
Here we describe an efficient method to generate functional erythroid cells from hESCs under conditions suitable for scale-up. The cells possess oxygen-transporting capacity comparable with normal RBCs and respond to changes in pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. We also show that they undergo a progressive decrease in size, chromatin condensation, and extrusion of the pycnotic nucleus to form enucleated erythrocytes with a diameter similar to normal RBCs. ␤-Globin chain specific antibody analysis showed that more than 16% of the cells after 28 days of culture express the adult ␤-globin chain.
The actual state of art of ozone therapy It is unpleasantly surprising that in the field of complementary medicine oxygen-ozonetherapy is not even mentioned because it is a recent development but mostly because it has no sponsors. Although the development of this topic has clearly shown to be well within the classical biochemistry and pharmacology, in contraposition to homeopathy, acupuncture, aromatherapy, Ayurveda and Chinese medicine, it remains unknown. On the other hand there is an ample literature and knowledge of ozone toxicity for the pulmonary system. Indeed as ozone has strong oxidizing properties, it seems paradoxical that this gas may display beneficial effects. Although this appears paradoxical, it has been proven true [10] . On the basis of this synthesis: 3O 2 + 68,400 Cal 2O 3 and the fact that the reaction is reversible, it has been shown that ozone readily dissolved in the blood water, releases its energy into hematic components, hence into the body during the reinfusion procedure into the blood donor. Ozone is about ten-fold more soluble in water than oxygen [11, 12] [20] [21] [22] . In other words, when the highest ozone concentration is mixed with blood, depending upon the modest interindividual variability of antioxidant potency (1.28-1.83 mmol/L plasma) [23] the highest H 2 O 2 concentration measured in plasma is 40-50 μM [24] and therefore inside the cells is at most 4-5 μM. This sudden inflow of this small amount of H 2 O 2 inside blood cells is the stimulus necessary to activate a series of biochemical reactions as follows: a) in the erythrocytes: activation of glycolysis with increase of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Functionally, the oxyhemoglobin sigmoid curve shifts to the right and increases the release of oxygen at the tissue level. The erythrocytes mop up most of the H 2 O 2 and promptly reduce it to water by catalase, thioredoxin, glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and reduced glutathione (GSH). The sudden formation of oxidized glutathione (glutathione disulphide; GSSG) alters the GSH/GSSG ratio but the cell quickly correct it by either extruding some glutathione disulphide or by reducing it via GSH reductase at the expense of either ascorbic acid or thioredoxin. This important recycling process occurs in about three minutes [25, 26] , Alternatively, activation of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) provides reducing power and activates glycolysis.
Hemoglobin, carboxyhemoglobin, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The NPT7 series (Radiometer, Copenhagen, Denmark) was used to measure Hgb and carboxyhemoglobin (COHgb) levels from whole blood samples collected in a heparin tube with spectroscopy. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels were measured in whole blood samples collected in heparin tubes with a spectrophotometric assay of NADPH oxidation (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany). The concentration of 2,3-DPG was expressed in micromoles per gram of hemoglobin.
The pH-dependent chemical shift behavior in 31P NMR spectroscopy of inorganic phosphate (Pi) and methylphosphonic acid (MeP) in solutions of various composition at 37 degrees C are presented. An ionic strength dependent lowering of the pKa values of both Pi and MeP is observed. 3 mmol/liter Mg2+ did not affect the pH-dependent chemical shift behavior of Pi and MeP in solutions containing 135 mmol/liter KCl and 5 mmol/liter NaCl. This finding was reinforced by adding 5 mmol/liter 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and 1.5 mmol/liter ATP to solutions with 3 mmol/liter Mg2+. The presence of these Mg2+-binding substances had no detectable effect on the chemical shift of Pi and MeP at various pH values. The pH dependence of the chemical shift of MeP, Pi, and 2,3-DPG in oxygenated erythrolysates was compared to protein free model solutions. No significant differences could be detected for MeP and Pi whereas there was a change in the chemical shift of about 0.1-0.2 ppm for both phosphates in 2,3-DPG. Finally intracellular pH estimated by 31P NMR were compared to pH measured by electrode in freeze-thawed hemolysates. At an extracellular pH of 7.341 +/- 0.045 (SD) (n = 6) the intracellular pH was 7.160 +/- 0.014 (SD) by the freeze-thaw procedure and 7.213 +/- 0.027 (SD), 7.172 +/- 0.029 (SD), and 7.152 +/- 0.033 (SD) estimated by the chemical shift of MeP, and 3-phosphorus and 2-phosphorus of 2,3-DPG, respectively.
The oxygen dissociation curve shifted less to the right in venous blood draining from muscle in eight insulin-deficient diabetics working at a constant submaximal workload than in seven normal controls (28.7 mm. Hg vs. 30.8 mm Hg; P less than 0.05). This diminution of the in-vivo Bohr effect at the muscle tissue level during exercise in diabetics was due to a significantly smaller decrease of venous blood pH (down to 7.33 vs. 7.27 in normals; P less than 0.05), probably a consequence of an latered muscle metabolism in insulin deficiency. Although no glucose was taken up, even during exercise, and less lactate was produced by insulin-deficient muscle (P less than 0.05), the differences in venous blood pH appeared to be brought about mainly by a different CO2 production of the exercising muscle in the two groups. The response of Krebs cycle activity to exercise in insulin-deficient muscle might have been inadequate, as suggested by the increased 3-hydroxybutyrate/acetoacetate ratio in the venous blood observed in the normal controls but not in the diabetics. Furthermore, proportionally less of the arterial ketone body concentration was utilized by the working muscle in the insulin-deficient diabetics. Changes in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate did not contribute to the differences in the in-vivo Bohr effect.
Abstract Oxygen levels in the pouch of the tammar wallaby, Macropus eugenii , have been related to the metabolic rate of the young at pouch temperatures and the oxygen transprot characteristics of its haemoglobin. Until 100 days of age, pouch young show mass-specific rates of oxygen consumption lower than predicted on the basis of body mass. This contrasts with data presented for laboratory mice. Oxygen levels in the pouch approximate atmospheric levels for the first 20 days and at times approachign pouch evacuation at 200 days. However, levels of around 17–18% occur at about the mid-point of pouch life. The oxygen-haemoglobin equilibrium curve shows a high P 50 (up to 50 Torr at 36°C 4) in the neonate, but after 2–3 weeks of age levels drop to those representative of the adult. Concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in early pouch young are higher than in the adult animal and peak at around 30 μmol/g Hb. There is a significant decrease in th concentration of this compound with the age of the young.
The effect of different amounts of phosphorus supplementation on phosphate metabolism was studied in two groups of sick preterms (B and C) during the first week of life. Group B included prematures that started formula milk feeding from day 3 and group C neonates on total parenteral nutrition with phosphate supplementation for 7 days. Twelve healthy preterm neonates on formula milk feeding from day 2 (group A) were used as controls. On the 7th day of life all phosphate parameters measured in group C (plasma and red cell inorganic phosphate and erythrocyte ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) were found significantly lower than in the controls (1.60 +/- 0.07; 0.60 +/- 0.08; 1.45 +/- 0.09 and 4.42 +/- 0.18 vs. 2.05 +/- 0.10; 0.94 +/- 0.11; 1.69 +/- 0.07 and 6.24 +/- 0.42 mmol/l, respectively). The renal tubular reabsorption of phosphate was also lower in this group (86.8 +/- 3.2 vs. 97.3 +/- 1.0%). No significant differences were observed between groups B and A. Higher phosphorus intake that was better achieved through early milk feeding prevented phosphate depletion and the decline of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the erythrocytes even of sick neonates which in turn might help to improve tissue oxygenation. The amount of parenteral phosphate supplementation that could have beneficial effects on red cell phosphate parameters needs further investigation.
Marrow regulation and iron metabolism were evaluated in 17 patients with mild or moderate anemia associated with chronic disorders. In addition, whole blood P50 and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels were measured. The study group consisted of seven patients with non-hematologic malignancies, nine with infection or inflammation, and one with idiopathic hypoproliferative anemia. The mean whole blood P50 and DPG levels were elevated to 28.5 +/- 1.9 mm Hg and 7.03 +/- 0.83 mumole/ml packed RBC, respectively, as compared to normal values of 26.6 +/- 0.6 mm Hg and 4.83 +/- 0.33 mumole/ml packed RBC. Erythropoietin (ESF) excretion was variable (1.1–28.7 IRP U, day), clearly elevated above normal in only three patients and, within the study group, bore no relation to hematocrit. While nine of the 17 subjects had ESF excretion rates within the 95% limits predicted by hematocrit, the remaining eight had lower than expected values. No significant differences in ferrokinetics, ESF excretion, or hematologic profile were found between patients with malignancy and those with inflammation. Marrow transit times correlated inversely with both serum and urine ESF activity (r = -0.57, p less than 0.02; and r = -0.63, p less than 0.01, respectively), indicating that the marrow reticulocyte release response to ESF stimulation was unimpaired. Erythroid iron turnovers were unrelated to serum or urinary ESF activity but were significantly correlated with serum iron levels expressed as microgram/100 ml whole blood (r = 0.56, p less than 0.02). These studies suggest that there is an intraerythrocytic response to the anemia in this group of patients, document that reduced ESF production is not a uniform finding with the anemia of chronic disorders, and provide evidence that the marrow proliferative response to anemia is limited in many patients primarily by the availability of iron.
Objective-To assess blood oxygen binding in calves with diarrhea. Animals-22 dairy and 26 double-muscled calves with diarrhea, 31 healthy dairy carves and 37 healthy double-muscled calves. Procedure-Severity of disease, including the ability of affected calves to stand, was evaluated. Hydration and signs of depression were scored. Venous and arterial blood samples were collected, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, chloride, inorganic phosphate, lactate, pyruvate, total protein, albumin, and hemoglobin concentrations, and Hct, pH, PCO2, and PO2 were determined. Oxygen equilibrium curves (OEC) were constructed under standard conditions, and oxygen extraction ratios were calculated. Results-Recumbent calves of both breed-types were more dehydrated and had more severe signs of depression than ambulatory affected carves. In both breed-types, hemoglobin oxygen affinity was increased in calves with diarrhea, compared with healthy calves, as indicated by a decrease in standard partial oxygen pressure (P50). Diarrhea induced hypocapnia and hypothermia in the most severely affected calves, which counteracted the acidosis-induced right shift in arterial and venous OEC. Arterial and venous P50 were significantly less in double-muscled calves with diarrhea than healthy carves, whereas P50 for affected dairy calves were similar to those of healthy calves. Except in the most severely affected dairy calves, oxygen extraction ratio was significantly less in carves with diarrhea, compared with healthy calves. Conclusions and Clinical Relevance-Release of oxygen from blood may be impaired in carves with diarrhea, depending on the effect of the disease on certain blood biochemical variables.
Elementary Na+ currents through single cardiac Na+ channels were recorded at 19 degrees C in patch clamp experiments with cultured neonatal rat cardiocytes. The metabolites of the glycolytic pathway, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and glyceraldehyde phosphate, were identified as a novel class of modulators of Na+ channel activity. In micromolar concentrations (1-10 mumol/liter), their presence at the cytoplasmic membrane face increased the number of sequential openings during depolarization and prolonged the conductive channel state. As found after ensemble averaging, the decay kinetics of reconstructed macroscopic Na+ currents became retarded and slow Na+ inactivation may have been evoked. Both metabolites attenuated the rundown of channel activity that regularly develops after patch excision in the inside-out patch configuration. It is tempting to assume that interference with Na+ inactivation is the mode of action underlying the increase in single-channel activity.
An increase in hemoglobin concentration characterizes the normal compensatory response to chronic tissue hypoxia. We observed no such increase in 42 chronically hypoxic patients with cystic fibrosis, in whom the mean concentration was 12.6 gm/dl; one third of the patients were anemic. Compared with patients with cyanotic heart disease, patients with cystic fibrosis did not have a compensatory increase in P50 or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Despite anemia, erythropoietin levels in patients with cystic fibrosis were not significantly different from normal control values. The growth of colony-forming units-erythroid in patients with cystic fibrosis was similar to that in control subjects, and there was no inhibition of growth with the addition of autologous serum. Erythropoietin sensitivity, determined by measuring the CFUe dose response curve, was normal in both patients and controls. Results of iron studies were consistent with iron deficiency in the majority of patients. Impaired absorption of iron was observed in six of 13 iron-deficient patients with cystic fibrosis. An inverse correlation between erythrocyte sedimentation rate and peak serum iron was obtained during the iron absorption study. Eight patients who underwent a therapeutic trial of iron demonstrated a 1.8 gm/dl rise in hemoglobin concentration. Two patients with previously documented iron malabsorption responded to parenteral iron therapy after failure to respond to oral supplementation. These studies demonstrate that patients with cystic fibrosis not only have an impaired erythroid response to hypoxia, but are frequently anemic. Their inadequate erythroid response to hypoxia results in part from disturbances in erythropoietin regulation and iron availability.
Blood stored in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) shows a progressive decrease in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) content. Since the decrease in DPG increases hemoglobin oxygen affinity, which in turn may reduce tissue and venous PO2 and peripheral oxygen delivery, many efforts have been made to preserve or restore DPG levels in stored blood. An in vivo rejuvenating technique, employing fructose-1,6-diphosphate (FDP) at a mean dosage of 1 mmol kg-1 day-1 of phosphate, to increase the DPG circulating level in multi-transfused patients is proposed. Eighteen patients, who received at least one-third of their estimated blood volume (3990 +/- 480 (SEM) ml of ACD stored blood) in blood transfusion, were treated: nine with inorganic phosphate, and nine with FDP. Basal DPG was very low in both groups: 12.61 +/- 1.34 (SEM) and 10.42 +/- 0.98 (SEM) mumol g-1, respectively (normal value is 14.5 mumol g-1, at pH 7.40). However, DPG values increased significantly and promptly in patients receiving FDP, whereas in cases of inorganic phosphate administration, it was not significantly raised over the basal value until the third day. Phosphatemia remained normal and constant with FDP, but it rose significantly on the third day of treatment with inorganic phosphate. FDP appears to consistently and rapidly increase DPG levels after transfusion with blood stored in ACD, and to be particularly safe.
Orthophosphate (Pi), adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP), adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were measured in the erythrocytes of patients in an intensive care unit. The patients' plasma concentration of Pi varied from 0.1 to 4.2 mmol/l, and the corresponding concentration in erythrocytes varied from 0.1 to 2.0 mmol/litre of cells. Marked ATP depletion (less than 1 mmol/litre of cells) was only observed when erythrocyte Pi was less than 0.3 mmol/litre of cells and plasma Pi was less than 0.35 mmol/l. No dependence of 2,3-DPG concentration on the cellular concentration of Pi was detected. The phosphorylation potential [ATP]/([ADP] X [Pi]) varied inversely with the erythrocyte concentration of Pi. Hence the calculated free energy of hydrolysis of ATP in the cell increased from -58 kJ/mol in the most hypophosphataemic samples to -51 kJ/mol in the most hyperphosphataemic. Such changes may adversely affect cell function by altering the steady state mass-action ratios of ATPase reactions. When erythrocytes from normal donors were incubated in solutions containing 1 or 5 mmol/l Pi, the cellular concentrations of Pi stabilized at 1.09 and 2.85 mmol/litre of cells respectively. The corresponding rates of lactate production were 2.09 and 3.11 mmol h-1 litre-1 of cells. In spite of this stimulation of glycolysis (and hence of the flux through ATP synthesizing steps of the Embden-Meyerhof pathway), no significant change in ATP concentration was observed. As in the patients' cells, this indicates that, when extracellular Pi concentrations are perturbed, the concentrations, in erythrocytes, of organic phosphates are more closely regulated than the concentration of Pi.
P50, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), inorganic phosphorus (Pi), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and blood gases were measured daily in 23 patients with burn injuries, until their death or discharge from the ICU. At the time of admission, P50 values were high. In nonsurvivors, P50 started to decline 1 week after the injury. Corrected P50 values to pH 7.4 were well correlated with DPG values. In survivors, P50 tended to correlated with Pi values, but in nonsurvivors at the septic or terminal stage, the values P50 did not correlate with Pi or ATP. Low P50 predicted the poor outcome of severely burned patients. At the convalescent stage of major burn injury, P50 and DPG were higher than normal and often remained elevated for weeks.
A modification is described of the automated determination of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in blood [Grisolia, S., et al., Anal. Biochem. 31, 235 (1969)]. Modifications in the manifold result in a sensitive, noise-free, rapid system and the modifications in the preparations of the reagents ensure stability of the diluted standards and blood samples for at least three weeks. Samples are run at the rate of 60/h and sample size can be as small as 5 µl of whole blood. The coefficient of variation of the overall determination of automated DPG and manual hemoglobin is 3.6% and the SD is ±0.77 µmol/g Hb. The normal range is 14.6 ± 2.2 (SD) µmol/g hemoglobin.
This study investigated the optimal conditions for detection of nucleotides in blood using an IP-1B capillary isotachophoretic apparatus. The system used 10 mM HCl-beta-alanine (pH 4.2) as the leading electrolyte and n-caproic acid as the terminal electrolyte. Direct application of lysed red blood cells was shown to be inaccurate, and a method of deproteinization based on heat in a microwave oven was developed. The zones for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, inorganic phosphate, and lactate were identified enzymatically by withdrawal of pure samples of each zone via a special withdrawal cell. The quantitative values obtained by isotachophoresis were also confirmed enzymatically. The technique is now available for convenient and accurate identification of these metabolites simultaneously.
Several hematologic abnormalities have been defined in patients with diabetes mellitus, despite the lack of classic hematologic pathologic findings in this condition. Studies of the erythrocyte and the formation of hemoglobin A1c have provided a means of documenting glycemia and a model reaction for diabetic sequelae through postsynthetic protein modification. Oxygen affinity has been noted to be abnormal in the diabetic erythrocyte, concomitant with a decreased concentration of inorganic phosphorus, glycosylation of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site or preexisting vascular disease. Red cell membrane viscosity has also been documented to be increased in the hyperglycemic subject. Abnormalities in the polymorphonuclear leukocyte have been described, involving the properties of adherence, random migration, chemotaxis, phagocytosis and killing. Certain metabolic abnormalities are also present in this cell type. The lymphocyte has been shown to have abnormal metabolic properties, mitogen responses and cell surface properties in diabetes both in animals and human subjects. Certain subpopulations of lymphocytes appear to be especially vulnerable to changes concomitant with diabetes mellitus. In vitro abnormalities of platelet behavior have been widely studied, although the in vivo significance of these findings remains controversial. Studies of the fluid phase of coagulation have suggested the existence of a hypercoagulable state in hyperglycemic subjects. The clinical significance of most of these findings remains to be defined. Nevertheless, the observation that many of the abnormalities described are reversible when hyperglycemia is corrected has given impetus to the development of improved systems of glucose "control" for diabetic patients.
The oxygen binding property of Hb Sawara (alphaA4 Asp replaced by Ala) was studied at different pH values with and without addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The oxygen affinity of Hb Sawara was shown to be increased, the difference of the log P50 value between normal and abnormal hemoglobins being 0.37 at pH 7.0. Both the magnitude of the alkaline Bohr effect and the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate upon oxygen affinity of Hb Sawara were comparable to those of Hb A. The amino acid substitution of alanine for alphaA4 aspartic acid might result in the loss of a stabilizing force for ionic interaction between the alpha-amino group of NA (1)alpha1 valine and the alpha-carboxyl of HC3(141)alpha2 arginine in the deoxy-form.
Abstract : A number of California sea lions (Zalophus californianus) were pre-fed certain test diets (smelt, squid, herring, mackerel or 'mixed') for 2-4 weeks. Blood samples were then taken, either after a 22 hour fasting period, or, following a test meal, and, in some of these 'fed' animals also at hourly intervals for 4-6 hours. Blood samples were also taken from several newly captured sea lions after varying fasting periods, prior to their first meal in captivity. The concentrations of a number of plasma components (protein, glucose, triglycerides, phospholipids and cholesterol) and erythrocyte constituents (2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP) were measured, the latter using whole blood. Plasma glucose levels were found to be higher than in man, except in the sea lions pre-fed herring.
Blood consists of formed elements (red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets) and plasma. Red blood cells (erythrocytes) account for 99.9% of cells. Their principal function is the transport of oxygen from the lungs to respiring tissues and carbon dioxide from tissues back to the lungs. This is achieved through the presence of haemoglobin, a conjugated metallo-protein. The affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen changes with a number of circumstances. At the partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) in the alveoli (13 kPa) the binding of each oxygen molecule increases the affinity of haemoglobin, so aiding uptake of oxygen. At the low PO2 in tissues, affinity is reduced, allowing the haemoglobin to offload more oxygen. This sigmoidal relationship is shifted to the right by a fall in pH or an increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration or temperature. The role of white blood cells (leucocytes) is to defend the body against invading pathogens. Leucocytes are far less common than erythrocytes, although their numbers increase dramatically during an infection. Divided into granulocytes (neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils) and agranulocytes (monocytes and lymphocytes), leucocytes can recognize foreign material and either engulf cells or secrete membrane-disrupting chemicals that can destroy the organism. Lymphocytes play an important role in the immune response to disease, monitoring the internal environment and producing antibodies against pathogens.
Studies have been performed on a 20-yr-old man exhibiting methemoglobinemia and a severe hemolytic anemia involving formation of Heinz bodies. This condition was due to an abnormal Hb present in the red cells of the proband: Hb St. Louis, beta 28 (B10) replaced by Gln, whose structural characteristics have been previously reported. This unstable Hb represented 30% of the total and was isolated by starch block electrophoresis at pH 8.6. Electrophoretic and spectral studies showed Hb St. Louis to be a valency hybird, alpha 2 beta 2+. The presence of hemichrome in this Hb was detected by electron paramagnetic resonance studies. During this study, an electrophoretic technique was developed that allows study of the mobility of hemichrome. Oxygen equilibria performed on purified Hb St. Louis revealed a high oxygen affinity and a markedly reduced cooperativity. The Bohr effect was normal, but the interaction of this hemoglobin with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was decreased. The oxidation rate of Hb St. Louis was normal. Hb St. Louis was completely reduced by dithionite and ferrous citrate, and the functional properties of this reduced form were normal. In contrast, Hb St. Louis was only partially reduced by diaphorase. The mechanism of the oxidation of Hb St. Louis therefore appears to differ markedly from that postulated for other Hbs M.
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate is the major intraerythrocytic cofactor for oxygen release by hemoglobin. The phosphono analogue, 2,3-diphosphono-DL-glyceric acid, has only minimal effects on the oxygen aff...
Summary Enzyme and oxygen transport studies have been made on seven members of a kindred with red cell deficiency of phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK), an enzyme known to be linked to the X-chromosome. The two affected males were children, had little detectable PGK activity and had severe neurological damage. Both had moderate haemolytic anaemia complicated by the occurrence of haemolytic crises. Red cell ATP levels were substantially decreased in both subjects. However, they had more than double the normal level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in their ted cells, associated with a rightward shift in their oxygen-haemoglobin equilibrium curves. This shift in the curve was sufficient to permit oxygen delivery to most body tissues, including the brain, at better tensions than normal, except during a haemolytic crisis. ::: ::: ::: ::: Two of the three known heterozygotes were aged over 70. They had moderate haemolytic anaemia, considerable reduction of red cell PGK activity (19% and 35% of normal, respectively), and considerable increase in red cell 2,3-DPG with rightward shifting of the oxygen-haemoglobin equilibrium curve. The other known heterozygote was aged 22 and showed little abnormality in her blood oxygen transport.
Abstract Peripheral neuropathy remains a major complication of diabetes. Numerous etiological theories of metabolic and/or vascular disturbances have been suggested including decreased endoneurial oxygen tension with presumed tissue hypoxia. Increases in the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen (Hb-O 2 affinity) may also produce tissue hypoxia and such Hb-O 2 affinity changes have been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic microangiopathy. In order to test whether affinity hypoxia might contribute to the development of diabetic peripheral neuropathy, we have utilized a rat model of high and normal Hb-O 2 affinity produced by backcrossing animals with increased and decreased levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Diabetes was induced in ten high and ten low DPG animals with a tail vein injection of 55 mg/kg streptozotocin (STZ). Five animals in each group were treated with 2.4 U protamine zinc insulin (PZI)/day while the remaining animals were untreated. All rats were killed after 30 days, sections of tibial and sural nerve were rapidly removed and processed for teased fiber analysis. A minimum of 125 axons were assessed per nerve for E degeneration (myelin ovoids) using the classification developed by Dyck et al. Untreated animals, regardless of DPG levels, demonstrated 0% neuropathy. In contrast, all insulin-treated animals showed degeneration (0.4–17%) that inversely correlated with the DPG level ( r = −0.59, P 2 affinity) with its attendant effect on tissue oxygen release may play a role in the development of peripheral neuropathy in STZ-induced diabetic rats treated with insulin.
The most common genetic disorder in the world is known to be thalassemia [1] . Beta thalassemia syndromes are disorders which are inherited and are characterized by deficiency in the production of beta globin chains resulting in ineffective erythropoiesis complicated by lack of affinity of circulating haemoglobin F to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. As a consequence of this, repeated blood transfusions are needed to maintain life, which in turn results in excessive iron being deposited in various organs resulting in early fatalities. In Beta Thalassemia Major (BTM) patients the frequency of hypothyroidism ranges from 6 to 30 % among various countries depending on chelation strategies [2] . The quantity and duration of iron overload mainly determine the prognosis among such patients. Thyroid dysfunction mainly occurs by gland infiltration, chronic tissue hypoxia, free radical injury, and organ siderosis. The thyroid gland is affected much before the thyroid-pituitary axis, which is less susceptible than the gonadal axis to iron induced damage [3] . In severe hemosiderosis, the anterior pituitary may be affected resulting in disruption of regulatory hormonal secretions (LH, FSH, and TRH) [4] . With the introduction of iron chelators, survival rates have improved [5] but endocrine complications have become more frequent and significantly affect the quality of life [6] . The symptoms of hypothyroidism though 2 International Journal of Pediatrics non-specific can affect many organ systems, hence an annual laboratory evaluation of thyroid function is recommended in all beta thalassemics. Thyroid functions in chronically transfused children with BTM in the second decade of life have been studied, but there are very few studies evaluating the thyroid function in chronically transfused children in the first decade of life. Therefore, a comparative study to evaluate the thyroid function status in children with BTM in the first and second decade of life is the need of the hour.
1. Orthophosphate (Pi), adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP), adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) were measured in the erythrocytes of patients in an intensive care unit.
While a large number of clinical disorders arising from severe hypophosphataemia have now been described [ 1, 21, pathological changes resulting from hyperphosphataemia are less frequently encountered [3, 41 . Nevertheless, it has recently been demonstrated that, among older patients in an intensive care unit (ICU), increased mortality was associated with normal and mildly elevated plasma concentrations of orthophosphate (Pi) rather than hypophosphataemia [ 5 ] . In view of this paradox, arising from extracellular Pi measurements, we have measured intracellular phosphorus metabolites in the erythrocytes of ICU patients, and have related changes in cellular phosphate and energy metabolism to extracellular Pi concentrations. In particular we have examined the relationship between cellular Pi and cellular adenosine 5 '-triphosphate (ATP), adenosine 5 '-diphosphate (ADP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and the phosphorylation potential.
This method may eventually eliminate the need for both preoperative collection of blood from the patient for autologous transfusion in surgery and allogeneic transfusion. Other advantages are: the lack of transmission of viral diseases, a reduced risk of alloimmunization, normal potassium concentration, considering the fact that the cells are infused at room temperature and the capacity of red blood cells (RBC) to carry oxygen at 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) levels (4) . Furthermore, it is a good alternative for patients who refuse to receive donor blood due to their religious beliefs (1) .
Peripheral neuropathy remains a major complication of diabetes. Numerous etiological theories of metabolic and/or vascular disturbances have been suggested including decreased endoneurial oxygen tension with presumed tissue hypoxia. Increases in the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen (Hb-O2 affmity) may also produce tissue hypoxia and such Hb-O2 affinity changes have been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic microangiopathy. In order to test whether affinity hypoxia might contribute to the development of diabetic peripheral neuropathy, we have utilized a rat model of high and normal Hb-O2 affinity produced by backcrossing animals with increased and decreased levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Diabetes was induced in ten high and ten low DPG animals with a tail veto injection of 55 mg/kg streptozotocin (STZ). Five animals in each group were treated with 2.4 U protamine zinc insulin (PZI)/day while the remaining animals were untreated. All rats were killed after 30 days, sections of tibial and surai nerve were rapidly removed and processed for teased fiber analysis. A minimum of 125 axons were assessed per nerve for E degeneration (myelin ovoids) using the classification developed by Dyck et al. Untreated animals, regardless of DPG levels, demonstrated 0~o neuropathy. In contrast, all insulin-treated animals showed degeneration (0.4-17 ~o) that inversely correlated with the DPG level (r = -0J59, P < 0.04). The results of this study suggest that the level of RBC DPG (and presumably the Hb-O2 affinity) with its attendant effect on tissue oxygen release may play a role in the development of peripheral neuropathy in STZ-induced diabetic rats treated with insulin.
Peripheral nerve degeneration is a major source of morbidity in diabetes mellitus. At least 2.5 million patients in the United States alone have been diagnosed as having diabetic neuropathy (Thomas et al. 1984) . The etiology and/or pathogenesis of this diabetic sequel remains elusive although many theories seeking to explicate it are extant. These theories generally fall into two categories, vascular and metabolic, and have been reviewed extensively (Dyck 1989; Dyck et al. 1985; Greene et al. 1988; Low 1987; Windebank 1983) . The majority of these theories have focused on the diabetic state per se with little emphasis on the treatment methods and their potential contributory role in exacerbating neuropathy symptoms. Ditzel (1980) has hypothesized that increases in the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin producing tissue hypoxla (affinity hypoxia) associated with insulin treatment may be responsible for many of the pathologic changes seen in the microcirculation of diabetes with microangiopathy. He was able to demonstrate that in diabetes, alterations in hemoglobin-oxygen (Hb-O2) affinit~ were correlated inversely with Levels of red blood cell (RBC) 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG " Ditzel 1980; Ditzel et at. 1975 Ditzel et at. . 1977 Standl etal. 1976) . We postulated that neuropathic changes observed in the peripheral nerves of insulin-treated experimental diabetic rats might also be related to affinity hypoxia and DPG levels via microvascular changes in the vasa nervosum. Therefore, we predicted that animals with high RBC levels of DPG would exhibit less peripheral nerve degeneration than animals with normal levels of RBC DPG 0022-510X/91/$03.50 © 1991 Elsevier Science Publishers B.V. (Biomedical Division) when both were rendered diabetic and treated with insulin. The availability of an animal model with high and normal DPG strains enabled us to test our hypothesis. The model was developed by one of the authors by backcrossing high DPG heterozygous Long Evans Hooded rats to homozygous normal DPG Lou rats (Brewer et al. 1979 ),
The level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in erythrocytes was found to be increased in patients with cirrhosis of the liver, and as a consequence the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin was decreased. Part of the 2,3-DPG increase in the patients with cirrhosis was caused by a concomitant anemia. At all hemoglobin levels, however, patients with cirrhosis showed an additional 2,3-DPG increase in comparison with patients without cirrhosis. Red cell 2,3-DPG was positively correlated to pH in plasma and in erythrolysate. It is likely that pH changes contribute to the regulation of the red cell 2,3-DPG concentration in cirrhotic patients. In a group of these patients (n=48), the arterial pH and pCO2 did not differ significantly from normal values. Other, as yet unknown, factors must presumably contribute to the increase in red cell 2,3-DPG. No direct effect of NH4+ on red cell 2,3-DPG could be demonstrated in vitro. The plasma concentration of NH4+ in vivo correlated positively to plasma pH. The lowered oxygen af...
BACKGROUND ::: The capability of holding whole blood (WB) units at ambient temperature, overnight, should help in platelet (PLT) concentrate preparation logistics. We summarize the results of a study conducted in the early 1990s that compared, in particular, PLT and red blood cell (RBC) in vivo viability properties following storage after preparation after 8- and 24-hour WB hold periods. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Individuals donated units of WB on two occasions. Centrifugation at 20 to 24°C to separate PLTs and additive system RBC placement at 1 to 6°C was completed 8 hours after phlebotomy or after 24 hours in randomized order. Components were not leukoreduced. Studies including in vitro biochemical and hematologic analyses and autologous in vivo RBC and PLT evaluations were conducted at two sites. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: RBC 24-hour in vivo (mean ± SD) recoveries (single-label approach), after 35 days of storage, were 79.2 ± 4.3 and 79.4 ± 3.9% (n = 9; p > 0.05), with WB holding periods of 8 and 24 hours, respectively. With 42 days of storage, recovery after a 24-hour hold was slightly less than with an 8-hour hold (72.9 ± 6.5% vs. 76.0 ± 5.4%; n = 17; p < 0.05). RBC 2,3-diphosphoglycerate acid levels were substantially less after the 24-hour hold compared to after the 8-hour hold (n = 18; p < 0.05). PLT recovery after 5 days of storage with 8- and 24-hour hold periods were similar, 51.1 ± 14.9 and 50.6 ± 17.7%, respectively (n = 18; p > 0.05). The PLT survival variable and in vitro properties reflecting storage quality also showed no significant difference. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: RBC and PLT in vivo variables, and most in vitro variables, were not significantly different after storage with WB holding times of 8 and 24 hours except for a slight diminution of RBC recovery with the 24-hour hold after 42 days of storage.
The effects of various metabolites on the two most common phosphoglucomutase allozymes (PGMA and PGMB) in Drosophila melanogaster have been investigated in vitro. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) inhibited PGMA and PGMB to the same degree in the presence of 25 microM glucose-1,6-diphosphate (G1,6P2). However a higher concentration of G1,6P2 partially reversed the inhibition of PGMA exerted by 2,3DPG, so that in the presence of 150 microM G1,6P2 the inhibition of PGMA was half that of PGMB at pH 6.0. Glycerol-3-phosphate (G3P) had no significant effect at pH 7.4 but exerted an activating effect at pH 6.0 which was more pronounced in the case of PGMB. ATP, citrate, and fructose-1, 6-diphosphate (F1,6P2) inhibited both PGMA and PGMB. The differences found in vitro between these two allozymes can have a significant impact on in vivo function and, therefore, on the maintenance of PGM polymorphism in experimental populations of D. melanogaster studied in the laboratory.
The effect of ribose on the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (2,3-DPG) of human red blood cells was investigated and compared to the effect of inosine. Ribose as well as inosine increases 2,3-DPG. Most impressing effects can be demonstrated on stored blood, which is poor in 2,3-DPG concentration. Physiologic 2,3-DPG-concentrations, however, may be increased too. Generally the effect of inosine is greater than the effect of ribose. When ribose is applicated intravenously a slight increase in 2,3-DPG is found. Both compounds own characteristic side-effects, which diminish their value for therapeutical purposes.
Abstract Diphosphoglycerate mutase has been purified from the red blood cells of rabbits and humans. The enzyme is found only in the soluble fraction of human red cell hemolysates at an average level of 0.93 unit per ml of packed cells. The stoichiometry has been verified as: 1,3-PGA + 3-PGA → 2,3-PGA + 3-PGA where PGA is phosphoglyceric acid. The kinetic studies with the human enzyme indicate Km values of 0.53 µm for 1,3-diphosphoglycerate and 1 to 1.5 µm for 3-phosphoglycerate. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate is a competitive inhibitor of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate with a Ki of 0.85 µm; it is noncompetitive with 3-phosphoglycerate. Inorganic phosphate inhibits competitively with 3-phosphoglycerate with a Ki of 314 µm. The Km of 1,3-diphosphoglyceric acid is independent of the level of 3-phosphoglycerate. An ordered bimolecular reaction is proposed in which 1,3-diphosphoglycerate combines with free enzyme, followed by the combination with 3-phosphoglycerate to form a ternary complex. After conversion to the products, 3-phosphoglycerate is released before 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Diphosphoglycerate mutase is inhibited by sulfhydryl reagents and purified fractions require the addition of mercaptoethanol for optimal activity. Phosphoglycolic acid is stimulatory at levels below 0.4 mm and inhibitory at higher levels. 2-Phosphoglycerate is an activator of the reaction. It decreases the Km of 3-phosphoglycerate and increases the over-all activity of the enzyme. 2-Phosphoglyceric acid also acts as a phosphate acceptor in the over-all reaction to produce 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
In 1925 Greenwald discovered considerable quantities of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in mammalian red cells.1 The function of this small phosphate molecule in the erythrocyte remained a mystery, ho...
Pyruvate kinase deficiency was found to be the causative factor in a family with nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia. Biochemical findings were the following: decrease in adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) concentration (59 micromoles per 100 ml of erytrocytes; normal: 150 +/- 59), increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration (13611 micromoles per 100 ml of erythrocytes; normal: 480 +/- 80) and low level of pyruvate kinase activity (955 U) mmol Hb; normal 2700 +/- 498. The deficiency of enzyme activity in the hexose-monophosphate shunt was excluded on bases of normal or elevated glucose-6-phosphate and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase activities, normal reduced glutathione concentration and normal glutathione stability in vitro. The Michaelis constant for phosphoenolpyruvate of the patient's pyruvate kinase was found to be normal; thus, the mutation affected only the Vmax of the enzyme.
The level of a number of blood indices was followed up in Black-and-white calves from the first day after birth up to the sixth month such as hemoglobin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, blood sugar, phosphorus, and total, ionized, and protein-bound calcium, with total protein. The calves were clinically normal and were raised in various regions under routinely adopted zoohygiene, technologic, and microclimatic conditions and parameters, and were offered rations that were currently adopted in this country. The dynamic established with the changes of the indices investigated disclosed possibilities of obtaining additional information concerning the state of the animal's organism which proved instrumental in choosing the right prophylaxis in compliance of the respective age period.
The central role of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in the metabolism and function of most mammalian red cells is only beginning to become apparent. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate, a glycolytic intermediate present in high concentration only in the red cell, has been said to function as a storage source for phosphate.1 It may also act as a metabolic regulator, since DPG has been found to exert significant inhibitory effects on several red cell enzymes, such as transaldolase, transketolase,2 and hexokinase.3 Most recently, the findings of Benesch and Benesch,4 Benesch et al.,5 and Chanutin and Curnish6 show that DPG (and adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which is quantitatively less important) combines reversibly with deoxyhemoglobin, and, in normal concentrations, greatly decreases the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin, shifting the oxygen dissociation curve to the right. Although this shift increases the oxygen pressure required for oxygenation of the hemoglobin, unloading can occur at higher tissue oxygen tensions. Although both sets of authors4-6 have emphasized the importance of this effect, Benesch et al.5 stated that variations in levels of red cell DPG within the normal human range will have little or no influence on the oxygen affinity of the whole blood. Part of the stimulus for the present study derives from observations which suggest that pathological variations in human red cell DPG may significantly effect oxygen transport. An inherited abnormality of pyruvic kinase in which the activities of this enzyme were elevated about twofold was present in a family reported by Zurcher et al.7 Individuals affected with this disorder had levels of red cell ATP about twice normal and levels of DPG about one-fourth normal. Although both ATP and DPG can decrease the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin, DPG is quantitatively much more important, since its normal concentration in the human red cell is three to four times that of ATP. The authors noted that affected individuals had an unexplained elevation of hemoglobin and hematocrit values of about 20 per cent. We now think it likely that the reason for this increase in blood values was a significant lessening of oxygen unloading in the tissues of affected individuals, due to the decrease in the amount of DPG in the red cell. The resulting tissue anoxia has been compensated by erythrocytosis. Secondly, a recent abstract8 dealt with the levels of DPG in the erythrocytes of individuals homozygous for sickle hemoglobin. The oxygen dissociation curve of intact red cells in sickle cell anemia, compared to that of normal cells, has been known to be shifted to the right. However, this shift is no longer apparent when studies are performed on dialyzed hemoglobin. These authors found that the erythrocytes of individuals homozygous for sickle hemoglobin have significalntly higher levels of DPG; this probably accounts for the lower oxygen affinity of the intact cells.
BACKGROUND: Storage of red blood cells (RBCs) results in various biochemical changes, including a decrease in cellular adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate acid. Previously it was shown that stored human RBCs show a deficit in the oxygenation of the microcirculation in the gut of anesthetized rats. In this study, the effect of RBCs on rat kidney oxygenation and the effect of rejuvenation of stored RBCs on their ability to deliver oxygen were investigated. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Washed RBCs, derived from leukoreduced RBCs stored in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol, were tested in an isovolemic transfusion model in rats after hemodilution until 30 percent hematocrit (Hct). The cells were derived from RBCs stored for up 3 days or from RBCs stored for 5 to 6 weeks with or without incubation in Rejuvesol to rejuvenate the cells. Renal microvascular oxygen concentrations (microPO(2)) were determined by Pd-porphyrin phosphorescence lifetime measurements. RESULTS: Isovolemic transfusion exchange of 5- to 6-week-stored RBCs resulted in a significantly larger decrease in renal microPO(2) than RBCs stored for up to 3 days: 16.1 +/- 2.3 mmHg versus 7.1 +/- 1.5 mmHg, respectively (n = 5). Rejuvenation of stored RBCs completely prevented this deficit in kidney oxygenation. The differences in oxygen delivery were not due to different recoveries of the human RBCs in the rat circulation. CONCLUSION: This study shows that the storage-induced deficit of human RBCs to oxygenate the rat kidney microcirculation at reduced Hct is completely reversible. Prevention of metabolic changes during storage is therefore a valid approach to prevent this deficit
In vitro studies indicate that acute increases in intracellular phosphate concentration decrease red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels (G. Momsen, B. Vestergaard-Bogind, Arch Biochem Biophys 190:67, 1978). We have examined the relationship in vivo of serum phosphate concentration, red cell phosphate, 2,3-DPG and blood P50 in hyperglycemic dogs infused alternately with phosphate or chloride (control) solutions. During the 8-hr insulin infusion, serum phosphate (Pi) fell 40% in the chloride-treated animals and rose 71% in the phosphate-treated dogs (P less than 0.001, phosphate vs. control). RBC Pi concentration declined in the controls and rose significantly in the phosphate-infused dogs (P less than 0.02). Serum Pi and RBC Pi were correlated in the phosphate-managed animals (r = 0.76, P less than 0.02), but not in the controls. RBC 2,3-DPG failed to rise in either group during insulin infusion and regression analysis showed a negative correlation between serum Pi and 2,3-DPG (r = -0.90, P less than 0.005) and between RBC Pi concentration and 2,3-DPG (r = -0.84, P less than 0.02). P50 failed to change in either group during insulin treatment and for up to 24 hr after initiation of the 8-hr infusion of insulin.
Hb Puttelange [β140(H18)Ala aVal] was found in a 51–year-old Italian man who had mild polycythemia The variant eluted from ion exchange high performance liquid chromatography at a position between Hb A and Hb A2. It comprised approximately 34% of the total hemoglobin, was weakly unstable and exhibited an increased oxygen affinity. Amplification of the β-globin exons and nucleotide sequencing revealed a heterozygosity for a GCC aGTC mutation in codon 140 corresponding to an AlaaVal replacement. This substitution accounts for the altered functional properties, probably by producing indirect perturbation of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate pocket through the nearby lysine residue at β82(EF6).
Abstract 1. 1. Carbonic anhydrase activity and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration were determined in whole blood from humans (Homo sapiens), rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus), eastern grey kangaroos (Macropus giganteus), pademelons (Thylogale billardierii) and brush-tailed possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). 2. 2. Marsupial blood carbonic anhydrase activity increased as species body size decreased. 3. 3. T. billardierii haemoglobin was found to have a polymorphism which may be the same (β2 = histidine or glutamine) as that of M. giganteus. 4. 4. The concentration of 2,3-DPG in the red cells of T. billardierii was approximately equal to that of the haemoglobin tetramer. Levels of 2,3-DPG in the other species were similar to those previously reported.
Di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) accumulates in blood brought into contact with materials utilizing this compound as a plasticizer. To determine whether this phthalate diester affects red blood cell integrity, we have compared cell morphology, plasma hemoglobin accumulation, micro-vesicle production, and the concentration of intracellular metabolites and electrolytes of erythrocytes from blood stored at 4 degrees C with and without DEHP. When sufficient emulsified DEHP was mixed with blood to give a final concentration of 300 micrograms/mL, plasma hemoglobin accumulation was reduced by an average of 70%, the percentage of cells exhibiting normal morphology was enhanced by at least 20-fold, and the volume of microvesicles released from red blood cells was reduced by 50% after 35 days of refrigerated storage compared to the values obtained from corresponding samples stored without added phthalate. Similar effects were observed regardless of whether blood was stored in nonplasticized polypropylene or tri-(2-ethylhexyl) trimellitate plasticized polyvinylchloride containers and with DEHP solubilized by a variety of emulsifiers. When 300 micrograms/mL DEHP was added to stored blood containing erythrocytes predominantly in the echinocyte conformation, many of the cells reverted to the normal discoid morphology. The addition of this quantity of DEHP to blood had no significant effect on the course of storage-induced changes in erythrocyte adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), sodium or potassium concentrations. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that DEHP inhibits the deterioration of the red blood cell membrane that results from the refrigerated storage of whole blood.
Haemolysates of family members from three generations, all of whom had polycythaemia, were analysed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at pH 8.8. Two closely spaced major bands were observed, one of which corresponded to Hb A and the other to a new mutant designated Hb Vanderbilt. Whole blood from a heterozygote for Hb Vanderbilt was analysed for oxygen affinity which was found to be much higher than that of normal subjects. Haemoglobin Vanderbilt was separated from Hb A using anion exchange chromatography. Cation exchange chromatography yielded a variant beta chain from which a mutant peptide was identified with a structure corresponding to residues beta83--89 with a Ser leads to Arg replacement at position 89. The oxygen affinity of 'stripped' haemolysates from the heterozygote was found to be much less sensitive to added organic phosphates than haemolysates from normal subjects. In while blood, the decreased sensitivity to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate results in an increased oxygen affinity, thus explaining the clinical observations of tissue hypoxia and compensatory polycythaemia.
The effect of 2,3-diphospho-D-glycerate on the sedimentation coefficient of carbon monoxide hemoglobin was correlated with the fraction of rapidly reacting hemoglobin observed subsequent to flash photolysis at 23 degrees C at pH 7.30 in buffers of 0.1 M ionic strength. Concentrations of the organic phosphate up to about 5 mM resulted in an increase in S20,w, consistent with an increase in the fraction of tetrameric hemoglobin. A decrease in rapidly reacting hemoglobin parallelled the increase in the sedimentation coefficient. Between 5 and 20 mM 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, S20,w decreased, suggesting that dissociation to dimers was enhanced. An increase in rapidly reacting hemoglobin was also observed in this concentration range. Similar sedimentation results were obtained with oxyhemoglobin at pH 7.00 and carbon monoxide hemoglobin at pH 7.06. Assuming single binding sites on each species, the dissociation constants for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding to tetrameric and dimeric HbCO are 0.2-0.3 mM and 2-5 mM at pH 7.30. This biphasic effect of this physiologically important organic phosphate on the state of aggregation of R state hemoglobin has not been previously reported, but it is similar to that previously noted with inositol hexaphosphate, which enhanced tetramer formation at low concentrations, while at higher concentrations it promoted hemoglobin dissociation to dimers (White, S. L. (1976) J. Biol. Chem. 251, 4763-4769; Gray, R. D. (1980) J. Biol. Chem. 255, 1812-1818).
The central role of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in the metabolism and function of most mammalian red cells is only beginning to become apparent. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate, a glycolytic intermediate present in high concentration only in the red cell, has been said to function as a storage source for phosphate.1 It may also act as a metabolic regulator, since DPG has been found to exert significant inhibitory effects on several red cell enzymes, such as transaldolase, transketolase,2 and hexokinase.3 Most recently, the findings of Benesch and Benesch,4 Benesch et al.,5 and Chanutin and Curnish6 show that DPG (and adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which is quantitatively less important) combines reversibly with deoxyhemoglobin, and, in normal concentrations, greatly decreases the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin, shifting the oxygen dissociation curve to the right. Although this shift increases the oxygen pressure required for oxygenation of the hemoglobin, unloading can occur at higher tissue oxygen tensions. Although both sets of authors4-6 have emphasized the importance of this effect, Benesch et al.5 stated that variations in levels of red cell DPG within the normal human range will have little or no influence on the oxygen affinity of the whole blood.
Abstract 1. 1. Several groups of rats were treated with dipyridamol and dihydroergotoxine methane sulphonate and their association. 2. 2. Their clinical constants were then monitored and their brain tissue examined by optical microscopy. 3. 3. This study indicates that the association has a remarkable effect on the p O 2 , maintaining the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, and moreover a vasodilatory action, facilitating a better supply of oxygen to the cerebral cells. 4. 4. The results show the advantage of these drugs in treating cerebral vascular disease.
Abstract ::: Lambs were delivered by hysterotomy on days 142 and 143 postcoitum and were assigned to either a control group or a prednisolone-treated group (10 mg/kg daily for four days). On days 1 through 3 of life erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values were significantly increased in the treated group. Prednisolone treatment did not result in significantly increased P50 values. Mean plasma corticoid values in the control group decreased gradually postpartum. The prednisolone-treated lambs compared to the control lambs had depressed corticoid values, differing significantly on day 4. Body weight gains were significantly depressed by treatment and this effect lasted beyond the treatment period. On day 1 of life (24 hours postinitial treatment) oxygen consumption and cardiac output were significantly elevated in the treated group.
A complete pH and blood gas analysis of arterial and mixed venous blood may comprise more than forty different quantities. We have selected sixteen, including patient temperature. The arterial oxygen tension group includes the oxygen tension, fraction of oxygen in inspired air, and fraction of mixed venous blood in the arterial (total physiological veno-arterial shunting). The haemoglobin oxygen capacity group includes effective haemoglobin concentration and fractions of carboxy- and methaemoglobin. The haemoglobin oxygen affinity group includes half-saturation tension and estimated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration of erythrocytes. In a neonatal care unit fraction of fetal haemoglobin needs to be included. The arterial oxygen extra-activity is measured as the oxygen extraction tension, which indicates the degree of compensation among the oxygen tension, capacity, and affinity. The mixed venous group includes mixed venous oxygen tension, and, when measured, cardiac output, and oxygen consumption rate. The acid-base status includes blood pH, arterial carbon dioxide tension, and extracellular base excess. Other quantities such as haemoglobin oxygen saturation, respiratory index, total oxygen concentration (oxygen content), oxygen extraction fraction, oxygen delivery, and several others, provide no essential additional clinical information and are therefore redundant.
The functional properties of haemoglobin from the Mediterranean whale Balaenoptera physalus have been studied as functions of heterotropic effector concentration and temperature. Particular attention has been given to the effect of carbon dioxide and lactate since the animal is specialised for prolonged dives often in cold water. The molecular basis of the functional behaviour and in particular of the weak interaction with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is discussed in the light of the primary structure and of computer modelling. On these bases, it is suggested that the A2 (Pro→Ala) substitution observed in the β chains of whale haemoglobin may be responsible for the displacement of the A helix known to be a key structural feature in haemoglobins that display an altered interaction with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as compared with human haemoglobin. The functional and structural results, discussed in the light of a previous study on the haemoglobin from the Arctic whale Balaenoptera acutorostrata, give further insights into the regulatory mechanisms of the interactive effects of temperature, carbon dioxide and lactate.
Abstract Myocytes, hepatocytes and adipocytes were prepared from heart, liver and epididymal fat pad of the rat. No detectable level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was found. Evidence is also present which indicates the absence from these cells of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase. Previous findings by others of the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase probably resulted from erythrocytes sequestered in the tissue.
Phosphate metabolism was studied in twenty-one preterm infants with idiopathic respiratory distress syndrome during and after oxygen (O2) therapy using a hood. Plasma, red cell inorganic phosphate (Pi) and the red cell concentrations of organic phosphate metabolites ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were significantly lower in the sick infants when compared to controls of similar age and birthweight, and remained low even 24 h after cessation of therapy. Plasma cortisol levels were elevated at the onset of the disease and decreased to almost control levels by the end of O2 therapy while the values of plasma calcitonin did not show any difference from controls. Plasma creatinine phosphokinase and blood lactic acid levels followed the pattern of the control group with a small increase at the beginning of the study and decreasing thereafter. Several factors may be implicated in the cause of hypophosphatemia in these infants such as inadequate feeding, acidosis and hypercortisolaemia due to stress leading to phosphaturia.
Using the oxygen status algorithm of Siggaard-Andersen to derive 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations and parameters of oxygen extractivity, 143 arterial blood specimens from 73 ICU patients were compared with 119 venous blood specimens from 119 healthy outpatients. The venous extractivity parameters were calculated by arbitrarily assigning an oxygen tension of 90 mmHg to each specimen. There were no significant differences in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, but the mean concentration of extractable oxygen corrected for low haemoglobin values (cx/cHb) was significantly greater in the ICU patients (males: 0.017 +/- 0.004 mmol/g, females: 0.016 +/- 0.004 mmol/g) than in the healthy outpatients (males and females: 0.014 +/- 0.001 mmol/g, p < 0.05). This reduction in haemoglobin-oxygen affinity was attributed to the high incidence of acidaemia in the ICU specimens (mean pH 7.36 +/- 0.08), despite a reduced mean 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in the ICU acidaemic specimens (when pH < 7.35, mean 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration was 4.9 +/- 1.6 mmol/L; when 7.35 < or = pH < or = 7.45: mean 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration was 5.7 +/- 1.6 mmol/L, p < 0.05). Hypophosphataemia had no demonstrable effect on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations or extractivity parameters in the ICU patients. We conclude that oxygen release from haemoglobin to the tissues in critical illness is enhanced because of a tendency to acidaemia.
The lateral mobility of fluorescein-labeled membrane glycoproteins was measured in whole unlysed erythrocytes and erythrocyte ghosts by the technique of "fluorescence redistribution after fusion." Measurements were made on polyethylene glycol-fused cell pairs in which only one member of the couplet was initially fluorescently labeled. Diffusion coefficients were estimated from the rate of fluorescence redistribution determined from successive scans with a focused laser beam across individual fused pairs. This technique allows for the analysis of diffusion within cell membranes without the possible damaging photochemical events caused by photobleaching. It was found that lateral mobility of erythrocyte proteins can be increased by the addition of polyphosphates (i.e., ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) and decreased by the addition of organic polyamines (i.e., neomycin and spermine). This control is exerted by these molecules only when they contact the cytoplasmic side of the membrane and is not dependent upon high-energy phosphates. Microviscosity experiments employing diphenylhexatriene demonstrated no changes in membrane lipid state as a function of these reagents. Our results, in conjunction with data on the physical interactions of cytoskeletal proteins, suggest that the diffusion effector molecules alter the lateral mobility of erythrocyte membrane proteins through modifications of interactions in the shell, which is composed of spectrin, actin, and component 4.1.
This review will begin by giving the highlights of the history and explain development of the basic science knowledge of hemoglobin chemistry, function, and physiology. The necessary involvement of red cell metabolism, as it pertains to the maintenance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels, both normally and under the perturbed and experimental conditions of blood storage, will be given as part of the basic science data. The clinical science and transfusion data will comprise the main critical aspects of the paper. Analysis and comment of over 20 studies will be given on the effects of animal and human transfusions with altered 2,3-DPG levels. Decreased survival and organ function have been demonstrated with transfusion of low 2,3-DPG red cells, with or without anemia, in the conditions of exercise, shock, hypotension, ischemia, cardiac surgery, hypoxia, sepsis, and acidosis. By critical analysis of these studies, recommendations on general and specific patient needs for red cell transfusions with normal or high 2,3-DPG levels are given.
In human hemoglobin hydrogen ions, chloride, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and CO2 cooperate to shift the oxygen equilibrium curve to the right. Bovine hemoglobin, by contrast, has an intrinsically low oxygen affinity: when stripped, it is as low as that of human hemoglobin in the presence of 0.1 M NACl+0.1 M DPG.
excess of the blood and cbPG is the concentrationof 2,3diphosphoglycerate in the erythrocytes. The Hill slope, n = dyldx, is given by n = 1 + h k{1 - tanh2[k. (x - )]}. n attainsa maximumof 2.87 for x = , and n-+ 1 for x- ± . The modelgivesa very good fitto the Severinghausstandard oxygen dissociation curve and the parameters may easy be fitted to other oxygen dissociationcurves as well. Applicationsof the modelare describedincludingthe solutionof the inversefunction(p as a functionof s) by a Newton-Raphson iteration method. The pD2-temperaturecoefficient is given by dlnpldT = [Aap + bflS(l - s).BjI[a.p + c.1bns#{149}(l - s)],whereA = -dlnaIdT=0.012K1; B= (8lnp’aT) = 0.073 K’ for y = yo; a = the solubility coefficientof 02 in blood = 0.0105 mmol V1 kPa1 at 37 #{176}C; -b = concentrationof hemoglobiniron in the blood. Approximate equations currently in use do not take the variationsof the p02-temperaturecoefficientwith p and q1, intoaccount. AddItIonalKeyphrases:blood gas analyzers Bohr effect 2,3-diphosphoglycerate . oxygensaturation. pH
Abstract Male guinea pigs (Hartley strain, 400–600 g) were exposed to 15% CO 2 , 21% 0 2 , balance N 2 for varying periods of time up to 7 days. The Bohr effect factor, Δlog P 50 /ΔpH, was determined by a CO 2 , titration method (Hilpert et al ., 1963). Blood pH, P CO 2 , standard [HCO 3 − , base excess, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), P 50 , and other hematological parameters were measured concurrently. The Bohr effect factor was significantly elevated (+22%) above control during the first 3 days of exposure and approached the control level by the 7th day of exposure (+5%), although it remained still significantly increased. The increased Bohr effect factor was found to compensate the displacement of the oxygen dissociation curve to the left produced by the fall in DPG concentration. In this in vivo model, the Bohr effect factor was dependent upon blood pH and p co 2 levels but not on DPG levels.
Summary We have obtained a cacodylate-dependent system in which ATP at physiological concentrations (10 −4 M) dissociates and inactivates rabbit muscle glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPD) at 25° C. We have shown that this inactivation and dissociation of GPD is blocked by physiological concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). These same effects have also been noted for the human erythrocyte GPD. ATP and 2,3-DPG may therefore be of importance in regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, particularly in the red blood cell where high concentrations of ATP and 2,3-DPG are found.
Abstract Respiratory characteristics of whole blood from four antelope (Antilocapra americana) were studied. The blood- oxygen capacity averaged 22.5 vol%. Oxygen dissociation curves were constructed at 38 °C and corrected to a plasma pH of 7.40. The mean blood P 50 value was 28.3±0.7 mm Hg. The Bohr factor (Δ log P o2 /Δ pH) was −0.473±0.040. The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate averaged 1.01±0.08 μ mole/g Hb. Starch gel electrophoresis showed that antelope hemoglobin has only one major component which migrates at a slower rate than human hemoglobin A. The pH difference across the red cell membrane was 0.251±0.040, and it remained unchanged over a wide range of plasma and intraerythrocytic pH values. Antelope erythrocytes do not sickle under high oxygen tension and high pH environments as has been observed in many species of deer.
Methyl acetyl phosphate inhibits the sickling of erythrocytes in vitro. Its mechanism of action is through the selective acetylation of some of the amino groups at the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) binding site of the hemoglobin molecule. Only 3 of a total 24 amino groups per alpha beta-dimer of hemoglobin are reactive. These groups are Val-1, Lys-82, and Lys-144 on the beta-chain of hemoglobin. None of the groups on the alpha-chain are acetylated. Acetylated hemoglobin S has an increased solubility as well as a reduced ability to bind to 2,3-DPG. Methyl acetyl phosphate is able to penetrate the erythrocyte membrane and successfully acetylate intracellular hemoglobin S without causing cell lysis. Sickle erythrocytes treated with methyl acetyl phosphate maintain an oxy-like profile of cell density distribution in a phthalate ester gradient. The oxygen binding property of erythrocytes after the treatment with methyl acetyl phosphate is not changed significantly from that of untreated cells. Our in vitro results indicate that further preclinical testing of methyl acetyl phosphate in sickle cell anemia is warranted.
A new haemoglobin, Hb Helsinki, in which beta 82-Lys (EF6) is replaced by Met, was found in a Finnish family. It was associated with familial erythrocytosis, and the oxygen affinity of the blood was higher than normal. The oxygen equilibrium curves of purified Hb Helsinki and HbA from the same haemolysate have been determined under vaious conditions. "Stripped' Hb Helsinki was found to show normal cooperativity, slightly low oxygen affinity and a reduced Bohr effect at physiological pH. However, the organic phosphates, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) had a very small effect on Hb Helsinki, and the 2,3-DPG binding constant of deoxygenated Hb Helsinki is close to that of oxyhaemoglobin A. Thus, the replacement of Lys by Met at position 82 dramatically changes the nature of the central cavity of the tetramer and the effect of 2,3-DPG on the respiratory function of the molecule.
Objectives: To contribute to the understanding of the biochemical changes associated with the RBC storage lesion. ::: ::: ::: ::: Aim: To investigate changes in O2 equilibrium and on/off kinetic rates during routine cold storage. ::: ::: ::: ::: Background: As RBCs are stored between 1 and 6°C numerous biochemical changes occur within the RBCs, including changes in the properties of the haemoglobin itself. This study serially analysed for the first time the O2 equilibrium and on/off kinetic rates across the RBC membrane during routine storage. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods/Materials: The oxygen binding (kon) and offloading (koff) constants were measured in fresh RBCs and then in AS-5-preserved RBCs at weekly intervals, along with oxygen equilibrium curves (OECs), 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), p50 and the Hill number (n). ::: ::: ::: ::: Results: The kon increased slightly as the 2,3-DPG and p50 decreased during storage, whereas the koff remained largely unchanged. The OECs demonstrated the expected increase in O2 affinity, whereas the Hill number was unchanged during storage. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion: In spite of the biochemical, structural and functional changes associated with the storage of RBCs, their in vitro interactions with oxygen were largely preserved through 42 days of storage.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate erythrokinetics and in vitro red blood cell (RBC) glucose utilization, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate production, and adenosine triphosphate levels following incubation in AKR mice from early in life until the onset of AKR lymphoma. Normal BALB/c mice served as controls. While hemoglobin concentration and RBC survival remained constant and similar in both groups of mice, the half disappearance time of injected radioactive 59Fe was longer and the 48-hr reappearance of 59Fe was less in AKR mice, compared with those of BALB/c mice. In vitro RBC metabolic studies indicated increased glucose utilization and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate production and decreased adenosine triphosphate levels following incubation in AKR RBC, in contrast to those in BALB/c RBC. RBC metabolic studies were also done in a small group of low leukemic C3H mice, and were similar to BALB/c mice. These differences became most marked in RBC from mice aged 15 to 30 weeks. Overt lymphoma began to occur after age 40 weeks. Hence, these erythropoietic changes occurred prior to the onset of lymphoma. The data imply a direct effect of virus infection on RBC or their precursors. The results are similar to changes in RBC metabolism noted in Rauscher-infected BALB/c mice. The broader implication of these findings in reference to viral host interactions and human leukemogenesis is discussed.
An abnormal hemoglobin was suspected in a 70-year-old Japanese male with cerebral infarction and erythremia with high performance liquid chromatography assay of Hb Ale. The hemoglobin variant migrated to the anode more rapidly than Hb A. Structure determination studies, including amino acid analysis of the abnormal peptide and DNA sequencing of a partially cloned a-globin gene, demonstrated that it is a new hemoglobin variant which has been named Hb Kanagawa [a40( C5)LysAetI. This variant showed an increased oxygen affinity, decreased heme-heme interaction, and a lowered 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effect relative to normal.
Abstract The α-globin of human hemoglobin was expressed in Escherichia coli and was refolded with heme in the presence and in the absence of native β-chains. The functional and structural properties of the expressed α-chains were assessed in the isolated state and after assembly into a functional hemoglobin tetramer. The recombinant and native hemoglobins were essentially identical on the basis of sensitivity to effectors (Cl− and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate), Bohr effect, CO binding kinetics, dimer-tetramer association constants, circular dichroism spectra of the heme region, and nuclear magnetic resonance of the residues in the α1β1 and α1β2 interfaces. However, the nuclear magnetic resonance revealed subtle differences in the heme region of the expressed α-chain, and the recombinant human normal adult hemoglobin (HbA) exhibited a slightly decreased cooperativity relative to native HbA. These results indicate that subtle conformational changes in the heme pocket can alter hemoglobin cooperativity in the absence of modifications of quaternary interface contacts or protein dynamics. In addition to incorporation into a HbA tetramer, the α-globin refolds and incorporates heme in the absence of the partner β-chain. Although the CO binding kinetics of recombinant α-chains were the same as that of native α-chains, the ellipticity of the Soret circular dichroism spectrum was decreased and CO binding kinetics revealed an additional faster component. These results show that recombinant α-chain assumes alternating conformations in the absence of β-chain and indicate that the isolated α-chain exhibits a higher degree of conformational flexibility than the α-chain incorporated into the hemoglobin tetramer. These findings demonstrate the utility of the expressed α-globin as a tool for elucidating the role of this chain in hemoglobin structure-function relationships.
The content of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the erythrocytes of rats is increased on the 30th and 60th days of adaptation of the animals to hypoxia in a pressure chamber. By modifying the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, these changes may play an important role in the improvement of the oxygen supply to the tissues.
The structure of the complex between the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-independent phosphoglycerate mutase (iPGM) from Bacillus stearothermophilus and its 3-phosphoglycerate substrate has recently been solved, and analysis of this structure allowed formulation of a mechanism for iPGM catalysis. In order to obtain further evidence for this mechanism, we have solved the structure of this iPGM complexed with 2-phosphoglycerate and two Mn 2؉ ions at 1.7-Å resolution. The structure consists of two different domains connected by two loops and interacting through a network of hydrogen bonds. This structure is consistent with the proposed mechanism for iPGM catalysis, with the two main steps in catalysis being a phosphatase reaction removing the phosphate from 2-or 3-phosphoglycerate, generating an enzyme-bound phosphoserine intermediate, followed by a phosphotransferase reaction as the phosphate is transferred from the enzyme back to the glycerate moiety. The structure also allowed the assignment of the function of the two domains of the enzyme, one of which participates in the phosphatase reaction and formation of the phosphoserine enzyme intermediate, with the other involved in the phosphotransferase reaction regenerating phosphoglycerate. Significant structural similarity has also been found between the active site of the iPGM domain catalyzing the phosphatase reaction and Escherichia coli alkaline phosphatase.
Bisphosphoglycerate mutase (EC 2.7.5.4) catalyzes the synthesis and breakdown of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in red cells. The human enzyme, cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli has been crystallized in the rhombohedral space group R32 with a = b = c = 100.4 A and alpha = beta = gamma = 81.2 degrees. The asymmetric unit contains either a dimeric enzyme molecule, or a monomer.
To determine if an exposure to lower levels of carbon monoxide (CO) produces quantitative changes in erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), eight rabbits were exposed to 100 ppm CO for 5 h resulting in approximately 20% carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO). 2,3-DPG was determined before exposure and immediately after exposure as well as every 3 h during the 24 h following exposure. To determine if intermittent CO exposures over a prolonged period of time affect 2,3-DPG, an additional 12 rabbits were exposed to 250 ppm CO for three intermittent periods totaling 300 min daily for 14 days (30% HbCO). 2,3-DPG was determined once per animal at the end of each day's exposure period. All animals served as their own controls in both experiments. Neither the results of the 24-h time course nor those of the 14-day time course showed significant differences in mean 2,3-DPG between controls and exposed animals at any sampling time. Apparently erythrocytic 2,3-DPG plays neither a compensating nor aggravating role in respect to the hypoxia induced by these levels of HbCO in the rabbit.
In order to explore effects of interval hypoxic exposure(IHE) on aerobic capacity by testing of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate(2,3-DPG) and blood gas analysis of acute exercising rats.The results of test indicated that erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate of HS and HT raised significantly(P0.01).Arterio-venous blood oxygen saturation of HS and HT increased apparently(P0.05), however,arterio-venous blood oxygen content of HS and HT are higher(P0.01). The conclusions of the study can be summarized as follows: IHE can increase erythrocyte 2,3-DPG to improve supply of oxygen to tissue,IHE can improve efficient of utilizing oxygen in the organism to increase aerobic capacity.
alpha-Glycerophosphate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.99.5) in mitochondria from liver of the triiodothyronine-treated rats is competitively inhibited by phosphoenolpyruvate, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and 3-phosphoglycerate, the apparent Ki values for phosphoenolpyruvate being 0.76 mM at pH 7.0, 1.7 mM at pH 7.4 and 3.5 mM at pH 7.7. The apparent Ki values for glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and 3-phosphoglycerate are also pH-dependent. Other glycolytic intermediates, such as 2-phosphoglycerate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, pyruvate, glucose 6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate and fructose 1,6-diphosphate did not alter significantly alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase activity. Palmitoyl-CoA is a competitive inhibitor of this enzyme, with Ki value of about 30 micron.
summARY Thechemical andphysical properties ofhaemoglobin Sderived fromhomozygotes for this haemoglobin inSicily wereexamined, aswell assome erythrocytic characteristics. Sicilian HbS was identical tothatfoundinUSAblack patients inelectrophoretic mobility on bothstarch and citrate agarmedia, solubility, mechanical precipitation rateofoxyhaemoglobins, andminimum gelling concentration, aswell asbypeptide mapping andamino-acid analysis ofallp-chain peptides. Takentogether withthepresenceinSicily ofAfrican blood group markers andcertain historical considerations, itseemsclear thatthesourceofHbSinSicily isAfrica. Whiletheclinical severity innineSicilian children didnotseem remarkably different fromthedisease intheUSA,themost severeandfatal complications werenotseen.MeanHbF was 10-5%and2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) values were higher inSicilian homozygotes thaninblackUSA counterparts (21-79 F±mol/g Hbvs15.16). Redcell ATPvalues werealso slightly higher inSicilian patients. Thepresence ofconcomitant thalassaemia was excluded bybothfamily studies andglobin chain synthetic ratios. Inconclusion, haemoglobin SinSicilian homozygotes isidentical toHb SfoundinUSA blacks. Although theseverity ofthedisease seemsquite similar inboth groupsofpatients, other erythrocytic properties werefoundtobedifferent. Whether these factors influence severity remains tobeelucidated. Inthedecades after thefirst description ofsickle cell anaemia, itbecameapparent thatsomepeople of non-black ancestry alsohadthis disease. By1959, approximately 30casesofwhite patients hadbeen reported.' Sincethen,substantial numbersof Italians, Sicilians, Greeks, Arabs, Turks, and Indians havebeenfoundtohavehaemoglobin S (HbS)ashomozygotes, simple heterozygotes, oras double heterozygotes withhaemoblobin C orPthalassaemia trait.2 3 Thefinding ofa putative African blood trait innon-African populations has beenofgreat interest tobothmedical scientists and anthropologists. Inaddition, thefinding thatsickle cell disease mayhaveamilder clinical course innonblackpatients4 maybeofdirect concerntothe physician aswell. Itislikely thatother heritable traits whichaccompany thepresence ofHb S are capable ofmodifying theexpression ofsickle cell disease. Onesuchtrait whichhasbeenidentified is thesynthesis oflarge amountsoffetal haemoglobin (HbF)inadult life. Itappears that concentrations of HbF intherangeof20%ormoreinSaudi Arabs
Although numerous antisickling agents that chemically bind with sickle hemoglobin (Hb S) and inhibit sickling of sickle erythrocytes (SS cells) in vitro were reported and some of them were brought to clinical trials, none were satisfactory for clinical use. The major problem with this type of drugs is the difficulty of delivering a sufficient amount of antisickling drug to intracellular Hb S because: chemicals that bind with the side chains of hemoglobin also bind with the side chains of other proteins in the gastrointestinal tract, blood and red blood cells (RBCs) prior to binding with intracellular Hb S; and the concentration of Hb S in SS cells is very high (5 mM of tetrameric Hb S, 20 mM of Hb subunits, or a total amount of approximately 500 grams of Hb S in an adult patient), and the amount of chemical that reaches SS cells upon oral administration cannot modify a significant portion of Hb S to inhibit sickling of SS cells. For these reasons, drugs that chemically bind with Hb S including those that form Schiff base adducts with Hb S seem to have no clinical value. We found that certain aromatic aldehydes that bind with Hb S allosterically do not have these problems. Since these compounds combine with Hb S physically like a key-and-lock relationship, a low concentration (such as less than 2 mM) of such compound in the blood can bind with a large portion of intracellular Hb S, shift the oxygen equilibrium curve toward the left and inhibit sickling of SS cells (Brit. J. Hematol.128:552–561, 2005). This type of allosteric binding between aromatic aldehydes and Hb is analogous to the binding between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and Hb. Quite interestingly, our investigations indicate that NIPRISAN (NICOSAN), an herbal medicine that shows a strong antisickling effect both in vitro and in vivo (in transgenic sickle mice) (Brit. J. Haematol.118:337–343, 2002; Brit. J. Haematol.122:1001–1008 2003), contains various aromatic aldehydes (unpublished data). Allosteric drugs designed to interact with specific proteins in the body may be useful as a new type of therapeutic modality for the treatment of sickle cell disease and other diseases. [Researchers with candidate drugs that may have beneficial effects for SCD are welcome to contact the SCD Reference Laboratory for free in vitro evaluation of their agents (for more information, please see our website at www.tatcom.com/sickle-cell).
The ability of a large number of cellular metabolites to release iron from transferrin was investigated by measuring the rate at which they could mediate iron exchange between two types of transferrin. Rabbit transferrin labelled with 59Fe was incubated with human apotransferrin in the presence of the metabolites. After varying periods of incubation the human transferrin was separated from the rabbit transferrin by immunoprecipitation. GTP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, ADP and citrate produced the most rapid exchange of iron between the two types of transferrin, but many other compounds showed some degree of activity. Iron exchange mediated by the organic phosphates had the characteristics of a single first-order reaction and was sensitive to changes of incubation temperature and pH. The activation energy for the exchange reaction was approx. 13 kcal/mol. The rate of iron exchange from the oxalate - iron - transferrin complex was much lower than from bicarbonate - iron - transferrin. It is concluded that several organic phosphates have the capacity of releasing iron from transferrin. These compounds may represent the means by which the iron is released during the process of cellular uptake.
Abstract Recent findings have suggested an important role for variation in levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP in the regulation of oxygen transport by the human erythrocyte, and in making homeostatic adjustments to hypoxia. For this reason, the erythrocytic glycolytic mechanisms which control or bring about changes in levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP are of vital importance in understanding respiratory homeostasis. Hexokinase is the first step in glycolysis, and available evidence suggests that it is an important rate-limiting step in the erythrocyte. In this paper we have examined a possible mechanism for feedback control of glycolysis through 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inhibition of hexokinase activity. We have found that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate does inhibit hexokinase and have shown that the inhibition is relieved by increasing concentrations of ATP and Mg2+. It is our conclusion that inhibition of erythrocyte hexokinase by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, with modulation by ATP and/or Mg2+, is well suited for feedback control of glycolysis, and hence for the control of levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP, which in turn regulate hemoglobin function.
Abstract Twenty patients with renal failure and severe anemia (hemoglobin range 6.6–8.7 g dl ) on thrice-weekly maintenance hemodialysis were treated with recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO). After three months of intravenous (iv) therapy the hemoglobin increase averaged 2 g dl , and was steadily maintained even after two months of subcutaneous (sc) therapy. The significant increase of macrocyte counts, determined by an automated red blood cell counter after both steps of therapy, suggested the release of young red cells (large cells) into blood circulation. This assumption may be supported by the significant increase of the red cell creatine contents. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels of the erythrocytes did not significantly change after rHuEPO administration.
Cardiac-gated phosphorus (31P) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopic imaging with surface coils resolves in three dimensions the spatial distribution of high energy phosphate metabolites in the human heart noninvasively. 31P spectra derive from 6- to 14-cm3 volumes of myocardium in the anterior left ventricle, septum, and apex, at depths of up to about 8 cm from the chest, as identified by proton (1H) NMR anatomical images acquired without moving the subject. Spectroscopic images are acquired in 9 to 21 min at 1.5 T. Metabolite concentrations are quantified with reference to a standard located outside the chest, yielding normal in vivo concentrations of phosphocreatine and adenosine triphosphate of about 11.0 +/- 2.7 (SD) and 6.9 +/- 1.6 mumol/g of wet heart tissue, respectively. High energy phosphate contents did not vary significantly with location in the normal myocardium, but 2,3-diphosphoglycerate signals from blood varied with subject and location.
We have previously shown that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) inhibits the phosphorylation of erythrocyte membrane cytoskeletal proteins by endogenous casein kinases. Here, we report that 2,3-DPG stimulates the phosphorylation of protein 4.1 by protein kinase C. Studies with red cell membrane preparations showed that while the phosphorylation of most of the membrane proteins by endogenous membrane-bound kinases and purified kinase C was inhibited by 2,3-DPG, the phosphorylation of protein 4.1 was slightly enhanced by the metabolite. The effect of 2,3-DPG was further examined using purified protein 4.1 preparations. Our results indicate that 2,3-DPG stimulates both the rate and the extent of phosphorylation of purified protein 4.1 by kinase C. The amount of phosphate incorporated was found to double to 2 mol of phosphate per mole of protein 4.1 in the presence of 10 mM 2,3-DPG. The increase in phosphorylation was distributed over all phosphorylation sites as revealed by an analysis of the labeling patterns of phosphopeptides resolved by high performance liquid chromatography, but a significantly higher incorporation was detected in two of the phosphopeptides. The stimulatory effect of 2,3-DPG on the phosphorylation of protein 4.1 was observed only with kinase C. Phosphorylation by the cytosolic erythrocyte casein kinase and the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase was inhibited by 2,3-DPG. Moreover, the stimulatory effect of 2,3-DPG seemed to be unique to the phosphorylation of protein 4.1 since a similar effect had not been observed with other protein kinase C substrates. Our results suggest that 2,3-DPG may play an important role in the regulation of cytoskeletal interactions.
Abstract The amino acid compositions of the isolated α and β chains from purified adult cat hemoglobins A and B have been determined. The data indicate that the α chains are similar but the β chains differ by about four substitutions. Amino-terminal analysis has shown the presence of the typical Val-Leu sequence in the cat α chains. However, the two β chains differ at their amino terminals. NH2-terminal glycine is found in the A-β and a serine with a blocked α-NH2 group occurs in this position in the B-β chain. The amino-terminal tryptic peptides of both β chains have been isolated and their sequences partially characterized. The effects of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP on the oxygen saturation curves of isolated cat hemoglobins A and B (HbA and HbB) have been investigated. Cat HbA, with free β chain NH2 termini, is sensitive to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP, whereas cat HbB, with blocked β chain NH2 termini, is insensitive to these effector molecules. The oxygen affinities of the hemolysates containing mixtures of HbA and HbB are changed by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or ATP in proportion to the ratio of HbA to HbB in the hemolysate. The work provides support for a role of the NH2 terminus of the β chain in the control of oxygen binding in hemoglobin.
Background: Hereditary canine Stomatocytosis has been described in purebred Alaskan Malamutes, Drentse Patrijshonds, and Miniature Schnauzers. In humans, hereditary Stomatocytosis is a heterogeneous group of congenital disorders characterized by the presence of stomatocytes in blood, increased osmotic fragility, and frequent hemolytic anemia. Objective: Our objective was to describe hematologic findings and RBC characteristics in 7 closely related Standard Schnauzers with Stomatocytosis. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods: The following parameters were measured using an automated analyzer: HCT, RBC, hemoglobin (Hb) concentration, MCV, MCH, MCHC, red cell distribution width (ROW), WBC, platelet count, mean platelet volume (MPV), thrombocrit (PCT), and platelet distribution width (PDW). Differential leukocyte count, platelet estimate, reticulocyte count, and the percentage of stomatocytes in blood films were microscopically evaluated. An osmotic fragility test of RBCs and measurement of intracellular Na+, K+, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations were also performed. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results: The affected dogs had macrocytosis (80 ± 4.24 fL, reference interval 60–76 fL), decreased MCHC (29.3 ± 0.8 g/dL, reference interval 32–39 g/dL), slightly increased ROW (17.3 ± 0.4%, reference interval 12–16%), and an increased reticulocyte count (1.55 ± 0.77%, reference interval <1%). The percentage of stomatocytes in blood films varied from 0.6 to 18.9% of all RBCs. Erythrocyte osmotic fragility and intracellular Na+ (138.1 ± 3.2 mmol/L; controls 99 ± 6.1 mmol/L), K+ (8.1 ± 0.8 mmol/L; controls 6.1 ± 0.5 mmol/1), and 2,3-DPG (21.9 ± 2.0 μmol/g Hb; controls: 14.6 ± 3.3 μmol/g Hb) concentrations were increased in dogs with Stomatocytosis. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusions: Hematologic findings and the metabolic defects in RBCs in these Standard Schnauzers were consistent with a diagnosis of Stomatocytosis. Parentage analysis suggests that Stomatocytosis in Standard Schnauzers may have a hereditary component.
GLEDHILL, NORMAN. Blood doping and related issues: a brief review. Med. Set Sportt Exercise, Vol. 14, No. 3. pp. 183-189, J382. The Intent of blood doping is to increase maximal aerobic ^Bwer by increasing the capacity of blood to carry oxygen. This Tnanipulation gained notoriety in the sports world because of rumors of blood doping by competitors in endurance events. Researchers also have become interested in induced erytbrocvthemia because its study provides insight into the limiting factor(s) of maximal aerobic power (Vbjoax). It Is concluded in this review that to increase Vbim,,, it is necessary to elevate significantly the hemoglobin concentration by infusing at least 900 ml of blood. The use of inadequate reinf usion volumes, premature reinf usion of toe blood following withdrawal, and storage of the blood by refrigeration rather than by freezing are major reasons foi the contradictory findings from earlier studies of blood doping. Changes in blood volume and 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate following blood doping are transient and, other than during the first 24 h port infusion, appear to be inconsequential. In addition, this review also examines related issues such as attendant bemodynamic and lactate changes, the need of controls, and ethical considerations in blood doping.
Abstract 1. 1. We studied the oxygenation of mammalian hemoglobins: mouse (Mus musculus molossinus), rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus domesticus), Japanese monkey (Macaca fuscata), man (Homo sapiens), sheep (Ovis aries), llama (Lama glama). pig (Sus scrofa domesticus), cow (Bos taurus domesticus) and horse (Equus caballus), in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and compared their oxygen affinity in relation to the body weight. 2. 2. The negative correlation between body weight and the oxygen affinity of the whole blood, observed by Schmidt-Nielsen and Larimer (1958), was not observed in the absence of DPG. 3. 3. Our results indicated that an adaptive evolution proposed for hemoglobin in terms of its oxygen affinity vs body weight of the animal can only be appreciated with DPG.
Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3481, a Tn5-induced mutant of the tomato pathogen DC3000, cannot grow and elicit disease symptoms on tomato seedlings. It also cannot grow on minimal medium containing malate, citrate, or succinate, three of the major organic acids found in tomatoes. We report here that this mutant also cannot use, as a sole carbon and/or energy source, a wide variety of hexoses and intermediates of hexose catabolism. Uptake studies have shown that DC3481 is not deficient in transport. A 3.8-kb EcoRI fragment of DC3000 DNA, which complements the Tn5 mutation, has been cloned and sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequences of two of the three open reading frames (ORFs) present on this fragment, ORF2 and ORF3, had no significant homology with sequences in the GenBank databases. However, the 510-amino-acid sequence of ORF1, the site of the Tn5 insertion, strongly resembled the deduced amino acid sequences of the Bacillus subtilis and Zea mays genes encoding 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG)-independent phosphoglyceromutase (PGM) (52% identity and 72% similarity and 37% identity and 57% similarity, respectively). PGMs not requiring the cofactor DPG are usually found in plants and algae. Enzyme assays confirmed that P. syringae PGM activity required an intact ORF1. Not only is DC3481 the first PGM-deficient pseudomonad mutant to be described, but the P. syringae pgm gene is the first gram-negative bacterial gene identified that appears to code for a DPG-independent PGM. PGM activity appears essential for the growth and pathogenicity of P. syringae pv. tomato on its host plant.
Abstract The clinical, haematological and biochemical features of 50 Sudanese patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) were determined. Of 23 patients with complete family data, 21 had sickle cell anaemia (homozygous HbSS), 2 had sickle-cell/β + thalassaemia but none had sickle cell/β O thalassaemia. The remaining 27 patients had HbSS phenotype. 84% of patients were from the Baggara tribe in western Sudan, where HbS is a natural extension of the west African HbS belt. 21 patients were children under 2 years old; 19 were 3–10 years old; and the remaining 10 were over 10 years old. Young patients presented mainly with painful vaso-occlusive crisis, severe anaemia, hand and foot syndrome, fever, underweight, malnutrition and varrious infectious diseases. All patients had mild to moderate cardiac enlargment; 42% had a moderately enlarged spleen but only 10% had an enlarged liver; 20% had infarctive lesions of long bones and another 8% had Salmonella osteomyelitis. Leg ulcers, priapism, enuresis and cholelithiasis were not observed. Patients had a mean haemoglobin concentration of 7.3 g/dl; reticulocyte count of 15·1%; serum bilirubin of 2·1 mg/dl; HbA 2 level of 2·8% and HbF of 7%. Thus, the observed pattern of SCD in Sudan is comparable to the severe type described for Africans and not comparable to the benign form found in Shiite Moslem Arabs of Saudi Arabia. 6 adults with mild SCD had HbF levels below 5%. Amelioration of the disease, therefore, does not seem to be related to HbF levels; nor was it possible to relate it to high levels of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
In 67 viscose industry workers exposed to carbon disulphide, the concentration of adenine nucleotides and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes was evaluated. No statistically significant differences were found between the CS2-exposed and control groups. A multivariate analysis demonstrated that an increase in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine monophosphatic acid with prolonged work in CS2 exposure mainly results from changes dependent on subjects' age.
The present study was undertaken to determine whether phospholipase D participates in the mitogenic action of arginine vasopressin (AVP) in cultured rat glomerular mesangial cells. AVP promptly increased the phosphatidylethanol formation in a concentration-dependent manner, which indicates the activation of phospholipase D. When cells were preincubated with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or carbobenzyloxy-leucine-tyrosine-chloromethylketone (zLYCK), inhibitors of phospholipase D, the 1 x 10(-7) M AVP-produced phosphatidylethanol was significantly attenuated. Also, inhibitors of protein kinase C, staurosporine and calphostin C, reduced the AVP-induced increase in phosphatidylethanol. AVP activated mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase in a concentration-dependent manner. Such an activation was significantly reduced by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, zLYCK, or staurosporine. Also, AVP stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation, an effect significantly less in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or zLYCK. Similar results we...
Red blood cells are still the most widely transfused blood component worldwide and their story is intimately entwined with the history of transfusion medicine and the changes in the collection and storage of blood1,2. ::: ::: At present, the most widely used protocol for the storage of red blood cells (for up to 42 days) is the collection of blood into anticoagulant solutions (typically citrate-dextrose-phosphate); red cell concentrates are prepared by the removal of plasma and, in some cases, also leukoreduction. The product is stored at 4 ± 2° C in a slightly hypertonic additive solution, generally SAGM (sodium, adenine, glucose, mannitol, 376 mOsm/L)1. ::: ::: Despite this, a definitive protocol that reconciles long-term storage on the one hand and safety and efficacy of the transfusion therapy on the other is still the subject of intense debate and discussion. In fact, although the organisation of the blood system, through the achievement of self-sufficiency, currently enables ordinary requests of the transfusion ‘market’ to be met, in the case of a calamity, disaster, or emerging infections3, or in particular periods of the year, local reserves can sometimes reach a minimum. There is still an underlying concern about the real need to store blood components for as long as possible in order to obtain a gradual increase in the interval between the donation and the transfusion, and how much this elastic time span can be prolonged without definitively compromising the quality of the product and, in the final analysis, the recipients’ health2. Indeed, although the transfusion establishment initially pursued both objectives (product quality and prolongation of the storage period), recent retrospective studies (whose results are, therefore, weakened by all the statistical limitations of this type of analysis)5–8 have indicated the apparent irreconcilability of the two aims. These studies seem to suggest that the quality (in terms of safety and efficiency) of red blood cells decreases in proportion to the time the storage period is prolonged. Furthermore, there is extremely convincing molecular evidence9,10 which, together with the results of clinical studies11–33, appears to confirm the preliminary conclusions regarding the likely poorer quality of red blood cells stored for a long time. However, the statistical validity and methodological rigour, in terms of evidence-based medicine, of the clinical studies have recently been challenged, highlighting the need for prospective, double-blind, randomized studies, in like fashion to the one carried out by Walsh et al.34 in 2004, which led the authors to conclude “the data did not support the hypothesis that transfusing red blood cells stored for a long time has detrimental effects on tissue oxygenation in critically ill, anaemic, euvolumaeic patients without active bleeding”. The international scientific community now seems much more convinced of the need of prospective studies, since such studies, on large cohorts of subjects, are currently underway35,36. ::: ::: The key point of the problem is probably the lack of universally accepted standard criteria that closely reflect the dramatic molecular changes that occur during prolonged storage of red blood cells and which, simply put, would enable ‘good’ blood to be distinguished from ‘no longer sufficiently good’ blood. The current standard requirements for patenting new additive solutions in the USA, and also suggested in the recommendations of the European Council37, are essentially based on two parameters: the level of haemolysis (below the threshold of 0.8% at the end of the storage period, following the introduction of the “95/95” rule38) and a survival rate of the transfused cells of more than 75% at 24 hours after transfusion. This latter parameter can be assessed by measuring the half-life of red blood cells labelled with 51 chromium prior to transfusion. These parameters are, however, fairly general and easily affected by the considerable biological variability between donors, given that it is known that blood from some donors resists storage better than that from other donors39. ::: ::: Haemolysis is an easier parameter to monitor. Typically, between 0.2 and 0.4% of red blood cells stored in the presence of standard additive solutions are haemolysed after 5–6 weeks of storage, while pre-storage leukoreduction halves the incidence of this phenomenon40. These widely accepted and well-established parameters do not, however, reflect the profound molecular changes that affect red blood cells during their storage. ::: ::: A brief list of the elements of the so-called “red blood cell storage lesion” includes10: morphological changes, slowed metabolism with a decrease in the concentration of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), acidosis with a decrease in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), loss of function (usually transient) of cation pumps and consequent loss of intracellular potassium and accumulation of sodium within the cytoplasm, oxidative damage with changes to the structure of band 341 and lipid peroxidation, apoptotic changes with racemisation of membrane phospholipids and loss of parts of the membrane through vesiculation9. Some of these changes occur within the first few hours of storage, for example, the decrease in pH or the increases in potassium and lactate; others, however, take days or weeks10. Together, these events risk compromising the safety and efficacy of long-stored red blood cells, reducing their capacity to carry and release oxygen, promoting the release of potentially toxic intermediates (for example, free haemoglobin can act as a source of reactive oxygen species) and negatively influencing physiological rheology (through the increased capacity of the red blood cells to adhere to the endothelium42,43 or through their enhanced thrombogenic44 or pro-inflammatory45 potential). These observations at a molecular level were supported by the results of a series of clinical studies (albeit retrospective and not randomised). These studies appeared to show a relationship between the duration of storage and a proportional increase in adverse events in the transfused patients, although the data available are preliminary and the statistically more reliable studies that conform more closely with the gold standard criteria represented by evidence-based medicine are considered necessary by many4 and are, indeed, underway5.
Recent findings have suggested an important role for variation in levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP in the regulation of oxygen transport by the human erythrocyte, and in making homeostatic adjustments to hypoxia. For this reason, the erythrocytic glycolytic mechanisms which control or bring about changes in levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP are of vital importance in understanding respiratory homeostasis. Hexokinase is the first step in glycolysis, and available evidence suggests that it is an important rate-limiting step in the erythrocyte. In this paper we have examined a possible mechanism for feedback control of glycolysis through 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inhibition of hexokinase activity. We have found that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate does inhibit hexokinase and have shown that the inhibition is relieved by increasing concentrations of ATP and Mg 2+. It is our conclusion that inhibition of erythrocyte hexokinase by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, with modulation by ATP and/or Mg 2+, is well suited for feedback control of glycolysis, and hence for the control of levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP, which in turn regulate hemoglobin function.
The oxygen transport to tissues depends on many physiological and biochemical factors, each of which is intimately related to the others. It follows that the definition of a model that fully describes this system is a rather difficult task. The model reported here takes into account only some of the most important factors, i.e., oxygen uptake (VO2), gas exchange ratio (R), hemoglobin (Hb) and intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration, blood flow, arterial and venous PO 2, PCO~ and pH. Other factors (such as tissues capillarization, pulmonary shunt, permeability of alveolar membrane to gases, blood viscosity, etc.) were not considered, and therefore the model does not allow exact quantitative predictions of oxygen transport. Nevertheless, we feel that the estimation of the relative changes of oxygen delivery to tissues as induced by changes of some or all the above factors is useful in several physiological and clinical studies.
ABSTRACT GLEDHILL, NORMAN. Blood doping and related issues: a brief review. Med. Set Sportt Exercise, Vol. 14, J382. The Intent of blood doping is to increase maximal aerobiĉ Bwer by increasing the capacity of blood to carry oxygen. This Tnanipulation gained notoriety in the sports world because of rumors of blood doping by competitors in endurance events. Researchers also have become interested in induced erytbrocvthemia because its study provides insight into the limiting factor(s) of maximal aerobic power (Vbjoax). It Is concluded in this review that to increase Vbim,,, it is necessary to elevate significantly the hemoglobin concentration by infusing at least 900 ml of blood. The use of inadequate reinf usion volumes, premature reinf usion of toe blood following withdrawal, and storage of the blood by refrigeration rather than by freezing are major reasons foi the contradictory findings from earlier studies of blood doping. Changes in blood volume and 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate following blood doping are transient and, other than during the first 24 h port infusion, appear to be inconsequential. In addition, this review also examines related issues such as attendant bemodynamic and lactate changes, the need of controls, and ethical considerations in blood doping.
Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3481, a Tn5-induced mutant of the tomato pathogen DC3000, cannot grow and elicit disease symptoms on tomato seedlings. It also cannot grow on minimal medium containing malate, citrate, or succinate, three of the major organic acids found in tomatoes. We report here that this mutant also cannot use, as a sole carbon and/or energy source, a wide variety of hexoses and intermediates of hexose catabolism. Uptake studies have shown that DC3481 is not deficient in transport. A 3.8-kb EcoRI fragment of DC3000 DNA, which complements the Tn5 mutation, has been cloned and sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequences of two of the three open reading frames (ORFs) present on this fragment, ORF2 and ORF3, had no significant homology with sequences in the GenBank databases. However, the 510-amino-acid sequence of ORF1, the site of the Tn5 insertion, strongly resembled the deduced amino acid sequences of the Bacillus subtilis and Zea mays genes encoding 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG)-independent phosphoglyceromutase (PGM) (52% identity and 72% similarity and 37% identity and 57% similarity, respectively). PGMs not requiring the cofactor DPG are usually found in plants and algae. Enzyme assays confirmed that P. syringae PGM activity required an intact ORF1. Not only is DC3481 the first PGM-deficient pseudomonad mutant to be described, but the P. syringae pgm gene is the first gram-negative bacterial gene identified that appears to code for a DPG-independent PGM. PGM activity appears essential for the growth and pathogenicity of P. syringae pv. tomato on its host plant.
Hibernating bears lie in dens for almost half a year without eating or drinking while relying on body fat reserves before they emerge relatively unharmed in the spring [1] [2] [3] . During winter hibernation, bears become essentially self-containing units with little or no exchange with the environment, and, to prolong body energy reserves, they reach a profound hypometabolic state, with lowered body temperatures and minimum metabolic rates down to $ 25% of the basal levels [3, 4] . During hibernation, lowered heart and ventilation rates [4, 5] and increased blood O 2 affinity, due in part to the reduced body temperature and in part to reduced levels of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) [6] , reduce O 2 supply, thus matching the reduced tissue O 2 consumption. Because of these adjustments, hibernators most likely remain essentially aerobic and experience little or no hypoxia [2] . Whereas in small hibernators body temperature drops to only a few degrees above zero [3] , bears hibernate at much less reduced body temperatures (i.e., with regular oscillations between $ 30 and 36 1C) [4, 7] , despite having the same weight-specific low metabolic rate as small hibernators [3] . This suggests a significant temperature-independent component in the metabolic depression of hibernating bears [4] .
Desiccating human red blood cells (RBCs) to increase their storage life has been the subject of intense research for a number of years. However, drying RBCs invariably compromises their integrity and has detrimental effects on hemoglobin function due to autoxidation. We have previously demonstrated an RBC desiccation and rehydration process that preserves RBC antigenic epitopes better than frozen RBCs. This study expands on those observations by examining what effects this desiccation process has on RBC hemoglobin function with respect to oxygen binding properties. In this paper, we examined RBCs from normal donors which were desiccated to 25% moisture content and stored dry for 2 weeks at room temperature prior to rehydration with plasma followed by structural and functional studies. Our data showed that approximately 98% of the RBCs were intact upon rehydration based on hemolysis assays. Oxygen dissociation curves for the desiccated/rehydrated RBCs showed a left shift compared to fresh RBCs (pO2 = 17 mmHg vs. 26 mmHg, respectively). The desiccated/rehydrated RBCs also showed an increase in methemoglobin compared to fresh RBCs (4.5% vs 0.9%, respectively). 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate concentration of the desiccated/rehydrated RBCs was reduced by 20%. In conclusion, although this RBC dehydration process preserves RBC integrity and hemoglobin oxygen binding properties better than most other dehydration techniques described so far, further optimization and long-term studies are needed to make this procedure acceptable for human transfusion.
Serum erythropoietic activity and reticulocyte response to anemia were investigated using a rabbit model. In hemolytic anemia, induced by injections of phenylhydrazine on Day 0 the hemoglobin reached a nadir (mean, 6.23 g/dl) on Day 4 when SEA was maximal (mean, 765 mU/ml). In animals venesected on Day 0 and Day 1 to produce anemia of equal severity, the SEA was maximal (mean 235 mU/ml) on Day 2. In both groups the reticulocyte response peaked on Day 7--at 34% for the hemolytic group and 21% for the venesected group. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, measured on Day 4, was significantly reduced in the PHZ-treated group. In the venesected group the 2,3-DPG increased between Day 0 and Day 4. There were no concurrent changes in acid-base balance. These results imply that the degree of anemia is only one of the factors which influence the level of circulating SEA.
Conventional storage conditions of erythrocytes cause storage lesions. We propose that hypoxic storage conditions, involving removal of oxygen and replacement with helium, the changes in stored erythrocytes under hypoxic condition were observed and assessed. Erythrocytes were divided into two equal parts, then stored in conventional and hypoxic conditions, separately. Blood gas analysis, hemorheology, and hemolysis were performed once a week. Energy metabolism and membrane damage were monitored by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Phosphatidylserine exposure was measured by flow cytometry. P50 was measured and the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) plotted accordingly. Erythrocyte morphology was observed microscopically. In the 9th week of storage, the hemolysis of the hypoxia group was 0.7%; lower (p < .05) than that of the control group and still below the threshold of quality requirements. The dissolved oxygen and pO2 were only 1/4 of that in the control group (p < .01); the adenosine triphosphate, glucose, and lactic acid levels were decreased (p < .05), while the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels were increased relative to that in the control group (p < .01). There were no statistically significant differences in membrane damage, deformability, and aggregation between the two groups. In addition, the ODC of the two groups was shifted to the left but this difference was not statistically different. Basically similar to the effect of completely anaerobic conditions. Erythrocytes stored under hypoxic conditions could maintain a relatively stable state with a significant decrease in hemolysis, reduction of storage lesions, and an increase in shelf-life.
Band 3 protein of human erythrocyte membrane is phosphorylated on a tyrosine residue located near the NH2 terminal by an endogenous tyrosine kinase activity (Dekowski, S., Rybicki, A. and Drickamer, K. (1983) J. Biol. Chem. 258, 2750-2753). A tyrosine kinase phosphorylating the band 3 protein in situ has been extracted from ghosts by non-ionic detergent and partially characterized (Phan-Dinh-Tuy, F., Henry, J. and Kahn, A. (1985) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 126, 304-312). We have studied the properties of the tyrosine kinase activity which remains bound to the ghosts after detergent extraction using the 43 kDa fragment of protein 3 as substrate. This activity, solubilized from the detergent-resistant material at 0.25 M NaCl and concentrated by phosphocellulose and tyrosine-agarose chromatographies, remains linked to high molecular weight complexes. It is specific for tyrosine. Assayed with the purified 43 kDa fragment it requires the presence of Mn2+ which cannot be replaced by Mg2+. Its affinity for 43 kDa fragment is very high with a Km of 3.3 microM. ATP acts as a phosphoryl donor with a Km of 0.55 microM. The tyrosine kinase activity was not modified by insulin, DMSO, phorbol ester and epidermal growth factor, vanadate and xanthine derivatives. Polyamines spermidine and the polylysine are inhibitors in the presence of Mn2+ but not in the presence of Mg2+. Heparin is a competitive inhibitor of ATP. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate is an inhibitor at physiological concentrations (Ki = 2 mM). Purified red cell actin is not phosphorylated by the tyrosine kinase. These properties distinguish the red cell membrane-bound tyrosine kinase from other tyrosine kinases extracted from normal cells.
Cardiac sarcolemmal (SL) phospholipase C (PLC) is a key enzyme in the signal transduction of several cardiac receptors. Thus, the earlier described Ca(2+)-stimulated SL PLC activity may represent variously coupled enzymes. The present study was undertaken to delineate the alpha 1-adrenoceptor/G protein-stimulated PLC activity in purified cardiac SL vesicles. Although certain detergents and membrane pore formers enhanced SL PLC activity, measured as formation of 3H-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3] from 3H-phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, alpha 1-adrenoceptor stimulated activity was not observed. When SL vesicles were preincubated (0-4 degrees C) with substrate in detergent-free buffer, subsequent incubation (37 degrees C; in mM: 100 NaCl, 2 EGTA, 1.8 CaCl2, 10 LiCl) resulted in a time-dependent production of 3H-Ins(1,4,5)P3, that was increased in the presence of 100 microM GTP gamma S. GTP gamma S stimulation of SL PLC activity required the presence of Mg2+ and Ca2+, but was lost at (sub)millimolar concentrations of these bivalent cations. Mg2+ (0.01-10 mM) promoted a 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-insensitive phosphatase activity. GTP gamma S enhanced the sensitivity of SL PLC to Ca2+, but did not increase the maximum Ca2+ (0.1-1 mM) stimulated SL PLC activity. At 5 microM Ca2+, GTP gamma S induced a concentration-dependent rise in inositol phosphates production, which was further elevated by the alpha 1-agonist, phenylephrine (PhE). The PhE-effect was inhibited by the alpha 1-antagonist prazosin, but not by the beta-antagonist atenolol. These results show that the components necessary for the alpha 1-adrenoceptor transmembrane signal are associated with the SL membrane and can be functionally coupled.
We have developed two strains of hooded rats with differing erythrocyte oxygen affinities by selection on red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels. Genetic studies have shown that these strains differ at one DPG-level-determining locus. This article reports the results of a study which involved measurement of plasma cholesterol levels in rats from the strains and the F2 progeny of strain intercrosses. Low-DPG strain rats, with high oxygen affinity, had significantly higher mean cholesterol levels than High-DPG rats. Animals from the extremes of the F2 distribution of DPG levels showed similar, significantly different mean cholesterol levels, indicating that the negative association between DPG and cholesterol levels in strain rats was not due to inadvertent fixation of unrelated genes during selection on DPG. The possibility is discussed that high oxygen affinity, brought about by low DPG levels, may be causative in increasing cholesterol levels.
ABSTRACT. The electrophoretic patterns of 3-phospho-glycerate mutase (3-PG mutase) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase (DPG phosphatase) have been studied in human tissue extracts. At pH 7.5, 3-PG mutase activity was revealed as three bands in heart tissue, one band in liver, and one band in skeletal muscle. On the other hand, two bands were detected in white blood cells and three bands were apparent in red blood cells.
Three allosteric states are required to describe the relaxation of (carbon monoxy) hemoglobin following flash photolysis. Combined absorbance and fluorescence probes were used. The absorbance signals consist of a component corresponding to ligand recombination and a component for the R-T transition. The fluorescence of 8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonate (HPT), an analogue of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, shows rates and amplitudes correlated with the absorbance transients. Measurements were made at pII 6, 6.5, and 7.0 at CO partial pressures of 0.1 and 1 atm. The fractional photolysis was varied in each case to change the initial distribution of the R states. Data show an immediate absorbance change due to ligand dissociation, while the changes in the ligand isosbestic and the fluorescence signals occur with time constants of 80 microseconds (at pH 6.5). The signals then show a biphasic return to equilibrium, characteristic of the allosteric system. The measurements provide three independent probes of the kinetics of the substates of hemoglobin. Although the ligand binding data can be generally represented by a two-state model, the fluorescence data require T states with different affinities for HPT.
The functional properties of fetal bovine hemoglobin have been studied as a function of temperature, chloride and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration. The fetal bovine erythrocyte has six times the concentration of the allosteric modulator DPG compared with the adult cell, and yet the oxygen affinity of the fetal hemoglobin still exceeds that of the adult molecule at the respective physiological concentration of DPG and at physiological temperature. We find that the allosteric modulator strongly affects the enthalpy of oxygen for the fetal hemoglobin but not for the adult protein. We propose that this may be an important mechanism for the exchange of heat from mother to fetus. In particular, under stripped conditions the oxygen affinity of fetal bovine Hb is considerably higher than that of the adult hemoglobin. Due to the higher DPG concentration that characterizes fetal bovine erythrocytes this difference is almost abolished in the presence of the respective physiological concentration of DPG and at 20 degrees C. However, on going from 20 degrees C to 37 degrees C, the difference in O2 affinity between the two hemoglobins is restored, as it should if oxygen has to be transferred from maternal to fetal blood, by virtue of the lower overall heat of oxygenation (delta H) displayed by fetal Hb when in the presence of DPG at physiological concentration. This behavior is reminiscent of that of human fetal Hb and outlines the role of temperature and of its interplay with heterotropic ligands in the modulation of hemoglobin function to fully meet the physiological needs of the organism.
The erythrocytic stages of the malaria parasite depend on anaerobic glycolysis for energy. Using [2-13C]glucose and nuclear magnetic resonance, the glucose utilization rate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) level produced in normal RBCs and Plasmodium falciparum infected red blood cell populations (IRBCs, with <4% parasite infected red cells), were measured. The glucose flux in IRBCs was several-folds greater, was proportional to parasitemia, and maximal at trophozoite stage. The 2,3-DPG levels were disproportionately lower in IRBCs, indicating a downregulation of 2,3-DPG flux in non-parasitized RBCs. This may be due to lowered pH leading to selective differential inhibition of the regulatory glycolytic enzyme phosphofructokinase. This downregulation of the glucose utilization rate in the majority (>96%) of uninfected RBCs in an IRBC population may have physiological implications in malaria patients.
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate, heretofore considered absent in avian erythrocytes, occurs in the erythrocytes of embryos to the extent of 4 to 5 micromoles per cubic centimeter of erythrocytes before hatching; it disappears from the cells within 8 days after the embryo hatches.
1. The chemical shifts (delta) of the phosphates of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were determined by phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance (31P NMR) spectroscopy and were found to be displaced downfield following the addition of hemoglobin (3 mM) to a solution of either diphosphoglycerate (5 mM) or ATP (1 mM). 2. The binding of these compounds to hemoglobin was also determined by membrane ultrafiltration. A direct relationship was observed between the change in chemical shift ((delta delta) of the 2-P and 3-P of diphosphoglycerate and the percent diphosphoglycerate bound, when the latter was varied by altering pH, oxygenation state, or total diphosphoglycerate concentration. 3. In comparable studies with ATP binding, a linear relationship between the delta delta values of the gamma-, beta-, and alpha-P of ATP and the percent of ATP bound was not observed when the data from all of the experiments were plotted. NMR signals were not detectible in deoxyhemoglobin solutions containing 1 mM ATP but were seen in solutions containing 3.8 mM ATP. 4. The results indicate that 31P NMR spectroscopy is a promising tool for investigating organic phosphate interactions with hemoglobin.
The tenfold increase in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration that occurs during the first 5 days of life in lambs is an important adaptation to extrauterine life. In lambs, DPG reduces hemoglobin oxygen affinity by the Bohr effect. Our data on 10 neonatal lambs suggest that the biochemical mechanism underlying this DPG increase involves the following: (1) a rise in plasma glucose from 40 to 100 mg/dl in the first 48 hr of life, which allows for increased glucose consumption in the highly glucose-permeable neonatal RBC; (2) a transitory rise in blood pH begins at birth, peaks at about 20 hr, and falls slightly; (3) the pH increase coincides with a threefold increase in RBC fructose-1,6-diphosphate (FDP) concentration due, we believe, to pH activation of phosphofructokinase; (4) glycolytic intermediates after the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPD) step do not rise in the first 24 hr of life, possibly due to insufficient inorganic phosphate (Pi), a substrate of GAPD; (5) plasma Pi increases from about 7 mg/dl at birth to 11 mg/dl at 72 hr, activates the GAPD, and FDP levels decline; and (6) the in vitro activity of the DPG synthetic enzyme, DPG mutase, is increased 12-fold in neonatal compared to adult RBC. We conclude that the postnatal rise in DPG is explained at least in part by the sequential effects of these metabolic changes.
We determined erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), PO250%, whole blood hemoglobin concentration, and available O2 from the 12th to the 30th d after birth in two matched groups of young rabbits. One group received iron parenterally on the 12th, 15th, and 18th d and the other received no iron supplement. In the untreated group there was a marked fall in hemoglobin concentration from the 12th to the 22nd d and thereafter a marked increase to the initial level on the 30th d whereas the iron-treated animals showed a marked rise in hemoglobin concentration from the 12th to the 22nd d, and a subsequent, slight decline from the 22nd to the 30th d. The average values of PO250% and 2,3-DPG, and the changes in PO250% and 2,3-DPG were virtually identical for both groups. During the first period (12-22 d) there was a marked rise in both 2,3-DPG and PO250% whereas in the second period (22-30 d) there was a somewhat smaller rise in 2,3-DPG and only a slight tendency toward a further rise in PO250%. In the untreated animals "available O2," reflecting the O2 delivery capacity of the blood, remained unchanged during the period of fall in hemoglobin concentration and showed a rise during the second period. In the iron-treated animals "available O2" rose markedly during the first period, with iron-treatment, and remained unchanged during the second period. We conclude that the marked postnatal rise in 2,3-DPG and PO250% in the rabbit seems to be independent of the changes in the hemoglobin concentration.
The Bohr effect of hemoglobin and that of the aquomet and cyanomet valency hybrids was measured in the presence and the absence of IHP (inositol hexaphosphate) and DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate). In the absence of these organic phosphates the four hybrids show similar, but suppressed Bohr effects as compared to hemoglobin. Addition of IHP and DPG results in all cases in an increase of the Bohr effect. The additional phosphate induced Bohr effect of the hybrids with the alpha chain in the oxidized form is almost identical to that of hemoglobin, while this effect of the hybrids with oxidized beta chains is slighly lower than that of hemoglobin. The results suggest (a) that the Bohr effect is correlated to the ligation state of the hemoglobin molecule rather than to its quaternary structure (b) that the additional phosphate induced Bohr effect is related to the change in quaternary structure of the tetramer, and (c) that with respect to the Bohr effect of the hybrids there is no difference between high and low spin species.
Human erythrocytes are highly specialized cells containing haemoglobin for the transport of oxygen. It seems reasonable to assume that their simplified metabolic systems, the glycolytic pathway and the pentose phosphate shunt, is essential for the maintenance of this oxygen carrying function. It has previously been reported that reduced glutathione (GSH) influences the affinity of haemoglobin to oxygen in intact erythrocytes (cf. Horejsi 1967) and it has recently been found, that several organic phosphocompounds, some of which are normally present in human erythrocytes, bind to haemoglobin in vitro (Chanutin & Curnish 1964, Benesch & Benesch 1968, Garby & de Verdier 1968). Most of the compounds investigated showed a higher affinity for deoxygenated than for oxygenated haemoglobin. The binding is correlated with an decreased affinity of the haemoglobin molecule for oxygen (Chanutin & Curnish 1967, Benesch & Benesch 1967). If these findings are relevant also for the conditions in vivo, then there should be a correlation between the average amount of deoxygenated haemoglobin and the binding of organic phosphocompounds, i.e. the molar ratio of phosphocompound to haemoglobin should increase with increasing average deoxygenation of the circulating haemoglobin. Several pieces of evidence have also been obtained, that support this concept. An increased content of phosphocompounds, mainly 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and ATP, has been found in erythrocytes from subjects with a decrease of the oxygen saturation of the blood (Lenfant et al. 1969) or where it seems likely to assume that the time average concentration of deoxygenated haemoglobin is increased (Eaton & Brewer 1968, Hjelm 1968, 1969, Fortier & Valeri 1969).
Hemoglobin interference in laboratory analyses due to hemolysis has been well characterized (1)(2)(3). Laboratory scientists are becoming sensitized to an additional iatrogenic cause of interference from hemoglobin. Stabilized hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (HBOCs) have potential applications in trauma and emergency surgery, perioperative hemodilution, cardiopulmonary bypass, and hematopoiesis (4). Several of these products are in late clinical trials and are nearing marketing approvals. As a result, there has been increasing interest in the effects of these HBOCs on routine laboratory assays by clinical chemists and diagnostic reagent manufacturers. ::: ::: This paper presents the results of a study that examined the effects of an HBOC, o-raffinose cross-linked hemoglobin (HemolinkTM) on selected routine assays on the Hitachi 717 with reagents from Boehringer Mannheim Corp. (BMC). Hemolink is prepared from hemoglobin purified from outdated human red blood cells previously tested and released for use in transfusion. The purified hemoglobin reacts with o-raffinose, a polyaldehyde obtained through oxidation of raffinose (5)(6). As a result, two hemoglobin αβ dimers are covalently cross-linked between amino groups within the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding pocket to form stable hemoglobin tetramers (64 kDa). In addition, o-raffinose reacts with surface amino groups to form intermolecular linkages producing stable hemoglobin polymers (128–600 kDa). The final Hemolink preparation contains ∼40% of the hemoglobin tetramer and ∼60% of the hemoglobin polymers. ::: ::: To study the effects of Hemolink on the measurement of routine analytes, three normal plasma pools and …
chase methodology wasusedtoobserve therelationship between cDPGandother metabolites (2-phosphoglycerate and2,3-diphosphoglycerate [2-PG and2,3-DPG, respectively]) ofthis branch. Itwasdemonstrated that cells could growexponentially underconditions inwhich2-PGand2,3-DPG, rather thancDPG,werethemajor solutes. Whilethetotal concentration ofthese threephosphorylated molecules wasmaintained, rapid interconversion of13Clabel amongthemwasobserved. Label flow from2-PGto2,3-DPG tocDPGtopolymer istheusual direction inthis pathway inexponentially growing cells, while thereverse reactions sometimes predominate inthestationary phase. Evidence ofthepresence ofapolymeric compound inthis pathway was provided by13Cnuclear magnetic resonance (one-dimensional andtwo-dimensional INADEQUATE) studies of solubilized cell debris. Methanogens areaverydiverse group oftheclassArchaeobacteria abletogenerate energy byreducing avariety of substrates, including formate, acetate, methanol, mono-, di-, andtrimethylamine, CO,andCO2,tomethane (1,3,10,13, 24). A variety ofunusual andunique compounds havebeen foundinmethanogens; theseinclude coenzymeM (17), methanofuran (16), andmethanopterin (12), whichareessential formethanogenesis. Another unique compound, cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG) (11, 20), isfoundatmoderatetohighconcentrations ina subset ofmethanogens including twomajorphylogenetic groups: Methanobacteri
Thisstudyexamines adaptations inmyocardial cytosolic phosphate content andbuffering capacity that occurinvivo as afunction ofdevelopment. Phosphate metabolites weremonitored inan openchest sheeppreparation using a31pmagnetic resonancesurface coil overtheleft ventricle. Newbornlambs (aged 4-9d,n = 5)underwent exchange transfusion withadult blood toreduce blood-borne 2,3-diphosphoglycerate contamination oftheheartmonophosphate andphosphomonoester resonances,thusallowing determination ofthesephosphate concentrations. Theblood-exchanged newborns andmature controls (aged 30-60d,n = 5)wereinfused with0.4N hydrochloric acidtodecrease pH from> 7.35to 0.5U)inbothgroupsweresimilarly associated withonlysmallchanges inintracellular pH (<0.1U). Change incytosolic phosphate content implies thatalterations occurinthephosphorylation potential withresulting effects on regulation ofmyocardial respiration, andcardiac energetics. (J.Clin. Invest. 1990. 86:1823-1828.) Keywords: heart *magnetic resonancespectroscopy - pH*phosphate
Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels are determined principally by a single molecule which has both diphosphoglycerate mutase (DPGM) and diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activities. An antiserum containing precipitating antibodies against this molecule was used to measure its amount in red cells from normal controls, from subjects with hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, and from a Japanese proband who has hemolytic anemia attributed to heterozygosity for a genetic variant. The amount of DPGM in normal adult erythrocytes is 0.98 +/- 0.014 mg/gm Hb. Slightly increased amounts are found in normal cord blood and in subjects with hyperthyroidism. Hypothyroid subjects have a significantly decreased concentration of DPGM, 0.82 +/- 0.06 mg/gm Hb. Restoration of euthyroid status during treatment results in a return of DPGM amounts to normal. The red cells of the Japanese subject contained 0.67 mg/gm Hb of DPGM as measured by immunoprecipitation.
Abstract The study was undertaken to determine how equine red blood cells (RBCs) survive in storage bags designed for use with human RBCs. Separated RBCs were stored in a routine manner for 35 days and examined every 7 days for storage lesions. Measured parameters included haematology, haemolysis, pH, potassium, lactate, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). All tests were performed in vitro. Haematology did not change significantly. Haemolysis increased during storage but did not exceed human limits. pH and 2,3-DPG decreased, while lactate, potassium and ATP increased. RBCs deteriorated somewhat during storage, but when compared with human in vitro parameters, remained suitable for transfusion. It is concluded that equine erythrocytes can be stored for at least 35 days before transfusion.
Desiccating human red blood cells (RBCs) to increase their storage life has been the subject of intense research for a number of years. However, drying RBCs invariably compromises their integrity and has detrimental effects on hemoglobin function due to autoxidation. We have previously demonstrated an RBC desiccation and rehydration process that preserves RBC antigenic epitopes better than frozen RBCs. This study expands on those observations by examining what effects this desiccation process has on RBC hemoglobin function with respect to oxygen binding properties. In this paper, we examined RBCs from normal donors which were desiccated to 25% moisture content and stored dry for 2 weeks at room temperature prior to rehydration with plasma followed by structural and functional studies. Our data showed that approximately 98% of the RBCs were intact upon rehydration based on hemolysis assays. Oxygen dissociation curves for the desiccated/rehydrated RBCs showed a left shift compared to fresh RBCs (pO2 = 17 mmHg vs. 26 mmHg, respectively). The desiccated/rehydrated RBCs also showed an increase in methemoglobin compared to fresh RBCs (4.5% vs 0.9%, respectively). 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate concentration of the desiccated/rehydrated RBCs was reduced by 20%. In conclusion, although this RBC dehydration process preserves RBC integrity and hemoglobin oxygen binding properties better than most other dehydration techniques described so far, further optimization and long-term studies are needed to make this procedure acceptable for human transfusion.
In this study we expand on these previous results by examining whether HemSol™ treatment alters the main physiological property of RBCs, namely the oxygen carrying capacity of Hb. RBCs used in this study were stored desiccated in HemSol™ at room temperature for 2 weeks prior to being rehydrated. Our results demonstrate that the desiccated/rehydrated cells have functional Hb. Compared to fresh RBCs, desiccated and rehydrated RBCs were 98% ± 1% intact based on hemolysis and could be used for these assays directly without a washing step. The rehydrated RBCs demonstrated a left shift in the pO 2 (p50) oxygen saturation value compared to fresh control RBCs (17.10 mmHg vs. 26.48 mmHg, respectively). The reasons for this left shift could be due to increased methemoglobin levels (4.5%) and/or decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels (20%).
Another therapeutic approach is based on reducing HbS polymerization by increasing the affinity of HbS for oxygen. As measured by the hemoglobin oxygen dissociation curve (ODC), homozygous HbS (SS) erythrocytes have markedly reduced affinity for oxygen as compared to normal adult hemoglobin (AA) erythrocytes containing hemoglobin A (HbA). The reduction in oxygen affinity of sickle erythrocytes is due to an increase in intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentrations as compared to normal HbA erythrocytes, and to the presence of HbS polymers (4) (5) (6) . This decreased RBC oxygen affinity is reflected in an increase in the partial pressure of oxygen at which hemoglobin is half-saturated with oxygen (P 50 ). Compared to AA red cells, the tight (T) deoxyhemoglobin conformational state is favored over the relaxed (R) oxyhemoglobin (oxyHb) conformation at any given oxygen tension in SS red cells. Polymerization only occurs when HbS is in the deoxyhemoglobin conformation. Sunshine et al. suggested that therapeutically significant inhibition of intracellular HbS polymerization could be accomplished by increasing the oxygen affinity (e.g., reducing P 50 by 4 mmHg) (7) .
Hemolysis is a frequent adverse effect of ribavirin (RBV). It has been suggested that oxidative stress plays a role, but mechanisms and predictive risk factors for severe forms remain unknown. Markers of redox status were determined in erythrocytes of 34 patients with hepatitis C—four of them with glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency—before and during treatment with RBV and interferon (IFN) and were compared with 10 healthy control subjects. In addition, erythrocytes were incubated with RBV, and the effects of dipyridamole (DPD), diethylmaleate (DEM), and glutathione ester (GSHE) were studied in vitro. Of the 30 patients without G6PD deficiency who were treated with RBV and IFN-α, five developed major hemolysis (Δ hemoglobin > 6 g/dL) and 25 developed minor hemolysis (Δ hemoglobin < 2.5 g/dL). Patients with major hemolysis had lower median pretreatment values of membrane protein sulfhydrils than patients with minor hemolysis (28.4 vs. 36.7 nmol/mg, P < .001). Erythrocytes of G6PD-deficient patients were not more susceptible to RBV-induced hemolysis. In in vitro incubations of erythrocytes, DEM enhanced the RBV-induced decrease of glutathione, protein sulfhydrils, and osmotic resistance. Supplementation of GSHE and DPD prevented the RBV-induced decrease in osmotic resistance, adenosyl triphosphate (ATP), and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), the loss of glutathione and protein sulfhydrils, and the formation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARs). In conclusion, the data indicate that low membrane protein sulfhydrils prior to therapy but not G6PD deficiency are predictive of RBV-induced major hemolysis. In vitro, GSHE and DPD reduce the RBV-associated oxidative stress in erythrocytes and prevent the increase in osmotic fragility, suggesting that these compounds might decrease the risk of hemolysis in patients. (HEPATOLOGY 2004;39:1248–1255.)
Abstract ::: Human erythrocytes incubated in medium containing 50 mM glucose have increased intracellular sorbitol and fructose concentrations as compared with samples incubated with 5 mM glucose. Increased medium glucose concentration did not significantly alter total glucose consumption or lactate production. However, the intracellular lactate:pyruvate ratio rose, the concentrations of fructose diphosphate, and triose phosphates increased, and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration fell. [14C]O2 production from glucose-1-14C also increased with increased medium glucose concentration. These changes are believed to reflect changes in the redox states of the diphosphopyridine nucleotide/reduced form of diphosphopyridine nucleotide (NAD/NADH) and nicotinamide—adenine dinucleotide phosphate/reduced form of nicotinamide—adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP/NADPH) couples resulting from increased activity of the polyol pathway. Addition of pyruvate to the incubation media prevented these changes. These studies illustrate that an increase in the red cell's normal substrate, glucose, can produce changes in red cell metabolism.
Abstract ::: To explain the transient anemia and poikilocytosis seen during infancy in hereditary elliptocytosis (HE), we resealed erythrocyte (RBC) ghosts from affected children or their elliptocytic parents with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) (0-8 mM), a compound that dissociates membrane skeletons, then measured ghost mechanical stability in the ektacytometer. Without added 2,3-DPG, ghost mechanical stability was subnormal in infantile poikilocytosis (IP) and HE but was even more abnormal in hereditary pyropoikilocytosis (HPP). Addition of 2,3-DPG (2.55 mM) to IP or HE ghosts, decreased their stability to that of HPP ghosts (without 2,3-DPG). Nonphysiological 2,3-DPG levels (6-8 mM) were required to elicit a similar effect in normal ghosts. The data suggest that free 2,3-DPG, present in neonatal RBC as a consequence of diminished binding to HbF, may render HE susceptible to in vivo fragmentation. The developmental switch from fetal to adult hemoglobin, by diminishing available free 2,3-DPG, may explain the abatement of poikilocytosis and hemolytic anemia that accompanies maturation.
Abstract It has been shown that pH is an important factor in the separation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) from hemoglobin. Hemolyzates of pH 7.5, but not below pH 7, can be freed of phosphate by gel filtration in 1 1 2 hr. It was also demonstrated that the mobility of DPG itself on Sephadex G-25 varies greatly with pH. The abnormally high mobility in neutral solution where the molecule is highly charged can be explained by electrostatic repulsion within the molecule, giving it an extended conformation.
Molecular mechanisms that may explain why oxygen affinity is higher in foetal than in maternal red blood cells were studied in the viviparous garter snake, Thamnophis elegans (Baird and Girard). Foetal and adult haemoglobins were structurally indistinguishable, as demonstrated by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), sodium dodecyl sulphate PAGE, low pH/urea PAGE, and gel filtration column chromatography. Oxygen-binding studies of haemoglobin in the absence of organic phosphates showed that adult and foetal haemoglobins had relatively high affinities for oxygen, low Bohr coefficients, and Hill coefficients of about 4.0 at pH7.0. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) lowered the oxygen affinity of the haemoglobins from about 3.6 to 9.6mmHg (lmmHg=133.3 Pa) at pH6.8. Maternal red cells contained more nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) (primarily ATP) than did foetal cells by about 0.9molNTP mol −1 haemoglobin tetramer. No 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was detected in the cells. Combined levels of magnesium and calcium were comparable in maternal and foetal red cells. Mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentrations (MCHC) in foetal red cells were about 79% of maternal values. There were no significant differences in maternal and foetal methaemoglobin levels. It appears that a difference in maternal and foetal red cell organic phosphate concentrations, and possibly MCHC values, rather than a difference in haemoglobin structures, explain why oxygen affinity is higher in foetal than in maternal red blood cells in T. elegans .
Abstract The time course of carbon monoxide binding to stripped valency hybrids (αiiβiiiCN)2 and (αiiiCNβii)2 was studied at pH 6.6 and T = 0.05. It exhibits a strong heterogeneous character. Two spectrophotometrically and kinetically distinct forms are apparent. At most wave lengths the fast component contributes about 60 to 80% of the total absorbance change and has a rate of binding similar to that of rapid hemoglobins. Correlation between the spectral properties of hybrids and their fast reacting character is demonstrated. These results are consistent with a scheme where deoxy hybrids exist in solution as two different configurations (R and T) not in rapid equilibrium. There is evidence that the rapidly reacting deoxy hybrids are in a form different from that of the R form of liganded hemoglobin. Upon addition of organic phosphates, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate, the fast component becomes slowly reacting and the slow component is little affected. Qualitative analyses of the progressive effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on the kinetics of hybrids are in accord with the suggested scheme. Titration of hybrids with the fluorescent analog of organic phosphates (8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonate) shows that 1 mole of anion is bound by hybrid tetramer, and that (αiiiCNβii)2 has the greater affinity toward anions. Some kinetics of hybrids with other ligands (oxygen, azide, and n-butyl isocyanide) have been studied. The reactions are homogeneous and proceed faster when the β chain of the hybrids is free to react, except in the case of carbon monoxide, where the α chains react more rapidly.
Abstract A simple, rapid, and reproducible automated method for the microestimation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is presented. The method allows the estimation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in dilutions of normal blood of the order of 1:1000 and below; it should be useful in clarifying the relation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to oxygen affinity and changes of this important intermediate in diseases such as sickle-cell anemia. Recoveries and normal values of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in packed red cells and in whole blood are presented. A practical simple procedure to maintain autoanalyzers free of obstructions due to protein precipitation is described.
Red blood cells (RBC) were collected with citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) in a blood-pack optimal additive system. After concentration to 90% hematocrit they were diluted with saline-adenine-glucose medium (SAG-RBC), and stored for 35 days. In this work the RBC were stored in the presence of leukocytes. The SAG medium allows RBC conservation during 35 days at +4 degrees C. The adenosine triphosphate (ATP) level of RBC is compatible with their survival. During the first 2 weeks, hemolysis of SAG-RBC was not greater than in CPD blood. Nevertheless, hemolysis reached 1.49% on day 35, and there was a marked increase in RBC osmotic fragility. Scanning electron-microscopic studies of 35-day RBC showed that the majority of them became echinocytes. After incubation in fresh frozen plasma, the RBC recovered satisfactory osmotic resistance and normal disc shape. The post-transfusion viability was normal with greater than 70% recovery after 48 h. The in vivo restoration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was rapid in the transfused SAG-RBC, 50% of the initial 2,3-DPG level being restored in 1 h. The in vivo studies proved that the functional quality of these RBC was compatible with their use in transfusion. The most important problem concerns the supernatant hemoglobin level of the SAG-RBC to be used for massive transfusion.
Abstract The oxygen affinity of umbilical-cord blood was measured in 15 infants who received intrauterine transfusions (IUT) of adult blood for severe erythroblastosis fetalis (EF), seven infants with EF and various degrees of anemia who did not receive IUT, and nine infants unaffected by EF. Adult erythrocytes retained their characteristic oxygen-binding properties after a prolonged residence: 56 ± 21 days (mean ±S.D.) in the fetus. Infants who received 2 to 4 IUT had a mean P50 (half-saturation oxygen tension at pH 7.40) of 27.1 mm of mercury. Erythroblastotic infants without IUT and normal infants had a P50 of 20.8 mm of mercury. A significant correlation was observed between the oxygen affinity of blood and the percentage of fetal hemoglobin. A negative regression of P50 on total hemoglobin concentration was seen in infants with IUT but not in the others. Infants who received IUT had increased concentrations of red-cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Normal fetal growth and lack of acidosis at birt...
Abstract Bis(maleidophenyl)-PEG2000 (Bis-Mal-PEG2000), a new bifunctional protein cross-linker targeted to sulfhydryl groups, introduces intra-tetrameric cross-links into oxy-HbA in nearly quantitative yields. Structural as well as crystallographic analyses of the cross-linked species, Bis-Mal-PEG2000 HbA, identified Cys-93(β) as the site of intramolecular cross-linking. The cross-bridging had only a limited influence on the O2 affinity and cooperativity of HbA in 50 mm BisTris acetate, pH 7.4. However, the Bohr effect was reduced by ∼60%. Bis-Mal-PEG2000 HbA retained sensitivity to the presence of allosteric effectors 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, IHP, and chloride, albeit to a lesser degree compared with HbA. Crystallographic analysis revealed the overall structure of deoxy-Bis-Mal-PEG2000 HbA to be similar to deoxy-HbA but for the loss of the salt bridge between Asp-94(β) and His-146(β). The large influence of the cross-bridging on the alkaline Bohr effect of HbA is consistent with the loss of this salt bridge. Unlike the “central cavity cross-bridges” described previously, the cross-link introduced by Bis-Mal-PEG2000 into HbA is an “outside the central cavity cross-bridge.” In view of its oxy-conformational specificity and limited influence on O2 affinity, this new cross-linking strategy holds promise for the stabilization of new designer low O2 affinity Hbs generated by recombinant DNA technology for applications as Hb based therapeutics.
Abstract The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2;3-DPG) levels in normal and in β-thalassemia heterozygoys women during and after pregnancy were determined. In both groups of women, there was a significant rise in 2,3-DPG at term and at 3 to 6 days post partum. The possible causes and the physiologic significance of the rise in 2,3-DPG during pregnancy and after delivery are discussed.
The blood of two groups of five neonates was exchanged to manage a hemolysis due to ABO incompatibility. Exchange transfusions were performed with ACD or CPD blood stored for less than 48 h. Blood oxygen affinity, hemoglobin, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations, plasma and erythrolysate pH were measured on blood samples before and several times during the 24 h following the exchange. Infants transfused with CPD blood increased their P50 and 2,3-DPG concentration more rapidly than the group receiving ACD blood. Estimates of oxygen unloading capacities have been calculated, taking into account variations in hemoglobin concentration, P50, and pH. Assuming a constant cardiac output, transfusion with CPD blood might be more valuable than with ACD blood to insure oxygen transport, especially in infants with respiratory or cardiac impairments.
Abstract 1. 1.|The electrophoretic patterns of hemoglobins from 28 individual hagfish (Eptatretus stoutii) reveals considerable variation. Two to three major and at least two minor components are present in each hemolysate. 2. 2.|The amino acid compositions of these components show that each component differs in primary structure. 3. 3.|Sedimentation velocity and equilibrium measurements showed that the major components aggregate slightly. 4. 4.|The oxygen equilibria of each major component were independent both of ATP and of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, in contrast to the behavior of the hemoglobins of higher vertebrates.
A new hematologic syndrome with phenotypic features of mild Hb H disease was identified in three children from two unrelated black American families. Erythrocytes from each of these children contained Hb H (beta 4) and Hb Barts (gamma 4), as well as a slowly migrating hemoglobin fraction that made up 7-10% of the total hemoglobin. The parents of the affected children all showed mild thalassemia-like changes, with one of the parents in each family also expressing the variant hemoglobin; in the latter individuals the mutant alpha-chains made up less than 2% of the total, and were present mainly or exclusively in combination with delta-chains in the form of a slowly migrating Hb A2. Purified Hb Evanston showed an increased oxygen affinity, but its Bohr effect, cooperativity, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effect were normal. The mutant hemoglobin appeared to have normal stability to heat and to isopropanol, and the stability of its alpha-chain in an extended time course synthesis study also appeared to be similar to that of alpha A. However, the results from short-term globin synthesis studies, and from mRNA translation in vitro, suggest that the two types of alpha-chains were synthesized at relatively equal rates, with a major fraction of the newly synthesized variant alpha-chains undergoing rapid catabolism. The hematologic data taken in combination with DNA hybridization and globin synthesis findings indicate that the proposita in each of these families has the genotype--, alpha A/--, alpha Ev. These observations suggest that two separate mechanisms are contributing to the alpha-thalassemia-like expression of Hb Evanston : the newly synthesized alpha EV-chains are unstable and are subject to early proteolytic destruction; and the mutant alpha-allele is linked to an alpha-globin gene deletion.
With the use of 14C-DMO (14C-5, 5-dimethyl-2,3-oxazolidinedione), a weak organic acid, we measured the intraerythrocytic hydrogen ion concentration in 16 acidotic and alkalotic patients. Whole blood pH, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, hemoglobin, oxyhemoglobin, plasma pCO2, and plasma bicarbonate were measured simultaneously on heparinized arterial blood. The results show: (1) hydrogen ion concentration in the red cell varies directly with that of whole blood, (2) red cell concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate varies inversely with the whole blood hydrogen ion concentration, and (3) red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration also varies inversely with the intracellular hydrogen ion concentration. There were no significant relationships between the arterial total hemoglobin or oxyhemoglobin and intracellular or whole blood pH, nor was there any relationship between plasma pCO2 or plasma bicarbonate and intracellular or whole blood pH. We concluded that in a number of clinical conditions in which the hydrogen ion concentration is altered, the cellular pH parallels that of the whole blood and that the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration varies with the hydrogen ion concentration.
A B S T R A C T Human erythrocytes incubated in medium containing 50 mm glucose have increased intracellular sorbitol and fructose concentrations as compared with samples incubated with 5 mm glucose. Increased medium glucose concentration did not significantly alter total glucose consumption or lactate production. However, the intracellular lactate: pyruvate ratio rose, the concentrations of fructose diphosphate, and triose phosphates increased, and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration fell. ['4C] 02 production from glucose-1-14C also increased with increased medium glucose concentration. These changes are believed to reflect changes in the redox states of the diphosphopyridine nucleotide/reduced form of diphosphopyridine nucleotide (NAD/NADH) and nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate/reduced form of nicotinamideadenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP/NADPH) couples resulting from increased activity of the polyol pathway. Addition of pyruvate to the incubation media prevented these changes. These studies illustrate that an increase in the red cell's normal substrate, glucose, can produce changes in red cell metabolism.
While limited in the number of time points tested, the present study offers a unique opportunity to expand our understanding of the metabolic effects of RBC storage. Trends observed here are consistent with previous studies [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] 24 and identified increases with prolonged storage time in hypoxanthine (lowest false discovery rate-corrected p value: 1.21 e-217 of increasing metabolites), 5-oxoproline, lactate, homocysteine and hydroxisourate and decreases in methionine (lowest false discovery rate-corrected p value: 1.52 e-75 of decreasing metabolites), glutamine, ATP, adenine, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as the most significant metabolic changes by ANOVA (Fig. 3A) , with >100 metabolites showing false discovery rate-corrected p values less than 7 e-05 (Table S1 , available as supporting information in the online version of this paper). A series of fatty acids and oxylipins (including eicosapentaenoic acid, icosapentaenoic acid, docosapentaenoic acid, docosahexaenoic acid, eicostatraenoic acid, and icosatrieonoic acid) all increased significantly over storage duration and made it to the top 50 significant metabolites by ANOVA (Fig. 3B ). Of note, relative and absolute quantitative measurements for metabolites including 5-oxoproline, methionine, lactate, glutathione glutamine, fructose bisphosphate, glucose, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate clustered together in the HCA in Fig. 3B , further strengthening the significance of the observation and providing reassurance of the reliability of relative quantitative measurements.
OBJECTIVE ::: To determine whether correction of acidemia using bicarbonate improves hemodynamic variables and tissue oxygenation in patients with lactic acidosis. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN ::: Prospective, randomized, blinded, cross over study. Each patient sequentially received sodium bicarbonate and sodium chloride. The order of the infusions was randomized. ::: ::: ::: PATIENTS ::: Ten patients with metabolic acidosis, increased arterial plasma lactate concentrations (greater than 2.45 mmol/L), and no severe renal failure (creatinine less than 250 mumol/L [less than 2.3 mg/dL]). ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: Sodium bicarbonate (1 mmol/kg body weight) or equal volume of sodium chloride was injected iv at the beginning of two successive 1-hr study periods. Period order was randomized. Arterial and venous blood gas measurements, plasma electrolytes (sodium, potassium, chloride), osmolality and lactate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and oxygen hemoglobin affinity, hemodynamic variables, oxygen delivery, and oxygen consumption measurements were obtained before and repeatedly during the 1-hr period after the injection of bicarbonate or sodium chloride. ::: ::: ::: MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS ::: Sodium bicarbonate administration increased arterial and venous pH, serum bicarbonate, and the partial pressure of CO2 in arterial and venous blood. Hemodynamic responses to sodium bicarbonate and sodium chloride were similar. Tissue oxygenation (as estimated by oxygen delivery, oxygen consumption, oxygen extraction ratio, and transcutaneous oxygen pressure) was not modified. No changes in serum sodium concentration, osmolality, arterial and venous lactate, red cell 2,3-DPG levels, or hemoglobin affinity for oxygen were observed. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Administration of sodium bicarbonate did not improve hemodynamic variables in patients with lactic acidosis, but did not worsen tissue oxygenation.
Reasons which have induced changes in the glycolysis rate, ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content in human erythrocytes with ageing are studied. A fall of the hexokinase activity is shown to be one of the reasons of a significant decrease in the glycolysis rate. The total ATPase activity in erythrocytes does not change with the age. At the same time the decay rate of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate increases, that, evidently, is one of the reasons of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content decrease in erythrocytes with ageing.
The organic phosphate allosteric effectors of hemoglobin, inositol hexaphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and ATP, interact with NADH-methemoglobin reductase (NADH-diaphorase). Significant inhibitory effects on the enzyme were found when dichlorophenolindophenol, or ferricyanide were used as electron acceptors in place of methemoglobin. In contrast, apparent stimulation of enzyme activity was observed when adult human methemoglobin was used as the electroganic phosphate on the rate of reaction due to its interaction with the substrate methemoglobin to produce the favored T type of quaternary conformation. The inhibitory effect of inositol hexaphosphate on the enzyme is associated with a perturbation in the reactivity of essential sulfhydryl group(s) on the enzyme. It is suggested that the interaction of the organic phosphate with the enzyme as well as with the substrate is significant in determining the overall rate of methemoglobin reduction.
The effects of vitamin B6 on erythrocyte metabolism, erythrocyte hemoglobin O2 affinity (P50), and nonenzymatic glycosylation were studied in 15 Caucasian men with type II (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. A control group of 13 healthy Caucasian men was also evaluated. Before treatment, diabetic subjects had low mean cell hemoglobin concentration values and increases in both erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels and erythrocyte hexokinase activities. Although all three of these changes are associated with a decrease in hemoglobin O2 (Hb-O2) affinity, P50 values were normal in diabetic subjects. Moreover, P50 values normalized to pH 7.4 (P50(7.4] were inversely related to the level of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c). Both erythrocyte 2,3-DPG and erythrocyte ATP were also inversely related to HbA1c. Vitamin B6 nutriture, as determined by erythrocyte aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activities, was normal in all diabetic subjects before vitamin B6 therapy. Nonetheless, HbA1c levels decreased after 6 wk of treatment with 150 mg/day pyridoxine and increased again during placebo administration. These changes were not explained by changes in fasting blood glucose. Pyridoxine therapy also decreased P50(7.4) values and increased erythrocyte AST and ALT activities but had no effect on 2,3-DPG, ATP, or the activities of hexokinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase. These observations suggest that 1) nonenzymatic glycosylation may play a role in regulating both erythrocyte metabolism and Hb-O2 affinity in diabetic subjects, and 2) vitamin B6 therapy may modify nonenzymatic glycosylation of hemoglobin in this population.
The gene encoding 2-phosphoglycerate kinase (2PGK), which catalyses the first step in the biosynthesis of cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in methanogens, was cloned and sequenced from the hyperthermophilic Methanothermus fervidus. The 2pgk gene codes for 304 amino acids, corresponding to a relative molecular mass of 35040. The 2pgk mRNA was estimated to be 1600 nucleotides in size. Putative transcription signals and the ribosome-binding site of 2pgk are discussed. Production of 2PGK from M. fervidus in Es-cherichia coli reveals the same apparent molecular weights for the native enzyme and its denatured subunit as those shown by the 2PGK purified from M. fervidus. Also the kinetic parameters of 2PKG produced in E. coli correspond well with those from the enzyme isolated from the natural host M. fervidus.
1. Haematological investigation and blood volume measurements were carried out on forty male middle-and long-distance runners and twelve non-athletes. 2. The distribution of haemoglobin concentration, packed cell volume, erythrocyte count, total iron-binding capacity, serum and erythrocyte folate and serum vitamin B 12 concentrations were essentially the same in athletes and non-athletes. The mean serum iron concentration was higher in non-athletes than in athletes. There was no difference in the above measurements between athletes taking iron and/or folate and athletes not taking these supplements. 3. Blood volume and total body haemoglobin were on average 20% higher in the athletes than in the non-athletes. 4. There was no correlation between haemoglobin concentration and blood volume in athletes. The evidence of this study suggests that haemoglobin concentration and blood volume are independently controlled. 5. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate concentration in the erythrocytes was higher in the athletes than in the non-athletes; the mean values were 15.9 and 14.2 μmol/g of haemoglobin respectively.
We studied the conjugates formed between hemoglobin and sulfated or unsulfated oxidized dextran. It appears that the presence of sulfated groups favors imino bond formation between the protein and the polymer, as the average molecular size of the conjugates is larger in this case. Under neutral conditions, the oxygen-binding properties of the conjugates depend on the presence or absence of oxygen during the coupling reaction. With unsulfated dextran, oxyhemoglobin leads to conjugates with increased oxygen affinity (P50/P50 native hemoglobin approximately 0.5) compared to that of free hemoglobin (P50 = 4 mm Hg), whereas deoxyhemoglobin leads to conjugates with decreased oxygen affinity (P50/P50 native hemoglobin approximately 3). The use of sulfated dextran reinforces this lowering in oxygen affinity, which indicates that sulfated dextran acts as a permanent macromolecular effector of hemoglobin (P50/P50 native hemoglobin approximately 4). Moreover, it can be assumed that some of the linkages involve the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site, as the strong effector inositol hexaphosphate has only a slight effect on the oxygen-binding properties of the conjugate prepared in the deoxy state (P50/P50 native hemoglobin close to 4.4 and 6, respectively, for unsulfated and sulfated conjugates). Although dextran substituted with benzenehexacarboxylic acid (BHC) leads to a low-oxygen-affinity conjugate when linked to oxyhemoglobin through amide bonds (P50/P50 native hemoglobin approximately 5), oxidized dextran modified with BHC leads, with oxyhemoglobin, to a conjugate whose oxygen affinity is close to that of free hemoglobin (P50/P50 native hemoglobin approximately 1.2).
Twenty-five children were studied to observe the effects of acute exercise upon red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). These subjects showed an increase in 2,3-DPG (p
Increased concentration of red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (RBC 2,3-DPG) shifts the hemoglobin-oxygen dissociation curve to the right, thus theoretically allowing better oxygenation of tissues. To determine whether such a shift is physiologically significant, we investigated the effects of oral phosphate loading on several parameters including plasma phosphate concentration, RBC 2,3-DPG, hematocrit and hemoglobin concentration, maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), and degree of lactic acidemia in 10 well-trained distance runners. After control determinations were made, either a phosphate load or a placebo was given for 3 d before the athlete was restudied. A placebo and two phosphate-loading studies were performed at weekly intervals, followed by 2 wk of rest and another post-intervention control study. Blood samples for control values were drawn before and after a standard warm-up period, after treadmill exercise at a 10% grade, and at the completion of the VO2 determination. After oral phosphate loading there was a significant increase in serum phosphate and RBC 2,3-DPG. Maximal oxygen uptake was significantly increased and correlated with the rise in RBC 2,3-DPG (r = 0.81). The increase in blood lactate after exercise on the 10% grade was attenuated during sessions which followed phosphate loading.
Erythropoiesis was studied in 11 subjects submitted to a 4-h hypoxia (HH) in a hypobaric chamber (4,500 m, barometric pressure 58.9 kPa) both before and after a 3-week sojourn in the Andes. On return to sea level, increased red blood cells (+3.27%), packed cell volume (+4.76%), haemoglobin (+6.55%) ( P<0.05), and increased arterial partial pressure of oxygen (+8.56%), arterial oxygen saturation (+7.40%) and arterial oxygen blood content ( C(a)O(2)) (+12.93%) at the end of HH ( P<0.05) attested high altitude acclimatization. Reticulocytes increased during HH after the sojourn only (+36.8% vs +17.9%, P<0.01) indicating a probable higher reticulocyte release and/or production despite decreased serum erythropoietin (EPO) concentrations (-46%, P<0.01). Hormones (thyroid, catecholamines and cortisol), iron status (serum iron, ferritin, transferrin and haptoglobin) and renal function (creatinine, renal, osmolar and free-water clearances) did not significantly vary (except for lower thyroid stimulating hormone at sea level, P<0.01). Levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) increased throughout HH on return (+14.7%, P<0.05) and an inverse linear relationship was found between 2,3-DPG and EPO at the end of HH after the sojourn only ( r=-0.66, P<0.03). Inverse linear relationships were also found between C(a)O(2) and EPO at the end of HH before ( r=-0.63, P<0.05) and after the sojourn ( r=-0.60, P=0.05) with identical slopes but different ordinates at the origin, suggesting that the sensitivity but not the gain of the EPO response to hypoxia was modified by altitude acclimatization. Higher 2,3-DPG levels could partly explain this decreased sensitivity of the EPO response to hypoxia. In conclusion, we show that altitude acclimatization modifies the control of erythropoiesis not only at sea level, but also during a subsequent hypoxia.
Baboons were bled one-third their red cell mass and were given homologous transfusions of red blood cells to restore the red cell volume. One group of baboons received red blood cells with a normal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate 2,3-DPG) level and normal affinity for oxygen, and in this group the 2,3-DPG level after transfusion was normal. The other group received red blood cells with a 160% of normal 2,3-DPG level and decreased affinity for oxygen, and in this group the 2,3-DPG level after transfusion was 125% of normal. In both groups of baboons, the inspired oxygen concentration was lowered and arterial PO2 tension was maintained at 55-60 mmHg for 2 h after transfusion. During the hypoxic state, systemic oxygen extraction was similar in the two groups, whereas oxygen saturation was lower in the high 2,3-DPG group than in the control animals. Cardiac output was significantly reduced 30 min after the arterial PO2 was restored to normal. These data indicate that red blood cells with decreased affinity for oxygen maintained satisfactory oxygen delivery to tissue during hypoxia.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders widely occurring among the elderly. The pathogenic mechanisms involved in the development of this disease are still unknown. In AD, in addition to brain, a number of peripheral tissues and cells are affected, including erythrocytes. In this study, we analyzed glycolytic energy metabolism, antioxidant status, glutathione, adenylate and proteolytic systems in erythrocytes from patients with AD and compared with those from age-matched controls and young adult controls. Glycolytic enzymes hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, bisphosphoglycerate mutase and bisphosphoglycerate phosphatase displayed lower activities in agematched controls, and higher activities in AD patients, as compared to those in young adult control subjects. In both aging and AD, oxidative stress is increased in erythrocytes whereas elevated concentrations of hydrogen peroxide and organic hydroperoxides as well as decreased glutathione/glutathione disulfide ratio and glutathione transferase activity can be detected. These oxidative disturbances are also accompanied by reductions in ATP levels, adenine nucleotide pool size and adenylate energy charge. Caspase-3 and calpain activities in age-matched controls and AD patients were about three times those of young adult controls. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels were significantly decreased in AD patients. Taken together these data suggest that AD patients are associated with chronic disturbance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate metabolism in erythrocytes. These defects may play a central role in pathophysiological processes predisposing elderly subjects to dementia.
Abstract Conditions for blood storage are chosen to assure adequate levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Because of the invasive nature of the techniques, biochemical assays are not routinely used to measure levels of these compounds in stored blood. However, 31 P NMR spectroscopy measures phosphorylated intermediates in intact cells and could be used without disruption of the storage pack. We compared levels of ATP and 2,3-DPG measured by 31 P spectroscopy and standard enzyme-linked biochemical assays in whole blood (WB) and packed red blood cells (PRBCs) at weekly intervals during a 35-day storage period. NMR demonstrated a marked decrease in 2,3-DPG and an increase in inorganic phosphate after the first week of storage. No significant differences in ATP concentrations were seen in WB during the storage period, but a significant decrease in ATP in PRBCs was documented. There was good agreement in levels of ATP and 2,3-DPG measured by NMR and biochemical techniques. 31 P NMR spectroscopy is a noninvasive technique for measuring ATP and 2,3-DPG which has a potential use in quality assurance of stored blood.
Four people from the same family with red cell pyruvate kinase (PK) hyperactivity are described. These people displayed low 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and high adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels. In vitro metabolism studies of their red cells showed the relationship between the PK activity, low 2,3-DPG, and high ATP levels. The PK electrophoretic pattern of these subjects was abnormal by the presence of several additional bands; one of them migrated like PKM2. PKR from these people was thermounstable and M2-like PK was identical to PKM2 for immunologic reactivity and KO, 5s for phosphoenolpyruvate.
AH andMarburg wereadapted togrowinmediumcontaining up to 0.65M NaCl.From0.01to0.5M NaCl,there was a lagbefore cell growth whichincreased withincreasing external NaCl.Theeffect ofNaClon methaneproduction was notsignificant once thecells begantogrow. Intracellular solutes were monitored bynuclear magnetic resonance(NMR)spectroscopy as a function of osmotic stress. IntheAH strain, themajorintracellular small organic solutes, cyclic-2,3-diphosphoglycerate andglutamate, increased atmosttwofold between 0.01 and0.4M NaClanddecreased whentheexternal NaCl was 0.5M.M.thermoautotrophicum Marburgsimilarly showed a decrease insolute (cyclic-2,3-diph osphoglyc- erate, 1,3,4,6-tetracarboxyhexane, andL-a-glutamate) concentrations forcells grown inmediumcontaining >0.5M NaCl. At0.65 M NaCl, a new organic solute, which was visible inonlytrace amountsatthelower NaCl concentrations, becamethedominant solute. Intracellular potassium intheAH strain, detected byatomic absorption and39KNMR,was roughly constant between 0.01and0.4M andthendecreased astheexternal NaClincreased further. Thehighintracellular K+ was balanced bythenegative charges oftheorganic osmolytes. Atthehigher external saltconcentrations, itissuggested thatNa+andpossibly Cl-ionsare internalized toprovide osmotic balance. Astriking difference ofstrain Marburg fromstrain AH was thatyeast extract facilitated growthinhigh-NaCl-containing medium.Theyeastextract supplied onlytraceNMR- detectable solutes (e.g., betaine) buthadalarge effect onendogenous glutamate levels, which weresignificantly decreased. Exogenous choline andglycine, instead ofyeastextract, alsoaidedgrowth inNaCl-containing media. Bothsolutes wereinternalized withthecholine converted tobetaine; thecontribution toosmotic balance ofthese species was 20to25%ofthetotal small-molecule pool. Theseresults indicate thatM.thermoautotro- phicumshowslittle changes initsinternal solutes over a widerangeofexternal NaCl.Furthermore, they illustrate theconsiderable differences inphysiology intheAH andMarburgstrains ofthisorganism. Methanogens belonging tothearchaebacterial ur-kingdom arestrictly dependent on sodiumionsforgrowth andmetha- nogenesis (28). Methanogenic bacteria havebeenisolated fromgeothermal springs, deepseahydrothermal vents, fresh- waterandmarine sediments, digestive andintestinal tracts of animals, andanaerobic wastedigesters (18). Givensuchdi- verseenvironments, there should beawiderangeofstrategies bywhichthesecells cope withchanges inexternal NaCl. Several marine (30-33), halophilic (22), andnonhalophilic (38) methanogens havebeenexamined fortheir responsesto increased external NaCl.Thesemethanogens, likeother or- ganisms, copewithchanges inosmotic pressurebyaccumulat- ingsolutes, either bysynthesis or bytransport fromthe external medium. Inmethanogens, 3-amino acids areunique solutes which areproduced inresponsetoosmotic stress (for a review, seereference 32). Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum AH andMarburg areperhaps themoststudied ofthediverse family ofmeth- anogens.Thetwostrains havesimilar growthrequirements suchaspH,temperature, andmediumcomposition (3). They bothsynthesize a uniquecyclic pyrophosphate (cyclo-2,3- diphosphoglycerate (cDPG)) as a majorphosphorus-contain-
Lambs were delivered by hysterotomy on days 142 and 143 postcoitum and were assigned to either a control group or a prednisolone-treated group (10 mg/kg daily for four days). On days 1 through 3 of life erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values were significantly increased in the treated group. Prednisolone treatment did not result in significantly increased P50 values. Mean plasma corticoid values in the control group decreased gradually postpartum. The prednisolone-treated lambs compared to the control lambs had depressed corticoid values, differing significantly on day 4. Body weight gains were significantly depressed by treatment and this effect lasted beyond the treatment period. On day 1 of life (24 hours postinitial treatment) oxygen consumption and cardiac output were significantly elevated in the treated group.
Muscle-type phosphofructokinase (M-PFK) deficiency causes an exertional myopathy and chronic hemolysis in affected humans and dogs, the only animal model available. Deficient individuals have impaired glycolytic metabolism, impaired oxidative metabolism, and increased hemoglobin-oxygen (HbO2) affinity as a result of low 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels. The purpose of this study was to determine if PFK-deficient muscle has abnormal oxygen saturation during exercise. Oxygen saturation of hemoglobin/myoglobin was measured noninvasively in skeletal muscle during progressive muscle activation using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Muscle metabolites were also measured using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). PFK-deficient and normal dogs were anesthetized and the cranial tibial muscles stimulated for 6 min at each of four different rates (1, 2, 4, and 8 Hz). With increasing stimulation, muscles from normal dogs showed progressive decrease in hemoglobin saturation. In contrast, PFK-deficient dogs exhibited either an increase in hemoglobin saturation or an initial decrease with no further change. PFK-deficient muscles accumulated 11.1 +/- 3.5 mmol/L of sugar phosphate which was not seen in normal muscle and had higher calculated [ADP] levels at each stimulation level, indicating impaired oxidative metabolism. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that these animals have impaired oxidative metabolism and impaired muscle O2 extraction from hemoglobin due to increased HbO2 affinity. NIRS appears to be a useful noninvasive method of monitoring tissue oxygen saturation in normal or disease conditions.
It is generally believed that bovine hemoglobin (BvHb) interacts weakly with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in a chloride-free media and not at all in the presence of physiological concentrations of chloride (100 mM). This lack of interaction has raised several questions at both structural and evolutionary levels. Results obtained in this study via 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) show that, even in the presence of 100 mM chloride ions, 2,3-DPG does, in fact, interact with bovine deoxy-Hb. This spectroscopic observation has been confirmed by oxygen binding experiments, which have also shown that, under certain conditions, chloride and 2,3-DPG may display a synergistic effect in modifying the oxygen affinity of bovine hemoglobin. It could be that this synergistic effect has its structural basis in a conformational modification induced by 2,3-DPG, possibly causing extra chloride anions to approach the positive charges which constitute the anion binding site. Another possibility, not necessarily an alternative, is the additional chloride binding site recently identified [Fronticelli, C., Sanna, M. T., Perez-Alvarado, G. C., Karavitis, M., Lu, A.-L., and Brinnigar, W. S. (1995) J. Biol. Chem 270, 30588-30592] involving lysine beta76 that in bovine Hb substitutes for the alanine residue present in human hemoglobin. All of these findings are in agreement with the very low enthalpy of oxygenation that characterizes bovine Hb when both chloride and 2,3-DPG are present in concomitance. The results reported here clearly show that bovine hemoglobin does react with 2, 3-DPG and is functionally affected by this organic phosphate. Hence, the very low intraerythrocytic concentration of 2,3-DPG (0.5 mM) in adult bovine red blood cells is the result of metabolic adaptation which cannot be explained solely by the different amino acid sequence at the level of the 2,3-DPG binding site.
1. The effect of anaemia and transfusion with adult blood on fetal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels was investigated by studying fetal blood from 45 normal pregnancies at 17–42 weeks of gestation and in 34 pregnancies complicated by erythroblastosis fetalis. 2. In normal fetuses, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration was higher than in adults and did not change significantly with gestational age. 3. In erythroblastotic fetuses, there was a significant negative correlation between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and haemoglobin concentration. 4. When adult blood was transfused into the fetal circulation, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration reached similar levels to that found in untransfused fetuses after allowing for the severity of anaemia.
Phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy is used to monitor the changes in the concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine-5' triphosphate as a function of time and to measure the intracellular pH of normal and abnormal red blood cells in the presence of 25% oxygen, 5.6% carbon dioxide, and 69.4% nitrogen at 37 degrees C. Under these conditions, the intracellular pH values of normal AA, sickle SS, AS, SC, AC, and CC red cells are 7.24 +/- 0.07, 7.13 +/- 0.04, 7.15 +/- 0.03, 7.16 +/- 0.03, 7.24 +/- 0.05, and 7.14 +/- 0.03, respectively. The intracellular pH of SS red cells is about 0.1 pH unit more acidic than that of AA red cells. Time-dependent changes in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate of normal human red cells show an initial lag phase, followed by a slow linear decrease. The duration of the initial lag phase decreases in the following order: AA approximately equal to AS approximately equal to AC greater than SC greater than SS approximately equal to CC red cells. The decay of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is much faster in SS and CC red cells compared to other red cells studied. The time-dependent depletion of adenosine-5' triphosphate in these red cells is similar in nature to that of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The linewidths of 2-P and 3-P resonances of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate for fully oxygenated SS red cells are broader (approximately 20 Hz) than those for other red cells (approximately 10 Hz). However, the linewidths of 2-P and 3-P resonances of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the lysates of these red cells are narrower (approximately 4.5 Hz) than those in the intact red cells and are very similar in all types of red cells studied. The linewidths of the 31P resonances of adenosine-5' triphosphate are also similar (approximately 30-40 Hz) in all red cells studied. In addition, we have investigated the effect of carbamylation on the metabolism of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the intracellular pH in SS and AA red cells and have found that neither one is affected by this process. Our results provide further evidence that phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy offers a direct, non-invasive way to investigate the intracellular environment and the metabolism of phosphorylated metabolites in intact red blood cells.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of infusion of 400 mL of red blood cells (RBCs) on 10-km track race time, submaximal heart rate, hematocrit, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and partial pressure of oxygen at 50% hemoglobin saturation. Six highly trained, male, distance runners twice donated a unit of RBCs, which was frozen for subsequent reinfusion. Eleven weeks after the second donation, they undertook a series of three competitive 10-km races on a standard 400-m track: before infusion, after 100 mL of saline solution, and after 400 mL of autologous, previously frozen deglycerolized RBCs. All subjects took all trials in this double-blind, placebo, crossover, experimental design. Running time was recorded at each 400-m split, and blood was collected prior to each trial. The data were analyzed by analysis of variance. Results following the RBC infusion showed a significantly higher hematocrit concentration, a significantly faster 10-km run, a nonsignificant decrease in submaximal heart rate (10 beats per minute), and no significant changes in either 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or partial pressure of oxygen at 50% hemoglobin saturation. Erythrocythemia induced by the infusion of 400 mL of autologous packed RBCs effectively increased performance capacity in a 10-km track race, probably due to an increase in oxygen delivery to the working muscles. ( JAMA 1987;257:2761-2765)
5. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate concentration in the erythrocytes was higher in the athletes than in the non-athletes; the mean values were 15·9 and 14·2 pmol/g of haemoglobin respectively.
Phosphate plays several essential roles in our body. 1 Phosphate is necessary for proper mineralization of bone as a constituent of hydroxyapatite crystal. In addition, several phosphorylated proteins like osteopontin and dentin matrix protein 1 (DMP1) have been shown to regulate bone mineralization. 2 Phosphate is also a constituent of biomembranes and nucleic acids. Furthermore, many phosphorylated metabolites such as adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, glucose-6-phosphate and phosphorylated proteins are necessary for diverse actions of all cells such as energy metabolism, differentiation, proliferation and specific function of differentiated cells. In order to accomplish at least some of these functions, it seems to be necessary that concentration of extracellular phosphate is maintained in a certain range. Actually, hypophosphatemia can cause several abnormalities like muscle weakness, rhabdomyolysis, consciousness disturbance and rickets/osteomalacia characterized by impaired mineralization of bone matrix. On the contrary, hyperphosphatemia can result in ectopic calcification. Although it is not entirely clear how intracellular phosphate level is regulated, extracellular phosphate seems to affect it to a certain degree as hypophosphatemia is known to induce tissue hypoxia by lowering 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level in red blood cells. 3 Serum phosphate level is regulated by several hormones including parathyroid hormone (PTH), 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH) 2 D) and fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23). In this review, regulatory mechanisms of serum phosphate and disorders of phosphate and vitamin D metabolism are summarized with emphasis on the contribution of FGF23.
Adult bovine hemoglobin solutions were studied with respect to the influence of organic phosphates (adenosine-5′-triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, myo-inositolhexaphosphate) on the oxylabile proton binding (fixed-acid Haldane effect). At alkaline pH (>7.5) this Haldane effect is increased by organic phosphates, whereas at acid pH (<6.5) the effect is decreased; in the neutral pH range no unequivocal trend was found. The influence on the Haldane effect is caused by binding of organic phosphates to both deoxy- and liganded hemoglobin. The binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and myo-inositolhexaphosphate causes a massive proton uptake. In going from deoxy- to linganded hemoglobin in the presence of organic phosphates the proton release due to phosphate release from deoxyhemoglobin and the proton uptake due to phosphate binding by linganded hemoglobin were shown to account for the phosphate-induced part of the fixed-acid Haldane effect.
To establish whether or not hypoxia influences the training-induced adaptation of hormonal responses to exercise, 21 healthy, untrained subjects (2) years, mean (SE)] were studied in three groups before and after 5 weeks' training (cycle ergometer, 45 min.day-1, 5 days.week-1). Group 1 trained at sea level at 70% maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), group 2 in a hypobaric chamber at a simulated altitude of 2500 m at 70% of altitude VO2max, and group 3 at a simulated altitude of 2500 m at the same absolute work rate as group 1. Arterial blood was sampled before, during and at the end of exhaustive cycling at sea level (85% of pretraining VO2max). VO2max increased by 12 (2)% with no significant difference between groups, whereas endurance improved most in group 1 (P < 0.05). Training-induced changes in response to exercise of noradrenaline, adrenaline, growth hormone, beta-endorphin, glucagon, and insulin were similar in the three groups. Concentrations of erythropoietin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at rest did not change over the training period. In conclusion, within 5 weeks of training, no further adaptation of hormonal exercise responses takes place if intensity is increased above 70% VO2max. Furthermore, hypoxia per se does not add to the training-induced hormonal responses to exercise.
Oxygen dissociation curves of partially CO-saturated human whole blood drawn freshly or preserved more than 3 wk were studied. With increasing CO-hemoglobin concentrations, oxygen affinity of the blood increased and the Hill coefficient, n, fell and gradually approached unity. The changes induced by CO-hemoglobin showed practically no difference in the presence or absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The Bohr coefficient, deltalog P50/deltapH, was determined as a function of oxygen saturation for various concentrations of CO-hemoglobin. The coefficient remained essentially unchanged in the presence of CO-hemoglobin. In the presence of less than 50% CO-hemoglobin, a good agreement was observed between the observed oxygen dissociation curves and the curves calculated according to Roughton and Darling (Am. J. Physiol. 141: 17-31, 1944). Based on these results, physiological implications of carboxyhemoglobinemia are discussed quantitatively in comparison with methemoglobinemia.
Abstract The reactions of hemoglobin Kansas (102 β Asn → Thr) have been examined by kinetic and equilibrium methods. The behavior of the T state toward oxygen, derived from oxygen binding and oxygen pulse experiments, appears similar to that of hemoglobin A. The behavior of the R tetramer is difficult to separate from that of the dimer (the dissociation constant, K4,2, for oxyhemoglobin Kansas is about 70 µm as against 1.5 µm for hemoglobin A), but correlation of kinetic and equilibrium data suggests that the R tetramer of hemoglobin Kansas has a lower affinity for oxygen than that of hemoglobin A. Carbon monoxide binding is slower than for hemoglobin A, chiefly because of a lower rate of binding by the β chains. Comparisons between carbon monoxide binding and release of 8-hydroxypyrene-1,3,6-trisulfonic acid, and reaction with p-hydroxymercuribenzoate suggest that a conformation change (T → R transition) occurs on ligand binding as with hemoglobin A. Detailed examination of the dissociation reactions from the liganded dimers of oxygen and of carbon monoxide shows abnormally rapid dissociation from the β chain. The hemoglobin-haptoglobin reaction shows that deoxyhemoglobin Kansas is too slightly dissociated to give a measurable reaction. This result is consistent with an abnormally low ligand affinity of the R form. It is suggested that the differences between hemoglobin Kansas and hemoglobin A are due, at least in part, to differences between the R forms, and that an R → T transition occurs normally in hemoglobin Kansas. The allosteric effector 2,3-diphosphoglycerate lowers the affinity of hemoglobin Kansas for oxygen, but the effect is much smaller than for hemoglobin A when measured at high concentrations of hemoglobin. The data are most consistent with the assumption that the binding constant for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at the primary site on tetrameric, liganded hemoglobin Kansas is only slightly lower than that for the unliganded form.
The higher oxygen (O 2 ) affinity of fetal blood compared to maternal blood has been considered advantageous for the survival of the fetus. However, there is little information on infants born to mothers who carry a hemoglobin (Hb) variant with altered O 2 affinity. This report describes two mothers and their newborn infants, each with a different globin chain variant are identified as Hb Linkoping, [β36(C2)Pro→Thr] and Hb Sunshine Seth [α94(G1)Asp→His]. Hb Linkoping is a known high O 2 affinity variant, while Hb Sunshine Seth was found to have a low affinity for O 2 . One mother and her newborn, both with a heterozygosity for Hb Linkoping, had P 50 values of 1.9 and 2.5 kPa, respectively, a reversal of the physiological maternal-infant gradient. The other mother and her newborn, who were heterozygous for Hb Sunshine Seth, had P 50 values of 4.7 and 4.4 kPa, respectively, a minimal gradient. The Hb F, plasma erythropoietin, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels were normal in both infants. The newborns were clinically normal.
In a study on 10 normal controls, 7 pregnant women and 16 diabetic patients, beta-hexosaminidase in tears and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in blood were investigated for possible use as index for diabetic retinopathy during pregnancy. Tears were used as source for beta-hexosaminidase because the concentration in plasma and the isoenzyme pattern are affected by the occurrence of a placentar isoenzyme in pregnancy. It has been found that in diabetes the concentration of beta-hexosaminidase in plasma may be elevated, but that it remains unchanged in tears and that there is no correlation between the plasma and tear values in all individuals. Neither beta-hexosaminidase in tears nor 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in blood appears as indicator for the onset or development of diabetic retinopathy.
Inorganic phosphate (Pi) is known to participate in many biochemical reactions and is a regulator in several metabolic pathways (1). In the red blood cell the structural integrity of the membrane is dependent on metabolic energy derived from glycolysis to produce ATP (2). Pi plays a major role in the red blood cell in regulating the concentrations of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (3). In spite of the increasing knowledge about phosphate depletion syndromes, there is still a debate about the mechanisms of phosphate transport across cell membranes and about factors which control its extracellular and intracellular concentrations.
It is shown that in deep acute hypoxic hypoxia the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content is reduced and the adenosine triphosphate content unchanged in the erythrocytes of newborn rats. Under the same conditions adult animals show an increase of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and a drop in the adenosine triphosphate content in the erythrocytes. The importance of these changes is discussed in terms of the mechanisms regulating the oxygen-transporting function of erythrocytes during acute hypoxic hypoxia in newborn and adult animals.
Lung liquid (LL) is secreted into the fetal lung lumen, but it must be rapidly absorbed at birth to allow air breathing. In vitro studies have implicated oxygen as a possible factor causing the switch from secretion to absorption of lung liquid at birth. We developed a technique of oxygenating the fetal lung using liquid ventilation with haemoglobin (Hb) solutions in chronically catheterized fetal lambs (129-140 days gestation; term, 147 days). In some experiments 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) was added to increase oxygen delivery. LL secretion rate (Jv) was measured using an indicator dilution method. Eighteen fetuses were divided into four groups and ventilated with liquid under the following conditions: (i) Hb with oxygen, (ii) Hb without oxygen, (iii) Hb with DPG and oxygen and (iv) Hb and DPG without oxygen. There was a significant rise (2.6 mmHg, P < 0.02) in fetal arterial Po2 in group iii, but in none of the other groups. In the first 3 h of liquid ventilation there was no difference in Jv between the groups. In group i, during hours 4-6 of liquid ventilation, there was a significant rise in secretion rate from 2.25 +/- 0.88 to 3.74 +/- 0.85 ml h-1 kg-1 (P < 0.001). In group iii, when comparing Jv in the first 3 h of liquid ventilation with that in the following 3 h period of liquid ventilation, a strong trend towards reduction in secretion was observed, falling from 3.03 +/- 0.65 to 0.74 +/- 0.92 ml h-1 kg-1 (three of the four experiments showed a significant decrease in Jv in hours 4-6). These experiments indicate that oxygen delivered to the fetus using liquid ventilation with haemoglobin solutions leads to increased LL secretion when oxygen delivery is small, and suggest there is a decrease in secretion with greater oxygen delivery to the lung.
Abstract Mastoparan (5–30 μ M), a tetradecapeptide isolated from wasp venom, caused histamine release from RBL-2H3 cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Mastoparan-induced histamine release remained after removing the extracellular Ca 2+ , whereas the antigen-induced one disappeared. Pertussis toxin did not inhibit mastoparan-induced histamine release from the cells, and mastoparan did not stimulate phosphoinositide hydrolysis. In agreement with the results, RBL-2H3 cells had a small amount of ADP-ribosylation substrates for pertussis toxin. Neomycin (1–5 mM) suppressed mastoparan-induced histamine release and phospholipase D activation. However, butanol slightly inhibited mastoparan-induced histamine release. Moreover, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inhibited mastoparan-induced phospholipase D activation, but not it's histamine release. On the other hand, mastoparan caused the leakage of lactate dehydrogenase from the cells in a similar concentration range to the histamine release. This leakage was also suppressed by neomycin. These results suggest that mastoparan enhances the membrane permeability, resulting in histamine release in a pertussis toxin-insensitive manner, and that mastoparan-induced phospholipase D activation may not relate to histamine release.
Anemia is a frequent complication of renal failure. As in anemias of other origin, the resulting tissular hypoxia is partially compensated by an increased production of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in red cells and a shift to the right of the oxygen hemoglobin dissociation curve. Two mechanisms are implicated in this anemia: increased hemolysis and depressed production of red cells. Decreased production of erythropoietin is probably the cause of reduced erythropoiesis, but the role of uremic intoxication has not been unequivocally excluded. In the course of chronic hemodialysis, iron deficiency anemia and occasionally hypersplenism develop. It is noteworthy that blood requirements in anephric patients are two to three times greater than those of nonanephric hemodialyzed patients. Accordingly, bilateral nephrectomy should be restricted to carefully selected cases. At the present time, androgens seem to be the best treatment of renal anemia. Qualitative anomalies of platelets are the main factor responsible for uremic bleeding and are corrected by hemodialysis.
We have prepared human erythrocytes that contain exclusively α-nitrosyl hemoglobin (Hb), i.e., α(Fe-NO)2β(Fe-O2)2, by incorporating nitric oxide (NO) into erythrocytes in a well-controlled nitrosylation process. The amount of α(Fe-NO) corresponding to 50% of the total heme content of the erythrocytes and exclusive binding of NO to α-subunits of intraerythrocytic Hb were confirmed by EPR. Oxygenation experiments on the intraerythrocytic α-nitrosyl Hb over a wide range of pH showed that: (1) the oxygen affinity of cell-free and intraerythrocytic α-nitrosyl Hbs were much lower than native Hb in their respective environments; (2) the oxygenation characteristics of the intraerythrocytic α-nitrosyl Hb in the acidic range was similar to that of the cell-free α-nitrosyl Hb in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; and (3) the apparent Bohr effect in the intraerythrocytic α-nitrosyl Hb was dramatically diminished. This can be due to a restricted variation in intraerythrocytic pH in the alkaline region and the pre...
The literature on the response of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) following exercise is replete with inconsistencies, and recent studies have shown that the time of blood sampling during and following exercise, as well as the duration of exercise, are important in evaluating the response of 2,3-DPG. Experiments were designed to measure the response of 2,3-DPG following short-term strenuous exercise in two groups of untrained men. Twelve men, 19–22 years old (study 1), exercised on a bicycle ergometer at 122.5 W for 10 min and red blood cell (RBC) 2,3-DPG was measured at 0 and 50 min following exercise. The level of 2,3-DPG (μmol · ml−1 RBC) increased after exercise (P < 0.05), but this increase was not significant when 2,3-DPG was expressed as mol · mol−1 hemoglobin (Hb). However, following 50min of rest, 2,3-DPG (mol · mol−1 Hb) decreased significantly. In a second group (study 2), nine other men, aged 18–19 years, exercised at the same workload for 15 min and 2,3-DPG was measured at 0, 30, 60, 180, and 330 min respectively after exercise, and no significant mean changes in the level of the phosphate were observed. Findings from these studies suggest that 2,3-DPG does not provide a compensatory adjustment to facilitate oxygen delivery in the hypoxia of short-term strenuous exercise in untrained males immediately following exercise and when recovery intervals of up to 330min are also examined. It is suggested that 2,3-DPG be reported as mol · mol−1 Hb, since the phosphate exists on Hb in an equimolar ratio in normal physiological states.
A complete pH and blood gas analysis of arterial and mixed venous blood may comprise more than forty different quantities. We have selected sixteen, including patient temperature. The arterial oxygen tension group includes the oxygen tension, fraction of oxygen in inspired air, and fraction of mixed venous blood in the arterial (total physiological veno-arterial shunting). The haemoglobin oxygen capacity group includes effective haemoglobin concentration and fractions of carboxy- and methaemoglobin. The haemoglobin oxygen affinity group includes half-saturation tension and estimated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration of erythrocytes. In a neonatal care unit fraction of fetal haemoglobin need to be included. The arterial oxygen extractivity is measured as the oxygen extraction tension, which indicates the degree of compensation among the oxygen tension, capacity, and affinity. The mixed venous group includes mixed venous oxygen tension, and, when measured, cardiac output, and oxygen consumption rate. The acid-base status includes blood pH, arterial carbon dioxide tension, and extracellular base excess. Other quantities such as haemoglobin oxygen saturation, respiratory index, total oxygen concentration (oxygen content), oxygen extraction fraction, oxygen delivery, and several others, seem to be redundant.
The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes was determined in 369 male and 376 female normal subjects, 1 to 86 years of age, derived from the Greek population. It was inversely correlated (P less than 0.01) with age. Persons over age 60 showed a decrease (P less than 0.05) in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations as compared those 1-20 years of age.
Abstract : A number of erythrocyte phosphate metabolites (adenosine tri- and diphosphates, guanosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) affected heme-heme interaction and oxygen affinity with hemoglobin which resulted in a shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve to the right. In addition, tripolyphosphate, and tetra- and hexametaphosphates, particularly the latter, affected the dissociation curve in the same manner. Adenosine monophosphate and ribose-5-phosphate had no effect. These results, which are preliminary, were obtained with hemolysates and purified hemoglobin. Bloods, collected in ACD (pH 5.0) and CPD (pH 5.75) with and without additives, were stored in the cold (4C) for six weeks. After 0,2,4 and 6 weeks storage, the erythrocytes were assayed for DPG, ATP, ADP, AMP, IMP, TPN and GTP by ion exchange chromatography. The ATP of red cells in stored unsupplemented blood was maintained at higher concentrations than those stored in CPD blood; DPG levels were greater in CPD blood. These differences were due to the pH of the blood. The remaining compounds were not appreciably changed during storage. In ACD blood supplemented with small amounts of adenine (0.05 to 0.10 mmole/100 ml), the ATP concentrations were higher than in those which contained greater amounts of adenine (0.5 mmole). The DPG values decreased rapidly in these bloods. (Author)
Abstract The enzymatic activities catalyzed by bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM, EC 5.4.2.4) have been shown to occur at a unique active site, with distinct binding sites for diphosphoglycerates and monophosphoglycerates. The physiological phosphatase activator (2-phosphoglycolate) binds to BPGM at an undetermined site. BPGM variants were constructed by site-directed mutagenesis of three amino acid residues in the active site to identify residues specifically involved in the binding of the monophosphoglycerates and 2-phosphoglycolate. Substitution of Cys22 by functionally conservative residues, Thr or Ser, caused a great decrease in 2-phosphoglycolate-stimulated phosphatase activity and in theK a value of the activator, whereas it caused no change in other catalytic activities or in the K mvalues of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and glycerate 3-phosphate (3-PG, EC 1.1.1.12), indicating that Cys22 is specifically involved either directly or indirectly in 2-phosphoglycolate binding. Kinetic experiments showed that the K a of the cofactor and the K m of 3-PG were affected by the substitution of Ser23 indicating that this residue is necessary for the fixation of both 3-PG and 2-phosphoglycolate. The R89K variant has previously been shown to have a modifiedK m value for monophosphoglycerates, however, its affinity for 2-phosphoglycolate is unaltered, suggesting that Arg89 is specifically involved in monophosphoglycerates binding. CD spectroscopic studies of substrates and cofactor binding showed that 2,3-DPG induced structural modifications of normal and mutated enzymes which could be due to protein phosphorylation. Addition of 2-phosphoglycolate to phosphorylated proteins with normal affinity for the cofactor produced spectra with the same characteristics as unphosphorylated species. In summary, monophosphoglycerates and 2-phosphoglycolate have partially distinct binding sites in human BPGM. The specific implication of the Cys22 residue in 2-phosphoglycolate binding is of great significance in the design of analogs of therapeutic benefit.
Abstract A complex formed between phosphoglycerate mutase from rabbit muscle and its cofactor, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, has been isolated and examined. With a column of Sephadex G-25, enzyme-bound radioactivity equivalent to 0.85 mole of cofactor per mole of enzyme was separated from 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-32P. As much as 80% of the enzymebound 32P could be incorporated into nonradioactive substrate or cofactor during very short reaction periods. These exchange reactions suggested that the bound radioactivity was not in the form enzyme-phosphate, but rather in the form enzyme·P2·glycerate. Subjecting enzyme with bound 32P to paper chromatography confirmed this; the radioactivity was distributed about equally between orthophosphate and monophosphoglycerate. This enzyme-bound cofactor was labile to treatment with 0.4 m KOH or HClO4, and was then detected as 32Pi after paper chromatography. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate alone was not hydrolyzed under the same conditions. Thus, in the process of binding to the enzyme, the glycerate-phosphate bonds of the cofactor are rendered labile. The complex was unstable at 4°, decomposing into Pi and, apparently, glyceric acid. In a 24-hour period, the exchangeable bound radioactivity decreased from 73 to 24%, while paper chromatography of the complex showed a decrease in the monophosphoglycerate fraction and an increase in the Pi fraction. Enzyme-bound 32P from 3-phosphoglycerate-32P was obtained by a similar procedure. The binding was equivalent to 0.34 mole of substrate per mole of enzyme. This bound radioactivity was labile to treatment with 0.4 m HClO4 or KOH. Most of the bound radioactivity could be exchanged with nonradioactive cofactor or substrate. Unlike the enzyme-cofactor complex, a high percentage of bound radioactivity was not exchanged, and was recovered as Pi in exchange reactions with high concentrations of combined unlabeled 3-phosphoglycerate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Exchange between 3-phosphoglycerate-32P and nonradioactive 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the presence of phosphoglycerate mutase showed that free 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is not an obligatory reactant in every conversion of substrate to product. This is consistent with a cofactor role for free 2,3-diphosphoglycerate of maintaining saturating levels of an active intermediate, enzyme·P2·glycerate.
When 10(-6) M oubain is added to human red cell that have been incubated without glucose for two hours, there is a significant shift in the 31P nuclear magnetic resonances of both phosphate groups of cellular 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which is not found in control cells incubated with glucose. This means that an effect induced by ouabain on the outside of the red cell membrane is transmitted through the membrane to alter the environment of an intracellular metabolite. Experiments with glycolytic cycle inhibitors have indicated that the intracellular ligand responsible for the resonance shifts is monophosphoglycerate mutase which requires 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as a cofactor for the reaction it catalyzes. To account for this finding a hypothesis is presented that the (Na+ + K+)-ATPase in human red cells is linked to monophosphoglycerate mutase through the agency of phosphoglycerate kinase. Evidence is presented for the existence of phosphoglycerate kinase/monophosphoglycerate mutase in solution. It is shown that this complex can interact with the cytoplasmic face of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase at the outside surface of inside out red cell vesicles, and that this interaction is inhibited when 10(-6) M ouabain is contained within the vesicle. Neither monophosphoglycerate mutase nor phosphoglycerate kinase is significantly bound to the inside surface of the intact human red cell, but glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase is; it is shown that this enzyme also interacts with the cytoplasmic face of the (Na+ + K+)-ATPase and that the interaction is inhibited by 10(-6) M ouabain.
An automated technique is reported for measuring eryth rocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). We have automated a specific method, in which the DPG phosphatase activity of phosphoglycerate mutase is used and potentiated by phosphoglycolate. Precision, accuracy, recovery, and comparability with a reference method are discussed. Additional Keyphrases phosphoglycerate mutase P measurement after release normal values hypoxia . colorimetry blood banking #{149} AutoAnalyzer #{149} phosphoglycolate
An adult ingests about 1.5 g of phosphorus per day, of which two-thirds is absorbed by the intestine by both a transcellular and paracellular route. An adult must excrete the absorbed phosphate to remain in phosphate balance; however, a child is in positive phosphate balance for growth. Phosphate plays an important and necessary role in nucleotide generation, including ATP, in the formation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate for facilitating oxygen release from hemoglobin, in the formation of phospholipids, and in the regulation of many proteins. It is also a structural element for bone, functions as a urinary buffer, and is necessary for virtually every enzymatic process. For these reasons, the serum phosphorus level is very tightly regulated. The regulation of phosphate has traditionally been thought to be mediated by parathyroid hormone (PTH), which acts on bone, causing bone resorption, and on the kidney, causing phosphaturia and increased levels of circulating 1,25 (OH) 2 vitamin D 3 , which is turn predominantly acts on the intestine to increase calcium and phosphate absorption.
Abstract ::: Oxygen equilibrium was determined on hemoglobin of individuals both heterozygous and homozygous for hemoglobin E. The whole blood oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve of AE blood was identical to that of normal AA blood. E hemoglobin, isolated by diethylaminoethyl Sephadex and carboxymethyl cellulose column chromatography, had oxygen affinity, heme-heme interaction, and Bohr effect identical to those of hemoglobin A prepared from the same column. Furthermore, the two hemoglobins had equal reactivity with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Phosphate-free hemolysates of blood from E and A homozygotes also had identical oxygen saturation curves. These results do not confirm earlier reports that hemoglobin E has an abnormally low oxygen affinity.
This study is concerned with the relationship between the Na/K/Cl cotransport system and the steady-state volume (MCV) of red blood cells. Cotransport rate was determined in unfractionated and density-separated red cells of different MCV from different donors to see whether cotransport differences contribute to the difference in the distribution of MCVs. Cotransport, studied in cells at their original MCVs, was determined as the bumetanide (10 microM)-sensitive 22Na efflux in the presence of ouabain (50 microM) after adjusting cellular Na (Nai) and Ki to achieve near maximal transport rates. This condition was chosen to rule out MCV-related differences in Nai and Ki that might contribute to differences in the net chemical driving force for cotransport. We found that in both unfractionated and density-separated red cells the cotransport rate was inversely correlated with MCV. MCV was correlated directly with red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), whereas total red cell Mg was only slightly elevated in cells with high MCV. Thus intracellular free Mg (Mgifree) is evidently lower in red cells with high 2,3-DPG (i.e., high MCV) and vice versa. Results from flux measurements at their original MCVs, after altering Mgifree with the ionophore A23187, indicated a high Mgi sensitivity of cotransport: depletion of Mgifree inhibited and an elevation of Mgifree increased the cotransport rate. The apparent K0.5 for Mgifree was approximately 0.4 mM. Maximizing Mgifree at optimum Nai and Ki minimized the differences in cotransport rates among the different donors. It is concluded that the relative cotransport rate is regulated for cells in the steady state at their original cell volume, not by the number of copies of the cotransporter but by differences in Mgifree. The interindividual differences in Mgifree, determined primarily by differences in the 2,3-DPG content, are responsible for the differences in the relative cotransport activity that results in an inverse relationship with in vivo differences in MCV. Indirect evidence indicates that the relative cotransport rate, as indexed by Mgifree, is determined by the phosphorylated level of the cotransport system.
The effects of pH, organic phosphates (2,3-diphosphoglycerate), and temperature on the functional properties of both adult and fetal hemoglobin Sassari a (Asp126 + His) have been studied. The functional properties of the adult variant are characterized by the following: (i) an oxygen affinity higher than that of normal HbA in all the experimental conditions used; (ii) a dramatic reduction of homotropic interactions (nao very close to unity); and (iii) a significant decrease of the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which is 36% lower than that observed on HbA. The fetal variant shows an increased oxygen affinity compared with normal HbF and an almost abolished heme-heme interaction. The molecular basis of these functional differences is discussed in terms of the possible role played by the substitution of a (Asp-26 + His) on the stability of the R state of the molecule due to a decreased interaction at the level of alaz contact.
31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopic determinations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations in erythrocytes have been compared with values obtained by an enzymatic assay. It was found that the mean difference over a concentration range from 2 to 20 mmol 2,3-DPG/1 red blood cells (RBC) was 0.18±0.39 (SEM) mmol/l RBC (n=10). 31P NMR spectroscopy was further tested by simultaneous measurements of 2,3-DPG and intracellular pH under conditions where the concentration of 2,3-DPG was varied. Thereby a linear relation between the pH gradient (ΔpH) over the erythrocyte membrane and 2,3-DPG concentrations was found. The data fit a Donnan equilibrium model for the pH difference over the erythrocyte membrane. We conclude that 31P NMR spectroscopy is a sensitive and accurate method that makes possible simultaneous and non-invasive measurements of intracellular pH and 2,3-DPG.
Determinations of hemoglobin concentration, hemoglobin oxygen saturation, oxygen tension, pH, carbon dioxide, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and carboxy-hemoglobin concentration were carried out on venous blood from 28 subjects with diabetes mellitus. The blood oxygen affinity in vivo, as observed in the plot of oxygen tension vs oxygen saturation, was identical to that observed in normal subjects. The red cell DPG concentration was higher by 1.0 mmol/l and 0.6 mmol/l in the diabetic men and women, respectively, than in the normal subjects. These data are interpreted in terms of the higher concentration of HbAIc in the blood of diabetic subjects and indicate that this abnormality is compensated for by an increase in red cell DPG to give a normal oxygen affinity of the blood in vivo.
Hemoglobin obtained from out-dated human blood was stripped of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and modified with the crosslinking agents glyoxalic acid, 1,2-cyclohexadione, or fumarate to stabilize the tetramer. The resulting hemoglobins, which show alterations in their oxygen transport capability, have been studied in their oxy, deoxy and fluoro-met forms using resonance Raman spectroscopy with Soret excitation. The resonance Raman spectra of oxy-hemoglobins cross linked with glyoxalic acid and 1,2-cyclohexadione show that these cross linking agents force the heme into a high spin structure. The resonance Raman spectra of the fluoro-met hemoglobins, however, indicate that the same cross linking agents force the heme into a lower spin structure. Absorption spectroscopy and molecular orbital considerations suggest that protein constraints at the sixth ligand of the heme can account for the change in spin state in the glyoxalic acid and 1,2-cyclohexadione cross linked hemoglobins.
Abstract The interaction of human hemoglobin (Hb) with 8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonate (HPT) was studied at pH 6.0 and T/2 = 0.04. Binding of HPT was determined by quenching of its fluorescence upon interaction with Hb. HPT binds to deoxy-Hb with a stoichiometry of 1 mole per mole of Hb tetramer and with a higher affinity for the deoxy than the liganded form analogous to the binding of the physiologically important 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Binding is prevented by either DPG or inositol hexaphosphate. A qualitative comparison of the time courses of HPT release and CO combination during the reaction of CO with deoxy-Hb indicates a marked lag in the release of HPT compared with CO binding. This led to the conclusion that during the course of CO binding, significant amounts of partially liganded Hb intermediates are formed and the release of HPT from the intermediates does not occur in proportion to the amount of CO bound. Quantitative analysis of the data, in the form of least squares fitting procedures, was carried out to examine the ability of some elementary models to describe the results. The best fit was obtained on the assumption that HPT is released after 3 CO molecules have bound to hemoglobin.
Abstract 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate phosphatase has been purified from human red blood cells. It has been separated from phosphoglycerate mutase and acid phosphatase. The reaction catalyzed is 2,3-PGA + H2O → 3-PGA + Pi. In the absence of activators, 1 mµmole of substrate can be converted to products per min at 37° by enzyme from 1 ml of packed cells. The activity is increased by certain anions. There is activation by chloride or phosphate individually, which is enhanced by the simultaneous presence of both anions. In the presence of 0.1 m chloride, phosphate activates with a Ka of 0.7 mm. Fluoride or bromide, but not iodide, and bicarbonate can substitute for chloride. Anions that can substitute for phosphate and activate in the presence of chloride include arsenate, fluorophosphate, and sulfite. The most potent activator found is glycolate-2-P which can give a 1600-fold stimulation. In the presence of this activator, chloride is an inhibitor with respect to glycolate-2-P. Phosphate is a competitive inhibitor with respect to glycolate-2-P and the inhibition is related to the square of the phosphate concentration. The monophosphoglycerates are competitive inhibitors with respect to phosphate with enzyme activated by phosphate and chloride with a Ki of 3 µm. Monophosphoglycerates are competitive with respect to glycolate-2-P with enzyme activated by glycolate-2-P and chloride with a Ki of 2 µm. Glycine or taurine (at high pH) or pyrophosphate are activators in the presence of which there is inhibition by chloride. The Km of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate depends on the conditions of activation, varying from 0.08 µm with phosphate and 0.1 m chloride activation to 25 µm with glycolate-2-P and 0.1 m chloride. The apparent Vmax varies over a 500-fold range. Phosphoglycerate increases the Km of 2,3-PGA and inhibits with a Ki of 6 µm. The maximal velocity of the enzyme is obtained at pH 6.4 with either phosphate and chloride or glycolate-2-P as activators. With fluorophosphate and chloride, the optimum rate is at pH 6. It is suggested that the phosphate and phosphoglycerate levels are important for determining the rate of hydrolysis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the human red blood cell.
Abstract 906 Introduction: Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a devastating inherited hemolytic disorder due to a single missense mutation in the β-globin gene resulting in the production of hemoglobin S (HbS). Despite our knowledge of the molecular defect in HbS, we remain unable to control HbS polymerization and erythrocyte sickling under hypoxic conditions, which are central to the pathophysiology of the disease. Methods and Results: Here we report that adenosine, a cellular metabolite that is well known to be induced under hypoxic/ischemic conditions, is increased in the blood circulation of patients with SCD and in SCD transgenic (Tg) mice. To our surprise, we found that adenosine contributes to hypoxia-induced sickling of cultured erythrocytes from humans with SCD. Next, to evaluate the pathogenic role of increased adenosine in erythrocyte signaling in vivo , we took advantage of SCD transgenic (Tg) mice, a well accepted animal model of SCD. Intriguingly, treatment of SCD Tg mice with polyethylene glycol-modified adenosine deaminase (PEG-ADA) enzyme therapy to lower circulating adenosine levels reduced sickling and attenuated multiple tissue damage (including lung, kidney, liver and spleen) seen in SCD Tg mice. These findings revealed a previously unrecognized role for excess adenosine in sickling and the progression to multiple life-threatening complications. Next, by screening erythrocytes for small metabolites that are induced by adenosine and may contribute to sickling, we determined that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), an erythroid specific metabolite known to promote O 2 release from Hb, is elevated in erythrocytes of both SCD Tg mice and humans. Using both pharmacological and genetic approaches, we demonstrated that adenosine-mediated 2,3-DPG induction is through A 2B receptor signaling and that this signaling pathway is a major contributor to hypoxia-induced erythrocyte sickling. Conclusion and Significance: Overall, we have identified for the first time that elevated adenosine induces 2,3-DPG via A 2B R signaling and contributes to sickling in both human and mouse with SCD. Thus, our studies provide strong support for the new concept that adenosine-mediated 2,3-DPG induction is beneficial for normal erythrocytes by promoting O 2 release from Hb to hypoxic tissues. However, for SCD patients, the beneficial effect of adenosine-mediated 2,3-DPG induction becomes detrimental by inducing erythrocyte sickling due to 2,3-DPG mediated increased O 2 release and increased deoxyHbS polymerization. Our findings reveal a novel therapeutic possibility to treat and prevent sickling and progression to multiple life-threatening complications by targeting on the adenosine signaling pathway. Disclosures: No relevant conflicts of interest to declare.
Numerous studies have shown that exposure to hypobaric hypoxia induces altered respiration as well as circulatory activities. It has been suggested that acclimatization to high altitude leads to increased capillary density1, red blood cell (RBC) counts and Hemoglobin (Hb) concentration2,3, which may play a beneficial role in maintaining energy production of the muscles with low Po2. Previous studies4 have indicated that elevation of respiratory enzyme activity occurs in some muscles with a high oxidative capacity. Although many studies have reported changes of skeletal muscle metabolism from sea level5 to hypobaric hypoxia, there are few studies that address the opposite process, i.e. from hypobaric hypoxia to sea level. Furthermore, respiratory alkalosis is initially induced by exposure to hypoxia, while the 02 dissociation curve is shifted to the right due to an increased level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in RBC resulting from the hypoxemia and alkalosis6. This right shift of the 02 dissociation curve is assumed to facilitate a better 02 unloading in venous blood at a given Po2.
In a randomized double-blind study the effect of etidronate disodium (EHDP) on retinopathy, plasma inorganic phosphate and blood oxygen transport was assessed in 26 insulin-dependent diabetic patients. Following 6 months of EHDP administration, plasma inorganic phosphate had increased significantly (1.48 vs 1.14 mmol/l; P less than 0.01). Red cell, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (16.9 vs 15.1 mumol/g Hb; P less than 0.01) and the haemoglobin-oxygen affinity measured by pO2 at 50% oxygen saturation (P50) had also increased significantly (27.5 vs 26.3 mmHg; P less than 0.01). No changes had occurred in mean blood glucose and haemoglobin A1c concentrations, indicating a comparable degree of glucose regulation. Following 6 months of EHDP administration an association was found between improvement in retinopathy and the increase in plasma inorganic phosphate.
Abstract 1. 1. The methods of determination of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, glucose 1,6-diphosphate and lactate, according to Krimsky 1 , Passonneau et al. 2 , and Hohorst 3 , respectively, and furthermore a new method for the determination of ATP + ADP were adopted to be used in the study of lymphocyte and erythrocyte metabolism. 2. 2. Lysates of lymphocyte or erythrocyte suspensions, obtained by dilution with 1 mM ammonia, could be applied in the mechanized system. 3. 3. A simple mechanized continuous flow system, coupled with a recording fluorometer, is described. In this system the four methods of determination can be performed. 4. 4. For the determination of ATP + ADP as well as lactate and glucose 1,6-diphosphate in a lymphocyte suspension only 2·10 6 lymphocytes are required, equivalent to less than 2 ml of blood. For the same determinations and an additional 2,3-diphosphoglycerate determination in erythrocytes only 0.05 ml of blood is required.
Abstract : Of the combinations tried, the admixture of methylene blue, progesterone, adenine and inosine maintained 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate at high levels in citrate-phosphate-dextrose blood for a storage period of 6 weeks, about equal to those of the control values on the day of collection. (Author)
Abstract 1. 1. Several haematological and biochemical parameters were measured in the erythrocytes of the grey-headed fruit bat. 2. 2. The level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was almost twice that found in human erythrocytes. Similarly pyruvate kinase activity was more than twice that of man. 3. 3. The activities of other enzymes of the glycolytic pathway were similar to those found in man. 4. 4. The level of reduced glutathione (GSH) and the GSH regeneration rate in the erythrocytes of the bat were comparable to those found in man.
The Influence of Sodium Phosphate Supplementation on VO2max, Serum 2,3-diphosphoglycerate Level and Heart Rate in Off-road Cyclists The main objective of the work was to evaluate the influence of a six day supplementation with sodium phosphate on circulatory and pulmonary variables, the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and the concentration of inorganic phosphates in blood serum of elite off-road cyclists. The research material included 19 cyclists which were randomly divided into a experimental group, supplemented with sodium phosphate and a control group receiving a placebo The subjects in the experimental group ingested sodium diphosphate in a dose of 50mg/kg of fat free mass per day. The supplement was ingested in even doses, four times per day. The control group received 4g of glucose in gelatin capsules (500mg), which were also divided into 4 even portions. During the experiment a significant (p<0.05) increase in maximal oxygen uptake was observed (VO2max), maximal minute ventilation (VEmax), as well as oxygen pulse (O2/HR). Also a significant decrease in resting and maximal exercise heart rate occurred. This was also true for each exercise load. A significant (p<0.05) increase in the serum concentration of non-organic phosphates (P) was observed which was accompanied by a decrease in serum calcium (Ca) concentration. The changes in the resting and post exercise concentration of 2,3-DPG were non significant, yet the supplementation procedure showed a tendency for increased level of this variable.
Summary Phosphorus-31 NMR has been used to observe 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in intact human red cells containing hemoglobin AA or hemoglobin SS, in the oxygenated and deoxygenated state. When hemoglobin A cells are deoxygenated, the 2,3-DPG P-31 resonances broaden and shift. However, in cells containing hemoglobin S, a striking pattern of superimposed broad and narrow P-31 resonances is observed. This pattern can also be observed in fractionated cell preparations from which both irreversibly sickled cells and reticulocytes have been removed and in hemoglobin S solutions above the minimum gelling concentration. We conclude that 2,3-DPG is incorporated in the polymer phase, and that the broad and narrow peaks seen in deoxy S cell suspensions represent 2,3-DPG bound to hemoglobin S in the polymer and tetramer states respectively.
Human phosphofructokinase (PFK; EC 2.7.1.11) exists in tetrameric isozymic forms. Muscle and liver contain the homotetramers M4 and L4, whereas erythrocytes contain five isozymes composed of M (muscle) and L (liver) subunits, i.e., M4, M3L, M2L2, ML3, and L4. Inherited defects of erythrocyte PFK are usually partial and are described in association with heterogeneous clinical syndromes. To define the molecular basis and pathogenesis of this enzymopathy, we investigated four unrelated individuals manifesting myopathy and hemolysis (glycogenosis type VII), isolated hemolysis, or no symptoms at all. The three symptomatic patients showed high-normal hemoglobin levels, despite hemolysis and early-onset hyperuricemia. They showed total lack of muscle-type PFK and suffered from exertional myopathy of varying severity. In the erythrocytes, a metabolic crossover was evident at the PFK step: the levels of hexose monophosphates were elevated and those of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were depressed, causing strikingly increased hemoglobin-oxygen affinity. In all cases, the residual erythrocyte PFK consisted exclusively of L4 isozyme, indicating homozygosity for the deficiency of the catalytically active M subunit. However, presence of immunoreactive M subunit was shown in cultured fibroblasts by indirect immunofluorescence with monoclonal anti-M antibody. The fourth individual was completely asymptomatic, had normal erythrocyte metabolism, and had no evidence of hemolysis. His residual erythrocyte PFK showed a striking decrease of the L4, ML3, and M2L2 isozymes, secondary to a mutant unstable L subunit. Identical alterations of erythrocyte PFK were found in his asymptomatic son, indicating heterozygosity for the mutant unstable L subunit in this kindred. These studies show that, except for the varying severity of the myopathic symptoms, glycogenosis type VII has highly uniform clinical and biochemical features and results from homozygosity for mutant inactive M subunit(s). The absence of anemia despite hemolysis may be explained by the low 2,3-DPG levels. The hyperuricemia may result from hyperactivity of the hexose monophosphate shunt. In contrast, the clinically silent carrier state results from heterozygosity for mutant M or L subunit. Of the two, the M subunit appears to be more critical for adequate glycolytic flux in the erythrocyte, since its absence is correlated with hemolysis.
Abstract The incubation of dialyzed hemoglobin A with a number of phosphorylated glycolytic intermediates leads to the formation of covalent hemoglobin adducts that co-chromatograph with hemoglobin AIb. Phosphorylated hexoses (glucose-6-P, fructose-6-P, fructose-1,6-P2) and trioses (glyceraldelyde-3-P, dihydroxyacetone-P) containing a free aldehyde or ketone can glycosylate hemoglobin A nonenzymatically. From 7 to 12% of the hemoglobin can be modified after a 72-h incubation of an equimolar mixture of hemoglobin A and the phosphorylated intermediate. No significant formation of adduct was seen with a sugar alone (glucose, fructose) or glycolytic intermediate which had a blocked aldehyde (glucose-1-P, glucose-1,6-P2, UDP-glucose). The addition of an equimolar amount of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate reduced adduct formation. Evidently, the phosphate is needed to orient and stabilize the intermediate in the bisphosphoglycerate pocket of hemoglobin so that the addition reaction can proceed. All of the hemoglobin A adducts were indistinguishable form hemoglobin AIb by ion exchange chromatography and isoelectric focusing. The hemoglobin A-glucose-6-P adduct and hemoglobin AIb had a NaB3H4-reducible linkage in the beta chain. The concentration of hemoglobin AIb is elevated in patients with diabetes mellitus. This presumably reflects the increased concentrations of glycolytic intermediates (glucose-6-P, fructose-6-P, fructose-1,6-P2, dihydroxyacetone-P) which were found to be significantly elevated in the red cells of diabetic patients as compared with normal controls.
Abstract The effect of dietary Zn deficiency on blood concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration were determined. Weanling male rats in the zinc deficient group were fed an egg white-based diet containing
The study was carried out on healthy Friesian calves (n = 10) aged between 10 and 30 days. Hypochloremia and alkalosis were induced by intravenous administration of furosemide and isotonic sodium bicarbonate. The venous and arterial blood samples were collected repeatedly. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), hemoglobin and plasmatic chloride concentrations were determined. The red blood cell chloride concentration was also calculated. pH, PCO2 and PO2 were measured in arterial and mixed venous blood. The oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) was measured in standard conditions. The correspondence of the OEC to the arterial and mixed venous compartments was calculated, taking blood temperature, pH and PCO2 values into account. The oxygen exchange fraction (OEF%), corresponding to the degree of blood desaturation between the arterial and mixed venous compartments and the amount of oxygen released at the tissue level by 100 mL of blood (OEF Vol%) were calculated from the arterial and mixed venous OEC, combined with PO2 and hemoglobin concentration. Oxygen delivery (DO2) was calculated using the arterial oxygen content, the cardiac output measured by thermodilution, and the body weight of the animal. The oxygen consumption (VO2) was derived from the cardiac output, OEF Vol% and body weight values. Despite the plasma hypochloremia, the erythrocyte chloride concentration was not influenced by furosemide and sodium bicarbonate infusion. Due to the alkalosis-induced increase in the 2,3-DPG, the standard OEC was shifted to the right, allowing oxygen to dissociate from hemoglobin more rapidly. These changes opposed the increased affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen induced by alkalosis. Moreover, respiratory acidosis, hemoconcentration, and the slight decrease in the partial oxygen pressure in mixed venous blood (Pvo2) tended to improve the OEF Vol% and maintain the oxygen consumption in a physiological range while the cardiac output, and the oxygen delivery were significantly decreased. It may be concluded that, despite reduced oxygen delivery, oxygen consumption is maintained during experimentally induced hypochloremic alkalosis in healthy 10-30 day old calves.
ABSTRACT This study is concerned with the relationship between the Na/K/CI cotransport system and the steady-state volume (MCV) of red blood cells. Cotransport rate was determined in unfractionated and density-separated red cells of different MCV from different donors to see whether cotransport differences contribute to the difference in the distribution of MCVs. Cotransport, studied in cells at their original MCVs, was determined as the bumetanide (10 ~.M)-sensitive 2~Na efflux in the presence of ouabain (50 I~M) after adjusting cellular Na (Nai) and K~ to achieve near maximal transport rates. This condition was chosen to rule out MCV-related differences in Nai and Ki that might contribute to differences in the net chemical driving force for cotransport. We found that in both unfractionated and density-separated red cells the cotransport rate was inversely correlated with MCV. MCV was correlated directly with red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), whereas total red cell Mg was only slightly elevated in cells with high MCV. Thus intraceUular free Mg (Mg~ e) is evidently lower in red cells with high 2,3-DPG (i.e., high MCV) and vice versa. Results from flux measurements at their original MCVs, after altering Mg[ r~ with the ionophore A23187, indicated a high Mgi sensitivity of cotransport: depletion of M~ r~ inhibited and an elevation of M~ tee increased the cotransport rate. The apparent K05 for Mg~ e" was ~ 0.4 mM. Maximizing Mig~ ~ at optimum Nai and I~ minimized the differences in cotransport rates among the different donors. It is concluded that the relative cotransport rate is regulated for cells in the steady state at their original cell volume, not by the number of copies of the cotransporter but by differences in Mig~ ~. The interindividual differences in Mg~ ~, determined primarily by differences in the 2,3-DPG content, are responsible for the differences in the relative cotransport activity that results in an inverse Address reprint requests to Dr.
The main objective of the work was to evaluate the influence of a six day supplementation with sodium phosphate on circulatory and pulmonary variables, the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and the concentration of inorganic phosphates in blood serum of elite off-road cyclists. The research material included 19 cyclists which were randomly divided into a experimental group, supplemented with sodium phosphate and a control group receiving a placebo The subjects in the experimental group ingested sodium diphosphate in a dose of 50mg/kg of fat free mass per day. The supplement was ingested in even doses, four times per day. The control group received 4g of glucose in gelatin capsules (500mg), which were also divided into 4 even portions. During the experiment a significant (p<0.05) increase in maximal oxygen uptake was observed (VO 2max ), maximal minute ventilation (VE max ), as well as oxygen pulse (O 2 /HR). Also a significant decrease in resting and maximal exercise heart rate occurred. This was also true for each exercise load. A significant (p<0.05) increase in the serum concentration of non-organic phosphates (P) was observed which was accompanied by a decrease in serum calcium (Ca) concentration. The changes in the resting and post exercise concentration of 2,3-DPG were non significant, yet the supplementation procedure showed a tendency for increased level of this variable.
The three symptomatic patients showed high-normal hemoglobin levels, despite hemolysis and early-onset hyperuricemia. They showed total lack of muscle-type PFK and suffered from exertional myopathy of varying severity. In the erythrocytes, a metabolic crossover was evident at the PFK step: the levels of hexose monophosphates were elevated and those of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were depressed, causing strikingly increased hemoglobin-oxygen affinity. In all cases, 
Abstract -The study was carried out on healthy Friesian calves (n = 10) aged between 10 and 30 days. Hypochloremia and alkalosis were induced by intravenous administration of furosemide and isotonic sodium bicarbonate. The venous and arterial blood samples were collected repeatedly. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), hemoglobin and plasmatic chloride concentrations were determined. The red blood cell chloride concentration was also calculated. pH, PCO 2 and PO 2 were measured in arterial and mixed venous blood. The oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) was measured in standard conditions. The correspondence of the OEC to the arterial and mixed venous compartments was calculated, taking blood temperature, pH and PCO 2 values into account. The oxygen exchange fraction (OEF%), corresponding to the degree of blood desaturation between the arterial and mixed venous compartments and the amount of oxygen released at the tissue level by 100 mL of blood (OEF Vol%) were calculated from the arterial and mixed venous OEC, combined with PO 2 and hemoglobin concentration. Oxygen delivery (DO 2 ) was calculated using the arterial oxygen content, the cardiac output measured by thermodilution, and the body weight of the animal. The oxygen consumption (VO 2 ) was derived from the cardiac output, OEF Vol% and body weight values. Despite the plasma hypochloremia, the erythrocyte chloride concentration was not influenced by furosemide and sodium bicarbonate infusion. Due to the alkalosis-induced increase in the 2,3-DPG, the standard OEC was shifted to the right, allowing oxygen to dissociate from hemoglobin more rapidly. These changes opposed the increased affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen induced by alkalosis. Moreover, respiratory 697 Vet. Res. 33 (2002) acidosis, hemoconcentration, and the slight decrease in the partial oxygen pressure in mixed venous blood (Pvo 2 ) tended to improve the OEF Vol% and maintain the oxygen consumption in a physiological range while the cardiac output, and the oxygen delivery were significantly decreased. It may be concluded that, despite reduced oxygen delivery, oxygen consumption is maintained during experimentally induced hypochloremic alkalosis in healthy 10-30 day old calves.
Red blood cells (RBCs) under blood bank storage conditions undergo biophysical and biochemical alterations, including biochemical depletion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), as well as cholesterol and phospholipid loss through microvesiculation. Microvesiculation is the process by which microparticles (MPs), phospholipid vesicles that are less than 1 μm in diameter, are released in response to different stimuli and conditions. RBC microparticles (RMPs) have been shown to be harmful effectors of inflammation and coagulation post transfusion, as well as in vitro indicators of RBC function and viability throughout ex vivo storage. Recent studies suggested that microvesiculation during storage results from biochemical depletion and/or cell senescence (Chernitskii˘ et al. 38 (8) (1993)18–21). Rejuvenation solutions have been shown to be able to restore ATP and 2,3-DPG levels in hypothermically stored RBCs. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of the biochemical rejuvenation on red blood cell microvesiculation, as well as phosphatidylserine (PS) and CD47 expression during hypothermic storage. Leukoreduced packed RBC units (n = 14) were produced using the standard buffy coat method from whole blood in citrate–phosphate–dextrose (CPD) and stored in saline–adenine–glucose–mannitol (SAGM) at 1–6 °C for up to 49 days. Units were divided into three different experimental groups: untreated control, sham control and rejuvenated group. On days 28, 35, and 42 of hypothermic storage the rejuvenated group was incubated for one hour with 50 mL of rejuvenation solution containing pyruvate, inosine, phosphate and adenine (PIPA), while the sham control group was incubated for 1 h with 50 mL of 1× phosphate buffered saline. RBC units were tested weekly for ATP concentration, quantity of RMPs, and PS and CD47 expression. Microvesiculation was assessed using multicolor flow cytometric (FC) analysis and a spectrophotometric assay was used to determine ATP concentration. The results indicated that ATP significantly decreased throughout the hypothermic storage in untreated and sham RBC units (p
The spectral difference between normal and rapidly reacting deoxyhemoglobin (Sawicki and Gibson (1976), J. Biol Chem. 251:1533-1542) is used to study the relationship between CO binding to hemoglobin and the conformational changes to the rapidly reacting form in a combined flow-laser flash experiment. In both pH 7 phosphate buffer and pH 7 bis(2-hydroxy-ethyl)imino-tris (hydroxymethyl)methane buffer (bis-Tris) with 500 muM 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), the conformational change lags far behind CO binding; rapidly reacting hemoglobin is not observed until more than 10% of the hemoglobin is liganded. In pH 9 borate buffer the formation of rapidly reacting hemoglobin leads CO binding by a significant amount. A simple two-state allosteric model (Monod et. al. (1965), J. Mol. Biol. 12:88-118) which assumed equivalence of the hemoglobin subunits in their reaction with CO was used to simulate the experimental results. In terms of the model, the conformational change lead observed at pH 9 suggests that significant conformational change has occurred after binding of only one CO molecule per tetramer. In the presence of phosphates good agreement between experimental results and simulations is obtained using parameter values suggested by previous experimental studies. The simulations suggest that the conformational change occurs after binding of three CO molecules.
The biologic effects of thyroid hormones vary with different species (e.g., metamorphosis in the tadpole), as well as with the stage of development within a species (fetal vs. adult life). Table 9.1 lists some effects of thyroid hormones on various systems, some of which are interdependent. Thus, the influence of thyroid hormones on cellular differentiation, growth, and development in the fetal and neonatal period apparently reflects gene expression manisfested via increased synthesis of new proteins and enzymes, and/or by activation of the existing enzymes. Similarly, thyroid hormones induce stimulation of oxygen consumption in the tissues which appears importantly related (but not entirely) to new synthesis as well as activation of ouabain-sensitive Na+ K+ ATPase in the cell membrane (Lo and ::: ::: ::: Table 9.1 ::: Some biological effects of thyroid hormonea ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: I ::: ::: Cellular differentiation and growth, especially in the fetal and neonatal period, e.g., tadpole metamorphosis, cerebral cortical and cerebellar growth, myelination, and differentiation ::: ::: ::: II ::: ::: Stimulation of oxygen consumption by the tissues, e. g., liver, kidney, muscle. Spleen, testes, and adult brain respond poorly to this effect of thyroid hormones ::: ::: ::: III ::: ::: Suppression of pituitary TSH synthesis and releaseb ::: ::: ::: IV ::: ::: Retardation of amino acid efflux from the cells ::: ::: ::: V ::: ::: Regulation of synthesis of proteins and enzymes, e. g. Increased synthesis: Skin epidermis and hair hypophyseal hormones: growth hormone, prolactin Cell membrane Na, K-ATPase mitochondrial—glycerophosphate dehydrogenase glycolytic enzymes including NAD-specific isocitric dehydrogenase, hexokinase, malic enzyme, glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase, etc. Decreased synthesis, e. g., mitochondrial NADP-linked isocitric dehydrogenase in rats given thyroid hormones ::: ::: ::: VI ::: ::: Activation of enzymes, e. g. Na, K-ATPase Cytochromes Disphosphoglycerate mutase that results in formation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes L-T3 aminotransferase in the liver ::: ::: ::: VII ::: ::: Conversion of carotenes to vitamin A ::: ::: ::: VIII ::: ::: Stimulation of erythropoietin mediated erythropoeisis ::: ::: ::: IX ::: ::: Inhibition of phosphodiesterase in the cartilage ::: ::: ::: X ::: ::: Interaction with other hormones e. g., stimulation (or inhibition in case of rT3) of lipolytic action of epinephrine, ACTH, and glucagon ::: ::: ::: ::: Edelman 1976). Evidence exists to suggest that TSH suppressive effects of thyroid hormones may also be mediated via synthesis of a protein (Bowers et al. 1968).
Sepsis is a complex pathophysiological process that involves both alterations in the microcirculation and changes in the biochemical and physiological characteristics of the blood constituents.Deterioration in erythrocyte rheology plays a crucial role in the impairment of microcirculation and tissue oxygenation that can lead to multiple organ failure and death.Erythrocyte rheology can be influenced by many factors,including alterations in intracellular Ca2+,ATP,and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in addition to the effects of nitric oxide and temperature,and interactions with leucocyte This review focuses on the alterations in erythrocyte rheology and the possible underlying mechanisms of sepsis.
Erythrocyte skeletal proteins are known to play an important role in determining membrane deformability. In order to see whether transmembrane proteins also influence deformability and, if so, whether this influence is mediated by an interaction with the membrane skeleton, we examined the effect on deformability of ligands specific for transmembrane proteins. We found membrane deformability markedly reduced in erythrocytes that were pretreated with glycophorin A-specific ligands. In contrast, ligands specific for band 3 and A and B blood group antigens had no effect. The increase in membrane rigidity appeared to depend upon a transmembrane event and not upon a rigidity-inducing lattice on the outside surface of the cell in that a monovalent Fab of antiglycophorin IgG caused decreased deformability. We therefore looked for a ligand-induced association of glycophorin and the skeletal proteins and found, in Triton X-100-insoluble residues, a partitioning of glycophorin with the skeletal proteins only after preincubation with a ligand specific for glycophorin. We then studied cells and resealed membranes with skeletal protein abnormalities. In spectrin-deficient and protein 4.1-deficient erythrocytes and in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-treated resealed membranes, the antiglycophorin IgG was only one-third as effective in decreasing deformability as it was in normal cells. Thus, normal skeletal proteins appear to be essential for liganded glycophorin to affect membrane deformability maximally. Taken together, these observations indicate that there is a ligand-induced interaction between glycophorin A and skeletal proteins and that this interaction can directly influence membrane deformability.
We studied in vitro changes in P50 and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration occurring in blood 2 to 8 h after venipuncture. When blood was incubated at 37 degrees C, significant decreases in P50 were observed at 2, 4, and 8 hr. Such a change was significantly less when blood was kept at 4 degrees C. The rate of decrease in P50 was not changed when pH was altered by adding either lactic acid or sodium bicarbonate to the blood before incubation at 37 degrees C for 2 h. The erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration of blood incubated at 37 degrees C did not change by 2 h, but had significantly decreased by 4 h. To avoid in vitro changes, we recommend that P50 be determined as soon as possible for blood sampling.
The Eskimos of St. Lawrence Island have been typed for genetic variation at 44 discrete genetic loci. Three private polymorphisms, at the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, peptidase B, and purine nucleoside phosphorylase loci, have been observed, which may be useful in future studies of genetic relationships between Eskimos and other circumpolar populations. Genetic distance analysis reveals a close relationship between the St. Lawrence Island Eskimos and other Eskimo populations and that the Eskimo populations form a distinct cluster from Amerindian populations. The St. Lawrence Island Eskimos appear to be more similar to Asiatic Eskimos than to other groups. Caucasian admixture in this population is estimated to be between 2 and 7%.
The PO2 at which hemoglobin is half-saturated with O2 (P50) at 37 degrees C, PCO2 = 42 Torr, measured pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-to-hemoglobin concentration ratio ( [2,3-DPG]/[Hb]) values, Hill's coefficient (n) at rest, and maximal O2 consumption (VO2max) were determined in 11 world-class professional bicycle racers off-season (control, C), after 3 mo of 3 h daily training (preseason, PrS), and after additional 6 mo of competitions (competitive season, CoS). The results indicate that the P50 observed in trained athletes was the same as that of a comparable group of sedentary subjects (Sed) under the same conditions of pH, PCO2, and [2,3-DPG]/[Hb] and was similar to that obtained after "normalization" in respect to pH and the [2,3-DPG]/[Hb]; [2,3-DPG]/[Hb] increased as a function of training from 0.72 to 0.95 (P less than 0.001); the slope of the central portion of the O2 equilibrium curve (OEC) was nearly unaffected by endurance training as indicated by the n value (NCoS = 2.70 +/- 0.08; nSed = 2.65 +/- 0.08); and VO2max increased in the course of training 7 and 9% (P less than 0.001), respectively, when expressed in absolute units or per kilogram body weight. The VO2max predicted on the basis of a computer simulation does not increase significantly as a consequence of the measured rise in [2,3-DPG]. Therefore, the observed increase of VO2max cannot be explained with adaptive changes of the OEC. The present results differ from previous findings reported in other types of athletes.
of Volume 1.- Welcome!.- The Oxygen Micro-Electrode.- Intracellular Oxygen Microelectrodes.- Standardization of Producing Needle Electrodes.- High Speed Pulsatile Operation of Miniature Oxygen Electrodes.- Absolute PO2-Measurements with Pt-Electrodes Applying Polarizing Voltage Pulsing.- Spectrophotometric Examination of Tissue Oxygenation.- A New Histochemical Stain for Intracellular Oxygen.- Analysis of Gas Transport in Lungless and Gill-less Salamanders Using Inert Gas Washout Techniques.- Measurement of Tissue Gas Levels with a Mass Spectrometer.- Analysis of Diffusion Limitations on a Catheter Imbedded in Body Tissues.- Dual Wavelength Micro-oximeter of Hamster Whole Blood In Vitro.- P50 Determinations: Techniques and Clinical Importance.- Catheterizable Absolute Photometer.- Clinical Use of a New Intra-arterial Catheter Electrode System.- Problems of Transcutaneous Measurement of Arterial Blood Gases.- Flow Limited Properties of Teflon and Silicone Diffusion Membranes.- Differential Anodic Enzyme Polarography for the Measurement of Glucose.- Problems Involved in the Measurement of Microcirculation by Means of Microelectrodes.- Effect of Plasma Inorganic Phosphate on Tissue Oxygenation During Recovery from Diabetic Ketoacidosis.- Effects of Reduced 2,3 Diphosphoglycerate on Oxygen Release from Blood of Alloxan Diabetic Rats: Myocardial Cellular Hypoxia.- 2,3-DPG-Induced Displacements of the Oxyhemoglobin Dissociation Curve of Blood: Mechanisms and Consequences.- Evidence for a Relationship between 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate-Depleted Red Blood Cells, Slow Oxygen Release and Myocardial Ischemia.- The Oxygen-Affinity of Hemoglobin: Influence of Blood Replacement and Hemodilution after Cardiac Surgery.- Analysis of 2,3 Diphosphoglycerate-Mediated, Hemoglobin-Facilitated Oxygen Transport in Terms of the Adair Reaction Mechanism.- Discussion of Subsession: DPG.- Autoregulation of Oxygen Supply to Brain Tissue (Introductory Paper).- Local PO2 in Relation to Intracellular pH, Cell Membrane Potential and Potassium Leakage in Hypoxia and Shock.- Energy-Rich Metabolites and EEG in Hypoxia and in Hypercapnia.- A New Long-Term Method for the Measurement of NADH Fluorescence in Intact Rat Brain with Chronically Implanted Cannula.- Actions of Hypoxia and Hypercapnia on Single Mammalian Neurons.- Response of Feline Brain Tissue to Oscillating Arterial pO2.- Changes of Oxygen Supply to the Tissue Following Intravenous Application of Anesthetic Drugs.- Local PO2 and O2-Consumption in the Isolated Sciatic Nerve.- Basic Principles of Tissue Oxygen Determination from Mitochondrial Signals.- Selective Vulnerability of the Central Nervous System to Hyperbaric Oxygen.- Oxygen Tensions in the Deep Gray Matter of Rats Exposed to Hyperbaric Oxygen.- The Interdependence of Respiratory Gas Values and pH as a Function of Base Excess in Human Blood at 37 C.- Regulatory Dysfunction of Microvasculature and Catecholamine Metabolism in Spinal Cord Injury.- The Effect on Cerebral Energy Metabolites of the Cyanate Produced Shift of the Oxygen Saturation Curve.- On the Accuracy of an Improved Method for the Measurement of O2-Dissociation-Curves According to Niesel and Thews, 1961.- Discussion of Subsession: Brain.- Homeostasis of Oxygen Supply in Liver and Kidney.- Tissue PO2 Levels in the Liver of Warm and Cold Rats Artificially Respired with Different Mixtures of O2 and CO2.- Preservation of ATP in the Perfused Liver.- Influence of Hemoglobin Concentration in Perfusate and in Blood on Fluorescence of Pyridine Nucleotides (NADH and NADPH) of Rat Liver.- Studies of Oxygen Supply of Liver Grafts.- A Contribution Concerning the Unsettled Problem of Intrasplenic Microcirculation.- The Local Oxygen Supply in Tissue of Abdominal Viscera and of Skeletal Muscle in Extreme Hemodilution with Stromafree Hemoglobin Solution.- Respiratory Gas Exchange and pO2 - Distribution in Splenic Tissue.- Renal Tissue Oxygenation During Pulsatile and Nonpulsatile Left Heart Bypass.- New Aspects on the Mechanism of Autoregulation of Blood Flow.- Sympathetic Nervous Control of Intestinal O2 Extraction.- Discussion of Subsession: Abdominal Organs.- Oxygen Autoregulation in Skeletal Muscle.- Intrinsic Metabolic Regulation of Blood Flow, O2 Extraction and Tissue O2 Delivery in Dog Skeletal Muscle.- Regional Heterogeneity of $${P_{C{O_2}}}$$ and $${P_{{O_2}}}$$ in Skeletal Muscle.- Discussion of Subsession: Muscle.- Signs of Hypoxia in the Small Intestine of the Rat During Hemorrhagic Shock.- Blood and Tissue Oxygenation During Hemorrhagic Shock as Determined with Ultramicro Oxygen Electrodes.- Local and Whole Organ Renal Oxygenation under Hemorrhagic Shock.- Factors Determining Total Body and Hind Limb Oxygen Consumption in Normal and Shocked Dogs.- Oxygen Transport Changes after Transfusion with Stored Blood in a Hemorrhagic Canine Model.- Local Oxygen Supply in Intra-Abdominal Organs and in Skeletal Muscle During Hemorrhagic Shock.- Discussion of Subsession: Shock.- O2 and the Number and Arrangement of Coronary Capillaries: Effect on Calculated Tissue PO2.- Respiratory Gas Transport in Heart.- The Histogram of Local Oxygen Pressure (PO2) in the Dog Myocardium and the PO2 Behavior During Transitory Changes of Oxygen Administration.- Simultaneous Measurement of Regional Blood Flow and Oxygen Pressure in the Dog Myocardium During Coronary Occlusion or Hypoxic Hypoxia.- Mass Spectrometry for Measuring Changes in Intramyocardial pO2 and pCO2.- Effect of Increasing Heart Rate by Atrial Pacing on Myocardial Tissue Oxygen Tension.- Oxygen Consumption and Convective Transport During Cardio-pulmonary Bypass.- Red Cell Washout from the Coronary Vessels of Isolated Feline Hearts.- Mean Myoglobin Oxygen Tension in Skeletal and Cardiac Muscle.- Discussion of Subsession: Heart.- Microvascular Diameter Changes During Local Blood Flow Regulation: Independence of Changes in PO2.- Activity of Chemoreceptor Fibers in the Sinus Nerve and Tissue PO2 in the Carotid Body of the Cat.- Role of the Carotid Chemoreflexes in the Regulation of Arterial Oxygen Pressure.- The Oxygen Barrier in the Carotid Body of Cat and Rabbit.- Role of the Carotid Chemoreceptors in the Adjustment of Arterial Blood Pressure to Hypoxia.- Discussion of Subsession: Vascular Chemoreceptors and Oxygen Barrier.- Summary - Sessions I and II.
Data on the oxygen transport function of hemoglobin in patients with craniocerebral injury, cerebrovascular disorders, and epilepsy are presented. The role of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate contained in the erythrocytes, and of changes of the hemoglobin affinity to oxygen in the oxygenation of tissues in such patients is discussed. It is concluded that determinations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content in the erythrocytes be applied in clinical practice for diagnosing a number of nervous diseases accompanied by symptoms of cerebral hypoxia, so that the latter could be compensated in due time.
Red blood cells undergo major biochemical and biomechanical changes during storage that could effect their post transfusion performance. Biochemical effects include changes in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), ATP, and calcium levels, as well as metabolic modulation and release of Annexin V, a cytosolic component of blood cells, as a global marker of cellular injury and fragmentation. Biomechanical changes include alterations in cellular membrane, shape changes, phospholipid content, phospholipid asymmetry, and antigenic markers. Although the extent of these changes under various storage conditions has been well documented, their clinical effects remain unclear. In the current era of universal leucodepletion, the immunomodulatory effects of some essential markers such as CD47 and phosphatidyl serine become the focus of interest as highlighted in this manuscript.
Oxygen equilibria were measured on a number of human hemoglobins, which had been "stripped" of organic phosphates and isolated by column chromatography. In the presence of 2 x 10(-4) M 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), the P(50) of hemoglobins A, A(2), S, and C increased about twofold, signifying a substantial and equal decrease in oxygen affinity. Furthermore, hemoglobins Chesapeake and M(Milwaukee-1) which have intrinsically high and low oxygen affinities, respectively, also showed a twofold increase in P(50) in the presence of 2 x 10(-4) M 2,3-DPG. In comparison to these, hemoglobins A(IC) and F were less reactive with 2,3-DPG while hemoglobin F(I) showed virtually no reactivity. The N-terminal amino of each beta-chain of hemoglobin A(IC) is linked to a hexose. In hemoglobin F(I) the N-terminal amino of each gamma-chain is acetylated. These results suggest that the N-terminal amino groups of the non-alpha-chains are involved in the binding of 2,3-DPG to hemoglobin.
Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is a common metabolic disease often complicated by a number of pathological conditions among which are haematological changes and alterations in blood cell function. Human and feline diabetes mellitus patients have been reported to be associated with oxidative stress that can lead to membrane alterations and to reduced erythrocyte life-span. Erythrocyte function in dogs affected by IDDM has been investigated during insulin therapy, paying attention to antioxidant status, membrane resistance, enzyme activities and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) concentration. Thirteen diabetic and 36 healthy dogs were bled and haematology and blood chemistry assays were performed to evaluate the degree of compensation. Osmotic fragility, the activities of the enzymes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) and pyruvate-kinase (PK) and the concentrations of reduced glutathione (GSH) and 2,3DPG were evaluated in the erythrocytes. Diabetic dogs did not differ from controls in terms of haematological parameters, except for higher numbers of platelets. Higher values of fructosamine, glucose, protein, plasma potassium and calculated osmolality were detected in the plasma from diabetic dogs. No differences were detected in osmotic fragility, GSH concentration and PK activity between the two groups but 2,3DPG concentration and G6PD activity were statistically significantly higher in the diabetic group. The results indicate minimal alterations in erythrocyte functions occur in insulin-treated diabetic dogs. This contrasts with what has been reported for IDDM humans and cats.
To test the hypothesis that tissue oxygen delivery would be affected by diminished oxygen stores in cyanotic congenital heart disease, serum ferritin, transferrin saturation, hemoglobin, red cell mean corpuscular volume (MCV), red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), P50, blood gases, oxygen saturations and systemic oxygen transport were measured in 29 hypoxemic infants and children. For the group, aortic saturation was 81 +/- 9%, PaO2 was 50 +/- 12 mm Hg, hemoglobin 16.2 +/- 2.1 gm/dl and systemic oxygen transport 620 +/- 145 ml/min/m2. P50 was increased above normal values (28.8 +/- 2.3 vs 26.6 +/- 1.1 mm Hg, p less than 0.01), and DPG was 2.35 +/- 0.54 mumol/ml, at the upper limits of normal for this assay. Iron deficiency was present in 8. When patients with P50 greater than or equal to 30 mm Hg and P50 less than 30 mm Hg were compared, iron stores were diminished in the high P50 group: [serum ferritin (19 +/- 8 vs 53 +/- 48 ng/ml, p = 0.0006), transferrin saturation (11 +/- 6 vs 23 +/- 11%, p = 0.003) and MCV (79 +/- 8 vs 86 +/- 4 fl, p = 0.05)]. Hemoglobin, aortic oxygen saturation, PaO2 and systemic oxygen transport were similar in both groups. In children with iron sufficiency, 15 of 21 had MCV greater than 90th percentile for age and sex (p less than 0.001 versus expected distribution). Also, MCV greater than 90th percentile for age and sex had a positive predictive value of 0.88 for iron sufficiency. This study demonstrates that diminished iron stores in cyanotic congenital heart disease are associated with a more right-shifted oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (increased P50).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hemoglobin (Hb) S, at concentrations well below those required for gelation, has previously been found functionally indistinguishable from HbA. The present communication describes small but consistent differences in the responses of the two hemoglobins to organic phosphates. Inositol hexaphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) lowered the oxygen affinity of HbS less than that of HbA. This difference was confirmed by studies of the competitive effects of 2,3-DPG and CO2 on Hb, which showed that the increase in oxygen affinity when 2,3-DPG was displaced by CO2 (at pH over 7.0) was considerably greater for HbS than for HbA. These findings strongly suggest that the binding constant of organic phosphates for HbS is lower than that for HbA. This is the first functional abnormality detected in native HbS at low concentrations and it suggests that the β6Val substitution induces a small conformational change in the vicinity of the α-amino terminal groups of the β chains.
Abstract Red cell count, haemoglobin concentration, haematocrit, mean cell volume, and mean cell haemoglobin concentration were recorded for the fur seal Arctocephalus forsteri (Lesson). The data did not indicate haematological adaptations for deep diving nor for extended periods of submergence. Two distinct haemoglobin types were isolated from the red cells by electrophoresis. The oxygen affinity of the blood was low as measured by half-saturation values (p50) of 42.3 mm Hg at pH 7.1 and 26.2 mm Hg at pH 7.4 and 37°c. The low oxygen affinity was mediated by erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and on this basis a high turnover of oxygen to the tissues is postulated. The role of the blood in oxygen transport appears to be suited for feeding near the surface rather than by deep diving.
The spectral difference between normal and rapidly reacting deoxyhemoglobin (Sawicki and Gibson [ 1976] , J. Biol Chem. 251:1533-1542) is used to study the relationship between CO binding to hemoglobin and the conformational change to the rapidly reacting form in a combined flow-laser flash experiment. In both pH 7 phosphate buffer and pH 7 bis(2-hydroxy-ethyl)imino-tris (hydroxymethyl)methane buffer (bis-Tris) with 500 gM 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), the conformational change lags far behind CO binding; rapidly reacting hemoglobin is not observed until more than 10% of the hemoglobin is liganded. In pH 9 borate buffer the formation of rapidly reacting hemoglobin leads CO binding by a significant amount.
Erythrocyte skeletal proteins are known to play an important role in determining membrane deformability. In order to see whether transmembrane proteins also influence deformability and, if so, whether this influence is mediated by an interaction with the membrane skeleton, we examined the effect on deformability of ligands specific for transmembrane proteins. We found membrane deformability markedly reduced in erythrocytes that were pretreated with glycophorin A-specific ligands. In contrast, ligands specific for band 3 and A and B blood group antigens had no effect. The increase in membrane rigidity appeared to depend upon a transmembrane event and not upon a rigidity-inducing lattice on the outside surface of the cell in that a monovalent Fab of antiglycophorin IgG caused decreased deformability. We therefore looked for a ligand-induced association of glycophorin and the skeletal proteins and found, in Triton X-100-insoluble residues, a partitioning of glycophorin with the skeletal proteins only after preincubation with a ligand specific for glycophorin. We then studied cells and resealed membranes with skeletal protein abnormalities. In spectrin-deficient and protein 4.1-deficient erythrocytes and in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-treated resealed membranes, the antiglycophorin IgG was only one-third as effective in decreasing deformability as it was in normal cells. Thus, normal skeletal proteins appear to be essential for liganded glycophorin to affect membrane deformability maximally. Taken together, these observations indicate that there is a ligand-induced interaction between glycophorin A and skeletal proteins and that this interaction can directly influence membrane deformability.
We studied in vitro changes in P50 and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration occurring in blood 2 to 8 h after venipuncture. When blood was incubated at 37 #{176}C, significant decreases in P50 wereobserved at 2, 4, and 8 h. Such a change was significantly less when blood was kept at 4 #{176}C. The rate of decrease in P5owas not changed when pH was altered by adding either lactic acid or sodium bicarbonate to the blood before incubation at 37 #{176}C for 2 h. The erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration of blood incubated at 37 #{176}C did not change by 2 h, but had significantly decreased by 4 h. To avoid in vitro changes, we recommend that P50 be determined as soon as possible for blood sampling.
A B S T R A C T Oxygen equilibria were measured on a number of human hemoglobins, which had been "stripped" of organic phosphates and isolated by column chromatography. In the presence of 2 X 10A M 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), the P50 of hemoglobins A, As, S, and C increased about twofold, signifying a substantial and equal decrease in oxygen affinity. Furthermore, hemoglobins Chesapeake and MMilwaukee-i which have intrinsically high and low oxygen affinities, respectively, also showed a twofold increase in P50 in the presence of 2 X 10' M 2,3-DPG. In comparison to these, hemoglobins Axc and F were less reactive with 2,3-DPG while hemoglobin Fi showed virtually no reactivity. The N-terminal amino of each P-chain of hemoglobin Aic is linked to a hexose. In hemoglobin FI the N-terminal amino of each ay-chain is acetylated. These results suggest that the N-terminal amino groups of the non-a-chains are involved in the binding of 2,3-DPG to hemoglobin.
Oxygen is transported throughout the body by hemoglobin (Hb) in red blood cells (RBCs). Although the oxygen affinity of blood is well-understood and routinely assessed in patients by pulse oximetry, variability at the single-cell level has not been previously measured. In contrast, single-cell measurements of RBC volume and Hb concentration are taken millions of times per day by clinical hematology analyzers, and they are important factors in determining the health of the hematologic system. To better understand the variability and determinants of oxygen affinity on a cellular level, we have developed a system that quantifies the oxygen saturation, cell volume, and Hb concentration for individual RBCs in high throughput. We find that the variability in single-cell saturation peaks at an oxygen partial pressure of 2.9%, which corresponds to the maximum slope of the oxygen-Hb dissociation curve. In addition, single-cell oxygen affinity is positively correlated with Hb concentration but independent of osmolarity, which suggests variation in the Hb to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2-3 DPG) ratio on a cellular level. By quantifying the functional behavior of a cellular population, our system adds a dimension to blood cell analysis and other measurements of single-cell variability.
hematology | medical sciences | flow cytometry | organ on chip | single-cell variability R ed blood cells (RBCs) are the most common type of blood cell and constitute approximately one-half of the human body's total cell count (1). They take up oxygen in the lungs and deliver it throughout the body, taking, on average, 20 s to complete one circuit through the circulation (2). Each cell is densely packaged with hemoglobin (Hb) that binds and releases oxygen based on the local oxygen partial pressure. The fraction of occupied binding sites relative to the total number of binding sites is called the oxygen saturation and can be described by the Hb-oxygen dissociation curve. Although it is known that several factors affect the oxygen affinity of Hb and consequently, shift the dissociation curve, such as pH, temperature, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2-3 DPG) (3), it is not known how much variation these factors cause on a cellular level within individuals.
AND PAOLO CERRETELLI. Human red blood cell aging at 5,050-m altitude: a role during adaptation to hypoxia. J. Appl. Physiol. 75(4): 1696 -1701 , 1993 test the hypothesis that the human red blood cell aging process participates actively in the adaptation to hypoxia, we studied some physical and biochemical hematologic variables in 10 volunteers at sea level (SL) and after 1 (1WK) or 5 wk (5WK) of exposure to 5,050-m altitude. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-to-hemoglobin ratio (2,3-DPG/ Hb) was 0.88 t 0.03 (mol/mol) at SL and increased to 1.08 t 0.03 (P = 0.002) and 1.28 t 0.05 (P < 0.0001) at 1WK and 5WK, respectively. The average red blood cell density (D&, which is inversely proportional to the fraction of young red blood cells and is therefore an index of the red blood cell aging process, was 1.1053 k 0.0007 g/ml at SL and decreased to 1.1046 t 0.0008 g/ml (NS) and 1.1018 t 0.0008 g/ml (P < 0.0001) at 1WK and 5WK, respectively. D,, was correlated with 2,3-DPG/ Hb at SL (P = 0.004), only weakly at 5WK (P = O.l), but not at all at 1WK. The arterial 0, saturation was correlated with the change of 2,3-DPG/Hb in 1WK (P = 0.02) and that of D,, in 5WK (P = 0.04). It is concluded that short-term (1WK) increase of 2,3-DPG/Hb is not associated with the erythropoietic response but is presumably due to respiratory alkalosis. By contrast, after prolonged hypoxia (5WK), erythropoiesis may provide an efficient way for increasing blood 2,3-DPG through an augmented proportion of young red blood cells.
PRESERVATIONOFADEQUATETISSUE O,supplyisofcritical importance in hypoxia. Circulatory, respiratory, and erythropoietic adjustments are primarily involved in the acclimatization process (2, 19, 31, 34) . An important functional role may also be attributed to the increased affinity for 0, of the red blood cell (RBC) by way of higher 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration (l3,14). Hyperventilation-induced alkalosis (21) appears to trigger the initial increase of 2,3-DPG through stimulation of RBC phosphofructokinase (5,8,13). However, the discrepancy in change between blood pH, which returns to near normal values in a few days (16) [although never completely (18)], and [2,3-DPG], which remains high, suggests alternative mechanisms regulating [ 2, in sojourners and altitude natives.
Objective: To measure red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (RBC 2,3-DPG) concentrations in early critical illness; to investigate factors associated with high or low RBC 2,3-DPG levels; to calculate in vivo P50 in patients with early critical illness; and to explore the relationship between RBC 2,3-DPG and intensive care mortality. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: General medical-surgical intensive care unit (ICU) of a major Scottish teaching hospital. Patients: One-hundred eleven critically ill patients during the first 24 hrs in the ICU with no history of chronic hematologic disorders or RBC transfusion within 24 hrs and 34 age- and sex-matched healthy reference subjects. Interventions: None. Measurements and Main Results: We measured RBC 2,3-DPG concentration, plasma biochemistry values, and arterial blood gas parameters. On average, RBC 2,3-DPG was lower among critically ill patients than controls (mean [so], 14.1 [6.3] vs. 16.7 [3.7] μmol/g hemoglobin; p =.004) and had a wider range of values (patients, 3.2-32.5 μmol/g hemoglobin; reference group, 9.1-24.3). Regression analysis indicated a strong independent association between plasma pH and RBC 2,3-DPG (B, 32.15 [95% confidence interval, 19.07-46.22], p <.001) and a weak association with plasma chloride (B, -0.196 [95% confidence interval, -0.39 to -0.01], p =.044) but not with hemoglobin or other measured biochemical parameters. The mean calculated in vivo P50 level was normal (3.8 kPa) but varied widely among patients (range, 2.0-5.5 kPa). RBC 2,3-DPG concentration was similar for ICU survivors and nonsurvivors. Conclusions: RBC 2,3-DPG concentrations vary widely among critically ill patients. Acidosis is associated with lower RBC 2,3-DPG concentrations, but anemia is not associated with a compensatory increase in RBC 2,3-DPG early in critical illness. Lower RBC 2,3-DPG concentrations during the first 24 hrs of intensive care are not associated with higher ICU mortality.
BackgroundThe malaria parasite disposes of host-derived ferrihaem (iron(III)protoporphyrin IX, Fe(III)PPIX) by conversion to crystalline haemozoin in close association with neutral lipids. Lipids mediate synthetic haemozoin (β-haematin) formation very efficiently. However, the effect on reaction rates of concentrations of lipid, Fe(III)PPIX and physiologically relevant ions and biomolecules are unknown.MethodsLipid emulsions containing Fe(III)PPIX were prepared in aqueous medium (pH 4.8, 37°C) to mediate β-haematin formation. The reaction was quenched at various times and free Fe(III)PPIX measured colorimetrically as a pyridine complex and the kinetics and yields analysed. Products were also characterized by FTIR, TEM and electron diffraction. Autofluorescence was also used to monitor β-haematin formation by confocal microscopy.ResultsAt fixed Fe(III)PPIX concentration, β-haematin yields remained constant with decreasing lipid concentration until a cut-off ratio was reached whereupon efficiency decreased dramatically. For the haemozoin-associated neutral lipid blend (NLB) and monopalmitoylglycerol (MPG), this occurred below a lipid/Fe(III)PPIX (L/H) ratio of 0.54. Rate constants were found to increase with L/H ratio above the cut-off. At 16 μM MPG, Fe(III)PPIX concentration could be raised until the L/H ratio reached the same ratio before a sudden decline in yield was observed. MPG-mediated β-haematin formation was relatively insensitive to biologically relevant cations (Na+, K+, Mg2+, Ca2+), or anions (H2PO4−, HCO3−, ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, glutathione). Confocal microscopy demonstrated β-haematin formation occurs in association with the lipid particles.ConclusionsKinetics of β-haematin formation have shown that haemozoin-associated neutral lipids alone are capable of mediating β-haematin formation at adequate rates under physiologically realistic conditions of ion concentrations to account for haemozoin formation.
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), an intracellular metabolite of glycolytic pathway is known to affect the oxygen binding capacity of haemoglobin and mechanical properties of the red blood cells. 2,3-DPG levels have been reported to be elevated during anaemic conditions including visceral leishmaniasis. 2,3-DPG activity in P. falciparum infected red blood cells, particularly in cells infected with different stages of the parasite and its relationship with structural integrity of the cells is not known. Chloroquine sensitive and resistant strains of P. falciparum were cultured in vitro and synchronized cultures of ring, trophozoite and schizont stage rich cells along with the uninfected control erythrocytes were assayed for 2,3-DPG activity and osmotic fragility. It was observed that in both the strains, in infected erythrocytes the 2,3-DPG activity gradually decreased and osmotic fragility gradually increased as the parasite matured from ring to schizont stage. The decrease in 2,3-DPG may probably be due to increased pyruvate kinase activity of parasite origin, which has been shown in erythrocytes infected with several species of Plasmodium. The absence of compensatory increase in 2,3-DPG in P. falciparum infected erythrocytes may aggravate hypoxia due to anaemia in malaria and probably may contribute to hypoxia in cerebral malaria. As 2,3-DPG was not found to be increased in erythrocytes parasitized with P. falciparum, the increased osmotic fragility observed in these cells is not due to increased 2,3-DPG as has been suggested in visceral leishmaniasis. (Mol Cell Biochem 246:137–141, 2003)
The picture of Dorian Gray is a novel, written by Oscar Wilde, about a young man whose desire to maintain his youth and beauty renders his soul irrevocably damaged. There are allusions in the text indicating that Dorian’ portrait was a representation of his soul. While Dorian remained young, the picture progressively showed signs of age. In the end, when Dorian attempts to destroy the picture, it returns to its original beauty, while he is found lying dead on the ground, old and ugly, as he should have been. The storage lesion confronts us with this paradox of ageing. Red blood cells are produced every day and survive in the circulation for about 120 days. Blood donors are able to give blood from the age of 18 (16 in same countries) to the age of 65 to 70. ::: ::: The parallel between red blood cells and The picture of Dorian Gray arises from the fact that “old” blood donors are able to produce young cells, while the blood of young donors contains heterogeneous populations of old erythrocytes that are condemned to die. Therefore, the question is: “what is aging?” Another interesting paradox is related to the fact that erythrocytes intended for transfusion may be stored for weeks, at 4 °C, a temperature far from the physiological condition of 37 °C. The importance of temperature and the significance of modifications of the cellular membrane that occur with the creation of neoantigens at low temperature and are recognised by liver macrophages (Kupffer’s cells), leading to the elimination of transfused cold-stored platelets1,2, have been well deciphered in the analysis of storage conditions for platelets. In addition to the effect of temperature on stored erythrocytes, various storage solutions are added that impart many other non-physiological stresses to red blood cells. All of these phenomena lead to the so-called storage lesion, and numerous attempts have been made to mitigate this lesion or improve the duration of storage at 4 °C. ::: ::: Paradoxically, although red blood cells are well-equipped to tackle oxidative stress (they actually pass through the lungs approximately every 20 seconds), our attempts to store them in a functional condition trap them in a situation in which, deprived of essential metabolites after 2 weeks of storage, they can no longer fight against the oxidative stress to which they are exposed during storage. What can be done to maintain the youth and beauty of a red blood cell, either during its circulation in the blood of an individual or during its storage? One old-fashioned approach was the transfusion of neocytes collected by aphaeresis. The modern approach will be the transfusion of homogeneously young and beautiful red cells generated in vitro3. ::: ::: These two approaches are difficult to apply in daily life, which is why blood banks have urged (and still urge) manufacturers to develop storage media that allow the conservation of red blood cells at 4 °C for up to 56 days or even longer4. They are also encouraging manufacturers to develop storage solutions that will reduce the deleterious effects of transfusing “old” blood into a recipient, particularly after cardiovascular surgery, as described by Koch et al5. This paper has been the subject of many editorials and comments, including one in Blood Transfusion6, followed by a meta-analysis7, a review8, and even a study suggesting that “old” blood might be better for transfusion than fresh blood9. ::: ::: What is the truth? At the beginning of 2014, no clear answer can be given. Nevertheless, accumulating evidence indicates that “old” blood may be associated with a poorer outcome in transfused patients than fresh blood, as observed in patients undergoin liver transplantation. However, well-controlled clinical studies are still ongoing. Nevertheless, basic science has given us a better understanding of the pathophysiology of the storage lesion, what can be done to decrease it, and how to ameliorate the “wellness” of red blood cells during storage. In this context, the pioneering works of Dr. Tibor Greenwald should be acknowledged10. The biochemical modifications associated with storage at 4 °C can no longer be ignored by clinicians, and provide insights into the potential consequences that are observed in transfused patients. ::: ::: It is well known that hypothermic storage of red cells induces membrane remodelling and many biological modifications. Many research protocols have been proposed to decrease such alterations. Modifications of the additive solutions may improve the quality of the ex vivo-stored erythrocytes11. Rejuvenation leads to numerous metabolic changes, notably an increase in intracellular ATP, regeneration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, restoration of several electrolyte gradients such as those of potassium, sodium and calcium, as well as improvement of the morphology of red cells. Rejuvenation solutions are licensed for use in some countries, at any time between a few days after collection up to the expiry of the unit. Tentative efforts are also being made to optimise the biopreservation of red blood cells by changes in the biochemical composition of the additive solutions. “Systems biology”-oriented understanding of the biochemistry of red blood cells has helped to dissect the pathways associated with both in vivo and in vitro ageing of red cells. In this context, the works of Lello Zola’s group should be highlighted, because they provide many new insights into the understanding of the pathophysiology of RBC storage12. An important observation was the effect of oxygen removal during storage, which did not result in lower levels of oxidative stress13. In another interesting study, published in this issue of Blood Transfusion, Zolla’s group have just added a new cornerstone to the role of oxygen as an important player of the storage lesion, by showing the benefit of supplementing additive solutions with anti-oxidants14. In this work, Pallotta et al. use various methodological approaches, known under the term “metabolomics”, to provide evidence that the addition of vitamin C and N-acetylcysteine is able to prevent oxidative stress-related lesions14. These observations are of importance because they show that anti-oxidants are able to maintain the “quality” of red blood cells by controlling the glycolytic metabolism and by modulating the redox poise through the promotion of glutathione homeostasis14. This research further confirms the toxicity of oxygen during the storage of red blood cells. ::: ::: Evidence has accumulated that when oxygen is present in the storage medium, the red blood cell is the subject of oxidative stress15, but that it can mount defences by eliminating oxidized proteins within microvesicles16–18. In addition to the many biochemical modifications detected during the storage of red blood cells, notably an increased concentration of potassium and decreases in both ATP and the expression of CD47 (a “self” protein of red blood cells), other changes that can be observed include accumulation of malondialdehyde and altered size and morphology of the cells, resulting in changes in osmotic resistance and vesiculation19. ::: ::: Classification of membrane vesicles, protocols for their isolation and detection, molecular details of vesicular release, clearance and biological functions are still under intense investigation. Microvesicles were identified in the blood circulation many years ago and were first considered as cell fragments. In fact, microvesicles are quite heterogeneous and at least two main distinct types have been identified: exosomes and microparticles17. Both types of vesicles are detected in flowing blood and arise from cells such as erythrocytes, platelets, leucocytes and endothelial cells. In the context of blood banking, accumulation of microvesicles can definitively be seen as a marker of the storage lesion. Very interestingly, it was demonstrated that those microvesicles may have procoagulant activities19 as well as immunosuppressant effects20, both biological functions that can be linked to the clinical complications observed in patients after transfusion of “old” blood. Thus, all efforts to decrease the alterations of ageing should be explored and, more importantly, should be validated in well-designed clinical studies. ::: ::: Taken together, basic science and a small amount of antioxidants, such as vitamin C, may provide better control of the ageing of the picture of a red blood cell (unlike the picture of Dorian Gray, who still represents a complex balance between eternal youth and ageing). Translational studies and controlled clinical trials are of pivotal importance for further assessment of whether the addition of vitamin C and N-acetylcysteine to the storage medium (with or without adsorption of the residual reactive oxygen species) can provide benefit to the recipients of red blood cell transfusions. Nevertheless, there are already evidences that such a treatment may be beneficial, as shown by another study from Zolla’s group, published in this issue of Blood Transfusion21. The authors show pictures of red blood cells showing that, in the particular storage conditions, stored red blood cells look like young. ::: ::: The road is long, but the direction seems to be clear!
Two abnormal hemoglobins (Hbs) with a substituted amino acid residue at the 2nd position of the B chain, a part of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) binding site, have been reported: Hb Deer Lodge (His+Arg) (1) and Hb Okayama (His-Gln) (2). In 1985, we found a new abnormal Hb during assay of Hb A1c and Hb A1 by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in a 38-year-old Japanese female patient suffering from diabetes mellitus. This abnormal Hb was designated Hb Fukuoka [B2(NA2)HisTyr] after the name of the city where the patient lived. Herein, we describe the structural analysis and functional properties of this Hb.
The limited chemical shift dispersion of in vivo 31P NMR spectra obtained at the relatively low field strengths used for human applications is the cause of poor spectral resolution. This makes it difficult to obtain accurate quantitative information from overlapping resonances, and interesting resonances may be obscured. At 1.5 T unresolved 1H-31P couplings contribute significantly to the linewidth of in vivo 31P NMR resonances. Therefore, proton decoupling can improve spectral resolution substantially, resulting in better resolved resonances and more reliable quantitative information. In this work it is shown that well resolved resonances of glycerophosphocholine, glycerophosphoethanolamine and phosphoethanolamine are obtained in 1H decoupled 31P NMR spectra of human muscle, brain, and liver. In spectra of the human heart it has been possible to resolve the myocardial Pi signal from the signals of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from blood. With surface coils it is difficult to achieve broadband decoupling over the entire sensitive region of the coil by using conventional decoupling sequences. This problem has been overcome by applying a train of frequency modulated inversion pulses to achieve proper decoupling despite B2 inhomogeneity. Broadband 1H decoupling of 31P NMR spectra was possible without exceeding specific absorption rate guidelines.
Pentose phosphate shunt activity was studied by the release of 14CO2 from 14C-1-glucose and 14C-2-glucose in the red cells of five patients with pyruvate kinase deficiency and found to be significantly decreased after new methylene blue stimulation when compared to high reticulocyte controls. Incubated Heinz body formation was increased and the ascorbate cyanide test was positive in blood from these patients. The activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) as well as that of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD) was inhibited to 20% of baseline in normal red cell haemolysate by 4 mM 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at pH 7.1. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate was a competitive inhibitor with 6-phosphogluconate (Ki=1.05 mM) and a noncompetitive inhibitor with NADP (Ki=3.3 mM) for 6PGD. Since the intracellular concentrations of glucose-6-phosphate, 6-phosphogluconate and NADP are below their Kms for G6PD and 6PGD, the kinetic data suggest that increased concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in pyruvate kinase deficient red cells are sufficiently high to suppress pentose phosphate shunt activity. This suppression may be an additional factor contributing to the haemolytic anaemia of pyruvate kinase deficiency, particularly during periods of infection or metabolic stress.
Abstract In healthy male subjects aldosterone excretion and plasma renin activity were reduced by a 4–6 hr head-out immersion in thermoindifferent water baths (35.5 ± 0.1°C). The red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration before and throughout immersion period was positively correlated both with aldosterone excretion in 2 hr pooled urine ( r = +0.69; 2 p r = +0.54; 2 p
Three vital respiratory gases—oxygen (O 2 ), nitric oxide (NO), and carbon dioxide (CO 2 )—intersect at the level of the human red blood cell (RBC). In addition to hemoglobin (Hb)'s central role in O 2 transport, interaction of Hb with the Band 3 metabolon balances RBC energy flow. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate enhances O 2 transport across the placenta and plays an important role in regulating RBC plasticity. NO is a key mediator of hypoxic vasodilation, but the precise role of RBC Hb remains controversial. In addition to established theories that depend on RBC uptake, delivery, and discharge of NO or its metabolites, an alternative hypothesis based on RBC permeability is suggested. NO depletion by free Hb may account for several clinical features seen during intravascular hemolysis or during deliberate infusion of Hb solutions used as RBC substitutes. CO 2 released by tissues triggers oxygen release through a series of well-coordinated reactions centered on the Band 3 metabolon. While RBC carbonic anhydrase and the Band 3 anion exchanger are central to this process, there is surprisingly little research on the kinetics of CO 2 clearance by transfusion. The three RBC gases are directly related to the three principal gases of Earth's atmosphere. Human fossil fuel consumption dumps 90 million metric tons of carbon into the atmosphere annually. Increasing CO 2 levels are linked to global warming, melting Arctic ice, rising sea levels, and climate instability. Just as individual cells depend on balance of the three vital gases, so too will their balance determine survival of life on Earth.
The monovalent and divalent anion transport in red blood cells from patients with cystic fibrosis and controls is not significantly different. The protein pattern of the erythrocyte membrane, as seen by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electropherograms, is similar in cystic fibrosis and control red blood cells. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content of the investigated cystic fibrosis red blood cells is normal.
Along with the periodic reductions in O2 requirements of mammalian hibernators during winter, the O2 affinity of the blood of mammalian hibernators is seasonally regulated to help match O2 supply to consumption, contributing to limit tissue oxidative stress, particularly at arousals. Specifically, mammalian hibernators consistently show an overall increase in the blood-O2 affinity, which causes a decreased O2 unloading to tissues, while having similar or lower tissue O2 tensions during hibernation. This overview explores how the decreased body temperature and concentration of red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) that occur in hibernation contribute separately or in combination to the concurrent increase in the O2 affinity of the hemoglobin, the O2 carrier protein of the blood. Most mammalian hemoglobins are responsive to changes in DPG concentrations, including that of the hibernating brown bear, although the smaller hibernators, such as golden-mantled ground squirrel, chipmunks, and dormice, have hemoglobins with low sensitivity to DPG. While the effect of DPG on oxygenation may vary, the decrease in body temperature invariably increases hemoglobin's O2 affinity in all hibernating species. However, the temperature sensitivity of hemoglobin oxygenation is low in hibernators compared to human, apparently due in part to endothermic allosteric quaternary transition in ground squirrels and dissociation of chloride ions in brown bears. A low heat of blood oxygenation in temporal heterotherms, like hibernators, may thus contribute to reduce heat loss, as found in regional heterotherms, like polar mammals, although the significance would be low in winter hibernation.
D-galactosamine (DGA) increases the erythrocyte content of malonic dialdehyde (MDA) and the degree of peroxide hemolysis (DPH) of the erythrocytes, and reduces the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and ATP content. DGA induces the appearance of immunosuppressive properties in light erythrocytes. Essentiale (2 mg/kg) reduces the MDA content and DPH in the heavy erythrocytes and induces the appearance of immunostimulating properties in them. Riboxine (2 mg/kg) reduces the content of DPG and ATP in the light erythrocytes and prevents the appearance of immunosuppressive properties in them. Injection of 2 mg/kg of Essentiale or riboxine does not affect the development of the immune response induced by sheep erythrocytes in DGA poisoned rats. Combined injection of the compounds in a dose of 1 mg/kg intensifies the immune response of the poisoned animals.
Two nonpermeant cryoprotectants, the disaccharide trehalose and the polymeric carbohydrate (dextran, 40 kDa), were assessed as substitutes for glycerol in the cryopreservation of human red blood cells (RBC). The agents were evaluated by measuring the percentage of RBC recovery (total of free hemoglobin after freezing) and by evaluating the erythrocyte state after freezing. Ninety percent of the red cells were recovered after freezing in 30% (w/v) dextran in liquid nitrogen, which is very close to the recovery obtained in 35. 5% (w/v) glycerol (92%). The activities of pyruvate kinase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase of RBCs frozen and thawed with dextran were not modified, and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was reduced by 26%, but remained within normal values. ATP was reduced by 56%. The erythrocyte membrane integrity, evaluated by its osmotic fragility, was not altered, and the RBCs protected by dextran retained their normal discoid shape without the formation of microvesicles. The 24-h hemolysis of the washed red cells after storage at 4 degrees C was 7%. These results suggest that dextran protects red blood cells during freezing in liquid nitrogen, but that some effort is still needed to limit the drop of ATP concentration. One of the main advantages of dextran is that it does not penetrate the RBCs and requires less washing than glycerol.
Vanadium(IV) stimulates the hydrolysis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at 23 degrees C. The pH optimum is 5.0. Reactions were analyzed by enzymatic and phosphate release assays. The products of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate hydrolysis are inorganic phosphate and 3-phosphoglycerate. The reaction is inhibited by high concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and an equation has been formulated that describes the kinetic constants for this reaction at pH 7. The possible relevance of the reaction to the therapeutic lowering by vanadium(IV) of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in sickle-cell disease is discussed.
Phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were determined from intact erythrocytes of a patient with homozygous β-thalassemia and from three patients with pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency. ::: ::: ::: ::: The intracellular 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-(2,3-DPG) were mildly elevated in the thalassemia patient and in PK heterozygotes, and were markedly elevated in the PK-deficient homozygotes. The 2,3-DPG chemical shifts in the patients' NMR spectra were consistently positioned at a higher magnetic field than normal. When the patients with thalassemia or PK deficiency were transfused with blood from a normal donor, or when a patient's erythrocytes were mixed with normal erythrocytes, two distinct sets of 2,3-DPG resonances appeared in the resulting spectra, allowing the simultaneous quantification of the 2,3-DPG levels in each erythrocyte population. The ability of NMR to detect heterogeneous cell populations may be useful for the diagnosis of congenital hemolytic anemias in patients who have been transfused.
the relationship between the amount of oxygen bound to hemoglobin (saturation) and the oxygen physically dissolved in solution [oxygen tension (Po2)] under equilibrium conditions is the familiar oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) of hemoglobin. Its position is often denoted by the value P50, the Po2 at which saturation is 50%. If oxygen affinity increases, the OEC shifts left and P50 is reduced. If oxygen affinity decreases, the OEC shifts right and P50 is increased. The principal effectors of hemoglobin function [Ht, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and carbon dioxide] all shift the OEC to the right.
It is well established that ESRD patients can tolerate a greater degree of anaemia than anaemic subjects of other aetiologies. It is widely accepted that this is partly due to a decrease in the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin (Hb) associated with a greater concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) observed in uraemic patients. In order to verify whether this is a concentration effect or whether the binding of 2,3-DPG in erythrocytes is structurally affected, we have studied 2,3-DPG haemoglobin binding by measuring spin-spin relaxation times (T2) of 31P in living erythrocytes (RBC) by NMR. In uraemic RBC, 2,3-DPG relaxation is faster. This difference is not due to the reduced intracellular pH of uraemic RBC: we have verified that increased presence of paramagnetic substances can also be discarded since intra-RBC proton T2 is longer. Our results are compatible with stronger binding of 2,3-DPG to haemoglobin in uraemic erythrocytes, stabilising the deoxyhaemoglobin form and therefore facilitating oxygen release.
Oxyhemoglobin affinity was evaluated in 21 patients with chronic arterial hypoxemia due to pulmonary fibrosis and granulomatosis (sarcoid) by measurements of the blood oxygen tension required to achieve 50 per cent oxyhemoglobin saturation at 37°C and pH 7.40 (P50), erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate. Twelve normal persons served as control subjects. Mean (± SD) physiologic values characterizing these patients included: forced vital capacity, 67.8 ± 17.6 per cent of predicted (P < 0.01); steady state pulmonary diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide, 61.9 ± 14.8 per cent predicted (P < 0.001); arterial oxygen tension = 72.1 ± 13.6 mm Hg (P < 0.001); and hydrogen ion concentration = 36 ± 2.6 mµM per liter (P < 0.001). Carboxyhemoglobin and hemoglobin concentrations were similar in both groups. A decrease in oxyhemoglobin affinity was observed (P50: 28.0 ± 1.6 mm Hg versus control P50: 25.8 ± 0.9 mm Hg; P < 0.001) without parallel increases in erythrocytic 2,3-DPG. Low, ...
Appropriate control of the affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen is fundamental to the efficient oxygenation of our tissues. Important modifiers of this relationship are pH, CO2 concentration and the intraerythrocytic level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). We have studied the influence of haemoglobin affinity on the radiosensitivity of the RIF-1 sarcoma in the mouse. Changes in haemoglobin affinity were induced by exposing donor mice to either 10% oxygen, normal air, or 100% oxygen for 48 h. Blood was drawn from these animals and exchanged transfused into tumour-bearing mice immediately before irradiation. Transfusion of blood from mice breathing 10% oxygen carried a lowered haemoglobin affinity and produced marked radiosensitization of the tumours in the recipients; transfusion with normal blood had no significant effect and transfusions from mice breathing 100% oxygen caused a small increase in radioresistance. Measurements of the level of 2,3-DPG in the blood of these groups showed higher concentrations in the oxygen-deprived animals than in controls but no significant change in animals exposed to 100% oxygen. These results demonstrate that alterations in haemoglobin affinity, probably resulting from changes in 2,3-DPG levels, can have a powerful influence on tumour radiosensitivity. We feel that this mechanism could have considerable clinical importance.
Terminal renal dysfunction (TRD) was induced in 2 groups of dogs by partial surgical ablation of the kidney. Dogs of a control group and of 1 of the TRD groups were maintained on a diet containing normal phosphorus concentration, whereas dogs of the other TRD group were maintained on a low-phosphorus diet. Mild anemia developed in dogs of both TRD groups and could not be attributed to iron deficiency, increased erythrocyte concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, or absolute deficiency of erythropoietin (EP). Subsequently, all dogs were acutely depleted of approximately 25% of their blood volume. Erythropoietin concentration in dogs of the TRD groups was lower than that of controls, however, erythroid regenerative capacity was comparable with that of control dogs when plasma parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentration was lowered by reduced dietary intake of phosphorus. The PCV in dogs of the chronic TRD groups had a slight positive correlation with serum EP concentration, and a significant (P less than 0.05) negative correlation with plasma PTH and serum phosphorus and creatinine concentrations, using a correlation matrix. There was no longer a significant correlation between plasma PTH concentration and PCV after controlling for serum creatinine concentration by use of a multiple linear regression analysis. A significant (P less than 0.05) negative correlation also was observed between plasma PTH and serum EP concentrations, but not between serum EP and phosphorus or creatinine concentrations. Significance of the EP and PTH association was reduced when analyzed, using a multiple linear regression analysis that included serum creatinine values.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Phosphoglycerate mutase catalyzes the interconversion between 2-phosphoglycerate and 3-phosphoglycerate in the glycolytic and gluconeogenic pathways. They exist in two unrelated forms, that is either cofactor (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) dependent or cofactor-independent. These two enzymes have no similarity in amino acid sequence, tertiary structure, and in catalytic mechanism. Wuchereria bancrofti (WB) contains the cofactor-independent form, whereas other organisms can possess the dependent form or both. Since, independent phosphoglycerate mutase (iPGM) is an essential gene for the survival of nematodes, and it has no sequence or structural similarity to the cofactor-dependent phosphoglycerate mutase found in mammals, it represents an attractive drug target for the filarial nematodes. In this current study, a putative cofactor-iPGM gene was identified in the protein sequence of the WB. In the absence of crystal structure, a three-dimensional structure was determined using the homology modeling approximation, and the most stable protein conformation was identified through the molecular dynamics simulation studies, using GROMACS 4.5. Further, the functional or characteristic residues were identified through the sequence analysis, potential inhibitors were short-listed and validated, and potential inhibitors were ranked using the cheminformatics and molecular dynamics simulations studies, Prime MM-GBSA approach, respectively.
Abstract Sweet corn 1,4-α-glucan phosphorylase was purified 190-fold to a near homogeneous state. The enzyme had a molecular weight of about 315,000 on Sephadex G-200 chromatography. The pyridoxal 5′-phosphate content was found to 1 mole per 140,000 g protein, suggesting that the enzyme is dimeric. On sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation the sweet corn phosphorylase was dissociated to an active monomeric species with a molecular weight of 150,000 and a sedimentation coefficient of 8 S. The priming specificity of the sweet corn phosphorylase was investigated; maltose was not a primer and maltotriose was the smallest apparent primer. The Michaelis constants for the maltosaccharide series from maltopentaose to maltooctaose were determined. The effect of d -enzyme on the apparent priming specificity of the enzyme was investigated. Adenosine diphosphoglucose and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were found to inhibit the enzyme activity.
Abstract Studying the effect of KCl on the Bohr effect of human hemoglobin, it appeared that at low Cl − concentration the alkaline Bohr effect is considerably smaller than it is at a Cl − ion concentration near 0.1 M. The data show that at least part of the Bohr effect, that thus far could not be attributed to a particular residue in hemoglobin, is due to interaction of hemoglobin with anions. The effect of KCl on the Bohr effect shows a striking similarity with the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) on the Bohr effect. Based on this a mechanism is proposed which satisfactorily explains the observed salt effect.
BACKGROUND: Current additive solutions (ASs) for red blood cells (RBCs) do not maintain constant 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels during cold storage. We have previously shown that with a new AS called phosphate-adenine-glucose-guanosine-gluconate-mannitol (PAGGGM), both 2,3-DPG and ATP could be maintained throughout storage for 35 days. ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: In this study, the mechanism underlying the effect of PAGGGM on RBC storage was studied in more detail. By using double-erythrocytapheresis units (leukoreduced), a direct comparison could be made between the current AS saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAGM) and the experimental solution PAGGGM. During cold storage, several in vitro characteristics were analyzed. ::: ::: RESULTS: In agreement with our previous findings with single RBCs, PAGGGM maintained 2,3-DPG and ATP levels for 35 days of cold storage. Furthermore, glucose consumption and lactate production were higher in PAGGGM units during the first 21 days of cold storage. Fructose-1,6-diphophate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate levels were also increased during the first 21 days of storage in PAGGGM units. ::: ::: CONCLUSION: These results indicate that it is likely that phosphofructokinase (PFK) activity is enhanced in PAGGGM units relative to SAGM units. After 21 days, PFK activity also decreases in PAGGGM units, but sufficient metabolic reserve in these units prevents depletion of 2,3-DPG and ATP.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: There are few studies on transient warming of red blood cells (RBCs). Occasional storage outside restricted temperature range often results in destroying of the RBC unit, even after a short period of time due to national guidelines. This study evaluates the in vitro effects associated with such accidental warming on RBCs stored in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAGM) and prepared within 8 h after blood collection. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: This study includes both repeated short-term exposure of RBCs to room temperature for 6 h as wells as warming for either 6, 12, 18 or 24 h after 1 week or after 3 weeks of storage in two separate studies. RBCs were stored for 42 days. We weekly measured pH, K(+) , glucose, lactate, haemolysis, red cell ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The lowest individual ATP value observed in any of the groups of warmed units was 2·6 μmol/g haemoglobin. Increased haemolysis in warmed units was noted in two of the studies. None of the individual units exceeded the European maximum limit of 0·8% haemolysis. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Our results suggest that quality of RBCs after transient warming will be maintained at acceptable levels specified in standards and in previous studies. However, increased haemolysis was observed when transient warming occurred during the second part of the storage period of 6 weeks suggesting that RBCs are more vulnerable to warming by the end of storage.
Abstract ::: Transport of sugars across the cytoplasmic membranes of gram-positive bacteria appears to be regulated by the action of a metabolite-activated, ATP-dependent protein kinase that phosphorylates a seryl residue in the phosphocarrier protein of the phosphotransferase system, HPr. We have developed a quantitative assay for measuring the activity of this enzyme from Streptococcus pyogenes. The product of the in vitro protein kinase-catalyzed reaction was shown to be phosphoseryl-HPr by several independent criteria (rates of hydrolysis in the presence of various agents, detection of serine-phosphate in acid hydrolysates, immunological assay, and electrophoretic migration rates). HPrs isolated from four different gram-positive bacteria (S. pyogenes, Streptococcus faecalis, Staphylococcus aureus, and Bacillus subtilis) were shown to be phosphorylated by the kinase from S. pyogenes. In contrast, Escherichia coli HPr was not a substrate of this enzyme. The soluble kinase released from the particulate fraction of the cells with high salt in the presence of a protease inhibitor was shown to have an approximate molecular weight of 60,000 as estimated by gel filtration. Its activity was dependent on divalent cations, with Mg2+ and Mn2+ being most active. EDTA, Pi, and high concentrations of salt were strongly inhibitory. The enzyme was optimally active at pH 7.0, exhibited high affinity for its substrates, and was dependent on the presence of one of several metabolites. Of these compounds, fructose 1-6-diphosphate was most active, with gluconate 6-phosphate, 2-phosphoglycerate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, phosphoenolpyruvate, and pyruvate exhibiting moderate to low stimulatory activities. Other compounds tested, including a variety of sugar phosphates, pyridine nucleotides, and other metabolites were without effect. The ATP-dependent phosphorylation of HPr on the seryl residue was strongly inhibited by phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent phosphorylation of the active histidyl residue of this protein. Treatment of the kinase with diethyl pyrocarbonate strongly inhibited the ATP-dependent phosphorylation activity, although the sulfhydryl reagents N-ethylmaleimide, p-chloromercuribenzoate, and iodoacetate were without effect. These results serve to characterize the HPr (serine) kinase, which apparently regulates the rates of carbohydrate transport in streptococcal cells via the phosphotransferase system. A primary role of this kinase in the control of cellular inducer levels and carbohydrate metabolic rates is proposed.
SummaryA number of substances, most of them normal intermediates of red cell glucose metabolism, were tested for their effect on the shift in the oxygen dissociation curve produced by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. None of the substances tested, with the exception of ATP and pyridoxal phosphate had any effect on the dissociation curve, either in the presence or absence of 2,3-DPG, ATP and pyridoxal phosphate caused a rightward displacement of the dissociation curve, but this occurred both in the presence and absence of 2,3-DPG and was considered to be simply an additive effect.
Nine sickle cell trait and nine control subjects underwent six-hour ammonium chloride acid loading. Maximal urine osmolality and renal hemodynamics were studied separately. Base line arterial pH, carbon dioxide pressure (Pco2), and [HCO3] were normal and comparable in the two groups. After ammonium chloride loading, urine pH decreased to 5.3 or less in all, and maximal excretion of ammonium and titratable and net acid was comparable as was urine minus blood Pco2 after bicarbonate loading. The ammonium chloride acidosis caused a small decrease in red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels but no alteration in oxygen pressure at 50% saturation at pH 7.4, sickling, or adverse effects. Control and sickle cell trait subjects had comparable renal hemodynamics but maximal urine osmolality was lower in sickle-cell trait subjects. Adults with sickle cell trait have diminished renal concentrating ability and normal renal acidification and hemodynamics.
Abstract ::: A theoretical equation is presented for the control of cooperative adsorption on proteins and other linear macromolecules by hormones, drugs, ATP, and other „cardinal adsorbents.” With reasonable accuracy, this equation describes quantitatively the control of oxygen binding to hemoglobin by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and by inosine hexaphosphate.
Abstract : Maintenance of normal plasma pH at high altitude (HA) by acetazolamide has been shown to prevent the HA-induced change in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and P50. To establish whether this phenomenon occurs if hypocapnia is prevented, five subjects (Group I) and four subjects (Group II) were exposed to 440 torr with 3.7% CO2 supplemented and 455 torr with no CO2 supplemented for five days, respectively. Similar alveolar oxygen tensions were maintained in both groups. Group I P50s were significantly increased on days 2-5, while no changes were observed in Group II until day five. Both groups had significant elevations in DPG above sea-level values after two days. Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentrations (MCHC) remained within normal limits during the first two days, then decreased significantly below sea-level values in Group I (days 3-5) and Group II (days 4-5). Thus prevention of respiratory alkalosis by CO2 supplementation is accompanied by increases in P50 and DPG; these changes occur independently of changes in MCHC.
Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosinetriphosphate (ATP) levels were determined in 43 children with chronic renal failure on conservative treatment (CT), and 12 children on regular hemodialysis (HD) immediately before and after a HD session. The results were compared to non-anemic and anemic controls. In spite of anemia, erythrocyte 2,3-DPG in renal failure was similar to non-anemic controls at normal blood pH, but rose during dialysis as a result of alkalosis. In contrast, ATP levels were high already at a normal blood pH. 2,3-DPG correlated with packed cell volume (PCV) in children with renal failure but at lower concentrations compared to controls. Both organic phosphates in the erythrocytes showed a significant correlation with blood pH. The poor increase of 2,3-DPG, in combination with elevated ATP levels, suggests uremia-induced inhibition of 2,3-DPG synthesis.
Changes in the refractive index of the cytoplasm and the affinity of haemoporphyrin of erythrocyte haemoglobin to oxygen (pH, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) have been investigated using laser interference microscopy and Raman spectroscopy. It has been established that a decrease in pH and an increase in the content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are accompanied by changes in both the form of the cell and the refractive index of the cytoplasm and the affinity of haemoporphyrin of hemoglobin to oxygen. It has been shown that as pH is reduced, the capacity of haemoporphyrin for binding oxygen decreases and as the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is increased, the ability of haemoporphyrin for oxygen reabsorption increases.
2,3-diphosphoglycerate, favoring the deoxyconfiguration of the hemoglobin molecule, accelerates the oxidation of hemoglobin to methemoglobin by potassiumferricyanide both in hemolysates from adult and cord blood. Hemoglobin oxidation is less enhanced in cord blood hemolysates.
The crosslinking of membrane proteins of human erythrocytes by diamide (diazene dicarboxylic acid bis(N,N-dimethylamide) ) was quantified by 4% polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in 1% sodium dodecyl sulfate. The relation between the crosslinking of membrane proteins and erythrocyte functions (rheological and oxygen transporting) was quantitatively examined. (i) The crosslinking of membrane protein was induced by diamide, without changing the shape and the contents of intracellular organic phosphates (adenylates and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate). The intensity of spectrin 2 in SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis decreased proportionally to diamide concentration. The percentage decrease in spectrin 2 (using band 3 as an internal standard) was the most appropriate indicator for crosslinking ("% crosslinking'). (ii) The suspension viscosity of erythrocytes increased in proportion to the percentage of crosslinking, in the range of applied shear rates of 3.76-752 s-1. (iii) Erythrocyte deformability (measured by a high-shear rheoscope) was reduced by the crosslinking. The change was detectable even at 5% crosslinking. (iv) Rouleaux formation (measured by a television image analyzer combined with a low-shear rheoscope) was inhibited by the crosslinking. The inhibition was also sensitively detected at more than 5% crosslinking. (v) Hemoglobin in erythrocytes was chemically modified by higher dose of diamide (probably by the binding of diamide with sulfhydryl groups). Also the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin increased and the heme-heme interaction decreased. (vi) The reduction of the crosslinking of membrane proteins by dithiothreitol apparently reversed the intensity of spectrin bands in SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the erythrocyte functions (the suspension viscosity and the deformability), though not completely.
In addition to hyperphosphatemia, hypophosphatemia also increases the cardiovascular risk (1). Low serum concentrations reduce the eNOS activity and lead to insulin resistance, ATP deficiency, and—via lowered 2,3-diphosphoglycerate—to chronic tissue hypoxia causing endothelial damage. Risk factors such as diabetes or obesity are often associated with hypophosphatemia (1, 2). ::: ::: The causes of clinically relevant phosphate deficiency are not only hypophosphatemic osteomalacia, malnutrition, and sepsis—as mentioned in the section entitled “The risks of hypophosphatemia” – but, in addition to poorly controlled diabetes, also chronic alcohol misuse, major surgery, infections (for example, legionellosis, malaria), COPD, long-term hemodialysis, and treatment with antacids, diuretics, catecholamines, imatinib, and others. ::: ::: Since serum phosphate accounts for less than 1% of the total phosphate in the body, substantial intracellular phosphate deficiency may exist even in the presence of a normal or even raised serum concentration. Phosphate homeostasis is subject to very complex regulation, whose mechanics have been understood only rudimentarily, which is affected not only by FGF-23, parathormone, and vitamin D, but also by pH, insulin, growth hormone, estrogens, stress hormones, calcium, and magnesium. The cardiovascular risk is probably determined more by an impaired phosphate metabolism than by the very low amount of extracellular phosphate alone. Children, for example, often have much higher serum phosphate concentrations than adults but none the less do not have an increased risk, and in a recent osteoporosis study (3), hypercalcemia was confirmed as a cardiovascular risk factor whereas hyperphosphatemia was not. ::: ::: The serum concentrations of people with healthy kidneys correlate only minimally with the phosphate content of the ingested food (2); besides, because of their circadian rhythm they fluctuate widely over the course of the day in the individual, and consequently serum phosphate readings, which are usually taken only once a day, are not always representative for the average serum concentration over 24 hours. ::: ::: It is possible that for a healthy diet, the absolute phosphate content of foodstuffs is less important than, for example, the ratio of calcium to phosphate in the interaction with magnesium and vitamin D.
The oxygen affinity of opossum blood changes in the postnatal period. The youngest opossums studied were 53 days of age (dated from the day of transit from vagina to pouch) and still confined to the maternal pouch: they had a blood P50 of 32.6 +/- 2.9 mm Hg. The blood P50 value then increased significantly, in two steps. First, while the young were still in the pouch, blood P50 rose secondary to a rise in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Blood P50 and DPG concentration then remained stable until the animals left the maternal pouch, when DPG rose again, causing a further increment in the blood P50 which peaked at 48.7 +/- 4.5 mm Hg in animals 148 days old. Blood P50 subsequently decreased significantly, reaching the adult value (42.0 +/- 1.9 mm Hg) at about 250 days.
BACKGROUND ::: Pathogen reduction treatment using riboflavin and ultraviolet light illumination (Mirasol) effectively reduces the risk of transfusion-transmitted infections. This treatment is currently licensed for only platelets and plasma products, while its application to whole blood (WB) to generate pathogen-inactivated red blood cells (RBCs) is under development. RBC storage lesion, constituting numerous morphologic and biochemical changes, influences RBC quality and limits shelf life. Stored RBCs further show enhanced susceptibility to RBC programmed cell death (eryptosis) characterized by increased cytosolic Ca2+ -provoked membrane phosphatidylserine (PS) externalization. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Using a "pool-and-split" approach, we examined multiple variables of RBC storage lesion and eryptosis in RBC units, derived from Mirasol-treated or untreated WB, after 4 to 42 days of storage, under blood bank conditions. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: In comparison to untreated RBC units, Mirasol treatment significantly altered membrane microvesiculation, supernatant hemoglobin, osmotic fragility, and intracellular adenosine triphosphate levels but did not influence membrane CD47 expression and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels. Mirasol-treated RBCs showed significantly higher PS exposure after 42, but not after not more than 21, days of storage, which was accompanied by enhanced cytosolic Ca2+ activity, ceramide abundance, and oxidative stress, but not p38 kinase activation. Mirasol treatment significantly augmented PS exposure, Ca2+ entry, and protein kinase C activation after energy depletion, a pathophysiologic cell stressor. Mirasol-treated RBCs were, however, more resistant to cell shrinkage. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Prolonged storage of Mirasol-treated RBCs significantly increases the proportion of eryptotic RBCs, while even short-term storage enhances the susceptibility of RBCs to stress-induced eryptosis, which could reduce posttransfusion RBC recovery in patients.
Myoinositol hexasulfate (IHS) is a powerful allosteric effector of oxygen binding by hemoglobin. It binds to deoxyhemoglobin at the same site as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) with an affinity which is intermediate between that of the two phosphate esters. The binding constant calculated from the displacement of the oxygenation curve in the presence of low concentrations of IHS is 0.9X10(6) M. The value obtained directly from the number of protons bound as a function of IHS concentration is 1.0X10(6) M. The agreement between these two independent measurements provides an experimental verification of the empirical equation, relating the oxygen affinity to the binding constants, proposed previously (Benesch, R.E., Benesch, R., Renthal, R and Gratzer, W.B. (1971), Nature (London), New Biol. 2348 174).
BACKGROUND: Over a century of advancements in the field of additive solutions for red blood cell (RBC) storage has made transfusion therapy a safe and effective practice for millions of recipients worldwide. Still, storage in the blood bank results in the progressive accumulation of metabolic alterations, a phenomenon that is mitigated by storage in novel storage additives, such as alkaline additive solutions. While novel alkaline additive formulations have been proposed, no metabolomics characterization has been performed to date. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: We performed UHPLC-MS metabolomics analyses of red blood cells stored in SAGM (standard additive in Europe), (PAGGSM), or alkaline additives SOLX, E-SOL 5 and PAG3M for either 1, 21, 35 (end of shelf-life in the Netherlands), or 56 days. RESULTS: Alkaline additives (especially PAG3M) better preserved 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Deaminated purines such as hypoxanthine were predictive of hemolysis and morphological alterations. Guanosine supplementation in PAGGSM and PAG3M fueled ATP generation by feeding into the nonoxidative pentose phosphate pathway via phosphoribolysis. Decreased urate to hypoxanthine ratios were observed in alkaline additives, suggestive of decreased generation of urate and hydrogen peroxide. Despite the many benefits observed in purine and redox metabolism, alkaline additives did not prevent accumulation of free fatty acids and oxidized byproducts, opening a window for future alkaline formulations including (lipophilic) antioxidants. CONCLUSION: Alkalinization via different strategies (replacement of chloride anions with either high bicarbonate, high citrate/phosphate, or membrane impermeant gluconate) results in different metabolic outcomes, which are superior to current canonical additives in all cases.
Abstract The effects of purine nucleosides on 5-phosphoribosylpyrophosphate (PP-ribose-P) synthesis were investigated in human erythrocytes in vitro. Previous observations have shown an increase of PP-ribose-P formation with nucleoside when inorganic phosphate (Pi) exceeded 20 mM. In contrast, when external Pi varied from 0 to 25 mM adenosine, inosine, guanosine, or 6-methylmercaptopurine riboside 1.25 mM decreased intracellular PP-ribose-P. The mechanism of this nucleoside effect on P-ribose-P concentration was investigated. Decreased synthesis rather than increased utilization accounted for the nucleoside effect. A decrease of erythrocyte Pi from the control values of 0.5 to 2.4 mM accompanied the nucleoside-related diminution of PP-ribose-P synthesis. This reduction of Pi was capable of decreasing the activity of PP-ribose-P synthetase which is known to be sensitive to small changes of Pi. The decrease of erythrocyte Pi levels was caused both by those nucleosides which were eventually degraded via purine nucleoside phosphorylase (adenosine, inosine, and guanosine) and by those nucleosides which were substantially phosphorylated initially by adenosine kinase (methylmercaptopurine riboside and adenosine with erythro-9(2-hydroxyl-3-nonyl)-adenine). Twenty-five per cent of methylmercaptopurine riboside was converted to the monophosphate derivative during the incubation. The presence of this compound, capable of inhibiting PP-ribose-P synthetase, provided evidence for a second mechanism of inhibition of PP-ribose-P synthesis by methylmercaptopurine riboside. No substantial increase of AMP, ADP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, or cyclic AMP nor a decrease of ribose 5-phosphate was found. These observations suggest that under physiological Pi concentrations nucleosides diminish PP-ribose-P synthesis mainly by decreasing intracellular Pi. Regulation of PP-ribose-P formation by alterations of intracellular Pi levels may be an important control mechanism and may account for a number of biological effects of nucleosides.
Incubation of adult and fetal red blood cells in a medium containing high concentrations of inorganic phosphate showed a different response in the synthesis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. This was increased only in fetal red cells, while an evident increase in fructose-1,6-diphosphate was seen in both adult and fetal red blood cells.
Sperm whale myoglobin, horse myoglobin, bovine hemoglobin, and human hemoglobin produced well-defined catalytic hydrogen current (Brdicka current) in buffer solutions containing cobalt salts at dme and hmde. The Brdicka current-activity of the myoglobins was shown to be due to the heme group and that of the hemoglobins to both the heme groups and SH groups in the molecule. The Brdicka current produced by human hemoglobin was reduced by the addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), indicating that the formation of a hemoglobin-DPG complex resulted in the reduction of the Brdicka current-activity of the protein.
1. ::: 1. The metabolism of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate was studied in the taste organ (barbel) of the channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. Homogenates of epithelial barbel scrapings were incubated with [3H]-1,4,5-IP3, whose dephosphorylation or phosphorylation was assayed under first-order conditions by measuring the production of either [3H]-1,4-IP2 (representing the activity of IP3-5-phosphatase) or [3H]-1,3,4,5-IP4 (representing the activity of IP3-3-kinase). ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. Both enzymes were predominantly cytosolic, magnesium-dependent and maximally active at pH 6.4. For IP3-phosphatase, Km = 6 μM and Vmax = 10.5 nmol/min/mg. For IP3-kinase, Km = 0.23 μM and Vmax = 0.05 nmol/min/mg. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. Neither enzyme was significantly affected by the presence of taste stimuli (amino acids), GTPγS, cAMP or phorbol esters. ::: ::: 5. ::: 5. In the presence of physiological levels of free calcium (0.05–12 μM) IP3-phosphatase was moderately activated whereas IP3-kinase was moderately inhibited. ::: ::: 6. ::: 6. IP3-phosphatase was moderately activated by Mn2+, unaffected by LiCl, and strongly inhibited by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, Na-pyrophosphate, CdCl2, HgCl2, CuCl2, FeCl3 and ZnSO4 ::: ::: 7. ::: 7. IP3-kinase was strongly activated by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, Na-pyrophosphate, CdCl2, HgCl2, FeCl3, and LiCl and inhibited by ZnSO4 and Mn2+. ::: ::: 8. ::: 8. IP3-kinase was significantly activated in a calcium-dependent manner by exogenously-added phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin, and to a lesser extent by diacylglycerol. IP3-phosphatase was unaffected by exogenously-added lipids. ::: ::: 9. ::: 9. IP3-phosphatase may participate in taste transduction since calculations based on the first-order rate constant (6.9 sec−1) indicate that it is capable of dephosphorylating basal levels of IP3 with a half-life of 0.1 sec.
Haemoglobins from mammals of sub-Arctic and Arctic species, as well as fetal human Hb, are all characterized by a significantly lower Delta H of oxygenation compared with the majority of mammalian haemoglobins from temperate species (exceptions are represented by some cold-resistant species, such as cow, horse and pig). This has been interpreted as an adaptive mechanism of great importance from a physiological point of view. To date, the molecular basis of this thermodynamic characteristic is still not known. In the present study, we show that binding of extra chloride (with respect to adult human Hb) ions to Hb would significantly contribute to lowering the overall heat of oxygenation, thus providing a molecular basis for the low effect of temperature on the oxygenation-deoxygenation cycle. To this aim, the oxygen binding properties of bovine Hb, bear (Ursus arctos) Hb and horse Hb, which are representative of this series of haemoglobins, have been studied with special regard to the effect of heterotropic ligands, such as organic phosphates (namely 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) and chloride. Functional results are consistent with a mechanism for ligand binding that involves an additional binding site for chloride ion. Analysis of computational chemistry results, obtained by the GRID program, further confirm the hypothesis that the reason for the lower Delta H of oxygenation is mainly due to an increase in the number of the oxygen-linked chloride-binding sites.
More recently the existence of other control systems has been demonstrated (Benesch & Benesch, 1967; Chanutin & Curnish, 1967) . The most important of these allosteric modifiers is 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) which binds to haemoglobin in a manner which reduces its oxygen affinity. Changes in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration are of fundamental importance in the physiological adaptation to conditions of reduced oxygen availability, such as are encountered at high altitudes or in anaemia (see Thomas et al., 1974, for review (Honig, 1981) .
Abstract. A theoretical equation is presented for the control of cooperative adsorption on proteins and other linear macromolecules by hormones, drugs, ATP, and other "cardinal adsorbents." With reasonable accuracy, this equation describes quantitatively the control of oxygen binding to hemoglobin by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and by inosine hexaphosphate.
Alkaline additives (especially PAG3M) better preserved 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Deaminated purines such as hypoxanthine were predictive of hemolysis and morphological alterations. Guanosine supplementation in PAGGSM and PAG3M fueled ATP generation by feeding into the nonoxidative pentose phosphate pathway via phosphoribolysis. Decreased urate to hypoxanthine ratios were observed in alkaline additives, suggestive of decreased generation of urate and hydrogen peroxide. Despite the many benefits observed in purine and redox metabolism, alkaline additives did not prevent accumulation of free fatty acids and oxidized byproducts, opening a window for future alkaline formulations including (lipophilic) antioxidants.
Blood collection, processing, and storage were described in detail elsewhere. 46 Briefly, 500 mL blood in citratephosphate-dextrose (CPD) anticoagulant was collected from healthy, volunteer, donors (n 5 15) in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. For each series, three series of replicates consisting of 5 ABO-compatible pooled blood units were split, plasma and buffy coat depleted. Subsequently, 110 mL was added of the various additive solutions SAGM, E-SOL5, PAGGSM (Fresenius Kabi, EmmerCompascuum), SOLX (AS-7) or PAGGGM (both prepared in house), followed by leukoreduction (<1 3 10 6 remaining white blood cells [WBCs]). Formulations of the additive solutions are extensively described by Lagerberg and colleagues. 46 Units were aseptically sampled at Storage Days 1, 21, 35 (end of shelf life for RBCs in the Netherlands), and 56 days. The rationale behind this sampling timeline was informed by the observation that "the decline in 2,3-DPG was inhibited during storage in E-Sol 5 and AS-7, while in PAG3M, 2,3-DPG level increased above the initial level till day 35 and remained detectable till day 56," as reported by Lagerberg and colleagues. 46 Here, we wanted to test whether these observations for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) could be also expanded to other metabolic pathways. RBCs and supernatants were separated by centrifugation at 2000 3 g for 10 minutes at 48C at each time point, and the RBC pellets were shipped frozen to the metabolomics facility to be processed for metabolomics analyses as described below. 
The effect of the concentration of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG, 0.5-21 mumoles/g cells) on the buffering properties and on the slope of the relation between the extracellular and intracellular pH (deltapHi/deltapHe) of human blood was studied. The results were evaluated in connection with previous findings concerning the effect of 2,3-DPG on the Donnan ratio rH+ = H+e/H+i. deltapHi/deltapHe decreases with rising red cell 2,3-DPG content as well as with rising extracellular pH. deltapHi/deltapHe and rH+ can be related to each other by the empirical equation deltapHi/deltapHe = 1 + log rH+ = 1 + pHi - pHe. The validity of this equation appears to be restricted to conditions where the Donnan ratio rH+ is altered between 0.3 and 1 either by changes of the red cell concentration of buffering anions such as 2,3-DPG or by changes of the extracellular pH. As determined in suspensions of red cells with intact membranes, the 2,3-DPG-and pH-induced changes of deltapHi/deltapHe lead to proportional changes in the buffering power of the non-bicarbonate buffers of erythrocytes. Due to this effect the buffering power of suspensions of cells containing 5 times the normal concentration of the buffer 2,3-DPG is lower than that of cells with normal 2,3-DPG content (at extracellular pH values above 7). These findings demonstrate that the action of intracellular non-bicarbonate buffers in blood is effectively modulated by the physico-chemical properties of the red cell membrane.
1. ::: ::: It is known that the oxygen affinity of blood from newborn mammals is higher than that from the adult animal. To obtain information on possible changes in oxygen affinity and its regulation in the course of early mammalian ontogeny we have investigated P50 of blood and hemoglobins, intraerythrocytic phosphate concentrations and hemoglobin composition of the rabbit during intrauterine development. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: We have found that the oxygen affinity of red blood cells markedly increased during intrauterine development. P50 fell from 3.9 kPa (29 Torr) 14 days after conception to 2.7 kPa (20 Torr) near term. This raise in oxygen affinity was accompanied by a concomitant decrease in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate and inorganic phosphate. In erythroblasts from 14 days old embryos we have found embryonic hemoglobins which are characterized by a high oxygen affinity. Embryonic pigments were completely replaced by adult hemoglobin from day 22 after conception onwards. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: From these results we conclude that at the very early ontogenetic stages the low oxygen affinity of red cells favours oxygen delivery to the highly metabolizing embryonic tissues. At later stages of intrauterine development placental oxygen supply becomes poorer, since the growth of the fetus increases more than placental blood flow and placental weight. Near term hypoxic hypoxia is alleviated by a high oxygen affinity of the fetal blood.
The effects of hypoxia and feeding on red cell inorganic phosphate (Pi) concentrations were studied in neonates. Although hypoxia caused a rise in extracellular Pi, the intracellular concentration of this ion did not change in comparison to control infants of the same age (first 24 h). As a result of these changes, the distribution of phosphate ions across the erythrocyte membrane was significantly lower in the hypoxic infants than in the controls. In the hypoxic infants, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels in the red cells were found significantly lower than in controls, while the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels were raised. In breast-fed 2 or 3-day-old neonates, both plasma and red cell Pi were found to be increased but to different degrees, affecting therefore the molar Pi distribution, which was lower than in the controls of the first day. In these infants, ATP was lower and 2,3-DPG higher than in the controls of the first day of life. These findings suggest that intracellular phosphate metabolism in neonates does not follow extracellular phosphate changes. Further investigation is needed to elucidate the controlling factors.
Two merino sheep and two angora goats were subjected to simulated altitudes of up to 5500 m for about 10 h per day for 38 days. Packed cell volume (PCV), haemoglobin (Hb) concentration and red blood cell (RBC) levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were measured at regular intervals. Mean PCV increased from 33 per cent to 60 per cent in the sheep and from 33 per cent to 45 per cent in the goats. Mean Hb concentration rose from 11.7 g/dl to 23.1 g/dl in the sheep, and from 11.4 g/dl to 16.0 g/dl in the goats. The level of GSH began to rise in the sheep only after the animals were no longer being subjected to the hypoxic stress, increasing by about 20 mg/dl RBC. In the goats, the levels of GSH rose during, as well as after, the period of hypoxic stress, also by about 20 mg/dl RBC. No change in 2,3-DPG levels was found in either species.
Inorganic phosphate which is known to stimulate red cell glycolysis is present in one of the preservatives for storing whole blood, citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD), but not the other, acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD). Both of these preservatives for liquid storage were developed before 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was found to be necessary for normal hemoglobin function. In a recent study we have shown that very high concentrations of phosphate (10, 15, and 20 mM) were deleterious for maintaining 2,3-DPG. In the present study a lower range of phosphate concentrations (2, 4, 6, and 8 mM) was studied for maintenance of 2,3-DPG and ATP during storage under blood banking conditions. The lowest concentration, 2 mM, which corresponds to CPD was found to be the best concentration for maintaining 2,3-DPG and thus hemoglobin function. Four mM phosphate was not quite as good but better than no phosphate. Six and 8 mM phosphate were considerably worse.
. An X-chromosome linked phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency in erythrocytes and leucocytes was discovered in a large German kindred. Seven males of two generations were found to have only 21% of the normal enzyme activity in their erythrocytes, and twelve females of three generations showed various degrees of this defect. The differences in the expression of the deficiency in heterozygote females are explained by the Lyon hypothesis. ::: ::: ::: ::: The deficiency is caused by a variant enzyme, named phosphoglycerate kinase Munchen. Although it differs from the normal enzyme electrophoretically, the two enzymes resemble one another closely in many respects. They have essentially the same Km for the substrates of the backward reaction, identical pH optima and similar rates of thermal inactivation. In contrast to the nine previously described phosphoglycerate kinase deficiencies, all of which are associated with haemolytic anaemia, the carriers of phosphoglycerate kinase Munchen show no overt clinical symptoms. The erythrocyte concentrations of adenine nucleotides and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are normal.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: A dramatic decrease in the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) takes place during the storage of whole blood (WB) in CPDA (citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine) and a similar decrease occurs during the storage of red blood cells (RBCs) in SAGM (saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol). The aim of the present study was to prevent this decrease by modifying CPDA and SAGM. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: The pH of WB anticoagulant or RBC preservative solution was maintained at 7.6 by autoclaving the dextrose solution separately, by incorporating ascorbic acid and nicotinic acid into both CPDA and SAGM (to produce modified CPDA and SAGM solutions), and by reducing the concentration of adenine and adding citrate to the modified SAGM solution. The concentration of 2,3-DPG in WB after 28 days of storage in modified CPDA, and in RBCs stored in modified SAGM, was compared with that in WB or RBCs stored in unmodified solutions. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The initial 2,3-DPG levels were maintained after 28 days in the modified formulations [10.63 +/- 2.58 microM/g of haemoglobin (Hb) in the case of modified CPDA and 12.07 +/- 1.47 microM/g of Hb in the case of modified SAGM], whereas in standard CPDA and SAGM solutions, the concentration of 2,3-DPG decreased to very low levels (0.86 +/- 0.97 microM/g Hb for CPDA and 0.12 +/- 0.008 for SAGM). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Our modification in the formulation of CPDA or SAGM is effective in arresting the dramatic decrease in the level of 2,3-DPG that occurs during storage of WB and RBCs in unmodified solutions.
Cardiovascular drugs nifedipine and riodipine (1,4-dihydropyridine derivatives) were studied as to their effect on some biochemical characteristics of erythrocytes. Both compounds failed to effect 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in intact erythrocytes, but slightly decreased the level of adenosinetriphosphate. The drugs inhibited the process of acid hemolysis, this inhibition being particularly manifest in the case of nifedipine.
BACKGROUND ::: The quality of blood obtained with a device for postoperative blood drainage and autotransfusion (Bellovac-ABT, Astra Tech AB) was investigated in 50 patients who underwent total hip replacement (THR) or total knee replacement (TKR) surgeries. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: The Bellovac-ABT drainage set was inserted and blood collection began after skin closure (THR) or 15 minutes after tourniquet deflation (TKR). A collecting bag stayed in place for less than 6 hours. The product was then returned after sedimentation and discard of supernatant, without anticoagulants. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Blood returned with the Bellovac-ABT had optimal hemoglobin levels and red blood cell (RBC) counts; the low platelet count reduced the risk of disseminated intravascular coagulation. Inertia of materials maintained acceptable values of C-reactive protein, whereas cytokines and complement split products rose rapidly. Higher concentrations of adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate than in circulating blood suggested a normal RBC metabolism. No adverse reactions were observed in any participants. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Because of its simplicity and safety, the Bellovac-ABT autologous blood transfusion system is recommended in THR or TKR without joint infection or malignancy.
Acute hypercapnia has been shown to result in an inhibition of glycolysis, lipolysis, and cyclic AMP formation by Nahas and his coworkers (NAHAS, POYART, and TRINER [1968], POYART and NAHAS [1968a], NAHAS and STEINSLAND [1968b], NAHAS [1971]). We were interested in studying adaptation of metabolic functions in chronic hypercapnia following the depression induced during the acute phase of hypercapnia. Guinea pigs and rats were used during prolonged exposure to 15% CO2. Under these conditions we observed biphasic changes, an initial transitory depression of functions followed by a recovery and a return to control levels or near control levels associated with the biphasic changes in pH. The concentration of 15% CO2 was chosen for these studies because it is high enough to cause during the acute phase a sufficiently large fall in pH (7.4 to 7.0) so as to affect pH-dependent enzymes. During the subsequent adaptation to respiratory acidosis the pH rises again above the level at which most of the pH-dependent enzymes are inhibited (SCHAEFER, MESSIER, and MORGAN [1970]). Under these conditions we observed a transient pH-dependent inhibition and subsequent recovery of red-cell glycolysis (JACEY and SCHAEFER [1971]) which was associated with a biphasic shift in the oxygen dissociation curve (SCHAEFER, MESSIER, and MORGAN [1970]) and pH-dependent changes in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (MESSIER and SCHAEFER [1971]).
Human whole blood oxygen affinity was determined as P50, i.e. PO2 for oxygen saturation (SO2) = 0.5, in a new system which allows the measurement of SO2, PO2 and pH continuously and independently, with control of PCO2 and temperature. The influence of pH on P50 expressed as the H+ factor (delta log P50/delta pH)PCO2 was measured under conditions of varying PCO2, temperature and concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), resulting in a set of data expressing second-order inter-ligand interactions. The H+ factor appeared to be only slightly dependent on PCO2. Similarly, the CO2 factor (delta log P50/delta log PCO2)pH shows only a minor dependence on pH. The H+ factor in linearly related to the temperature: at 17 degrees C and 42 degrees C the H+ factor is about -0.53 and -0.36, respectively. Likewise, the temperature factor (delta log P50/delta T)PCO2,pH is linearly related to pH. A pilot study on the effect of varying intra-erythrocytic 2,3-DPG concentrations on the oxygen affinity showed that a very low 2,3-DPH/Hb4 ratio apparently does not influence the H+ factor. A high ratio, however, seems to lower the H+ factor considerably.
A new and unprecedented model for P/sub i/ translocation into Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum is proposed. It is based on an analysis of the rates of P/sub i/ uptake and concomitant flux through the cyclic-2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG) pool in the presence of cyanide. CN/sup -/ completely blocks flow of carbon into cellular constituents, but methanogenesis continues at about 70%, indicating considerable energy flow. P/sub i/ uptake continued at 20% of control for 30 min or longer, resulting in an expansion of the intracellular P/sub i/ pool. During this period the flux of phosphate through the cDPG pool remained equal to the rate of P/sub i/ entry. The distribution of /sup 32/P in cDPG showed that the C-2 phosphoryl group was labeled preferentially, indicating that this phosphoryl group has a half-life under 10 min in the presence of CN/sup -/. Since CN/sup -/ completely blocks CO/sub 2/ fixation but does not interfere with cDPG turnover, cDPG is neither a biosynthetic intermediate nor a phosphate storage compound. Earlier they had demonstrated that this methanogen can transport P/sub i/ against a million-fold concentration gradient via a H/sub 2/-driven transport system having a K/sub m/ of 25 nM. The evidence that cDPG may play a role inmore » this transport mechanism seems compelling, but further studies are needed.« less
Abstract This study was undertaken to test the symmetry of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) binding site in hemoglobin (Hb). From Arnone’s study [A. Arnone, Nature (London) 237 (1972) 146] the 2,3-DPG binding site is located at the top of the cavity, that runs through the center of the deoxy-Hb molecule. However, it is possible that this symmetry reported by Arnone, for crystals of 2,3-DPG-Hb complex, might not be conserved in solution. In this paper, we report the 31 P nuclear magnetic resonances of the 2,3-DPG interaction with Hb. The 2,3-DPG chemical shifts of the P 2 and P 3 resonance are both pH- and hemoglobin-dependent [protein from man, polar bear ( Ursus maritimus ), Arctic fox ( Alopex lagopus ) and bovine]. 2,3-DPG binds tightly to deoxyhemoglobin and weakly, nevertheless significantly, to oxyhemoglobin. In particular, our results suggest similar spatial position of the binding site of 2,3-DPG in both forms of Hb in solutions. However, the most unexpected result was the apparent loss of symmetry in the binding site, which might correlate with the ability of the hemoglobin to modulate its functional behavior. The different interactions of the phosphate groups indicate small differences in the quaternary structure of the different deoxy forms of hemoglobin. Given the above structural perturbation an asymmetric binding in the complex could justify, at least in part, different physiological properties of Hb. Regardless, functionally relevant effects of 2,3-DPG seem to be measured and best elucidated through solution studies.
Abstract The reaction of Xenopus hemoglobin with oxygen and carbon monoxide has been reinvestigated over the pH range 8.5–6.0, in the absence and presence of organic phosphates (2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexakisphosphate), to establish if the tetramer can be stabilized in a T-quaternary state by protons and polyphosphate; the equilibrium and kinetic data indicate that Xenopus hemoglobin does exhibit a Root effect. These new results are discussed with reference to those reported by Bridges et al. [(1985) Resp. Physiol. 61, 125-136] on Xenopus blood and, more generally, to the molecular definition and the structural basis of the Root effect as an extreme form of the Bohr effect.
Oxygen transport, oxygen utilization, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), erythrocytic pH, glycolytic rate, P30, cardiac output, lactate, and pyruvate were determined in 15 dogs, hyperventilated and infused with inorganic phosphate for 6 hours. These dogs were compared with: 1) 10 dogs hyperventilated but not infused; 2) 3 dogs infused but not hyperventilated; 3) 3 dogs ventilated normally. Only dogs hyperventilated and infused with phosphate had a significant increase in DFG during the 6 hours. Both groups of hyperventilated animals had decreases in cardiac output and increases in A-VO2 difference, glycolytic rate, lactate and pyruvate. P30's did not change significantly. The increase in DFG did not augment calculated oxygen transport or utilization. The observed increases in DPG, under these nonhypoxic conditions, may merely reflect substrate stimulation of an intraerythrocytic shunt. The effect of increases in DPG on tissue oxygenation in the presence of proven tissue hypoxia remains to be determined.
Exposure of rats to simulated altitude (15,000 ft) for 1 day and 3 and 9 wk produced progressive polycythemia, elevated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels and raised P50 values; the latter two parameters decreased toward control values after 9 wk. Carbon monoxide (38–43% HbCO) exposure produced polycythemia after 3- and 9-wk exposure, no change in 2,3-DPG and a fall in P50 value. Ten days' treatment with sodium cyanate produced a large decrease in 2,3-DPG and P50. Survival during 90 min of acute hypobaria (0.3 atm) under Nembutal anesthesia was highest with NaOCN (75%), intermediate with 3- and 9-wk exposure to altitude and CO (56–58%) lower in 1-day altitude exposure (44%) and lowest in controls (5%). Heart and ventilation rate was monitored during this hypobaric test and response patterns established for each exposure/treatment. In states of extreme oxygen deprivation the results suggest, in order of importance, the survival value of 1) increased oxygen-hemoglobin affinity, and 2) polycythemia.
Eleven patients with diabetic ketoacidosis were given intravenous phosphate in doses (mean 118 mmol; range 83--320 mmol) adequate to maintain normal plasma phosphate, in addition to a standard treatment regime. Prevention of hypophosphataemia stimulated recovery of the initially low red-cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations (10.6 +/- 5.8 (SD) mumol/g Hb) after twenty-four hours. In ten control patients (initial concentration 8.1 +/- 4.4 mumol/g Hb) treated without phosphate replacement, significantly lower red-cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations were found between 2 and 6 days after admission (forty-eight hour value for control patients 14.6 +/- 1.6 and for phosphate-treated patients 18.9 +/- 4.1 mumol/g Hb; p less than 0.01). However, no effect on in vivo p 50 or on the availability of oxygen from the blood resulted from the higher 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels. Maintenance of normal plasma phosphate levels by intravenous phosphate is, therefore, not indicated to improve tissue oxygenation in diabetic ketoacidosis.
The respiratory properties and concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in kitten blood were studied during fetal life and from birth to 100 days of age and compared with adult values. Fetal blood had a hemoglobin concentration (Hb) of 10.4 g%, within the normal adult range. Newborn kittens in the first 24 hr of life had Hb values averaging 13.4 g%. Hb then fell gradually, reaching a low value at about 35 days of age and subsequently rising. At 100 days of age Hb values were again similar to those of adult cats. The pH difference across the red cell membrane was significantly higher during fetal life than after birth. The P50 value for fetal blood was similar to adult blood (34.1 ± 0.6 vs. 35.2±0.8 mm Hg, respectively) but P50 values within the first 24 hr of life were significantly lower (P<0.01) than adult values. At 35 days of age, the mean P50 (37.8±1.1 mm Hg) was significantly higher (P<0.01) than for adult cats. At 100 days, P50 values were similar to adult cat blood. ::: ::: Concentrations of 2,3-DPG in blood from fetuses and kittens of all ages were low compared to humans and not significantly different from values of adult cat blood. The sensitivity of kitten and cat Hb to 2,3-DPG was similar and very low compared with human hemoglobin A. Starch gel electrophoresis at pH 8.6 showed no difference in kitten and adult cat Hb. Both have two major components. The fall in P50 after birth is attributed to a fall in trans-membrane pH difference, but the subsequent increase in P50 is unexplained by our data.
Publisher Summary Most of the work dealing with O 2 transport in animal tissues has been concerned with the transfer of O 2 from the capillary to the mitochondria and/ or with the adjustment of the vascular bed to the changed O 2 demand of the tissues. This chapter discusses a study in which the blood O 2 dissociation curve and O 2 transport to the isolated and perfused turtle heart were examined. Hearts were excised and all vessels were tied up with the exception of the right aorta, which was connected through a cannula to a bottle containing a suspension of human erythrocytes. Blood was first kept in a refrigerator for a week to decrease 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content. On the day of the experiment, the erythrocytes were washed with Locke's solution. The suspension was divided in two parts; one was left intact and the other was incubated with a medium containing inosine, pyruvate, and phosphate to increase DPG content. The perfusion of the heart was carried out with both types of erythrocytes tonometered with gas mixtures with different O 2 concentrations. The perfusate collected at the bottom of the vessel was withdrawn anaerobically. Results support the hypothesis that the left shifted ODC could be beneficial for O 2 transport to tissues at a deep acute hypoxia.
To evaluate oxygen transport function of Hb in lymphoid sarcomas, 15 patients aged 16-63 were examined for Hb oxygen capacity, concentrations of fetal Hb and creatinin, basic ligands H+, CO2, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Oxy-Hb dissociation curves were plotted. The patients' blood contained HbF in elevated quantities, whereas red cells had high creatinin. This emphasizes the role of hemolysis in genesis of anemia in lymphosarcomas. 70% of the examinees retained normal Hb affinity to oxygen in vivo, in 30% this affinity exceeded the standard. Compensatory mechanism responsible for low Hb affinity to oxygen in this disease fails. Therefore lymphosarcoma patients with anemia need early replacement hemotransfusions.
The oxygen affinity of canine blood changes markedly following birth. These changes are correlated with alterations in the intracellular concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). We have examined the control of erythrocyte glycolysis by measurements of intracellular enzymes and intermediates, and we have identified the component responsible for regulation of 2,3-DPG concentration and hence blood oxygen affinity during canine postnatal development. The concentration of 2,3-DPG could be regulated entirely by the enzymes of the Rapoport-Luebering shunt. We have not detected any alterations in the levels or intracellular activity of 2,3-DPG mutase or 2,3-DPG phosphatase during development; therefore postnatal changes of 2,3-DPG must be a result of changes in the intracellular concentrations of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate (1,3-DPG) that are controlled by other reactions in the glycolytic pathway. Neither low intracellular concentrations of glucose, the glycolytic substrate, nor an inherently low glycolytic rate can account for the low 2,3-DPG levels at birth. 1,3-DPG concentrations and hence 2,3-DPG concentrations are controlled by the activity of pyruvate kinase, which acts as a glycolytic sink reaction. The intracellular activity of pyruvate kinase decreases during the first 50-60 days of age and causes the accumulation of 2,3-DPG. There is a subsequent change in the in vivo kinetic properties of the enzyme, giving increased intracellular activity and resulting in the slow decline of 2,3-DPG concentrations toward normal adult values.
Abstract Studies are summarized to indicate that diabetes is associated with a fluctuating disturbance in the oxygen release capacity of the erythrocytes. This disorder, present from the onset of the disease, is a consequence of excess hemoglobin AIc, and absolute or relative hypophosphatemia and acidosis that interfere with formation of the red cell metabolite 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. As a result frequent increases in hemoglobin--oxygen affinity are produced. Available evidence suggests that transient decreases in red cell oxygen delivery lead to dilatation of the venous part of the microcirculation associated with increased transcapillary plasma permeation. Combined with microrheologic alterations (increased red cell aggregation, increased blood viscosity, and decreased red cell deformability) these functional changes may over the years participate in the pathogenesis of the microvascular disease in diabetes.
Oxygen equilibrium curves of human hemoglobin Ao (HbAo) and human hemoglobin cross-linked between the alpha chains (alpha alpha Hb) by bis(3,5-dibromosalicyl) fumarate were measured as a function of pH and chloride or organic phosphate concentration. Compared to HbAo, the oxygen affinity of alpha alpha Hb was lower, cooperativity was maintained, although slightly reduced, and all heterotropic effects were diminished. The major effect of alpha alpha-cross-linking appears to be a reduction of the oxygen affinity of R-state hemoglobin under all conditions. However, while the oxygen affinity of T-state alpha alpha Hb was slightly reduced at physiologic chloride concentration and in the absence of organic phosphates, KT was the same for both hemoglobins in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (or high salt) and higher for alpha alpha Hb in the presence of inositol hexaphosphate. The reduced O2 affinity arises from smaller binding constants for both T- and R-state alpha alpha Hb rather than through stabilization of the low affinity conformation. All four Adair constants could be determined for alpha alpha Hb under most conditions, but a3 could not be resolved for HbAo without constraining a4, suggesting that the cross-link stabilizes triply ligated intermediates of hemoglobin.
L4, the affinity of hemoglobin for the 4th CO molecule, has been determined for human adult hemoglobin (HbA) as a function of pH and the presence of organic phosphates by measuring the kinetic parameters for the reaction. l'4, the rate of combination of CO with the triliganded molecule, was measured by flash photolysis while l4, the rate of CO dissociation for the ligand-saturated molecule, was measured by ligand replacement. L4 is pH-dependent and affected by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Additionally, this pH dependence of the high affinity state is largely eliminated by carboxypeptidase A digestion. L4 for human fetal hemoglobin (HbF) in phosphate buffers was also determined and found to be pH-dependent. These results cannot be reconciled within the framework of the two-state allosteric model. Additional structures in the conformational equilibrium due to either intermediates in the T to R transition or two or more R states must exist.
Data are presented concerning the possible participation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) in regulation of the glycolytic pathway and the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes. Experimental support has been obtained for the hypothesis according to which a mild oxidation of GAPDH must result in acceleration of glycolysis and in decrease in the level of 2, 3-diphosphoglycerate due to the acyl phosphatase activity of the mildly oxidized enzyme. Incubation of erythrocytes in the presence of 1 mM hydrogen peroxide decreases 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and causes accumulation of 3-phosphoglycerate. It is assumed that the acceleration of glycolysis in the presence of oxidative agents described previously by a number of authors could be attributed to the acyl phosphatase activity of GAPDH. A pH-dependent complexing of GAPDH and 3-phosphoglycerate kinase or 2, 3-diphosphoglycerate mutase is found to determine the fate of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate that serves as a substrate for the synthesis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as well as for the 3-phosphoglycerate kinase reaction in glycolysis. A withdrawal of the two-enzyme complexes from the erythrocyte lysates using Sepharose-bound anti-GAPDH antibodies prevents the pH-dependent accumulation of the metabolites. The role of GAPDH in the regulation of glycolysis and the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes is discussed.
In patients with shock the metabolism and O2-function of the erythrocytes were studied following separation according to cell-age by density layer centrifugation using a new supporting medium. Metabolic acidosis in patients with postoperative shock (n=8) and in patients with shock due to severe congestive heart failure (n=12) provoked decreased levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ADP, ATP and reduced glutathione. Raised lactate/pyruvate ratios were observed also in both groups, whereas the O2-function of the erythrocytes was markedly disturbed in all patients. Patients of both groups received glucocorticoid-infusions resulting in a significant improvement of the extent and pattern of the red cell metabolic disorder.
OBJECTIVE Long before clinical complications of type 1 diabetes (T1D) develop, oxygen supply and use can be altered during activities of daily life. We examined in patients with uncomplicated T1D all steps of the oxygen pathway, from the lungs to the mitochondria, using an integrative ex vivo (muscle biopsies) and in vivo (during exercise) approach. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS We compared 16 adults with T1D with 16 strictly matched healthy controls. We assessed lung diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide and nitric oxide, exercise-induced changes in arterial O2 content (SaO2, PaO2, hemoglobin), muscle blood volume, and O2 extraction (via near-infrared spectroscopy). We analyzed blood samples for metabolic and hormonal vasoactive moieties and factors that are able to shift the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve. Mitochondrial oxidative capacities were assessed in permeabilized vastus lateralis muscle fibers. RESULTS Lung diffusion capacity and arterial O2 transport were normal in patients with T1D. However, those patients displayed blunted exercise-induced increases in muscle blood volume, despite higher serum insulin, and in O2 extraction, despite higher erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Although complex I– and complex II–supported mitochondrial respirations were unaltered, complex IV capacity (relative to complex I capacity) was impaired in patients with T1D, and this was even more apparent in those with long-standing diabetes and high HbA1c. O2max was lower in patients with T1D than in the controls. CONCLUSIONS Early defects in microvascular delivery of blood to skeletal muscle and in complex IV capacity in the mitochondrial respiratory chain may negatively impact aerobic fitness. These findings are clinically relevant considering the main role of skeletal muscle oxidation in whole-body glucose disposal.
Subcutaneous administration of methyl isocyanate (MIC) in 0.5 LD50 and 1 LD50 doses in female rabbits resulted in significant changes in physiological, clinico-chemical and histological parameters. There was a fall in arterial blood pressure and cardioacceleration in both the 0.5 LD50 and 1 LD50 groups, while the respiration showed a differential response in these groups with the former showing hyperpnoea and the latter showing respiratory inhibition. A significant increase in the arterial blood lactic acid, lactate/pyruvate ratio and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels, and the significant changes in acid-base status of both arterial and venous blood indicated tissue hypoxia of a stagnant type. Histopathological observations revealed a mild to moderate degree of congestion, focal lymphocytic infiltrations and necrosis in all visceral organs examined. These findings suggest that acute toxicity of MIC in vivo may be mediated by its effects on vascular beds.
Fifteen red cell enzyme activities of growth-retarded patients with and without growth hormone (GH) deficiency were investigated before and after GH administration. The 15 enzymes were Hexokinase, phosphoglucomutase, glucose phosphate, isomerase, phosphofructokinase, fructose diphosphate aldolase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphae dehydrogenase, triosephosphate isomerase, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, 3-phosphoglycerate kinase, 3-phosphoglycerate mutase, enolase, pyruvate kinase, glycose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconic dehydrogenase, glutathione reducase. Sixty-six subjects were studied: 30 normal control subjects (group N) and 36 patients (aged 5-23 years) with short stature. Complete endocrine evaluation showed 21 (group I) to have GH deficiency (10 patients with isolated GH deficiency) and 15 (group II) to have normal hypothalamic and pituitary function except for two patients with a moderate hypothyroidism. Both had been receiving thyroid hormone treatment for a long time before our studies. All 36 patients were treated with 2 mg human growth hormone intramuscularly for 7 days. Before GH treatment no significant difference was observed between hematologic data in group I (GH deficiency) and group II (no GH deficiency). After GH therapy there was a significant increase in reticulocyte count in both groups of patients with short stature. The mean pretreatment value in group I was 1.294% +/- 0.084 (SEM); the mean post-treatment value was 2.081% +/- 0.287 (SEM)< P less than 0.005. The mean pretreatment value in group II was 1.0% 0.184 (SEM); the mean post-treatment value was 1.407% +/- 0.193 (SEM), P less than 0.01. In group II (no GH deficiency) mean pretreatment erythrocyte enzyme activities were not significantly different from those activities observed in normal control subjects (group N). However, in patients who lacked GH, the pretreatment activities of five red cell enzymes (glucose phosphate isomerase, triosephosphate isomerase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, 3-phosphoglycerate kinase) were significantly decreased before GH administration compared with the values in normal control subjects...
Studies under equilibrium conditions have shown that the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin (Hb) is lowered by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), the physiological allosteric effector in erythrocytes, and enhanced by glycosylation of Hb. The kinetics of oxygen release, as a function of 2,3-DPG and the degree of glycosylation have been determined using the stopped flow method and a new in vitro glycosylation procedure allowing adequate amounts of functionally intact hemoglobin to be obtained. The rate constant k of O2-dissociation in glycosylated Hb (8% HbA1c) was approximately 10% lower than in native Hb (4% HbA1c). The addition of 2,3-DPG in concentrations up to 20 mmol/l resulted in a progressive increase of k from 61.5 +/- 3.3 s-1 to 65.3 ae 4.1 s-1 for native Hb and from 56.8 +/- 5.2 s-1 to 59.4 +/- 4.1 s-1 for glycosylated Hb. We conclude that (a) the degree of glycosylation similar to that found in diabetic patients is responsible for a significant decrease of the oxygen dissociation velocity and (b) 2,3-DPG concentration similar to those occurring in vivo have only a weak effect on the oxygen dissociation velocity.
Seven male competitive runners (VO2max 73.9 +/- 6.3 ml.kg-1.min-1) participated in a two-session, placebo, double-blind study to determine the effects of phosphate loading on oxygen uptake, ventilatory anaerobic threshold, and 5-mile run performance. Subjects ingested 1000 mg of tribasic sodium phosphate or a placebo four times daily for 6 d. A maximal running stress test or a 5-mile performance run was performed randomly on either the 3rd or the 6th d. Test sessions were separated by a 2-wk washout period and repeated with alternating phosphate and placebo regimens. Venous blood samples were collected prior to and following each max and run session. Results revealed that placebo resting serum phosphate levels were mildly elevated and that phosphate loading significantly increased resting and post-exercise serum phosphate values. Resting and post-exercise 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values were decreased while hemoglobin values were elevated with phosphate ingestion. Phosphate loading significantly increased maximal oxygen uptake from 4.77 +/- 0.29 to 5.18 +/- 0.25 l.min-1 and ventilatory anaerobic threshold from 3.74 +/- 0.28 to 4.18 +/- 0.14 l.min-1. Five-mile run times were nonsignificantly different between placebo and phosphate sessions. However, mean performance run oxygen uptake was significantly lower (3.87 +/- 0.3 to 3.80 +/- 0.3 l.min-1) with phosphate ingestion. Data demonstrate that maximal and run performance were influenced by elevations in serum phosphate eliciting an increased maximal oxygen uptake, ventilatory anaerobic threshold, and variable effects on 5-mile run performance. These adaptations occurred without observable increases in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Diabetic neuropathy (DN) is a debilitating disorder occurring in most diabetic patients without a viable treatment yet. The present work examined the protective effect of (25)Mg-PMC(16) nanoparticle (porphyrin adducts of cyclohexil fullerene-C60) in a rat model of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced DN. (25)Mg-PMC(16) (0.5 lethal dose(50) [LD(50)]) was administered intravenously in two consecutive days before intraperitoneal injection of STZ (45 mg/kg). (24)Mg-PMC(16) and MgCl(2) were used as controls. Blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), oxidative stress biomarkers, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) level in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were determined as biomarkers of DN. Results indicated that 2,3-DPG and ATP decreased whereas oxidative stress increased by induction of DN which all were improved in (25)Mg-PMC(16)-treated animals. No significant changes were observed by administration of (24)Mg-PMC(16) or MgCl(2) in DN rats. It is concluded that in DN, oxidative stress initiates injuries to DRG neurons that finally results in death of neurons whereas administration of (25)Mg-PMC(16) by release of Mg and increasing ATP acts protectively.
Our previous studies have shown that the use of half-strength citrate anticoagulant improves plasma factor VIII stability while maintaining the viability of red cells and platelets. This study extends these observations to show that the stability of factor VIII is maintained in blood stored at room temperature or 4 degrees C overnight and that in vitro tests indicate comparable quality of red cells and platelets prepared from half-strength citrate donations processed immediately or after overnight storage at room temperature. The exception to this was a more rapid loss of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, as has previously been observed for full-strength citrate donations.
Violuric acid was first shown to have antihypoxic and antioxidative properties, to exert protective action in sodium nitrite-induced hemic hypoxia. Hepatic glucose and glucogen levels increased, the activity of glucose-6- phosphodihydrogenase enhanced, while that of lactate dehydrogenase and alkaline phosphatase decreased, the content of cAMP restored, whereas cGMP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels decreased to a greater extent. The action of violuric acid was especially evident at the ultrastructural level-the ultrastructure of brush receptor elements in anoxia in the presence of violuric acid's action retained all the features characteristic for intact animals, which was accompanied by a significant accumulation of glycogen in the neuroplasm.
Pregnant women with cyanotic cardiac defects have a high percentage of abortuses and infants small for gestational age. The primary aim of this study was to determine the effect of maternal hypoxemia, as measured by arterial blood gas tensions, on fetal and placental development, neonatal adaptation, and subsequent growth and development. 19 women with right-to-left shunts were studied and 21 of the 30 pregnancies resulted in live births. 11 of these infants were small-for-dates, all born to women who had no surgery or only palliative surgery over 10 years ago. Mothers with total correction of these shunts delivered infants of normal size. Urinary estriol excretion during pregnancy was studied in 6 patients; low urinary estriol levels and low arterial blood oxygen tensions (PO2 < 60 mm Hg) were associated with low birth weight of the infants. Placental size was larger than expected on the basis of birth weight, Blood O2 affinity and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) were studied in 2 cyanotic women and in their infants at birth. Blood O2 affinity was significantly decreased and DPG markedly increased in both mothers; the same changes, although to a lesser degree, were observed in their infants, indicating intrauterine adaptation to hypoxia. The postnatal growth and development of all small infants have equalled or exceeded the normal standards.
The hemoglobins of man, horse, dog, rabbit, guinea pig, and rat all have relatively high (nonphysiologic) oxygen affinity when stripped of organic phosphates, and a strong reactivity with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Appropriately, their red cells contain high levels of 2,3-DPG. In contrast, the sheep, goat, cow, and cat have low oxygen affinity hemoglobins which interact weakly with 2,3-DPG, and low concentrations of red cell 2,3-DPG. These hemoglobins have structural differences at the NH(2)-terminus of the beta chain, a site where 2,3-DPG is thought to bind.
Abstract Hemoglobin (Hb) from the Eskimo dog (belonging to Canis lupus familiaris) showed similar Bohr effect (Δlog p50/ΔpH) to human HbA in the presence of 100 mmol l−1 NaCl at 20°C. The presence of 7% carbon dioxide in the desalted condition caused a positive (reversed) Bohr effect in the pH range 7.1–7.5 on Eskimo dog Hb, whereas in human HbA there was no Bohr effect within this pH range. A positive Bohr effect on Eskimo dog Hb in this condition was also observed at 37°C. This could indicate differences in the pK values of the amino terminal residues of the two hemoglobins, with possible pH-dependent binding of both bicarbonate (HCO3−) and carbamate. Analysis of the effect of CO2 on oxygen affinity of Eskimo dog Hb in the pH range 6.7–7.6 in the presence of chloride and/or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) support this theory. Our results indicate a competition between HCO3− and Cl− in affecting oxygen binding. Thermodynamic analysis reveals that bicarbonate binding lowers the apparent heat of oxygenation in Eskimo dog Hb nearly as much as chloride does in the presence of 2,3-DPG at physiological pH. This safeguards an effective oxygen unloading at lowered red blood cell concentrations of chloride. Moreover, we show that the oxygen affinity at high O2 saturation is less dependent on temperature in the presence than in the absence of CO2.
Semi-fossorial ground squirrels face challenges to respiratory gas transport associated with the chronic hypoxia and hypercapnia of underground burrows, and such challenges are compounded in species that are native to high altitude. During hibernation, such species must also contend with vicissitudes of blood gas concentrations and plasma pH caused by episodic breathing. Here, we report an analysis of hemoglobin (Hb) function in six species of marmotine ground squirrels with different altitudinal distributions. Regardless of their native altitude, all species have high Hb-O2 affinities, mainly due to suppressed sensitivities to allosteric effectors [2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and chloride ions]. This suppressed anion sensitivity is surprising given that all canonical anion-binding sites are conserved. Two sciurid species, the golden-mantled and thirteen-lined ground squirrel, have Hb-O2 affinities that are characterized by high pH sensitivity and low thermal sensitivity relative to the Hbs of humans and other mammals. The pronounced Bohr effect is surprising in light of highly unusual amino acid substitutions at the C-termini that are known to abolish the Bohr effect in human HbA. Taken together, the high O2 affinity of sciurid Hbs suggests an enhanced capacity for pulmonary O2 loading under hypoxic and hypercapnic conditions, while the large Bohr effect should help to ensure efficient O2 unloading in tissue capillaries. In spite of the relatively low thermal sensitivities of the sciurid Hbs, our results indicate that the effect of hypothermia on Hb oxygenation is the main factor contributing to the increased blood-O2 affinity in hibernating ground squirrels.
Legal nutritional ergogenic aids can offer athletes an additional avenue to enhance their performance beyond what they can achieve through training. Consequently, the investigation of new nutritional ergogenic aids is constantly being undertaken. One emerging nutritional supplement that has shown some positive benefits for sporting performance is sodium phosphate. For ergogenic purposes, sodium phosphate is supplemented orally in capsule form, at a dose of 3–5 g/day for a period of between 3 and 6 days. A number of exercise performance-enhancing alterations have been reported to occur with sodium phosphate supplementation, which include an increased aerobic capacity, increased peak power output, increased anaerobic threshold and improved myocardial and cardiovascular responses to exercise. A range of mechanisms have been posited to account for these ergogenic effects. These include enhancements in 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations, myocardial efficiency, buffering capacity and adenosine triphosphate/phosphocreatine synthesis. Whilst there is evidence to support the ergogenic benefits of sodium phosphate, many studies researching this substance differ in terms of the administered dose and dosing protocol, the washout period employed and the fitness level of the participants recruited. Additionally, the effect of gender has received very little attention in the literature. Therefore, the purpose of this review is to critically examine the use of sodium phosphate as an ergogenic aid, with a focus on identifying relevant further research.
44 Similar findings were also observed after cardiac 11 and colorectal surgery. 30 Although the reasons for such findings are not easy to elucidate, some studies have suggested that the reduction in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in transfused RBCs could increase oxygen affinity for Hb, which may limit oxygen release in the peripheral tissues and thus promote bacterial growth in postoperative wounds, 45 although 2,3-DPG levels might decline very early in the storage period (1-2 weeks). Another potential mechanism for an increased infection risk after transfusion of older RBCs is the release of plasma non-transferrin-bound iron after the ingestion of nonviable RBCs by the monocyte-macrophage system.
Certain aspects of M. kandleri biochemistry place this organism aside from other archaea. First, the membrane of M. kandleri consists of a terpenoid lipid (3), which is considered the most primitive lipid in the evolution of membranes (4) and is the direct precursor of phytanyl diethers found in the membranes of all other archaea. Another unusual feature of M. kandleri is the high intracellular concentration (1.1 M) of a trivalent anion, cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which has been reported to confer activity and stability at high temperatures on enzymes from this organism (5). Indeed, enzymes isolated from M. kandleri require high salt concentrations (Ͼ1 M) for stability and activity (6, 7). Finally, M. kandleri has several unique enzymes, the most notable being type 1B DNA topoisomerase V and the twosubunit reverse gyrase (8-12).
Fifteen red cell enzyme activities of growth-retarded patients with and without growth hormone (GH) deficiency were investigated before and after GH administration. The 15 enzymes were Hexokinase, phosphoglucomutase, glucose phosphate isomerase, phosphofructokinase, fructose diphosphate aldolase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, triosephosphate isomerase, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, 3-phosphoglycerate kinase, 3-phosphoglycerate mutase, enolase, pyruvate kinase, glycose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconic dehydrogenase, glutathione reductase.
In group II (no GH devidiency) mean pretreatment erythrocyte enzyme activities were not significantly different from those activities observed in normal control subjects (group N). However, in patients who lacked GH, the pretreatment activities of five red cell enzymes (glucose phosphate isomerase, triosephosphate isomerase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, 3-phosphoglycerate kinase) were significantly decreased before GH administration compared with the values in normal control subjects. The reduction in a further red cell enzyme (3-phosphoglycerate mutase) was statistically not significant.
With GH treatment eight red cell enzyme activities showed a significant increase, one of them (hexokinase) significantly rising in both groups of patients. The remaining seven erythrocyte enzymes (3-phosphoglycerate mutase, glucose phosphate isomerase, triosephosphate isomerase, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, enolase, pyruvate kinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase) exhibited significantly elevated activities only in patients lacking GH. In three of these enzymes the increase was significantly above the control value.
The number of people with diabetes is developing due to population growth, aging, and increasing prevalence of obesity and physical inactivity. The total number of people with diabetes is estimated to rise from 171 million in 2000 to 366 million in 2030. 1 Diabetic neuropathy (DN) usually develops in about 4%-10% of diabetic patients after five years and in 15% after 20 years. 2 It is estimated that at least 50% of all diabetic patients will suffer from neuropathy in their lifetime. 3 Hyperglycemia in diabetes causes an overflow of the polyol pathway, advanced glycation, oxidative stress, and deficiencies in neurotrophic factors. On the other hand, hypoinsulinemia results in mitochondrial dysfunction. Unfortunately, to date, a viable treatment for human DN is not available and all current drugs like tricyclic antidepressants, anticonvulsant agents, aldose reductase inhibitors, and drugs such as Υ-linolenic acid, zenarestat, mexiletine and midodrine are only used for management. 5 Oxidative stress is established to have a fundamental role in development of DN through induction of mitochondrial dysfunction, decline of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and neural death. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) as one of the factors contributing to tissue hypoxia is decreased in DN. Reduced levels of 2,3-DPG in DN result in a defect in delivery of oxygen to dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons leading to hypoxia and neuron death. It is believed that any rise in ATP and 2,3-DPG improve oxygenation.
Notable entries among these interacting partners are deoxyhemoglobin and peroxidized hemoglobin (hemichrome), two key players in RBC oxygen transport and mediators of oxidative stress to membrane components. Here, we map for the first time, to our knowledge, a series of D, E, and deamidated N residues on hemoglobin alpha and beta chains methylated in human RBCs (Fig. 4A) , with most residues mapping on the surface of the globin tetramer, particularly on residues flanking the prosthetic group ( Fig. 4B and C). Of note, the negative charge of the very N-term of Band 3 has been proposed to mediate the interaction with deoxyhemoglobin by stabilizing its T-state, in like fashion to adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Here, we show that residues in both the N-term and in a Band 3 region that interfaces with the N-term are extensively methylated. Similarly, the negatively charged very N-term of Band 3 is known to interact with glycolytic enzymes, including GAPDH, an interaction that has been modeled to occur in the active site pocket of the GAPDH tetramer (Fig. S5 , available as supporting information in the online version of this paper). 58 Methylation of D and deamidated N in GAPDH were confidently observed here, particularly in residues facing the active site of the enzyme and flanking the active C152 (e.g., N155; Fig. 5A through D; Fig. S5A through C) . In particular, residues like N316 (identified to be deamidated and methylated) are separated by less than 3.0 ångströms from the bound substrate (Fig. 5 ). An estimated linear length for the methyl ester (−OCH 3 ) of greater than 2.5 ång-ströms is considerably longer than the 0.96 ångströms O-H Table S2 , along with peptide sequences). In B, an overview of the cytosolic domain of Band 3, from residues N-term (1) through residue 380 (SLC4A1_HUMAN; P02730). Stars highlight methylated aspartate and glutamate residues (single letter code D and E, respectively, in blue) as well as deamidated and deamidated à methylated residues (N, in green) on the N-term cytosolic domain of Band 3. Rectangles also show the sequences on the N-term of Band 3 that were previously identified 53-57 as essential mediators of the interaction between this membrane protein and structural proteins and glycolytic enzymes.
Semi-fossorial ground squirrels face challenges to respiratory gas transport associated with the chronic hypoxia and hypercapnia of underground burrows, and such challenges are compounded in species that are native to high altitude. During hibernation, such species must also contend with vicissitudes of blood gas concentrations and plasma pH caused by episodic breathing. Here, we report an analysis of hemoglobin (Hb) function in six species of marmotine ground squirrels with different altitudinal distributions. Regardless of their native altitude, all species have high Hb-O 2 affinities, mainly due to suppressed sensitivities to allosteric effectors [2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and chloride ions]. This suppressed anion sensitivity is surprising given that all canonical anion-binding sites are conserved. Two sciurid species, the golden-mantled and thirteen-lined ground squirrel, have Hb-O 2 affinities that are characterized by high pH sensitivity and low thermal sensitivity relative to the Hbs of humans and other mammals. The pronounced Bohr effect is surprising in light of highly unusual amino acid substitutions at the C-termini that are known to abolish the Bohr effect in human HbA. Taken together, the high O 2 affinity of sciurid Hbs suggests an enhanced capacity for pulmonary O 2 loading under hypoxic and hypercapnic conditions, while the large Bohr effect should help to ensure efficient O 2 unloading in tissue capillaries. In spite of the relatively low thermal sensitivities of the sciurid Hbs, our results indicate that the effect of hypothermia on Hb oxygenation is the main factor contributing to the increased blood-O 2 affinity in hibernating ground squirrels.
hemoglobins; blood oxygen affinity; Adair equation; 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; carbon dioxide; pH; Bohr effect THE POSITION of the whole-blood 02 equilibrium curve (OEC) is usually represented by the partial pressure of 02 at which hemoglobin (Hb) is half-saturated (P&. Many physicochemical conditions within the red blood cell determine, in concert, its actual value. However, the principal effecters that vary under physiological conditions to regulate the Pm are 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid (DPG), H', and CO2 (2,4,11). Nomograms and equations have been developed to estimate Pso from known values of Pcoz, pH, and the [DPG]/ [Hb] molar ratio (13).
Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration was studied in 23 runners before and after a marathon race. Blood samples were drawn from an antecubital vein the morning before the race (baseline), at 3 p.m. 2 h before the start, on finishing, and 12 and 36 h later. Compared to the baseline values, erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration was increased (p<0.001) immediately after the marathon from 4.62±0.14 to 5.56±0.13 μmol·ml−1 RBC and remained elevated 12 h later (5.45±0.14 μmol·ml−1 RBC): it returned to prerace values 36 h after completion of the marathon.
AbstractFull blood counts, ESR, CRP, haematinics and markers for oxidative stress were measured for 33 patients diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and 27 age and sex matched controls. All participants also completed symptom questionnaires. CFS patients had increases in malondialdehyde (P <0.006), methaemoglobin (P <0.02), mean erythrocyte volume (P <0.02) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (P <0.04) compared with controls. Multiple regression analysis found methaemoglobin to be the principal component that differentiated between CFS patients and control subjects. Methaemoglobin was found to be the major component associated with variation in symptom expression in CFS patients (R2 = 0.99, P <0.00001), which included fatigue, musculoskeletal symptoms, pain and sleep disturbance. Variation in levels of malondialdehyde and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were associated with variations in cognitive symptoms and sleep disturbance (R2 = 0.99, P <0.00001). These data suggest that oxidative stress due to excess free ra...
Long-term administration of simvastatin to rats, irrespective of the baseline cholesterol levels, induced biochemical changes in erythrocytes attesting to hypoxic damage (accumulation of lactate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate), disturbances in ATP-dependent mechanisms of ion homeostasis regulation (decrease in total ATPase and Ca(2+)-ATPase activities), and antioxidant enzymes system imbalance. These changes can be considered as a sensitive indicator and molecular basis of cell damage during long-term administration of statins.
Abstract : The effects of pH increase on hemoglobin function in a standard blood preservative solution during blood storage were assessed. Established methods were used for collecting and storing blood under blood banking conditions, assaying red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG)--a measure of hemoglobin function, and adenosine triphosphate (ATP)--a measure of red cell viability, as developed previously in this laboratory. Increasing the pH by small gradual increments of the commonly used preservative, acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD), results in a significant improvement in hemoglobin function during the first week of liquid storage at 4 C. Better maintenance of hemoglobin function, as determined by red cell 2,3-DPG concentrations, was observed with preservatives at higher pH levels. On the other hand, at the pH ranges employed in this study, ATP levels were not greatly different over the storage period considered. (Author)
Abstract Oxygen equilibria have been used to study the interaction between red cell organic phosphates, magnesium ion, and hemoglobin. We measured the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin solutions containing either 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) or ATP and varying concentrations of magnesium ion at 10°, 20°, and 30°. Deoxyhemoglobin and Mg2+ were competitors, binding reciprocally with the organic phosphates. Stability constants derived from these data were in the order: HbDPG g HbATP g MgATP g MgDPG. The binding of deoxyhemoglobin to 2,3-DPG was more temperature dependent than its binding to ATP (ΔH = -11 kcal per mole and -6.1 kcal per mole respectively). Unlike MgATP, the binding of magnesium ion to 2,3-DPG was independent of temperature. From these equilibria and a knowledge of the total red cell concentration of magnesium, ATP, 2,3-DPG, and hemoglobin, we have estimated the distribution of bound and unbound molecules within oxygenated and deoxygenated erythrocytes under physiological conditions. The bulk of red cell ATP is bound to magnesium and therefore is ineffective in mediating hemoglobin function. Upon deoxygenation there is a considerable increase in the concentration of free magnesium ion.
Abstract A novel nucleoside phosphotransferase, referred to as adenosine phosphotransferase (Ado Ptase), was partially purified 1230-fold from human placenta. This enzyme differed from other known nucleoside phosphotransferases in its substrate specificity. Using AMP as the phosphate donor, it readily phosphorylated Ado. Changes in the sugar moiety were tolerated. dAdo and ddAdo were phosphate acceptors and dAMP was a donor. No other nucleotide or nucleoside common in nature displayed appreciable activity as donor or acceptor substrate, respectively. In the absence of nucleoside, the enzyme catalyzed the hydrolysis of AMP, typical of other nucleoside phosphotransferases. However, in the presence of Ado, little, if any, hydrolysis occurred. Ado Ptase had an absolute requirement for a metal cation, with Mg 2+ and, to a lesser extent, Mn 2+ fulfilling this requisite. The apparent K m for Ado was 0.2 m m . However, the donor AMP displayed cooperativity in both transfer and hydrolytic reactions. This cooperativity was eliminated by nucleotides, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and inorganic phosphate. ADP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were especially potent. In the presence of these effectors, the apparent K m for AMP was 3.0 m m in the transfer reaction and 4.0 m m in the hydrolytic reaction. Kinetic data suggest that there are two nucleotide binding sites on Ado Ptase, one for the donor, the other for an effector. AMP appeared to bind to both sites. Although this novel enzyme might play a role in the anabolism of nucleoside analogues, the normal physiological role of this nucleoside phosphotransferase is not understood.
Abstract 1. 1. The metabolism of [8-14C]adenosine was examined in human erythrocytes and erythrocyte lysates. 2. 2. The metabolism of [8-14C]adenosine in erythrocytes is largely dependent upon its concentration. 3. 3. Adenosine deaminase and adenosine kinase activities were assayed in crude erythrocyte lysates. No adenosine phosphorylase activity was detected. 4. 4. Adenosine deaminase exhibited a Km for adenosine of 4 · 10−5 M. Substrate inhibition of the enzyme was exhibited at concentrations of adenosine greater than 2 · 10−4 M. No inhibition of deaminase activity by equimolar or greater concentration of AMP, ADP, ATP, GDP, GTP, Pi, guanylic acid or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was noted, but 20 % inhibition by high concentrations of adenine and inosine was observed. 5. 5. Adenosine kinase required ATP (Km = 4 · 10−4 M), adenosine (Km = 1.9 · 10−6 M), and Mg2+ for activity. No substrate inhibition by adenosine occurred at concentrations 20 times its Km. Adenosine 5′-triphosphate and Mg2+ were inhibitory at concentrations greater than 1.25 mM and 0.50 mM, respectively. The reaction of ATP with adenosine kinase was competitively inhibited by AMP, ADP, guanylic acid, GDP, IMP, and adenine. Adenosine 5′-triphosphate was variably replaceable as the phosphate donor by a wide range of triphosphates.
We have attempted to separate various hemoglobins in 10 normal and 11 diabetic persons by Bio-Rex 70 chromatography at 4 degrees C with an exponentially increasing sodium phosphate gradient. Minor hemoglobins, namely AIa1, AIa2, AIb1, AIb2, AIb3, AIc, AId1, AId2 and AId3, have been separated and eluted in that order. Most of these minor hemoglobins were newly observed and could not be detected by the previous chromatographic techniques. On the basis of colorimetric assay protein-bound ketoamine was present in all the minor hemoglobins, which was confirmed by chromatographic separation of hemoglobins after reduction with NaB3H4. All the minor hemoglobins, with the exception of Hb AIa1, HbIa2, and Hb AIb1, showed a 2-fold increase in the diabetic patients. Hb AIc (5.0% in normals; 9.0% in diabetics) and Hb AId3 (1.9% in normals; 3.2% in diabetics) were present in the largest amounts. Both Hb AId3 and Hb Ao showed a decrease in oxygen affinity in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, whereas Hb AIc showed no effect. Separation of globin chains by cellulose acetate electrophoresis at pH 8.6 showed that the cathodal mobility of the alpha chains of Hb AId3 was slower than those of Hb Ao. Glycosylation of Hb with [14C]glucose followed by separation of hemoglobins by two Bio-Rex 70 chromatographic methods indicated that the minor Hb formed by glycosylation of the alpha-chain amino-terminus was separated from Hb Ao, while the minor hemoglobins formed by the glycosylation of epsilon-NH2 groups chromatographed with Hb Ao.
Reactions of nitric oxide (NO) with hemoglobin (Hb) are important elements in protection against nitrosative damage. NO in the vasculature is depleted by the oxidative reaction with oxy Hb or by binding to deoxy Hb to generate partially nitrosylated Hb (Hb-NO). Many aspects of the formation and persistence of Hb-NO are yet to be clarified. In this study, we used a combination of EPR and visible absorption spectroscopy to investigate the interactions of partially nitrosylated Hb with O2. Partially nitrosylated Hb samples had predominantly hexacoordinate NO-heme geometry and resisted oxidation when exposed to O2 in the absence of anionic allosteric effectors. Faster oxidation occurred in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) or inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), where the NO-heme derivatives had higher levels of pentacoordinate heme geometry. The anion-dependence of the NO-heme geometry also affected O2 binding equilibria. O2-binding curves of partially nitrosylated Hb in the absence of anions were left-shifted at low saturations, indicating destabilization of the low O2 affinity T-state of the Hb by increasing percentages of NO-heme, much as occurs with increasing levels of CO-heme. Samples containing IHP showed small decreases in O2 affinity, indicating shifts toward the low-affinity T-state and formation of inert α-NO/β-met tetramers. Most remarkably, O2-equilibria in the presence of the physiological effector DPG were essentially unchanged by up to 30% NO-heme in the samples. As will be discussed, under physiological conditions the interactions of Hb with NO provide protection against nitrosative damage without impairing O2 transport by Hb's unoccupied heme sites. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins.
Abstract The archaebacterium Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum was grown at 65 degrees C in H2- and Pi-limited chemostat cultures at dilution rates corresponding to 3- and 4-h doubling times, respectively. Under these conditions the steady state concentration of cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was 44 mM in the H2-limited cells and 13 mM in the cells grown under Pi limitation. Flux of Pi into the cyclic pyrophosphate pool was estimated by two 32P-labeling procedures: approach to isotopic equilibrium and replacement of prelabeled cyclic diphosphoglycerate with unlabeled compound. The results unequivocally demonstrate turnover of the phosphoryl groups; either both phosphoryl groups of the cyclic pyrophosphate leave together or the second leaves at a faster rate. The half-life of the rate-determining step for loss of the phosphoryl groups was approximately equal to the culture doubling time. The Pi flowing into the cyclic diphosphoglycerate pool accounted for 19% of the total Pi flux into Pi-limited cells and 43% of the total for H2-limited cells. The high phosphate flux through the large cyclic diphosphoglycerate pool suggests that this molecule plays an important role in the phosphorus metabolism of this methanogen.
The difference between genders has generated increasing interest in recent years. It is well known that women and men show differences in their respiratory system: different red blood cell counts, haemoglobin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate plasma concentrations. Recently, further differences have been found in the ventilatory response to hypoxia and exercise and the evolution of some respiratory illnesses. In this study it was found that during rest at sea level, the haemoglobin oxygen saturation, as measured by pulse oxymetry, is slightly higher in women than in men (98.6 (SD 1.1)% versus 97.9 (SD 0.9)%; p = 0.001). These findings are consistent with other studies, which found gender differences in the transcutaneous or tissue PaO(2). The difference in oxygen saturation is not related to differences in ventilation. The disparity is modest and does not seem to produce great differences in the oxygen content of arterial blood, but combined with the different affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen or different metabolic rate, may play a role in the course of elite competition sports, high altitude ascents or the evaluation of critically ill patients. Further studies are needed to establish the degree, extent and clinical importance of these differences in the saturation of haemoglobin.
Objective: To determine the effect of storage on the P50 of feline hemoglobin. ::: ::: ::: ::: Design: Prospective, in vitro, laboratory study. ::: ::: ::: ::: Subjects: Venous blood from 4 clinically healthy cats. ::: ::: ::: ::: Measurements: Blood was collected into CPDA-1 anticoagulant/preservative and maintained at 4°C for 5 weeks. Measurements were made on Days 0, 2, 4, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 35. The blood samples were equilibrated in a tonometer to gas mixtures containing 2.5%, 4%, 5%, or 8% oxygen, with 5% carbon dioxide balance nitrogen; pH was adjusted to 7.4. Chloride, partial pressure of oxygen, and hemoglobin saturation were measured; P50 was calculated. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results: Chloride decreased from 124.3±2.1 to 88.5±1.9 mEq/L immediately after dilution with CPDA-1, and did not change for the 5 weeks thereafter. The P50 decreased from an average of 35.0±1.2 to between 31 and 32 mmHg after 7 days, and did not change further for 4 weeks thereafter. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusions: The decrease in P50 of feline hemoglobin was minor compared with that of blood from species in which 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is a major modifier of hemoglobin affinity for oxygen. The decrease in P50 in the present study was attributed to an initial decrease in chloride and a subsequent loss of modest quantities of red cell 2,3-DPG.
The amount of oxygen delivered to an organ depends on three factors: blood flow and its distribution; the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood, i.e. haemoglobin concentration; and oxygen extraction. Non-haemodynamic and haemodynamic mechanisms operate to compensate for anaemia. Non-haemodynamic mechanisms include increased erythropoietin production to stimulate erythropoiesis, and increased oxygen extraction (displacement of the haemoglobin oxygen dissociation curve). This decreased affinity of oxygen for haemoglobin is mediated by increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations. Increased cardiac output is the main haemodynamic factor, mediated by lower afterload, increased preload, and positive inotropic and chronotropic effects. Decreased afterload is due to vasodilatation and reduced vascular resistance as a consequence of lower blood viscosity, hypoxia-induced vasodilatation, and enhanced nitric oxide activity. Vasodilatation also involves recruitment of microvessels and, in the case of chronic anaemia, stimulation of angiogenesis. With decreased afterload, the venous return (preload) and left ventricular (LV) filling increase, leading to increased LV end-diastolic volume and maintenance of a high stroke volume and high stroke work. High stroke work is also due to enhanced LV contractility attributed to increased concentrations of catecholamines and non-catecholamine inotropic factors. In addition, heart rate is increased in anaemia, due to hypoxia-stimulated chemoreceptors and increased sympathetic activity. In the long term, these haemodynamic alterations lead to gradual development of cardiac enlargement and LV hypertrophy (LVH). The LVH is eccentric, characterized by increased LV internal dimensions and a normal ratio of wall thickness to cavity diameter, as occurs in other forms of volume overload. When anaemia-related LVH develops in an otherwise 'healthy' humoral environment, the lesions are reversible and the type of LVH is primarily physiological and is not associated with impaired diastolic function. In the absence of underlying cardiovascular disorders, severe anaemia (Haemoglobin concentration < 4-5 g/dl) leads to congestive heart failure. In the presence of heart disease, especially coronary artery disease, anaemia intensifies angina and contributes to a high incidence of cardiovascular complications. In end-stage renal disease (ESRD), LVH is influenced by many other factors, leading to intense interstitial fibrosis, to alterations in diastolic function, and usually to poor reversibility. The chronic increase in cardiac output contributes to arterial remodelling of central elastic arteries such as the aorta and common carotid artery. This remodelling consists principally of arterial enlargement and compensatory arterial intima--media thickening. In ESRD, these geometric changes are accompanied by arterial stiffening. The principal consequences of arterial alterations are increased systolic pressure and high inertia due to higher blood mass in the dilated arterial system. These alterations contribute to the development of LVH and abnormal coronary perfusion.
Human medicine studies have so far demonstrated that erythrocytes may be preserved and stored at low temperatures for decades retaining their metabolic and biochemical properties. However, detailed studies regarding this problem are not yet available in veterinary medicine. Therefore, the objective of the current study was to investigate time-dependent effects of long-term frozen storage of canine red blood cells.Twelve healthy adult dogs meeting the criteria for blood transfusion were used in the study. Whole blood samples (450 ± 45 ml) collected from each dog were centrifuged by a cryogenic microcentrifuge and packed RBC suspensions were obtained. The samples were prewashed three times in 0.9% NaCl solution and were allocated into three groups to be evaluated at three different time points (day 0 and month 4 and 6). The samples to be frozen were subjected to glycerolization and then stored at −80°C for 4 and 6-month periods. At the end of this period the packed RBC samples were thawed, centrifuged and then washed in a consecutive series of dextrose solutions. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), Adenosin triphosphate (ATP), supernatant hemoglobin (SupHb), sodium (Na⁺) and potassium (K⁺) levels, residual glycerol concentrations and hemograms were evaluated and compared. Sterility tests were performed on all samples for bacterial contamination. A statistically significant decrease was noted in potassium levels, which was the natural outcome of deglycerolization process. No significant change was observed in terms of other parameters due based on different time points. In conclusion, long-term frozen storage had no negative effect on the quality parameters of canine erythrocytes.
4. Adenosine deaminase exhibited a K m for adenosine of 4 " lO-5 M. Substrate inhibition of the enzyme was exhibited at concentrations of adenosine greater than 2 " IO -4 M. No inhibition of deaminase activity by equimolar or greater concentiation of AMP, ADP, ATP, GDP, GTP, PI, guanylic acid or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was noted, but 20 % inhibition by high concentrations of adenine and inosine was observed.
In the current study, molecular, biophysical, and immune characterisation of independent phosphoglycerate mutase (Bm-iPGM) of human filarial parasite B. malayi was carried out. Phosphoglycerate mutases, the key enzymes in the glycolytic and gluconeogenic pathways, exist in two different forms having different mechanism of action and structure and that are either cofactor (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) dependent or cofactor-independent. The independent form is predominant in plants, nematodes, bacteria, and archaea [7] . All experimentally characterised iPGMs from eubacteria, plants, and invertebrates are monomers with a molecular mass of 55-75 kDa [8, 9] . The absence of iPGM from humans and being indispensable in all nematodes including the filariids [10] advocate its potential as anthelminthic drug target. Bm-iPGM was purified successfully using bacterial host E. coli. Circular dichroism (CD) and fluorescence spectra of the recombinant protein were obtained to determine its secondary structure and native conformation. The abundant sharing of Bm-iPGM by all the major life-forms of B. malayi and its release in the form of excretory-secretory products [11] pointed towards its immunogenic nature. In silico analysis of Bm-iPGM predicted it to be highly antigenic with the presence of both MHC I and MHC II binding peptides. The antigenic nature was further validated by the crossreactivity of Bm-iPGM with human bancroftian sera of different categories of LF which persuaded us to examine the immunoprophylactic efficacy of the recombinant protein in animal models of LF.
Twelve healthy adult dogs meeting the criteria for blood transfusion were used in the study. Whole blood samples (450 ± 45 ml) collected from each dog were centrifuged by a cryogenic microcentrifuge and packed RBC suspensions were obtained. The samples were prewashed three times in 0.9% NaCl solution and were allocated into three groups to be evaluated at three different time points (day 0 and month 4 and 6). The samples to be frozen were subjected to glycerolization and then stored at -80 o C for 4 and 6-month periods. At the end of this period the packed RBC samples were thawed, centrifuged and then washed in a consecutive series of dextrose solutions. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), Adenosin triphosphate (ATP), supernatant hemoglobin (SupHb), sodium (Na + ) and potassium (K + ) levels, residual glycerol concentrations and hemograms were evaluated and compared. Sterility tests were performed on all samples for bacterial contamination. A statistically significant decrease was noted in potassium levels, which was the natural outcome of deglycerolization process. No significant change was observed in terms of other parameters due based on different time points. In conclusion, long-term frozen storage had no negative effect on the quality parameters of canine erythrocytes.
Abstract The deoxygenation kinetics of isolated adult and fetal hemoglobin are measured. The results demonstrate that significant functional differences exist between the two tetrameric hemoglobins. It is pointed out that these functional differences closely parallel the differences in similar properties of beta and gamma chains. It is also shown that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) has no significant effect on the deoxygenation rate of fetal hemoglobin. This result appears to be consistent with the reported weaker binding of 2,3-DPG to the oxygen linked groups of fetal hemoglobin.
Aiming to evaluate the mechanisms responsible for altered O2- transporting properties in blood of Plasmodium-infected animals, stripped (cofactor-free) hemoglobin (Hb) solutions were prepared from infected erythrocytes (IE) and noninfected erythrocytes (NIE) of rats inoculated with Plasmodium berghei bergei for functional and structural characterization. At normal intraerythrocytic pH (+/- 7.2), Hb from IE showed a higher affinity, a larger Bohr effect, and lower sensitivities to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and to temperature than did NIE Hb. Moreover, as judged from electrophoresis, isoelectric focusing, and gel filtration experiments, Hb from IE show changes in charge and molecular assembly. The results indicate that the higher O2 affinity and greater Bohr factors observed in IE compared with those for NIE are attributable to chemical modification of the Hb that increases its intrinsic O2 affinity and decreases its sensitivity to DPG as well as to changes in the intracellular physicochemical milieu, including reduced DPG levels.
The mechanisms of regulation of energy metabolism in erythrocytes of various mammalian species were investigated. In native erythrocytes of man, sheep, cow, dog and mouse the dependencies of the rates of glucose uptake on ATP concentration (i.e., regulatory parameters of glycolysis) were measured. These parameters plotted in normalized coordinates are not species-specific (invariant). The dependence of the rate of ATP-consuming processes on ATP concentration has been studied for the first time in intact mammalian erythrocytes. This dependence was found to be linear only in the species, in whose erythrocytes the activity of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate shunt is practically zero. In all species under study, the stabilization of ATP level is provided for mainly by the hexokinase-phosphofructokinase system. A comparison of regulatory mechanisms of energy metabolism in mammalian (sheep, cow) erythrocytes, in which the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate shunt is absent, with human and animal erythrocytes, in which this pathway is active, points to the important role of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate shunt in regulation of energy conversion in erythrocytes. This shunt operates as an additional stabilizer protecting the cell from extremal influences.
1. ::: 1. Weanling male guinea pigs were exposed for up to 18 weeks in environmental chambers to 5°C and an ambient Po2 of 133 torr before sacrifice (range of BW at 5°C = 239−1,074 g). Growth rates of animals raised at 5°C were not significantly different from animals maintained at 22°C. Hematological measurements were made on each animal, including hematocrit, [Hb], RBC indices, WBC differentials, and the molar ratio of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) to Hb. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. Cold exposure results in significant (P < 0.001) increases of 6–12% in Hct and [Hb], due to greater No. RBC's, compared to controls of similar BW. Within 2 weeks of exposure to 5°C, the 2,3-DPG/Hb ratio rose transiently to 1.84 M/M, and then was constant at about 1.40 M/M in animals exposed to 5°C for longer times. When compared to values for adult controls of 0.92 M/M, such an increase in the 2,3-DPG/Hb ratio would increase the P50 of blood from cold acclimated guinea pigs by 5–6 torr. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. The significant increases over control values in circulating [Hb] and in 2,3-DPG would substantially improve tissue O2 delivery in cold acclimated guinea pigs, by facilitating the transport and unloading of O2.
Patients with Paget's disease of bone were treated with oral disodium dihydrogen ethylidene-1-hydroxy-1,1-bisphosphonate (EHBP), a drug that is known to stimulate renal tubular reabsorption of orthophosphate (Pi). After 2 weeks of treatment, plasma Pi rose from 1.02 to 1.67 mmol/l. No increase in Pi was observed with the related drug, dichloromethylene bisphosphonate, which also reduces bone turnover in Paget's disease. Intravenous EHBP caused a more rapid increase in plasma Pi, but maximum hyperphosphatemia was not observed until 7-11 days after treatment commenced. It is therefore unlikely that this effect is due to an immediate action of EHBP on the luminal face of the renal brush border Pi transporter. After 2 weeks of oral EHBP, the increase in the Pi concentration in patients' erythrocytes was 31% compared with 64% in plasma. In blood platelets and leukocytes, negligible changes in cellular Pi occurred. The concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP) and adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) were unaltered, indicating that these organic phosphates were not offsetting a potential change in cellular Pi. The decrease in erythrocyte/plasma distribution ratio for Pi was also observed in patients receiving intravenous EHBP. However, no change occurred in cell/plasma distribution of chloride, suggesting that this apparent regulation of cellular Pi did not arise from changes in erythrocyte membrane potential, pH, or water content.
Two mechanisms are felt to be responsible for the production of anemia in patients with chronic diseases. The first is failure to produce adequate amounts of erythropoietin (EP), and the second is failure to deliver iron to the bone marrow in amounts sufficient to support normal erythropoiesis. In order to evaluate these hypotheses we studied urine and serum EP levels and levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in normal subjects, in patients with the anemia of chronic diseases, in patients with chronic liver disease, and in patients with a variety of other anemias. Based on the results, we propose first that insufficient production of EP is one of the major mechanisms responsible for anemia in patients with chronic diseases. Second, insufficient production of EP is, in part, responsible for anemia seen in patients with chronic liver disease. Third, serum and urine EP levels decrease with aging, and this correlates with the fall of hemoglobin levels seen in older normal subjects.
Preserved stored blood undergoes metabolic changes depending on the duration of storage. These metabolic changes include a deprivation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), acidosis and hyperkalemia. The preservative contains citrate as an anticoagulant which binds the ionised serum calcium. 2,3-DPG depleted erythrocytes show a clearly elevated oxygen affinity. Following massive transfusion, these changes can also occur in the recipient. Under these conditions, patients with coronary artery disease show impaired heart function. Prejudicial changes concerning other vital systems have not yet been definitely proved. Acidosis, hypocalcemia and hyperkalemia can take place under massive transfusion. Normally the body's own compensatory mechanisms ensure sufficient recompensation; however, under hypothermia or shock these mechanisms can be impaired. Disturbances of the electrolyte and acid base system are safely detected by ECG and regularly performed acid base analysis.
Oxygen equilibrium curves (OEC) for human red blood cells (RBC) have revealed a large asymmetry with an nmax value reached at approximately 90% saturation. This contrasts with the symmetrical shape of the OEC for diluted HbA solutions. We prepared resealed red blood cells (RRBC) through controlled hemolysis and resealing in order to obtain a low Hb concentration (approximately equal to 60 g/L) and DPG/Hb4 molar ratio ranging from 0.2 to 4. When the DPG/Hb4 was close to unity, OEC still showed a large asymmetry. On the contrary, the OEC became symmetrical when DPG/Hb4 was either negligible or 3-4 fold the normal value. The asymmetrical OEC for intact RBC can be fitted with a theoretical model taking into account the variations of free DPG concentration during oxygenation. We conclude that the asymmetrical shape of OEC observed in intact fresh RBC is not due to the high protein concentration present in the RBC but to a functional heterogeneity of Hb due to the changes of the free 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration during oxygenation.
Abstract LBA-3 Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a debilitating hemolytic disorder with high morbidity and mortality affecting millions of individuals worldwide. Although SCD was first identified a century ago, we still lack effective mechanism-based safe therapies to treat this disease. Thus, identification of specific molecules triggering sickling, the central pathogenic process of the disease, is extremely important to advance our understanding of the molecular basis for the pathogenesis of SCD and to develop novel therapeutics. Using non-biased metabolomic screening, we found that sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) is significantly elevated in the blood of SCD mice. Further analysis revealed that the activity of sphingosine kinase 1 (Sphk1, the enzyme that produces S1P) is significantly elevated in erythrocytes of SCD mice. Chronic treatment of SCD mice with a SphK1 inhibitor significantly attenuated sickling, hemolysis, inflammation and multiple tissue damage by reducing erythrocyte and plasma S1P levels. Erythrocyte S1P levels were further elevated following hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced acute sickle crisis (ASC) in SCD mice and blocking its elevation by a Sphk1 specific inhibitor significantly reduced hallmark features associated with ASC. As with SCD mice, we found that erythrocyte Sphk1 activity and erythrocyte and plasma S1P levels were significantly elevated in humans with SCD compared to normal individuals. Inhibition of SphK1 in cultured primary human erythrocytes isolated from SCD patients inhibited hypoxia-induced elevation of erythrocyte S1P levels and reduced sickling. Thus, we have revealed for the first time that SphK1-mediated S1P elevation in SCD erythrocytes is a key contributor to sickling in SCD and that Sphk1 inhibition can attenuate both acute and chronic sickling events and disease progression. S1P is an important signaling molecule regulating diverse biological processes. Although S1P is predominantly produced and stored in RBCs, nothing was known about the physiological role of S1P in normal RBCs or the pathophysiological role of S1P in SCD until we conducted a metabolomic screen. In an effort to determine the molecular mechanism underlying S1P-induced sickling, we unexpectedly found that S1P directly binds with Hb and results in a reduced Hb-O2 affinity. This finding led us to further discover that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, another erythrocyte specific allosteric modulator, is required for S1P-mediated allosteric modulation and that these two endogenous heterotropic modulators work cooperatively to induce a substantial reduction in Hb-O2 affinity. Supporting the biochemical and functional findings, molecular modeling predicts that S1P binds near the water filled central cavity of HbA at a site that is different from the Hb-2,3-DPG binding site. Thus, our discovery adds a significant new chapter to erythrocyte physiology by revealing S1P is a novel allosteric modulator of Hb-O2 affinity and also providing a mechanism underlying S1P-mediated sickling by promoting the formation of deoxyHbS. Thus, the work reported here could be the foundation leading to future human trials and a possible therapy for SCD, a life-threatening hemolytic disorder for which the current treatment is extremely limited. The significance of our findings extends well beyond SCD. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized important role for S1P in erythrocyte physiology and indicate a new concept for the regulation of O2 release from Hb under normal and sickle cell disease conditions. For SCD, elevated S1P is detrimental because reduced Hb-O2 affinity leads to more deoxygenation of HbS, increased sickling and subsequent multiple life-threatening complications. However, for normal erythrocytes, elevated S1P is likely beneficial by decreasing Hb-O2 affinity allowing for more O2 release to hypoxic tissues. Thus, for humans with normal Hb, if elevated S1P can induce O2 release to hypoxic tissues it may be a novel therapeutic target for a range of disorders, from chronic heart failure to diabetic retinopathy, traumatic blood loss, pulmonary disease and even cancer. In this way our findings reveal important novel opportunities to treat and prevent not only SCD but also multiple cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases associated with hypoxia. Thus, the impact of our novel finding is significant and enormous. Disclosures: No relevant conflicts of interest to declare.
METHODS ::: We measured the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inraerythrocytic concentration in 24 normal controls and in 24 hypertensives before and following drug therapy. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: In hypertensives the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration was higher than that of the controls (14.96 mumol/g Hb vs 13.26 mumol/g Hb respectively); the difference is statistically significant (p < 0.001). Following control of the hypertension by drug therapy, the 2,3 DPG levels in the patients studied do not seem to differ statistically from those of the controls. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: This may be a consequence of lower cardiac output in hypertension which results to a lower tissue perfusion, leading to an increased concentration of deoxygenated haemoglobin in the vein blood. Measurement of 2,3-diphosphoglucerate may prove of value in estimating tissue perfusion in hypertension.
Abstract The intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in cord blood from 7 meconium-stained newborn infants was 2.91 ± 0.32 μM per milliliter as compared to control values of 4.39 ± 0.22. The mean hematocrit for the meconium-stained group was higher than that for the control group. No pH, birth weight, or gestational age difference was observed between the 2 groups. The relationship to intrauterine hypoxia is discussed.
Background Individuals with chronic mountain sickness (CMS) show severe hypoxemia, excessive polycythemia, and marked pulmonary hypertension. The pathophysiologic mechanisms of CMS are still not completely understood. Methods We determined plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), hematocrit, hemoglobin, and arterialized ear lobe blood gas values in 13 patients with CMS (9 Hans, 4 Tibetans) and 18 control Han Chinese men of similar age, height, and weight who had been living at 4300m on the Tibetan plateau of Qinghai Province, China, for approximately 14 years. Results A significantly higher level of ANP was found in the CMS patients compared to the non-CMS patients (113.4±5.5 pg/mL vs 87.6±4.7 pg/mL, P r =0.8282, P P 2 values ( r =−0.7898, P 2 levels, lower pH values, lower Pao 2 levels, and greater alveolar-arterial oxygen differences (Pao 2 −Pao 2 ) compared to the non-CMS subjects. Conclusions These findings suggest that overproduction of ANP and 2,3-DPG at high altitudes may play an important role in the pathophysiology of chronic mountain sickness.
Purpose ::: ::: Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy (31P-MRS) affords unique insight into cardiac energetics but has a low intrinsic signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in humans. Theory predicts an increased 31P-MRS SNR at 7T, offering exciting possibilities to better investigate cardiac metabolism. We therefore compare the performance of human cardiac 31P-MRS at 7T to 3T, and measure T1s for 31P metabolites at 7T. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods ::: ::: Matched 31P-MRS data were acquired at 3T and 7T, on nine normal volunteers. A novel Look-Locker CSI acquisition and fitting approach was used to measure T1s on six normal volunteers. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results ::: ::: T1s in the heart at 7T were: phosphocreatine (PCr) 3.05 ± 0.41s, γ-ATP 1.82 ± 0.09s, α-ATP 1.39 ± 0.09s, β-ATP 1.02 ± 0.17s and 2,3-DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) 3.05 ± 0.41s (N = 6). In the field comparison (N = 9), PCr SNR increased 2.8× at 7T relative to 3T, the Cramer-Rao uncertainty (CRLB) in PCr concentration decreased 2.4×, the mean CRLB in PCr/ATP decreased 2.7× and the PCr/ATP SD decreased 2×. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: ::: Cardiac 31P-MRS at 7T has higher SNR and the spectra can be quantified more precisely than at 3T. Cardiac 31P T1s are shorter at 7T than at 3T. We predict that 7T will become the field strength of choice for cardiac 31P-MRS. Magn Reson Med 72:304–315, 2014. © 2013 The Authors. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of International Society of Medicine in Resonance. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
An attempt has been made to understand whether 50 Hz electric and magnetic fields (EMFs) are involved in producing bioeffects by exposing human erythrocytes in vitro. The study evaluated some key glycolytic enzymes, glucose consumption, lactate production, energy charge, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and reduced glutathione levels, all of which are biochemical parameters significant to erythrocyte function. Cells exposed to individual or superimposed EMFs have not shown any significant difference compared with the controls.
Summary The binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) to human hemoglobin was studied by equilibrium dialysis in a tonometer system. The binding of 2,3-DPG was inversely related to both oxygen saturation and pH within the physiologic ranges. Carbon dioxide and cyanate inhibited binding, suggesting that the a amino groups of one or more of the N-terminal amino acids of hemoglobin are involved in the binding of 2,3-DPG.
1. As it has been suggested that the beneficial effect of methylprednisolone in shock is due to its effect on erythraocyte oxygen affinity, we studied its effect on incubated erythrocytes and on haemoglobin solution. 2. Incubation of fresh whole blood anticoagulated with acid/citrate/dextrose with methylprednisolone (7 mmol/l) produced a significant decrease in oxygen affinity, which was not seen with lower concentrations of methylprednisolone. When either acid/citrate/dextrose blood stored for 10 days or fresh heparinized blood was used, no significant increase in the partial pressure of oxygen at 50% haemoglobin saturation (P50) was demonstrated even with methylprednisolone at 7 mmol/l. At the highest concentration achieved in plasma with standard therapeutic doses (56 mumol/l) there was no increase in P50 under all the conditions studied. 3. Methylprednisolone reduced the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin in solution. The reduction in oxygen affinity was less than that produced by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and more than that of either sodium succinate or sodium chloride. 4. From the results of this study we conclude that the effect observed in whole cells is probably due to a direct effect of methylprednisolone on haemoglobin. To produce a significant decrease of oxygen affinity of while blood in vitro requires a plasma concentration of methylprednisolone above that obtained in plasma in vivo, with the currently used therapeutic doses.
Abstract In previous studies, an increase in the activity of pyruvate kinase (PK) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH), an increase in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG), and alterations in osmotic fragility were found in dogs with haemolytic anaemia. These changes were mainly caused by the presence of immature red cells found in regenerative anaemias. In the present study, the same parameters were evaluated in dogs with different types of anaemia. The haematological patterns of 40 anaemic dogs were analysed to define the pathogenesis and the haematological features of each case. Non-regenerative anaemias could be attributed principally to chronic diseases and to the haemolysis that accompanies the early stages of canine babesiosis. Regenerative anaemias were mainly due to haemolysis, in some cases with an immune-mediated pathogenesis. PK activity was higher in regenerative than in non-regenerative anaemias, but G6PDH activity and 2,3DPG concentration increased in both types of anaemia. This suggests that PK activity is influenced by the presence of immature red cells, but the requirements for reducing compounds and oxygen are not dependent on the type of anaemia. Abnormalities in osmotic fragility were detected in haemolytic anaemias and in those non-regenerative anaemias in which reticulocyte percentage, but not reticulocyte production index (RPI), increased. The osmotic fragility could be used as an early indicator of erythrocyte regeneration.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHu-EPO) on oxygen affinity and adequate oxygen delivery to the tissues of stable premature infants. 36 very-low-birth-weight infants were randomly assigned to either receive rHu-EPO (200 units/kg every other day) or not, and both groups were supplemented with iron, folic acid and vitamin E. Arterial blood gases, oxygen saturation, complete blood counts, fetal haemoglobin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and blood lactate were analysed weekly, from the 1st week till discharge. Patients in the two groups were comparable. There was a trend in increasing lactate values towards the 4th to 5th weeks of life, which did not reach statistical significance. There was no correlation between lactate values and the studied variables (pH, BE, oxygen saturation). In 35 transfusions, pre- and 24 h post-transfusion blood lactate status was studied. In 23 of them, a decrease in post-transfusion lactate was noticed, whilst an increased post-transfusion level was shown in 10 cases and no change in 2 cases. The mean pre-transfusion lactate value was significantly higher than the post-transfusion one (24.04 +/- 11.9 mg/dl before and 16.27 +/- 8.5 mg/dl after transfusion; p = 0.0025). In both groups there was a steady rise in 2,3-DPG concentration over the period of study, and the 2,3-DPG values at the end of our study were significantly increased in the rHu-EPO group (rHu-EPO 5.98 +/- 0.9, control 4.84 +/- 0.7; p = 0.04). In conclusion, the use of rHu-EPO did not affect blood lactate levels compared to the control group. Regarding oxygen affinity, it seems that rHu-EPO causes a shift of the oxy-haemoglobin dissociation curve to the right. This is a previously unreported effect of rHu-EPO and its clinical use may, thus, confer to preterm babies an added advantage.
Most cells are thought to contain trace amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), as it acts as a cofactor in the interconversion of 2-phosphoglycerate and 3-phosphoglycerate by the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglyceromutase. DPG is synthesized from 1,3-diphosphoglycerate by the action of diphosphoglycerate mutase. Lowry et al. reported levels of 29 mumol DPG per kg wet weight brain tissue which is approximately 3 pmol per 10(8) cells, assuming that 1 g of brain tissue contains 10(9) cells. In contrast, erythroid cells contain 50-100 nmol DPG per 10(8) cells, depending on the species and the stage of development. This is of the order of a 1,000-fold more DPG compared with non-erythroid cells. In red cells DPG concentration modulates the binding of oxygen to haemoglobin. I show here that erythroid precurser cells also contain markedly raised levels of DPG.
The erythrocyte metabolism of two patients with nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia caused by a hexokinase deficiency, and a pyruvate kinase deficiency, respectively, were studied with NMR. The complexing of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) with Mg2+ and hemoglobin (Hb) was determined using 31P-NMR on oxygenated and deoxygenated cells to investigate the influences of these enzyme defects on intracellular magnesium distribution and on Hb oxygen dissociation. In the pyruvate kinase-deficient red blood cells, the 2,3-DPG concentration was almost twice the normal value and the ATP concentration was near the lower limit of the normal range. In the hexokinase-deficient red cell population, the predominance of young cells masked the deficiency. Therefore, reticulocyte control cells were included in this study. In the oxygenated pyruvate kinase-deficient cells, the fraction of ATP that is complexed to magnesium as well as the free Mg2+ concentration were normal, despite the abnormal concentration of 2,3-DPG. In the deoxygenated cells the free Mg2+ concentration was lower than in normal cells. The fraction of Hb complexed with 2,3-DPG was higher than normal in both oxygenated and deoxygenated pyruvate kinase-deficient cells, in accordance with the high p50 of the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve. In hexokinase-deficient cells, two major abnormalities are found: when the cells were deoxygenated, the concentration of ATP and 2,3-DPG fell. This was not observed for any other sample and could, therefore, be a consequence of the hexokinase deficiency. Despite almost normal levels of magnesium-binding metabolites, the free Mg2+ concentration in oxygenated and deoxygenated cels is much lower than in normal cells. This could be a cell-age-related phenomenon, since lower free Mg2+ concentrations were also found in reticulocyte control cells.
Triethanolamine chloride, Tris, pyrophosphate buffer, sodium pyruvate, NAD, NADH, ATP, ADP, AMP, 2-mercaptoethanol, dithiothreitol, EDTA, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6diphosphate, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate, 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2-phosphoglyceric acid, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, DL-3-phosphoglyceric acid, phosphoenolpyruvate, pyruvic acid, dihydroxyacetone phosphate and glycylglycine were purchased from Sigma Chemical Co., St Louis, Missouri, U.S.A. The following enzymes were also purchased from Sigma: hexokinase
Despite decades of strides in the field [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] , the current mechanistic understanding of human in vivo adaptations to hypoxia is still incomplete. Undoubtedly, red blood cells (RBCs) play a clear role in adaptations to hypoxia, in line with their vital role in oxygen transport and delivery. [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Increases in red cell volume (RCV) and total hemoglobin mass (Hbmass) are observed as early as one or two weeks after exposure to high altitude, even though these adaptations are eventually lost following descent to low altitude. 14, 15 Besides, while hypoxia can induce systemic increase of erythropoietin (EPO) levels within hours of hypobaric hypoxia 16 , EPO-stimulated production of mature RBCs from the bone marrow can take days to occur. 17 Cellular adaptations to hypoxia also involve the stabilization of hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs), a family of transcriptional factors 18 involved in metabolic regulation, as it is increasingly emerging in cancer 19 and pulmonary hypertension. 20 HIF degradation is mediated through HIF hydroxylation by O 2 -sensing protein hydroxylases (PHDs). 19 Mutations of PHD2 21 results in decreased degradation of HIF1α, that in turn transcriptionally regulates numerous metabolic enzymes 22 , thereby contributing to adaptive metabolic responses to hypoxia such as increased erythropoiesis 21 in patients carrying the mutation. At the same time, hypoxia-induced uncoupling of the electron transport chain promotes increases in the levels of Krebs cycle intermediates, which in turn promote the stabilization of HIF1α through the direct inhibition of PHDs, suggesting a crosstalk between metabolic adaptation and gene expression phenotypes under hypoxia. 23 Decades of laboratory studies aimed at understanding RBC responses to deoxygenation and hypoxia have fostered great advances in structural and functional biochemistry, introducing the concept of allosteric modulation 24 . Over the years, structural and functional evidence has been produced about the hypoxia-dependent promotion of hemoglobin oxygen off-loading through the stabilization of the deoxygenated tense state (T) by negatively charged high phosphate compounds adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) 8 . In the last twenty years, the model has been expanded as to introduce the concept of the "transport metabolon", which involves band 3. As the most abundant RBC membrane protein (1×10 6 copies/cell), band 3 modulates CO 2 gas transport in erythrocytes through the so-called "chloride shift" (HCO 3 − /Cl − exchange), thereby contributing to pH homeostasis and oxygen off-loading by promoting the "Bohr effect". 25 The "transport metabolon" model is based on the observation that the N-terminal cytosolic domain of band 3, which contains numerous acidic residues, might stabilize deoxyhemoglobin through direct binding. [26] [27] [28] [29] However, the N-terminal region of band 3 also serves as a docking site for key glycolytic enzymes, including phosphofructokinase (PFK), aldolase (ALDO) and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). These enzymes are functionally inhibited by binding to band 3 at high oxygen saturation, thereby promoting late glycolytic blockade and a shift towards the anti-oxidant NADPH-generating pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). [26] [27] [28] [29] Binding of deoxyhemoglobin to band 3 promotes the displacement and activation of late glycolytic enzymes, thus favoring glycolysis. [26] [27] [28] [29] According to this model, [26] [27] [28] [29] as much as 92% of glucose is catabolized through the classic Embden-Meyerhoff glycolytic pathway under normoxia, while anoxia triggers consumption of as much as 90% of glucose via the PPP. This model has been supported by in vitro evidence 30 and in silico prediction based on metabolomics data of ex vivo aging RBCs under anaerobic conditions 31, 32 . However, evidence of in vivo RBC metabolic adaptations to hypoxia has not been hitherto produced.
Purpose: Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 31 P-MRS) affords unique insight into cardiac energetics but has a low intrinsic signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in humans. Theory predicts an increased 31 P-MRS SNR at 7T, offering exciting possibilities to better investigate cardiac metabolism. We therefore compare the performance of human cardiac 31 P-MRS at 7T to 3T, and measure T 1 s for 31 P metabolites at 7T. Methods: Matched 31 P-MRS data were acquired at 3T and 7T, on nine normal volunteers. A novel Look-Locker CSI acquisition and fitting approach was used to measure T 1 s on six normal volunteers. Results: T 1 s in the heart at 7T were: phosphocreatine (PCr) 3.05 6 0.41s, g-ATP 1.82 6 0.09s, a-ATP 1.39 6 0.09s, b-ATP 1.02 6 0.17s and 2,3-DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) 3.05 6 0.41s (N ¼ 6). In the field comparison (N ¼ 9), PCr SNR increased 2.8Â at 7T relative to 3T, the Cramer-R ao uncertainty (CRLB) in PCr concentration decreased 2.4Â, the mean CRLB in PCr/ATP decreased 2.7Â and the PCr/ATP SD decreased 2Â. Conclusion: Cardiac 31 P-MRS at 7T has higher SNR and the spectra can be quantified more precisely than at 3T. Cardiac 31 P T 1 s are shorter at 7T than at 3T. We predict that 7T will become the field strength of choice for cardiac 
3. Methylprednisolone reduced the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin in solution. The reduction in oxygen affinity was less than that produced by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and more than that of either sodium succinate or sodium chloride.
The effect of methylprednisolone on the oxygen affinity of both whole blood anticoagulated with either acidlcitrateldextrose or heparin and of haemoglobin in solution was measured. To exclude the possibility that any effect on oxygen affinity in erythrocytes is due to other intracellular factors we have measured erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), ATP and intracellular pH.
Modulation of red cell glycolysis: interactions between vertebrate hemoglobins and cytoplasmic domains of band 3 red cell membrane proteins. Several vital functions/physical characteristics of erythrocytes (including glycolysis, the pentose phosphate pathway, ion fluxes, and cellular deformability) display dependence on the state of hemoglobin oxygenation. The molecular mechanism proposed involves an interaction between deoxyhemoglobin and the cytoplasmic domain of the anion-exchange protein, band 3 (cdB3). Given that band 3 also binds to membrane proteins 4.1 and 4.2, several kinases, hemichromes, and integral membrane proteins, and at least three glycolytic enzymes, it has been suggested that the cdB3-deoxyhemoglobin interaction might modulate the pathways mediated by these associated proteins in an O2-dependent manner. We have investigated this mechanism by synthesizing 10-mer peptides corresponding to the NH2-terminal fragments of various vertebrate cdB3s, determining their effects on the oxygenation reactions of hemoglobins from the same and different species and examining binding of the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase to the erythrocytic membrane of mouse erythrocytes. The cdB3 interaction is strongly dependent on pH and the number of negative and positive charges of the peptide and at the effector binding site, respectively. It lowers the O2 association equilibrium constant of the deoxygenated (Tense) state of the hemoglobin and is inhibited by magnesium ions, which neutralize cdB3's charge and by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which competes for the cdB3binding site. The interaction is stronger in humans (whose erythrocytes derive energy predominantly from glycolysis and exhibit higher buffering capacity) than in birds and ectothermic vertebrates (whose erythrocytes metabolize aerobically and are poorly buffered) and is insignificant in fish, suggesting that its role in the regulation of red cell glycolysis increased with phylogenetic development in vertebrates.
Summary The oxygenation status of normal and diabetic (White's classification A and B) mothers and their neonates was investigated. The diabetic patients had significantly increased maternal total haemoglobin and Pso values and the percentage of fetal haemo­ globin was increased in cord blood taken at delivery in this group. There was a significant positive correlation between maternal Pso values and the percentage of fetal haemoglobin in cord blood. The cord blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inorganic phosphate and Pso values were also increased in neonates born to diabetic mothers and these infants had a significantly increased birth weight ratio. The results are consistent with the presence of fetal hypoxaemia in the late third trimester of diabetic pregnancy in which obvious maternal vascular disease has been excluded.
The aim of this study was to provide basal values of phospholipid (PL) composition in different animal species by 31P NMR analysis using detergents. This fast and accurate method allowed a quantitative analysis of PLs without any previous separation. Plasma and erythrocyte membrane PLs were investigated in mammals (pig, cow, horse). Moreover, for the first time, the composition of plasma PLs in avian (chicken and ostrich) was performed by 31P NMR. Significant qualitative and quantitative interspecies differences in plasma PL levels were found. Phosphatidilcholine (PC) and sphingomyelin (SPH) levels were significantly higher (P < 0.001) in chicken plasma than all the other species tested. In erythrocytes, cow PC and phosphatidylcholine diarachidoyl were significantly lower (P < 0.001) than for pigs and horses, whereas pig PC presented intermediate values among cows and horses. Inorganic phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels were also significantly different between the species under investigation. The [SPH/total PLs] molar ratios in erythrocytes confirmed interspecies differences in phospholipid composition while the PC/SPH molar ratios could be related to a distinct erythrocyte flexibility and aggregability. Diet and nutrition may contribute primarily to the interspecies differences in plasma PL amounts detected. Significant differences between chicken plasma PC and SPH levels and those of the other animal species could be ascribed to a fat metabolism specific to egg production.
The oxygen binding curves of whole cells of heterozygous sickle cell hemoglobinopathies were measured. Under the conditions of measurement (T=25°, pH=6.4, pCO2=0) the curves are biphasic. Samples in which 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is very low or absent are monophasic, suggesting that there is a differential binding of 2,3-DPG to S and non-S hemoglobin in cells of heterozygotes. The biphasic curve has been confirmed in a hemoglobin SC patient, under physiologic conditions (T=37°, pH=7.4, pCO2=44 mm).
BACKGROUND ::: Alzheimer (AD) features the accumulation of β-amyloid in erythrocytes. The subsequent red cell damage may well affect their oxygen-carrying capabilities. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) binds to the hemoglobin thereby promoting oxygen release. It is theorized that 2,3-DPG is reduced in AD and that the resulting hypoxia triggers erythropoietin (EPO) release. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: To explore this theory, we analyzed red cell 2,3-DPG content and EPO in AD, mild cognitive impairment, and the control group, subjective cognitive impairment. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS/CONCLUSION ::: We have studied (i) 2,3-DPG in red cells, and (ii) circulating EPO in AD, and both markers are unaffected by dementia. Disturbances of these oxygen-regulatory pathways do not appear to participate in brain hypoxia in AD.
Vanadate is known to inhibit several phosphatases including Na+, K+-ATPase, alkaline phosphatase, and glyceraldehyde-3-P dehydrogenase. Inhibition presumably results because vanadium adopts a stable structure which resembles the transition state of phosphate during the reactions involving these enzymes. We performed experiments to further examine the effects of vanadate (VO3-4) on erythrocyte (red blood cells (RBC] glycolytic intermediates. RBC obtained from human subjects were centrifuged and washed with lactated Ringer's 5% dextrose. 31P nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of the RBC revealed the characteristic peaks for the 3-phosphate and 2-phosphate of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), inorganic phosphate (Pi), and ATP. Incubation of RBC with 10(-6) M VO3-4 led to a disappearance of ATP and 2,3-DPG while the peak for Pi increased. By the end of 4 h over 90% of the VO3-4 had been reduced to VO2+ (vanadyl) in the RBC. The effects of 10(-4) M iodoacetamide and 10(-5) M ethacrynic acid, known inhibitors of glyceraldehyde-3-P dehydrogenase that act by interactions with sulfhydryl groups (-SH) of the enzyme, were similar to those of VO3-4. Incubation with vanadyl did not affect the peaks for Pi, 2-DPG, or 3-DPG. Furthermore, using electron spin resonance we demonstrated that in the presence of glyceraldehyde-3-P dehydrogenase, VO3-4 is reduced to VO2+. The findings demonstrate that VO3-4 inhibits glycolysis at micromolar concentrations and that the ion is reduced to VO2+ in the cell. The similarity of the effect of VO3-4 to those of iodoacetamide and ethacrynic acid suggests that interactions with -SH groups is its mechanism of inhibition. Since under physiological conditions intracellular VO3-4 concentrations are in the micromolar range and may exist in oxidized and/or reduced forms, VO3-4 could regulate the activity of glyceraldehyde-3-P dehydrogenase through changes in the redox state of the enzyme rather than by substituting for the PO3-4 ion.
Abstract The role of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in increasing the availability of hemoglobin oxygen in anemia was investigated. Measurements of 2,3-DPG and of oxygen dissociation (P50) were carried out on 57 normal subjects and 114 subjects with anemia. Twenty normal nonsmoking males had a mean hemoglobin of 15.3 g per 100 ml, a mean DPG of 4.83 mM and a mean P50 of 27.1 mm of mercury. Twenty normal nonsmoking females had a mean hemoglobin lower by 2.6 g per 100 ml, a DPG higher by 0.5 mM and a P50 increased by 0.4 mm of mercury DPG. P50 rose progressively with decreasing hemoglobin concentrations. For each gram of hemoglobin fall, there was a DPG increase of about 0.23 mM and a P50 increase of about 0.30 mm of mercury. Increases in adenosine triphosphate also occurred but, because of the smaller amount involved, had less effect on the oxygen dissociation curve. A rise in inorganic phosphate level had no demonstrable effect, but in vivo pH changes appear of considerable importance. It wa...
A complete experimental format is given for the reconstitution of human hemoglobin from the separated heme-free alpha- and beta-globin chains (alpha degrees, beta degrees) and hemin, by two alternative routes. Based on their oxygen binding properties, the reaction of the ferri-forms with reducing agent, and the response of the oxygen binding curves to pH variation and to the addition of the allosteric effector 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the molecules are native. One reconstitution route uses direct addition of hemin to the separated globin chains with production of the separated subunits, which can then be recombined and reduced. This procedure occasions losses by precipitation in the heme-addition step except at high dilutions, and the yields are low. In the second pathway, either globin chain is mixed with the complementary untreated subunit to form the half-filled (with heme) intermediates, which combine stoichiometrically with hemin. No precipitation accompanies these reactions. For alpha-globin, the yield is about 50% because of incomplete combination with the heme-containing beta chain. For beta-globin, the yield is better than 70%. It is suggested that experiments intended to test either globin chain should use the second route in preparation for structural or functional comparisons with native hemoglobin.
Hypoxia has been reported to cause the significant enhancement of hemoglobin (Hb) and hematocrit (Hct), which stabilizes at relatively high levels after an individual ascends to a high altitude. However, the quality of the suspended red blood cells (SRBCs) obtained from individuals at high altitudes such as Tibetan plateau migrants after storage has not been studied. In this study, we compared the storage quality of SRBCs prepared from Tibetan plateau and Deyang lowland populations by adding a normal volume of mannitol-adenine-phosphate (MAP), which is a common additive solution used in blood storage in Asian countries. The storage cell characteristics were examined on days 1, 7, 14 and 35.We found higher Hct and Hb levels and viscosity in the high altitude samples. The metabolic rates, including those for electrolytes and lactate, were higher in plateau SRBCs than in lowland SRBCs; these findings were consistent with the higher osmotic fragility and hemolysis of plateau SRBCs throughout the entire storage period. In addition, the reduction rates of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and oxygen tension to attain 50% oxygen saturation of Hb (P50) in plateau SRBCs were higher than those in lowland SRBCs, and the oxygen delivering capacity in plateau SRBCs was weaker than that in lowland SRBCs. We concluded that the storage quality of plateau SRBCs was inferior to that of lowland SRBCs when using the same concentration of MAP. We suggested that the optimal formula, including the MAP concentration or even a new additive solution, to store the plateau SRBCs must be assessed and regulated.
The current study was undertaken to determine whether the O2 carrying capacity of newborns born to mothers who smoke can accommodate to carbon monoxide poisoning to compensate for the potential tissue hypoxia induced by CO. From a cohort of 1,222 women and newborn infants the total hemogloblin concentration, hematocrit, and carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO) were measured and analyzed with regard to the maternal HbCO level and the number of cigarettes smoked per day. Also, for 100 pairs of mothers, of whom 50 were smokers and 50 nonsmokers, and their newborns, measurements were made of the intraerythrocyte concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), the hemoglobin concentration, and the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen by determination of O2 tension for 50% of Hb-O2 saturation (P50). The results showed no significant relationship between smoking habits of mothers and their levels of hemoglobin, P50, and 2,3-DPG; only the hematocrit was slightly increased in smoking mothers. However, in fetal blood a significant correlation was found between the number of cigarettes smoked per day and levels of hemoglobin, hematocrit, and P50. The P50 decreased in relationship to the increase in maternal HbCO. The P50 change was brought about by an increase in hemoglobin F found in the fetuses of mothers who smoked. Although all these changes were statistically significant, these mechanisms of acclimatization to CO poisoning appeared trivial in magnitude. It is concluded that the human fetus does not have a biologic capacity to accommodate to maternal cigarette smoking, and therefore the fetus is particularly susceptible to the adverse effects of cigarette smoking.
Abstract Climbers have reached the summit of Mt. Everest without supplementary oxygen in spite of measurements at lower altitudes which suggest that this is impossible. In the present study, data obtained on the American Medical Research Expedition to Everest were used to analyze the oxygen transport system during maximal exercise at the highest point on earth. Barometric pressure was 253 Torr, giving an inspired P O 2 of only 43 Torr, alveolar P CO 2 was 7.5 Torr, hemoglobin 18.4 g/dl P 50 at pH 7.4 was 29.6 Torr, and base excess −7.2 mEq/L. Values for cardiac output and diffusing capacity were based on measurements previously made at an altitude of 5800 m. The analysis showed that it is possible to account for a V O 2 max of over 1 L/min while keeping the P O 2 of mixed venous blood above 15 Torr. Differences between the present study and previous predictions of a lower V O 2 max are explained. These differences include higher values of barometric pressure, ventilation and base excess than expected. The analysis shows that any rise in P 50 caused by increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is a liability. While it is just possible for man to reach the summit of Everest without supplementary oxygen, this can only be done at the expense of extreme hyperventilation and respiratory alkalosis, and even then the arterial P O 2 is less than 30 Torr.
Hereditary xerocytes appear larger than normal red cells in scanning electron micrographs and exhibit a higher ghost packing volume. The major chemical components--protein, phosphorus, cholesterol and sialic acid--are increased uniformly, as are all polypeptides visible on gel electrophoresis patterns of xerocyte membranes. These data are consistent with a xerocyte surface area 15 to 25% above normal. Certain clinical anomalies common to this disorder, including unexpectedly low reticulocyte count and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level, are discussed in the light of the present findings.
The term "shock" refers to a life-threatening circulatory failure caused by an imbalance between the supply and demand of cellular oxygen. Hypovolemic shock is characterized by a reduction of intravascular volume and a subsequent reduction in preload. The body compensates the loss of volume by increasing the stroke volume, heart frequency, oxygen extraction rate, and later by an increased concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate with a rightward shift of the oxygen dissociation curve. Hypovolemic hemorrhagic shock impairs the macrocirculation and microcirculation and therefore affects many organ systems (e.g. kidneys, endocrine system and endothelium). For further identification of a state of shock caused by bleeding, vital functions, coagulation tests and hematopoietic procedures are implemented. Every hospital should be in possession of a specific protocol for massive transfusions. The differentiated systemic treatment of bleeding consists of maintenance of an adequate homeostasis and the administration of blood products and coagulation factors.
Yalcin O, Cabrales P. Increased hemoglobin O2 affinity protects during acute hypoxia. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 303: H271-H281, 2012. First published May 25, 2012; doi:10.1152/ajpheart.00078.2012.-Acclimatization to hypoxia requires time to complete the adaptation mechanisms that influence oxygen (O2) transport and O2 utilization. Although decreasing hemoglobin (Hb) O2 affinity would favor the release of O2 to the tissues, increasing Hb O2 affinity would augment arterial O2 saturation during hypoxia. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that pharmacologically increasing the Hb O2 affinity will augment O2 transport during severe hypoxia (10 and 5% inspired O2) compared with normal Hb O2 affinity. RBC Hb O2 affinity was increased by infusion of 20 mg/kg of 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furfural (5HMF). Control animals received only the vehicle. The effects of increasing Hb O2 affinity were studied in the hamster window chamber model, in terms of systemic and microvascular hemodynamics and partial pressures of O2 (PO2). Pimonidazole binding to hypoxic areas of mice heart and brain was also studied. 5HMF decreased the PO2 at which the Hb is 50% saturated with O2 by 12.6 mmHg. During 10 and 5% O2 hypoxia, 5HMF increased arterial blood O2 saturation by 35 and 48% from the vehicle group, respectively. During 5% O2 hypoxia, blood pressure and heart rate were 58 and 30% higher for 5HMF compared with the vehicle. In addition, 5HMF preserved microvascular blood flow, whereas blood flow decreased to 40% of baseline in the vehicle group. Consequently, perivascular PO2 was three times higher in the 5HMF group compared with the control group at 5% O2 hypoxia. 5HMF also reduced heart and brain hypoxic areas in mice. Therefore, increased Hb O2 affinity resulted in hemodynamics and oxygenation benefits during severe hypoxia. This acute acclimatization process may have implications in survival during severe environmental hypoxia when logistic constraints prevent chronic acclimatization. microcirculation; oxygen release; partial pressure of oxygen at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated with oxygen; hemoglobin oxygen affinity; critical oxygen supply; high altitude RED BLOOD CELLS (RBCs) contain hemoglobin (Hb), which reversibly binds oxygen (O 2 ). The delivery of O 2 to tissues is drastically affected by reductions in a fraction of inspired O 2 (hypoxia), which decreases arterial PO 2 and blood O 2 saturation (SO 2 ) (20). Exposure and adaptation to hypoxia (and/or high altitude) decrease Hb O 2 affinity, introducing a right shift to the blood O 2 equilibrium curve (9). The decrease in Hb O 2 affinity during hypoxia has been explained to favor O 2 offload to tissues (9). When exposed to hypoxia, the magnitude of the decrease in Hb O 2 affinity depends on the acid-base status (Bohr Effect and Haldane Effect), whereas, during acclimation to hypoxia, the change in Hb O 2 affinity depends on the total concentration of organic phosphates in the RBC, mainly 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and ATP (10).
. Effects of hyperchloremia on blood oxygen binding in healthy calves. J. Appl. Physiol. 85(4): 1267-1272, 1998.-Three different levels of hyperchloremia were induced in healthy Friesian calves to study the effects of chloride on blood oxygen transport. By infusion, the calves received either 5 ml/kg of 0.9% NaCl (low-level hyperchloremia; group A), 5 ml/kg of 7.5% NaCl (moderate hyperchloremia; group B), or 7.5 ml/kg of 7.5% NaCl (high-level hyperchloremia; group C). Blood was sampled from the jugular vein and the brachial artery. Chloride concentration, hemoglobin content, arterial and venous pH, PCO 2 , and PO 2 were determined. At each time point (0, 15, 30, 60, and 120 min), the whole blood oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) was measured under standard conditions. In groups B and C, hyperchloremia was accompanied by a sustained rightward shift of the OEC, as indicated by the significant increase in the standard PO 2 at 50% hemoglobin saturation. Infusion of hypertonic saline also induced relative acidosis. The arterial and venous OEC were calculated, with body temperature, pH, and PCO 2 values in arterial and venous blood taken into account. The degree of blood desaturation between the arterial and the venous compartments [O 2 exchange fraction (OEF%)] and the amount of oxygen released at tissue level by 100 ml of bovine blood (OEF vol%) were calculated from the arterial and venous OEC combined with the PO 2 and hemoglobin concentration. The chlorideinduced rightward shift of the OEC was reinforced by the relative acidosis, but the altered PO 2 values combined with the lower hemoglobin concentration explained the absence of any significant difference in OEF (% and vol%). We conclude that infusion of hypertonic saline induces hyperchloremia and acidemia, which can explain the OEC rightward shift observed in arterial and peripheral venous blood. oxygen affinity; red blood cells; calves; hyperchloremia IN EXPERIMENTS ON BOVINE hemoglobin solutions, Fronticelli et al. (8) showed that chloride decreases the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin and may act in bovines as a physiological modulator of blood oxygen transport. Using whole tonometered blood, Gustin et al. (9, 10) showed more recently that under standard conditions (pH 7.4, PCO 2 40 Torr, temperature 37°C), chloride modulates binding of oxygen to the red blood cells of adult and neonate bovines, shifting the oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) to the right. The OEC is also influenced by other factors such as pH, PCO 2 , temperature, and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration. From these data it appears that chloride could be a good pharmacological tool for shifting the OEC to the right in vivo in calves. As recently reviewed by Cambier et al. (2), hypertonic saline solutions have been used in clinical conditions, such as hemorrhaghic shock, endotoxic shock, and hypochloremic hypokalamic alkalosis, to improve cardiovascular function and blood biochemical paremeters. However, the influence of hypertonic saline solutions on the different stages of oxygen transport from the lung to the tissues remains unclear. To assess the chloride effects in combination with other biochemical changes induced in vivo by saline solution administration, we recorded the standard OEC in blood sampled from healthy calves with different levels of hyperchloremia induced by the administration of saline. We also measured temperature, the acid-base balance, the hemoglobin concentration, and PO 2 and PCO 2 in arterial (Pa O 2 and Pa CO 2 , respectively) and venous blood (Pv O 2 and Pv CO 2 , respectively) to assess the in vivo effects of chloride on blood oxygen release.
Hypoxia has been reported to cause the significant enhancement of hemoglobin (Hb) and hematocrit (Hct), which stabilizes at relatively high levels after an individual ascends to a high altitude. However, the quality of the suspended red blood cells (SRBCs) obtained from individuals at high altitudes such as Tibetan plateau migrants after storage has not been studied. In this study, we compared the storage quality of SRBCs prepared from Tibetan plateau and Deyang lowland populations by adding a normal volume of mannitol-adeninephosphate (MAP), which is a common additive solution used in blood storage in Asian countries. The storage cell characteristics were examined on days1, 7, 14 and 35.We found higher Hct and Hb levels and viscosity in the high altitude samples. The metabolic rates, including those for electrolytes and lactate, were higher in plateau SRBCs than in lowland SRBCs; these findings were consistent with the higher osmotic fragility and hemolysis of plateau SRBCs throughout the entire storage period. In addition, the reduction rates of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and oxygen tension to attain 50% oxygen saturation of Hb (P50) in plateau SRBCs were higher than those in lowland SRBCs, and the oxygen delivering capacity in plateau SRBCs was weaker than that in lowland SRBCs. We concluded that the storage quality of plateau SRBCs was inferior to that of lowland SRBCs when using the same concentration of MAP. We suggested that the optimal formula, including the MAP concentration or even a new additive solution, to store the plateau SRBCs must be assessed and regulated.
Packed red blood cell (RBC) transfusions are life-saving interventions for millions of recipients every year (~11.3 million units transfused/year in the USA alone 1 ). Refrigerated RBC storage is required to make the ~100 million units collected worldwide every year available for transfusion. However, refrigerated RBC storage induces many biochemical and morphological alterations, collectively termed the "storage lesion." [2] [3] [4] [5] Some alterations are promoted by oxidative stress, arising within the first 2 weeks of storage, 6, 7 targeting proteins, [8] [9] [10] [11] lipids, [12] [13] [14] [15] and various small molecules, including purines. [16] [17] [18] [19] These observations, together with early depletion of high energy phosphate compounds, including adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), prompted many to question whether the storage lesion compromises RBC transfusion safety and efficacy.
1. Oxygen-binding, plasma and intra-erythrocytic pH, and haemoglobin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inorganic phosphate concentrations were measured in sixty-two healthy non-smokers aged between 18 and 89 years. 2. P50 (oxygen tension at 50% oxygen saturation) expressed at plasma pH 7-40 and PCO2 5-33 kPa showed a positive correlation with age. 3. This correlation of P50 with age was closer when P50 was expressed at a constant intra-erythrocytic pH 7-20. On average P50 at intra-erythrocytic pH 7-20 increased from 3-59 kPa at 20 years to 3-96 kPa at 90 years of age. 4. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate, inorganic phosphate, haemoglobin and mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentrations did not correlate with P50 or with age.
Twelve units of red cells (RBCs) from patients with sickle cell disease were glycerolized and frozen for periods of 1 to 3 years. The freeze-thaw hemolysis (mean 11.6% +/- 2.1% SEM) and in vitro process recovery (mean 74.4% +/- 3.7% SEM) were similar to those of sickle RBCs frozen for shorter periods of time. There was a weak positive correlation between duration of frozen storage and cell losses during deglycerolization. The adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels of the thawed RBCs were within an acceptable range (mean 3.4 +/- 0.2 mumol/g Hb and 18.0 +/- 0.8 mumol/g Hb, respectively). Long-term cryopreservation of sickle (Hb SS) RBCs opens the possibility of exploring autologous transfusion to treat sickle cell disease patients during anemic episodes that are not due to sickling.
A mechanism for indirect allosteric action of charged effectors on substrate binding to a macromolecule is proposed. It is accounted for by electrostatic interaction among effectors in the solution, away from their receptors. The possibility of the mechanism proposed is tested in the allosteric action of univalent salt and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on oxygen binding to hemoglobin. A model for electrostatic interaction between these two effectors in the solution and for their overall effect on oxygen binding is introduced. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding constant to deoxygenated hemoglobin as a function of univalent salt concentration and the median ligand activity as a function of the concentration of univalent salt and 2,3-diphoshoglycerate are calculated and compared with experimental data. The obtained results indicate that electrostatic interaction in the solution may significantly contribute to indirect allosteric action of charged effectors.
The reaction of tris(2-chloroethyl)amine (TCEA) with purified hemoglobin and its effect on properties of hemoglobin was studied using 14C-labeled TCEA. Hemoglobin remained soluble after binding as much as 4 TCEA per heme. In concentrations which did not denature hemoglobin TCEA reacted only with a small proportion of the free SH groups; blockade of the SH groups with PMB did not noticeably affect the binding of TCEA to hemoglobin. Hydrolysis by trypsin or chymotrypsin of hemoglobin which had reacted with TCEA yielded radioactive peptides besides not radioactive peptides and radioactive compounds not reacting with ninhydrin. The reaction with TCEA caused a change in electrophoretic mobility of hemoglobin and prevented its complete disintegration by PMB into subunits. After reaction with TCEA the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen was strongly increased and the heme-heme interaction strongly diminished. The Bohr effect and the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on oxygen affinity remained unchanged. The effect of TCEA on the properties of hemoglobin points to specificity in its reaction with functional groups of hemoglobin.
Low molecular weight phosphoryl compounds, such as carbamoyl phosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and phytic acid protect, to different extents, mitochondrial and cytosolic proteins such as ornithine transcarbamoylase (OTC), carbamoyl phosphate synthetase (CPS), glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), from proteolytic inactivation (rat liver lysosomal extracts, pronase, elastase). Given the wide variety and common occurrence of low molecular weight reagents such as typified here, it seems that this kind of inhibition may be important in the regulation of protein turnover. Regulation of intracellular proteolysis can also occur via the proteolytic systems. Immunocytochemical procedures for mitochondrial enzymes (CPS, GDH, OTC), show intracellular homogeneity, but intercellular heterogeneity in rat liver, compatible with a role of the autophagic-lysosomal system in degrading these proteins. However, degradation of short-lived proteins occurs by other mechanisms. Using centrifugation of cultured cells, we find that the Golgi apparatus takes part in the degradation of these proteins, probably by controlling the traffic of proteins or proteases to the degradation site.
While prospective clinical trials are currently underway in several countries throughout the world1, the safety and effectiveness of long-stored erythrocyte concentrates have been questioned by controversial retrospective clinical evidence2,3 and accumulating biochemical investigations4–6. Laboratory investigations have recently highlighted that a significant number of biochemical and mechanical lesions accumulate in erythrocyte concentrates during their storage in the blood bank. These alterations, often referred to as “storage lesions”, include: (i) the progressive impairment of cell metabolism, leading to the consumption of high energy phosphate compounds (ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate)7; (ii) the accumulation of oxidative stress, resulting in the oxidation8, non-enzymatic glycosylation9, fragmentation or aggregation of the red blood cell (RBC) membrane10–13 and cytosolic proteins14; (iii) the progressive loss of metabolic modulation15, as a result of oxidative stress (especially in non-leucoreduced units)16 and protease activity-dependent fragmentation of the N-terminal cytosolic domain of band 317, which results in impairment of the regulatory function of the so-called “respiratory metabolon”18,19; (iv) the progressive oxidation of lipids and deregulation of lipid homeostasis20,21; (v) the exacerbation of membrane blebbing and shedding of microvesicles, a self-protective mechanism22, closely mimicking apoptosis23, which allows cells to get rid of no-longer functional or irreversibly altered proteins and lipids24, while retaining rheological properties of the donor25, which might result in pro-immunogenic potential in the recipient, together with newly appearing storage-dependent biomarkers promoting RBC phagocytosis, such as phosphatidylserine exposure; and (vi) microvesiculation events that compromise RBC morphology (changes from a discocytic to a spheroechnicocytic or spherocytic phenotype), which ends up impairing the surface-to-volume ratio, thereby increasing osmotic fragility26,27, and increasing membrane rigidity, as a result of progressive leaching and intercalation of the plasticizers (such as DEHP) into the membrane lipid bilayer28. ::: ::: In the light of such changes, alternative storage strategies have been proposed over the years, such as deoxygenation of packed erythrocyte concentrates through other methods29,30. The rationale underpinning such a strategy is that deoxygenation of erythrocyte concentrates would remove the main substrate for the production of reactive oxygen species, while promoting energy metabolism through the Embden-Meyerhoff pathway in the light of the oxygen-dependent metabolic modulation mediated by the competitive binding of deoxyhemoglobin and glycolytic enzymes to the N-terminal cytosolic domain of band 318,19. Early studies by independent groups (and through independent processing strategies29,30) found deoxygenation-dependent improvement of hemolysis and morphological parameters, as well as prolonged preservation of high energy phosphate compounds29–31, though at the expenses of the NADPH-generating potential via the pentose phosphate pathway, as gleaned through metabolomics approaches31. ::: ::: In the light of these encouraging results, we decided to apply a proteomics workflow to understand whether the RBC membrane proteome of erythrocytes stored under deoxygenation in leucofiltered-units is better preserved than in untreated controls. In our previous investigation on deoxygenated units of non-leucofiltered erythrocyte concentrates12 we concluded that the overall spot numbers in two-dimensional electrophoresis (2DE) gels could represent a diagnostic marker of proteome homeostasis during storage in the blood bank. Indeed, RBC are devoid of nuclei and organelles and are, therefore, incapable of synthesising proteins de novo. Any alteration to the overall number of spots in 2DE gels can, therefore, be attributed to storage-dependent effects on the membrane proteome, which we previously identified as fragmentation and aggregation phenomena during the first two-three weeks of storage (increased number of detected spots), followed by vesiculation of damaged proteins (decreased number of spots)11,12. Furthermore, in control units, we previously correlated the storage-dependent alteration of the erythrocyte membrane proteome stability to an impairment in osmotic fragility26. Concordantly, in the present study we performed 2DE assays of the membrane proteome of leucofiltered erythrocytes stored under control conditions or in a deoxygenated environment (following oxygen removal, as previously described)30. As a result, we could confirm that deoxygenation had beneficial effects in terms of membrane proteome homeostasis and preserved osmotic resistance.
This study had two goals: 1) measure hematologic changes with high-altitude acclimatization in horses; and 2) assess the effect of 9 days at high altitude on subsequent athletic performance at low altitude. Six horses performed standardized exercise tests on a dirt track (before and during time at altitude) and treadmill (pre- and postaltitude exposure). Resting and immediate postexercise blood samples were measured for blood volume, lactate, red cell number, packed cell volume, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentrations at 225 m, over a 9-day period at 3,800 m, and shortly after returning to 225 m. Acclimatization produced increases in total red cell volume (38.2 +/- 2.4 to 48.1 +/- 2.9 ml/kg, P = 0.004) and DPG/hemoglobin concentrations (19.4 +/- 1.7 increased to 29.4 +/- 0. 4 micromol/g, P = 0.004). Two performance variables, heart rate recovery postexercise and lactate recovery, were faster after acclimatization.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) is rapidly formed in squid photoreceptors in response to light, where it is converted sequentially into inositol bisphosphate (InsP2) and inositol monophosphate (InsP1). All of the InsP3 appears to be degraded to inositol 1,4-bisphosphate via an InsP3-phosphatase, which is characterized in this study. The enzyme is water-soluble and present in the light-transducing distal segments of squid photoreceptors. It has a Km of 50 microM for InsP3, requires Mg++ for its activity, is maximally active at neutral pH, specifically hydrolyses the 5-phosphate and is inhibited by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. In these respects, InsP3-phosphatase of squid is very similar to the enzymes of other cells. Since no InsP4 or more highly phosphorylated inositols are found in squid photoreceptors, the InsP3-phosphatase may be important in the regulation of InsP3 concentration within these cells.
The levels of cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG) in methanogenic bacteria are governed by the antagonistic activities of cDPG synthetase and cDPG hydrolase. In this paper we focus on the synthetase from Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum. The cytoplasmic 150 kDa enzyme catalyzed cDPG synthesis from 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (apparent Km=21 mM), Mg2+ (Km=3.1 mM) and ATP (Km=1–2 mM). In batch-fed cultures, the enzyme was constitutively present (6–6.5 nmol per min per mg protein) during the different growth phases. In continuous cultures, activity decreased in response to phosphate limitation. The synthetase reaction proceeded with maximal rate at pH 6 and at 65° C and was specifically dependent on high (>0.3M) K+ concentrations. The reaction conditions remarkably contrasted to those of cDPG degradation catalyzed by the previously described membrane-bound cDPG hydrolase.
OBJECTIVE ::: To determine the nature and characteristics of a unique hemoglobin variant that causes a spurious increase in glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c). ::: ::: ::: MATERIAL AND METHODS ::: Blood specimens from four unrelated persons with this hemoglobin variant were examined by conventional laboratory methods, including electrophoresis, high-performance ion-exchange chromatography, and isoelectric focusing; by amino acid sequence analysis, polymerase chain reaction-based DNA sequence analysis, and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry, to establish the molecular structure; and by studies of oxygen affinity under varied conditions, to define the functional characteristics of the hemoglobin variant. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The unique hemoglobin variant observed in these four cases is due to the mutation CAC-->TAC, at beta-globin gene codon 143, corresponding to beta 143 (H21) His-->Tyr. This amino acid substitution affects an important 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site and slightly increases the oxygen affinity of the hemoglobin variant. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: A hitherto unrecognized hemoglobin variant, encountered in four unrelated persons of Irish or Scots-Irish ancestry, hemoglobin Old Dominion/Burton-upon-Trent, beta 143 (H21) His-->Tyr, has now been characterized at the molecular, structural, and functional levels. Although it is associated with a slight increase in oxygen affinity, it is without hematologic effect, and its only clinical significance is that it coelutes with HbA1c on ion-exchange chromatography and thereby causes a spurious increase in HbA1c and compromises the use of this analyte to monitor the treatment of diabetes mellitus.
Abstract 38 Introduction: During storage, red blood cells (RBC) undergo progressive deleterious functional, biochemical and structural changes, producing a “storage lesion”. The storage lesion includes reversible and irreversible changes that begin within hours of storage, progress during storage, release free hemoglobin (Hb) and Hb-containing microvesicles, and impair RBC function and lifespan after transfusion. Our recent studies in mice with endothelial dysfunction revealed an enhanced systemic vasoconstrictor response to infusion of tetrameric Hb or Hb-based oxygen carriers. Therefore, we sought to test the hypothesis that endothelial dysfunction would predispose mice to the vasoconstrictor effects of infusion of fresh and stored murine blood. Methods: Murine leukoreduced RBC from C57BL/6 mice were prepared with 14% CPDA-1 anticoagulant and stored at 4°C for either ≤24 h (fresh red blood cells, FRBC) or 2 weeks (stored red blood cells, SRBC). RBC morphology, as well as ATP levels, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels, and P 50 were measured in FRBC and SRBC before transfusion. We also prepared murine RBC storage components, i.e. supernatant from FRBC or SRBC, oxidized supernatant from SRBC, and washed SRBC. We studied three groups of mice, awake wild-type mice (WT, C57BL/6) fed a standard diet, WT mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD) for 4–6 weeks (to induce endothelial dysfunction), and diabetic (db/db, C57BL/6 background) mice. Each group was transfused with FRBC, SRBC, and db/db mice also received RBC components (10% of total blood volume). Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured every 10 min in awake mice before and 2 h after transfusion with FRBC, SRBC or RBC components. A subgroup of mice transfused with SRBC also breathed air (FiO 2 =0.21) supplement with nitric oxide (NO, 80 parts per million (ppm)). Invasive hemodynamic measurements were performed in anesthetized mice in order to obtain mean arterial blood pressure, heart rate, and cardiac output. Blood and tissue samples were collected 2 h after FRBC or SRBC transfusion for determination of plasma Hb and iron levels, and measurement of lung and liver levels of mRNA encoding inflammatory cytokines. In addition, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in lung and liver was measured 2 h after FRBC or SRBC transfusion. Results: SRBC were characterized by altered RBC morphology, decreased ATP and 2,3-DPG levels, and a reduced P 50 . Transfusion of SRBC into awake WT mice fed a standard diet or HFD produced no systemic hemodynamic changes. In contrast, transfusion of SRBC or supernatant from SRBC into db/db mice induced systemic hypertension that was prevented by concurrent inhalation of NO. Infusion of washed SRBC or oxidized SRBC supernatant into db/db mice did not induce systemic vasoconstriction or hypertension. Invasive hemodynamic studies confirmed that transfusion of SRBC and SRBC supernatant induced systemic vasoconstriction and hypertension, but transfusion of washed SRBC did not. Plasma Hb levels were greater in all mouse groups at 2 h after transfusion of SRBC but not after FRBC transfusion. Two hours after transfusion of SRBC, plasma interleukin-6 and iron levels, as well as hepatic HO-1 mRNA levels, were increased in all mouse groups. Conclusions: Syngeneic transfusion of SRBC or only the supernatant from SRBC but not washed SRBC produces systemic hypertension and vasoconstriction in db/db mice, which is prevented by oxidizing the supernatant of SRBC or breathing NO during SRBC transfusion. Infusion of SRBC induced a mild systemic inflammatory response in WT fed a standard diet or HFD, and db/db mice. Transfused cell-free oxyHb in the supernatant released from RBC during storage appears to be responsible for the vasoconstriction produced in db/db mice, since it is prevented by oxidizing the supernatant. Our current data support examining the link between the RBC storage lesion and cardiovascular and immunological perturbations in highly susceptible recipients with endothelial dysfunction. Disclosures: Yu: Massachusetts General Hospital: patents on inhaled nitric oxide and blood transfusion. Bloch: MGH has received sponsored research grant funding from Ikaria LLC, the maker of nitric oxide gas for inhalation in the US, in support of Dr. Bloch9s research program.: Research Funding. Zapol: Dr. Warren Zapol receives royalties from patents on inhaled nitric oxide licensed by Massachusetts General Hospital to Linde Corp, Munich, Germany, and Ikaria Corp, Clinton, New Jersey. Dr. Zapol has applied for patents on inhaled nitric oxide and blood t: Patents & Royalties.
Abstract Bovine erythrocytes do not contain 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the principal allosteric effector of human hemoglobin. Bovine hemoglobin has a lower oxygen affinity than human hemoglobin and is regulated by physiological concentrations of chloride (Fronticelli, C., Bucci, E., and Razynska, A.(1988) J. Mol. Biol. 202, 343-348). It has been proposed that the chloride regulation in bovine hemoglobin is introduced by particular amino acid residues located in the amino-terminal region of the A helix and in the E helix of the β subunits (Fronticelli, C.(1990) Biophys. Chem. 37, 141-146). In accordance with this proposal we have constructed two mutant human hemoglobins, β(V1M+H2deleted+T4I+P5A) and β(V1M+H2deleted+T4I+P5A+A76K). These are the residues present at the proposed locations in bovine hemoglobin except for isoleucine at position 4. Oxygen binding studies demonstrate that these mutations have introduced into human hemoglobin the low oxygen affinity and chloride sensitivity of bovine hemoglobin and reveal the presence of a previously unrecognized allosteric mechanism of oxygen affinity regulation where all the interactions responsible for the lowered affinity and chloride binding appear to be confined to individual β subunits.
We describe a new alpha chain mutant accidentally found in a diabetic patient. The propositus is being treated for diabetes mellitus II with 4% glycated hemoglobin (Hb A1C). The variant, named Hb Gouda, is not detectable by starch gel electrophoresis but appears as a shoulder before the Hb A fraction during the chromatographic separation of Hb A1C. The hematological analysis revealed normal parameters with a normal serum iron value. No anomalies were reported in connection with Hb Gouda. The tryptic peptide map and sequencing of the alpha T-9 peptide revealed the substitution of a histidine by a glutamine at position 72. By selective amplification and sequencing of both the alpha genes, we have assigned the new mutation to the alpha 2 gene. Position 72 of the alpha chain is a moderately conserved site located between two non-conserved amino acids. This site is not involved in heme, dimer or tetramer contacts, or in Bohr effect or in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding.
The ease with which haemoglobin releases oxygen to the tissues is controlled by erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) such that an increase in the concentration of 2,3-DPG decreases oxygen affinity and vice versa. This review article describes the synthesis and breakdown of 2,3-DPG in the Embden-Meyerof pathway in red cells and briefly explains the molecular basis for its effect on oxygen affinity. Interaction of the effects of pH, Pco2, temperature and 2,3-DPG on the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve are discussed. The role of 2,3-DPG in the intraerythrocytic adaptation to various types of hypoxaemia is described. The increased oxygen affinity of blood stored in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) solution has been shown to be due to the decrease in the concentration of 2,3-DPG which occurs during storage. Methods of maintaining the concentration of 2,3-DPG in stored blood are described. The clinical implication of transfusion of elderly people, anaemic or pregnant patients with ACD stored blood to anaesthetically and surgically acceptable haemoglobin concentrations are discussed. Hypophosphataemia in association with parenteral feeding reduces 2,3-DPG concentration and so increases oxygen affinity. Since post-operative use of intravenous fluids such as dextrose or dextrose/saline also lead to hypophosphataemia, the addition of inorganic phosphorus to routine post-operative intravenous fluid may be advisable. Disorders of acid-base balance effect oxygen affinity not only by the direct effect of pH on the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve but by its control of 2,3-DPG metabolism. Management of acid-base disorders and pre-operative aklalinization of patients with sickle cell disease whould take account of this. It is known that anaesthesia alters the position of the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve, but it is thought that this is independent of any effects which anaesthetic agents may have on 2,3-DPG concentration. In vitro manipulation of 2,3-DPG concentration with steroids has already been carried out. Elucidation of the role of 2,3-DPG in the control of oxygen affinity may ultimately lead to iatrogenic manipulation of oxygen affinity in vivo.
. Animal models of transfusion are employed in many research areas yet little is known about the storage-related changes occurring in the blood used in these studies. This study assessed storage-related changes in red blood cell (RBC) biochemistry, function and membrane deformability in rat and human packed RBCs when stored in CPDA-1 at 4 °C over a 4-week period. Human blood from five volunteers and five bags of rat RBC concentrates (five donor rats per bag) were collected and stored at 4 °C. RBC function was assessed by post-transfusion viability and the ability to regenerate adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) when treated with a rejuvenation solution. Membrane deformability was determined by a micropipette aspiration technique. ATP in rat RBCs declined more rapidly than human RBCs; after 1 week rat ATP fell to the same level as human cells after 4 weeks of storage (rat, 2·2 ± 0·2 µmol g−1 Hb; human, 2·5 ± 0·3 µmol g−1 Hb). Baseline DPG concentrations were similar in rat and human RBCs (16·2 ± 2·3 µmol g−1 Hb and 13·7 ± 2·4 µmol g−1 Hb) and declined very rapidly in both species. Human RBCs fully regenerated ATP and DPG when treated with a rejuvenation solution after 4 weeks of storage. Rat RBCs regenerated ATP but not DPG. Post-transfusion viability in rat cells was 79%, 26% and 5% after 1, 2 and 4 weeks of storage, respectively. In rats, decreased membrane deformability became significant (− 54%) after 7 days. Human RBC deformability decreased significantly by 34% after 4 weeks of storage. The rejuvenation solution restored RBC deformability to control levels in both species. Our results indicate that rat RBCs stored for 1 week in CPDA-1 develop a storage lesion similar to that of human RBCs stored for 4 weeks and underscores significant species-specific differences in the structure and metabolism of these cells.
Wickler, Steven J., and Timothy P. Anderson. Hematological changes and athletic performance in horses in response to high altitude (3,800 m). Am J Physiol Regulatory Integrative Comp Physiol 279: R1176-R1181, 2000.-This study had two goals: 1) measure hematologic changes with high-altitude acclimatization in horses; and 2) assess the effect of 9 days at high altitude on subsequent athletic performance at low altitude. Six horses performed standardized exercise tests on a dirt track (before and during time at altitude) and treadmill (pre-and postaltitude exposure). Resting and immediate postexercise blood samples were measured for blood volume, lactate, red cell number, packed cell volume, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentrations at 225 m, over a 9-day period at 3,800 m, and shortly after returning to 225 m. Acclimatization produced increases in total red cell volume (38.2 Ϯ 2.4 to 48.1 Ϯ 2.9 ml/kg, P ϭ 0.004) and DPG/hemoglobin concentrations (19.4 Ϯ 1.7 increased to 29.4 Ϯ 0.4 mol/g, P ϭ 0.004). Two performance variables, heart rate recovery postexercise and lactate recovery, were faster after acclimatization.
The first question asked was how rapidly the horse acclimatizes to high altitude (3,800 m). Another interest in high-altitude acclimatization is the effects on athletic performance. Because of the compensatory changes that occur in response to decreases in the partial pressure of oxygen (PO 2 ), there is interest on the effects of high-altitude acclimatization on subsequent performance at low altitude (7). A second aspect of the study was designed to assess if high-altitude conditioning could improve athletic performance in horses on their return to low altitude. The focus of this particular study was on hematologic parameters including packed cell volumes (PCV), RBC#, Hb concentrations, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentrations, lactic acid concentrations (LA), and fluid volumes.
Blood transfusions are among the most common procedures performed in hospitals. 1 They entail risks such as transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI), transfusionassociated graft versus host disease, transfusion-associated circulatory overload, immunomodulation, inflammation, infection, and thrombosis. [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] The effect of the storage age of red blood cells (RBCs) on patient morbidity and mortality has been the subject of numerous studies with contradictory findings. [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] As blood ages, the RBCs develop a "storage lesion" that includes leakage of potassium and chloride from the RBCs, depletion of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate, loss of phospholipids and cholesterol, exposure of phosphatidylserine, elaboration of lipid mediators, loss of glutathione, autoxidation of hemoglobin to methemoglobin, decreased blood flow viscosity and adherence to endothelial cells, increased microparticle formation, and disruption of nitric oxide (NO)-mediated vasodilation. [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] Free hemoglobin, heme and iron, some within microparticles, may be significant mediators of toxicity. The storage lesion is hypothesized to be due, at least in part, to oxidative stress, which causes functional and structural changes to the RBCs. [35] [36] [37] [38] One of the primary causes of febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reactions (FNHTRs) are cytokines produced by white blood cells (WBCs). 39 The rate of FNHTRs has substantially decreased following widespread implementation of leukoreduction; however, there are still some WBCs remaining in the blood products and WBC-derived cytokines increase as the blood product ages. 39 Some of the cytokines and chemokines that have been shown to increase during storage of RBCs and platelets are interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and tumor necrosis factor-α. 40 Notably, these cytokines and chemokines have been implicated in FNHTRs. Other cytokines and chemokines have also been shown to accumulate such as RANTES (regulated on activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted; CCL5), which is associated with allergic transfusion reactions; 41 soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L), which induces proinflammatory mediators such as IL-6, IL-8, and MCP-1 and may be associated with TRALI; 10, 12 and Fas ligand and TGF-β, which may contribute to transfusion-related immune modulation. 42, 43 A recent study by Muszynski et al 44 showed that soluble mediators in the RBC supernatant from 30-day RBC units induced monocyte suppression in transfusion recipients. This group has previously observed that critically ill children have a suppressed monocyte function following transfusion of RBC units stored for long periods of time. 45, 46 Thus, longer stored RBC units have been shown to accumulate various chemokines and cytokines that contribute to a variety of different types of transfusion reactions.
Citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine (CPDA-1), containing 0.25 mM adenine (final concentration) and 25 percent more glucose than citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD), has extended the allowable storage time for red cells to 35 days. Studies were conducted to understand better the characteristics of stored CPDA-1 red cells in relation to the properties of stored CPD red cells. Units with hematocrits near 80 percent showed the following: First, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and total adenine nucleotide levels of red cells stored with CPDA-1 remained essentially constant during the first 3 weeks of storage after which the levels decreased; with red cells stored with CPD, ATP, and adenine nucleotide, levels were decreased even after 1 week of storage. Second, the pattern of the fall in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was similar in red cells stored with CPD and CPDA-1. Third, changes in plasma and red cell levels of sodium and potassium, and in plasma ammonia levels, were comparable in CPD and CPDA-1 units; changes in cation levels were most pronounced during the initial 2 weeks of storage. Fourth, hemolysis was much greater in units stored in CPDA-1 for 35 days than in units stored in CPD for 21 days. Fifth, residual glucose concentrations were adequate in units drawn in CPDA-1 and stored for 35 days. We conclude that the changes in the biochemical characteristics of units of red cells stored with CPD and CPDA-1 are similar in most instances with the notable exception of the better maintenance of adenosine triphosphate levels in red cells stored with CPDA-1.
Values of the classical Haldane coefficient, i.e, the change in the concentration of total CO2 in whole blood per unit of change in the concentration of total O2 at constant PCO2, have been calculated at different combinations of plasma pH (range 7.25-7.50), erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration (range 3.5-6.5 mM), PCO2 (range 25.0-65.0 Torr), initial hemoglobin O2 saturation (range 0.50-0.80), and erythrocyte volume fraction (range 0.25-0.55). The principle of the calculations is to utilize the so-called reciprocity relations to determine the amount of protons and CO2 released from hemoglobin on oxygenation and to estimate the resulting change in the concentration of total CO2 from published data on the interaction coefficient for the binding of O2 and protons to hemoglobin, the interaction coefficient for the binding of O2 and CO2 to hemoglobin, the distribution of protons across the erythrocyte membrane, the equilibrium constants for the reactions between CO2 and H2O, and CO2 and oxyhemoglobin, the buffer capacity of oxygenated erythrolysate, and the buffer capacity of plasma. The results show that the concentrations of the allosteric ligands, DPG, protons, and CO2 have a significant influence on the numerical value of the Haldane coefficient. Furthermore, the coefficient depends on the hemoglobin O2 saturation and the erythrocyte volume fraction. The dependency of the Haldane coefficient on the O2 saturation and the PCO2 causes an increase in the O2-linked CO2 flux across the alveolar membrane by more than 30% in patients with respiratory insufficiency.
The human erythrocyte 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM) is a multifunctional enzyme which controls the metabolism of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), the main allosteric effector of haemoglobin. Several cDNA banks were constructed from reticulocyte mRNA either by conventional cloning methods in plasmid pBR322 and screening with specific mixed oligonucleotide probes, or in the expression vector lambda gt 11. The largest cDNA isolated was 1673 bases, and encodes for a protein of 258 amino acids; it contains a large 3' untranslated region (785 bases). It is slightly smaller than the size of the intact mRNA estimated by Northern blot (1800 bases). Our sequence data indicate differences with the previously published amino acid sequence involving 21% of the residues. They were entirely confirmed by the amino acid composition of the tryptic peptides derived from purified BPGM. The revised amino acid sequence of the human BPGM is presented.
Respiratory characteristics of blood from four Asian and three African elephants were studied. Oxygen dissociation curves of whole blood were constructed at 37 °C and corrected to a plasma pH of 7.40. The mean blood P50 values were 25.2 ± 0.5 and 23.2 ± 1.3 mm Hg for Asian and African elephants, respectively, and these values are significantly different (p<0.01). The Bohr factors for both species were similar and averaged -0.351 ± 0.029 Δ log PO2/ΔpH. The Haldane effect was similar in both species (5.5 vol% ΔCCO2 at PCO2 = 40 mm Hg). ::: ::: The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in elephant blood is similar to that found in normal human blood. The blood morphology of both species was similar except that the leukocyte count was significantly higher in Asian elephants. Starch gel electrophoresis showed that hemoglobin of Asian elephants travels at a slower rate than hemoglobin of African elephants, but both migrate faster than human A hemoglobin. African elephant (Loxodontu africuna africana) Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) Blood oxygen capacity Bohr effect Haldane effect Hemoglobin electrophoresis Oxygen dissociation curve 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG)
The glutamyl residue at G3(101)beta of normal hemoglobin (Hb A) is one of the alpha 1 beta 2 subunit contacts which are vital to O2 binding properties of the molecule. The O2 equilibrium properties of the four mutants with different substitutions at this site are studied in order to elucidate the role of this residue. Under stripped conditions with minimum chloride the order of O2 affinity is: Hb A (Glu) much less than Hb Rush (Gln) less than or equal to Hb British Columbia (Lys) less than or equal to Hb Potomac (Asp) less than or equal to Hb Alberta (Gly). The first Adair constants, K1, for the mutant hemoglobins are greater than that for Hb A whereas the fourth, K4, are similar, indicating that the allosteric constants (L) of these mutants are greatly reduced. Therefore, the G3(101)beta residue contributes intrinsically to the strengthening of the structural constraints that are imposed upon the deoxy (T) forms but not the oxy (R) form. On addition of 0.1 M Cl- and further addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate, their O2 affinities and cooperativities are altered, reflecting different responses to anionic ligands. Hb Rush exhibits a stronger chloride effect than Hb A and the other variants and, as a result, an increased Bohr effect and a smaller heat of oxygenation at pH 6.5. These changes are consistent with an increased positive net charge in the central cavity of Hb Rush and subsequent extra anion binding in the deoxy form. The tetramer to dimer dissociation constants are estimated to be greater than normal for Hb British Columbia and less than normal for Hb Alberta. This comparative study of the G3(101)beta mutants indicates that the size and the charge of this residue may influence the switching of two neighboring interchain hydrogen bonds that occurs during oxygenation of normal hemoglobin.
As part of the American Medical Research Expedition to Everest in 1981, we measured hemoglobin concentration, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), Po2 at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated (P50), and acid-base status in expedition members at various altitudes. All measurements were made in expedition laboratories and, with the exception of samples from the South Col of Mt. Everest (8,050 m), within 2 h of blood collection. In vivo conditions were estimated from direct measurements of arterial blood gases and pH or inferred from base excess and alveolar PCO2. As expected, increased 2,3-DPG was associated with slightly increased P50, when expressed at pH 7.4. Because of respiratory alkalosis, however, the subjects' in vivo P50 at 6,300 m (27.6 Torr) was slightly less than at sea level (28.1 Torr). The estimated in vivo P50 was progressively lower at 8,050 m (24.9 Torr) and on the summit at 8,848 m (19.4 Torr in one subject). Our data suggest that, at extreme altitude, the blood O2 equilibrium curve shifts progressively leftward because of respiratory alkalosis. This left shift protects arterial O2 saturation at extreme altitude.
We measured the spin-lattice and spin-spin relaxation times (T1 and T2, respectively) and the nuclear Overhauser effect (NOE) of 31P nuclei of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in living erythrocytes. The relaxation of water protons was also studied. Phosphorus relaxation is pH-dependent due to a modification of the binding of 2,3-DPG to hemoglobin. We compared the results obtained with normal and uremic erythrocytes. In uremic erythrocytes the 31P relaxation rates are increased, but the intraerythrocytic pH variation in uremic erythrocytes cannot itself explain this increase. A possible role of dialysable substances may explain the increased relaxation rate.
The bimodal gill(water)/gut(air)-breathing Amazonian catfish Hoplosternum littorale that frequents hypoxic habitats uses "mammalian" 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in addition to "piscine" ATP and GTP as erythrocytic O(2) affinity modulators. Its electrophoretically distinct anodic and cathodic hemoglobins (Hb(An) and Hb(Ca)) were isolated for functional and molecular characterization. In contrast to Hb(An), phosphate-free Hb(Ca) exhibits a pronounced reverse Bohr effect (increased O(2) affinity with decreasing pH) that is obliterated by ATP, and opposite pH dependences of K(T) (O(2) association constant of low affinity, tense state) and the overall heat of oxygenation. Dose-response curves indicate small chloride effects and pronounced and differentiated phosphate effects, DPG < ATP < GTP < IHP. Hb(Ca)-O(2) equilibria analyzed in terms of the Monod-Wyman-Changeux model show that small T state bond energy differences underlie the differentiated phosphate effects. Synthetic peptides, corresponding to N-terminal fragment of the cytoplasmic domain of trout band 3 protein, undergo oxygenation-linked binding to Hb(Ca), suggesting a metabolic regulatory role for this hemoglobin. The amino acid sequences for the alpha and beta chains of Hb(Ca) obtained by Edman degradation and cDNA sequencing show unusual substitutions at the phosphate-binding site that are discussed in terms of its reverse Bohr effect and anion sensitivities.
Haemolysates of family members from three generations, all of whom had polycythaemia, were analysed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at pH 8.8. Two closely spaced major bands were observed, one of which corresponded to Hb A and the other to a new mutant designated Hb Vanderbilt. Whole blood from a heterozygote for Hb Vanderbilt was analysed for oxygen affinity which was found to be much higher than that of normal subjects. Haemoglobin Vanderbilt was separated from Hb A using anion exchange chromatography. Cation exchange chromatography yielded a variant beta chain from which a mutant peptide was identified with a structure corresponding to residues beta83--89 with a Ser leads to Arg replacement at position 89. The oxygen affinity of 'stripped' haemolysates from the heterozygote was found to be much less sensitive to added organic phosphates than haemolysates from normal subjects. In while blood, the decreased sensitivity to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate results in an increased oxygen affinity, thus explaining the clinical observations of tissue hypoxia and compensatory polycythaemia.
Previously published studies on automated blood component donation with the MCS 3p cell separator proved fairly good quality of the collected red blood cells (RBC) and fresh frozen plasma (FFP), with the disadvantage of a low hematocrit of the filtered RBC and a high platelet contamination of the FFP (RBCP-F protocol.) The DRBCP-F protocol was designed to eliminate the above-mentioned disadvantages and to provide 1 unit of leuko-depleted (filtered) RBC, 2 units of FFP, and additionally 1 platelet concentrate (PC) from the buffy coat. Twenty automated blood component collections (2 cycles, Latham bowl at 5,500 rpm, 230 ml isotonic saline for volume balance, PAGGS-M as additive solution) were performed. The RBC were filtered in a closed system after storage at 4 degrees C for 24 h. Blood cell counts and biochemical parameters of the RBC were determined initially and after 49 days. PC were separated from buffy coat after a soft spin. The volume of the RBC amounted to 293 +/- 12 ml (mean +/- SD) with a hematocrit of 0.61 +/- 0.05 l/l. Residual leukocytes after filtration were found to be 0.04 x 10(6) +/- 0.06 per unit. After storage, the following data were obtained: hemolysis 0.38%, ATP 2.1 +/- 0.4 mumol/g Hb, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) 1.4 +/- 0.3 mumol/g Hb, ph 6.3 +/- 0.1, potassium 6.4 mmol per unit, and LDH in the supernatant was 219 U/l. None of the RBC showed bacterial growth after 49 days. The volume of the collected FFP was 398 +/- 32 ml, with 3.4 +/- 3.5 x 10(3) residual platelets and 5 +/- 12 leukocytes per microliter. Platelet concentrates contained 90.2 +/- 32 x 10(9) platelets in 88 +/- 14 ml plasma. Automated blood donation with the DRBCP-F protocol provided RBC with very low residual leukocyte counts, adequate hematocrit and good metabolic status up to 49 days, and FFP with low platelet contamination. The platelet concentrates were even superior to those prepared from whole blood using the buffy coat method. The storable leuko-depleted RBC are suitable for transfusion of chronically transfused patients in whom primary HLA sensitization should be prevented.
Thrombin incubated with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (150 nmol 2,3-DPG/1 NIH thrombin unit) lost up to 70% of its clotting activity, whereas the esterase activity remained unchanged. No fibrinopeptide release by thrombin was observed in the presence of 2,3-DPG. The fibrin polymerization was normal. By chromatography on Amberlite IRC-50, alpha-thrombin was eluted at pH 8.0. In presence of 2,3-DPG, alpha-thrombin was not eluted. Likely, 2,3-DPG can interfere with thrombin.
Irradiation of stored red blood cells (RBC) is increasingly utilized for patients who are im m unosuppressed or on chem otherapeutic regimens. W ith the growing dem and for irradiated cellular blood products, there has been an increasing need for transfusion services to store previously irradi­ ated blood until needed for transfusion. The effect of irradiation on aging stored RBC has not been studied to date. Five units each of group A, RBC collected in CPD-Adsol (AS-1) with a prior shelf-life of 10, 20, 30, and 40 days, respectively, w ere divided equally utilizing a sterile docking device and stored at 1 to 6°C. Baseline samples from each bag were obtained for the m easurem ent of extracellular potassium (K+), plasm a free hemoglobin (PFH), total lactate dehydrogenase (LD), and erythrocyte 2,3-DPG activity. One of each pair received 2,000 rads of gamma irradiation. Samples were obtained at 3 and 7 days post-irradiation, and m ultiples of 7 days until expiration. All irradiated units reached a state of K+ equilibrium at 60 to 70 mmol per L irrespective of the length of previous storage w ith an inverse relationship of RBC age at irradiation and the time required to reach the state of equilibrium . Increased K+ leakage from irradiated aging RBC sug­ gests the need for including in vivo studies of cell survival to establish a post-irradiation storage life. Length of storage prior to irradiation had no effect on PFH , LD activity, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) activity compared to paired controls.
RINGLE, AND STANLEY I?. BALCERZAK. Oxygen delivery following transfusion of stored blood. I. Normal rats. J. Appl. Physiol. 37(l) : 60-63. 1974 .-Blood stored in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) develops increased oxygen affinity secondary to progressive decline of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels. The ability of stored blood to supply oxygen to tissues was studied in rats exchange-transfused with either stored or fresh blood. Skin bubble oxygen tension (Psbo,) and central venous oxygen tension (PEo,) served as indices of tissue oxygenation. Mean DPG levels fell immediately after transfusion with stored blood but rose rapidly to 70y0 of the preexchange level by 9 11. P50 values paralleled DPG levels. Psbo, fell from a mean of 34 mmHg before transfusion to a mean of 27 mmHg at 24 h after transfusion. P??o, levels fell abruptly and markedly and remained significantly depressed for 9 h after transfusion. Rats transfused with fresh blood had minimal decreases in DPG, P 50, PCoz, and Psbo, values. Normal rats exchange-transfused with ACD-stored blood have a significant decrease in red cell DPG and increase in red cell oxygen affinity; although regeneration of DPG and oxygen affinity is relatively rapid, such animals have a significant interval of impaired tissue oxygenation.
1. The compounds 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), phytic acid (PA) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were tested as gorging stimulants for Rhodnius prolixus. All three are potent phagostimulants, with ED50 values less than 10 microM; in contrast, only ATP stimulates the black fly Simulium venustum, with an ED50 of 13 microM. 2. Equimolar mixtures of DPG and ATP showed pronounced synergism, causing 75% of test R. prolixus to gorge at a dose of 0.3 microM. 3. The response to DPG and PA supports the hypothesis that R. prolixus detects blood during biting by tasting signal chemicals released from red blood cells.
To critically evaluate the allosteric behavior of SNO-Hb, we have developed a methodology to synthesize relatively high concentrations of intraerythrocytic SNO-Hb. These erythrocytes have normal oxygen affinity, contain the physiological complement of the intact erythrocyte (2,3-diphosphoglycerate, AE-1, glutathione, etc.), have relatively little metHb, and contain concentrations of SNO-Hb up to 1,000 times the normal blood levels (9). As such, these cells provide for a more physiological assessment of the properties of SNO-Hb than that of pure Hb preparations with added glutathione and organic phosphates to regulate Hb oxygen affinity.
The influence of the red cell concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG, 0.5-26 mumoles/g erythrocytes) on the "CO2-Bohr effect" (pH varied by CO2 at constant base excess) and the "fixed acid-Bohr effect" (pH varied by fixed acid or base at constant PCO2) was studied in human blood at plasma pH values ranging between pH 7.2 and pH 7.6. Elevation of red cell 2,3-DPG concentration leads to a numerical decrease of the "CO2-Bohr coefficient" referring to plasma pH. The "fixed acid-Bohr coefficients" are numerically smaller than the corresponding "CO2-Bohr coefficients" and exhibit a maximum at normal red cell 2,3-DPG concentrations. The Bohr coefficients referring to red cell pH are distinctly higher than those referring to plasma pH, especially at high 2,3-DPG levels. This is due on the one hand to the physico-chemical properties of the intact red cell membrane, and on the other hand to a 2,3-DPG-induced decrease in the ratio deltapHcell/deltapHplasma. From the results it is concluded that 2,3-DPG exerts a dual effect on the Bohr coefficients of whole blood which is mediated 1. by the direct effect of 2,3-DPG on the allosteric properties of hemoglobin (as reflected by changes of the Bohr coefficients referring to red cell pH), and 2. by the effect of 2,3-DPG on deltapHcell/deltapHplasma.
Normal hemoglobin function depends on adequate erythrocyte levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), a compound which is poorly maintained in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD). Since 2,3-DPG is better maintained in citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) and this preservative has a higher pH (5.5) than ACD (pH = 5.0), these preservatives were prepared at each pH and studied. The CPD preservatives (pH 5.0, 5.5) had similar amounts of phosphate so the differences between them, obtained by altering the buffer ratio, should relate to pH. The ACD solutions (pH 5.0, 5.5) contained no phosphate. Hemoglobin function, expressed as P50 (the Po2 at 50 per cent oxygenation, an inverse but direct measure of oxygen affinity), and 2,3-DPG were better maintained in ACD and CPD of pH 5.5. The lower pH (5.0) preservatives, whether ACD or CPD, showed rapidly declining hemoglobin function and 2,3-DPG levels. The values at the higher pH remained close to normal for two weeks and above those of the lower pH preservatives for most of the four-week storage period.
The true level of hexokinase in rabbit erythrocytes was determined by three different methods, including the spectrophotometric glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase coupled assay and a new radioisotopic assay. The value found at 37 degrees C (pH 7.2) was 10.23 +/- 1.90 mumol/h per ml red blood cells, which is lower than previously reported values. More than 40 cellular components of the rabbit erythrocytes were tested for their effects on the enzyme. Their intracellular concentrations were also determined. Several of these compounds were found to be competitive inhibitors of the enzyme with respect to Mg X ATP2-. Furthermore, reduced glutathione at a concentration of 1 mM was able to maintain hexokinase in the reduced state with full catalytic activity. The ability of orthophosphate to remove the inhibition of some phosphorylated compounds was examined under conditions similar to cellular (pH 7.2 and 50 microM of orthophosphate) and found to be of no practical interest. In contrast, the binding of ATP4- and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to the rabbit hemoglobin significantly modifies their intracellular concentrations and the formation of the respective Mg complexes. The pH-dependence of the reaction velocity and of the kinetic properties of the enzyme in different buffer systems were also considered. This information was computerized, and the rate of glucose phosphorylation in the presence of the mentioned compounds was determined. The value obtained, 1.94 +/- 0.02 mumol/h per ml red blood cells, is practically identical to the measured rate of glucose utilization by intact rabbit erythrocytes (1.92 +/- 0.3 mumol/h per ml red blood cells). These results provide further evidence for the central role of hexokinase in the regulation of red blood cell glycolysis.
The oxygen affinity of hemoglobin of both common and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration-purified erythrocyte hemolysates, hemoglobin stability, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in erythrocytes, morphological blood content were studied in rabbits irradiated with X-rays in a dose of 0.155 C/kg. An increase in the oxygen affinity of common hemolysate hemoglobin at a higher 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration on the 1st, 4th day after irradiation and a decrease in the oxygen affinity of both common and purified hemolysate hemoglobin on the 18th-30th day after irradiation were observed. A conclusion is made that disturbance of the hemoglobin function control by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in irradiated animals is determined by alteration of protein physicochemical properties.
Mexicor treatment (8 mg/kg body weight per day) during the posttraumatic period after concomitant traumatic brain injury and acute blood loss in rats increased electrophoretic mobility and concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and reduced malondialdehyde content in erythrocytes. These changes improved hemodynamics and oxygen-transporting function of the blood. The most pronounced effects of Mexicor were observed at the early stages of posttraumatic period.
Washed red blood cells from normal cows were incubated as 10 and 20 per cent suspensions in media containing 0, 2.5 and 25 mM phosphate. The results showed that the rate of glycolysis was dependent on the inorganic phosphate concentration. In the absence of phosphate, the consumption of glucose and the production of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, lactate and adenosine 5’-triphosphate (ATP) were decreased. Incubation without added phosphate also greatly increased the production of fructose-1,6,-diphosphate, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate and di-hydroxyacetone phosphate. Moderate hypophosphatemia was induced in two pre-ruminant calves. Washed red cells from the blood of these animals showed a depletion of ATP when compared with red cells from a control calf. The results indicate that phosphorus deficiency, leading to hypophosphataemia, may be a mechanism of post parturient and related syndromes of haemoglobinuria by decreasing red cell glycolysis and resultant ATP synthesis. Subnormal concentrations of ATP would predispose red cells to altered structure and function, a loss of normal deformability, and an increase in fragility and haemolysis with resultant haemoglobinuria.
A macrocytic hypochromic anemia, with marked reliculocytosis and large numbers of circulating nucleated erythrocytes, was recognized in a 3 1/2-year-old male Beagle-cross dog. A presumptive diagnosis of erythrocyte pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency was made, even though PK activity from the patient was within the range of activities measured for normal dogs, because the PK activity should have been several times normal in light of the large number of reticulocytes present. The PK activity in a hemolysate from the patient was heat-labile compared to activities in hemolysates from normal dogs, a finding consistent with results from a previous study of PK-deficient Basenji dogs. Seven phosphorylated glycolytic intermediates and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were measured in protein-free extracts of erythrocytes from the patient. All were present in concentrations above that present in normal canine erythrocytes, further supporting the diagnosis of PK deficiency.
This study confirms previous work suggesting equivalent in vitro properties in blood components prepared from donations collected into half-citrate preservative (HCPD) compared to components derived from donations collected into standard citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) preservatives. In addition, red cell products harvested from HCPD donations showed significantly improved maintenance of pH over storage, and this was reflected in improved maintenance of intracellular 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). This effect was observed in whole blood and in red cells suspended in a phosphate-containing additive solution (Tuta AAS). Collection into HCPD also improved 2,3-DPG maintenance in red cell concentrates processed following an 18-hour hold at 22°C. These improvements were less pronounced in red cells suspended in a non-phosphate-containing medium (Fenwal Adsol) in which a higher pH was maintained even in units collected in CPD. Platelets harvested from HCPD blood and suspended in plasma showed equivalent quality to platelets from standard donations. Some deterioration of platelet properties was observed when HCPD platelets were stored in a non-citrate synthetic medium. Together with data indicating improved coagulation factor stability, these results suggest that collection into HCPD improves stored blood quality and may also allow logistical benefits in blood component preparation.
Human red blood cells stored in acid citrate-dextrose (ACD2) solution and washed with buffered saline have been investigated by incubation with uniformly labelled 14C-glucose. The main metabolites have been separated on a Dowex 1 column by stepwise elution with different concentrations of hydrochloric acid and ammonium chloride. The concentration and the radioactivity of these metabolites have been determined. The most pronounced and rapid changes occurring after storage were a decrease in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and a decrease in the labelling of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from the 14C-glucose.
An abnormal hemoglobin was suspected in a 70-year-old Japanese male with cerebral infarction and erythremia with high performance liquid chromatography assay of Hb A1c. The hemoglobin variant migrated to the anode more rapidly than Hb A. Structure determination studies, including amino acid analysis of the abnormal peptide and DNA sequencing of a partially cloned alpha-globin gene, demonstrated that it is a new hemoglobin variant which has been named Hb Kanagawa [alpha 40(C5)Lys----Met]. This variant showed an increased oxygen affinity, decreased heme-heme interaction, and a lowered 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effect relative to normal.
“Blood for transfusion must be safe, effective, available and cheap," the late John Collins said in a meeting of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences' Institute of Medicine in 1973 during efforts to license the 5-week CPDA-1 blood storage solution1. These objectives seem clear individually, but it is usually in their interactions that controversy arises and hard decisions must be made. Most of us are familiar with the interactions of blood safety and the cost of new tests or of new restrictions on the donor population and the availability of components. We all struggle to find new voluntary donors with healthy lifestyles and to justify and pay for increasingly sensitive testing. ::: ::: However, the interactions between blood's effectiveness and its availability or its cost are less well known. In part this is because the whole concept of blood effectiveness is poorly defined. To the extent that red cell effectiveness has measurable meaning, red cells must be intact, circulate, and survive to be effective, so measures of their hemolysis, in vivo recovery, and survival have been gold standards for decades. Other measures, such as the red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration or their nitric oxide content, have less clear physiologic significance and corresponding lower regulatory importance. ::: ::: In this issue of the journal, Gulliksson and van der Meer present data on the effects of storing whole blood overnight at room temperature in a primary anticoagulant (CPD; citrate, phosphate, dextrose) before it was separated into components and the red cells subsequently stored conventionally for 42 days in one of five different storage bags and additive solution systems2. ::: ::: The paper is part of an international effort to gather data on the "warm overnight hold of whole blood" as a technique to collect and manufacture blood components more efficiently3. ::: ::: Conventional thinking suggests that blood should be separated into components as quickly as possible4. This thinking has been incorporated into regulations saying that blood must be separated into components within 8 hours or cooled to refrigerator temperatures within that time. As most blood, 70% in some countries, is collected on mobile blood drives away from component manufacturing facilities, this has led to most mobile-blood-drive-collected blood being stored on ice with the resulting loss of platelet function. Additional platelets must then be collected by apheresis to make up for this loss. ::: ::: Two decades ago, Dutch investigators noted that platelets derived from units of whole blood held warm overnight for processing the next morning actually had better platelet yields and better platelet function than those processed immediately after collection. Holding blood warm overnight is also attractive because it allows all the component manufacturing to be performed during the day shift with efficiencies of scale, reduced staff, and better quality control oversight. Finally, the warm hold appears to reduce bacterial overgrowth in the platelets by allowing white blood cells time to remove low-level contamination. The problems with the "warm overnight hold of whole blood" are the increased loss of labile coagulation factors in the plasma, increased time before the white cells are removed leading to increased cytokine secretion, and the rapid consumption of glucose by the warm red cells. ::: ::: Red cells derive all of their energy from glycolysis. In the closed environment of a blood bag, the breakdown of glucose leads to the production of lactate and protons with a resulting decrease in pH. The total energy flux through the system is determined by starting and ending pH, the buffer capacity of the proteins and salts in the bag, the metabolism rate, the glucose content and time. The best way to maximize red cell storage is start storage as close to pH 7.2 as possible and to buffer the red cell additive solution and keep the suspension as cold as possible5. Blood is drawn at venous pH, about 7.35 and mixed with CPD of pH 5.8 to produce a resulting whole blood suspension with a pH of about 7.056. If the blood is then cooled, the pH will decline by 0.1 in about a week, if kept at room temperature overnight it will fall that much in 16 hours. This difference can be partially offset by adding an alkaline additive solution during component production7. Adding a conventional acidic solution will make the pH drop worse. Gulliksson and van der Meer demonstrated this with higher initial pH and better preservation of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) concentrations with the new alkaline additive solutions. ::: ::: Maintaining high ATP concentrations is critical for red cell survival. Reduced ATP concentrations lead to the loss of phospholipid pumping with the resulting exposure of phosphotidyl serine, a phagocytosis signal, and membrane loss through calpain-driven microvesicle formation8. These factors appear to be critical determinants of 24-hour in vivo recovery and hemolysis levels required for storage system licensure. ::: ::: So the question remains as to whether the benefits of the new alkaline storage solutions are good enough to offset the losses and changes caused by the addition acid generated by the red cells during warm overnight storage. Only actual measures of recovery will tell, but the authors' data give reasons for cautious optimism. It is an exciting area of blood system-integrating research where better red cell storage systems may lead to better platelet supplies as well.
Abstract Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP 3 ) is an important second messenger generated from the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate by phospholipase C in response to Ca 2+ -mobilizing stimuli. InsP 3 interacts with specific intracellular receptors and triggers the release of sequestered Ca 2+ from an intracellular store. We have looked at the influence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on the action and metabolism of InsP 3 in the bovine adrenal cortex. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate blocked InsP 3 binding to adrenal cortex microsomes with a half-maximal efficiency of 0.5 mM. Scatchard analyses revealed that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate did not change the maximal capacity of the microsomes, but decreased their binding affinity for InsP 3 . The Ca 2+ -releasing activity of InsP 3 on the same microsomal preparation was monitored with the fluorescent indicator, Fura-2. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate blocked this activity with a half-maximal efficiency of 2 mM. The effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate could be overcome by supramaximal doses of InsP 3 , indicating a competitive inhibitory effect. The activity of InsP 3 phosphatase from bocine adrenal cortex microsomes was also studied. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate inhibited the activity of the phosphatase with a half-maximal efficiency of 0.3 mM. Lineweaver-Burke plots revealed that this effect was competitive. Finally, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was also able to inhibit the activity of a partially purified preparation of InsP 3 kinase from bovine adrenal cortex cytosol. The half-maximal dose was around 10 mM and the Lineweaver-Burke plot showed that the inhibition was competitive. These results show that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate can be considered as a structural analog of InsP 3 . Its inhibitory effects, however, are not selective enough to use it as an InsP 3 protective agent in Ca 2+ -mobilization studies.
Pyruvate kinase deficiency (PKD) is the most common cause of chronic hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia and results in a broad spectrum of disease. Diagnosis of PKD requires a high index of suspicion and judicious use of laboratory tests that may not always be informative, including PK enzyme assay and genetic analysis of the PKLR gene. A significant minority of patients with PKD have occult mutations in non-coding regions of PKLR that are missed on standard genetic tests. The biochemical consequences of PKD result in hemolytic anemia due to red cell pyruvate and ATP deficiency while simultaneously causing increased red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which facilitates oxygen unloading. This phenomenon, in addition to numerous other factors such as genetic background and differences in splenic function result in a poor correlation between symptoms and degree of anemia from patient to patient. Therefore, red cell transfusions should be symptom-directed and not based on a hemoglobin threshold. Patients may experience specific complications, such as paravertebral extramedullary hematopoiesis and chronic debilitating icterus, that require personalized treatment. The decision to perform splenectomy or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is nuanced and depends on disease burden and long-term outlook given that targeted therapeutics are in development. In recognition of the complicated nature of the disease and its management and the limitations of the PKD literature, an international working group of 10 PKD experts convened to better define the burden and manifestations of disease. This manuscript summarizes the conclusions of this working group and is a guide for clinicians and investigators caring for patients with PKD.
Abstract A procedure was developed for the purification of phosphofructokinase from rabbit brain extracts. The enzyme was purified more than 100-fold with a yield of greater than 50 %. It was found to have the same distribution of multiple molecular forms as found in the total brain extract, including one molecular species that is different from the more extensively studied muscle (heart) and liver (erythrocyte) isozymes. The regulatory properties of brain phosphofructokinase were compared with those of muscle and liver phosphofructokinases at pH 7.1 and 7.4. All three enzymes were inhibited less at pH 7.4 than at 7.1. At pH 7.1 the sensitivity to ATP as an inhibitor decreased in the order liver g muscle g brain. At pH 7.4, the relative sensitivities of brain and muscle phosphofructokinases were reversed with the brain enzyme being inhibited at slightly lower concentrations of ATP. Other inhibitors acted synergistically with ATP. Sensitivity to inhibition by 3-phosphoglycerate and phosphoenolpyruvate decreased in the order muscle g brain g liver. With 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as an inhibitor, the sensitivity decreased in the order liver g muscle g brain. Muscle phosphofructokinase was the most sensitive to citrate inhibition. Creatine phosphate, a potent inhibitor of muscle phosphofructokinase, was completely ineffective as an inhibitor of liver and brain phosphofructokinase. The actions of activators were evaluated at pH 7.4 in the presence of inhibitory concentrations of ATP. The three enzymes were almost equally responsive to the deinhibiting action of AMP and cyclic adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate, although the enzyme from liver requires slightly higher concentrations. Muscle phosphofructokinase was the least sensitive to deinhibition by inorganic phosphate. The results are discussed with respect to the varying modes of carbohydrate metabolism in the different tissues taking into consideration the tissue concentrations of the effectors and the variations of concentration in different physiological states. The enzymes from brain and liver are apparently chiefly controlled by the relative amounts of the adenine nucleotides and inorganic phosphate. An exception may be the erythrocyte, which has the same isozyme that is present in liver. Here, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate may play an important role in regulation. Muscle phosphofructokinase also responds to varying levels of adenine nucleotides but in vivo it is most likely that the principal regulatory effectors are creatine phosphate, citrate, and possibly, 3-phosphoglycerate.
Phosphate depletion (PD) is associated with multiorgan dysfunction. It has been proposed that this phenomenon is due to two metabolic derangements: (a) there is a reduction in ATP content of cells and hence reduced availability of energy-rich phosphate compounds, and (b) there is a decrease in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in red blood cells, a change that would increase the affinity of hemoglobin to oxygen resulting in tissue hypoxia. Recent studies have demonstrated that PD is associated with a significant elevation in basal levels of cytosolic calcium [Ca2+]i in many cells. This is due to an increased entry into and decreased extrusion of calcium out of cells. This rise in [Ca2+]i plays a major role in organ dysfunction in PD and in the genesis of decreased ATP content of cells.
Abstract The structure of bovine deoxyhaemoglobin has been determined at 2·2 A resolution and refined to an R -factor of 0·193 for all 32,583 reflections, and a free R -factor of 0·249 for 1527 reflections excluded from the refinement. The structure shows no significant differences between the α-carbon positions of bovine and human haemoglobin, except at the N-terminal segment and the first helix (A) which are closer to the dyad symmetry axis and pushed more tightly against the rest of the β-subunits in the bovine form. In a search for the predicted chloride-binding sites, three-dimensional data were collected from crystals suspended in 50% polyethylene glycol buffered either with 50 mM Na phosphate (pH 7·3) ± 0·1 M NaCl or with 0·1 M Hepes (pH 7·3) ± 0·1 M NaBr. Difference electron density maps with and without NaCl or NaBr showed no evidence of specific halide ion-binding sites. Oxygen equilibria were measured in 10 mM Hepes buffer without added NaCl, with 0·1 mM NaCl, 0·1 M NaCl + 1 mM 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and 0·1 M NaCl + 1 mM inositol hexaphosphate. Without added chloride, P 50 of stripped bovine haemoglobin was similar to that of human haemoglobin with 0·1 M NaCl. With 0·1 M NaCl it was similar to that of human haemoglobin saturated with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. In 0·1 M NaCl neither organic phosphate significantly affected the oxygen affinity. Titration of P 50 with NaCl showed Δ log P 50 /Δ log[Cl - ] of bovine and human haemoglobin to be identical. Analysis of the oxygen equilibrium curves showed the low intrinsic oxygen affinity of bovine haemoglobin to be due to a larger oxygen dissociation constant from the T-structure. The influence of chloride on P 50 and on the alkaline Bohr effect is the same in bovine and human haemoglobins. It is proposed that this is due to the excess positive charges in the central cavity and its widening in the transition from the R to the T-structure. The widening would allow more chloride ions to enter and neutralize the positive charges, but these ions would remain mobile and therefore do not show up as peaks of high electron density. Repulsion between excess positive charges in the central cavity raises the free energy of the T-structure relative to the R-structure, thereby raising the oxygen affinity. Conversely, entry of chloride ions on widening of the cavity reduces the free energy of the T-structure and therefore lowers the oxygen affinity. Such an action of an allosteric effector in the absence of specific effector binding sites has not hitherto been found in the study of cooperative effects in proteins.
Red blood cells obtained from well-trained athletes consumed glucose at a higher rate than those from sedentary subjects when incubated in vitro in a glucose containing medium at 37 degrees C. Similar results were obtained when fructose was substituted for glucose, but not when galactose was the monosaccharide. The utilization of glucose by erythrocytes can occur both via the Embden-Meyerhof and Pentose phosphate pathways (PPP). In the present experiments, there were no differences in the activities of select enzymes in these pathways or in metabolic intermediates of the erythrocytes. An exception was an elevated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) in the erythrocytes of the athletes. Additional experiments are needed to identify changes in the red blood cells of the athletes which produce the increased consumption of glucose.
ABSTRACT: The sequential changes in several glycolytic enzymes, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glycolytic intermediates, and adenosine triphosphate, as well as intracellular pH and plasma inorganic phosphorus were followed simultaneously in eight lambs from birth to 2 months of age. The activities of all glycolytic enzymes and glucose- 6-phosphate dehydrogenase were elevated at birth. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration increased markedly postnatally and was associated with a simultaneous increase in the concentrations of red cell glucose-6-phosphate and total triose phosphate and a decrease in intracellular pH. Inorganic phosphorus also increased and correlated with the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in the first 10 days of postnatal life. The content of red cell 3-phosphoglycerate, 2-phosphoglycerate, phosphoenolpyruvate, and ATP increased slightly. These results suggested increased glycolytic flux through the diphosphoglycerate mutase reaction which resulted in net synthesis of 2,3- diphosphoglycerate. The red cell total triose phosphate peaked and fell initially, followed by glucose-6-phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate suggesting inhibition of phosphofructokinase activity and a decrease in glycolysis secondary to decreased red cell intracellular pH. After 10 days of postnatal life all glycolytic intermediates fell simultaneously, which correlated with a decrease in activity of the glycolytic enzymes.
A study was devised to determine the P50 in infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). Other factors such as red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) level proportions of adult (
BACKGROUND ::: Each unit of blood donated is processed and stored individually resulting in variability in the amount of red blood cells (RBCs) collected, RBC properties, and the 24-hour posttransfusion RBC survivability. As a result, each unit differs in its ability to deliver oxygen and potentially its effects on the recipient. The goal of this study was to investigate the storage of pooled RBCs from multiple donors in comparison to control standard RBC units. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Two units of irradiated, leukoreduced RBCs of same ABO, D, E, C, and K antigen phenotype were collected from each of five donors using apheresis. One unit from each donor was pooled in a 2-L bag and remaining units were used as controls. After being pooled, RBCs were separated in five bags and stored at 4°C along with the controls. Quality indexes were measured on Days 2, 14, and 28 for all the units. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Adenosine triphosphate assays for both pooled and controls showed a slight decrease from Day 2 to Day 28 (pooled/control from 5.22/5.24 to 4.35/4.33 µmol/g hemoglobin [Hb]). 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate was successfully rejuvenated for all RBC units on Day 28 (pooled 11.46 µmol/g Hb; control 11.86 µmol/g Hb). The results showed a nonsignificant difference between pooled and control units, with a general trend of lower standard deviation for pooled units when compared to controls. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Pooled units have reduced unit-to-unit variability. Future exploration of their immunogenicity is required before using pooled units for transfusion.
The hyperthermophilic methanogen Methanopyrus kandleri can grow at temperatures of up to 110º C and has an intracellular K 3 cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration of 1.1 M (1). Methanopyrus kandleri possesses a number of properties that make it unique amongst archaeal species, indicating a possible relation to the last common ancestor of Archaea and Eukarya. To our knowledge, M. kandleri is the only archaeon that contains a type IB topoisomerase, previously found in eukaryotes and poxviruses (2, 3). Based on the 16S RNA derived phylogenetic tree, the microorganism represents a very early branch-off within the archaeal kingdom Euryarchaeota, without bearing any close relationship to other methanogens (4). The ancestry of M. kandleri and its phylogenetic link to Eukarya is further supported by the properties of the histone protein identified in this organism (5).
The hyperthermophilic methanogen Methanopyrus kandleri can grow at temperatures of up to 110º C and has an intracellular K 3 cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration of 1.1 M (1). Methanopyrus kandleri possesses a number of properties that make it unique amongst archaeal species, indicating a possible relation to the last common ancestor of Archaea and Eukarya. To our knowledge, M. kandleri is the only archaeon that contains a type IB topoisomerase, previously found in eukaryotes and poxviruses (2, 3). Based on the 16S RNA derived phylogenetic tree, the microorganism represents a very early branch-off within the archaeal kingdom Euryarchaeota, without bearing any close relationship to other methanogens (4). The ancestry of M. kandleri and its phylogenetic link to Eukarya is further supported by the properties of the histone protein identified in this organism (5).
ABSTRACT. The sequential changes in several glycolytic enzymes, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glycolytic intermediates, and adenosine triphosphate, as well as intracellular pH and plasma inorganic phosphorus were followed simultaneously in eight lambs from birth to 2 months of age. The activities of all glycolytic enzymes and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase were elevated at birth. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration increased markedly postnatally and was associated with a simultaneous increase in the concentrations of red cell glucose-6-phosphate and total triose phosphate and a decrease in intracellular pH. Inorganic phosphorus also increased and correlated with the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in the first 10 days of postnatal life: The content of red cell 3-phosphoglycerate, 2-phosphoglycerate, phosphoenolpyruvate, and ATP increased slightly. These results suggested increased glycolytic flux through the diphosphoglycerate mutase reaction which resulted in net synthesis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The red cell total triose phosphate peaked and fell initially, followed by glucosed-phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate suggesting inhibition of phosphofructokinase activity and a decrease in glycolysis secondary to decreased red cell intracellular pH. After 10 days of postnatal life all glycolytic intermediates fell simultaneously, which correlated with a decrease in activity of the glycolytic enzymes. (Pediatr Res 19: 272-277,1985) 
Extract: A new variant of glucose phosphate isomerase (GPI) deficiency (type Nordhorn) associated with congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia is described. The propositus, an 18-month-old boy of German origin, has suffered since birth from a severe to moderate macrocytic anemia, which is characterized by low mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (28%), high reticulocytosis (45—60%), normal osmotic fragility, type I autohemolysis, and short erythrocyte life-span (51Cr t1/2 = 2 days). With the exception of GPI, the activities of most erythrocyte enzymes are increased. GPI activity is decreased to 22% of the normal. The father and mother exhibit GPI activities between 36% and 47% of normal. No difference is demonstrable between the enzyme of the propositus and normal subjects concerning Michaelis-Menten constant for fructose 6-phosphate, pH optimum, and thermal optimum. The stability of the enzyme is decreased in the propositus and in all affected maternal relatives. The enzyme of the paternal relatives is stable. On starch-gel electrophoresis the enzyme of the father is normal (three bands). In the hemolysate of the mother a fourth cathodally migrating band is demonstrable in addition to the three normal bands. The propositus exhibits only one band with a cathodal mobility of 132% of the main band of normal subjects. It is suggested that the propositus is double heterozygous for two abnormal alleles. The heterozygote mother contributes an allele which produces a thermolabile enzyme of decreased activity and abnormal electrophoretic mobility, whereas the father contributes an allele without enzymatic activity. The enzyme defect is also manifest in the leukocytes of the propositus (39% of normal activity). The thermolability is evident in the leukolysates of the propositus and in those of his mother. When erythrocyte glucose consumption and lactate formation are compared with nonenzymopenic, reticulocyte-rich blood, which has no metabolic defect, the rate of glycolysis is markedly impaired in the propositus. Glucose 6-phosphate, the substrate before the defect, accumulates fourfold and probably inhibits hexokinase, and consequently glycolysis. Compared with erythrocyte populations of similar mean cell age, the concentrations of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are decreased. After separation of young from old cells the defect becomes more evident in the older population. Premature inactivation of the enzyme during maturation is suggested. Speculation: Many so-called “homozygous states” of inherited enzyme defect: could be double heterozygous as well. Double heterozygosity may partially explain the clinical heterogeneity of the “homozygous” manifestation, and the lack of correlation between residual enzyme activity and clinical expression in many inborn errors of metabolism. In double heterozygotes with glucose phosphate isomerase deficiency, a premature inactivation of the enzyme during maturation of the erythrocytes may be the reason for metabolic impairment of the celIs, followed by premature hemolysis.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: No data are currently available on the quality of washed prestorage leucocyte-depleted red blood cell concentrates (RCCs). ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: Five groups of RCCs stored in additive solution (SAG-M) were washed. The groups differed in the age of RCCs (2-5 days or 11-15 days), the temperature during the washing procedure and a 6-h storage period (4 degrees C or room temperature) and the washing solution (saline, SAG-M or 5% albumin). We measured ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), haemolysis, blood cell count, Na(+), K(+), pH, pO(2), pCO(2) and lactate, before and after the washing procedure and hourly during the 6-h postwash storage period. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The erythrocyte ATP content increased by 2-13%, relative to the baseline value, during the washing procedure. The 2,3-DPG level decreased by 15-35% in 2-6-day-old RCCs and by 30-40% in 11-15-day-old RCCs (relative to baseline values) during the washing procedure. In RCCs that were washed and stored at room temperature, and in 2-week-old RCCs, a further decrease in 2,3-DPG of up to 40%, relative to the baseline value, was observed during the 6-h postwash time-period. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Washing of RCCs stored in SAG-M results in a considerable, significant loss of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG, especially in older RCCs. This loss increases in during a 6-h storage period postwash, even at 4 degrees C. This loss of erythrocyte quality might well outweigh the benefits of washed SAG-M RCCs during massive transfusion in neonates.
We have studied iron transfer from transferrin to ferritin in the presence of ATP, GTP, ADP, AMP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. These compounds, with the exception of AMP, can release iron from transferrin at pH 7.4 and form a stable Fe(III)-phosphate complex. From these complexes, only a limited number of Fe(III) atoms can be incorporated into ferritin. Ascorbate enhances iron transfer from transferrin to ferritin at the beginning of the process but subsequently inhibits further iron deposition in ferritin.
Abstract The metabolic regulation of the synthesis of 5-phosphoribosyl- i -pyrophosphate (PRPP) was investigated in intact erythrocytes and in cell-free enzyme preparations with the aid of specific enzymic assays described in the present communication. The synthesis of PRPP in erythrocytes incubated in saline-glucose medium was strikingly enhanced by increasing the P i content of the medium up to a 60 mM concentration. Incubation of the erythrocytes in the presence of methylene blue or inosine resulted in a marked increase of their steady-state level of Rib-5- P , which showed no relation to the P i concentration in the medium. On the other hand, the stimulation of PRPP formation attending the build-up of the Rib-5- P pool exhibited a strict dependence on an adequately high P 1 level. These results were taken as evidence that the synthesis of PRPP in the erythrocytes is governed primarily by the P i -dependent catalytic capacity of PRPP synthetase, wherease the rate-limiting role of the intracellular supply of Rib-5- P manifest itself only when the optimum requirement of the system for P i had been satisfied. The activity of PRPP synthetase, as measured in cell-free preparations, was found to be about 200-fold higher than the corresponding rate of PRPP synthesis observed in the intact cells. The catalytic rate of the enzyme was strongly inhibited by ADP, GDP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at concentrations close to the physiological levels found in erythrocytes. The inhibition was partially relieved by raising the P i concentration in the reaction mixture over and above the optimum level required in the absence of the inhibitors. The interrelations between P i and the inhibitory metabolites, their implications in the control of the intracellular synthesis of PRPP and the allosteric nature of the underlying molecular mechanism are discussed in the light of available data.
High-resolution 1H and 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy has been used to investigate the binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to human normal adult hemoglobin and the molecular interactions involved in the allosteric effect of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate molecule on hemoglobin. Individual hydrogen ion NMR titration curves have been obtained for 22-26 histidyl residues of hemoglobin and for each phosphate group of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate with hemoglobin in both the deoxy and carbonmonoxy forms. The results indicate that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binds to deoxyhemoglobin at the central cavity between the two beta chains and the binding involves the beta 2-histidyl residues. Moreover, the results suggest that the binding site of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to carbonmonoxyhemoglobin contains the same (or at least some of the same) amino acid residues responsible for binding in the deoxy form. As a result of the specific interactions with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the beta 2-histidyl residues make a significant contribution to the alkaline Bohr effect under these experimental conditions (up to 0.5 proton/Hb tetramer). 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate also affects the individual hydrogen ion equilibria of several histidyl residues located away from the binding site on the surface of the hemoglobin molecule, and, possibly, in the heme pockets. These results give the first experimental demonstration that long-range electrostatic and/or conformational effects of the binding could play an important role in the allosteric effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on hemoglobin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
When erythrocytes from patients homozygous for hemoglobin S (SS) are swollen or exposed to pH less than 7.40, they lose K, Cl, and water through a volume and pH-dependent KCl cotransport system. We report that carbon monoxide-treated SS cells become progressively denser when incubated for eight to 12 hours in media with pH less than 7.40 (7.3 to 7.0) at constant cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). This phenomenon is maximal in fresh SS cells from the top and middle density fractions, and is absent in cells from the densest fraction. When AA cells are separated according to density, acid pH induces cell shrinkage in the least dense fraction of AA cells, which has considerable KCl cotransport, but produces no change in cell density in the densest fractions of AA erythrocyte, which have no KCl cotransport. These data suggest that dense cells can form in oxygenated SS erythrocytes when the KCl cotransport system is activated by acidification.
Adaptation ofSherpas tohighaltitude has beenstudied andcompared withthat ofCaucasians acclima- tized tohighaltitude. Sherpas living permanently at4000m above sealevel donothaveincreased hematological parame- ters (i.e., redcell number, hematocrit, hemoglobin content, and2,3-diphosphoglycerate/hemoglobin ratio) andhavea higher affinity ofblood foroxygen ascompared withaccli- matized Caucasians. Sherpas permanently living atlowalti- tude, onthecontrary, havelower affinity ofblood foroxygen thandoCaucasians living atcomparable altitude andare mildly "anemic." Various other redcell biochemical parame- ters (possibly related toadaptation toaltitude) havealso been studied inthesamepopulation. We suggest that Sherpas aregenetically better adapted to highaltitude thanareAmerindians living onthePeruvian highlands, possibly asaconsequence ofamuchmorepro- longed exposure tosuchanecological factor ofselection as high altitude. Thepopulations living forthousands ofyears athighalti- tudes mayadapt tolowoxygen tension withavariety of
Abstract Marked hypophosphatemia was discovered in 78 patients in the acute period of severe craniocerebral injury. It led to a decrease of the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) and ATP in the red cells. The reduced ATP level in the red cells was one of the causes of reduced Ca2+ ATPase activity in their membranes. Intravenous infusion of 6.8% potassium dihydrophosphate solution prevented the development of hypophosphatemia and reduction of the content of 2,3 DPG and ATP in the red cells and Ca2+ ATPase activity in their membranes, which facilitated improvement in the course of acute posttraumatic period in patients with severe craniocerebral injury and decrease of mortality.
Mildronat potentiates the therapeutic effect of the combined treatment of heart failure, which includes the use of nitro drugs. It also decreases the level of methemoglobin in the patients' blood and improves the phosphate balance, especially that of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to control oxygen transport by hemoglobin, which is of paramount importance in hypoxia caused by coronary heart disease.
Hemoglobin J (HbJ), Guantanamo, which had been described but once in the literature, was found in a family originating from Benin; this second case was found to be in association with hemoglobin C (HbC) and alpha-thalassemia. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) procedures and microsequencing were used for characterization of the aminoacid substitution. The main hematological disorder, in relation with the instability of Hb J Guantanamo, seems to be a worsening of the rheological properties of the red blood cells (RBC), as demonstrated by ektacytometric studies. Oxygen-binding properties of the RBC were almost normal, but a slight decrease in cooperativity and lowered Bohr and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) effects were observed for pure stripped Hb J Guantanamo. The expression of the electrophoretic charge difference was partly masked, as is often observed when the structural abnormality is situated in or near a contact area.
Transfusion of RBCs has been linked to disappointing patient outcomes. Specifically, a correlation between transfused RBC storage duration and increased incidence of mortality and morbidity has been observed in some clinical settings. Chemical changes (e.g., decreases in pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels) are well documented to produce “storage lesions” in banked RBCs. Recent work has revealed novel defects that progress over the typical 42-day storage of banked RBCs. Of note, loss of the S -nitrosothiol (SNO) moieties bound to the β 93 cysteine of hemoglobin and to other, membrane-resident protein occurs rapidly (hours) after collection. This SNO loss and the attendant impairment in the nitric oxide (NO)-derived vasoactivity of RBCs may contribute to problems associated with transfusions of aged RBCs. We report on strategies to replenish the stored-RBC SNO/NO content via exposure to NO donors (e.g., N -diazeniumdiolates). We examine the RBC SNO/NO yield and distribution, measured via photolysis-chemiluminescence, as a function of incubation conditions (e.g., aerobic or anaerobic, NO-treatment duration) and of NO donor-specific NO release kinetics. For instance, bolus release of NO from the N -diazeniumdiolate PROLI/NO during longer anaerobic incubation favored heme-bound NO rather than SNO. Furthermore, we report on the efficacy of these treatments in improving RBC function with focus on enhanced deformability and decreased RBC adhesion to endothelium as assayed via laser-assisted optical rotational cell analyzer (LORCA) and in vitro flow chamber assays, respectively. Benefits associated with replenished SNO/NO content have the potential to impact clinical outcomes for a wide population of transfused patients.
Two glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (GPI) mutants with approximately 60% residual activity in blood compared to wild type have been independently detected in offspring derived from 1-ethyl-1-nitrosourea-treated male mice. Homozygous mutants with about 20% residual activity were recovered in progeny of inter se matings of heterozygotes. However, in both mutant lines the number of homozygous mutants was less than expected suggesting an increased lethality of these animals. Results of linkage studies and of investigations of physicochemical properties of the mutant enzymes indicate point mutations at theGpi-1s structural locus on chromosome 7. Based on these findings the two new alleles were designatedGpi-1sb-m1Neu andGpi-1sb-m2Neu, respectively. The b-m1Neu allele codes for an erythrocyte enzyme which, in the homodimeric form, exhibits a decreased stability toward heat and urea, an altered isoelectric point, normalpH dependence, an increasedKm for fructose-6-phosphate, and increasedKi's for 6-phosphogluconate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) compared to the wild-type enzyme. The GPI-1sb-m2Neu homodimer, in contrast, is characterized by an even stronger instability, slightly alteredpH dependence, an increasedKi for 2,3-DPG, normal other kinetics, and normal isoelectric point. The different degree of stability of the mutant homodimersin vitro seems to be reflected in a different degree of stabilityin vivo, since GPI deficiency in general is more strongly expressed in the tissues of the homozygousGpi-1sb-m2Neu mutant compared to the homozygousGpi-1sb-m1Neu mutant. The similarity of the mutant enzymes to the allozymes found in human GPI deficiencies indicates the GPI deficient mouse mutants to be excellent models for the human disease.
Binding of glutathione by disulfide linkage to Cys-beta 93 of hemoglobin tetramers within sickle cells increases the oxygen affinity and significantly inhibits sickling at low partial oxygen pressure (Garel, M-C., Domenget, C., Caburi-Martin, J., Prehu, C., Galacteros, F., and Beuzard, Y. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 14704-14709). This article reports a characterization of the oxygen-binding properties of glutathionyl hemoglobin (G-Hb) in solution in the presence or absence of allosteric effectors. The studies reveal a nearly 6-fold increase in oxygen affinity compared to native HbA and a Hill coefficient at half-saturation (n50) of 1.50 compared to n50 of approximately 2.9 for HbA. The oxygen Bohr effect measured in the alkaline pH range is reduced by 38%. Addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate decreases the oxygen affinity of G-Hb and HbA to a similar extent and increases the Bohr effect, indicating that the binding sites for organic phosphates are not perturbed in G-Hb. The rate of autooxidation of G-HbO2 is slower than of HbAO2. Oxidation by ferricyanide of G-HbCO is also reduced and is biphasic, demonstrating a heterogeneous susceptibility of the hemes in G-Hb. Flash photolysis experiments indicate that the tetramer-dimer dissociation constant is 1 order of magnitude greater for G-HbCO than for HbACO. High resolution NMR spectra at 400 MHz show that in G-Hb: the tertiary structure of the beta heme pocket is significantly perturbed, particularly in the F helix and the EF corner; the formation of the salt bridge between His-beta 146 and Asp-beta 94, a feature of the deoxy state, is precluded; and a deoxy interchain (alpha 1 beta 2) contact between Asp beta 2 99 and Tyr alpha 1 42 is appreciably destabilized. The NMR data provide a structural basis for interpreting the high oxygen affinity, reduced cooperativity, and diminished polymerization of G-HbS.
Some patients experience an improved well-being during treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin even with an unchanged Hb level. We have hypothesized that this may not be only a placebo effect. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in red blood cells increases in response to anaemia/hypoxia and causes a shift of the oxygen dissociation curve, allowing a more effective oxygen delivery. We have investigated red cell 2,3-DPG concentrations during erythropoietin treatment in healthy volunteers as a mediator of a possible physiological explanation. Thirteen healthy subjects with no iron deficiency were recruited and randomly assigned to a treatment group comprising five males and three females and a control group including three males and two females. The treatment group was treated with erythropoietin (Recormon®), 20 IE/kg subcutaneously three times/week for 4 weeks. Blood samples were collected at each injection day and 10 days after the last injection and at corresponding times in the control group. B-Hb,...
The link between beta s-gene haplotypes and sickle cell anemia has permitted a better understanding of the biological manifestations of this disease. The use of better laboratory methods can help rule out other hereditary factors that can camouflage the real hemoglobin genotype. The clinical heterogeneity of sickle cell disease, which is characterized by the presence of S hemoglobin, can be explained in terms of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) levels, ratio of G gamma chains to A gamma chains, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels, linked mutations, beta s haplotypes, coexistence of alpha-thalassemia, and environmental factors. The inheritance of Sen and Arab/Indian beta-gene cluster polymorphisms is associated with a milder clinical course, whereas the Central African Republic (CAR) or Bantu, Cameroon, and Benin haplotypes are linked with severe sickle cell disease. The CAR haplotype carries the worst prognosis of all (less than 12% HbF levels and adult-type G gamma:A gamma ratio). Once characterized, these DNA polymorphisms also assume great importance as anthropologic and genetic markers. In America, beta s haplotypes are contributing to a better understanding of Black American roots and their African ancestry. There is ample evidence of genetic variability not only between different Black populations in America, but also within the same country, as is the case in Costa Rica.
This study was undertaken to assess the effect of propane-1,2-diol(PD) ingestion on carbohydrate metabolism in female rat erythrocytes. For this purpose, two different groups of adult albino female rats were treated orally with PD at two different dose levels of 73 and 294 mg 100 g−1 body wt. The blood samples drawn from the retro-orbital sinus prior to the treatment served as the controls, whereas the treated samples were collected at peak periods (1/2 and 2 h) 2 and 7 days after the treatment. A' single dose of PD was found to elevate levels of blood glucose, lactate, pyruvate and the lactate/pyruvate ratio at the peak periods (P < 0.001) and after 2 days (P < 0.001) in both the groups. A significant (P < 0.05) increase in the contents of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was observed only at the peak periods. All these parameters returned to their base level after 7 days of treatment. The activities of hexokinase (HK), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase (2,3-DPG Pase), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6-PGD) and aldehyde reductase II (AR II) declined markedly, whereas those of pyruvate kinase (PK) and aldose reductase increased as a result of PD ingestion. The changes in the activities of 2,3-DPG Pase and LDH were persistant up to 8 days post-treatment. The [14C]glucose flux through glycolysis and the hexose monophosphate shunt pathway in erythrocytes was found to be lowered (P < 0.001) in response to PD treatment. The present work revealed that a single oral dose of PD was capable of producing significant alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in female rat erythrocytes.
The erythrocytes of a patient with the so-called "high ATP syndrome" were characterized by a high ATP content and low 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level. The pyruvate kinase activity was specifically increased (about twice the normal level). After separation of the erythrocytes according to age by discontinuous Percoll density centrifugation, the pyruvate kinase activity was found to be increased in all Percoll fractions. Pyruvate kinase of the patient's cells was characterized by a decreased K0.5 for the substrate phosphoenolpyruvate and no inhibition by ATP. The Michaelis constant (Km) value for ADP, the nucleotide specificity, the thermostability, pH optimum, and immunological specific activity were normal. It is concluded that the high pyruvate kinase activity is due to a shift in the R(elaxed) in equilibrium T(ight) equilibrium to the R(elaxed) form.
Fetal oxygenation studies have provided the obstetrician with some basic information regarding oxygen supply to the fetus. Although standard values for normal fetuses at term have been made, little has been done to evaluate any changes occurring with fetal and neonatal abnormality. Twenty-two sets of analyses were performed to measure oxygen affinity (P50) 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and full blood gas analysis on umbilical arterial and venous samples. The samples were taken from a random obstetric population. All babies were at term or post term by antenatal data and paediatric assessment at delivery. A further study was performed on a group of normal and growth retarded term infants, assessing the same parameters as the random population. Following analysis, 2 cases of cardio-pulmonary abnormality, resulting in neonatal death, were found to have the highest oxygen affinity, the remaining oxygenation parameters of PO2, PCO2, pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration were found to be similar to the rest of the group. The results of this study agree with previous investigative findings for the normal babies. The finding of low P50 (or high oxygen affinity) in these 2 cases is an unusual finding and may reflect an adaptive function towards extra-uterine life. No alteration of fetal oxygen affinity was found in a small group of growth retarded babies despite the lowering of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration. The latter finding probably reflects the lowered intrauterine fetal blood pH found with growth retarded babies. Further research is required to elucidate the comples process of fetal oxygenation that occurs in the presence of fetal abnormality.
SUMMARY ::: ::: The activities of various enzymes in the ery-throcytes of newborn infants, suffering from transitory hyperbilirubinaemia, have been studied. Phosphoglucose isomerase (p-value = 92%) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate de-hydrogenase (p-value = 87%) show a decrease in icteric children. These p-values were regarded as sufficient for furth'er investigations, because bilirubin level is influenced by many different factors. Because of the importance of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase for the intraerythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycer-ate level, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was measured and correlated to serum bilirubin. A steady decline in icteric children is noted (p-value = 99%).
The exciting story of the functional association between phosphorylated intermediates of the red cell and hemoglobin may be viewed as beginning in 1963 when Chanutin’s laboratory first published data showing that a number of phosphate compounds reacted with hemoglobin to form a complex which had an altered electrophoretic mobility (Sugita and Chanutin, 1963; Chanutin and Curnish, 1964 and 1965). This was followed in 1967 by Chanutin and Curnish’s report that certain of these bound phosphorylated intermediates of the red cell, including 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and ATP, affect the oxygen dissociation properties of hemoglobin. In the same year, Benesch and Benesch (1967) reported similar effects. Subsequent observations from a number of laboratories have highlighted the importance of these findings. These developments have given great impetus to the whole area of red cell metabolism and function, and to the study of the interrelationships of the red cell with the rest of the organs of gas transport. In 1968, we (Eaton and Brewer, 1968) reported that a correlation exists between levels of red cell DPG and whole blood hemoglobin levels, suggesting that, contrary to the statements of Benesch et al. (1968), variation of DPG in the physiological range was of significance in oxygen transport. These findings have been confirmed and extended in a number of papers reported at this conference.
The ®rst mechanism is increased oxygen extraction by the peripheral tissues. This is achieved via a reduction in the af®nity between Hb and oxygen. An example of this mechanism is the shift of the Hb± oxygen dissociation curve to the right due to increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels or acidosis w1x. However, this mechanism is limited in effect, perhaps compensating for a fall in Hb level of no more than 1±2 gudl.
To determine whether cell therapy enhanced the activation and proliferation of endogenous CPCs, sections were stained for the presence of α-sarcomeric actin (to identify cardiomyocytes), for expression of the progenitor cell marker c-kit, and for BrdU incorporation (Figures 6A and 6B ; online-only Data Supplement Figure III ) for phosphocreatine (PCr) and ATPγ using progressive saturation (A) and inversion recovery (B) experiments. Spectra a1 through a7 are from progressive saturation experiment with ATPγ saturated (arrow) for 0.44, 0.88, 1.32, 2.2, 3.52, 5.28, and 7.04 seconds, respectively. Spectra b1 through b6 are from inversion recovery experiment with both inorganic phosphate (P i ) and PCr saturated (arrows) for 0.44, 0.88, 1.32, 1.76, 2.64, and 3.96 seconds, respectively. The magnetizations of PCr and ATPγ were quantified and then subjected to exponential models to fit the intrinsic T 1 s. The experiments yielded an average intrinsic T 1 of 3.2±0.1 seconds and 1.1±0.1 seconds for PCr and ATPγ, respectively. C, Three-spectrum magnetization saturation transfer experiment to measure myocardial ATP turnover rate based on the equation given in Methods. c1 indicates control spectrum without saturation to quantify magnetization of PCr (M 0,PCr ) and ATPγ (M 0,ATPγ ); c2, ATPγ-saturated spectrum to quantify steady-state magnetization of PCr (M ss,PCr ); and c3, P i -and PCr-saturated spectrum to measure steady-state magnetization of ATPγ (M ss,ATPγ ). BISTRO-based frequency-selective saturation pulses are indicated by arrows. Detailed information of BISTRO (B1-insensitive train to obliterate signal) saturation pulse sequence is shown in online-only Data Supplement Figure IV . 2,3-DPG indicates 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. D, Scatterplot of Flux ATP→Pi vs rate-pressure product (RPP) for individual hearts from normal group, which indicates a tight coupling between ATP hydrolysis rate and cardiac workload (R 2 =0.89, P<0.05). E and F, Summarization of myocardial K ATP→Pi and K PCr→ATP for all groups at both baseline and high cardiac workload (HWL) conditions. K ATP→Pi is significantly reduced in border zone of myocardial infarction (MI) hearts compared with normal hearts, whereas K PCr→ATP was similar among all groups and all conditions. In response to transplantation of human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived vascular cells, the abnormality of ATP turnover rate in border zone was abolished. Flux ATP→Pi was calculated from K ATP→Pi ×[ATP].
One of the most unsettled questions in cardiovascular physiology is how the rate of ATP production and utilization is regulated in the heart and how the limitation of this rate may contribute to contractile dysfunction in hearts that become hypertrophic in response to MI-induced LV remodeling, pressure overload, or volume overload. The heart has the highest ATP turnover rate per gram of tissue of any organ in the body 33 ; however, the ATP reserve in myocardial tissue is so low that it would be exhausted after only a few dozen beats if the ATP production machinery stopped functioning. 33 In vivo methods for accurately measuring the ATP utilization rate in the heart have not been established because multiple mechanisms for ATP turnover happen simultaneously, 34 and the conventional method requires quantification of the intracellular P i level, which is intrinsically low and overlaps with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate resonance peaks. In addition, whether intracellular levels of myocardial free P i are completely visible on nuclear magnetic resonance is somewhat controversial. 16,17 In the present report, we introduce a novel, double-saturation 31 P MST protocol that measures the ATP utilization rate without measuring P i , thereby circumventing the barrier for in vivo applications (online-only Data Supplement). By applying this nuclear magnetic resonance method, we have observed abnormalities in the rate of ATP utilization at the BZ of infarction; furthermore, the BZ bioenergetic abnormality was significantly corrected in response to cell therapy, and this improvement was associated with significantly increased BZ contractile function (Figures 2 and 4) . The observation that ATP hydrolysis/synthesis rates increased in the BZ of celltreated hearts (Figure 4) is not surprising given the significant volume of literature that suggests that the factors responsible for myocyte overstretch and elevations in wall stress also lead to a decline in contractile function 29 and that correcting these factors would contribute to increases in the BZ systolic thickening fraction. 13 However, in the in vivo heart, the mechanisms responsible for this simple observation likely involve multiple factors throughout the network of ATP machinery, which functions seamlessly to maintain the balance between energy delivery and demand for the contractile apparatus. 34, 35 A more comprehensive and inclusive discussion of these mechanisms is beyond the scope of the present investigation, but future studies combining measurements of in vivo ATP turnover rates and intermediary metabolism 36 with measurements of changes in protein activity, the expression levels of creatine kinase isozymes, 27 and ATPase subunits 28,37 and isolated mitochondrial function could advance our understandings of the 
The hypothesis that failing hearts are energy starved is an old one. 15 On the basis of studies that used animal models of heart failure and patients with LV hypertrophy, it is a rather consistent finding that myocardial HEP levels and the forward flux rate of creatine kinase are reduced significantly, which is linearly related to the severity of LV dysfunction. 23,27 Myocardial HEP levels 23,32 and creatine kinase kinetics have been studied extensively 27 ; however, rates of ATP hydrolysis have been largely overlooked in in vivo investigations because of the intrinsically low myocardial P i level. In the in vivo heart, myocardial P i produces a weak signal that overlaps with the resonance peaks of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from erythrocytes in LV chamber blood. Our novel double-saturation 31 P MRS protocol enables the ATP hydrolysis rate to be calculated without quantification of the P i signal, thereby providing a new approach for the study of myocardial ATP turnover rate in vivo (online-only Data Supplement). The ATP hydrolysis rate is important because it reflects the total ATP utilization rate, combining the contractile apparatus utilization and all other ATPase pumps that maintain the structural integrity.
We describe here a family with autosomal dominant erythrocytosis. In in vitro cultures, performed using the methyl cellulose assay, the number of erythroid colonies was normal or marginally increased when a standard concentration of erythropoietin (Epo) was used, but at lower Epo concentrations, the investigated persons formed more colonies than the controls. The difference was generally greater the lower the Epo concentration became. Some erythroid colony growth was seen even in the absence of any added Epo (apart from the minute concentration found in fetal calf serum), a phenomenon not seen in the controls. This finding indicates that the AMILIAL erythrocytosis is a heterogeneous group of F hereditary conditions with an increased total red blood cell (RBC) volume. In most families, the erythrocytosis is due to an abnormal hemoglobin (Hb) molecule with increased oxygen affinity.' Abnormal metabolism of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) is another, more rare cause of hereditary erythrocytosis.' In some families, erythrocytosis is caused by autonomous production of erythropoietin ( E~o ) . * .~ A familial form of polycythemia vera has also been r e p~r t e d .~.~ Erythrocytosis caused by abnormal Epo sensitivity and inherited by an autosomal recessive6 or dominant' mode has been described. In some families, the mechanism of erythrocytosis is not known.' We describe here a family with autosomal dominant erythrocytosis caused by excessive sensitivity of erythroid progenitors to Epo. The propositus has been one of the best cross-country skiers in the world. Skiing with Hb values greater than 200 g/L he has won several Olympic gold medals and world championships.
Production of methane by the methanogenic bacteria is a means of deriving energy (4, 7). Utilization of the energyyielding substrate can be uncoupled from growth of some eubacteria by phosphate limitation (5, 18) , and this coupling can be controlled reversibly by the availability of phosphate. The growth of one methanogenic bacterium, Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum, under phosphate-limiting conditions has been described previously (17). In the absence of added phosphate, exponential growth of M. thermoautotrophicum did not occur, although linear growth kinetics were demonstrated for a short period and evidence was presented that cyclic-2,3-diphosphoglycerate, a phosphate storage compound, was utilized during the phosphate starvation (17). The coupling between methanogenesis and cell growth was not investigated in that study.
The oxygen affinity of hemoglobin in K562 cells induced by hemin and the relationship between levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and hemoglobin have been investigated. Absorption spectra of induced cells indicate that the hemoglobin is oxygenated; oxygen dissociation curves are symmetric, with a P50 of 20 +/- 0.9 mm Hg, Hill coefficient of 2.5, and a normal temperature dependence. The intracellular pH measured by phosphorus 31 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) was 7.3. The amount of 2,3-DPG was determined by an enzymatic method and by 31P NMR. The level of 2,3-DPG in uninduced K562 cells, containing 0.5 pg of hemoglobin per cell, was low (5 +/- 0.5 mumole/10(8) cells), but increased to 64 +/- 5 mumole/10(8) cells upon induction of hemoglobin accumulation (to a final level of 20 pg hemoglobin/cell). For several experiments, there was a closely coordinated relationship between 2,3-DPG and hemoglobin levels, at about 1:1 stoichiometry of the two molecules. The time course of induction of hemoglobin, and of 2,3-DPG levels, are very similar; both processes are reversible. These data suggest that induction of hemoglobin synthesis in K562 cells by hemin results in hemoglobin-containing cells with normal oxygenation properties and that 2,3-DPG and hemoglobin levels are coordinately controlled in these cells. Elucidation of the mechanism of this effect should be of importance in understanding the erythroid-like differentiation of these cells.
Propranolol causes a massive leakage of potassium ions from red cells, which results in an alteration of the Gibbs-Donnan equilibrium across the red cell membrane. According to such a mechanism, the presence of propranolol significantly increases the hydrogen ion activity of the interior of the red cell, causing a decreased oxygen affinity of hemoglobin according to the classical Bohr effect. No release of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate which may be bound to the membrane is thus necessary to explain the effect of propranolol on the oxygen dissociation curve of blood.
BACKGROUND ::: In field emergency medicine, fresh whole-blood units are stored at room temperature up to 24 hours or occasionally longer. Few data exist on the integrity and in vitro functional properties of whole blood stored warm beyond 24 hours. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Ten citrate phosphate dextrose solution whole-blood units were collected and divided into two equal volumes. One-half of each unit was stored at 19 degrees C and the other half was stored at 25 degrees C, encompassing the accepted range for room temperature storage. At 6, 24, 48, and 72 hours, aliquots were collected from each unit and whole blood analyzed for cell counts, gases, and clotting function with thromboelastography, red cells for intracellular analytes, platelet (PLT)-rich plasma for aggregometry, and the supernatant for hemoglobin, potassium, glucose, lactate, and plasma clotting studies. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Whole-blood units stored at room temperature maintained cellular counts and coagulation activity for up to 72 hours. Units stored at 19 degrees C demonstrated greater RBC adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) content and stronger responses in PLT aggregation studies when compared with 25 degrees C storage. No significant hemolysis was observed, and no bacterial growth was detected. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Storage of whole blood at room temperature for 72 hours leads to marked reductions in pH and DPG, but the observed reduction in PLT function and plasma coagulation factor activity was surprisingly modest compared to literature values. These findings should prompt additional investigation, given their potential importance for whole blood processing and field-expedient transfusion.
RSR13, 2-[4-[[(3,5-Dimethylanilino)carbonyl]methyl]phenoxy]-2-methylpropionic acid sodium salt (MW 363), is a synthetic allosteric modifier of hemoglobin (Figure 1). RSR13 is a small molecule that noncovalently binds in the central water cavity of the hemoglobin tetramer, reduces hemoglobin-oxygen (Hb-O2) affinity1 and enhances the diffusion of oxygen from the blood to the tissues.2,3,4 RSR13 emulates the function of natural allosteric modifiers such as hydrogen ions, carbon dioxide, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. This therapeutic strategy of “turbocharging” oxygen unloading from hemoglobin to tissue emulates and amplifies physiological tissue oxygenation. This approach has potential application in clinical conditions characterized by tissue hypoxia due to: 1) inadequate blood flow (regional or global), 2) insufficient oxygen carrying capacity (e.g., hemorrhage or dilutional anemia), 3) increased tissue oxygen demand unmatched by supply, and/or 4) insufficient oxygen loading/unloading capacity of hemoglobin (e.g., hypothermia).
48 simultaneous arterial and venous blood samples from 15 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) were evaluated for calculated p50 and measured and calculated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration. 23 samples (48 %) demonstrated a leftward shift in the calculated in vivo p50, whereas both measured and calculated DPG showed 5 % below and 28 % above reference range. Measured DPG was significantly higher than calculated DPG in the leftshifted group, whereas there was no significant difference in the non-leftshifted group. Mean arterial pH was alkalotic in the leftshifted group and significantly higher than mean pH in the non-leftshifted group. It is concluded that DPG concentration cannot be calculated by the algorithm in patients with COPD and a leftward shift in the oxygen dissociation curve.
The metabolism of D-[U-14C]glucose, D-[1-14C]glucose, D-[6-14C]glucose, D-[1-3H]glucose, D-[2-3H]glucose, D-[3-3H]glucose, D-[3,4-3H]glucose, D-[5-3H]glucose, and D-[6-3H]glucose was examined in rat erythrocytes. There was a fair agreement between the rate of 3HOH production from either D-[3-3H]glucose and D-[5-3H]glucose, the decrease in the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate pool, its fractional turnover rate, the production of 14C-labeled lactate from D-[U-14C]glucose, and the total lactate output. The generation of both 3HOH and tritiated acidic metabolites from D-[3,4-3H]glucose indicated incomplete detritiation of the C4 during interconversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate and triose phosphates. Erythrocytes unexpectedly generated 3HOH from D-[6-3H]glucose, a phenomenon possibly attributable to the detritiation of [3-3H]pyruvate in the reaction catalyzed by glutamate pyruvate transaminase. The production of 3HOH from D-[2-3H]glucose was lower than that from D-[5-3H]glucose, suggesting enzyme-to-enzyme tunneling of glycolytic intermediates in the hexokinase/phosphoglucoisomerase/phosphofructokinase sequence. The production of 3HOH from D-[1-3H]glucose largely exceeded that of 14CO2 from D-[1-14C]glucose, a situation tentatively ascribed to the generation of 3HOH in the phosphomannoisomerase reaction. It is further speculated that the adjustment in specific radioactivity of D-[1-3H]glucose-6-phosphate cannot simultaneously match the vastly different degrees of isotopic discrimination in velocity at the levels of the reactions catalyzed by either glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase or phosphoglucoisomerase. The interpretation of the present findings thus raises a number of questions, which are proposed as a scope for further investigations.
Streptozotocin induced diabetes in rats was accompanied by development of hyperglycemia, by increase in the rate of hemoglobin and albumin glycosylation in blood and by elevation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content in erythrocytes. Alterations of the dissociation properties and the decrease in Hb P50 value suggested the reduced affinity of hemoglobin to oxygen. Injection of nicotinamide, which is involved in NAD+ biosynthesis, caused a decrease of glucose content in blood, stabilized the content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and of glycosylated hemoglobin in erythrocytes. Nicotinamide appears to decrease the rate of hemoglobin glycosylation and enhanced the tissue oxygen utilization under hypoxic conditions.
Abstract Polyanionic water-soluble polymers containing sulphate, phosphate and polycarboxylate groups were synthesized. These compounds, when simply added to haemoglobin solutions, were shown to lower the affinity of the protein for oxygen. Their influence on oxygen affinity was regarded as the result of a specific interaction of the polymer anionic groups inside the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-binding site of deoxyhaemoglobin. On the other hand, these polymers were linked to deoxyhaemoglobin to give covalent conjugates also exhibiting an oxygen affinity lower than that of free haemoglobin in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, its natural effector, which means that after fixation, the polyanionic polymers are still acting as effectors.
Red cell enzyme activities and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine-triphosphate levels in cord blood of three groups of newborn infants were studied. The groups were classified according to birthweight in relation to intrauterine growth and gestational age. Only phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and enolase activity values differed significantly among the groups. The activity of phosphofructokinase was lower in small-for-date term infants (TSGA) and preterm adequate for gestational age (PTAGA) in comparison to term infants adequate for gestational age (TAGA). Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity was higher in TAGA, in comparison to PTAGA, with no other difference among the groups. Enolase activity was found to be higher in TSGA compared to TAGA and higher in PTAGA compared to TAGA. No differences were found between PTAGA and TSGA.
Abstract The phosphorylation activity associated with a neurofilament-enriched cytoskeletal preparation isolated from the squid giant axon has been studied and compared to the phosphorylation activities in intact squid axoplasm. The high molecular weight (greater than 300 kDa) and 220-kDa neurofilament proteins are the major endogenous substrates for the kinases in the axoplasm and the neurofilament preparation, whereas 95- and less than 60-kDa proteins are the major phosphoproteins in the ganglion cell preparation. The squid axon neurofilament (SANF) protein kinase activity appeared to be both cAMP and Ca2+ independent and could phosphorylate both casein (Km = 40 microM) and histone (Km = 180 microM). The SANF protein kinase could utilize either ATP or GTP in the phosphotransferase reaction, with a Km for ATP of 58 microM and 129.4 microM for GTP when casein was used as the exogenous substrate; and 25 and 98.1 microM for ATP and GTP, respectively, when the endogenous neurofilament proteins were used as substrates. The SANF protein kinase activity was only slightly inhibited by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and various polyamines at high concentrations and was poorly inhibited by heparin (34% inhibition at 100 micrograms/ml). The failures of heparin to significantly inhibit and the polyamines to stimulate the SANF protein kinase indicate that it is not a casein type II kinase. The relative efficacy of GTP as a phosphate donor indicates that SANF protein kinase differs from known casein type I kinases. Phosphorylated (32P-labeled) neurofilament proteins were only slightly dephosphorylated in the presence of axoplasm or stellate ganglion cell supernatants, and the neurofilament-enriched preparation did not dephosphorylate 32P-labeled neurofilament proteins. The axoplasm and neurofilament preparations had no detectable protein kinase inhibitor activity, but a strong inhibitor activity, which was not dialyzable but was heat inactivatable, was found in ganglion cells. This inhibitor activity may account for the low phosphorylation activity found in the stellate ganglion cells and may indicate inhibitory regulation of SANF protein kinase activity in the ganglion cell bodies.
Units of CPDA-1 whole blood were subdivided and each treated with additions of dihydroxyacetone (DHA) to give final concentrations from 0 to 80 mM. The 'optimum' concentration of DHA to maintain 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) with minimal loss of ATP during 42 days of storage appeared to be 30 mM of DHA. With this formulation, red cell 2,3-DPG concentrations rose to 130-140% of normal by 14 days and then decreased in a near-linear manner to 50-60% normal by 42 days, while maintaining adequate ATP levels. In addition, packed red cells were prepared form CPD fresh blood and treated with adenine, glucose, and various concentrations (0-80 mM) of DHA. The cells also responded most favorably to 30mM DHA, although the response was not as positive as whole blood. This concentration of DHA produced nearly 100% maintenance of 2,3-DPG at 14 days with subsequent fall to 30% of normal by 42 days.
Abstract The following phosphate compounds of the erythrocyte acid-soluble fraction were subjected to Chromatographic separation: ADP, ATP, adenylo-diphosphoglycerate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, hexose monophosphate, hexose diphosphate. In each of the fractions total phosphorus, and in fraction II inorganic phosphorus, were estimated. The material was derived from ten newborns with haemolytic disease as a result of ABO incompatibility and from ten full-term healthy newborns, just after birth. The concentration of the compounds assayed, except for 2,3-DPG (the values in both groups were similar) was higher in the erythrocytes from affected newborns, but lower than that found in the material derived from the newborns with Rh incompatibility. It is suggested that the metabolism of erythrocytes of the newborns with haemolytic ABO disease may be somewhat different from that in Rh incompatibility cases because in the former the haemolysis is weaker, the anaemia is less pronounced and the tissue hypoxia is of a smaller degree.
After a century of transfusions and approximately 100 millionunitsof redbloodcells (RBCs) transfusedperyear throughout the world,1 it is logical to expect that quality metrics for RBCs that directly reflect efficacy and broadly address safety exist. However, this is not the case. Current licensing criteria forRBCunits donot require directmeasures of efficacy as assessed by increased deliveryof oxygen,which is concerningbecause increaseddeliveryofoxygen is thepurposeof transfusingRBCs forpatients in shock (defined as oxygen debt or inadequate oxygen delivery to meet demand). Few data indicate that transfused RBCs of typical storageduration (more than 14days formost patients) increaseoxygendelivery to tissuesor improveoutcomes. Inaddition, licensingofRBCunitsdoesnot require safetydata.Even though the risksof transfusion-transmitted infectiousdiseases havedecreasedsubstantially, adverseeffects related to thedysregulationof immune,vasoregulatory, andhemostatic systems with RBC transfusions continue to be reported.2,3 RBC concentrates in storage solutions are licensed for use for up to 42 dayswhen stored at 2°C to 6°C, based on the percentage of RBCs that remain in the circulation 24 hours after transfusion in healthy recipients and the degree of hemolysis. RBCunitswere clinically available before theUSFoodand Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies began to requiredirectmeasures of efficacy and safety.As a result, RBC units have been “grandfathered in” and have not been required to demonstrate direct efficacy or safety. A reduction in theefficacyandsafetyofRBCunitshasbeen attributed to the “storage lesion,” a term used to describemultiplechangesthatoccur toRBCsandtheextracellularsolutionof RBCunitsduring storage, suchas reduction inRBCdeformabilityand2,3-diphosphoglycerate(DPG)andadenosinetriphosphate concentrations.3 Increasedstoragedurationalsoleadstoreduced nicotinamideadeninedinucleotidephosphate(NADPH)andglutathione,whichmayresult inoxidative injury,generationofRBC membranemicroparticles, and increased hemolysis, with a reductioninnitricoxideavailability.3StoragelesioneffectsonRBCs havebeenhypothesizedtoreducebothoxygendeliveryandperfusion after transfusion and as a result are associated with increasedmorbidityandmortality inpatientswhoarecritically ill.3 In this issueofJAMA,Dhabangiandcolleagues4present the results of a randomizednoninferiority trial that used reduction of blood lactate concentrations as a surrogate for oxygen deliverytotissues.Theinvestigatorsenrolled290severelyanemicchildren inUgandaandcompared transfusionswithRBCunits that were stored for 10daysor lesswithunits thatwere stored for25 to35days.Patientswereaged6monthsto5years,hadhemoglobin levels of 5 g/dL or lower, blood lactate levels of 5mmol/L or higher, andmost hadmalaria (81%) or sickle cell disease (13%). The primary outcomemeasure was the proportion of patients withabloodlactatelevelof3mmol/Lorlowerat8hours.Secondary outcomes included blood lactate levels at 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours, cerebral tissueoxygensaturation, andmanyclinical and laboratorychanges, includingsurvival.Fortheprimaryoutcome, 87of 143children(61%)receiving longer-storageRBCunitsvs83 of 143 children (58%) receiving shorter-storageRBCunits had a lactate level of 3mmol/L or lower at 8 hours,meeting the noninferioritythreshold.Forall secondaryoutcomes, longer-storage RBCunitswere not inferior to units stored for shorter periods. Thistrial isthefirsttoindicatethattransfusionofRBCsoflongerstoragedurationisnotinferiortotransfusionofRBCsofshorter storageduration in reversingoxygendebtor shockbasedonthe reductionof lactateconcentrations.Amajorstrengthof this trial is the complete separation of storage duration between study groups,whichhasnotbeenaccomplished inprevious randomizedclinical trialsofRBCstorageduration.Thisseparation is importantbecause it reducespotential confoundingeffectsofmixingshorter-storageandlonger-storageRBCsandtherebyincreases thevalidityof the results.This trial alsoexamined theextremes of storage duration between the 2 study groups (median [IQR], 32days [30-34] for longerstoragevs8days [7-9] forshorter storage). This allowed for the comparison of “fresh” vs “very old” RBCs.Todate,noothertrialthathasexaminedthistopichascomparedsuchwidevariation instorageduration.Accordingly, this trialmakes an important contribution to the literature, by indicatingthatRBCsnear theendofexpirationmaybeefficaciousat increasing oxygendelivery and reversing oxygendebt. Considering that this trialwasconducted inUgandaamong children with severe anemia, the generalizability of the results to individuals in North America or Europe, where RBCs are transfused prior to the development of severe anemia, is unclear. It isunknownif the resultsof the trialwouldhavebeen similar if the degree of anemia and oxygen debt were not so severe or for patients without malaria or sickle cell disease. The trial didnot examine the safetyofRBCsof longer storage duration, such as outcomes related to immune function or infectious risks after transfusion, and much larger trials would be required to do so. Previous trials in adults5,6 and children7 have evaluated the frequency of adverse events afterRBC transfusions as secondaryoutcomesand foundnosignificant differences with length of storage. Given similar outcomes in previous trials that fresh RBCs donot improveoutcomes,perhaps the focus should shift from Related article page 2514 Opinion
Analysis of experimental equilibrium constants for the oxygenation of hemoglobin leads to a plausible mechanism for the effect of pH and of chloride ions on cooperativity in hemoglobin. According to this mechanism, the structural changes responsible for cooperativity in chloride- and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-free hemoglobin are affected only slightly by changes in pH, and the effect of chloride can be accounted for by sequential binding and release of chloride ions during oxygenation.
The effect of an additive preservative solution on canine red blood cell posttransfusion viability (PTV) and on selected canine red blood cell biochemical parameters was studied. One unit (450 mL) of blood was collected from 6 clinically normal dogs into the anticoagulant citrate phosphate dextrose, centrifuged, and the plasma removed. The red blood cells were then suspended in 100 mL of a saline, adenine, dextrose, and mannitol solution and stored at 4 degrees C. Aliquots were removed for study at 1, 10, 20, 30, 37, and 44 days. The 24-hour PTV of autologous red blood cells was determined using a sodium chromate (51Cr) label. Red blood cell concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP), and pH were also determined. Canine red blood cell PTV, pH, ATP, and 2,3-DPG concentrations decreased during storage (P < .05). The PTV decreased from 94% using day 1 red blood cells to 80% and 75% using day 37 and day 44 red blood cells, respectively (P < .05). Although the mean PTV of the day 44 stored units equaled the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) minimum standard for human red blood cells, the PTV was substandard in 75% of the day 44 units. The FDA standard was exceeded in 83% of the day 37 units. It was concluded that 37-day-old canine red blood cells preserved with a saline, adenine, dextrose, and mannitol solution are of acceptable quality for transfusion.
Abstract The relationship between oxygen affinity and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in the red cell has been studied in chronic hypercapnia induced by prolonged exposure of guinea pigs to 15% CO 2 and 21% O 2 in N 2 . Red cell pH fell to a minimum after six hours of exposure and subsequently rose without reaching initial values after seven days of exposure. Both oxygen half-saturation pressure (P 50 ) and the level of 2,3-DPG of the red cells followed the time course of the pH changes. However, both parameters required 24 hours to reach a minimum, following which they increased steadily and were not different from control values after seven days of exposure.
The allosteric characteristics of Hb-O 2 binding are well known and lead to the sigmoidal shape of the Hb-O 2 dissociation curve. The relative affinity of hemoglobin is expressed as the p50, the oxygen tension that produces 50% saturation of the hemoglobin-oxygen binding sites at 37°C and pH 7.4. There are several naturally occurring modifiers of hemoglobin affinity, including 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), CO 2 , and H + . A rightward shift in the Hb-O 2 dissociation curve is observed in patients with angina, congestive heart failure with shock, and acute myocardial infarction, and is believed to be an adaptive response that increases myocardial oxygen delivery (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) . Clofibrate and some other synthetic compounds also modestly alter the affinity of hemoglo-
Abstract 1. 1. The reactions of d 2,3-diphosphoglycerate with phosphoglyceromutases (2,3-diphosho- d -glycerate:2-phospho- d -glycerate phosphotransferase. EC 2.7.5.3) from rabbit muscle, yeast and pig kidney have been examined by observing spectrophotometrically the formation of monophosphoglycerate in the presence of excess enolase (EC 4.2.1.11), pyruvate kinase (EC 2.7.1.40) and lactate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.27). Monophosphoglycerate was produced in an initial burst and thereafter in a steady rate until hydrolysis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was complete. The initial burst was interpreted as the formation of a phosphoenzyme (2 moles phosphate per mole enzyme in rabbit muscle and pig kidney; >3 moles phosphate per mole yeast enzyme) and successive additions of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate indicated that the phosphoenzymes were unstable with half-lives of the order of 5, 8 and 1–2 min for rabbit muscle, pig kidney and yeast, respectively. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.1.3) activity could be attributed to the instability of the phosphoenzymes. The K m values for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were low ( ⪕ 1 μ M ). 2. 2. The reactions of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate with the enzymes from rabbit muscle and pig kidney were also examined spectrophotometrically in the presence of rate-limiting quantities of enolase. The initial velocities indicated that little, if any, monophosphoglycerate associated with the phosphoenzymes to form enzyme-2,3-diphosphoglycerate complexes at monophosphoglycerate concentrations of about 11μM. With rapid dialysis the dephosphoenzymes were shown not to bind monophosphoglycerate under these conditions. 3. 3. The rabbit muscle, pig kidney and yeast enzymes are shown to obey Michaelis-Menten kinetics down to 3-phosphoglycerate concentrations of the order of 1 μM. In view of the evidence that little, if any, of the enzyme-2,3-diphosphoglycerate species is present in solution under these conditions, and since there is no activation in the enolase coupled mutase assay as d -2-phosphoglycerate accumulates, it is concluded that the phosphoenzymes must themselves be catalytically active. The possibility that enzyme-2,3-diphocphoglycerate complexes if they exist, may also be catalytically active is not excluded. 4. 4. After incubation with 14C- and 32P-labelled d -2,3-diphosphoglycerate and gel filtration the enzymes were obtained labelled with 32P but not with 14C. 2 moles phosphate per mole enzyme were bound by rabbit and pig kidney. The 32P bound to the enzymes exchanged with the substrate and was liberated as Pi with HClO4. After denaturation with sodium dodecyl sulphate, the phosphoproteins from yeast and pig kidney were stable to alkali by hydrolysed by acid suggesting the involvement of phosphohistidine. 5. 5. The evidence presented for the formation of active phosphoenzymes supports the hypothesis that d -2,3-diphosphoglycerate-dependent phosphoglyceromutases are closely related to d 2,3-diphosphoglycerate diphosphatases.
Hypoxia is the alleged stimulus for initiation of increase of carbonic anhydrase II (CAII) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) synthesis of red blood cells from late chick embryos. The PO2-dependent regulation of red cell metabolism is mediated by unknown humoral factors [Million et al., Am. J. Physiol. 261 (Regulatory Integrative Comp. Physiol. 30): R1188-R1196, 1991]. In the present investigation we have analyzed whether interindividual differences in egg size (which result in different surface area-to-mass ratios) affect the timing of initiation of 2,3-DPG and CAII synthesis in late chick embryos. We also investigated the effect of extracellular adenine nucleotides on red cell organic phosphate pattern and O2 affinity to test whether the inhibitory effect of normal or elevated PO2 on 2,3-DPG synthesis and the concomitant increase of ATP (and O2 half-saturation pressure) can be mimicked by these agents. The results show that differences in egg size affect the timing of CAII and 2,3-DPG synthesis, indicating that PO2-dependent regulation of red cell function allows adjustment to the properties of the individual egg. We also found that extracellular ATP, which is rapidly degraded to AMP by red cell ectoenzymes, can alter the red cell phosphate pattern and O2 affinity, i.e., significantly increase red cell ATP, decrease red cell 2,3-DPG and O2 affinity, and thus mimic the effect of normoxia and hyperoxia. These findings suggest that extracellular adenine nucleotides may be involved in the PO2-dependent regulation of embryonic red cell metabolism.
Abstract In Hb Warsaw Val replaces the Phe normally present at the heme contact position beta 42 (CD1). This variant is unstable, and it readily undergoes methemoglobin formation. In DEAE-cellulose chromatography, the variant hemoglobin co-eluted with Hb A; a partially heme-depleted fraction of the variant, representing 5-6% of the total hemoglobin, eluted separately and in pure form. The heme replete form of Hb Warsaw exhibited decreased oxygen affinity with a normal Bohr effect and normal cooperativity and interaction with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). The heme-depleted Hb Warsaw had a higher oxygen affinity than that of Hb A, decreased cooperativity and 2,3-DPG interaction, and a very low alkaline Bohr effect. Gel filtration of the heme-depleted form showed it to exist entirely as alpha beta dimers. Globin chain synthesis by Hb Warsaw-containing reticulocytes followed a balanced alpha/beta ratio. In short-term synthesis experiments, a major portion of incorporated radiolabeled L-leucine was recovered from the dimeric, heme-depleted Hb Warsaw fraction, suggesting that subunit association precedes the incorporation of heme into the beta subunits in the post-synthetic assembly of this hemoglobin. Structural analysis of deoxyhemoglobin containing roughly equal proportions of normal and variant beta chains showed that the replacement leaves a cavity next to the heme that is large enough to hold a water molecule, which may account for the instability of Hb Warsaw. The heme and the pyrrol nearest to ValCD1 tilt into the cavity. The resulting increase in the tilt of the proximal histidine relative to the heme plane, coupled with a possible stretching of the Fe-N epsilon bond may account for the low oxygen affinity.
Three models of disturbed erythrocyte metabolism, triose-depleted normal, phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK)-deficient, and pyruvate kinase (PK)-deficient cells, have been studied to examine further the role of PGK in erythrocyte cation transport. Sodium (Na-+) and potassium (K-+) transport were reduced only in cells fully depleted of triose. In such cells the PGK step presumably was inoperative due to total lack of substrate; 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) then became the sole substrate source for remaining steps in glycolysis. At increased intracellular Na-+ concentrations which normally stimulate transport and glycolysis, triose-depleted cells had marked impairment of cation transport and ouabain-inhibitable lactate and pyruvate production from 2,3-DPG. PGK-deficient cells and normal cells with high intracellular Na-+ concentrations had similar increases in transport and ouabain-inhibitable lactate production. PK-deficient cells with high intracellular Na-+ concentrations showed an appropriate increase in transport but less stimulation of lactate production. Transport was not related to total cellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration. These data suggested that normal coupled cation transport occurred despite diminished metabolite flow through PGK, as in PGK- or PK-deficient cells. Transport was diminished only in triose-depleted cells where metabolite flow through PGK was presumably absent. These data, therefore, support the concept that transport and glycolysis interact at the PGK step, although impairment of PGK must be profound before its effect on transport is evident.
The study compared the effects of three blood concentration techniques after cardiopulmonary bypass on clinical hemostatic and ex-vivo rheological parameters. Residual blood of patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery was processed by centrifugation, cell salvage or ultrafiltration, and retransfused (n = 17 per group). Study parameters included blood loss, (free) hemoglobin, hematocrit, fibrinogen and erythrocyte aggregation, deformability and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content. Patient characteristics were similar between groups. Ultrafiltration was associated with the highest weight of the transfusion bag [649 ± 261 vs. 320 ± 134 g (centrifugation) and 391 ± 158 g (cell salvage); P < 0.01]. Cell salvage resulted in the lowest hemolysis levels in the transfusion bag. Retransfusion of cell saver blood induced the largest gain in postoperative patient hemoglobin levels when compared to centrifugation and ultrafiltration, and was associated with the largest increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate when compared to ultrafiltration (Δ2,3-diphosphoglycerate 1.34 ± 1.92 vs. -0.77 ± 1.56 mmol/l; P = 0.03). Cell salvage is superior with respect to postoperative hemoglobin gain and washout of free hemoglobin when compared to centrifugation or ultrafiltration.
Erythrocytes, which show little or no guanylate or adenylate cyclase activity, take up cyclic nucleotides from blood. Studies were done by incubating human erythrocytes in isotonic medium with the dibutyryl derivatives of cAMP and cGMP and in a hypotonic medium in which the cells are partially hemolyzed and, therefore, freely permeable to cAMP and cGMP. At cAMP and cGMP concentrations of 50 microM and above, the amount of 14CO2 generated from 1-14C-glucose was decreased significantly. This effect was suppressed by 4.6 mM theophylline. Inosine and ribose, which are catabolites of cAMP and cGMP also decreased formation of 14CO2 from 1-14C-glucose. Accordingly, it is postulated that in the absence of theophylline, the activity of phosphodiesterase resulted in AMP and GMP formation. These mononucleotides enter into the purine salvage pathways to form ribose phosphate. Additionally, the production of lactate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was measured in human erythrocytes after incubation with the dibutyryl derivatives of cAMP (bt2-cAMP) and cGMP (bt2-cGMP). At a concentration of 0.1 microM, bta2-cGMP inhibits lactate production at 60 min (p less than 0.01). Slight increases in 2,3-DPG were not statistically significant. Catabolism of cyclic nucleotides may prevent diffusion equilibria allowing for the erythrocyte's continuous uptake of cyclic nucleotides and providing a detoxification mechanism that could compensate for conditions in which elevations of these substances are observed.
Hb Hinsdale was detected in two sisters and in a son and daughter of one of them as a band migrating in the Hb F position on cellulose acetate, pH 8.5. On citrate agar (pH 6.3) the variant hemoglobin has a mobility like that of Hb S. Hematologic data from these individuals appear normal except for mild anemia. Oxygen affinity studies show that the variant has low affinity for oxygen and reduced cooperativity. Results of tests for instability were negative. The mutation involves a site that lies in the central cavity close to the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate pocket, so it is not surprising that the variant shows a reduced ability to react with this effector molecule.
The number of protons released from several mammalian hemoglobins as a consequence of oxygenation is greater in the presence of low concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate than in its absence. A mechanism for this enhancement of proton release is proposed. The basis of this mechanism is that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binds primarily between the protonated alpha-NH(2) terminal groups of the two beta chains in deoxyhemoglobin. This binding will shift the ionization equilibria in favor of the protonation of the deoxyhemoglobin. Partial release of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate upon oxygenation of the hemoglobin is then accompanied by a release of protons. The apparent enthalpy of diphosphoglycerate binding appears to be close to zero. The previously reported temperature dependence appears to be due entirely to the associated protonation reaction. If only a single diphosphoglycerate binding site is assumed, the intrinsic association constant is estimated to be 3.9 x 10(5) M(-1) for deoxyhemoglobin and 1.05 x 10(4) M(-1) for oxyhemoglobin at 20 degrees C in 0.1 M NaCl.
Abstract A mathematical model is presented for utilizing the structural features of hemoglobin to determine its functional properties. A formulation containing the essential features of the Perutz mechanism is outlined; i.e. there are two quaternary conformations of the tetramer, two tertiary structures for each chain, and coupling terms arising from the interchain salt bridges. A diagrammatic representation is used to determine the contributions of individual structures to a generating function from which the equilibrium properties are obtained. It is shown that the model parameters have well-defined physical significance which determines their range of possible values. Consideration is given to the effect on the oxygenation curves of pH, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ionic strength and dissociation. Various modified, mutant and mixed-state hemoglobins are discussed. Limitations of the model found by comparison with the available data are described and the need for additional experiments is pointed out. Possible modifications and extensions of the model are suggested and it is indicated how to alter the specific assumptions within the general thermodynamic scheme to conform to new structural or functional information.
The interaction of organic phosphates with hemoglobin is studied by use of a simple thermodynamic approach. A model-independent analysis is employed to evaluate the accuracy of Adair constants determined in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). The change of oxygen affinity in the presence of phosphates is related to the macroscopic phosphate binding constants of oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin and used to extract such binding constants from oxygen equilibrium measurements. The change of the Bohr effect in the presence of phosphates and the competitive binding of carbon dioxide and DPG are treated quantitatively. The binding of organic phosphates is incorporated into an allosteric model, in which the effect of phosphate on both tertiary and quaternary structure changes is included. By use of this model, the factors which can be responsible for the increased functional heterogeneity of alpha and beta chains in the presence of phosphates are clarified.
Objective— To compare viability of equine whole blood stored by 4 different methods, and to establish optimal storage protocols for an equine autologous blood donation program. ::: ::: Study Design— In vitro study of stored equine whole blood. ::: ::: Animals— Six healthy adult horses. ::: ::: Methods— Blood from each horse was collected into 4 different containers: glass bottles containing acid–citrate–dextrose solution (ACD), plastic bags containing ACD, citrate–phosphate–dextrose (CPD), and CPD with supplemental adenine (CPDA-1). Blood was stored for 5 weeks and sampled at 2-day intervals. Standard hematologic and biochemical variables were evaluated, and adenosine-5-triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations were measured and normalized to total hemoglobin content. ::: ::: Results— Plasma hemoglobin, % hemolysis, lactate, potassium, ammonia, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) increased, whereas glucose concentration and pH decreased in all stored blood over 5 weeks. There was a temporal increase in hemolysis with all storage methods, but the increase was greatest in glass bottles. Lactate and ammonia were highest in CPD and CPDA-1 samples, indicating more active red blood cell (RBC) metabolism. 2,3-DPG concentrations decreased during storage, but were optimally preserved with CPDA-1. ATP concentrations were significantly higher for blood stored in CPDA-1, and were lowest in glass bottles. ::: ::: Conclusions— Hematologic and biochemical values measured for blood stored in CPDA-1 are suggestive of improved RBC viability compared with other storage methods. With the exception of ATP, results from stored equine blood were similar to those reported for other species. ::: ::: Clinical Relevance— Commercial CPDA-1 bags appear to be the optimal storage method for equine whole blood.
The relationship between hemorheology, erythrocyte ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations, and von Willebrand factor antigen was studied in athletes and peripheral arterial disease patients. Lower blood viscosity, mainly due to a higher erythrocyte deformability, was found in athletes compared to control subjects. Higher 2,3-DPG/Ht levels in athletes were correlated with blood viscosity, erythrocyte deformability, the rigidity index, and erythrocyte suspension viscosity at low shear stress. It is suggested that these relationships might be determined by the predominance of immature erythrocytes in the blood circulation of the athletes. In the group of patients, a decrease in ATP/Ht was related to increased erythrocyte aggregation and a higher erythrocyte suspension viscosity. Moreover, the concentration of von Willebrand factor was positively correlated with the erythrocyte aggregation index, erythrocyte suspension viscosity, and plasma viscosity. The results show that alterations in erythrocyte and plasma rheology may be involved in the modification of the functional state of the vascular endothelium and the development of atherosclerosis.
Studies showed that a single injection of 5 mg/100 g of sodium nitrite causes the development of marked hemic hypoxia in rats, which is characterized by considerable increase of methemoglobin concentration, reduction of O2 content and O2 tension in arterial blood, sharp fall of the intensity of O2 consumption, decrease of methemoglobin concentration, and increase of the content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red cells. This is evidence of disturbed blood oxygen-transport function and the development of compensatory mechanisms directed at improving O2 supply to the tissues.
We describe a new a chain mutant accidentally found in a diabetic patient. The propositus is being treated for diabetes mellitus II with 4% glycated hemoglobin (Hb A1c). The variant, named Hb Gouda, is not detectable by starch gel electrophoresis but appears as a shoulder before the Hb A fraction during the chromatographic separation of Hb A1c. The hematological analysis revealed normal parameters with a normal serum iron value. No anomalies were reported in connection with Hb Gouda. The tryptic peptide map and sequencing of the αT-9 peptide revealed the substitution of a histidine by a glutamine at position 72. By selective amplification and sequencing of both the α genes, we have assigned the new mutation to the α2 gene. Position 72 of the α chain is a moderately conserved site located between two non-conserved amino acids. This site is not involved in heme, dimer or tetramer contacts, or in Bohr effect or in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding.
In a number of papers we indicated a correlation between transmembrane potential (Δψ) and the shape of human erythrocytes. Recently Gedde et al., 1997axCytoplasmic pH and human erythrocyte shape. Gedde, M.M., Davis, D.K., and Huestis, W.H. Biophys. J. 1997; 72: 1234–1246Abstract | Full Text PDF | PubMedSee all References, Gedde et al., 1997bxMembrane potential and human erythrocyte shape. Gedde, M.M. and Huestis, W.H. Biophys. J. 1997; 72: 1220–1233Abstract | Full Text PDF | PubMedSee all References) discussed our findings, on the basis of their new experiments, stressing, however, that not Δψ but intracellular pH (pHi) is the factor, which is responsible for echinocyte and stomatocyte shape transformations. Already in 1984, Bifano et al. had argued in a similar way, claiming that amphotericin, which we used in our first experiments (Glaser, 1979xThe shape of red blood cells as a function of membrane potential and temperature. Glaser, R. J. Membr. Biol. 1979; 51: 217–228Crossref | PubMed | Scopus (49)See all References, Glaser, 1982xEchinocyte formation induced by potential changes of human red blood cells. Glaser, R. J. Membr. Biol. 1982; 66: 79–85Crossref | PubMed | Scopus (45)See all References), was the real reason for the shape changes found. However, our reexaminations of this matter showed that our results were reproducible under various other conditions, even without antibiotics. On the other hand, we pointed out that the absence of echinocytic transformations in Bifano’s work was caused by their use of albumin as a stomatogenic agent (Glaser et al., 1988xMembrane electric field and erythrocyte shape. Glaser, R., Gengnagel, C., and Donath, J. Studia biophysica. 1988; 127: 201–206See all ReferencesGlaser et al., 1988, Glaser and Donath, 1989xTemperature dependent changes in human red blood cells occur only at definite membrane potentials. Glaser, R. and Donath, J. Studia biophysica. 1989; 134: 191–194See all References, Glaser et al., 1991xThe influence of valinomycin induced membrane potential on erythrocyte shape. Glaser, R., Gengnagel, C., and Donath, J. Biomed. Biochim. Acta. 1991; 50: 869–877PubMedSee all References).Although many of our publications are mentioned in the papers of Gedde et al., some of our findings contradicting their conclusion, unfortunately, were not noticed. A crucial experiment, which was reproduced many times, is the following (Glaser et al., 1980xThe erythrocyte membrane electric field and its functional role. Glaser, R., Bernhardt, I., and Donath, E. Bioelectrochem. Bioenerg. 1980; 7: 281–290Crossref | Scopus (7)See all References, Glaser, 1993xMechanisms of electromechanical coupling in membranes demonstrated by transmembrane potential-dependent shape transformations of human erythrocytes. Glaser, R. Bioelectrochem. Bioenerg. 1993; 30: 103–109Crossref | Scopus (8)See all References). In isotonic solutions of 30 mM NaCl + sucrose, at pHe 5.1, washed erythrocytes are stomatocytes in control experiments (Δψ = +46 mV, pHi 5.9) and remain stomatocytes, even if they are shifted into a full Donnan equilibrium (Δψ = +46 mV, pHi 5.9, volume of the cells in relation to control = 62%). At pHe 7.4, control cells remain stomatocytes (Δψ = +29 mV, pHi 7.9), but in contrast to the response at pH 5.1, they fully transform into echinocytes if they are shifted into Donnan equilibrium (Δψ = −19.5 mV, pHi 7.1, volume of the cells in relation to control = 67%). These data clearly demonstrate that neither shrinkage nor pHi, but only the transmembrane potential correlates with shape.Gedde et al. (1997b)xMembrane potential and human erythrocyte shape. Gedde, M.M. and Huestis, W.H. Biophys. J. 1997; 72: 1220–1233Abstract | Full Text PDF | PubMedSee all ReferencesGedde et al. (1997b) point out, as Bifano et al. (1984)xRelationship between the shape and the membrane poptential of human red blood cells. Bifano, E.M., Novak, T.S., and Freedman, J.C. J. Membr. Biol. 1984; 82: 1–13Crossref | PubMed | Scopus (19)See all ReferencesBifano et al. (1984) already did, that “ionophores have independent shape effect.” This is true for large concentrations and was published by us for high concentrations of valinomycin (Glaser et al., 1991xThe influence of valinomycin induced membrane potential on erythrocyte shape. Glaser, R., Gengnagel, C., and Donath, J. Biomed. Biochim. Acta. 1991; 50: 869–877PubMedSee all ReferencesGlaser et al., 1991). But, as already mentioned above, the same shape effects were found without ionophores, when the cation exchange leading to the Donnan equilibrium was induced by electric breakdown of the membrane. Similar shape transformations under electric breakdown conditions were also observed by Chang and Reese (1990)xChanges in membrane structure induced by electroporation as revealed by rapid-freezing electron microscopy. Chang, D.C. and Reese, Th.S. Biophys. J. 1990; 58: 1–12Abstract | Full Text PDF | PubMedSee all ReferencesChang and Reese (1990). Furthermore, we indicated that valinomycin in lower concentrations only induces stomatocytes if the cells have been preloaded with sodium, and a positive diffusion potential is induced in potassium-rich solutions (Glaser et al., 1991xThe influence of valinomycin induced membrane potential on erythrocyte shape. Glaser, R., Gengnagel, C., and Donath, J. Biomed. Biochim. Acta. 1991; 50: 869–877PubMedSee all ReferencesGlaser et al., 1991).Another argument against the “pHi hypothesis” are our experiments on ghosts: Why do ghosts not show a pH dependence of their shapes? Why do only resealed but not open ghosts exhibit a shape dependence on external Cl− concentration that correlates to Δψ (Herrmann et al., 1985xShape transformation of erythrocyte ghosts. Herrmann, A., Muller, P., and Glaser, R. Biosci. Rep. 1985; 5: 417–423Crossref | PubMed | Scopus (10)See all References, Muller et al., 1986xFurther evidence for a membrane potential shape transformation of the human erythrocyte membrane. Muller, P., Herrmann, A., and Glaser, R. Biosci. Rep. 1986; 6: 999–1006Crossref | PubMed | Scopus (8)See all References)?The crucial argument of Gedde et al. (1997b)xMembrane potential and human erythrocyte shape. Gedde, M.M. and Huestis, W.H. Biophys. J. 1997; 72: 1220–1233Abstract | Full Text PDF | PubMedSee all ReferencesGedde et al. (1997b) against our “Δψ hypothesis” are the results of experiments in unbuffered solutions of different external conditions, indicating nearly no shape effect in the range between −45 mV and +45 mV. However, changing Δψ while “holding other parameters constant” is impossible. Although Gedde et al. could stabilize pHi, and to some degree the volume of the cells, they strongly modified the external Cl− concentration and the internal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content, to generate these different membrane potentials. As we indicated (Glaser and Donath, 1992xTemperature and transmembrane potential dependence of shape transformations of human erythrocytes. Glaser, R. and Donath, J. Bioelectrochem. Bioenerg. 1992; 27: 429–440Crossref | Scopus (5)See all ReferencesGlaser and Donath, 1992), however, the critical membrane potential that corresponds to the shape transformation itself depends on the external ionic strength. In solutions of low ionic strength it can be larger than +30 mV! The membrane potential is only one factor, influencing the cell shape. Echinocytogenic and stomatocytogenic drugs, for example, may shift the critical Δψ value toward higher or lower values (Glaser et al., 1987xErythrocyte shape dynamics: influence of electrolyte conditions and membrane potential. Glaser, R., Fujii, T., Muller, P., Tamura, E., and Herrmann, A. Biomed. Biochim. Acta. 1987; 46: S327–S333PubMedSee all ReferencesGlaser et al., 1987).In conclusion, the answer to the above question is as complex as the process itself. On the one hand, the erythrocyte shape is governed by different interacting processes, and on the other hand, the transmembrane potential controls a number of membrane properties and functions (Glaser, 1996xElectric properties of the membrane and the cell surface. Glaser, R. : 329–363See all ReferencesGlaser, 1996). In general, one must differentiate between true electric field effects on membrane constituents, and gradients of permeable ions like chloride, or the local pH as the result of their Nernst distribution. Gimsa et al. (Gimsa, 1995xRed cell echinocytogenesis is correlated to the recruitment of external band-3 conformations. Gimsa, J. Bioelectrochem. Bioenerg. 1995; 38: 99–103Crossref | Scopus (7)See all References, Gimsa and Ried, 1995xDo band 3 protein conformational changes mediate shape changes of human erythrocytes?. Gimsa, J. and Ried, Ch. Mol. Membr. Biol. 1995; 12: 247–254Crossref | PubMed | Scopus (52)See all References) proposed a mechanism based on the conformation of the band 3 protein in the membrane. The membrane potential can also influence the asymmetrical distribution of drugs, or probably fatty acids or other charged compounds in the membrane. In any case, the transmembrane potential is a physical parameter controlling a number of membrane and membrane-near properties. This makes the correlation between Δψ and erythrocyte shape, found by us, understandable.
The major purpose of transfusing whole blood or red cells is to provide the recipient with an improved ability to transport oxygen to the tissues. Hemoglobin has this capability, but in most mammalian red cells-including the human-2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is required for normal oxygen release to the tissues (Chanutin, 1966; Chanutin and Curnish, 1967; Benesch & Benesch, 1967). After the discovery of the mediator of-or cofactor for-normal hemoglobin function; that is, 2,3-DPG, the first studies which looked at this compound in the red cell and the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin during liquid blood storage showed that 2,3-DPG decreased very rapidly during storage in acid citrate dextrose (ACD). The oxygen affinity of hemoglobin increased at the same rate as shown by the decrease in p50 (an inverse though direct measure of oxygen affinity) which was similar in slope of decrease to the decrease in 2,3-DPG during the several weeks which were studied (Akerblom, et al, 1968; Bunn, H. F., et al, 1969). The early work of Chanutin and his coworkers which goes back to 1958, and other studies which relate to the importance of 2,3-DPG for the normal position of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve have been reviewed more thoroughly in the preceedings from the first International Symposium on Red Cell Metabolism and Function (Dawson, 1970).
The transport of O 2 as dissolved O 2 is small because the solubility of O 2 is small. Most O 2 is bound to hemoglobin. The oxygen saturation curve is shown, along with the Hill equation to fit the data to an equation. Oxygen binds to hemoglobin in the lungs, nearly saturating it, and desorbs in the tissue but only partially deoxygenating the blood. Oxygen delivery to the tissues is calculated as the cardiac output times the arteriovenous difference in total oxygen content of the blood. The oxygen consumption calculated from the respiratory rate times the difference in oxygen content of inspired and expired air match. The oxygen gradients to the tissues are discussed. Temperature, decreased pH, increased P CO 2 P CO 2 P CO 2 P CO 2 , and increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate all shift the O 2 saturation curve to the right. CO 2 is carried as dissolved CO 2 (10%), HCO 3 − (85%), and as carbaminohemoglobin (5%).
Experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that the change in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content which occurs when metabolic acidosis is induced by prolonged inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in vivo is the same as that which occurs with the induction of other types of metabolic acidosis states. 1) Thirteen-hour infusions of nondiuretic doses of a potent carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, acetazolamide (Diamox) did not alter erythrocyte 2,3-DPG levels in rats. 2) In vitro incubation of whole blood from rats for 10 days with high concentrations of two carbonic anhydrase inhibitors failed to alter the red cell content of 2,3-DPG. 3) Purified human carbonic anhydrase B had no phosphatase activity on 2,3-DPG and it appears unlikely that the enzyme hydrolyzes other phosphate esters of the erythrocyte which could indirectly alter 2,3-DPG content. 4) Acetazolamide administered in diuretic doses for 8 days to rats induced a metabolic acidosis which was accompanied by a decrease in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG. The change in 2,3-DPG content was similar to that produced by other methods of producing metabolic acidosis, namely NH4Cl treatment and nephrectomy. It appears that changes in 2,3-DPG content associated with effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition can be ascribed to the metabolic acidosis resulting from the action of these drugs on the kidney.
Mean levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) were significantly increased in erythrocytes (RBC) from 43 nonanemic black blood donors (4.80 +/- 0.06 micromoles/l RBC) compared with 22 white donors 4.47 +/- 0.08 micromoles/l RBCs from eight of the 12 black donors with DPG levels greater than 5 micromoles/l RBC. Although a potentially hemolytic disorder could be defined in four (AS hemoglobin, beta-Thalassemia minor, G6PD deficiency), reticulocyte counts were normal. However, when RBCs from the subgroup were compared to RBCs from an additional 25 unselected white donors, the following suggested an abnormally large population of young RBCs in the subgroup: 1) normal or elevated RBC-ATP with normal serum phosphate level; 2) significantly increased activities of RBC age-dependent enzymes hexokinase (p less than 0.02), pyruvate kinase (p less than 0.05), and glutamicoxaloacetic transaminase (p less than 0.01), with normal activity of phosphoglycerate kinase, an age-independent enzyme; 3) decreased dense (older) RBCs as determined by sedimentation in phthalate esters. Since DPG is increased in young RBCs and falls as the RBC ages, loss of older relatively DPG depleted RBCs due to shortened survival could account for the elevated DPG levels seen in the subgroup.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: This study investigated the current U.K. guidelines for storage and transport of red cell concentrates (RCC) in saline, adenine, glucose and mannitol (SAGM). The guidelines stipulate storage at 2-6 °C but allow exposure to between 1-10 °C core temperature in a single occurrence of less than 5 h and a surface temperature of 2-10 °C for no more than 12 h during transportation. ::: ::: ::: METHODS AND MATERIALS ::: Twenty RCC units in SAGM were selected on the day of blood collection (day 0) and in vitro quality was tested pre- and post-temperature deviation at 10 °C and up to day 42 of storage. Each group of 10 RCC units was incubated for either 12 h or for both 5 and 12 h. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Haemolysis was below the 0·8% U.K. limit at day 42 in all units, although there was an unexpected trend towards lower haemolysis in packs incubated for 5 and 12 h rather than just 12 h alone. Supernatant potassium was significantly higher than reference data on day 35 (P < 0·05) with a maximum of 58 mmol L(-1) and day 42 (P < 0·001). All units incubated at 10 °C had comparable levels of adenosine triphosphate and, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to reference data from previous studies, throughout storage. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: These results suggest that exposure to 10 °C for 12 h or for 5 and 12 h did not adversely affect in vitro red cell quality for the remainder of the components shelf life.
Bovine hemoglobin (Hb) has been proposed as a potential blood substitute because of its low intrinsic oxygen affinity in the absence of chloride anions and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The use of bovine blood as a source of Hb does not eliminate the risks of viral infections. Biotechnology techniques allow to produce modified recombinant Hbs. We have engineered human Hb mutants with the aim of mimicking the functional properties of bovine Hb. The argument for this work resides in the crystallographic studies and in the comparison of human and bovine beta globin sequences. The mutant recombinant Hbs exhibit the heterotropic effects of bovine Hb do not exhibit the low intrinsic oxygen affinity of bovine Hb.
and (iii) a detrimental eVect on renal function [10], that can still be maintained at a significant level in patients (uPi mmol/day=’1.11+1.39◊GFR; r=0.91, continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) P<0.001), stressing the importance of the preservation patients. of residual renal function in maintaining a good Before addressing the problem of Pi removal by metabolic balance in CAPD. dialysis treatment, it might be useful to recall some When we considered the factors aVecting the dialytic points on Pi body distribution. Of the more than 650 g removal of phosphate in our CAPD patients by means of Pi contained in a medium-sized man, ~85% is of a multiple regression analysis ( Table 1), we found contained in bone, 14% in the cells and only 1% or that plasma Pi concentration plays the main role. less is in the plasma. It is also important to bear in Another important factor is represented by the glucose mind that the bulk of intracellular Pi is represented by concentration in the dialysate, and its influence on organic phosphate (nucleoside phosphate compounds, Pi removal was independent of ultrafiltration rate. phosphorylated enzymes, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, pho- Finally, Pi removal by peritoneal dialysis was greatly sphocreatine, etc.) at 10‐100 times the concentration aVected by dialysate volume, with a calculated removal of inorganic phosphate with which it is in equilibrium. of ~95 mmol/week at a dialysate volume of 12 l per The inorganic intracellular phosphate is in turn in equilibrium with the extracellular Pi, with an intracellu- Table 1. Stepwise multiple regression analysis of daily Pi dialysis lar/extracellular ratio of ~0.6 [11]. As a consequence, removal (mmol/day), taken as dependent variable, in 35 CAPD any variation in plasma Pi concentration can aVect patients in relation to the following predictor independent variables: both intracellular inorganic and organic phosphate serum Pi concentration (mmol/l ), glucose dialysate inlet concentracontent. tion (%), dialysate inlet volume ( l/day)
NMR spectra of the downfield region of normal adult hemoglobin are reported as a function of oxygenation and temperature. Spectra were run in D2O at pD 7.4. A specially made NMR tube insert allowed precise measurement of the degree of oxygenation and of methemoglobin formation before and after taking the NMR spectrum. Plots of the estimated intensity of the most downfield prominent NMR peak, identified as arising from a deoxy-beta subunit by Davis et al. ((1971) J. Mol. Biol. 60, 101-111), versus the average degree of oxygenation y, measured optically, yield a nearly straight line within experimental error, for samples stripped of organic phosphates and for samples containing 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate. Intensities of peaks further upfield than this peak, previously attributed to deoxy-alpha subunits, are difficult to measure directly especially for samples containing inositol hexaphosphate. The latter samples show broadening in these alpha peaks as the degree of oxygenation increases. This extra broadening appears to increase with temperature. Linearity of the beta peak intensity with oxygenation is expected if there is no large oxygen affinity difference between alpha and beta subunits. However, the cooperativity of binding, and inaccuracy of the data, make it impossible to make accurate estimates of affinity differences.
The O 2 affinity of blood is a product of the intrinsic O 2 affinity of the Hb molecules and the erythrocytic effectors that modulate Hb-O 2 affinity. Compared with mammals that use 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and fish that use ATP (often in conjunction with the more potent effector guanosine triphosphate) (60) as organic O 2 -affinity modulators, amphibian red cells carry both ATP and DPG in widely varying relative concentrations (22). Moreover, as seen in Rana temporaria (6) and R. catesbeiana (49-51), individual amphibian isoHb components may exhibit functionally significant interactions.
Determination of the chemical shift and integral of the myocardial intracellular inorganic phosphate (Pi) resonance by 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is often precluded due to a large overlapping signal from 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) from chamber and myocardial blood. This report demonstrates the use of radiofrequency (RF) magnetic field gradient echoes (RFGE) to eliminate signals from 2,3-DPG in flowing blood, while retaining signals from intracellular myocardial Pi, ATP, and phosphocreatine (PCr). The ECG-triggered 31P spectra were acquired from the myocardium of open chest pigs using a Philips Gyroscan 2-T magnetic resonance spectrometer. A 2.5-cm-diameter surface coil attached to the myocardium was used to provide the RF gradient as well as for excitation and detection of signals. Optimal performance of the RFGE pulse sequence was obtained when the RF gradient pulses were centered at peak diastole or peak systole. Under these conditions, 2,3-DPG signals were completely suppressed, and sensitivity was usually sufficient to allow detection of a well-resolved Pi signal. Myocardial pH determined from RFGE experiments was 7.16 +/- 0.10, and the ratio of the integrals of the Pi and ATP resonances (Pi/ATP) was 0.24. The mean signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) for PCr in control spectra acquired in 4 min was 19/1, while the mean S/N for PCr in RFGE-edited spectra acquired in 15 min was 11/1, demonstrating that the present implementation of the RFGE method results in significant loss in sensitivity. These experiments demonstrate that RFGE-editing allows accurate determination of the chemical shift and integral of the Pi resonance in blood-perfused myocardium in situ.
The oxygen affinity of hemoglobin is affected by various factors, including blood pH and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The latter and blood P50 values are unchanged when aliquots of blood from normal individuals are permitted to stand at room temperature for as long as 7 h. Our data also show that equilibration in a 37 degrees C tonometer for times ranging from 0.5 to 1.5 h causes no detectable alterations in P50 values.
Magnesium deficiency lowers endurance capacity of untrained rats by an as yet unknown mechanism. We tested the hypothesis that low plasma and blood Mg concentrations would reduce blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations, thus diminishing the oxygen delivery system of the Mg-deficient rat. Untrained male Osborne-Mendel rats (95 g) were studied at rest or following exhaustive exercise after three weeks of dietary treatment (400 or 100 micrograms Mg/g diet; deionized or high Mg water [greater than 85 micrograms Mg/ml]). Magnesium deficiency resulted in lowered plasma and red blood cell (RBC) Mg concentrations and reduced endurance capacity compared with controls. Magnesium supplementation normalized these parameters. 2,3-DPG was elevated by 10% in rats acutely exercised compared with sedentary rats; however, 2,3-DPG levels were not affected by dietary Mg intake. Acute exercise tended to increase erythrocyte Mg concentrations in control rats and lower erythrocyte Mg levels in deficient rats. In conclusion, the reduced endurance capacity of Mg-deficient rats is not due to impaired 2,3-DPG production.
We have established that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content and intracellular pH exert separate, but interdependent, effects on the equilibrium solubility (csat) of deoxyhemoglobin S (deoxy-Hb S) that act in concert to modulate intraerythrocytic polymer formation. In a nonphysiologic csat assay system, a steep dependence of csat on pH in the physiologic range 7.0 to 7.6 was shown for both stripped (Hb) and DPG-saturated deoxy-Hb S (Hb-DPG). The solubility-pH profile for Hb under near-physiologic buffer conditions also showed that csat increased steeply in the same pH range (6.8 to 7.6). The effect of 2,3-DPG on csat under near-physiologic conditions was evaluated separately. At pH 7.20, the pH of the human red blood cell, csat values for Hb and Hb-DPG were 19.56 +/- 0.14 and 17.95 +/- 0.45 g/dL, respectively, indicating that the solubility of Hb-DPG is lower than that of Hb by 8.2% +/- 2.3%. Thus, binding of 2,3-DPG in the beta-cleft promotes the polymerization of deoxy-Hb S, the ultimate determinant of cell sickling. Furthermore, because of the abnormal Bohr effect of sickle blood (approximately double that of normal blood), the intracellular pH of deoxygenated sickle erythrocytes should be approximately 0.28 pH unit higher than that of oxygenated cells (ie, 7.41 v 7.13). At the higher pH, the corresponding csat for Hb-DPG is 20.22 g/dL, which is the best estimate of the intrinsic solubility of T-state Hb S under conditions that approximate closely those of pH, temperature, ionic strength, and 2,3-DPG saturation in the fully desaturated sickle erythrocyte.
Abstract Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels were measured in fetally malnourished infants at birth. These values were significantly lower than the levels found in normal newborn infants or the levels in depressed newborn infants with low Apgar scores who were not malnourished. Since acidosis is known to produce a slow fall in red cell 2,3-DPG concentration in newborn infants, these lowered levels in malnourished infants might be an expression of prolonged acidosis in utero.
Proton-decoupled phosphorus-31 heart spectros-copy was performed in healthy subjects (n = 9) and patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM, n = 9) or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM, n = 8). The phosphocreatine (PCr)-to–adenosine triphosphate ratio (± one standard deviation) after correction for blood contribution and partial saturation was significantly lower in HCM patients relative to the control subjects (1.32 ± 0.29 vs 1.65 ± 0.26, P < .05) but not in DCM patients (1.52 ± 0.58 vs 1.65 ± 0.26). The inorganic phosphate (Pi) peak was resolved only in patients with the highest spectral quality. Myocardial pH was lower in HCM patients (n = 6) relative to control subjects (n = 4) (7.07 ± 0.07 vs 7.15 ± 0.03, P < .05). The Pi/PCr ratio was higher in DCM (n = 3) and HCM (n = 6) patients relative to control subjects (n = 4) (0.29 ± 0.06 and 0.20 ± 0.04, respectively, vs 0.14 ± 0.06; P < .05). Elevated phosphodiester signal in DCM patients correlated with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate signal (r = .94), reflecting blood pool contamination. P-31 spectroscopy enabled detection of abnormalities in cardiac metabolism and determination of pH in patients with HCM and DCM.
Introduction: There is growing awareness of risks related to transfusion of stored blood products. Animal models (e.g. ovine) will bevital to investigating the underlying mechanisms. This study aimed to characterise specific aspects of the storage lesion of ovine (ov) packed red blood cell (PRBC) units and compare these to equivalent human PRBC (huPRBC) units, expanding upon our previous reports of biochemical changes and haemolysis rates. Methods: Whole blood was collected from adult Merino ewes (n=5) into blood packs containing citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) and processed into leucodepleted ovPRBCs preserved in saline, adenine, glucose and mannitol (SAGM) additive solution. Equivalent huPRBCs (n=5) were provided by the Australian Red Cross Blood Service. OvPRBCs and huPRBCs were stored at 2-6 ◦ C for 42 days, and samples were collected aseptically at weekly intervals (days 1, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35 and 42). Samples underwent testing for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3- DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels using commercial assays (Roche). Haemoglobin levels were determined using a blood gas analyser (Radiometer ABL System 625). Results: ATP concentrations in both huPRBC and ovPRBC units decreased with storage duration. In huPRBC units, ATP decreased significantly from 8·06±5·74 (mean±standard deviation; μmol / g Hb) at day 1, to (2·30±1·07; P less than 0·05 vs. day 1) at day 35, and continued to decrease to 0·85±0·43 (P less than 0·05 vs. day 35) at day 42. In ovPRBC units, the decrease in ATP from day 1 (9·40±2·72) manifested earlier (day 7 ATP: 5·79±0·51; P less than 0·001), however did not further decrease from this time-point. While the 2,3-DPG concentrations in both huPRBC and ovPRBC units decreased with storage duration, this only reached significance for the huPRBC units. In huPRBC units, 2,3- DPGwas decreased from day 1 (2·99±1·63; mean±standard deviation; μmol / g Hb) at days 14, 35 and 42 (all P less than 0·05), reaching a nadir of 0·70±0·42 at day 42. However, in ovPRBC units, the 2,3-DPG decrease from 1·56±0·62 at day 1, to 0·90±0·39 at day 42 was not significant. Conclusions: Storage induced decreases in ATP and 2,3-DPG concentrations were observed in both huPRBC and ovPRBC units. However, variability in the dynamics of these storage-related changes should be considered when designing transfusion studies in sheep and in extrapolating findings from such studies.
We determined the "in vivo" (arterial pH and PCO2) and standard (pH = 7.4, PCO2 = 40 mm Hg) PO2 at 50% O2 saturation of hemoglobin (P50, vv and P50, st) in Wistar albino rats when living in a normobaric hypoxic environment. Two generations of hypoxic rats were observed for changes in their P50, vv, P50, st, (n50) 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), hemoglobin (Hb) and DPG-Hb ratio: the first generation (H1) and the second generation (H2). A few hours after birth, the H1 rats were placed and raised in a normobaric hypoxic environment (10% O2 in N2). The H2 rats were born from hypoxic parents of first generation and were raised in the same hypoxic environment. The control group had a normoxic environment. The P50, st was significantly higher in H1 rats than both H2 and controls. P50, st was similar in H2 and control rats. The P50, vv was significantly higher in H1 rats than both H2 and controls but it was significantly lower in H2 when compared with both controls and H1. Hb and 2,3-DPG had values significantly greater for both H1 and H2 when compared with their controls. However, the values of H2 were significantly lower than H1. The effectiveness of an increase in Hb-O2 affinity as an adaptive mechanism in H2 rats is discussed.
The principal component of normal adult human hemoglobin was equilibrated under various conditions with 13CO2. Quantitative analysis of the carbamino resonance intensities over the pH range of 6.5 to 9.0 shows that the effects of conversion from the deoxy to the liganded state in reducing the carbamino adduct formation occur predominantly at Val-1beta. Analysis of the pH dependence of carbamino formation at constant total carbonates yields values of pKz and pKc for Val-1beta and Val-1alpha in the deoxy and liganded conditions. In contrast to the Val-1beta as the allosteric site for CO2, the Val-1alpha site is shown to be primarily an alkaline Bohr group. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate is shown to reduce substantially the Val-1beta carbamino resonance intensity in deoxyhemoglobin. Evidence for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effects in carbon monoxide hemoglobin at both Val-1alpha and Val-1beta sites is presented. Enhanced carbamino formation in carbon monoxide hemoglobin at Val-1beta is observed at pH values less than 7.8. Finally, chemical exchange analysis of the spectra shows the release rate of the deoxy Val-1alpha carbamino adduct to be greater than that for deoxy Val-1beta. At pH 7.47 k-1obs,beta congruent to 1.0 and k-1obs, alpha congruent to 11.0 s-1.
The efficacy of various chemical additives combined with acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) and citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) solutions for preserving canine whole blood was determined. The criteria used to evaluate the additives were the red blood cell content of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). The addition of adenine andphosphate, with adjustment of the preservative pH to 6·5, best maintained those chemicals associated with viability and functional capacity of the red blood cells. The addition of pyruvate, with adjustment of the media pH to 6·5, and the addition of ascorbic acid also were beneficial. CPD solution is more effective than ACD for preserving canine blood.
Metabolism of the putative messenger molecule d-myo-inositol(1,4,5)trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3] in plant cells has been studied using a soluble fraction from pea (Pisum sativum) roots as enzyme source and [5-32P]Ins(1,4,5)P3 and [2-3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 as tracers. Ins(1,4,5)P3 was rapidly converted into both lower and higher inositol phosphates. The major dephosphorylation product was inositol(4,5)bisphosphate [Ins(4,5)P2] whereas inositol(1,4)bisphosphate [Ins(1,4)P2] was only present in very small quantities throughout a 15 minute incubation period. In addition to these compounds, small amounts of nine other metabolites were produced including inositol and inositol(1,4,5,X)P4. Dephosphorylation of Ins(1,4,5)P3 to Ins(4,5)P2 was dependent on Ins(1,4,5)P3 concentration and was partially inhibited by the phosphohydrolase inhibitors 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, glucose 6-phosphate, and p-nitrophenylphosphate. Conversion of Ins(1,4,5)P3 to Ins(4,5)P2 and Ins(1,4,5,X)P4 was inhibited by 55 micromolar Ca2+. This study demonstrates that enzymes are present in plant tissues which are capable of rapidly converting Ins(1,4,5)P3 and that pathways of inositol phosphate metabolism exist which may prove to be unique to the plant kingdom.
The effect of acute blood loss on erythrocyte metabolism has been studied in a number of mammals. This study was designated to provide comparative data in chickens. Twenty to 30 ml of blood were removed from 7 chickens for 3 successive days. Packed red cell volumes were restored at the rate of 1.46% per day, and a maximum reticulocyte count (26.7%) occurred on the third day after the initial phlebotomy. Fourteen of the 16 erythrocyte enzymes measured became elevated significantly. Enzymatic activity was increased when the greatest numbers of young red cells were in the circulation and declined as the erythrocytes aged. Initial enzymatic activity was not related to the subsequent magnitude of increased activity. Inositol pentaphosphate, adenosine 5'-triphosphate, and reduced glutathione, but not 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, increased significantly in the postphlebotomy period. The markedly rapid and significant rise of inositol pentaphosphate suggested that it was controlled. That could be the way hemoglobin function is controlled during changing physiologic requirements.
The hexokinase of the erythrocyte has two optima of activity, a pronounced one at pH 7.8 and a lesser one at pH 6.0. Glycerate-2,3-diphosphatase of the red cell similarly has two sharp optima, at pH 7.0 and 8.1, respectively. From pH 7.2 to 7.8 the activity of the diphosphatase is very low. During storage of blood with the citrate–dextrose (CD) medium at 4 °C. the pH of the samples falls from about pH 7.4 to 6.9, by the end of the fourth week. When blood is preserved with the acidified citrate–dextrose (ACD) medium, the pH falls from about 7.1 to 6.5 in the same period. The content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the diminution in the activity of the hexokinase of the red cells are related to the change in the pH of the blood during storage. The significance of these changes is discussed.
In vivo effects of varying concentrations of propranolol on the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve, and its in vitro effects on erythrocyte energy metabolism were studied in 12 elderly and old coronary patients. An 80 mg oral dose of propranolol evoked a significant shift to the right in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve due to a decrease in blood pH (Bohr's effect) and, according to in vitro evidence, the release of membrane-bound ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. As a result, propranolol improved blood oxygen release in tissue capillaries, as evidenced by elevated pO2 in subcutaneous fat.
1. Oxygen dissociation curves are reported for human haemoglobins A1, FII, FI, A1c and Raleigh (beta1 valine leads to acetylalanine) and for horse haemoglobin in the absence and presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), or 4,4'-diformyl-2-bibenzyl oxyacetic acid, or the bisulphite addition compound of the latter. 2. These haemoglobins were selected because their amino acid sequences are different at the DPG receptor site of human adult deoxyhaemoglobin. 3. The size of the shifts of the dissociation curves are in the sequence expected from the postulated numbers of interactions made by each compound with each haemoglobin type, based on the assumption of a common receptor site for the three compounds. 4. Multiple linear regression analysis shows that the free energies of interaction of the compounds with the haemoglobins may be predicted, to a first approximation, by summing the number of ionic and covalent bonds predicted for each effector-receptor combination, a reversible covalent bond contributing about twice as much energy (-6.78 kJmol-1) as an ionic interaction (-3.14 kJmol-1).
Abstract Kinetic studies on phosphoglycerate kinase (EC 2.7.2.3) were performed in the forward reaction leading from 1,3-diphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate. Substrate activation was observed at fixed levels of ADP or Mg2+ and varying concentrations of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate. A biphasic curve was obtained in both linear and double reciprocal plots demonstrating two Km values (Km1 1.9 · 10−6 and Km2 9.8 · 10−6 M). Michaelis—Menten-type kinetics were observed in both the linear and double reciprocal plots at fixed levels of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate or ADP and varying concentrations of Mg2+. Apparent Michaelis-Menten kinetics were observed in linear plots when conditions of fixed concentrations of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate or Mg2+ were maintained with varying concentrations of ADP. However, the double-reciprocal plots demonstrated biphasic curves with two Km values (Km 1.7 · 10−5 and Km2 1.0 · 10−4 M). Apparent negative cooperativity was observed with respect to 1,3-diphosphoglycerate and ADP. Phosphoglycerate kinase activity was found to be inhibited by AMP and 2, 3 diphosphoglycerate. Substrate activation by 1,3-diphosphoglycerate was maintained in the presence of AMP or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate but at a reduced level of enzyme activity. AMP was found to inhibit enzyme activity non-competitively with respect to 1,3-diphosphoglycerate, ADP and Mg2+. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate inhibits phosphoglycerate kinase activity with respect to 1,3-diphosphoglycerate, ADP and Mg2+ · 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate inhibits phosphoglycerate kinase activity non-competitively with respect of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Intra-erythrocytic pH, ATP concentrations, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate relaxation times were studied in living erythrocytes by "high-resolution" 31P NMR spectroscopy to assess homeostasis within the cells. In uremic patients, intra-erythrocytic pH is significantly decreased before hemodialysis, but is corrected equally well by hemodialysis against either acetate or bicarbonate. This acidic pHi may be correlated with the increased concentration of ATP in erythrocytes in uremia, which is partly corrected by these two types of hemodialysis. Similarly, the significant decrease of spin-spin relaxation times in uremic patients is corrected by hemodialysis.
Normal hemoglobin function depends on adequate erythrocyte levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), a compound that is poorly maintained during blood bank storage in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD). Since 2,3-DPG is better maintained at the higher pH afforded by citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD), hemoglobin function was compared during storage in CPD and ACD. Further, hemoglobin function was studied in CPD blood containing adenine and inosine, compounds that provide metabolic energy and thus prolong the shelf-life of blood, because they also effect the levels of 2,3-DPG during storage. Hemoglobin function, expressed as the P50 (the P02 at 50 per cent oxygenation, an inverse but direct measure of oxygen affinity) is considerably better maintained during storage in CPD than in ACD. The hemoglobin function or P50 of blood stored in CPD-adenine is not maintained as well as blood stored in CPD without adenine, but the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curves show only a small difference when compared to the difference between ACD and CPD. Blood stored in CPD-adenine with inosine, present initially or added at day 25, allows higher P50 values late in storage, thus providing better hemoglobin function for more of the storage period.
Erythrocyte glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity is measured with a centrifugal analyzer by use of a commercial reagent kit and of the reaction glucose-6-phosphate + NADP+ leads to 6-phosphogluconolactone + NADPH. Rate of production of NADPH is measured and related to hemoglobin concentration. Maleimide is added to inhibit further production of NADPH in a secondary reaction by endogenous 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase. The method is compared with others that are designed to circumvent the secondary reaction by either (a) addition of excess phosphogluconate dehydrogenase to drive the secondary reaction to completion or (b) inhibition of endogenous phosphogluconate dehydrogenase by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The present method has the advantages that reaction rate more quickly becomes linear and reagent cost is less as compared with other methods. The within-run coefficient of variation was 3%. The various methods investigated showed good statistical correlation.
Abstract The interactions between various dextran phosphates and Hb (hemoglobin) were studied by measuring the oxygen-binding parameters of the mixtures. The effector properties of polymers were found to depend on the concentration of monoalkylmonophosphate groups on the polymers and also on their molecular weights. The covalent fixation of dextran phosphates bearing aldehydic groups to exyHb and deoxyHb was carried out. The oxygen-binding properties of the conjugates thus obtained depended upon the initial form of the protein. Thus, only the conjugates synthesized from deoxyHb exhibited a low oxygen affinity, which means that, in this case, the linkages between the dextran phosphate and the protein allow a permanent interaction of the phosphate groups with amines of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site. The Hill coefficient values of these conjugates were smaller than that of free Hb, corresponding to a loss of the cooperativity of the protein upon fixation of polymers. However, as these new conjugates are capable of unloading more O 2 than blood when subjected to oxygen pressures corresponding to physiological conditions, they can be regarded as potential erythrocyte substitutes.
Thenonglycolytic, anaerobic organism Veillonella parvula M4hasbeenshown tocontain anactive pyruvate kinase. Theenzyme waspurified 126-fold andwas shownbydisc-gel electrophoresis tocontain onlytwofaint contaminating bands. Thepurified enzymehadapH optimumof7.0intheforward direction and exhibited sigmoidal kinetics atvarying concentrations ofphosphoenol pyruvate (PEP), adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP),andMg2+ionswithS... values of1.5, 2.0, and2.4mM,respectively. Substrate inhibition wasobserved above 4mM PEP.Hill plots gaveslope values (n)of4.4(PEP), 2.8(adenosine 5'-diphosphate), and2.0(Mg2+), indicating ahighdegree ofcooperativity. The enzyme wasinhibited non-competitively byadenosine 5'-triphosphate (K1=3.4 mM), and thisinhibition was onlyslightly affected by increasing concentrations ofMg2+ions to30mM.Competitive inhibition wasobserved with 3-phosphoglycerate, malate, and2,3-diphosphoglycerate butonlyathigher inhibitor concentrations. Theenzyme wasactivated byglucose-6-phosphate
The use of oral phosphate (Pi) supplements to improve muscular work performance has long been proposed without substantiating data. In a double-blind, crossover experiment 11 male runners ingested calcium Pi (176 mmol/day) or placebo for 4 days. On the 3rd treatment day, subjects ran an incremental maximal aerobic capacity test (VO2 max) on a treadmill, and on the 4th day a treadmill run to exhaustion at approximately 70% VO2max. By the 4th day of Pi loading, plasma Pi was significantly higher than control (P less than 0.05); however, erythrocyte Pi, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and O2 half-saturation pressure of hemoglobin (P50) were not elevated. VO2 max was not changed by the treatments (mean 62.9, 64.2, 64.9 ml.kg-1.min-1 for control, Pi, and placebo bouts, respectively) nor was submaximal run time to exhaustion (61.6 min for Pi, 65.5 min for placebo). Stroke volume at steady-state VO2 was decreased with Pi (P less than 0.05), whereas cardiac output tended (P = 0.07) to be lower. Greater arteriovenous O2 difference (P less than 0.05) with Pi suggested a peripheral effect that increased O2 extraction. We concluded that in healthy individuals Pi loading produced no improvement in work tolerance or aerobic capacity but did alter some aspects of cardiovascular function.
1. 31P NMR spectra were obtained at temperatures ranging from 2 to 30 degrees C from freshly drawn human (cold-sensitive) and ground squirrel (cold-tolerant) red cells. The concentration of ATP was also determined by luciferin-luciferase assay over the same temperature range. 2. The concentration of ATP as determined by NMR or by the luciferin-luciferase assay did not change with temperature in either species. The absolute concentration of ATP in human cells determined by NMR was not significantly different from the total ATP determined enzymatically. 3. The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was higher and that of pyridine nucleotides lower in human than in ground squirrel red cells. This species difference was independent of temperature. 4. Intracellular pH, as determined from the positions of the NMR peaks of 2- and 3-phosphates of diphosphoglycerate, became more alkaline as the temperature was lowered. 5. Free intracellular magnesium, determined from the difference in the positions of the peaks for alpha- and beta-phosphorus of ATP, increased in the ground squirrel red cells and decreased in the human red cells with cooling from 30 to 2 degrees C. Total magnesium, as determined by atomic emission spectroscopy, did not change with temperature in red cells of either species. 6. The intensities of all phosphorus metabolite signals from the ground squirrel cells increased with decreasing temperature, while those from the human cells were unaffected. Since chemical shift anisotropy in the presence of magnesium is a powerful spin-lattice relaxation mechanism for phosphates, this is additional evidence for the temperature dependence of free magnesium concentration in the ground squirrel cells. 7. We conclude that there is no difference in phosphorus metabolites or intracellular pH which could account for the differential cold sensitivity in human and ground squirrel red cells. We suggest that, in the cold-tolerant red cells from the ground squirrel, magnesium is released from binding sites as the temperature is lowered. The change in free intracellular Mg2+ may account at least in part for the unusually low temperature sensitivity of the Na(+)-K+ pump in the red cells of this species.
The present study aimed to characterize the function and hemorheology of red blood cells (RBCs) recovered during liver transplantation surgery in patients with hepatitis B and decompensation. A total of 15 hepatitis B patients with decompensation who underwent liver transplantation surgery were included in the present study. Blood samples were recovered during the liver transplantation surgery using an Autologous Blood Recovery System. The morphology and structure of RBCs were characterized and compared between pre-operative and recovered blood samples. In addition, the physiological functions of RBCs were measured and compared between pre-operative and recovered blood samples. No significant differences in the morphological score, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, Na+K+-ATPase, Ca2+-ATPase, Mg2+-ATPase, malondialdehyde and osmotic fragility were identified between RBCs in the pre-operative and recovered blood samples. The level of free hemoglobin in RBCs of the recovered blood samples was significantly higher than in the pre-operative blood samples (P<0.05). Medium- and high-shear blood viscosities in the recovered blood samples were significantly lower than those observed in the pre-operative blood samples (P<0.05). Casson viscosity in the recovered blood samples was significantly higher compared with the pre-operative blood samples. However, no significant differences (P>0.05) in the low-shear blood viscosity, plasma viscosity, relative blood viscosity, erythrocyte aggregation index or Casson yield stress were identified between recovered and pre-operative blood samples. These findings suggested that autologous blood transfusion in liver transplantation surgery in patients with hepatitis B and decompensation had no significant influence on the morphology, structure, function and hemorheology of RBCs.
Deoxyhemoglobin tetramers dissociate into dimers very slowly, with half-times on the order of several hours. It is demonstrated that absorbance changes in the Soret region which accompany this dissociation and persist upon binding of haptoglobin 1-1 to the dissociated dimers can be used for accurate kinetic determinations over the necessarily long periods required for study. This method of study for the slow reactions depends upon long-term spectral integrity of the reaction mixtures and upon accurate measurement. The variation in rate constants determined by this procedure has been correlated with variations in structural constraints at the dimer-dimer contact region. In the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate the rate constant is decreased, consistent with the role of this effector in binding to both beta chains and stabilizing the constrained deoxy tetramer against dissociation into alphabeta dimers. With hemoglobin specifically modified (des-Arg-141alpha) to eliminate half the constraining salt links within the dimer-dimer contact region, the dissociation rate is increased by approximately three orders of magnitude. In hemoglobin S where the amino acid substitution is not directly in the intersubunit contact region of interest, the dissociation rate is found to be approximately the same as that for hemoglobin A. Combination of the dissociation rate constants determined by haptoglobin binding with stopped-flow determinations of the rate constant for reassociation of dissociated dimers provides an estimate of the equilibrium constant, 0K2, for the deoxyhemoglobin dimer-tetramer equilibrium. This estimate is independent of any assumptions regarding other energetic quantities, and yields a value of 2.54 +/- 0.7 X 10(10)M-1 (heme) in 0.1 M Tris-HCl, 0.1 M NaCl, and 1 mM EDTA, pH 7.4, 21.5 degrees C. Thus the intersubunit contact energy is -14.0 +/- 0.2 kcal/mol of heme. The stabilization energy between deoxy and oxy tetramers is found to be approximately 6.4 kcal/mol, under these conditions.
The quality of blood salvaged at operation and prepared with the Dideco Autotrans BT 795 autotransfusion device was compared with that of donor blood in 41 patients having cardiac surgery involving cardiopulmonary bypass. Saved blood had a higher haemoglobin concentration (17.3 v. 13.1 g dl-1; P less than 0.001), a higher 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (5.3 v. 1.1 mmol litre-1; P less than 0.00001), higher white cell count (17.1 X 10(9) litre-1 v. 4.1; P less than 0.00001), higher pH (7.5 v. 6.6; P less than 0.00001) and a more physiological potassium concentration (5.4 v. 8.8 mmol litre-1; P less than 0.00001) than donor blood. Saved blood platelet count was 34.5 X 10(9) litre-1 compared with 146.24 X 10(9) litre-1 (P less than 0.00001) and its heparin concentration was 0.64 u. ml-1. We conclude that this autotransfusor is a useful aid to blood conservation, producing good quality red cells with relatively normal pH and potassium values. However, modification of the centrifugation and washing is required to lessen the high white cell count and heparin concentrations found in the saved blood.
In hemoglobin (Hb) Thionville, the substitution of a glutamic acid for the alpha-chain NH2-terminal valine inhibits the cleavage of the initiator methionine which is then acetylated. The elongation of the alpha-chain NH2 terminus modifies the three-dimensional structure of hemoglobin at a region that is known to have an important role in the allosteric regulation of oxygen binding. Relative to Hb A, Hb Thionville has a lower affinity for oxygen, and the heterotropic allosteric effects of protons, chloride, and bezafibrate are reduced. In contrast, the response to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is normal. Analysis of oxygen equilibrium data within the framework of the two-state allosteric model indicates that the structure of deoxy Hb Thionville is stabilized relative to that of deoxy Hb A. The x-ray crystal structure of deoxy Hb Thionville shows that the glutamate side chain extends away from the alpha 1-alpha 2 interface, whereas the methionine side chain (which has two conformations) extends into the alpha 1-alpha 2 interface, physically displacing chloride and bezafibrate. The increased stability of deoxy Hb Thionville is due to new intrasubunit and intersubunit contacts made by the methionine. These interactions replace the indirect contacts, made through bound chloride ions, that Val-1 alpha normally contributes to the alpha 1-alpha 2 interface.
Abstract. The present study aimed to characterize the function and hemorheology of red blood cells (RBCs) recovered during liver transplantation surgery in patients with hepatitis B and decompensation. A total of 15 hepatitis B patients with decompensation who underwent liver transplantation surgery were included in the present study. Blood samples were recovered during the liver transplantation surgery using an Autologous Blood Recovery System. The morphology and structure of RBCs were characterized and compared between pre-operative and recovered blood samples. In addition, the physiological functions of RBCs were measured and compared between pre-operative and recovered blood samples. No significant differences in the morphological score, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, Na + K + -ATPase, Ca 2+ -ATPase, Mg 2+ -ATPase, malondialdehyde and osmotic fragility were identified between RBCs in the pre-operative and recovered blood samples. The level of free hemoglobin in RBCs of the recovered blood samples was significantly higher than in the pre-operative blood samples (P<0.05). Mediumand high-shear blood viscosities in the recovered blood samples were significantly lower than those observed in the pre-operative blood samples (P<0.05). Casson viscosity in the recovered blood samples was significantly higher compared with the pre-operative blood samples. However, no significant differences (P>0.05) in the low-shear blood viscosity, plasma viscosity, relative blood viscosity, erythrocyte aggregation index or Casson yield stress were identified between recovered and pre-operative blood samples. These findings suggested that autologous blood transfusion in liver transplantation surgery in patients with hepatitis B and decompensation had no significant influence on the morphology, structure, function and hemorheology of RBCs.
The relative contributions of the allosteric and affinity factors toward the change in p50 have been calculated for a series of effectors of hemoglobin (Hb). Shifts in the ligand affinity of deoxy Hb and the values for 50% ligand saturation (p50) were obtained from oxygen equilibrium data. Because the high-affinity parameters (liganded conformation) are poorly determined from the equilibrium curves, they were determined from kinetic measurements of the association and dissociation rates with CO as ligand. The CO on-rates were obtained by flash photolysis measurements. The off-rates were determined from the rate of oxidation of HbCO by ferricyanide, or by replacement of CO with NO. The partition function of fully liganded hemoglobin for oxygen and CO is only slightly changed by the effectors. Measurements were made in the presence of the effectors 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), inositol hexakisphosphate (IHP), bezafibrate (Bzf), and two recently synthesized derivatives of Bzf (LR16 and L35). Values of p50 change by over a factor of 60; the on-rates decrease by nearly a factor of 8, with little change in the off-rates for the liganded conformation. The data indicate that both allosteric and affinity parameters are changed by the effectors; the changes in ligand affinity represent the larger contribution toward shifts in p50.
BACKGROUND ::: Storage of red blood cells (RBCs) under blood bank conditions promotes metabolic modulation within the RBC. This "metabolic storage lesion" may affect the quality and safety of the transfused RBCs. The aim of this study is to determine the metabolic changes in stored RBCs over 42 days of routine storage followed by a US Food and Drug Administration-approved method of rejuvenation, freezing, and preparation for transfusion. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: We exploited a mass spectrometry-based metabolomics approach to monitor 42-day-stored citrate phosphate dextrose/AS-1 RBCs (n = 29) that were rejuvenated, glycerolized and frozen, then thawed and deglycerolized, and held for 24 hours at 1 to 6ºC in saline-glucose. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Previously reported metabolic alterations were confirmed in 42-day-old RBCs. In this study, in total, 181 (62%) of the biochemical compounds exhibited significant (p ≤ 0.05) change compared with Day 0 values. Rejuvenation restored adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels, replenished purine reservoirs, up regulated glycolysis, increased levels of pentose phosphate pathway intermediates, and partially rescued glutathione biosynthesis. Increased levels of lysophospholipid in rejuvenated RBCs suggests the activation of recycling pathways of damaged membrane lipids, in which a total of 167 (57%) biochemical compounds showed significant change compared with Day 42 values. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Rejuvenation reversed over one-half of the metabolic biochemical compounds evaluated compared with Day 42 values, and the compounds were stable through frozen storage and preparation for transfusion. Rejuvenation promoted significant metabolic reprogramming, including the reactivation of energy-generating and antioxidant pathways (the pentose phosphate pathway and glutathione homeostasis), salvage reactions, cofactor reservoirs, and membrane lipid recycling.
Abstract 31 P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra of human melanoma (BRO) cells implanted in nude mice were obtained both in vitro and in vivo . The tumors were allowed to grow in the right axillary region of six adult Swiss nude mice to a transverse diameter of 1.5–2 cm, at which point the in vivo 31 P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were obtained. The animals were subsequently sacrificed and the tumor perchloric acid extract was studied in vitro . Relative peak areas are comparable in the two experiments with the exception of inorganic phosphate, which is more abundant in vivo than in vitro by a factor of 4. This difference may be attributed to a greater contribution of the necrotic portion of the tumor to the in vivo spectra. Resonance peaks in the spectrum of the extract were identified on the basis of their coincidence with standards added at pH 7 and 10. Nonenergy phosphorylated metabolites present in the tumor at high levels include phosphoethanolamine, phosphocholine, glycerol phosphocholine, and uridine-5′-diphospho- N -acetyl glucosamine. Sugar phosphates and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from blood made minor contributions to the spectrum. The tumor also contained substantial amounts of pyrimidine triphosphates accounting for 34% of the total nucleoside triphosphate pool.
Phosvitin/casein type II kinase was purified from HeLa cell extracts to homogeneity and characterized. The kinase prefers phosvitin over casein (Vmax phosvitin greater than Vmax casein; apparent Km 0.5 microM phosvitin and 3.3 microM casein) and utilizes as cosubstrate ATP (apparent Km 3-4 microM), GTP (apparent Km 4-5 microM) and other purine nucleoside triphosphates, including dATP and dGTP but not pyrimidine nucleoside triphosphates. Enzyme reaction is optimal at pH 6-8 and at 10-25 mM Mg2+.Mg2+ cannot be replaced by, but is antagonized by other divalent metal ions. The kinase is stimulated by polycations (spermine) and monovalent cations (Na+,K+), and is inhibited by fluoride, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and low levels of heparin (50% inhibition at 0.1 microgram/ml). The HeLa enzyme is composed of three subunits with Mr of approximately 43,000 (alpha), 38,000 (alpha'), and 28,000 (beta) forming alpha alpha'beta 2 and alpha'2 beta 2 structures with obvious sequence homology of alpha with alpha' but not with beta. Photoaffinity labeling with [alpha-32P]- and [gamma-32P]8-azido-ATP revealed high affinity binding sites on subunits alpha and alpha' but not on subunit beta. The kinase autophosphorylates subunit beta and, much weaker, subunits alpha and alpha'. Ecto protein kinase, detectable only by its enzyme activity but not yet as a protein (J. Biol. Chem. 257, 322-329), was characterized in cell-bound form and in released form, and the released form both with and without prior separation from phosvitin which was employed to induce the kinase release from intact HeLa cells (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 80, 4021-4025). Ratios of phosvitin/casein phosphorylation (greater than 2) and of ATP/GTP utilization (1.5-2.1), inhibition by heparin (50% inhibition at 0.1 microgram/ml), and amino-acid side chains phosphorylated in phosvitin and casein (serine, threonine) are comparable for cell-bound and released form. These properties resemble those of type II kinase as does Mr of released ecto kinase (120-150,000). Consistently, a protein with Mr 125,000 in calf serum and a protein (possibly two) with Mr greater than 300,000 in calf plasma which are selectively phosphorylated by the ecto kinase are also substrates of the type II kinase. Thus, nearly all properties examined of the ecto kinase are characteristic for a type II kinase.
Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations in 10 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia rose 21.3%(P smaller than 0.02) after 3 weeks of prednisone and vincristine therapy, and returned to pretreatment level 2 weeks after therapy had been discontinued. The mean 2,3-DPG level of three patients on vincristine alone did not vary significantly from the control level of the leukemia patients on prednisone and vincristine. No significant change in serum inorganic phosphate level was observed. The mean erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration of 17 nephrotic syndrome patients being treated with chronic prednisone therapy was 14.0% higher than a control group of 20 nephrotic syndrome patients not being treated with prednisone (P small than 0.01). A significant positive correlation was observed between the dose of prednisone and 2,3-DPG level.
Stored red blood cells (RBCs) are deficient in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), but it is unclear how autologous salvaged blood (ASB) compares with stored blood and how rapidly 2,3-DPG levels return to normal after transfusion. Therefore, we compared levels of 2,3-DPG in stored versus ASB RBCs and in patients' blood after transfusion.Twenty-four patients undergoing multilevel spine fusion surgery were enrolled. We measured 2,3-DPG and the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (P50) in samples taken from the ASB and stored blood bags before transfusion and in blood samples drawn from patients before and after transfusion.The mean storage duration for stored RBCs was 24 ± 8 days. Compared with fresh RBCs, stored RBCs had decreased 2,3-DPG levels (by approximately 90%; P < 0.0001) and a decreased P50 (by approximately 30%; P < 0.0001). However, ASB RBCs did not exhibit these changes. The mean 2,3-DPG concentration decreased by approximately 20% (P < 0.05) in postoperative blood sampled from patients who received 1 to 3 stored RBC units and by approximately 30% (P < 0.01) in those who received ≥4 stored RBC units. 2,3-DPG was unchanged in patients who received no stored blood or ASB alone. After surgery, 2,3-DPG levels recovered gradually over 3 postoperative days in patients who received stored RBCs.Stored RBCs, but not ASB RBCs, have decreased levels of 2,3-DPG and a left-shift in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. Postoperatively, 2,3-DPG levels remain below preoperative baseline levels for up to 3 postoperative days in patients who receive stored RBCs but are unchanged in those who receive only ASB RBCs.
Eleven male sport students (age 23.3±1.7 years) exercised for 2 h on a bicycle ergometer (60 rpm), the braking force of which was regulated to yield a constant pulse rate (156±3 min−1). Before, at end of, and 3 and 6 h after exercise blood was sampled from a cubital vein and an earlobe for measurement of hemoglobin (Hb) concentration, hematocrit (Hct) value, osmolality (Osm), plasma protein (Prot), sodium (Na+), potassium (K+), inorganic phosphate (Pi), and lactate (Lac) concentrations, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosin triphosphate (ATP) concentrations, acid base status and half saturation pressure (P50) of the oxygen dissociation curve. At end of exercise [Hb], Hct, [Prot], Osm, [K+], [Pi] and [Lac] were significantly elevated, pH in ear lobe (+0.04) and venous blood (+0.08) was also increased by both respiratory and nonrespiratory effects (BE + 1.4 mmol/l). The oxygen dissociation curve showed an unexplained slight right shift (standard P50+0.19 kPa). During the post-exercise period most parameters approximated to control values after only 3 h. [Prot] and especially [Pi], however, remained elevated while [DPG] slightly rose during the post-exercise period. It is suggested that these changes are first signs of adaptation to exercise, perhaps caused by endocrine stimulation.
The acute effect of exercise on the intraerythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and on various serum enzymes and some related variables was investigated in 14 male athletes before and after a 50-min cross-country run and compared at rest to 15 sedentary subjects. Compared to the sedentary subjects, the athletes had higher resting levels of serum creatine phosphokinase, plasma myoglobin, and renin substrate but had a lower plasma renin activity. The red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration increased after exercise in the runners and was not different at rest between the athletes and the sedentary subjects. Our data therefore suggest that the resting plasma renin activity is reduced in athletes when compared to sedentary subjects. Training seems however not to alter the resting level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red blood cells.
Abstract Oxygen equilibrium curves of human adult hemoglobin (Hb A) have been analysed by the Scatchard and Hill plots and four successive association constants for the binding of oxygen have been determined by fitting the polts with simulated curves calculated by a digital computer. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (DPG) markedly reduces the affinity of Hb A to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd molecules of oxygen without affecting the affinity to the 4th molecule, which is similar to the oxygen affinity of the isolated β chains. Thus, the over-all free energy of interaction increases by about 1400 cal per site and the maximum slope of the Hill plot, n, increases significantly in the presence of 2 × 10 −3 M DPG.
Abstract Binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to monophosphoglycerate mutase, of which it is an obligatory cofactor, causes changes in the resonance positions of the 31 P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra of both phosphate groups. It had previously been shown that these resonance shift when other glycolytic enzymes, such as phosphoglycerate kinase, are added to form the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate · monophosphoglycerate mutase·phosphoglycerate kinase complex. In view of this association, we have examined the set of glycolytic enzymes from aldolase to pyruvate kinase and found evidence of direct communication between all of these enzymes. A multi-enzyme complex of 1–2·10 6 daltons has been separated from broken cell ghosts by Biogel column filtration and evidence has been presented to show that this complex exhibits aldolase, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase and phosphoglycerate kinase activity. The glycolytic multi-enzyme complex interacts with the outer face of inside-out vesicles prepared from human red cells and the interaction is suppressed by application of 10 −6 M ouabain to the inner face of these vesicles. These studies show that the conformation of the enzymes comprising the megadalton complex are responsive to the application of ouabain to the outer red cell membrabe surface.
Selected aspects of the metabolism of Plasmodium falciparum are reviewed, but conclusions based on the study of other species of plasmodia are intentionally not included since these may not be applicable. The parasites increase glucose consumption 50-100 fold as compared to uninfected red cells; most of the glucose is metabolized to lactic acid. The parasite contains a complete set of glycolytic enzymes. Some enzymes such a hexokinase, enolase and pyruvate kinase are vastly increased over corresponding levels in uninfected red cells. However, the pathway for synthesizing 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is absent. Parasitized red cells show a decline in the concentration of 2,3-DPG which may function as an inhibitor for certain essential enzyme pathways. Pentose shunt activity is increased in absolute terms, but as a percent of total glucose consumption, there is a decrease during parasite infection of the red cell. The parasite contains a gene for G6PD and can produce a small quantity of parasite-encoded enzyme. It is not clear if the production of this enzyme can be up-regulated in G6PG deficient host red cells. The NADPH normally produced by the pentose shunt can be obtained from other parasite pathways (such as glutamate dehydrogenase). NADPH may subserve additional needs in the infected red cell such as driving diribonucleotide reductase activity--a rate limiting enzyme in DNA synthesis. The role of NADPH in protecting the parasite-red cell system against oxidative stress (via glutathione reduction) remains controversial. Parasitized red cells contain about 10 times more NAD(H) than uninfected red cells, but the NADP(H) content is unchanged.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Studies have been performed on a 12-yr-old Chinese girl with compensatory erythrocytosis due to the presence of hemoglobin Bethesda comprising about 45% of the red cell hemoglobin. Her parents and three siblings were normal. The oxygen affinity of her blood was markedly increased: under physiological conditions (pH 7.40, 37 degrees C). P(50) was 12.8 mm Hg (normal = 26.5 mm Hg). The red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2.3-DPG) level was normal. The abnormal hemoglobin could not be separated from hemoglobin A by zone electrophoresis at pH 8.6 or isoelectric focusing on polyacrylamide gel. However, after the hemoglobin was split into free alpha and beta chains by treatment with p-hydroxymercuribenzoate (PMB) or 6 M urea, an abnormal beta chain was readily demonstrated having a higher isoelectric point (more positive net charge) than normal beta(A). Structural analysis of the variant beta chain demonstrated the substitution of histidine for tyrosine at position 145: hemoglobin Bethesda (alpha(2)beta(2) (145His)). From earlier chemical and crystallographic studies, it has been postulated that this residue is a critical determinant of hemoglobin function. Hemoglobin Bethesda was separated from hemoglobin A by column chromatography. Oxygen equilibria of purified hemoglobin Bethesda revealed an extremely high oxygen affinity (exceeding that of isolated alpha and beta chains), and markedly reduced cooperativity. The Bohr effect of hemoglobin Bethesda was 1/3 that of hemoglobin A. However, hemoglobin Bethesda showed a significant interaction with 2.3-DPG and inositol hexaphosphate.
Publisher Summary This chapter focuses on the method for the enzymatic determination of D -2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The method is based on the principle that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is required as cofactor for the reaction described in the chapter. Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM) catalyzes this reaction. The initial rate of the reaction is proportional to the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, providing that this compound is present in limiting amounts. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content of the sample is determined by comparing its activating effect with that of a standard preparation. The first reaction is coupled with the second reaction which is catalyzed by enolase. Consequently, the rate of first reaction is measured by the decrease in optical density at 240 mμ because of the removal of phosphoenolpyruvate in second reaction. The phosphoenolpyruvate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate solutions keep for several weeks in the frozen state. The enzyme solutions should be prepared fresh each day. The concentrated stock suspensions of the enzymes keep for several months at 0°C to 4°C. To check whether the sample contains interfering substances, it is suggested to check the sample and a standard together, and separately.
Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and haemoglobin A1c concentrations were measured in 26 clinically normoxic patients with type 1 (insulin dependent) diabetes mellitus. The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate theoretically required to maintain normal erythrocyte oxygen delivery function in each subject was calculated and compared with the measured concentrations. In the majority of diabetic patients 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations were sufficient to keep the erythrocyte oxygen dissociation curve within the normal range under otherwise normal blood conditions. There was, however, a minority of patients in which this was not true. It is concluded that the increased erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations in clinically normoxic diabetic subjects are generally less than compensatory for the effect of haemoglobin A1c formation on the haemoglobin-oxygen dissociation curve.
Abstract During storage of blood in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and other organic phosphates are lost from the erythrocytes. This impairs the ability of the blood to release oxygen. When the stored blood is incubated with inorganic phosphate, inosine, and adenosine there is a resynthesis of organic phosphates in the cells with concomitant improvement in the oxygen-binding property of blood. However, a major part of the phosphate is incorporated into hexose diphosphate and triose phosphate giving concentrations of these compounds much higher than those in fresh blood. Addition of either pyruvate or fructose to the incubation medium results in enhanced synthesis of 2,3-DPG and ATP giving a distribution of organic phosphate similar to that in fresh blood. The addition of glucose had no effect. This suggests that fructose can be metabolized in the red cell by a nonglycolytic pathway. Evidence for the conversion of fructose to sorbitol by NAD-linked sorbitol dehydrogenase is presented.
SummaryRed cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is present in the red cells of fetal sheep and goats. Its concentration increases from 6 hr after birth to maximum values between 3 to 10 days. This increase occurs at the same time as a decrease in oxygen affinity. In vitro experiments failed to show a direct effect of 2,3-DPG on the oxygen affinity of fetal hemoglobin of goats.
Based upon existing crystallographic evidence, HbS, HbC, and HbA have essentially the same molecular structure. However, important areas of the molecule are not well defined crystallographically (e.g. the N-terminal nonhelical portion of the alpha and beta chains), and conformational constraints differ in solution and in the crystalline state. Over the years, our laboratory and others have provided evidence of conformational changes in HbS and, more recently, in HbC. We now present data based upon allosteric perturbation monitored by front-face fluorescence, ultraviolet resonance Raman spectroscopy, circular dichroism, and oxygen equilibrium studies that confirm and significantly expand previous findings suggesting solution-active structural differences in liganded forms of HbS and HbC distal to the site of mutation and involving the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding pocket. The liganded forms of these hemoglobins are of significant interest because HbC crystallizes in the erythrocyte in the oxy form, and oxy HbS exhibits increased mechanical precipitability and a high propensity to oxidize. Specific findings are as follows: 1) differences in the intrinsic fluorescence indicate that the Trp microenvironments are more hydrophobic for HbS > HbC > HbA, 2) ultraviolet resonance Raman spectroscopy detects alterations in Tyr hydrogen bonding, in Trp hydrophobicity at the alpha1beta2 interface (beta37), and in the A-helix (alpha14/beta15) of both chains, 3) displacement by inositol hexaphosphate of the Hb-bound 8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonate (the fluorescent 2,3-diphosphoglycerate analog) follows the order HbA > HbS > HbC, and 4) oxygen equilibria measurements indicate a differential allosteric effect by inositol hexaphosphate for HbC approximately HbS > HbA.
Background: This case conference reviews laboratory methods for assessing oxygenation status: arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, and CO-oximetry. Caveats of these measurements are discussed in the context of two methemoglobinemia cases. ::: ::: Cases: Case 1 is a woman who presented with increased shortness of breath, productive cough, chest pain, nausea, fever, and cyanosis. CO-oximetry indicated a carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) fraction of 24.9%. She was unresponsive to O2 therapy, and no source of carbon monoxide could be noted. Case 2 is a man who presented with syncope, chest tightness, and signs of cyanosis. His arterial blood was dark brown, and CO-oximetry showed a methemoglobin (MetHb) fraction of 23%. ::: ::: Issues: Oxygen saturation (So2) can be measured by three approaches that are often used interchangeably, although the measured systems are quite different. Pulse oximetry is a noninvasive, spectrophotometric method to determine arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2). CO-oximetry is a more complex and reliable method that measures the concentration of hemoglobin derivatives in the blood from which various quantities such as hemoglobin derivative fractions, total hemoglobin, and saturation are calculated. Blood gas instruments calculate the estimated O2 saturation from empirical equations using pH and Po 2 values. In most patients, the results from these methods will be virtually identical, but in cases of increased dyshemoglobin fractions, including methemoglobinemia, it is crucial that the distinctions and limitations of these methods be understood. ::: ::: Conclusions: So2 calculated from pH and Po 2 should be interpreted with caution as the algorithms used assume normal O2 affinity, normal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations, and no dyshemoglobins or hemoglobinopathies. CO-oximeter reports should include the dyshemoglobin fractions in addition to the oxyhemoglobin fraction. In cases of increased MetHb fraction, pulse oximeter values trend toward 85%, underestimating the actual oxygen saturation. Hemoglobin M variants may yield normal MetHb and increased COHb or sulfhemoglobin fractions measured by CO-oximetry.
Hemoglobin (Hb) concentration, hematocrit (Hct), total organic phosphates (Ptot), nucleoside triphosphates (NTP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and "inositol polyphosphates" (IPP) were measured in the erythrocytes of adult frogs at different times of day in winter and summer after acclimatization to 15 degrees C and an LD 12:12 photoperiod. The same measurements were also made on animals acclimated to LD 16:8 in summer. All of the measured parameters varied significantly at different times of the day and between seasons in animals acclimated to an LD 12:12 photoperiod. Summer animals acclimated to LD 16:8 showed significant diel cycles only in Hct and Hb.
Abstract “Young” red cells lose adenosine triphosphate more rapidly than “old” cells during incubation in the absence of glucose. Comparable findings with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate suggest that this precursor cannot account for the differential loss of adenosine triphosphate in cells of different ages. Studies with a cardiac glycoside indicate that the difference in adenosine triphosphate loss between young and old cells is ouabain resistant.
were confirmed in 42-day-old RBCs. In this study, in total, 181 (62%) of the biochemical compounds exhibited significant (p 0.05) change compared with Day 0 values. Rejuvenation restored adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels, replenished purine reservoirs, up regulated glycolysis, increased levels of pentose phosphate pathway intermediates, and partially rescued glutathione biosynthesis. Increased levels of lysophospholipid in rejuvenated RBCs suggests the activation of recycling pathways of damaged membrane lipids, in which a total of 167 (57%) biochemical compounds showed significant change compared with Day 42 values.
Cooperativity can also be generated by relatively simple networks [12] , for example through competition between two sets of phosphorylation sites [13] , as well as sequestration effects involving an inactive complex [14] or more complex signal transduction cascades [15] . The interpretation of values of n H v1, which can be a sign of negative cooperativity [16] , also requires careful attention, since even for hemoglobin, binding curves with n H v1 can be generated in the presence of non-stoichiometric concentrations of the positive effector, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate [17] .
BACKGROUND: Stored red blood cells (RBCs) are deficient in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), but it is unclear how autologous salvaged blood (ASB) compares with stored blood and how rapidly 2,3-DPG levels return to normal after transfusion. Therefore, we compared levels of 2,3-DPG in stored versus ASB RBCs and in patients' blood after transfusion. METHODS: Twenty-four patients undergoing multilevel spine fusion surgery were enrolled. We measured 2,3-DPG and the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (P 50 ) in samples taken from the ASB and stored blood bags before transfusion and in blood samples drawn from patients before and after transfusion. RESULTS: The mean storage duration for stored RBCs was 24 ± 8 days. Compared with fresh RBCs, stored RBCs had decreased 2,3-DPG levels (by approximately 90%; P < 0.0001) and a decreased P 50 (by approximately 30%; P < 0.0001). However, ASB RBCs did not exhibit these changes. The mean 2,3-DPG concentration decreased by approximately 20% (P < 0.05) in postoperative blood sampled from patients who received 1 to 3 stored RBC units and by approximately 30% (P < 0.01) in those who received ≥4 stored RBC units. 2,3-DPG was unchanged in patients who received no stored blood or ASB alone. After surgery, 2,3-DPG levels recovered gradually over 3 postoperative days in patients who received stored RBCs. CONCLUSIONS: Stored RBCs, but not ASB RBCs, have decreased levels of 2,3-DPG and a leftshift in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. Postoperatively, 2,3-DPG levels remain below preoperative baseline levels for up to 3 postoperative days in patients who receive stored RBCs but are unchanged in those who receive only ASB RBCs. (Anesth Analg 2016;122:616-23) From the
Background: This case conference reviews laboratory methods for assessing oxygenation status: arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, and CO-oximetry. Caveats of these measurements are discussed in the context of two methemoglobinemia cases. Cases: Case 1 is a woman who presented with increased shortness of breath, productive cough, chest pain, nausea, fever, and cyanosis. CO-oximetry indicated a carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) fraction of 24.9%. She was unresponsive to O 2 therapy, and no source of carbon monoxide could be noted. Case 2 is a man who presented with syncope, chest tightness, and signs of cyanosis. His arterial blood was dark brown, and COoximetry showed a methemoglobin (MetHb) fraction of 23%. Issues: Oxygen saturation (SO 2 ) can be measured by three approaches that are often used interchangeably, although the measured systems are quite different. Pulse oximetry is a noninvasive, spectrophotometric method to determine arterial oxygen saturation (S a O 2 ). CO-oximetry is a more complex and reliable method that measures the concentration of hemoglobin derivatives in the blood from which various quantities such as hemoglobin derivative fractions, total hemoglobin, and saturation are calculated. Blood gas instruments calculate the estimated O 2 saturation from empirical equations using pH and PO 2 values. In most patients, the results from these methods will be virtually identical, but in cases of increased dyshemoglobin fractions, including methemoglobinemia, it is crucial that the distinctions and limitations of these methods be understood. Conclusions: SO 2 calculated from pH and PO 2 should be interpreted with caution as the algorithms used assume normal O 2 affinity, normal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate con-
Human erythrocyte carbonic anhydrase B (CA-B) and C (CA-C) were measured by a specific and immunological method and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations were measured using a kinetical method. The levels of CA-B and CA-C were determined in normal subjects, patients with hyperthyroidism and patients with hypothyroidism, using the method of single radial immunodiffusion. A decrease of CA-B levels and an elevation of 2,3-DPG concentrations were noted in hyperthyroidism. The CA-C levels appeared to be essentially unchanged. Closely negative correlations were observed between CA-B levels and T3 resin sponge uptake T4, protein bound iodine levels, or 2,3-DPG concentrations. Simultaneously, the specific activity of CA-B and CA-C was determined using the immunoadsorbent method. The specific activity of CA-B elevated in hyperthyroidism two times higher than that of normal subjects. The levels of rabbit erythrocyte CA-B, CA-C and 2,3-DPG were measured in experimental hyperthyroidism by the methods employed for human erythrocytes. Thyroxin and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine were administered orally for 30 days. A significant decrease in CA-B levels was observed after 30 days, although CA-C levels did not change significantly. These findings suggest that the steady state levels of CA-B is affected more readily than that of CA-C by thyroid hormone. An elevation of the specific activity of CA-B or the concentrations of 2,3-DPG was noted as seen in human hyperthyroidism. The effect of thyroid hormone on the biosynthesis of CA-B and CA-C was studied in vitro using rabbit reticulocyte lysates. The biosynthesis of CA-B was inhibited by the addition of thyroxin in this system, although no such an inhibitory effect was observed in the biosynthesis of CA-C. Th e clinical or pathological significances were discussed in relation to the changes in these isozymes and 2,3-DPG in red cells.
In transfusion medicine, there has been a decades-long debate about whether the age of stored red blood cells (RBCs) is a factor in transfusion efficacy. Existing clinical studies investigating whether older RBCs cause worse clinical outcomes have provided conflicting information: some have shown that older blood is less effective, while others have shown no such difference. The controversial results could have been biased by the vastly different conditions of the patients involved in the clinical studies; however, another source of inconsistency is a lack of understanding of how well and quickly stored RBCs can recover their key parameters, such as stiffness and ATP concentration, after transfusion. In this work, we quantitatively studied the stiffness and ATP recovery of stored RBCs in 37 °C human serum. The results showed that in 37 °C human serum, stored RBCs are able to recover their stiffness and ATP concentration to varying extents depending on how long they have been stored. Fresher RBCs (1–3 weeks old) were found to have a significantly higher capacity for stiffness and ATP recovery in human serum than older RBCs (4–6 weeks old). For instance, for 1-week-old RBCs, although the shear modulus before recovery was 1.6 times that of fresh RBCs, 97% of the cells recovered in human serum to have 1.1 times the shear modulus of fresh RBCs, and the ATP concentration of 1-week-old RBCs after recovery showed no difference from that of fresh RBCs. However, for 6-week-old RBCs, only ~70% of the RBCs showed stiffness recovery in human serum; their shear modulus after recovery was still 2.1 times that of fresh RBCs; and their ATP concentration after recovery was 25% lower than that of fresh RBCs. Our experiments also revealed that the processes of stiffness recovery and ATP recovery took place on the scale of tens of minutes. We hope that this study will trigger the next steps of comprehensively characterizing the recovery behaviors of stored RBCs (e.g., recovery of normal 2,3-DPG [2,3-Diphosphoglycerate]and SNO [S-nitrosation] levels) and quantifying the in vivo recovery of stored RBCs in transfusion medicine. Microfluidic analysis reveals changes in the physical and biochemical properties of stored red blood cells (RBCs) that affect their usefulness for transfusion. The quality of donor RBCs declines in the weeks after collection, affecting their survival and function in transfusion recipients. This degeneration is linked to physical ‘stiffening’ of the cells, and researchers led by Yu Sun of the University of Toronto used a microfluidic device to measure the rigidity of donor RBCs. Sun’s team was particularly interested in whether exposure to physiological conditions restores proper function to refrigerated donor RBCs. They learned that three-week-old RBCs recover normal physical and metabolic function in human serum at body temperature, but six-week-old cells fare much worse. Since six weeks is the official ‘shelf life’ for donor RBCs, these findings suggest reassessment of storage procedures may be appropriate.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: To review preclinical and clinical studies that have evaluated the effects of red cell rejuvenation in vivo and in vitro and to assess the potential risks and benefits from their clinical use. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: A systematic review and narrative synthesis of the intervention of red cell rejuvenation using a red cell processing solution containing inosine, pyruvate, phosphate and adenine. Outcomes of interest in vitro were changes in red cell characteristics including adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), deformability and the accumulation of oxidized lipids and other reactive species in the red cell supernatant. Outcomes in vivo were 24-h post-transfusion survival and the effects on oxygen delivery, organ function and inflammation in transfused recipients. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The literature search identified 49 studies evaluating rejuvenated red cells. In vitro rejuvenation restored cellular properties including 2,3-DPG and ATP to levels similar to freshly donated red cells. In experimental models, in vivo transfusion of rejuvenated red cells improved oxygen delivery and myocardial, renal and pulmonary function when compared to stored red cells. In humans, in vivo 24-h survival of rejuvenated red cells exceeded 75%. In clinical studies, rejuvenated red cells were found to be safe, with no reported adverse effects. In one adult cardiac surgery trial, transfusion of rejuvenated red cells resulted in improved myocardial performance. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Transfusion of rejuvenated red cells reduces organ injury attributable to the red cell storage lesion without adverse effects in experimental studies in vivo. The clinical benefits of this intervention remain uncertain.
We measured pH, pCO2, pO2, oxygen saturation, total hemoglobin concentration, and fractions of carboxy-and methemoglobin in arterial blood samples from 35 healthy adults. We used a new algorithm to calculate active hemoglobin concentration, total oxygen concentration, actual half-saturation tension, 2,3-di-phospho-glycerate concentration, estimated functional shunt, oxygen extraction tension px (for extracting 2.3 mmol of oxygen per liter of blood, values below 4.5 kPa indicating risk of tissue hypoxia), and the oxygen compensation factor Qx (the factor by which the cardiac output should rise to maintain a normal mixed venous pO2 of 5.0 kPa, factors above 1.5 indicating an extra burden on the heart). Analytical precision was evaluated by duplicate determinations. The accuracy of the half-saturation tension was evaluated by comparison with values for simultaneously drawn venous blood, the accuracy of the calculated concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate by comparison with direct enzymatic measurements. We...
Purine 5′-nucleotidase (1) is one of soluble nucleotidases which include pyrimidine 5′-nucleotidase (2), deoxyribonucleotidase (3), and AMP-specific 5′-nucleotidase (4). Purine 5′-nucleotidase preferentially hydrolyzes IMP, GMP, and, to a lesser extent, AMP in the presence of magnesium ions. The enzyme is allosterically activated by ATP (5), diadenosine tetraphosphate (6), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (7) and decavanadate (8), and inhibited by Pi. Purine 5′-nucleotidase is located in the cytoplasmic matrix of the cell (9, 10).
The purpose of this study was to determine the interrelationship of the rise and fall of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) with the increase in adult hemoglobin and the decrease in red cell oxygen hemoglobin affinity after birth in normal lambs. It was found that the mean maximum DPG level was 26.71 +/- 4.98 mol/g Hb at 7.5 +/- 1.1 days. At the same time the mean P50 and adult hemoglobin level was 27.0 +/- 1.4 mm Hg and 31.1 +/- 11.i%, respectively. In the individual lambs, the level of their maximum DPG correlated inversely with the amount of adult hemoglobin (r-0.77, P less than 0.05). Once the DPG began to decrease, there was an inverse correlation between the DPG and the adult hemoglobin present in the red cell (r = 0.68, P less than 0.001). It appeared that the rise in DPG postanatally is only a compensatory mechanism until an adequate amount of adult hemoglobin is present. This fact was borne out by the second part of the study in which exchange transfusions with adult red cells were performed on five newborn lambs during the first 24 hr after birth and aborted the rise in DPG.
SummaryThe relationship of high altitude running performance to hemoglobin-oxygen affinity and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was evaluated in nine experienced marathon runners participating in a 46-km run over a mountain, at altitudes of 1,950 m–3,400 m. The runners were acclimated to 1,600 m altitude. Venous blood was donated before the run, and at 5, 23, and 46 km distance and elevations of 2,400, 3,400, and 1,950 m, respectively. The mean standard (std) P50 increased from 3.33 kPa±0.04 SEM (25.0 mm Hg±0.3) to 3.63 kPa±0.04 (27.2 mm Hg±0.3) (p<0.05) during the run. These changes in std P50 values cannot be attributed to changes in 2,3-DPG levels, as the latter were not changed at 5 km, and were decreased (from 4.71±0.12 to 3.88±0.26 Μmol·ml−1 packed cells) at 23 km (p<0.05), with no further change at 46 km. The faster runners exhibited a larger right-shifting of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve, and the greater increase in its central slope. The time needed to finish the run correlated directly with the decrease in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity at 23 and 46 km (p<0.05). The observation that a decreased hemoglobin-oxygen affinity is correlated with a better running performance suggests that under the progressively hypoxic conditions of this run, myocardial oxygenation and cardiac output might have been improved by an increase in P50 attributable to increased body temperature, decreased blood pH, and an increase in std P50.
Formation of (13)C-resonances attributable to carbamino derivatives has been observed in human erythrocyte hemolysate preparations equilibrated with (13)CO(2) at 33 degrees . Carbamino formation is most marked in deoxyhemoglobin and at alkaline pH, and is very largely inhibited by the addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or conversion to oxyhemoglobin. The prominent carbamino resonance at 30.0 ppm upfield of CS(2) is visible in the spectrum of packed, deoxygenated erythrocytes equilibrated in (13)CO(2). This chemical shift falls close to that observed with sperm-whale myoglobin and within 2 ppm upfield of that seen with simple amino acids and peptides. The bicarbonate-carbonate resonance near 33 ppm is broad in the hemoglobin preparations, which always contain some carbonic anhydrase, but becomes narrow in the presence of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, acetazolamide. The nuclear magnetic resonance condition of intermediate exchange rate with dissolved CO(2) (68.4 ppm) obtains in the absence of inhibitor. The process has marked consequences in reducing the spin-lattice relaxation time, T(1), of the bicarbonate resonance by more than 10 times. The deoxyhemoglobin carbamino resonance has a T(1) value of 700 msec, indistinguishable from that of the protein carbonyl resonance envelope.
To assess the effect of phosphate replacement therapy on the course of diabetic coma, 24 patients with severe diabetic ketoacidosis and 16 patients with non-ketotic hyperosmolar coma were randomly assigned either to standardized conventional treatment alone or combined with phosphate infusions. Insulin and fluid therapy produced a rapid fall of plasma phosphorus; almost all patients not receiving phosphate infusions developed marked hypophosphatemia within 12 h. Hypophosphatemia was prevented by administration of 62 ± 5 mmol (range 35–140) sodium phosphate. Initial red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations were markedly decreased in ketoacidotic patients. The recovery of 2,3-DPG upon institution of therapy was accelerated when phosphate replacement infusions were given. The increase in 2,3-DPG during the first 48 h was 56% greater (P
The decreased membrane fluidity of the in vivo aged, human erythrocytes is found, by monitoring the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra of fatty acid spin labels incorporated into the membrane. In addition, the decreased cell sizes and the decreased cholesterol and phospholipids contents, without significant changes of the quantity of the membrane proteins, also the decrease of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the increase of ADP and AMP, in the aged cells, were observed. Further the functional impairments of the aged cells, i.e. the increased oxygen affinity and the decreased deformability, were shown. On the basis of these quantitative data, the alteration of the protein-lipid organization, due to decreased lipid/protein ratio, the modified protein-lipid interaction and/or the influences of the diminished ATP content, is suggested to contribute towards the decreased membrane fluidity of the in vivo aged erythrocytes.
In order to evaluate the possible underlying factors for the increase in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content observed in late diabetic pregnancy, its relationship with serum unconjugated oestriol, human placental lactogen, haemoglobin and hydrogen ion concentrations was investigated in 42 pregnant diabetic women. A significant correlation was found between red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and serum unconjugated oestriol (r = 0.54, p less than 0.001), whereas no correlation was present between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the following variables: arterial pH, haemoglobin concentration and human placental lactogen. The content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate correlated significantly with haemoglobin-oxygen affinity expressed as P50 at pH 7.4 (r = 0.34, p less than 0.05). The results of this study indicate that serum unconjugated oestriol may participate in the regulation of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content and thereby of the maternal blood oxygen release to the fetus.
BackgroundElevated blood O2 affinity enhances survival at low O2 pressures, and is perhaps the best known and most broadly accepted evolutionary adjustment of terrestrial vertebrates to environmental hypoxia. This phenotype arises by increasing the intrinsic O2 affinity of the hemoglobin (Hb) molecule, by decreasing the intracellular concentration of allosteric effectors (e.g., 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; DPG), or by suppressing the sensitivity of Hb to these physiological cofactors.ResultsHere we report that strictly fossorial eastern moles (Scalopus aquaticus) have evolved a low O2 affinity, DPG-insensitive Hb - contrary to expectations for a mammalian species that is adapted to the chronic hypoxia and hypercapnia of subterranean burrow systems. Molecular modelling indicates that this functional shift is principally attributable to a single charge altering amino acid substitution in the β-type δ-globin chain (δ136Gly→Glu) of this species that perturbs electrostatic interactions between the dimer subunits via formation of an intra-chain salt-bridge with δ82Lys. However, this replacement also abolishes key binding sites for the red blood cell effectors Cl-, lactate and DPG (the latter of which is virtually absent from the red cells of this species) at δ82Lys, thereby markedly reducing competition for carbamate formation (CO2 binding) at the δ-chain N-termini.ConclusionsWe propose this Hb phenotype illustrates a novel mechanism for adaptively elevating the CO2 carrying capacity of eastern mole blood during burst tunnelling activities associated with subterranean habitation.
1. ::: ::: Nucleated erythroblasts from embryonic rabbits contain two groups of tetrameric hemoglobins (Hbs): Hbs EI–III consist of embryonic α-type chains (Ξ-chains) and embryonic β-type chains (e-chains) whilst Hbs LI–III are composed of adult α-chains and e-chains. Structural analyses have indicated that the Ξ-chains are evolutionarily older than e-chains. To obtain informations on possible differences in ligand binding properties associated with these embryonic chains, we have prepared Hbs EI–III and LI–III from the erythroblasts of 14-days-old embryonic rabbits and measured their oxygen affinity at various pH values and different concentrations of phosphate compounds. These data were compared with those obtained on the unfractionated embryonic hemolysate and adult rabbit hemoglobin (HbA). ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: We found that Hbs EI–III have a higher oxygen affinity than Hbs LI–III at all pH values investigated, the difference becoming larger at more acid pH. As a result, the Bohr effect is smaller in Hbs EI–III than in Hbs LI–III, Δ logP50/Δ pH amounting to −0.25 and −0.50, respectively. In the pH range between 6.8 and 7.8 the oxygen affinities of HbA and of Hbs LI–III are alike but lower in HbA at more acid pH. These results indicate that the presence of embryonic Ξ-chains in hemoglobin tetramers raise the oxygen affinity and lower the Bohr effect of the pigment, whereas the combination of adult α-chains with embryonic e-chains lead to hemoglobin tetramers with a very similar oxygen affinity to HbA in the physiological pH range. The cooperativity of oxygen binding was smaller both in Hbs EI–III and LI–III compared to HbA. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The effect of added phosphates notably of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) on the oxygen affinity of Hbs EI–III and LI–III was very similar, i.e. the rise inP50 produced by maximal concentrations of 2,3-DPG was not significantly different in the two types of embryonic hemoglobins. In HbA, the increase ofP50 produced by comparable concentrations of 2,3-DPG was only slightly higher than in the embryonic hemoglobins. This shows that the embryonic e-chains are similarly effective in binding phosphate as the adult β-chains.
A novel acetylating agent, methyl acetyl phosphate (MAP), has been designed to react with a nucleophile near an anion binding site of proteins. We examined the effect of MAP on hemoglobin (Hb), which has a well defined binding site for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), to determine whether this reagent recognizes the DPG binding site. The progress of the reaction was monitored by ion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on a TSK CM-SW column. Modified Hb was initially chromatographed on CM-52 and then separated into its component chains. The α- and β-chains from modified and unmodified Hb were digested by TPCK-trypsin. The peptide mixtures were chromatographed on Whatman ODS-3 reversed-phase HPLC columns and the peptide maps of modified and unmodified chains were compared. The peaks formed by the modification with MAP were further purified on YMC ODS-S5 columns and then subjected to amino acid analysis on a Dionex D-500 instrument after acid hydrolysis. We found that the newly formed peptides are βT1 and βT14+15 and that the loss of a peptide corresponding to βT9 and βT10+11 is significant. No change in the α-chains was observed. The results suggest that MAP is indeed specific for the DPG binding site, as the above peptides contain the amino acid residues involved in the binding of DPG. We have assigned the acetylation sites as Val-1(β), Lys-82(β) and Lys-144(β).
Abstract A therapeutic agent capable of inhibiting the polymerization of hemoglobin S would relieve the symptoms of sickle cell disease. The P50 of oxygen binding to hemoglobin A (HbA) in the presence of an effector has been used for the initial screening of potential antisickling agents. We evaluated the thermodynamic parameters, P50, ΔG, ΔH, and ΔS and Hill coefficient for oxygen binding to human HbAo (HbA stripped of all endogenous effectors) in the presence of two antisickling agents, pyridoxal (PL) and pyridoxal 5′-phosphate (PLP), and two sickling-enhancing agents, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP). The P50 of oxygen binding to HbAo in phosphate/EDTA buffer, pH 7.6, was found to be 560 Pa. The P50 was increased to 653 Pa and 1746 Pa by DPG and IHP, respectively. The antisickling agents, PLP, and PL, had opposite effects on the P50, shifting it to 840 Pa and 187 Pa, respectively, indicating that a decrease in P50 may not be the best predictor of an antisickling agent. The Hill coefficient was 2.9 for both HbAo and HbAo + DPG and 2.6 for HbAo + IHP. The Hill coefficient was reduced by both PLP to 2.3 and by PL to 2.1. The enthalpies for oxygen binding to HbAo, HbAo + DPG, and HbAo + IHP were −48.1 kcal/mol Hb, −48.0 kcal/mol Hb, and −42.2 kcal/mol Hb, respectively. In contrast, the enthalpies for HbAo + PLP and HbAo + PL were −57.0 kcal/mol Hb and −51.1 kcal/mol Hb. Our study suggests that decreases in cooperativity and enthalpy, alone or in combination, may be useful indices of potential antisickling agents.
Phototherapy has been shown to cause hemolysis of fetal red cells and a shift to the right in the neonatal oxygen dissociation curve (deltaP50) in vitro. To determine if these parameters act similarly in vivo, we have studied 16 icteric infants before and after phototherapy and compared them with eight control infants studied at birth and at 3 days of age, measuring the change in P50, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), serum bilirubin, the percent of bilirubin/albumin saturation, and the hemoglobin concentration in the two groups. Following phototherapy, in the icteric infants there was a shift to the right in the O2 dissociation curve of + 1.7 mm Hg, a rise in 2,3-DPG of 2.26 micronmol/gm Hb, a fall in serum bilirubin of 4.3 mg/100 ml, a decrease in percent bilirubin/albumin saturation of 12.4%, and a drop in hemoglobin of 1.1 gm/100 ml. The control group showed a deltaP50 of + 2.0 mm Hg, a rise in 2,3-DPG of 3.67 micronmol/gm Hb, an increase in serum bilirubin of 3.2 mg/100 ml, an increase in percent bilirubin/albumin saturation of 9.3%, and a fall in hemoglobin of 0.3 gm/100 ml. Significant differences between the groups were seen only in the changes in bilirubin concentration and percent bilirubin/albumin satruation. The magnitude of changes in P50, 2,3-DPG, and hemoglobin concentration was similar in the phototherapy and control groups and was related to the expected changes with reference to postnatal age. These results suggest that phototherapy in vivo neither affects (fetal erythrocytic affinity for oxygen nor causes hemolysis. Pediatrics, 59:1027-1031, 1977 PHOTOTHERAPY, 2,3-DIPHOSPHOGLYCERATE, HEMOLYSIS, NEWBORN INFANT.
Bone marrow smears and blood samples were examined in guinea pig fetuses in which intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) had been induced by uterine artery ligation and compared with those of control (well-grown) fetuses from uterine horns with intact circulation. Differential bone marrow cell counts were obtained from a count of 300 cells per smear and blood samples were assayed for hemoglobin concentration and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Results of blood assays showed no difference in hemoglobin concentration. DPG levels were reduced in the IUGR guinea pigs (P < .05), which could be a consequence of decreased glucose availability or represent an adaptation to reduced oxygen availability. Comparisons of bone marrow counts revealed an increase in total erythrocyte precursors (P < .05) and a decrease in total granulocytic precursors (P < .05) in IUGR fetuses. Within the erythroid lineage there was a significant increase in late (orthochromatic) erythroblasts (P < .005) in the IUGR animals compared with control animals. The granulocytic lineage of the IUGR fetuses showed a significant decrease in mature neutrophils (P < .05) and eosinophilic precursors (P < .05) compared with controls. These data suggest that the hypoxic stress of uterine artery ligation leads to an increase in medullary erythropoiesis. In concert with a previous study that showed a reduction in hepatic erythropoiesis, these data suggest a precocious shift of the anatomic site of erythropoiesis from the liver to the bone marrow under conditions of hypoxia.
Abstract In order to elucidate the molecular mechanism of the effect of carbon dioxide on the four-step oxygenation equilibria of hemoglobin, accurate oxygen equilibrium curves of human adult hemoglobin were determined at different concentrations of CO 2 and in the presence and absence of chloride (Cl − ), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (P 2 G), and/or inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) and were analyzed according to Adair's stepwise oxygenation scheme to evaluate the four Adair constants, k i ( i = 1 to 4). The effects of CO 2 on oxygen affinity and co-operativity are influenced by H + , Cl − , P 2 G and IHP. The shape of the oxygen equilibrium curve varies with changes of CO 2 concentration; the four Adair constants are affected by CO 2 non-uniformly. Hence, the number of CO 2 molecules released upon oxygenation is not the same in the individual oxygenation steps. In the absence of added Cl − , CO 2 lowers the overall oxygen affinity expressed by median oxygen pressure ( p m ) and increases the co-operativity expressed by Hill's coefficient ( n max ) by reducing k 1 , k 2 and k 3 without changing k 4 . significantly. The effect of CO 2 on oxygen affinity becomes smaller with decrease in pH, disappearing below pH 6.5. The alkaline Bohr effect is reduced by CO 2 . The first oxygenation step contributes to the reduction of the Bohr effect more than the fourth step. When log p m is plotted against log [CO 2 ] at several constant Cl − concentrations, the plots converge to a common point that is named “iso-effective point”. When log p p is plotted against log [Cl − ] at several constant CO 2 concentrations, the plots also converge to an iso-effective point. This phenomenon can be explained in terms of linkage relations in oxygen-linked competitive binding of CO 2 and Cl − . It was found to be useful to consider in this analysis that the bicarbonate ion introduced by added CO 2 exerts a heterotropic effect equivalent to that of Cl − . The combined effects of Cl − , CO 2 and IHP were not explained satisfactorily by the present analysis using linkage relations.
In transfusion medicine, there has been a decades-long debate about whether the age of stored red blood cells (RBCs) is a factor in transfusion efficacy. Existing clinical studies investigating whether older RBCs cause worse clinical outcomes have provided conflicting information: some have shown that older blood is less effective, while others have shown no such difference. The controversial results could have been biased by the vastly different conditions of the patients involved in the clinical studies; however, another source of inconsistency is a lack of understanding of how well and quickly stored RBCs can recover their key parameters, such as stiffness and ATP concentration, after transfusion. In this work, we quantitatively studied the stiffness and ATP recovery of stored RBCs in 37°C human serum. The results showed that in 37°C human serum, stored RBCs are able to recover their stiffness and ATP concentration to varying extents depending on how long they have been stored. Fresher RBCs (1-3 weeks old) were found to have a significantly higher capacity for stiffness and ATP recovery in human serum than older RBCs (4-6 weeks old). For instance, for 1-week-old RBCs, although the shear modulus before recovery was 1.6 times that of fresh RBCs, 97% of the cells recovered in human serum to have 1.1 times the shear modulus of fresh RBCs, and the ATP concentration of 1-week-old RBCs after recovery showed no difference from that of fresh RBCs. However, for 6-week-old RBCs, onlỹ 70% of the RBCs showed stiffness recovery in human serum; their shear modulus after recovery was still 2.1 times that of fresh RBCs; and their ATP concentration after recovery was 25% lower than that of fresh RBCs. Our experiments also revealed that the processes of stiffness recovery and ATP recovery took place on the scale of tens of minutes. We hope that this study will trigger the next steps of comprehensively characterizing the recovery behaviors of stored RBCs (e.g., recovery of normal 2,3-DPG [2,3-Diphosphoglycerate]and SNO [S-nitrosation] levels) and quantifying the in vivo recovery of stored RBCs in transfusion medicine.
NMR measurements. The animal was placed in an aluminum probe with the apex of the left ventricle loosely positioned against a parafilmcovered, 1.4 cm, two-turn surface coil. Intercostal muscle was retracted > I cm from the coil. Ventilation and vascular lines ran through the length of the probe. The probe was placed in the bore of an 360 MHz Figure 1 Studies with phantoms showed that the surface coil obtained 50% of the signal from the superficial volume 2 mm deep and that 75% of the signal arose from a volume 4 mm deep. The contribution of skeletal muscle signal to the specta was calculated to be < 5%. We also obtained 31P-NMR spectra from a preparation within 10 min after excision of the heart. Only signals for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP in a ratio of 25:1 (characteristic of blood) could be detected. No skeletal muscle creatine phosphate signal could be detected from the cardiectomized rats at a time when the ischemic skeletal muscle creatine phosphate and ATP contents are > 99% of their control values (data not shown).
Magnetization areas for the [,6 -P]ATP and creatine phosphate resonances were measured with the Nicolet integration program. During anesthesia with 1% halothane, myocardial ATP was set to 25 pmol/g dry weight (20) after subtracting the ATP estimated in the red cells that contributed to the [i-PJATP resonance area. The myocardial ATP content during 2% halothane and norepinephrine infusion was normalized to the value obtained during 1% halothane after subtracting the estimate for red cell ATP. The ATP content of red cells was determined from the ratio of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to ATP measured in blood drawn from the left ventricle at the end ofthe study. Under the NMR conditions for this study, the ratio of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to ATP in red cells was 22.7±3.4 (n = 6).
Materials and methods A systematic review and narrative synthesis of the intervention of red cell rejuvenation using a red cell processing solution containing inosine, pyruvate, phosphate and adenine. Outcomes of interest in vitro were changes in red cell characteristics including adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), deformability and the accumulation of oxidized lipids and other reactive species in the red cell supernatant. Outcomes in vivo were 24-h post-transfusion survival and the effects on oxygen delivery, organ function and inflammation in transfused recipients.
The mechanism responsible for the possible adverse effects of RBCs may relate to the development of storage lesions over time. During storage, in a way that increases over time, important biochemical changes occur: a reduction in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, hypocalcemia, cell lysis, release of free hemoglobin, changes in nitric oxide levels, alterations in pH [20, 21] , and increases in lipids [22] , complement [23] and cytokines [24] . These changes are accompanied by increased membrane fragility, which can compromise microcirculatory flow and lead to increased red cell-endothelial cell interaction and inflammatory cytokine release [20, 21] . Such changes, which serve as potential explanations for more unfavorable outcomes, may be particularly disadvantageous to critically ill patients with a higher mortality risk. In this group, indirect evidence has linked the transfusion of older RBCs with adverse clinical consequences [25] . Unfortunately, all such evidence has been retrospective and/or focused on specific patient groups. The robustness of the relationship between the age of RBCs and adverse clinical outcome is thus limited both in strength and generalizability. Yet if this link exists, the public health consequences are great, given that the transfusion of RBCs is a common treatment in the critically ill. Furthermore, exposure to even a single unit of older RBCs might be associated with unfavorable outcome independent of the effect of volume of transfused RBCs and other confounding factors.
The purpose of this study was to determine the interrelationship of the rise and fall of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) with the increase in adult hemoglobin and the decrease in red cell oxygen hemoglobin affinity after birth in normal lambs. It was found that the mean maximum DPG level was 26.71 & 4.98 mol/g Hb at 7.5 & 1.1 days. At the same time the mean P,, and adult hemoglobin level was 27.0 =!= 1.4 mm Hg and 31.1 =!= 11.1%, respectively. In the individual lambs, the level of their maximum DPG correlated inversely with the amount of adult hemoglobin ( r -0.77, P < 0.05).
Banked donor blood is a mixture of cells with different ages and definite life spans. Standard preservation for banked blood is at a refrigerated temperature of 2-8 º C. While awaiting usage, PRBCs undergo a collection of well-documented biochemical and structural changes known as the storage lesion. These changes adversely affect a cell's life span, oxygen off-loading capability, and ability to undergo the conformational changes necessary for navigating the capillary network. Depletion of nitric oxide (NO) impairs vaso-regulation, increasing intravascular resistance. Hemolysis and free hemoglobin scavenging of endothelial-derived NO further exacerbate this effect. Depletion of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) impairs oxygen off-loading. Morphological alterations culminate in non-deformable spheroechinocytes which are unable to traverse capillary beds and impede circulation. This constellation of changes results in decreased tissue oxygenation (StO 2 ). Additionally, transfusions of LPRBC have been associated with prolonged hospitalizations, increased rates of infection, prolonged coagulation times, transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI), multi-organ failure (MOF), multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS), post-operative complications in cardiac surgery and mortality. The association of these complications is more significant with prolonged LPRBC storage times. Currently blood banks distribute PRBCs from a queue; the oldest cells are the first to be transfused. Therefore critically-ill patients receive PRBCs which have assumed the maximum storage lesion. Attempts to avoid these time-dependent changes by shortening the 42-day storage period could potentially deplete national or regional reserves.
Summary. In order to evaluate the possible underlying factors for the increase in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content observed in late diabetic pregnancy, its relationship with serum unconjugated oestriol, human placental lactogen, haemoglobin and hydrogen ion concentrations was investigated in 42 pregnant diabetic women. A significant correlation was found between red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and serum unconjugated oestriol (r= 0.54, p < 0.001), whereas no correlation was present between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the following variables: arterial pH, haemoglobin concentration and human placental lactogen. The content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate correlated significantly with haemoglobin-oxygen affinity expressed as Ps0 at pH 7.4 (r= 0.34, p < 0.05). The results of this study indicate that serum unconjugated oestriol may participate in the regulation of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content and thereby of the maternal blood oxygen release to the fetus.
Background: Elevated blood O 2 affinity enhances survival at low O 2 pressures, and is perhaps the best known and most broadly accepted evolutionary adjustment of terrestrial vertebrates to environmental hypoxia. This phenotype arises by increasing the intrinsic O 2 affinity of the hemoglobin (Hb) molecule, by decreasing the intracellular concentration of allosteric effectors (e.g., 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; DPG), or by suppressing the sensitivity of Hb to these physiological cofactors.
Abstract ::: The nonglycolytic, anaerobic organism Veillonella parvula M4 has been shown to contain an active pyruvate kinase. The enzyme was purified 126-fold and was shown by disc-gel electrophoresis to contain only two faint contaminating bands. The purified enzyme had a pH optimum of 7.0 in the forward direction and exhibited sigmoidal kinetics at varying concentrations o-f phosphoenol pyruvate (PEP), adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP), and Mg-2+ ions with S0.5 values of 1.5, 2.0, and 2.4 mM, respectively. Substrate inhibition was observed above 4 m PEP. Hill plots gave slope values (n) of 4.4 (PEP), 2.8 (adenosine 5'-diphosphate), and 2.0 (Mg-2+), indicating a high degree of cooperativity. The enzyme was inhibited non-competitively by adenosine 5'-triphosphate (Ki = 3.4 mM), and this inhibition was only slightly affected by increasing concentration of Mg-2+ ions to 30 mM. Competitive inhibition was observed with 3-phosphoglycerate, malate, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate but only at higher inhibitor concentrations. The enzyme was activated by glucose-6-phosphate (P), fructose-6-P, fructose-1,6-diphosphate (P2), dihydroxyacetone-P, and AMP; the Hill coefficients were 2.2, 1.8, 1.5, 2.1, and 2.0, respectively. The presence of each these metabolites caused substrate velocity curves to change from sigmoidal to hyperbolic curves, and each was accompanied by an increase in the maximum activity, e.g., AMP greater than fructose-1,6-P2 greater than dihydroxyacetone-P greater than glucose-6-P greater than fructose-6-P. The activation constants for fructose-1,6-P2, AMP, and glucose-6-P were 0.3, 1.1, and 5.3 mM, respectively. The effect of 5 mM fructose-1,6-P2 was significantly different from the other compounds in that this metabolite was inhibitory between 1.2 and 3 mM PEP. Above this concentration, fructose-1,6-P2 activated the enzyme and abolished substrate inhibition by PEP. The enzyme was not affected by glucose, glyceraldehyde-3-P, 2-phosphoglycerate, lactate, malate, fumerate, succinate, and cyclic AMP. The results suggest that the pyruvate kinase from V. parvula M4 plays a central role in the control of gluconeogenesis in this organism by regulating the concentration of PEP.
Plasma phosphate concentration (Pi), red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentrations were measured pre-operatively and at intervals after operation for 30 h in twelve patients (nine males and three females, 44--61 years of age), who underwent open heart surgery. All patients received intravenous injections of glucose, insulin and potassium at regular intervals. In all patients studied Pi decreased within hours following operation, remained low for about 6 h and pre-operative values were reached by 18 h. Pi decreased from 1.04 +/- 0.6 mmol/litre (mean +/- s.e. mean) to 0.32 +/- 0.06 mmol/litre. This fall in Pi was accompanied by a small but significant fall in 2,3-DPG (from 14.8 +/- 0.60 mumol/g Hb to 11.2 +/- 0.60 mumol/g Hb). ATP concentration did not change significantly. The calculated P50 (partial pressure of oxygen at which there was 50% saturation of haemoglobin) decreased by 1.2 mmHg. The regular fall in Pi which is probably due to the glucose-insulin-potassium injections was of short duration and had very little effect on red cell 2,3-DPG and ATP.
Abstract The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content of blood was determined by a bacterial NADH-linked bioluminescence measurement technique. The reaction conditions were chosen so that either an end-point or kinetic measurement was possible and easy to perform. Blood samples from twenty clinical patients were measured for their 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content using both luminescent and conventional spectrophotometric techniques. Correlation between the two methods was good and recovery for the bioluminescent method when adding a known quantity of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was 95%. Luminescence analysis makes it possible to measure 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in just a few drops of blood taken from an adult's finger or from a baby.
Alterations in the patterns of hemoglycolysis (ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, glucose, lactate, pyruvate) were studied after incubation of erythrocytes from 98 patients with chronic ischemic heart disease and 27 practically healthy persons. The incubation of erythrocytes within 2 hrs enabled to detect the typical impairments in regulation of glycolysis occurring in erythrocytes of the patients as well as to find two main types of its alteration, corresponding to clinical manifestations in the circulation insufficiency.
A single form of pyruvate kinase was isolated from the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii Dang. (Chlorophyta) and partially purified over twentyfold, yielding a final specific activity of 2.68 μmol pyruvate produced-min-1.mg-1 protein. Studies of its physical characteristics reveal that the pyruvate kinase is heat stable, is partially inactivated by sulfhydryl reagent N-ethylmaleimide, and has a pH optimum at 6.8 and a native molecular mass of 224 kDa. Immunological precipitation and western blotting, using antibodies raised against Selenastrum minutum Naeg. (Chlorophyta) cytosolic pyruvate kinase, reveal that C. reinhardtii pyruvate kinase possesses a subunit molecular mass of 57 kDa, indicating a homo-tetrameric structure. This enzyme exhibits an absolute requirement for a divalent cation that can be fulfilled, by Mg2+. The monovalent cation K+ acts as a strong activator. The Km values for phosphoenolpyruvate and adenosine diphosphate (ADP) are 0.16 mM and 0.18 mM, respectively. The enzyme is capable of using other nucleotides with Vmax for UDP, GDP, IDP, and CDP of 70%, 55%, 53%, and 25% of that with ADP, respectively. Dihydroxyacetone phosphate, ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate, adenosine monophosphate (AMP), ribose-5-phosphate, and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate are activators, whereas glutamate, orthophosphate, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), citrate, isocitrate, malate, oxalate, phosphoglycolate, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Dihydroxyacetone phosphate can reverse the inhibition by glutamate and phosphate. These properties are discussed in light of pyruvate kinase regulation during anabolic and catabolic respiration. Substrate interaction and product inhibition studies indicate that ADP is the first substrate bound to the enzyme and pyruvate is the last product released (Ordered Bi Bi mechanism).
Oxygen tension, oxyhemoglobin saturation, and pH were measured in arterial and in venous blood from heart, brain, kidney, liver, gut and pulmonary artery in anesthetized hypoxemic dogs during a reduction of blood oxygen affinity due to increasing acidosis caused by the administration of CO2 and NH4Cl (pH range 7.40-6.80). In dogs with hypoxemia due to right to left shunt (anastomosis between inferior vena cava and left atrium), a reduction in blood oxygen affinity was followed by increasing Pao2 and Pvo2 at unchanged Sao2. In dogs with hypoxemia caused by alveolar hypoxia, or a combination of alveolar hypoxia and right to left shunt, a reduction of blood oxygen affinity was followed by arterial and venous desaturation at unchanged Pao2 values. Infusions of sodium bicarbonate or blood transfusions with reduced 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG)-concentrations, if given to patients suffering from hypoxemia due to right to left shunt, may reduce the Pao2. Such therapy should be prescribed with caution.
Objective: Leucocyte filtration of salvaged blood has been suggested to prevent patients from receiving activated leucocytes during autotransfusion in cardiac surgery. This study examines whether leucocyte filtration of salvaged blood affects the red blood cell (RBC) function and whether there is a difference between filtration of the concentrated and diluted blood on RBC function. Methods: Forty patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass were randomly divided into a group receiving leucocyte filtration of concentrated blood (High-Hct, n = 20) and another group receiving leucocytefiltration of the dilutedblood (Low-Hct,n = 20). During operation, all the salvagedblood, as well as the residual blood, from the heart—lung machine was filtered. In the High-Hct group, blood was concentrated with a cell saver prior to filtration, whereas in the Low-Hct group, blood was filtered without concentration. RBC function was represented by RBC aggregation and deformability measured by a laser-assisted optical rotational cell analyser and by the RBC 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) contents with conventional biochemical tests. Results: Leucocyte filtration of diluted blood with a low haematocrit (14 4%) did not affect RBC function. However, when the concentrated blood with a high haematocrit (69 12%) was filtered, there was a reduction of ATP content in RBCs after passing through the filter (from 1.45 0.57 mmol g 1 Hb to 0.92 0.75 mmol g 1 Hb, p < 0.05). For patients who received the concentrated blood, their in vivo RBC function did not differ from those who received diluted blood. Conclusions: Leucocyte filtration of the diluted salvaged blood during cardiac surgery does not affect RBC function, but it tends to deplete the ATP content of RBCs as the salvaged blood has been concentrated prior to filtration. # 2009 European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The storage lesion which limits the shelf life of human blood in blood banking is associated with a metabolic loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP. This metabolic loss is driven by intracellular ATPase which are usually considered to include the ion pumps and the reactions which maintain the discoid shape of the human erythrocyte. Under the acidic conditions of blood storage, the energy-yielding reactions of the glycolytic pathway are restricted at the hexokinase and phosphofructokinase steps. We show here that under such circumstances the enzyme of the diphosphoglycerate shunt, diphosphoglycerate mutase/phosphatase and the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglycerate kinase can form a futile cycle with ATPase activity. This ATPase activity responds to 2-phosphoglycolate which is known to activate both diphosphoglycerate mutase and diphosphoglycerate phosphatase reactions. When the enzymes of the futile cycle are combined with the enzymes of the lower glycolytic pathway in a reconstitution experiment designed to represent conditions within the stored erythrocyte, the futile cycle does provide an ATPase activity which results in the metabolic loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. An isotope incorporation experiment demonstrates that the futile cycle is active in glucose-depleted erythrocytes.
Temperature-dependent change in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity was measured as a function of hemoglobin-oxygen saturation. In addition, the CO2 Bohr factor and fixed acid Bohr factor were measured as a function of saturation of temperatures of 23, 30, 37, and 44 degrees C. Measurements were made on normal blood and blood with reduced 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). The influence of temperature is greatest at low saturation and is enhanced slightly by DPG depletion. The CO2 Bohr factor is increased at high temperatures; this is primarily due to increased carbamino formation with rising temperature, especially at lower oxygen saturation. The effect of DPG on oxygen affinity is reduced at a high temperature and elevated at low temperature. These diverse effects of temperature on hemoglobin-ligand interaction require consideration in assessing oxygen delivery when temperature is increased or decreased.
Phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance (31P NMR) spectroscopy was used to estimate the percent of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP bound to hemoglobin in intact human erythrocytes at 37 degrees C. Binding was assessed by comparing the chemical shifts (delta) of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and of ATP observed in intact cells with the delta values of these organic phosphates determined in model solutions closely simulating intracellular conditions, in which percent binding was directly evaluated by membrane ultrafiltration. The results showed that the percent of bound 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in intact cells varied with pH, the state of oxygenation, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration. The values ranged from 33% in cells incubated with glucose in air at an intracellular pH of 7.2 to 100% in cells incubated with inosine in N2 at a pH of 6.75. At the same 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, a greater percentage of the compound appeared to be bound in erythrocytes than in the closely simulated model system. ATP was not significantly bound to hemoglobin under any condition examined, but appeared to be strongly complexed to Mg2+ inside the erythrocyte. The binding percentages for both 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP in intact cells estimated by 31P NMR spectroscopy were lower than those calculated by others from individual association constants determined for the binding of different ligands to hemoglobin.
Abstract Electrophoresis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.13) activity was carried out on starch gel. The staining technique used the specific oxidation of NADH present in the incubation mixture. Thus, on a fluorescent background, the zones of migration of the enzyme appeared on the gel as bands of decreasing fluorescence. The hemolysate of human origin or of different animal species gave, on migration, only one band of fluorescence decrease. In the case of heart tissue extracts two bands of activity appeared on the gel. The distinction between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase and 3-phosphoglycerate mutase (EC 2.7.5.3) activities has been obtained.
A preliminary testing of eight guinea pigs for D-2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2, 3DPG) content of red blood cells, half of which had been exposed to continuous 0.36 ppm nitrogen dioxide for one week, showed a significant increase (P < .05)for the exposed animals.
SummaryThe Bohr effect related to whole blood (Be) and erythrocyte pH (Bi) was determined over a wide oxygen saturation range at an almost constant 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration. In two different sets of experiments acidification was caused either by fixed acid (lactic acid) or by CO2. Fixed acid-induced Bohr coefficients can be approximated by a second-order function of O2 saturation with a maximum at mid-saturation range. CO2-inducedBe andBi values yield a third-order relationship with highest results at low O2 saturation. The ratioBi/Be with respect to fixed acid-acidification exhibits a positive correlation with oxygenation, whereas the corresponding ratio referring to CO2 does not. For this different behavior a possibly more pronounced diminution of the Haldane effect, i.e. oxygen-linked proton release, in the presence of fixed acid is discussed. The physiological importance of the magnitude of CO2-inducedBi values at low O2 saturation is emphasized.
Risk factors of tissue hypoxia was investigated in 26 patients with diabetic retinopathy (DMR), who compared with 62 patients without DMR. significant higher incidence of DMR was found in patients with poor diabetic control (HbA 1 greater than or equal to 10%), with orthostatic hypotension (OH), with peripheral neuropathy and with atherosclerosis respectively. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was lower (P less than 0.05) and venous oxygen tension in pedal dorsum (PvO2) higher (P less than 0.05) in DMR patients than those in uncomplicated DMR patients and normal subjects. There was a rank correlation between DMR severity and PvO2 (r = 0.429, P less than 0.05), which imply that decreased blood oxygen utilization may be related to diabetic microangiopathy. These data suggested that abnormal changes of HbA 1 and 2,3-DPG, decrease of peripheral blood oxygen utilization, atherosclerosis, OH and neuropathy might be risk factors of tissue hypoxia in DMR patients.
Influences exerted by altitude were investigated in eight male and three female physical education students (age 26 ± 1 SE years) during and after a ski course lasting 2 weeks. Measurements of acid-base status, oxygen dissociation curve (ODC), and different constituents of blood were performed before ascent at Hannover (55 m above sea level), after 7 and 14 days in the mountains (2200 m), and after 5, 11, and 17 days back at Hannover. Physical performance was tested at Hannover only. No significant alkalosis was observed at altitude; the red cell pH decreased by 0.05 units. In vitro buffering of blood against CO2 (-Δ[HCO-3]/ΔpH) improved remarkably at the end of the mountain stay by 14 mmol/1; similarly, in vivo Δ[Lac]/ΔpH of blood was increased by 11 mmol/1 during the 1st week after return. The ODC showed an elevation of the standard half saturation pressure (P50, pH 7.4) at altitude from 3.75 + 0.08 to 3.98 ± 0.03 kPa. The cause was a changed Donnan equilibrium of the erythrocytes resulting from increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and decreased potassium concentrations. After return to Hannover the slope n of the ODC rose from 2.7 ± 0.1 to 3.1 ± 0.1, possibly because of a greater percentage of young red cells. The changes of buffering and ODC might contribute to a slightly improved exercise performance after the altitude stay.
Abstract 1. 1. Water-soluble small-molecule phosphate compounds were identified in red cells of a hag-fish, Eptatretus stoutii, and a lamprey, Entosphenus tridentatus, representatives of the two subclasses of cyclostomes. 2. 2. The concentration of ATP was high in red cells of some hagfish and low in others, while ADP remained high, a possible protection for the animals during periods of severe hypoxia. 3. 3. A new as yet unidentified strongly u.v.-absorbing non-phosphate compound, discovered in the hagfish red cell, had a high concentration estimated to be about 10 millimolar. 4. 4. A large fraction of the total phosphate of the lamprey red cell was in the form of adenine mononucleotides with a high ratio of ATP to ADP and of ADP to AMP. 5. 5. A remarkable finding in the lamprey red cell was the presence of a substantial pool of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, a compound absent from the hagfish and not previously found in red cells of any of the true fishes. 6. 6. Neither hagfish nor lamprey had any inositol polyphosphates in their red cells and both had small pools of GTP. 7. 7. There were interesting differences in morphology between red cells of hagfish and lamprey and between the two and other vertebrates.
Abstract ::: High-resolution 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra at 73.83 MHz are reported for rat heart in vivo. In live rats, it was possible to observe the cardiac content of ATP, phosphocreatine, and Pi. Only a small amount of whole-blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was observed in the spectra, precluding the possibility that blood phosphate compounds were masking the spectra of cardiac phosphate compounds. The 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra of in vivo and perfused rat hearts were similar and support the utilization of the perfused rat heart as a model system for studying high-energy phosphate metabolism of the heart in vivo. The dynamic flux of high-energy phosphate compounds was investigated by subjecting the rat to respiratory arrest. In this experiment, the heart followed the classic metabolic pattern known to occur during cardiac arrest; phosphocreatine and then ATP decreased in concentration while Pi increased in concentration. The 31P nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of rat heart in vivo is demonstrated to be a practical and feasible method for studying cardiac high-energy phosphate metabolism.
O-R-polyHbA0 is an intra- and intermolecularly O-raffinose cross-linked derivative of deoxygenated human haemoglobin developed as an oxygen therapeutic. When compared with its native protein (HbA0), O-R-polyHbA0 was found to be locked in the T (tense) quaternary conformation with a lower oxygen affinity, a reduced Bohr effect (50% of HbA0) and no measurable cooperativity (h=1). The kinetics of oxygen and CO binding to the protein indicate lower ‘on’ rates and faster ‘off’ rates than HbA0 and the absence of effects of inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) on the kinetics. Other properties consistent with a T-like conformation are inaccessibility of the βCys-93 thiol group of O-R-polyHbA0, the hyperfine splitting from nitrogen in the EPR spectrum of the Fe(II)NO complex of O-R-polyHbA0 and decreased flexibility in the distal haem pocket, as indicated by low-spin bis-histidine complexes detected by EPR of oxidized chains. A comparison of the properties of O-R-polyHbA0 with those of HbA0 with and without IHP, as well as the reaction of nitrite with deoxygenated haemoglobin, provide additional insights into the variations in the conformation of T-state haemoglobin in solution (modifications of the T state produced by adding organic phosphates, like IHP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate). Although the physiological ramifications of locking HbA0 in the T conformation with the O-raffinose are still unknown, valuable insights into haemoglobin function are provided by these studies of O-R-polyHbA0.
After birth a decrease in hemoglobin concentration occurs while high metabolic demands are imposed on the infant by the extrauterine environment. Using the resting lamb as a model, we studied the mechanisms that are called into play during this period to maintain oxygen delivery. Measurements were made of oxygen consumption, arterial and mixed venous blood oxygen contents, cardiac output, hemoglobin concentration, percent fetal hemoglobin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and hemoglobin oxygen affinity during the first two postnatal months. There was a rapid decrease in hemoglobin concentration after birth and concomitant decrease in hemoglobin oxygen affinity, changes similar to those described in humans. Cardiac output and oxygen consumption were both very high immediately after birth and declined in parallel, so that arteriovenous oxygen content difference was constant. Thus at rest cardiac output varies as a result of the changing need for oxygen. This relationship is independent of hemoglobin concentration or oxygen affinity within the normal range. If, however, oxygen demands were increased, oxygen delivery might be compromised by a limited ability to increase oxygen extraction during the immediate newborn period or when hemoglobin concentration is lowest.
BACKGROUND: Red blood cells (RBCs) are Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved for 42-day storage with the use of additive solutions (ASs). However, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels in the RBCs decline over this time. These constituents may be restored by treatment with rejuvenation (REJ) solutions. This study was done to assess the response capability of RBCs from 30 to 120 days of storage in three FDA-licensed RBC storage solutions after incubation with a rejuvenating solution of pyruvate, inosine, phosphate, and adenine. ::: ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Three units each of RBCs in approved AS (AS-1 [Adsol, Fenwal, Inc.], AS-3 [Nutricel, Medsep Corp.], and AS-5 [Optisol, Terumo Corp.]) were stored under standard conditions at 1 to 6°C for up to 120 days. Aliquots (4 mL) on Days 30, 42, 60, 80, 100, and 120 (±2 days) were REJ by incubating with Rejuvesol (Encyte Corp.). Control untreated and REJ aliquots were extracted using perchloric acid and stored at −80°C until assayed for 2,3-DPG and ATP. ::: ::: ::: ::: RESULTS: RBCs responded to REJ by increasing DPG and ATP contents. The response declined linearly at 0.070 ± 0.008 µmol DPG/g hemoglobin (Hb)/day and 0.035 ± 0.004 µmol ATP/g Hb/day with no differences between ASs. ::: ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION: We conclude that Rejuvesol is able to restore ATP and 2,3-DPG levels in RBCs stored up to 120 days in AS. The response diminishes as storage time increases. This rejuvenation (REJ) capability does not seem useful for routine assessment of RBC anabolic capacity in research programs, but may be useful to the investigator when studying unique and novel treatment methods.
Methanosarcina frisia accumulates phosphate up to 14% of its dry weight. The phosphate is stored as long-chain polyphosphates as shown by 31P-NMR investigations. Further results show that the accumulation of phosphates is substrate-dependent. In the presence of H2 and CO2 as the only carbon and energy source 180 mg of PO inf4 sup3- /g protein were accumulated, whereas 260 mg PO inf4 sup3- /g protein were accumulated in the presence of methanol. This is far more than necessary for the maintenance of essential metabolic pathways. In addition, the 31P-NMR studies show the occurrence of cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in Methanosarcina frisia. The role of the phosphate metabolites in cell metabolism are discussed.
Abstract —Magnesium (Mg) deficiency enhances tissue sensitivity to ischemic damage, an effect reversed not only by Mg, but also by sulfhydryl (SH)-containing compounds. We therefore created an in vitro model of red blood cell ischemia to investigate whether the protective effects of these compounds might be related to effects on intracellular free Mg (Mg i ) content. 31 P-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was used to measure the high-energy metabolites ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and Mg i and inorganic phosphate (P i ) levels in erythrocytes before and for 6 hours after progressive oxygen depletion in the presence or absence of SH-compounds, including captopril, N -acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC), penicillamine, and N -(2-mercaptopropionyl)-glycine (MPG). Under basal aerobic conditions, captopril increased Mg i in a dose- and time-dependent fashion (174.5±5.3 to 217.1±5.1 μmol/L, P i in erythrocytes ( P i and in the P i /2,3-DPG ratio used as an index of high-energy metabolite depletion. Captopril, compared with control, retarded the rise in P i and reduced the P i /2,3-DPG ratio ( P P i and the greater the captopril-induced rise in Mg i , the greater the metabolite-protective effect ( r =0.799 and r =0.823, respectively; P
Marrow regulation and iron metabolism were evaluated in 17 patients with mild or moderate anemia associated with chronic disorders. In addition, whole blood P50 and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels were measured. The study group consisted of seven patients with non-hematologic malignancies, nine with infection or inflammation, and one with idiopathic hypoproliferative anemia. The mean whole blood P50 and DPG levels were elevated to 28.5 +/- 1.9 mm Hg and 7.03 +/- 0.83 mumole/ml packed RBC, respectively, as compared to normal values of 26.6 +/- 0.6 mm Hg and 4.83 +/- 0.33 mumole/ml packed RBC. Erythropoietin (ESF) excretion was variable (1.1-28.7 IRP U, day), clearly elevated above normal in only three patients and, within the study group, bore no relation to hematocrit. While nine of the 17 subjects had ESF excretion rates within the 95% limits predicted by hematocrit, the remaining eight had lower than expected values. No significant differences in ferrokinetics, ESF excretion, or hematologic profile were found between patients with malignancy and those with inflammation. Marrow transit times correlated inversely with both serum and urine ESF activity (r = -0.57, p less than 0.02; and r = -0.63, p less than 0.01, respectively), indicating that the marrow reticulocyte release response to ESF stimulation was unimpaired. Erythroid iron turnovers were unrelated to serum or urinary ESF activity but were significantly correlated with serum iron levels expressed as microgram/100 ml whole blood (r = 0.56, p less than 0.02). These studies suggest that there is an intraerythrocytic response to the anemia in this group of patients, document that reduced ESF production is not a uniform finding with the anemia of chronic disorders, and provide evidence that the marrow proliferative response to anemia is limited in many patients primarily by the availability of iron.
Human and rabbit erythrocyte membranes prepared by hypotonic hemolysis contained 5 to 15% of the phosphofructokinase in the erythrocytes. The membrane-bound phosphofructokinase can be eluted by a saline wash. Human erythrocyte and rabbit muscle phosphofructokinase bind to the saline-washed membranes. This binding is specific for the inner surface of the membrane. The amount of phosphofructokinase bound is dependent on pH; at pH 7, 6 times more enzyme is bound than at pH 7.5. Unlike free phosphofructokinase, the membrane-bound phosphofructokinase is not inhibited by ATP or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and its fructose-6-P saturation curve is nonsigmoidal.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common dementing illness. Metabolic defects in the brain with aging contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. These changes can be found systematically and thus can be used as potential biomarkers. Erythrocytes (RBCs) are passive "reporter cells" that are not well studied in AD. In the present study, we analyzed an array of glycolytic and related enzymes and intermediates in RBCs from patients with AD and non-Alzheimer dementia (NA), age-matched controls (AC) and young adult controls (YC). AD is characterized by higher activities of hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, and bisphosphoglycerate mutase and bisphosphoglycerate phosphatase in RBCs. In our study, we observed that glycolytic and related enzymes displayed significantly lower activities in AC. However, similar or significantly higher activities were observed in AD and NA groups as compared to YC group. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels were significantly decreased in AD and NA patients. The pattern of changes between groups in the above indices strongly correlates with each other. Collectively, our data suggested that AD and NA patients are associated with chronic disturbance of 2,3-DPG metabolism in RBCs. These defects may play a pivotal role in physiological processes, which predispose elderly subjects to AD and NA.
Abstract Formulations have been developed to describe the partition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) between its free and hemoglobin-bound states within the red cell. The partition is defined for different total amounts of 2,3-DPG as well as for different degrees of oxygen saturation. The difference in free 2,3-DPG between zero and full oxygen saturation, is maximal when the molar ratio of 2,3-DPG/hemoglobin is unity.
The oxygenation of radioresistant hypoxic cells in malignant tumours has been a major goal of radiation therapists and biologists for many years. Increased release of bound oxygen from blood to tissues was recognised as a possible way of achieving this (Siemann et al., 1979), and several other studies since then (Hirst et al, 1987 a, b; Siemann et al, 1986; Siemann and Macler, 1986) have supported this approach, showing that the affinity with which haemoglobin binds oxygen has an effect on the radiosensitivity of several experimental mouse tumours. Facilitated release of oxygen from blood to tissues can be achieved by reducing the binding affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen. Several techniques can be used in vivo to achieve this but they fall into two basic categories: the alteration of the intraerythrocytic concentration of the naturally occurring allosteric modifier, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) (Siemann et al, 1979; Siemann et al, 1986; Hirst and Wood, 1987), or the administration of compounds which are direct modifiers of haemoglobin/oxygen affinity, such as inositol hexaphosphate (Teissiere et al, 1985) or derivatives of chlorophenoxyacetic acid (Hirst and Wood, 1987; 1989 a,b).
The search for human Hb variants exhibiting a low oxygen affinity without requiring 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, together with a low oxygation rate, is of an increased interest in the view of producing an artificial oxygen carrier. We have synthesized the recombinant Hb beta 41Phe-->Tyr (rHb beta F41Y) which exhibits a low oxygen affinity due to the stabilization of the deoxy state of tetrameric Hb [1]. Interestingly, the autooxydation rate for this mutant is similar to that for Hb A. We have associated the mutation beta F41Y with the naturally occurring beta 82Lys-->Asp substitution (Hb Providence) known to be responsible for a low oxygen affinity [2]. The second-site mutation further decreases the oxygen affinity of the rHb beta F41Y. The effects of the beta F41Y and K82D mutations are additive, resulting in a four fold decrease in oxygen affinity of the artificial mutant Hb beta F41Y-K82D, compared to Hb A. In spite of the marked decrease in oxygen affinity, the autooxydation rate is 2- to 3 fold larger than that of Hb A. These data show that it is possible to adjust the oxygen binding properties of human Hb by using protein engineering methods. Because of the low oxygen affinity coexisting with a moderately increased autooxydation rate, this variant is a good candidate for the development of a Hb-based oxygen carrier.
Haemoglobin-oxygen equilibrium curves have been measured in developing embryonic mouse erythroid cells. At 11.5 days gestation, shortly after blood islands from the yolk sac have formed but before the placenta is complete, erythrocytes have a high affinity for oxygen and a reverse Bohr effect below pH ∼7.0 (Figs. 1, 2, 3). By 13.5 days both the Bohr shift and the shape of the equilibrium curves are similar to those obtained from adult mice. From 13.5 days onwards, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate plays an important role in regulating oxygen affinity (Figs. 2, 4). It is suggested that the oxygen equilibrium properties of embryonic erythrocytes are adapted to service the developing embryo with oxygen under hypoxic and hypercapnic conditions in the intra-uterine environment up until the time when the embryonic circulation makes contact with the placenta.
The presumed “physiologic activity” of normal glucose 6-phos-phate dehydrogenase (G6PD), i.e. activity assayed in the presence of physiologic concentrations of ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, glucose 6-phosphate, NADP and NADPH in the normal red cells, is comparable to shunt pathway activity of intact normal red cells. In contrast, the presumed “physiologic activity” of G6PD variants associated with enzyme deficiency (Gd A® and Gd Mediterranean) is one order of magnitude higher than actual shunt pathway activity of the variant red cells. The difference of kinetic parameters of the enzyme in artificial buffer media and presumed physiologic medium in red cells cannot explain the discrepancy. The apparent discrepancy could be attributed either to (a) over-estimation of NADP and under-estimation of NADPH concentrations in the G6PD deficient red cells due to rapid oxidation of NADPH to NADP in preparation of hemolysate, or to (b) a large portion of NADP which accumulated in the G6PD deficient red cells binds with...
BACKGROUND ::: ::: Severe hemolytic anemia of the fetus, caused by maternal red blood cell (RBC) alloantibodies, is treated with intrauterine transfusion (IUT) of RBCs. Because IUT is associated with additional antibody formation, RBCs with the closest match between donor and mother are preferred. Because one fetus needs a median of three IUTs, finding such RBCs is complicated. Collection of repeated low-volume donations from one selected donor during the entire IUT treatment period would reduce donor exposure and possibly IUT-associated alloimmunization. ::: ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: ::: Whole blood (WB) donations of 100 and 200 mL were diluted with saline, filtered, centrifuged, and separated to prepare experimental RBCs. Before and after gamma irradiation, the RBCs were sampled for comparison of in vitro quality with standard RBCs for IUT. An additional washing procedure was investigated to remove anti-A/-B. ::: ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: ::: Experimental RBCs were leukoreduced to levels conforming with current guidelines and had final volumes of 44 (n = 12) and 84 (n = 8) mL with hematocrit levels between 0.80 and 0.88 L/L. Hemolysis was lower (0.12% vs. 0.42%), potassium leakage comparable, adenosine triphosphate levels lower (4.8 µmol/g Hb vs. 6.1 µmol/g Hb), and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels higher (10.3 µmol/g Hb vs 7.7 µmol/g Hb) at 6 hours after irradiation (product expiration time) compared to standard RBCs for IUT (n = 3). Anti-A/-B titers decreased substantially by the washing procedure. ::: ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: ::: RBCs for IUT can be prepared from 100- or 200-mL WB donations, showing the potential of this new blood product to reduce donor exposure. A washing procedure is recommended to remove anti-A/-B.
Abstract The ability of d -glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) catalyzing the reaction of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate synthesis in human erythrocytes to form complexes with enzymes which use this metabolite as substrate (3-phosphoglycerate kinase (3-PGK) or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase (2,3-DPGM)) was studied. It was found that highly active 2,3-DPGM can be extracted from human erythrocyte hemolysates in a complex with GAPDH adsorbed on Sepharose-bound anti-GAPDH antibodies at pH 6.5, the molar ratio being one 2,3-GPGM subunit per subunit of GAPDH. No complexation was, however, detected at pH 8.0. The opposite was true for the interaction between GAPDH and 3-PGK, which could be observed at pH 8.0. In experiments carried out at pH 7.4, both GAPDH·2,3-DPGM and GAPGH·3-PGK complexes were detected. The K d values of the complexes determined with purified enzyme preparations were in the range 2.40–2.48 μ m for both the GAPDH·2,3-DPGM and GAPGH·3-PGK enzyme pairs, when titrations of GAPDH covalently bound to CNBr-activated Sepharose were performed by the soluble 2,3-DPGM or 3-PGK. If, however, GAPDH adsorbed on the specific antibodies covalently bound to Sepharose was used in the titration experiments, the K d for the GAPDH·2,3-DPGM complex was found to be 0.54 μ m , and the K d for the GAPDH·3-PGK complex was 0.49 μ m . The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate determined after 1 h of incubation of erythrocytes in the presence of glucose was found to increase 1.5-fold if the incubation was carried out at pH 6.5, but did not change upon incubation at pH 8.0. On the other hand, the concentration of 3-phosphoglycerate after incubation at pH 8.0 was twice as large as that found after incubation at pH 6.5. The results are interpreted on the hypothesis that specific protein–protein interactions between GAPDH and 2,3-DPGM or between GAPDH and 3-PGK may play a role in determining the fate of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate produced in the GAPDH-catalyzed reaction.
The methodology to store red blood cells for transfusion has dramatically enhanced the supportive care capacity in hematology, surgery, trauma and critical care medicine. However, the limitations of stored blood have come under recent scrutiny and great controversy. In this issue of Anesthesiology, Lei et al.1 at Massachusetts General Hospital show that transfusion with stored erythrocytes increases tissue injury of hemorrhagic shock more than transfusion with fresh erythrocytes using an experimental rodent model of blood transfusion. Furthermore, they find that pre-existing endothelial dysfunction caused by a high fat diet increases the risk of this adverse response to transfused stored blood, modeling a common scenario under which human patients might receive transfusions for traumatic emergencies. ::: ::: Over the years, several observational studies have hinted that critically ill patients are at greater risk of dying if they receive transfusions of multiple units of red cells, suggesting an adverse property of stored red cells. This finding is hotly debated, because it is essentially impossible to erase the confounding issue that the patients who require the most transfusions inherently are also the sickest and most likely to die. Do the very sickest patients die because of blood transfusions or despite blood transfusions? This is a very sensitive but crucial question. ::: ::: Pathological changes in blood during storage, often called the blood storage lesion, is a rapidly growing area of biomedical research. Before 2005, this was an esoteric subject, addressed in five peer-reviewed articles each year on average. Since that year, nearly twenty articles per year on average fuel the debate with new research on the storage lesion. Stored red blood cells undergo morphologic changes, metabolic alterations, and some degree of hemolysis during storage. During storage, red blood cells undergo depletion of potassium, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, lipids and membrane, with increased red cell rigidity and impaired oxygen delivery.2 The stored units accumulate microvesicles derived from red cells, free hemoglobin and biologically active lipids, demonstrating increased pro-inflammatory and procoagulant activity. Modern blood bank preservative solutions provide glucose and other stabilizing substances to minimize these undesirable changes that might adversely affect the transfusion recipient.3 ::: ::: Despite these stabilizers, detectable hemolysis occurs in the storage bag and in the patient. The Food and Drug Administration mandates minimal standards of <1% of the red cells lyse in the storage bag, no more than 25% of the cells cleared from the recipient within 24 h after infusion, which likely correspond to cells lysed in vivo.3 These round number thresholds are arbitrarily established long ago, and not derived by any empirical scientific testing. ::: ::: This debate more recently has been focused upon a single hot button: duration of red cell storage. Patients who received newer blood serve as experimental controls for those who receive older blood. Wang and colleagues performed a meta-analysis of 21 independent observational studies evaluating associations of transfusion with red cells stored for longer duration.4 Older blood was associated with a significantly increased risk of death (odds ratio, 1.16; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.07–1.24). These authors provocatively estimate that if all cardiac surgery and trauma patients were transfused with fresher rather than older blood, one additional life would be saved for each 97 transfused with standard blood. ::: ::: This analysis has unleashed a volley of caveats regarding the intrinsic limitations of these retrospective analyses of observational data.5 A patient receiving multiple transfusions is likelier to receive at least one unit of blood that has been stored longer than average, confounding the age of blood with the amount of blood and the severity of illness. There is no standard, accepted method that accurately scores the properties of the stored blood, even storage duration, when multiple units of blood are administered, partly because many factors are known to change in stored blood as part of the storage lesion. Assumptions during the analysis can introduce statistical artifact and biases that may either obscure or overestimate the association of storage duration to subsequent outcomes.5 Randomized controlled trials certainly could produce data with fewer such issues. ::: ::: Three randomized controlled trials have been initiated in cardiac surgery,6 critically ill patients,7 and in neonates,8 but no final results are yet published. In an effort to reach answers more quickly and mechanistically, several investigators have conducted physiological studies of stored blood in animal models and in humans. Many of the researchers have experimentally investigated vasodilatory dysfunction in recipients of stored blood products attributable to extracellular free hemoglobin. In vitro, extracellular free hemoglobin avidly scavenges nitric oxide, a signal transduction ligand that orchestrates a broad program of vascular homeostasis. Additional human and animal research studies have evaluated the contribution of nitric oxide scavenging by free hemoglobin to physiologic consequences of the blood storage lesion.9 Alternatively, some investigators have emphasized oxidant stress as the principal mechanism mediating free hemoglobin toxicity to endothelial function and vascular smooth muscle tone.10 Still others even implicate oxidant stress from free heme or iron released from hemoglobin.11 Whatever the dominant mechanism, many diverse lines of investigation implicate hemolysis of stored blood as pathogenic. ::: ::: Regardless of exact mechanism, a growing number of publications report evidence that stored blood impairs normal vasodilation and blood flow, and implicate extracellular hemoglobin as the offending molecule.12 Free hemoglobin and hemoglobin-containing erythrocyte microvesicles accumulate during blood storage and consume nitric oxide in vitro. Transfusion of these forms of extracellular hemoglobin induces vasoconstriction in rats.13 Haptoglobin, the endogenous scavenger of free hemoglobin, in a guinea pig model blunts adverse effects of stored blood, including intravascular hemolysis, acute hypertension, vascular injury, and kidney dysfunction, supporting a role in vascular pathophysiology of extracellular hemoglobin among the other potentially pathogenic molecules are released during hemolysis.14 Transfusion of blood stored for 40 days into lambs induces pulmonary vasoconstriction and acute pulmonary hypertension preventable with inhaled nitric oxide.15 The effectiveness of either haptoglobin or nitric oxide breathing is consistent with free hemoglobin as the pathogenic agent in stored blood, whether mediated by nitric oxide scavenging or oxidative stress. ::: ::: It may be possible that the effect of the blood storage lesion on outcome is clinically significant only when combined with additive or synergistic risk factors. The Zapol group has found that known risk factors for vasomotor dysfunction, including diabetes,16 high-fat diet and hemorrhagic shock,1 amplify the adverse effect of blood storage duration upon vascular function and outcome in animal models. In clinical practice, this supports a very credible hypothesis that the blood storage lesion effect on morbidity and mortality is seen primarily in patients with pre-existing risk factors for cardiovascular disease during critical illness. ::: ::: This hypothesis would help to explain why the effect of stored blood upon vascular physiology is not apparent in healthy volunteers.17 Future investigations may yield more informative results if focused upon transfusion with stored blood under life-threatening conditions compounded by other vascular risk factors. Until then, clinical use of red cells stored up to 42 days remains the standard of care.
In 12 hypoxemic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the partial pressure of oxygen at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated (P50) and levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were determined under 3 study conditions: (1) while breathing room air, (2) during oxygen supplementation for 72 h sufficient to increase PaO2 above 70 mmHg, and (3) at 72 h after the period of oxygen supplementation. The data showed that in the control period in hypoxemic (PaO2, 52 +/- 6 mmHg), mildly hypercapnic (PaCO2, 47 +/- 6 mmHg) patients with a borderline elevation of pH (7.42 +/- 0.03), there was an increase in P50 (28.6 +/- 1.6 versus a normal value of 26.5 +/- 1; p less than 0.005), and a concomitant increase in 2,3-DPG (19.02 +/- 1.77 mg/g Hb versus a normal value of 13.52 +/- 1.27; p less than 0.005). Nine patients received oxygen for 24 h, and 5 received oxygen for 72 h. In these 5 patients, oxygen supplementation resulted in a shift in P50 to a normal value of 26.7 +/- 1.8 (this value was different from the patients' level while breathing room air and not different from that of the normoxemic control subjects) and a decrease in 2,3-DPG toward but not to a normal value (16.34 +/- 1.92; p less than 0.01). This shift in P50 to the left could be related to the decrease in 2,3-DPG. Accordingly, in patients with COPD who are treated with supplemental oxygen, the net effect on oxygen transport would be a function of the changes produced in PaO2 versus those in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract The metabolism of glucose in human erythrocytes was investigated under conditions where the ratio of NADH to NAD + was increased. This was achieved by three methods: first by adding lactate dehydrogenase together with NADH extracellularly, second by adding xylitol, and third by adding acetaldehyde. The concentrations of glyceraldehyde-3 phosphate, dihydroxyacetone phosphate, and fructose-1,6-bisphosphate increased and the level of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate decreased drastically. The 3-phosphoglycerate concentration and P i changed only a little. This, together with the large decrease in the 1,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, produced two other effects. The ratio of ATP to ADP decreased to a new steady state in keeping with the phosphoglycerate kinase equilibrium. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate was broken down at a slow rate, 4–8% of the lactate production, which is interpreted as the normal rate under conditions of steady state in the circulation.
Formyltransferase catalyzes the reversible formation of formylmethanofuran from N5-formyltetrahydromethanopterin and methanofuran, a reaction involved in the C1 metabolism of methanogenic and sulfate-reducing archaea. The crystal structure of the homotetrameric enzyme from Methanopyrus kandleri (growth temperature optimum 98°C) has recently been solved at 1.65 Å resolution. We report here the crystal structures of the formyltransferase from Methanosarcina barkeri (growth temperature optimum 37°C) and from Archaeoglobus fulgidus (growth temperature optimum 83°C) at 1.9 Å and 2.0 Å resolution, respectively. Comparison of the structures of the three enzymes revealed very similar folds. The most striking difference found was the negative surface charge, which was −32 for the M. kandleri enzyme, only −8 for the M. barkeri enzyme, and −11 for the A. fulgidus enzyme. The hydrophobic surface fraction was 50% for the M. kandleri enzyme, 56% for the M. barkeri enzyme, and 57% for the A. fulgidus enzyme. These differences most likely reflect the adaptation of the enzyme to different cytoplasmic concentrations of potassium cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which are very high in M. kandleri (>1 M) and relatively low in M. barkeri and A. fulgidus. Formyltransferase is in a monomer/dimer/tetramer equilibrium that is dependent on the salt concentration. Only the dimers and tetramers are active, and only the tetramers are thermostable. The enzyme from M. kandleri is a tetramer, which is active and thermostable only at high concentrations of potassium phosphate (>1 M) or potassium cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Conversely, the enzyme from M. barkeri and A. fulgidus already showed these properties, activity and stability, at much lower concentrations of these strong salting-out salts.
Summary. The percentage of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) in the oxidized form [NAD+/(NAD+ and NADH); i.e. the NAD+/NADT ratio] is increased in the red cell (RBC) in sickle cell disease. We tested the hypothesis that the increased NAD+/NADT ratio was a determinant of the increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) content of the SCD RBC. Using normal subjects and individuals with sickle cell disease or autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (AIHA), we observed an inverse relationship between the packed cell volume (PCV) and the RBC DPG concentration (r=−0·69) and a direct relationship between the RBC NAD+/NADT ratio and the DPG concentration (r= 0·74). When the effect of the PCV on DPG was removed using analysis of covariance [DPGady(PCV)], the NAD+/NADT ratio had a significant relationship with the DPGadj(PCV) (r= 0·50, P < 0·001). In in vitro incubation studies, increasing the NAD+/NADT ratio significantly increased the DPG content of both normal and AIHA RBC. Conversely, decreasing the NAD+/NADT ratio decreased the DPG content of normal, AIHA and SCD RBC. Thus, the increased DPG content in the SCD RBC appears to be due, in part, to the increased NAD+/NADT ratio and is not purely a physiologic response to decreased oxygen carrying capacity.
Abstract Erythrocyte diphosphoglycerate mutase (EC 2.7.5.4.) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.13.) activities of normal human adults, and DPG mutase deficient subject as well as of several animal species were subjected to electrophoretic study on starch gel. In U.V. light 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activity was revealed as a band of fluorescence decrease on a fluorescent background, by the oxydation of NADH, whereas diphosphoglycerate mutase appeared as a fluorescent zone. It was found that the electrophoretic pattern of both DPG mutase and 2,3-DPG phosphatase activities was different from one species to the other, but that, in each species, 2,3-DPG phosphatase activity showed the same electrophoretic pattern as DPG mutase activity.
Abstract Precise oxygen equilibrium curves of human adult hemoglobin were determined by the automatic recording method at several temperatures in the presence and absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) or inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) with 0.05 M 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)-2,2',2''-nitrolotriethanol (bis-tris) buffers (pH 7.4) containing 0.1 M Cl-. The equilibrium data were analyzed according to the Adair scheme, and the heats, deltaHi (i = 1,2,3,4) and the entropy changes, deltaSi (i = 1,2,3,4), for the individual oxygenation steps were obtained. The shape of the equilibrium curve varies on temperature changes whether DPG or IHP is present or absent. In consequence, the deltaHi value depends on i and on the presence of DPG and IHP. Behavior of deltaSi is similar to that of deltaHi. The similar behavior of deltaHi and deltaSi resulted in a compensation phenomenon. The contribution of T cdeltaSi to the free energy change is compensated by the contribution of deltaHi at the first three oxygenation steps but not at the fourth step, and for i = 1,2, and 3 changes of T cdeltaSi value upon the addition of DPG and IHP are compensated by accompanied changes of deltaHi value, where T c (= 260 K) is the compensation temperature. A major part of both the enthalpy-entropy compensation and nonuniformity of deltaHi and deltaSi appears to be attributable to contributions of the oxygen-linked binding of Cl-, DPG and IHP, by hemoglobin. The present results do not necessarily support the earlier idea of Wyman that the cooperative oxygenbinding is essentially an entropy effect.
Androgenic steroids have been shown to enhance erythrocyte 2,3-DPG production in vivo and in vitro, and to stimulate the pentose shunt oxidative reactions in vitro. Furthermore, a 3 beta- and a 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase have been identified in red cells. The present study was carried out to explore a cumulative effect of androgens on glycolysis and androgen reduction in human erythrocytes in vivo following a single 50 mg oral dose of 17 beta-hydroxy-2 (hydroxymethylene)-17 methyl-5 alpha-androstan-3-one (oxymetholone). The rate of erythrocyte glycolysis was measured by quantitative determination of: fructose-1,6-diphosphate (FDP); dehydroxyacetone phosphate (DAP); 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG); adenosine triphosphate (ATP); and lactate. Serum and erythrocyte steroids were separated by thin layer chromatography. The reduction of 5 alpha-androstan-17 beta-ol-3-one by red cell hemolysate was measured in the presence of NADPH as an index of 3(17)beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity. Our results show that oxymetholone administration is followed by the appearance of an unidentified steroid fraction in chromatograms of serum and erythrocytes, simultaneously with the enhancement of glycolysis and of hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity in erythrocytes. A direct effect of androgen on erythrocyte metabolism, which is independent of the hormone erythropoietic effect, is discussed.
Previous studies have shown that pteroylheptaglutamate (PteGlu7) can form a 1:1 complex with deoxyhemoglobin. The solution and crystallographic studies reported in this paper delineate the nature of the PteGlu7 binding site. We find that the three structural elements of PteGlu7 (the pteridine moiety, the p-aminobenzoyl portion, and the glutamate groups) each contribute to the binding energy by interacting with residues in the central cavity between the beta subunits and with residues at the alpha 1 beta 1 interface. Identification of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) binding site as part of the PteGlu7 binding site was accomplished in two ways; first by the demonstration of reduced PteGlu7 binding to hemoglobin selectively modified by pyridoxylation at this site, and second by the finding that DPG and PteGlu7 bind to deoxyhemoglobin in a competitive manner. In addition, since analogs of PteGlu7 in which the pteridine moiety is modified display reduced binding, it can be concluded that the pteridine group also contributes significantly to the binding energy. The crystallographic studies are completely consistent with the results determined in solution. A difference electron density image at 4.3 A resolution shows that the pteridine and p-aminobenzoyl groups are nestled against an interior edge of the alpha 1 beta 1 interface with the pteridine ring interacting with Phe 36 alpha 1 and the p-aminobenzoyl group positioned against a portion of the H helix between residues Lys 132 beta 1 and Ala 135 beta 1. The difference density for the glutamate residues is less well resolved (for reasons described in the text), but it is clear that some of the carboxylate side chains must interact with residues at the DPG binding site.
The trifunctional enzyme bisphosphoglyceromutase (or diphosphoglycerate mutase) (EC 2.7.5.4) was purified from human red cells and injected into two chickens. Specific anti-bisphosphoglyceromutase antibodies were produced that displayed a single precipitation line on Ouchterlony plates and on immunoelectrophoresis. No cross-reaction of these antibodies was detected with phosphoglyceromutase, the common glycolytic enzyme. Immunoneutralization of bisphosphoglyceromutase and of its two other activities, i.e., bisphosphoglycerate phosphatase and phosphoglyceromutase, was observed for a purified preparation. The anti-bisphosphoglyceromutase antibody reacts with the inactive enzyme present in the hemolysate of a mutant human subject. It also binds bisphosphoglyceromutase inactivated by N-ethylmaleimide, a strong alkylating agent of SH groups. Active bisphosphoglyceromutase is stable at 55 degrees C, whereas the inactive forms of the mutant and of the alkylated hemolysates are thermolabile. These forms can be protected against thermal precipitation by 4 mM 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and 4 mM 3-phosphoglycerate. These findings afford evidence that the binding of the substrates on the bisphosphoglyceromutase molecule is not prevented by alkylation nor by the mutation of the hereditary inactive enzyme.
1. The activity of 21 red cell enzymes and three red cell metabolic intermediates were measured in adult Dasyurus viverrinus and compared with published data on other marsupials. 2. Phosphofructokinase (PFK), glyceraldehyde dehydrogenase (GAPD) and phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) were elevated in comparison to other marsupials. 3. Enolase (ENO) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) were lower than in other marsupials.
The oxygen affinity of hemoglobin and the factors determining the position of the oxygen dissociation curve were investigated in twenty-five patients with severe chronic obstructive lung disease. Patients have been separated into three groups: group I showed a normal or mild decrease of PaO2, group II a moderate fall in arterial oxygen pressure, and group III a severe hypoxia with balanced acid-base equilibrium and hypercapnia. Blood hemoglobin exhibited a significant increase in all groups, indicating an improved oxygen transport. In most patients a leftward shifting of the oxygen dissociation curve occurred. It is discussed that the tendency to left shifting is based upon alkalosis inside the red cells, evidently demonstrated in all groups studied. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate showed no close relation to evaluated oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. The evidence for an increased oxygen affinity may reveal a further compensatory mechanism in oxygen transport in patients with pulmonary disorders. Additionally the alkalosis inside the cells may counterbalance too great a right shifting of oxygen dissociation curve in vivo when severe hypoxia and hypercapnia occur.
In order to understand the mechanism responsible for the high oxygen affinity of mole blood, we investigated in the mole. Talpa europaea, red cell parameters that determine hemoglobin function. We have found that the oxygen half saturation pressure (P50) of mole blood is 2.85 kPa (21.4 Torr) at pCO2 4.7 kPa, pH 7.4 and 37 degree C. The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) averaged 5.3 mmol/l in red cells. In addition, we have determined P50 in hemoglobin solutions at various concentrations of 2,3-DPG at an assumed intraerythrocytic pH of 7.2 and 37 degree C. These data were used to calculate the association constants of 2,3-DPG to mole hemoglobin. P50 was 1,89 kPa (14.2 Torr) in hemoglobin solutions without 2,3-DPG. The response to 2,3-DPG was relatively low. Noteworthy, CO2 did not affect the oxygen affinity at constant pH in the presence of 2,3-DPG. Our results suggest that the high blood oxygen affinity of the mole can be attributed to a weak interaction of its hemoglobin with 2,3-DPG.
We compared a spectrophotometric kit method (Glycospec) for determination of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1) with a microcolumn kit method (Bio-Rad). The Glycospec method is based on the change in absorbance when phytic acid binds to hemoglobin A. With glycosylated hemoglobin there is no such change because the binding is blocked by the sugar moiety. Inter-assay CVs were 2-6% for both methods. In healthy subjects the mean (+/- SD) value for HbAl was about 1% higher with the spectrophotometric than the microcolumn method. For samples from 122 diabetics the correlation between values for HbAl obtained with the two methods was acceptable (r = 0.89), although the spectrophotometric technique yielded 2-4% higher values, a difference at least partly due to the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from the spectrophotometric standards. Adding 1.8 mmol of it per liter to these standards caused displacement of the standard curve; HbAl values then agreed well with those of the microcolumn method. The spectrophotometric procedure is easily automated, and therefore is well suited for large-scale analyses if problems with standards and calibration can be solved.
Five insulin-dependent diabetics with poor metabolic control were examined at the beginning and after a three-day application of artificial endocrine pancreas (AEP). Pancreatic alpha cell function evaluated by arginine infusion (0.5 g/Kg b.w. over 30 minutes) showed no significant differences between the beginning and during artificial beta cell aplication, but the increment in plasma glucagon level over basal values observed in both tests appeared significantly higher at 30 and 60 min in comparison with a control group. Growth hormone response to arginine infusion was clearly reduced in the second test. C-peptide concentration appeared very low in basal conditions and during arginine infusion; no improvement was observed after three days of AEP application. Urinary excretion of norepinephrine markedly increased at the beginning of the study, reversed almost to normal during AEP treatment, while minor changes were observed in urinary excretion of epinephrine. The Concentration of glycosylated hemoglobin, markedly higher than normally before the connection with AEP, showed a slight but significant decrease during glucose-controlled insulin infusion. Finally, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was normal and no modifications were observed in the course of the study.
1. Whole blood was incubated at 37 degrees , while being dialysed against a large volume of iso-osmotic bicarbonate buffer, pH7.4. The buffer contained glucose and the essential inorganic components of blood plasma in proportion. 2. After 3hr. of incubation in vitro there is a loss of red-cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. 3. Isotope experiments show that this is due to an accelerated rate of destruction of this compound. 4. Simultaneously, there is an increase in the median of red-cell osmotic fragility. 5. After extended periods of incubation there is a decrease in the metabolic rate and a decrease in the ratio of the rates of lactate production to glucose consumption. 6. There is a continuous loss of total adenine nucleotide and, after the first 12hr. of incubation, a tendency for the intracellular Na(+) and K(+) to equilibrate with the plasma. 7. The standard deviation of red-cell osmotic fragility expressed among the red-cell population increases exponentially with the time of incubation.
Based on the "first in, first out" policy, blood banks deliver the oldest available red cell units when transfusion is requested to reduce wastage [8, 9] . Therefore, critically ill patients may receive red blood cells (RBCs) older than 2 weeks [10] . However, during storage, a series of functional, metabolic, and biochemical changes in RBCs, including decreased pH, increased titers of lactate and free hemoglobin, reduced concentrations of adenosine 5-triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, accumulation of extracellular potassium, membrane loss, and changes in RBC deformability over time, are collectively called storage lesion [11] [12] [13] . Accumulation of toxic substances of older RBCs may affect mortality of patients. Koch et al. [14] performed a meta-analysis of 21 studies that included 409,966 patients and showed that older blood transfusion was associated with a significantly increased risk of death [15] . In rats with anemia and myocardial infarction, transfusion of fresh (storage time < 4 h) but not stored blood (storage time < 7 days) significantly improved survival and cardiac function compared with non-transfused anemic rats [16] . This finding indirectly showed that fresh blood was superior to stored blood. Patients in the ICU are vulnerable and the severity of illness may increase their susceptibility to adverse effects of RBC storage [10] . Similarly, with transfusion of RBCs at a mean age of 16.2 days in patients in the ICU, ICU mortality and 28-day overall mortality rates were significantly higher in transfused versus non-transfused patients in an observational study [6] . Two large observational studies also showed that exposure to the maximum age of RBCs was independently associated with an increased risk of hospital death in critically ill adults [17, 18] . However, several published, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) showed that there were no significant differences in in-hospital mortality and 90-day mortality with transfusion of fresh versus standard RBCs in critically ill patients [19] [20] [21] . A recent meta-analysis that included these RCTs indicated that patients did not benefit from fresh transfusion compared with older RBCs [22] . Dessertaine et al. [23] concluded that ICU outcomes were related to the number of leukodepleted red cells transfused, but not with their storage time. Observational trials are easily influenced by cofounders. The number and sample size of relevant RCTs were too small and important clinical differences could not be detected.
The spectrophotometric assay is based on the fact that organophosphorus compounds such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (phytic acid) bind to the N-terminal amino acid of the two beta chains of hemoglobin A (10). This causes a conformational change of the hemoglobin molecule, a process that can be monitored spectrophotometrically.
1. Whole blood was incubated at 370, while being dialysed against a large volume of iso-osmotic bicarbonate buffer, pH 7-4. The buffer contained glucose and the essential inorganic components of blood plasma in proportion. 2. After 3hr. of incubation in vitro there is a loss of red-cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. 3. Isotope experiments show that this is due to an accelerated rate of destruction of this compound. 4. Simultaneously, there is an increase in the median of red-cell osmotic fragility. 5. After extended periods of incubation there is a decrease in the metabolic rate and a decrease in the ratio of the rates of lactate production to glucose consumption. 6. There is a continuous loss of total adenine nucleotide and, after the first 12hr. of incubation, a tendency for the intracellular Na+ and K+ to equilibrate with the plasma. 7. The standard deviation of red-cell osmotic fragility expressed among the red-cell population increases exponentially with the time of incubation.
Serial oxygen dissociation curves were performed on blood units preserved in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD), ACD-adenine, and ACD-adenine-inosine. Dividing blood from a single donor into two or more bags allowed direct comparison between preservatives. During the 1st wk of storage in ACD, a progressive increase in oxygen affinity was observed. Thereafter, little further change was noted. Oxygen affinity increased even more rapidly during initial storage in ACD-adenine. However, with the inclusion of inosine as a preservative, oxygen affinity remained unaltered during the first 2 wk. Increases in oxygen affinity correlated well with falling levels of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) during storage. No significant changes in glutathione, reduced form (GSH), or A3 (A(I)) hemoglobin levels were noted during the first 3 wk of storage. No significant accumulation of ferrihemoglobin was detected. When blood stored 20 days in ACD or ACD-adenine was incubated with inosine for 60 min at 37 degrees C, 2,3-DPG and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were resynthesized, and oxygen affinity was decreased. The distribution of 2,3-DPG in fresh and stored red cells appeared to influence experimental values for Hill's n, a measure of heme-heme interaction.
PURPOSE:To determine the phosphorus-31 T2 s of phosphomonoesters, phosphodiesters, and inorganic phosphate in the healthy human brain at 7T. METHODS:A 3D chemical shift imaging multi-echo sequence with composite block pulses for refocusing was used to measure one free induction decay (FID) and seven full echoes with an echo spacing of 45 ms on the brain of nine healthy volunteers (age range 22-45 years; average age 27 ± 8 years). Spectral fitting was used to determine the change in metabolic signal amplitude with echo time. RESULTS:The average apparent T2 s with their standard deviation were 202 ± 6 ms, 129 ± 6 ms, 86 ± 2 ms, 214 ± 10 ms, and 213 ± 11 ms for phosphoethanolamine, phosphocholine, inorganic phosphate, glycerophosphoethanolamine, and glycerophosphocholine, respectively. CONCLUSION:The determined apparent T2 for phosphoethanolamine, glycerophosphocholine, and glycerophosphoethanolamine is approximately 200 ms. The lower apparent T2 value for phosphocholine is attributed to the overlap of this resonance with the 3-phosphorous resonance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from blood, with an apparent shorter T2 . Omitting the FID signal and the first echo of phosphocholine leads to a T2 of 182 ± 7 ms, whereas a biexponential analysis leads to 203 ± 4 ms. These values are more in line with phosphoethanolamine and the phosphodiesters. The short T2 of inorganic phosphate is subscribed to the fast reversible exchange with γ-adenosine triphosphate, which is mediated by glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and phosphoglycerate kinase within the glycolytic pathway. Magn Reson Med 80:29-35, 2018. © 2017 The Authors Magnetic Resonance in Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.
Erythrocyte deformability measured as filtration index is clearly diminished in diabetics, thus possibly contributing to diabetes-associated microvascular complications. Moreover, the erythrocyte sorbitol level in IDD is clearly higher than that of non-diabetics, suggesting an alteration in the polyol pathway as possible determinant of diabetes-associated complications. Following this line of research, intracellular sorbitol as well as glucose, inositol, galactitol, mannitol and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate have been studied in 21 diabetics and in 14 controls matched for age and sex. In addition to confirming the high levels of intraerythrocytic glucose and sorbitol in diabetic subjects, statistically significant correlations have been demonstrated between sorbitol and filtration index, between plasma glucose, intracellular glucose level and glycosylated hemoglobin, suggesting a relationship between metabolic control and hemorheologic alterations in diabetes.
Phosphofructokinase (PFK) from Rana ridibunda erythrocytes was purified about 570-fold by column chromatography on Cibacron Blue Sepharose. The resulting enzyme preparation had a specific activity of 1.94 U/mg protein and a pH maximum of 7.6. The molecular weight as determined by HPLC chromatography was 330,000 Da. The S0.5 value for fructose-6-phosphate (F6P) was 5.6 mM and the Km for ATP 0.87 mM. The enzyme was sensitive to inhibition by ATP which was increased with lower F6P concentrations. At physiological levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (0.35 mumol/ml RBC), 20% of PFK activity was inhibited. Significant activations under cellular conditions were exercised by AMP and, to a lesser extent, by Pi. Micromolar concentrations of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate and glucose-1,6-bisphosphate were also potent activators of the erythrocyte enzyme. Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (10-50) microM activated the enzyme to a limited extent. With respect to these effects, it is suggested that PFK is a significant enzyme in regulating the glycolytic flux of Rana ridibunda red blood cells. The existence of a regulatory mechanism controlled by the energy status of the red cell, as well as the state of oxygenation of haemoglobin, is discussed, in which PFK occupies a central role.
. The explanation of the effect of CO2 on the sickling phenomenon has, in the past, been based solely on the alteration of the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin induced by the CO2, and hence solely on the oxygen saturation of the haemoglobin. A re-investigation of this phenomenon, reported here, shows that this explanation is inadequate; rather, a full explanation requires the use of Perutz's hypothesis that the haemoglobin molecule can exist in various conformationally distinct states, the relative concentrations of which are dependent not only on the oxygen saturation of the molecules but also on other factors such as pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration. The effect of temperature on the sickling phenomenon is explained in a similar fashion. Low temperature is found to have no effect on the morphology of irreversibly sickled cells.
1. ::: 1. Equine erythrocyte hexokinase (ATP: D-hexose 6-phosphotransferase, EC2. 7.I.I) was isolated in a partially-purified preparation by KCl elution from DEAE-Sephadex A-50, ammonium sulfate precipitation and Sephadex G-75 gel filtration. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. The Km values for glucose and adenosine triphosphate were 0.04 and 0.5 mM respectively. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. The enzyme was inhibited by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) at the in vivo concentration of this glycolytic intermediate. The inhibition of hexokinase by DPG was a function of the Mg2+ and ATP concentrations. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. These findings indicate that the low intracellular ATP concentration in the mature erythrocyte of the horse may be the major factor which regulates hexokinase activity in this cell type.
Extracellular hemoglobins(Hb) from annelids have been known to show no heterotropic interaction with the organic phosphate, such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. In an attempt to investigate allosteric effectors of annelid Hb, we estimated the oxygen equilibrium of Eisenia Hb and found that Ca plays an important role on the modulation of the oxygen affinity and cooperativity, as a result of the binding to the oxy-form of the Hb, under a physiological range of Ca concentration(1).
Hematological and respiratory properties of muskrat blood were measured in summer and in late winter. Field-acclimatized muskrats captured in August and February were compared with muskrats acclimated for 30–60 days in the laboratory during summer, and also with Sprague-Dawley rats. Hematocrit, hemoglobin (Hb), erythrocyte count, and mean corpuscular Hb concentration were highest in winter-trapped animals. Estimated O2 capacity of muskrat blood increased from 17.2 vol.% in August, to 23.6 vol.% in February. Mean P50 of whole blood at 37 °C and pH 7.4 was reduced from 29.0 mmHg in summer, to 23.3 mmHg in winter (1 mmHg = 133.322 Pa). The P50 of acclimated muskrats (29.1 mmHg) averaged 23% below that of the laboratory rat (35.7 mmHg). Enhanced O2 affinity of muskrat blood in winter correlated with a reduction in mean 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration from 5.56 μM/mL packed red cells (16.27 μM/g Hb) in August, to 3.04 μM/mL packed red cells (7.94 μM/g Hb) in February. Hill plots for muskrat blood were hig...
Solutions of hemoglobin have often been considered for both hypothermic and normothermic perfusion of isolated kidneys. This paper considers basic issues, preparative techniques, and the viscosity of hemoglobin solutions, as well as the demands made by the kidney on a perfusate. The natural system of oxygen transport in higher animals is complex, and its perturbation to produce convenient hemoglobin-based renal perfusates produces numerous problems. The desirable effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is not easily maintained in a perfusate, but its inclusion can be avoided by appropriate choice of species donating hemoglobin. Hemoglobin tetramer in free solution may dissociate and be lost by glomerular filtration. Ferric hemoglobin, the dominant form at redox equilibrium, is useless for oxygen transport; the ferrous form is maintained in the erythrocyte by reducing metabolites and, under normothermic conditions, the ferrous to ferric conversion is slow but significant. Methods for lysis of erythrocytes and removal of their stroma are discussed; reduction of ferric hemoglobin by chemical agents and electrolysis are considered in detail; and means for adjusting concentration and solute background are presented. The need for carbonic anhydrase in hemoglobin solutions used as perfusates is shown and methods for its provision are discussed. A review of viscometric data for hemoglobin solutions is provided to which original data are added. Hemoglobin solutions show a temperature-independent intrinsic viscosity, according to Einstein's theory for a molecule of 23 A radius. The O2 and CO2 transport requirements of renal perfusates are analyzed comprehensively. The normothermic kidney has an unusual respiration pattern, requiring an amount of oxygen that is not fixed but, rather, proportional to the total blood flow rate. In canines the average arterio-venous O2 content difference found by many investigators is 2.14 vol%; the corresponding CO2 value is 2.47 vol%; and the respiratory quotient is greater than unity. Wide limits of PO2, but not P CO2 in perfusate, appear allowable. A final section evaluates hemoglobin solutions as both normothermic and hypothermic renal perfusates from the viewpoints of blood gas chemistry, urinary loss, oncotic pressure, fatty acid carrying capacity, viscosity, and the need for functions usually attributed to platelets. It is concluded, overall, that perfusates containing free hemoglobin have only a limited role to play in renal perfusion.
Perinatal Changes of 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate and Oxygen Affinity in Mammals Not Having Fetal Type Hemoglobins
The functional characteristics of hemoglobin (Hb) depend on oxygenation-linked proton and anion binding and thus on solvent buffer groups and ionic composition. This study compares the oxygenation properties of human Hb in ionic [tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane (Tris) and BisTris] buffers with those in zwitterionic N-2-hydroxy-ethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES) buffer under strictly controlled chloride concentrations at different pH values, two temperatures, and in the absence and presence of the erythrocytic cofactor, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). In contrast to earlier studies (carried out at the same or different chloride concentrations) it shows only small buffer effects that are manifested at low chloride concentration and high pH. These observations suggest chloride binding to the Tris buffers, which reduces the interaction with specific chloride binding sites in the Hb. The findings indicate that HEPES allows for more accurate assessment of Hb-oxygen affinity and its anion and temperature sensitivities than ionic buffers and advocates standard use of HEPES in studies on Hb function. Precise oxygen affinities of Hb dissolved in both buffers are defined under standard conditions.
Abstract The deoxygenation rates of hemoglobin Rainier were measured at pH 7.1 in the absence and presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). This hemoglobin demonstrated an extremely slow deoxygenation rate which is interpreted as indicating some abnormality in the conformation of the fully liganded protein as well as greatly diminished subunit interaction. The slow deoxygenation rates and the small effect of 2,3-DPG on those rates are consistent with the oxygen equilibrium studies for this hemoglobin and support the view that the deoxy conformation of the protein is unstable, and therefore cannot bind 2,3-DPG strongly.
Results: The average apparent T 2 s with their standard deviation were 202 6 6 ms, 129 6 6 ms, 86 6 2 ms, 214 6 10 ms, and 213 6 11 ms for phosphoethanolamine, phosphocholine, inorganic phosphate, glycerophosphoethanolamine, and glycerophosphocholine, respectively. Conclusion: The determined apparent T 2 for phosphoethanolamine, glycerophosphocholine, and glycerophosphoethanolamine is approximately 200 ms. The lower apparent T 2 value for phosphocholine is attributed to the overlap of this resonance with the 3-phosphorous resonance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from blood, with an apparent shorter T 2 . Omitting the FID signal and the first echo of phosphocholine leads to a T 2 of 182 6 7 ms, whereas a biexponential analysis leads to 203 6 4 ms. These values are more in line with phosphoethanolamine and the phosphodiesters. The short T 2 of inorganic phosphate is subscribed to the fast reversible exchange with g-adenosine triphosphate, which is mediated by glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and phosphoglycerate kinase within the glycolytic pathway. Magn Reson Med 80: 29-35,
Abstract The rate of oxygen dissociation from the fully liganded hemoglobin tetramer (Hb 4 (O 2 ) 4 ) is increased by the presence of inositol hexaphosphate from approximately 50/sec to 180/sec at 22°. It follows from this observation that inositol hexaphosphate is bound by oxygen-saturated human hemoglobin. This result is in marked contrast to absence of an effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or pyridoxal phosphate on the rate of oxygen dissociation from Hb 4 (O 2 ) 4 . Inositol hexaphosphate does not, however, modify the rate of CO dissociation from Hb 4 (CO) 4 but it does decrease the rate of CO binding to Hb 4 (CO) 3 by about seven-fold compared to the phosphate-free system.
OBJECTIVE ::: To review the literature on red blood cell storage and its relationship to the efficacy of transfusion. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Well-documented changes occur to the red blood cell product during ex vivo storage. These changes include a reduction in red blood cell deformability, altered red blood cell adhesiveness and aggregability, and a reduction in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP. Bioactive compounds with proinflammatory effects also accumulate in the storage medium. These changes reduce posttransfusion viability of red blood cells. The clinical effects beyond posttransfusion viability are uncertain, but a growing body of evidence suggests that the storage lesion may reduce tissue oxygen availability, have proinflammatory and immunomodulatory effects, and influence morbidity and mortality. There are no published randomized, control trials examining the effect of storage duration on morbidity and mortality. Leukoreduction improves the quality of stored red blood cell products and in some studies has been shown to reduce morbidity and mortality. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Although storage duration influences the quality of red blood cell product, there is currently insufficient evidence to advocate shorter storage periods for red blood cell products.
Sodium o-iodobenzoate (OISB) produces an increase in P50 (PO2 at 50% of oxyhemoglobin saturation) and survival when infused at the time of initiation of prolonged hemorrhagic shock in dogs. Acid-base parameters improved during treatment, and plasma lactic acid concentrations showed smaller rises than in nontreated control animals. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) rose in prolonged hemorrhagic shock in the control group and conversely decreased in OISB-treated dogs. OISB did not require red cell integrity, since its effects were still more marked in hemolyzed blood. The therapeutic benefit of OISB, appears to be related to a direct effect of the agent on the hemoglobin molecule.
31P-NMR spectra have been recorded on erythrocytes stored at 4 degrees C in various preservation media. Storage was always associated with an upfield shift of the inorganic phosphate (Pi) resonance and a pronounced upfield shift of the ATP beta resonance, indicating decreased intracellular pH (pHi) and decreased intracellular free magnesium ([Mg2+]i). The decreased [Mg2+]i occurred in preservation media not containing citrate and even in media supplemented with Mg2+. It could not be attributed to the changes in pHi, Na+, K+, lactate, Pi or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, that occur with storage. The decrease in [Mg2+]i was largely reversed when stored cells were incubated for 1 h at 37 degrees C in fresh plasma. Stored cells were found to contain significant amounts of inorganic pyrophosphate, up to about 200 mumol per liter cell water. Being a tight binder of Mg2+, pyrophosphate could account for some of the observed decrease in [Mg2+]i. Additional mechanisms may involve precipitation of some other Mg2+ complex during cold storage or enhancement of Mg2+ binding to membrane components.
Abstract Na + transport in the red cells of the dog is dependent on cell volume, a 20% change in cell volume leading to a 25-fold increase in apparent Na + flux; the effect is dependent upon metabolic energy. We have found that swelling and shrinking dog red cells causes a shift in the 31 P-NMR peak of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which is present in dog red cells at 5.5 mM. Control experiments indicate that the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate resonance peak shifts may not be attributed to: interaction with hemoglobin, changes in cell pH, ionic strength, diamagnetic susceptibility or small changes in the Mg 2+ /2,3-diphosphoglycerate ratio. Experiments with chlorpromazine and pentanol which alter red cell membrane area by a mechanism different from osmotic swelling suggest that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate interacts with a binding site in the cell that is dependent upon the physical condition of the dog red cell membrane.
Abstract Many hemolytic anemias results in major metabolic abnormalities: two common metabolite abnormalities include increased levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and decreased levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). To better monitor the concentration changes of these metabolites, the development of a reliable LC–MS/MS method to quantitatively profile the concentrations of 2, 3-DPG and ATP in whole blood is essential to understand the effects of investigational therapeutics. Accurate quantification of both compounds imposes great challenges to bioanalytical scientists due to their polar, ionic and endogenous nature. Here we present an LC–MS/MS method for the reliable quantification of 2,3-DPG and ATP from K2EDTA human whole blood (WB) simultaneously. Whole blood samples were spiked with stable isotope labeled internal standards, processed by protein precipitation extraction, and analyzed using zwitterionic ion chromatography-hydrophilic interaction chromatography (ZIC-HILIC) coupled with tandem mass spectrometry. The linear analytical range of the assay was 50–3000 μg/mL. The fit-for-purpose method demonstrated excellent accuracy and precision. The overall accuracy was within ±10.5% (%RE) for both analytes and the intra- and inter-assay precision (%CV) were less than 6.7% and 6.2% for both analytes, respectively. ATP and 2,3-DPG were found to be stable in human K2EDTA blood for at least 8 h at 4 °C, 96 days when stored at −70 °C and after three freeze/thaw cycles. The assay has been successfully applied to K2EDTA human whole blood samples to support clinical studies.
Blood parameters concerning oxygen transport and relative organ weights of 11 Suncus etruscus and 13 Crocidura russula under light halothane anesthesia were investigated. Mean body weight of S. etruscus was 2.5 g and for C. russula was 9 g, hemoglobin concentration was 17.4 and 15.6 g/100 ml blood, hematocrit was 50 and 44%, red blood cells were 18 and 11 X 10(6)/microliter, respectively. Mean corpuscular volume was calculated to be 26 and 41 micron3, mean diameter 5.5 and 7 micron, and mean thickness 1.2 and 1.1 micron, respectively. Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration was in the normal range of mammalian red blood cells. A blood oxygen half-saturation pressure of 35 and 34 Torr at pH 7.4, 37 degrees C and a Bohr factor deltalog P50/deltapH of -0.61 and -0.66 was measured. Experiments with stripped hemoglobin showed that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is the main oxygen affinity reducing allosteric factor. Relative weights of heart, kidney, and liver are remarkably high in S. etruscus. The maximal oxygen transport of 400 ml . kg-1 . min-1 of S. etruscus is feasible by an enormous heart rate, a large relative stroke volume, a high hemoglobin concentration combined with a low oxygen affinity, and a large Bohr effect.
1 ::: The release of bound oxygen from oxyhaemoglobin by allosteric effectors is considered as a model for those drug-receptor interactions where the primary response to agonist binding is the release of a second messenger species. ::: ::: 2 ::: A theory of haemoglobin oxygenation, based on the two-state model of Monod, Wyman & Changeux (1965) is used to predict the relationship between ‘pharmacological’ response and dose of agonist. This relationship is the same as that derived from classical pharmacological occupancy theory. ::: ::: 3 ::: The potency of an agonist is a weighted average of its affinities for the two conformational states of the receptor. ::: ::: 4 ::: The efficacy of an agonist depends not only upon its preferential binding to one of the two conformational states, but also on its ability to alter the functional properties of that state by lowering the affinity of the state for the second messenger. ::: ::: 5 ::: 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate are approximately equipotent and of similar efficacy, but inositol hexaphosphate is about 500 times more potent and has a higher efficacy.
New cases of diphosphoglyceromutase (DPGM) have been detected, associated with erythrocytosis in two unrelated families. The deficiency appears to be inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. Diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activity paralleled DPGM activity in all the subjects. Three of the latter displayed complete DPGM deficiency with about 0.4% of the normal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) level. The other four showed partial deficiency (about 50% normal mean) with a similar decrease in 2,3-DPG level. The P50 values are in agreement with the red cell 2,3-DPG concentrations. Il all the deficient subjects the ATP level was elevated and the pattern of glycolytic intermediates was disturbed, with an increase in fructose 1,6-diphosphate, triose-phosphates, 3-phosphoglycerate, glucose 1,6-diphosphate, and reduced or normal levels of glucose-6-phosphate and fructose-6-phosphate.
1. The high oxygen affinity of fetal blood in rabbits is due to a very low concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in the red cells. In order to gather informations on the factors responsible for this characteristic we have studied synthesis and break-down of 2,3-DPG in fetal and adult rabbit red cells in vitro and examined possible regulative pathways which may lead to the low 2,3-DPG concentration in vivo. 2. Under conditions where 2,3-DPG and 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) accumulate in adult erythrocytes, i.e. in a solution containing inosine, pyruvate and inorganic phosphate, the amount of 2,3-DPG synthetized in fetal red cells was only 40% of the adult value and 3-PGA was not measurable. Upon inhibition of enolase by NaF, however, both 2,3-DPG and 3-PGA increased to a similar extent in fetal and adult red cells. These findings point towards differences in the pyruvate kinase (PK) reaction which is one of the rate limiting steps of glycolysis. Direct measurements revealed an over tenfold higher PK activity in fetal compared to adult red cells. This higher activity of PK will lead to a decreased concentration of 3-PGA with a consecutive fall in 2,3-DPG concentration. 3. Other factors, like a decreased glucose utilization, a decreased activity of 2,3-DPG mutase or an increased 2,3-DPG phosphatase activity could be excluded as a cause for the low 2,3-DPG concentration in fetal red blood cells. The same holds for extraerythrocytic factors like glucose concentration or pH value in fetal blood. 4. During the postnatal development of rabbits the PK activity decreased. 50 days after birth, PK activity was 20% of the fetal value but still somewhat higher than in adult erythrocytes. This change is paralleled by an increase in 2,3-DPG concentration and half saturation oxygen pressure. With respect to the synthesis of 2,3-DPG and ATP, the fetal rabbit red cell is comparable to hereditary high PK activity in human erythrocytes.
Because the importance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the regulation of the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin is recognized, there is growing need for a suitable method for determining this metabolite. Here we compare the colorimetric method of de Leeuw, two enzymatic rate-dependent methods (of Nygaard and Rorth and of Loos and Prins), and two enzymatic end-point methods (of Keitt and of Ericson and de Verdier). A good linearity was observed for all methods, up to 5.0 mmol of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate per liter of blood, except for the method of Ericson and de Verdier, for which an inexplicable upward drift in the calibration curve was found. Within-run precision in the duplicates and long-term precision in the methods of Loos and Prins and of de Leeuw were excellent. Mean analytical recoveries for all the methods ranged from 97 to 100%. In a paired comparison study of the methods, with the method of Loos and Prins as a reference, we did not find statistically significant differences. Coefficients of correlation were better than 0.990 ( P < 0.0005).
Abstract ::: To assess the adaptive value of the right-shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (decreased affinity for oxygen) observed in humans upon altitude exposure, the short-term physiologic responses to altitude-induced hypoxia were evaluated in two subjects with a high oxygen affinity hemoglobin (Hb Andrew-Minneapolis) and in two of their normal siblings. In striking contrast to normal subjects, at moderately high altitude (3,100 m) the high affinity subjects manifested: (a) lesser increments in resting heart rate; (b) minimal increases in plasma and urinary erythropoietin; (c) no decrement in maximal oxygen consumption; and (d) no thrombocytopenia. There was no difference between subject pairs in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate response to altitude exposure. These results tend to contradict the belief that a decrease in hemoglobin oxygen affinity is of adaptive value to humans at moderate altitudes. Rather, they support the hypothesis that, despite disadvantages at low altitude, a left-shifted oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve may confer a degree of preadaptation to altitude.
The pyruvate carboxylase of Verticillium albo-atrum had a pH optimum of 7·8 and a specific requirement for ATP. At the optimum pH, magnesium ions were required for maximum activity, while at pH 6·8 manganese was more effective than magnesium. Potassium was stimulatory while sodium was ineffective. Avidin and p-chloromercuribenzoate strongly inhibited the enzyme while biotin and dithiothreitol, respectively, reversed the effect of the inhibitors. Aspartate and oxalacetate were inhibitory while acetyl-CoA and CoA reversed the inhibition by aspartate. These cofactors were ineffective in the absence of aspartate. None of the tested metabolic intermediates was stimulatory to pyruvate carboxylase activity while NADP+ and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were the most effective inhibitors (75%) at a concentration of 6·7 mM. Levels of pyruvate carboxylase in cells grown on glucose, acetate, malate, xylose, glycerol or aspartate differed only slightly. The data indicated that the physiological role of pyruvate carboxylase in V. albo-atrum is the anaplerotic biosynthesis of C4 Krebs-cycle intermediates from pyruvate.
Since increases of erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) have been shown to enhance the release of oxygen from hemoglobin, experiments were designed to evaluate the response of 2,3-DPG to two different workloads in 13 fasted human subjects. No significant mean change in 2,3-DPG was found following 16 min of strenuous exercise on a bicycle ergometer, but when the subjects were subjected later to a greater workload for 20 min, there was a significant mean decrease in 2,3-DPG despite much individual variation. In addition, there was a significant positive correlation of 2,3-DPG reduction with increases in postexercise lactate, and a significant inverse correlation of oxygen consumption during exercise with postexercise lactate. The data suggest that the 2,3-DPG mechanism may not be compensating in exercise when the workload requires a preponderance of anaerobic metabolism promoting lactacidaemia.
THE oxygen affinity of haemoglobin is profoundly affected by the presence of low concentrations of organic phosphates, in particular 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG)1–5. This phenomenon, which has now been widely recognized as a physiologically vital control mechanism6–10, can be explained qualitatively by our observations2 that deoxyhaemoglobin has a single strong binding site for the cofactor, which in consequence stabilizes it in relation to the oxygenated state. The binding site is associated with the β chains11 and it has been identified as the cavity at the conjunction of the N-termini of these chains5,12–18, lying therefore on the dyad axis of the tetramer.
Abstract Human haemoglobin was immobilized by cross-linking with glutaraldehyde as soluble polymers and artificial membranes. Effects of pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on oxygen binding and cross-linking were studied with haemoglobin immobilized in both the oxy and deoxy states. The cooperativity is suppressed and the affinity is increased when compared with native haemoglobin. Haemoglobin immobilized in the oxy state exhibited a higher oxygen affinity than that immobilized in the deoxy state. The alkaline Bohr effect is not significantly different from that of native haemoglobin. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate influence on oxygen binding was reduced by one third with immobilization. In order to separate the chemical and the ‘conformation freezing’ effects on the properties of immobilized haemoglobin, glutaraldehyde-modified haemoglobin in oxy and deoxy states was produced. Oxygen binding was studied and chemical modifications were checked by electrophoresis and gel filtration. This chemically modified haemoglobin without polymerization and without intra-chain bridging exhibits a behaviour similar to that of cross-linked soluble polymers or membranes of haemoglobin.
BACKGROUND ::: The Atreus 2C+ system (Gambro BCT) automates whole blood (WB) processing into a single device. This study compared the quality of red blood cells (RBCs), fresh-frozen plasma (FFP), and buffy coats (BCs) made from WB held with or without active cooling. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: WB was collected into Atreus disposables and stored with (n = 20) or without (n = 20) active cooling for 14 to 18 hours at 22 +/- 2 degrees C before processing with the Atreus. Two RBC leukodepletion filters were assessed, and markers of RBC quality were tested to Day 42. BCs were held for 3 hours before testing, plasma was tested, and samples were frozen for coagulation analysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: RBCs met UK specifications for volume, hemoglobin content (48 +/- 5 g), and hematocrit (Hct). Hemolysis, adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, potassium, glucose, and lactate throughout storage were all within expected ranges. No differences were seen in RBC produced from WB held with or without active cooling. FFP units met UK specification for volume, total protein, cellular contamination, and coagulation factors. No differences were seen in FFP produced from WB held with or without active cooling. The Hct of BCs produced from WB held without active cooling was lower than in BCs from WB held with active cooling; no differences in activation were seen. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: From these in vitro data, blood components produced using the Atreus appear suitable for clinical use, with no clinically significant difference in the quality of components from WB held at ambient temperature overnight with or without active cooling.
Abstract Phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) synthetase purified from rat liver loses activity when assayed at low protein concentrations, which results in a nonlinear relationship between velocity and enzyme concentration. A linear relationship is obtained at higher enzyme concentrations or in the presence of albumin, EDTA, or sulfhydryl compounds. Iodoacetamide and p-chloromercuribenzoate abolish the effect of these compounds, suggesting that stabilization of the enzyme results from the protection of an essential sulfhydryl group on the enzyme. Certain nucleotides and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inhibit the unstabilized enzyme, but have no effect on the stabilized enzyme. When stabilized, the enzyme is inhibited by dATP, ADP, dADP, and AMP, and minor degrees of inhibition occur with several thiopurine compounds. Inhibition by ADP is competitive with respect to ATP, while AMP inhibition is noncompetitive with respect to both substrates. These findings are consistent with regulation of rat liver PRPP synthetase by cellular energy charge. The rat liver enzyme does not appear to respond to "general metabolic pool inhibition" as a regulatory parameter, as has been suggested for PRPP synthetase from other sources.
The n e t s y n t h e t i c r a t e s appeared similar, averaging 0.37 !.~moles/ml/hr i n t h e i n f a n t and 0.42 i n t h e a d u l t . Fluoride, an agent t h a t blocks glycol y s i s d i s t a l t o the s i t e of 2,3-DPG synthesis, produced a r i s e i n 2,3-DFC i n t h e c e l l s of a d u l t s (0.25 ymoles/ml/hr), while DPG l e v e l s declined i n t h e newborn. DPG m t a s e a c t iv i t y was s i m i l a r i n both i n f a n t s and a d u l t s . These findings suggest t h a t t h e DFC i n s t a b i l i t y observed i n the c e l l s of the i n f a n t is a r e s u l t of accelerated DPG breakdown and not a consequence of an impairment of glycolysis. The erythrocytes of normal a d u l t s have t h e capacity t o directed migration,and; 2) random, o r non-directed migration. W e incorporate and metabolize dihydroxyacetone (DHA) . This have a l s o shown t h a t neonatal PMNS a r e d e f i c i e n t i n chemos u b s t r a t e has been found t o be u s e f u l f o r t h e maintenance of t a x i s but have normal random m i g r a t i 0 n . h order t o f u r t h e r ' 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) i n stored red c e l l s . The characterize the nature of neonatal P M N movement,we have metabolism of DHA by cord blood erythrocytes was examined employed the study of membrane deformability.Using a microi n an attempt t o find a s u b s t r a t e f o r DPG synthesis t h a t manipulator,individual PMNS were directed t o
Erythrocyte sickling is the primary cause of intravascular hemolysis. Because PEG-ADA enzyme therapy reduced sickling in SCD transgenic mice, we tested whether chronic treatment with PEG-ADA would ameliorate hemolysis. We treated SCD transgenic mice with PEG-ADA for 8 weeks to lower adenosine concentrations and reduce erythrocyte sickling as described above. Intravascular hemolysis in these mice was significantly reduced by PEG-ADA treatment as Hypoxia can act as an initial trigger to induce erythrocyte sickling and eventual end organ damage in sickle cell disease (SCD). Many factors and metabolites are altered in response to hypoxia and may contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease. Using metabolomic profiling, we found that the steady-state concentration of adenosine in the blood was elevated in a transgenic mouse model of SCD. Adenosine concentrations were similarly elevated in the blood of humans with SCD. Increased adenosine levels promoted sickling, hemolysis and damage to multiple tissues in SCD transgenic mice and promoted sickling of human erythrocytes. Using biochemical, genetic and pharmacological approaches, we showed that adenosine A 2B receptor (A 2B R)-mediated induction of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, an erythrocyte-specific metabolite that decreases the oxygen binding affinity of hemoglobin, underlies the induction of erythrocyte sickling by excess adenosine both in cultured human red blood cells and in SCD transgenic mice. Thus, excessive adenosine signaling through the A 2B R has a pathological role in SCD. These findings may provide new therapeutic possibilities for this disease.
To assess the adaptive value of the right-shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (decreased affinity for oxygen) observed in humans upon altitude exposure, the short-term physiologic responses to altitude-induced hypoxia were evaluated in two subjects with a high oxygen affinity hemoglobin (Hb Andrew-Minneapolis) and in two of their normal siblings. In striking contrast to normal subjects, at moderately high altitude (3,100 m) the high affinity subjects manifested: (a) lesser increments in resting heart rate; (b) minimal increases in plasma and urinary erythropoietin; (c) no decrement in maximal oxygen consumption; and (d) no thrombocytopenia. There was no difference between subject pairs in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate response to altitude exposure. These results tend to contradict the belief that a decrease in hemoglobin oxygen affinity is of adaptive value to humans at moderate altitudes. Rather, they support the hypothesis that, despite disadvantages at low altitude, a left-shifted oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve may confer a degree of preadaptation to altitude.
The pyruvate carboxylase of Verticillium albo-atrum had a pH optimum of 7.8 and a specific requirement for ATP. At the optimum pH, magnesium ions were required for maximum activity, while at pH 6-8 manganese was more effective than magnesium. Potassium was stimulatory while sodium was ineffective. Avidin and p-chloromercuribenzoate strongly inhibited the enzyme while biotin and dithiothreitol, respectively, reversed the effect of the inhibitors. Aspartate and oxalacetate were inhibitory while acetyl-CoA and CoA reversed the inhibition by aspartate. These cofactors were ineffective in the absence of aspartate. None of the tested metabolic intermediates was stimulatory to pyruvate carboxylase activity while NADP+ and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were the most effective inhibitors (75 %) at a concentration of 6.7 mM. Levels of pyruvate carboxylase in cells grown on glucose, acetate, malate, xylose, glycerol or aspartate differed only slightly. The data indicated that the physiological role of pyruvate carboxylase in V. albo-atrunz is the anaplerotic biosynthesis of C4 Krebs-cycle intermediates from pyruvate.
Much is still being elucidated about the impact of red blood cell (RBC) storage time on disturbances in erythrocyte physiology, denominated 'storage lesion'. Longer storage times have proved to lead to dysregulation of several metabolic pathways, including changes in pH, decreases in adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and altered RBC deformability. 1 However, the actual repercussions on the recipients of these 'older' units and possible deleterious consequences of the storage lesion have not yet been adequately proved.
Carbon dioxide-induced changes in the acid-base status of oxygenated whole blood are analyzed using fundamental physiochemical constraints and equilibrium data. Emphasis is placed on the influences of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and osmosis upon pH. The ratio of CO2induced hematocrit and plasma pH changes in normal blood is found to be −0.03, in agreement with the literature value. Changes in pH due to CO2 also agree with published data. The [DPG]-dependence of hematocrit and pH changes is calculated to be very small. Neglect of hematocrit changes introduces only slight error in the calculation of pH changes.
Baboons were bled one-third of their blood volume and then transfused with an equivalent volume of compatible donor red blood cells with 160 per cent of normal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels and improved capacity to release oxygen to tissue. The mixture of baboon donor-recipient red blood cells in the circulation had a 2,3-DPG level of 130 per cent of normal. After transfusion, the baboon's inspired oxygen was first lowered from 21 to 10 per cent to produce severe arterial hypoxemia with a PO2 tension of less than 40 mm Hg for two hours and then restored to 21 per cent. Lactic acidemia occurred when the alveolar oxygen tension was reduced so as to produce an arterial oxygen tension of less than 40 mm Hg, even though oxygen consumption was maintained. The data suggest that when red blood cells with normal or improved oxygen delivering capacity are transfused to patients, the alveolar oxygen tension should be sufficient to maintain an arterial oxygen tension of greater than 40 mm Hg.
An allosteric model proposed previously for structure-function relations in hemoglobin is applied to the analysis of low- and high-spin valency hybrids. By assuming that the low-spin oxidized chains have the tertiary structure of oxygenated chains while the high-spin oxidized chains have a tertiary structure intermediate between that of deoxygenated and oxygenated chains, the model parameters associated with the different valency hybrids can be obtained, and their equilibrium properties can be estimated. The hybrid results are used also to provide an interpretation of methemoglobin and its ligand replacement reactions and of the oxidation-reduction equilibrium of normal hemoglobin. For the various systems studied it is found that the effects of pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are in agreement with the model.
The blood in sickle cell anemia has a very low oxygen affinity and, although 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is increased, there is doubt as to whether this is the only factor responsible. In this study of 15 patients with sickle cell anemia (Hb SS) no correlation was found between oxygen affinity (P(50) at pH 7.13) and 2,3-DPG in fresh venous blood. Whole populations of Hb SS erythrocytes were therefore separated, by an ultracentrifuge technique, into fractions of varying density. The packed red cell column was divided into three fractions; a bottom fraction rich in deformed cells or irreversibly sickled cells (ISC), with a very high mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC); a middle fraction containing cells with the highest content of fetal hemoglobin; and a top fraction containing reticulocytes and discoid cells but free of deformed cells. Oxygen affinity was shifted to the right in all layers (mean P(50) (pH 7.13)+/-1SD: top 46.3+/-2.9 mm Hg: middle 49.8+/-4.9 mm Hg; bottom 61.0+/-5.8 mm Hg) compared with normal blood (top 32.1+/-0.7 mm Hg: bottom 30.1+/-0.5 mm Hg). 2.3-DPG was increased in the top fraction, but was low or normal in the bottom fraction (top 21.8+/-3.4 mumol/g Hb: middle 17.7+/-2.2 mumol/g Hb; bottom 13.8+/-3.1 mumol/g Hb; normal whole blood 14.3+/-1.2 mumol/g Hb). The level of 2,3-DPG in top fractions could not account for the degree of right shift of P(50), and in the middle and bottom fractions the even greater right shifts were associated with lower levels of 2,3-DPG. Top fraction cells depleted of 2,3-DPG had a higher, but still abnormally low, oxygen affinity. A strong relationship was found between oxygen affinity and MCHC. The fractions with the greatest right shift in P(50) had the highest MCHC (top 32.4+/-2.0; middle 36.2+/-3.1; bottom 44.6+/-3.2 g/100 ml, respectively) and the plot of P(50) vs. MCHC showed a positive correlation (r = 0.90, P < 0.001). The red cell population in sickle cell anemia is not homogeneous but contains cells of widely varying Hb F content, 2,3-DPG, and hemoglobin concentration. Paradoxically, the cells with the lowest O(2) affinity have the lowest 2,3-DPG, but they also have the highest concentration of Hb S. The dense, deformed cell called the ISC is but the end stage in a process of membrane loss and consequent increase in hemoglobin concentration. The P(50) of Hb SS blood is, to a large extent, determined by the presence of these cells (r = 0.85, P < 0.001). Increased concentration of Hb S in the cell favors deoxygenation and crystallization even at relatively high P(o2). Lowered affinity for oxygen appears to be closely associated with Hb S concentration and not with 2,3-DPG content.
Hemoglobin Milledgeville, a new hemoglobin structural variant, was identified in three members of a black American family. The oxygen affinity of blood and hemoglobin samples from the affected individuals was markedly increased (p50 O2 of whole blood 11-15 mmHg at 37 degrees C, pH 7.4), and the abnormality was associated with mild erythrocytosis. The variant hemoglobin did not separate from Hb A by electrophoresis or by chromatography or isoelectric focusing, and efforts to isolate an abnormal globin chain were also unsuccessful. The Hb A2 fraction as well as Hb A from erythrocytes of affected individuals exhibited increased oxygen affinity, indicating that the altered oxygen equilibrium was the result of a hemoglobin alpha chain abnormality. Fractionation of trypsin and chymotrypsin digests of isolated alpha chains demonstrated a single abnormal peptide representing a Pro leads to Leu substitution at alpha 44 (CD2). Properties of Hb Milledgeville include low cooperativity (n = 1.1-1.4), a normal alkaline Bohr effect (delta logp50/delta pH = -0.62), and normal interaction with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The alpha CD2 proline residue normally participates in the formation of the alpha 1 beta 2 subunit interface in the deoxy quaternary conformation, but not in oxyhemoglobin; the leucine substitution may produce destabilization of the deoxy conformation with a resulting shift in equilibrium toward the oxy conformation.
We have measured the percent change in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration in cord blood erythrocytes and adult erythrocytes during incubation at 37 degrees C using 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. DPG concentrations remained unchanged during the first 4.0 +/- 0.9 h (mean + SD) for cord blood erythrocytes and 6.0 +/- 1.0 h for adult blood erythrocytes. After this plateau phase, cord blood and adult erythrocyte DPG concentrations decreased at a rate of 11.6 +/- 0.4 and 11.4 +/- 0.5% of the baseline DPG concentration per hour, respectively. There was no statistically significant difference in the percent rate of DPG degradation when comparing cord blood erythrocytes to adult erythrocytes during either the plateau phase or the decay phase. Starting at the onset of the decay phase, the neonate 3-P DPG resonance shifted downfield at a rate of 0.03 +/- 0.006 ppm per hour; the adult 3-P DPG resonance shifted downfield at a rate of 0.02 +/- 0.003 ppm per hour.
Spectrofluorometric techniques were used to quantify NADPH-hemoglobin interactions based on the quenching of NADPH fluorescence upon binding to hemoglobin. Fluorometric titrations were carried out with hemoglobin in varied states and with hemoglobins in which the beta-chain anion site is altered. At pH 6.5 in 0.05 M 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid buffer, NADPH binds with high affinity, Kd = 1.03 microM, to deoxy human hemoglobin tetramers. Lower affinity binding of NADPH occurs as the beta-chain anion-binding site is discharged by increasing the pH. Moreover, the cofactor binds in a 1:1 ratio to deoxy tetramers, inositol hexaphosphate binds competitively, and binding is decreased in hemoglobins whose structural alterations result in decreased effects of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The cofactor binds to oxidized (met) hemoglobin with an estimated Kd of 33.3 microM but has little or no affinity for the oxy form. These results indicate that NADPH binds at the beta-chain anion-binding site and can be considered as a fluorescent analog of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Fluorescence measurements gave no indication of NADPH binding to deoxygenated ferrous or ferric myoglobin. Reductive processes within the erythrocyte, such as reduction of met hemoglobin and hemoglobin-catalyzed enzymatic reactions, may be affected by the significant binding of the reduced cofactor to both deoxygenated and oxidized hemoglobin. Cofactor-hemoglobin interactions predict a shift in redox potential as red cells become oxygenated, which may account for unexplained oxygen-linked shifts in red cell metabolism.
Abstract Fibers of deoxyhemoglobin S obtained directly from lysed sickled red blood cells have been compared with fibers from chromatographically pure deoxyhemoglobin S solutions of known chemical composition. Electron micrographs of negatively stained specimens reveal that the molecular packing within the fibers remains largely invariant with changes in pH, ionic strength, Mg 2+ concentration, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, temperature or the method of deoxygenation. When solutions of chromatographically pure deoxyhemoglobin S are stirred, the fibers align into well defined fascicles. After several hours of stirring, long needles and twisted ribbons develop and in a relatively short time replace the fascicles in solution. With continued stirring all forms are replaced by small crystals. By use of electron microscopy and low-angle X-ray diffraction we have found these crystals to have cell parameters indistinguishable from those of crystals grown in polyethylene glycol and citrate/phosphate buffer at pH 5 to 6 (Wishner et al. , 1975 a ). Our evidence indicates that crystal formation in stirred solutions of deoxyhemoglobin S is the result of a progressive alignment and fusion of the fibers, and that the molecular arrangement within the fibers is closely related to that within the crystal. The remarkable pH invariance of the molecular packing within the fiber and crystal structures is consistent with the dominance of hydrophobic bonding between molecules. The β6-valine contact observed by Wishner et al. (1975 b ) is apparently the pathological contact responsible for the polymerization of deoxyhemoglobin S in vivo . On the basis of our observations and knowledge of the crystal structure we propose that the deoxyhemoglobin S fiber consists of eight molecular double strands, four of which run in each direction along the length of the fiber.
Arterial blood oxygen saturation, body fluid and hematological parameters were studied in control, naproxen (a prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor)-treated control, altitude-exposed, and naproxen-treated altitude-exposed rats after intermittent exposure of 8 h/d for 6 consecutive days to a simulated high altitude of 6,100 m (barometric pressure 349 +/- 3 mmHg). Arterial blood oxygen saturation was reduced in altitude-exposed rats, but increased significantly to near control level in naproxen-treated rats. On the other hand, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes increased in altitude-exposed rats, but naproxen prevented this increase. The red blood cell count, hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit ratio were reduced significantly in drug-treated altitude-exposed rats when compared to the altitude-exposed group (without drug). Red cell mass was increased in the altitude-exposed group in comparison with control. Both red cell mass and mean corpuscular volume of altitude-exposed rats were shifted towards the control value when they were treated with naproxen. Drug-treated high altitude-exposure reduced the thiocyanate space, intracellular fluid volume and total body water content compared to drug-treated control rats. On the other hand, thiocyanate space and total body water content were increased significantly in drug-treated control rats in comparison with the control group.
Abstract : Units of blood were divided into 5 aliquots and were stored at 4 C. in ACD without additive or supplemented with adenine, inosine, inosine adenine, or adenosine. Adenine and nucleoside were added in an amount of 0.75 and 15 micro moles per ml ACD-blood, respectively. After storage for 6 weeks, 24 hour post-transfusion survival of the erthrocytes was determined. Survival of the erthrocytes was significantly increased when the ACD was supplemented with any of the additives. There was, however, no significant difference in the effect of any one of the additives. The glycolytic intermediates of erythrocytes stored for the same period with the same additives were studied after separation on columns of ion-exchange resin. No adenosine triphosphate (ATP) or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) remained in the blood stored in ACD alone. Supplementation of ACD with adenine resulted in no qualitative or quantitative change in the intermediates. ATP and DPG remained in the erythrocytes stored in ACD supplemented with inosine, inosine-adenine, or adenosine - con centration of ATP was highest with inosine adenine and of DPG was highest with adenosine. (Author)
The respiratory gases, oxygen (02) and carbon dioxide (CO2), cross the human placenta in the same manner as they traverse the alveolar-capillary membrane, ~-a though it appears that more shunting occurs in the placenta than in the normal lung. Oxygenation of the fetus, however, is enhanced by certain maternal and fetal physiologic characteristics. Maternal influences are twofold: 1. Respiratory: the pregnancy-induced increase in tidal volume combined with the decrease in functional residual capacity leads to a reduction in CO2 [mean PaCO2 in 79 gravidae 31.9_l.8mmHg] and a small elevation in 02 [mean PaO2 in 70 gravidae 106.1 +7.7 mmHg] . 4 2. Hematologic: the pregnancy-induced increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) shifts the oxyhemoglobin-dissociation curve to the right, 5 thus decreasing affinity (i.e., augmenting release) of O1 from the hemoglobin molecule. 6 Fetal characteristics are threefold: 1. The amount of hemoglobin is increased to 16-17 g/dl (vs 11-12 g/dl in the mother). 1'7
An Ohmeda Biox 3700 oximeter was evaluated during treatment of 12 patients with respiratory distress. The infants were of 27-33 weeks' gestation and between 2 days and 5 months postnatal age. Blood gases were taken from indwelling arterial catheters and were measured on an ABL 30 blood gas analyser. The study tested the accuracy of the oximeter in detecting hypoxia (PaO2 less than 55 mmHg) and hyperoxia (PaO2 greater than 80 mmHg). Results are based on 175 paired observations. Guidelines are suggested for the use of the pulse oximeter under three conditions. In a newborn infant with acute respiratory distress without direct arterial access, the limits should be set at 85% (lower) and 90% (upper). In an older infant with chronic respiratory distress, the upper limit of use should be 95%. In order to avoid oxygen tensions less than 55 mmHg which would increase the risk of pulmonary vasoconstriction, however, the lower limit should be 87%. Infants with indwelling arterial lines during their first few weeks of treatment should have oxygen tension measurements and simultaneous oxygen saturation readings plotted on a graph at the bedside. The graph should be updated every 48 h to take into account changed levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, haemoglobin F, and carboxyhaemoglobin and the recommended limits should be changed accordingly.
Patients with chronic anemia tolerate much lower leveis of hemoglobin than those experiencing acute blood loss or acute hemolysis. The compensating mechanism is the increase of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), causing increased release of oxygen to the tissues. For this and further clinical and epidemiologic reasons, it is unnecessary to transfuse patients with chronic anemia unless symptoms of anoxia are expressed. This rarely odcurs at hemoglobin leveis higher than 8 g/dl. Many patients tolerate lower leveis of hemoglobin and, therefore, do not require RBC transfusions.
To dissect the cellular events responsible for the prolonged latency of the response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in Xenopus oocytes we interfered with different steps of the signal transduction pathway. Preincubation of oocytes with cis-vaccenic acid (a membrane-fluidizing agent) shortened the latency, suggesting a contribution of membranal processes. TRH-induced depletion of cellular calcium stores prolonged latency (up to threefold), which returned to control levels upon repletion of the stores. Injection of D-2,3-diphosphoglycerate (PGA), which inhibits inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate (InsP3) dephosphorylation, alone evoked a small, prolonged depolarizing current and significantly shortened the latency of the response to TRH. Injection of guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (GDP beta S), which inactivates guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins, decreased the amplitude of the response and increased latency. Injection of guanosine 5-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP gamma S) immediately before the challenge with TRH did not shorten the latency of the response. Decreasing the effective receptor density with chlordiazepoxide, an antagonist of the TRH receptor, resulted in an extension of latency, whereas the expression of a large number of TRH receptors by injection of RNA transcribed from cloned receptor DNA (10-100 ng/oocyte) shortened the latency to below 2 s. Our results suggest that the latency of the response to TRH reflects the activation of a late step in the signal transduction sequence, most likely the release of calcium by InsP3. We propose that this process is kinetically controlled by an early rate-limiting event, involving the activation of a guanine nucleotide-binding protein by the TRH receptor.
Background and Aims: Potential role of L-carnitine in anemia adjuvant treatment is still a matter of concern. The aim of the study was to determine the influence of L-carnitine on renal anemia and erythrocyte metabolism in haemodialyzed (HD) patients. Methods: We studied 26 patients (13 male and 13 female) aged from 13 to 65, (mean age 38) and 30 healthy volunteers (12 male, 18 female) aged from 25 to 65, (mean age 40). HD patients showed stable hemoglobin (Hb) levels and low plasma free carnitine (FC) levels. Laboratory markers of: carnitine metabolism, hematological status, iron stores as well as erythrocyte metabolism were measured. L-carnitine (500 mg/day) was administered orally for 12 months (dose from 5.3 to 16.7 mg/kg of body weight, mean dose 9 mg/kg). Results: After six months of oral low doses administration of L-carnitine, plasma total (TC) and FC levels increased and reached a plateau (at almost two times the initial levels) being at 12 months significantly higher than in the controls. During L-carnitine treatment a significant increase of mean Hb concentration was observed. Patients who responded (14/26) to L-carnitine differed from those who did not respond, with significantly longer dialysis time and lower both initial FC concentrations and FC/TC ratio. The following changes in erythrocyte metabolism were noticed: 1) glycolytic enzymes: significant increase of erythrocyte sodium, potassium ATPase, hexokinase and lactate dehydrogenase activities, 2) glycolytic intermediates: increase of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and decrease of adenosine triphosphate concentrations, 3) decrease of the glucose uptake and lactate production by erythrocytes. Conclusions: 1. L-carnitine may ameliorate anemia in some hemodialysis patients. 2. L-carnitine induces metabolic changes in erythrocytes. 3. Long-term maintenance hemodialysis patients may benefit most from L-carnitine supplementation. 4. Low doses of L-carnitine are effective in restoring the plasma carnitine pool.
Due to the abrupt increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration in the newborn lamb, which begins soon after birth, this interval in development was considered an excellent period to test the hypothesis that glucose perfusions could inhibit 2,3-DPG synthesis. Ten newborn lambs were divided into two groups and perfused either with glucose (15 mg/kg/min) or physiologic saline (45% NaCl) for 10 days. Blood gases, electrolytes, glycemia, O2 pressure at 50% Hb saturation, and 2,3-DPG levels were compared in the two groups. Glucose levels remained significantly elevated during the first 3 days in the glucose perfused group. The O2 pressure at 50% Hb saturation increased in both groups but was significantly lower in the glucose perfused group when determined on day 5 and 8. The postnatal increase in 2,3-DPG was significantly diminished in the glucose infused lambs, which suggests that glucose perfusion has an inhibiting effect on erythrocyte 2,3-DPG synthesis.
We studied 18 well-trained male long-distance runners during the basal training. Haematologic parameters, serum iron and ferritin, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and creatine contents, seru
This is a report of the effect of modest increases of blood lead, as found in urban children, on two red cell enzymes 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2, and Na/K ATPase. It is predicated on the hypothesis that red cell enzyme activity is more likely to be correlated with the intracellular concentration of lead (red cell lead) than with the extracellular concentration (plasma lead or whole blood lead).
ABSTRAm. Due to the abrupt increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration in the newborn lamb, which begins soon after birth, this interval in development was considered an excellent period to test the hypothesis that glucose perfusions could inhibit 2,3-DPG synthesis. Ten newborn lambs were divided into two groups and perfused either with glucose (15 mg/kg/min) or physiologic saline (45% NaCl) for 10 days. Blood gases, electrolytes, glycemia, 0 2 pressure at 50% Hb saturation, and 2,3-DPG levels were compared in the two groups. Glucose levels remained significantly elevated during the first 3 days in the glucose perfused group. The 0 2 pressure at 50% Hb saturation increased in both groups but was significantly lower in the glucose perfused group when determined on day 5 and 8. The postnatal increase in 2,3-DPG was significantly diminished in the glucose infused lambs, which suggests that glucose perfusion has an inhibiting effect on erythrocyte 2,3-DPG synthesis. (Pediatr Res 24: 470-472,1988) Abbreviations 2,3-DPG, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate PS0, O2 pressure at 50% Hb saturation Inasmuch as the level of 2,3-DPG within the red cell is a prime determinant of whole blood oxygen affinity, it seems appropriate to examine the factors involved in the regulation of this glycolytic intermediate. The newborn lamb can be considered an unique animal model that can be used to obtain information necessary for an understanding of how the concentration of red cell 2,3-DPG varies in response to environmental perturbations. The 2,3-DPG changes during the perinatal period in sheep have been well described (1-3). There is little variation in 2,3-DPG levels in the fetus until after birth when there is then a rapid rise and then fall in 2,3-DPG. The low adult levels are reached around 40 days after birth. It is of interest to note that the same fetal red cells present at the end of gestation are capable after parturition of 7-fold increase in their DPG concentration, reaching a peak at around 7 days of age. This phenomenon results in a rapid decrease in oxygen Hb affinity before the amount of adult Hb is adequate enough to provide the low 0 2 affinity physiologically required.
Phosphate compounds of red cells stored at 4 degrees C. in acid-citrate-dextrose solution for 15 to 44 days, incubated at 37 degrees C. for 2 and 4 hours with inosine, pyruvate, and inorganic phosphate, and then stored for 2 weeks have been examined by ion-exchange column chromatography. After 2 and 4 hours of incubation the 2,3-diphospholycerate level increased to 1,385 and 1,819 mumoles per 100 ml. of erythroeytes, respectively. After 4 hours of incubation the content of AIP increased to about 80 per cent of the physiologic level, while the content of AMP and ADP decreased considerably. These data suggest that the elevation of ATP is in part connected with the phosphorylation of AMP and ADP. The incorporation of inosine or hypoxanthine into the IMP and ITP has been proved. Four hours incubation period caused the synthesis of IMP and ITP to the mean value of 187 and 141 mumoles per 100 ml. of erythrocytes, respectively. No evidence of IDP formation was observed during the chromatographic separations of erythrocytic phosphate compounds. Storage of the erythrocyte suspension which has been incubated for 4 hours leads to the slower decomposition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, ITP, and IMP, and to the increase of AMP and ADP.
Cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase acting preferentially on IMP and GMP has been purified from many sources1,2,3. The enzyme resulted to be allosterically activated by ATP, ADP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inhibited by phosphate. Cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase appears to be widely distributed in mammalian tissues suggesting that it may have an essential function in cell metabolism. Furthermore the enzyme activity appears to be higher in tissues in active DNA synthesis or with a high turnover rate of nucleic acids and their precursors4.
Abstract The contribution of heterotropic effectors to hemoglobin allostery is still not completely understood. With the recently proposed global allostery model, this question acquires crucial significance, because it relates tertiary conformational changes to effector binding in both the R- and T-states. In this context, an important question is how far the induced conformational changes propagate from the binding site(s) of the allosteric effectors. We present a study in which we monitored the interdimeric interface when the effectors such as Cl–, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inositol hexaphosphate, and bezafibrate were bound. We studied oxy-Hb and a hybrid form (αFeO2)2-(βZn)2 as the T-state analogue by monitoring heme absorption and Trp intrinsic fluorescence under hydrostatic pressure. We observed a pressure-dependent change in the intrinsic fluorescence, which we attribute to a pressure-induced tetramer to dimer transition with characteristic pressures in the 70–200-megapascal range. The transition is sensitive to the binding of allosteric effectors. We fitted the data with a simple model for the tetramer-dimer transition and determined the dissociation constants at atmospheric pressure. In the R-state, we observed a stabilizing effect by the allosteric effectors, although in the T-analogue a stronger destabilizing effect was seen. The order of efficiency was the same in both states, but with the opposite trend as inositol hexaphosphate > 2,3-diphosphoglycerate > Cl–. We detected intrinsic fluorescence from bound bezafibrate that introduced uncertainty in the comparison with other effectors. The results support the global allostery model by showing that conformational changes propagate from the effector binding site to the interdimeric interfaces in both quaternary states.
Defibrotide, a polydeoxyribonucleotide with profibrinolytic and antithrombotic properties obtained from mammalian lungs was shown capable of favoring the release of prostacyclin from endothelial cells. We previously evidenced that the use of defibrotide i.p. (32 mg/kg for 30 min) or orally (50 mg/kg for 1 h) induced a significant increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content of blood cells in rats. We tested the in-vivo capacity of defibrotide to modify over 90 min the blood content of ATP, cAMP and 2,3-DPG. Male Wistar rats were anaesthetized with pentobarbital (20 mg/kg) i.p.; the left carotid artery was cannulated with a polyethylene tube, from which 0.4 ml of blood was drawn at 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 and 90 min. At 0 min, defibrotide was administered i.p. or i.v. (through the femoral vein) at the dose of 1 ml containing 80 mg of drug or orally at the dose of 1 ml containing 160 mg of drug. The control rats employed received either the vehicle of the drug or physiologic saline. Our results demonstrated a significant drug-related increase with time (maximal levels were revealed about 20 min after i.v., i.p., or oral defibrotide treatment) of blood ATP content and a significant decrease in cAMP content as compared with the controls. Our data confirm the relation between increased drug-induced prostacyclin production and that of ATP of in blood.
The development of high-throughput technologies and the resulting large-scale data sets have necessitated a systems approach to the analysis of metabolic networks. One way to approach the issue of complex metabolic function is through the calculation and interpretation of extreme pathways. Extreme pathways are a mathematically defined set of generating vectors that describe the conical steady-state solution space for flux distributions through an entire metabolic network. Herein, the extreme pathways of the well-characterized human red blood cell metabolic network were calculated and interpreted in a biochemical and physiological context. These extreme pathways were divided into groups based on such criteria as their cofactor and by-product production, and carbon inputs including those that 1) convert glucose to pyruvate; 2) interchange pyruvate and lactate; 3) produce 2,3-diphosphoglycerate that binds to hemoglobin; 4) convert inosine to pyruvate; 5) induce a change in the total adenosine pool; and 6) dissipate ATP. Additionally, results from a full kinetic model of red blood cell metabolism were predicted based solely on an interpretation of the extreme pathway structure. The extreme pathways for the red blood cell thus give a concise representation of red blood cell metabolism and a way to interpret its metabolic physiology.
Abstract Since liver damage due to alcoholic cirrhosis and viral hepatitis may influence respiration, we have studied biliary obstruction in the rat to see if this form of liver damage could also influence respiratory function. Three weeks after sham surgery or common bile duct division, the effect of liver damage on red cell morphology, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, blood gases with room air and 100% and 10% oxygen, respiratory rate, oxygen consumption, blood ammonia and pulmonary morphology were studied. Experimental biliary obstruction was associated with impaired weight gain, hypoxemia, respiratory alkalosis, intrapulmonary shunting of blood, elevated arterial but not venous ammonia, decreased oxygen consumption, elevated venous lactate, normal pulmonary diffusion of oxygen, microscopic abnormalities of the lung, and a macrocytic anemia. Histological examination of the lung revealed thickening of the alveolar septal walls with proliferation of alveolar cells and increased content of collagen. The anemia was unaffected by splenectomy and folic acid but the macrocytosis was corrected by folic acid. Hyperventilation may have been related to the elevated arterial ammonia, hypoxia and possible abnormal circulatory metabolic degradation products. The hypoxia was due to intrapulmonary shunting of blood. The anemia appeared unrelated to hypersplenism and only modified by folic acid.
BACKGROUND ::: Red blood cell (RBC) oxygen (O2 ) delivery may be impacted at the tissue, cellular, and molecular levels after storage duration, preservation strategies, and pathogen reduction. Collectively, the preclinical measurement of arterial and venous PO2 , systemic blood flow, tissue hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs), pimonidazole adduction, and erythropoietin (EPO) regulation can serve to elucidate differential RBC quality after storage and processing. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Donor guinea pig blood was collected, leukoreduced, and stored at 4°C in AS-3 for 1 (fresh) or 14 (stored) days. RBC variables-2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate, hemoglobin, morphology, deformability, and in vivo recovery at 24 hours-were measured at each storage duration. Recipient guinea pigs were exchange transfused until 80% volume replacement was achieved. Arterial and venous blood gases, systemic blood flow, renal HIF-1α and HIF-2α, renal EPO mRNA, plasma EPO, and renal tissue pimonidazole adduction were measured after transfusion. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: RBC variables declined significantly with storage; however, hemolysis and in vivo recovery remained within the allowable limits for human blood storage. Posttransfusion arterial and venous PO2 and systemic blood flow decreased, and renal HIFs, EPO mRNA, and pimonidazole adducts increased. Subsequently, EPO accumulated in plasma indicating decreased O2 availability in the kidneys. Conversely, all variables remained at basal levels in the fresh blood group. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The evaluation of renal O2 homeostasis after transfusion represents an effective approach to defining RBC quality between predicate and novel processing. Methods are adapted from standardized techniques and ideal for preclinical evaluation.
Erythrocyte bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM) deficiency is a rare disease associated with a decrease in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration. A complete BPGM deficiency was described in 1978 by Rosa et al (J Clin Invest 62:907, 1978) and was shown to be associated with 30% to 50% of an inactive enzyme detectable by specific antibodies and resulting from an 89 Arg-->Cys substitution. The propositus' three sisters exhibited the same phenotype, while his two children had an intermediate phenotype. Samples from the family were examined using polymerase chain reaction and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization and sequencing techniques. Amplification of erythrocyte total RNA from the propositus' sister around the 89 mutation indicated the presence of two forms of messenger RNAs, a major form with the 89 Arg-->Cys mutation and a minor form with a normal sequence. Sequence studies of the propositus' DNA samples indicated heterozygosity at locus 89 and another heterozygosity with the deletion of nucleotide C 205 or C 206. Therefore, the total BPGM deficiency results from a genetic compound with one allele coding for an inactive enzyme (mutation BPGM Creteil I) and the other bearing a frameshift mutation (mutation BPGM Creteil II). Examination of the propositus' two children indicated that they both inherited the BPGM Creteil I mutation.
Abstract The cytoplasmic fragment of band 3 protein isolated from the human erythrocyte membrane was linked to a CNBr-activated Sepharose matrix in an attempt to measure, in batch experiments, its equilibrium binding constant with oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin at physiological pH and ionic strength values and in the presence or the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. All the experiments were done at pH 7.2, and equilibrium constants were computed on the basis of one hemoglobin tetramer bound per monomer of fragment. In 10 m M -phosphate buffer, a dissociation constant K D = 2 × 10 −4 m was measured for oxyhemoglobin and was shown to increase to 8 × 10 −4 m in the presence of 50 m m -NaCl. Association could not be demonstrated at higher salt concentrations. Diphosphoglyeerate-stripped deoxyhemoglobin was shown to associate more strongly with the cytoplasmic fragment of band 3. In 10 m m -bis-Tris (pH 7.2) and in the presence of 120 m m -NaCl, a dissociation constant K D = 4 × 10 −4 > m was measured. Upon addition of increasing amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the complex formed between deoxyhemoglobin and the cytoplasmic fragment of band 3 was dissociated. On the reasonable assumption that the hemoglobin binding site present on band 3 fragment was not modified upon linking the protein to the Sepharose matrix, the results indicated that diphosphoglycerate-stripped deoxyhemoglobin or partially liganded hemoglobin tetramers in the T state could bind band 3 inside the intact human red blood cell.
CPD blood, in glass containers and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) bags, was X-irradiated with 50 Gy (n = 4), and then stored for up to 4 weeks. Rheological, hematological and biochemical changes of the red cells during storage were examined. Changes in blood viscosity and various properties of red cells (deformability, shape, hematological indices and concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and nucleotides) during storage at 4 degrees C were not altered by the irradiation. The rheological, biochemical and morphological properties of red cells were as well preserved in PVC bags as in glass containers. No abnormal and/or cross-linked proteins in red-cell membranes were induced by the irradiation. Irradiation of PVC bags did not affect the above properties of red cells through any changes in the bag constituents. In conclusion, X-ray irradiation with 50 Gy to CPD blood in PVC bags does not affect the rheological functions of red cells.
BPG and IHP bind to both the liganded and unliganded forms of Hb, albeit at different sites and resulting in different modulation of dynamics and function. The original X-ray crystallographic and model building results reported by Arnone and Perutz 20 suggested that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and IHP each bind to the central cavity of deoxy-Hb A 20, 21 stabilizing the T-state quaternary structure, lowering the probability of a shift to the R-state and thereby lowering the affinity of Hb for oxygen. 20, 21 The binding occurred at a 1:1 molar ratio near the entrance to the central cavity of Hb in a site that is occluded in the liganded form of Hb. No change in dynamic behavior was apparent on binding of IHP to deoxyHb, 7 but molecular dynamics (MD) simulations suggest an increase in intramolecular motions. 5 These same effectors bind much more weakly to the liganded form of Hb, 22 14, 17, 18, 25 Linking the changes in dynamics with changes in function is hampered by a major gap in our understanding of slow, coordinated motions, such as the rotation of ab dimers relative to one another-a motion known to be important for function. We have used neutron spin echo (NSE) to detect the motion of Hb ab dimers relative to one another in solution. 26 These motions most likely follow functionally relevant pathways as observed for intramolecular motions of enzymes. 27 As such, they provide a window into the dynamics of conformational rearrangements required for allosteric control of oxygen binding. Here, we extend these earlier studies to characterize the impact of IHP binding on HbCO A dynamics. We demonstrate that IHP modulates the dynamics of HbCO A in the almost complete absence of structural change, and thereby suggest that changes in ligand affinity triggered by IHP are linked to alterations in dynamics. Neutron spin-echo spectroscopy (NSE) 28 is a probe of protein dynamics sensitive to slow correlated motions (including translational and rotational diffusion and internal modes) on the picosecond to nanosecond time scale. NSE provides information about the time evolution of structural correlations analogous to dynamic light scattering but at time and length scales more relevant to protein internal modes. 26, [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] Recent NSE studies of Hb and myoglobin (Mb) 26 utilized data up to a very high momentum transfer q (0.62 Å
The respiratory system of birds differs from that of mammals; whereas their hemoglobins are functionally similar. Oxygen affinities of mammalian and avian hemoglobins have been studied by a number of investigators who have found the presence of inositol pentaphosphate (IP 5 ) in the birds blood instead of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, DPG, found in mammalian blood (Lenfant et al., 1969; Christensen & Dill, 1965; Bartels et al., 1966; Tuker, 1972; Knapp et al., 1999) T(g), temperature at midpoint of thermal changes of turbidity, measured as variation in absorbance at 700 nm; T m , temperature at midpoint of thermal denaturation; T t , inverse temperature transition.
Erythrocyte bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM) deficiency is a rare disease associated with a decrease in 2.3-diphosphoglycerate concentration. A complete BPGM deficiency was described in 1978 by Rosa et al (J Clin Invest 62: 907, 1978) and was shown to be associated with 30% to 50% of an inactive enzyme detectable by specific antibodies and resulting from an 89 Arg -Cys substitution. The propositus' three sisters exhibited the same phenotype, while his two children had an intermediate phenotype. Samples from the family were examined using polymerase chain reaction and allelespecific oligonucleotide hybridization and sequencing techniques. Amplification of erythrocyte total RNA from the propositus' sister around the 89 mutation indicated the HE LEVEL OF 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), the T allosteric ligand of hemoglobin (Hb),' is controlled by bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM) (EC 5.4.2.4),2 a multifunctional enzyme specifically found in the red blood cells (RBCs) of humans and of several animal specie^.^-^ This enzyme synthesizes DPG through its synthase activity and degrades it through its phosphatase activity.6 In addition, erythrocyte BPGM bears a minor activity that catalyzes 5% of the reversible conversion of 3-phosphoglycerate to 2-phosphoglycerate,S,7 a reaction mainly catalyzed by a distinct enzyme, phosphoglycerate mutase (PGAM) (EC 5.4.2.1).* chains of the deoxy form of Hb at the ratio of one molecule per Hb tetramer (a2Pz), stabilizing this conformation and thus decreasing its oxygen affinity and increasing the oxygen delivery to the tissues in the physiologic range of PO~.~JO There are few cases of BPGM deficiency described in the world. Some decreases in erythrocyte DPG content were described associated with a hemolytic anemia,11-16 but there was no proof of any role of this defect in the generation of hemolysis. Other patients with a deficiency have been r e~o r t e d , '~-l~ most of whom are heterozygotes and exhibit a moderate erythrocytosis. A unique completely deficient patient was described in 1978 by Rosa et ai." This patient had no detectable synthase activity and minute amounts of DPG in his RBCs. This situation produces an erythrocytosis due to a left shift of the Hb oxygen dissociation curve. The propositus' RBCs contained only an electrophoretically abnormal BPGM, which, although inactive, was characterized and quantified using specific antibodies to 30% to 50% of the normal BPGM erythrocyte content.20-zz In a previous work, this protein was isolated and purified, with the amino acid sequence of its tryptic peptides showing the substitution of Arg 89 for Cys. The abnormal protein was called BPGM CrCteiLZ3
Di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) accumulates in blood brought into contact with materials utilizing this compound as a plasticizer. To determine whether this phthalate diester affects red blood cell integrity, we have compared cell morphology, plasma hemoglobin accumulation, micro-vesicle production, and the concentration of intracellular metabolites and electrolytes of erythrocytes from blood stored at 4 degrees C with and without DEHP. When sufficient emulsified DEHP was mixed with blood to give a final concentration of 300 micrograms/mL, plasma hemoglobin accumulation was reduced by an average of 70%, the percentage of cells exhibiting normal morphology was enhanced by at least 20-fold, and the volume of microvesicles released from red blood cells was reduced by 50% after 35 days of refrigerated storage compared to the values obtained from corresponding samples stored without added phthalate. Similar effects were observed regardless of whether blood was stored in nonplasticized polypropylene or tri-(2-ethylhexyl) trimellitate plasticized polyvinylchloride containers and with DEHP solubilized by a variety of emulsifiers. When 300 micrograms/mL DEHP was added to stored blood containing erythrocytes predominantly in the echinocyte conformation, many of the cells reverted to the normal discoid morphology. The addition of this quantity of DEHP to blood had no significant effect on the course of storage-induced changes in erythrocyte adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), sodium or potassium concentrations. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that DEHP inhibits the deterioration of the red blood cell membrane that results from the refrigerated storage of whole blood.
The influence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (DPG) on hemoglobin-oxygen affinity (P50) in whole blood from adults and newborns has been studied. In blood from adults a decrease in DPG of 0.61 mol DPG/mol Hb is associated with a decrease in P50 of 13 mm Hg. In samples from newborns a decrease in DPG of 0.95 mol/mol Hb is associated with a decrease in P50 of 4.7 mm Hg. This difference may be due to a lesser affinity of fetal hemoglobin for DPG, and/or to the effect of DPG on the adult hemoglobin present in newborn blood.
In order to study the physiological response to phlebotomies for autotransfusion, an autotransfusion program was designed for 10 patients undergoing hip-joint replacement surgery for arthrosis. 4 phlebotomies of 450 ml each were performed within 12 days. Blood samples were taken immediately before phlebotomy for blood hemoglobin (Hb), serum erythropoietin (Epo), reticulocyte count (ret) and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). All 4 phlebotomies could be performed in 9/10 patients, and only 1 patient had significant symptoms (fatigue). The operation was performed 2 weeks after the last phlebotomy. None of the patients had recovered the initial Hb level at operation (24.8 +/- 9 per liter lower than initially), and they were all even more anemic after the operation (36.8 +/- 16.9 g/l lower than initially). Serum Epo increased from 13.6 +/- 7.2 IU to 30.6 +/- 12.2 (SD) IU per liter, and reticulocyte counts increased to a maximum of 3.68 +/- 1.69%. DPG increased in all patients except the one who had significant fatigue. It is concluded that the patients tolerated the phlebotomy program well but that a significant anemia developed. The compensatory increase in erythropoietin and reticulocyte count, adequate for this degree of anemia, was small compared to the increase seen at more severe anemia, indicating that there may be a role for pharmacological stimulation of erythropoiesis in blood predeposit programs.
The liganded (R-state) form of sickle cell haemoglobin (HbS) is of particular relevance at non-polymerizing concentrations as oxy HbS exhibits unusual properties compared with oxy HbA: mechanical precipitability (resulting from surface denaturation), greater unfolding at an air-water interface and a tendency to oxidize more readily. In human haemoglobins, the beta7 (A4) Glu residue forms an intrachain salt bridge with beta132 (H10) Lys in both liganded and deoxy structures. In the present study, recombinant haemoglobins with substitutions in the beta7 and beta132 sites were studied in order to determine the role of the beta7-beta132 salt bridge on Hb conformational integrity and stability. The elimination of this interhelix bridge correlates with enhanced surface denaturation and conformational alterations in the central cavity 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) cleft and alpha1beta2 interface. The A-helix beta7 Ala substitution generates a class of conformational change at the DPG pocket and alpha1beta2 interface that is distinct from that dictated by the H-helix beta132 Ala substitution. These results are significant with regard to the communication pathway between the alpha1beta1 and alpha1beta2 interfaces, and the new understanding of Hb allostery dependent upon tertiary structural constraints caused by effector binding to the R-state.
Erythrocytes are unique among human tissues and cells because they do not contain enough adenylosuccinate synthetase activity to sustain measurable anabolic flow through the inosine monophosphate (IMP) to adenosine monophosphate (AMP) branch point of purine nucleotide biosynthesis (Bishop, 1960; Lowy & Dorfman, 1970). The immediate metabolic consequence of this non-functional IMP to AMP branch point pathway is an inability to synthesize adenine nucleotides from either the de novo pathway or from the salvage pathway for hypoxanthine, the most abundant purine compound in the circulation (see Fig S1). Although enzymes are present for the salvage synthesis of AMP directly from adenosine and adenine, the circulating levels of both compounds are normally quite low, i.e., <1 µmol/1 (Ericson et al, 1980; Moser et al, 1989). Consequently, erythrocytes have a severely limited capacity for maintaining their adenine nucleotide pool and the associated cellular energy reserves. This is particularly evident under conditions of energy imbalance that result in a net turnover of ATP, which can lead to activation of catabolic enzymes and an accelerated loss of adenine nucleotides. ::: ::: AMP deaminase (AMPD) converts AMP to IMP, a catabolite that has no anabolic route back into the erythrocyte adenine nucleotide pool (Fig S1). Thus, it has long been recognized that erythrocytes attempt to preserve their adenine nucleotide pool by maintaining an intracellular environment that minimizes AMPD catalytic activity (Askari, 1966). Several small molecule inhibitors of erythrocyte AMPD have been identified, including inorganic phosphate (Askari, 1966, Lian & Harkness, 1974; Yun & Suelter, 1978), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (Askari & Rao, 1968; Lian & Harkness, 1974; Yun & Suelter, 1978), and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (Sims et al, 1999), with measured Ki values that are similar to estimated intracellular concentrations in erythrocytes (Bontemps et al, 1986). The inherent capacity of normal erythrocytes to maintain adenine nucleotides during an energy crisis is reflected by the accumulation of AMP, rather than IMP, during short periods of accelerated ATP turnover in response to glucose deprivation (Bontemps et al, 1986; Mahnke & Sabina, 2005). ::: ::: Conversely, IMP, rather than AMP, accumulates in calcium-permeabilized erythrocytes (Almarez et al, 1988; Engstrom et al, 1996). The underlying mechanism responsible for rapid IMP accumulation under these conditions was not immediately evident because calcium activation of AMPD was lost upon dilution of the haemolysate or after the enzyme was partially purified (Almarez & Garcia-Sancho, 1989). This confounding issue was subsequently clarified by the discovery that calcium-calmodulin (Ca2+-CaM) activates erythrocyte AMPD and overcomes the inhibitory mechanisms inherent to these cells (Mahnke & Sabina, 2005). Similar adenine nucleotide metabolic dysregulation exists in clinical disorders of disturbed erythrocyte calcium homeostasis. For example, familial phosphofructokinase deficiency (FPD) is accompanied by a mild compensated anaemia and erythrocytes isolated from these individuals contain increased intracellular calcium (Waldenstrom et al, 2001) and a smaller adenine nucleotide pool concomitant with elevated levels of IMP (Ronquist et al, 2001; Sabina et al, 2006). The slowing of additional IMP accumulation during an experimental period of energy imbalance when FPD erythrocytes were pre-incubated with a diffusible CaM antagonist (Sabina et al, 2006) provided evidence that the protein–protein interaction between erythrocyte AMPD and Ca2+-CaM contributes to this metabolic dysregulation. ::: ::: Intracellular calcium is also elevated in sickle erythrocytes (Eaton et al, 1973; Palek, 1977; Bookchin & Lew, 1980), where it is primarily sequestered into intracellular vesicles by an inside-out ATPase pump (reviewed in Lew & Bookchin, 2005). Calcium uptake and the associated endocytotic process are both stimulated by deoxygenation-induced sickling (Murphy et al, 1987; Rhoda et al, 1990). We hypothesized that increased intracellular calcium in sickle erythrocytes may also cause a chronic energy deficit by simultaneously increasing the demand for ATP and activating AMPD. Furthermore, this adenine nucleotide metabolic dysregulation could impact on the clinical manifestations of this disorder. However, ATP concentrations are greater in reticulocyte-enriched RBC fractions (Brok et al, 1966; Cohen et al, 1976; Clark et al, 1978), indicating that the higher circulating levels of reticulocytes in SCD would confound the results of a comparative analysis of adenine nucleotide and IMP concentrations in RBCs isolated from these individuals versus normal subjects. The present study addressed this issue by using a combination of centrifugation and immunomagnetic separation techniques to reduce reticulocyte levels in RBC samples, which allowed for a more accurate comparison of adenine nucleotide and IMP levels in sickle and normal erythrocytes.
Cyanate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) both influence the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. The studies presented here concern the effects of these compounds on the sickling phenomenon. The inhibitory effect of cyanate on sickling is largely due to the fact that it increases the percentage of oxyhemoglobin S at a given oxygen tension. In addition, cyanate inhibits sickling by a mechanism that is independent of oxygenation. In this paper, we have demonstrated that the viscosity of carbamylated sickle blood was lower than that of non-carbamylated controls at the same oxygen saturation. Furthermore, carbamylation resulted in an increase in the minimum concentration of deoxy-sickle hemoglobin required for gelation. Like cyanate, 2,3-DPG affected sickling of intact erythrocytes by two mechanisms. Since 2,3-DPG decreases the percentage of oxyhemoglobin S at a given oxygen tension, sickling is enhanced. In addition, 2,3-DPG had a direct effect. When the intracellular 2,3-DPG concentration was increased in vitro, a greater percentage of cells were sickled at a given oxygen saturation. Conversely, sickling was inhibited in cells in which 2,3-DPG was artificially lowered. These data indicate that the enhancement of sickling by 2,3-DPG is in part independent of its influence on oxygen affinity.
Bloods collected in ACD-adenine-inorganic phosphate (ACD-Ad,P,) preservatives, supplemented with varying amounts of inosine, adenosine and guanosine, were incubated at 37 C for four hours and then stored at 4 C for six weeks. At two-week intervals, phosphorylated intermediates of washed red cells were assayed by ion exchange chromatography. The 0-day 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations of the incubated ACD-Ad, P1 bloods were below the normal range and decreased rapidly during storage; in the presence of inosine or adenosine, the initial values were elevated and remained high during the first two weeks before decreasing. Following incubation the 0-day values of ATP were markedly increased in the red cells of bloods supplemented with adenine and P1 and during storage the rate of decrease was dependent on the pH of the blood and the type and amount of supplement. The red cells of blood collected in the ACD-Ad, P1 (pH 6.5) preservative maintained the ATP concentrations within the normal range after six weeks storage as effectively as bloods collected in preservatives supplemented with inosine, adenosine or guanosine. After a small initial increase, the ADP levels remained fairly constant. The AMP values increased as the ATP decreased and in most cases, the total adenylate concentration remained fairly constant throughout the storage period. The changes in other phosphorylated compounds were negligible. The significance of these results is discussed.
Abstract The binding of ethyl isocyanide to human hemoglobin has been studied spectrophotometrically at pH 7, 25°C, in the presence and absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP. Both organic phosphate compounds shift the ethyl isocyanide binding curve to the right, and cause a small decrease in the Hill parameter from about 2.0 to about 1.5–1.7. In the case of ATP, it is shown that this molecule binds to both deoxyhemoglobin and to ethyl isocyanide saturated hemoglobin but with a preference for deoxyhemoglobin.
Abstract Methemoglobin can be reduced to hemoglobin by NADH in the presence of catalytic amount of phenazine-methosulfate. A simple non-enzymatic method to obtain oxyhemoglobin from methohemoglobin was established using NADH-PMS system. Regenerated hemoglobin obtained by this method revealed normal oxygen equilibria in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Sickle cell anemia is the first disease to be understood on a molecular level. 1 The amino acid valine replaces the normal glutamic acid residue at the sixth position of the β-globin chain, the consequence of a GAG to GTG codon mutation. The resultant sickle hemoglobin, or HbS (α 2 β s 2 ) has a peculiar tendency to self-associate and form long strands of polymer on deoxygenation, which leads to red cell morphologic changes and to abnormal rheologic properties in the microcirculation. 2 See also p 1140. The primary determinants of the rate and extent of hemoglobin S polymerization, at any given oxygen saturation, are the intracellular hemoglobin concentration and hemoglobin composition (fraction of S and non-S hemoglobins). In addition, the ambient temperature, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, and pH can affect the polymerization tendency, albeit to a lesser extent, under normal physiologic conditions. 2,3 Thus, the hemolytic and overall clinical severity of
Defibrotide (DF ) is a polydeoxyribonucleotide obtained from controlled depolymerization of DNA from mammalian lungs (Patents). It has been shown to have a profibrinolytic activity (Pescador et al., 1983) and an antithrombotic activity (Niada et al., I98 1 ) and was found to stimulate prostacyclin (PGI?) release (Niada et a[., 1982). Furthermore, DF was demonstrated to be cardioprotective in acute (Niada et al., 1985) and in lethal myocardial ischaemia in the cat (Niada et al., 1986) and in early reperfusion damage (Thiemermann et al., 1985). Moreover, the drug prevented myocardial contracture in ischaemic rabbit heart (Berti et al., 1987). Although D F activity is related to vascular PGI, formation (Lobel & Schror. 1985), the mechanisms of action of the drug are still unknown. Since PGI, synthesis seems to be localized in endothelial cells (MacIntyre et al., 1978), we hypothesized that the increase in PGI, production was due to a beneficial effect of D F on endothelial cell function. An enhancement of endothelial cell metabolism could be related to ADP availability, but also to oxygen delivery. Indeed, we supposed an increase in oxygen release from haemoglobin induced by drug treatment. To verify this hypothesis, we decided to measure the modifications induced by DF on the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content of erythrocytes. In fact, an increase in 2,3-DPG levels may be an indicator of a reduced affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen. We previously performed some experiments in vitro using a U.V. test (Boehringer, Mannheim, Germany) for the determination of 2,3-DPG in blood. We used peripheral heparinized blood obtained from Wistar (RTIY) anaesthetized rats by puncture at the aorta bifurcation level. The blood was incubated for different times (0, 2.5, 5, 10 and 15 min) at 37°C in the presence of 0.9% (w/v) saline, vehicle of the drug [a placebo solution of citric acid trisodium salt dihydrate at 1% (w/v) in distilled water], or the drug at the concentration of 1.4 mg/ml of blood. As shown in Fig. 1, intra-erythrocyte 2,3-DPG content always significantly ( P < 0.01 by Student's paired t-test) increased in drug-treated samples, with maximal values at 5 and 10 min from incubation. The effect of DF was dose independent, since the increase in drug concentration to 6.4 mg/ml or more did not significantly increase the 2,3-DPG values in the erythrocytes. Our results in vitro seemed to reveal a rapid dissociation of haemoglobin from oxygen due to DF treatment, thus favouring oxygen availability. Treatment with saline or vehicle failed to increase the levels of 2,3-DPG obtained with fresh non-incubated blood. Consequently, we decided to study the modifications induced by DF administration in vivo on 2,3-DPG intraerythrocyte content. We treated Wistar rats for 30 min with the drug i.p. at the dose of 30 mg/kg (which previously was shown able to induce profibrinolytic and antithrombotic activities) or for 1 h orally at the dose of 50 mg/kg, since an oral activity of the drug has also been shown (Niada et a[., 1982). Our results in vivo (Table 1) indicate that the drug, administered i.p. or orally, induces a significant ( P < 0.01) increase in 2,3-DPG intra-erythrocyte levels. The higher availability of oxygen induced by DF could explain the protective effect and the efficacy of the drug during ischaemia, when the presence of oxygen could represent a limiting factor for metabolic cell activity, particularly for endothelial cells. The increase in oxygen consumption by these cells could also favour their use of ADP, which is an inducer of platelet aggregation, thus possibly reducing the aggregation response. The enhancement of metabolic conditions in endothelial cells could promote a stimulated production of PGI, by the same cells. Platelet aggregation is further inhibited by the increase in intracellular cyclic AMP induced by PGI, production. On the basis of these considerations, DF, through its ability to enhance endothelial cell metabolism, could be considered to exert a cytoprotective effect on these cells. In this view, use of the drug during ischaemia may better express its properties. In addition, we have to consider the possibility that DF induces an increased production in vivo of a platelet factor or a plasma factor responsible for stimulating PGI, generation from the cell wall. On the other hand, since it was previously demonstrated (Lobel & Schror, 1985) that PGI, stimulation by DF does not appear to be associated with its fibrinolytic action, we can suppose that the drug acts through different mechanisms in relation to the presence of different drug components each responsible for various activities.
We investigated whether stimulation of baboon erythrocyte beta-adrenoreceptors affects oxygen transport by haemoglobin. To assess oxygen transport we measured the PO2 at which the haemoglobin was 50% saturated (P50) and the Hill parameter 'n'. Blood at PO2s ranging from 10 to 90 mm Hg was exposed to a 10(-3) M concentration of the agonists l-isoproterenol, l-epinephrine and l-norepinephrine in the presence and absence of 10(-5) M dl-propranolol. None of the adrenergic agents which were used in these experiments produced significant changes in either 'n' or P50 and the concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and lactate were not altered by the agonists. We conclude from these results that short-term adrenergic stimulation of the baboon erythrocyte beta-adrenoreceptor does not affect factors known to influence oxygen transport, oxygen delivery or haemoglobin itself.
Scenedesmus obliquus contains two glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenases (EC 1.2.1.-) one of which uses NADH as its preferred coenzyme (D-enzyme) and the other NADPH (T-enzyme). On incubation of the D-enzyme with cysteine and a 1,3-diphosphoglycerate-generating system the specific activity with NADH as coenzyme decreased whilst that with NADPH increased by a factor of 10. The components of the generating system had no effect on the D-enzyme individually and it is concluded that 1,3-diphosphoglycerate was probably responsible for the change in nucleotide specificity. The coenzyme specificity of the T-enzyme was not affected by such treatment. A similar type of activation occurred to a lesser extent on incubation of the D-enzyme with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The NADPH-dependent activity of the D-enzyme could also be promoted by incubation with NADPH. However, in this case the activation was less than that seen with either 1,3- or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The change in coenzyme specificity of the D-enzyme occurred in parallel with changes in sedimentation behaviour. Initially, a single boundary of S20,w equals 14.5 S was present, but on conversion to NADPH-dependent activity by incubation with the 1,3-diphosphoglycerate-generating system, new boundaries of 7.5 S and 5.5 S appeared. The first of these corresponds in sedimentation coefficient to the native T-enzyme. On removal of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate the 7.5 S boundary disappeared accompanied by an increase in that of 14.5 S, whilst the 5.5 S boundary persisted. These changes are consistent with the reversible conversion of the D-enzyme into a form similar to the native T-enzyme in response to cysteine and 1,3-diphosphoglycerate. These effects may be explained if acylation of the active site of the D-enzyme by 1,3-diphosphoglycerate results in displacement of the bound nucleotide, thus promoting nucleotide exchange. These findings are consistent with the kinetic mechanism established for other glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenases. Similar activation was seen in extracts of other species of the Chlorophyta but not in other photosynthetic organisms. The significance of this type of activation of enzyme activity to the metabolism of these species of algae is discussed.
The increase in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration during mouse postnatal development is highly correlated with the decrease in red cell pyruvate kinase (PK) activity. Immunoneutralization curves for newborn and adult red cell PK are parallel, which suggests that the higher PK activity in newborn mouse red cells is due primarily to a greater quantity of PK protein. Mouse newborn and adult red cell PK also differ in mobility on cellulose acetate electrophoresis (pH 7.5). This is true for two strains of mice (C57BL/6 and IS/Cam) whose adult red cell PK electrophoretic patterns differ (single vs. double bands, respectively). Trypsinization does not alter the electrophoretic mobilities of C57BL/6 newborn and adult red cell PK, but it does convert the IS/Cam adult PK to a single band of greater mobility than the single band of C57BL/6 adult PK. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that mice have structurally different forms of PK for newborn and adult red cells, analogous to the fetal gamma- and adult beta-globins of humans.
To investigate the effect of interval hypoxic training (IHT) on aerobic capacity, we test hematological parameters, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) of 40 rats which were randomly divided into four groups.The results indicated that in the test, IHT don′t enhance aerobic capacity by increasing RBC and Hb,but can increase erythrocyte 2,3-DPG to improve supply of oxygen to tissue and can increase aerobic capacity.
Bone marrow smears and blood samples were examined in guinea pig fetuses in which intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) had been induced by uterine artery ligation and compared with those of control (well-grown) fetuses from uterine horns with intact circulation. Differential bone marrow cell counts were obtained from a count of 300 cells per smear and blood samples were assayed for hemoglobin concentration and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Results of blood assays showed no difference in hemoglobin concentration. DPG levels were reduced in the IUGR guinea pigs (P < .05), which could be a consequence of decreased glucose availability or represent an adaptation to reduced oxygen availability. Comparisons of bone marrow counts revealed an increase in total erythrocyte precursors (P < .05) and a decrease in total granulocytic precursors (P < .05) in IUGRfetuses. Within the erythroid lineage there was a significant increase in late (orthochromatic) erythroblasts (P < .005) in the IUGR animals compared with co...
31P-containing metabolites in human blood, serum and erythrocytes were measured or calculated. Phosphodiesters were found in serum, but not in erythrocytes. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate/ATP ratios were increased in patients with congestive heart failure (2,3-diphosphoglycerate by 13% in mild to moderate, 31% in severe congestive heart failure, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate/ATP ratio by 9% in mild to moderate, 38% in severe congestive heart failure); phosphodiesters were increased in diabetes mellitus (by 26%) and even more so in hyperlipidaemia (by 57%). Changes of blood31P compounds with disease states may have diagnostic potential and should be recognized for correction of organ spectra.
Isolated rat livers were perfused with fresh and 2,3-DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate)-depleted human erythrocytes at different levels of hypoxia. The mean P50 values of the measured actual oxygen dissociation curves (O.D.C.) were 24.5 and 18 mm Hg. No changes in flow rate and perfusion pressure occurred under the different experimental conditons. It was shown that an advantage or disadvantage of a shift of the O.D.C. depends on the degree of hypoxia, as reflected in the venous PO2. Perfusions with fresh erythrocytes showed higher venous PO2 values during normoxia or moderate hypoxia and lower venous PO2 values at severe hypoxia. A cross-over point was found at a PO2 in the portal vein of 36 mm Hg. The disadvantage of perfusions with fresh erythrocytes at severre hypoxia was also reflected in higher cytoplasmatic and mitochondrial redox levels. Using bile flow rate as an indirect measure for the rate of hydroxylation-dependent O2 consumption a favourable effect of perfusion with fresh erythrocytes was found at a PO2 in the portal vein of 100 and 40 mm Hg.
The haemoglobin heterogenous system and some aspects of the microenvironment of the respiratory protein were investigated in albino rats, trained to high altitude hypoxia in barocamera conditions. Hypoxia was simulated in a hypoxic cage at a “height” of 6000m above sea level. Electrophoretic analysis of haemoglobin, the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve and the activity of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerte by pass were studied in the 1st, 3rd, 5th and 10th days of hypoxic exposure. While decrease in the concentration of fractions located towards the cathode was recorded, an additional 7th fraction appeared at the anode during the adaptation process. Decrease in the metabolic activity of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase with corresponding decrease in concentration of 2, 3-diphosphglycerate (2,3-DPG) which correlates with leftward shift of the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve was observed in the 3rd and 5th days of the experiment. a tendency towards normalization of the haemoglobin P 50 , concentrated of 2, 3-DPG and activity of 2, 3-DPG mutase was recorded in the 10th day of the exercise. KEY WORDS: Electrophoresis, haemoglobin, Barcamera, Hypoxia. J.Expt. & Clin. Anat. 2(2) 2003: 12-16
Abstract1. — The uptake of p-aminohippurate (PAH) from oxygenated electrolyte media into thin cortex slices from rabbit kidneys was measured following addition to these media of various nucleotides and related compounds. Furthermore, different metabolic alterations induced by the externally added nucleotides have been investigated.2. — ATP, ADP, AMP, GTP, UTP, CTP, TTP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and cyclic nucleotide monophosphates inhibited PAH transport by tubular cells to a variable extent, whereas phosphoenolpyruvate, phosphocreatine, and monophosphoglycerates did not significantly affect the accumulation of PAH. No biphasic action of the nucleotides on PAH transport could be detected.3. — The inhibitory effect of the adenine nucleotides on PAH accumulation was not counteracted by addition of highly oxidizable metabolites like pyruvate and acetate in spite of a complete recovery of renal metabolism, suggesting that the nucleotides interfere directly with the transport of PAH across the tubular cell memb...
ESR spectra of the carbonmonoxy, oxy, and deoxy derivatives of hemoglobin Izu [Hb Izu (Macaca): beta 83 (EF 7) Gly leads to Cys] labeled at cysteine beta 83 with maleimide spin label have been observed in the presence and absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate. The tau c values obtained from the spectra indicated that inositol hexaphosphate binds to all the derivatives of Hb Izu, but 2,3-diphosphoglycerate only to the deoxy derivatives.
Extract: Hematologic and globin synthesis studies were performed in a black American family in which the genes for α-thalassemia and hemoglobins (Hb) S and C were segregating. The following distribution of these abnormalities was found: father, sickle cell trait + α-thalassemia; mother, HbC trait + α-thalassemia, propositus, HbSC + α-thalassemia; older sibling, α-thalassemia trait; and younger sibling, hemoglobin H disease.The child with HbSC-α-thalassemia demonstrated more severe anemia and a more hemolytic picture than is typical of HbSC disease. Her erythrocytes exhibited decreased osmotic fragility in comparison with HbSC erythrocytes, but had an indistinguishable oxygen equilibrium curve and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) level. Erythrocyte sickling in the patient, however, was significantly reduced, with less than 35% sickle forms observed at nearly complete oxygen desaturation.The sibling with hemoglobin H disease exhibited 26% Bart's (γ4) hemoglobin at birth, a level comparable with that seen in infants with HbH disease in Far Eastern populations. At age 5 months typical findings of mild hemoglobin H disease appeared, with HbH making up 6.5% of the total hemoglobin.Speculation: The presence of α-thalassemia in the proband of this study appeared to modify her HbSC disease so as to reduce its clinical severity as well as its pathologic potential. The ameliorative effect of α-thalassemia would appear to be related to a reduction in the intracellular hemoglobin concentration in the patient's erythrocytes, but other factors may also be responsible for these changes. Eurther study of genetically modified sickle hemoglobinopathy syndromes may ultimately aid in the development of effective means for the treatment of these disorders.
Age individuality is characterized by an imbalance of the molecular mechanisms of antioxidant defense in adolescents with arterial hypertension and biliary dyskinesia, as documented by an enzyme imbalance of the first line of antioxidant defense and H2O, accumulation, by a substantial increase in glutathione peroxidase activity, and by inhibition of the activity of glutathione-dependent enzymes. The considerable rise of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate suggests tissue hypoxia. With this, enhanced neutrophil elastase activity causes damage to the structural components of vascular wall connective tissue, resulting in the development of endothelial dysfunction.
90 MHz proton n.m.r. spectra have been measured on solutions of deoxyhaemoglobin (Hb) in D2O in the presence and absence of dithionite (DT) and D-2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) ions.Application of deconvolution and interpolative baseline correction software has enabled the pH dependence of the histidine C2 proton chemical shifts to be observed without the necessity of using high fields or elaborate pulse sequences. The n.m.r. data are interpreted in terms of a strong fast exchange interaction with DPG and a much weaker one, at the same site, for DT.Histidines β2 and β143 at the DPG binding site have been assigned to peaks in the proton n.m.r. spectrum. From the chemical shift behaviour of a selected resonance at different DPG concentrations, it has been shown that DPG and Hb bind with a 1:1 stoichiometry. The measured affinity constant is (5.1 ± 0.4)× 104 mol–1 and is independent of the ionised species of DPG present in the pH range 7.1–7.3.
Human fetal hemoglobin (HbF) is the main oxygen carrying protein present during the fetal development stages and up until six months after birth [1] . Similar to human adult hemoglobin (HbA), it is a tetrameric protein that harbors two α-chains, but these are paired with two γ-chains instead of the β-chains of HbA. The gene encoding the γ-chain is duplicated and gives rise to two variants: Aγ (HBG1) and Gγ (HBG2). The only difference between the two variants is located at position 136 which is either an alanine or a glycine. The γ-chain and the β-chain both consist of 146 amino acid residues but differ in their sequences at 39 or 40 positions, for Gγ and Aγ respectively, resulting in differences in some properties between HbA and HbF [2] . The oxygen affinity is higher for HbF than HbA. This has been reported to be due to residues at positions γ1, γ5, γ43 and γ143 [3] [4] [5] , resulting in lower binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which acts as an allosteric regulator. Residues in the N-terminal region (Helix A) of the γ-chain have also been shown to contribute to HbF tetramer stabilization compared to HbA, which is reflected by a 70-fold lower tetramer-dimer dissociation constant [6] . The solubility of HbF is higher than HbA, possibly due to position γ22 which is an aspartate instead of glutamate as in β-chain, and this property may contribute to the reported antisickling ability of HbF [7] . Furthermore, HbF has a higher stability in alkaline solution. The mechanism is not fully known, but it was thought to be related to internal amino acids. Positions βCys112 and βTyr130, which can be ionized, are replaced in the γ-chain to γThr112 and γTrp130; thereby reducing destabilization of the αγ contacts and attraction of water into the non-polar interior at high pH [8] . It was also suggested that the source of this property appeared to be located in the C-terminal of the γ-chain [9] . However, mutants of the proposed residues could not directly verify this hypothesis [10] .
Human red blood cell hexokinase exists in multiple molecular forms with different isoelectric points but similar kinetic and regulatory properties. All three major isoenzymes (HK Ia, Ib, and Ic) are inhibited competitively with respect to Mg · ATP by glucose 6-phosphate (Ki = 15 μM), glucose 1,6-diphosphate (Ki = 22 μM), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (Ki = 4 mM), ATP (Ki = 1.5 mM), and reduced glutathione (Ki = 3 mM). All these compounds are present in the human erythrocyte at concentrations able to modify the hexokinase reaction velocity. However, the oxygenation state of hemoglobin significantly modifies their free concentrations and the formation of the Mg complexes. The calculated rate of glucose phosphorylation, in the presence of the mentioned compounds, is practically identical to the measured rate of glucose utilization by intact erythrocytes (1.43 ± 0.15 μmol h−1 ml red blood cells−1). Hexokinase in young red blood cells is fivefold higher when compared with the old ones, but the concentration of many inhibitors of the enzyme is also cell agedependent. Glucose 6-phosphate, glucose 1,6-diphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, and Mg all decay during cell ageing but at different rates. The free concentrations and the hemoglobin and Mg complexes of both ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate with hemoglobin in the oxy and deoxy forms have been calculated. This information was utilized in the calculation of glucose phosphorylation rate during cell ageing. The results obtained agree with the measured glycolytic rates and suggest that the decay of hexokinase during cell ageing could play a critical role in the process of cell senescence and destruction.
Rheological characteristics of red cells in two patients with refractory anemia (with single chromosomal abnormality of 20q- or 13q-, respectively) were investigated with the hematological and biochemical properties. (1) Whole blood viscosity was remarkably increased, and the red cell deformability was greatly impaired (the impairments were prominent in patient with 20q-). (2) The hematocrit of both patients was about half of the normal value. Remarkable anisocytosis with elliptocytes and poikilocytes was observed in the patient with 20q-, but the anisocytosis was not so prominent in the patient with 13q-. (3) 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content in red cells was markedly increased in both patients, but adenylate content was not. (4) The red cells were slightly resistant to osmotic hemolysis, but they were not heat-labile. (5) Structural abnormality of spectrin was suggested from the impaired dimer-dimer association in red cell membrane and from the different susceptibility of spectrin to tryptic digestion. In conclusion, the rheological impairments and the abnormal shape of red cells in refractory anemia probably originated from the structural abnormality of cytoskeletal proteins in membrane, and the functional and structural abnormality may be different among patients.
A general model of co-operativity is developed and solved explicitly; it combines the concepts of preferential binding and quaternary constraints (due to Monod, Wyman & Changeux), nearest-neighbor subunit interactions (due to Koshland), and changes in subunit aggregation (due to Briehl). For this reason, the general model can explain systems which previous models cannot—e.g. the model of Monod, Wyman & Changeux cannot explain negative co-operativity, the model of Koshland cannot treat situations where quaternary conformation is observed to be coupled to ligand binding, and the model of Briehl cannot explain co-operativity when no change in the level of subunit aggregation occurs. This general model of co-operativity reduces in special limits to these previous models. Still another limiting case corresponds to the Perutz description of hemoglobin, a “mixed” system thought to exhibit characteristics of several previous models. ::: ::: Four distinct types of effector are defined and incorporated in the model. By calculating binding curves, and explicitly comparing them with experimental data concerning the inhibition of hemoglobin oxygenation by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, one finds: (a) that P2Glyc2Glyc, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; MWC, Monod-Wyman-Changeux.2Glyc binding equilibrium and molecular constraints; (c) that the quaternary conformation changes from the deoxy to the oxy form at about the third oxygenation, depending only slightly on P2Glyc concentration; (d) that the detailed dependence of the four Adair parameters and of the apparent free energy of interaction on the free P2Glyc concentration can be easily calculated; and (e) that the model describes biphasic oxygenation curves very well and can explain the dependence of the Hill coefficient, nH, on P2Glyc concentration, on pH, and on ionic strength. ::: ::: The model is also used to describe the dependence of the oxygen equilibrium on hemoglobin concentration for very dilute solutions of HbA (normal adult hemoglobin) and for lamprey hemoglobin. It is found that oxygenated HbA dissociates more readily than deoxygenated HbA, primarily because the dimer has a very high oxygen affinity; the fact that the stability of the oxy quaternary conformation of the tetramer is somewhat lower than that of the deoxy quaternary conformation is relatively unimportant. For lamprey hemoglobin it is found that there is some tetramer present but one cannot tell whether the tetramer is co-operative like the HbA tetramer. ::: ::: The model is finally applied to dimeric mollusc myoglobin, in order to try to determine the mechanism of co-operativity in this system from the temperature dependence of the oxygen equilibrium. This attempt proved unsuccessful in the temperature range of the data available.
Regulatory mechanisms of erythrocyte glycolysis and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) metabolism under hypoxia were studied in rats exposed to a simulated altitude of 18,000 ft (5,486 m) for 5 d. Changes in erythrocyte glycolytic intermediates were determined by enzymatic analysis. Marked alterations of glycolytic intermediates were found during 1 d of exposure which were quite different from those observed during exposure for 2, 3, and 5 d. Alterations of intermediates seem to be highly correlated with blood pH changes; however, pH alone cannot explain the overall changes in intermediates. Results suggested that overall intermediate changes are the results of the combined effect of alterations of cellular pH and hemoglobin desaturation. Increased 2,3DPG at initial stages of exposure (within 1 d) may be caused mainly by the increased cellular pH; sustained elevation of 2,3DPG at later stages could be attributed to the relief of product inhibition of diphosphoglycerate mutase by deoxygenation.
Oxygen transport and delivery in sickle cell anemia are discussed in terms of hemodynamics and blood oxygen affinity. The current concepts of the regulation of the hematocrit value by the oxygen pressure on the venous side of the renal capillary are reviewed, and the concept of "anemia" redefined. The marked right shift in the oxygen dissociation curve of sickle cell anemia blood is analyzed in terms of the sickling process, the hemolytic anemia, and increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The clinical implications of this right shift in perpetuating sickling are discussed in the light of its possible correction by treatment with sodium cyanate.
Although the attempts to develop an oxygen-carrying alternative to red blood cells (RBC) have spanned the last 100 years, it has proven difficult to develop a clinically useful haemoglobin-based oxygen carrier. Four major problems have been shown to compromise the use of haemoglobin outside the RBC as an oxygen carrier: (1) the increased oxygen affinity due to the loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; (2) dissociation into dimers and monomers with consequent renal and capillary loss of hemoglobin; (3) insufficient concentrations of prepared solutions under iso-oncotic conditions, and thereby reduced oxygen-carrying capacity; and (4) toxicity. Most of these limitations have been overcome by different modifications of haemoglobin, including pyridoxylation, intra- and intermolecular cross-linking, polymerisation, liposome encapsulation, conjugation to inert macromolecules, and genetic engineering. Questions of toxicity are not completely answered at present, especially with regard to renal toxicity, interactions with the nitric oxide system, and antigenicity. Therefore, the issues preventing clinical application are those of safety and not of efficacy of haemoglobin-based RBC substitutes. Potential clinical applications include fluid resuscitation, treatment of anaemia and ischaemia, support in extracorporeal circulation, and organ preservation. Based on promising and reproducible results obtained from animal studies, clinical phase I and II trials with newer haemoglobin solutions have been started in the United States. Substantial knowledge has been gained in the development, production, and evaluation of haemoglobin-based oxygen carriers during the past years. It will probably not take another century before oxygen-carrying RBC substitutes will become available for clinical use.
Abstract A marked erythrocyte phosphofructokinase deficiency was detected in a healthy man. His enzymatic activity was only 25% that of normal controls. His father and his sone had erythrocytic phosphofructokinase activities of 50–55% that of normal controls. The chromatographic separation of erytrocytic phosphofructokinase isozymes, as well as immunolocial studies revealsed a decrease in L-type phosphofructokinase activity. The lowered erythrocytic L-type phosphofructokinase activity was not accompanied by a decreased level of L-type phosphofructokinase in proteins. The L/M subunit ratio was similar to that of normal subjects. The defect resulted from the synthesis of stable L-type mutant subunit with high electrophoretic mobility. White blood cells, which synthesize mostly the same isozyme as L-type phosphofructokinase also showed a decreased activity and a high electrophoretic mobility. In spite of this important deficiency, and of significant metabolic alterations (a slight decrease in ATP; 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; triose phosphate), hemolysis did not appear in the propositus.
The effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-P2-glycerate) on the phosphorylation of spectrin in solution by purified membrane cyclic AMP-independent protein kinase and in membrane preparations by the endogenous kinase was investigated. 2,3-P2-Glycerate inhibited spectrin phosphorylation both in solution and in the intact membrane. Kinetic analyses showed that 2,3-P2-glycerate had no effect on the Km for ATP but appeared to lower the Vmax of the reaction. When the effect of 2,3-P2-glycerate was examined in the presence of varying concentrations of spectrin, competitive inhibition kinetics were obtained. Interestingly, low concentrations of 2,3-P2-glycerate were found to effect the release of the membrane kinase from erythrocyte membranes. This release reaction may be related to the ability of 2,3-P2-glycerate to interfere with the interaction between the kinase and spectrin. The data suggest the possibility that the kinase may be bound to spectrin in the erythrocyte membrane. 2,3-P2-glycerate also caused the solubilization of 3-phosphoglyceraldehyde dehydrogenase, but not of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase. Taken together, our data indicate that 2,3-P2-glycerate may have a regulatory role in membrane protein phosphorylation and also may regulate the extent of association of the kinase with the membrane.
The hemoglobins of man, horse, dog, rabbit, guinea pig, and rat all have relatively high (nonphysiologic) oxygen affinity when stripped of organic phosphates, and a strong reactivity with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Appropriately, their red cells contain high levels of 2,3-DPG. In contrast, the sheep, goat, cow, and cat have low oxygen affinity hemoglobins which interact weakly with 2,3-DPG, and low concentrations of red cell 2,3-DPG. These hemoglobins have structural differences at the NH2-terminus of the β chain, a site where 2,3-DPG is thought to bind.
The affinity of human oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin A for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was measured in purified hemoglobin solutions at 37 °C and with near-physiological ionic composition. The affinity of both oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate decreased markedly as the hemoglobin concentration increased from 0.4 to 5.5 mmol/1. The data show that, under physiological conditions, about 15 % of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is bound in oxygenated cells and about 35 % in deoxygenated cells. Previous observations of the pH-dependence of the affinity of hemoglobin to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were extended to show that the affinity of the oxygen-linked site is very similar to that found for the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-mediated decrease in the deoxygenation rate of hemoglobin.
Abstract 1. 1. In order to clarify a role of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activity catalyzed by yeast phosphoglycerate mutase (2,3-diphospho- d -glycerate:2-phospho- d -glycerate phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.5.3), chemical modification experiments and kinetic studies on the phosphatase activity have been performed. The results indicated that the substrate site of the mutase was also required for the phosphatase activity. 2. 2. It was found that such compounds as phosphoglycolate, phosphohydroxypyruvate and phosphoenolpyruvate stimulated the phosphatase activity, although they inhibited the mutase activity. A kinetic pattern of their stimulatory effects was consistent with an equation derived from the ideas that a ternary complex (enzyme-2,3-diphosphoglycerate-2,3-diphosphoglycerate) was an active intermediate in the phosphatase reaction and that the activators interacted with the enzyme at the substrate site to stimulate the hydrolysis of a phosphoester bond in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at the coenzyme site. 3. 3. It was found that the phosphatase activity of component I (the native enzyme) was stimulated in higher extent than that of component V (the final product of the enzymic modification of component I). This observation offered a significant clue to explain a cause of the decrease in the mutase activity by the enzymic modification of component I to component V. 4. 4. From these results, a hypothetical model for a role of the phosphatase activity on the mutase reaction mechanism is presented in this paper.
An impurity, probably an anion, present in some batches of the buffer substances 4-(2-hydroxyethyl) piperazine-1-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), 2-morpholinoethane sulfonic acid (Mes) and piperazine-1,4-bis(2-ethane sulfonic acid (Pipes), activates the soluble 5'-nucleotidase from rat kidney. The affinity of the enzyme for 5'-IMP and the Vmax were both increased by the unidentified activator. ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, known activators of the soluble 5'-nucleotidase, had no effect if the incubation media were buffered with batches containing high concentrations of the activating impurity. These results suggest that the impurity interacts with the soluble 5'-nucleotidase at the same site as ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, however with a much higher affinity than these two compounds. It is possible that the same impurity might interfere with other proteins for which ATP is a substrate or a ligand.
Abstract 1. 1. Enzymatic, colorimetric and/or ion-exchange Chromatographic analyses of amphibian erythrocytic organic phosphates (EOPs) were performed to: (1) explore interspecific diversity; (2) determine the intraspecific effects of temperature, photoperiod and body size; and (3) correlate interspecific EOP similarities with the behavioral and physiological capabilities. 2. 2. The types and concentrations of EOPs ranged from reptilian to mammalian in character, and responded weakly to temperature and photoperiod. 3. 3. Inositol polyphosphate was detected in five species, but never exceeded 5% of the total acid-soluble phosphate. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (DPG) was the major EOP in 18 species and was present in all species examined. DPG: hemoglobin (Hb) molar ratios ranged from 0.07 to 1.9. Nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) was the major EOP in 12 species. NTP: Hb molar ratios ranged from 0.32 to 1.8. 4. 4. Analysis of similarity among species based on body mass, [Hb], hematocrit, [NTP] and [DPG] revealed three clusters of amphibians. EOP: Hb molar ratios of 1.0 or larger in bufonids and Scaphiopus correlated with a high dependence on aerobic activity metabolism. EOP: Hb molar ratios less than one in ranids correlated with a dependence on anaerobic activity metabolism.
Absolute erythrocytosis is characterised by the expansion of the erythrocyte compartment in peripheral blood and is classified into primary and secondary forms which can be of either congenital or acquired origin1. Primary erythrocytosis is caused by acquired or inherited mutations leading to expansion of the erythrocyte compartment in the peripheral blood independently of extrinsic factors; it includes polycythemia vera and rare familial variants. Secondary erythrocytosis is caused by a circulating factor, usually erythropoietin, which stimulates erythropoiesis. The increased production of erythropoietin is normally related to a physiological response to hypoxia but may also be caused by an abnormal autonomous erythropoietin production (e.g. erythropoietin-secreting tumour) or an alteration of the oxygen-dependent modulation of erythropoietin synthesis (e.g. increase in the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin [Hb]). Approximately 100 haemoglobin variants with high oxygen affinity have been described in the literature2,3. Haemoglobin is a tetrameric globular protein composed of four subunits, two alpha (α1, α2) and two beta (β1, β2), which form two identical halves named α1β1 and α2β2. These dimers exist in equilibrium in two conformations with different oxygen affinity: form T (tense) and form R (relaxed) with low and high oxygen affinity, respectively. The transition from the T form to the R form is characterised by a large change in interactions between the subunits α1 and β2, while the α1β1 intra-dimer interface remains almost unaffected4,5. The α1β2 contact, also named “sliding contact”, interconnects the two dimers (α1β1 and α2β2) and involves the “switch” region, so named because it experiences the largest displacements as a result of the dimer rotation between the R and T forms. Another important contact is in the “hinge” region where the R → T shift is limited to a change in orientation6. ::: ::: The increased oxygen affinity determines erythrocytosis in the peripheral blood and is caused by alterations in haemoglobin structure. The molecular classification of haemoglobins with increased oxygen affinity recognises three different structural modifications concerning the main contacts involved in the transition from the deoxy- to the oxy-state, the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding sites and the heme pocket. ::: ::: In the first group the T structure cannot be achieved. These variants affect the “sliding contact” and the “switch region” and lead to increased oxygen affinity with markedly reduced cooperativity, and to a reduced ability to maintain the T conformation (e.g. Hb Coimbra, Hb Hiroshima, Hb Osler, Hb Nancy, Hb Mckees, Hb Kochi, Hb Cochin-Port Royal). Differently, structural changes that occur within the “hinge region” prevent the formation of the correct bonds stabilising the T structure, but this leads equally to a severe increase in oxygen affinity (e.g. Hb Nantes and Hb Pitie-Salpetriere)7. ::: ::: Hb Nantes [β34(B16)Val → Leu (HbVar: A Database of Human Hemoglobin Variants and Thalassemias) HBB:c.103G>C (HGVS nomenclature)] was found as a de novo mutation in a 38-year old woman and first reported by Wajcman et al.8. Hb Nantes shows increased oxygen affinity and causes a disease with a dominant phenotype. Residue Val β34 contributes to both the α1β1 and α1β2 interfaces9; a mutation at this site leads to alteration of the α1β1 contact area and impairs the interactions stabilising the T state. ::: ::: The mode of transmission of the high oxygen affinity haemoglobin variants is autosomal dominant6. The amount of the abnormal haemoglobin present in the red blood cells modulates the haematological consequences of a high oxygen affinity variant. ::: ::: It is important to diagnose haemoglobin with increased oxygen affinity because, although usually well tolerated in young patients, it frequently leads to thrombotic complications in older patients10,11 or when it is associated with another factor that increases thrombotic risk. Patients carrying a high oxygen affinity haemoglobin variant are most frequently identified because of an unexplained erythrocytosis with haemoglobin values varying from 16 to 20 g/dL. Routine electrophoretic or chromatographic studies may reveal an abnormal haemoglobin that is further recognised as having increased oxygen affinity. Sometimes routine electrophoretic studies fail to demonstrate the presence of a haemoglobin variant and further evaluations may be necessary, including isoelectric focusing, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and electrophoresis of haemoglobin and globins under various experimental conditions12. Nevertheless, it should be kept in mind that nowadays the molecular analysis of beta globin genes is much faster and often cheaper than the biochemical approach, and also gives a definitive diagnosis.
Iron release from human, rabbit, rat and sheep transferrin, chicken conalbumin and human lactoferrin was measured by the change in absorbance of solutions of the iron-protein complexes or by the release of 59Fe from the protein conjugated to agarose. Several phosphatic compounds and iron chelators were able to mediate the process (ATP, GTP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inositol hexaphosphate, pyridoxal 5-phosphate, cytidine 5-triphosphate, pyrophosphate, inorganic phosphate, citrate, EDTA, oxalate, nitrilotriacetate). The greatest rate of iron release was found with pyrophosphate and the least with inorganic phosphate. Different rates of iron release were obtained with the different proteins, greatest with human transferrin and least with lactoferrin. With each of the proteins and the mediators there was a linera relationship between the H+ concentration and the rate of iron release. At any given pH the rate of iron release increased to a maximal rate as the mediator concentration was raised. It is concluded that iron release from transferrin under the conditions of these experiments involves an initial interaction between H+ and the iron-transferrin complex followed by release of the iron under the action of the mediator.
Diphosphoglycerate mutase has been purified to homogeneity from outdated human erythrocytes. The native enzyme has a molecular weight of 57 000 as determined by equilibrium centrifugation and exclusion chromatography. Disc gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate yields a single protein band with a molecular weight of about 26 500, indicating that diphosphoglycerate mutase is comprised of two subunits of similar mass. The enzyme exhibits the following intrinsic activities: diphosphoglyceratemutase, monophosphoglycerate mutase, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase. The latter activity is enhanced in the presence of either organic or inorganic anions. Glycolate-2-P, particularly, has a profound activating effect. Nonspecific phosphatase and enolase activities are absent. The enzyme has an extinction coefficient at 280 nm of 1.65 cm2/mg. The amino acid composition of the homogeneous protein has been determined.
Abstract 1. 1. Wheel-running activity, erythrocytic total organic phosphates (Ptot), nucleoside triphosphates (NTP) 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), whole blood P50 and pH, hematocrit (Hct) and hemoglobin (Hb) were measured over 24 hr periods in mice acclimatized to 25°C and photoperiods of LD 12:12 and 18:6. Plasma lactate was measured in the LD 18:6 group. 2. 2. Significant diel variations in activity, total PO4, NTP, DPG and Hb were observed in the mice acclimated to LD 12:12, but only activity showed significant diel differences in the LD 18:6 group. 3. 3. There were no significant diel changes in pH, P50, Hct, or plasma lactate. 4. 4. Whole blood P50 was significantly correlated with pH, but not with erythrocytie organic phosphate concentrations.
The underlying cause leading to the reversible functional changes in the microcirculation of insulin-dependent diabetic subjects early during the disease prior to any clinical signs of retinopathy and nephropathy (functional microangiopathy) is discussed. It is suggested that the initial microvascular dilation observed in diabetics is due to an autoregulatory response to relative tissue hypoxia providing an increased tissue perfusion in order to improve tissue oxygen delivery. Supporting evidence for this suggestion is derived from the findings that diabetics simultaneously may show increased tissue oxygen consumption and decreased ability of the circulating blood to release oxygen to the tissues. The latter defect is likely to be caused by two interrelated factors: 1. an increased proportion of haemoglobin A1c with high oxygen affinity, and 2. difficulties of maintaining a sufficiently high concentration of plasma inorganic phosphate in order to provide an optimal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content in the erythrocytes. The basal oxygen demand of diabetics may fluctuate even within a few hours dependent upon the state of metabolic control and is increased at times of poor regulation. Hence, diabetics may suffer from innumerable cellular hypoxic injuries, which during the first years of the disease are counteracted in the microcirculation by an autoregulatory response. These microvascular reactions associated with increased plasma permeation may over the years be of major importance for the development of the degenerative microangiopathy in diabetes.
Negatively stained specimens of deoxyhb S were obtained by deoxygenating washed erythrocytes from a sickle-cell homozygote suspended in 0.1 M NaCl-1 mM 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in a nitrogen-filled glove box for 3 hr. This suspension was applied to a carbon-coated grid, lysed either by washing with 0.03 M NaCl or with a solution of phospholipase C in 0.1 M NaCl, stained with a 1% solution of sodium phosphotungstate (pH 7.0), and dried while still in a nitrogen atmosphere. Alternatively, a concentrated suspension of erythrocytes from a sickle-cell homozygote in 1% NaCl was lysed by addition of an equal volume of water and left for 15 min. NaCl was then added to bring the total concentration of NaCl to 2%. The cell walls were removed by spinning for 0.5 hr at 15,000 rpm (27,000 X g), decanting the supernatant, and spinning it once more as before. The hemoglobin solution was then dialyzed against either 0.01 M NaCl or 0.1 M sodium phosphate (pH 6.5), giving solutions with a Hb concentration of about 10%. To these, DPG was added to a concentration of 1 mM. They were then deoxygenated in the nitrogen-filled glove box for 3 hr, diluted to various concentrations down to 1%, applied to the grids, washed with water, stained, and dried as described above. Electron micrographs of negatively stained specimens were taken with a Philips EM 300. Low angle x-ray diffraction pictures were taken of concentrated gels of Hb S prepared as described in ref. 6. Optical diffraction pictures of electron micrographs were taken as described in ref. 7.
Three groups of pigs were studied during and after 10 weeks of treatment with either Al(OH)3 (Al[OH]3-group, n = 8) to induce hypophosphatemia. AlPO4 (AlPO4-group, n = 8, aluminium control without hypophosphatemia) or no addition to the feed (control group, n = 8). Blood samples were taken at the start of the experiment and after 3, 6 and 10 weeks and were analyzed for phosphate, calcium and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Samples from myocardium, skeletal muscle and liver were obtained in connection with exsanguination and analyzed for glycogen, adenosine-tri-phosphate (ATP), creatine phosphate (CP), glucose-6-phosphate (G-6-P) and lactate. The Al(OH)3-group became hypophosphatemic and hypercalcemic with low levels of 2,3-DPG in erythrocytes within 3 weeks and showed a retarded growth rate. After 10 weeks the Al(OH)3-group had low levels of ATP in myocardium as compared with the control-group and low levels of G-6-P as compared with the AlPO4-group. No disturbances on electro-cardiograms registered at rest could be documented. G-6-P concentration was low in the biceps muscle in the Al(OH)3-group as compared with the AlPO4-group and in the liver low G-6-P concentration was seen in addition to high lactate concentration. The fibre type composition in M. Longissimus did not differ between groups, but the Al(OH)3-group had, due to retardation in growth, smaller mean fibre-areas than pigs in the AlPO4-group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hyperventilation (HV) and respiratory alkalosis are associated with hypophosphataemia, although the extent and duration of HV required to produce changes in serum phosphate levels are not known. We sought to characterize the effects of HV, with or without dextrose loading, on serum phosphate levels and other biochemical parameters. HV was monitored by controlling the end-tidal partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PETCO 2 ). The effect of dextrose was studied because infusion of a glucose load is known to promote a fall in serum phosphate via stimulation of glycolysis. Eight healthy volunteers were enrolled in four study protocols: (I) HV for 20 min to a PETCO 2 of 25-30 mmHg (mild); (2) HV for 20 min to a PETCO 2 of 15-20 mmHg (severe); (3) mild HV with intravenous dextrose loading, and (4) dextrose loading alone. Periodic measurements of serum phosphate, venous pH, serum 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and other parameters were made. Serum phosphate fell during HV and continued to decline after cessation of HV. Dextrose loading alone caused a fall in serum phosphate that continued for at least 30 min after cessation of the infusion (P < 0.0002). HV combined with dextrose resulted in a greater decline in serum phosphate than either variable alone (P = 0.003). The maximal decline in serum phosphate occurred in severe HV, with a mean decrease of 0.38 mmol/l at 20 min after cessation of HV (P < 0.0001). Serum phosphate was still significantly lowered compared with baseline at 90 min after cessation of HV (P = 0.001). Other significant changes seen with HV included a decrease in serum glucose (P < 0.01), a decrease in serum potassium (P < 0.05) and an increase in venous pH (P < 0.007). Serum 2,3-DPG levels did not change significantly in any study protocol. Thus relatively mild acute HV produces significant changes in serum phosphate. In both mild and severe HV this effect is progressive after cessation of HV. This phenomenon has not been shown before, and may have significant clinical implications.
Red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels were studied in 227 normal gravid women in all stages of pregnancy, active labor, and early post partum. An increase to peak levels was observed at 19 to 22 weeks followed by a gradual fall toward normal. During labor and early post partum, 2,3-DPG again rose significantly above levels observed at term. Serial 2,3-DPG values through the third trimester, labor, and postpartum period in 11 hypertensive mothers and 20 normal gravid control subjects and their newborn infants were studied. Maternal 2,3-DPG levels were significantly higher in the hypertensive mothers when compared to control mothers at similar gestational stages. However, no difference in 2,3-DPG levels was observed when newborn infants of hypertensive mothers were compared with those of normal control subjects.
Development of red blood cell preservative solutions began in the early 1900s. During the 1930s, definition of the glycolytic pathway of red blood cell metabolism provided a rational basis for these studies and contributed to the establishment of standard criteria for satisfactory red blood cell preservation. Recently, the use of adenine in the preservative solution has allowed a 14-day increase in red blood cell storage time. Additional approaches to red blood cell preservation are the use of optional additive solutions and rejuvenation. One major controversial issue is the clinical significance of transfusion of stored red blood cells that are depleted of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and have a high oxygen affinity.
The use of phosphate therapy in the management of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) has been controversial, particularly with respect to the effect of phosphate intermediates on tissue oxygenation. In a prospective randomized study we evaluated the effect of phosphate (8.5 mmol/h or approximately 6 g phosphate/24 h) (experimental group) vs. no phosphate therapy (control group) in 30 DKA patients, 15 in each group. Various determinations including erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), oxyhemoglobin dissociation (p50), serum phosphate, calcium, lactate, pyruvate, electrolytes, and response time to reach predetermined values for glucose, bicarbonate, and pH were measured at frequent intervals during the first 24 h of therapy and daily for 5 days after metabolic control. Initial electrolytes, glucose, pH, erythrocyte 2,3-DPG, lactate, and p50 were not different in either group. Whereas the experimental group had a greater level of 2,3-DPG than the control group by 48 h, the difference was not statistically ...
We report here the development of a new method that allows continuous determination of the oxygen dissociation curve for microsamples (600 µl) of whole blood under conditions of pH, p co2, methemoglobin concentration, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content closely approaching those found in the circulatory system. The method consists of gradually oxygenating a blood sample by adding H2O2 in the presence of catalase (EC 1.11.1.6), to produce the reaction H2O2 → H2O + ½ O2. Because the total oxygen content of blood can be derived from the known rate of H2O2 addition and the p o2 is determined in the liquid phase by an oxygen electrode, the two functions (total O2 content) and (% oxygen saturation) vs. p o2 are simple to calculate. p co2 and pH are controlled by adding base simultaneously with the gradual oxygenation of blood. The method described thus avoids the direct measurement of oxygen saturation of whole blood.
The aim of the work was to study the O2-transport changes to tissues in cardio-surgical patients suffering from CAD and operated during extra-corporeal blood circulation (ECC). The changes of selected haematologic variables, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and ATP concentration, acid-base balance parameters with p50 calculation were measured in the venous blood samples taken before the operation, during the operation and on the 1st, 2nd, 3d, 5th, 7th and 10th day after the operation. From the obtained results follows, that extreme haemodilution causes significant decrease of the haematocrit value (Htc) by 35%, the value of haemoglobin (Hb) by 37% and the count of erythrocytes (Er) by 37% from the initial values. The count of reticulocytes (Ret) was increased by 52%. In the days after operation the increase in Htc values, the values of Hb and count of erythrocytes was observed, whereby the initial values were not reach even on the 10th day after the operation. The increase of the reticulocytes count by 33% prevailed to the 10th day after the operation in comparison with the initial values. 2,3-DPG concentration was increased between 3d and 10th day after the operation by 30% and ATP concentration between 5th and 10th day was increased by 23% from the initial values. Hb-O2 saturation (SpO2) and pO2 were increased already during the operation, the increase prevailed until the 7th day by 27%, pO2 until the 3d day by 39% from the initial values. Calculated values p50 did not change in the course of this study--they fluctuated in range +/- 0.04 kPa from the initial value 3.55 kPa. Supposing multifactorial character of Hb oxygenation and deoxygenation process it is possible to conclude, that the determined changes of observed parameters did not significantly influence O2-transport to tissues during ECC. (Fig. 3, Ref. 12.)
The assumption that the Bohy coefficient (less than log p 50)/(less than pH) is equal to the haldane coefficient (less than h minus plus) of hemoglobin is shown to be incorrect in the presence of allosteric effectors such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The theoretical relation between the two coefficients in the presence of 2.3-diphosphoglycerate as derived. Experimental data on the variation of both coefficients with diphosphoglycerate concentration are presented and shown to be in agreement with prediction.
Adaptive modifications of heteromeric proteins may involve genetically based changes in single subunit polypeptides or parallel changes in multiple genes that encode distinct, interacting subunits. Here we investigate these possibilities by conducting a combined evolutionary and functional analysis of duplicated globin genes in natural populations of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) that are adapted to different elevational zones. A multilocus analysis of nucleotide polymorphism and linkage disequilibrium revealed that high-altitude adaptation of deer mouse hemoglobin involves parallel functional differentiation at multiple unlinked gene duplicates: two α-globin paralogs on chromosome 8 and two β-globin paralogs on chromosome 1. Differences in O2-binding affinity of the alternative β-chain hemoglobin isoforms were entirely attributable to allelic differences in sensitivity to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), an allosteric cofactor that stabilizes the low-affinity, deoxygenated conformation of the hemoglobin tetramer. The two-locus β-globin haplotype that predominates at high altitude is associated with suppressed DPG-sensitivity (and hence, increased hemoglobin-O2 affinity), which enhances pulmonary O2 loading under hypoxia. The discovery that allelic differences in DPG-sensitivity contribute to adaptive variation in hemoglobin–O2 affinity illustrates the value of integrating evolutionary analyses of sequence variation with mechanistic appraisals of protein function. Investigation into the functional significance of the deer mouse β-globin polymorphism was motivated by the results of population genetic analyses which revealed evidence for a history of divergent selection between elevational zones. The experimental measures of O2-binding properties corroborated the tests of selection by demonstrating a functional difference between the products of alternative alleles.
Groups of 40- and 90-day-old rats were exposed to 500 ppm CO (HbCO=31–43%) and simulated altitude (15,000 ft). Resulting hematologic changes were monitored after 1 day, 1 wk, 3–4 wk, and 9–11 wk of exposure. The two treatments resulted in similar changes in hemoglobin (Hb) and hematocrit ratio (Hct) in the young rats, while in the older group there were several small, but significant differences in these parameters. Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) fell 12.4–15.1% during the 1st wk of exposure in all groups except the young altitude rats, which remained at the control value. The former groups returned to control levels by the 3rd to 4th wk of exposure. Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) increased 21.6–26.1% above control during 3–4 wk of altitude exposure, but later (9–11 wk) returned toward control levels. CO exposure resulted in a sharp decrease in 2,3-DPG after 1 day of exposure only in the young rats. 2,3-DPG level progressively decreased with age in control rats. The effects of CO and altitude although similar in several respects (i.e., Hb, Hct, MCHC) differ with regard to red cell 2,3-DPG.
Overweight and obesity are becoming global health problems. Although genetics certainly plays a role, weight gain is ultimately the result of a failure in the balance between energy expenditure and energy intake. Obesity during the past few decades was paralleled with several changes in dietary habits favouring low phosphorus consumption. This is believed to compromise adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production that is involved in the regulation of energy metabolism. Ingestion of high-carbohydrate-low phosphorus food is known to increase insulin release, to simultaneously stimulate peripheral uptake of phosphorus and the phosphorylation of many compounds. This creates a competition for phosphorus that compromises its availability for ATP production, possibly translated into low diet-induced thermogenesis. Moreover, reduced hepatic ATP production is believed to be transmitted through neural afferents to the central nervous system, resulting in an increase in food intake. On the other hand, the positive relation between phosphorus and red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which reduces oxygen affinity to haemoglobin, would be expected to reduce the capacity for physical activity. In line with that, plasma phosphorus status was reported to be inversely related to body weight. Adequate intakes of phosphorus are thus potentially protective against rising obesity epidemic across the globe.
Blood stored in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) shows a progressive increase in oxygen affinity primarily as the result of a decrease in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG)1. Restoration of DPG levels (and presumably normal blood oxygen affinity) appears to occur promptly after transfusion of ACD-stored, DPG- depleted blood. Delayed restoration of DPG and oxygen affinity may impair oxygen delivery. Beutler and Wood reported that DPG values returned to nearly 50 percent of normal within 4 hours.2 Others have indicated that at least 25 percent of the final DPG level was achieved within 8 hours after completion of transfusion.3 Whether the rate of DPG restoration is significantly variable from patient to patient is uncertain because only a few patients have been reported.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the rapid-rate equilibrium analysis of the interactions between organic phosphates and hemoglobins. The linkage relationships between the binding of protons, organic phosphate, chloride, bicarbonate, and oxygen to hemoglobin are well documented. While the major organic phosphate in mammalian erythrocytes is 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), different organic phosphates are employed by other species. This chapter also presents the general principle of the method. The method involves the use of a dialysis cell with an upper chamber, containing the macromolecule and radioactive ligand, separated by a suitable membrane from a lower chamber. Buffer is pumped through the lower chamber at a constant rate, and the effluent is collected and sampled for radioactivity measurements. The equilibrium concentration of free ligand can be measured by determining the rate of dialysis of the radioactive ligand across the membrane. The chapter presents the preparation and characterization of hemoglobin.
It is known that bisulfite ions can selectively deplete red blood cells of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Studies of the effects of bisulfite on sodium-potassium permeability and metabolism were undertaken to clarify the physiologic role of the abundant quantities of 2,3-DPG in human erythrocytes. Treatment of cells with bisulfite results in a reversible increase in the passive permeability to Na and K ions. Metabolism of glucose to lactate is increased, with a rise in the intracellular ratio of fructose diphosphate to hexose monophosphate. Cell 2,3-DPG is quantitatively converted to pyruvate and inorganic phosphate. The permeability effects of bisulfite are countered by ethacrynic acid and by such oxidizing agents as pyruvate and methylene blue. Taken together, the results suggest that the effects on Na-K flux of bisulfite are related more to the reducing potential of this anion than to its capacity to deplete cells of 2,3-DPG.
Factors involved in blood-oxygen transport were studied in 46 pregnant women during the first trimester. All had type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes and comparisons were made with similar measurements from 19 non-diabetic pregnant women, also in the first trimester. The concentration of hemoglobin 1c (HbA1c) was significantly increased (7.6% versus 4.4%, p <0.01) and arterial oxygen saturation was decreased (0.95 versus 0.98 mol/mol, p<0.01) in the pregnant diabetics compared with the non-diabetics. The hemoglobin concentration was significantly elevated in the diabetic women (12.9 versus 12.1 g/100ml, p<0.01). Even though the red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content was the same in the two groups, and pH was significantly lower in the diabetic women, hemoglobin-oxygen affinity was slightly increased in the diabetic patients (P50 at actual pH: 26.2 versus 26.7 mmHg, p<0.05; P50 at pH 7.40: 27.0 versus 28.0 mmHg, p<0.01). The study has demonstrated certain modifications in the blood oxygen transport system ...
Phosphate has been proposed as an ergogenic aid since it may enhance O2 delivery and cardiac work efficiency by increasing plasma phosphate (P Pi), red blood cell phosphate (RBC Pi), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), RBC adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and P50. In 10 normal, fasting males we measured cardiac output (Q) by CO2 rebreathing, heart rate (HR), O2 deficit (O2DEF), and O2 consumption (VO2) during cycle ergometer exercise (60% of peak VO2). Stroke volume (SV) and arteriovenous O2 difference (A-VO2) were calculated. Following a baseline blood sample (BASE) for P Pi, RBC Pi, DPG, RBC ATP, and P50 (3 h before exercise), a single oral dose of dicalcium phosphate (129 mmol) and glucose (500 ml/10% sol, PHOS), or placebo (PLA), was administered in a random, crossover, double-blind fashion. Blood sampling was repeated immediately before and after exercise (PRE-EX and POST-EX). PHOS induced increases in P Pi (3.87 to 4.35 mg.dl-1, P less than 0.05), RBC Pi (3.86 to 4.63 mg.dl-1, P = 0.08), DPG (11.8 to 13.1 mumol.g-1 Hb, P less than 0.05), RBC ATP (4.2 to 4.4 mumol.g-1 Hb, P less than 0.05), and P50 (26.8 to 27.9 mm Hg, P less than 0.05) from BASE to PRE-EX. All variables remained elevated through the exercise period, as evidenced by higher levels than BASE at POST-EX (P less than 0.05). However, P50 was not different across conditions at PRE-EX (PHOS P50 = 27.9, PLA P50 = 28.3 mm Hg) or POST-EX (PHOS P50 = 28.0, PLA P50 = 28.1 mm Hg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase is one of the major protein components associated with the erythrocyte membrane. This has been shown by activity studies of specific membrane extracts and by the specificity of iodoacetate inactivation and labeling of the enzyme. Studies on the association of the enzyme with the membrane are complicated by the tendency of the ghosts to seal under certain conditions, thus rendering the enzyme inaccessible to its substrates. This crypticity of the enzyme activity can be eliminated by detergent treatment. Sodium dodecyl sulfate is preferred, since at low concentrations it causes only minor decreases in the enzyme activity, while Triton X-100 gives more extensive inactivation at all concentrations tested. Trypsin digestion can release glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase from the membrane, but it also causes a fraction of the ghosts to seal. The fraction which reseals is somewhat variable between different membrane preparations and is related to the prior treatments of the membranes. Under standard hypotonic hemolysis conditions (10 mm Tris), 60 to 80% of the glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase remains associated with the membrane. Aldolase exhibits similar behavior, while lactic dehydrogenase and hemoglobin are almost completely released. In the presence of ATP (1 mm) the amount of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase associated with the membrane is reduced to 5 to 20%. EDTA, Ca++, Mg++, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate show little effect at concentrations of 1 mm, although release of the enzyme is promoted by these agents at higher concentrations. At 0°, solubilized glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase is inactivated by ATP, a process that can be prevented if the enzyme is preincubated with NAD or if the incubation with ATP is performed at 25°. The ATP-promoted release of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase during hemolysis is not altered by preincubation with NAD or by raising the temperature to 25°. Therefore, the two phenomena (enzyme inactivation and release from the membrane) appear to be unrelated. It is postulated that the effect of ATP on enzyme release is due to a direct action of ATP on the membrane.
Abstract The oxygen equilibria of derivatives of human hemoglobin obtained by digestion with carboxypeptidases A and B have been determined in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and hexametaphosphate. Organic phosphates were capable of decreasing the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin from which the terminal histidine and tyrosine residues of the β-chain were removed by carboxypeptidase A but had no effect on the hemoglobin digested with carboxypeptidase B.
Hyperventilation (HV) and respiratory alkalosis are associated with hypophosphataemia, although the extent and duration of HV required to produce changes in serum phosphate levels are not known. We sought to characterize the effects of HV, with or without dextrose loading, on serum phosphate levels and other biochemical parameters. HV was monitored by controlling the end-tidal partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PETCO 2 ). The effect of dextrose was studied because infusion of a glucose load is known to promote a fall in serum phosphate via stimulation of glycolysis. Eight healthy volunteers were enrolled in four study protocols : (1) HV for 20 min to a PETCO 2 of 25-30 mmHg (mild) ; (2) HV for 20 min to a PETCO 2 of 15-20 mmHg (severe) ; (3) mild HV with intravenous dextrose loading, and (4) dextrose loading alone. Periodic measurements of serum phosphate, venous pH, serum 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and other parameters were made. Serum phosphate fell during HV and continued to decline after cessation of HV. Dextrose loading alone caused a fall in serum phosphate that continued for at least 30 min after cessation of the infusion (P 0.0002). HV combined with dextrose resulted in a greater decline in serum phosphate than either variable alone (P l 0.003). The maximal decline in serum phosphate occurred in severe HV, with a mean decrease of 0.38 mmol/l at 20 min after cessation of HV (P 0.0001). Serum phosphate was still significantly lowered compared with baseline at 90 min after cessation of HV (P l 0.001). Other significant changes seen with HV included a decrease in serum glucose (P 0.01), a decrease in serum potassium (P 0.05) and an increase in venous pH (P 0.007). Serum 2,3-DPG levels did not change significantly in any study protocol. Thus relatively mild acute HV produces significant changes in serum phosphate. In both mild and severe HV this effect is progressive after cessation of HV. This phenomenon has not been shown before, and may have significant clinical implications.
Fig. 1. System used for ODC determining the oxygen dissociation curve P0, and P00, are the oxygen and carbon dioxide electrodes. C is the cuvette containing the blood, M the motor used for magnetic stirring, and S a spacer CLIN. CHEM. 21/12, 1747-1753 (1975 We report here the development of a new method that allows continuous determination of the oxygen dissociation curve for microsamples (600 d) of whole blood under conditions of pH, Pco2, methemoglobin concentration, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content closely approaching those found in the circulatory system. The method consists of gradually oxygenating a blood sample by adding H202 in the presence of catalase (EC 1.11.1.6), to produce the reaction H202 -H20 + 1/2 02. Because the total oxygen content of blood can be derived from the known rate of H202 addition and the po2 i5 determined in the liquid phase by an oxygen electrode, the two functions (total 02 content) and (% oxygen saturation) vs. P02 are simple to calculate. pco2 and pH are controlled by adding base simultaneously with the gradual oxygenation of blood. The method described thus avoids the direct measurement of oxygen saturation of whole blood.
Incorporation experiments were carried out at 370 at pH 7.2 in 50 mM buffer made from Bis-Tris [N,N-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)iminotris(hydroxymethyl)-methane]. Aspirin was near 20 mM, and HbS, stripped of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (4), was adjusted to 2% final concentration. Radioactively labeled aspirin ("4C in the carboxyl group of acetyl, 6.60 Ci/mol and warranted isotopic purity of 98%) was obtained from Mallinckrodt Chemical Works. The extent of incorporation of ['4C]acetyl groups was measured by liquid scintillation counting, following the procedure described (1).
Adaptive modifications of heteromeric proteins may involve genetically based changes in single subunit polypeptides or parallel changes in multiple genes that encode distinct, interacting subunits. Here we investigate these possibilities by conducting a combined evolutionary and functional analysis of duplicated globin genes in natural populations of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) that are adapted to different elevational zones. A multilocus analysis of nucleotide polymorphism and linkage disequilibrium revealed that high-altitude adaptation of deer mouse hemoglobin involves parallel functional differentiation at multiple unlinked gene duplicates: two ␣-globin paralogs on chromosome 8 and two ␤-globin paralogs on chromosome 1. Differences in O 2-binding affinity of the alternative ␤-chain hemoglobin isoforms were entirely attributable to allelic differences in sensitivity to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), an allosteric cofactor that stabilizes the low-affinity, deoxygenated conformation of the hemoglobin tetramer. The two-locus ␤-globin haplotype that predominates at high altitude is associated with suppressed DPGsensitivity (and hence, increased hemoglobin-O 2 affinity), which enhances pulmonary O2 loading under hypoxia. The discovery that allelic differences in DPG-sensitivity contribute to adaptive variation in hemoglobin-O 2 affinity illustrates the value of integrating evolutionary analyses of sequence variation with mechanistic appraisals of protein function. Investigation into the functional significance of the deer mouse ␤-globin polymorphism was motivated by the results of population genetic analyses which revealed evidence for a history of divergent selection between elevational zones. The experimental measures of O 2-binding properties corroborated the tests of selection by demonstrating a functional difference between the products of alternative alleles.
In high-altitude mammals, fine-tuned adjustments in Hb-O 2 affinity are known to play a key role in adaptive modifications of the O 2 -transport system (3-7). Under conditions of extreme hypoxia when pulmonary O 2 loading is at a premium, an increased Hb-O 2 affinity can help maximize the level of tissue oxygenation for a given difference in O 2 tension between the sites of O 2 -loading in the lungs and the sites of O 2 -unloading in the tissue capillaries (6, 7). A common mechanism for increasing Hb-O 2 affinity involves decreasing the sensitivity of Hb to allosteric cofactors, particularly organic and inorganic anions such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and Cl Ϫ that preferentially bind to positively charged sites in deoxyHb (8, 9). Because the binding of DPG and Cl Ϫ helps stabilize the low-affinity deoxyHb structure through the formation of salt bridges within and between subunits, diminished sensitivity to these RBC cofactors results in an increased O 2 affinity by shifting the allosteric equilibrium in favor of the high-affinity oxyHb conformation. Evolutionary adjustments in the position of this allosteric equilibrium may require coordinated changes in both ␣-and ␤-chain subunits, thereby necessitating coordinated changes in two or more unlinked genes. Here we investigate this possibility by conducting a functional and evolutionary analysis of duplicated globin genes in natural populations of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) that are adapted to different elevational zones.
During blood bank storage, human red blood cells (RBCs) lose ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and intracellular K+ and shed spectrin-free micro vesicle^'^^^^ enriched in band 3, band 4.1, and acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Improved RBC preservation correlates with decreased losses of band 3, band 4.1, AChE, and lipids in the micr~vesicles.~~ We have recently shown that hypotonic experimental additive solutions (EASs) containing glutamine and glutamine plus phosphate (Pi) better maintain erythrocyte ATP and transmembrane ion balance compared with the conventional storage medium, Ads01.~' Because ATP and cytoskeletal proteins are proposed to be important in the maintenance of lipid a~ymmetry,~' we hypothesized that improved erythrocyte preservation in the EASs containing glutamine and glutamine plus Pi is due to maintenance of RBC membrane structure.
The erythrocytes of the short-beaked echidna (Tachyglossus aculeatus), an egg-laying mammal, were examined for the presence of phosphorylated compounds. The erythrocytes contained only 0.03 +/- 0.01 micromoles of adenosine 59-triphosphate per milliliter of cells. This amount is two orders of magnitude less than that in human cells. Although the echidna erythrocytes had an abundance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and other glycolytic intermediates, no other energy-rich pyridine and purine compounds were detected.
A total of 300 patients have been examined on the first-third day after surgical correction of acquired heart valve defects, aortocoronary bypass surgery, and left ventricular postinfarction aneurysm resection performed using cardiopulmonary bypass technique. The parameters of the cardio-respiratory system and the value of parameter a in Siggaard-Andersen oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (ODC) model have been studied. It has been shown that in some patients (about 5%) arterial blood hemoglobin saturation with O2 was lower than the corresponding blood pO2. In respiratory failure, parameter a decreases and the arterial part of ODC is shifted to the left, while in circulatory failure and hypoxia, parameter a of the venous blood increases and the curve is shifted to the right. The corresponding disorders corrected, the shifts are normalized. In severe postoperative complications and critical conditions additional (beside Bohr's effect and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate /2,3-DPG/ impact) ODC shifts, if any, are less marked. A statistically significant and considerable shift in parameter a of arterial ODC segment, as compared to venous one, has been observed. This ODC deviation from the model cannot be accounted for by pH, pCO2 or 2,3-DP impact. It can't be so far excluded that the effect observed might be partially due to regular errors of the measuring devices. However, it might turn out to be a new phenomenon of compensatory ODC shape changes in patients with acute cardiorespiratory disorders.
Observation of the ^(31)P signal from various intracellular phosphates can provide a convenient, nondestructive technique for determining intracellular conditions such as pH. This procedure has been explored with particular reference to the erythrocyte. Both the chemical shift of intracellular inorganic phosphate relative to that of serum phosphate and the positions of, and more especially the difference between, the chemical shifts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate have been used to monitor intracellular pH of erythrocytes whose hemoglobin has been liganded with carbon monoxide.
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate was determined in the erythrocytes of 17 diabetic and 18 obese patients. Results for obese subjects were significantly (P less than .01) different from those obtained for 21 healthy subjects. Results for obese and diabetic patients also differed significantly (P less than .01) but not those for diabetic and healthy subjects. Hemoglobin, hematocrit, or bicarbonate measurements did not differ among the three groups.
The relation between degree of cardiac functional impairment and changes in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) has been studied in 39 patients with noncyanotic heart disease. A progressive decline in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity was found with worsening cardiac function as assessed by cardiac index, arteriovenous oxygen (A-V O(2)) difference, and cardiac symptoms; this alteration in hemoglobin-oxygen binding represents a significant mechanism for adaptation to the limited oxygen supply imposed by the cardiac lesion. The highly significant correlation of mixed venous blood oxygen saturation (S[unk]V(VO2)) with 2,3-DPG and the position of the oxygen dissociation curve suggests that the level of deoxygenated hemoglobin is an important in vivo regulator of hemoglobin-oxygen affinity.
Hb Sendagi, a new unstable hemoglobin variant, was found in a Japanese male and his daughter, who have a moderate hemolytic anemia. The variant showed decreased stability upon heat and isopropanol precipitation tests. The variant did not separate from hemoglobin A by electrophoresis, but the abnormal beta-chain emerged ahead of the normal beta-chain on reverse-phase HPLC. Structural analyses revealed that the phenylalanine beta 42 (CD1), one of the critical amino acid residues in the heme pocket, had been replaced by valine. Oxygen equilibrium studies of the patient's hemolysates indicated that Hb Sendagi had a lowered oxygen affinity and a normal response to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Hb Hammersmith (beta 42 Phe----Ser) and Hb Louisville (Bucuresti) (beta 42 Phe----Leu) have previously been reported to have varying degrees of molecular instability and altered oxygen binding function. Hb Sendagi provides an additional model for elucidation of the role of the phenylalanine beta CD1 on the structure and function of hemoglobin.
Whole human blood was incubated for periods of up to 70 hours at 37 C under conditions that would cause minimal modifications in normal metabolic controls. Insofar as possible, the conditions utilized were similar to those found in vivo. Control of pH within the limits of 7.2 to 7.5 was achieved by the addition of isotonic Tris buffer or isotonic TES buffer. Glucose, inorganic phosphate, adenine, and pyruvate were added as needed throughout the incubation period. The ADP/ATP ratio and levels of ATP, total adenine nucleotides, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and other metabolic intermediates were maintained near those of fresh erythrocytes. The maintenance and control of red blood cell adenine nucleotide levels are discussed, with particular emphasis on factors affecting the rate of incorporation of adenine into adenine nucleotides.
The effects of an 8-hour hold at 22 degrees C prior to component preparation were evaluated in a split-bag study using nine units of blood preserved in citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine (CPDA-2). Each unit was divided in half, platelet-rich plasma removed at 0 or 8 hours, respectively, and the half units of red blood cells stored at 4 degrees C for 42 days. The only red blood cell metabolic differences seen in the bags held 8 hours (compared to those not held) were a 21 percent rise in adenosine triphosphate, which was not significant after 14 days of storage, and a 33 percent loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate which resulted in a loss curve similar to that seen with acid-citrate-dextrose blood. The logistic advantages seem to warrant an 8-hour holding period for red blood cells drawn in CPDA-2.
Arterial and venous blood gas tensions and pH were determined in 8 dogs during a control interval, while adrenal deficient, and following replacement therapy with corticosteroids. Additionally, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) values were measured, and oxygen tension (mm of Hg) when hemoglobin is half-saturated with oxygen (P50) values were calculated. Mixed venous oxygen tension (PVO2), but not arterial oxygen tension (Pao2), decreased significantly (P less than 0.001) during adrenal insufficiency. This change was reflected in a significantly decreased (P less than 0.001) venous oxygen content and a significant increase (P less than 0.001) of the arterial-venous oxygen content difference. Other changes during adrenal insufficiency were nonsignificant decreases in DPG and P50 values. Treatment with corticosteroids for 2 to 3 days resulted in a significant (P less than 0.001) increase in DPG concentrations, a significant (P less than 0.025) increase in P50, and a reduction in the arterial-venous oxygen content difference compared with those values found in the adrenal-deficient dog.
Energy metabolism in canine erythrocytes associated with inherited high Na+- and K+-stimulated adenosine triphosphatase [(Na,K)-ATPase] activity (HK cells) was compared with that in normal canine erythrocytes (LK cells). Activities of some of the glycolytic enzymes in the HK cells were significantly higher than those in LK cells. The concentrations of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and glycolytic intermediates in HK cells were almost equal to those in LK cells. Glucose utilization and lactate production by HK cells in vitro and incorporation of [32P]orthophosphate or [14C]glucose into 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in HK cells were higher than in LK cells. Radioactivity of [32P]ATP in HK cells was lower than in LK cells, but increased to approximately that of LK cells when (Na,K)-ATPase of HK cells was completely blocked by ouabain. When HK cells and LK cells were incubated in the absence of glucose, the concentration of ATP in HK cells was decreased more than that of LK cells. Although ouabain reduced the rate of decrease in ATP in HK cells, the decrease in ATP in HK cells was still 2-fold that in LK cells. The half-life of HK cells was about one-half that of LK cells. The results indicated that glycolysis is greater in HK cells than in LK cells, and that the increased glycolysis in HK cells was stimulated by an increased rate of ATP breakdown for active cation transport by the (Na,K)-ATPase and by increased degradation of ATP for some other pathway, eg, glutathione synthesis. Thus, the increased demand for ATP in HK cells might result in shortening the lifespan of HK erythrocytes.
We assessed hemoglobin affinity for oxygen (standard P50: pH 7.40, PCO2 40 Torr, temperature 37 degrees C) in 3 series of studies of 16 male subjects who performed exhaustive treadmill exercise of 10 min duration. Standard P50 was significantly elevated (0.7--2.5 Torr) during the last minute of and for 30 min following exercise. Exercise while carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO) was acutely elevated to 5% did not affect std P50 any differently than exercise alone. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was significantly elevated after exercise, but not during or 30 min postexercise, and it correlated significantly with P50 in 2 studies (r, 0.43--0.68). ATP (mumol/100 ml) was significantly elevated only 3 min postexercise. Serum [Na+], [K+], [Cl-], osmolarity, and hemoglobin (Hb) concentration were significantly elevated during exercise with [Na+] osmolarity, and [Hb] remaining significantly elevated postexercise. There was no significant correlation between std P50 and any of these variables. Multiple correlation regression analysis between P50 and 2,3-DPG, ATP, and [Na+] yields a coefficient of 0.86. We conclude this type of exercise is unique in causing a small change in std P50 that appears to be mediated by several factors.
Summary The effects of organic phosphates on the carbon monoxide binding and NMR spectra of the hemoglobin valency hybrids (α III CN β II ) 2 and (α II β III CN) 2 , have been studied. The stripped deoxy hybrids show heterogeneity in kinetics with two spectrophotometrically distinct forms which are not in rapid equilibrium. At most wavelengths the fast component contributes about 60 to 80% of the total absorbance change and has a rate of binding similar to that of isolated chains or other rapid hemoglobins. The slow component reacts at about the same rate as native deoxyhemoglobin. Upon addition of organic phosphates, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), the fast components become slowly reacting. Changes in the NMR spectra by phosphate parallel the kinetic observations. The slow reacting form is barely affected by the phosphates.
Abstract The haemoglobin-2,3-diphosphoglycerate complex structure has been solved at 2·5 A resolution using crystals grown from low-salt solutions. The results show some important differences with the precedent haemoglobin-2,3-diphosphoglycerate high-salt structure solved by Arnone. First, we observe a loss of symmetry in the binding site, secondly both of the lysine residues 82β interact with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at the same time, each making two contacts. This level of interaction is in agreement with the functional behaviour of natural haemoglobin mutants with mutations at the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site.
Inhabiting deep and sealed subterranean burrows, mole rats exhibit a remarkable suite of specializations, including eusociality (living in colonies with single breeding queens), extraordinary longevity, cancer immunity and poikilothermy, and extreme tolerance of hypoxia and hypercapnia. With little information available on adjustments in haemoglobin (Hb) function that may mitigate the impact of exogenous and endogenous constraints on the uptake and internal transport of O2, we measured haematological characteristics, as well as Hb-O2 binding affinity and sensitivity to pH (Bohr effect), CO2, temperature and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG, the major allosteric modulator of Hb-O2 affinity in red blood cells) in four social and two solitary species of African mole rats (family Bathyergidae) originating from different biomes and soil types across Central and Southern Africa. We found no consistent patterns in haematocrit (Hct) and blood and red cell DPG and Hb concentrations or in intrinsic Hb-O2 affinity and its sensitivity to pH and DPG that correlate with burrowing, sociality and soil type. However, the results reveal low specific (pH independent) effects of CO2 on Hb-O2 affinity compared with humans that predictably safeguard pulmonary loading under hypoxic and hypercapnic burrow conditions. The O2 binding characteristics are discussed in relation to available information on the primary structure of Hbs from adult and developmental stages of mammals subjected to hypoxia and hypercapnia and the molecular mechanisms underlying functional variation in rodent Hbs.
Blood oxygen transport function was studied in 40 patients with ischemic heart disease and afflicted or intact cardiac coronary arteries (as demonstrated by angiography) and in 23 individuals of the control group. Analysis of indices characterizing oxygen transport in patients with ischemic heart disease revealed diminished affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen with a shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve to the right and downward. The shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve is due a decrease in blood pH and increase of the role of auxiliary factors, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in patricular. The shifts in the curve were more marked in patients with poor physical load tolerance and affliction of the three main coronary arteries, which is an act of compensation aimed at improving oxygenation of the heart muscle.
Abstract Human erythrocyte ghosts were found to produce a number of phosphorylated carbohydrate intermediates from the pentose of inosine. These were separated by resin chromatography and identified by colorimetric, paper chromatographic, and enzymic techniques. Among these were glucose 6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, phosphoglycerates, and fructose diphosphate. Adenylates, initially low in the extract diminished during 3 hr. of incubation with inosine, whereas 2,3-diphosphoglycerate present in relatively large amounts initially did not increase substantially during the incubation.
Abstract We have synthesized and tested a new series of compounds that inhibit the polymerization of deoxyhemoglobin S by noncovalent interaction. They consist of three structural elements: A p-aminobenzoyl residue to anchor the compound in the central cavity between the beta chains, a number of glutamates in gamma linkage to provide tight binding, and one or two hydrophobic amino acid residues which block the intermolecular hydrophobic interaction of valine beta 6. The most active compound was p-aminobenzoyl-(gamma-Glu)5-Phe-Phe. It increases the solubility of deoxy-HbS by a factor of 1.3 at a concentration of only 5-6 mM and is effective even in the presence of physiological concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Inhabiting deep and sealed subterranean burrows, mole rats exhibit a remarkable suite of specializations, including eusociality (living in colonies with single breeding queens), extraordinary longevity, cancer immunity and poikilothermy, and extreme tolerance of hypoxia and hypercapnia. With little information available on adjustments in haemoglobin (Hb) function that may mitigate the impact of exogenous and endogenous constraints on the uptake and internal transport of O 2 , we measured haematological characteristics, as well as Hb-O 2 binding affinity and sensitivity to pH (Bohr effect), CO 2 , temperature and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG, the major allosteric modulator of Hb-O 2 affinity in red blood cells) in four social and two solitary species of African mole rats (family Bathyergidae) originating from different biomes and soil types across Central and Southern Africa. We found no consistent patterns in haematocrit (Hct) and blood and red cell DPG and Hb concentrations or in intrinsic Hb-O 2 affinity and its sensitivity to pH and DPG that correlate with burrowing, sociality and soil type. However, the results reveal low specific (pH independent) effects of CO 2 on Hb-O 2 affinity compared with humans that predictably safeguard pulmonary loading under hypoxic and hypercapnic burrow conditions. The O 2 binding characteristics are discussed in relation to available information on the primary structure of Hbs from adult and developmental stages of mammals subjected to hypoxia and hypercapnia and the molecular mechanisms underlying functional variation in rodent Hbs.
Acute bleeding is frequently associated with the need for transfusion of blood derivatives, especially red blood cells (RBCs). The administration of transfusion products containing cellular elements poses many risks and potential adverse effects. Due to the gradual decomposition of RBCs and as a result of the accumulation of products of cellular metabolism, i.e. anaerobic glycolysis, the biochemical composition of RBC concentrates changes. In particular, there is an increase in K + and lactate levels and a simultaneous decrease in pH, glucose and Na + levels. The storage time has no impact on Ca ++ levels in the RBC concentrate. The changes are proportional to the storage time. (1) Large-volume RBC transfusion may contribute to changes in the patients' plasma biochemical parameters (hyperkalemia) and may therefore be related not only to the volume of RBC products but also to storage duration. (2) Other changes include a reduction in red blood cell deformability, altered red blood cell adhesiveness and aggregability, and a reduction in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP. Bioactive compounds with proinflammatory effects also accumulate in the storage medium. These changes reduce posttransfusion viability of red blood cells. The clinical effects beyond posttransfusion viability are uncertain, but a growing body of evidence suggests that the storage lesion may reduce tissue oxygen availability, have proinflammatory and immunomodulatory effects, and influence morbidity and mortality. (3) 
The mammalian erythrocyte depends on a complex glycolytic mechanism for most of its energy. It is believed that this mechanism controls the transfer of cations across the cell membrane, and serves to maintain the biconcave shape of the red blood cell. Adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate participate in the energy exchanges involved in these processes (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) .
Several experimental studies investigated the mechanisms of action of intradiscal and periganglionic injection of an oxygen-ozone mixture. Ozone has a powerful oxidizing effect on the proteoglycans of the nucleus pulpous, resulting in matrix dehydration, degeneration, and subsequent reduction of the herniating disc volume. Small-volume reduction can result in a significant drop in intradiscal pressure, thereby alleviating compression on the nerve roots and surrounding vessels with consequent reduction of venous stasis, nerve roots edema, and hypoxia. Also, it increases tissue oxygenation as it increases the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate within the red blood cells. Moreover, ozone has also a potent analgesic and anti-inflammatory actions through inhibition of synthesis and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, prostaglandins E2, bradykinins, and stimulation of release of anti-inflammatory cytokines [7, 8, [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] .
Efforts to elucidate the pathophysiology of the disease in the 1980s culminated in a detailed description of the kinetics of gelation, outlining the factors which promote Hb S polymerization. Essentially, with deoxygenation there is a critical delay time before polymerization commences with an initial nucleus followed by rapid extension [3] . This delay time of gelation is inversely proportional to about the 30th power of the deoxy-Hb S concentration within the RBC. Significant rheological changes ensue with increased viscosity, which promotes vaso-occlusion and thrombotic phenomena. Moreover, if the transit time from the venous end of the capillary bed to the arterial side is shorter than the delay time of gelation, polymerization and vascular occlusion would be avoided. Several other factors including pH, O 2 tension, temperature and the RBC 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels all influence the rate of gelation with implications for potential therapeutic interventions [4] .
The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of intense interval training on erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels at rest and after maximal exercise. Eight normal men, mean ± SE=24.2±4.3 years, trained 4 days·week−1 for a period of 8 weeks. Each training session consisted of eight maximal 30-s rides on a cycle ergometer, with 4 min active rest between rides. Prior to and after training the subjects performed a maximal 45-s ride on an isokinetic cycle ergometer at 90 rev·min−1 and a graded leg exercise test (GLET) to exhaustion on a cycle ergometer. Blood samples were obtained from an antecubital vein before, during and after the GLET only. Training elicited significant increases in the amount of work done during the 45-s ride (P 0.05), at exhaustion (Pre=12.0±0.8; Post=11.2±0.8 Μmol·g−1 Hb;P>0.05) or during 30 min of recovery from the GLET. Additionally, acute exercise (pre-training GLET) did not effect any change in 2,3-DPG at exhaustion or during recovery from exercise compared to resting values. The higher\(\dot V_{{\text{O}}_{\text{2}} }\) max and total recovery\(\dot V_{{\text{O}}_{\text{2}} }\) values observed after training appear to be unrelated to 2,3-DPG levels. Under the present conditions, the role, if any, of 2,3-DPG in enhancing tissue oxygenation during increased metabolic demand remains obscure.
Various organic ions determine the O₂ affinity of hemoglobin and hemocyanin. In the two pigment systems different ions are involved but both exhibit regulative mechanisms responsive to the severity of hypoxic stress. The depressing effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine 5′-triphosphate (ATP), and guanosine 5′-triphosphate (GTP) often determines the O₂ affinity of hemoglobin in nonstressed vertebrates and is important during hypoxia, when organic phosphate concentration decreases. In crustaceans, hypoxia promotes increased uric acid and L-lactate blood concentrations, which increase the O₂ affinity of hemocyanin. As with phosphates and hemoglobin, lactate and urate contribute to the O₂ affinity of hemocyanin in nonstressed animals. Membrane receptors of erythrocytes from many vertebrates are stimulated by epinephrine. This stimulation results in a steady intracellular pH despite an extracellular acidosis. A constant intracellular pH prevents a decrease in hemoglobin O₂ affinity and often in O₂ content...
Several functional tests were performed to compare Hb A, Hb A2, and Hb Lepore Boston, which has a delta-beta crossover in the region of residues 87 to 116. Oxygen equilibrium curves determined by an automatic apparatus in 0.1 M potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, at 20 degrees showed that the p50 was 5.8 mm Hg for Hb Lepore Boston, in contrast to 8.1 and 10.3 mm Hg for Hb A2 and Hb A, respectively. The n values (Hill coefficinets) of Hb Lepore Boston and Hb A2 were slightly smaller than that of Hb A. The effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositolhexophosphate on the p50 of Hb Lepore Boston and Hb A2 was less than that on the p50 of Hb A. The molecular stability to mechanical shaking of Hb Lepore Boston and Hb A2 showed that the oxy forms of Hb Lepore Boston and Hb A2 denatured at a rate 3 times faster than that of Hb A. MetHb Lepore Boston was more unstable than MetHb A2 to mechanical shaking. These results indicate that, although the molecular stability of Hb Lepore Boston is more similar to that of Hb A2 than that of Hb A, the oxygen-binding properties of Hb Lepore differ from both Hb A and Hb A2.
Two male English springer spaniel dogs with a chronic hemolytic anemia and sporadic hemolytic crises, historically related to "stress" situations, were studied. Although canine erythrocytes are in general known to be more alkaline fragile, erythrocytes from both patients began to lyse earlier, at significantly lower pH values (near pH 7.4 at 37 degrees C), than erythrocytes from control dogs. Hyperventilation induced by 30 minutes of exercise, placement in a 39 degrees C water bath, or intravenous doxapram increased venous blood pH in dog 1 and control dogs, but transient hemoglobinemia, hemoglobinuria, and severe bilirubinuria occurred only in the studied patient. The erythrocyte phosphofructokinase (PFK) activity was severely decreased in both dogs (10% of controls). The erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content was markedly reduced and the cell chloride content was consequently increased. This change in cell chloride content is related to an increase in the erythrocyte pH, which may partially explain the pathogenesis of hemolysis in canine PFK deficiency. Thus, these studies demonstrate a presumably inherited erythrocyte PFK deficiency in English springer spaniels, which causes an increased in vitro and in vivo erythrocyte alkaline fragility. Dogs with PFK deficiency and inducible hemolytic crises may become a valuable genetic animal model in which to study the pathophysiology of hemolysis.
Two month-old Wistar rats were exposed continuously for six weeks, either to 2.0 +/- 0.1 ppm nitric oxide (NO) mixed homogeneously with air for tests, or to ambient air for controls. Oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (ODC), erythrocytic variables, methemoglobin (MetHb) concentration and lung structure, particularly through electron microscopy studies, were investigated each week of exposure. The hemoglobin affinity for oxygen was not modified, probably as a result of both pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) stability. Moreover MetHb formation was not found in treated rats. The few ultrastructural alterations found under electron microscopy may not prove NO-induced since they were found similarly in both groups. Slight emphysematous changes were found only in 1 micrometer-thick sections of lungs from NO-treated rats.
The beneficial effects of physical activity and the advantages of good physical fitness are well established both in healthy individuals and in those with chronic disease (20,21). Aerobic fitness, as measured by maximal oxygen (O2) uptake (V˙O2max), is a strong predictor of cardiovascular risk (2). In patients with type 1 diabetes, poor fitness represents an important barrier to regular physical activity (9). Consequently, better understanding of the underlying factors involved in the possible impairment of V˙O2max in patients with type 1 diabetes is warranted. ::: ::: Low aerobic fitness levels have been reported in several (28,32), albeit not all (21,39), studies in adults with type 1 diabetes and seem to be associated with poor glycemic control, as reflected by high glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels (5,24,30). A high HbA1c level is indeed an important factor in the initiation and progression of micro- and macrovascular complications. In turn, these complications may alter the functioning of tissues that are important for exercise adaptations, such as blood vessels, lungs, and heart (11,41) and, consequently, reduce V˙O2max. ::: ::: However, there may be other factors involved in the impairment of aerobic fitness observed in individuals with poor glycemic control. In this respect, the HbA1c– V˙O2max relation has been found even in the absence of diabetic complications in young patients with type 1 diabetes (24,35). O2 supply, including arterial O2 delivery and O2 release (i.e., oxyhemoglobin (O2Hb) dissociation) to active muscles, is a well-established factor influencing V˙O2max in healthy subjects or subjects with a chronic disease (17,29). In adolescents with type 1 diabetes, one study reported reduction in forearm blood flow after local exercise (rhythmic handgrip) despite the absence of any otherwise clinically detectable vascular disorders (33). To our knowledge, arterial O2 transport capacity has never been investigated during exercise in patients with type 1 diabetes and with different levels of HbA1c. ::: ::: Several in vitro studies suggest possibly increased O2Hb affinity (i.e., a leftward shift of the O2 dissociation curve) and/or decreased sensitivity of hemoglobin to the allosteric effect of organic phosphates as a result of hemoglobin glycation at a degree corresponding to HbA1c levels in patients with poor glycemic control (i.e., 8%) (10,25,26,36). Some further insight into muscle O2Hb dissociation in type 1 diabetes is required, particularly in vivo during maximal exercise and in accordance with HbA1c levels. In this respect, near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) allows noninvasive and functional monitoring of changes in skeletal muscle oxygenation including O2Hb dissociation (18). Besides hemoglobin glycation, it is important to take into account the erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) level. This stimulus for a rightward shift of the O2Hb dissociation curve has been found to be, contradictorily, either reduced (15,16) or elevated in patients with type 1 diabetes (8), especially in cases of chronically impaired glycemic control (1). ::: ::: Therefore, we aimed to determine whether O2 delivery and/or release to an active muscle during maximal exercise is altered in patients with uncomplicated type 1 diabetes and high levels of HbA1c and whether any subsequent relation to impairment in V˙O2max exists.
Methyl acetyl phosphate specifically acetylates valine-1, lysine-82, and lysine-144 in the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding cleft of hemoglobin S, thereby inhibiting its gelation (greater than 32 gm/dl) at pH 7.4. To extend these findings, the effect of methyl acetyl phosphate on the density of sickle cells has been evaluated by phthalate ester gradient centrifugation and by Larex-Percoll density centrifugation. After treatment with methyl acetyl phosphate (40% modification of the intracellular hemoglobin S), oxygenated sickle erythrocytes had a lowered density profile, as measured in a phthalate ester gradient. Thus 83% of untreated oxygenated sickle cells had densities greater than 1.098 gm/ml, whereas after treatment with methyl acetyl phosphate, 52% of the cells were in this density range. Under anaerobic conditions, methyl acetyl phosphate was even more effective in lowering cell density. For example, 50% of untreated deoxygenated cells had densities greater than 1.098 gm/ml, but none of the cells treated with methyl acetyl phosphate were this dense. For studies with Larex-Percoll density gradients, sickle erythrocytes were first separated into two fractions (densities greater than and less than 1.1 gm/ml) by Percoll-Hypaque centrifugation. The amount of oxygenated sickle cells exhibiting densities greater than 1.074 gm/ml decreased by about 32% on treatment with methyl acetyl phosphate. For deoxygenated sickle cells, treatment with methyl acetyl phosphate resulted in an average decrease of approximately 24% in the number of cells with densities greater than 1.074 gm/ml.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The chemical and physical properties of haemoglobin S derived from homozygotes for this haemoglobin in Sicily were examined, as well as some erythrocytic characteristics. Sicilian Hb S was identical to that found in USA black patients in electrophoretic mobility on both starch and citrate agar media, solubility, mechanical precipitation rate of oxyhaemoglobins, and minimum gelling concentration, as well as by peptide mapping and amino-acid analysis of all beta-chain peptides. Taken together with the presence in Sicily of African blood group markers and certain historical considerations, it seems clear that the source of Hb S in Sicily is Africa. While the clinical severity in nine Sicilian children did not seem remarkably different from the disease in the USA, the most severe and fatal complications were not seen. Mean Hb F Was 10.5% and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) values were higher in Sicilian homozygotes than in black USA counterparts (21.79 mumol/g Hb vs 15.16). Red cell AT values were also slightly higher in Sicilian patients. The presence of concomitant thalassaemia was excluded by both family studies and globin chain synthetic ratios. In conclusion, haemoglobin S in Sicilian homozygotes is identical to Hb S found in USA blacks. Although the severity of the disease seems quite similar in both groups of patients, other erythrocytic properties were found to be different. Whether these factors influence severity remains to be elucidated.
Hypoxia is the stimulus for activation of red cell carbonic anhydrase II (CAII) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) synthesis of chick red blood cells during late embryonic development. We have tested whether plasma catecholamines are involved as hormonal mediators, because hypoxia is a well-known stimulus for catecholamine release in mammalian fetuses. Plasma catecholamines were measured in 8- to 16-day-old chick embryos. Plasma levels of norepinephrine (NE) were initially low, but its concentration increased rapidly from 2.7 nM (day 12) to 13.4 nM at day 13 and 25.5 nM at day 16. Epinephrine (E) was not detectable before day 13. Short-term hypoxic exposure of day 11 embryos (1-h incubation at 13.5% O2) increased plasma NE concentration fivefold compared with the controls but had no effect on E. During 15-h in vitro incubation of red blood cells from day 11, addition of 1 microM NE to the incubation medium increased the red cell 2,3-DPG concentration nearly threefold and CAII activity sixfold compared with the control. The CAII activity and 2,3-DPG concentration were also increased when cells were incubated with plasma from late chick embryos. The activation was induced by beta-adrenergic stimulation of adenylyl cyclase. Atenolol and propranolol blocked the effects of NE and embryonic chick plasma. Analysis of de novo protein synthesis ([35S]methionine incorporation) demonstrated that catecholamines stimulate the synthesis of several proteins besides CAII. The results indicate that developmental changes of plasma NE concentration are instrumental in the adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate-dependent activation of CAII and 2,3-DPG synthesis of red blood cells from late chick embryos.
In vitro metabolism of erythrocytes packed at 70 and 90 per cent hematocrits and stored in various CPD-adenine preservatives was studied. It was found that maintenance of acceptable levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) for the full 42 days of storage could be accomplished only if glucose levels were doubled from the standard 138.7 mM concentration to 277.5 mM level. If glucose levels were doubled, the amount of adenine could be decreased from 4.07 mM (0.50 mM final concentration) to 2.04 mM (0.25 mM final concentration) with maintenance of ATP at greater than 2.0 mumoles/g Hb. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations were essentially absent by 21 days in the various media studies. Thus, in vitro levels of ATP appear to be maintained at acceptable levels in a CPD media modified to contain 2 times glucose and 2.04 mM adenine.
Abstract The kinetics of oxygen uptake and release by human, salamander (Amphiuma means), and artificially constructed red cells were measured under a variety of physiological conditions using stopped-flow, rapid mixing techniques. The results were analyzed quantitatively using the generalized, three-dimensional disc model that was developed in two previous publications (Vandegriff, K. D., and Olson, J. S. (1984) Biophys. J. 45, 825-835 and Vandegriff, K. D., and Olson, J. S. (1984) J. Biol. Chem. 259, 12609-12618). The apparent rate of gas exchange is governed primarily by the oxygen flux at the red cell surface. In the case of uptake, this flux is roughly independent of intracellular chemical reaction parameters and inversely proportional to the thickness of the unstirred solvent layer which is adjacent to the red cell surface. For release experiments in the presence of high concentrations of sodium dithionite, the flux at the cell surface is inversely proportional to the oxygen affinity of the intracellular hemoglobin and roughly independent of the thickness of the external unstirred solvent layer. As a result, the effects of cell size, internal heme concentration, and pH are expressed differently in the two types of kinetic experiments. The rate of oxygen uptake depends on roughly the second power of the surface area to volume ratio of the erythrocyte, whereas the rate of release is much less dependent on the size and shape of the red cell. The half-time of oxygen uptake is directly proportional to intracellular heme concentration for cells of equivalent geometries; the half-time of oxygen release is linearly dependent on internal heme concentration but, at low heme concentrations, is determined primarily by the rate of oxygen dissociation from hemoglobin. The rate of cellular oxygenation is roughly independent of pH and internal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration; in contrast, the rate of deoxygenation depends markedly on these conditions. As the pH is lowered or the internal diphosphoglycerate concentration is raised, the overall oxygen affinity of the cell suspension decreases severalfold, and the rate of oxygen release increases by roughly the same extent.
Hydrogen exchange experiments using functional labeling and fragment separation methods were performed to study interactions at the C terminus of the hemoglobin beta subunit that contribute to the phosphate effect and the Bohr effect. The results show that the H-exchange behavior of several peptide NH at the beta chain C terminus is determined by a transient, concerted unfolding reaction involving five or more residues, from the C-terminal His146 beta through at least Ala142 beta, and that H-exchange rate can be used to measure the stabilization free energy of interactions, both individually and collectively, at this locus. In deoxy hemoglobin at pH 7.4 and 0 degrees C, the removal of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) or pyrophosphate (loss of a salt to His143 beta) speeds the exchange of the beta chain C-terminal peptide NH protons by 2.5-fold (at high salt), indicating a destabilization of the C-terminal segment by 0.5 kcal of free energy. Loss of the His146 beta 1 to Asp94 beta 1 salt link speeds all these protons by 6.3-fold, indicating a bond stabilization free energy of 1.0 kcal. When both these salt links are removed together, the effect is found to be strictly additive; all the protons exchange faster by 16-fold indicating a loss of 1.5 kcal in stabilization free energy. Added salt is slightly destabilizing when DPG is present but provides some increased stability, in the 0.2 kcal range, when DPG is absent. The total allosteric stabilization energy at each beta chain C terminus in deoxy hemoglobin under these conditions is measured to be 3.8 kcal (pH 7.4, 0 degrees C, with DPG). In oxy hemoglobin at pH 7.4 and 0 degrees C, stability at the beta chain C terminus is essentially independent of salt concentration, and the NES modification, which in deoxy hemoglobin blocks the His146 beta to Asp94 beta salt link, has no destabilizing effect, either at high or low salt. These results appear to show that the His146 beta salt link, which participates importantly in the alkaline Bohr effect, does not reform to Asp94 beta or to any other salt link acceptor in a stable way in oxy hemoglobin at low or high salt conditions.
Hemoglobin is in a state of dynamic equilibrium between high and low affinity forms. As in the case of many other enzymes, the equilibrium can be shifted by binding effector molecules at sites remote from the protein's active site. We do not yet know the rules by which nature has chosen anionic or cationic effectors as control molecules for specific enzyme forms, but it appears clear that in the case of human hemoglobin the oxygen affinity is primarily modulated by the concentration of anions in the external medium. In many laboratories around the world the question of how this anionic control is achieved is under investigation. This investigation began many years ago and many of the questions that faced early investigators of hemoglobin function are still facing researchers today. Detailed studies of the structural and functional properties of human hemoglobin variants have provided greater insight into the mechanism by which cofactor binding is linked to oxygen binding. Of particular interest in this regard are the substitutions which involve the eight positively charged residues of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site. The characteristics of these hemoglobin mutants and their response to organic and inorganic anions suggest that the equilibrium between high and low affinity conformations of hemoglobin is strongly affected by the net positive charge in the central cavity. Thus it appears that in normal human hemoglobin the binding of anionic cofactors directly influences the oxygen affinity by neutralizing the charged groups of the diphosphoglycerate binding site and thereby stabilizing the deoxy conformation.
Abstract We report on the characterization of a novel genomic assembly (ARYD3) recovered from formation water (17.6% salinity) and crude oil enrichment amended by isolated soy proteins (0.2%), and incubated for 100 days under anaerobic conditions at 50 °C. Phylogenetic and phylogenomic analysis demonstrated that the ARYD3 is unaffiliated with all currently described bacterial phyla and candidate phyla, as evident by the low AAI (34.7%), shared gene content (19.4%), and 78.9% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to Halothiobacillus neapolitanus, its closest cultured relative. Genomic characterization predicts a slow-growing, non-spore forming, and non-motile Gram-negative rod. Adaptation to high salinity is potentially mediated by the production of the compatible solutes cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG), α-glucosylglycerate, as well as the uptake of glycine betaine. Metabolically, the genome encodes primarily aminolytic capabilities for a wide range of amino acids and peptides. Interestingly, evidence of propionate degradation to succinate via methyl-malonyl CoA was identified, suggesting possible capability for syntrophic propionate degradation. Analysis of ARYD3 global distribution patterns identified its occurrence in a very small fraction of Earth Microbiome Project datasets examined (318/27,068), where it consistently represented an extremely rare fraction (maximum 0.28%, average 0.004%) of the overall community. We propose the Candidatus name Mcinerneyibacterium aminivorans gen. nov, sp. nov. for ARYD3T, with the genome serving as the type material for the novel family Mcinerneyibacteriaceae fam. nov., order Mcinerneyibacteriales ord. nov., class Mcinerneyibacteria class nov., and phylum Mcinerneyibacteriota phyl. nov. The type material genome assembly is deposited in GenBank under accession number VSIX00000000.
Dietary restriction of phosphate was found to prevent the development of anemia in partially nephrectomized rats. In an attempt to examine the reason for this beneficial effect, hematologic and nephrologic studies were carried out on normal and on partially nephrectomized rats fed either a normal or a low-phosphate diet. It was first found that a low-phosphate diet ameliorates the degree of renal impairment found four weeks after partial nephrectomy. Nevertheless, it did not eliminate it, and the degree of uremia actually observed should have been associated with a significant reduction in hemoglobin and red cell mass. However, it did reduce serum phosphate and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) levels and increase hemoglobin affinity for oxygen to a degree that should impair oxygen transport to the tissues. That the low phosphate actually caused tissue hypoxia with increased stimulation of the bone marrow was furthermore suggested by the observation that normal rats fed a low-phosphorous diet developed a significant increase above normal in hemoglobin concentration and red cell mass. It was concluded that the effect of a low-phosphate diet on the anemia of uremia is caused by a combination of reduced renal failure and increased tissue hypoxia.
Relationships between various types of chronic anemia, wound healing, and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) were examined in rabbits. Wound tensile strength and energy absorption were not affected by chronic iron-deficiency anemia, the chronic hemolytic anemia caused by intravenous water infusion nor by chronic hemolytic anemia caused by intravenous water infusion nor by chronic phenylhydrazine-induced anemia. Red cell 2,3 DPG levels were increased in the anemia of iron deficiency and were normal in the rabbits with chronic phenylhydrazine-induced anemia at the time of wound excision but were low following phynylhydrazine injection. The results show that chronic anemia per se does not affect the tensile strength and energy adsorption of wound healing. The findings suggest that the wound healing process may differ in certain types of anemia.
. Purpose: Aerobic fitness, as reflected by maximal oxygen (O 2 ) uptake (V O 2max ), is impaired in poorly controlled patients with type 1 diabetes. The mechanisms underlying this impairment remain to be explored. This study sought to investigate whether type 1 diabetes and high levels of glycated hemoglobin (HbA 1c ) influence O 2 supply including O 2 delivery and release to active muscles during maximal exercise. Methods: Two groups of patients with uncomplicated type 1 diabetes (T1D-A, n = 11, with adequate glycemic control, HbA 1c G7.0%; T1D-I, n = 12 with inadequate glycemic control, HbA 1c 98%) were compared with healthy controls (CON-A, n = 11; CON-I, n = 12, respectively) matched for physical activity and body composition. Subjects performed exhaustive incremental exercise to determine V O 2max . Throughout the exercise, near-infrared spectroscopy allowed investigation of changes in oxyhemoglobin, deoxyhemoglobin, and total hemoglobin in the vastus lateralis. Venous and arterialized capillary blood was sampled during exercise to assess arterial O 2 transport and factors able to shift the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. Results: Arterial O 2 content was comparable between groups. However, changes in total hemoglobin (i.e., muscle blood volume) was significantly lower in T1D-I compared with that in CON-I. T1D-I also had impaired changes in deoxyhemoglobin levels and increase during high-intensity exercise despite normal erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels. Finally, V O 2max was lower in T1D-I compared with that in CON-I. No differences were observed between T1D-A and CON-A. Conclusions: Poorly controlled patients displayed lower V O 2max and blunted muscle deoxyhemoglobin increase. The latter supports the hypotheses of increase in O 2 affinity induced by hemoglobin glycation and/or of a disturbed balance between nutritive and nonnutritive muscle blood flow. Furthermore, reduced exercise muscle blood volume in poorly controlled patients may warn clinicians of microvascular dysfunction occurring even before overt microangiopathy.
Acclimatisation to a reduced inspiratory partial pressure of oxygen (P I O 2 ) initiates metabolic and cardiorespiratory adaptations that in¯uence oxygen transport and utilisation. Some adaptations may facilitate endurance performance, whereas others are less bene®cial. Although equivocal, human studies have demonstrated that either hypobaric or normobaric hypoxia per se is responsible for increases in blood haemoglobin (Hb) concentration (Berglund 1992) , muscle mitochondrial volume, capillary supply (Desplanches et al. 1993) , aerobic enzyme activities and myoglobin concentration (Terrados et al. 1990 ), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (Mairbaurl et al. 1986 ), rate of free fatty acid mobilisation (Young et al. 1982) or an elevated blood buering capacity (Favier et al. 1995) . Altitude acclimatisation improves physical performance at altitude (Pugh 1967; Maher et al. 1974) , but the eects on sea-level performance are less clear. Since the 1950's, 64 out of 91 studies on the eects of altitude training on sea-level endurance performance have been conducted without a performance-matched control group trained in normoxia, and of the 15 controlled investigations, only 4 have reported performance-enhancing bene®ts .
Red cell glycolytic intermediates and adenosinetriphosphate were evaluated in term infants from birth to on year of age and compared to values obtained from normal adults and subjects wit a population of a similar mean cell age. The concentration of glycolytic intermediates, with the exception of phosphoenolypyruvate were elevated at birth when compared to normal subjects, consistent with a young mean red cell population. The mean levels of red cell glucose-6-phosphate, fructose-6-phosphate, and "total triose phosphate" were elevated on days 1 and 4 of life when compared to both red cells from normal adults and subjects with a similar young mean red cell age. Glucose-6-phosphate steadily increased in concentration, peaked at 3 to 4 wk of age, and then progressively decreased in value. Total triose phosphate declined to a mildly elevated concentration by 3 to 4 wk of age. The mean concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate were normal on day 1, increased on day 4, and then declined by 3 to 4 wk to normal values, until 5 to 6 months when both increased. The mean phosphoenolpyruvate concentration was decreased on day 1 of age when compared to red cells of a similar mean age, but this decrease was not significant (P greater than 0.05). The mean concentrations of 3-phosphoglycerate increased at 3 to 4 wk of age and remained elevated for cell age at 11 to 12 months but this increase was no statistically significant (P greater than 0.05). 3-Phosphoglycerate levels did not change significantly throughout the first year of life. At one year of age, all red glycolytic intermediates and adenosine triphosphate were elevated when compared to red cells from normal adults, but were comparable to those observed in subjects with a red cell population of a similar mean cell age, consistent with the persistence of a young red cell population throughout the first year of life.
ABSTRACT: Placental blood was harvested using a novel collection system into packs containing citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine and then stored for 28 d. Before and during storage, sterility, adequacy of anticoagulation, blood chemistry, and red cell viability were assessed weekly. The average volume of blood collected was 65 mL (range 30–110 mL) with a 0.42 hemocrit once diluted in anticoagulant. All blood culture specimens were sterile at collection and during storage. Adequate anticoagulation (activated partial thromboplastin time > 90 s) on the day of collection was achieved in 15 specimens, all less than 65 mL of blood volume. Ten specimens, in blood volumes ranging from 65 to 110 mL, had mean activated partial thromboplastin time values of 65.3 ± 10.2 s. Activated partial thromboplastin time values for all 25 specimens at 1,2, 3, and 4 wk storage were >90 s, presumably because of the decline in labile clotting factors after 24 h of storage. Hematocrit, red cell ATP, and red cell shape were maintained during storage. As expected, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate declined and potassium levels rose significantly but were not different than levels reported for adult cells similarly preserved. Based on our results, it appears that placental blood represents a potential source of autologous transfusion for the sick neonate over the first month of life.
Abstract The oxygen equilibrium of whole chicken blood has a P 50 of 52.3 mm Hg and a Hill coefficient of 2.6 at pH 7.4 and 37 °C when determined with new microtechniques which are not vitiated by cellular respiration. The apparent failure of the haemoglobin to reach full saturation at arterial P O 2 is discussed in relation to the haemoglobin-oxygen equilibrium concept. The low affinity observed is due to intraerythrocytic inositol pentaphosphate (IPP), and the affinity of a haemolysate ‘stripped’ of IPP is greatly increased ( Δ log P 50 = 1.25). Unlike the mammalian analogue 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, IPP concentration of whole blood does not decrease after incubation for 10 hr at 37 °C.
Thirty frequently transfused patients on long term hemodialysis were studied and a similar number of age and sex-matched patients who were infrequently transfused were used as a control group to ascertain the influence of a previous myocardial infarction (MI) on transfusion requirements. The frequency of previous MI on electrocardiogram (ECG) in the transfused and control groups was similar (40 percent and 37 percent, respectively). In frequently transfused dialysis patients with MI, the hemoglobin level (transfusion trigger) at which these patients were transfused was higher than that of frequently transfused patients without MI (8.3 +/- 1.5 g per dl vs. 6.9 +/- 1 g per dl, p less than 0.01) which indicated that patients without MI tolerated a greater degree of anemia than those with MI. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels were significantly elevated in all transfused patients when compared to matched controls. However, levels of 2,3-DPG were significantly higher in MI patients receiving frequent transfusions than in other transfused patients, suggesting oxygen demands may not have been fully met despite the frequent transfusions. The results suggest levels of 2,3-DPG deserve further study in relation to the adequacy of tissue oxygenation in anemic dialysis patients.
Abstract Theory is presented relating to the binding of an effector to two states of a protein acceptor coexisting in equilibrium. The problem is treated in terms of the four possible cases which specify relations between numbers of binding sites and intrinsic binding constants relevant to the acceptor states. It is shown that a distinction between these cases may be possible on the basis of the form of a plot of unbound effector concentration versus the constituent equilibrium coefficient which may be calculated from the sedimentation coefficient of the protein constituent. Particularly noteworthy in this respect is the finding that a turning point may exist in this plot for defined conditions with systems in which binding sites are not conserved (and binding affinities are altered) on polymer formation. The latter type of system is exemplified by studies on methaemoglobin A in 0.25 M sodium acetate, pH 5.4. In the absence of added organic phosphate effectors, a dimer-tetramer equilibrium operates governed by an association constant of 4.15 ± 0.06 × 103 l/mol, determined from sedimentation equilibrium results. Correlation of sedimentation velocity and equilibrium results shows that addition of adenosine 5′-triphosphate (ATP) results in its binding to one site on each of the dimeric (αβ) and tetrameric (αβ)2 species with intrinsic binding constants 1.03 · 103–1.20 · 103 and 1.1 · 104–2.1 · 104 l/mol, respectively. It is also shown that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate perturbs the dimer-tetramer equilibrium in a similar way to ATP.
Fifteen rabbits were injected i/p with an endotoxin at the rate of 6 mg each. Studied were the amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), hemoglobin, and erythrocytes in the blood 1, 2, 2.5, and 3 hours following treatment. A clearly manifested lowering trend was observed with the level of hemoglobin up to the 3rd hr. The changes concerning DPG and the erythrocytes also consisted in lowering their values, which was more strongly expressed with DPG than with Hb, reaching its lowest values 2.5 hours following treatment. From that moment on a rise was noted with the values of DPG and erythrocytes. The changes that set in with the latter had no effect on the DPG/Hb coefficient, their being a lowering of its values up to the 2nd hour, whereas from the 2nd to the 3rd hour there followed a rise. The rise of the DPG and the DPG/Hb values after the 2.5 and the two hours respectively, was referred to as a compensatory mechanism through which the body lowered the level of hypoxia, developing under the effect of the E. coli endotoxin.
Abstract Remarkable quantitative and qualitative changes occur in the erythrocytic organic phosphates of the developing chicken. We examined the influence of continuous incubation under hyperoxia (70% oxegyn) on this pattern in the 10–21 day embryo. Hyperoxia had no influence on adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels on or before day 14. After day 14, hyperoxia attenuated the fall in ATP and eliminated the transient rise in 2,3-DPG concentrations observed in control embryos. Acute exposure of day 17 embryos to 70% oxygen resulted in similar changes; switching day 17 hyperoxic embryos to 21% oxygen showed the reverse. Acute exposure of day 11 or day 13 embryos to hypoxia (15% oxygen) resulted in a decline in ATP and an increase in 2,3-DPG levels. The ATP and 2,3-DPG concentrations were thus influenced by ambient oxygen although not uniformly throughout embryonic development. Oxygen dissociation curves of erythrocyte suspensions from day 18 embryos showed a lower oxygen affinity for hyperoxic embryos than for controls. The organic phosphate analyses and oxygen binding results are consistent with the hypothesis that the chick embryo is relatively hypoxic during the last third of embryonic development. The results also suggest that late in development, erythrocytes of control embryos respond to the oxygen limitation in a manner that facilitates oxygen uptake by the blood at the shell.
Abstract : Addition of dihydroxyacetone (DHA) to acid-citrate-phosphate (ACD) blood is effective in partially maintaining 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels for a period of 21 to 28 days. DHA has no effect on adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels or cell viability. The overall effect of adenine with DHA is unfavorable since it retards the effect of the DHA while only slightly raising ATP levels. DHA may be valuable in maintaining increased hemoglobin function levels throughout the present 21 day storage period. (Author)
Because the importance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the regulation of the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin is recognized, there is growing need for a suitable method for determining this metabolite. Here we compare the colorimetric method of de Leeuw, two enzymatic rate-dependent methods (of Nygaard and ROrth and of Loos and Prins), and two enzymatic end-point methods (of Keitt and of Ericson and de Verdier). A good linearity was observed for all methods, up to 5.0 mmol of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate per liter of blood, except for the method of Ericson and de Verdier, for which an inexplicable upward drift in the calibration curve was found. Within-run precision in the duplicates and long-term precision in the methods of Loos and Prins and of de Leeuw were excellent. Mean analytical recoveries for all the methods ranged from 97 to 100%. In a paired comparison study of the methods, with the method of Loos and Prins as a reference, we did not find statistically significant differences. Coefficients of correlation were better than 0.990 (P < 0.0005). Additional Keyphrases: “kit” methods preservation e hypoxic conditions #{149} enzymatic methods e hematology Since Greenwald (1) discovered 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in pig blood and Guest and Rapoport (2) studied its role in the glycolysis of the erythrocyte, Benesch and Benesch (3) and Chanutin and Curnish (4) recognized the importance of this metabolite for the regulation of the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. The concentration of 2,3-DPG in blood has been reported for normal conditions (5), and in hypoxic conditions (6, 7), such as high altitude (8, 9), anemia (10), and liver- (11), cardiac- (12), and pulmonary diseases (13). Also the effect of blood preservation on erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration has been discussed (14). The original laborious assays of 2,3-DPG in blood (15-17), based on the isolation and colorimetric measurement of 2,3-DPG, have been replaced by more rapid, sensitive, and specific enzymatic methods. These are based on two principles; in one, 2,3-DPG
Patients over 1 month of age with arterial oxygen pressures of less than 60 mm Hg were found to have elevated red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels and blood with a decreased affinity for oxygen. The increase in 2,3-DPG was proportional to the degree of hypoxemia. In patients under 1 month of age this relationship was not observed. Red cells from adults, but not newborns, showed rapid increases in 2,3-DPG when incubated under nitrogen. Adult, but not fetal, deoxyhemoglobin was shown to facilitate in vitro synthesis of 2,3-DPG by binding this organic phosphate and relieving the product inhibition of 2,3-DPG mutase. Throughout a wide range change in oxygen affinity as measured by the P(50) is linear with respect to the 2,3-DPG concentration; a change of 430 mmumoles of 2,3-DPG/ml of red blood corpuscles (RBC) resulting in a change of the P(50) of 1 mm Hg. It appears that the 2,3-DPG of the adult's red cells responds rapidly to metabolic and environmental influences and in turn effects metabolism and the cellular environment. Many of these effects are not shared by the red cells of the newborn.
Dear Sir, ::: ::: For many years, blood components have been prepared on the day of whole blood (WB) collection or un-processed blood has been refrigerated overnight to be processed into red blood cells (RBC) only because of deteriorating platelet function and rapid loss of factor VIII from plasma during refrigeration1. However, European guidelines allow the storage of WB before preparation of blood components for up to 24 hours in conditions validated to maintain the temperature between 20 °C and 24 °C. In those conditions, RBC, plasma and platelets can be prepared from WB the day following collection. To ensure the quality of the blood components, WB units need to be cooled to 22±2 °C with butane-1,4-diol cooling plates which decrease the temperature of WB to 20–24 °C within 2 hours2,3. ::: ::: The Iranian Blood Transfusion Organisation is currently an integral part of Iran’s national health system and all blood transfusion activities such as collection, processing, testing and distribution of blood components have been centralised. More than 97% of all WB units are collected in CPDA-1 and separated into RBC and plasma. Random platelet units are made from platelet-rich plasma and cryoprecipitate is prepared from the fresh-frozen plasma units. All blood components are prepared from WB within a maximum storage period of 8 hours at 20–24 °C and the storage of WB overnight before the preparation of blood components has not yet been implemented. Overnight holding of WB at 20–24 °C would result in several advantages for our country’s blood operations by increasing WB processing efficiency during business hours, improving our operational logistics specifically for mobile blood collection by reducing the number of transports of WB from collection sites and by smoothing the distribution of the staff’s workload over time. ::: ::: Based on these benefits, the Iranian Blood Transfusion Organisation has decided to implement this strategy in its routine blood operations in the future. However, before implementing this methodology, the quality of blood components made from whole blood collected into CPDA-1 after a 24-hour holding time at 20–24 °C had to be studied. In the present study, we investigated how different storage times (8 and 24 hours) and temperatures (2–6 °C and 20–24 °C) prior to blood component processing influenced RBC quality. ::: ::: Twenty-four WB units (450±45 mL) were collected from healthy volunteers into CPDA-1 paediatric blood bags. Immediately after collection, 12 whole blood units (group A) were stored in a refrigerator at 2 to 6 °C while the other 12 units (group B) were placed in insulated blood transport boxes with butane-1,4-diol cooling plates to cool and maintain the units at 20 to 24 °C. These plates had been equilibrated at 20–24 °C before use and their ability to maintain the temperature of WB units at 20 to 24 °C had been validated. After 8 hours, each of the WB units was weighed and divided equally into two satellites bags. Then RBC were prepared from 12 units by hard spin centrifugation and the remaining 12 units of group A and B were held for 24 hours in a refrigerator at 2 to 6 °C and in an incubator at 20 to 24 °C, respectively. After 24 hours, WB units of each group were processed into RBC. All the RBC units were then stored at 2 to 6 °C and were sampled on days 14, 21, 28 for measurements of haemolysis and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), glucose, lactate dehydrogenase and sodium levels. ::: ::: A repeated-measure analysis of variance was used to analyse the data. Two comparisons were made. First, the effect of storage time (24 hours vs 8 hours) in units stored at either 2–6 °C or 20–24 °C on RBC quality was evaluated. In the second comparison, a repeated-measure analysis was used to compare the effect of storage temperature (2–6 °C vs 20–24 °C) on RBC quality in units stored for either 8 or 24 hours. Comparisons with probabilities less than 0.05 were considered statistically significant. ::: ::: As shown in Table I, haemolysis was greater and lactate concentration was higher in RBC produced from WB processed after a 24-hour hold than in RBC produced 8 hours after collection, but the differences were not statistically significant (P=0.6 and P=0.9, respectively). There were gradual decreases in glucose, sodium and 2,3-DPG concentrations during storage. Storage of WB at room temperature is known to decrease glucose levels. RBC units prepared from WB units stored for 24 hours had significantly lower 2,3-DPG levels compared to those in RBC units prepared after an 8-hour hold of the WB units (P=0.0001). No significant differences were observed in glucose and sodium concentrations (P=0.06 and P=0.3, respectively). ::: ::: ::: ::: Table I ::: ::: Effect on RBC quality of storing WB for 8 and 24 hours before blood component production (mean ±SD, n=48). ::: ::: ::: ::: Table II shows the results of RBC prepared from WB units that were stored at either 2 to 6 °C or 20 to 24 °C before processing. Although RBC units stored at 20 to 24 °C before preparation, showed greater haemolysis, higher lactate and sodium concentrations and lower 2,3-DPG and glucose concentrations than those stored at 2 to 6 °C, the differences were statistically significant only for haemolysis (P=0.02) and 2,3-DPG levels (P=0.0001). ::: ::: ::: ::: Table II ::: ::: Effect on RBC quality of storing WB at 2 to 6 °C and 20 to 24 °C before blood component production (mean ±SD, n=48). ::: ::: ::: ::: The results of this study show that with the exception of haemolysis and 2,3-DPG levels, in vitro parameters of RBC quality, such as lactate, glucose and sodium, were similar with both holding times (8 and 24 hours) and both temperatures (2–6 °C and 20–24 °C) before RBC preparation. In our study, haemolysis in RBC produced from WB held at 22±2°C increased gradually compared to that from WB held at 2–6 °C, but after 28 days of storage remained below the 0.8% threshold in all cases. The 24-hour hold of WB resulted in considerably lower 2,3-DPG levels in RBC compared to an 8-hour hold of WB. It is well recognised that RBC 2,3-DPG is reduced during storage. 2,3-DPG is regenerated after 24 to 48 hours post-transfusion and the clinical consequences of transfusing 2,3-DPG-depleted RBC are, therefore, thought to be minimal4. ::: ::: It is important to note that although blood storage for 24 hours at 20–24 °C before processing is a common approach in many countries, the anticoagulant and additive solution (CDP/SAGM) used is significantly different from the one used in this study (CPDA-1). The addition of SAGM results in an increase of ATP in units held overnight, in contrast to amounts in units prepared fresh. However, Shinar et al. showed that the quality of blood components made from WB units collected into CPDA-1, rapidly cooled and held overnight for up to 22 hours after collection met the allowed ranges of European standards5 and the results of our study were consistent with their findings. It does, therefore, seem that overnight storage of WB units collected into CPDA-1 may be applicable to other blood banks. ::: ::: Our results suggest that in Iran, the in vitro quality of RBC produced from WB stored at 20–24 °C for up to 24 hours is acceptable. However, in order to allow the production of blood components up to 24 hours after collection, the quality of platelet concentrates and plasma, especially fresh-frozen plasma, should be evaluated.
The oxygen-binding properties of hemoglobin, concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, activity of carbohydrate metabolism enzymes and kinetics of rat erythrocyte hemolysis have been studied at high altitudes. The hemoglobin affinity to oxygen, glycolysis enzyme activity and erythrocyte membrane resistance are established to increase at the initial period of adaptation. The activation of the pentose-phosphate pathway of the glucose, transformation and inhibition of the glycolytic process in these cells are observed on the 10th day.
The 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy technique was applied to study the blood of rats with a 3-day spinal cord injury and control rats. Phosphorus-containing blood metabolites: 2,3-diphosphoglycerates, inorganic phosphates, phospholipids, ATP and adenosine monophosphates were detected and quantitatively evaluated. It was found that the amount of 2,3-diphosphoglycerates, inorganic phosphates, phospholipids and adenosine monophosphates increase, and pH of the blood decreases after spinal cord injury. The results demonstrate increased hypoxia in injured rats.
Cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG) hydrolase activity was demonstrated in cofactor-free extract of Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum (strain ΔH), but not in crude extract. Only after ultrafiltration or dialysis of crude extract cDPG hydrolase activity could be shown. cCPG hydrolysis was optimal at pH 6.0 and 60°C. Hydrolysis of cDPG occurred under nitrogen or hydrogen atmosphere and was completely inhibited by oxygen. Phosphate and potassium chloride were also strong inhibitors: 50% inhibition occurred at 0.6–0.7 mM phosphate or 0.2 M KCl. The enzyme was localized in the membrane fraction and could be solubilized for approximately 60% by treatment with 25 mM of the detergent CHAPS. The Km and the Vmax for cDPG were determined at 60°C and were 59 mM and 216 mU/mg, respectively. Furthermore, cDPG hydrolase was dependent on the presence of Co2+. The role of cDPG and cDPG hydrolase is discussed.
Placental blood was harvested using a novel collection system into packs containing citrate-phosphate-dextroseadenine and then stored for 28 d. Before and during storage, sterility, adequacy of anticoagulation, blood chemistry, and red cell viability were assessed weekly. The average volume of blood collected was 65 mL (range 30-110 mL) with a 0.42 hemocrit once diluted in anticoagulant. All blood culture specimens were sterile at collection and during storage. In the United States, more than 40 000 VLBW infants are born each year, many of whom are critically ill and require care in neonatal intensive care facilities. The majority of these infants will require one or more homologous blood transfusions during the first month of life. These transfusions are given to replace losses due to diagnostic sampling and to treat the physiologic decline in H b concentration designated the anemia of prematurity (1-3). Studies have shown that VLBW infants will receive approximately 50 mL of blood per kg from as many as eight to 10 adult donors during the first month of life (1, 3, 4). However, recent data suggest that changes in transfusion practices for neonates may reduce donor exposure (5, 6). Although red cell transfusion is a valuable part of care, the use of adult donor blood poses risks for these infants including the transmission of viral agents such as non-A and non-B hepatitis, cytomegalovirus, and human immunodeficiency virus (1, 7, 8) . Furthermore, graft versus host disease has been reported after homologous transfusions in neonates (8-1 1). were >90 s, presumably because of the decline in labile clotting factors after 24 h of storage. Hematocrit, red cell ATP, and red cell shape were maintained during storage. As expected, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate declined and potassium levels rose significantly but were not different than levels reported for adult cells similarly preserved. Based on our results, it appears that placental blood represents a potential source of autologous transfusion for the sick neonate over the first month of life. (Pediatr Res 36: W94, 1994)
␥␦ T cells are a minor T cell population with a unique pattern of antigen recognition. Several types of antigen specificities have been reported for human and mice ␥␦ cells; they include allo-MHC molecules, peptide-MHC complexes, stress-related proteins such as MICA/B and heat shock protein 60, and nonpeptidic molecules (for review see reference 1). The vast majority of circulating ␥␦ T cells in humans express a TCR heterodimer comprised of V ␥ 9 and V ␦ 2 chains that directly recognize nonpeptide ligands without presentation by MHC molecules (1) . The nonpeptide ligands, referred to as phosphoantigens, comprise natural phosphoesters derived from mycobacteria (2) (3) (4) (5) , and to a lesser extent several ubiquitous metabolites such as alkylamines from plant extracts (6) , xylosyl-or ribosyl-1-phosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (7), and several synthetic aminobisphosphonates (8) . Common to all of these small compounds (molecular mass below 500 D) is the presence of either a pyrophosphate or a primary amine located at the distal end of their organic C2-C5 skeleton.
A B S T R A C T Patients over 1 month of age with arterial oxygen pressures of less than 60 mm Hg were found to have elevated red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels and blood with a decreased affinity for oxygen. The increase in 2,3-DPG was proportional to the degree of hypoxemia. In patients under 1 month of age this relationship was not observed. Red cells from adults, but not newborns, showed rapid increases in 2,3-DPG when incubated under nitrogen. Adult, but not fetal, deoxyhemoglobin was shown to facilitate in vitro synthesis of 2,3-DPG by binding this organic phosphate and relieving the product inhibition of 2,3-DPG mutase.
Abstract A cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase, acting preferentially on IMP and GMP, has been isolated from human colon carcinoma extracts. This enzyme activity catalyzes also the transfer of the phosphate group of 5′-nucleoside monophosphates (mainly, 5′-IMP, 5′-GMP, and their deoxycounterparts) to nucleosides (preferentially inosine and deoxyinosine, but also nucleoside analogs, such as 8-azaguanosine and 2′,3′-dideoxyinosine). It has been proposed that the enzyme mechanism involves the formation of a phosphorylated enzyme as an intermediate which can transfer the phosphate group either to water or to the nucleoside. The enzyme is activated by some effectors, such as ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Results indicate that the effect of these activators is mainly to favor the transfer of the phosphate of the phosphorylated intermediate to the nucleoside (i.e., the nucleoside phosphotransferase activity). This finding is in accordance with previous suggestions that cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase cannot be considered a pure catabolic enzyme.
Abstract A recent report indicates that the response of frog and tadpole hemoglobin to inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) varies from observations made on hemoglobins of other species ( Araki, T., Kajita, A., and Shukuya, R. (1971) Biochem Biophys. Res. Commun.43, 1179). Since frog hemoglobins are known to be acetylated, investigation of the effects of IHP on the oxygen affinity of the acetylated (HbB) and nonacetylated (HbA) feline hemoglobins was of interest. The effect of IHP was of particular concern since it was previously shown that the oxygen affinity and SH reactivity of HbA is lowered by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and ATP while that of HbB is unaffected ( Taketa, F., Mauk, A. G., and Lessard, J. L. (1971) J. Biol. Chem.246: 4471). In contrast to the relatively weak effect of 2,3-DPG on the oxygen affinity and SH reactivity of cat HbA compared with its effect on human HbA, the effect of IHP on cat HbA is much greater and is comparable to its effect on human HbA. However, both phosphate compounds are ineffective with cat HbB; insensitivity of cat HbB presumably arises from the occurrence of N-acetylated β-chain amino termini as well as substitutions at or near histidine 143-β of this protein. Thus, properties of the two cat hemoglobins are sharply differentiated in the presence of IHP. Consequently the response of cat hemolyzates that contain a 1:1 mixture of HbA and HbB is such that the shape of the oxygen saturation curve changes drastically in the presence of this effector. Good correlation was found with respect to the effects of 2,3-DPG and IHP on the oxygen affinities and SH reactivities in the cat hemoglobins. The results suggest that the organic phosphates induce conformational changes in these proteins that stabilize the deoxy form of the protein.
Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum delta H and Marburg were adapted to grow in medium containing up to 0.65 M NaCl. From 0.01 to 0.5 M NaCl, there was a lag before cell growth which increased with increasing external NaCl. The effect of NaCl on methane production was not significant once the cells began to grow. Intracellular solutes were monitored by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy as a function of osmotic stress. In the delta H strain, the major intracellular small organic solutes, cyclic-2,3-diphosphoglycerate and glutamate, increased at most twofold between 0.01 and 0.4 M NaCl and decreased when the external NaCl was 0.5 M. M. thermoautotrophicum Marburg similarly showed a decrease in solute (cyclic-2,3-diphosphoglycerate, 1,3,4,6-tetracarboxyhexane, and L-alpha-glutamate) concentrations for cells grown in medium containing > 0.5 M NaCl. At 0.65 M NaCl, a new organic solute, which was visible in only trace amounts at the lower NaCl concentrations, became the dominant solute. Intracellular potassium in the delta H strain, detected by atomic absorption and 39K NMR, was roughly constant between 0.01 and 0.4 M and then decreased as the external NaCl increased further. The high intracellular K+ was balanced by the negative charges of the organic osmolytes. At the higher external salt concentrations, it is suggested that Na+ and possibly Cl- ions are internalized to provide osmotic balance. A striking difference of strain Marburg from strain delta H was that yeast extract facilitated growth in high-NaCl-containing medium. The yeast extract supplied only trace NMR-detectable solutes (e.g., betaine) but had a large effect on endogenous glutamate levels, which were significantly decreased. Exogenous choline and glycine, instead of yeast extract, also aided growth in NaCl-containing media. Both solutes were internalized with the choline converted to betaine; the contribution to osmotic balance of these species was 20 to 25% of the total small-molecule pool. These results indicate that M. thermoautotrophicum shows little changes in its internal solutes over a wide range of external NaCl. Furthermore, they illustrate the considerable differences in physiology in the delta H and Marburg strains of this organism.
Abstract Nucleotides and other glycolytic intermediates of erythrocytes in sideropoenic and haemolytic anaemia were compared. Haemoglobins, serum proteins, Fe and Cu content were estimated simultaneously. Differences in Hb A 1 , and “Hb A 3 ” content, in prealbumin I, fast α 2 , β-globulin, β-lipoprotein fractions and in the ratio Fe:Cu were observed. The differences in erythrocyte metabolism concerned chiefly ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. In haemolytic anaemia higher ATP and lower 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels than in sideropoenic anaemia were obtained.
Abstract The oxygen binding property of Hb Sawara ( α A 4 Asp a Ala ) was studied at different pH values with and without addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The oxygen affinity of Hb Sawara was shown to be increased, the difference of the log P50 value between normal and abnormal hemoglobins being 0.37 at pH 7.0. Both the magnitude of the alkaline Bohr effect and the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate upon oxygen affinity of Hb Sawara were comparable to those of Hb A. The amino acid substitution of alanine for αA4 aspartic acid might result in the loss of a stabilizing force for ionic interaction between the α-amino group of NA(1)α1 valine and the α-carboxyl of HC3(141)α2 arginine in the deoxy-form.
Abstract 1. 1. High concns of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) were found in red cells of the green sea turtle late in embryonic development. The DPG disappeared during the first yr of life and was gradually replaced by inositol pentaphosphate (IP5). 2. 2. Neither DPG nor IP5 were found in young hatchling alligators or in animals to 3 yr of age. 3. 3. The bullfrog and a salamander had elevated DPG but no IP5 in their red cells in both gill and lung phases of their lives. 4. 4. No DPG or IP5 were detected in the red cells of a variety of fish.
Enzymes involved in methane formation from carbon dioxide and dihydrogen in Methanopyrus kandleri require high concentrations (> 1 M) of lyotropic salts such as K2HPO4/KH2PO4 or (NH4)2SO4 for activity and for thermostability. The requirement correlates with high intracellular concentrations of cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG; approximately 1 M) in this hyperthermophilic organism. We report here on the effects of potassium cDPG on the activity and thermostability of the two methanogenic enzymes cyclohydrolase and formyltransferase and show that at cDPG concentrations prevailing in the cells the investigated enzymes are highly active and completely thermostable. At molar concentrations also the potassium salts of phosphate and of 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate, the biosynthetic precursor of cDPG, were found to confer activity and thermostability to the enzymes. Thermodynamic arguments are discussed as to why cDPG, rather than these salts, is present in high concentrations in the cells of Mp. kandleri.
Phosphate and phosphorus are generally used interchangeably. Phosphate, although not as abundant as Ca2+, is an important constituent of the body. It plays a significant role in mitochondrial respiration and oxidative phosphorylation. Phosphate constitutes approximately 1 % of the body weight. A 70-kg man contains about 700 g of phosphate. Of this amount, 85 % is present in bones and teeth, 14 % in soft tissues, and the remaining 1 % in the extracellular fluid. In biologic fluids, phosphate is measured as elemental phosphorus. However, the latter participates in biologic functions as phosphate. For example, it is phosphate that is filtered at the glomerulus or transported across the renal tubules. In plasma, the concentration of phosphorus is expressed as mg/dL, and in transport and other processes it is generally expressed as mEq or mmol/L. In plasma, phosphate exists as organic (70 %) and inorganic (30 %) forms. The inorganic form is physiologically active. Only 10 % of inorganic phosphate is bound to albumin. However, unlike Ca2+, phosphate concentration is not influenced by changes in plasma albumin concentration. At a pH of 7.40, inorganic phosphate exists predominantly as divalent phosphate (HPO4 2−) and monovalent phosphate (H2PO4−) in the ratio of 4:1. However, at a pH of 6.8, which is the pKa of this buffer pair, the ratio falls to 1:1. The concentration of intracellular phosphate is several-fold higher than the plasma concentration. Inside the cell, 75 % of phosphate exists as organic phosphate compounds such as adenosine triphosphate (ATP), creatine phosphate, and adenosine monophosphate. In red blood cells, it occurs predominantly as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Hilltop (H) and Madison (M) strains of Sprague-Dawley rats exhibit strikingly different susceptibilities to the effects of chronic altitude exposure. The H rats develop greater polycythemia, hypoxemia, and pulmonary hypertension. We studied ventilation, pulmonary gas exchange, tissue oxygenation, and hematologic adaptations in the two rat strains during a 50-day exposure to a simulated altitude (HA) of 5,500 m (18,000 ft). There were no strain differences among the variables we studied under sea level (SL) conditions. Within the first 14 days of hypoxic exposure, the only significant strain differences were that erythropoietin (EPO) rose much higher and erythroid activity was greater in the H rats, even though arterial Po2 and PCo2 (Pao2 and PaCo2, respectively), renal venous PO2 (Prvo2), and ventilation (VE) were equivalent in the two strains during this time. By day 14 at HA, the H rats had significantly higher erythroid activity, hematocrit (Hct), and EPO levels, significantly lower PaO2 and PrvO2, but equivalent VE and PaCO2. These changes persisted for the remainder of the exposure, except that the Hct continued to rise and the increase was greater in H rats. Despite the greater O2-carrying capacity of H rats in the later stages of hypoxic exposure, PaO2 and PrvO2 were significantly lower in H rats. There were no strain differences at either SL or HA in ventilatory responses to hypercapnia or hypoxia, in blood O2 affinity or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, in extrarenal production of EPO, or in EPO clearance. We conclude that early in the hypoxic exposure the H rats produce more EPO at apparently equivalent levels of hypoxia, and this is the first step in the pathogenesis of the maladaptation to HA manifest by H rats. We find no consistent evidence that differences in VE contribute to the variable susceptibility to hypoxia in the two rat strains.
The levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), which affects the transport of oxygen by haemoglobin, were examined in horse blood. Resting levels of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG were established in thoroughbred horses, and levels of 2,3-DPG together with haemoglobin levels, were examined in a variety of conditions. A negative correlation was observed between erythrocyte 2,3-DPG and haemoglobin levels. Mares had higher erythrocyte 2,3-DPG levels was observed during training, and this variation may have a significant effect on haemoglobin oxygen transport. Erythrocyte 2,3-DPG levels were not affected by age or exercise.
Posttransfusion viability was studied in red blood cells stored for 21 days in ACD solution and for 35 days in ACD solution supplemented with adenine to a final concentration of 0.5 mM. The survival of radio-chromium-labeled red cells was determined after transfusion of 10 ml. of autologous blood and 350–400 ml. homologous blood. The viability values were about the same for the two transfusion procedures. The mean posttransfusion viability was 80 per cent for erythrocytes stored for 35 days in the medium containing adenine and 79 per cent for cells preserved in ACD solution for 21 days. ::: ::: ::: ::: The concentration in the erythrocytes of ATP, ADP, AMP, reduced and oxidized glutathione, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and four glycolytic enzymes was measured before and after storage in the two media. The ATP and the total adenine nucleotide concentrations were much higher in the red cells stored in the adenine-containing solution. Of the enzymes tested, only phosphofructokinase decreased in activity during 35 days of storage. The decrease was about 50 per cent and was not dependent on the storage solution. ::: ::: ::: ::: This study supports the theory that decreased adenine supply is an important cause of damage to erythrocytes in ACD solution.
Erythropoietic adaptations involving the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) and erythropoietin production have been implicated in the etiology of reduced blood haemoglobin concentrations in sportspersons (known as sports anaemia). A significant increase in the half-saturation pressure indicating a right-shift in the ODC was measured in 34 male [25.8–27.4 mmHg (3.44–3.65 kPa)] and 16 female (25.8–27.7 mmHg (3.44–3.69 kPa)] trained distance runners (P<0.01 for both genders) after completing a standard 42-km marathon. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations measured concurrently were unaltered by exercise, although consistently higher in the female compared to the male athletes (P<0.05). The serum erythropoietin (EPO) concentrations of 15 male triathletes (26.3 U · ml−1) were significantly lower than those of 45 male distance runners (31.6 U · ml−1 ;P<0.05). However, the mean serum EPO concentrations of male and female athletes engaged in a variety of sports were not different from those of sedentary control subjects of both sexes (26.5–35.3 U · ml−1). Furthermore, the serum EPO concentrations were unaltered after prolonged strenuous exercise in 20 male marathon runners. These data suggest that the haematological status of these endurance athletes is in fact normal and that the observed shift in the ODC, while providing a physiological advantage during exercise, has no measurable effect on the erythropoietic drive.
Studies were carried out during fetal life in sheep to determine the relationship of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), the intracellular red cell and extracellular pH, and the switchover to adult hemoglobin synthesis in regulating the position of the fetal red cell oxygen-affinity curve in utero. Adult hemoglobin first appeared near 120 days of gestation. The mean oxygen tension at which hemoglobin is half saturated (P50) prior to 120 days of gestation remained constant at 13.9 +/- 0.3 (SD) Torr and then increased gradually as gestation continued, reaching 19 Torr at term. During the interval of fetal life studied, the level of DPG was 4.43 +/- 1.63 (SD) micromol/g Hb and the deltapH between plasma and red blood cells was 0.227 +/- 0.038 (SD); neither was affected by gestational age. The decrease in the red cell oxygen affinity after 120 days of gestation ocrrelated with the amount of adult hemoglobin present in the fetus (r = 0.78; P less than 0.001). This decrease can be attributed only to the amount of the adult-type hemoglobin present, and not to DPG, or to changes in the deltapH between plasma and red blood cells, because both remained stable during the last trimester.
The formation of hemoglobin AIc was studied in intact human erythrocytes in vitro. Satisfactory methods were developed for maintaining erythrocytes under physiologic conditions for greater than 8 d with less than 10% hemolysis. Hemoglobin AIc levels were determined chromatographically on erythrocyte hemolysates after removal of reversible components by incubation for 6 h at 37 degree C. Hemoglobin AIc concentration was found to increase linearly with time during 8 d of incubation. The rate of formation of hemoglobin AIc increased linearly as glucose concentration was increased from 40 to 1,000 mg/dl. Deoxyhemoglobin was glycosylated twice as rapidly as oxyhemoglobin. The rate of hemoglobin AIc formation was further increased by elevated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels, an effect that was most marked with deoxyhemoglobin. We conclude that the nonenzymatic glycosylation of hemoglobin is influenced by factors other than glucose, including oxygen tension and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels.
The reciprocals of the spin-lattice relaxation times (T1s) of the 2-P and 3-P nuclei of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) increased linearly as percent DPG bound was raised in model hemoglobin solutions. The 2-P T1 was slightly greater in intact erythrocytes than in model solutions under similar experimental conditions. The change in the 3-P T1 with cellular deoxygenation was anomalous indicating that this nucleus should not be used to estimate DPG binding inside intact erythrocytes.
The purpose of this study was to determine if chronic exposure to low levels of carbon monoxide (CO) in man results in tissue hypoxia. For this reason, nine smokers (more than one pack of cigarettes per day) were studied. The presence of hypoxia was assessed by measurement of red cell mass (RCM). The effect of CO on intraerythrocytic factors involved with oxygen delivery was determined by measurement of oxygen-hemoglobin affinity (P50) and of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Values were compared to those of 18 nonsmokers of similar age, sex, and race. Values for carboxyhemoglobin (COHb), RCM, hemoglobin, hematocrit, and red cell count were significantly higher in the smokers. DPG levels were unaltered, while P50 and ATP levels were significantly lower in smokers. These data suggest that chronic exposure to low levels of CO results in tissue hypoxia, probably as a result of decreased blood oxygen carrying capacity and increased blood-O2 affinity. Adaption is reflected in an increased RCM and not by intraerythrocytic changes. The response in RCM may be to levels seen in polycythemia vera, as evidenced by a value of 37.6 in one smoker whose RCM fell to normal after discontinuing cigarettes. This study indicates that smoking causes mild erythrocytosis comparable to that seen in spurious or stress polycythemia. It also suggests that chronic exposure to low levels of CO may further embarrass tissue oxygen supply in patients with anemia, heart disease, chronic lung disease, and cerebral vascular disease in whom oxygen delivery to tissues is already marginal.
Maintenance of serum phosphate in the physiological range is critical for many biological processes. Phosphate is an essential component of bones, nucleic acids, and cell membranes, and it plays a crucial role in cellular energy metabolism, intracellular signaling by phosphorylation of proteins, and release of oxygen from hemoglobin as phosphate is a component of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Phosphate is an important urinary and blood acid base buffer. The adult body contains about 700 g of phosphate, of which 85% is present in the bones and teeth. The remaining 15% is distributed in the soft tissues (14%) and extracellular fluid (1%). Of the 1% that is present in the extracellular fluid, 10-20% is protein bound and 5% is complexed with cations such as calcium, magnesium, and sodium. The remaining 85% exists as HPO 4 -2 and H 2 PO 4 -1 , and at a physiological pH of 7.4, the ratio of HPO 4 -2 to H 2 PO 4 -1 is 4:1. It is the extracellular (1% of total body phosphate) phosphate that is measured by routine laboratory analysis and thus it does not always reflect the total body phosphate stores [1] . The average adult phosphate intake is about 1-1.5 g, of which one-third is excreted in the stool and the remaining two-thirds is excreted in the urine and thus there is phosphate balance. Gastrointestinal secretions contain 200 mg of phosphate, which is excreted in the stool. Due to continuous bone remodeling, 200 mg of phosphate is exchanged between the bone and the extracellular phosphate. This is depicted in Fig. 1 [1-3] .
The rate of hemoglobin Al, formation was further increased by elevated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels, an effect that was most marked with deoxyhemoglobin. We conclude that the nonenzymatic glycosylation of hemoglobin is influenced by factors other than glucose, including oxygen tension and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels.
Abstract The effect of the myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) analogue, myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphorothioate (IPS3) on the dephosphorylation of D-5-[32P]IP3 by the 5-phosphatase from human erythrocyte membranes has been investigated. DL-IPS3 was found to act as a competitive inhibitor with a Ki of 6 μM, making it the most potent inhibitor currently available for this enzyme. L-IP3 inhibited the enzyme with a Ki of 124 μM and was more potent than D-2,3-diphosphoglycerate (Ki 978 μM).
Methyl acetyl phosphate, which was originally synthesized as a site-specific reagent for hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase [R. Kluger and W.-C. Tsui (1980) J. Org. Chem. 45, 2723], also has an affinity for the binding site for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in hemoglobin. Three residues in or near this cleft between the beta-chains are acetylated by this reagent, i.e., Val-1, Lys-82, and Lys-144. There is no detectable acetylation of any of the amino groups of the alpha-chain. These results indicate the specificity of methyl acetyl phosphate in its reaction with hemoglobin.
In patients with shock the metabolic activity of the red blood cells was studied following separation according to cell-age by density layer centrifugation using Stractan II-Urografin solutions. Metabolic acidosis in patients with cardiogenic shock (n = 8) and with postoperative shock (n = 7) induced a pronounced fall in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels and in adenosine triphosphate (ATP), in contrast to a raised lactate-pyruvate ratio. 2,3-DPG values were higher than normal in patients with hypoglycemic shock (n = 12), whereas further measured substrate levels were markedly decreased. The levels of these compounds of the red blood cells revealed a significant difference in the hemolysates derived from cells separated according to cell-age. The shock syndrome was also observed in patients suffering from severe congestive heart failure (n = 10) who received dopamine (300 mug/min) for its known action in improving hemodynamics and renal function. Following drug administration for 150 min a clinical improvement was associated with a change of extent and pattern of the red blood cell metabolic disorder.
Abstract Elevated oxygen tensions were shown to result in the decline of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in 3- and 4-week-old rats. A decrease in 2,3-DPG was observed after 6 hr of exposure to 100% oxygen and was maximal at 24–36 hr. The effect persisted throughout a 7-day exposure period. Recovery of red cell 2,3-DPG to normal values occurred within 10 hr of removal from hyperoxic exposure. Concentrations of 40, 60, and 80% oxygen also induced a decline in 2,3-DPG. The effect of hyperoxia on 2,3-DPG was found to change with age. No decline in red cell concentrations of 2,3-DPG was observed in rats older than 4 weeks. The older animals were also shown to be less tolerant to the toxic effects of oxygen.
Abstract Learning to lever-press for food in rats may be experimentally analyzed according to (a) association of lever-pressing with food reinforcement; (b) development of the behavior of lever-pressing. The latter was studied in two strains of rats with a high or low level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in erythrocytes. Twelve males from each strain, previously trained to lever-press, were used. The rate of responding increased faster with repeated training-testing sessions in the High Strain than in the Low Strain under the CRF and the FR 10 schedule. The genetic difference in the DPG level in erythrocytes and the resultant long term difference in oxygen transport capability may be a significant factor contributing to the behavioral differences in these two strains.
The N-terminal 18-amino acid sequence of the beta-chain of hemoglobin, as far as the end of the A helix, has been replaced by the corresponding sequence of the gamma-chain of fetal hemoglobin with the remaining sequence of the beta-chain retained (helices B through H). The gamma-beta-chain had the correct mass, and its entire sequence was established by mass spectrometric analysis of its tryptic peptides; the alpha-chain also had the correct mass. This recombinant hemoglobin (named Hb Felix) retains cooperativity and has an oxygen affinity like that of HbA both in the presence and absence of the allosteric regulators, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or chloride but differs from HbF in its 2,3-diphosphoglycerate response. However, Hb Felix has some features that resemble fetal hemoglobin, i.e. its significantly decreased tetramer-dimer dissociation and its circular dichroism spectrum, which measure the strength of the tetramer-dimer interface in the oxy conformation and its rearrangement to the deoxy conformation, respectively. Even though Hb Felix contains the HbA amino acids at its tetramer-dimer interface, which is located at a distance from the substitution sites, its interface properties resemble those of HbF. Therefore, the N-terminal sequence and not just those amino acids directly involved at the subunit interface contacts with alpha-chains must have a strong influence on this region of the molecule. The results reinforce the concept of fluid long range relationships among various parts of the hemoglobin tetramer (Dumoulin, A., Manning, L. R., Jenkins, W. T., Winslow, R. M., and Manning, J. M. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 31326-31332) and demonstrate the importance of the N-terminal sequence, especially in some mutant hemoglobins, in influencing its overall structure by affecting the relationship between helices.
Abstract Erythrocyte enzyme and substrate levels in two subjects with phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency are reported. The effect of the increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which has been reported as an inhibitor of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, on the flux through the pentose phosphate pathway, was assessed. There was no significant difference in the flux through erythrocytes from one of the affected subjects and normal subjects in the presence and absence of methylene blue.
Abstract Diphosphoglycerate mutase, purified to apparent homogeneity from human erythrocytes, was found to have a molecular weight of 60,000 (gel filtration) and subunit weight of 32,000 (electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels containing sodium dodecyl sulfate). One [32P]phosphoryl group is covalently bound per subunit upon incubation of enzyme with either the 32P-labeled substrate, 1,3-diphosphoglycerate, or the product, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The phosphate group is transferred to either 2- or 3-phosphoglycerate or to water if glycolate-2-P is added to phosphorylated enzyme. The phosphoryl group was stable at alkaline pH but was liberated from the denatured phosphoprotein in the acid range at rates consistent with a phosphoramidate linkage to histidine. Since a similar phosphorylation reaction had been shown previously with monophosphoglycerate mutase, it was necessary to achieve complete separation in the preparation of the enzyme.
【Objective】 To observe the effects of mesenteric lymph drainage on adenosine triphosphate(ATP),lactic acid(LA),2,3-diphosphoglycerate(2,3-DPG) of RBC as well as ion concentration intra-and extracellular fluid of RBC in rats subjected to hemorrhagic shock and resuscitation,and explore the significance of mesenteric lymph pathway playing in the pathogenesis of shock process.【Methods】 Wistar rats were randomly divided into sham-shock group,shock group(duplicating hemorrhagic shock model),drainage group(duplicating hemorrhagic shock model plus drainaging shock mesenteric lymph from hypotension 1 h).At 3 h of hypotension or corresponding time,blood samples were harvested from the abdominal aorta.Membrane suspension of RBC prepared from part of whole blood samples was used to measure the contents of ATP and LA,the intracellular fluid of RBC prepared from part of whole blood samples was used to determine the ion concentration of Na+,K+ and 2,3-DPG,plasma samples isolated from blood by centrifugation were used to determine the concentration of Na+,K+,Cl-and Ca.【Results】 In shock and drainage groups,the contents of 2,3-DPG and LA were increased and the contents of ATP were decreased significantly when compared with those of sham group.Furthermore,the contents of 2,3-DPG and ATP in drainage group were increased significantly compared with those of shock group.The concentration of K+ in plasma in shock group was significantly increased compared with that in sham group.The concentration of Na+ in intracellular fluid of RBC in drainage group was significantly decreased when compared with that of shock group.【Conclusion】 The results indicate that erythrocyte energy metabolic dysfunction of hemorrhagic shock rats is charactered by 2,3-DPG enhancement,ATP depletion,LA accumulation and hyperkalemia,the drainage of shock mesenteric lymph increases the compensation of 2,3-DPG,elevates the contents of ATP,blunters the accumulation of LA.In this viewpoint,mesenteric lymph plays an important role in pathogenesis of erythrocyte energy metabolic dysfunction of shock.
Abstract ::: The phosphorylation of glucose by human erythrocyte hexokinase follows classical Michaelis-Menten kinetics; hexokinase manifests maximum activity at 5 mM glucose, and no further increase in activity can be measured at higher glucose concentrations. However, the erythrocytes of diabetics and normal erythrocytes incubated with high concentrations of glucose contain increased concentrations of glucose 6-phosphate. To elucidate the mechanism of accumulation of glucose 6-phosphate when erythrocytes are exposed to high glucose concentrations, hexokinase activity was examined in the presence of naturally occurring inhibitors, such as glucose 1,6-bisphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ADP, and glucose 6-phosphate at physiological concentrations. Without inhibitors or in the presence of glucose 1,6-bisphosphate,2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and ADP, maximum hexokinase activity was observed at 5 mM glucose concentration. On the contrary, in the presence of glucose 6-phosphate, hexokinase activity increased at glucose concentrations greater than 5 mM; inhibition by glucose 6-phosphate was partially competitive with glucose. The relief by glucose of glucose 6-phosphate inhibition of hexokinase is a possible explanation of the increased glucose 6-phosphate level in diabetic erythrocytes.
A five-year-old female English Springer Spaniel was evaluated for chronic episodic anaemia, pigmenturia and icterus. There was increased erythrocyte pyruvate kinase activity, increased in vitro erythrocyte alkaline fragility, decreased erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate activity and severely decreased erythrocyte phosphofructokinase activity. The clinical features and haematological values were identical with erythrocyte phosphofructokinase deficiency and resulting nonspherocytic haemolytic anaemia recently described in this breed.
The T1 relaxation times of the phosphorus metabolites in human heart muscle measurable by 31P-MR spectra were determined in 12 individuals using a 1.5 Tesla system. Several spectra were recorded consecutively with a pulse repetition time of 1.6 s to 24 s. The T1 times of creatine phosphate (CP), of gamma-, alpha-, beta-adenosintriphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) together with anorganic phosphate) and phosphodiester (PDE) showed mean measurements of 6.1 +/- 0.5, 5.4 +/- 0.5, 5.0 +/- 0.5, 5.8 +/- 1.0, 7.6 +/- 1.0, and 5.0 +/- 1.0 s (M +/- SE). The accuracy of the ISIS technique was tested with a special phantom. T1 times were also measured in standard solutions (20 mM CP, 10 mM ATP); CP was 8.7 +/- 0.2 s and gamma-ATP was 9.9 +/- 0.7 s. Corrections for partially saturated 31P-MR spectra--at least for CP/ATP ratios--are relatively small.
To evaluate the influence of a high-O2 affinity of the erythrocyte and of flow rate on muscle's ability to extract O2 and develop force, we perfused dog gastrocnemius contracting isometrically at 4 Hz with normal-O2-affinity perfusate or high-O2-affinity perfusate at high and moderate flows (200 and 100 ml . min-1 . 100g-1, respectively). High-O2-affinity perfusate was prepared by incubating human citrate-phosphate-dextrose-stored erythrocytes with buffered saline containing cyanate (4 degrees C, 18 h) and normal-affinity perfusate by storing 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-rejuvenated erythrocytes in the same solution without cyanate. PO2 when blood is half oxygenated was 30.6 Torr for normal perfusate and 18.1 Torr for high-affinity perfusate. During 4-Hz stimulation, the tension developed by the muscle increased incrementally (positive staircase) to reach a peak value after 1.2-1.6 min for the normal perfusate and 0.6-0.7 min for the high-affinity perfusate (P < 0.05). The rate of decline during the early fatigue (measured from the onset of tension decline to 3 min) with high-affinity perfusate was significantly faster than it was with normal perfusate (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that both the staircase effect and the early fatigue are related to O2 availability, which is restricted when erythrocytes have a high O2 affinity. The peak O2 uptake values measured at 3 and 5 min were significantly lower (by 14-24%) with high-affinity perfusate than with normal perfusate at a given level of O2 delivery (arterial O2 content x flow) (P < 0.05). PO2 of venous effluent was proportionally related to peak O2 uptake. The present results indicate that neither blood flow nor O2 delivery is the sole determinant of the muscle's ability to extract O2.
Blood from seven newborns, a 13-y-old, and seven adult family members with a suspected hemoglobinopathy because of unexplained cyanosis was obtained for analysis to determine Hb oxygen affinity and to characterize and quantify the Hb variants. Their oxygen saturation was 76 to 84%. The P50 was 30.3 ± 2.9 for the newborns and 32.5 ± 2.6 mm Hg for their related adults. In the same order, the plasma erythropoietin was 7.4 ± 2.9 and 15.9 ± 3.7 mU/mL, whereas 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was 16.1. ± 2.9 and 15.9 ± 3.7 μmol/g Hb. In four of the newborns with increased P50, the mother had a normal P50 (27 mm Hg), which indicated a greater maternal oxygen affinity than the fetus with no adverse effects on the fetus. Genetic analysis of α-globin genes demonstrated a heterozygous mutation on the α2 gene [α94(G1)Asp→His] for each of the newborns and their related adults. The same mutation was found on the α1 gene in an adolescent and her father. The mRNA measurements showed that the α2- to α1-globin mRNA mean ratio was 2.5, α2 mutant globin mRNA/total α2-globin mRNA was 45.0%, whereas the α1 mutant globin mRNA/total α1-globin mRNA was 37.8%. The level of α2 mutant globin/total α-globin was 27.3 ± 1%, and α1 mutant globin/total α-globin was 23.8 ± 1%. The percentage of synthesized α2 and α1 mutant globins was 27.5 ± 2 and 26.1 ± 1, respectively. The ratio of the α2/α1 mutant globins was 1.1, which corresponded to a ratio at the mRNA level of α2/α1 of 2.5 ± 0.5, which suggested that there is a less efficient translation of the α2 mRNA than α1 mRNA. The reversal of the physiologic fetomaternal oxygen affinity had no effects on fetal development.
experimentally analyzed according to (a) association of lever-pressing with food reinforcement; Co) development of the behavior of lever-pressing. The latter was studied in two strains of rats with a high or low level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in erythrocytes. Twelve males from each strain, previously trained to lever-press, were used. The rate of responding increased faster with repeated training-testing sessions in the High Strain than in the Low Strain under the CRF and the FR 10 schedule. The genetic difference in the DPG level in erythrocytes and the resultant long term difference in oxygen transport capability may be a significant factor contributing to the behavioral differences in these two strains.
Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level THE association between a stimulus and the proper response in a problem solving situation is the initial part of the process of learning, and was summarized by Thorndike's Law of Effect [ 1 1 ]. On the other hand, in the leverpressing operant situation, the animal has to develop not only the association of lever-pressing with the delivery of food but also the proficiency of the act of lever-pressing, an act not a part of the animal's natural behavioral repertoire. Such proficiency is a continuous variable which depends on the amount of experience in the problem solving situation and can be measured by the rate of lever-pressing. This particular aspect of the learning process can only be studied by placing a strict experimental control on the initial conditions of the association of lever-pressing with food reinforcement. The availability of a computer-controlled behavioral system and a rapid, automatic procedure to train a large number of animals provided such an opportunity [8, 9, 10] . The presence of two strains of rats genetically selected according to a biochemical marker provided another opportunity [7] . The present study analyzed and compared the development of the lever-pressing skill in these two strains of rats. The criterion of the selective breeding process is the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), a glycolytic intermediate of carbohydrate metabolism, in the red blood cells. The level of DPG in red blood cells is considered to be an important controlling factor in the oxygen transport to tis-719 sues, because the binding of DPG to the hemoglobin molecules reduces the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen [2, 3, 4] . Thus a higher level of DPG in a standard concentration of hemoglobin in blood would result in a larger amount of oxygen delivered to the tissues of the whole body without an increase in cardiac output or a decrease in tissue capillary oxygen pressure. The Long-Evans strain of rats was chosen as the experimental animal model because it has the same degree of natural variability in DPG level as man, although the absolute levels are higher. In the selective breeding process, the animals with the highest levels and the lowest levels of DPG were mated among themselves. After 3 generations, the DPG level did not increase further in the High strain or decrease further in the Low strain. The High strain then had different oxygen dissociation curves displaced to the right of those of the Low strain. At p50, there was a 6 mm Hg. pressure difference, an indication of a functional difference between the two strains in their oxygen transport [3] . The higher DPG level in the High strain was believed to be causally related to the higher activity of the enzyme phosphofructokinase [7] .
The N-terminal 18-amino acid sequence of the ␤-chain of hemoglobin, as far as the end of the A helix, has been replaced by the corresponding sequence of the ␥-chain of fetal hemoglobin with the remaining sequence of the ␤-chain retained (helices B through H). The ␥-␤-chain had the correct mass, and its entire sequence was established by mass spectrometric analysis of its tryptic peptides; the ␣-chain also had the correct mass. This recombinant hemoglobin (named Hb Felix) retains cooperativity and has an oxygen affinity like that of HbA both in the presence and absence of the allosteric regulators, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or chloride but differs from HbF in its 2,3-diphosphoglycerate response. However, Hb Felix has some features that resemble fetal hemoglobin, i.e. its significantly decreased tetramerdimer dissociation and its circular dichroism spectrum, which measure the strength of the tetramer-dimer interface in the oxy conformation and its rearrangement to the deoxy conformation, respectively. Even though Hb Felix contains the HbA amino acids at its tetramer-dimer interface, which is located at a distance from the substitution sites, its interface properties resemble those of HbF. The amino acid sequence of a protein contains the information necessary for its proper folding into the native state (1). Predicting patterns of protein folding into secondary and tertiary structures based on the primary structure is currently the focus of intense study in many laboratories. Assembly of such folded polypeptides into specific quaternary structures depends on how the individual subunits interact with one another. In human tetrameric hemoglobins there are two quaternary conformations, oxy (R) and deoxy (T), which are responsible for its functional binding and release of O 2 , respectively (2, 3). We describe here how some of these quaternary subunit interactions involving ␣ subunits in adult (␣ 2 ␤ 2 ) and fetal (␣ 2 ␥ 2 ) hemoglobins are influenced by the N-terminal sequences of their ␤ and ␥ subunits.
In vertebrate Hbs that comprise two ␣ chains and two ␤ chains, O 2 binding at the heme groups triggers a transition of the protein molecules from the low-affinity, tense (T) state to the high-affinity, relaxed (R) state, which is basic to cooperativity in O 2 binding. Hb-O 2 affinity is modulated by allosteric effectors, chiefly protons (low pH) and CO 2 that decrease O 2 affinity (increase O 2 unloading in the tissues via the Bohr effect), and organic phosphate and chloride ions that commonly reduce Hb-O 2 affinity by preferential binding at specific sites of the molecules in the T state (62, 91). Thus, whereas protons mainly bind at ␤146His (the COOH-terminal histidines of the ␤ chains), the organic phosphates [typically 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in mammals, and ATP in ectothermic vertebrates] interact with seven amino acid residues in the cavity between the ␤ chains (␤1Val of one chain; and ␤2His, ␤82Lys, and ␤143His of both ␤ chains), CO 2 binds at the unprotonated NH 2 -terminal residues of both chains, and Cl Ϫ ions at one ␣ chain site (between ␣1Val and ␣131Ser) and one ␤ chain site (between ␤1Val and ␤82Lys) (42, 53, 62, 70, 78) .
The phosphorylation of glucose by human erythrocyte hexokinase follows classical Michaelis-Menten kinetics; hexokinase manifests maximum activity at 5 mM glucose, and no further increase in activity can be measured at higher glucose concentrations. However, the erythrocytes of diabetics and normal erythrocytes incubated with high concentrations of glucose contain increased concentrations of glucose 6-phosphate. To elucidate the mechanism of accumulation of glucose 6-phosphate when erythrocytes are exposed to high glucose concentrations, hexokinase activity was examined in the presence of naturally occurring inhibitors, such as glucose 1,6-bisphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ADP, and glucose 6-phosphate at physiological concentrations. Without inhibitors or in the presence of glucose 1,6-bisphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and ADP, maximum hexokinase activity was observed at 5 mM glucose concentration. On the contrary, in the presence of glucose 6-phosphate, hexokinase activity increased at glucose concentrations >5 mM; inhibition by glucose 6-phosphate was partially competitive with glucose. The relief by glucose of glucose 6-phosphate inhibition of hexokinase is a possible explanation of the increased glucose 6-phosphate level in diabetic erythrocytes.
is our hypothesis that it is the phosphorylation of the anionic matrix proteins that is important, rather than the ability of enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase to release inorganic phosphate from these proteins. To test this hypothesis mineralization was monitored in a culture system that mimics endochondral ossification [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] . The cultures were challenged with inhibitors of CK2 and of phosphoprotein phosphatases, and with blocking antibodies to selected phosphorylated proteins. Chick limb-bud mesenchymal cells plated in high-density micromass cultures differentiate to form a mineralizable matrix that resembles the growth plate in the chick [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] . Our earlier studies using 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and heparin, both non-specific inhibitors of CK2, showed inhibition of mineralization when protein phosphorylation was blocked [18] . However both these inhibitors have effects on other cell functions. How calcification is impacted by specific inhibition of phosphorylation of the matrix phosphoproteins has not yet been reported, nor has the effect of preventing phosphatase-mediated protein dephosphorylation at different stages of differentiation. Thus the purpose of the present study was to investigate the importance of extracellular matrix protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation in a time dependent manner using the chick limb-bud mesenchymal cell micromass culture system.
Blood from seven newborns, a 13-y-old, and seven adult family members with a suspected hemoglobinopathy because of unexplained cyanosis was obtained for analysis to determine Hb oxygen affinity and to characterize and quantify the Hb variants. Their oxygen saturation was 76 to 84%. The P 50 was 30.3 Ϯ 2.9 for the newborns and 32.5 Ϯ 2.6 mm Hg for their related adults. In the same order, the plasma erythropoietin was 7.4 Ϯ 2.9 and 15.9 Ϯ 3.7 mU/mL, whereas 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was 16.1. Ϯ 2.9 and 15.9 Ϯ 3.7 mol/g Hb. In four of the newborns with increased P 50 , the mother had a normal P 50 (27 mm Hg), which indicated a greater maternal oxygen affinity than the fetus with no adverse effects on the fetus. Genetic analysis of ␣-globin genes demonstrated a heterozygous mutation on the ␣2 gene [␣94(G1)Asp3 His] for each of the newborns and their related adults. The same mutation was found on the ␣1 gene in an adolescent and her father. The mRNA measurements showed that the ␣2-to ␣1-globin mRNA mean ratio was 2.5, ␣2 mutant globin mRNA/total ␣2-globin mRNA was 45.0%, whereas the ␣1 mutant globin mRNA/total ␣1-globin mRNA was 37.8%. The level of ␣2 mutant globin/total ␣-globin was 27.3 Ϯ 1%, and ␣1 mutant globin/total ␣-globin was 23.8 Ϯ 1%. The percentage of synthesized ␣2 and ␣1 mutant globins was 27.5 Ϯ 2 and 26.1 Ϯ 1, respectively. The ratio of the ␣2/␣1 mutant globins was 1.1, which corresponded to a ratio at the mRNA level of ␣2/␣1 of 2.5 Ϯ 0.5, which suggested that there is a less efficient translation of the ␣2 mRNA than ␣1 mRNA. The reversal of the physiologic fetomaternal oxygen affinity had no effects on fetal development. Abbreviations ODC, Hb-oxygen dissociation curve DPG, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate P 50 , PO 2 required to achieve a saturation of 50% at pH 7.4 and 37°C
This report is divided into two parts. The first is concerned with the binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to deoxy- and oxyhemoglobin in the absence and presence of CO2 under conditions comparable to those prevailing in intact erythrocytes. In the second part an attempt is made to analyze the mechanism by which glycolysis is inhibited in erythrocytes containing elevated concentrations of DPG.
Two male castrated Whippet littermates were presented at 1 year of age for pallor, tachycardia, systolic heart murmur, dark yellow to orange feces, intermittent lethargy, pigmenturia, and muscle shivering or cramping after exercise. Persistent macrocytic hypochromic anemia with marked reticulocytosis and metarubricytosis was found when CBC results were compared with reference values for Whippets. Increased serum creatine kinase activity and hyperkalemia also were sometimes present over the 4-year period of evaluation. Progressively increasing serum concentrations of N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide suggested cardiac disease. Erythrocytes from the whippets were less osmotically fragile but more alkaline fragile than those from control dogs. Erythrocyte phosphofructokinase (PFK) activities and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations were decreased. Restriction enzyme-based DNA test screening and DNA sequencing revealed the same mutation in the muscle-PFK gene of the Whippets as seen in English Springer Spaniel dogs with PFK deficiency. This is the first report of PFK deficiency in Whippet dogs. In addition to causing hemolysis and exertional myopathy, heart disease may be a prominent clinical component of PFK deficiency in this breed and has not been previously recognized in PFK-deficient English Springer Spaniels.
The measurement of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (ODC) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in patients with chronic hypoxemia is important from the view point of tissue oxygenation. However, there have been no consistent results that explain the relation among chronic hypoxemia, 2,3-DPG and P50, which is oxygen pressure at an oxygen saturation of 50 percent. The aim of this study is to clarify what factors affect P50 and 2,3-DPG. 1) Patients with chronic hypoxemia, who showed PaO2 less than 60 Torr, had significantly higher P50 than normal subjects. 2) The concentration of Hb showed significant negative correlation with both P50 and 2,3-DPG. 3) Arterial blood pH showed significant positive correlation with both P50 and 2,3-DPG. 4) In a group with normal levels of Hb and pH, there was significant negative relationship between PaO2 and P50. 5) In a group with normal levels of Hb and pH, there was significant positive relationship between PaCO2 and P50. 6) In a group with normal levels of Hb, pH and PaCO2, there was significant negative relationship between PaO2 and 2,3-DPG. In conclusion, P50 and 2,3-DPG are affected largely by Hb concentration or blood pH, with or without hypoxemia. However there is a mechanism by which P50 and 2,3-DPG are increased by hypoxemia itself in a group with normal levels of Hb, pH and PaCO2.
Abstract In two cases of hemolytic anemia with pyruvate kinase deficiency, we have studied the modifications of glycolysis in red blood cells and the kinetic behaviour of pyruvate kinase. Red cell glycolysis was markedly diminished. This alteration of the metabolic capacity coincides with an accumulation of phosphoenol pyruvate and phospho-glycerates and with a low level of hexose phosphates and triose phosphates. ATP content is very much decreased (35 % of normal values) ; 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is slightly increased. The level of pyridine nucleotides was found to be low, with predominance of reduced forms. These modifications are interpreted in relation to pyruvate kinase deficiency. The kinetic studies of the purified enzyme revealed two forms of pyruvate kinase in normal erythrocytes as well as in pyruvate kinase-deficient cells : — pyruvate kinase-B, with hyperbolic kinetics and K m app. (phosphoenol-pyruvate) = 3.6· 10 −5 M , insensitive to fructose diphosphate. — pyruvate kinase-A, with allosteric kinetics and K m app. (phosphoenol-pyruvate) = 19.3· 10 −5 M . The allosteric form is activated by fructose diphosphate at very low concentrations ( K m app. (fructose diphosphate) = 43·10 −9 M ). In activated A-form, K m (phosphoenolpyruvate) is lowered at the same value as the B-form (= 2.8 · 10 −5 M ). ADP is inhibitor at concentrations above 30 · 10 −5 M , and this action is overcome by fructose diphosphate. ATP inhibits at physiological concentrations. Pyruvate kinase-A and pyruvate kinase-B have identical V max and are interconvertible. The transition factors are discussed. In this study, no differences appeared in the molecular structure of pyruvate kinase in normal and deficient cells.
Analysis of the effects of a range of concentrations of the antihyperlipoproteinemia drug, bezafibrate, on the oxygen dissociation curve of dilute hemoglobin solutions indicates a 4:1 binding stoichiometry with a site binding constant of 434 mol-1 for deoxyhemoglobin. Analysis of the combined effects of a range of bezafibrate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentrations indicates that 2 of the 4 bezafibrate sites are in the vicinity of the DPG binding site, and competitive with DPG binding, and 2 of the sites are remote from the DPG binding site.
Functional studies of partially purified hemoglobin (Hb) Bruxelles, Phebeta42 (CD1) --> 0 indicate a major shift in the allosteric equilibrium toward the deoxy (T state) conformation. While Hb A shows a roughly symmetrical oxygenation curve with maximum cooperativity near half-saturation, Hb Bruxelles shows mainly properties of the low affinity (T state) form. The oxygen equilibrium curves for purified (>80%) Hb Bruxelles show little cooperativity and a P50 (without 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) about twice that of Hb A. The low cooperativity for Hb Bruxelles is partially compensated by an increase in oxygen affinity of the deoxy conformation and a lower 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effect. The beta chains of normal Hb have consecutive phenylalanine residues at positions 41 and 42. DNA sequencing studies of Hb Bruxelles showed a deletion of the codon TTT, which corresponds to residue Phe42. The CO rebinding kinetics after flash photolysis show mainly the slow phase, characteristic of CO binding to the deoxy conformation. In phosphate buffer at pH 7, the slow phase dominates even at low photolysis levels, where the main reaction is ligand binding to the triply liganded form. This indicates a switchover point, from the deoxy to oxy conformation, occurring beyond three ligands for Hb Bruxelles. There are few natural mutants that show a change in the oxygen affinity and cooperativity as large as that observed for Hb Bruxelles.
The present study deals with the fixation of benzene polycarboxylates such as benzene hexacarboxylate (BHC) or benzene tetracarboxylate (BTC) onto dextran, with the aim of obtaining polyanionic polymers capable of decreasing the oxygen affinity of Hb by interacting with its phosphate binding site. The synthesis was carried out according to several reaction schemes. The polyanionic polymers presented the strongest effector properties, when the polyanionic molecule (BHC or BTC) were directly fixed onto the hydroxyl functions of dextran in the presence of a carbodiimide or by means of the benzene tetracarboxylic anhydride. The introduction of a spacer arm between the polymer and the polyanionic molecule led to the formation of crosslinking between chains of dextran. Among the synthesized polymers those which possess effector properties similar to those of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were bound onto oxyHb. The resulting covalent conjugates exhibited a low oxygen affinity and a molecular size quite fitted to a potential use as blood substitutes.
An apical-enriched plasma membrane fraction (A-PM) was prepared from rat parotid gland by Mn2+ precipitation. In this fraction, phosphatidylcholine (PC) labelled at the sn-2 position was mainly decomposed into two labelled compounds (free fatty acid and 1,2-diacylglycerol) under Ca2+-free conditions. Studies using double-labelled PC and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (as a phospholipase D inhibitor) showed that they were produced through different pathways: free fatty acid was released by phospholipase A2 (PLA2) while 1,2-diacylglycerol may be produced by sequential action of phospholipase D and phosphatidate phosphatase. The PLA2 in A-PM did not require Ca2+ for its activity and was highly activated by Triton X-100 and ATP. The inhibitor of the well-documented Ca2+-independent PLA2, bromoenol lactone, did not inhibit the PLA2 activity in A-PM. Although PLA2 activity was detected in other subcellular fractions, the highest specific activity was in A-PM. Its distribution among various fractions was roughly similar to that of the marker enzyme of apical plasma membranes. These findings suggested that Ca2+-independent PLA2 activity is present in apical plasma membranes from rat parotid gland. In addition, to clarify the involvement of the PLA2 in exocytosis, the fusion of exogenous PLA2-treated membranes with secretory granules was examined by fluorescence dequenching assay. This study clearly demonstrated the facilitation of fusion by PLA2 treatment, which suggests some involvement of apical PLA2 in saliva secretion.
Oxygen transport was studied in natives and in sojourners of 3 days at several altitudes. The ratio of ventilation to O2 uptake was greater at altitude than at sea level and greater in the sojourners than in the natives. Thus at each altitude PaO2 was higher in the sojourners; however, because the hemoglobin concentration was markedly higher in the native, their arterial O2 content was greater. Cardiac index, oxygen consumption per kilogram of body weight and arteriovenous difference in O2 content did not differ between the two groups nor with altitude. At altitude, the affinity of the hemoglobin for O2 was decreased in both groups: the magnitude of this decrease was greater in the sojourners than in the natives at the lower altitudes, but it was the same in the two groups at the higher altitudes. The decrease in affinity appeared to have been effected by an increase in intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate which was probably stimulated by an increase of the proportion of deoxygenated hemoglobin. The mixed venous PO2 decreased with altitude, more in the sojourners than in the natives. The role played by the change in each of the O2 transport mechanisms with altitude on the delivery of O2 is discussed.
Blood was stored at 4 C. in ACD without additive or supplemented with adenine, inosine, inosine-adenine, or adenosine. After six weeks of storage the carbohydrate intermediates of the erythrocytes were studied by column chromatography. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) had disappeared from blood stored without additive or with adenine. Both ATP and DPG remained in erythrocytes stored with the other additives. Concentration of ATP was highest in blood stored with inosine-adenine, and the level of DPG was highest with the addition of adenosine to the storage solution.
Abstract 1. 1. Human erythrocyte phosphofructokinase (ATP: d -fructose 6-phosphate 1-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.11) was purified 15 000-fold by (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 precipitation, heating and column chromatography on Sepharose 6-B. The resulting enzyme preparation had a specific activity of 60 μmoles Fru-1,6- P 2 formed per min per mg protein at 25 °C. 2. 2. With cellulose-acetate electrophoresis only one band was observed after detection of the enzyme activity with the fluorescent technique. 3. 3. Citrate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate do not inhibit. The inhibition by ATP is pH dependent. Cyclic AMP is able to reverse the inhibition by ATP to some extent. 4. 4. With GTP, ITP and UTP no inhibition is observed. At saturating concentrations of GTP, ATP still inhibits phosphofructokinase. 5. 5. The variation of the activity of phosphofructokinase at various ATP and Fru-6- P concentrations was studied. In the reaction mechanism a ternary complex is involved.
Abstract 1. 1. In addition to its primary role as regulator of hemoglobin oxygenation, 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid has been cited as an inhibitor of several enzymes in the erythrocyte. In this paper four enzymes of glycolysis [hexokinase (ATP: d :hexose 6-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.1), phosphofructokinase (ATP: d -fructose 6-phosphate I-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.11), phosphoglycerate kinase (ATP:3-phospho- d -glycerate I-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.2.3), and pyruvate kinase (ATP: pyruvate phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.40) were partially purified from the human red blood cell and the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate upon their activities was measured. 2. 2. It was demonstrated that in addition to hexokinase, about which there had been conflicting previous reports, the other three kinases are inhibited at normal intracellular levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, but that a marked variation in sensitivity exists. 3. 3. Kinetic studies of this inhibition reveal that generally 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is competitive with ATP, ADP, or the ATP-2 Mg2+ complex. A tabular summary of the K i and K m values for these enzymes is given. 4. 4. It is concluded from these experiments together with studies on glucose utilization by cells containing varying amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate that inhibition of hexokinase is probably the most significant step in regulation of glycolysis by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. 5. 5. The competitive effect between, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP on these four kinases and its possible significance in mammalian erythrocytes is discussed briefly.
The purpose of this study was to examine the intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration in anaemic (haemoglobin concentration below 10.5 g/l00 ml blood) and in normal pregnant wo
Hemoglobin J (HbJ), Guantanamo, which had been described but once in the literature, was found in a tamily originating from Benin; this second case was found to be in association with hemoglobin C (HbC) and α-thalassemia. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) procedures and microsequencing were used for characterization of the aminoacid substitution. The main hematological disorder, in relation with the instability of Hb J Guantanamo, seems to be a worsening of the rheological properties of the red blood cells (RBC), as demonstrated by ektacytometric studies. Oxygen-binding properties of the RBC were almost normal, but a slight decrease in cooperativity and lowered Bohr and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) effects were observed for pure stripped Hb J Guantanamo. The expression of the electrophoretic charge difference was partly masked, as is often observed when the structural abnormality is situated in or near a contact area.
1 Introduction.- 2 Two Gas Transport Problems.- Requirements at Rest.- Oxygen.- Carbon Dioxide.- Equilibrium Binding Curves.- Requirements during Exercise.- Some Further Requirements.- Regulation.- Darwinian Evolution in the Genealogy of Hemoglobin.- Why Red Cells?.- 3 Physical Relationships in Blood-Tissue Gas Transport.- 4 Blood as a Physicochemical System-I. Hemoglobin and Its Interaction with Ligands.- Hemoglobin Structure.- Ligand Binding and Conformational States.- The Monod-Wyman-Changeux Model.- Adair's Intermediate Compound Hypothesis.- Linked Functions.- The Molecular Basis of Ligand Binding, Conformational Change, and Allosteric Interaction of the Hemoglobin Molecule.- Oxygen.- Protons.- Carbon Dioxide.- 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate.- Carbon Monoxide.- Oxygen Binding and Interaction Coefficients under Physiological Conditions.- Basic Considerations.- The Whole Blood Oxygen Binding Curve under Standard Conditions.- Numerical Values.- Effect of Hemoglobin Concentration.- Carbon Monoxide.- Effect of Temperature.- Embryonic and Fetal Hemoglobins.- Hemoglobin-Ligand Kinetics in Solution.- Hemoglobin-Oxygen Interaction.- Hemoglobin Interactions with CO2, Protons, and 2,3- DPG.- 5 Blood as a Physicochemical System-II. Equilibria, Steady States, and Transport Kinetics of the Red Cell-Plasma Distributions.- Definition of a Standard State for Measurements of Blood Composition.- The Standard Steady State Distributions.- Red Cell Water.- Red Cell Ionic Composition.- Thermodynamic Equilibria and Ion Activity Coefficients.- Erythrocyte and Plasma Responses to Perturbations in Composition.- Fundamental Constraints and Approach to Analysis.- Applications of the Fundamental Relationships.- Review of Data on the Kinetics of Relaxation Processes in Blood.- 6 The Dynamics of Oxygen, Carbon Dioxide, and Proton Transport under Normal Conditions.- The Model System.- Geometric Considerations.- Analysis of Plasma and Red Cell Compositional Profiles.- Determination of Systemic Capillary Blood Flowrate.- Simulation of Gas Transport at Rest.- Base Case.- A Simplifying Approximation.- Oxygen Transport in Exercise.- Facilitated Gas Transport in Tissue.- Oxygen-Myoglobin.- Carbon Dioxide-Bicarbonate.- 7 Some Physiological Control Systems.- The Controlled Gas Transport System.- The Red Cell 2,3-DPG Concentration.- 2,3-DPG and the Red Cell Glycolytic System.- Variations in Red Cell 2,3-DPG Concentration under Physiological Conditions.- The Whole Blood Hemoglobin Concentration.- General Aspects.- The Erythropoietin System.- Variations under Physiological Conditions.- Protection against Oxidation of Hemoglobin.- The Heme Groups.- The-SH Groups.- 8 Disturbances of the Respiratory Functions of Blood.- Abnormal Acid-Base Balance.- General Discussion and Results.- The in Vivo Dependence of Red Cell 2,3-DPG Level, [DPG]T, upon pH and Hemoglobin Oxygen Saturation.- Abnormal Erythron function.- Anemia.- Oxygen Affinity and Red Cell Age.- Kinetics of Oxygen Transfer in Red Cells with Increased Rigidity.- Polycythemia.- Abnormal Hemoglobins.- Abnormal Red Cell Organic Phosphate Concentration.- Carboxyhemoglobin and Methemoglobin.- Stored Red Cells.- Abnormal Lung Function and Ambient Air.- Simulation of the Effects of Abnormal Arterial Gas Tensions.- 9 Concluding Remarks.- References.
In-vitro analysis of venous blood taken from rats irradiated by 300 and 5,000 J/m2 of UV showed no effect on metabolism and, therefore, energy and recovery systems of erythrocytes. Concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and reduced glutathione were increased after irradiation by 5,000 J/m2. UV-irradiation at 10,000 J/m2 decreased adenosine triphosphate and phospholipids in blood and impaired the functional stability of erythrocyte membranes. Recovery of the membrane structure in 24 hrs. after irradiation suggests extended photochemical processes in cells and is consistent with the literary data about indirect effects of plasma proteins on the red cell function.
1. ::: 1. Pig erythrocyte hexokinase (ATP: d-hexose-6-phosphotransferase E.C.2.7.1.1) was isolated in a partially purified preparation by Sephadex G-100 gel filtration. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. In the mature pig (> 1 year of age), a high affinity component exhibits a maximum velocity at 0·2–0·4 mM glucose. This component seems to be inhibited by excessive glucose concentrations (> 0·5 mM). ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. The young, adult pig (3–6 months of age) possesses a hexokinase which exhibits a maximum velocity at 1·0 μM glucose. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate inhibits the enzyme at low concentrations of Mg2+ (0·05 mM), but the inhibition is relieved as the concentration of Mg2+ is increased beyond 1·0 mM. ::: ::: 5. ::: 5. These findings indicate that the mature erythrocyte of the pig may possess unique biochemical properties that have not been observed in other mammalian red blood cells.
Extensive labelling of the glycolytic intermediate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate by 32PO3−4 during the early periods of development in Artemia is reported. At 30 min of activation this is the major labelled compound. The mobilization of inorganic phosphate through glycolysis leading to the formation of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate results in the formation of a high-energy phosphate donor. The label from this compound could be chased to high-energy phosphates (adenine derivatives). The location and subsequent high degree of labelling of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the yolk platelets further demonstrate the important role played by this organelle in the metabolic events accompanying the breakdown of dormancy in Artemia.
Abstract Erythrocytes of mouse, rabbit, man and pig accumulate large amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate during incubation in media containing inosine, pyruvate and inorganic phosphate. Only small amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are formed in erythrocytes from rat, dog and guinea pig under these conditions, whereas no 2,3-disphosphoglycerate is synthetized in red blood cells of cat, beef and sheep. These species differences are caused by: 1. 1. Differences in the inosine permeability of the red cell membrane which decreases by about two orders of magnitude in the sequence rabbit > pig > man > rat > guinea pig > dog. Red cells of beef, sheep and cat were found to be almost impermeable to inosine. 2. 2. Differences in the activity of red cell purine nucleoside phosphorylase which decreases in the order man > pig > rabbit > mouse > guinea pig > sheep > rat > dog, beef and cat. 3. 3. High activities of phosphoglycerate kinase and the subsequent enzymes of glycolysis competing with diphosphoglycerate mutase for the substrate 1,3-diphosphoglycerate in rat erythrocytes. Inosine net-transfer in pig erythrocytes which is saturated at 3 mM inosine exhibits an activation energy of 25 kcal/mole when determined at 10 mM inosine. Hypoxanthine is transported 5–50 times faster than inosine into erythrocytes of pig, man and beef. Red cell purine nucleoside phosphorylase exhibits substrate activation kinetics at high concentrations of inosine in all species studied which is more pronounced in the presence of arsenate than in the presence of inorganic phosphate.
Human red cells were incubated in plasma under physiological conditions and labelled with 32Pi. After separating the cells by Sephadex columns, the specific radioactivities of cellular Pi, [β-32P]ADP, [β-32P]ATP, [γ-32P]ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were estimated. From the third to the eighth hour after labelling, the specific radioactivities of cellular Pi and adenine nucleotides stayed at 20% of the specific radioactivity of plasma Pi without any tendency to equilibrate with the precursor. The specific radioactivity of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate rose linearly with time and surpassed that of cell Pi and adenine nucleotides 5 h after labelling. A compartmentation of cellular Pi, ADP and ATP is suggested. It was confirmed experimentally and by means of computer simulation. Of the intracellular Pi, ADP and ATP, about 64% do not participate in tracer exchange, probably because of being bound to hemoglobin.
Abstract Background Red blood cell (RBC) aging in transfusion medicine is characterized by alteration of many biochemical and morphological integrity of the cell referred to as red cell storage lesion (RCSL), CD47 is a protective marker expressed on RBCs that salvage the cell from phagocytosis. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) tends to have a greater affinity towards deoxygenated hemoglobin. Any oxygen unloading at tissue capillaries are facilitated by 2,3-DPG, and any alterations in its levels can significantly interfere with oxygen release. Alteration of both CD47 expression and 2,3-DPG levels during red cell storage may serve as markers in the development of RCSL. The aim of this study was to validate the impact of storage time and leuco-depletion on CD47 expression on the RBCs, which could be a prospective marker for detection of RBCs viability and to clarify if the changes in CD47 expression and 2,3-DPG levels are correlated during storage of Packed RBCs. Subjects and methods One hundred samples from Packed RBCs units were divided into two groups [Group 1 comprised unfiltered packed red cell units (n = 50), whereas Group 2 included filtered “leuco-reduced” red cell units (n = 50)]. Collection of samples was executed on days 0, 1 and 21. Each sample was measured for 2,3-DPG and alteration of CD47 expression on RBC using flow cytometry. Results Decreased CD47 expression along the storage period was statistically significant in both groups (P Conclusion Older unfiltered RBC possesses lower expression of CD47 and low levels of 2,3-DPG, however filtration (leucoreduction) of RBCs units may help to retain considerable levels of 2,3-DPG and CD47 and hence sustains preservation of RBCs through reduction of phagocytosis.
Publisher Summary ::: This chapter emphasizes that erythrocyte or red blood cell is unique, which is unlike all other cells of the body, is devoid of a nucleus, of DNA, RNA, and intracellular organelles, of a cytochrome system and of the capacity for oxidative phosphorylation. The major task of the erythrocytes, the transport of hemoglobin, is performed neither with expenditure nor a gain of energy. Energy is required in the red blood cells, however, for maintenance of the correct ion balance, brought about by the pumping out of sodium in exchange for potassium, for protection of hemoglobin against oxidative denaturation, for maintaining the correct conformation of the cell and for protection against the formation of methemoglobin. A supply of energy is additionally required for the production by the red blood cells of metabolites, such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate required for hemoglobin function and NADPH which is required for the action of glutathione reductase. Both the energy supply and metabolite production are provided by glycolysis and the pentose-shunt pathway.
The acute (0.57 μg/kg i.v. in 2 hours) and long-term (0.57 μg/kg i.v. in 2 hours for 5 days over 4 weeks) effects of the PGE1 analogue alprostadil were studied in patients affected with intermittent claudication. Whole Blood Viscosity (WBV), Whole Blood Filterability (WBF), haematocrit (Htc) and fibrinogen plasma concentration, were studied together with P50, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and adenosine plasma levels. Moreover, in the long-term study, pain-free (PFWD) and maximal walking distance (MWD) were measured. Single alprostadil infusion induced an improvement in WBV, WBF, and oxygen transport, and an increase in adenosine plasma levels. Long-term alprostadil administration produced a decrease in WBV only, without significant changes in WBF, Htc, fibrinogen, P50, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, also inducing a significant prolongation of PFWD and MWD. The possibility is suggested that pulse rises in adenosine plasma levels play a role in the effects of chronic alprostadil administration, maybe in a way similar to that observed in the phenomenon of ischaemic preconditioning.
Influence of altered blood oxygen affinity on maximal performance ability was evaluated in trained rats exercising to exhaustion in a graded treadmill test. Modification of blood oxygen affinity was achieved both by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate depletion, accomplished by exposure of animals to CO(2) and by exchange transfusion with blood exposed to bisulfite or stored in acid citrate dextrose, and by carbamylation of hemoglobin, produced by exchange transfusion of blood incubated with potassium cyanate. A decrease in oxygen tension at half-saturation of hemoglobin (P(50)) from 36 to 23 mm Hg produced a decrease in resting central venous oxygen pressure of about 12 mm Hg. During exercise it caused an average decrease in work performance of about 10%, which was equivalent to that performance decrement caused by a decrease in hemoglobin concentration of approximately 10%. When superimposed on anemia, this change in blood oxygen affinity again caused a similar decrease in performance over and above that due to anemia alone. A marked rightward shift of the in vivo oxygen dissociation curve during severe exercise may have compensated for the reduced in vitro P(50).
Ageing erythrocytes in blood bank conditions differ from in vivo , therefore, it has been suggested that erythrocyte physiological ageing process may be accelerated by storage conditions [7] . Indeed, during storage, several biochemical and physiological changes occur in ECs, including an increase in the concentration of free haemoglobin, lipids, MPs and a pH reduction. Concerning red blood cells (RBCs), they lose adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or potassium and their membrane undergoes various modifications, such as more rigidity, disruption of phospholipids asymmetry, protein clustering, lipid raft rearrangement, loss
With the reintroduction of carbohydrate via oral feeding, EN, or PN, there is a sudden shift back to glucose as the predominant fuel source, creating a high demand for the production of phosphorylated intermediates of glycolysis (ie, red blood cell adenosine triphosphate [ATP] and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate [DPG]) with inhibition of fat metabolism. This results in hypophosphatemia, the hallmark sign of RS. Additional mechanisms identified as contributing to low serum phosphorus concentrations include preexisting low total body stores of phosphorus during starvation and enhanced cellular uptake of phosphorus during anabolic refeeding. Phosphate is necessary for accrual of lean tissue mass and is a vital component of metabolic pathways involving the production of ATP and 2,3-DPG. Potassium and magnesium also shift intracellularly in response to anabolism and increased insulin release. Magnesium is a cofactor for the Na-K ϩ ATPase pump, so uncorrected hypomagnesemia can complicate potassium repletion. Other metabolic alterations that may occur include fluid imbalance and vitamin deficiencies. An expansion of the extracellular water compartment occurs during refeeding of the malnourished individual. Although the exact mechanism of fluid imbalance in RS is unknown, sodium and water retention may be due to an antinatriuretic effect from hyperinsulinemia 4 or a possible interaction between the water, sodium, and carbohydrate homeostasis.
A B S T R A C T Influence of altered blood oxygen affinity on maximal performance ability was evaluated in trained rats exercising to exhaustion in a graded treadmill test. Modification of blood oxygen affinity was achieved both by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate depletion, accomplished by exposure of animals to C02 and by exchange transfusion with blood exposed to bisulfite or stored in acid citrate dextrose, and by carbamylation of hemoglobin, produced by exchange transfusion of blood incubated with potassium cyanate. A decrease in oxygen tension at half-saturation of hemoglobin (P5o) from 36 to 23 mm Hg produced a decrease in resting central venous oxygen pressure of about 12 mm Hg. During exercise it caused an average decrease in work performance of about 10%, which was equivalent to that performance decrement caused by a decrease in hemoglobin concentration of approximately 10%. When superimposed on anemia, this change in blood oxygen affinity again caused a similar decrease in performance over and above that due to anemia alone. A marked rightward shift of the in vivo oxygen dissociation curve during severe exercise may have compensated for the reduced in vitro P5o.
The purpose of this investigation was to determine the effects of a 3.5-day dietary multibuffer supplement (containing predominantly inorganic phosphate, or Pi, along with bicarbonate and carnosine, i.e., PhosFuel) on repetitive (four trials separated by 2 min rest) Wingate test (WT) performances and whole blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations in 10 recreationally trained road cyclists (T) and 10 normally active but untrained (UT) men. A 2-week washout period was utilized between experimental sessions. Venous blood samples were obtained via cannula once before exercise (baseline), immediately post each WT, and 3 min after the final WT (recovery). The data indicate that this supplement does not affect acid-base status with following intense anaerobic exercise and does not improve repetitive WT performance. However, the supplement does enhance post-exercise levels of 2,3-DPG and the 2,3-DPG/Hb ratio in recreationally trained cyclists while improving acute recovery of peak power in these men.
Oxygen equilibrium curves of fresh, normal human blood have been measured by new methods which allow the control of pH, pCO2, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and which yield higher accuracy at the extremes of saturation than was possible previously. The curve determined by these techniques lies slightly to the right of the standard curve of Roughton et al. (Roughton, F.J.W., Deland, E.C., Kernohan, J.C., and Severinghaus, J.W. (1972) in Oxygen Affinity of Hemoglobin and Red Cell Acid Base Status (Astrup, P., and Rørth, M., eds) pp. 73-83, Academic Press, New York). The greatest difference is at low oxygen saturation, probably owing to the fact that the latter data were obtained under conditions which would lead to depletion of cellular 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The range of p50 (oxygen pressure at half-saturation) values for four normal subjects was 28.3 mm Hg to 29.0 mm Hg. Adair's stepwise oxygenation scheme has been used to analyze the curves with the result that a1 = 0.1514 X 10(-1) (+/- 10%) mm-1; a2 = 0.9723 X 10(-3) (+/- 8%) mm-2; a3 = 0.1703 X 10(-3) (+/- 50%) mm-3; a4 = 0.1671 X 10(-5) (+/- 2%) mm-4 for the best of four data sets. Because these constants are very sensitive to changes in the shape of the oxygenation curve, this analysis is much more useful than p50 measurements in the investigation of the various allosteric effectors of the function of hemoglobin within the red cell.
Abstract A phosphorus-containing metabolite that accounts for up to 80% of the total phosphate in perchloric acid extracts of Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum ATCC 29183 was purified by chromatography on an anion exchange column. The proton-decoupled 31P NMR spectrum of the sodium salt in D2O exhibits an AB quartet with lines at -9.48, -9.78, -10.78, and -11.08 ppm upfield from 85% phosphoric acid. The phosphorus-phosphorus coupling constant is 18.5 Hz, a value characteristic of a pyrophosphate linkage. The structure of this compound has been tentatively established as cyclic-2,3-diphosphoglycerate (Kanodia, S., and Roberts, M. F. (1983) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., in press). Although rapidly degraded in neutral cell extracts, the diphosphodiester was stable for hours in cells whose metabolism had been arrested by depletion of H2 from the medium. If the cells were transferred to phosphate-free medium in the presence of H2 and CO2, the diester disappeared in about one cell generation. These findings point to a possible role as a phosphate storage compound, but the real function(s) of this unusual diphosphodiester must await a complete analysis of its structure and further metabolic studies.
Factors influencing the rate of glucose conversion in red blood cells have been investigated using haemolysates and a purified hexokinase system. ::: ::: ::: ::: The KM-values for glucose and ATP indicate that the glucose concentrations usually occurring in red blood cells are optimal, whereas variations around the physiological ATP-concentration will strongly influence the conversion rate. ::: ::: ::: ::: Glucose 6-phosphate is a potent competitive inhibitor of hexokinase with respect to ATP. Other phosphocompounds tested, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, have no inhibitory effect. Inorganic phosphate decreases the inhibition caused by glucose 6-phosphate. The mechanism for this action is not clear; an interpretation of the data obtained is suggested, however. ::: ::: ::: ::: In intact red blood cells, inosine blocks the phosphorylation of glucosee. The explanation for this effect appears to be the marked increase in glucose 6-phosphate and the decrease in inorganic phosphate.
Abstract Optimum conditions for the determination of 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate (PP-ribose-P) in mouse liver are described. PP-Ribose-P is extracted from frozen liver powder with a solution of 182 μ m [ 14 C]adenine (10 μCi/μmole), 3.36 m m 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and 21.3 m m Tris-Cl buffer (pH 7.4) for 20 sec at 100°C. The amount of PP-ribose-P in the extract is calculated from the radioactivity incorporated into AMP, ADP, and ATP during a 60 min incubation at 37°C with adenine phosphoribosyltransferase and 2.5 m m CaCl 2 .
Summary Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum was grown in phosphate-limited chemostat cultures at a dilution rate corresponding to a doubling time of 13.2 h. The cyclic-2,3-diphospho-D-glycerate content of these cells was 8 to 10-fold lower than that of cells grown in batch cultures having a doubling time of 11.5 h. This metabolite accounted for 5% of cell dry weight during batch growth on 2 mM phosphate. In the chemostat the steady-state concentration of phosphate was 4 μM, showing that this methanogen is adapted to highly efficient growth at low phosphate concentrations. Since growth rates were similar in both cultures, the growth rate clearly does not depend on intracellular levels of cyclic-2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
The effect of mexicor on the functional characteristics of erythrocytes under conditions of post-traumatic period has been studied on rats with traumatic brain injury (TBI) model. TBI leads to an increase in the aggregation of erythrocytes by 143% (p = 0.003), increases the concentration of malonic dialdehyde (MDA) by 40% (p = 0.006), and decreases the electrophoretic mobility of erythrocytes by 22% (p = 0.005) relative to the levels of these indices in intact animals. The administration of mexicor (8.0 mg/day, injected intraperitoneally twice per day for 12 days) upon TBI led to a maximum reduction in the MDA concentration by 61% (p = 0.03) and decreased the aggregation of erythrocytes by 36% (p = 0.01), increased the electrophoretic mobility of erythrocytes by 20% (p = 0.003) on the 3rd day of posttraumatic period, and increased the concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate by 23% (p = 0.02) on the 7th day as compared to the positive control. The most pronounced changes under the action of mexicor were observed within 3 - 7 days after the onset of TBI. The obtained data show the efficacy of mexicor in the treatment of rats with TBI model, which is manifested by a 40% (p = 0.02) shorter period of recovery of the functional parameters of red blood cells in comparison to the positive control.
In either the red cell or in concentrated solution, deoxyhemoglobin S (α2β2 6 val) possesses the unique property of aggregating into microfilaments, leading to increased viscosity and ultimately to gelation. This property may be strongly influenced by the presence of non-S hemoglobins or by a second amino acid sub-stitution on either the β chain (hb C-Harlem (α2β2 6 val 73 asn) (Bookchin et. Al., 1967) or the α chain (hb Memphis (α2 23 gln β 6 val) (Kraus et al., 1966). Furthermore, the sickling phenomenon may be affected by intracellular modifiers of hemoglobin function such as carbon dioxide (CO2) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Both of these co-factors bind to hemoglobin at N-terminal amino groups of globin polypeptide chains. Carbamino formation occurs at the N-terminal amino groups of both the α and the β chains (Kilmartin and Rossi-Bernardi, 1969) while DPG binds to positively charged sites on the β chains including the α amino group of NA1 valine, the imidazole of H21 histidine and the ɛ amino group of EF6 lysine (Perutz, 1970). It is of interest that sickling is inhibited by cyanate, an agent which reacts preferentially with N-terminal amino groups of proteins (Cerami and Manning, 1971).
In Critical Care medicine the concepts of Oxygen Delivery, Oxygen Consumption and Tissue Oxygenation have become fundamental in clinical practice but measurements of Oxygen Content and O2 Transport variables require invasive procedures that could be dangerous for critically ill patients and trigger a septic process.Derived indices obtained combining data from a Blood Gas Analyzer with the data from a multi-wavelength spectrophotometer and using the Ole Siggaard-Andersen pH/Blood Gas computerised algorithm might be the non-invasive answer.On 115 arterial blood samples from critically ill patients, we measured pH, pCO2, pO2, oxygen saturation, total hemoglobin concentration and fractions of carboxy-and methemoglobin. The new algorithm was used to calculate: active hemoglobin concentration, total oxygen concentration, actual half-saturation tension, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, estimated functional shunt, uncompensated mixed venous pO2 (assuming an arterio-venous oxygen difference of 2.3 mmol/L base...
Red cell production and survival, cardiac output (CO), renal blood flow (RBF), serum erythropoietin (ESF), oxygen (O2) consumption, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), P50, and circulating hemoglobin (HbC) were measured in normal sheep and in animals made chronically uremic and anemic by subtotal nephrectomy. The erythropoiesis characterizing uremic anemia was hypoproliferative as quantitated by ferrokinetics, but was still subject to normal feedback control in that erythropoiesis in normal and uremic animals increased with phlebotomy and was suppressed with transfusion. ESF levels were only measurable when the hematocrit fell below 25 in normal animals and were undetected in most stable uremics (hematocrit, 18 to 10%). HbC correlated with ESF. CO increased linearly with progressive anemia in normal and uremic states but, despite this increase, relative RBF decreased; the percent of the CO going to the kidney fell with severe anemia. Venous O2 extraction increased linearly in normal and uremic states as anemia progressed, resulting in no difference in O2 utilization between the study states. There were no correlations between 2,3-DPG, P50, or hematocrit, under any conditions. These results confirm the mechanism of anemia in chronic renal failure and demonstrate that the O2 delivery ESF erythroid marrow feedback mechanism persists in the uremic state over a wide range of hematocrits.
BACKGROUND ::: Additive solutions (AS) and prestorage leukoreduction (LR) are important tools used to maintain erythrocyte viability during storage and avoid transfusion reactions in recipients, respectively. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVES ::: The purpose of the study was to determine the efficacy of a WBC filter (Immugard IIIRC) and compare the effect of 4 AS (phosphate-adenine-glucose-guanosine-gluconate-mannitol [PAGGGM], saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol [SAGM], Adsol, Optisol) on the in vitro quality of canine leukoreduced packed RBC units (pRBC) stored for 41 days. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Five hundred milliliters of blood were collected from 8 healthy dogs each into 70 mL of citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) solution, and were leukoreduced by a polyurethane filter. pRBC of each dog were divided equally into 4 bags containing a different AS. Bags were stored for 41 days at 4°C and evaluated every 10 days. Variables analyzed included pH, PCV, and% hemolysis, and lactate, glucose, potassium, sodium, ATP, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The LR resulted in residual WBC counts comparable to human standards. During storage, pH, and glucose, 2,3-DPG, and ATP concentrations decreased, and hemolysis, and lactate, sodium, and potassium concentrations increased (P < .05). Significant differences between AS were seen in the glucose and sodium concentrations, due to the composition of AS. Also, the pH maintained by PAGGGM at day 21 was significantly higher than that seen with SAGM or Adsol. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: All AS used gave satisfactory results during the first 21 days of storage based on the degree of hemolysis, and on ATP and 2,3-DPG concentrations. When compared with day 1 values, significant changes were seen in these variables by day 31 with all AS.
The focus of this study was to determine if there is significant data to prohibit short-term storage of red blood cells (RBCs; i.e., <24 hr) at 1 to 10°C rather than 1 to 6°C, which occurs not uncommonly when RBCs are stored in a cooler for a patient during surgery. This document will describe the evidence in the literature to date regarding the potential impact of having RBCs temporarily in the 1 to 10°C range versus in the 1 to 6°C range, if any, on key measures of the quality of RBC storage: potassium, adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, posttransfusion survival, and bacterial contamination.
1. In order to study the kinetics os the oxygen egress from human red cells in the 50 sec-20 min time range, an apparatus for measuring the oxygen dissociation process was constructed, combining a spectrophotometer with an oxygen electrode of quick response. 2. Starting from air-saturated haemolysate or red cell suspensions, the velocity of oxygen dissociation from oxyhaemoglobin (Vdiss) and of oxygen disappearance in the medium (Vobs) after addition of bakers' yeast (consuming the dissolved oxygen at the velocity of Vconsump) were recorded. A parameter (r) was defined as the ratio of two velocities, Vegress (the velocity of oxygen egress into the medium) and Vdiss, r identical to Vegress/Vdiss = (Vconsump -Vobs)/Vdiss. Vcomsump could be calculated by the Michaelis-Menten equation as follows, Vconsump = Vmax [O2]/(Km + [O2]), where Vmax was the maximal velocity of oxygen consumption of bakers' yeast. 3. The r value was always 1.0 for the haemolysate, but it was less than 1.0 for the normal red cells. Further, the oxygen dissociation curve of red cells obtained at higher Vmax was distorted, due to the non-equilibration between intra- and extracellular oxygen concentrations. 4. The r value was (i) independent of the amounts of the allosteric effectors (2,3-diphosphoglycerate and H+) but (ii) dependent on the haemoglobin contents and (iii) dependent on the amounts of the membrane cholesterol. Therefore, the r value reflected only the process of the oxygen diffusion but not the "chemical reaction' rate. The "barrier' of the oxygen diffusion decreased at lower haemoglobin contents, but increased at higher cholesterol contents in the membrane.
The levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in freshly drawn human erythrocytes can be tripled by a 2 h incubation at 37 °C in a medium containing 21 mM glucose, 1.8 mM ad...
Abstract Hemoglobin Leiden is an abnormal human hemoglobin in which a glutamic acid residue has been deleted from the β-chain at position 6 or 7. The α-amino groups of the β-chain N-termini in tetrameric hemoglobin A are thought to be directly involved in the binding of simple anions and organic phosphates (1). The deletion of the 4th or 5th residue of the A helix in hemoglobin Leiden shortens the N-terminus of the β-chain, and the results reported here show that the anion binding site has been affected. Hemoglobin Leiden shows a decreased response to inorganic phosphate, chloride, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and inositol hexaphosphate, both in equilibria and kinetics of ligand binding. Although hemoglobin Leiden shows an altered response to anions, neither the cooperativity of ligand binding nor the Bohr effect are significantly altered by the deletion. The decreased effect of cofactors seems to be due to a decrease in the strength of anion binding which may be attributed to the altered geometry of the anion binding site.
Background Red blood cells (RBC) are subject to oxidative stress by reactive oxygen species during refrigerated storage. Near-complete removal of oxygen from red cells during storage should eliminate this contributor to the red cell ‘storage lesion’. The in vitro effects of storing red cells under oxygen-depleted conditions for extended periods were investigated, and these were correlated with the observed recoveries after reinfusion. ::: ::: ::: ::: Study Design and Methods Units of red cells, obtained after ‘soft spin’, were placed in a double volume of AS-3 additive solution and subdivided. Oxygen in the test units was depleted by repeated exposure to Ar gas (to O2 saturation < 4%), and units were stored in anaerobic canisters for up to 15 weeks. Samples were taken weekly to monitor adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), cell-free haemoglobin, and vesicle production. In a parallel experiment, six units of red cells was depleted of oxygen in a similar manner, stored for 8, 9 and 10 weeks, and reinfused autologously to determine the 24 h post-transfusion recovery via 51Cr/99mTc radiolabelling. A similar study was also carried out using EAS61 additive solution, which by itself, had shown the ability to support 9-week storage, comparing biochemical profiles and in vivo recovery after aerobic vs. anaerobic storage. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results Oxygen-depleted AS-3 units had significantly elevated ATP levels compared to controls. They also had significantly lower cell free haemoglobin and vesicle production when RBCs were stored for more than 9 weeks. An average of over 75% post-transfusion survival was observed after 9 weeks of anaerobic storage with less than 0·43% haemolysis. However, no further extension of storage was achieved with EAS61 additive. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion Anaerobic conditions permit acceptable 9-week storage of RBCs using double-volume AS-3 additive solution. It did not synergize with the alkaline, 9-week additive, EAS61, to further lengthen the acceptable storage time. These studies indicate that anaerobic storage may allow reduction in the effect of the storage lesion, but suggest that other factors contribute to limitations of RBC storage as well.
Hereditary phosphofructokinase (PFK) deficiency was diagnosed in two Wachtelhund dogs and suspected in three related Wachtelhund dogs with exercise intolerance, hemolytic anemia, and pigmenturia. Severe, persistent reticulocytosis in light of only mild anemia together with hemoglobinuria after strenuous exercise suggested PFK deficiency. Low erythrocyte PFK activity together with low 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations and a high hemoglobin-oxygen affinity confirmed the diagnosis. The PFK deficiency is due to a single missense mutation in the muscle-type PFK M-PFK gene in English springer and American cocker spaniels, whippets, and mixed-breed dogs; however, these PFK-deficient Wachtelhunds do not have the same PFK mutation.
In a theoretical study the influence of hemoglobin and Mg-ions as binding partners of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP was investigated. Free hemoglobin may be an efficient competitor of Mg2+ for the ligand ATP. At conditions which favour hemoglobin as binding partner (i.e. desoxygenation, low medium pH and incubation temperature, as in blood preservation) up to 95% of the whole cellular ATP (ca. 2mM in cell water) may be bound to hemoglobin (ca. 7 mM). This binding is largely prevented in the presence of physiological amounts of diphosphoglycerate (ca. 7 mM) which is in excess and has a higher binding affinity to hemoglobin. Therefore, diphosphoglycerate keeps ATP (MgATP) in cell water solution at conditions in which Hb would trop it in the presence of Mg2+ (ca. 3mM). It can be calculated that, by lack of free MgATP, the activity of hexokinase within the cell drops by a factor of greater than 10 when diphosphoglycerate is metabolized. This indirect activation by diphosphoglycerate of hexokinase is operative at free concentrations of DPG far below those which exert the well known excess inhibitory effect on hexokinase and phosphofructokinase. In a model study, the activation by diphosphoglycerate of the initial two-kinase stage was introduced into a simplified kinetic model of glycolysis. A pronounced hysteresis loop of the stationary concentrations of ATP and diphosphoglycerate was produced indicating the existence of several stationary states, one with high ATP and high diphosphoglycerate, the other one with low values. It is demonstrated that diphosphoglycerate, being a protector of glycolysis at physiological concentrations, triggers an autocatalytic breakdown of the energy state when permitted to drop to low values.
The Bohr coefficient, b, and the Haldane coefficient, h, were measured simultaneously in erythrolysates in the presence and absence of CO2and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. We found b—h=—0.04 (—0.023 to —0.054) although b—h=—0 according to the linkage equation. The cause of the observed difference seems to be that his measured as the mean value for oxygen saturation fractions (zHbO2) between 0 and 1, while brefers to a zHbO2of 0.54. Apparently b(and h) varies with zHbO2and reaches a numerical maximum at an intermediate zHbO2value.
The effects of prestorage leukoreduction and storage duration on the in vitro quality parameters of canine packed red blood cells (pRBCs) stored in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAGM) were investigated. Hematological, biochemical, and morphological changes in filtered and unfiltered pRBCs were determined each week during 42 days of storage. All of the parameters changed significantly during storage. The effects of leukoreduction on leukocyte and erythrocyte count, packed cell volume, hemoglobin content, and erythrocyte morphology were significant. While supernatant K increased during storage, glucose, Cl, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations decreased. Filtered pRBCs had higher 2,3-DPG levels throughout storage than their unfiltered counterparts. It was concluded that the leukoreduction filter significantly decreases the number of leukocytes and that canine pRBCs can be stored in SAGM for 42 days. Furthermore, leukoreduction may be a consideration with the intention of improving oxygen delivery, since the filtered pRBCs had a higher 2,3-DPG concentration.
Although it is well established that in polycythaemia vera (PV) both 'normal' and 'abnormal' erythroid progenitors proliferate, it is less known to what extent the circulating erythrocytes express normal characteristics. We found reduced erythrocyte densities, decreased MCHC, and increased lipid content. These properties, together with increased sialic acid, seem to explain the extremely low sedimentation rate and decreased deformability of polycythaemic blood samples. Other characteristics were high activity of glycolytic enzymes, increased in vitro production of lactate, and a concomitant decline in ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Some of these properties have been described in foetal erythrocytes and are features of normal young red cells. However, they seem to represent true features of PV and not a consequence of younger cell populations. The similarity between mature erythrocytes in PV and in foetal life supports the possibility that the proliferation process in this disease has a mechanism in common with foetal erythropoiesis.
We have investigated the carbamate equilibrium of human adult hemoglobin, human cord blood hemoglobin, methemoglobin, and carbamylated hemoglobin using a stopped flow, rapid reaction pH apparatus described previously. The carbamate formation of human adult hemoglobin at 37 degrees C and ionic strength 0.15 was measured at pH values ranging from 6.2 to 8.8 and at CO2 partial pressures between 15 and 140 Torr. From experiments with unmodified hemoglobin as well as with hemoglobin specifically carbamylated at the four NH2 termini, it was found that already at pH 8, the epsilon-amino groups contribute significantly to carbamate formation in addition to the alpha-amino groups. At pH 8.5, about 70% of the total carbamate is due to epsilon-amino groups. The carbamate formation of alpha- and epsilon-amino groups can be suppressed by complete carbamylation of the hemoglobin. The results obtained from human adult deoxy- and oxyhemoglobin were used to calculate the equilibrium constants governing carbamate formation of these hemoglobins: Kc, the carbamate equilibrium constant, Kz, the R-NH2 ionization constant, and n, the number of binding sites per hemoglobin tetramer. Accordingly, two types of alpha-amino groups, each comprising two groups per tetramer, participate in carbamate formation of deoxyhemoglobin, one of low CO2 affinity (pKc = 5.2; pKz = 7.1; n = 2) and one of high CO2 affinity (pKc = 4.4; pKz = 6.1; n = 2). The pKz values derived from carbamate measurements agree within experimental error with figures obtained by difference titration of unmodified and specifically carbamylated hemoglobin. In addition to the alpha-amino groups, 15 epsilon-amino groups with pKc = 5.0 and pKz = 9.8 form carbamate in deoxyhemoglobin. In oxyhemoglobin, the carbamate data could be fitted with only two similar alpha-amino groups per tetramer in addition to 15 epsilon-amino groups, the latter with pKc = 4.7 and pKz = 10.2. The difference titration of the alpha-amino groups of oxyhemoglobin showed abnormal titration behavior of the beta-chain alpha-NH2. The pKc and pKz values obtained for the epsilon-amino groups of unmodified hemoglobin also provide a good description of the carbamate formed by hemoglobin specifically carbamylated at the four alpha-amino groups. The oxylabile carbamate, according to these results and in agreement with earlier reports, is only formed by alpha-amino groups; it amounts to 0.18 mol/mol of hemoglobin monomer at physiological conditions of pH 7.2 and pCO2 = 40 Torr. The amount of CO2 bound by methemoglobin equals that of oxyhemoglobin. Experiments carried out in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate provided evidence for competitive binding of CO2 and diphosphoglycerate to adult and cord blood oxy- as well as deoxyhemoglobin, the sites of competition probably being alpha-amino groups.
Multiple coagulation studies were carried out in eight healthy young menat sea level (SL) and after 1, 24, and 48 h at a simulated altitude of 4,400 m. Platelet aggregation, as induced by ADP, epinephrine, and collagen, was not significantly altered by high-altitude (HA) exposure. Mean 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, a physiological inhibitor of platelet aggregation, rose (P less than 0.001) after 24 h at HA and remained elevated while no changes in circulating catecholamines were observed. Platelet count, factor 3 availability, and membrane lipid peroxide formation were likewise unaltered at HA, as were prothrombin and thrombin times and protamine paracoagulation test. However, mean partial thromboplastin time was significantly shortened (P less than 0.01) after 1 and 24 h at HA, recovering to SL control by 48 h. Fibrinogen and factor VIII levels also fell (P less than 0.01 and P less than 0.02) after 1 h at HA but returned to the preexposure values by 24 h. Fibrin degradation products were transiently detectable in three subjects at HA. Thus, although normal platelet function did not appear to be modified by short-term exposure to simulated high altitude, evidence for a coagulopathy was obtained.
Abstract Several previous studies have shown that hypoxia increases erythropoiesis and decreases thrombocytopoiesis in mice. It has been postulated that the thrombocytopenia is caused by stem cell competition between the erythrocytic and megakaryocytic cell lines. In the present work, we compared the effects of severe hypoxia (5.5–6.0% O2) in both male and female C3H and BALB/c mice by measuring their abilities to produce red blood cells and platelets. All mice had significant increases in packed cell volumes and marked decreases in platelet production after hypoxia; however, there were significant differences in the degree of stimulation in the two mouse strains. After 14 days of hypoxia, the percentage of 35S incorporation into platelets, total circulating platelet counts and total circulating platelet masses were lower in C3H mice than in BALB/c mice, but platelet sizes were larger. Also, hypoxia caused greater changes in male mice than in female mice, with male C3H mice showing the greatest increase in packed cell volumes and the lowest platelet counts of all mice tested. The least responses were observed in female BALB/c mice. BALB/c mice had higher P50 (right-shifted O2 dissociation curves) and lower erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values than C3H mice, indicating a lower hemoglobin O2 affinity for BALB/c mice. The results indicate that the effects of hypoxia are not direct upon platelet production, but that the thrombocytopenia is a result of stimulation of erythropoiesis. These data support the stem cell competition hypothesis and illustrate that the degree of the inverse relationship between red blood cells and platelet production of hypoxic mice is dependent, to a large degree, upon the sex and strain of mice that are used.
BACKGROUND ::: Refrigerated red blood cell (RBC) storage results in the progressive accumulation of biochemical and morphological alterations collectively referred to as the storage lesion. Storage-induced metabolic alterations can be in part reversed by rejuvenation practices. However, rejuvenation requires an incubation step of RBCs for 1 hour at 37°C, limiting the practicality of providing "on-demand," rejuvenated RBCs. We tested the hypothesis that the addition of rejuvenation solution early in storage as an adjunct additive solution would prevent-in a time window consistent with the average age of units transfused to sickle cell recipients at Duke (15 days)-many of the adverse biochemical changes that can be reversed via standard rejuvenation, while obviating the incubation step. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Metabolomics analyses were performed on cells and supernatants from AS-1 RBC units (n = 4), stored for 15 days. Units were split into pediatric bag aliquots and stored at 4°C. These were untreated controls, washed with or without rejuvenation, performed under either standard (37°C) or cold (4°C) conditions. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: All three treatments removed most metabolic storage by-products from RBC supernatants. However, only standard and cold rejuvenation provided significant metabolic benefits as judged by the reactivation of glycolysis and regeneration of adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Improvements in energy metabolism also translated into increased capacity to restore the total glutathione pool and regenerate oxidized vitamin C in its reduced (ascorbate) form. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Cold and standard rejuvenation of 15-day-old RBCs primes energy and redox metabolism of stored RBCs, while providing a logistic advantage for routine blood bank processing workflows.
Hemoglobin-oxygen association curves of human erythrocytes were measured in metabolically stable cells under the standardized conditions of extracellular pH 7.400, carbon dioxide tension 38 mmHg (approximately 5 kPa) and temperature 37 degrees C. A model of the oxygen association curve of normal erythrocytes was subsequently developed, based on assumed equilibrium reactions between hemoglobins (Hb), oxygen, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Conditional equilibrium constants were determined for reactions leading to the formation of species designated Hb-O2 (K = 0.14 mmHg-1), Hb-(O2)4 (K = 0.44 X 10(-4) mmHg-4), Hb-DPG (K = 0.30 X 10(4) L mol-1) and Hb-O2-DPG (K = 0.61 X 10(2) L mol-1 mmHg-1) for unmodified hemoglobin, and Hb-O2 (K = 0.14 mmHg-1) and Hb-(O2)4 (K = 0.44 X 10(-4) mmHg-4) for glycosylated hemoglobin. This model provides a practical means of calculating the expected oxygen association curve for a sample of erythrocytes under standardized conditions, given the intracellular concentrations of hemoglobins and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the assumption that the hemoglobins in those cells function normally.
Intraoperative blood salvage (IBS), which allows recovery of most blood lost during surgery, is widely used in the clinic. However, whether it reduces postoperative requirements for allogeneic red blood cells (RBCs) is unclear. A multicenter cohort study [1] showed IBS to be associated with lower blood transfusion during revision hip surgery; similar results were reported for patients undergoing cardiac surgery [2] or elective infrarenal aortic surgery. [3] In contrast, another study [4] found that IBS significantly reduced transfusions of packed RBCs within 24 hours after cardiac surgery, but not during the subsequent hospital stay. In addition, large, multicenter randomized controlled trials showed that IBS during primary hip or knee replacement surgery did not decrease the mean number of allogeneic RBCs transfused or the proportion of patients receiving transfusions after surgery. [5] [6] [7] The available evidence, then, suggests that IBS does not provide substantial benefits over longer postoperative periods. The reasons for this are unclear. Since IBS has been shown to reduce the deformability of RBCs, and also their content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, [8] it is possible that IBS damages RBCs. Indeed, our group has shown that IBS significantly reduces adenine nucleotide levels, causing RBCs to become stomatocytes and even "ghosts" at 48 hours after surgery. [9] Damaged RBCs should be rapidly eliminated after being returned to the patient, which may explain why IBS does not reduce postoperative blood requirements in the longer term.
A number of conventional methods exist for assessing RBC quality. RBC hemolysis is used as an indicator of RBC membrane damage that results in the release of free Hb into extracellular space. A decrease in adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the energy substrate of RBCs, has been observed as one of the markers of RBC aging during hypothermic storage [39] . The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in RBCs is another important quality parameter, since 2,3-DPG regulates oxygen exchange between Hb and tissues by mediating the binding of oxygen to Hb, as well as the release of oxygen into tissues [8, 40] . Finally, the concentration of methemoglobin (metHb) acts as an indicator of RBC oxidative injury.
Erythrocyte metabolism was studied in the koala (Phascolarctos cinereus), the common brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) and the whiptail wallaby (Macropus parryi). Aspects of metabolism studied were the levels of ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and reduced glutathione (GSH), activities of erythrocyte enzymes, glycolytic rate, the rate of glutathione S-conjugate transport (GCT), susceptibility of erythrocytes to an oxidising agent and the effect of eucalyptus oil on the red cells. Some of the major findings were that compared to common brushtail possum and the whiptail wallaby, the koala red cells (a) produced significantly greater amounts of lactate; (b) had significantly lower activity of glutathione S-transferase, (c) had significantly lower rate of GCT, (d) were more susceptible to oxidant stress induced by acetylphenylhydrazine (APH) and (e) exhibited a greater degree of haemolysis when incubated with eucalyptus oil.
Abstract The kinetics and equilibria of the chemical reactions underlying blood respiratory function are reviewed, together with additional physico-chemical factors governing in vivo and extracorporeal blood O 2 /CO 2 exchange. The role of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in regulating oxygen-hemoglobin interaction is discussed at length. In addition, the coupling of hemoglobin's reactions with oxygen, carbon dioxide, hydrogen ions and DPG; the biochemical regulation of DPG concentration; and DPG's influence, through a Donnan phenomenon, upon the difference between erythrocyte and plasma pH, are also examined. The kinetics of blood equilibration with carbon dioxide are reviewed, with emphasis upon the enzyme carbonic anhydrase, the exchange of bicarbonate and chloride ions across the red cell membrane and hemoglobin carbamate formation. The discrepancy between the kinetics of oxygen reactions with turbulently flowing hemoglobin solutions and whole blood is discussed in light of recent evaluations of extracellular mass transfer resistance. The significance of blood-gas equilibria and kinetics in CO 2 release in the lungs and O 2 release to tissue is discussed with particular emphasis upon transfusion of blood with modified hemoglobin oxygen affinity. Convection/diffusion-limited O 2 transport is treated in the contexts of O 2 uptake in gas exchange devices and release to tissue. A brief discussion of blood substitute media is also appended.
SummaryRed cell haemoglobin (Hb), haematocrit (Ht), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels were measured in 876 individuals from six villages at two altitude levels (altiplano and coast) of the Departmento de Arica of Northern Chile. Of these, data on 761 individuals are subjected to analysis to search for the evidence of genetic adaptation to a hypoxic environment at a high altitude. Total phenotypic variance for each of the variables is higher at the altiplano as compared to their counterparts at the coastal level. Data on 1127 pairs of relatives of six degrees of relationships are used to determine the genetic component of variation in each of these four traits. To a certain extent the larger familial correlations as well as higher variances at altiplano are explained by the apparent assortative mating (which may again be due to their restricted population size) at the higher elevation. Yet, at least in three variables (Hb, Ht, and DPG) no reduction in the additive geneti...
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) modifies platelet function; it diminishes aggregation and the release reaction. The hypothesis that this occurs through a modification of the intracellular level of cyclic AMP or through an alteration in the synthesis of prostaglandins has been proposed. Since the release reaction occurs simultaneously with a burst in the consumption of oxygen, the authors have studied the effect of 2,3-DPG on oxygen consumption after the addition of thrombin with or without the addition of substances which modify platelet metabolism (aspirin, theophylline, glucagon, etc.). It was observed that 2,3-DPG diminishes oxygen consumption induced by thrombin. This mechanism alters the platelet membrane function.
1. A method is described in which the concentration of ionized magnesium can be measured in intact red cells. The method uses an equilibrium dialysis technique originally developed by Ferreira & Lew (1976) and Flatman & Lew (1977) where the magnesium permeability of the red cell membrane is increased with the ionophore A23187. 2. The concentration of ionized magnesium in the oxygenated cells was found to be 0.39 mM and was not greatly affected by changes in the composition of the medium. 3. The concentration of ionized magnesium in deoxygenated cells showed more dependence on the composition of the medium. Values of 0.54 and 0.62 mM were found in cells incubated in Tris- and HCO3- buffered media respectively. The difference probably reflects increased competition between chloride and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate for common binding sites on haemoglobin in Tris-buffered cells. 3. Only a small increase of 0.16-0.22 mM was found in the concentration of ionized magnesium when the cells were deoxygenated. These changes are smaller than had been anticipated from estimates of the binding of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to oxy- and deoxyhaemoglobin (Bunn, Ransil & Chao, 1971; Berger, Jänig, Gerber, Ruckpaul & Rapoport, 1973; Gerber, Berger, Jänig & Rapoport, 1973) and are unlikely to alter greatly the operation of magnesium-dependent metabolic or transport systems.
Abstract 450 mL blood donations were collected into 4% tri-sodium citrate in standard plastic containers and red cells (RCCs) were prepared within 2 h of collection or after a 6- or 20-h hold at 22 °C. Red cells were suspended in licenced additives and stored for 5 weeks. Compared to RCCs derived from standard anticoagulant (CPD), RCC's processed within 2 h from 4% citrate collection showed similar maintenance of adenosine tri-phosphate (ATP), while enhanced stability of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) (μmol 2,3-DPG/g haemoglobin at day 10 = 10.5 for 4% citrate vs 3 for CPD, P 10.7 μmol g Hb vs 2.1 μmol g Hb, P
The possible mechanisms of postoperative hypophosphataemia were studied in women undergoing uncomplicated cholecystectomy. Six patients were allocated to each of three groups. Group I received no intravenous fluids, group II received dextrose/saline solution alone and group III received dextrose/saline solution with phosphorus supplementation. The serum concentration of inorganic phosphorus fell in all three groups, the greatest fall being in the group receiving dextrose/saline solution. However, the lowest level reached (0.82 mmol/l) was within the normal range for our laboratory. Concentrations of red blood cell adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate showed similar changes. The operations were not associated with a large catabolic response nor with an increase in urinary phosphorus excretion. The postoperative reduction in serum concentration of inorganic phosphorus appeared to be due mainly to haemodilution. There is no indication for routine phosphorus supplementation following uncomplicated elective surgery.
BACKGROUND ::: High oxygen-affinity haemoglobin variants and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) deficiency are inherited diseases generating low tissue oxygen tension and erythropoietin-driven erythrocytosis, that characterizes the clinical phenotype of patients. Level of blood p50 (the oxygen tension at which haemoglobin is 50% saturated) is used to recognize these conditions. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVES ::: To define the clinical utility of blood p50 measurement in the diagnosis of isolated erythrocytosis. ::: ::: ::: SUBJECTS AND DESIGN ::: Venous blood p50 measurement was included in the diagnostic work-up of 102 consecutive patients with isolated erythrocytosis besides blood cell count, arterial oxygen saturation, serum erythropoietin measurement and screening for JAK2 mutations. ::: ::: ::: SETTING ::: Haematological Outpatient Section at University Hospital. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Seven patients had relative erythrocytosis. Among 95 patients with absolute erythrocytosis, 4 (4.2%) had decreased p50 level. The extended study of family members revealed a familial inheritance. Two families had haemoglobin variants already described as Haemoglobin Malmö and Haemoglobin San Diego. In one family, the proband had a new high oxygen-affinity haemoglobin variant (Haemoglobin Safi) resulting from the transversion C-->A at codon 81 of the alpha2-globin gene. In the last family, a deficiency of 2,3-DPG was found. Within the 91 patients with normal p50 values, 46 (51%) had secondary erythrocytosis, 13 (14%) polycythemia vera and 32 (35%) idiopathic erythrocytosis. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: This study suggests that the investigation of blood p50 level may be useful to define diagnosis in patients with isolated erythrocytosis.
Human 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate synthetase isozymes I and II (PRSI and PRSII) have been isolated independently and characterized in pure form. cDNAs for PRSI and PRSII were overexpressed in an Escherichia coli strain which lacks the bacterial 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate synthetase. The recombinant isoforms were purified to virtual homogeneity with specific activities of 25.0 and 35.7 units/mg, respectively, values which are 5-10-fold higher than any previously reported for this enzyme from human sources. Despite 95% amino acid sequence identity, the isoforms differed significantly in several physical and kinetic properties. PRSII was more sensitive to heat inactivation at 55 degrees C and more susceptible to disaggregation to inactive forms in the absence of Mg2+ and ATP than was PRSI. The isoforms were separable on the basis of isoelectric point. PRSI and PRSII also differed significantly in Km values for MgATP and ribose 5-phosphate, pH optima, and Mg2+ and Pi activation curves. PRSII was less sensitive to feedback inhibition by purine nucleotides and more sensitive to inhibition by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate than PRSI. Differences in kinetic properties between PRSI and PRSII are consistent with the suggestion that PRSII predominates in rapidly proliferating cells.
A red cell additive solution (AS-005) containing ascorbate-2-phosphate (AsP) to maintain 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, plus adenine, phosphate, and mannitol to retain viability and reduce hemolysis, was evaluated by human clinical trials. A crossover design was used with another additive solution (Nutricel AS-3, Cutter Laboratories) serving as the control for each donor. Each additive solution was evaluated at 35 and 42 days of storage. There was no significant difference between the red cell viability of the two storage solutions at either time period. Split-bag, AS-005 in vitro studies at two temperatures (2.5 and 5.5 degrees C), both within the range of 1 to 6 degrees C approved by the American Association of Blood Banks and the Food and Drug Administration, resulted in dramatically different in vitro parameters, including a threefold difference in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), a fivefold difference in glucose, and significant differences in pH and adenosine triphosphate. High-pressure liquid chromatography data confirmed the preliminary report that 1 to 2 percent (wt/wt) oxalate was present in preparations of AsP. In vitro storage data confirmed that oxalate is the active component of AsP that preserves 2,3-DPG during storage.
Enzyme abnormalities are frequently found in the red cells of patients with various acquired blood disorders. In leukaemias, preleukaemic states and bone marrow insufficiencies with or without sideroblastosis, changes in enzyme activity are usually characterized by the coexistence of deficiency of some enzymes and an increased activity of others. The most frequently decreased activities are those of pyruvate kinase, phosphofructokinase,2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase and adenylate kinase; the most frequently increased activities are those of hexokinase, aldolase, enolase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. In primary myelofibrosis and in polycythaemia rubra vera, enzyme deficiencies are infrequent and differ from those observed in leukaemias and related disorders. Phosphohexose isomerase and phosphoglucomutase deficiencies seem relatively specific for polycythaemia rubra vera. Explanations for the acquired enzymopathies are still at the stage of hypothesis. The theory of multiple genetic damage may explain some findings but has not yet been proved right. The possibility of post-translational molecular modification is suggested as a working hypothesis.
Despite the advances in diagnosis and treatment, malaria has still not been eradicated. Metabolic interactions between the host and Plasmodium may present novel targets for malaria control, but such interactions are yet to be deciphered. An exploration of metabolic interactions between humans and two Plasmodium species by high-resolution metabolomics may provide fundamental insights that can aid the development of a new strategy for the control of malaria. This study aimed at exploring the metabolic changes in the sera of patients infected with Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax. Uni- and multivariate metabolomic analyses were performed on the sera of four groups of patients, namely normal control (N, n = 100), P. falciparum-infected patients (PF, n = 21), P. vivax-infected patients (PV, n = 74), and non-malarial pyretic patients (Pyr, n = 25). Univariate and multivariate analyses of N, PF, and PV groups showed differential metabolic phenotypes and subsequent comparisons in pairs revealed significant features. Pathway enrichment test with significant features showed the affected pathways, namely glycolysis/gluconeogenesis for PF and retinol metabolism for PV. The metabolites belonging to the affected pathways included significantly low 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate in the sera of PF. The sera of PV had significantly low levels of retinol but high levels of retinoic acid. Our study reveals metabolic alterations induced by Plasmodium spp. in human serum and would serve as a milestone in the development of novel anti-malarial strategies.
Gradual osmotic hemolysis of human erythrocytes reduces the cell content of whole protein, hemoglobin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and triosephosphate isomerase extensively, but not that of membrane protein and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase. After the refilling of the ghosts with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and reconstitution of the membrane, the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activity equals that of intact red cells. The membrane-bound 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase can be activated by sodium hyposulfite. The enzyme system of ghosts seems to differ from that of intact red cells with regard to the optima of pH and temperature. It remains to be elucidated if the membrane binding of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase is related to the transfer of inorganic phosphate across the red cell membrane.
Site-directed mutagenesis of an important subunit contact site, Asp-99(beta), by a Lys residue (D99K(beta)) was proven by sequencing the entire beta-globin gene and the mutant tryptic peptide. Oxygen equilibrium curves of the mutant hemoglobin (Hb) (2-15 mM in heme) indicated that it had an increased oxygen affinity and a lowered but significant amount of cooperativity compared to native HbA. However, in contrast to normal HbA, oxygen binding of the recombinant mutant Hb was only marginally affected by the allosteric regulators 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate and was not at all responsive to chloride. The efficiency of oxygen binding by HbA in the presence of allosteric regulators was limited by the mutant Hb. At concentrations of 0.2 mM or lower in heme, the mutant D99K(beta) Hb was predominantly a dimer as demonstrated by gel filtration, haptoglobin binding, fluorescence quenching, and light scattering. The purified dimeric recombinant Hb mutant exists in 2 forms that are separable on isoelectric focusing by about 0.1 pH unit, in contrast to tetrameric hemoglobin, which shows 1 band. These mutant forms, which were present in a ratio of 60:40, had the same masses for their heme and globin moieties as determined by mass spectrometry. The elution positions of the alpha- and beta-globin subunits on HPLC were identical. Circular dichroism studies showed that one form of the mutant Hb had a negative ellipticity at 410 nm and the other had positive ellipticity at this wavelength. The findings suggest that the 2 D99K(beta) recombinant mutant forms have differences in their heme-protein environments.
Abstract The effect of organic phosphates such as inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), ATP, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) on hemoglobin oxidation by hydroxylamine was studied under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Under aerobic conditions, the oxidation rate of hemoglobin by hydroxylamine was accelerated as much as about 1.6 times, 1.4 times, and 1.4 times in the presence of IHP, ATP, and 2,3-DPG, respectively; however, under anaerobic conditions it was inhibited as much as 2.2 times, 2 times, and 2 times in the presence of these organic phosphates compared with the case for the absence of these organic phosphates. The effects of these organic phosphates on hemoglobin oxidation by hydroxylamine under aerobic conditions were elucidated by the two state models of hemoglobin including the R and the T state, however, the opposite effects under anaerobic conditions cannot be explained without the assumption of the existence of a third conformation of hemoglobin. The dissociation constant of IHP to deoxyhemoglobin was estimated from the rate of the hemoglobin oxidation by hydroxylamine in different concentrations of IHP under anaerobic conditions.
In 12 hypoxemic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the partial pressure of oxygen at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated (P50) and levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were determined under 3 study conditions: (7) while breathing room air, (2) during oxygen supplementation for 72 h sufficient to increase PaO2 above 70 mmHg, and (3) at 72 h after the period of oxygen supplementation. The data showed that in the control period in hypoxemic (PaO2, 52 ± 6 mmHg), mildly hypercapnic (PaCO2> 47 ± 6 mmHg) patients with a borderline elevation of pH (7.42 ± 0.03), there was an increase in P50 (28.6 ±1.6 versus a normal value of 26.5 ± 1; p < 0.005), and a concomitant increase in 2,3-DPG (19.02 ±1.77 mg/g Hb versus a normal value of 13.52 ± 1.27; p < 0.005). Nine patients received oxygen for 24 h, and 5 received oxygen for 72 h. in these 5 patients, oxygen supplementation resulted in a shift in P50 to a normal value of 26.7 ±1.8 (this value was different from the patients' level while breathing...
Abstract The deoxygenation rate of hemoglobin solutions partially saturated with carbon monoxide, in the presence and absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) at 23° and pH 7.0 and 8.0 have been measured. When the rate is calculated over the initial 30% of the reaction, solutions containing 98% HbO2 show an increase in the rate as hemoglobin deoxygenates both at neutral and alkaline pH. Partial saturation with CO severely compromises this variation at both pH values. Indeed, for a solution containing about 15% HbO2, no variation in the rate over the initial 30% of the reaction or thereafter, is observed. These results for the initial portion of the reaction are in agreement with the earlier studies of Gibson and Roughton ((1955) Proc. Roy. Soc. London B Biol. Sci. 143, 310). The values of the deoxygenation rate constant calculated between 85 and 40% saturation (k in s-1) at pH 8.0, in the absence of 2,3-DPG, are 19.5 ± 1.0 s-1 for the 98% HbO2 condition and 14.2 ± 0.7 s-1 for the 85% HbCO-15% HbO2 case. 2,3-DPG has no significant effect on k at pH 8.0. At pH 7.0, with no 2,3-DPG, the value of k for the 98% condition is 36.0 ± 1.8 s-1, and for the 85% HbCO-15% HbO2 case, it is 17.9 ± 0.9 s-1. In the presence of a 10:1 molar ratio of 2,3-DPG to hemoglobin tetramer, the effect of partial saturation with CO is even more pronounced as evidenced by a value of 52.4 ± 2.0 s-1 for 98% HbO2 and 18.0 ± 0.8 s-1 for 85% HbCO-15% HbO2. Thus solutions containing Hb4O2(CO)3 as a major initial species show no effect of 2,3-DPG at pH 7.0. The effect of this organic phosphate on k becomes significant as the concentration of the species Hb4O4(CO)2 increases. These results support the view that there is no effect of 2,3-DPG on the release of the first oxygen from the fully liganded conformation. They also suggest that 2,3-DPG exerts its influence on the rate of removal of the second and subsequent oxygen molecules. This kinetic result is consistent with the findings of MacQuarrie and Gibson ((1971) J. Biol. Chem. 246, 5832), that a 2,3-DPG analogue dissociates from its combination with hemoglobin after the binding of the third heme ligand. Since 2,3-DPG binding is thought to be dependent on the quaternary structure of hemoglobin, these results taken together would indicate that the transition from the oxy to the deoxy quaternary structure, at pH 7.0, occurs very early in the deoxygenation process, probably with the loss of the first heme ligand from fully liganded hemoglobin.
High oxygen affinity hemoglobinopathy, as an eventual cause for polycythemia of undetermined etiology, was investigated in 40 unclassifiable polycythemia subjects. The determination of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and P50 in the polycythemic and in the control groups has not demonstrated any sigificant difference between them. The routine search of this condition in similar patients does not seem to be warranted.
Abstract 1. 1. Six enzymes: glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx), catalase and superoxide dismutase (SOD), and three metabolites: 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and reduced glutathione (GSH), were measured in the red blood cells of cattle during experimental anaemia. 2. 2. There was a significant rise in the mean levels of DPG (from 0.85 to 1.69 μmol/gHb) and ATP (from 2.16 to 3.25 μmol/gHb) in the early phase of recovery. 3. 3. Enzyme activities also increased during the early recovery period.
Accurate equilibrium binding data for the oxygenation of hemoglobin are used (a) to show that various models for cooperativity are inconsistent with the best available experimental data, (b) to determine the equilibrium constants for binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to hemoglobin molecules in intermediate stages of oxygenation, and (c) to deduce a mechanism for allosteric effects in hemoglobin which is consistent with the best available experimental data. The total free energy of cooperativity is defined and discussed.
1 Two bis-arylhydroxysulphonic acids were previously designed to interact with the known molecular configuration of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) receptor-site of human haemoglobin. These compounds liberate oxygen from the haemoglobin similarly to DPG. ::: ::: ::: ::: 2 Solutions of haemoglobin have now been observed under physiological conditions by nuclear magnetic resonance (n.m.r.) in the presence of DPG and of the compounds. ::: ::: ::: ::: 3 Two peaks in the n.m.r. spectrum of haemoglobin are shifted when DPG is added to the solution. ::: ::: ::: ::: 4 The same two peaks in the spectrum are affected by the compounds. ::: ::: ::: ::: 5 The observations are compatible with the predicted interaction between the compounds and the haemoglobin receptor site.
To investigate the role of increased polyol pathway activity and hemodynamic deficits in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima fatty (OLETF) rats, an animal model of human NIDDM, were given water with or without 30% sucrose and some of them were fed laboratory chow containing 0.03% cilostazol, an anticoagulant, or 0.05% [5-(3-thienyl)tetrazol-1-yl] acetic acid monohydrate (TAT), an aldose reductase inhibitor, for 8 wk. Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats were used as nondiabetic controls. The peak latencies of oscillatory potentials of the electroretinogram in sucrose-fed OLETF rats were significantly prolonged compared with those in OLETF rats without sucrose feeding and LETO rats. There was a marked increase in platelet aggregability and a significant decrease in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in sucrose-fed OLETF rats. Cilostazol significantly improved these parameters without changes in retinal levels of sorbitol and fructose. TAT, however, ameliorated all of these parameters. These findings confirm that the sucrose-fed OLETF rat is a useful animal model of retinopathy in human NIDDM and suggest that cilostazol improved diabetic retinopathy by modifying vascular factors, not by altering polyol pathway activity.
ABSTRACT. Red cell glycolytic intermediates and ATP were evaluated in 47 appropriate for gestational age preterm infants on the 1st day of life who were divided into three groups on the basis of gestational age: 28-30, 31-33, and 34-36 wk. The results were compared to those previously obtained in term infants. The concentrations of glucosed-phosphate, total triose phosphates, and ATP were significantly higher than in term infants but appeared to be appropriately elevated for the young mean age of the red cell population. The concentration of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was significantly decreased when compared to term infants and was lowest at 28-30 wk gestation. The content of red cell 3-phosphoglycerate was increased in term infants and was inappropriately elevated for the age of the red cell population at 28-30 wk gestation. This pattern of glycolytic intermediates was suggestive of a young red cell population metabolizing at an increased glycolytic rate with increased flow through the phosphoglycerate kinase step rather than the 2,3-DPG bypass in "normal" preterm infants. Two preterm infants of 28-30 wk gestation with low red cell intracellular pH were also evaluated and had markedly decreased concentrations of red cell 2,3-DPG and ATP and all phosphorylated intermediates distal to the phosphofructokinase reaction, indicative of a cross-over at the phosphofructokinase step secondary to acidosis. These studies demonstrate
Several unfavorable effects of transfusion may be associated with storage lesions of the red cells in blood products [4] . There is increasing evidence of an association between the duration of storage and clinical outcome [5, 6] , although a causal relationship has not yet been established [7] [8] [9] . Possible mechanisms explaining this association are the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) deficiency of stored red cells, which results in a reduced capacity of the red cells to release oxygen to the tissues, and an increased rigidity of the red cells. This increased rigidity results in elevated adherence to endothelial cells [10] , precluding them from readily passing small capillaries [11] , and leading to increased vascular resistance [12] . Several randomized clinical trials are under way to clarify this issue [7] . Since red cell flexibility or deformability are major determinants of red cell viability [13] , the aim of this study was to investigate, in addition to established biochemical markers, rheological properties of red cells at different shear rates in leukocyte-depleted whole blood over a 7-week storage period. This study is a post hoc analysis of a randomized experiment comparing different blood collection methods [14] .
Hb Godavari [α95(G2)ProThr] was characterized independently in two families of different ethnic origin. The first case, found in the Netherlands, involved an Indian patient. The second one was identified a few months later in an African family from Mali, living in France. Hb Godavari is the fourth example of a substitution involving neutral residues at position α95(G2). In all these variants the electrophoretic pattern suggested that the structural modification unmasks a charged residue buried in the α1β2 contact area. The oxygen affinity of this abnormal hemoglobin was approximately 10% higher than that of Hb A; in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, its cooperativity was moderately decreased, suggesting a slightly unstable T state.
A parallel decline of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and P50 of intracorpuscular hemoglobin is found in red blood cells during their in vivo aging. After 2,3-DPG depletion due to in vitro storage, the capacity to restore, 2,3-DPG in the presence of inosine is significantly impaired in senescent cells as compared with young cells.
A fast-moving abnormal hemoglobin found in a diabetic patient was identified as β140 (H18) ALA→ASP. It comprised about 40 % of the total hemoglobin. The β-terminal glycation in the abnormal hemoglobin was estimated to be 3 times as much as that in Hb A in the same blood sample. The abnormal hemoglobin was slightly unstable. Oxygen affinity of the stripped hemoglobin was decreased, but that of red cells from the carrier was slightly higher than normal because of the reduced effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
The proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of human adult deoxyhemoglobin in D2O in the region from 6 to 20 ppm downfield from the proton resonance of residual water shows a number of hyperfine shifted proton resonances that are due to groups on or near the alpha and beta hemes. The sensitivity of these resonances to the ligation of the heme groups and the assignment of these resonances to the alpha and beta chains provide an opportunity to investigate the cooperative oxygenation of an intact hemoglobin molecule in solution. By use of the nuclear magnetic resonance correlation spectroscopy technique, at least two resonances, one at approximately 18 ppm downfield from HDO due to the beta chain and the other at approximately 12 ppm due to the alpha chain, can be used to study the binding of oxygen to the alpha and beta chains of hemoglobin. The present results using approximately 12% hemoglobin concentration in 0.1 M Bistris buffer at pD 7 and 27 degrees C with and without organic phosphate show that there is no significant line broadening on oxygenation (from 0 to 50% saturation) to affect the determination of the intensities or areas of these resonances. It is found that the ratio of the intensity of the alpha-heme resonance at 12 ppm to that of the beta-heme resonance at 18 ppm is constant on oxygenation in the absence of organic phosphate but decreases in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate, with the effect of the latter being the stronger. On oxygenation, the intensities of the alpha-heme resonance at 12 ppm and of the beta-heme resonance at 18 ppm decreases more than the total number of deoxy chains available as measured by the degree of O2 saturation of hemoglobin. This shows the sensitivity of these resonances to structural changes which are believed to occur in the unligated subunits upon the ligation of their neighbors in an intact tetrameric hemoglobin molecule. A comparison of the nuclear magnetic resonance data with the populations of the partially saturated hemoglobin tetramers (i.e., hemoglobin with one, two, or three oxygen molecules bound) leads to the conclusion that in the presence of organic phosphate the hemoglobin molecule with one oxygen bound maintains the beta-heme resonance at 18 ppm but not the alpha-heme resonance at 12 ppm. These resluts suggest that some cooperativity must exist in the deoxy quaternary structure of the hemoglobin molecule during the oxygenation process. Hence, these results are not consistent with the requirements of two-state concerted models for the oxygenation of hemoglobin. In addition, we have investigated the effect of D2O on the oxygenation of hemoglobin by measuring the oxygen dissociation curves of normal adult hemoglobin as a function of pH in D2O andH2O media. We have found that (1) the pH dependence of the oxygen equilibrium of hemoglobin (the Bohr effect) in higher pH in comparison to that in H2O medium and (2) the Hill coefficients are essentially the same in D2O and H2O media over the pH range from 6.0 to 8.2...
This study was investigated to demonstrate the efficient hypobaric & hypoxic training type. After the long-term training period, oxygen uptake during the submaximal and maximal treadmill incremental exercise, oxygen transport ability of the blood, and effects on game record among groups were compared and analyzed. 23 male and female high school elite runners were divided into two experimental groups and one control group according to training types. That was, 1) living high training high(H.H) group(n=8) which were training at 2,000m and sleeping at 3,000m. 2) living high training sea level(HS) group(n=8) which were training at sea level and sleeping at 3,000m 3) living and training sea level(S.S) group(n=7) which were training and sleeping at sea level, control group. After 5~6 weeks training(70% maximal oxygen uptake(VO2max) four times/wk) and sleeping(8hr/day), oxygen uptake(by treadmill graded submaximal and maximal exercise test), oxygen transporting capacity and effects on time records were investigated. Results were as follows. 1. There was no significant difference on body composition according to training types or test time. 2. During graded submaximal exercise tests, heart rate and blood lactate concentration was significantly low but there was no significant difference according to training types or test time. During graded submaximal exercise tests, maximal oxygen uptake was high but there was no significant difference according to training types or test time. 3. There was no significant difference on red blood cell(RBC), hematocrit(Hct), hemoglobin(Hb) concentration according to training period increase or training types or test time. In the incipient stage, erythropoietin(EPO) was significantly increased, but 2,3-diphosphoglycerate(DPG) was significantly decreased. In the last stage, EPO was changed a little, but 2,3-DPG was significantly increased. 4. In hypobaric hvpoxic environment, heart rate was decrease as time goes by. Especially during sleeping, there was significantly decrease after 3 weeks. 5. Ten-kilometer time were improved in H.H group and S.S group and there was a significant difference according to covariates. As a result, active hypobaric hypoxic acclimation is not more efficient than passive acclimation to aerobic performance.
Dear Sir, ::: ::: Sudden Infant Death Syndrome or SIDS remains an important cause of mortality in infants. The 2011 publication of Siren and Siren (1) and the subsequent letter to the editor (2) focus on critical diaphragm failure as a possible cause and provide plausible evidence. However, these articles do not explore the metabolic basis for this critical diaphragm failure. Several authors, including Aubier et al. (3) and Fiaccadori et al. (4) have described that the diaphragm is extremely susceptible to hypophosphatemia, and this may be the origin of the symptoms reported by Siren and Siren. Hence, it may well be the yet unexplored underlying mechanism responsible for SIDS. ::: ::: A reason for suspecting hypophosphatemia as the cause for SIDS is because neonates are extremely prone to developing hypophosphatemia as shown in numerous publications (e.g. (5-8)). A very brief period of stress, like separation from the mother or a brief period of illness, can result in phosphaturia severe enough to result in the loss of 50% of the free phosphate pool within 24 hours. This results in an immediate drop in blood phosphate levels. Worse, this hypophosphatemia can subsequently become aggravated over the course of 1–2 weeks without obvious visible symptoms and despite resumption of normal eating behavior, something not reported in older subjects. In infants with risk factors for SIDS like intrauterine growth retardation, exposure to cigarette smoke, male sex, and heat stress, this phosphaturetic stress response is enhanced possibly through augmented or longer-lasting sympathetic activity (9,10), and, hence, they are more prone to develop severe hypophosphatemia and ATP deficiency. ::: ::: Hypophosphatemia not only affects contraction of the diaphragm, but it is also involved in the formation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG; more correctly referred to as 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate) in erythrocytes. This 2,3-DPG regulates the release of oxygen from hemoglobin. Tissues with a high metabolic activity result in high levels of 2,3-DPG in the blood causing the liberation of oxygen (11-13). Hypophosphatemia impedes the formation of 2,3-DPG, which subsequently prevents the release of oxygen from hemoglobin and, in effect, suffocates the tissue. Thus, severe hypophosphatemia results in signs of asphyxiation despite adequate access to free air (14), either through inducing an ATP deficiency affecting the diaphragm or through inhibiting oxygen release from hemoglobin. For example, in briefly stressed subjects, in parallel with the drop in plasma phosphate, a doubling of the ratio of pCO2/pO2, an increase in SpO2, and lactic acidosis were observed but without obvious visible signs of distress. If severe enough, this could lead to death from inner suffocation (SIDS). The presence of fetal hemoglobin may also play a role in SIDS. Fetal hemoglobin purportedly has a higher binding affinity for oxygen (15) and thus could predispose an infant to SIDS when 2,3-DPG is compromised. ::: ::: Other symptoms of SIDS can also be explained by hypophosphatemia. Hypophosphatemia can lead to petechiae: minor hemorrhages caused by platelet dysfunction (16,17) and often seen postmortem in SIDS victims. Similarly, pulmonary edema (18) has been linked to hypophosphatemia, as have cardiac arrhythmias (19,20). Hypophosphatemia is also implicated in the morbidity and mortality associated with refeeding syndrome (21) and in hypophosphatemic rickets, which is more prevalent in boys (22) in line with a higher incidence of SIDS in boys. ::: ::: Siren and Siren's (1) comment that REM sleep inhibits intercostal muscles compounded by diurnal rhythms in blood phosphate could explain why SIDS strikes during night-time REM sleep. Also, phosphate has a seasonal rhythm with lows in the winter which could explain a higher prevalence of SIDS in this season, and 2,3-DPG is lower in infants exposed to cigarette smoke which could explain a higher incidence of SIDS in houses of smokers (23,24). ::: ::: In summary, both the etiology as well as the symptoms of SIDS can be explained by hypophosphatemia. A brief stressor can induce hypophosphatemia in infants, particularly in those with SIDS risk factors, and aggravate it despite resumption of normal food intake. This since the urinary loss of phosphate induced by stress or a large drop in metabolic rate and the subsequent enhanced phosphate demand for re-started anabolic processes cannot be quickly compensated by normal dietary intake. This hypophosphatemia can aggravate to the point of affecting O2 release from red blood cells through a depletion of 2,3-DPG or affect diaphragm contractility through ATP deficiency, either one which leads to death from apparent suffocation: SIDS.
To clarify the effects of altitude acclimatization on postural instability at altitudes, six female climbers stood with their eyes open or closed on a force-measuring platform under normoxia (NC) and hypobaric hypoxia, equivalent to a 5,000 m altitude (HC), before and after an expedition to Mt. Cho-Oyu (8,201 m). The expedition extended over 84 days. We recorded sways in the center of foot pressure, electromyograms (EMGs) of lower-leg muscles, blood components and arterial oxygen saturation (SpO(2)). Before the expedition, the maximum amplitude of sway with the eyes open and integrated EMG from the medial gastrocnemius increased for HC. After the expedition, red blood cell (from 423.4 ± 15.4 to 498.0 ± 24.5 × 10(4) μl(-1)), hemoglobin content (from 12.6 ± 0.32 to 14.5 ± 1.00 g/dl) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (from 1.93 ± 0.21 to 2.24 ± 0.34 μmol/ml) increased. The SpO(2) under HC increased from 69.2 ± 9.6 to 77.2 ± 10.0%. The maximum amplitude of sway with the eyes open decreased for HC. No difference in the sway path length and integrated EMGs was observed between NC and HC. These results suggest that acclimatization can improve the impaired postural stability on initial arrival at altitudes. However, it is still unclear how long acclimatization period is needed. Further studies are needed to reveal this point.
O-Iodobenzoate interacts non-covalently with hemoglobin and lowers the oxygen affinity of the protein. In contrast to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate, its interaction does not depend upon the presence of free amino groups at the beta-chain amino terminals. Lysine beta82 is one of its oxygenation linked binding sites. As with the organic phosphates, the halogenated benzoate reacts preferentially with deoxy-hemoglobin to shift the allosteric equilibrium from R to T.
Red cell enzymes, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP), were evaluated in a 23-mo-old boy with juvenile chronic myelocytic leukemia (JCML) at the onset of his illness and 6 mo later during the accelerated phase. The activities of the age-dependent red cell enzymes, hexokinase, aldolase, pyruvate kinase, and glucose-6- phosphate dehydrogenase, were elevated, as were the concentrations of red cell 2,3-DPG and ATP, consistent with a young red cell population metabolizing at an increased glycolytic rate. The activities of the non- age-dependent enzymes, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PD), phosphoglycerate kinase, and enolase, were also increased to levels similar to or greater than those observed in term infants. As the illness progressed, the activity of red cell G3PD increased further, and phosphoglucose isomerase activity increased markedly. These results are consistent with the prior suggestion that JCML represents a reversion to “fetal” erythropoiesis.
In 14 patients with simple X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets, 5 were below the third percentile in height and 9 were between the third and twenty-fifth percentile. Although the mean serum inorganic phosphorus level was only 2.01 +/- 0.65 (normal range for all age groups is 3.8 to 6.0 mg/100 ml), both the mean values for red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were normal at 4.78 +/- 1.23 and 1.02 +/- 0.17 mumol/ml of red blood cells respectively. Moreover, the mean P50 value was normal at 26.4 +/- 0.9 mmHg. These normal oxygen transport data make unlikely any proposal that short stature seen in these patients is secondary to chronic tissue hypoxia. They also indicate that the intra-erythrocytic organic phosphate levels are maintained at normal levels despite profound chronic hypophosphatemia.
Abstract Background Aerobic organisms have to overcame the dangerous species derived from the unquestionable favorable effects due to the utilization of oxygen in the cellular respiration. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (DPG) could be one of the molecules able to perform different role inside the cells and (from the data obtained from our experimental work) may help cellular components, in particular hemoglobin, to scavenge reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS). Methods Therefore, we have investigated the kinetic and antioxidant properties of this molecule against the main biological reactive species and the protective role of this molecules on hemoglobin treated with strong oxidant. Results DPG, at the physiological concentration is able to scavenge hydroxyl radical, peroxyl radical, cation radicals and to chelate iron in the reduced state. Moreover it is able to avoid oxidation of iron inside the hemoglobin following treatment with nitrite and tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BOOH). On the other side, it is not able to protect membrane components from oxidative burning. This different behavior towards radical species is probably linked to the polarity of the molecule and also the high levels of charged groups present on the surface of DPG, that avoid the possibility to act in an environment almost completely hydrophobic, as inside the membrane, where reactive species produce the main damages during the reactions of peroxidation. Conclusions This is the first paper dealing with the potential role of DPG not only as a modulator of oxygen affinity in hemoglobin, but also as a scavenger of radicals.
The tailoring of existing genetic systems to new uses is called genetic co-option. Mechanisms of genetic co-option have been difficult to study because of difficulties in identifying functionally important changes. One way to study genetic co-option in protein-coding genes is to identify those amino acid sites that have experienced changes in selective pressure following a genetic co-option event. In this paper we present a maximum likelihood method useful for measuring divergent selective pressures and identifying the amino acid sites affected by divergent selection. The method is based on a codon model of evolution and uses the nonsynonymous-to-synonymous rate ratio (omega) as a measure of selection on the protein, with omega = 1, < 1, and > 1 indicating neutral evolution, purifying selection, and positive selection, respectively. The model allows variation in omega among sites, with a fraction of sites evolving under divergent selective pressures. Divergent selection is indicated by different omega's between clades, such as between paralogous clades of a gene family. We applied the codon model to duplication followed by functional divergence of (i) the epsilon and gamma globin genes and (ii) the eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) and eosinophil-derived neurotoxin (EDN) genes. In both cases likelihood ratio tests suggested the presence of sites evolving under divergent selective pressures. Results of the epsilon and gamma globin analysis suggested that divergent selective pressures might be a consequence of a weakened relationship between fetal hemoglobin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. We suggest that empirical Bayesian identification of sites evolving under divergent selective pressures, combined with structural and functional information, can provide a valuable framework for identifying and studying mechanisms of genetic co-option. Limitations of the new method are discussed.
Abstract 1. 1. The object of this study was to compare the pattern of red cell phosphates at different ages of development of two members of the order of non-flying ratite birds, the emu and the rhea, with data which had been obtained on examples from four orders of flying birds: chick and others (Galliformes). duck (Anseriformes), sea gull (Charadriformes) and pigeon (Columbiformes). Limited information is also given on another ratite, the ostrich. 2. 2. Distinctive features of the flying birds were a high concentration of inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) in the adult, with only traces of other inositol polyphosphates, and a brief appearance of a high concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) late in embryological development. 3. 3. Maximum IP5 in red cells of adult emu, rhea and ostrich was only about half of that found in other birds. 4. 4. Inositol tetraphosphate was absent in the emu. was one quarter of the IP5 in the rhea and twice as much as the IP5 in the ostrich. 5. 5. No DPG was found in red cells of emu and rhea at any age; however, the ostrich had a high concentration in red cells of a late embryo.
A simple technique for effective removal of leukocytes and platelets from red blood cells (RBC) was reported. In that technique whole blood was incubated at 37 degrees C. In the modified procedure phosphate buffer was added to the starting RBC. Changes in red cells during preparation and storage at 4 degrees C of RBC suspensions were evaluated. Reconstituted RBC were incubated at 37 degrees C for 1 hr. After centrifugation, the lower compartment was separated with a special apparatus and diluted with 0.9% saline, which contained 78% red cells and 3% leukocytes and platelets of the starting RBC. In the incubation and subsequent preparation steps, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels were decreased, but not adenosine triphosphate. One-day storage caused no serious metabolic changes in red cells. Red cell osmotic fragility was not changed throughout. Stored RBC maintained sterility. The in vitro data indicate that red cells in leukocyte- and platelet-poor RBC suspensions processed with the warm-centrifuge method retained high biochemical and membrane functional abilities for 1 day.
1. The relationship between erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and changes in blood pH and in oxygen affinity were studied in six patients treated with two dialysis techniques: conventional haemodialysis and ultrafiltration followed by conventional haemodialysis. 2. The decrease in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and increase in pH after conventional haemodialysis may significantly increase the affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen and consequently result in inadequate oxygenation of tissue. 3. Ultrafiltration followed by conventional haemodialysis, on the contrary, is more beneficial for oxygenation of tissue and post-dialysis symptoms may be reduced.
The activity levels of phosphoglyceromutase, Glucose-6-P-dehydrogenase. 3-P-Glyceratkinase and Glutathionreductase of the erythrocytes as well as 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate were determined in a total of 263 children suffering from juvenile diabetes mellitus. They were divided into two groups: 103 diabetics with a good state of metabolic control and 103 diabetics with a bad control. The results of 57 diabetic children were rejected. The enzyme activities have been shown to vary. PGM activity was increased in all diabetics, G-6-PDH only in such with bad condition of metabolic control. The activity of 3-PGK was significantly diminished, Glutathionreductase activity was indifferent in both groups. Until today we don't found results of other authors determining these enzymes. The changes of some enzyme activities in diabetics may be due to hormonal mechanisms by insulin.
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy(FTIR)associated with horizontal attenuated total reflectance(HATR)was firstly used to diagnose β-thalassemia patients.With excellent linearity(r=0.997) and reproducibility(RSD4%),FTIR-HATR shows an order-of-magnitude increase in IR absorption bands over the single-path transmission FTIR.Based on above,spectra from 37 patients' and 68 health samples indicated several observable differences in IR vibrational spectra of the Hb lysates between the β-thalassemia major patients and control:(1)Because of decreasing hemoglobin,the peak intensities are obviously lower in β-thalassemia group that is consistent with index from routine hemoglobin diagnosis.(2)In 1 750-1 500 cm-1 region,slight decrease at 1 652 cm-1(α-helix),1 638 and 1 628 cm-1 bands but mild increase at 1 682 cm-1 all demonstrate structure changes by both Fourier self-deconvolution and second derivative spectra.(3)More importantly,difference spectra substantially demonstrate decreased intensities at 1 440,1 453,1 479 cm-1 bands arising from CH2/CH3 deformation vibration of phospholipids but increased intensities at 1 150 cm-1 band originating from C—O stretching vibration of carbohydrate and at 1 081 and 1 053 cm-1 bands that are attributed to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate(DPG)in β-thalassemia major group.Statistical analysis demonstrates significant difference of DPG/phospholipids ratio between two groups.All the samples can be 100% correctly classified into groups on the basis of this ratio.These finding could help understand possible mechanism for diagnosing thalassemia.It makes large-scale screening of thalassemia by FTIR a possibility.
Oxyhemoglobin (HbO2) coexisting with equimolar NADH retards autoxidation and oxidant-induced metHb formation based on the pseudocatalase (CAT) and pseudosuperoxide dismutase (SOD) activities. In this work, we compared the effects of NADH with those of NADPH and estimated the binding site of NAD(P)H to HbO2 to elucidate the antioxidative mechanisms. The results clarified that pseudo-CAT and pseudo-SOD activities of HbO2 coexisting with NADPH were similar to activities obtained with NADH. Prompt MetHb formation (<40 min) facilitated by oxidants (H2O2, NO, and NaNO2) was hindered by NADPH. These effects were similar to those of NADH. However, we found that NADPH is thermally unstable compared to NADH and that NADPH cannot sustain antioxidative effects for a long period of autoxidation to metHb such as 24 h. Lineweaver–Burk plots clarified that the Michaelis constants of these pseudoenzymatic activities are in the millimolar range. Addition of inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), whi...
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is an important regulator of hemoglobin oxygen affinity and thus can theoretically affect tissue oxygenation. Marked stimulation of DPG with substances that would likely be well tolerated by humans has not been reported previously. In order to achieve such stimulation, we investigated (n = 102) the effect of various combinations of fructose (2.8–11.1 mM) and sodium phosphate (1.0–130.0 mM) on 2,3-DPG production by perfusing fresh human blood in dialysis tubing, 37°C, pH 7.15–7.70, with the appropriate solutions and with compressed air or 100% O2 for up to 6 hours. The DPG increased significantly with fructose/phosphate incubations for 6 hours. At pH > 7.35 the average increase was 25%; at pH 6 mM + pH > 7.35 yielded the highest changes, 28%. Methylene blue 2.5–7.5 μM + PO4 > 2.5 mM + pH > 7.35 yielded similar results. Glucose + PO4 showed no effect on DPG. Results were comparable at all fructose levels either with compressed air or 100% O2. Significant elevations in 2,3-DPG were also noted at 4 hours but were of lesser magnitude. ::: ::: In conclusion, significant elevations in 2,3-DPG can be achieved by incubating whole blood with fructose/phosphate solutions or with methylene blue and phosphate for 4–6 hours. It should be possible to adapt these solutions for human use to raise 2, 3-DPG. The potential physiologic value of rightward shifts in hemoglobin oxygen affinity can then be tested under appropriate conditions.
We report a case of refeeding-associated hypophosphatemia in a 24-year-old malnourished male patient with anorexia nervosa but no history of alcoholism. He was given tube feeding with a low-calory preparation supplemented with phosphate. During refeeding, a severe hypophosphatemia developed after 5 days, i.e., serum phosphate 0.00-0.01 mmol/l for 2 days, accompanied by a reduction in red-cell ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, mild hemolytic anemia and transient changes in cardiac repolarization; there was, however, a striking lack of clinical symptomatology
The hemoglobin-oxygen equilibrium curve and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values were measured in 29 infants before and after exchange transfusions for hyperbilirubinemia. In 12 infants the blood used for exchange was 4 to 5 days old (Group 1), while in the other 10 the blood was used within 24 hours of collection in acid-citrate-dextrose. The mean P 50 and the mean red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were similar in both groups prior to exchange transfusion and averaged 20.0 mm. Hg and 4,250 mμm per milliliter of red blood cells, respectively. In the infants in Group 1 the mean postexchange P 50 fell to 17.1, rose to 23.0 at 24 hours, and was 27.9 mm. Hg 5 days later. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values at these times averaged 1.6, 3.1, and 6.5 mmoles per milliliter of red blood cells. In contrast, in the infants in Group 2, the P 50 immediately after exchange transfusion had risen to 23.1, was 25.9 at 24 hours, and was 28.1 five days after exchange. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values at these times averaged 3.5, 4.9, and 6.5 mmoles per milliliter of red blood cells. These studies illustrate that while blood less than 5 days of age is generally considered to be suitable for exchange transfusions, considerable differences exist between blood of one and 5 days of age with respect to oxygen affinity. It is suggested that only truly fresh blood be employed for exchange transfusion in any severely ill infant.
We report here the development of a new method that allows continuous determination of the oxygen dissociation curve for microsamples (600 d) of whole blood under conditions of pH, Pco2, methemoglobin concentration, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content closely approaching those found in the circulatory system. The method consists of gradually oxygenating a blood sample by adding H202 in the presence of catalase (EC 1.11.1.6), to produce the reaction H202 - H20 + 1/2 02. Because the total oxygen content of blood can be derived from the known rate of H202 addition and the po2 i5 determined in the liquid phase by an oxygen electrode, the two functions (total 02 content) and (% oxygen saturation) vs. P02 are simple to calculate. pco2 and pH are controlled by adding base simultaneously with the gradual oxygenation of blood. The method described thus avoids the direct measurement of oxygen saturation of whole blood. AddItional Keyphrases: catalase-produced reaction sickle cell anemia #{149} respiratory function of blood . Determination of the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) under near-physiological conditions is of critical importance in the study of respiratory functions of blood. Although there are several new methods for continuously recording the ODC, few of them include proper attention to the careful control of the various factors that are known to affect the position and the
In its function of transporting oxygen from the lungs to tissues, hemoglobin (Hb) alternates between tense or T-state (unliganded or deoxygenated Hb) and the relaxed or R-state (liganded or oxygenated Hb). The equilibrium between the two states can be regulated by synthetic allosteric effectors that bind to the central water cavity or the surface of the protein [1, 2] . Stabilization of the R-state and/or destabilization of the T-state shifts Hb oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC) to the left, producing a high-affinity Hb that is known to be beneficial for sickle cell disease (SCD) therapy [1, 2] . The converse, where a low-affinity Hb is produced with OEC right-shifting compounds that are also potentially useful for the treatment of hypoxic-and/or ischemic-related diseases is also true [1, 2] . Under hypoxia sickle Hb (Hb S) polymerizes into long, rigid, and insoluble fibers causing the primary pathophysiology associated with SCD, which leads to RBC sickling, vaso-occlusion, painful crises, organ damage, oxidative stress, hemolysis of RBCs, decreased vascular NO bioavailability, inflammation, impaired microvascular blood flow, morbidity and even mortality [3] [4] [5] [6] . The polymerization process is exacerbated by the low oxygen affinity of Hb S, presumably as a result of unusually high concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and/or sphingosine phosphate in sickle red blood cells (RBC) [7] [8] [9] [10] . The polymer is initiated by a primary interaction between the pathological β2Val6 from one Hb S molecule and a hydrophobic acceptor pocket in the region of β1Ala70, β1Phe85 and β1Leu88 of another Hb molecule, and further stabilized by several secondary contacts between the Hb molecules [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] . Disruption or weakening of the secondary contacts is known to reduce Hb S polymerization and RBC sickling as demonstrated by a large number of naturally occurring mutations that are known to mitigate the severity of SCD [16, 17] .
Abstract. The tailoring of existing genetic systems to new uses is called genetic co-option. Mechanisms of genetic co-option have been difficult to study because of difficulties in identifying functionally important changes. One way to study genetic co-option in protein-coding genes is to identify those amino acid sites that have experienced changes in selective pressure following a genetic co-option event. In this paper we present a maximum likelihood method useful for measuring divergent selective pressures and identifying the amino acid sites affected by divergent selection. The method is based on a codon model of evolution and uses the nonsynonymous-to-synonymous rate ratio (x) as a measure of selection on the protein, with x = 1, <1, and >1 indicating neutral evolution, purifying selection, and positive selection, respectively. The model allows variation in x among sites, with a fraction of sites evolving under divergent selective pressures. Divergent selection is indicated by different x's between clades, such as between paralogous clades of a gene family. We applied the codon model to duplication followed by functional divergence of (i) the e and c globin genes and (ii) the eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) and eosinophilderived neurotoxin (EDN) genes. In both cases likelihood ratio tests suggested the presence of sites evolving under divergent selective pressures. Results of the e and c globin analysis suggested that divergent selective pressures might be a consequence of a weakened relationship between fetal hemoglobin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. We suggest that empirical Bayesian identification of sites evolving under divergent selective pressures, combined with structural and functional information, can provide a valuable framework for identifying and studying mechanisms of genetic co-option. Limitations of the new method are discussed.
1. The relationship between erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and changes in blood pH and in oxygen affinity were studied in six patients treated with two dialysis techniques: conventional haemodialysis and ultrafiltration followed by conventional haemodialysis.
2. The decrease in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and increase in pH after conventional haemodialysis may significantly increase the affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen and consequently result in inadequate oxygenation of tissue. 3. Ultrafiltration followed by conventional haemodialysis, on the contrary, is more beneficial for oxygenation of tissue and post-dialysis symptoms may be reduced.
Oxygenation measurements at equilibrium were carried out for solutions of pure haemoglobin (Hb) Olympia (alpha 2 beta 2 20 (B2) Val----Met) at 200 microM (haem) and revealed a high oxygen affinity (P50 = 4.2 torr at pH 7.20, 25 degrees C) compared to HbA (P50 = 5.6 torr), with the Hill coefficient (eta H) reduced from the normal value of 2.9 to 2.5 for Hb Olympia at neutral pH. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate and chloride effects were normal, but measurements of the alkaline Bohr effect indicated an excess Bohr effect of about 20% for Hb Olympia. Precise determinations of the oxygen binding curves gave the unexpected finding of a dependence of co-operativity on pH with eta H rising from 2.4 at pH 6.8 to 3.0 at pH 8. Moreover, the Hill coefficient was dependent upon the concentration at alkaline pH and fell to 1.8 in low concentration solutions (approximately 30 microM-haem) of the haemoglobin variant; at this concentration the Bohr effect was normal. This effect of concentration on co-operativity could be accounted for fully by the allosteric model, with introduction of Hb Olympia self-association. In this case the allosteric constant L' for the supramolecular species has the value of the allosteric constant L for the tetramer species, raised to a power equal to the number of molecules in the aggregates and modulated by the ratio of the dissociation constants of the aggregates, DNR/DNT. Model curves with N tetramers per aggregate (where N approximately 2 at pH 7.5 and N approximately 4 at pH 8.0) fully represented the concentration dependence for Hb Olympia of the eta H values and the detailed shape of the experimental curves for eta H as a function of log[y/(1-y)], the first derivative of the Hill plot. These curves are much steeper when supramolecular species are present. Direct measurements of the protein aggregation by centrifugation confirmed the presence of aggregates in the solutions of Hb Olympia. Hb Olympia is therefore one of the few examples of mutant human haemoglobins that self-associate with functional consequences in terms of oxygen binding properties.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Abstract In this paper we describe a class of affinity reagents that react specifically with hemoglobin S at the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site and effectively disrupt the sickling process. The prototype of these compounds is the bifunctional acylating agent bis(3,5-dibromosalicyl) fumarate. Previously it was shown that this compound reacts selectively with oxyhemoglobin to cross-link the β chains of the tetramer ( Walder et al. , 1979 a ). The site of cross-linking has now been established by X-ray crystallographic studies to be from Lys82 β 1 to Lys82 β 2 , spanning the DPG ‡ binding site. The oxygen binding properties of the cross-linked hemoglobin are very similar to those of native hemoglobin A in the absence of DPG. However, in the presence of DPG, the oxygen affinity of the cross-linked hemoglobin is increased due to the blockade of the DPG site by the interchain bridge. This effect may indirectly interfere with the sickling process in vivo . More importantly the cross-link modification directly inhibits the polymerization of deoxyhemoglobin S. The solubility of the cross-linked derivative is increased by approximately 35% relative to that of native deoxyhemoglobin S. The X-ray crystallographic studies reveal that the cross-link strongly perturbs the acceptor site for Val6β in the lateral contact between molecules of deoxyhemoglobin S within the double strand of the sickle cell fiber. Our current hypothesis is that this structural perturbation weakens the lateral contact and is responsible for the observed increase in solubility. Due to the hydrophobic properties of the halogen substituents bis(3,5-dibromosalicyl) fumarate is able to traverse the red-cell membrane and, therefore, may be active in vivo . These studies provide the basis for further design and development of affinity reagents directed to the DPG binding site that may prove useful in the clinical management of sickle cell disease.
The objective of this work is to theoretically model oxygen unloading in sickle red cells. This has been done by combining into a single model diffusive transport mechanisms, which have been well-studied for normal red cells, and the hemoglobin polymerization process, which has been previously been studied for deoxyhemoglobin-S solutions and sickle cells in near-equilibrium situations. The resulting model equations allow us to study the important processes of oxygen delivery and polymerization simultaneously. The equations have been solved numerically by a finite-difference technique. The oxygen unloading curve for sickle erythrocytes is biphasic in nature. The rate of unloading depends in a complicated way on (a) the kinetics of hemoglobin S polymerization, (b) the kinetics of hemoglobin deoxygenation, and (c) the diffusive transport of both free oxygen and oxy-hemoglobin. These processes interact. For example, the hemoglobin S polymer interferes with the transport of both free oxygen and unpolymerized oxy-hemoglobin, and this is accounted for in the model by diffusivities which depend on the polymer and solution hemoglobin concentration. Other parameters which influence the interaction of these processes are the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and total hemoglobin concentration. By comparing our model predictions for oxygen unloading with simpler predictions based on equilibrium oxygen affinities, we conclude that the relative rate of oxygen unloading of cells with different physical properties cannot be correctly predicted from the equilibrium affinities. To describe the unloading process, a kinetic calculation of the sort we give here is required.
Abstract Hematologie data, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and plasma thyroxine were followed in 12 fullterm infants during the first 2 weeks of life. Red cell 2,3-DPG concentration increased by 25 percent within 4 days; total thyroxine concentration and free thyroxine index increased by 70 and 100 percent, respectively, within 24 hr after birth. A significant correlation between red cell 2,3-DPG and thyroid hormone concentrations could be demonstrated. Based upon other clinical and experimental evidence we suggest that thyroid hormones, at least in part, augment red cell 2,3-DPG production in newborns, thus initiating the decrease of blood oxygen affinity after birth.
Nucleophosmin (B23) was phosphorylated in vitro with [gamma-32P]ATP and a nuclear kinase (type II) purified from HeLa cells. The phosphorylation was inhibited by heparin and by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Peptide mapping analysis indicated that the phosphorylation site in vitro was identical to that in vivo. Purified nucleoli have a similar kinase that phosphorylated nucleophosmin at the same site. These results indicated that nucleophosmin is phosphorylated in vivo by a nucleolar kinase (type II).
Efforts to develop alternatives to blood as an oxygen carrier date back well over half a century with increased efforts in recent years being partly motivated by fears of potential contamination with the viruses responsible for AIDS and hepatitis (1-4). An additional impetus rests in the recognition that wide availability of properly banked blood is absent in many parts of the world. An efficient acellular oxygen carrier could have several distinct advantages over intact red blood cells, including elimination of the need for typing and cross-matching before transfusion and a useful shelf-life greater than the current six weeks or less for packed red blood cells (1). While a number of other alternatives have been explored over the years (1-4), the use of cell-free hemoglobins for an oxygen-carrying resuscitation fluid has excellent prospects since (a) hemoglobin solutions are completely metabolizable and are well tolerated by the body, and (b) hemoglobin is available in virtually unlimited amounts and is relatively inexpensive, (c) hemoglobin is fully saturated with oxygen under ambient conditions, has oncotic activity, and exhibits cooperative oxygen binding behavior. However, there are two major problems associated with using cell-free hemoglobins for transfusions. First, the retention time of cell-free hemoglobins in circulation after infusion is very short (4), and most of the infused hemoglobin is rapidly filtered and eliminated by kidneys in 1-4 hours; second, cell-free hemoglobins have too high oxygen affinity that prevents them from adequately unloading the oxygen acquired from lungs to tissues. Both of these problems have their roots in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and other polyanionic species which are conspicuously absent in cell-free hemoglobins, but are known to be essential co-factors in intact red blood cells. Efforts have since been focused on covalently cross-linking hemoglobin between the two like subunits, e.g., alpha-1 to alpha-2 or beta-1 to beta-2. Such a cross-link is believed to substitute for the native allosteric modifier DPG to lower the oxygen affinity, while at the same time preventing dissociation of the tetramer (1).
The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration, oxygen half saturation pressure at pH 7.4 (P50), pH in plasma and red cells, and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) of venous blood were determined during unrestricted daily activity (series I) throughout 24 hrs as well as during prolonged bed rest until noon (series II). In series I an almost synchronous diurnal behavior ofP50, 2,3-DPG, and plasma pH as well as red cell pH became significantly apparent with highest values in the afternoon. The [2,3-DPG] yielded most pronounced alterations, which made up to 13.5% of the average day value. During prolonged recumbency the [2,3-DPG] showed a nonsignificant tendency to decline; theP50 remained unchanged throughout that period. The possible reason for the missing [2,3-DPG] increase is a reduced change of red cell pH in series II. An influence of a posture dependent aldosterone secretion either directly on the 2,3-DPG metabolism or indirectly via mediating the red cell pH and thus ruling the formation of this organic phosphoris compound is discussed.
Abstract Blood consists of formed elements (red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets) and plasma. Red blood cells (erythrocytes) account for 99.9% of cells. Their principal function is the transport of oxygen from the lungs to respiring tissues and carbon dioxide from tissues back to the lungs. This is achieved through the presence of haemoglobin, a conjugated metallo-protein. The affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen changes with a number of circumstances. At the partial pressure of oxygen (PO 2 ) in the alveoli (13 kPa) the binding of each oxygen molecule increases the affinity of haemoglobin, so aiding uptake of oxygen. At the low PO 2 in tissues, affinity is reduced, allowing the haemoglobin to offload more oxygen. This sigmoidal relationship is shifted to the right by a fall in pH or an increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration or temperature. The role of white blood cells (leucocytes) is to defend the body against invading pathogens. Leucocytes are far less common than erythrocytes, although their numbers increase dramatically during an infection. Divided into granulocytes (neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils) and agranulocytes (monocytes and lymphocytes), leucocytes can recognize foreign material and either engulf cells or secrete membrane-disrupting chemicals that can destroy the organism. Lymphocytes play an important role in the immune response to disease, monitoring the internal environment and producing antibodies against pathogens.
The article presents results of the study of electrophoretic agility of erythrocytes, their pro-oxidant characteristics and intra-cellular concentration of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in patients with diabetes mellitus type I and II under implementation of therapy. The sampling included 46 patients with diabetes mellitus type I and II. The control group consisted of 22 healthy volunteers. 20 patients with diabetes mellitus type i received insulin protaphan and insulin actrapid, 26 patients with diabetes mellitus type II received preparations of sulfanylurea, biguanides, incretins. The analysis of blood was applied before and after course of treatment. The electrophoretic agility of erythrocytes was analyzed, including concentration of malonic dialdehyde in them, content of 2,3-DPG and ATP. In case of diabetes mellitus type I and II, the study established increasing of content of malonic dialdehyde, decreasing of electrophoretic agility of erythrocytes, concentration of ATP and 2,3-DPG in erythrocytes concerning physiological standard, mostly expressed in patients with diabetes mellitus type I. The therapy decreased concentration of malonic dialdehyde and increased electrophoretic agility of erythrocytes, content of ATP and 2,3-DPG as compared with indices before treatment. In patients with diabetes mellitus type II during treatment reduction of electrophoretic agility of erythrocytes and 2,3-DPG up to physiological standard was observed. The positive effect of the given clinical strategies during treatment of diabetes mellitus type I and II is conditioned by decreasing of stress reaction and activation of adaptation processes that is manifested at the level of micro-circulation by amelioration of oxygen-transport function of blood at the expense of increasing of electrophoretic agility of erythrocytes, level of 2,3-DPG and decreasing of destructive processes of membranes of erythrocytes.
Dihydroxyacetone (DHA) was found rapidly to enter human erythrocytes. When incubated with intact red cells, 14C-labeled DHA rapidly appeared in intermediate metabolites and in lactate. Crude hemolysates were found to phosphorylate DHA and glyceraldehyde (GA) but not glycerol. Fifty-fold purification of the phosphorlylating enzyme was achieved by removal of hemoglobin on CM-52 and Sephadex G-200 chromatography. During purification there was no change in the ratio of DHA to GA utilization. The enzyme had a pH optimum of 6,6, a Km of 0.5 µ M for DHA, and a Km of 11 µ M for GA. With GA as substrate, the Km for (ATP-MG)2- complex was 1.45 m M , and no cooperative interaction was observed. With DHA as a substrate, cooperative interaction with respect to (ATP-Mg)2- complex was found with an n value of 1.4 and a K of 0.44 m M . At temperatures between 15° and 40°C, the enzyme activity gave a linear Arrhenius plot, with deviation from linearity at lower temperature levels. The activity of the enzyme was 0.151 ± 0.011 U/g Hb in five normal subjects, and only slightly increased levels were observed in a patient with marked reticulocytosis. The DHA-phosphorylating activity of erythrocytes is attributed to the activity of triokinase (ATP: D-glyceraldehyde-3-phosphotransferase; E.C.2.7.1. 28). Although DHA is rapidly cleared from blood after injection into rabbits, substantial metabolism is possible for a prolonged time after administration because of the very low Km of the enzyme for DHA. The capacity of red cells to utilize DHA may prove to be useful in the maintenance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels during blood storage and in the in vivo manipulation of red cell 2,3-DPG levels.
OBJECTIVE ::: To determine whether the storage time of human leukodepleted red blood cell concentrates compromises intestinal microvascular oxygen concentration oxygen (muPo(2)) during isovolemic exchange transfusion at low hematocrit. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN ::: Prospective, randomized, controlled study. ::: ::: ::: SETTING ::: University research institute laboratory. ::: ::: ::: SUBJECTS ::: Male Wistar rats. ::: ::: ::: INTERVENTIONS ::: Intestinal muPo(2) was determined by Pd-porphyrin phosphorescence life-time measurements. ::: ::: ::: MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS ::: Rats were brought near to a state of oxygen supply dependency by hemodilution with a pasteurized plasma protein solution to a hematocrit of 14.3 +/- 1.1% (n = 24). Subsequently, an isovolemic exchange transfusion with human leukodepleted red blood cells, stored for 2-6 days (fresh, n = 8), 2-3 wks (intermediate, n = 8), or 5-6 wks (old, n = 8), was performed to determine whether intestinal muPo(2) would be preserved. Immunologic reactions were avoided by washing the red blood cell concentrates three times before use. Isovolemic exchange with fresh and intermediate red blood cells maintained muPo(2) whereas old cells decreased muPo(2) with 26%. Subsequent transfusion with red blood cells (hematocrit approximately 60%) until reaching a hematocrit of 32.4 +/- 2.1 % (n = 24) increased intestinal muPo(2) in all three groups to the same extent between 28% and 32%. No changes in red blood cell deformability, as determined by a Laser-assisted Optical Rotational Cell Analyzer, could be demonstrated during 5 wks of storage. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: This study shows that at low hematocrit, the oxygen-delivering capacity of human red blood cells stored 5-6 wks is reduced compared with fresh cells and red blood cells stored for an intermediate period. Although red blood cells stored for 2-3 wks are completely devoid of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, their oxygen-delivering capacity to the intestines was the same as fresh red blood cells. Our study showed that red blood cell deformability was preserved during storage, suggesting that other mechanisms may account for the observed decrease in oxygen delivery by red blood cells stored 2-3 wks.
SummaryThe viviparous seaperch,Embiotoca lateralis, has unique fetal and adult hemoglobins. Stripped fetal hemoglobin has a higher oxygen affinity than stripped adult hemoglobin at pH 6.5–7.1. The oxygen affinities of both adult and fetal hemoglobins are lowered allosterically by ATP at pH 7.1. Both fetal and adult seaperch erythrocytes include approximately 82% ATP and 18% GTP of the total nucleotide triphosphates (NTP) with a trace of AMP. No 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol polyphosphate was detected. Mid- and late-gestation erythrocytes contain less NTP/mole hemoglobin tetramer than do adult cells. The effective NTP concentration in adult cells is higher than that of the fetal erythrocytes even when the intracellular concentration of Mg2+, which complexes with NTP, is accounted for. The difference in adult and fetal intraerythrocytic NTP concentration should enhance transfer of oxygen from maternal to fetal blood. Thus, the teleostEmbiotoca lateralis may employ a dual mechanism in maternal-fetal oxygen transfer. A difference in fetal and maternal hemoglobin structure and oxygen affinities is enhanced by a difference in their respective intraerythrocytic organic phosphate concentrations.
Methanopyrus kandleri is a hyperthermophilic methanogenic archaeon, which grows on H(2) and CO(2) as its sole energy source. Its growth temperature optimum is 98 degrees C. One of the interesting characteristics of this archaeon is its high intracellular salt content. The organism has been reported to contain the trianionic cDPG (cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) and K+ at concentrations of 1.1 and 3 M, respectively. Reflecting the high cellular salt concentration, the enzymes in this organism are adapted not only to high temperature but also to high salt concentrations. The formyltransferase from M. kandleri was characterized extensively with respect to thermo- and halophilicity. The crystal structure of the formyltransferase at 1.73 A shows the enzyme to be composed of four identical subunits of molecular mass 32 kDa. The formyltransferase is thermostable and active only at relatively high concentrations of potassium phosphate (1 M) or other salts with strongly hydrated anions (strong salting-out salts). Potassium phosphate and potassium cDPG were found to be equivalent in activating and stabilizing the enzyme. At low concentrations of these salts, the enzyme is inactive and thermolabile. It was shown by equilibrium sedimentation analysis that the enzyme is in a monomer/dimer/tetramer equilibrium, the equilibrium constant being dependent on the concentration of salts: the higher oligomeric species increase with increasing salt concentrations. Evidence was provided that the monomer is both inactive and thermolabile. Experiments using a mutation which is directed to break surface ion pairs between two dimers indicated that dimerization is required for activity and tetramerization leads to thermostability.
Parameters of oxygen transport were determined in 12 national class swimmers of both sexes during a 6-week training phase. Training intensity was high at the beginning of the training period (60 km/week); at the end the intensity was reduced to 25 km/week. At the beginning, in the middle, and at the end of the training period maximal swim tests (3 X 50 m) were performed. At rest 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration (+0.82 mmol/l RBC) and P50 values (+0.92 mmHg) were increased after the period of intensive training, but decreased during the following 3 weeks, remaining still higher than pre-training values. Hemoglobin (Hb), concentration (MCHC) decreased during the training phase in dependence on training intensity. On day 0 and day 25 no changes in 2,3-DPG were found during the swim tests, but at the end a significant reduction in red cell 2,3-DPG (-0.44 mmol/l RBC) occurred. This can be explained by the more pronounced lactacidosis in this last swim test. The degree of hemoconcentration during exercise was the same throughout the training period and consequently independent of the state of physical fitness. During the training period, a good correlation between training intensity, increase in red cell 2,3-DPG, and P50 value as well as in the degree of sports anemia could be found.
The regulation of pyruvate kinase activity by noradrenaline was investigated in Rana balcanica red cells. Thirty minutes of noradrenaline incubation induced a significant increase in the Vo/Vmax ratio of pyruvate kinase. The S0.5 for phosphoenolpyruvate of the enzyme significantly increased in the presence of noradrenaline while the Km for ADP decreased. In response to hormonal stimulation the Na +/H+ exchange was activated as was shown by the increase in Na+ and cyclic adenosine monophosphate from the 3rd min of incubation. All these effects were specific to alpha1 and beta antagonists. High concentrations of fructose diphosphate significantly activated the enzyme in the presence of noradrenaline but not in its absence. Furthermore, the presence of noradrenaline partially released the inhibition of the enzyme by adenosine triphosphate, inorganic phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The results suggest that noradrenaline stimulates glycolysis through pyruvate kinase activation. The mechanism of stimulation may is through Na+/H+ exchange activation, cyclic adenosine monophosphate concentration and Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activation.
The tenfold increase in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration that occurs during the first 5 days of life in lambs is an important adaptation to extrauterine life. In lambs, DPG reduces hemoglobin oxygen affinity by the Bohr effect. Our data on 10 neonatal lambs suggest that the biochemical mechanism underlying this DPG increase involves the following: (1) a rise in plasma glucose from 40 to 100 mg/dl in the first 48 hr of life, which allows for increased glucose consumption in the highly glucose-permeable neonatal RBC; (2) a transitory rise in blood pH begins at birth, peaks at about 20 hr, and falls slightly; (3) the pH increase coincides with a threefold increase in RBC fructose-1,6-diphosphate (FDP) concentration due, we believe, to pH activation of phosphofructokinase; (4) glycolytic intermediates after the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPD) step do not rise in the first 24 hr of life, possibly due to insufficient inorganic phosphate (Pi), a substrate of GAPD; (5) plasma Pi increases from about 7 mg/dl at birth to 11 mg/dl at 72 hr, activates the GAPD, and FDP levels decline; and (6) the in vitro activity of the DPG synthetic enzyme, DPG mutase, is increased 12-fold in neonatal compared to adult RBC. We conclude that the postnatal rise in DPG is explained at least in part by the sequential effects of these metabolic changes.
SummaryA statistically significant 10% increase (ps<0.005) in mean red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration, concomitantly with a mean 16% increase (p<0.001) in the predicted maximal oxygen uptake (VO2 max) was observed in 29 recruits, who were studied during 6 months of physical training in military service. The increase in 2,3-DPG was higher, the lower the initial 2,3-DPG and VO2 max levels. The mean initial 2,3-DPG level was higher in the subjects with a higher initial VO2 max. A strenuous but highly aerobic 21-km marching exercise elicited a mean 9% increase (p<0.005) in red cell 2,3-DPG concentration. A significantly greater response of 2,3-DPG to marching exercise was observed in subjects with a lower pre-test VO2 max than in those with a higher pre-test VO2 max. During another more competitive march 2,3-DPG remained almost unchanged and was associated with a tendency towards a negative correlation with the accompanying lactate response (r=−0.60, p<0.05). Red cell 2,3-DPG response to a standardized exercise is considered to be a suitable indicator for evaluating the effect of training on an individual.
When Wistar male rats were exposed to ethylene oxide (EtO) at a concentration of about 500 ppm, 6 hr a day, 3 days a week for 2, 6, or 13 weeks, hematological examination showed macrocytic, normochromic anemia with a high reticulocyte count. This result raised the possibility that the hemolytic process was responsible for the anemia. Thus, the following possible causes of hemolysis were investigated with erythrocytes obtained from control and EtO-exposed rats. (1) Metabolism in erythrocytes; (a) Hexose monophosphate cycle: The activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, or glutathione peroxidase was not affected, but the activity of glutathione reductase (GR) significantly decreased and did not recover by the addition of flavin adenine dinucleotide. Reduced glutathione content also decreased and the glutathione stability test was positive. (b) Embden-Meyerhof pathway: Adenosine triphosphate content did not decrease. (c) Lapoport-Luebering cycle: 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate content was not affected. (2) Membrane alterations: Osmotic fragility was not affected and the activity of acetylcholine esterase in the ghost membranes of the exposed group increased. (3) Hemoglobin stability: The heat test and the isopropanol test were negative. GR has an important function in maintaining the reducing power in erythrocytes, and the decrease in the activity caused by EtO induced an alteration of the glutathione stability. Although the mechanism of EtO-induced anemia could not be clearly explained, the inhibition of GR activity might be related to the anemia.
The intracellular distribution of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was studied in the red cells of a patient with a "high-ATP syndrome" by using 31P nuclear magnetic resonance. In this patient, red cell ATP was increased 2.5-fold, whereas 2,3-DPG was decreased fourfold due to the presence of a hyperactive pyruvate kinase. In oxygenated red cells, these abnormal concentrations were reflected to the same extent in all complexes in which ATP and 2,3-DPG take part. The diminished amount of 2,3-DPG bound to hemoglobin was almost completely replaced by ATP-hemoglobin complexes. Therefore, free hemoglobin was only slightly increased. In deoxygenated cells, the relative distribution of ATP and 2,3-DPG complexes was significantly disturbed. The main difference was a shift in the ratio of magnesium ATP (MgATP) over the ATP-hemoglobin complex; 74% of total ATP was complexed to hemoglobin (45% in normal cells), whereas the concentration of MgATP was only slightly increased with respect to normal. The shortage in 2,3-DPG bound to hemoglobin could partially be replenished by an increase in hemoglobin (Mg) ATP complexes. Therefore, the amount of uncomplexed hemoglobin raised from 15% in normal cells to 38% in the patient's cells. As a result, the oxygen-dissociation curve was only moderately shifted to the left. It is concluded that the regulatory role of 2,3-DPG in oxygen transport is taken over in part by (Mg) ATP in this patient. In both aerobic and anaerobic cells, the increase in magnesium bound to ATP, either free or bound to hemoglobin, exceeds the decrease in 2,3-DPG Mg complex. In spite of this, the amount of intracellular free Mg++ was normal or slightly lowered. This suggests the presence of a compensatory mechanism by which the amount of total cellular magnesium could be increased.
The in vitro effects of a pentoxifylline solution on hemoglobin-oxygen affinity and electrolytic distribution between plasma and red blood cells were evaluated. Pentoxifylline increased intracellular pH and decreased extracellular pH. There were no exchanges of Na+, K+, Ca++ and Cl- between plasma and red blood cells. Red blood cell content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate remained unchanged, while P50 was reduced as a consequence of the intracellular alkalosis. The possible implications of the metabolic effects of pentoxifylline on red blood cell deformability and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content in vivo are discussed.
Introduction: The goal of a red blood cell (RBC) transfusion is to treat anemia and improve oxygen delivery to tissues (Sharma 2011). RBC metabolic changes during liquid storage increases the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen by depletion of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). This change reduces the partial pressure of O2 where the oxygen tension of hemoglobin is 50% saturated (p50). Transfusion of stored RBCs manifests immediate deficits in patient 2,3-DPG concentration after surgery with incomplete in vivo restoration 72 hours post-surgery (Scott 2016). This change may bring into question the efficiency of peripheral oxygen unloading of liquid stored RBCs following transfusion. Ex-vivo rejuvenation of allogeneic RBCs increases the levels of ATP and 2,3-DPG and increases the p50 of stored RBCs by right-shifting the Oxyhemoglobin Dissociation Curve (ODC) (Dennis 1979). RBC Oxygen Release Capacity (ORC) is determined by the percent of oxygen removed from hemoglobin across the arterial (100 mmHg O2) - venous (40 mmHg O2) pressure gradient (Li 2016). The objective was to evaluate the changes in 2,3-DPG and p50 during routine blood bank storage for 35 days and the impact on ORC after RBC rejuvenation. Methods: Five (5) units of human whole blood were collected in CPD, processed into leukocyte reduced RBC units and stored in an additive solution (AS-1). Nearly fresh RBC were obtained from a local blood center after days 3 - 6 of storage at 1-6 °C and then stored up to 35 days at 1-6 °C. A ten (10) mL aliquot was withdrawn from each unit on the day of receipt, then on Days 7, 14, 21, 28, and 35. Each aliquot was split equally by volume into Control (untreated) and Rejuvenated Groups (n=5 per group). The Rejuvenated samples (5 mL) were incubated with 0.8 mL rejuvesol™ Solution (Zimmer Biomet) in a dry air blood warmer (Sarstedt SAHARA-III) for one hour at 37 °C. Complete blood counts (CELL-DYN 3700), ODC (TCS Scientific Corp Hemox-Analyzer), and 2,3-DPG (Roche) on perchloric acid extracts were collected. The ORC was calculated from the ODC as previously described (Li 2016). Results: Five (5) units of CPD/AS-1 RBC units were received less than one week post-donation (5.0 ± 1.2 Days). As expected in the Control Group aliquots (n = 5), 2,3-DPG concentration and the p50 value declined significantly (p Conclusion: Reduction in ORC with storage duration of unrejuvenated RBCs suggests impaired oxygen tissue delivery occurs with stored RBCs to the tissue microenvironment. Transfusion practices designed to increase hemoglobin concentration may be less effective with increased RBC age because of reduced oxygen release capacity. These in vitro results confirm previous reports regarding 2,3-DPG changes during storage and treatment with rejuvenation (Valeri 2000). Additional research is proposed to confirm these observations on full RBC units, the clinical impact of reduced oxygen release capacity, and what impact RBCs with a superphysiological ORC have on the tissue microenvironment. Disclosures Inglut:Zimmer Biomet: Employment. Kausch:Zimmer Biomet: Employment. Gray:Zimmer Biomet: Employment. Landrigan:Zimmer Biomet: Employment.
Abstract Nerve ischemia/hypoxia has been linked to the pathogenesis of diabetic complications. Red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is an important regulator of peripheral tissue oxygenation; however, the relationship between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and diabetic complications has not been studied in detail. This investigation focused on the relationship between red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and diabetic neuropathy, by measuring motor nerve conduction velocity and sciatic nerve blood flow in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. The effect of treatment with niceritrol, a nicotinic acid derivative that acts as a vasodilator and reduces serum lipid concentrations, on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and diabetic neuropathy was also examined. Untreated diabetic rats had significantly lower concentrations of red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, higher concentrations of serum total cholesterol and triglyceride, as well as reduced motor nerve conduction velocity and sciatic nerve blood flow, compared to untreated normal rats. Niceritrol prevented these abnormalities without correcting hyperglycemia in diabetic rats, but had no effect on these parameters in normal rats. Red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and motor nerve conduction velocity showed a positive correlation with sciatic nerve blood flow and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, respectively. These observations suggest that ischemia/hypoxia plays an important role in the development of diabetic neuropathy, and that niceritrol has a therapeutic effect on this condition by improving endoneurial ischemia/hypoxia.
In experimental anthrax intoxication, a highly important stage of its pathogenesis consists in microcirculatory disturbances with the phenomena of blood sludge, accompanied by the increased permeability of blood vessels not only for plasma, but also for red blood cells. These disturbances result in perivascular hemorrhages, hemorrhagic infiltrations, edema and cavitary transudates. Pulmonary edema and, as a consequence, the accumulation of fluid in pulmonary alveoli and the respiratory tract are of particular importance and, probably, can be considered the basic cause of the ensuing acute and fatal asphyxia. Such vascular and pulmonary insufficiency is accompanied by a decrease in the content of macroergic compounds (and in particular ATP), the characteristic deformation of red blood cells and disturbances in their oxygen transport function, which is linked with the decreased content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
The equine blood oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve has been traced in its entirety in standard conditions and the effects of temperature, pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on this curve have been measured. When compared to that of human blood, the curve showed a higher oxygen affinity of hemoglobin (23.8 +/- 0.8 versus 26.6 mm Hg). The effect of the pH, expressed by d log P50/dpH, was found to be identical in man and horse (-0.47). The effect of temperature, however, expressed by d log P50/dT, proved to be lower in the horse (0.016 versus 0.024). The P50 showed an increase of 1 mm Hg each time 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was experiencing an elevation of 4 mumol/gHb in the horse. The results obtained from this experiment are intended for the replacement of the values related to the human blood which have been found to be somewhat inadequate for the horse blood, when the data of blood gases are given in algorithms.
Acute exercise enhances fibrinolytic (FA), factor VIII coagulant and factor VIII ristocetin cofactor activities, and increases the concentration of factor VIII-related antigen. Little is known concerning the mechanisms of these changes. To investigate possible relationships between exercise-induced changes in blood lactate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and the hemostatic variables, a branching multistage treadmill protocol was used to exercise male volunteers to a maximum effort. Blood samples were drawn before, immediately post-, and 8 min postexercise. All hemostatic variables were significantly (P less than 0.05) increased postexercise. Highest values for factor VIII coagulant, factor VIII-related antigens and factor VIII ristocetin cofactor were observed at 8 min postexercise. Significant (P less than 0.001) correlations were found postexercise for lactate with factor VIII coagulant (r = 0.64), while no association between pre-, post-, or 8 min postexercise. Postexercise lactate demonstrated a significant correlation (r = +0.81), which was strengthened by including the preexercise high-density lipoprotein (HDL) concentrations (r = +0.87). Consequently, the expected postexercise FA may be calculated from the observed values for postexercise lactate and preexercise HDL. The correlations of lactate with postexercise FA and with postexercise factor VIII coagulant may reflect a common stimulus for these exercise-induced changes.
Nucleophosmin (B23) was phosphorylated in vitro with [y-32P]ATP and a nuclear kinase (type II) purified from HeLa cells. The phosphorylation was inhibited by heparin and by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Peptide mapping analysis indicated that the phosphorylation site in vitro was identical to that in vivo. Purified nucleoli have a similar kinase that phosphorylated nucleophosmin at the same site. These results indicated that nucleophosmin is phosphorylated in vivo by a nucleolar kinase (type II).
Efforts to develop alternatives to blood as an oxygen carrier date back well over half a century with increased efforts in recent years being partly motivated by fears of potential contamination with the viruses responsible for AIDS and hepatitis (1-4). An additional impetus rests in the recognition that wide availability of properly banked blood is absent in many parts of the world. An efficient acellular oxygen carrier could have several distinct advantages over intact red blood cells, including elimination of the need for typing and cross-matching before transfusion and a useful shelf-life greater than the current six weeks or less for packed red blood cells (1). While a number of other alternatives have been explored over the years (1-4), the use of cell-free hemoglobins for an oxygen-carrying resuscitation fluid has excellent prospects since (a) hemoglobin solutions are completely metabolizable and are well tolerated by the body, and (b) hemoglobin is available in virtually unlimited amounts and is relatively inexpensive, (c) hemoglobin is fully saturated with oxygen under ambient conditions, has oncotic activity, and exhibits cooperative oxygen binding behavior. However, there are two major problems associated with using cell-free hemoglobins for transfusions. First, the retention time of cell-free hemoglobins in circulation after infusion is very short (4), and most of the infused hemoglobin is rapidly filtered and eliminated by kidneys in 1-4 hours; second, cell-free hemoglobins have too high oxygen affinity that prevents them from adequately unloading the oxygen acquired from lungs to tissues. Both of these problems have their roots in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and other polyanionic species which are conspicuously absent in cell-free hemoglobins, but are known to be essential co-factors in intact red blood cells. Efforts have since been focused on covalently cross-linking hemoglobin between the two like subunits, e.g., alpha-1 to alpha-2 or beta-1 to beta-2. Such a cross-link is believed to substitute for the native allosteric modifier DPG to lower the oxygen affinity, while at the same time preventing dissociation of the tetramer (1).
(67) It is important to highlight the role of individual variation in RBC transfusion. Possible causes of the lack of a transfusion effect may include changes in rheological properties, loss of RBC deformability and reduced 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations.
• C. One of the interesting characteristics of this archaeon is its high intracellular salt content. The organism has been reported to contain the trianionic cDPG (cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) and K + at concentrations of 1.1 and 3 M, respectively. Reflecting the high cellular salt concentration, the enzymes in this organism are adapted not only to high temperature but also to high salt concentrations. The formyltransferase from M. kandleri was characterized extensively with respect to thermo-and halophilicity. The crystal structure of the formyltransferase at 1.73 Å shows the enzyme to be composed of four identical subunits of molecular mass 32 kDa. The formyltransferase is thermostable and active only at relatively high concentrations of potassium phosphate (1 M) or other salts with strongly hydrated anions (strong salting-out salts). Potassium phosphate and potassium cDPG were found to be equivalent in activating and stabilizing the enzyme. At low concentrations of these salts, the enzyme is inactive and thermolabile. It was shown by equilibrium sedimentation analysis that the enzyme is in a monomer/dimer/tetramer equilibrium, the equilibrium constant being dependent on the concentration of salts: the higher oligomeric species increase with increasing salt concentrations. Evidence was provided that the monomer is both inactive and thermolabile. Experiments using a mutation which is directed to break surface ion pairs between two dimers indicated that dimerization is required for activity and tetramerization leads to thermostability.
• C on H 2 and CO 2 with the formation of CH 4 [1, 2] . The organism, belonging to the Kingdom Euryarchaeota, is the most thermophilic methanogen known so far and based on 16 S rRNA sequence comparison is only distantly related to the other known methanogens [3] (see also [4] ). A characteristic feature of the organism is a relatively high intracellular concentration of cDPG (cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; >1 M) and potassium ions (>3 M) [1, 2] . M. kandleri lives in non-halophilic habitats and has to cope with the high difference in osmotic pressure, explaining why this organism has a thick, multilayered pseudomurein sacculus. It was shown that potassium cDPG and potassium phosphate are equivalent in activating and stabilizing the enzymes from M. kandleri [5] .
The pathway of CO 2 reduction to CH 4 in M. kandleri has been shown to be identical to that used in all other methanogens [6] [7] [8] [9] . Recently, crystal structures of five enzymes from M. kandleri have been solved: N-formylmethanofuran: tetrahydromethanopterin formyltransferase (hereon referred to as formyltransferase) [10] , N 5 ,N 10 -methenyltetrahydroKey words: methanogenic Archaea, crystal structure, halophilic enzyme, hyperthermophilic enzyme, monomer/dimer/tetramer association equilibrium, site-directed mutagenesis. Abbreviations used: cDPG, cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; formyltransferase, N-formylmethanofuran:tetrahydromethanopterin formyltransferase. 1 To whom correspondence should be addressed (e-mail shima@staff.uni-marburg.de).
The present invention relates osmolythaltige preparations for topical treatment of dry mucous membranes. It is the use of osmolytes for the manufacture of a medicament, cosmetic or medical product for the prevention, treatment and / or care of dry mucous membranes described. The present invention relates to topical preparations based on osmolytes, which optionally sodium chloride, and / or moisturizers may be added. The group of osmolytes designated in the invention comprises various low-molecular substances, including ectoine, homoectoine, hydroxyectoine, di-myo-inositol phosphate (DIP), cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG), 1,1-di-glycerol phosphate (DGP ), β-mannosylglycerate (firoin), β-mannosylglyceramide (firoin-a), Dimannosyl-di-inositol phosphate (DMIP), glucosylglycerol and / or a derivative of such. As an acid, a salt or ester of these compounds.
To determine the effects of maternal hyperglycemia on fetal hemodynamic and cardiac function, a study was carried out on nine chronically catheterized fetal sheep. In six fetuses, glucose was infused intravenously with an initial dose of 5 mg/kg per min. Data were compared with controls. This dose was gradually increased to 16 mg/kg per min by the fifth day. The initial blood glucose was 14.7 +/- 3.0 mg/dl and increased to 54.6 +/- 16.4 mg/dl by the last day of the infusion period (P less than 0.001). The PO2 decreased from a baseline of 20.25 +/- 3.40 to 15.88 +/- 5.24 mmHg (P less than 0.01). Similarly significant decreases were also observed for the blood O2 content and O2 hemoglobin saturation: 8.5 +/- 1.7 to 6.4 +/- 2.2 ml/dl and 62.3 +/- 13.6 to 46.1 +/- 17.6%, respectively, during hyperglycemia (P less than 0.01). The duration of the preejection period (PEP) before the start of the experiment was 45 +/- 4 ms; a final value of 57 +/- 10 ms was obtained (P less than 0.01). However, the electromechanical delay and ejection time (ET) showed no significant variation. The ratio of the PEP/ET increased from 0.31 +/- 0.04 to 0.38 +/- 0.07 (P less than 0.01) during hyperglycemia. The reticulocytes increased from 1.4 +/- 1.8 to 3.1 +/- 2.9% (P less than 0.05) and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate decreased from 4.4 +/- 1.1 to 2.8 +/- 1.2 mumol/g hemoglobin (P less than 0.005). This study demonstrated that fetal hyperglycemia depresses myocardial function in the fetal lamb. The changes in cardiac function could not be explained by the small drop in O2 saturation.
Abstract Two cAMP-independent acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) protein kinases have been partially purified from rat liver cytosol and microsomal extracts. The first kinase, present in greatest activity in microsomal extracts, appears to be identical to casein kinase I by characteristic molecular size on gel filtration ( M r 40,000) and sodium dodecyl sulfate-gel electrophoresis ( M r 34,000), autophosphorylation of this single subunit, inability to efficiently utilize GTP, and resistance to inhibition by heparin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The second kinase, predominant in cytosol, appears to be identical to casein kinase II by characteristic molecular size on gel filtration ( M r 150,000), an autophosphorylated subunit of M r 25,000, a K m for GTP nearly equal to that of ATP, inhibition by heparin and 2,3 DPG, and relative substrate specificity. Despite the incorporation of up to 2 mol 32 P/mol carboxylase subunit (kinase I) and 0.6 mol/subunit (kinase II), phosphorylation by either kinase causes no change in carboxylase activity. The site(s) phosphorylated by each kinase and by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase on carboxylase appear to be clustered on a M r 16,000 cyanogen bromide peptide that is readily released on incubation with trypsin. The potential roles of these kinases in the regulation of ACC remain to be clarified.
The oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve (OHDC) and intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) play an important role in oxygen delivery, especially during shock. 62 determinations in eight septic shocks were carried out. Hem.O. Scan drew the OHDC at standard temperature and PCO2; P50 was modified for pH 7.40 (P50 std) by algorithm. When the patients had recovered from the shock, their average P50 std was higher than during the shock (p less than 0.02), and much more so than in normal subjects (p less than 0.01). There was a positive correlation between P50 std and 2,3-DPG, arterial blood pH, haemoglobin and cardiac index, as well as between 2,3-DPG and arterial blood pH. On the other hand, there existed no correlation between P50 std or 2,3-DPG, and Pao2, Paco2 and phosphoremia. The Hill number was normal.
Abstract The kinetics of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) net breakdown was examined in intact human erythrocytes incubated at pH 7.00 and 37 °C. The concentrations of 2,3-DPG, 1,3-diphosphoglycerate (1,3-DPG), 3-phosphoglycerate, ATP, P i , glucose, and lactate were determined during 10 to 12 h. Since the concentration of 1,3-DPG has been suggested to be the main regulating factor with respect to the rate of 2,3-DPG net breakdown the interdependence between the concentration of 1,3-DPG and pH was determined in the range of pH 6.9 to 7.4. It was found that the stationary level of 1,3-DPG decreased strongly with decreasing pH within this range. Qualitatively, the net breakdown of 2,3-DPG observed at pH 7.00 can be explained by the lowered level of 1,3-DPG. The influence of the concentration of P i upon the rate of net degradation of 2,3-DPG at pH 7.00 was studied at low cell volume fraction (0.04), where given concentrations of P i could be maintained for several hours. A marked increase in the rate of 2,3-DPG net breakdown by P i was demonstrated. Computer simulations showed that activation of diphosphoglycerate phosphatase by the increasing concentration of P i and decrease of degree of inhibition of the diphosphoglycerate mutase by the decreasing concentration of 2,3-DPG may well keep the rate of the degradation balanced at the time constant value observed. On the basis of the observed kinetics and a computer simulation, the flux through the phosphoglycerate bypass was estimated to be 10 to 15% of the total glycolytic flux at physiological conditions.
Abstract 1. 1. Values for several hematologic parameters were determined for sika deer ( Cervus nippon nippon ), the most prominent features of which were a high red cell count, (10·56±2·64) × 10 6 /μl, and a low MCV, 39·3 ± 6· μ 3 . 2. 2. The hemoglobin of sika deer was a single component of the same mobility when examined by starch gel electrophoresis. 3. 3. The oxygen affinity of deer blood was slightly lower than that of human adult blood through the physiological pH range (pH 6·9 ∼ 7·7). 4. 4. There was no significant difference in the intra- vs extra-cellular pH relationship between deer and human adult blood. 5. 5. Concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and the other organic phosphates were very low in deer red cells. 6. 6. It is concluded that the lower oxygen affinity of deer blood in the essential absence of co-factor phosphates such as 2,3-DPG might be of an intrinsic nature reflecting the characteristic primary structure of the deer hemoglobin itself.
Glucose metabolism was studied in human red blood cells incubated in the presence of physiologic concentrations of ascorbate (0.1 mM) and/or lactate (2 mM) plus pyruvate (0.1 mM). The total flux through glycolysis, as measured by 14C-labeling of glycolytic intermediates, was increased about 15% by ascorbate, 30% by lactate plus pyruvate, and 40% by ascorbate plus lactate plus pyruvate. We found, however, that physiologic concentrations of ascorbate and/or lactate plus pyruvate had no effect on flux of glucose or recycling of pentoses through the hexose monophosphate shunt. Increased formation of lactate accounted for most of the observed increase in glycolysis with little change in pyruvate formation, indicating that the increased flux of reducing equivalents from glucose was stored as lactate rather than being consumed by red cell metabolism. In all experiments, there was a net increase with time in the absolute amount of both lactate and pyruvate in red cell suspensions, indicating that lactate or pyruvate present at zero time did not function as a stoichiometric source or sink for reducing equivalents. There was little effect on steady-state levels of ATP or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Equilibration of ascorbate between red cells and the medium was complete before the addition of 14C-labeled glucose to the medium. Glucose metabolism prevented net oxidation of ascorbate in the incubation medium. Physiologic concentrations of ascorbate, lactate and pyruvate appear to increase flux through glycolysis by increasing the turnover of ATP and/or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Red cells were exposed to mild oxidative stress by incubation with 0.27 mM 6-hydroxydopamine, 0.27 mM 6-aminodopamine, 0.13 mM 1,4-naphthoquinone-2-sulfonic acid or 0.27 mM phenylhydrazine. The metabolic response to oxidative stress was determined by measuring the formation of methemoglobin, pyruvate, lactate and CO2 in the presence and absence of physiologic concentrations of lactate, pyruvate and ascorbate. Lactate, pyruvate and ascorbate had no effect on the net methemoglobin accumulation but rather on the distribution of the metabolic sources of reducing equivalents and on the flux of reducing equivalents to oxygen. Physiologic lactate and pyruvate allowed increased flow of reducing equivalents from glycolysis to methemoglobin and ultimately oxygen without the necessity of increased flux through glycolysis. This was accomplished by a decrease in the ratio of newly formed lactate to newly formed pyruvate with no increase in total lactate plus pyruvate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
INTRODUCTION: Pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency is a glycolytic enzymopathy that results in non-spherocytic hemolytic anemia with a variable clinical presentation, ranging from mild or fully compensated forms to life-threatening neonatal anemia and life-long chronic hemolytic anemia associated with severe, debilitating co-morbidities. PK deficiency is caused by mutations in the PKLR gene, which in the red blood cell (RBC) results in defective pyruvate kinase isoform R (PK-R). PK-R catalyzes the final, irreversible step in glycolysis, the process on which mature RBCs rely almost exclusively to generate the energy carrier molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP). PK-deficient RBCs and their progenitors are characterized by changes in metabolism associated with defective glycolysis, including a build-up of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and lowered ATP levels. AG-348 is an orally available, allosteric activator of PK-R. It is hypothesized that intervention with AG-348 restores glycolytic pathway activity and normalizes RBC metabolism in vivo (Kung C et al. Blood, 2013). Biochemical experiments demonstrate that AG-348 is a potent pan-activator of many PK-R alleles associated with PK deficiency. Treatment of PK-deficient patient RBCs ex vivo with AG-348 results in increased ATP levels, and reductions in PEP and 2,3-DPG, consistent with pharmacological activation of the PK-R enzyme. This analysis integrates the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) properties of AG-348 in healthy human volunteers using population PK/PD modeling and simulation. METHODS: PK/PD modeling using a non-linear mixed effects approach was performed to understand the pharmacokinetics of AG-348 and PK/PD relationship of AG-348 to 2,3-DPG and ATP in humans. The PK/PD model integrated data from two phase 1, single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose escalation studies (one single and one 14-day multiple ascending dose) that enrolled a total of 96 healthy volunteers (Yang H et al. EHA Learning Center, 2015). AG-348 dose level ranged from 15-2500 mg given once (QD) or twice (BID) daily. Blood was collected from all patients to assess AG-348 pharmacokinetics, and for determination of levels of ATP and 2,3-DPG. Population simulations using the final model were performed to examine the dose-exposure-biomarkers relationship at various dose levels and duration of dosing. RESULTS: AG-348 showed rapid absorption following oral administration. Plasma exposure of AG-348 increased in a dose-proportional manner following a single dose. A three-compartmental model with a non-linear absorption compartment and a saturable induced enzyme compartment best described the pharmacokinetics of AG-348. Time-varying clearance was added to describe the observed decrease in exposure over time with multiple dosing; this is consistent with pre-clinical data that AG-348 is a moderate inducer of CYP3A4, the major oxidation pathway of AG-348. The multiple-dose data were well described by a semi-mechanistic autoinduction model with an indirect model and a saturable induction compartment. The PK/PD relationship between plasma AG-348 to ATP and 2,3-DPG showed best fit with a turnover model where the drug effect was described by an Emax model. Model simulations predicted maximum enzyme induction and PD response 3 weeks after the first dose following BID dosing. Population PK/PD simulations further supported the choice of 50 mg and 300 mg BID doses for the phase 2 study (Fig 1 and 2). The proposed current model incorporating PK/PD data over a wide range of AG-348 exposures and time-varying changes in clearance provides a useful tool for prediction of AG-348 pharmacokinetics that can be used to optimize AG-348 dosing for PK deficiency treatment. Furthermore, the population PK/PD model of AG-348 to ATP and 2,3-DPG biomarkers in healthy volunteers provides a good foundation to facilitate the analysis and understanding of patient data in the ongoing phase 2 study. CONCLUSION: This study represents the first comprehensive longitudinal analysis of AG-348 and its PD activity in humans. This integrated PK/PD model, incorporating time-varying PK/PD properties, forms the basis for understanding the exposure-response relationship in the ongoing phase 2 and future clinical studies of AG-348, as well as providing guidance on dosing selection to optimize the treatment of PK deficiency. Disclosures Le:Agios Pharmceuticals: Employment, Equity Ownership. Cohen:Agios: Consultancy. Chen:Agios: Employment. Kim:Agios: Employment. Silver:Agios: Consultancy. Agresta:Agios: Employment, Equity Ownership. Merica:Agios Pharmaceuticals: Employment, Equity Ownership. Kung:Agios: Employment, Equity Ownership. Kosinski:Agios: Employment, Equity Ownership; General Electric: Equity Ownership; SDIX: Equity Ownership. Silverman:Agios: Employment, Equity Ownership. Biller:Agios Pharmaceuticals: Employment, Equity Ownership; Arbutus BioPharma (formerly Tekmira): Consultancy, Equity Ownership, Membership on an entity9s Board of Directors or advisory committees; Syros Pharmaceuticals: Consultancy, Equity Ownership, Membership on an entity9s Board of Directors or advisory committees; Arvinas: Consultancy, Equity Ownership, Membership on an entity9s Board of Directors or advisory committees; Denali: Consultancy, Equity Ownership, Membership on an entity9s Board of Directors or advisory committees. Yang:Agios Pharmaceuticals: Employment, Equity Ownership.
BACKGROUND ::: Recently we demonstrated an increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) erythrocyte concentration in rat pups subjected to nucleotide-enriched artificial feeding. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN ::: The present study was carried out to test the hypothesis that a possible increase in 2,3-DPG concentration can also be obtained in human neonates who are fed nucleotide-enriched formula. Preterm neonates born or referred to the neonatal intensive care unit of the G. Gaslini Hospital, Genoa University, with a gestational age >30 weeks and <37 weeks were enrolled in our randomized trial. Recruitment took place within 48-72 hours from birth. Only newborns of mothers deciding not to breast-feed were eligible to be randomized for the supplemented group (FN) or non-supplemented group (RF). Breast-fed newborns were considered the control group (C). The study window (for supplementation and blood samples) was restricted to the first two weeks following birth (from the 2nd (t1) to the 16th (t2) day of life). At the end of our study, only 21 neonates were eligible for statistical analysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The stimulating action of dietary nucleotides on 2,3-DPG concentration failed to be demonstrated; increases in 2,3-DPG concentration that were observed in newborns fed with nucleotide supplemented formula (FN) were comparable to those observed in newborns fed with regular formula (RF) and breast-fed newborns. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The EC recommendation for the amount of nucleotides allowed in formula milk does not seem to be high enough to have positive effects on 2,3-DPG synthesis. Whether this possible 'pharmacological' effect can be achieved by a higher intake of ingested nucleotides and/or a change in the proportions of single nucleotides contained in milk formulas remain interesting end points to be elucidated.
Standard haematological parameters measured in the bilby (Macrotis lagotis) and the rufous hare-wallaby (Lagorchestes hirsutus) were not markedly different. Both species had very high levels of red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, whilst the levels of adenosine triphosphate were within the range of most marsupials and mammals. The activities of red-cell enzymes were measured in these two species as well as in the brown antechinus (Antechinus stuartii). Some significant findings were (i) very high levels of hexokinase, glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase and lactate dehydrogenase in the antechinus and (ii) very high levels of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glutathione peroxidase in the rufous hare-wallaby. The glycolytic rate, measured as the amount of lactate produced by the red cells incubated with eight different substrates, was found to be generally higher in the antechinus than in the other two species. The maximum rate of glycolysis was observed with mannose whilst galactose was a poor substrate in all three species.
INTRODUCTION: The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG/Hct) increases as a physiological occurrence to pH increase and hyperventilation. This response was tested in patients with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). METHOD: The concentration of 2,3-DPG/Hct was measured daily for six days in eleven patients with severe TBI in need of optimized hyperventilation because of intracranial hypertension. RESULTS:There was correlation between pH and the concentration of DPG/Hct. The concentration of 2,3-DPG/Hct remained predominantly within normal levels with slight increase in the sixth day of the study. The concentration of 2,3-DPG/Hct correlated significantly with measured partial pressure of oxygen that saturates 50% the hemoglobin of the blood (P50st), confirming the consistency of our data. CONCLUSION: The expected physiological response of a progressive increase in concentration of 2,3-DPG/Hct to hyperventilation was not observed. This fact may be explained by the intermittent and not sustained hyperventilation as dictated by the protocol of optimized ventilation.
Hb Cardarelli [beta86(F2)Ala-->Pro] is a new unstable and high oxygen affinity variant found in several members of a family from Naples, Southern Italy. A detailed structural and functional characterization of the variant was performed on two subjects, at both the protein and DNA level. The first patient exhibited 43% of the variant hemoglobin (Hb) without major hematological problems. The proband showed 82% of the abnormal Hb in association with beta(+)-thalassemia (thal) that caused relevant erythrocytosis requiring frequent phlebotomies. Structural investigation of the Hb variant by mass spectrometric methodologies identified the amino acid replacement as Ala-->Pro at beta86. The corresponding DNA mutation GCC-->CCC at codon 86 of the beta-globin gene was assessed by both DNA sequencing and amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS) techniques. Functional studies carried out on whole blood and diluted hemolysates from both patients demonstrated increased oxygen affinity, decreased Bohr effect, reduced heme-heme interaction and nearly halved 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and chloride effects.
The new calcium antagonist cerebrocrast intravenously infused in a dose of 0.4 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 during 15 min prevented erythrocyte deformability disturbances at the end of cerebral ischemia in rats, which was induced by carotid artery occlusion during 30 min. The agents also prevented the deformability 1 hour after the onset of recirculation. Cerebrocrast reduced spontaneous erythrocyte aggregation, the strength of erythrocytic aggregates, and hemoglobin affinity for oxygen. The latter effect was associated with the drug-induced increase in erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels.
The reported investigations were carried out in 6 young (20 years old) healthy males who performed a 10-minute exercise on a Monark cycle ergometer at workloads increasing the heart rate to 170/minute. Before the exercise, after its termination, and after 30 minutes of restitution the concentrations of adenosine-5' triphosphate, adenosine-5' diphosphate, adenosine-5' monophosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide and nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate were assayed in erythrocytes. After the end of exercise a non-significant increase in ATP concentration and a non-significant decrease of 2,3-DPG were found in the erythrocytes. The concentrations of ADP and AMP were lower than at rest, both, after the end of exercise and after 30 minutes of restitution (p less than 0.05). The concentrations of nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide and nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate decreased after exercise (p less than 0.05) fell even more after 30 minutes of restitution (p less than 0.05).
Abstract It is known that an increased level of red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) shifts the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve to the right, thus allowing a greater unloading of oxygen at the tissue level. It has been hypothesized that phosphate might help increase VOjnax by increasing 2,3-DPG level. Eight trained cyclists underwent three cycle ergometer tests (control, placebo, and experimental) to determine whether phosphate ingestion had any positive effect on VO2max, time to exhaustion, serum 2,3-DPG, and serum phosphate levels. We found no change between the control, placebo, or experimental conditions in pretest serum phosphate levels, but we did find increases in 2,3-DPG levels in the phosphate condition (p < .05), which suggests that even a small amount of phosphate could increase levels of 2,3-DPG. We also found significant differences in VO2max between the control (p < .05) and placebo (p < .02) conditions and also in time to exhaustion between the three conditions (p < .05). We suggest...
The erythropoietic activity and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were studied during and after the nadir of the post-natal anaemia in normal, rapidly growing rabbits, from the 12th to the 35th day after birth. Whole blood haemoglobin (Hb) decreased from 9.3 g dl-1 on the 12th to 4.9 g dl-1 on the 25th day, while erythropoiesis-stimulating factor(s) (ESF) in plasma (determined by a cell culture assay) concomitantly rose from undetectable to high levels. In spite of marked rise in body weight, from 250 to 480 g, estimated haemoglobin mass (Hb mass) and reticulocyte mass production rate (Rt prod) remained essentially the same, about 1.8 g and 0.3 ml day-1. From the 25th to the 35th day, ESF decreased to a lower level, while Hb increased to 10.8 g dl-1 and Hb mass and Rt prod rose sharply, to 6.9 and 1.2 ml day-1. The 2,3-DPG rose markedly during the observation period, but showed a transient decline on the 29th day, simultaneously with the peak in reticulocyte counts (Rt) (24%) and release of young erythrocytes with low 2,3-DPG. The data indicate that the regions governing the erythropoietin production/release became increasingly sensitive to hypoxia during the observation period. The possibility also exists that the increase in ESF was due only in part to hypoxic stimulation. It could be related to the maturation of the animal in other ways, such as shift from extra-renal to renal erythropoietin production and the growth. The lack of response to increasing stimulation indicates that the erythropoiesis was restricted by the availability of iron and/or other factors necessary for erythrocyte and haemoglobin production.
The covalent fixation of benzenehexacarboxylate (BHC) onto dextran was carried out according to several reaction schemes. The polyanionic polymers thus synthesized were capable of decreasing the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin by specifically interacting with the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) binding site of the protein. The intensity of this effect was correlated to both the chemical structure of the polyanionic polymers and the BHC content in polymer. The polyanionic polymer, containing 0.035 mol BHC/g and presenting no cross-linking between its polymer chains, possessed the best effector properties. These properties were used to direct the covalent fixation of the dextran-benzenehexacarboxylate onto the phosphate binding site of the protein. The resulting hemoglobin was mainly substituted at the same time by one or more linked BHC onto bothαΒ dimers in the vicinity of the 2,3-DPG site. Thus, the modification of hemoglobin led to an increase in the hydrodynamic volume of each dimer sufficient to limit the diffusion of the conjugates through the kidney membrane, even if the conjugates had dissociated intoαΒ dimers. Compared to that of free hemoglobin, the oxygen affinity of the conjugates was significantly decreased. This type of covalent conjugate exhibited general properties quite suitable for use as blood substitutes.
A dialysis cell is described for use in an NMR spectrometer, to make spectroscopic determinations of protein-small molecule binding. The protein solution is contained within a cylindrical dialysis tube which is concentrically suspended in an NMR tube containing a protein-free dialysis buffer. Simultaneous determinations of the equilibrium transmembrane distribution of the small molecule and the chemical shifts in both compartments are made spectroscopically, providing estimates of the dissociation constant and the chemical shift of the bound species. The cell is used for 31P NMR spectroscopic measurement of the degree of binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to hemoglobin in a 2.8 mM carboxyhemoglobin solution at pH 6.9 and 21 degrees C. The Kd is found to be 2.4 x 10(-3) M.
1. The position of the oxygen-haemoglobin dissociation curve has been related to erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations in twenty-seven patients with both acute and chronic respiratory failure. 2. The average values of both 2,3-DPG concentration and of the oxygen tension for one-half full saturation (P 50 ) in these patients were normal, but values both above and below the normal range were encountered. 3. P 50 values correlated positively with erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentrations, but negatively correlated with the mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration in these patients. 4. Multiple regression, including the above two variables and also the blood oxygen capacity as major factors, accounted for just under half of the variance in the position of the dissociation curve, and this was little improved by addition of the minor effects of the arterial oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions. 5. The intraerythrocytic pH bore a similar relationship to plasma pH, in both studies in vitro of blood from normal subjects and patients with chronic hypercapnia, and studies in vivo in hypercapnic subjects.
Electrically permeabilised [3H]inositol-labelled SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells were employed to examine the effects of two synthetic, phosphatase-resistant analogues of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3] on the metabolism of cell membrane-derived [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 or exogenous [5-32P]Ins(1,4,5)P3. ::: ::: ::: ::: Incubation of permeabilised SH-SY5Y cells for 5 min at 37°C with carbachol and guanosine 5′-[γ-thio]triphosphate caused a decrease in [3H]phosphoinositol phospholipid levels and an increase in [3H]inositol phosphate accumulation with inositol 4-phosphate, inositol 1,4-bisphosphate, Ins(1,4,5)P3 and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate comprising approximately 79%, 16%, 3% and 2%, respectively, of the increase. Inositol 1-phosphate levels did not increase upon stimulation, nor was inositol 4-phosphate converted rapidly to inositol. ::: ::: ::: ::: In parallel incubations, the analogues, DL-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphorothioate (DL-InsP3S3) and DL-inositol 1,4-bisphosphate 5-phosphorothioate (DL-InsP3S), and synthetic racemic Ins(1,4,5)P3 (DL-InsP3), altered the profile of the [3H]inositol phosphates recovered and led, at millimolar concentrations, to a 10–15-fold increase in [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3. The extent of inhibition of [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 metabolism was, however, greatest in the presence of synthetic D-Ins(1,4,5)P3 (5 mM), when [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 comprised approximately 50% of the increase in total [3H]inositol phosphates. Thus, under these conditions, at least 50% of [3H]inositol phosphates were derived from [3H]phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. [32P]Pi release from exogenous [5-32P]Ins(1,4,5)P3 was also inhibited by DL-InsP3S3, DL-InsP3S and DL-InsP3, with half-maximal inhibition at approximately 50 μM, 160 μM and 240 μM respectively. These actions were approximately ten times more potent than the effects of these compounds on [3H]inositol phosphate accumulation, indicating that homogenous mixing of exogenous and cellmembrane-derived Ins(1,4,5)P3 does not occur. ::: ::: ::: ::: These findings indicate that DL-InsP3S3 and DL-InsP3S inhibit Ins(1,4,5)P3 5-phosphatase. In contrast. the effects of synthetic DL-InsP3 and d-Ins(1,4,5)P3 are due to isotopic dilution. Whilst DL-InsP3S3 was the most potent inhibitor of dephosphorylation of exogenous or cell-membrane-derived Ins(1,4,5)P3, it was the weakest inhibitor of 3-kinase-catalysed Ins(1,4,5)P3 phosphorylation. Similarly, although approximately 50 times less potent than DL-InsP3S3, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inhibited Ins(1,4,5)P3 5-phosphatase activity and was apparently without effect of Ins(1,4,5)P3 3-kinase activity. ::: ::: ::: ::: These data show that both DL-InsP3S3 and DL-InsP3S are potent inhibitors of Ins(1,4,5)P3 5-phosphatase. In contrast, phosphorylation of Ins(1,4,5)P3 was inhibited potently only by DL-InsP3S.
The erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (2,3-DPG) and the activity of red cell hexokinase, pyruvate kinase, glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase and gluthatione reductase were studied in 27 normal volunteers before and after 2 and 4 months of physical endurance training. The 4 months of training increased maximal oxygen uptake and physical working capacity (PWC130) by 16% (p<0.001) and 29% (p<0.001) respectively. Resting heart rate was decreased (p<0.001) by 11 beats·min−1. With 2 months of training the erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration increased by 9% (p<0.001); with 4 months training the increase was only 4% (p<0.05). The training-induced increase in red cell 2,3-DPG was not accompanied by enhanced activity of erythrocyte hexokinase, pyruvate kinase, glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase or glutathione reductase. It is concluded that the rise in red cell 2,3-DPG induced by physical endurance training is not due to activation of red cell glycolytic enzymes or the enzymes involved in the pentose-phosphate cycle
1. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were determined in normal individuals, uraemic patients on chronic haemodialysis and patients who underwent renal transplantation, and correlated with plasma phosphate and arterial blood pH. 2. Significant increases in the 2,3-DPG and ATP content were found in the uraemic patients and these persisted after transplantation in spite of marked hypophosphataemia. 3. No correlation was established with plasma phosphate for either of the compounds but 2,3-DPG had a significant correlation with arterial blood pH. 4. Normal values for ATP and 2,3-DPG were observed in post-transplant patients with normal haematological values. The high amounts of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG and ATP in the early post-transplant period are independent of the circulating concentration of inorganic phosphate, and might represent the response of erythrocyte glycolysis to changing arterial blood pH.
Suspensions of red cells containing Hb Marseille-Long Island showed decreased oxygen affinity and low interaction with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Oxygen equilibrium studies of the purified component confirmed these abnormalities. Oxidation rate measurements of carbonmonoxy-Hb Marseille and carbonmonoxy-Hb A by ferri-cyanide showed an increased rate for the former, suggesting an increased dissociation constant for carbon monoxide. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectra in the high field region revealed small changes in the proximal region of the heme pocket. These results indicated that the mutation causes a perturbation at a distance from the mutation site.
Oxygen equilibrium of Hb Toyoake (142 (H20)beta, Ala leads to Pro) is characterized by an oxygen affinity 6-times higher than that of Hb A, a slightly decreased alkaline Bohr effect, diminished cooperativity, with Hill's coefficient decreased by 1.2, and reduced response to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate. These properties are in qualitative agreement with those shown previously from oxygen equilibrium data for hemolysate containing Hb Toyoake. The heat of oxygenation was -13.5 kcal/mol for Hb Toyoake and -12.9 kcal/mol for Hb A at pH 7.4 in 0.1 M Cl- and they became equal when corrected for the heat of oxygen-linked proton and Cl- release. OxyHb Toyoake autooxidized faster than oxyHb A. The visible absorption spectrum and electron paramagnetic resonance spectrum of oxidized Hb Toyake indicated that oxidation of this hemoglobin, either by autooxidation or by K3Fe(CN)6, is followed by gradual conversion into hemichrome derivatives. The soret peak of deoxyHb Toyoake was lowered compared to that of deoxyHb A and the magnitude of narrow-banded oxy-minus-deoxy difference spectrum around 290 nm was smaller for Hb Toyoake than for Hb A, indicating that the former remains predominantly in the R state upon deoxygenation. The functional abnormalities, including tendency to lose heme groups previously reported, were interpreted in terms of structural disturbance by proline at 142beta of 141 leucine, 143 histidine, 145 tyrosine, and 146 histidine residues of the same beta chain.
To determine the effects of maternal hyperglycemia on fetal hemodynamic and cardiac function, a study was carried out on nine chronically catheterized fetal sheep. In six fetuses, glucose was infused intravenously with an initial dose of 5 mg/kg per min. Data were compared with controls. This dose was gradually increased to 16 mg/kg per min by the fifth day. The initial blood glucose was 14.7±3.0 mg/dl and increased to 54.6±16.4 mg/dl by the last day of the infusion period (P < 0.001). The P02 decreased from a baseline of 20.25±3.40 to 15.88±5.24 mmHg (P < 0.01). Similarly significant decreases were also observed for the blood 02 content and 02 hemoglobin saturation: 8.5±1.7 to 6.4±2.2 ml/dl and 62.3±13.6 to 46.1±17.6%, respectively, during hyperglycemia (P < 0.01). The duration of the preejection period (PEP) before the start of the experiment was 45±4 ms; a final value of 57±10 ms was obtained (P < 0.01). However, the electromechanical delay and ejection time (ET) showed no significant variation. The ratio of the PEP/ET increased from 0.31±0.04 to 0.38±0.07 (P < 0.01) during hyperglycemia. The reticulocytes increased from 1.4±1.8 to 3.1±2.9% (P < 0.05) and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate decreased from 4.4±1.1 to 2.8±1.2 ,mol/g hemoglobin (P < 0.005). This study demonstrated that fetal hyperglycemia depresses myocardial function in the fetal lamb. The changes in cardiac function could not be explained by the small drop in 02 saturation.
Many clinical and pathological findings in infants of diabetic mothers are believed to be due to in utero hypoxemia. The degree of this hypoxemia is related to the magnitude of the hyperglycemia, and is possibly due to an increase in fetal oxygen consumption (1, 2) . However, myocardial and hemodynamic disturbances, as well as changes in hemoglobin (Hb)' 02 affinity, could also be factors causing morbidity. Indeed, congenital cardiac defects, myocardial hypertrophy, and cardiorespiratory dis- 1 . Abbreviations used in this paper: 2,3-DPG, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; EMD, electromechanical delay; ET, ejection time; Hb, hemoglobin; ICT, isovolumetric contraction time; P50, the oxygen pressure at 50% of the Hb saturation; PEP, preejection period; STI, systolic time intervals. tress are known complications in infants of diabetic mothers (3) (4) (5) . There have also been several controversial reports suggesting that hyperglycemia could influence the metabolism of the erythrocytes and produce changes in 02 delivery (6, 7) .
The purpose of the current project was to investigate whether fetal hyperglycemia could, on the one hand, alter fetal myocardial function and/or, on the other hand, cause metabolic changes affecting 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) synthesis, a factor that controls Hb 02 affinity. These studies were carried out using the fetal lamb as an experimental model.
Acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) solution was the first anticoagulant and preservative used most commonly for storage of human whole blood. Citrate-phosphatedextrose (CPD) was then introduced, resulting in improved preservation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration. The addition of adenine produced the formulation CPD with adenine (CPDA), resulting in higher ATP concentrations in stored blood as well as prolonged RBC storage life. 8 Acid-citrate-dextrose solutions have now largely been replaced by CPD and other additive solutions for human, canine, and feline whole blood storage. Studies on the posttransfusion viability of canine and feline RBC have shown that whole blood can be stored with satisfactory posttransfusion viability for up to 35 days in CPDA solution, compared with 21 days for blood stored in ACD solution. 9 Platelets are reactive cells that can be irreversibly activated during processing and storage. 10 Platelet activation, and subsequent cell damage, can be induced by shear stress 11 , contact with charged surfaces, changes in temperature 12 , and decreased oxygen availability. It is therefore important to ascertain stable and reproducible blood collection standards to maintain high viability of these cells.
The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG/Hct) increases as a physiological occurrence to pH increase and hyperventilation. This response was tested in patients with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). Method: The concentration of 2,3-DPG/Hct was measured daily for six days in eleven patients with severe TBI in need of optimized hyperventilation because of intracranial hypertension. Results: There was correlation between pH and the concentration of DPG/Hct. The concentration of 2,3-DPG/Hct remained predominantly within normal levels with slight increase in the sixth day of the study. The concentration of 2,3-DPG/Hct correlated significantly with measured partial pressure of oxygen that saturates 50% the hemoglobin of the blood (P50st), confirming the consistency of our data. Conclusion: The expected physiological response of a progressive increase in concentration of 2,3-DPG/Hct to hyperventilation was not observed. This fact may be explained by the intermittent and not sustained hyperventilation as dictated by the protocol of optimized ventilation.
Bunn (7) demonstrated that ruminant (including Hb A from a Holstein cow) and cat hemoglobins show intrinsically low oxygen affinity and are weakly reactive to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), the main hemoglobin function modulator of mammals. However, Weber and coworkers (8), comparing yak hemoglobins with cow Hb A, showed a not so weak 2,3-DPG effect in the latter. Fronticelli (9) claimed that Cl -ions would be responsible for the Hb function modulation in bovine cattle, as DPG is for human hemoglobin. However, Perutz and Fermi (10) did not confirm these results.
1. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were determined in normal individuals, uraemic patients on chronic haemodialysis and patients who underwent renal transplantation, and correlated with plasma phosphate and arterial blood pH.
1. Ventilation and cardiac frequency were measured during repeated treadmill exercise in three healthy subjects over 36 weeks, before, during and after iron-deficiency anaemia was produced and after iron treatment. The haemoglobin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations and the oxygen-binding (P50) were measured. 2. There was an inverse relationship between the haemoglobin concentrations and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations and the P50 values. 3. The mean cardiac frequencies during the fourth to tenth minutes of exercise showed a negative correlation with the haemoglobin concentrations in all three subjects, and the mean minute ventilations in two of them.
Abstract Hemoglobins stripped of organic phosphate by gel filtration and dissolved in 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)-2,2',2''-nitrilotriethanol (bis-tris) buffers at pH 7, or in borate buffers at pH 9, show sharp isosbestic points when their reaction with carbon monoxide is examined by the stopped flow method. The time course of the reaction is independent of the wave length of the observing light. In phosphate buffers at pH 7, or on the addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or of inositol hexaphosphate to bis-tris buffers, isosbestic points are no longer found and the time course of the reaction varies with the wave length of the observing light. This result is attributed to differences between the α and β chains. Sheep hemoglobin is exceptional among the mammalian hemoglobins examined because it shows sharp isosbestic points under all conditions tested.
Normal red cells were incubated in the absence of glucose to develop a system in which total adenosine triphosphate (ATP) turnover could be assessed. After 1 hr, the triose pool had been completely consumed. Thereafter, the metabolism of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to pyruvate and lactate was the sole significant source of ATP synthesis.10(-3)M CuCl(2), which did not enter the cells, diminished ATP utilization by more than 50%. This could be only partially attributed to the inhibition by copper of residual acylation and cation pumping, which were already reduced by glucose depletion. Other membrane enzymes, which presumably function in the maintenance of membrane integrity, must, therefore, use a significant portion of erythrocyte ATP. The behavior of glucose-depleted red cells with respect to cation transport was complex. The addition of ouabain did not decrease ATP utilization in these red cells. Ouabain inhibitable potassium influx was nearly normal after triose depletion, but total potassium influx was decreased. In contrast, the ouabain inhibitable sodium efflux was markedly reduced after triose depletion, although the concentration of ATP was 70% of normal. The dissociation of monovalent cation pumping suggests that the energy for active sodium transport is derived from a specific source (such as the ATP produced by the phosphoglycerate kinase reaction) distinct from that for potassium transport.
Skeletal proteins play an important role in determining erythrocyte membrane biophysical properties. To study whether membrane deformability and stability are regulated by the same or different skeletal protein interactions, we measured these two properties, by means of ektacytometry, in biochemically perturbed normal membranes and in membranes from individuals with known erythrocyte abnormalities. Treatment with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate resulted in membranes with decreased deformability and decreased stability, whereas treatment with diamide produced decreased deformability but increased stability. N-ethylmaleimide induced time-dependent changes in membrane stability. Over the first minute, the stability increased; but with continued incubation, the membranes became less stable than control. Meanwhile, the deformability of these membranes decreased with no time dependence. Biophysical measurements were also carried out on pathologic erythrocytes. Membranes from an individual with hereditary spherocytosis and a defined abnormality in spectrin-protein 4.1 association showed decreased stability but normal deformability. In a family with hereditary elliptocytosis and an abnormality in spectrin self-association, the membranes had decreased deformability and stability. Finally, membranes from several individuals with Malaysian ovalocytosis had decreased deformability but increased stability. Our data from both pathologic membranes and biochemically perturbed membranes show that deformability and stability change with no fixed relationship to one another. These findings imply that different skeletal protein interactions regulate membrane deformability and stability. In light of these data, we propose a model of the role of skeletal protein interactions in deformability and stability.
Since the discovery of the sensitivity of oxygen-hemoglobin interaction to the concentration of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (Benesch and Benesch, 1967; Chanutin and Curnish, 1967), a great number of investigators have explored its biochemical, physiological and clinical ramifications. The following is a brief overview of this work, with particular emphasis upon the role of DPG in blood oxygen transport in health and disease.
The blood levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate have been studied in 16 acute asthmatics and a group of healthy controls. No significant difference was found, but asthmatics had higher haemoglobin concentrations.
Maternal tissue oxygenation was reflected by the level of red cell, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) was measured before, during and after normal pregnancy. Following an initial fall at the beginning of pregnancy there was a significant rise in the mean level of DPG during pregnancy with an abrupt fall in the puerperium. The mean red cell DPG level in the third trimester of pregnancies complicated by pre-eclampsia and diabetes was not statistically different from the normal but the mean value of all pregnancies in which the fetus was stillborn or growth retarded was significantly lower (p less than 0-001). The possible mechanism of the changes in normal and abnormal pregnancy is discussed and it is suggested that the measurement of red cell DPG in the third trimester of pregnancy may prove to be a useful parameter of placental oxygenation.
To investigate a possible mechanism involved in the regulation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) synthesis, 2,3-DPG mutase (DPGM) was measured in different mammals presenting large differences in 2,3-DPG concentration between fetal, neonatal and adult life to see the activity of this enzyme, necessary for 2,3-DPG synthesis, was related to the levels of 2,3-DPG. The data demonstrated that the minimal levels of 2,3-DPG in the adult sheep are likely due to the very low levels of DPGM. Also these findings show that the increases in 2,3-DPG levels, found in the newborn sheep during the 1st week of life, in adult rabbit and guinea pig when compared with their fetuses, are not due to an increase in levels of the DPGM.
Publisher Summary The original procedure for the preparation of barium 2,3-diphosphoglycerates has been modified to include only one precipitation with lead acetate. Defibrinated pig blood obtained at an abattoir has been the most convenient source. Horse blood or erythrocytes or fresh human erythrocytes may also be used. Outdated human blood yields no appreciable quantity. Procedure for preparation involves 5 steps. Step 1 and 2 of preparation method include removal of protein and precipitation of inorganic phosphate, preformed or derived from labile organic phosphoric acids. Step 3 includes precipitation and decomposition of lead diphosphoglycerate. Step 4 discusses precipitation of the pentabarium salt. Step 5 describes preparation of the tribarium salt. It is reported if too much hydrochloric acid has been used to dissolve either barium precipitate, more alcohol will be needed to secure complete precipitation and the material will then contain less barium and more phosphorus than is indicated by the formula. Moreover, diphosphoglyceric acid is extremely resistant to hydrolysis. The only certain method for analysis is complete oxidation.
Phosphoglycolate phosphatase (PCP, E.C. 3.1.3.18) found in red blood cells as well as in other tissues is considered to have an influence on oxygen transport by inactivating phosphoglycolate and increasing the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate(8).
Very few data exist on phosphate metabolism in critically ill neonates. Therefore we studied the incidence of hypophosphataemia, the intracellular metabolism of phosphate by measuring adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in red blood cells, and excretion of phosphate in urine. The aims of the study were early detection of changes in phosphate metabolism as possible diagnostic markers of sepsis and defining the cause of hypophosphataemia. Neonates, treated in multidisciplinary paediatric intensive care unit (PICU), included in the study, were less than three days of age. Eighteen of them had respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) and 16 had microbiologically confirmed or clinical sepsis. The overall incidence of hypophosphataemia in critically ill neonates was over 80%, and was more common (88%) and more profound in those with sepsis than in those with RDS (79%). Therefore the septic neonates needed significantly larger amounts of phosphate to maintain normophosphataemia. In septic neonates ATP concentration in red blood cells was significantly lower than in neonates with RDS and controls, while the 2,3-DPG concentration was increased as a result of compensation. In septic neonates urinary losses of inorganic phosphate (Pi) were significantly higher than in neonates with RDS. Hypophosphataemia in critically ill neonates is at least partly due to higher urinary losses of phosphate.
Abstract. Skeletal proteins play an important role in determining erythrocyte membrane biophysical properties. To study whether membrane deformability and stability are regulated by the same or different skeletal protein interactions, we measured these two properties, by means of ektacytometry, in biochemically perturbed normal membranes and in membranes from individuals with known erythroeyte abnormalities. Treatment with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate resulted in membranes with decreased deformability and decreased stability, whereas treatment with diamide produced decreased deformability but increased stability. N-ethylmaleimide induced time-dependent changes in membrane stability. Over the first minute, the stability increased; but with continued incubation, the membranes became less stable than control. Meanwhile, the deformability of these membranes decreased with no time dependence. Biophysical measurements were also carried out on pathologic erythrocytes. Membranes from an individual with hereditary spherocytosis and a defined abnormality in spectrin-protein 4.1 association showed decreased stability but normal deformability. In a family with hereditary eUiptocytosis and an abnormality in spectrin self-association, the membranes had decreased deformability and stability. Finally, membranes from several individuals with Malaysian ovalocytosis had decreased deformability but increased stability.
Phosphate is a constituent of various intermediate compounds involved in key physiological processes such as adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and intracellular chemical messengers (e.g., cyclical adenosine monophosphate, cyclical guanosine monophosphate) [1, 2] . Electrolyte disorders frequently develop in critically ill patients during the course of stay in PICU [3] . Phosphate disturbance is one of those frequently encountered electrolyte disorders These are at increased risk of morbidity [4] In general hospital populations, the prevalence of moderate hypophosphatemia ranges between 0.43% and 3.1% [5, 6] , and 45% of all hospital hypophosphatemia cases occur in the ICU population in this prospective study, hypophosphatemia was common in critically ill children that incidence of hypophosphatemia was 42% at admission. At seventh day incidence of hypophosphatemia was 62% and Potential risk factors in most patients with phosphate disturbance include malnutrition, which was present in 24% cases, sepsis was present in 34% of cases, drugs like catecholamine's 24% of cases, antacids 10% of cases, , diuretics 36% of cases, steroid therapy 76% of cases [7] .
Red cells were depleted of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) by storage in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) solution. No change in the sickling-oxygen saturation curve was observed. 2,3-DPG did not affect the viscosity of deoxygenated sickle hemoglobin solutions. It appears, then, that the interaction between 2,3-DPG and sickle hemoglobin does not produce configuration changes which influence the aggregation leading to sickling.
Author(s): Jani, VP; Yalcin, O; Williams, AT; Popovsky, MA; Cabrales, P | Abstract: BACKGROUND: Small rodent models are routinely used to evaluate the safety and efficacy of blood transfusions. Limited comprehensive literature exists about effect of different storage solutions in rat red blood cells (RBCs) characteristics. RBCs undergo time dependent biochemical and biophysical changes during storage known as hypothermic storage lesions (HSLs). OBJECTIVE: This study evaluates the effects of RBC additive solutions (AS) during storage of rat RBCs. METHODS: Blood was leukoreduced and stored as per manufacturer instructions at 4?C up to 42-days. Three solutions, CPDA-1; AS-1; and AS-7 (SOLX), were evaluated. Biochemical parameters measured included extracellular K+, pH, hemolysis, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), oxygen affinity, ATP, and lactate. Mechanical properties measured included RBC deformability, elongation index (EI), RBC membrane shear elastic modulus (SEM), mean corpuscular volume (MCV), viscosity, and aggregability. RESULTS: There were no differences in biochemical or mechanical parameters at baseline or after one week of storage. However, after two weeks, AS-7 preserved biochemical and mechanical properties as compared to CPDA-1 and AS-1. Changes were observed to be significant after 14-days of storage. AS-7 prevented extracellular K+ increase, reduced acidosis, showed lower hemolysis, preserved ATP and 2,3-DPG levels (consequently oxygen affinity), and reduced lactate. AS-7, when compared to CPDA-1 and AS-1, prevented the reduction in RBC deformability and was found to preserve the EI at multiple shear stresses, the membrane SEM, the aggregability and viscosity. DISCUSSION: Rat RBCs stored with AS-7 presented reduced changes in biochemical and mechanical parameters, when compared with rat RBCs stored in CPDA-1 and AS-1, after as early as two weeks of storage.
BACKGROUND ::: Posttransfusional changes of preserved red blood cells can influence the oxygen equilibrium curve which is mainly affected by the concentration of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). ::: ::: ::: MATERIAL AND METHODS ::: The regeneration kinetics of DPG and nucleotides (ATP, ADP, AMP, GTP, GDP) was determined over a period of 0-48 h in surgically treated patients following transfusion of DPG-depleted packed red cells stored for 14 days in CPD-SAGM. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: 3 h after transfusion the DPG levels raised up to 40% of the patients' prior DPG concentrations. Complete regeneration of the DPG concentrations occurred 36-48 h after transfusion. Changes in the nucleotide pattern indicate, after a temporary decrease of ATP and GTP levels (after 10-30 min) and an activation phase (after 3-12 h), the full regeneration of these parameters 24-48 h after transfusion. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The regeneration kinetics of DPG should be taken into consideration for transfusions with blood units stored for more than 14 days, especially in patients with reduced compensatory mechanisms (coronary and cerebral scleroses, pacemaker, etc.) and large transfusion volumes.
Extremophilic microorganisms have adopted a variety of ingenious strategies for survival under high or low temperature, extreme pressure, and drastic salt concentrations. A novel application area for extremophiles is the use of “extremolytes,” organic osmolytes from extremophilic microorganisms, to protect biological macromolecules and cells from damage by external stresses. In extremophiles, these low molecular weight compounds are accumulated in response to increased extracellular salt concentrations, but also as a response to other environmental changes, e.g., increased temperature. Extremolytes minimize the denaturation of biopolymers that usually occurs under conditions of water stress and are compatible with the intracellular machinery at high (>1 M) concentrations. The ectoines, as the first extremolytes that are produced in a large scale, have already found application as cell protectants in skin care and as protein-free stabilizers of proteins and cells in life sciences. In addition to ectoines, a range of extremolytes with heterogenous chemical structures like the polyol phosphates di-myoinositol-1,1′-phosphate, cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and α-diglycerol phosphate and the mannose derivatives mannosylglycerate (firoin) and mannosylglyceramide (firoin-A) were characterized and were shown to have protective properties toward proteins and cells. A range of new applications, all based on the adaptation to stress conditions conferred by extremolytes, is in development.
Abstract Cyclic AMP-dependent phosphorylation of a variant erythrocyte pyruvate kinase (PK; EC 2.7.1.40) was studied. This variant PK shows a faster electrophoretic mobility than the normal enzyme. The decreased enzyme activity observed in this variant is associated with a quantitative decrease of enzyme protein. Other parameters are within normal ranges. The partially purified variant PK is phosphorylated with a subsequent increase of k0.5s (phosphoenolpyruvate) similar to the normal control, suggesting that the structural abnormality of the variant enzyme has no influence on the phosphorylation-deactivation mechanism. On the other hand, the variant PK in the erythrocyte was less extensively phosphorylated than PK in normal erythrocytes. This may be the result of abnormal metabolism in the patient's red cells, including increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and decreased adenosine triphosphate levels.
Hematologic values are compared for normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats after 6 weeks of induced diabetes. Most hematologic parameters were the same in the two groups except for blood glucose, glycated hemoglobin, and 2,3 diphosphoglycerate, all of which were elevated in the streptozotocin group. However the P50 (the PO2 at which the oxygen-carrying capacity of blood is 50% of maximal) remained normal. We hypothesize that a left shift in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve caused by the glycation of a small percentage of the hemoglobin is compensated by elevation in the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate which returns the P50 to normal values. This compensatory mechanism also occurs in some stages of human diabetes.
Chloramphenicol (D-threo-2-dichloroacetamido-1-p-nitrophenylpropane-1,3-diol) added to blood samples did not alter the observed shift in the red cell osmotic fragility curves as the samples were aged in vitro for 24 hours at 37 degrees C. Nor was the normal rate of loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, or glutathione from the red cells affected by the presence of chloramphenicol over the same period. Consequently, this bacteriostatic agent can be added to blood samples taken under non-sterile conditions, such as from the heel of an infant, in order to preserve them from the effects of microbial contamination. In this way red cell osmotic fragility results can be obtained on non-sterile samples after their incubation at 37 degrees C for 24 hours. A miniaturisation of the standard osmotic fragility procedure is described, which allows results to be produced from the small, non-sterile samples obtained by heel-prick of infants.
The effects of the left-shifting, anti-sickling compound BW12C (5-(2-formyl-3-hydroxyphenoxy)pentanoic acid) on the oxygen saturation curve of whole chicken blood and the isolated major (AII) and minor (AI) components of chicken hemoglobin have been studied. The results support the postulated major binding mode for BW12C to human hemoglobin of bridging between the alpha-chain terminal amino groups in the oxy conformation with an important hydrophobic component contributed mainly by Pro 77 alpha residues. In chicken AII (Pro 77 alpha----Ser) BW12C still left-shifts at high concentrations but its potency is greatly reduced (at least 10-fold). In chicken AI (Pro 77 alpha----Ser and Val 1 alpha----Met) BW12C is a right-shifter with a potency comparable to that of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate suggesting that binding at the beta-chain termini in the deoxy conformation is now dominant with alpha-chain binding no longer significant.
Human blood oxygen affinity (BOA) was measured after blood from six normal donors was incubated with 4 concentrations of dihydroxyacetone (0.022, 0.044, 0.088, and 0.175 M) plus equimolar disodium phosphate and pyruvate (sodium salt) (0.013, 0.025, 0.05 and 0.1 M) in solutions labeled DDP X 1, DDP X 2, DDP X 4, and DDP X 8, respectively. Blood P50 rose (BOA was reduced) from a control value of 26.0 +/- 0.4 Torr (mean +/- SD) to 29.4 +/- 0.6, 30.6 +/- 0.4, 31.9 +/- 0.15 and 33.3 +/- 1.4 Torr after 2 h of incubation at 37 degrees C with solutions DDP X 1, DDP X 2, DDP X 4, and DDP X 8, respectively. P50 changes at 2 h were 75% complete within 30 min. During these incubations, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration rose from 0.76 +/- 0.09 mol/mol Hb (control) to 1.09 +/- 0.17, 1.14 +/- 0.10, 1.33 +/- 0.15, and 1.45 +/- 0.25 mol/mol Hb with increasing solution concentration. BOA is decreased by an increase in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG. Reduced BOA may improve oxygen delivery to ischemic tissues.
Effect of hydrostatic pressure (HP) on whole blood (WB) or erythrocyte suspension hemoglobin (Hb) O2 affinity has been studied using newly developed techniques. O2 partial pressure at which hemoglobin is half-saturated with O2 (P50) measurements were made at 5 HP (1, 26, 51, 76, and 126 ATA) on thin films of human WB or erythrocytes at 37 degrees C. CO2 partial pressure of WB was either 28 or 57 Torr (film pH 7.51 or 7.31). HP increased affinity of erythrocytes and WB. For erythrocytes in tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane buffer, the ratio (r) of P50 (1 ATA)/P50 (51 ATA) was 1.089 (P less than 0.01) at pH 7.0. WB P50 decreased with HP at a rate of -3.3 X 10(-2) Torr X atm-1; change in P50 at higher HP vs. 1 ATA was highly significant (P less than 0.01). No effect of HP was seen on the CO2 Bohr coefficient. Inert gas choice, N2 vs. helium (He), had no effect. Measurement of decrease of P50 with HP at 76 ATA in hemolyzed WB gave an r of 1.15, as great or greater than that found in WB, indicates that Donnan equilibrium alteration is not involved. No effect of HP was found in WB on the ratio of P50 of erythrocytes with normal (5 mmol/l erythrocytes) 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to P50 of erythrocytes with less than 5% of normal DPG; i.e., no effect of pressure was seen on the independent influence of DPG on P50. WB measurements of Hb O2 uptake under simulated physiological conditions are characterized by a net decrease in partial molal volume on oxygenation of 30–35 ml/mol Hb4.
Hemoglobin A Ic (Hb A Ic ), a glycosylated minor variant of Hb A, is elevated in diabetic patients. In our study, macaque monkey model with acquired glucose intolerance [both streptozotocin (STZ)-treated or pancreatectomized] was evaluated for the presence of Hb A Ic and for evidence of a possible physiologic effect on oxygen-carrying capacity. Blood from 29 Macaca monkeys (27 rhesus), including 22 with carbohydrate intolerance (17 treated with STZ and five that were pancreatectomized), was analyzed for minor hemoglobins using Amberlite IRC-50 with cyanide-phosphate elution. Unlike in man, no Hb A Ic peak was identified in any control animals. However, all five pancreatectomized animals and 10 of 17 STZ-treated animals had clearly identified peaks that eluted similarly to human A Ic and had an increased glucose content after acid hydrolysis relative to the major Hb A peak. Of the more severely carbohydrate-intolerant animals (fasting blood sugar > 200 mg. per deciliter) that were receiving insulin, seven of eight monkeys had Hb A Ic . peaks compared with seven of 14 animals with less severe carbohydrate intolerance (fasting blood glucose Ic peak postpartum. In a group of five control and three STZ-treated nonpregnant animals, no differences were observed in whole blood pH, PCO 2 , P50, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate, and adenosine diphosphate, and plasma inorganic phosphate, while plasma glucose was variably elevated. The glucose-intolerant macaque model has potential for studying the long-term effects of acquired hyperglycemia, the biochemistry of the glycohemoglobin, and the possible pathophysioiogic effects of Hb A Ic in pregnancy.
Blood viscosity factors and some metabolic parameters were estimated in thirty-eight insulin-treated diabetics. The evaluation was carried out on admission and after eight weeks of controlled therapy. From this study it follows that blood viscosity factors do not permit us to distinguish, at these two stages, diabetics with complications from diabetics without while there is this possibility at the initial observation in diabetics subdivided for sex. Furthermore there are no significant variations, except for the haematocrit, of the average of blood viscosity factors and metabolic parameters at the initial and final observation. Very interesting is the negative relation between the Vrbc, parameter which studies the erythrocyte deformability, and the red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) that seems more evident in diabetics with complications. Contrary to what has been reported in literature no relation between Vrbc and glycosylated haemoglobin (GHb) is present.
Pharmacologic agents that alter hemoglobin affinity for oxygen may affect systemic or myocardial oxygen delivery. In vitro, and in normal man propranolol shifts the oxyhemoglobin equilibrium curve to the right, thus increasing the partial pressure of oxygen at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated (P50) and enhancing oxygen delivery. The effect of propranolol on hemoglobin P50 was evaluated in 12 patients with angina pectoris and documented coronary artery disease. Determinations were made during oral propranolol therapy (mean daily dose 152 mg) of at least 3 months' duration and after administration of propranolol had been discontinued for at least 4 days. Hemoglobin P50 and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) were measured. Data in 12 patients were: the mean P50 after discontinuation of propranolol was 28.2 mm Hg+/-0.9 (standard error of the mean) and during propranolol therapy 31.7+/-0.7; P less than 0.001; red blood cell 2,3-DPG did not change to explain the increase in P50. This demonstrated shift could increase systemic oxygen delivery and thus benefit marginally perfused myocardium while sparing coronary flow. Propranolol, in addition to its negative chronotropic and inotropic effects, may increase tissue oxygen delivery in patients with the anginal syndrome.
The red-cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration is determined in 60 patients with hepatic cirrhosis, in 33 with iron deficiency anaemia and in 86 healthy subjects. In all cases, the erythrocyte volume fraction and the haemoglobin concentration are simultaneously measured, while the cirrhotic patients undergo, at the same time, analyses of the arterial pH, pO2 and pCO2 and of the levels of inorganic phosphate, bicarbonate and lactate in their venous blood. In the 60 cirrhotic patients the red-cell DPG concentration (7.40 +/- 1.23 mmol/l) is significantly higher (P less than 0.001) than in the 86 control subjects (4.58 +/- 0.59 mmol/l) and the 33 patients with iron deficiency anaemia (5.86 +/- 1.06 mmol/l), although the level of anaemia in the latter is greater (P less than 0.001) than in the patients with liver cirrhosis. The DPG concentration found in the cirrhotic patients was far higher (P less than 0.001) than the theoretical value attributable to them by virtue of their grade of anaemia (5.21 +/- 0.95 mmol/l), which value is deduced mathematically from the equation of the regression line between haemoglobin and DPG normal in patients with iron deficiency anaemia. Anaemia, hypoxaemia and acid-base disturbances are disorders frequently associated with cirrhosis of the liver. In the present study we deduce that alkalosis, and therefore the plasma pH level, is the most important factor causing the increased DPG concentration in patients with liver cirrhosis for any level of haemoglobin, with respect to other subjects with anaemia.
A B S T R A C T Purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency is associated with a severely defective T-cell immunity. A patient with purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency was treated with transfusions of irradiated erythrocytes and plasma. This resulted in a remarkable correction ofthe metabolic disturbances in the patient. The urinary excretion of inosine, deoxyinosine, guanosine, and deoxyguanosine decreased, whereas uric acid excretion as well as serum uric acid concentration increased. It could be shown that the enzyme activity of the circulating erythrocytes correlated inversely with the urinary excretion of nucleosides and directly with the excretion of uric acid. As a consequence of the therapy, several glycolytic intermediates ofthe erythrocytes were increased, especially 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The high 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level caused a shift to the right of the oxygen dissociation curve (P50 = 32.9 mm Hg). The immunological status of the patient showed definite improvement after the enzyme replacement therapy.
Oxyhemoglobin affinity was assessed in 20 subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, all of whom experienced acute respiratory failure. PaCO2, pH, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were measured 24 and 48 h after admission, and then during weaning (for the ten patients on mechanical ventilation) or on discharge (for the ten nonventilated patients). At 24 h, nonventilated patients had a lower pH (p less than .001) and 2,3-DPG concentration (p less than .05) and a higher PaCO2 (p less than .01) than ventilated patients; 48 h later only PaCO2 was higher (p less than .01) in the former, and there were no differences between the two groups in the final set of measurements. There was a persistent left shift in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (P50 at pH 7.4) in both groups throughout the study period. In contrast, the in vivo P50 was significantly lower in ventilated patients only at 24 h (22.7 +/- 2.2 vs. 25.8 +/- 1.5 torr, respectively, p less than .005). Our results suggest that changes of in vivo P50 in ventilated patients are probably related to the Bohr effect induced by mechanical ventilation. The latter swiftly corrects severe respiratory acidosis, causing an intra-erythrocytic alkalotic pH and raising the levels of 2,3-DPG.
Abstract Anion exchange chromatography of organic phosphates has been utilized to study the changes in human red cells during in vitro incubation at 37 °C. The changes in the three adenine nucleotides, inosine monophosphate, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were particularly noteworthy. The significance of these changes in relation to erythrocyte metabolism has been discussed.
Bovine red cells do not contain appreciable amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Bovine hemoglobin, however, has a particular sensitivity to chloride ions and as a result it can attain oxygen affinity values lower than those measured for human hemoglobin in the presence of 2,3-DPG. The interaction of bovine hemoglobin with anions is modulated by the hydrophobic characteristics of the protein. Comparison of the hydropathy plots of primate and ruminant hemoglobins indicates constant regions of opposite hydrophobicity, which have fixed amino acid differences. A model is proposed for explaining the regulation of oxygen affinity by chlorides, as an alternative to the classic modulation by 2,3-DPG.
Aβ exerts prooxidant or antioxidant effects based on the metal ion concentrations that it sequesters from the cytosol; at low metal ion concentrations, it is an antioxidant, whereas at relatively higher concentration it is a prooxidant. Thus Alzheimer disease (AD) treatment strategies based solely on the amyloid-β clearance should be re-examined in light of the vast accumulating evidence that increased oxidative stress in the human brains is the key causative factor for AD. Accumulating evidence indicates that the reduced brain glucose availability and brain hypoxia, due to the relatively lower concentration of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, may be associated with increased concentration of endogenous ammonia, a potential neurotoxin in the AD brains. In this review, we summarize the progress in this area, and present some of our ongoing research activities with regard to brain Amyloid-β, systemic ammonia, erythrocyte energy metabolism and the role of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in AD pathogenesis.
Three metabolic adaptive or compensatory mechanisms of heart failure were discussed: Adaptation of energy production and of energy availability in the myocardial cell. With increased myocardial oxygen demands this is achieved by a progressive displacement of the mass action ratio of the creatine phosphokinase reaction, so that pronounced changes in the creatine phosphate-ratio, related to myocardial oxygen consumption, are accompanied by only small changes in adenosine-5'-triphosphate adenosine-5'-diphosphate and hence in free energy of the adenine-nucleotide system. Adjustment of the oxygen availability by adaptation of the hemoglobin dissociation curve due to an increase in the erythrocyte content of 2, 3-diphosphoglycerate. This is accompanied by a swelling of erythrocytes as a consequence of an increase in the Gibbs-Donnan potential. In patients with congestive heart failure 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-synthesis is augmented due to respiratory alkalosis and increased concentrations of deoxygenated hemoglobin. Increase in the sympathetic drive of the heart due to increased net discharge of the neurotransmitter caused by reduced neuronal reuptake of norepinephrine. The diminished myocardial norepinephrine content in heart failure is due to the diminished neuronal uptake and to insufficient de novo catecholamine synthesis in the heart. Rather than tyrosine-hydroxylase the transformation of dopamine to norepinephrine seems to be the rate limiting step for catecholamine synthesis in heart failure.
Myocardial pH has been shown in animal models to be a sensitive indicator of ischemia. In vivo measurement in humans using 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy is complicated by the overlap of blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate peaks with the Pi peak used for pH measurement. A “saturation transfer” method combined with spatial presaturation of skeletal muscle signal is presented which can obtain spectra from the heart free of contamination of 2,3-DPG signal in which intracellular Pi resonance can be clearly observed. Application to a group of six normal subjects found that the chemical shift of the intracellular inorganic phosphate peak was 4.95 ± 0.06 relative to the phosphocreatine peak. This is equivalent to a pH of 7.11 ± 0.05. Magn Reson Med 41:198-203, 1999. © 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Furthermore, vasoconstriction and microthrombosis cause tissue perfusion to weaken it and a decrease in oxygen supplementation. This results in low-oxygen environment and the accumulation of hypoxiainducible factor alpha in the inflamed area. 4 Hypoxiainducible factor -1 alpha (HIF-1-α) is one of the HIFalfa subunits that are the main sensors of hypoxia. 5 HIF-1-α is the main regulatory protein that provides adaptation to hypoxic conditions.6 HIF-1-α has been shown to be activated by proinflammatory signals in periodontal cells. 7, 8 It has been reported that hypoxia may play an important role in the progression of periodontal disease and the destruction of periodontal tissue. 9 Yu, et al. 10 (2012) stated that the lack of oxygen in periodontal tissue may accelerate the development of periodontitis. It is also known that hypoxia increases the release of receptor activator of NF-kB ligand (RANKL). 10 RANKL is a tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member. It is responsible for bone resorption by stimulating osteoclastic differentiation. 11 The binding of RANKL to the RANK receptor on the pre-osteoclast surface induces bone resorption by stimulating mature osteoclastic differentiation. 11 Ozone is a naturally occurring compound containing three oxygen atoms. Ozone has various effects, such as antimicrobial, anti-hypoxic, immune-modulator, biosynthetic and analgesic. It has been medically used in both gaseous and aqueous forms and can be dissolved in either water or oil. 12 Ozone allows oxygen to move inside the tissues more easily by increasing the amount of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes. Ozone increases the release of nitric oxide, leading to vasodilatation and increase blood flow in tissue. An increase in free oxygen radicals leads to a change in antioxidant enzyme levels and immune system activity. It induces the production of interferon, interleukin, tumor necrotising factor and growth factors in leukocyte and endothelial cells. As a result, ozone therapy can be used for treatment in physio-pathological conditions in which the inflammatory process is intense and the immune system is triggered. 13 There are several studies evaluating the application of local ozone in chronic periodontitis and aggressive periodontitis. [14] [15] [16] [17] The sample size was calculated to provide 80% power (1-β) with a 95% confidence interval (α = 0.05); ten animals per group were required. 18
SUMMARY Chloramphenicol (D-threo-2-dichloroacetamido-1-p-nitrophenylpropane-1, 3-diol) added to blood samples did not alter the observed shift in the red cell osmotic fragility curves as the samples were aged in vitro for 24 hours at 370C. Nor was the normal rate of loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, or glutathione from the red cells affected by the presence of chloramphenicol over the same period. Consequently, this bacteriostatic agent can be added to blood samples taken under nonsterile conditions, such as from the heel of an infant, in order to preserve them from the effects of microbial contamination. In this way red cell osmotic fragility results can be obtained on non-sterile samples after their incubation at 37'C for 24 hours. A miniaturisation of the standard osmotic fragility procedure is described, which allows results to be produced from the small, non-sterile samples obtained by heel-prick of infants.
This conference is taking place on the 55th anniversary of the introduction of rapid mixing methods to the field of biology by Hartridge and Roughton (1923a) . Their specific aim was to study the reactions of hemoglobin with its ligands (Hartridge and Roughton, 1923b) . The tenacity with which nature holds onto its secrets is nowhere better exemplified than with this remarkable molecule. The very nature of the reaction of hemoglobin with its ligands (02, CO, and NO) and its effectors (H+, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate[phosphates], CO2, and salt), together with its tetrameric cooperative intramolecular interaction, taxes our ingenuity and technology to explore, and we still do not understand these reactions in detail. However, methods and techniques discussed at this meeting offer the greatest promise so far for forcing this important model of molecular dynamics to yield its secrets.
A B S T R A C T Purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency is associated with a severely defective T-cell immunity. A patient with purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency was treated with transfusions of irradiated erythrocytes and plasma. This resulted in a remarkable correction of the metabolic disturbances in the patient. The urinary excretion of inosine, deoxyinosine, guanosine, and deoxyguanosine decreased, whereas uric acid excretion as well as serum uric acid concentration increased. It could be shown that the enzyme activity of the circulating erythrocytes correlated inversely with the urinary excretion of nucleosides and directly with the excretion of uric acid. As a consequence of the therapy, several glycolytic intermediates ofthe erythrocytes were increased, especially 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The high 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level caused a shift to the right of the oxygen dissociation curve (P50 = 32.9 mm Hg).
Oxygen dissociation curve and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) contents in red blood cells (RBC) were determined in canine blood stored in acid citrate dextrose (ACD) and citrate phosphate dextrose (CPD) solutions. The oxygen-unloading ability decreased, as shown by the left shift of oxygen dissociation curve during storage, and the shift correlated with decreasing DPG but not decreasing ATP concentrations. After 2 weeks of storage in ACD solution, oxygen dissociation curves were shifted significantly to the left. For blood stored in CPD solution, 4 weeks was required before the shift was significant. It was concluded that canine blood collected and stored in CPD solution is more efficient than that stored in ACD solution in delivering oxygen to the tissues.
Abstract 1. 1. Djungarian dwarf hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) show an annual cycle in weight-specific metabolic rate with a high level during winter. 2. 2. These seasonal changes in oxygen demand are met by hematological adjustments, primarily based on an increased number of erythrocytes, but a decreased erythrocyte volume during winter. 3. 3. Subsequently, the diffusion area for blood gas exchange is increased during this time of high metabolic capabilities. 4. 4. Blood oxygen capacity (hemoglobin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) does not change with the season. 5. 5. However, seasonal changes in heart weight suggest changes in cardiac output, causing an increased blood flow per unit tissue weight during winter. 6. 6. This increase in circulatory efficiency, as well as changes in erythrocyte surface, are primarily controlled by photoperiod, since it occurred in hamsters living indoors at thermoneutrality but subjected to seasonal changes in photoperiod to the same extent as in hamsters living outdoors.
Leukocyte reduction prior to storage of red cell concentrates (RCC) may reduce the incidence of HLA alloimmunization and may improve the quality of stored RCC. We tested an RCC leukoreduction filter system (Baxter) with an integrated Pall RCM-1 filter and investigated the filtration efficiency and the impact on red cells during storage for 42 days after different whole-blood preparation procedures. After whole-blood donation, all units (n = 9, +6 unfiltered controls per group) were either stored at 22 degrees C for up to 6 h (groups 1, 2, 3) or for 24 h (group 4) RCC were either prepared from a triple blood bag system (PL 146, groups 1, 2) or were buffy-coat-depleted (PL 2209, groups 3, 4). Groups 1, 3 und 4 were filtered immediately, whereas group 2 was stored another 18 h at 4 degrees C before filtration. Filtration efficiency and filtration time were determined. Hemolysis, ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), glucose, electrolytes, lactate, hematocrit, Hb and pH were quantified weekly. White blood cells (WBC) were reduced by 3-4 log10 to 0.1-0.3 x 10(6) (mean) by filtration (all groups) regardless of the RCC preparation. Mean filtration times were 1 h 36 min, 33 min, 29 min, and 18 min for the groups 1 to 4, respectively. There were no major differences for the in vitro storage values except for hemolysis and pH, which were elevated in all filtered units, and potassium, which was elevated in the unifiltered units. In conclusion, prestorage leukocyte filtration of RCC reduced the WBC by 3-4 log10, whereas the extended filtration time was a major disadvantage.
Pre-exposure of mice to 500 or 1000 ppm of carbon monoxide (CO) for 4 hours resulted in a significant decrease in lethality induced by exposure to 2500 ppm of CO 24 hours later. Pre-exposure to CO had no effect on lethality induced by hypoxic hypoxia (low inspired O2 tension) or potassium cyanide (KCN). Pre-exposure to 10% O2 for 4 hours significantly decreased lethality induced 24 hours later by CO or 7% O2 exposures lethality induced 24 hours later by CO or 7% O2 exposures but had no effect on KCN-induced lethality. Pretreatment with a nonlethal dose of KCN had no significant effect on lethality induced 24 hours later by exposure to CO (2500 ppm), 7% O2 or KCN. The alterations in CO lethality were not associated with alterations in carboxyhemoglobin levels. Studies of oxygen consumption and indicators of oxygen delivery to tissues (P50 and red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) failed to provide any evidence of pretreatment alteration. Examination of blood lactate, pyruvate and lactate/pyruvate ratios in control and pre-exposed mice after a short exposure to 2500 ppm of CO showed significantly lower lactate and lactate/pyruvate ratios in the pre-exposed mice as compared to controls. These data suggest that animals pre-exposed to 1000 ppm of CO and 10% O2 are less hypoxic than non-pre-exposed animals even through their oxygen delivery system is unchanged.
An additive solution for the storage of red blood cells was evaluated for use in dogs. Blood collected from 6 dogs was processed into packed red blood cells and stored for 35 days in the additive solution Nutricel (Miles, Inc, Pharmaceutical Division, West Haven, CT). Packed red blood cells stored in citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine (CPDA-1; Fenwal Laboratories, Baxter Health Care Corp, Deerfield, IL) also were evaluated for comparison. Red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration, percentage hemolysis, and pH were determined. The red blood cell post-transfusion viability (PTV) after 35 days of storage was assessed with both single-labeled chromium 51 (51Cr) and double-labeled technetium 99m/chromium 51 (99mTc/51Cr) techniques. Mean ATP concentration and percentage hemolysis of the cells stored in Nutricel were 1.1 μmol/g hemoglobin (Hb) and 0.28% respectively and did not differ significantly (P < .05) from the values of 1.0 μmol/g Hb and 0.33% from the CPDA-1-stored red blood cells. The mean pH of red blood cells stored in Nutricel was 6.19, which was significantly lower than the pH of 6.47 for cells stored in CPDA-1. The mean 2,3-DPG concentration of red blood cells stored in Nutricel was significantly higher at 10.1 μmol/g Hb than the 2,3-DPG concentration of 3.4μmol/g Hb for cells stored in CPDA-1. The mean PTV of canine red blood cells stored in Nutricel for 35 days was 85% with 51Cr and 90% with 99mTc/51Cr. This was significantly higher than the mean PTVs of 38% and 36% for the CPDA-1 stored cells as assessed with 51Cr and 99mTc/51Cr techniques, respectively. It was concluded that 35-day-old canine red blood cells stored in Nutricel are of acceptable quality for transfusion purposes.
Storage of red cells in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) solution for more than a week has been shown to cause a reduction in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), resulting in a decrease in the half-saturation pressure (P50) of stored blood, thus increasing hemoglobin-oxygen affinity and theoretically decreasing oxygen delivery to the tissues. A method to isolate and perfuse the hindlimb in a dog has been developed and used successfully to compare the difference of oxygen release between banked and fresh ACD blood. Ten dogs were perfused using canine blood collected in standard blood transfusion bags containing ACD and stored at 4 degrees C and fresh blood collected in a similar manner but used immediately. The total oxygen release in the limb during perfusion with fresh blood was significantly greater than during perfusion with stored blood.
5-Phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate (PRPP), an intermediate in the synthesis of purine, pyrimidine and pyridine nucleotides, is synthesized from ATP and ribose-5-P in a magnesium- and inorganic phosphate-requiring reaction catalyzed by PRPP synthetase. Activity of PRPP synthetase is subject to inhibition by a variety of small molecule effectors including reaction products, purine and pyrimidine nucleo — tides, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.1,2 Human PRPP synthetase is composed of a single polypeptide subunit3 the structural gene for which maps to the long arm of the X-chromosome,4 The PRPP synthetase sub-unit is capable of reversible self-association3,5 to forms containing 2,4,8,16 and 32 subunits, only the largest two of which contain significant enzyme activity.6 Aggregation and disaggregation of PRPP synthetase subunits are concentration-dependent and effect-mediated processes6 which may in part underlie the regulation of intracellular PRPP synthesis.
This study investigated the changes in hemoglobin affinity for oxygen -- P50 standard [P50 (7.40)]; P50 in vivo (P50 IV), and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (2,3-DPG) -- and the anaerobic metabolism during a short muscular exercise in 20 silicotic patients. P50 (7.40) and 2,3-DPG remained unchanged at the end of the exercise but P50 IV increased significantly. A negative correlation was found between the increase in the arterial lactates and the increase in P50 IV. Such a shift to the right of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve probably improves the tissular oxygenation and can be regarded as a compensatory mechanism in patients with pulmonary impairment during exercise.
In 10 children with diabetic ketoacidosis, the red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was decreased to 2.93±0.90 μmole per millilitier of RBC compared with a normal value of 4.41±1.24; in contrast, in 23 children with controlled diabetes mellitus, the 2,3-DPG was increased to 6.97±1.49. Five patients had their acidosis corrected with insulin, intravenous fluids, and sodium bicarbonate, and five with insulin and intravenous fluids alone. The 2,3-DPG returned to normal values in all 10 patients within 24 hours of the beginning of therapy in contrast to the four- to five-day recovery period seen in adult patients with diabetic ketoacidosis. With respect to the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve, the calculated in vivo P 50 was high (31.6±mm. Hg) in all 10 ketoacidotic patients on admission. Patients who were treated with insulin and fluids but without intravenous bicarbonate had a decrease of the in vivo P 50 similar to that of those who received bicarbonate. This decrease was never significant enough to alter tissue oxygenation. We conclude from these results that bicarbonate therapy does not affect oxygen transport adversely and, consequently, the possibility of such an effect is not a reason for omission of bicarbonate from the therapeutic regimen.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) region of the midbrain. Oxidative damage in this region has been shown to play an important role in the pathogenesis of this disease. Human neurons have been discovered to contain hemoglobin, with an increased concentration seen in the neurons of the SN. High affinity hemoglobin is a clinical entity resulting from mutations that create a functional increase in the binding of hemoglobin to oxygen and an inability to efficiently unload it to tissues. This can result in a number of metabolic compensatory changes, including an elevation in circulating hemoglobin and an increase in the molecule 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Population based studies have revealed that patients with PD have elevated hemoglobin as well as 2,3-DPG levels. Based on these observations, we hypothesize that the oxidative damage seen in PD is related to an underlying high affinity hemoglobin subtype.
Six splenectomized beagles of either sex (13.8 +/- 2.2 kg) were randomly treated either with 500 U/kg recombinant human erythropoietin (rhu-EPO) (verum group, n = 3) or an equivalent volume of the vehicle (placebo group, n = 3). Both solutions were given intravenously for 3 days. At day 4 after onset of treatment, the dogs were anesthetized and subjected to isovolemic hemodilution using 6% Dextran 60 (MW 60,000) down to a hematocrit of 0.10. During the recovery period vehicle or rhu-EPO was given every other day until the hematocrit reached control values. Every day venous blood samples were withdrawn, and the hematocrit as well as the concentrations of hemoglobin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were determined. In addition, the platelets and reticulocytes were counted. Treatment with rhu-EPO shortened the time of hematocrit recovery from 20 (placebo) to 11 days (p less than 0.05). The reticulocyte count peaked at day 2 (verum) versus day 5 (placebo). These findings indicate a successful stimulation of red blood cell production after extreme hemodilution in animals treated with erythropoietin. Therefore, rhu-EPO may allow to optimize blood donation programs as well as preoperative hemodilution and yield both, higher amounts of autologous blood and an accelerated reversal of dilutional anemia.
The relationship between red cell purine nucleoside phosphorylase activity and the ability of stored erythrocytes to regenerate the organic phosphate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was evaluated in man, monkey, rabbit, dog, cat, and rat. A linear relationship was observed between the activity of this enzyme and the in vitro regeneration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from a solution of inosine, pyruvate, and inorganic phosphate. These studies suggest that rabbit and monkey erythrocytes respond in a manner similar to that of human erythrocytes and, therefore, might be useful experimental models for the evaluation of pharmacologic methods for the in vivo alteration of the oxygen-hemoglobin equilibrium curve.
The oxidative injury to erythrocytes, red blood cell (RBC) rigidity and splenic hemolysis was assayed in 17 chronically hemodialyzed patients before and during recombinant erythropoietin (EPO) treatment. When a stable hematocrit between 30 and 35% had been established for at least 4 months, a statistically significant increase in RBC volume, hemoglobin concentration, hematocrit, reticulocyte count, and several RBC enzymes (2,3-diphosphoglycerate, glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase, pyruvate kinase, hexokinase) was noted. This indicated significant RBC rejuvenation under the influence of EPO. However, no significant improvement in the RBC oxidative sensitivity, RBC deformability, splenic RBC volume, slow mixing splenic RBC volume, and the intrasplenic RBC transit time could be disclosed. These data confirm the existence of an extraerythrocytic factor in uremic plasma, which is partly responsible for a reduced RBC life span in hemodialysis patients despite EPO treatment.
Nine carriers of beta-abnormal haemoglobins with increased oxygen affinity (Hb X) were examined. Their oxygen dissociation curves from whole blood were more or less left-shifted, with six of nine also characterized by biphasism. This refers to an 'inflection point' usually positioned at about 50-60% of Hb O(2) saturation, commonly believed to be a limit between oxygenation of the normal and abnormal components. In effect, the inflection does not always correspond to the Hb X level, which sometimes is much lower than 50% of the total Hb. Moreover, the upper half segment of the dissociation curve could not only be an expression of Hb A oxygenation, since it is always left-shifted. However, a high Hb A level is commonly believed to be the main compensatory factor of these subjects, but many indications suggest that often they have at least three, and not only two, main haemoglobin species: Hb A, Hb X plus hybrids of the type alpha(2)beta(A)beta(X). These would oxygenate after Hb X, but before Hb A. Finally, the interaction of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate with Hb X and/or hybrid tetramers must be altered, and the releasing of oxygen from both is more or less reduced. Unfortunately, it is difficult to demonstrate the presence of hybrids directly, i.e. with amino acid analysis of the abnormal beta-globin.
SummaryThere were no significant differences in packed cell volume (PCV) and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels in Australian Aborigines and Caucasians. A highly significant negative correlation was found between PCV and 2,3-DPG in both Aborigines (r = -0·251; n = 231) and Caucasians (r = -0·435; n = 227). Levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) in the red blood cells of Aborigines were significantly lower P < 0·001) compared to those of Caucasians. There was a significant negative correlation between PCV and GSH in both the groups; (Aborigines r = -0·637, n = 115; Caucasians r = -0·388, n = 111).
Myocardial ATP hydrolysis rates in vivo: a porcine model of pressure overload-induced hypertrophy. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 309: H450 -H458, 2015. First published May 29, 2015 doi:10.1152/ajpheart.00072.2015 hypertrophy (LVH) and congestive heart failure are accompanied by changes in myocardial ATP metabolism. However, the rate of ATP hydrolysis cannot be measured in the in vivo heart with the conventional techniques. Here, we used a double-saturation phosphorous-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy-magnetization saturation transfer protocol to monitor ATP hydrolysis rate in swine hearts as the hearts became hypertrophic in response to aortic banding (AOB). Animals that underwent AOB (n ϭ 22) were compared with animals that underwent sham surgery (n ϭ 8). AOB induced severe LVH (cardiac MRI). LV function (ejection fraction and systolic thickening fraction) declined significantly, accompanied by deferent levels of pericardial effusion, and wall stress increased in aorta banded animals at week 1 after AOB, suggesting acute heart failure, which recovered by week 8 when concentric LVH restored LV wall stresses. Severe LV dysfunction was accompanied by corresponding declines in myocardial bioenergetics (phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratio) and in the rate of ATP production via creatine kinase at week 1. For the first time, the same linear relationships of the rate increase of the constants of the ATP hydrolysis rate (k ATP¡P i ) vs. the LV rate-pressure product increase during catecholamine stimulation were observed in vivo in both normal and LVH hearts. Collectively, these observations demonstrate that the double-saturation, phosphorous-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy-magnetization saturation transfer protocol can accurately monitor myocardial ATP hydrolysis rate in the hearts of living animals. The severe reduction of LV chamber function during the acute phase of AOB is accompanied by the decrease of myocardial bioenergetic efficiency, which recovers as the compensated LVH restores the LV wall stresses. left ventricle hypertrophy; adenosine triphosphate; heart failure; MR spectroscopy LEFT VENTRICULAR (LV) HYPERTROPHY (LVH) and congestive heart failure are accompanied by myocardial bioenergetic abnormalities, including a decline in the rate of ATP flux through the creatine kinase (CK) system (8, 14, 17, 22, 23) . The CK system buffers cellular ATP levels by shuttling high-energy phosphate between phosphocreatine (PCr) and ATP (5), and the forward (PCr¡ ATP) rate of CK-mediated ATP flux can be measured via phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy magnetization-saturation transfer ( 31 P-MRS-MST). However, conventional MRS-MST techniques are unable to determine the rate of myocardial ATP hydrolysis in vivo, because the method requires the quantification of myocardial free inorganic phosphate (P i ) levels, which are low, and because the signal for P i magnetization overlaps with the signal for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) from the erythrocytes in the LV cavity blood (4, 6). For the experiments described in this report, we measured the ATP hydrolysis rate in the hearts of living animals by using a double-saturation 31 P-MRS-MST method that bypasses the need to measure P i levels directly. The accuracy of this method has been rigorously examined for assessments in skeletal muscle and in the heart (21), while the studies presented here were performed with pigs that had undergone aorticbanding surgery to induce concentric LVH, as well as in sham-operated normal pigs. Our results demonstrate that both LV function and myocardial bioenergetics decline severely during the acute phase of aortic stenosis secondary to aortic banding (AOB), but recover remarkably during the compensatory phase, as the LV becomes hypertrophic and LV wall stresses return to normal.
Studies in preterm neonates have highlighted that a balance must be found between the toxic effects of high-oxygen saturations, and the increased morbidity and mortality associated with targeting lower saturations. [1] [2] [3] [4] Birth weight and gestation have also been shown to be consistently independently associated with ROP development. A number of other factors appear to have an association with ROP, including genetics, poor nutrition and poor weight gain, sepsis, and necrotising enterocolitis. [5] [6] [7] Various studies have identified an association between ROP and blood transfusion. [8] [9] [10] Neonates have a predominance of foetal haemoglobin (HbF) at birth. Approximately 85% of total haemoglobin is HbF in infants born at 35 weeks' gestation, which gradually declines until it has disappeared by the age of 1-2 years. 11, 12 HbF has a greater affinity for oxygen compared to HbA, shifting the haemoglobinoxygen dissociation curve to the left, causing preferential foetal oxygen binding in utero. However, HbF preponderance postnatally in very preterm infants leads to greater difficulty unloading oxygen to the tissues. This is partly offset by a steeper oxygen-haemoglobin dissociation curve than that for HbA, but exacerbated as the levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (a product of glycolysis that promotes oxygen release from oxyhaemoglobin) are low in preterm neonates. 13 Anaemia of prematurity, in part thought to be related to reduced red cell life span and low erythropoietin levels, is exacerbated by clinical blood sampling, leading to the need for blood transfusion in many very preterm infants. 14 De Halleux et al 15 demonstrated clinically that the oxygen-haemoglobin dissociation curve is shifted to the right in preterm infants after blood transfusion. We hypothesised that as the HbF : HbA ratio decreases with blood transfusion, more oxygen is made available to the developing retina for any given arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO 2 ), possibly contributing to ROP development by increasing the oxygen availability in the developing retina and reducing angiogenic drive. We aimed to explore whether there might be an association between either initial %HbF (on admission after birth) and/or the mean inpatient HbF% (during their hospital admission), with the development of ROP in very preterm infants.
Adult dogs with phosphofructokinase (PFK) deficiency have compensated hemolytic anemia, due to an absolute or functional deficiency of the muscle-type (M-type) subunit that normally accounts for a majority of total erythrocyte PFK activity in dogs. Potential effects of PFK deficiency on hematologic development were evaluated in dogs. Routine hematologic parameters were similar in normal and affected dogs when 1 day old, because all newborn dogs had erythrocyte PFK activities about three times that of normal adult dogs. Based on chromatographic separation of PFK isozymes and enzyme immunoprecipitation studies, the high PFK activity at birth was attributed to the predominance of the liver-type (L-type) subunit of PFK, which is negligible or absent in normal adult dog erythrocytes. Both total PFK activities and the amounts of L-type subunit present decreased dramatically during the first 6 to 8 weeks of life. The muscle-type subunit was negligible or absent at birth, but appeared and increased as the L-type decreased in normal dogs. These changes may result from the replacement of erythrocytes formed in the fetus with those formed after birth. A postnatal physiologic anemia developed to a similar degree in both affected and normal dogs because of decreases in both mean corpuscular volume and erythrocyte numbers. Reticulocyte counts were high in all dogs at birth and remained high in affected dogs, but decreased from 2 months of age onward in normal dogs. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) values were very low in all newborn pups and increased to values expected for adults in the respective groups by 2 to 4 weeks of age. A low 2,3-DPG concentration occurs in affected dogs because PFK deficiency inhibits glycolysis above the side shunt that forms 2,3-DPG.
The oxygenation status of normal and diabetic (White's classification A and B) mothers and their neonates was investigated. The diabetic patients had significantly increased maternal total haemoglobin and P50 values and the percentage of fetal haemoglobin was increased in cord blood taken at delivery in this group. There was a significant positive correlation between maternal P50 values and the percentage of fetal haemoglobin in cord blood. The cord blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inorganic phosphate and P50 values were also increased in neonates born to diabetic mothers and these infants had a significantly increased birth weight ratio. The results are consistent with the presence of fetal hypoxaemia in the late third trimester of diabetic pregnancy in which obvious maternal vascular disease has been excluded.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: Routine procedures for extended storage of whole blood (WB) before the preparation of blood components are of interest primarily for logistical reasons. We stored red cell units in either Erythro-Sol 2 (E-Sol 2, test units, 150 ml added) or in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAG-M) (reference units, 100 ml added) that were prepared after storage of WB at room temperature for 8, 12, 16 or 19 h after blood collection. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Red blood cells were stored for 42 days. We measured pH, glucose, lactate, haemolysis, red blood cell adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on days 1, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35 and 42. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Haematocrits were significantly lower in E-Sol 2 than in SAG-M due to the higher volume of E-Sol 2 added compared to SAG-M. Significantly reduced levels were found in E-Sol 2 of extracellular pH (throughout storage after 8-h hold and initially after 12-, 16- or 19-h hold), of lactate (initially after 8-h hold and throughout storage after 12-, 16- or 19-h hold), and of haemolysis from day 35 in the 8-h and on day 42 in the 12-h hold group. Significantly increased levels of adenosine triphosphate were seen in E-Sol 2 after 8-h hold (from day 14) and after 12-h hold (at days 21, 35 and 42) compared to SAG-M. Significantly higher concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were noticed primarily after 8-h hold of WB. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The use of E-Sol 2 as a replacement for SAG-M does not significantly improve in vitro data after extended storage of WB at room temperature before preparation of blood components. However, after 8-h hold in vitro characteristics similar to or better than in fresh blood will be maintained for several weeks in E-Sol 2, a situation that makes E-Sol 2 superior to SAG-M when storage of WB is limited to 8 h. Some improvement was noted after 12-h hold as well.
Blood oxygen affinity and content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate of erythrocytes were measured in 10 children with cystic fibrosis and varying degrees of hypoxemia. Oxygen affinity was decreased and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was increased in patients with hypoxemia; the magnitude of these changes was similar to that reported in patients with other types of respiratory insufficiency and was significantly correlated with the severity of hypoxemia.
The sites for the oxygen-linked formation of carbamate groups in hemoglobin were determined in 1969 by Kilmarin and Rossi-Bernardi [8]. They showed that if the NH2 -terminal amino groups of both the a and the β subunits are blocked by reaction with cyanate, linkage between CO2 binding and O2 binding is no longer observed. Subsequent studies in a number of laboratories have shown that the NH2 -terminal amino groups of the β chains are responsible for most (about 80%) of the oxygen-linked binding of CO2 [5, 9, 10]. However, since the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate reduces the amount of CO2 bound to deoxyhemoglobin [5, 9, 10], the fraction of carbamate groups associated with the NH2-termini of the a chains is probably increased in vivo.
Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and whole blood P50 have been found to be significantly higher in β -thalassaemia heterozygotes than in normal controls. Such increases cou
Low red-cell concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) with resulting increased oxygen affinity of hemoglobin is one of the mechanisms by which hypophosphatemia exerts clinically detrimental effects. The possibility that obligatory post-traumatic and/or glucose-induced hypophosphatemia leads to changes in red-cell 2,3-DPG and ATP concentrations was investigated in patients undergoing elective colonic surgery. In addition to standardized intravenous fluids postoperatively, one (randomized) patient group received continuous glucose-saline infusion, which is specially associated with hypophosphatemia, while another group was given the same amount of glucose/24 hours, but in a 5-hour infusion. Serum phosphate fell significantly in both groups, mainly in the former, but unaccompanied by change in red-cell 2,3-DPG or ATP concentration. During the 5-hour glucose infusions significant hypophosphatemia appeared, but without reduction of 2,3-DPG or ATP. Thus neither the obligatory hypophosphatemia after elective surgery nor the further fall during postoperative glucose infusion altered the red-cell concentration of 2,3-DPG or ATP.
Two brothers with congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia and neurologic disease were found to have erythrocyte and leukocyte phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency. Elevated levels of red cell dihydroxyacetone phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were documented as well. Erythrocyte phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency is X-chromosome linked, and the present report brings the number of male hemizygous individuals to five. All are mentally retarded and some have additional neurologic defects.
Oxyhemoglobin dissociation curves (ODC) were performed on blood from newly diagnosed, nonketotic diabetics prior to and following initial insulin treatment and from ambulatory juvenile diabetics before and after their usual morning insulin. In 10 newly discovered diabetics the average P50 at in vivo pH was normal prior to insulin (26.2 mm Hg), decreased to 24.5 mm Hg (p less than 0.005) on the day following the initial insulin administration, and was within normal limits (26.9 mm Hg) when the diabetes was finally well controlled and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) had risen to elevated levels. Oxygen affinity of hemoglobin was closely correlated with the content of red cell 2,3-DPG (r = 0.61, p less than 0.001) but was unrelated to the level of hemoglobin Alc. In 40 juvenile patients the average P50 was also normal prior to insulin administration but was significantly lower 3-4 hr after they had received their usual insulin dose (p less than 0.001). The study indicates that insulin administration to diabetics with high blood glucose levels may lead to transient decreases in red cell 2,3-DPG and in oxygen-releasing capacity of the red blood cells.
A new physiological system for the regulation of the oxygen affinity to hemoglobin has been discovered during the last two years. Addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to dilute hemoglobin solutions dramatically decreased the affinity of the hemoglobin for oxygen (Benesch & Benesch, 1967; Chanutin and Curnish, 1967) and a close inverse relation was found (Akerblom et al., 1968; Engel & Duc, 1968; Lenfant et al., 1968) between the oxygen affinity and the concentration of these phosphocompounds in intact human erythrocytes.
Abstract 1. 1. The hemoglobins found in various members of the Felidae have been separated and compared with respect to structure in relation to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) sensitivity. 2. 2. Multiple hemoglobin components are found in the blood of all Felidae, and they are characterized by the presence of one of two types of β-chains that are common to the members of the family. 3. 3. The two types, A-β and B-β, are distinguished from one another by differences in positions of the βT-1 and βT-XIV peptides in fingerprints of tryptic digests. 4. 4. Components that contain the A-β type are invariably 2,3-DPG-sensitive whereas those that contain the B-β type are insensitive. 5. 5. The A-β and B-β chains are apparently products of nonallelic genes but are found in widely variable proportions in mixtures of hemoglobins in the blood of different members of the Felidae.
Arterial and venous blood samples were obtained from 23 patients with acute asthma before they received systemic or intermittent positive-pressure breathing therapy. Serum lactate, electrolyte, and enzyme concentrations, arterial pH, arterial Pco2, arterial Po2, peak expiratory flows, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations were measured. The serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, lactic dehydrogenase, and creatine phosphokinase activities were increased in 90, 81, and 38 per cent of the patients, respectively, and the individual values correlated poorly with the arterial Po2. In addition, there was a close correlation between the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and arterial Po2 (r = −0.75), indicating an active intraerythrocytic compensatory mechanism for enhancing O2 delivery operative in acute asthma.
Cell salvage devices are routinely used to process red blood cells (RBCs) shed during cardiac surgery. The purpose of this study was to evaluate three commercially available cell saver (CS) devices in terms of erythrocyte function and the quality of washed RBCs during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Thirty patients undergoing CPB were randomly allocated to three CS devices: Group C (Cell Saver 5+; Haemonetics, n = 10), Group M (autolog; Medtronic, n = 10), and Group F (CATS; Fresenius HemoCare, n = 10). Blood samples were collected from reservoirs and transfusion bags. Reservoirs and washed RBCs were analyzed for erythrocyte aggregation index, deformation index (DI) and hematocrit viscosity, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), hematocrit (Hct), hemoglobin (Hb), free Hb removal (ΔfHb), glucose (Glu), lactate (Lac), and blood urea nitrogen. After processing, Groups C (P = 0.026) and M (P = 0.032) had relatively higher erythrocyte DI compared with Group F. Group C had lower Δ2,3-DPG compared with Groups M (P = 0.001) and F (P = 0.001). Group F provided the maximum concentration of Hct (P = 0.021; 0.046) and Hb (P = 0.008; 0.013). In addition, Groups C (P = 0.035) and M (P = 0.038) had a higher removal of fHb (ΔfHb), differing significantly with Group F. In conclusion, CS devices use the same theory of centrifugation; however, based on different designs, the function of the washed erythrocyte and undesirable content removal efficiency differs widely from one device to another.
Abstract The purpose of this study was to verify the concept of non-equilibrium facilitated oxygen diffusion. This work succeeds our previous study, where facilitated oxygen diffusion by hemoglobin was measured at conditions of chemical equilibrium, and which yielded diffusion coefficients of hemoglobin and of oxygen. In the present work chemical non-equilibrium was induced using very thin diffusion layers. As a result, facilitation was decreased as predicted by theory. Thus, this work presents the first experimental demonstration of non-equilibrium facilitated oxygen diffusion. In addition, association and dissociation rate parameters of the reaction between oxygen and bovine and human hemoglobin were calculated and the effect of the homotropic and heterotropic interactions on each rate parameter was demonstrated. The results indicate that the homotropic interaction – which leads to increasing oxygen affinity with increasing oxygenation – is predominantly due to an increase in the association rate. The heterotropic interaction – which leads to decreasing oxygen affinity by anionic ligands – appears to be effected in two ways. Cl − increases the dissociation rate. In contrast, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate decreases the association rate.
1. ::: 1. The radular muscle myoglobin of Buccinum undatum is dimeric in the carbonmonoxy-, oxy-, and deoxy- forms and has a sedimentation coefficient of approximately 2.7. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. The radular muscle myoglobin of Busycon canaliculatum is dimeric in the carbonmonoxy- and oxy- forms and has a sedimentation coefficient of approximately 3.1. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. Purified Buccinum myoglobin combines with oxygen according to a pH-independent sigmoid dissociation curve with n equal to 1.4 and P50 of 13.0 mm. Hg at 20° C. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. Purified Busycon myoglobin combines with oxygen according to a slightly sigmoid dissociation curve with n equal to 1.2 and P50 of approximately 0.7 mm. Hg at 20° C. ::: ::: 5. ::: 5. The oxygen affinity and sigmoid nature of the oxygen dissociation curve of Buccinum myoglobin are not affected by the concentration of the myoglobin or by the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, α-glycerophosphate, lactate, adenosine triphosphate, or phosphocreatine. ::: ::: 6. ::: 6. An increase in the concentration of sodium chloride in the buffer from 0.1 M to 2.0 M does not affect the sigmoid nature of the dissociation curve of Buccinum myoglobin but does decrease the value of P50 at 25° C. from 16.3 mm. Hg to 13.2 mm. Hg. ::: ::: 7. ::: 7. The overall heat of oxygenation (ΔH) is −8.4 Cal. per mole for Buccinum myoglobin and −8.8 Cal. per mole for Busycon myoglobin. ::: ::: 8. ::: 8. The oxygen affinities of Buccinum and Busycon myoglobins are greater than the oxygen affinities of their respective haemocyanins. ::: ::: 9. ::: 9. The oxygenation and structural properties of Buccinum and Busycon myoglobins are compared with one another and with vertebrate haemoglobins and myoglobins.
The intracellular distribution of adenosine 5′-triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was studied in the red cells of a patient with a “high-ATP syndrome' by using 31P nuclear magnetic resonance. In this patient, red cell ATP was increased 2.5-fold, whereas 2,3-DPG was decreased fourfold due to the presence of a hyperactive pyruvate kinase. In oxygenated red cells, these abnormal concentrations were reflected to the same extent in all complexes in which ATP and 2,3-DPG take part. The diminished amount of 2,3-DPG bound to hemoglobin was almost completely replaced by ATP-hemoglobin complexes. Therefore, free hemoglobin was only slightly increased. In deoxygenated cells, the relative distribution of ATP and 2,3-DPG complexes was significantly disturbed. The main difference was a shift in the ratio of magnesium ATP (MgATP) over the ATP-hemoglobin complex; 74% of total ATP was complexed to hemoglobin (45% in normal cells), whereas the concentration of MgATP was only slightly increased with respect to normal. The shortage in 2,3-DPG bound to hemoglobin could partially be replenished by an increase in hemoglobin (Mg) ATP complexes. Therefore, the amount of uncomplexed hemoglobin raised from 15% in normal cells to 38% in the patient's cells. As a result, the oxygen-dissociation curve was only moderately shifted to the left. It is concluded that the regulatory role of 2,3-DPG in oxygen transport is taken over in part by (Mg) ATP in this patient. In both aerobic and anaerobic cells, the increase in magnesium bound to ATP, either free or bound to hemoglobin, exceeds the decrease in 2,3-DPG Mg complex. In spite of this, the amount of intracellular free Mg++ was normal or slightly lowered. This suggests the presence of a compensatory mechanism by which the amount of total cellular magnesium could be increased.
The present study examines the acute effects of two different exercise intensities on erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration. Thirty-one females (X +/- SD age = 23.7 +/- 3.37 yr; VO2max = 44.3 +/- 5.40 ml X kg-1 X min-1) completed 2 separate 15-min constant load cycling tests at exercise intensities representing 35 and 75% of VO2max. Venous blood was obtained pre-exercise (PRE), immediately post-exercise (POST), 15 min post-exercise (POST15), and 30 min post-exercise (POST30) to determine lactic acid, 2,3-DPG, and hemoglobin concentrations and hematocrit. Significant increases (P less than 0.01) in lactic acid concentration (1.1 +/- 0.14 at PRE to 6.2 +/- 0.48 m X mol-1 X l-1 at POST), 2,3-DPG concentration (1.9 +/- 0.06 at PRE to 2.1 +/- 0.06 mumol X ml-1 at POST), and 2,3-DPG corrected for plasma volume shift (PVC 2,3-DPG) (1.9 +/- 0.06 at PRE to 2.4 +/- 0.07 mumol X ml-1 at POST15) were observed only following the 75% submaximal exercise. At POST30 (75% VO2max) PVC 2,3-DPG and lactic acid remained 5.3 and 97% (P less than 0.05) above baseline, respectively. An exercise intensity effect was observed only in lactic acid response (P less than 0.05) but not in 2,3-DPG (mumol X ml-1 and mumol X g-1 hemoglobin or PVC 2,3-DPG. A significant time-intensity interaction (P less than 0.05) for PVC 2,3-DPG suggests that PVC 2,3-DPG response over time was different between the two exercise intensity levels, with the 75% intensity eliciting a greater increase in PVC 2,3-DPG.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract 1. Hematocrit (43%) and O2 binding capacity (18.8 ml O2/100 ml blood) ofTrichechus inunguis blood are low compared to the values for other diving mammals but are similar to those for land mammals. 2. Stripped manatee Hb is similar to human Hb A in its sensitivity to pH, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and CO2, but less sensitive to temperature and more prone to dissociate into dimers. 3. The unique Hill plots exhibit no cooperativity below 30% O2-saturation indicating a highly stabilized T or low-affinity state(s); such asymmetric Hill plots together with biphasic O2-binding kinetics could mean chain heterogeneity. 4. The pH dependence of oxygen binding by the apparent T state, hemoglobin as seen in the Hill plots, is enhanced by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate but eliminated by CO2.
The effects of four macromolecular polyanions on the equilibrium solubility of deoxy-Hb S and oxygen affinity of Hb A were evaluated. The order of molar effectiveness as gelation inhibitors was: poly-L-aspartate=heparin (high M.W.) > dextran sulfate > heparin (low M.W.). The linear solubility profiles for the two most potent polyanions (poly-L-aspartate and high M.W. heparin) were nearly identical and reached a plateau at roughly the same sub-stoichiometric molar ratio. By contrast, poly-L-lysine, a polycation, strongly promoted gelation, while its succinylated derivative promoted gelation only marginally, as did dextran, a neutral polysaccharide. Among the seven species examined, only the four polyanions affected oxygen affinity appreciably, demonstrating the specificity of the anion effect. Thus, these four polyanions exert their solubilizing and oxygen affinity lowering effects via specific interaction with the cluster of cationic groups at the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site in the central cavity ...
Abstract The high O 2 affinity of European mole ( Talpa europaea ) blood is postulated to largely arise from the presence of two β-globin chain residues (β4 Ser and β5 Gly) that weaken the interaction of its hemoglobin (Hb) with the red cell organophosphate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). This latter trait is generally accepted to be an ‘adaptation to subterranean life’, despite the fact that no data are available for more basal mole lineages that have no evolutionary history of fossoriality (i.e. the ambulatory, high-elevation shrew-like moles and the semi-aquatic desmans), and which may similarly benefit from an elevated blood O 2 affinity. To test whether evolution of a low DPG sensitivity phenotype is linked to derived fossorial lifestyles or represents an ancestral trait for the family, we determined the globin gene sequences and measured the intrinsic O 2 affinity and co-factor sensitivity of the major Hb component of the gracile shrew-like mole ( Uropsilus gracilis ) and the Pyrenean desman ( Galemys pyrenaicus ). Our results unequivocally demonstrate that the presence of β4 Ser and β5 Gly, together with a low DPG sensitivity Hb phenotype, predates the radiation of the family Talpidae, and hence did not evolve as a specific adaptation to fossorial life. By contrast, our comparative analyses suggest that variations in whole blood O 2 affinity among members of this family predominantly arose from amino acid substitutions that increase or decrease the intrinsic O 2 affinity of the protein.
Oxyhemoglobin dissociation curves (ODC) from zero to full saturation were developed from tests performed on whole blood from various groups of diabetic and nondiabetic healthy subjects. P50 at in-vivo pH was slightly but significantly lower than normal in ambulatory nonacidotic, uncomplicated juvenile diabetics (26.0 vs. 27.3 mm. Hg, P less than 0.001), despite increased red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations in diabetic erythrocytes (15.0 vs. 13.7 mumole/gm. Hb, P less than 0.001). This combination of changes is in keeping with the presence of increased proportions of hemoglobin AIc in insulin-treated diabetics. The position of the ODC was positively correlated with the 2,3-DPG concentration (P less than 0.01), which varied in response to fluctuations in plasma concentration of inorganic phosphate (Pi) (P less than 0.001). Optimal metabolic control may lead to a normalization of the ODC in association with increased concentrations of red cell 2,3-DPG and P. When the diabetes was uncontrolled, the ODC was usually unchanged during the acidotic phase because the lowered pH balanced the effect of diminished 2,3-DPG concentration on the ODC. After correction of acidosis, the disproportion between erythrocyte 2,3-DPG and pH became quite prominent, accompanied by a corresponding fall in P50 (21.0 vs. 26.1 mm. Hg, P less than 0.001). Following ketoacidosis, with a persistently lowered Pi, it may take up to one week for 2,3-DPG to return to an approximately normal level, and the P50 will be impaired for the same period. A diphosphonate (EHDP) known to enhance tubular phosphate reabsorption in man was given to nonacidotic insulin-treated diabetic and healthy volunteers for 28 days. It caused a significant increase in mean Pi and P50 in both healthy and diabetic subjects (r = 0.58, P less than 0.01). When a dietary supplement of dibasic calcium phosphate was given to diabetic subjects for 28 days, a significant increase in P50 also occurred (25.2 vs. 27.2 mm. Hg, P less than 0.001). It is recommended that the diabetes diet be supplemented by dibasic calcium phosphate to prevent the inhibitory effect of a low concentration of Pi on red cell oxygen delivery.
Anaemia is an important factor in the response of some human tumours to radiotherapy. The outcome is also influenced by whether the treatment is given in air or high pressure oxygen (HPO). The present study examined the relationship between anaemia and tumour response to radiation given in air or HPO in C3H mice transplanted with a mammary adenocarcinoma using a growth delay assay to assess the radiation response. Chronic anaemia was induced by the use of a low iron diet and was characterized by a significant reduction in host haematocrit and whole blood viscosity. In addition, anaemia was associated with a right shift in the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve and an increase in the volume doubling time of the tumour; but there was no change in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red cells. Radiation studies with these anaemic mice demonstrated that the tumour radiosensitivity was decreased when treatment was given in air. HPO was successful in overcoming the increased radioresistance associated with anaemia. This result suggested that tumours grown in anaemic mice have a higher hypoxic fraction than those grown in control mice. Changes in host physiology with chronic anaemia may contribute to the benefit seen with HPO but such alterations per se may be inadequate to maintain tumour oxygenation when treatment is given in air.
RBCs from patients with hemolytic anemia due to pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency are characterized by a decreased total adenine and pyridine nucleotide content. Because phosphoribosylpyrophosphate (PRPP) is a precursor of both adenine and pyridine nucleotides, we investigated the ability of intact PK-deficient RBCs to accumulate PRPP. The rate of PRPP formation in normal RBCs (n = 11) was 2.89 +/- 0.80 nmol/min.mL RBCs. In contrast, the rate of PRPP formation in PK-deficient RBCs (n = 4) was markedly impaired at 1.03 +/- 0.39 nmol/min.mL RBCs. Impaired PRPP formation in these cells was not due to the higher proportion of reticulocytes. To study the mechanism of impaired PRPP formation, PK deficiency was simulated by incubating normal RBCs with fluoride. In normal RBCs, fluoride inhibited PRPP formation, caused adenosine triphosphate (ATP) depletion, prevented 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) depletion, and inhibited pentose phosphate shunt (PPS) activity. These results together with other data suggest that impaired PRPP formation is mediated by changes in ATP and DPG concentration, which lead to decreased PPS and perhaps decreased hexokinase and PRPP synthetase activities. Impaired PRPP formation may be a mechanism for the decreased adenine and pyridine nucleotide content in PK-deficient RBCs.
Full blood counts were determined on a Sysmex 5000 (TOAMedical Electronic CO Ltd, Kobe, Japan) and hematologic studies were performed using standard techniques.5 Hb electrophoresis was performed on cellulose acetate (pH 8.5) and citrate agar gel (pH 6.0). Hb F was quantitated by alkali denaturation and Hb Az was estimated by elution from cellulose acetate electrophoretic strips. The presence of unstable Hb was investigated by both the isopropa- no1 and the heat stability tests.' To obtain a semiquantitative estimate of the unstable Hb, hemolysates were incubated at 50°C for 5 hours and at intervals of time the Hb remaining in solution was measured with Drabkin's reagent at 540 nm. The 0, dissociation curve was performed and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) concentration was detenr~ined.~ Reticulocytes in whole blood from the patient's sample were incubated at 37°C for 5 to 90 minutes with 3H-leucine in Krebs solution, and the biosynthetic globin chain ratio was determined after incubation times of 5 , 20, 30, and 90 minutes?
The relative intrinsic and extrinsic fluorescence of hemoglobins are established markers of the R (oxy) → T (deoxy) transition and reveal site-specific conformational differences amongst hemoglobin (Hb) mutants. The Hb central cavity has been probed by binding the fluorescent analogue of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, 8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonate (HPT). An approach to quantify binding of HPT to HbC (β6 Lys) and HbA (β6 Glu), by steady-state front-face fluorescence spectroscopy using both the intrinsic and extrinsic emissions, is presented. When HPT specifically binds to Hb, efficient fluorescence energy transfer from the intrinsic fluorescence of Hb to HPT occurs, decreasing the intrinsic fluorescence of Hb that plateaus upon stoichiometric binding. HPT fluorescence is significantly but not totally quenched upon binding to HbA and HbC. HPT exhibits a molecular binding ratio of 2:1 to HbC, in contrast to HbA (1:1 binding). The apparent secondary binding site for HbC is weaker (KD1 = 25 μM vs. KD2 = 0.15 mM). Conformational alterations of HbC at the αα and ββ clefts of the central cavity are further supported by these data.
SUMMARY ::: ::: Treatment of massive hemorrhage requires restoration of circulating blood volume to maintain oxygen delivery to the tissues. The maintenance of adequate cardiac output and restoration of intravascular volume can be achieved with non-oxygen-carrying volume expanders which may help restore blood pressure and maintain organ perfusion. Aims of treatment also include the avoidance of hypothermia and attempts to minimize the development of acidosis. The prompt use of cell salvage during early surgical intervention can help contribute autologous red cells to the total volume of red cells eventually transfused, thus minimizing allogeneic use. The autologous red cells have a higher 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content than stored red cells and oxygen carriage may be better maintained in these earlier stages of resuscitation by the use of cell salvage devices.
Rejuvenation of erythrocytes (biochemical modification of adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) preserved with currently available nutrient additive solutions has not been licensed or adequately studied. The ability of the commercially available solution PIPA to modify erythrocytes preserved with AS-1 or AS-3 for 35 and 42 days was studied. Use of PIPA produced greater-than-normal levels of adenosine triphosphate in the preserved erythrocytes. Restoration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was suboptimal at both periods. (PIPA treatment produces normal levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes preserved for 35 days with citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine-1.) In erythrocytes preserved with AS-1 or AS-3 for 42 days, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate returned to normal levels after a second PIPA rejuvenation. This study demonstrates that biochemical modification is possible in erythrocytes preserved with AS-1 or AS-3 for 42 days.
In laboratory mice we previously defined a gene, rol (resistance to osmotic lysis), based on its effect on erythrocyte osmotic fragility. Here we report a physiological characterization of rol gene action utilizing congenic strains developed for the purpose; these two strains have a common genetic background and differ only by the two alleles of rol, susceptible (rols) or resistant (rolr). In comparison to rols/s erythrocytes, rolr/r cells have a reduced mean cell volume, a higher mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration and hemolytic volume, and respond differently to swelling induced by ion influx. Rolr/r erythrocytes also have reduced cell water and K, which are associated with a threefold higher activity of the Na-K-Cl cotransporter (measured as ouabain-resistant, bumetanide-sensitive 86Rb influx) and 30% higher Na pump activity. Apart from differences in ion transport and water content, the content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in rolr/r cells is 15% lower than in rols/s ones. Analyses of membrane structural components revealed no rol-associated differences in their phospholipid or fatty acid content, nor were strain differences evident among the membrane and cytoskeletal proteins and their posttranslational modifications (phosphorylation and fatty acylation). Rol is not the structural gene for either the alpha- or the beta-chain of hemoglobin and has no effect on erythrocyte production or destruction. The concerted effect of rol variation on erythrocyte volume, water and cation content, cation cotransport, and 2,3-DPG levels is similar in many ways to the variation observed among individual humans for the same characteristics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The respiratory characteristics of blood from 4 nine-banded armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus) were studied. One animal was anemic when studied initially (blood oxygen capacity 9.5 vol %); with treatment its blood oxygen capacity rose and the average blood oxygen capacity for all four animals (excluding the observations during anemia) was 14.8 ± 1.6 vol%. Oxygen dissociation curves for whole blood were constructed at 36°C and were corrected to a plasma pH of 7.40. The mean blood P50 for the animals without anemia was 23.3 ± 1.1 mm Hg. The blood P50 of the anemic armadillo (26.5 ± 0.9 mm Hg) was significantly higher (P < 0.01). ::: ::: The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was higher in the blood of the anemic animal (4.33 μM/ml red cells) than in the others (2.83 μM/ml red cells). The Bohr factor (Δlog PO2/ΔpH) was −0.55 ± 0.06. In animals without anemia the red cell count averaged 5.26 million/mm3 and the hematocrit averaged 31%. ::: ::: Armadillo hemoglobin migrates as two bands. The major component migrates at the same rate as human A hemoglobin on starch gel electrophoresis at pH 8.6. ::: ::: Like other burrowing animals, the armadillo has blood with a higher affinity for oxygen than would be predicted for its size. This, and its low rate of oxygen consumption per kilogram, may be considered as adaptations to environmental hypoxia.
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was first discovered and isolated in 1925. However, it was not until 1967 that the function of 2,3-DPG was explained. This resulted in multiple research projects devoted to elucidating the mechanism by which 2,3-DPG exerts it effect on the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. In addition, a vast amount of research has been devoted to assessing the role of 2,3-DPG in oxygen transport in various physiological and pathophysiological states. In many instances, the results of this research have produced conflicting data which have dampened the initial enthusiasm which followed the discovery of the function of 2,3-DPG. However, much of this conflicting data can be explained by the fact that 2,3-DPG is only one of a number of factors influencing the transport of oxygen to the tissues. Several of these factors influence oxygen transport independently as well as by altering the synthesis of 2,3-DPG and modifying its effect on hemoglobin. In spite of the conflicting results, the overall data gathered thus far appears to be sound enough to warrant the extensive research now being done, particularly in the area of blood storage and transfusion therapy.
Factors involved in blood oxygen transport were measured serially in the first, second and third trimester of pregnancy in 23 insulin-dependent diabetic women. Twenty-six non-pregnant diabetic patients served as a reference group. Diabetic pregnancy was associated with relative anemia, a significant increase in arterial pH, and hypocapnia. The concentration of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was significantly higher in the first trimester of diabetic pregnancy compared with non-pregnant diabetics (median value 16.4 vs. 15.0 mumol/g hemoglobin, p less than 0.02) and increased gradually from the first to the third trimester (16.4 to 17.2 mumol/g hemoglobin, p less than 0.01). The hemoglobin A1c concentration decreased simultaneously from 8.1% to 7.3% (p less than 0.01). The level of hemoglobin A1c in the first trimester was significantly lower than that in the non-pregnant diabetic patients (8.1 vs. 9.3%, p less than 0.01). In spite of the increase in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content and the decrease in hemoglobin A1c, factors known to reduce hemoglobin-oxygen affinity, the position of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve remained unchanged during diabetic pregnancy: P50 at actual pH in the first trimester, was 26.0 mmHg; in the second trimester, 26.9 mmHg, and in the third trimester, 26.8 mmHg (NS). These values of P50 at actual pH were identical with the value in the non-pregnant group (26.6 mmHg). Other factors influencing hemoglobin-oxygen affinity, such as hemoglobin concentration, hydrogen ion concentration and arterial oxygen saturation remained unchanged during diabetic pregnancy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The common pig lacks a fetal hemoglobin but has four embryonic hemoglobins: Gower I (zeta 2 epsilon 2), Gower II (alpha 2 epsilon 2), Heide I (zeta 2 theta 2) and Heide II (alpha 2 theta 2) as well as adult Hb A (alpha 2 beta 2) and the amino acid sequence for each of the five constituent polypeptide chains has been established. The oxygenation characteristics of the five components, measured in relation to pH, temperature and the erythrocytic ligand 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), together with the changes in their relative concentrations during early embryonic life, are given. The findings indicate a progressive decrease in maternal-fetal oxygen affinity difference and thus in oxygen transfer efficacy at a given diffusion gradient that correlates with the development of the gas exchange structures. The functional properties of the individual hemoglobins are additionally discussed in relation to molecular structure.
The intraerythrocytic level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin in the red cell are shown to be strongly dependent on the intraerythrocytic pH. This effect should be taken into account when evaluating the increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate found at hypoxemic and anemic hypoxia. It was also demonstrated that high concentrations of inorganic phosphate in serum influence the intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration.
2,3-diphosphoglycerate was estimated by an enzymatic method, based on the catalytical effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on the phosphoglycerate mutase reaction, which was coupled with that of lactate dehydrogenase by adding ADP, enolase, pyruvate kinase, and NADH to the system. The activity was estimated from the decrease in NADH-concentration. Samples were obtained by diluting whole blood 100 times with oxygenated water, without any other pretreatment of the blood. The normal range of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in blood from normal individuals was determined.
PHOSPHATE LOADING HAS BEEN SHOWN TO INCREASE 2,3-DIPHOSPHOGLYCERATE (2,3-DPG). ELEVATED 2,3-DPG LEVELS LEAD TO A LOWERED AFFINITY FOR OXYGEN BY HEMOGLOBIN. WITH MORE OXYGEN AVAILABLE TO THE MUSCLE, INCREASES IN EXERCISE PERFORMANCE WOULD BE EXPECTED. THE PURPOSE OF THIS REVIEW IS TO DISCUSS PREVIOUS RESEARCH AND OFFER PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS
BACKGROUND ::: Ex vivo cold storage of red blood cells (RBCs) for transfusion has long been associated with hypothermic storage lesions. It has been proposed that liposomes can be used to mitigate hemorheological elements of RBC membrane storage lesions. This study aimed to determine the appropriate liposome treatment time and assess the effects of liposome treatment on RBC's hemorheological and metabolic profiles. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: Unilamellar liposomes were synthesized to contain a bilayer of 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DOPC):cholesterol (7:3 mol%). Packed human RBCs (n = 4) were divided into untreated control (HEPES-NaCl solution) and liposome-treated samples (2 mM DOPC liposomes) and treated at days 2, 21, and 42 of hypothermic storage. RBC quality assessment included percent hemolysis, deformability, aggregation, hematological indices, microvesiculation, supernatant potassium, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Among the parameters affected by liposome treatment time were deformability, aggregation amplitude (Amp), mean corpuscular hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, and microparticle mean fluorescence intensity. After 6 weeks of storage, aggregation index (AI) and Amp were significantly increased in liposome-treated RBCs (AI: 45.38 ± 1.92% vs. 41.54 ± 4.10%, p = 0.020; Amp: 16.38 ± 2.17 arbitrary units [au] vs. 12.22 ± 3.29 au, p = 0.019). Despite comparable hemolysis levels at 3 and 6 weeks, DOPC-treated RBCs showed significantly increased potassium levels for the same time points (3 weeks: 31.2 ± 2.7 mmol/L vs. 30.8 ± 2.7 mmol/L, p = 0.007; 6 weeks: 45.0 ± 3.0 mmol/L vs. 43.8 ± 3.4 mmol/L, p = 0.013). ATP and 2,3-DPG levels were comparable throughout storage. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Liposome treatment seemed to be more beneficial when performed at the beginning of storage up to day 21. DOPC liposome treatment resulted in an improvement in human RBC hemorheology upon storage, with no significant impact on metabolic profile.
1. Albino Wistar rats were raised in a normobaric hypoxic environment (10% O2 in N2). Two generations of hypoxic rats were observed for changes in their haemoglobin-oxygen (Hb-O2) dissociation curves (ODC), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), haemoglobin (Hb), and Hill co-efficients at P50 (n50). The first generation were called (H1) and the second generation (H2). The control group (N) had a normoxic environment. 2. Thirty-five rats (13 N rats, 12 H1 rats and 10 H2 rats) were used. The 2,3-DPG was significantly higher in both hypoxic groups when compared with N rats (2.02 +/- 0.51 mmol/L) but 2,3-DPG of H2 rats was significantly lower than that of H1 rats (H1 = 3.48 +/- 0.58 mmol/L and H2 = 2.76 +/- 0.54 mmol/L). The haemoglobin values were N = 2.00 +/- 0.26, H1 = 2.65 +/- 0.32 and H2 = 2.36 +/- 0.30 mmol/L, respectively. 3. We observed considerable differences in Hb-O2 affinity between the three groups of rats. In standard conditions (pH = 7.400; pCO2 = 40 mmHg at 37 degrees C) the H1 rats showed a significantly decreased Hb-O2 affinity (P50,st = 37.0 +/- 1.3 mmHg) when compared with both H2 and N rats; the H2 rats showed a significantly increased Hb-O2 affinity (P50,st = 31.1 +/- 1.5 mmHg) when compared with controls N (P50,st = 34.7 +/- 2.1 mmHg). There were no significant differences in n50 values: N = 2.88 +/- 0.44; H1 = 2.88 +/- 0.77; and H2 = 2.94 +/- 0.67.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Hemoglobin Deer Lodge is an abnormal human hemoglobin with arginine substituted for histidine at the beta 2 position. X-ray crystallography of normal human hemoglobin has shown that the beta 2 residue is normally part of the binding site for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The substitution of arginine for histidine at beta 2 affects both the kinetics and equilibria of ligand binding. When stripped of anions, Hb Deer Lodge has an increased oxygen affinity and a decreased degree of cooperativity relative to Hb A. The alkaline Bohr effect is slightly increased and there are marked increases in oxygen affinity below pH 6 and above pH 8. In the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate the cooperativity in increases to nromal and the pH dependence of oxygen binding is reduced. This contrasts with the enhanced Bohr effect seen for Hb A in the presence of organic phosphates. Due to enhanced anion binding at high pH, Hb Deer Lodge has a slightly lower oxygen affinity than Hb A at pH 9 in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate. Kinetic studies at neutral pH in the absence of organic phosphates revealed biphasicity in the rate of oxygen dissociation from Hb Deer Lodge, while approximately linear time courses were observed for Hb A. The fast phase of the oxygen dissociation kinetics shows great pH sensitivity, and organic phosphates increase the rate and percentage of the fast phase without greatly affecting the slow phase. The two phases are not resolvable at high pH. CO combination kinetics are much like those of Hb A except that "fast" and "slow" phases were apparent at wavelengths near the deoxy-CO isobestic point. We suggest that functional differences between the alpha and beta chains are enhanced in Hb Deer Lodge. After flash photolysis of the CO derivative, the percentage of quickly reacting material was slightly greater for Hb Deer Lodge than for Hb A. This may imply a somewhat greater tendency to dissociate into high affinity subunits. The substitution of arginine for histidine at beta 2 thus results in a macromolecule whose ligand-binding properties are significantly altered, the primary differences being expressed at high pH where Hb Deer Lodge binds anions more strongly than Hb A. The properties of Hb Deer Lodge are compared to those of other hemoglobin variants with substitutions at residues involved in binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Summary The effect of exercise and conditioning on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels was studied in nine mature horses. During a 12 minute exercise bout producing heart rates of 165 bpm, 2,3-DPG was significantly increased (p
A close relationship exists between the decrease in concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and a fall in the pH of stored blood. Buffering the stored red cells with bicarbonate is one solution to the problem of maintaining pH during storage. The effectiveness of this buffer depends upon loss from the stored blood of carbonic acid in the form of CO2. We describe a system in which the CO2 is trapped in a small internal package which contains calcium hydroxide, or calcium hydroxide embedded in Silastic. A medium containing bicarbonate, adenine, glucose, phosphate and mannitol (BAGPM) is added after initial packing of the erythrocytes. With this approach, it has been possible to maintain 2,3-DPG at 92 percent of original, and ATP was approximately 62 percent of initial levels at the end of 42 days of storage if an internal Silastic bag containing calcium was used in bags agitated once weekly. More frequent agitation (five times weekly) produced acceptable maintenance of both 2,3-DPG (78 percent of original) and ATP (44 percent of original) after 42 days of storage when a Silastic block impregnated with calcium hydroxide was utilized to absorb CO2.
Objective: to describe a clinical case where an extremely low erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (2,3-DPG) was discovered by routine blood gas analysis supplemented by computer calculation of derived quantities. The finding of a low 2,3-DPG revealed a severe hypophosphatemia.Design: open uncontrolled study of a patient case.Setting: intensive care observation during 41 days.Patient: A 44 year old woman with an abdominal abscess.Interventions: Surgical drainage, antibiotics and parented nutrition.Measurements and results: daily routine blood gas analyses with computer calculation of the hemoglobin oxygen affinity and estimation of the 2,3-DPG. An abrupt decline of 2,3-DPG was observed late in the course coincident with a pronounced hypophosphatemia. The fall in 2,3-DFG was verified by enzymatic analysis.Conclusion: 2,3-DPG may be estimated by computer calculation of routine blood gas data. A low 2,3-DPG which may be associated with hypophosphatemia causes an unfavorable increase in hemoglobin...
Summary1.We have estimated the binding constant of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to llama and camel hemoglobin at 37°C and pH 6.7, 7.2, and 7.7 from the DPG induced change in the half saturation pressure (P50). The values obtained were compared with the ones derived from similar measurements on human fetal and adult hemoglobin. At pH 7.2 the binding constant of DPG to llama deoxy-hemoglobin is smaller by a factor of 3 in comparison to camel hemoglobin whilst human fetal hemoglobin binds DPG six times less firmly than the human adult pigment. Camel and human adult hemoglobin have about the same affinity for DPG.2.It is concluded that in llama hemoglobin an amino acid replacement at the DPG binding site explains the reduced phosphate affinity as compared to camel hemoglobin. In human fetal hemoglobin, in addition to an amino acid exchange, there are alterations of the anatomy of the DPG binding site which result in a poorer fit of the phosphate molecule.3.Our data show that llama hemoglobin has a lower intrinsic oxygen affinity than camel hemoglobin so that despite the reduced DPG binding constant the oxygen affinity of llama and camel blood is very similar at equal phosphate concentration. Possibly, the amino acid exchange at the DPG binding site has compensated for the low oxygen affinity of llama hemoglobin in the course of phylogeny
Abstract We have used [2- 13 C] d -glucose and carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to investigate metabolic fluxes through the major pathways of glucose metabolism in intact human erythrocytes and to determine the interactions among these pathways under conditions that perturb metabolism. Using the method described, we have been able to measure fluxes through the pentose phosphate pathway, phosphofructokinase, the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate bypass, and phosphoglycerate kinase, as well as glucose uptake, concurrently and in a single experiment. We have measured these fluxes in normal human erythrocytes under the following conditions: (1) fully oxygenated; (2) treated with methylene blue; and (3) deoxygenated. This method makes it possible to monitor various metabolic effects of stresses in normal and pathological states. Not only has 13 C-NMR spectroscopy proved to be a useful method for measuring in vivo flux through the pentose phosphate pathway, but it has also provided additional information about the cycling of metabolites through the non-oxidative portion of the pentose phosphate pathway. Our evidence from experiments with [1- 13 C]-, [2- 13 C]-, and [3- 13 C] d -glucoses indicates that there is an observable reverse flux of fructose 6-phosphate through the reactions catalyzed by transketolase and transaldolase, even in the presence of a net flux through the pentose phosphate pathway.
The cytosolic fumarase [EC 4.2.1.2[ of rat liver was bound, after dialysis, to the microsomal membrane in vitro. Binding of the enzyme was dependent on pH, and was facilitated in the pH range below 7.5. The binding reaction was completely inhibited by 0.5 mM fumarate, aurintricarboxylate or colchicine. The bound fumarase was released from the membrane by the substrates, isocitrate, citrate or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at low concentrations. Desorption of the enzyme by metabolites was also dependent on pH, and was more rapid in the alkaline pH range. The enzyme desorption curves were sigmoidal, and kinetic studies suggested a biphasic cooperative mechanism for the action of the metabolites. The apparent desorption constants (concentrations necessary for 50% desorption of the enzyme) estimated at pH 7.3 for isocitrate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, L-malate, oxalacetate, fumarate, citrate, succinate, and KCl were 0.073, 0.074, 0.22, 0.39, 0.56, 2.9, and 19 mM, respectively. The bound fumarase showed little enzymatic activity, and its Km and Vmax values were fivefold and 31%, respectively, of those of the free enzyme.
Several bifunctional 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) analogs will cross-link residues in the DPG binding site and prevent subunit dissociation of undenatured hemoglobin. By selecting reagents of proper structure and appropriate reaction conditions, it is possible to produce modified hemoglobins with oxygen equilibria shifted towards either the low affinity or the nigh affinity state. One such reagent is 4,4′-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2′-disulfonate (DIDS). Depending upon the specific reaction conditions, different DIDS products of hemoglobin result. The major deoxyhemoglobin reaction product is a molecule in which one DIDS per tetramer is incorporated, cross-linking between the two β chain amino terminal valyl residues. This derivative, Hb(DIDS)-T, has greatly decreased O2 affinity with a P50 of 24 mmHg compared to P50 of 5 mmHg for normal hemoglobin (50 mM bis-Tris, pH 7.4, 0.1 M Cl-, and 25°C). Its cooperativity is reduced moderately (nmax = 2.1) but the addition of 2,3-DPG has no effect on its oxygen affin...
The kinetics of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate degradation in depleted human erythrocytes was studied by the high-resolution /sup 31/P-NMR technique. A plateau was found on the kinetic curve in the first 1.5-2 h after the beginning of depletion. The mechanisms that may be responsible for the existence of such a plateau are discussed.
Levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and oxygen affinity were measured in a patient with refractory congenital hypoplastic anemia in order to determine the response of aging transfused erythrocytes to a decrease in tissue oxygen tension. Ferrokinetic studies revealed that the rate of erythropoiesis after transfusion was approximately 10% of normal. In the interval between transfusions, the level of 2,3-DPG and P 50 rose to values considerably above the normal range as the level of the hematocrit decreased. On five separate occasions, the 2,3-DPG concentration was elevated (average 25.5 µmoles/g of hemoglobin) and the P 50 level increased (average 33.2 mm of mercury) 24 hr prior to transfusion. It is concluded that in vivo aging of transfused erythrocytes does not prevent these cells from responding to an increasingly hypoxic environment by elevating 2,3-DPG levels and by decreasing oxygen affinity.
Abstract The administration of testosterone enanthate to six patients with chronic renal failure on biweekly hemodialysis increased erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in all patients. Whereas the value was 5670 ± 550 (mean ± S.E.) nmoles per milliliter of red blood cells before treatment, it was 9097 ± 760 after 12 weeks of androgen therapy. This increase was statistically significant (p less than 0.01). None of a group of seven similarly affected patients who did not receive androgens and were followed within the same period showed any increase in red-cell 2,3-DPG. The shift in oxygen equilibrium curve to the right that results from testosterone enanthate should greatly enhance the unloading of oxygen to the tissues.
In addition to reducing hemoglobin-O2 affinity, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) is known to modulate the mechanical properties of the erythrocyte membrane. By fluorescence spectroscopy and differential scanning calorimetry, we demonstrate that DPG binds the cytoplasmic domain of erythrocyte membrane band 3 in two stages characterized by apparent KD values of approximately approximately 2 and 12 mM. DPG was also shown to perturb the stability of ankyrin, protein 4.1, and protein 4.2 in situ and to directly bind to protein 4.1. In studies of membrane-skeleton interactions, DPG was observed to inhibit the fast and slow phases of ankyrin binding to band 3 and to reduce both the number of ankyrin sites and affinity of ankyrin for each class of site. The inhibition was biphasic, similar to the band 3-DPG binding isotherm; however, at physiological DPG concentrations a reduction in only 15% of the ankyrin sites was observed. In contrast, inhibition of protein 4.1 binding to the membrane reached 65% at physiological DPG concentrations (approximately approximately 5.9 mM); at more elevated concentrations, blockade was nearly quantitative, affecting glycophorin and band 3 sites alike. Taken together with previous observations, these data suggest that DPG's effect on O2 delivery may extend beyond its well recognized impact on hemoglobin-O2 affinity.
Abstract The blood red cell contains millimolar amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, yet no metal ion stability constants appear to have been determined. We show that in the free ligand the 2-phospho group is about six times more basic than the 3-phospho group. We have determined the stability constants for the binding of Zn2+ which occurs at about 0.2 mM in the red cell, and of Al3+ which reduces red cell size and inhibits haemoglobin synthesis. At physiological pH both metal ions occur predominantly as MA2 complexes. The free Zn2+ concentration permitted within the red cell by the 2:1 complex is about 0.3 μm. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate binds Al3+ strongly enough so that at equilibrium there should be comparable concentrations of Al3+ on both sides of the red cell membrane.
Abstract In contrast to most other mammals, the yak, which is native to high altitudes, has two major fetal and two or four major adult hemoglobin (Hb) components. We report the oxygen affinities and sensitivities to pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate of the two fetal and two adult Hbs commonly found in calves, compared to those of adult cow Hb A, and relate these findings to their primary structures and to placental maternal-fetal oxygen transfer at altitude. Arranged in order of decreasing oxygen affinity the Hbs are F 1 (α I 2 γ 2 ), F 2 (α II 2 γ 2 ), A 1 (α I 2 β II 2 ), A 2 (α II 2 β II 2 ), and cow Hb A. The higher affinity of the fetal than the adult yak Hbs correlates with theβ15Trp → Phe substitution, whereas the higher affinity in yak than in cow Hb correlates with the β135Ala → Val substitution. The difference in oxygen affinities between yak Hbs A 1 and A 2 , which have identical β chains, suggests the existence of yet unknown mechanisms determining oxygen affinity. The larger Bohr effects of F 2 than F 1 and of A 2 than A 1 are attributable to α-chain differences, most probably the α I 50Glu → α II 50His substitution.
Abstract Relatively simple procedures are described for preparing partially purified phosphoglycerate mutase from erythrocytes of the goat. The kinetic properties of this enzyme are described and compared to those of the same enzyme from human erythrocytes. The K m for 3-phosphoglyceric acid is 6 × 10 −4 m . The enzyme has an absolute requirement for 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid with a K m of 5 × 10 −6 m . 2,3-Diphosphoglyceric acid phosphatase activity co-purified with the phosphoglyceric acid mutase. This activity, thought to be an activity of the same enzyme, is greatly stimulated by inorganic pyrophosphate. Its K m for pyrophosphate is 1 × 10 −2 m and for 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid in the phosphatase assay is 1.2 × 10 −4 m . No kinetic differences were found between the enzymes of human and caprine origins. The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid in caprine erythrocytes was measured enzymically and found to be 0.03 μmoles per ml cells, approximately 1% of the amount present in the erythrocytes of man. That amount of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is nevertheless 5-fold above the enzyme's K m value for this cofactor. A second 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid phosphatase, stimulated by bisulfite, was detected in caprine red cells but its activity was far less than in human erythrocytes.
A new haemoglobin, Hb Helsinki, in which β82-Lys (EF6) is replaced by Met, was found in a Finnish family. It was associated with familial erythrocytosis, and the oxygen affinity of the blood was higher than normal. The oxygen equilibrium curves of purified Hb Helsinki and HbA from the same haemolysate have been determined under various conditions. ‘Stripped’ Hb Helsinki was found to show normal cooperativity, slightly low oxygen affinity and a reduced Bohr effect at physiological pH. However, the organic phosphates, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) had a very small effect on Hb Helsinki, and the 2,3-DPG binding constant of deoxygenated Hb Helsinki is close to that of oxyhaemoglobin A. Thus, the replacement of Lys by Met at position 82 dramatically changes the nature of the central cavity of the tetramer and the effect of 2,3-DPG on the respiratory function of the molecule.
Hemoglobin Dallas, an alpha-chain variant with a substitution of lysine for asparagine at position 97(G4), was found to have increased oxygen affinity (p1/2 = 1 mmHg at pH 7.3 and 20 degrees C), diminished cooperativity (n, the Hill coefficient = 1.7) and reduced Bohr effect (about 50%). Addition of allosteric effectors (such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inositol hexakisphosphate and bezafibrate) led to a decrease in oxygen affinity and increase in cooperative energy. Kinetic studies at pH 7.0 and 20 degrees C revealed that (i), the overall rate of oxygen dissociation is 1.4-fold slower than that for HbA and (ii), the carbon monoxide dissociation rate is unaffected. The abnormal properties of this hemoglobin variant can be attributed to a more 'relaxed' T-state.
Using site-directed mutagenesis we have produced the first mutant form of a human embryonic haemoglobin. We have mutated the N-terminal Ser residue of the zeta-chain of haemoglobin Portland, zeta 2 gamma 2, (which is normally acetylated) to a Val (which possesses a free amine terminus). The protein spontaneously assembles into a fully functional tetramer which shows cooperative oxygen binding. Determination of the reactivity of the mutant protein with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate indicates that the mutation process does not lead to any major disruption of the protein structure. A comparison of the properties of the mutant and wild-type proteins identifies a significant role for the normal N-terminal acetylation of the zeta-chain with regard to the alkaline Bohr effect and the sensitivity of the oxygen affinity of the protein towards chloride ions. The possible physiological significance of this modification is discussed.
Abstract Protein kinases in the cytosol of whole bovine lactating mammary gland were separated by phosphocellulose chromatography. Five protein kinases (identified as histone kinase and casein kinases A, B, C, and D) were characterized and compared with kinases from other tissues. The histone kinase activity was identified as cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase. The casein kinases differed in their activities toward a variety of proteins ( α S1 -casein, native and dephosphorylated β -casein, and α -lactalbumin) and peptides. Based on substrate specificity studies and the inhibitory effects of heparin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and guanosine triphosphate, kinases B, C, and D were tentatively identified as glycogen synthase kinase-3, casein kinase I, and casein kinase II, respectively.
Red blood cells (RBCs) in sickle cell anemia, transformed into a sickled shape by prolonged deoxygenation, or normal RBCs deformed by a prolonged micropipette aspiration become permanently stabilized in their abnormal shape. This semisolid plastic behavior is thought to involve an irreversible reorganization of the membrane skeleton, but the exact nature of this skeletal rearrangement is not known. In this study, we first asked whether the irreversible deformation is associated with a permanent stretching of the skeletal network, and then whether it is due to a rearrangement of skeletal components involving a disruption of pre-existing protein associations and the subsequent reassociation of new protein contacts. Having found no ultrastructural evidence of stretching of the skeletal lattice in membranes derived from permanently deformed RBCs, we addressed the possibility of reorganization of the proteins of the membrane skeleton. We examined the temperature dependence of irreversible cell deformation to see if it correlated with the known temperature dependence of spectrin tetramers to dimer dissociation and reassociation. Testing the shape irreversibility of both deoxygenated reversibly sickled cells and Nucleopore-aspirated normal cells, we found that both types of cells became permanently deformed when the prolonged incubation of applied force or deoxygenation was performed at 37 degrees C, the temperature at which spectrin tetramers were free to dissociate and reassociate. In contrast, both types of cells were able to regain their original discocytic shape if the prolonged incubation was performed at the lower temperature: at less than 13 degrees C instead of 37 degrees C. Furthermore, normal RBCs were incubated with inosine and pyruvate to elevate intracellular 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the polyanion shown to destabilize spectrin-actin-protein 4.1 association. This did not result in a promotion of irreversible deformation of these cells. We conclude that the irreversible cell deformation observed at physiologic temperature is associated with a skeletal rearrangement through dissociation of spectrin tetramers to dimers and a subsequent reassociation of dimers to tetramers in the new (deformed) configuration. These findings may explain a permanent stabilization of irreversibly sickled cells in their abnormal shape in vivo.
Ca2+-ATPase of human erythrocyte membranes which are prepared from freshly drawn human blood can be activated by the calmodulin present in the hemolysate to 1.5-times the basal level. However, when the membranes are prepared from blood stored for 5-14 days the activation by calmodulin reaches 2.5-times the basal level. An enhanced reactivity to calmodulin of similar magnitude was produced by brief exposure of fresh erythrocytes to 25 mM Na2S2O5 prior to isolation of the membranes. Reincubation of the activated cells in a disulfite-free medium restored the membrane-bound Ca2+-ATPase to a state of normal reactivity to calmodulin. It is hypothesized that these results are related to the level of cytoplasmic Ca2+ which is partly controlled by complex formation with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the concentration of which is diminished when its specific phosphatase is activated by Na2S2O5.
The glycation (nonenzymatic glycosylation) of several proteins was studied in various buffers in order to assess the effects of buffering ions on the kinetics and specificity of glycation of protein. Incubation of RNase with glucose in phosphate buffer resulted in inactivation of the enzyme because of preferential modification of lysine residues in or near the active site. In contrast, in the cationic buffers, 3-(N-morpholino)propane-sulfonic acid and 3-(N-tris(hydroxymethyl)methyl-amino)-2-hydroxypropanesulfonic acid, the kinetics of glycation of RNase were decreased 2- to 3-fold, there was a decrease in glycation of active site versus peripheral lysines, and the enzyme was resistant to inactivation by glucose. The extent of Schiff base formation on RNAse was comparable in the three buffers, suggesting that phosphate, bound in the active site of RNase, catalyzed the Amadori rearrangement at active site lysines, leading to the enhanced rate of inactivation of the enzyme. Phosphate catalysis of glycation was concentration-dependent and could be mimicked by arsenate. Phosphate also stimulated the rate of glycation of other proteins, such as lysozyme, cytochrome c, albumin, and hemoglobin. As with RNase, phosphate affected the specificity of glycation of hemoglobin, resulting in increased glycation of amino-terminal valine versus intrachain lysine residues. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate exerted similar effects on the glycation of hemoglobin, suggesting that inorganic and organic phosphates may play an important role in determining the kinetics and specificity of glycation of hemoglobin in the red cell. Overall, these studies establish that buffering ions or ligands can exert significant effects on the kinetics and specificity of glycation of proteins.
Introduction ::: This article provides an overview of the potential use of ozone as an adjuvant during cancer treatment. ::: ::: ::: Methods ::: We summarize the findings of the most relevant publications focused on this goal, and we include our related clinical experience. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: Over several decades, prestigious journals have published in vitro studies on the capacity of ozone to induce direct damage on tumor cells and, as well, to enhance the effects of radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Indirect effects have been demonstrated in animal models: immune modulation by ozone alone and sensitizing effect of radiotherapy by concurrent ozone administration. The effects of ozone in modifying hemoglobin dissociation curve, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels, locoregional blood flow, and tumor hypoxia provide additional support for potential beneficial effects during cancer treatment. Unfortunately, only a few clinical studies are available. Finally, we describe some works and our experience supporting the potential role of local ozone therapy in treating delayed healing after tumor resection, to avoid delays in commencing radiotherapy and chemotherapy. ::: ::: ::: Conclusions ::: In vitro and animal studies, as well as isolated clinical reports, suggest the potential role of ozone as an adjuvant during radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. However, further research, such as randomized clinical trials, is required to demonstrate its potential usefulness as an adjuvant therapeutic tool.
The purpose of this paper is to review the background and principles used to elucidate control mechanisms in multienzyme sequences. Examples are taken from the literature to illustrate the sites of control of erythrocyte glycolysis observed under different conditions, and the possible nature of the control chemicals. Emphasis will be placed on control of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) level in erythrocytes and possible feedback relationships between the concentration of free DPG, as determined by its differential binding to oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin, and the regulation of glycolysis. For a more extensive treatment of erythrocyte glycolysis, the reader is referred to several recent reviews (1–3).
Polar bear (Ursus maritimus) hemoglobin (Hb) shows a low response to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), compared to human Hb A0, even though these proteins have the same 2,3-DPG-binding site. In addition, polar bear Hb shows a high response to chloride and an alkaline Bohr effect (Δlog P50/ΔpH) that is significantly greater than that of human Hb A0. The difference in sequence Pro (Hb A0)→Gly (polar bear Hb) at position A2 in the A helix seems to be critical for reduced binding of 2,3-DPG. Our results also show that the A2 position may influence not only the flexibility of the A helix, but that differences in flexibility of the first turn of the A helix may affect the unloading of oxygen for the intrinsic ligand affinities of the α and β chains. However, preferential binding to either chain can only take place if there is appreciable asymmetric binding of the phosphoric effector. Regarding this point, 31P NMR data suggest a loss of symmetry of the 2,3-DPG-binding site in the deoxyHb–2,3-DPG complex.
Concepts of the refeeding syndrome have evolved since the 1940s when the dangers of oedema, acute heart failure and the precipitation of acute vitamin B1 deficiency during the relief of war-related famine were already recognized (8, 9) . The relationships between insulin secretion and sodium retention were characterized during the 1960s (10) . Hypophosphataemia had previously been recognized as a complication of glucose infusions and the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis, but its association with refeeding was established as parenteral feeding was popularized (11) . Also during the early 1970s, red cell hypophosphataemia was shown to result in the accumulation of triose phosphates, but decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, depressed ATP and abnormal oxygen dissociation, causing hypoxia in the central nervous system (12) . Opportunities to study the effects of prolonged fasting and subsequent refeeding in an otherwise normal individual are rare -it is not usually possible in hunger strikers. Our case study demonstrates the management of food reintroduction and adds new information on the hormonal and peptide responses to refeeding. Following a short case description (2) , in this paper a full description of the clinical, biochemical and endocrinological findings and processes is provided.
Introduction. This article provides an overview of the potential use of ozone as an adjuvant during cancer treatment. Methods. We summarize the findings of the most relevant publications focused on this goal, and we include our related clinical experience. Results. Over several decades, prestigious journals have published in vitro studies on the capacity of ozone to induce direct damage on tumor cells and, as well, to enhance the effects of radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Indirect effects have been demonstrated in animal models: immune modulation by ozone alone and sensitizing effect of radiotherapy by concurrent ozone administration. The effects of ozone in modifying hemoglobin dissociation curve, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels, locoregional blood flow, and tumor hypoxia provide additional support for potential beneficial effects during cancer treatment. Unfortunately, only a few clinical studies are available. Finally, we describe some works and our experience supporting the potential role of local ozone therapy in treating delayed healing after tumor resection, to avoid delays in commencing radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Conclusions. In vitro and animal studies, as well as isolated clinical reports, suggest the potential role of ozone as an adjuvant during radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. However, further research, such as randomized clinical trials, is required to demonstrate its potential usefulness as an adjuvant therapeutic tool.
Spectral changes of oxyhemoglobin induced by such anions as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inositol hexaphosphate, and Cl- may affect the validity of the spectrophotometric determination of oxygen saturation of hemoglobin. Therefore, the anion-induced difference spectra were extensively measured under a variety of conditions and accurate oxygen equilibrium curves were determined under representative conditions with detection at different wavelengths selected from peaks, troughs, and zero difference points of the difference spectra in the visible and Soret regions. Oxygen equilibrium parameters including the four Adair constants (i.e., equilibrium constants for four steps of oxygenation) estimated from the equilibrium curves did not show any dependence on wavelength within the limits of experimental error. These results indicate that anion-induced spectral changes do not invalidate the spectrophotometric determination of oxygen saturation and confirm the validity of the previous conclusions drawn in our series of studies on the effects of anions, pH and temperature on oxygen equilibrium parameters.
The effect of physical exercise on erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content was studied in eight trained speed canoeists aged 15–25 years. One-stage 4-min load on a paddling ergometer corresponding to a 1 km race was observed. During the test, the following cardiorespiratory parameters were recorded: \(\dot V,{\text{ }}\dot V\operatorname{O} _2 ,{\text{ }}\dot V\operatorname{O} _2 /kg,{\text{ }}\operatorname{HR} ,{\text{ }}\dot V\operatorname{O} _2 /\operatorname{HR} , R\). Blood lactate level and haematocrit were also determined. The average resting values of 2,3-DPG and haematocrit were statistically significant increased.
A new process allows microencapsulation of purified human hemoglobin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to form neohemocytes. The microcapsule membrane is composed of phospholipids and cholesterol. Neohemocytes are substantially smaller than erythrocytes, contain 15.1 grams per decaliter of hemoglobin, and have a P50 value (the partial pressure of oxygen at which the hemoglobin is half-saturated) of 24.0 torr. All rats given 50-percent exchange transfusions survived with only limited evidence of reversible toxicity. Normal serum glutamate-pyruvate-transaminase values at 1, 7, and 30 days after transfusion were consistent with minimal hepatotoxicity. The concentration of blood urea-nitrogen was elevated by 35 percent after 1 day but returned to normal by day 7. However, histopathology revealed normal kidneys on day 1 as well as on days 7 and 30. Neohemocytes cleared from the circulation of transfused rats with an apparent half-life of 5.8 hours.
Haemoglobin (Hb) J-Sardegna [alpha50(CE8)His-->Asp] is a haemoglobin variant characteristic of subjects from the island of Sardinia. Here we report a study of the functional properties of both fetal and adult Hb J-Sardegna. The results indicate that adult Hb J-Sardegna displays an oxygen affinity that is higher than that of adult Hb only in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). On the contrary, at 20 degrees C, the oxygen affinity of fetal Hb J-Sardegna is identical to that of normal fetal haemoglobin, both in the presence and in the absence of 2,3-DPG. A significant difference between these two systems (i.e. a higher oxygen affinity of fetal Hb J-Sardegna) shows up very clearly only when temperature is increased to 37 degrees C. Hence in fetal Hb, the main effect of the amino acid substitution is a decrease in the overall enthalpy change of oxygenation. The results outline the role of the alpha(1)-beta(1) interface in assessing the thermodynamics of oxygen binding. The functional properties of both adult and fetal Hb J-Sardegna have been interpreted at the structural level in light of the results obtained by a computational modelling approach performed in comparison with HbA and Hb Aichi, a variant characterized by a different mutation [alpha50(CE8)His-->Arg] at the same position.
BACKGROUND ::: Storage of whole blood (WB) for less than 24 hours at ambient temperature is permitted in Europe, but data directly comparing storage with and without active cooling are lacking, which was investigated and compared to current standard methods. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: WB was stored in one of four different ways for 24 hours after donation before processing on Day 1 to red cell concentrates (RCCs) in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol and fresh-frozen plasma (FFP; n = 20 each): 1) at 22 degrees C in plastic trays, 2) in cooling devices (Compocool II, NPBI), 3) at 4 degrees C, or 4) processed from WB without storage less than 8 hours from donation (Day 0). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in RCCs were lower after ambient storage compared with those processed on Day 0 or after 4 degrees C storage. Rapid cooling slowed the loss of 2,3-DPG but levels were undetectable by Day 21 with any method. On Day 42 of RCC storage, there was no significant difference between storage methods in levels of adenosine triphosphate or hemolysis. Potassium levels were lower in RCCs from WB stored at ambient compared with those produced on Day 0, regardless of the use of cooling plates. FFP produced from WB on Day 0 or after storage at ambient with or without active cooling met UK specifications (>75% of units >0.70 IU/mL Factor VIII). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: These data suggest that RCCs and FFP produced from WB that has been stored at ambient temperature with or without active cooling are of acceptable quality compared with those produced using current standard methods in the United Kingdom.
Adaptation of the erythropoetic system to hypoxia was shown to be different in different populations of montaine rodents of the Central Caucasus. One type of adaptation includes the increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content of erythrocytes, the hemoglobin structure remaining apparently unchanged. This pattern was found in two groups of animals -- in one population of the ground squirrel Citellus suslicus whose ancestors were introduced to the mountains some 25 years ago, and in the wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus which is a usual inhabitant of highland, although it does not form there any isolated populations. The other type of adaptation was found in the ground squirrel Citellus pygmaeus musicus, which is native to high altitude. The content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the erythrocytes in this animal is the same as in the sea-level subspecies C. p. planicola, whereas the electrophoretic picture of hemoglobin in these two subspecies was found to be different.
The relationship between decreased oxygen affinity of hemoglobin and intraerythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) concentration was confirmed and its existence during the period of open-heart surgery was demonstrated. It is suggested that the trauma sustained by the erythrocytes during their extracorporeal circulation is responsible, in large measure, for the decrease in 2,3 DPG concentration.
The rate of reaction of glyceraldehyde with a series of peptides was found to be dependent on their amino acid composition, sequence, and chain length. The presence of a histidine near the NH2-terminal increased the rate of glycation, whereas the presence of a carboxyl group near the reaction site led to a decrease in reaction rate. In general, tripeptides reacted faster than dipeptides, and dipeptides reacted faster than amino acids. Sodium phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate enhanced the rate of reaction of glyceraldehyde with all the dipeptides tested. Sodium chloride inhibited the reaction in phosphate buffer, but not in HEPES buffer. The NH2-terminal heptapeptide from the β-chain of human hemoglobin A (HbA), where histidine is the second residue, reacted with glyceraldehyde faster than the NH2-terminal hexapeptide from the α-chain. The glycation of tetrameric human Hb by glyceraldehyde was found to be dependent on the ligation state of the protein since deoxy-HbA reacted about 50% more with glyceraldehyde than did liganded HbA. The enhanced glycation of deoxy HbA was mainly attributable to the more extensive reaction at the NH2-terminal of the β-chain. The presence of a histidine adjacent to the NH2-terminal at this site may facilitate the Amadori rearrangement. The glycation of horse Hb in which the second residue is glutamine was not increased under anaerobic conditions.
Oxygen half-saturation of blood (P50), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (2,3-DPG) and Bohr effect were determined in male, and nonpregnant and pregnant female guinea pigs, according to a randomized block design. P50 was significantly higher in the female group (26.3 Torr plus or minus 0.22 SEM) than in the male group (24.8 Torr plus or minus 0.26 SEM) and was significantly lower in both these groups than in the pregnant group (27 Torr plus or minus 0.35 SEM). This difference in oxygen affinity was explained by differences in 2,3-DPG: 1.08 plus or minus 0.02 SEM in males, 1.24 plus or minus 0.03 in non-pregnant females and 1.34 plus or minus 0.03 mol/mol HB in pregnant females P50, 2,3-DPG and haemoglobin concentrations were significantly correlated for the ensemble of the 3 groups. There was no significant difference in Bohr effect between the 3 groups.
Abstract ::: A new approach to the prevention of sickling in vitro by use of the bifunctional crosslinking reagent, dimethyl adipimidate, is described. Prior treatment of sickle erythrocytes with dimethyl adipimidate will inhibit sickling in completely deoxygenated erythrocytes. Treated erythrocytes do not demonstrate the potassium loss and viscosity increase that usually accompany sickling. The oxygen affinity of hemoglobin in these cells is increased independently from changes in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The hemoglobin obtained from treated erythrocytes contains a high-molecular-weight component as well as additional positively charged components. The relative degree to which chemical modification and/or crosslinking is an essential part of the antisickling properties of the material is not known.
Benesch and Benesch [ 1 ] have qbserved that the binding of organic phosphates such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP to hemoglobin decreases the 02 affinity of hemoglobin. This decrease could be caused by a conformational change of the protein, in particular of the heme environment, involving the prosthetic group. Chanutin and Hermann [2] have found that organic phosphates also interact with methemoglobin. The paramagnetism of methemoglobin allows EPR (Electron Paramagnetic Resonance) measurements. Characteristic changes in the EPR spectrum reveal information concerning the electronic structure of the iron porphyrin complex at which structural changes of the protein in the vicinity of the heme influence the electronic configuration of the heme. The EPR spectrum of methemoglobin is specifically influenced by ligand binding [3] , pH [4] , and in the presence of inorganic phosphate [S] . This study shows that ATP causes a specific effect on the EPR spectrum of methemoglobin.
To investigate the role of increased polyol pathway activity and hemodynamic deficits in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima fatty (OLETF) rats, an animal model of human NIDDM, were given water with or without 30% sucrose and some of them were fed laboratory chow containing 0.03% cilostazol, an anticoagulant, or 0.05% [5-(3-thienyl)tetrazol-1-yl] acetic acid monohydrate (TAT), an aldose reductase inhibitor, for 8 wk. Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats were used as nondiabetic controls. The peak latencies of oscillatory potentials of the electroretinogram in sucrose-fed OLETF rats were significantly prolonged compared with those in OLETF rats without sucrose feeding and LETO rats. There was a marked increase in platelet aggregability and a significant decrease in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in sucrose-fed OLETF rats. Cilostazol significantly improved these parameters without changes in retinal levels of sorbitol and fructose. TAT, however, ameliorated all of these parameters. These findings confirm that the sucrose-fed OLETF rat is a useful animal model of retinopathy in human NIDDM and suggest that cilostazol improved diabetic retinopathy by modifying vascular factors, not by altering polyol pathway activity.
Effects were studied of single (40 min) or repeated exercise load (tredmill running, 14 m/min, 30 min) on the physiological and biochemical blood parameters characterizing the organism energetic and metabolic processes in complex experiments on male Wistar rats, on spontaneously hypertensive rats of the SHR line, and their normotensive control WKY. The mixed blood was used for determination of hematocrit, red blood cell count, hemoglobin concentration, level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in red blood cells, erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, glucose, cholesterol, and triglyceride concentration, as well as plasma corticosterone level. To assess the erythrocyte population characteristics, the acidity erythrogram was determined. The weights of adrenal glands and spleen were evaluated. The single running induced a typical stress-response. After the repeated exercise load (the 7–14-day running), Wistar and WKY rats were well adopted to the load, unlike the SHR line rats that were practically not adapted to the repeated tredmill running.
Blood of patients with sickle cell anemia (SS) exhibits decreased affinity for oxygen, although the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin S is the same as that of hemoglobin A. SS red cells contain more 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) than normal erythrocytes. The oxygen affinity of hemolyzed red cells is decreased by added DPG, and hemolysates prepared from SS red cells do not differ from normal hemolysates in this regard. Reduction of oxygen affinity to the levels found in intact SS red cells required DPG concentrations in excess of those found in most SS patients. The same was true of oxygen affinity of patients with pyruvate kinase deficiency. Other organic phosphates, as well as inorganic ions, are known to alter the oxygen affinity of dilute solutions of hemoglobin. These substances, the state of aggregation of hemoglobin molecules, and cytoarchitectural factors probably play roles in determining oxygen affinity of both normal and SS red cells.
While transfusion of red blood cells (RBCs) is effective at preventing morbidity and mortality in anemic patients, studies have indicated that some RBC components have functional defects ("RBC storage lesions") that may actually cause adverse events when transfused. For example, in some studies patients transfused with RBCs stored more than 14 days have had statistically worse outcomes than those receiving "fresher" RBC units. Recipient-specific factors may also contribute to the occurrence of these adverse events. Unfortunately, these events have been difficult to investigate because up to now they have existed primarily as "statistical occurrences" of increased morbidity and mortality in large data sets. There are currently no clinical or laboratory methods to detect or study them in individual transfusion recipients. We propose a unifying hypothesis, centered on insufficient nitric oxide bioavailability (INOBA), to explain the increased morbidity and mortality observed in some patients after RBC transfusion. In this model, variables associated with RBC units (storage time; 2,3-diphosphoglycerate acid concentration) and transfusion recipients (endothelial dysfunction) collectively lead to changes in nitric oxide (NO) levels in vascular beds. Under certain circumstances, these variables are "aligned" such that NO concentrations are markedly reduced, leading to vasoconstriction, decreased local blood flow, and insufficient O(2) delivery to end organs. Under these circumstances, the likelihood of morbidity and mortality escalates. If the key tenets of the INOBA hypothesis are confirmed, it may lead to improved transfusion methods including altered RBC storage and/or processing conditions, novel transfusion recipient screening methods, and improved RBC-recipient matching.
Haemoglobin (Hb) J-Sardegna [α50(CE8)His Asp] is a haemoglobin variant characteristic of subjects from the island of Sardinia. Here we report a study of the functional properties of both fetal and adult Hb J-Sardegna. The results indicate that adult Hb J-Sardegna displays an oxygen affinity that is higher than that of adult Hb only in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). On the contrary, at 20 mC, the oxygen affinity of fetal Hb J-Sardegna is identical to that of normal fetal haemoglobin, both in the presence and in the absence of 2,3-DPG. A significant difference between these two systems (i.e. a higher oxygen affinity of fetal Hb J-Sardegna) shows up very clearly only when temperature is increased to 37 mC. Hence in
The binding data for oxygenation of human hemoglobin, Hb, at various temperatures and in the absence and presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, DPG, and inositol hexakis phosphate, IHP, were analyzed for extraction of mean intrinsic Gibbs free energy, DeltaGo, enthalpy, DeltaHo, and entropy, DeltaSo, of binding at various partial oxygen pressures. This method of analysis considers all the protein species present such as dimer and tetramer forms which were not considered by Imai et al. (Imai K et al., 1970, Biochim Biophys Acta 200: 189-196), in their analysis which was based on Adair equation. In this regard, the values of Hill equation parameters were estimated with high precision at all points of the binding curve and used for calculation of DeltaGo, DeltaHo and DeltaSo were also calculated by analysis of DeltaGo values at various temperatures using van't Hoff equation. The results represent the enthalpic nature of the cooperativity in Hb oxygenation and the compensation effect of intrinsic entropy. The interpretation of results also to be, into account the decrease of the binding affinity of sites for oxygen in the presence of DPG and IHP without any considerable changes in the site-site interaction (extent of cooperativity). In other words, the interactions between bound ligands, organic phosphates and oxygen, are more due to a decreasing binding affinity and not to the reduction of the cooperative interaction between sites. The results also document the more heterotropic effect of IHP compared to DPG.
Although the measurement of the pH of biological systems using the 31P NMR response of inorganic phosphate is well known, sometimes in blood absolute determination of the intensity and position ofthe Pi resonance is precluded by overlap from the doublet resonance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Three techniques which overcome this problem by eliminating the doublet are described and their sensitivity to the experimental parameters is assessed. © 1989 Academic Press, Inc.
Pioneering work on the effect of CO on O2 equilibrium with hemoglobin (Hb) was performed by Douglas and Haldane (1912). Haldane (1912) also presented a theoretical procedure for the calculation of the position of the O2 dissociation curve at a given amount of carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO). Although their studies were followed later by many investigators (Roughton and Darling, 1944; Okada et al., 1976; Yamaguchi et al., 1981), the analyses were mainly focussed on the competitive replacement reaction between O2 and CO through Hb. On the other hand, several authors (Hlastala et al., 1976; Okada et al., 1976; Zwart et al., 1984) aimed to assess the effect of CO on aliosteric interactions induced by ligands including hydrogen ion, i.e. the fixed acid Bohr effect as well as the molecular CO2, i.e. the carbamino effect. Unfortunately however, their results were not in full agreement especially as regards the saturation dependence of the fixed acid Bohr factor. Furthermore, little work has been done to estimate a quantitative influence of CO on the effect provided by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) within the red blood cells.
The binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate to human haemoglobin was studied in solutions of a high haemoglobin concentration (3 mM) and varying amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, inorganic phosphate, magnesium and hydrogen ions. Both phospho compounds were found to be bound by both deoxygenated and oxygenated haemoglobin; the affinity of the former was at physiological conditions about twice that of the latter. At least two binding sites were found for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; these sites show strong cooperation. Binding of both phospho compounds decreased at higher hydrogen ion concentration. Inorganic phosphate up to 10 mM had no effect on either compound. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate decreased the binding of ATP to deoxygenated haemoglobin.
BACKGROUND ::: Although whole blood intended for component preparation is commonly left to cool at ambient temperature, knowledge is insufficient concerning what effects this may have on red blood cell (RBC) quality, in particular after a prolonged hold. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Whole blood collected in CPD was incubated at 20 degrees C and 28 degrees C for 6 h designed as a paired study. Blood components were prepared and the red blood cell concentrates (RBCs) were stored for 28 days at 4 degrees C +/- 2 degrees C. Blood gases, pH, glucose, lactate, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and plasma myeloperoxidase (MPO) were investigated. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: After 6 h the 2,3-DPG concentrations had lowered to 88% (20 degrees C) and 54% (28 degrees C) of initial levels, respectively. The difference was significant and was maintained for 28 days, although, at low levels from day 7 (28 degrees C) and day 14 (20 degrees C) of storage. ATP was maintained at the initial level in both groups during the first 6 h of storage but after component separation the levels were significantly higher in the 28 degrees C group during the first 5 days. The release of myeloperoxidase (MPO) was significantly higher in the non-cooled group than in the cooled group. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Pre-separation holding for 6 h of whole blood at temperatures of 28 degrees C causes a great and rapid loss of 2,3-DPG and considerable formation of acid metabolites resulting in clearly subnormal 2,3-DPG levels even on day 1. Active pre-separation cooling to 20 degrees C is to be recommended.
The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was increased in whole venous blood of patients with various cancers, including those of breast, ovary, lung and colon, but not rectum, compared with age-matched controls. Higher values, increasing with age, were also found in patients with Hodgkin's disease and other lymphomas. This abnormality is considered to be due to increased synthesis of the metabolite by the tumour tissue.
1.Wholeblood was incubated at370,while beingdialysed against a large volume ofiso-osmotic bicarbonate buffer, pH7-4.Thebuffer contained glucose andthe essential inorganic componentsofbloodplasmainproportion. 2.After3hr.of incubation invitro thereisa lossofred-cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. 3.Isotope experiments showthatthisisduetoan accelerated rateofdestruction ofthis compound.4.Simultaneously, thereisan increase inthemedianofred-cell osmotic fragility. 5.Afterextended periods ofincubation thereisa decrease in themetabolic rateanda decrease intheratio oftheratesoflactate production toglucose consumption. 6.Thereisa continuous loss oftotal adenine nucleotide and,after thefirst 12hr. ofincubation, a tendency fortheintracellular Na+and K+ toequilibrate withtheplasma. 7.Thestandard deviation ofred-cell osmotic fragility expressed among thered-cell population increases exponentially with thetimeofincubation. Redcells havealife-span invivoofabout120 days.Duringthistimetheyundergometabolic changes thatarethought todetermine theaging process. Themostimportant ofthesechanges is probably thedecrease intheactivity ofglyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, whichis accompanied by a lossofATP (Lohr, Waller, Karges, Schlegel & Muller, 1958). Whenbloodis withdrawn fromthebodythecells deteriorate rapidly and eventually haemolyse. A rapid deterioration oftheredcells alsooccurs whenthey aresubjected tostatic conditions invivo; this occurs whenredcells indialysis sacsareplaced intraperitoneally
The early posttransfusion period after acute blood loss using erythromass without ozone was characterized by decreased electrophoretic mobility of erythrocytes (EPME), ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3- DPG) concentration, Na+-K+-ATPase activity, and increased concentration of malonic dialdehyde (MDA) and catalase activity in erythrocytes. Most parameters gradually were restored over 5 days, but a reduced concentration of 2,3-DPG was observed throughout the entire experiment with transfusion of erythromass without ozone. Transfusion of the ozonized erythrocyte mass 1 h after its administration caused an increase in 2,3- DPG concentration in erythrocytes circulating in the vascular bed. Twenty-four hours later, increased catalase activity, EPPE, and ATP concentration were registered, and, after 5 days, enhanced Na+-K+-ATPase activity was registered. Their values were maintained until the end of the experiment at a higher level than in animals that had undergone transfusion of the nonozonized erythromass. Ozonized erythrocyte mass improves the functional metabolic state of erythrocytes, promotes an earlier recovery of the oxygen transport in blood, and limits the damage to the microcirculatory bed of the myocardium and cardiomyocytes during blood loss.
The erythrocyte glycolytic intermediate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) play an important role in oxygen transport and delivery by binding to hemoglobin (Hb) and reducing its affinity for oxygen. Considerable quantitative variability in the levels of DPG and ATP exists in human populations and in a population of hooded (Long-Evans) rats we have studied. This paper presents the results of studies on the genetic component of DPG-level variation in an outbred population of hooded rats. Beginning with about 100 rats, a two-way selection experiment was initiated. Pairs of rats with the highest DPG levels were mated to produce a High-DPG rat strain and animals with the lowest DPG levels were mated to produce a Low-DPG strain. Mean DPG levels responded rapidly to selection and, from generation 3 on, the differences between strain means were highly significant. Ten High-DPG strain rats were intercrossed with 10 Low-DPG strain rats of generation 10 to produce an F1 generation in which the DPG levels were almost as high as those of High-DPG animals. This indicates partial dominance of High-DPG alleles. The F2 DPG-level distribution showed two distinct subpopulations. The high DPG subpopulation contained three times as many animals as the low DPG subpopulation. From these results and the statistical analyses performed, it was concluded that the DPG differences between strains were due to an allelic difference at one major locus, the allele carried by the High-DPG strain showing partial dominance over the allele carried by the Low-DPG strain. It appears that this locus may also effect ATP levels to a large extent and is polymorphic in hooded rat populations. Identification of this locus gives us a useful tool for studies of the physiological effects of DPG variability, as well as providing an example of a major gene effect in a quantitatively varying trait.
Abstract The binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to human hemoglobin at intermediate stages of ligand saturation has been studied by visible and 31 P-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Release of diphosphoglycerate was found to lag behind the ligand binding, supporting the previous finding that α chains bind ligands before the β chains, and suggesting that the resulting intermediate molecules may still bind diphosphoglycerate. Comparison of the fraction of free diphosphoglycerate at any stage of fractional ligation to the fraction of molecules containing four, or three and four, bound ligands showed that the dissociation of diphosphoglycerate does not occur completely during any single step of ligand binding.
We measured hematological and erythrocyte O2 transport parameters in whole blood and density-separated erythrocytes in 11 mountaineers before and during 5 days of exposure to high altitude (4,559 m). We determined the in vivo (arterial pHblood and PCO2) and standard (pHblood = 7.4, PCO2 = 40 Torr) O2 tension at 50% O2 saturation of hemoglobin and (P50,vv and P50,st) and Bohr coefficients (BC) for fixed acid (H+) and CO2 and examined the contribution of the altered average age of circulating erythrocytes due to the stimulation of erythropoiesis on whole blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and P50,st. At altitude, whole blood P50,vv remained almost unchanged, whereas P50,st and 2,3-DPG increased significantly (+4 Torr; 3.5 mumol/g hemoglobin). BCCO2 was elevated significantly at altitude. Serum erythropoietin increased transiently fourfold, iron utilization increased, and serum iron decreased by 66%. Reticulocyte counts increased, but other hematological parameters were unchanged. In density-separated erythrocytes, P50,st and 2,3-DPG increased with decreasing cell density but were higher in fractions with comparable reticulocyte counts in cells prepared at altitude than in those from control studies. Our data show that, despite the increase in 2,3-DPG and the decrease in average erythrocyte age, the in vivo hemoglobin-O2 affinity remains unchanged. P50,st values reflect the elevation of 2,3-DPG, and approximately 50% of the increase in both parameters can be ascribed to the increase in the number of reticulocytes and young erythrocytes.
A bstract. Theerythrocytes ofapatient with theso-called "high ATPsyndrome" werecharacterized byahighATPcontent andlow2,3-diphosphoglycerate level. Thepyruvate kinase activity wasspecifically increased (about twice thenormal level). After separation oftheerythrocytes according toagebydiscontinuous Percoll density centrifugation, thepyruvate kinase activity wasfound tobeincreased inall Percoll fractions. Pyruvate kinase ofthepatient's cells wascharacterized byadecreased KO.5 forthesubstrate phosphoenolpyruvate and noinhibition byATP.TheMichaelis constant (Km) value forADP,thenucleotide specificity, thethermostability, pHoptimum, andimmunological specific activity were normal. Itisconcluded that thehighpyruvate kinase activity isduetoashift intheR(elaxed) = T(ight) equilibrium totheR(elaxed) form.
Forty-two non-diabetics whose glycated haemoglobin levels could not be explained by their levels of fasting glycaemia or glucose tolerance were identified as part of the Islington Diabetes Survey. Mean glycated haemoglobin levels that were high relative to their blood glucose levels (HIGH GLYCATORS) were found in 22 subjects whilst 20 subjects had low relative levels (LOW GLYCATORS). A repeat glucose tolerance test in 13 of the 42 subjects (7 high and 6 low glycators) showed that they remained categorised in the two groups four years after the discrepancy was identified. Mean blood glucose levels calculated from two 5-point diurnal profiles also failed to explain the glycated haemoglobin levels in the two groups. Further biochemical and haematological tests revealed that glycated albumin showed a better relationship with blood glucose levels than did glycated haemoglobin. Intra-erythrocyte glucose concentrations were significantly lower than the plasma glucose in the low glycators, whilst the levels of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (a known catalyst of glycation) were significantly higher in the high glycators. These findings may partially explain the original discovery of low and high glycators. The effects of high fibre/low glucose and high glucose/low fibre diets on glycated proteins were studied in normal subjects. Only glycated albumin levels changed significantly, probably due to small changes in plasma glucose occurring on each diet, which were not mirrored by similar changes in the erythrocyte. When another group of normal subjects received 1 g vitamin C daily for three months, significant reductions in glycated albumin and glycated haemoglobin were observed, with the former being reduced to a greater extent. This suggests that vitamin C has the potential of being used therapeutically to reduce glycation. In conclusion, for normal subjects, glycated albumin is a more reliable indicator of blood glucose control than glycated haemoglobin.
In the present study, we examined the ability of the phosphatase inhibitors p-nitrophenyl phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to inhibit phospholipase D (PLD) activation in the rabbit peritoneal neutrophil. Also assessed were choline, a product of PLD-catalyzed hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine, and its metabolite phosphocholine. PLD activity was determined by measuring the accumulation, in the presence of ethanol, of [3H]phosphatidylethanol ([3H]PEt) in neutrophils prelabeled with 1-O-[3H]octadecyl-2-lyso-snglycero-3-phosphocholine. Of the compounds tested, only DPG interfered with PLD activation by N-formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (fMLP) in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In contrast, it augmented fMLP-stimulated levels of [3H]inositol phosphates in myo-[3H]inositol-labeled neutrophils. DPG also prevented PLD activation by the calcium ionophore ionomycin and by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. The suppression of PLD activation by DPG appeared to arise from direct interaction with the enzyme, as evidenced by a DPG competitive pattern of inhibition (Ki = 9.0 +/- 1.5 mM) for PLD from Streptomyces chromofuscus. These results suggest that DPG may be a useful tool for investigating the role of PLD in physiological function in a wide variety of cell types. Interestingly, DPG inhibited fMLP-induced N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase release and O2- generation by the cytochalasin B-primed neutrophils in a dose-dependent manner, whereas it had minimal effect (at concentrations up to 5 mM) on O2- generation induced by fMLP in nonprimed cells. These results suggest that PLD plays an important role in fMLP stimulation of both N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase release and O2- generation in the primed neutrophils, but that a PLD-independent pathway plays the primary role in O2- generation by the nonprimed neutrophils.
Abstract 822 Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a genetic hemolytic disease with high morbidity and mortality affecting millions of individuals worldwide. Although SCD was identified a century ago, we still lack effective mechanism-based therapies to treat this disease. Using non-biased metabolomic screening, we found that sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) is significantly elevated in the blood of SCD mice. Further analysis revealed that the activity of sphingosine kinase 1 (Sphk1, the enzyme that produces S1P) is significantly elevated in erythrocytes of SCD mice. Chronic treatment of SCD mice with a SphK1 inhibitor significantly attenuated sickling, hemolysis, inflammation and multiple tissue damage by reducing erythrocyte and plasma S1P levels. Erythrocyte S1P levels were further elevated following hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced acute sickle crisis (ASC) in SCD mice and blocking its elevation by a Sphk1 specific inhibitor significantly reduced hallmark features associated with ASC and increased survival rates. To extend our pharmacological findings, we utilized a genetic approach to inhibit the synthesis of Sphk1 specifically in hematopoietic cells (HCs). For this purpose we infected bone marrow cells (BMCs) isolated from SCD mice with recombinant lentivirus encoding shRNA specific for Sphk1 or a scrambled shRNA sequence. Following viral transduction, we transplanted the genetically modified BMCs from SCD mice to lethally irradiated WT recipients to generate SCD chimeras. Similarly, we found that knockdown of SphK1 by shRNA in SCD chimeras led to a significant reduction of erythrocyte and plasma S1P and subsequent decreased sickling, hemolysis and inflammatory cells. Strikingly, we found that splenomegaly was substantially reduced in SCD chimera mice with the specific knockdown of SphK1 in hematopoietic cells. As with SCD mice, we found that erythrocyte Sphk1 activity and erythrocyte and plasma S1P levels were significantly elevated in humans with SCD compared to normal individuals. Inhibition of SphK1 in cultured primary human erythrocytes isolated from SCD patients inhibited hypoxia-induced elevation of erythrocyte S1P levels and reduced sickling. Thus, we have revealed for the first time that SphK1-mediated S1P elevation in SCD erythrocytes is a key contributor to sickling in SCD and that Sphk1 inhibition can attenuate both acute and chronic sickling events and disease progression. In an effort to determine the molecular mechanism underlying S1P-induced sickling, we unexpectedly found that S1P directly binds with Hb and results in a reduced Hb-O 2 affinity. This finding led us to further discover that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, another erythrocyte specific allosteric modulator, is required for S1P-mediated allosteric modulation and that these two endogenous heterotropic modulators work cooperatively to induce a substantial reduction in Hb-O 2 affinity. Thus, our discovery adds a significant new chapter to erythrocyte physiology by revealing S1P is a novel allosteric modulator of Hb-O 2 affinity and also provides a mechanism underlying S1P-mediated sickling by promoting the formation of deoxyHbS. Thus, the work reported here could be the foundation leading to future human trials and a possible therapy for SCD, a life-threatening hemolytic disorder for which the current treatment is extremely limited. Disclosures: No relevant conflicts of interest to declare.
Our objective was to develop a precise method for quantification of in vivo proton decoupled 31P spectra from the human brain. This objective required that an appropriate spectral model be created and that the quantification was performed using a non-subjective fitting technique. The precision of the quantification was assessed using Cramer-Rao standard deviations and compared using two different spectral models: one containing a pair of peaks representing 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the other excluding this metabolite. The data was quantified using a Marquardt-Levenberg (ML) algorithm incorporating prior knowledge with a Hankel singular value decomposition (HSVD) performed initially to provide parameter estimates for the ML algorithm. Quantification was performed on two different in vivo 2-D CSI 31P data sets: the first examined 11 normal controls, the second examined a single individual six times. Spectra from a region in the parieto-occipital cortex were analyzed. The Cramer-Rao standard deviations were significantly lower for some metabolites with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the model: in the repeat study mobile phospholipids (p = 0.045) and phosphocholine (p = 0.034), and in the 11 controls mobile phospholipids (p = 0.003) and Pi (p = 0.002).
A program of component therapy using largely frozen erythrocytes was initiated at Cook County Hospital in July 1973. Use of the three existing washing systems for routine preparation of frozen erythrocytes has shown that there are differences in the levels of free hemoglobin, hematocrit, and residual glycerol in the washed products. Adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and extracellular potassium and sodium were found to be within acceptable limits. Some expired units were cultured and were found to be positive for Staphylococcus and Corynebacterium. The source of contamination has not been determined. Frozen blood, when available, has been given to all patients, regardless of age or clinical condition. The incidence of transfusion reactions has decreased from 0.57% prior to the inception of the component therapy program to 0.11% since that time. Two cases of possible posttransfusion hepatitis occurred in patients who had received non-frozen blood, and in three patients who received non-frozen erythrocytes and/or components as well as frozen blood. Although the goal of the program was the use of frozen erythrocytes exclusively, only 64% use was achieved, as sufficient quantities of blood for freezing were not available at all times.
Abstract When 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was injected intravenously into rats, factor VIII (antihemophilic factor) procoagulant activity was substantially increased. These effects are in accordance with what has been observed in hemolytic anemias and after intravenous injection of hemolysed blood. 2,3-DPG did not inhibit nor enhance any other clotting factor in vivo . In vitro 2,3-DPG did not change factor VIII activity, indicating that the in vivo increase of factor VIII, after 2,3-DPG injection, is not due to an activation, but rather to a de novo release and/or synthesis or to a decrease in catabolism of factor VIII.
Abstract ::: An unusual compound, 1,3,4,6-hexanetetracarboxylic acid, was identified by 1H and 13C two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry as one of the major components of the small-molecule pool in Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum ΔH under optimal conditions of cell growth. Incorporation of 13C- and 2H-labeled acetates was consistent with the biosynthesis of this tetracarboxylic acid from α-ketoglutarate, two molecules of acetyl-coenzyme A, and one molecule of CO2, as established for the tetracarboxylic acid moiety of methanofuran. 13CO2 pulse- 12CO2 chase methodology was used to establish the turnover rate for this compound. In contrast to the two other major solutes in this bacterium, cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and glutamate, which are key metabolic intermediates, this free tetracarboxylic acid was metabolically inactive, with a half-life that exceeded the cell doubling time. Hence, this molecular pool cannot serve as a metabolic intermediate in cell biosynthesis. The functional role of free tetracarboxylate as a conservative part of a system that maintains high positive internal osmotic pressure in this bacterium is proposed.
Abstract Calorimetric titration curves demonstrate the heat of binding of organic phosphates to oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin at pH 7.4 in 0.05 m 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)-2,2',2''-nitrilo-ethanol buffer and 0.1 m Cl-. An absence of binding heat was noted at this pH value for both the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) interactions with oxyhemoglobin. At pH 6.0, an exothermic heat of reaction is observed between both oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin and 2,3-DPG, the deoxy complex being the more stable. The binding ratio of 2,3-DPG and IHP to deoxyhemoglobin at all pH values studied was found to be 1:1. A strong pH dependence in the ΔH for these reactions suggests a proton involvement. The pH coefficient of binding is markedly different between the two forms of reduced hemoglobin. Mg2+ is shown to be a competitive inhibitor of 2,3-DPG-deoxyhemoglobin binding through formation of a nonbinding 2,3-DPG-Mg2+ complex. IHP forms a more stable complex than 2,3-DPG with deoxyhemoglobin at pH 7.0 to 7.4, and it shows reactivity at pH 7.4 with methemoglobin. This complex seems to be quite stable with a small heat of formation and involves all hemoglobin molecules, not just those in a particular spin state. 2,3-DPG, on the other hand, gives little or no heat of binding to methemoglobin at pH 7.4 but shows appreciable binding at pH 6.0. Differences in binding heats between the three hemoglobin forms are interpreted to mean that different functional groups participate in the binding of the same ligand to the various hemoglobin quaternary states.
Hb Geelong [beta 139(H17)Asn----Asp] was detected in a German woman of Polish-Russian descent. It is an unstable variant which appears to increase the severity of a beta (+)-thalassemic phenotype in the propositus. The electrophoretic properties of Hb A and Hb Geelong are similar on cellulose acetate in both acidic and alkaline conditioning. The electrophoretic mobility and the amino acid analysis of beta XT-14 indicated the substitution Asn----Asp at beta 139. The sequence of beta XT-14 was confirmed by dansyl-Edman degradation. The slight increase observed in the P50 of whole blood is not intrinsic to the beta 139 substitution, but is thought to result from an increased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level in response to anemia. No family studies were possible to investigate the mode of inheritance of either beta (+)-thalassemia or Hb Geelong in the propositus. Synthetic globin chain ratios suggest that impaired synthesis of the variant globin chain is partially responsible for the low level of Hb Geelong in peripheral blood.
Abstract 1. 1. Binding of Ca 2+ and of Mg 2+ by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) was measured by spectrophotometric metal-indicator methods and by potentiometric titrations with Ca 2+ -selective and divalent cation-selective electrodes. 2. 2. The logarithms of the estimated binding constants, K s , were 3.11–3.75 for CaDPG and 2.69–2.93 for MgDPG. 3. 3. Binding constants for CaATP and for MgADP, estimated by the same methods, agreed well with the literature values. 4. 4. It was estimated that the DPG in the human erythrocyte could bind about 70% of the Mg 2+ , in the absence of other ligands. Changes in erythrocyte DPG might alter free Mg 2+ levels sufficiently to influence Mg 2+ -dependent enzyme systems.
BACKGROUND ::: We investigated whether improving the metabolic status of red blood cell concentrates before freezing could extend the postthaw shelf life beyond 14 days while still meeting the requirements for hemolysis (0.8%) and total adenylate (>82% of original values). ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: At Day 8 after collection, four leukoreduced red blood cell concentrates in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAGM) were pooled, mixed, and split (n = 4). Of these concentrates, two were rejuvenated in Rejuvesol. In addition, two leukoreduced red blood cell concentrates in phosphate-adenine-glucose-guanosine-gluconate-mannitol (PAGGGM) were pooled, mixed, and split at Day 8 after collection (n = 4). All concentrates were glycerolized, frozen, and stored for at least 2 weeks at -80°C. After thawing and deglycerolization, from each pair, one red blood cell concentrate was resuspended in SAGM, and one was suspended in AS-3. During postthaw storage at 2 to 6°C for 35 days, all concentrates were sampled weekly and analyzed for hematologic, metabolic, and morphologic parameters. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Both Rejuvesol and PAGGGM treatment produced increased adenosine triphosphate and total adenylate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels compared with untreated red blood cell concentrates. Regardless of prefreeze Rejuvesol or PAGGGM treatment, postthaw hemolysis remained below 0.8% during 7 days in SAGM and during 35 days in AS-3. At Day 35 of postthaw storage in AS-3, total adenylate in nonrejuvenated red blood cell concentrates had decreased to 72% of the original values; whereas, in prefreeze Rejuvesol-treated and PAGGGM-treated concentrates, adenylate values were still were at 101% and 98%, respectively. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Based on maximum allowable hemolysis of 0.8% and total adenylate content greater than 82% of the original value, thawed, prefreeze Rejuvesol-treated or PAGGGM-treated red blood cell concentrates can be stored for 35 days at 2 to 6ºC in AS-3.
The binding data for oxygenation of human hemoglobin, Hb, at various temperatures and in the absence and presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, DPG, and inositol hexakis phosphate, IHP, were analyzed for extraction of mean intrinsic Gibbs free energy, ΔG o , enthalpy, ΔH o , and entropy, 
C ardiac surgery is associated with significant transfusion requirements and tends to put a great burden on the blood inventory. [1] Hence, their clinical use should be justifiable in terms of patient's benefit. Hazards associated with transfusions are transfusion-transmitted infections and noninfectious complications which include allergic, hemolytic, hypotensive, febrile reactions, transfusion-related acute lung injury, transfusion-associated circulatory overload, etc. [2, 3] Departments of Transfusion Medicine, 1 Cardiovascular Surgery, 2 Pathology and 3 Preventive and Social Medicine, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, India is that the soluble mediators in the packed red blood cells (pRBCs) unit causing a second inflammatory insult for the priming of neutrophils, adding on to the first inflammatory insult being caused by the CPB circuit tubing and pumps. [5] This cumulative effect can lead to enhanced activation of adherent leukocytes leading to increased release of inflammatory markers and its consequent ill effects on the patient's physiological state, and enhancing transfusion-related immunomodulation. This is generally noticed objectively by the aggravation of lung injury in the patient already on ventilator, more incidences of infections in the transfused patients, more time taken for recovering from the surgical stress and worse postoperative outcomes. [6] Storage of red blood cells (RBCs) induces progressive biochemical, biomechanical, and immunological changes that affect red cell viability, deformability, oxygen-carrying capacity, microcirculatory flow, and recipient response, etc., which are described as "RBC storage lesions." [7] It also includes decrease in adenosine triphosphate, decrease in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ammonia accumulation and increase potassium in supernatant, increased adhesion of red cells to endothelial cells, etc. [8] The clinical consequence of these storage lesions is the reduced survival of RBC after transfusion, and probably a worse patient outcome as found in many clinical studies. [9] Aims and objectives Herein, we made an effort to study the patterns of usage of allogenic blood products in patients undergoing cardiac surgery by a single surgeon to avoid bias at our hospital and identify the effect if any of the volume and storage age of transfused RBCs with morbidity and mortality after cardiac surgery.
Normal adult hemoglobin consists of four polypeptides (two alpha chains and two beta chains) and the ironcontaining prosthetic group (heme or ferroprotoporphyrin IX). In the early embryo, theta (y) and zeta (z) chains are present instead of the alpha (a) chains, and epsilon (e) chains are present instead of the beta (b) chains. After early embryogenesis, pairs of alpha chains are linked with pairs of either beta, gamma (g), or delta (d) chains to form adult hemoglobin (Hgb A = a2b2), fetal hemoglobin (Hgb F = a2g2), or hemoglobin A2 (Hgb A2 = a2d2). By term gestation, the ratio of hemoglobin F to hemoglobin A is approximately 1:1. By 1 year of age, hemoglobin F typically constitutes less than 1% of total hemoglobin. Although hemoglobin A2 is present, it accounts for less than 2.5% of total adult hemoglobin. The sequence of amino acids (141 amino acids for alpha chains and 146 for beta chains) defines the primary structure. The three-dimensional shape of each chain defines the secondary structure, and the relationship between the four chains and the heme prosthetic group defines the tertiary structure. The binding of the ligands 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and oxygen defines the quaternary structure. The affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen is expressed as the P50 (i.e., the oxygen tension at which half of hemoglobin’s oxygen-carrying capacity is used). Increased temperature and increases in hydrogen ion [H+] and 2,3-DPG concentrations reduce the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, leading to an increase in the P50 and facilitating the unloading of oxygen at peripheral tissues. In comparison with purified hemoglobin A, purified hemoglobin F has a lower oxygen affinity and a greater response to changes in pH but only a minimal response to changes in 2,3-DPG concentration. The decreased interaction between hemoglobin F and intraerythrocyte 2,3-DPG accounts for the increased affinity of fetal blood for oxygen in vivo.
Oxygen-release capacity of the red blood cells was investigated in non-acidotic insulin-dependent diabetics before and after the achievement of strict metabolic control with the aid of the artificial pancreas. P50std (oxygen tension at 50% oxygen saturation) values were low in basal condition and returned to normal after the 24-h treatment period. No significant changes were observed in the content of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate nor in the acid-base balance. Only the labile form of glycosylated hemoglobin showed significant decreases after treatment. These results suggest that insulin-dependent diabetics may have a state of relative tissue hypoxia which can be easily overcome by the achievement of strict metabolic control.
Abstract ::: This study examines adaptations in myocardial cytosolic phosphate content and buffering capacity that occur in vivo as a function of development. Phosphate metabolites were monitored in an open chest sheep preparation using a 31P magnetic resonance surface coil over the left ventricle. Newborn lambs (aged 4-9 d, n = 5) underwent exchange transfusion with adult blood to reduce blood-borne 2,3-diphosphoglycerate contamination of the heart monophosphate and phosphomonoester resonances, thus allowing determination of these phosphate concentrations. The blood-exchanged newborns and mature controls (aged 30-60 d, n = 5) were infused with 0.4 N hydrochloric acid to decrease pH from greater than 7.35 to less than 7.00. Simultaneously, intracellular and extracellular pH were determined from the chemical shifts of the respective phosphate peaks and compared to arterial blood pH. Findings were as follows: (a) diphosphoglycerate contribution to the cardiac spectrum was found to be negligible, (b) significant decreases in cytosolic phosphate (P less than 0.03) and phosphomonoester (P less than 0.01) content occurred with maturation, and (c) large decreases in extracellular pH (greater than 0.5 U) in both groups were similarly associated with only small changes in intracellular pH (less than 0.1 U). Change in cytosolic phosphate content implies that alterations occur in the phosphorylation potential with resulting effects on regulation of myocardial respiration, and cardiac energetics.
The effect of salicylates on erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) was studied in vivo in 3 groups of healthy subjects receiving acetylsalicyclic acid (18 persons), sodium salicylate (5 persons) and salicylamide (7 persons) in therapeutic dosage. No effect was found on 2,3-DPG in any of the 3 groups. ATP was significantly decreased (p less than 0.05) when acetylsalicylic acid or sodium salicylate was given.
Inhibition of the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) in erythrocyte cells could provide a method of treatment for cardiovascular and respiratory disorders. The product of the reaction catalysed by PGK, 1,3-diphosphoglycerate, is converted by another enzyme in erythrocytes to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which is an allosteric effector of haemoglobin. For this reason, a series of fluoro-phosphonate inhibitors have been tested for their potency in detailed inhibition kinetic experiments with yeast PGK. The results were analysed by Lineweaver-Burk and Dixon plots and Ki values obtained. Two fluorophosphonates were found to be inhibitory and both have an electron rich mid-chain functionality, which is thought to provide electrons for hydrogen bonding to residues in the triose binding site of the enzyme. It is postulated that either the fluorine or mid-chain moieties of the analogues are binding to Asp23 and Asn25 residues in the so called 'basic patch' area of the triose site. These residues are shown to bind to the D-hydroxyl moiety on the C2 of the true substrate, 3-phosphoglycerate, in the high-resolution crystal structure of pig muscle PGK co-crystallized with 3-phosphoglycerate.
Evidence from a variety of biochemical, pharmacological and clinical studies indicates that the intracellular concentration of 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate (PP-ribose-P)1 is an important determinant of the rate of purine nucleotide and thus uric acid synthesis (Reviews, references 1,2). PP-Ribose-P formation (Figure 1) from ATP and ribose-5-phosphate is catalyzed by the enzyme PP-ribose-P synthetase in a reaction requiring inorganic phosphate (Pi) and magnesium. Small molecule inhibitors also affect PP-ribose-P synthetase activity and include purine, pyrimidine and pyridine nucleotides as well as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) (3). The significance of regulation of the activity of this enzyme is apparent in several families in whom purine overproduction and clinical gout result from different structural mutations in PP-ribose-P synthetase which lead to excessive enzyme activity and PP-ribose-P generation (4–6).
Abstract A simple, reproducable method for the separation of human erythrocytes, described recently (Murphy, J. R. (1973) J. Lab. Clin. Med. 82, 334–341) has been utilized for the purpose of obtaining a wide range of biochemical data on these cells. Using phthalate ester density centrifugation of the fractions obtained by Murphy's method, we established that the cells were separated exclusively on the basis of their densities. Data on a wide range of biochemical and hematological parameters, when compared with previously reported density separation procedures showed that this simple technique can be used to fractionate the cells according to their densities (age) in their own plasma. Cells of increasing density consistently and reproducibly exhibited an increase in hemoglobin concentration, a moderate elevation in Na + and a decrease in the following: K + , acetylcholinesterase, sialic acid, membrane protein, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, cholesterol, phospholipid, mean corpuscular volume and critical hemolytic volume, However, no change in mean corpuscular hemoglobin was evident. The observed differences were not artifacts of the centrifugation process. This was determined in recentrifuged top fractions from which new top and bottom cells were obtained. The latter cells resembled the top fraction from which they were obtained, rather than the original bottom fraction. Whereas the parameters mentioned above exhibited consistency and repoducibility, such was not the case with the ATPase values. Depending on the cell density group examined and/or buffer as well as other conditions, significant variabilityu in the activity levels of the ouabain sensitive, as well as the Ca 2+ -stimulated ATPase, was observed. Use of these enzyme activities as indicators of cell age must be viewed with caution.
Phosphoribosylpyrophosphate (PRPP) synthetase activity and the intracellular concentration of PRPP were assayed in erythrocytes from patients with primary hyperuricemia and primary metabolic gout. Sensitivity of the enzyme to feed-back inhibition by adenosine diphosphate (ADP), guanosine diphosphate (GDP), and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was determined. All patients with gout and four of ten patients with hyperuricemia were taking allopurinol during the study. Mean PRPP synthetase activity in erythrocytes from hyperuricemic and gouty patients was similar to that in normal subjects, and feedback inhibition by ADP, GDP, and 2,3-DPG was intact. The concentration of PRPP in erythrocytes was higher in normal females than in normal males, higher in normal subjects than in gouty patients, and lower in hyperuricemic patients taking allopurinol than in those hyperuricemic patients not taking this drug. The difference in intracellular levels of PRPP in erythrocytes in gout versus hyperuricemic patients was not significant. The significance of these findings is discussed in relation to the regulation of PRPP synthetase and in the important regulatory role of PRPP in purine metabolism.
ABSTRACT A general strategy is presented for the design of reagents that react specifically with amino groups of hemoglobin S within the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) binding site and that, as a result, disrupt the sickling process. The prototype of this class of compounds, bis (3,5-dibromosalicyl) fumarate, is shown to satisfy each of the criteria required for a clinically useful antisickling agent. The modification of hemoglobin is site specific; the potential of the modified hemoglobin to polymerize is greatly reduced; the modified hemoglobin is physiologically competent; and the reagent is permeable to the red cell membrane. Solution studies indicate that by far the predominant mode of reaction with oxyhemoglobin is to crosslink the β chains of the tetramer. Little crosslinking occurs with deoxyhemoglobin. The site of crosslinking was established by x-ray crystallographic studies. The crosslink forms a symmetric bridge spanning Lys 82β 1 to Lys 82β 2 across the DPG binding site. This modification was found to markedly increase the solubility of deoxyhemoglobin S. The crystallographic studies reveal that the crosslink strongly perturbs the acceptor site in deoxyhemoglobin for Val 6β in the lateral contact between hemoglobin molecules within the double strand of the sickle cell fiber. Our current hypothesis is that this structural perturbation weakens the lateral contact and results in the observed increase in solubility of deoxyhemoglobin S. The strategy for future drug design is laid out with two specific examples being given. Initial in vivo trials in the mouse with one reagent from this class, bis (3,5-dibromosalicyl) succinate, appear very encouraging.
Using improved selective excitation methods for protein nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), we have conducted measurements of the oxygenation of hemoglobin inside intact human red blood cells. The selective excitation methods use pulse shape-insensitive suppression of the water signal, while producing uniform phase excitation in the region of interest and, thus, are suitable for a wide variety of applications in vivo. We have measured the areas of 1H-NMR resonances of the hyperfine-shifted, exchangeable N delta H protons of the proximal histidine residues of the alpha- and beta-chains in deoxyhemoglobin (63 and 76 ppm downfield from the proton resonance of 2,2-dimethyl-2-silapentane-5-sulfonate (DSS), respectively), which are sensitive to the paramagnetic state of the iron, and for which the alpha- and beta-chain resonances are resolved, and from the ring current-shifted gamma 2-CH3 protons of the distal valine residues in oxyhemoglobin (2.4 ppm upfield from DSS), which are sensitive to the conformation of the heme pocket in the oxy state. We have found that the proximal histidine resonances are directly correlated with the degree of oxygenation of hemoglobin, whereas the distal valine resonances appear to be correlated with the conformation in the heme pocket that occurs after the binding of oxygen, in both the presence and absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. In addition, from the proximal histidine resonances, we have observed a preference for the binding of oxygen to the alpha-chain (up to about 10%) of hemoglobin over the beta-chain in both the presence and absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. These new results obtained in intact erythrocytes are consistent with our previous 1H-NMR studies on purified human normal adult hemoglobin. A unique feature of our 1H-NMR method is the ability to monitor the binding of oxygen specifically to the alpha- and beta-chains of hemoglobin both in solution and in intact red blood cells. This information is essential to our understanding of the molecular basis for the hemoglobin molecule serving as the oxygen carrier in vertebrates.
Abstract The use of aspecific methylation reaction in combination with MS procedures has been employed for the characterization of the nucleophilic residues present on the molecular surface of the human 2,3-diphosphoglycerate/deoxy-hemoglobin complex. In particular, direct molecular weight determinations by ESMS allowed to control the reaction conditions, limiting the number of methyl groups introduced in the modified globin chains. A combined LCESMS-Edman degradation approach for the analysis of the tryptic peptide mixtures yielded to the exact identification of methylation sites together with the quantitative estimation of their degree of modification. The reactivities observed were directly correlated with the pKa and the relative surface accessibility of the nucleophilic residues, calculated from the X-ray crystallographic structure of the protein. The results here described indicate that this methodology can be efficiently used in aspecific modification experiments directed to the molecular characterization of the surface topology in proteins and protein complexes.
In 21 hyperthyroid female patients studied on 29 occasions, high levels of red-cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) have been found (5.75 +/- 0.7 mM) which, compared to a euthyroid control group (4.88 +/- 0.4 mM), could not be accounted for by differences in haematocrit, haemoglobin or phosphataemia. A significant correlation was found (P less than 0.05) between serum thyroid hormones and the 2,3-DPG concentration in the hyperthyroid patients. Eight of these patients were reexamined after treatment and normalization of thyroid function, showed a regression to normal 2,3-DPG values (4.81 +/- 0.6 mM) which could not be attributed to variations in haematocrit, haemoglobin or phosphataemia either. We therefore deduce that the shift to the right in the haemoglobin oxygen dissociation curve observed in patients of this type may be due to an increase in the red-cell 2,3-DPG content.
Abstract This paper presents data on the effect of phosphates and polyphosphates on the formation of hemoglobin S fiber, and on the Bohr effect of hemoglobin S samples whose concentration was high enough (near 5 mM) in order to form fibers upon deoxygenation. The experiments were performed in 0.2 M Bistris or Tris buffers at 30 ° C in the presence and absence of inositol hexakisphosphate and of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Alternatively, 0.2 M phosphate buffers were used without addition of effectors. Under these conditions, few fibers were formed in Tris or Bistris buffers, while extensive fiber formation occurred in the presence of phosphates and polyphosphates. In all cases, increasing pH strongly inhibited fiber formation. At pH 7.5 and above, fibers were not formed in our samples. In the presence of phosphates and polyphosphates fiber formation reduced the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin S with respect to either hemoglobin A or soluble hemoglobin S under similar experimental conditions. The fiber-polyphosphate complexes showed a larger Bohr effect than that in hemoglobin A. In the presence of inositol hexakisphosphate fiber-forming solutions of hemoglobin S liberated as much as six protons per tetramer upon oxygen binding. The increased liberation of protons was probably due to a higher affinity of the effectors for the fibers of hemoglobin S. Very likely the higher affinity was supported by a conformational change of hemoglobin S specific for the fibers.
Hypoxic or anemic goats with the A hemoglobin genotype switch to the production of hemoglobin C, resulting in a reduced blood oxygen affinity. However, the physiologic consequences of this switch are not clear. We therefore studied the gas exchange properties of the two hemoglobin types. We found that purified hemoglobins A and C have very similar oxygen affinities and H+ Bohr effects, but in the presence of CO2, the affinity of hemoglobin C is substantially less than that of hemoglobin A. That this is not a nonspecific ionic effect is suggested by identical effects of NaCl on O2 binding to the two proteins and by a 2-fold higher capacity of hemoglobin C to bind CO2. The data can be explained by a class of CO2 binding sites in the beta C chain whose affinity is much higher than that of either of the primary sites or of those in Hb A. Our results suggest that in hemoglobin C-containing red cells CO2 acts as a potent allosteric effector, analogous to the role played by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in human red blood cells. Goat hemoglobin C may have advantages over hemoglobins A or B in O2 transport under hypoxic conditions or in anemia.
The erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations of sheep change markedly during the 1st mo following birth. From measurements of erythrocyte glycolytic enzymes and intermediate concentrations, we have identified the mechanism regulating erythrocyte 2,3-DPG in postnatal sheep. The postnatal changes in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG do not result from qualitative or quantitative changes in the intracellular activities of the Rapoport-Luebering shunt enzymes, 2,3-DPG mutase or 2,3-DPG phosphatase. The postnatal 2,3-DPG changes result from changes in the erythrocyte concentration of 1,3-DPG, which is controlled by other reactions in the glycolytic pathway. Neither changes in the glycolytic control enzymes (hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, and pyruvate kinase) nor changes in the intrinsic glycolytic rate can account for these 1,3-DPG concentration changes. 1,3-DPG concentrations are regulated by the in vivo glycolytic rate, which is controlled by the intracellular concentration of glucose, the glycolytic substrate. Glucose concentrations are 0.3 mmol/l cells in erythrocytes of fetal sheep (135-140 days gestational age), increase following birth to a peak of 3.8 mmol/l cells by the 1st wk of age, and then decline to the normal adult levels of 0.5 mmol/l cells by the end of the 1st mo.
Summary The effects of organic phosphates, such as adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate (phytic acid), on the oxygen equilibria of two major hemoglobins isolated from eel erythrocytes and freed of phosphate were investigated. One of these hemoglobins (E 1 ) was found to be greatly affected on its oxygen affinity and pH dependency by added organic phosphates, while the other (E 2 ) was almost insensitive to these phosphates. Results were described under considerations of the possible role of organic phosphates in regulating the function of eel hemoglobins in situ .
We measured red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and the P50 value in vitro of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve, which is the oxygen tension at half saturation of hemoglobin, in order to quantitate red blood cell oxygen transport function in individuals who were diagnosed as hypothyroid, euthyroid, or hyperthyroid based on measurements of thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3), thyrotropin (TSH), and their clinical status. Hypothyroid (mean T4 2.8 microgram/dl, T3 49 ng/dl, TSH 37 microU/ml) and hyperthyroid (mean T4 14 microgram/dl, T3 271 ng/dl, TSH less than 0.7 microU/ml) patients had normal red cell 2,3-DPG and ATP levels and normal P50 values in vitro. The known changes in oxygen consumption produced by alterations in thyroid hormone levels in patients with hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism did not affect red blood cell oxygen transport function.
Two male English springer spaniel dogs with a chronic hemolytic anemia and sporadic hemolytic crises, historically related to “stress” situations, were studied. Although canine erythrocytes are in general known to be more alkaline fragile, erythrocytes from both patients began to lyse earlier, at significantly lower pH values (near pH 7.4 at 37 degrees C), than erythrocytes from control dogs. Hyperventilation induced by 30 minutes of exercise, placement in a 39 degrees C water bath, or intravenous doxapram increased venous blood pH in dog 1 and control dogs, but transient hemoglobinemia, hemoglobinuria, and severe bilirubinuria occurred only in the studied patient. The erythrocyte phosphofructokinase (PFK) activity was severely decreased in both dogs (10% of controls). The erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content was markedly reduced and the cell chloride content was consequently increased. This change in cell chloride content is related to an increase in the erythrocyte pH, which may partially explain the pathogenesis of hemolysis in canine PFK deficiency. Thus, these studies demonstrate a presumably inherited erythrocyte PFK deficiency in English springer spaniels, which causes an increased in vitro and in vivo erythrocyte alkaline fragility. Dogs with PFK deficiency and inducible hemolytic crises may become a valuable genetic animal model in which to study the pathophysiology of hemolysis.
Abstract ::: Nuclear magnetic resonance studies of the contact-shifted spectra of heme protons in deoxyhemoglobin A from human adults show conclusively that oxygen binds to the α hemes in preference to the β hemes. The preferential binding is produced in 10% hemoglobin solution at neutral pH by either a 15-fold molar excess of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or a 5-fold molar excess of inositol hexaphosphate. Preferential binding is not observable in the absence of the organic phosphates. The results indicate that the oxygenation of hemoglobin may be described by a sequential model, or by a concerted model that allows the α hemes to bind ligand first.
Disturbed myocardial energy metabolism may occur in patients with primary hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). A noninvasive way to gain insight into cardiac energy metabolism is provided by in vivo 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. 31P NMR spectroscopy with proton decoupling was performed in 13 patients aged 13-36 years with HCM on a 1.5 T Magnetom with a double resonant surface coil. A 2D chemical shift imaging (CSI) sequence in combination with slice selective excitation was used to acquire spectra of the anteroseptal region of the left ventricle (volume element: 38 mL). The chemical shifts of the phosphorus metabolites, intracellular pHi, and coupling constants J(alphabeta) and J(gammabeta) were calculated. Peak areas of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), Pi, and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were determined and corrected for blood contamination, saturation, and differences in nuclear Overhauser enhancements (NOE). The maximum thickness of the interventricular septum (IVSmax) was determined from tomographic long-axis images and expressed as number of standard deviations above the mean of the normal population (Z score). The patients were then divided into 2 groups: 6 patients with moderate HCM (HCMm, Z score < or = 5) and 7 patients with severe HCM (HCMs, Z score > 5). No differences between both groups and a control group of healthy volunteers (n = 16) were found with respect to phosphocreatine (PCr)/gamma-ATP ratio, pHi, or the coupling constants. Only the PCr/Pi ratio differed significantly from the control group (HCM(all), alpha < 0.05, HCMs, alpha < 0.02, 2-sided U test). The decrease of the PCr/Pi ratio in patients with HCM is probably caused by ischemically decreased oxygen supply in the severely hypertrophied myocardium.
The addition of oxalate to blood stored in Citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) produces a marked improvement in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) preservation; an increase in 2,3-DPG levels can also be documented in short-term incubation studies. Oxalate is a potent in vitro inhibitor of red cell lactate dehydrogenase, monophosphoglycerate mutase, and pyruvate kinase (PK). In the presence of fructose 1,6-diphosphate the latter inhibitory effect is competitive with phospho(enol)pyruvate (PEP). Determination of the levels of intermediate compounds in red cells incubated with oxalate suggest the presence of inhibition at the PK step, indicating that this is the site of oxalate action. Apparent inhibition at the glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase step is apparently due to an increase in the NADH/NAD ratio. Oxalate had no effect on the in vivo viability of rabbit red cells stored in CPD preservatives for 21 days. Greater understanding of the toxicity of oxalate is required before it can be considered suitable as a component of preservative media, but appreciation of the mechanism by which it affects 2,3-DPG levels may be important in design of other blood additives. Malonate, the 3-carbon dicarboxylic acid analogue of oxalate late did not inhibit pyruvate kinase nor affect 2,3-DPG levels.
Ten mmol each of inosine and inorganic phosphate were infused intravenously to two volunteers. The concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, and ATP in erythrocytes were analyzed during the infusion period (1 hour) and the following 24 hours. Fructose 1,6-diphosphate reached a maximal value four times the normal immediately after infusion. The concentration declined rapidly and was normal after one hour. The content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate increased and decreased more slowly. The maximal value –- about 8% above the normal level of the individual –- was reached 3 hours after the infusion ended. The increase of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration was too small to give a measurable right shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. The fact that S-urate rose 0.3 mmol/l prevents further increase of the inosine dose. Pretreatment with allopurinol reduced the concentration changes of the erythrocyte metabolites.
19F NMR spectroscopy of a model fluoroquinolone, lomefloxacin, in an erythrocyte suspension showed separate resonances for the intra- and extra-cellular compartments. The intra-cellular peak revealed significant line broadening of the fluorine signals of lomefloxacin. Line broadening also occurred in the presence of oxyhemoglobin (HbO2), hematin, globin and iron. This evidence indicated that lomefloxacin interacted with these compounds; however, ultrafiltration experiments indicated that there was only weak binding (5%) of lomefloxacin to HbO2. 19F and 31P NMR spectroscopy revealed that lomefloxacin may compete with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate for its binding site on HbO2. An apparent partition coefficient of 1.90 +/- 0.15 was observed for lomefloxacin in human erythrocytes, utilizing LC analysis.
Abstract 1. 1. The time course of phosphorus incorporation in red cell Pi, ADP, ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate has been studied over the period from 10 to 20 min. 2. 2. It is shown that the terminal phosphorus atoms of ADP and ATP become labeled at a faster rate than intracellular Pi. 3. 3. The experiments suggest that the initial rate of 32Pi incorporation into the terminal phosphorus atom of ATP is the same as the initial rate of transfer of 32Pi from plasma to cells. 4. 4. It is shown that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is synthesized at about one-ninth of the rate of ATP from their common precursor.
Background: The concentration of red cell 2,3-DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) rapidly decreases during storage. A favourable eVect on red cell 2,3-DPG has been demonstrated by rapid cooling of whole blood prior to storage. In our study we have investigated how diVerent methods of cooling whole blood immediately after donation eVect 2,3-DPG levels during storage. Study design and methods: Thirty-six whole blood units (in 6 groups) of 450 ml were collected in 63 ml CPD. SAG-M was used as preservative solution for red cell concentrates (RCC). The units in one group were cooled down at ambient temperature, while units in the other groups were cooled down rapidly by diVerent ways immediately after bleeding. Samples from the whole blood units were collected at various days during storage for 2,3-DPG measurements. Results: The decline in 2,3-DPG during the Wrst two weeks of storage was signiWcantly slower in the groups which were cooled down rapidly to 17–18 °C within 1 h after bleeding (all p 6 0.0001). Conclusion: The rapid fall in 2,3-DPG can be delayed signiWcantly by cooling whole blood units rapidly after bleeding. Most of the methods we used in our study can easily be implemented in daily routine practise in any blood bank.  2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Abstract A model is presented which is able to describe satisfactorily the increase of the alkaline and acid Bohr effect due to the binding by human hemoglobin of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. From an analysis of this extra Bohr effect it could be concluded that the histidines H21(143)β are very probably responsible for the increase in alkaline Bohr effect. The second ionization of the phosphate groups of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is responsible for the increase in acid Bohr effect. For Kd the pH-independent part of the apparent association constant of the deoxyhemoglobin-diphosphoglycerate complex, we estimated a value of 8 x 105 m-1 at 25° and an ionic strength of 0.1. It appeared further that the binding of diphosphoglycerate by oxyhemoglobin is under these experimental conditions negligible as compared with the binding to deoxyhemoglobin. From binding experiments on deoxyhemoglobin with diphosphoglycerate at 4° and at an ionic strength of 0.1 a value for Kd of (6.5 ± 1.5) x 105 m-1 could be estimated. Measurements of the rate of reaction of 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with the α-NH2 groups of deoxyhemoglobin showed that in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate the reactivity of the α-NH2 group of the β chain was strongly depressed.
(PRPP) synthetase activity and the intracellular concentration of PRPP were assayed in erythrocytes from patients with primary hyperuricemia and primary metabolic gout. Sensitivity of the enzyme to feedback inhibition by adenosine diphosphate (ADP), guanosine diphosphate (GDP), and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was determined. All patients with gout and four of ten patients with hyperuricemia were taking ailopurinol during the study. Mean PRPP synthetase activity in erythrocytes from hyperuricemic and gouty patients was similar to that in normal subjects, and feedback inhibition by ADP, GDP, and 2,3-DPG was intact. The concentration of PRPP in erythrocytes was higher in normal females than in normal males, higher in normal subjects than in gouty patients, and lower in hyperuricemic patients taking allopurinol than in those hyperuricemic patients not taking this drug. The difference in intracellular levels of PRPP in erythrocytes in gout versus hyperuricemic patients was not significant. The significance of these findings is discussed in relation to the regulation of PRPP synthetase and in the important regulatory role of PRPP in purine metabolism.
Nuclear magnetic resonance studies of the contact-shifted spectra of heme protons in deoxyhemoglobin A from human adults show conclusively that oxygen binds to the a hemes in preference to the fi hemes. (9) . Perutz further describes how 2,3-diphosphoglycerate(P2 glycerate) and hydrogen ion inhibit-the structural transition from the deoxy to the oxy quaternary structure (9). Based on indirect kinetic and spectroscopic evidence, Gray and Gibson (10) have proposed that CO combines first with the fi chains before the a chains. As yet, there is no direct experimental evidence showing that oxygen binds to one type of heme in Rb A in preference to another. This is a preliminary report on the preferential binding of oxygen to the a-chain hemes in the presence of P2 glycerate or inositol hexaphosphate(1P6), as monitored by selective decrease of the contact-shifted resonances of the a chains.
consumption rate to ϳ25% compared with the active state, while body temperature decreases moderately (to ϳ30°C), suggesting a temperature-independent component in their metabolic depression. To establish whether changes in O 2 consumption during hibernation correlate with changes in blood O2 affinity, we took blood samples from the same six individuals of hibernating and nonhibernating free-ranging brown bears during winter and summer, respectively. A single hemoglobin (Hb) component was detected in all samples, indicating no switch in Hb synthesis. O 2 binding curves measured on red blood cell lysates at 30°C and 37°C showed a less temperature-sensitive O2 affinity than in other vertebrates. Furthermore, hemolysates from hibernating bears consistently showed lower cooperativity and higher O2 affinity than their summer counterparts, regardless of the temperature. We found that this increase in O2 affinity was associated with a significant decrease in the red cell Hb-cofactor 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) during hibernation to approximately half of the summer value. Experiments performed on purified Hb, to which DPG had been added to match summer and winter levels, confirmed that the low DPG content was the cause of the left shift in the Hb-O 2 equilibrium curve during hibernation. Levels of plasma lactate indicated that glycolysis is not upregulated during hibernation and that metabolism is essentially aerobic. Calculations show that the increase in Hb-O2 affinity and decrease in cooperativity resulting from decreased red cell DPG may be crucial in maintaining a fairly constant tissue oxygen tension during hibernation in vivo. metabolic suppression; body temperature; oxygen binding curves; heat of oxygenation; hibernation A DISTINCT TRAIT OF MAMMALIAN hibernation is the highly controlled decrease in body temperature and metabolic rate. A hibernating brown bear (Ursus arctos) routinely spends 5-7 mo per year in continuous dormancy with no food or water intake, no urination, and no defecation (19, 36) . During this time, bears appear to be resistant to loss of muscle mass, strength, or bone density (18, 24, 29, 43, 14, 44) . During hibernation bear body temperature is downregulated only slightly, fluctuating from ϳ37°C to a minimum of 30°C, as found in brown and in black bears (Ursus americanus) (17, 26, 27, 36, 43) , whereas O 2 consumption rate is downregulated by 75% (43). In comparison, in most smaller hibernators, such as ground squirrels and marmots, body temperature drops dramatically to values close to ambient temperatures (32, 37, 48), with a consequent strong Q 10 -induced depression of metabolic rate (where Q 10 is the rate coefficient for a 10°C change in temperature). In spite of substantial downregulation of ventilation and heart rate, most hibernators likely experience only slight or no hypoxia and in some ground squirrels arterial O 2 tension (PO 2 ) is normal during torpor (16). As opposed to smaller hibernators that exhibit periods of spontaneous arousals back to normothermic temperature and metabolic rate (33, 31), bears do not arouse to normothermic temperature during winter but have shallow multiday cyclic (1.6 -7.3 days) fluctuations in body temperature (43) . Nevertheless, as demonstrated in a recent study (43), bears exhibit a strong active aerobic metabolic depression and a weight-specific metabolic rate similar to that of smaller hibernators (20, 25, 43) , and for this reason, they are now recognized as true hibernators, even though they do not show the dramatic drop in body temperature and arousals typical of small hibernators (43). Whether and how the blood O 2 transport of bears adapts to a decreased O 2 supply to tissues during hibernation is however, still unknown.
Earlier studies have found that in small hibernating mammals, blood O 2 affinity increases markedly during hibernation (4, 9, 32). Potentially, blood O 2 affinity can be affected in two ways: by structural changes in the blood O 2 carrier hemoglobin (Hb) that lead to changes in the protein sensitivity to allosteric cofactors and temperature, or by changes in the concentration of allosteric cofactors inside the red blood cell. Such allosteric cofactors include organic phosphates that bind to the central cavity of the Hb tetramer and decrease O 2 affinity by shifting the allosteric T-R equilibrium between the low-affinity (T) and the high-affinity (R) protein conformation toward the T state. In most mammalian Hbs, the main anionic cofactors are the organic phosphate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and Cl Ϫ , that in bear Hb have a large synergistic effect in regulating O 2 binding (11). DPG binds allosterically to the low-affinity T-state conformation of mammalian Hbs and, thereby, decreases Hb-O 2 affinity (5). An increase in erythrocytic DPG decreases Hb-O 2 affinity, and, conversely, a decrease in DPG increases Hb-O 2 affinity.
Abstract Monophosphoglycerate mutase from rabbit muscle catalyzes the biosynthesis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from 1,3-diphosphoglycerate and 3-phosphoglycerate. Net synthesis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate occurs out of proportion to what would be expected from the operation of the overall monophosphoglycerate mutase reaction. 1,3-Diphosphoglycerate also stimulates the overall monophosphoglycerate mutase reaction, which provides additional proof that it interacts with this enzyme. When muscle monophosphoglycerate mutase is treated at 55 °C in mild acid, mutase action and the ability to generate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are lost to about the same extent. It is proposed that 1,3-diphosphoglycerate displaces 2,3-diphosphoglycerate from monophosphoglycerate mutase and regenerates enzyme in the phospho- form. In order to assess whether this reaction contributes to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate production in red cells, monophosphoglycerate mutase was partially purified from human erythrocytes. The ammonium sulfate fraction richest in monophosphoglycerate mutase shows many of the properties of the muscle enzyme, and in the presence of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate readily generates 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. However, the ability of this fraction to generate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is largely retained upon heating, despite severe loss of overall mutase activity. This contrasts with the behavior of the muscle enzyme and raises the possibility that either monophosphoglycerate mutase does not contribute substantially to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate production in erythrocytes or that the enzyme can indeed produce 2,3-diphosphoglycerate but that the abilities to catalyze the overall reaction and to produce 2,3-diphosphoglycerate can be selectively dissociated by heat treatment.
We studied the oxygenation of mammalian hemoglobins: mouse (Mus musculus molossinus), rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus domesticus), Japanese monkey (Macaca fuscata), man (Homo sapiens), sheep (Ovis aries), llama (Lama glama), pig (Sus scrofa domesticus), cow (Bos taurus domesticus) and horse (Equus caballus), in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and compared their oxygen affinity in relation to the body weight. The negative correlation between body weight and the oxygen affinity of the whole blood, observed by Schmidt-Nielsen and Larimer (1958), was not observed in the absence of DPG. Our results indicated that an adaptive evolution proposed for hemoglobin in terms of its oxygen affinity vs body weight of the animal can only be appreciated with DPG.
Abstract Phosphate plays a vital role forming the high-energy band within ATP. The pathophysiological results of phosphate deficiency are inadequate supplies of energy-rich phosphates and, in particular, inhibition of glyceraldehyde-3- phosphate dehydrogenase, which occupies a key position in glycolysis. The effect of this on the central nervous system, muscle and erythrocyte energy metabolism is to reduce ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels, leading to left-hand displacement of the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve with decreased peripheral oxygen uptake and transport. Therefore, detection and treatment of acute hypophosphatemia is important in many hospitalized patients particularly in ICU patients. Severe hypophosphatemia is also associated with a number of neuromuscular and cardiovascular sequelae, in which phosphate supplementation leads to improved symptoms and clinical parameters. In clinical practice it is common on administering 0.4 mmol (12 mg) phosphate/kg per day, and to adjust this on the basis of the serum phosphate analysis.
Abstract Foetal and maternal porcine erythrocytes were found to contain significantly different concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) viz: 4.92 and 34.46 μM/g haemoglobin respectively (P 50 was positive and linear although the response to DPG in the presence of CO 2 was significantly different from that when CO 2 was absent (P
For the routine quality control of red cells methods are required by which glycolytic intermediates, especially energy-rich phosphates and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, can easily be determined in large series of blood samples.
The pH dependence of the summed electrostatic stabilization for deoxy- and liganded hemoglobin was computed for several ionic strength values. The computed contribution to the stabilization of deoxyhemoglobin by binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the beta cleft compared well with experimental binding behavior for human hemoglobin A0 and hemoglobin F. The contribution of diphosphoglycerate binding to the alkaline Bohr effect was computed correctly for both hemoglobins A0 and F. The computed effects of simultaneous binding of diphosphoglycerate and formation of Val-1 beta carbamino adducts suggested a competition between these effectors. A direct competition was formulated between these two effectors, with extension to include a simple anion such as chloride or bicarbonate binding in competition with diphosphoglycerate but not with Val-1 beta carbamino formation. This model was found to hold at pH 7.3-7.4 over a range of concentrations of the effectors involved and to predict the pH dependence of Val-1 beta carbamino formation over the pH range 7.0-8.0. The pH dependence of the computed differential stability of liganded vs. unliganded hemoglobin A compared well with observation.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is accompanied by an impaired cardiac energy metabolism. The aim of this study was to investigate metabolic ratios in patients with DCM compared to controls by using spectroscopic two-dimensional chemical shift imaging (2D-CSI). Twenty volunteers and 15 patients with severe symptoms (left ventricular ejection fraction, LVEF 30%) of DCM were investigated. Cardiac 31P MR 2D-CSI measurements (voxel size: 40×40×100 mm3) were performed with a 1.5 T whole-body scanner. Measurement time ranged from 15 min to 30 min. Peak areas and ratios of different metabolites were evaluated, including high-energy phosphates (PCr, ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and phosphodiesters (PDE). In addition, we evaluated how PCr/ATP ratios correlate with LVEF as an established prognostic factor of heart failure. The PCr/γ-ATP ratio was significantly decreased in patients with moderate and severe DCM and showed a linear correlation with reduced LVEFs. PDE/ATP ratios were significantly increased only in patients with severe DCM as compared to volunteers. Applying 31P MRS with commonly-available 2D-CSI sequences is a valuable technique to evaluate DCM by determining PCr/ATP ratios noninvasively. In addition to reduced PCr/ATP ratios observed in patients suffering from DCM, significantly-increased PDE/ATP ratios were found in patients with severe DCM.
Blood from 25 nonsmoking healthy volunteers was Screened for hematocrit, hemoglobin, hemoglobin electrophoresis and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and then used in vitro to study the effects of morphine, meperidine, fentanyl and naloxone on hemoglobin affinity for oxygen. Morphine (1.4 µg/ml), meparidine (28.6 µg/ml) and naloxone (0.057 µg/ml) failed to alter the hemoglobin dissociation curve. Low doses of fentanyl (0.07 µg/ml and 0.36 µg/ml) shifted the curve to the left 1 to 1.5 mm Hg but a higher dose (0.71 µg/ml) failed to alter the curve.
Storage of blood in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) solution gradually depletes red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and increases the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen. We examined the effect of exchange transfusion of DPG-depleted blood on mesenteric blood flow and oxygen consumption in dogs subjected to endotoxin shock. Two groups of 6 dogs each were anesthetized and subjected to exchange transfusion with either fresh ACD blood or 21-day-old ACD blood prior to administration of Escherichia coli endotoxin (2 mg/kg). Mesenteric blood flow, arteriovenous oxygen content difference and systemic arterial blood pressure were monitored continuously before and for 60 min after endotoxin. Mesenteric blood flow was reduced from 250 +/- 21 ml/min before endotoxin to 114 +/- 15 ml/min at 5 min, 157 +/- 29 ml/min at 30 min, and 112 +/- 17 ml/min at 60 min after endotoxin in the dogs exchanged with fresh blood. Corresponding values for intestinal oxygen consumption were 10.4 +/- 1.0, 7.5 +/- 0.8, 8.4 +/- 1.0, and 6.8 +/- 0.7 ml/min. In dogs transfused with 21-day-old blood, pre-endotoxin blood flow was 208 +/- 2ml/min and declined to 115 +/- 12, 93 +/- 5, and 80 +/- 8 ml/min at 5, 30, and 60 min post-endotoxin. Corresponding values for intestinal oxygen consumption were 8.1 +/- 0.9, 6.6 +/- 0.7, 6.2 +/-0.5, and 5.5 +/- 0.7 ml/min. There was no significant difference (p greater than 0.1) in responses of blood flow or oxygen consumption to endotoxin shock between the two groups of dogs. These findings indicate that exchange transfusion with DPG-depleted blood does not impair oxygen extraction by the ischemic intestine.
Ternary complex formation between the major human erythrocyte membrane skeletal proteins spectrin, protein 4.1, and actin was quantified by measuring cosedimentation of spectrin and band 4.1 with F-actin. Complex formation was dependent upon the concentration of spectrin and band 4.1, each of which promoted the binding of the other to F-actin. Simultaneous measurement of the concentrations of spectrin and band 4.1 in the sedimentable complex showed that a single molecule of band 4.1 was sufficient to promote the binding of a spectrin dimer to F-actin. However, the molar ratio of band 4.1/spectrin in the complex was not fixed, ranging from approximately 0.6 to 2.2 as the relative concentration of added spectrin to band 4.1 was decreased. A mole ratio of 0.6 band 4.1/spectrin suggests that a single molecule of band 4.1 can promote the binding of more than one spectrin dimer to an actin filament. Saturation binding studies showed that in the presence of band 4.1 every actin monomer in a filament could bind at least one molecule of spectrin, yielding ternary complexes with spectrin/actin mole ratios as high as 1.4. Electron microscopy of such complexes showed them to consist of actin filaments heavily decorated with spectrin dimers. Ternary complex formation was not affected by alteration in Mg2+ or Ca2+ concentration but was markedly inhibited by KCl above 100 mM and nearly abolished by 10 mM 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or 10 mM adenosine 5'-triphosphate. Our data are used to refine the molecular model of the red cell membrane skeleton.
Ecto-protein kinases (ecto-PK) are surface constituents of many, if not all, animal cell types; normal, transformed or malignant. The occurrence of ecto-PK on the surface of human leukemia cell lines was described [Paas, Y., Fishelson, Z., 1995. Shedding of tyrosine and serine/threonine ecto-PK from human leukemic cells. Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 316 780-788.]. These ecto-PKs have been shown to phosphorylate several exogenous substrates, including the complement C9 protein, an essential component of the terminal complement system. C9 is phosphorylated by ecto-PK of K562 cells on serine residue(s). Phosphorylation occurs in the N-terminal C9a portion produced by cleavage of phosphorylated C9 with human alpha-thrombin. C9 polymers generated upon incubation of C9 with ZnCl2 do not serve as substrates for the K562 ecto-PK. In contrast, unfolded C9, obtained by reduction and alkylation, serves as a superior substrate for the K562 ecto-PK. Native C9 phosphorylation produced a rather low stoichiometry of incorporated phosphate (around 3%) per C9. Despite that, the phosphorylated C9 expressed reduced hemolytic activity. The complement-sensitive variant of K562 (K562/S) did not express the C9 phosphorylating activity. Various PK inhibitors tested failed to block C9 phosphorylation. Only heparin and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (dpGA) prevented C9 phosphorylation, indicating that the ecto-PK is related to the casein kinase CK2. C9 can be phosphorylated by ecto-PK from other tumor cells, including Jurkat, SK-OV-3 and BT-474. These results suggest that extracellular phosphorylation of C9 may serve as a protective mechanism against complement in tumor cells.
We have studied the effects of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PG), 3-phosphoglyceraldehyde (3-PGA), 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PG) and beta-glycerol phosphate (beta-GP) on platelet aggregation and on thromboxane B2 (TXB2) formation. The results show that 2,3-DPG, 3-PG, and 3-PGA inhibited platelet aggregation and TXB2 formation induced by norepinephrine, ADP, epinephrine, and collagen; but they also induced platelet aggregation and TXB2 formation in the presence of subthreshold concentrations of Na arachidonate. 2-PG and beta-GP were inactive. The results also show that there is a structure-function relationship between 2,3-DPG, 3-PG, and 3-PGA with platelet aggregation phenomena and prostaglandin synthesis.
The intraerythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration decreases with decreasing pH below 7.40. Oxyhemoglobin dissociation is thereby changed, the oxygen affinity being increased. This effect counteracts the Bohr-effect, also quantitatively, leading to a nearly constant oxygen affinity at low pH values. The effect of anaerobic incubation on the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level could be explained in terms of changes in intraerythrocytic pH caused by the deoxygenation of hemoglobin.
The diabetic macroangiopathy of lower limbs in characterized by chronic hypoxia with several abnormalities of hemodynamic, microcirculatory, rheological and metabolic red cell parameters. This study, in a double blind test with placebo was carried out on 40 subjects: 20 normal subjects and 20 diabetic patients suffering from microangiopathy of lower limbs. Ten are treated by 45 mg iv per day of Vinburnin, the 10 others received a placebo. Before and after treatment, the following parameters were measured: arterial flow rate at rest and after hyperhemia, transcutaneous oxygen level (TCpO2), red cell deformability, plasma viscosity, fibrinogen, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). In this study, we have proved several effects of Vinburnin on the microcirculatory and rheological parameters the most essential for the transport of oxygen. The significant improvement of TCpO2, of ATP and 2,3-DPG red cell levels, of plasma viscosity and red cell deformability, even though we have no haemodynamic changes, confirm the rheological effects of Vinburnin. These pharmacological properties prove the interest and the special position of Vinburnin in the treatment of vascular diseases with acute or chronic tissular hypoxia.
Various preservative solutions containing anticoagulants and preservative agents are used in order to inhibit coagulation and maintain the viability of stored blood. These additional substituents provide the storage life for 21 to 42 days at 1 to 6 °C in blood banks. Citrate (anticoagulation), sodium biphosphate (protecting 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels), dextrose, and adenine (ATP source) may be mentioned among these agents and substituents (6, 7) .
Oxygen affinity of hemoglobin, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentrations were compared before and after oral administration of vinpocetine (TCV-3B) (15 mg/d), a primarily vasodilating agent, for three weeks in eight patients with vascular dementia of the Biswanger type which is characterized by diffuse myelin pallor and multiple lacunes in the cerebral white matter. After vinpocetine administration, oxygen affinity of hemoglobin (P50) was significantly increased (26.5 +/- 0.55 to 27.6 +/- 0.62 mmHg; mean and standard deviation, p less than 0.05), red blood cell (RBC) ATP concentrations were significantly increased (846 +/- 168 to 1,158 +/- 130 mumol/l RBC, p less than 0.05), while DPG concentrations were unaltered (4.46 +/- 0.48 to 4.59 +/- 0.57 mmol/l RBC). There was a significant positive correlation between the increase of P50 and the increase of erythrocyte ATP concentrations (r = 0.67, p less than 0.05). The effect of vinpocetine of enhancing oxygen release of hemoglobin may offer an additional benefit to its primary vasodilating action in the treatment of vascular dementia of the Binswanger type due to chronic ischemia.
Abstract : Paired units of frozen red blood cells (RBC) were thawed in a conventional 42 deg C waterbath and a microwave oven in order to determine the suitability of the microwave method for thawing RBC. A structurally modified microwave oven equipped with rotating mixing arms and temperature sensors was used. Measurements of freeze-thaw-wash recovery, supernatant potassium, osmotic fragility, adenosine 5'-triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate revealed no significant differences (p greater than or = 0.05) between the thawing methods. Microwave-thawed RBC units had significantly increased levels of supernatant hemoglobin and white blood cells. The elevated white blood cell counts artificially reflected microaggregate formation. Overall, the microwave-thawed RBC were similar to the waterbath-thawed control RBC indicating that the functional and biologic integrity of the blood was not altered by the electromagnetic radiation. Thawing time averaged one-fifth as long using the microwave oven making this thawing method an attractive, time-saving alternative to the currently used waterbath method.
4-Dimethylaminophenol, after i.v. injection, rapidly forms ferrihemoglobin and has been successfully used in the treatment of cyanide poisoning. The catalytic ferrihemoglobin formation is terminated by thioether formation of oxidized 4-dimethylaminophenol with reduced glutathione or cysteine 93 beta of hemoglobin. Hereby the physiological functions of human hemoglobin are markedly altered. After binding of two molecules of 4-dimethylaminophenol to tetrameric hemoglobin, the rate of autoxidation is increased about 6-fold. The oxygen affinity is 10 times higher than normal, the Hill coefficient is diminished nearly to unity, and the Bohr effect is reduced by about 50%. The physiologically important allosteric regulation of the oxygen affinity by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is abolished, and the binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to deoxyhemoglobin no longer functions. By molecular sieving, two alkylated hemoglobins were separated: a hemoglobin fraction with an unchanged low tetramer dimer dissociation, normal electronic spectra, and normal digestibility by carboxypeptidase A; and a second fraction with a high degree of dissociation, altered electronic spectra, and impaired digestibility. A tryptic peptide was isolated containing cysteine 93 beta and histidine 146 beta cross-linked by an arylic compound missing the dimethylamine label. The following reaction mechanism is concluded: Oxy-hemoglobin catalyzes the oxidation of 4-dimethylaminophenol, and the oxidation product, presumably N,N-dimethylquinonimine, is bound covalently to cysteine 93 beta by a thioether linkage. This adduct is unstable and autoxidizes further with the liberation of dimethylamine. The resulting quinoid thioether electrophilically attacks the COOH-terminal histidine of the beta-chain, thereby forming an intramolecular cross-link. By this latter reaction, hemoglobin lacks allosteric transition upon ligation and is obviously frozen in its quaternary R-state.
The effects of electromagnetic radiation of a gyrotron with an operating frequency of 263 GHz on rat erythrocyte electrophoretic mobility, malonic dialdehyde, ATP, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration have been studied in vitro. The blood was irradiated under continuous and pulsed gyrotron emission modes with the estimated incident energy flux on an object from 0.1 to 20 mW/cm2. It has been established that the studied erythrocyte characteristics changed in different directions depending on the mode and the incident energy flux: the erythrocyte electrophoretic mobility rate and ATP concentration decreased, while the malonic dialdehyde and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration increased at a low incident energy flux and continuous exposure mode; all studied parameters increased under the pulsed exposure mode. An incident energy flux increase caused a reduction of these effects.
The effect of testosterone on the red cell concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and on the in vivo oxygen affinity of venous blood was investigated. Six male patients with peripheral arteriosclerosis received 500 mg testosterone enantas intramuscularly for 15 weeks. Six matched controls received 2 ml NaCl weekly for the same period of time. The hemoglobin concentration, the hematocrit, and the 2,3-DPG concentration increased significantly during testosterone treatment, while no significant changes in the oxygen affinity could be detected. It is concluded that testosterone in the doses applied here does not improve oxygen unloading from the blood.
The red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration is reported in 33 ethanol abusers. 16 healthy ethanol users and 14 non-users The results demonstrate an ethanol-associated increase in DPG content which returns to normal exponentially in the week following alcohol withdrawal As well as implying a significant degree of hypoxia in association with quite moderate drinking, the fact that ethanol is not catabolized in red cells indicates that this effect is transmitted there, and hence to the rest of the organism, by some other agent. Carbon dioxide in subnormal quantities has the necessary characteristics.
Methyl acetyl phosphate binds to the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) binding site of hemoglobin and selectively acetylates three amino groups at or near that site. The subsequent binding of 2,3-DPG is thus impeded. When intact sickle cells are exposed to methyl acetyl phosphate, their abnormally high density under anaerobic conditions is reduced to the density range of oxygenated, nonsickling erythrocytes. This change is probably due to a combination of direct and indirect effects induced by the specific acetylation. The direct effect is on the solubility of deoxyhemoglobin S, which is increased from 17 g/dL for unmodified hemoglobin S to 22 g/dL for acetylated hemoglobin S at pH 6.8. Acetylated hemoglobin S does not gel at pH 7.4, up to a concentration of 32 g/dL. The indirect effect could be due to the decreased binding of 2,3-DPG to deoxyhemoglobin S within the sickle erythrocyte, thus hindering the conversion of oxyhemoglobin S to the gelling form, deoxyhemoglobin S.
Hb Godavari [alpha 95(G2)Pro-->Thr] was characterized independently in two families of different ethnic origin. The first case, found in the Netherlands, involved an Indian patient. The second one was identified a few months later in an African family from Mali, living in France. Hb Godavari is the fourth example of a substitution involving neutral residues at position alpha 95(G2). In all these variants the electrophoretic pattern suggested that the structural modification unmasks a charged residue buried in the alpha 1 beta 2 contact area. The oxygen affinity of this abnormal hemoglobin was approximately 10% higher than that of Hb A; in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, its cooperativity was moderately decreased, suggesting a slightly unstable T state.
Theassumption thattheBohrcoefficient (Alog ps0)/(ApH) isequal totheHaldane coefficient (AH+) of hemoglobin isshowntobeincorrect inthepresence ofallo- steric effectors such as2,3-dipphosphoglycerate. Thetheoreti- calrelation between thetwocoefficients inthepresence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate isderived. Experimental dataonthe variation ofboth coefficients withdiphosphoglycerate con- centration arepresented andshown tobeinagreement with prediction. The"Bohr Effect" appears intheliterature associated with twophenomena: (a) theeffect ofhydrogen ionconcentration ontheaffini- tyofhemoglobin foroxygen, asseenbytheshift oftheoxy- genequilibrium curve tohigher oxygen pressures withde- creasing pH; (b) theeffect ofoxygenation ontheaffinity ofhemoglobin forhydrogen ions measured bythenumber ofprotons liber- ated with oxygenation atconstant pH. Inthis paper, (a) will bereferred toastheBohrcoefficient and(b) astheHaldane coefficient*. Thetwoare, ofcourse, related toeachother, andaquantitative expression wasde- rived byWymanfromhislinkage equations (s).
A method for determining 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) is described that has been adapted for the clinical laboratory and does not require any special equipment. For eight controls, the average value obtained by this method was 4.19 ± 0.26 µmol of DPG per milliliter of red blood cells. The procedure is simple, quick, and reliable
Abstract Red-cell creatine and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were investigated in normal persons, in patients with anemia characterized by increased age of the red-cell population (aplastic anemias), and in patients with anemias characterized by a young red-cell population (hemolytic and other bone-marrow-responsive anemias). The mean age of the red-cell population was estimated by hexokinase and glutamic oxalacetic transaminase activities. In anemias with older red-cell populations creatine levels were found to be very low, whereas the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values were slightly increased. In anemias with a younger mean age of the red cells there was an increase in both creatine and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Thus, it appears that increases in creatine are chiefly related to the mean age of the red-cell population, whereas those in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are conditioned both by the anemia and by the age of red cells.
Erythrocytosis associated with the presence of a hemoglobin with increased oxygen affinity has been reported for 10 hemoglobin variants, most of which demonstrate altered electrophoretic mobility. Several members of a family were found to have erythrocytosis, and both the whole blood and the hemoglobin exhibited increased oxygen affinity. Phosphate-free hemoglobin solutions had a normal Bohr effect and reactivity to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The electrophoretic properties of the hemoglobin were normal, but on peptide mapping of a tryptic digest of the isolated beta-chains, a normal betaT11 peptide and an abnormal betaT11 with greater R(f) were seen. Analysis of the abnormal peptide showed the substitution of leucine for the normal proline at beta100 (helical residue G2).The hemoglobin variant, designated Hb Brigham, serves to emphasize the necessity for detailed evaluation of the structure and function of hemoglobin in familial erythrocytosis even with electrophoretically "normal" hemoglobin.
We developed a microsome-based, cell-free system that assembles newly formed triglyceride (TG) into spherical lipid droplets. These droplets were recovered in the d </= 1.055 g/ml fraction by gradient ultracentrifugation and were similar in size and appearance to those isolated from rat adipocytes and 3T3-L1 cells. Caveolin 1 and 2, vimentin, adipocyte differentiation-related protein, and the 78-kDa glucose regulatory protein were identified on the droplets from the cell-free system. The caveolin was soluble in 1% Triton X-100, as was the caveolin on lipid droplets from 3T3-L1 cells. The lipid droplets from the cell-free system, like those from 3T3-L1 cells, contained TG, diacylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylserine. The assembly of these TG-containing structures was dependent on the rate of TG biosynthesis and required an activator present in the 160,000 x g supernatant from homogenized rat adipocytes. The activator induced phospholipase D (PLD) activity, and its effect on the release of the TG-containing structures from the microsomes was inhibited by 1-butanol (but not 2-butanol) or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The activator could be replaced by a constitutively active PLD or phosphatidic acid. These results indicate that PLD and the formation of phosphatidic acid are important in the assembly of the TG-containing structures.
Summary. The liganded (R-state) form of sickle cell haemoglobin (HbS) is of particular relevance at non-polymerizing concentrations as oxy HbS exhibits unusual properties compared with oxy HbA: mechanical precipitability (resulting from surface denaturation), greater unfolding at an air–water interface and a tendency to oxidize more readily. In human haemoglobins, the β7 (A4) Glu residue forms an intrachain salt bridge with β132 (H10) Lys in both liganded and deoxy structures. In the present study, recombinant haemoglobins with substitutions in the β7 and β132 sites were studied in order to determine the role of the β7–β132 salt bridge on Hb conformational integrity and stability. The elimination of this interhelix bridge correlates with enhanced surface denaturation and conformational alterations in the central cavity 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) cleft and α1β2 interface. The A-helix β7 Ala substitution generates a class of conformational change at the DPG pocket and α1β2 interface that is distinct from that dictated by the H-helix β132 Ala substitution. These results are significant with regard to the communication pathway between the α1β1 and α1β2 interfaces, and the new understanding of Hb allostery dependent upon tertiary structural constraints caused by effector binding to the R-state.
The erythrocyte is a highly differentiated cell which has simple but active metabolic pathways. It lacks a nucleus, mitochondria and ribosomes, while glycolysis, hexose monophosphate pathway and glutathione synthesis maintain a high activity. Glycolysis is the only energy producing pathway crucial for red cell function and survival. The main function of red cell hexose monophosphate pathway is to generate NADPH, which is indispensable for maintaining high levels of a potent antioxidant reduced glutathione. Rapoport-Luebering pathway and pyrimidine 5'-nucleotide system are unique metabolic pathways specific for red cells. The former produces 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the latter dephosphorylates useless pyrimidine nucleotides derived from the degenerated RNA.
Red cell phosphoglycolate phosphatase (PGP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were investigated in normal and anemic patients and rabbits. In hemolytic anemia and blood-loss anemia, characterized by a young red cell population, there was an increase in both phosphoglycolate phosphatase activity and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels. In aplastic anemia, the phosphoglycolate phosphatase activity was normal, but the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values were nonetheless increased. Thus, no relationship was found between phosphoglycolate phosphatase activity and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels. The lack of correlation between the activity of phosphoglycolate phosphatase and 2,3-DPG levels suggests that modulation of phosphoglycolate phosphatase activity does not control the level of 2,3-DPG in erythrocytes.
Abstract The reaction of human hemoglobin and some of its derivatives with aliphatic and aromatic compounds carrying from two to six carboxylate groups has been studied. The effect of the polycarboxylates as well as of three co-ordinate anions (respectively tri-, tetra- and pentavalent) on the oxygenation and oxidation-reduction equilibria and optical spectra have been compared to those of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate. All the polyvalent anions raise the P 0.5 ‡ and the E m values of human hemoglobin and are thus bound more strongly to deoxyhemoglobin than to oxy- or methemoglobin. Binding of benzene hexacarboxylate and benzene pentacarboxylate to oxyhemoglobin is demonstrated through a study of oxygenation curves, that of these reagents, and ferrocyanide, to methemoglobin through their effect on redox potential as well as on optical spectra. Methemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin are shown to bind more than one molecule of the carboxylates at high anion concentrations. Results bearing on the anion binding site for deoxy- as well as for methemoglobin are reported. Two appropriate human hemoglobin derivatives, namely Hb BME and Hb NES desArg have been examined in search of relations between the effect of anions on oxygen equilibria and that on quaternary structure: in both of these derivatives the chemical modifications inhibit quaternary conformational change that would result from oxygen binding, the deoxy structure being strongly destabilized. Several of the polyanions significantly raise the P 0.5 values of these derivatives but do not modify the quaternary structure, as judged from the absence of characteristic spectral changes. The results imply that anion binding by these proteins somehow inhibits the change in tertiary structure produced by oxygen binding; similar considerations may also apply in the case of the normal hemoglobin-diphosphoglycerate complex.
We have studied the relationship between the in vivo aging process of the human red cell (RBC) and its main function, the transport of O2 from the lungs to the tissues. This study included several approaches. First, we observed that the affinity for O2 in young RBCs was lower than in old RBCs (p less than 0.0005) due to different intracellular concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, main effector of hemoglobin. Second, we explored whether there are some subgroups of the healthy human population with altered RBC age distribution: females in the age range 25-35 exhibited significantly younger RBCs (p less than 0.0005) and lower RBC-O2 affinity (p less than 0.01) than other groups. Correspondingly, the RBC-O2 affinity in female blood was significantly lower (p less than 0.002) than in male blood. Third, we correlated by two independent methods the lowered RBC-O2 affinity to a more efficient O2 delivery to the tissues by two independent methods: 1) calculating the size of the cardiac output increase required to sustain the tissue oxygenation after an increase of the RBC affinity for O2; and 2) monitoring the enhanced cardiac function in isolated rat hearts perfused with RBCs at low O2 affinity. Finally, comparing some hematologic findings relevant for the O2 transport in two healthy populations with different RBC age distributions, such as age-matched females and males, it appeared that the low RBC-O2 affinity in females is an adaptive response to their lower [Hb].(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a complex syndrome related to both dysfunctional regulatory systems and a heart performance that is inadequate to meet the tissues' demands. 1 Adequate tissue oxygen supply depends not only on cardiac output but also on arterial blood haemoglobin (Hb) concentration and oxygen saturation. 2 Each of these components has its own mechanisms to compensate for hypoxia. Sustained reductions in the tissue oxygen pressure (PO 2 ) stimulate both red cell production, by means of erythropoietin, (Epo) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate production to shift the Hb oxygen-dissociation curve for greater oxygen delivery. 3 Anaemia may significantly affect oxygen delivery. In the last few years, several studies have shown that anaemia is frequent in patients with CHF, 4 has a prognostic power, [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] and is a target of therapy. [14] [15] [16] [17] However, the heterogeneity of both aetiology and progression processes of the heart failure syndrome suggests that the anaemia's pathophysiology might be non-univocal in the universe of heart failure patients. [18] [19] [20] In this study, we focus on some of the mechanisms of impaired red cell production in consecutive anaemic CHF patients.
While the likelihood of untoward effects related to the transfusion of older RBC units is still a matter of debate and of clinical investigations, what is now known for certain is that storage affects biochemical and biological properties of RBCs, and the extent of these accumulating changes, collectively known as "storage lesions, " is proportional to the duration of the storage period [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] . Storage lesions include alterations to either morphology (shape changes leading from a discoid to a spherocytic phenotype) or functionality (metabolism and oxygen delivery capacity through an increase in oxygen affinity mediated by a rapid fall in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] ). Further lesions occur in stored RBCs which are reversible to some extent, such as potassium leakage to the supernatant and depletion of ATP and DPG stores, while others are not, such as the alteration of lipids and membrane proteins (membrane protein fragmentation and migration to the membrane and/or vesiculation of subsets of structural or antioxidant proteins [9] ), which results in more rigid cell structures, increased osmotic fragility, higher haemolytic rates, phosphatidylserine exposure to the outer membrane leaflet, increased vesiculation rate, and reduced oxygen off-loading capacity [8-12, 14, 15] .
The hemoglobin solution is slowly oxidized with time, which is referred to as autoxidation. This process causes the denaturation of hemoglobin, since globin has a much lower affinity for ferric hemin than the reduced form (Brantley et al., 1993) . The rate at which autoxidation occurs is markedly dependent on hemoglobin's quaternary structure. The more deoxy or tense the form, then the more autoxidation occurs. Therefore, the presence of ligands like 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) increases the concentration of the deoxy molecule that enhances the autoxidation process (Mansouri and Winterhalter, 1974; MacDonald and Charache, 1982; Bunn and Forget, 1986; Dong et al., 1995) . The rate at which deoxyhemoglobin is oxidized is about two times higher than the rate of oxyhemoglobin (Mansouri and Winterhalter, 1974; Ho et al., 1982; Bunn and Forget, 1986) . Recent evidence suggests that the anion-assisted autoxidation of hemoglobin requires deoxyhemoglobin in the presence of a small amount of oxygen (Bunn and Forget, 1986) . The oxidation reaction causes a transition from the five coordinated deoxy-to the six coordinated methemoglobin in which a water molecule *To whom correspondence should be addressed. occupies the sixth coordination site, which is occupied by oxygen in oxyhemoglobin (Stargardt, Awkridge and Lanrum, 1978; Dickerson et al., 1993; Bonaventura et al., 1998) . Relaxation experiments showed that in this transition a water molecule is needed (Ho et al., 1982) and the resultant hemoglobin is called aquomet-hemoglobin (Ho et al., 1982; Bunn and Forget, 1986; Schlereth and Mäntele, 1992) . In contrast to deoxyhemoglobin, methemoglobin in the aquomet form has the same conformation as oxyhemoglobin, which is the relaxed or R conformation (Bunn and Forget, 1986; Schlereth and Mäntele, 1992) . However, earlier investigators showed that hemoglobin oxidation is more difficult when the conformational equilibrium is shifted toward the T state by a preferential anion binding (Kilmartin 1973; Faulkner, Bonaventura and Crumbliss, 1995; Bonaventura et al., 1998; Safo et al., 2001) .
Abstract A very rapid procedure for the preparation of phosphoglycerate mutase from chicken breast muscle is presented. Commercially available frozen chicken breasts may be used. The enzyme is obtained in high yields, and the specific activity of the crystalline homogenous preparations is equal to that of the crystalline enzymes from yeast and rabbit muscle. The chicken breast enzyme requires 2,3-diphosphoglycerate for activity, and it is very similar in kinetic and molecular properties to the rabbit muscle phosphoglycerate mutase. Similarly, it also possesses 4 sulfhydryl groups per mole of enzyme. The molecular weight of the enzyme is 65,690. With the use of a gel filtration technique, it has been demonstrated that 2 moles of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate may be bound per mole of the enzyme. It appears that the binding of this phosphoglycerate may entail phosphoenzyme formation. Again, as with other pure phosphoglycerate mutases, the chicken breast muscle mutase shows some 2,3-phosphoglycerate phosphatase activity (about 1/40,000 the mutase activity).
Abstract The hypothesis that a decrease in hemoglobin affinity for oxygen is a compensory mechanism to increase oxygen delivery to ischemic myocardium was tested in six patients with angina pectoris. Blood was drawn simultaneously from radial artery and coronary sinus. Oxygen tension at 50 per cent saturation (P50) and erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate and pH measured before, during and after angina pectoris produced by atrial pacing showed no significant difference at rest. The longer the duration of angina pectoris, the more coronary-sinus P50 exceeded arterial P50. After four to 10 minutes of angina, the difference was 0.6 to 2.9 mm of mercury. One patient, in whom ST-segment depression and lactate production but no angina pectoris developed, had no change in hemoglobin affinity for oxygen. Decreased hemoglobin affinity for oxygen was not accompanied by change in erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate and pH. The rapid decrease in affinity enhances myocard...
In order to study the effect of marked chylomicronemia on red cell oxygen release, oxygen hemoglobin dissociation curves (ODC's) from zero to full saturation were determined on whole blood from three siblings with familial Type I hyperlipoproteinemia. In these cases the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin was markedly increased, with P50 act. pH varying between 22.1 and 17.7 mm. Hg (normal value, 27.3 mm. Hg; S.D., 1.3) and the Hill coefficient n reflecting the slope of the ODC was increased. The changes in the ODC's are thought to be secondary to the hyperchylomicronemia for the following reasons: (1) the change was minimized by incubating red cells from the patients in normal donor plasma; (2) normal red cells increased their oxygen affinity when incubated in lactescent plasma; (3) the change was not explainable by a decrease in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content or in arterial blood hydrogen ion concentration. Based on these findings a decreased erythrocyte oxygen release of one third can be hypothesized. The importance of this observation in relation to the symptomatology of clinical conditions complicating marked chylomicronemia is discussed.
Summary. The levels of glycolytic intermediates have been measured in red cells from patients with both overhydrated and dehydrated varieties of the hereditary stomatocytosis syndrome. Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was reduced by 33% below normal in all patients with either stomatocyte or target cell morphologies (i.e. over or under hydrated varieties respectively). The relative decrement in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was even greater when abnormal cells were compared with control cells with similar reticulocytosis. Red cell ADP concentrations in stomatocytosis were significantly increased above normal but ATP concentrations were not significantly changed. Whole blood oxygen affinity in stomatocytosis was increased in proportion to the lowered content of diphosphoglycerate. Some new parameters of membrane transport in hereditary stomatocytosis have been measured. Platelet K+ and Na+ concentrations and platelet K+ permeability were normal in stomatocytosis. The number of 3H-uridine transport sites in stomatocytes were increased by 9-39% above normal and this increment was the same as the increment in red cell lipids (0-38%). Hereditary stomatocytes contain 2-10-fold more cation pumps than normal and the increased active cation pumping may explain the high ADP, the low 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and the increased oxygen affinity in this syndrome.
Abstract 1. 1. The major phosphorylated metabolic intermediates of the erythrocytes (RBC) and P 50 of the whole blood from the mature turkey, pea fowl, pheasant, guinea, and quail have been determined and compared with similar information from the blood of the 23-day turkey embryo, 21-day pheasant embryo, and 21-day guinea embryo. 2. 2. Inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) is the predominant organic phosphate in the RBC of the mature birds at levels of 4.05, 4.31, 3.34, 3.11, and 3.32μmoles/cm 3 RBC in the turkey, pea fowl, pheasant, guinea, and quail, respectively. 3. 3. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is the predominant organic phosphate in the erythrocytes of the 23-day turkey embryo, 21-day pheasant embryo, and 21-day guinea embryo at levels of 4.79, 4.29, and 5.05 μmoles/cm 3 RBC. respectively. 4. 4. The P 50 's of whole blood from the mature birds ranged between 33.4 and 41.2mm Hg whereas the P 50 of whole blood from the embryos of the three species studied is between 23.5 and 22.8mm Hg. 5. 5. The relative per cent of Hb-H (hatching hemoglobin) is 13.0 in blood of embryos from the guinea eggs and approximately 0.7 in blood of embryos from pheasant eggs.
Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and the oxygen haemoglobin dissociation curve (ODC) were determined in 32 ambulatory, non-acidotic diabetic children and in 49 healthy children. Despite the fact that the diabetic children had, on average, an increased haemoglobin concentration, their erythrocytes contained significantly more 2,3-DPG than normal. Both in diabetic and in healthy children a negative relationship was found between the content of 2,3-DPG and the haemoglobin concentrations. No relationship was present between the plasma glucose and the 2,3-DPG concentration. The concentration of plasma inorganic phosphate (Pi) in the diabetic children was significantly higher than in the control children, and for all children there was a significant relationship between the 2,3-DPG and the Pi. In the diabetics 2,3-DPG was positively correlated to the P50 (7.40) and to the P50 (in vivo ph) of the ODC. However, despite the significant increase in 2,3-DPG among the diabetic children the average P50 (7.40) and P50 (in vivo pH) was not increased as compared with the control children. The inhibitory factor preventing the oxygen affinity from decreasing among the diabetics was strongly correlated to an increase in the mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration. The result of this study suggests the presence of an increased amount of haemoglobin fraction with high oxygen affinity (haemoglobin Alc) in the red cells of juvenile diabetics.
Human adult red cell lysate contains glycosylated minor hemoglobins AIa1, AIa2, AIb, and AIc. Similar minor hemoglobins, designated FIa1, FIa2, Fib, and FIc, have been separated by a Biorex 70 column chromatographic procedure from red cell lysates of newborn children and from an adult homozygote for hereditary persistence of fetal Hb. The minor Hb components were characterized by analyzing for carbohydrate and phosphate contents, by oxygen equilibrium analysis, and by comparing the chromatographic elution profiles of naturally occurring and in vitro synthesized minor components. The results indicate that Hb FIa1, Hb FIa2, and Hb FIc have been formed by the modification of gamma chains of Hb F by reacting with fructose-1,6-P2, glucose-6-P, and glucose, respectively. Hb FIb is a glycoprotein; the mechanism of its formation is unclear. Hb FIa1 and Hb FIa2 had significantly lower oxygen affinities and n values than the other minor components and the major Hb F0. Moreover, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate did not influence the oxygenation of the minor or the major fetal Hb components. Incubations of Hb F with [14C]hexoses and subsequent chromatographic separation of hemoglobins and their globin chains confirm the previous findings that the binding of carbohydrate to Hb involves both specific and nonspecific reactions.
SummaryThe oxygen dissociation curves of 50 healthy young nonsmokers 25 women and 25 men, were investigated. The following parameters were deter-mined: hemoglobin concentration, microhematocrit, red cell count, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, capillary blood pH,P50 value, and the concentration of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. ::: P50 values are significantly higher in the female group (28.3 mm Hg±0.4 S.E.M.) than in the male group (26.3 mm Hg±0.4 S.E.M.), indicating a lower oxygen affinity of hemoglobin in females.There is no significant difference between the DPG values. No significant negative correlation exists between the Hb concentration and theP50 values.
To examine the effect of acetazolamide on resting acid-base balance and on exercise performance at extreme altitude, we studied four members of the American Medical Research Expedition to Mount Everest at an altitude of 6,300 meters. After an initial progressive exercise test to exhaustion on a bicycle ergometer, subjects were re-studied after taking acetazolamide 250 mg every 8 h for three doses. We measured venous blood during rest for determination of hemoglobin, hematocrit, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), bicarbonate, pH, P50, and arterial oxygen saturation by ear oximeter. The results showed that pH, bicarbonate, and DPG:hemoglobin ratio were lower on acetazolamide, whereas P50 at in vivo conditions was unchanged. Exercise ventilation and oxygen consumption for the same workload were slightly higher after acetazolamide, whereas VCO2/VO2 respiratory exchange ratio (R) was lower, and oxygen saturation was unchanged. Two of four subjects had decreased time at maximum workload on acetazolamide; none had an increased performance. The results of this study show that partial carbonic anhydrase inhibition in individuals sojourning to very high altitude produces a further base deficit and a metabolic acidosis, stimulates ventilation, and may impair maximum exercise performance. Although acetazolamide effectively prevents acute mountain sickness, it does not improve performance, and may even impair exercise performance at extreme altitude.
Abstract Two new variants of abnormal hemoglobins with deletions have been identified. In Hemoglobin Tours, the deletion of residue Thr β 87 (F3) displaces Leu β 88 (F4) which appears to be very important in the heme-globin binding, and the consequence is a spontaneous loss of heme. In Hemoglobin St Antoine, the deleted segment Gly-Leu β 74–75 (E 18–19) is the end of helix E and close to a loose zone. Although it is in the vicinity of one of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding sites, it has apparently only minor consequences for the functional properties of the molecule.
1 The three-dimensional coordinates of the atoms in human haemoglobin are known, and there is a specific site in the deoxygenated form of the protein at which 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) interacts. 2 Molecular models of this site have been constructed and used to design compounds which should bind to the deoxy conformation and stabilize it. These compounds should therby promote oxygen liberation, as does DPG. 3The compounds so designed were found to promote oxygen liberation. Their relative potencies, as assessed by sigmoidal dose-response curves, are in the predicted sequence.
Summary 1. Considerable evidence indicates that the long term use of antacids may result in a “phosphorus depletion syndrome”. Furthermore, the widespread treatment of peptic ulcer with non-absorbable antacids makes recognition of this syndrome clinically important. 2. “Mountain sickness” may result when a marked rise in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate acid (2,3-DPG) fails to take place within the red cells; this rise normally facilitates oxygen release at physiological tensions. The 2,3-DPG level is likely to be depressed in uremia when hypophosphatemic patients are treated with aluminum hydroxide gel. 3. ACD (acid-citrate-dextrose) stored blood becomes severely depleted of 2,3-DPG in less than two weeks and massive blood transfusions with 2,3-DPG depleted blood may be hazardous. CPD (citrate-phosphate-dextrose) solutions affect the organic phosphates such as adenosine and aid in maintaining the 2,3-DPG level of stored cells. 4. The chemical methods for the determination of phosphorus have been reviewed including blood collection procedures, preparation of protein-free filtrates, the automated method utilizing dialysis, and the newer direct phosphorus procedures. 5. Current methodology in use in the clinical laboratories of New York State has been evaluated.
The explanation of the effect of CO2 on the sickling phenomenon has, in the past, been based solely on the alteration of the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin induced by the CO2, and hence solely on the oxygen saturation of the haemoglobin. A re-investigation of this phenomenon, reported here, shows that this explanation is inadequate; rather, a full explanation requires the use of Perutz's hypothesis that the haemoglobin molecule can exist in various conformationally distinct states, the relative concentrations of which are dependent not only on the oxygen saturation of the molecules but also on other factors such as pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration. The effect of temperature on the sickling phenomenon is explained in a similar fashion. Low temperature is found to have no effect on the morphology of irreversibly sickled cells.
BACKGROUND ::: Whole blood (WB) can be held at room temperature (18-25°C) up to 8 hours after collection; thereafter the unit must be refrigerated, rendering it unsuitable for platelet (PLT) production. Overnight hold at room temperature before processing has logistic advantages, and we evaluated this process in an international multicenter study for both buffy coat (BC)- and PLT-rich plasma (PRP)-based blood components and compared three red blood cell (RBC) additive solutions (ASs) for their ability to offset effects of overnight hold. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Nine centers participated; seven used the BC method, and two used the PRP method. Four WB units were pooled and split; 1 unit was processed less than 8 hours from collection (Group A), and the other three (Groups B, C, and D) were held at room temperature and processed after 24 to 26 hours. RBCs in Groups A and B were resuspended in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol, Group C in phosphate-adenine-guanosine-glucose-saline-mannitol, and Group D in ErythroSol-4 RBCs were stored at 2 to 6°C for 49 days. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: RBCs from overnight-held WB had lower 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and higher adenosine triphosphate (ATP). At the end of storage there were no differences between groups, apart from a slightly higher hemolysis in Group B. ErythroSol-4 showed a slightly higher initial ATP and 2,3-DPG content, but at the end of storage no differences were found. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Overnight hold of WB before processing has no lasting deleterious effects on in vitro quality of subsequently prepared components. The use of different RBC ASs did not appear to offer significant advantages in terms of RBC quality at the end, regardless of the processing method.
For extracellular enzymes, in vitro assessments of stability may have some physiological significance, although it is by no means clear that in nature such enzymes are free in solution rather than associated with a surface. However, the physiological significance of in vitro stabilities of intracellular enzymes is less obvious. Apart from the potential stabilising factors mentioned above, the intracellular low water activity and the presence of high concentrations of protein are both powerful stabilising agents. In addition, some, but not all, thermophiles are known to contain metabolites that strongly stabilise proteins, although it is not certain that this is their primary function. The most effective of these agents are cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and di-myo-inositol 1,1'-phosphate, found in Methanothermus fervidus and Pyrococcus woesei, respectively. In the presence of potassium, these agents increase the half-lives of some enzymes by up to 130-fold at 90°C [17] . 
Other factors that affect levels of glycated hemoglobin independently of the average glucose level during the previous months include genetic predisposition (some people are "rapid glycators"), labile glycation (ie, transient glycation of hemoglobin when exposed to very high concentrations of glucose), and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration and pH of the blood. 
The metabolic effects of oxalate on pyruvate kinase were studied in intact human red blood cells and compared to the spontaneous modifications induced by congenital pyruvate kinase deficiency. In normal cells, oxalate (2-3 . 10(-4) M) produces a large increase of the monophosphoglycerates, phosphoenolpyruvate pool and decrease of pyruvate concentrations as a result of pyruvate kinase inhibition; it does not significantly modify 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level, ATP formation or overall glycolytic activity. Those effects of oxalate are not due to Mg2+ chelation. A similar metabolite pattern is observed in vivo in erythrocytes with congenital pyruvate kinase deficiency, in which ATP concentration and glycolytic activity are described. These cells are more sensitive to oxalate than normal ones. Results are discussed with reference to the rate-limiting character of normal or congenitally deficient pyruvate kinase.
Ozone exposure has been shown to cause erythrocyte damage and thus may be affecting oxygen delivery by the red cell. Oxyhemoglobin affinity, heme-oxygen binding site interaction (Hill coefficient), and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations were measured in a total of twenty-two New Zealand white rabbits exposed to ozone. Ozone exposures of 1 and 3 ppm for 4 hr in rabbits had no significant (P greater than .05) effect, immediate or delayed, on the parameters measured.
The effect of temperature on the oxygen-binding properties of hemoglobin (Hb) from ruminants, such as ox, reindeer, musk ox, mouflon and egyptian water buffalo is compared to that of human adult Hb (HbA). A striking difference emerges where in the presence of chloride ions and in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate [Gri(2,3)P2] a strongly reduced exothermic oxygenation process is observed for all ruminant Hb investigated with respect to HbA. Next, in the presence of physiological concentrations of Gri(2,3)P2, HbA displays a less exothermic oxygenation process, with values tending toward those observed in ruminant Hb [where Gri(2,3)P2 is not a physiological effector and for which the addition of Gri(2,3)P2 has essentially no effect on the oxygenation enthalpy]. Different from HbA, the intrinsically less exothermic oxygen binding seems to be independent of the experimental conditions for ruminant Hb, underlying specific structural characteristics which might be responsible for this feature.
The concentration of plasma erythropoietin was determined by radioimmunoassay during the progression of and subsequent recovery from iron-deficiency anemia in the rat. During the development of anemia, the plasma erythropoietin level rose as the hemoglobin (Hgb) concentration declined, reaching maximal levels when the Hgb was lowest. During the recovery from iron-deficiency anemia after institution of the control diet, the plasma erythropoietin concentration rapidly declined to baseline or below baseline levels even before the Hgb had completely returned to control values. This early fall in the erythropoietin level was associated with a sustained decrease in blood oxygen affinity (increase in P50). The rise in P50 was associated with an increase in the number of circulating reticulocytes in addition to and independently of an increase in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in red cells. Therefore, reticulocytosis may play a part in the recovery from anemia, not only by replenishing the red cell pool but also by temporarily facilitating oxygen delivery to the tissues.
Abstract Respiratory characteristics of blood from two adult killer and two adult beluga whales were studied. Both of these are dolphins; killer whales attain weights up to 7000 kg and belugas up to 700 kg. Oxygen dissociation curves of the blood were constructed at 37 °C and corrected to a plasma pH of 7.40. Beluga whale blood had a significantly higher (P O .01) oxygen capacity than killer whale blood (25.8 ± O .6 vs 21.8 ± O .5 vol%). The mean P 50 values were 25.2 ± O .5 and 24.4 ± O .1 mm Hg, respectively, for killer and beluga whale blood and these are significantly different (P O .05). The Bohr factor for killer whale blood (− O .602 ± O .148 Δ log P O 2 / Δ pH) was not significantly different than that for beluga whale blood (− O .782 ± O .073), but the Haldane effect for killer whale blood (7.0 vol%) was smaller than for beluga whale blood (9.4 vol%). The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in killer whale blood was significantly higher (P O .01) than in beluga whale blood(15.12 μ mol/g Hb vs 11.49 ± O .63 μ mol/g Hb). Starch gel electrophoresis showed that killer whale hemoglibin has two major components and beluga whale hemoglobin has only one major component. The fast-moving component of killer whale hemoglobin and the single major component of beluga whale hemoglobin migrate at the same rate as human A hemoglobin. A relationship between body weight and blood oxygen affinity, which is seen in land mammals, is not apparent in the published data for aquatic mammals.
. Wild caught horseflies, Tabanus nigrovittatus Macq. (Diptera, Tabanidae), were presented solutions of 0.15 MNaCl at 37°C containing various concentrations of ATP, ADP, AMP, adenosine, phytic acid or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in an artificial feeding apparatus. The insects fed upward through a Para-film M® membrane. ADP (ED50 35 μM) was more potent than ATP (ED50 112 μM) and AMP (ED50 382 mUM). All of these diets were deposited in the midgut, an indication that the flies were in the ‘blood feeding’ mode. Adenosine caused only 23% gorging at 1 mM. Phytic acid caused only 10% gorging at 1 mM and 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid had no activity at 0.6 mM. Flies would feed only in highly reflective cages under high levels of light intensity (1200–1500 lux) at the membrane surface.
Abstract The specific effect of carbon dioxide on blood affinity for oxygen (P 50 at pH 7.2) and on the Bohr effect (Δ log P 50 /ΔpH) has been measured in adult and cord blood in the presence (fresh blood) and the absence (stored blood) of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Studies were performed without C0 2 and at a P 50 , of 40 torr at 37 °C. Blood pH was varied with fixed acid (HC1) and base NaOH) from 6.8 to 7:4. Carbon dioxide lowers the Bohr coefficients similarily in cord and adult blood; this effect is 50% inhibited by DPG. In the absence of DPG, the CO 2 specific effect on P 50 is lower in cord blood than in adult blood. DPG increases P 50 less in cord blood than in adult blood. In cord blood the DPG and CO 2 effects are additive. The higher affinity of foetal blood for oxygen may be explained by the lower response of foetal haemoglobin to CO 5 and DPG. This is considered as an example of physiological adaptation of foetal erythrocytes to the conditions of intra-uterine life.
The mature, anueleate human red cell is incapable of synthesizing en­ zymes and is dependent upon anaerobic metabolism to m eet its energy requirements. Thus, inherited red cell enzyme deficiencies of the glycolytic pathway often result in chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (CNSHA). The hexosemonophosphate (HMP) shunt is normally relatively inactive and enzyme deficiences, such as G-6-PD deficiency, usually result in episodic hemolysis secondary to oxidative stress. Deficiency of G-6-PD is the most common red cell enzymopathy. Pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency is the most common enzyme deficiency of the glycolytic pathway, followed in fre­ quency by glucose phosphate isomerase (GPI) deficiency. Other glycolytic enzyme deficiencies are rare. Red cell phosphofructokinase deficiency can be associated with muscle weakness; triosephosphate isomerase (TPI) and phosphoglycerate kinase deficiencies with neurologic abnormalities. Since its original description, pyrimidine-5'-nucleotidase deficiency has been rec­ ognized with greater frequency as a cause of CNSHA. Enolase, glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase, and lactic dehydrogenase deficiencies are not associated with hemolysis. The newborn with CNSHA can develop anemia and significant jaundice in the first 24 hrs of life. Precise diagnosis may be difficult owing to the volume of blood required and the laboratory facilities available. Screening tests for G-6-PD, GPI, TPI, and PK deficiencies and the red cell concentra­ tion of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate can all be done with small amounts of blood obtained with a heel puncture. Data obtained for red cell glycolytic intermediates and quantitative en­ zyme assays must be compared to normal values for neonates since red cells at birth and during the first two months of life have unique metabolic
An abnormal hemoglobin was suspected in a 70-year-old Japanese male with cerebral infarction and erythremia with high performance liquid chromatography assay of Hb A1c. The hemoglobin variant migrated to the anode more rapidly than Hb A. Structure determination studies, including amino acid analysis of the abnormal pep-tide and DNA sequencing of a partially cloned α-globin gene, demonstrated that it is a new hemoglobin variant which has been named Hb Kanagawa [α40(C5)Lys→Met]. This variant showed an increased oxygen affinity, decreased heme-heme interaction, and a lowered 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effect relative to normal.
Opposite effects of urea on hemoglobin-oxygen affinity in anemia of chronic renal failure. We studied the action of urea on the spin-spin relaxation rate of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) phosphorus atoms in normal and uremic erythrocytes. At concentrations from 10 to 60 mM, urea increased the relaxation rates of 2,3-DPG P-3 phosphorus atoms. This evidenced a stronger binding of 2,3-DPG to hemoglobin (Hb), suggesting that the deoxyform of Hb was stabilized. This hypothesis was confirmed by measurements of the association constant of oxygen to hemoglobin (K) in normal erythrocytes in presence of urea concentrations in the range of those observed in uremic patients (30 mM). Indeed, the observed decrease in K suggests that the T structure of hemoglobin is stabilized. By contrast, with higher urea concentrations (120 mM), measurements of P 50 showed an increase in the hemoglobin affinity for oxygen (decrease in P 50 ). Moreover, the relaxation rates of 2,3-DPG P-3 phosphorus atoms were not modified, which is consistent with the simultaneous increase of K. This may be attributed to the formation of carbamylated hemoglobin in presence of urea. These results suggest two opposite effects of urea on Hb-O 2 affinity: the first reinforces 2,3-DPG-Hb binding and leads to a decrease in O 2 affinity; the second, mediated by carbamylation of Hb, hinders the binding of 2,3-DPG and increases the O 2 affinity. These findings are consistent with the fact that, despite the presence of carbamylated hemoglobin, uremic patients do not present increased Hb-O 2 affinity.
Two brothers with congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia and neurologic disease were found to have erythrocyte and leukocyte phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency. Elevated levels of red cell dihydroxyacetone phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were documented as well. Erythrocyte phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency is X-chromosome linked, and the present report brings the number of male hemizygous individuals to five. All are mentally retarded and some have additional neurologic defects,
Although the attempts to develop an oxygen-carrying alternative to red blood cells (RBC) have spanned the last 100 years, it has proven difficult to develop a clinically useful haemoglobin-based oxygen carrier. Four major problems have been shown to compromise the use of haemoglobin outside the RBC as an oxygen carrier: (1) the increased oxygen affinity due to the loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; (2) dissociation into dimers and monomers with consequent renal and capillary loss of hemoglobin; (3) insufficient concentrations of prepared solutions under iso-oncotic conditions, and thereby reduced oxygen-carrying capacity; and (4) toxicity. Most of these limitations have been overcome by different modifications of haemoglobin, including pyridoxylation, intra- and intermolecular crosslinking, polymerisation, liposome encapsulation, conjugation to inert macromolecules, and genetic engineering. Questions of toxicity are not completely answered at present, especially with regard to renal toxicity, interactions with the nitric oxide system, and anti genicity. Therefore, the issues preventing clinical application are those of safety and not of efficacy of haemoglobin-based RBC substitutes. Potential clinical applications include fluid resuscitation, treatment of anaemia and ischaemia, support in extracorporeal circulation, and organ preservation. Based on promising and reproducible results obtained from animal studies, clinical phase I and II trials with newer haemoglobin solutions have been started in the United States. Substantial knowledge has been gained in the development, production, and evaluation of haemoglobin-based oxygen carriers during the past years. It will probably not take another century before oxygen-carrying RBC substitutes will become available for clinical use
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), an intracellular metabolite of glycolytic pathway is known to affect the oxygen binding capacity of haemoglobin and mechanical properties of the red blood cells. 2,3-DPG levels have been reported to be elevated during anaemic conditions including visceral leishmaniasis. 2,3-DPG activity in P. falciparum infected red blood cells, particularly in cells infected with different stages of the parasite and its relationship with structural integrity of the cells is not known. Chloroquine sensitive and resistant strains of P. falciparum were cultured in vitro and synchronized cultures of ring, trophozoite and schizont stage rich cells along with the uninfected control erythrocytes were assayed for 2,3-DPG activity and osmotic fragility. It was observed that in both the strains, in infected erythrocytes the 2,3-DPG activity gradually decreased and osmotic fragility gradually increased as the parasite matured from ring to schizont stage. The decrease in 2,3-DPG may probably be due to increased pyruvate kinase activity of parasite origin, which has been shown in erythrocytes infected with several species of Plasmodium. The absence of compensatory increase in 2,3-DPG in P. falciparum infected erythrocytes may aggravate hypoxia due to anaemia in malaria and probably may contribute to hypoxia in cerebral malaria. As 2,3-DPG was not found to be increased in erythrocytes parasitized with P. falciparum, the increased osmotic fragility observed in these cells is not due to increased 2,3-DPG as has been suggested in visceral leishmaniasis.
The principle used by Keitt (J. Lab. clin. Med. 77, 470, 1971) for the determination of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate has been adapted to an Auto Analyzer system in which the consumption of NADH in the glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase reaction is measured in a fluorometer. Perchloric acid extracts of blood are used and the method is applied to venous as well as to capillary blood. The coefficient of variation is 2–5%, the recovery of added 2,3-diphosphoglycerate around 95%. In 92 healthy men, 50 years of age, the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was 0.76 ± 0.1 μmoles/mole hemoglobin (4 Fe).
Rat brain in vivo has been examined by 31P NMR under conditions of normal blood perfusion (hematocrit 38%) and under conditions in which a perfluorocarbon blood substitute, devoid of any phosphorus containing compounds, largely replaced the animal's normal blood supply (hematocrit 7%). These studies demonstrate that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate does not - as has been suggested - contribute to, and thus does not interfere with, the 31P NMR analysis of rat brain in vivo. However, low intensity 31P resonances assigned to choline phosphate, glycerol 3-phosphorylethanolamine, and glycerol 3-phosphorylcholine are observed. "High energy phosphorus" metabolite levels show no marked change over two hours with perfluorocarbon blood substitution from those of the normal blood perfused animal. This supports use of perfluorocarbon media for tissue perfusion in vitro and for 19F NMR vascular imaging in vivo.
In experiments with graded exercise of 15 men (6 untrained, 3 semitrained, 6 endurance-trained) the trained subjects showed a massive shift to the right of thein vivo O2 dissociation curve (ODC) of femoral venous blood. At a saturation of 20 to 25% (18 mkp/sec)PO2 was about 9 mm Hg higher for the trained than for the untrained group. The following factors play a role: 1. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate [2,3-DPG] concentration was increased by 15 to 20% in the trained group which explains about 2 mm Hg of the difference inPO2. 2. Exercise acidosis in the femoral venous blood depends to a large extent on CO2 in the trained, but on lactic acid in the untrained group. At low saturations the CO2-Bohr effect increases sharply thus having a greater importance in the trained subjects. This factor can explain about 2 mm Hg of the difference. However, influence of chloride and 2,3-DPG on the Bohr effect must be taken into consideration. 3. Since the large ODC-shift to the right of the trained group was not reproducible underin vitro conditions, it is suggested that a rapidly decaying unknown substance accounts for the remaining difference inPO2.
In a control group of 32 patients undergoing open-heart operation, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) declined progressively during the course of perfusion from a prebypass mean of 17.00 to 11.29 mu M per gram of hemoglobin at the end of bypass. The decrease was greater than that attributable merely to dilution of the patients' cells with the 2,3-DPG-deficient donor cells used to prime the pump oxygenator circuit. Administration of 300 mg of allopurinol, to prevent the conversion of inosine to uric acid, every 8 hours during the 24 hours prior to operation in 11 patients did not prevent the 2,3-DPG decrease during heart-lung bypass: prebypass, 18.31; postbypass, 13.56 mu M/gm Hgb. The mean P50 for both these groups combined decreased from a prebypass mean of 25.7 to a postbypass level of 21.9 torr. A solution of 0.1 M inosine, 0.1 M pyruvate, and 0.066 M phosphate (IPP) in a dosage of 7.5 ml per kologram of body weight prevented the 2,3-DPG decrease: prebypass, 15.74; postbypass, 14.85. Administration of 15 ml per kilogram of IPP in 15 patients preserved 2,3-DPG: prebypass, 18.09; postbypass, 18.52. The P50 remained unchanged in this last group. The method of providing for myocardial oxygen requirements during bypass was not standardized, and therefore the protective effect of IPP against ischemic damage in patients undergoing aortic valve replacement or myocardial revascularization could not be evaluated. No deleterious effects of IPP were noted.
Abstract The amino acid substitution of hemoglobin Little Rock (HbLR) is here defined as β143 (H21) His → Gln, a site which is important for binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (HbA). Studies of the effect of DPG and of chloride and phosphate on the oxygen affinities of chromatographically isolated HbLR and HbA show that HbLR has a much higher oxygen affinity than HbA at all anion concentrations. The shapes of the titration curves are consistent with binding of each species of anion studied to both the deoxy and oxy conformations of hemoglobin. Equations were developed from simple equilibrium models to calculate anion dissociation constants from the oxygen equilibrium data. The model for DPG binding assumed one oxygen-linked binding site per hemoglobin tetramer, and that for small anion binding assumed two sites. The DPG dissociation constant for deoxy HbLR (Kd = 3.3 x 10-5 m) is approximately twice that of deoxy HbA (Kd = 1.8 x 10-5 m), while the dissociation constant for oxy HbLR (Ko = 7.0 x 10-3 m) is four times that of oxy HbA (Ko = 1.7 x 10-3 m). Dissociation constants for chloride (HbLR: Kd = 2 x 10-3 m, Ko = 0.6 m; HbA: Kd = 2 x 10-3 m, Ko = 0.4 m) and phosphate (HbLR: Kd = 3 x 10-4 m, Ko = 0.1 m; HbA: Kd = 2.5 x 10-4 m, Ko = 0.1 m) are larger than the corresponding constants for DPG for both hemoglobins. However, the differences between HbLR and HbA in the binding of these anions are not significant. These data indicate the importance of the β143 histidine for the binding of DPG, but not of small anions, to HbA in solution. These findings appear to be in good agreement with crystallographic observations reported by Arnone ((1972) Nature 237, 146–149).
Phenylhydrazine-induced anemia in the domestic cat results in an increase in minor, high oxygen affinity hemoglobin B components and an accompanying decrease in the major, low affinity B component. This change is accompanied by an unusually large increase in erythrocytic adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, a slight decrease in the oxygen affinity of whole blood, and a large decrease in the Hill constant.
Abstract 1. 1. Yeast phosphoglycerate mutase (2,3-diphospho- d -glycerate:2-phospho- d -glycerate phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.5.3) was subjected to chemical modification experiments with trinitrobenzenesulfonate in an attempt to identify amino acids in the active site. 2. 2. Trinitrophenylation of amino groups caused a significant loss of the activity, while the presence of the substrate (3- or 2-phosphoglycerate) inhibited strongly trinitrophenylation and protected the enzyme almost completely from loss of the activity. 3. 3. In order to exclude amino groups which were not essential for the activity, the enzyme was carboxymethylated with iodoacetate in the presence of the substrate prior to trinitrophenylation. Trinitrophenylation of the carboxymethylated active enzyme indicated that four amino groups were located in the active site. 4. 4. Although the coenzyme (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) was added to a concentration 10 times the K m to the reaction mixture for trinitrophenylation, no significant protective effect on the loss of the activity was observed. From these results, it was concluded that four amino groups were located at the substrate site. 5. 5. The similar time courses of trinitrophenylation on component V (the final product of the enzymic modification) and on component I (the native enzyme) indicated that lysine residues liberated by the enzymic modification were not the ones which reacted with trinitrobenzenesulfonate.
The interesting article by Willy A. Flegel that recently appeared in this journal provides valuable insights into an ongoing debate on the use of fresher material for blood transfusions1. Regardless of important considerations about the delicate balance between selection of units and blood supply, an innovative approach for defining the quality of transfused components is increasingly supported by recent advancements in laboratory diagnostics, which would enable to determine whether leucocytes, platelets and red blood cells are suitable for transfusion regardless of the ageing of the stored material. Several examples can be given, whereby routine, automatic flow haemocytometry combined with additional technical tools provides valuable information. ::: ::: As regards platelets, the loss of function during storage is mirrored by disc-to-sphere transformation, extension of pseudopodia, alteration of the canalicular system and granules, up to loss of storage granules2. Some haemocytometers already provide a variety of activation-related information about these blood elements. For example, in Advia 2120 (Siemens Diagnostics, Tarrytown, New York, United States of America), the intensity of light scattered by platelets is assessed at two different angles (i.e., 2 to 3° and 5 to 15°). Mean platelet volume and mean platelet component are then calculated and from these paired measures. The latter parameter, in particular, has been shown to be a reliable index of platelet degranulation, since it is directly related to CD62 expression, which is highly indicative of platelet activation and ageing3. The same instrument, along with others such as the PENTRA 60C (Horiba-ABX Diagnostics, Montpellier, France), provide specific flags or alerts in the presence of degranulation of polymorphonuclear leucocytes4, which is a hallmark of functional impairment5. More specifically, the Advia 2120 also enables reliable quantification of the number of degranulated neutrophils in specific clusters of the peroxidase scattergram based on cell volume and intracellular myeloperoxidase concentration. Additional morphological changes that characterise gradual deterioration of leucocytes in stored blood include a more homogeneous staining of nuclei, the separation of the nuclear lobes or irregular lobulation and vacuolisation, which can be reliably identified in the scattergram of modern haemocytometers such as those of the Sysmex XE series, in which the intensity of side scatter is dependent on the complexity of nuclear lobulation and granules within the cytoplasm6. ::: ::: It is also noteworthy that several changes occur to red blood cells during medium- and long-term storage in blood bags, including reduced deformability, altered adhesiveness and aggregability, and decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP content, to the point of frank injury and spurious haemolysis7. Specific macromolecular remodelling, along with lipid peroxidation and/or oxidative damage to the membrane, are mainly responsible for the onset of irreversible morphological abnormalities and loss of function. Most of these physicochemical changes, usually referred to as the “storage lesion”, can be identified by time-consuming or expensive analytical techniques such as flow cytometry, time-resolved phosphorescence anisotropy and microscopy, which are unsuitable for rapid examination of a large number of blood bags8. Nevertheless, the presence of red blood cell crenation or fragmentation -and finally haemolysis- can now be reliably and rapidly identified by specific erythrocyte indices on automated flow haemocytometers, such as the “immature platelet fraction” on XE-2100 (Sysmex, Kobe, Japan), or “RBC ghosts” on Advia 21209. Another interesting approach is ThromboLUX™ (LightIntegra Technology Inc., Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada), which uses the principle of dynamic light scattering -also known as photon correlation spectroscopy or quasi-elastic light scattering- to identify and quantify the particles that may be present in a platelet concentrate, as well as showing how they respond to temperature stress. The instrument finally generates a quality score on a scale ranging from 0 to 40, with platelet concentrates scoring from 13 to 40 containing mostly discoid and functional platelets. Recent data show that the information from ThromboLUX™ correlates adequately with that from flow cytometry and microscopy and may, therefore, be suitable for quality assessment of platelet concentrate samples10. ::: ::: Several technical advances have occurred in laboratory diagnostics over the past decades. These have not only improved the global quality of testing, but have also enabled reliable application to transfusion medicine for the assessment of the quality of transfused components, as attested by some of the examples previously provided. The modern, fully-automated haemocytometers -which are characterised by high accuracy and precision, notable throughput and full integration with information systems- can also provide a kaleidoscope of cellular indices. Most of these novel parameters are still partially unexploited, but it is conceivable that they may be reliably used to detect artefactual changes in leucocytes, platelets and red blood cells, which may be suggestive of less functional, defective or even apoptotic cells, and finally establish as to whether cellular elements within blood bags are still viable for transfusion. Future studies should be focused on the evaluation of the usefulness of these parameters in the setting of transfusion medicine.
1. The entire oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) and the effects of temperature, pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) on this curve, have been compared in four mammalians: man, dog, horse and cattle. 2. If the oxyphoric capacities are similar between these species (around 1.39 ml O2/gHb), their P50, measured in standard conditions, i.e. at pH 7.4; pCO2 40 mmHg and T 37 degrees C, varies between 23.8 (+/- 0.8) mmHg for the horse, 25.0 (+/- 1.4) mmHg for cattle, 26.6 (+/- 1.2) for man and 28.8 (+/- 2.6) mmHg for the dog. 3. The higher dispersion of the dog's P 50 is due to difference between breeds; in seven breeds investigated, the P 50 ranges from 25.8 (spaniel) to 35.8 (hound). 4. We noted no sex difference in the four species. 5. The DPG level is confirmed to be low in cattle (< 1 mumol/gHb) as compared to man (13.5 +/- 2.1 mumol/gHb), horse (16.9 +/- 1.1 mumol/gHb) and dog (19.4 +/- 2.8 mumol/gHb). 6. The oxygen exchange fraction defined as the difference in vol% between a pO2 of 80 and 35 mmHg is, respectively, 3.6 (+/- 0.6) vol% for cattle, 4.0 (+/- 0.4) vol% for the horse, 5.5 (+/- 0.5) vol% for man and 6.6 (+/- 1.7) vol% for the dog. 7. The position and shape of the ODC, as well as T, DPG and pH effects, indicate that the haemoglobin of man and dog seem better adapted to O2 delivery as compared to the horse and cattle.
Patients on a chronic hemodialysis regimen were studied with respect to their erythrocyte adaptation to anemia. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration was suboptimal compared with that of anemic patients who were not uremic. In uremic patients erythrocyte 2,3-DPG correlated poorly with hemoglobin level but more strongly with plasma pH. Differences between observed levels of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG and the values predicted using data from other anemic patients also correlated with pH. Gradual correction of plasma pH with oral sodium bicarbonate resulted in a substantial increase in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG and a decrease in oxygen affinity. Therefore, maintenance of normal pH in uremic subjects may improve tissue oxygenation. On the other hand, the rapid correction of acidosis during dialysis resulted in increased oxygen affinity. This response was due to the direct effect of pH on oxygen affinity in the absence of a significant change in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG or adenosine triphosphate (ATP) during hemodialysis. Erythrocyte ATP but not 2,3-DPG correlated with serum inorganic phosphate in uremic subjects. A 21% reduction of serum phosphate produced by ingestion of aluminum hydroxide gel had no significant effect on these variables.
The effect of hydrogen ion, chloride, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate upon the oxygen binding of hemoglobin may be satisfactorily described by an allosteric model employing three affinity states. The allosteric two-state model does not provide even an approximate description except under defined extreme conditions. In particular, the two-state model cannot provide a correct interpretation of recently reported electron spin resonance and nuclear magnetic resonance data.
Myocardial pH has been shown in animal models to be a sensitive indicator of ischemia. In vivo measurement in humans using 31p magnetic resonance spectroscopy is complicated by the overlap of blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate peaks with the P(i) peak used for pH measurement. A "saturation transfer" method combined with spatial presaturation of skeletal muscle signal is presented which can obtain spectra from the heart free of contamination of 2,3-DPG signal in which intracellular P(i) resonance can be clearly observed. Application to a group of six normal subjects found that the chemical shift of the intracellular inorganic phosphate peak was 4.95+/-0.06 relative to the phosphocreatine peak. This is equivalent to a pH of 7.11+/-0.05.
Abstract ::: Oxygen equilibria were measured on a number of human hemoglobins, which had been “stripped” of organic phosphates and isolated by column chromatography. In the presence of 2 × 10-4 M 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), the P50 of hemoglobins A, A2, S, and C increased about twofold, signifying a substantial and equal decrease in oxygen affinity. Furthermore, hemoglobins Chesapeake and MMilwaukee-1 which have intrinsically high and low oxygen affinities, respectively, also showed a twofold increase in P50 in the presence of 2 × 10-4 M 2,3-DPG. In comparison to these, hemoglobins AIC and F were less reactive with 2,3-DPG while hemoglobin FI showed virtually no reactivity. The N-terminal amino of each β-chain of hemoglobin AIC is linked to a hexose. In hemoglobin FI the N-terminal amino of each γ-chain is acetylated. These results suggest that the N-terminal amino groups of the non-α-chains are involved in the binding of 2,3-DPG to hemoglobin.
Abstract Erythrocyte diphosphoglycerate mutase is inhibited by several inorganic salts, the extent of the effect being characteristic of the anionic component, i.e., at ionic strength of about 0.1, SO 4 2− > Cl − > CH 3 COO − . Using a partially purified enzyme preparation from human red blood cells, kinetic constants were determined in the presence of 0.1 m KCl to simulate the ionic environment of the cell. At pH 7.5, the addition of salt caused a 10-fold increase in the K m of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate and a 46-fold increase in the K i of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. There was no effect of salt on the K m of 3-phosphoglycerate or on the maximal velocity of the reaction. In the presence of 0.1 m KCl, the i of inorganic phosphate increased from 0.3 m m to 0.6 m m . The K m of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate was pH dependent, the values obtained being 3.6 μm at pH 6.75, 3.1 μm at pH 7.24, and 6.7 μm at pH 7.75. The K i values for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate under the same conditions were: 12 μm at pH 6.75, 20μm at pH 7.24, and 53 μm at pH 7.75. The relative maximal velocity of the reaction has been evaluated over the same pH range. The maximal activity of the enzyme measured at 25 °C and pH 7.5 was 2 units/min/ml of packed red cells. From these studies, it is concluded that the effective enzymatic rate increases fourfold when the pH increases from 6.75 to 7.75.
Abstract The reactivity of the amino groups of hemoglobin A toward reductive hydroxyethylation with glycolaldehyde in the presence of NaCNBH3 has been investigated. The alpha-amino groups of the alpha- and beta-chains of hemoglobin A are the most reactive amino groups of the protein for reductive hydroxyethylation; both sites are about equally reactive. Similarly, on reaction of hemoglobin A with glyceraldehyde in the presence of NaCNBH3, the alpha-amino groups of both the alpha- and beta-chains of the protein undergo selective reductive dihydroxypropylation. Modification of the alpha-amino groups of hemoglobin A either by reductive hydroxyethylation or reductive dihydroxypropylation apparently lowers the pKa of the alpha-amino groups and results in an early elution of the modified protein from CM52 chromatography compared with that of the unmodified protein as well as protein modified at the epsilon-amino groups. By hybridization of the modified chains with unmodified chains, new derivatives of hemoglobin with dihydroxypropyl or hydroxyethyl moieties on Val-1 (alpha) or Val-1(beta) of the protein have been prepared for the functional studies. Modification of the alpha-amino group of Val-1(alpha) by reductive hydroxyethylation or by reductive dihydroxypropylation resulted in an increased oxygen affinity of hemoglobin A, whereas the same modification of the alpha-amino group of the beta-chain resulted in a slight decrease in the oxygen affinity. The Hill coefficient of all four derivatives was 2.7, nearly the same as that of the native protein, showing normal heme-heme interactions in these derivatives. Both 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and chloride modulate the oxygen affinity of these hybrids; the influence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on decreasing the oxygen affinity of the hybrids with alkyl groups at Val-1(beta) is relatively less than that of the native molecule. On the other hand, when the modification was on Val-1(alpha), the relative decrease in oxygen affinity of the hybrids upon binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was of the same order as with the native protein. The chloride ion-mediated relative decrease in the oxygen affinity of the hybrids with alkyl groups at Val-1(beta) was nearly the same as that seen with the Val-1(alpha) hybrids, and lower than that with the native molecule. The relative influence of hydroxyethylation or of dihydroxypropylation at a given site was nearly the same, suggesting that the size of the alkyl chain has little to do with the observed changes in the oxygen affinity. The influence of reductive alkylation of the alpha-amino groups with these two hydroxyaldehydes probably reflects the change (decrease) in the pKa of the reductively hydroxyethylated or dihydroxypropylated alpha-amino group as compared with that of the unmodified alpha-amino groups.
The n e t s y n t h e t i c r a t e s appeared similar, averaging 0.37 !.~moles/ml/hr i n t h e i n f a n t and 0.42 i n t h e a d u l t . Fluoride, an agent t h a t blocks glycol y s i s d i s t a l t o the s i t e of 2,3-DPG synthesis, produced a r i s e i n 2,3-DFC i n t h e c e l l s of a d u l t s (0.25 ymoles/ml/hr), while DPG l e v e l s declined i n t h e newborn. DPG m t a s e a c t iv i t y was s i m i l a r i n both i n f a n t s and a d u l t s . These findings suggest t h a t t h e DFC i n s t a b i l i t y observed i n the c e l l s of the i n f a n t is a r e s u l t of accelerated DPG breakdown and not a consequence of an impairment of glycolysis. The erythrocytes of normal a d u l t s have t h e capacity t o directed migration,and; 2) random, o r non-directed migration. W e incorporate and metabolize dihydroxyacetone (DHA) . This have a l s o shown t h a t neonatal PMNS a r e d e f i c i e n t i n chemos u b s t r a t e has been found t o be u s e f u l f o r t h e maintenance of t a x i s but have normal random m i g r a t i 0 n . h order t o f u r t h e r ' 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) i n stored red c e l l s . The characterize the nature of neonatal P M N movement,we have metabolism of DHA by cord blood erythrocytes was examined employed the study of membrane deformability.Using a microi n an attempt t o find a s u b s t r a t e f o r DPG synthesis t h a t manipulator,individual PMNS were directed t o
Hb, the main cytoplasmic protein in RBC, is extremely important for erythrocyte's primary function, as a gas exchanger and for performing oxygen (O 2 ) distribution to body tissues. Erythrocytes carry O 2 from the lungs to the tissues and mediate carbon dioxide removal from the tissues to the lungs. In the lungs, O 2 binds to the heme group in Hb; in the tissues, O 2 is unloaded from Hb that undergoes a spatial rearrangement of the globin chains, allowing the entry of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) which diminishes O 2 affinity [1, 2] . Oxyhemoglobin suffers autoxidation daily (2-3%), with oxidation of heme ferrous iron into ferric iron [10] , leading to the formation of methemoglobin (metHb), which is not capable of O 2 transport, and the release of superoxide anion that is converted to H 2 O 2 , with a lower oxidant capacity [11] . The erythrocytes are capable of reducing metHb to functional Hb through methemoglobin reductases and of detoxifying the cell from H 2 O 2 through the glutathione metabolism [2] .
Horse hemoglobin was prepared from fresh whole blood (Grand Island Biological Co. Madison, Wis.) and stripped of P2Glr (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) as described (4). Globin was prepared by the method of , with the addition of 1 mM dithiothreitol to all globin solutions. Reconstituted Hb was made by the method of Antonini et al. (6). CoHb was prepared as described (2).
Haemoglobin (Hb) was encapsulated into liposomes as a blood substitute by a freeze-thaw method. The encapsulation efficiency was affected by the Hb/lipid ratio, starting Hb concentration, pH and salt concentration. Liposome-encapsulated haemoglobin (LEH) prepared by this method contains 5-10 mM Hb with 4-10 per cent methaemoglobin (Met-Hb), depending on the starting Hb/lipid ratio and Met-Hb content. The encapsulated Hb has the same absorption spectrum as free Hb and shows oxygen-dissociation characteristics similar to normal red blood cells when 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is co-entrapped in the liposomes. LEH exhibited some leakage, which was greatly reduced by sequential extrusions of LEH through polycarbonate membranes (1.0 and 0.45 microns). Stability of LEH was studied using different Hb preparations, and antioxidants of lipids or/and Hb either at 4 or 37 degrees C. alpha-tocopherol or butylated hydroxytoluene, antioxidants of lipids, inhibited not only the peroxidation of liposomes but also Hb oxidation. Among antioxidants of Hb, NADH was most effective in preventing the oxidation of Hb. Glutathione had a moderate preventive effect. However, catalase had no effect and ascorbate accelerated the oxidation of Hb. Glucose and glutathione decreased the oxidation of Hb only in the Hb preparation obtained by hypotonic lysing, not in that by toluene lysing. These results indicate that the Met-Hb reductase system in the latter is lost or inactivated during isolation.
Transfusion therapy has the dual purpose of providing volume to replace shed blood and to provide red cells to replace the oxygen transport function.1 Storage with the present collection solution, acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD), has been limited to 21 days because the red cell is undergoing continual deterioration during storage, with loss of many of its functions. One in particular, red cell oxygen transport as measured by the oxygen dissociation curve, decreased significantly. The intimate role of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) with the oxygen function appeared involved, since the DPG level also decreased with storage. The clinical effect of these storage changes was reflected in the finding of lowered p50 values in the recipient after transfusion of the stored blood.2–5
Abstract A new method for the purification of M-type phosphoglyceromutase from rabbit muscle involving affinity chromatography on dye ligand media in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is described. The method is rapid and technically simple. The purity of the enzyme was verified by electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gel in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate and by Cellogel electrophoresis. Immunological techniques showed that the anti-M antibodies are specific and do not cross-react with the B isozyme.
Abstract 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy has been used to study freshly aspirated normal human bone marrow samples. The pH within the intact cells of the samples was determined from the chemical-shift position of the resonance for inorganic phosphate within the cell; the intracellular pH was found to be 7.35 for fresh bone marrow. The chemical-shift positions of the alpha and beta phosphate resonances of adenosine 5'-triphosphate were used to assess the fraction of this metabolite complexed with Mg2+. It was found that 84% of the total intracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate was in the Mg2+-complexed form. The concentration of Mg2+ uncomplexed to any ligand was 0.4 mM. The areas of the resonances for the major phosphorus-containing metabolites were used to determine intracellular concentrations. For fresh human bone marrow, the intracellular concentrations determined were phosphate monoesters less than 0.3 mM, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate 3.9 +/- 1.0 mM, inorganic phosphate 1.2 +/- 0.6 mM, phosphodiesters 2.8 +/- 1.0 mM, adenosine 5'-triphosphate 1.6 +/- 0.4 mM, adenosine 5-diphosphate less than 0.2 mM, and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide less than 0.2 mM. These metabolite concentrations within the intact cell samples did not change over 2.0 h and changed only gradually over a 24-h period. 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy was then used to study the cryopreservation of normal human bone marrow in the presence of increasing concentrations of the penetrating cryopreservative dimethyl sulfoxide. Dimethyl sulfoxide alone without freezing was found to cause some gradual hydrolysis of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, presumably by stimulating diphosphoglycerate phosphatase. The effect of freezing human bone marrow to liquid nitrogen temperatures, storage, and rapid thawing was a dramatic fall in intracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate levels. The half-life of the metabolite, after thawing, was about 0.3 h. If the bone marrow was frozen in the presence of 2.5, 5.0, and 7.5% dimethyl sulfoxide, the post-thaw half-life was prolonged to 0.4, 0.5, and 0.6 h, respectively. 15% dimethyl sulfoxide afforded complete cryoprotection, with adenosine 5'-triphosphate levels constant for 15 h after thawing the human bone marrow.
Intra-erythrocytic concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is a major determinant of the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. We report here the adaptation of its assay to a centrifugal analyzer, with use of a commercially available reagent. Results are calculated by using the reagent-blank-corrected absorbance change at 340 nm between 120 and 300 s for the samples and a 2.5 mmol/L standard. Under these conditions the standard curve is linear to 5 mmol/L. The compound in a 101-fold aqueous hemolysate is stable for several weeks at either -4 or -70 degrees C. Assay sensitivity and precision are excellent and results agree well with those by the corresponding manual method.
Abstract A metabolic osmotic model of red blood cells is presented which takes into account the main reaction steps of glycolysis and the passive and active fluxes of ions across the cell membrane. Cellular energy metabolism and osmotic behaviour are linked by the ATP consumption for the active transport of cations as well as by the osmotic action of the glycolytic intermediate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). The model is based on a system of differential equations describing the metabolic reactions and transport processes. Further, two algebraic conditions for the osmotic equilibrium and the electroneutrality of the cell are considered. Using realistic system parameters the model allows the calculation of a great number of dependent variables, among them the cell volume, the concentrations of metabolites and ions and the transmembrane potential. Only stationary states are considered. The parameter dependence of important model variables is characterized by control coefficients. The main results are: (a) The volume of erythrocytes is mainly determined by the permeabilities of the leak fluxes of cations, the content of hemoglobin and the activity of the hexokinase-phosphofructokinase system of glycolysis; (b) Changes of volume affect the glycolytic rate mainly by changing the concentration of ATP which is a regulator of glycolysis; (c) A change in the membrane area may affect the other cell properties only if it is connected with variations of the number of active and leak sites of the membrane.
A method is described for detecting the electrophoretic pattern of the enzyme 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase (2,3-DPGM) after starch gel electrophoresis. In addition, a genetic variant found in a Canadian Eskimo family is described. The pattern of this (presumably) heterozygous phenotype is consistent with a dimeric structure of the enzyme.
Pyruvate kinase deficiency was studied biochemically in ten homozygous and seven heterozygous individuals who previously had been examined clinically and hematologically (see part I). In crude hemolysates some properties of the deficient enzymes were found to be altered. The pH optimum was shifted towards the alkaline range, and the thermal optimum was found between 17 and 27 degrees Cinstead of between 37 und 47 degrees C. The abnormal enzymes were much less stable than normal pyruvate Kinase (PK), and more susceptible to inhibition by adenosinetriphosphate. The affinity to adenosinediphosphate was normal in all cases whereas the affinity to phosphoenolpyruvate was either normal (two cases/, increased (two cases) or slightly decreased (six cases). Fructosediphosphate activated the abnormal enzymes by a factor of 1.5--18 and simultaneously transformed the sigmoidal affinity curve with phosphoenolpyruvate into the hyperbolic curve known for the normal enzyme. The consumption of glucose and the formation of lactate were higher in PK deficient erythrocytes than in normal cells but lower than in erythrocyte populations with similar reticulocyte counts. The formation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was markedly increased, whereas its breakdown was low. A close relation between the degree of reticulocytosis and the impairment of glucose metabolism was found. In patients with high reticulocyte counts, i.e. in the splenectomized patients, the highest concentrations of glucose-6-phosphate, phosphoenolpyruvate, 3-phosphoglycerate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as well as a high formation and a low breakdown of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and a deficit in lactate formation were found. In heterozygotes, small increases of the concentration of glucose-6-phosphate, phosphoenolpyruvate and 3-phosphoglycerate were demonstrated. Our results support the conclusion that PK deficiency is mainly a disorder of the reticulocytes. Their metabolism grossly deteriorates within the venous sinuses of the spleen. Splenectomy improves the clinical course because this critical area of microcirculation with a highly unfavourable metabolic milieu is eliminated.
Abstract In the erythrocyte, a membrane-bound serine/threonine protein kinase (a casein kinase) has been shown to phosphorylate a number of membrane proteins, modulating their function. Here we report that the membrane-bound protein kinase binds to membranes by an association with a minor membrane component contained in preparations of glycophorin (possibly a minor glycophorin). The binding of the kinase to glycophorins does not significantly modify kinase activity. However, upon binding, the kinase activity is potently inhibited by phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, and the affinity of the kinase for the glycophorins is increased. Other phospholipids or polyanions such as inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate do not affect protein kinase activity when the kinase is bound to membranes but do inhibit the solubilized membrane-bound kinase. In the erythrocyte, there is a cytosolic form of the casein kinase which is very similar, having the same molecular weight and substrate specificity as the membrane-bound casein kinase. The cytosolic casein kinase is inhibited by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate but much less so by glycophorin preparations containing phosphoinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. When the sequences of both casein kinases were compared by two-dimensional peptide mapping, it was found that the two kinases were very similar but not identical.
The effect of short-term cryopreservation on metabolic, functional, and survival characteristics of erythrocytes from patients with sickle cell disease was examined. Post-thaw hemolysis of glycerolized sickle (SS) erythrocytes was greater (mean 12.9%) than in hemoglobin-AA cells (mean 4.7%). Freeze preservation had no apparent effect on red cell morphology, percent irreversibly sickled cells, and fetal hemoglobin content. There were modest reductions in ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in thawed, washed sickle erythrocytes (12.7% and 29.7%, respectively). However, the autologous survival of 51 Cr-labelled SS red cells was not shortened by cryopreservation. The safety and efficacy of autotransfusion of cryopreserved red cells in alloimmunized sickle cell disease patients with anemic episodes unrelated to sickling need to be determined.
Highly endurance-trained athlete's heart represents the most extreme form of cardiac adaptation to physical stress, but its circulatory alterations remain obscure. In the present study, myocardial blood flow (MBF), blood mean transit time (MTT), oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) and consumption (MVO2), and efficiency of cardiac work were quantified in highly trained male endurance athletes and control subjects at rest and during supine cycling exercise using [(15)O]-labeled radiotracers and positron emission tomography. Heart rate and MBF were lower in athletes both at rest and during exercise. OEF increased in response to exercise in both groups, but was higher in athletes (70 ± 21 vs. 63 ± 11 % at rest and 86 ± 13 vs. 73 ± 10 % during exercise). MTT was longer and vascular resistance higher in athletes both at rest and during exercise, but arterial content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (oxygen affinity) was unchanged. MVO2 per gram of myocardium trended (p = 0.08) lower in athletes both at rest and during exercise, while myocardial efficiency of work and MVO2 per beat were not different between groups. Arterial levels of free fatty acids were ~twofold higher in athletes likely leading to higher myocardial fatty acid oxidation and hence oxygen cost, which may have blunted the bradycardia-induced decrease in MVO2. Finally, the observed group differences in MBF, OEF, MTT and vascular resistance remained significant also after they were controlled for differences in MVO2. In conclusion, in highly endurance-trained human heart, increased myocardial blood transition time enables higher oxygen extraction levels with a lower myocardial blood flow and higher vascular resistance. These physiological adaptations to exercise training occur independently of the level of oxygen consumption and together with training-induced bradycardia may serve as mechanisms to increase functional reserve of the human heart.
The behaviour of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (2,3-DPG) of red blood cells of babies and children with cyanotic heart diseases is studied before and after shunt operations. In babies with cyanotic heart diseases at the age of up to 6 months an increase of 2,3-DPG-level and haematocrit (HCT) is seen. Later, the compensation of chronic hypoxia is effected by further increase of HCT at unchanged high 2,3-DPG-level. The 2,3-DPG concentration which is still increased after successfull shunt operations as compared with the normal value is considered as an effective adaptation mechanism to the residual hypoxia presenting only a small load on the circulatory system. The 2,3-DPG concentration alone does not represent a criterion for the assessment of chronic hypoxia.
### 1.1 What is being measured ::: ::: The lung is the organ of external respiration for the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between the blood and the surrounding air. The stages in the process of gas transfer include: ::: ::: 1. Ventilation of the airways and some air spaces by bulk flow of gas; ::: ::: 2. Mixing and diffusion of gases in the alveolar ducts, air sacs and alveoli; ::: ::: 3. Transfer of gases across the gaseous to liquid interface of the alveolar membrane; ::: ::: 4. Mixing and diffusion in the lung parenchyma and alveolar capillary plasma; ::: ::: 5. Chemical reaction with constituents of blood; ::: ::: 6. Circulation of blood between the pulmonary and systemic vascular beds. ::: ::: The capacity of the lung to exchange gas is determined by the structural and functional dimensions of these processes. The structural dimensions include the lung volume, the path length for diffusion in the gas phase, the thickness and area of the alveolar capillary membrane including any effects of airway closure, and the volume of blood in capillaries supplying alveoli which are ventilated. The principal functional dimensions are the absolute levels of ventilation and perfusion and the uniformity of their distribution with respect to both each other and the diffusion characteristics of the membrane. Other functional dimensions are the quantity of haemoglobin in the alveolar capillaries, the composition of the alveolar gas, the gas tensions in blood entering the alveolar capillaries, the rates of chemical reaction with haemoglobin and of dissociation of the compound so formed, the transit time of blood through that part of the pulmonary vascular bed which exchanges gas with the alveoli and the slope of the relevant haemoglobin dissociation curve. The latter is a function of the temperature of the lung and the prevailing levels of oxygen, carbon dioxide, hydrogen ions and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; many of these variables are dependent on the level of …
Red blood cells (RBCs) are the most commonly transfused blood-derived products, with approximately 90 million units being transfused worldwide annually [1, 2] . In most countries, the shelf life of RBCs is limited to 35 or 42 days to ensure 24-h recoveries higher than 75% and hemolysis below 0.8% thresholds. Nevertheless, during long-term storage, RBCs undergo a complex and progressive accumulation of physicochemical changes, collectively referred to as the RBC storage lesion, which is influenced by several factors, including the methods of collection, processing, storage, and the donors' characteristics [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] . This lesion includes the consumption of high-energy phosphate compounds adenosine 5 -triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), the impairment of cation homeostasis, the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), the alteration of proteomic profiles, and the progressive vesiculation of membrane portions that accompanies the loss of the discocytic morphology in exchange for a spheroechinocytic RBC morphology [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] .
The use of expired blood from blood banks is even more problematic because red cells are known to undergo many wellcharacterized morphologic and biochemical changes during storage. These storage lesions include oxidative damage to membrane lipids and proteins, decreased pH, depletion of ATP, loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and increased extracellular potassium due to dysfunction of the Na + -K + ATPase [9, 10] . The perturbation of the normal red cell structure and biochemical environment increases with longer duration of storage. At the end of its shelf life (typically 45 days), almost 80% of stored red cells have transformed into spherical spiculated cells, known as echinocytes, that are distinctly different from the normal biconcave structure of fresh red cells ( Figure 1C ). These echinocytes demonstrate a significant decrease in their membrane deformability. These morphologic and functional changes associated with expired blood are likely to cause further differences in the growth and hemolytic reactions of bacteria grown on expired human blood agar versus fresh animal blood agar.
2-3 Congenital polycythemia can result from various etiologies such as hemoglobins with high oxygen affinity, deficiencies in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, 4 mutations of the EPOR, and of genes coding for factors involved in the oxygen sensing pathway 5 [Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL), prolyl hydroxylase domain 2 (PHD2)]. [6] [7] [8] Percy recently reviewed the mutations in the EPOR associated with erythrocytosis 9 (an absolute increase in red cell mass and hematocrit without elevation of the megakaryocytic or granulocytic lineages). This subgroup of abnormalities is usually characterized by low to normal plasma erythropoietin levels, and hypersensitivity of erythroid progenitors to exogenous erythropoietin in vitro. 10 The patients are usually clinically asymptomatic or presenting with mild symptoms, however, this condition could still contribute to cardiovascular problems. 11 We investigated 36 unrelated cases with erythrocytosis of unidentified origin. In all samples we screened for EPOR abnormalities, focusing on the exons encoding for the cytoplasmic region (exons 7-8) which interacts with kinases, and the transmembrane region (exon 6) which is important for proper receptor activation. 12 All these patients have already been investigated for PHD2 mutations: 8 two sibs and four patients with missense mutations were found. In addition, we searched for JAK2 (Val617Phe) and VHL mutations. This report focuses on the mutations found in EPOR.
A B s T R A C T In a family with erythrocytosis, electrophoretic and chromatographic studies failed to demonstrate a hemoglobin variant. However, the oxygen dissociation curves of affected individuals were shifted to the left of normal and this shift persisted when oxygen equilibria were studied in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-stripped hemolysates. A mutant hemoglobin was evidently present in the red blood cells of the affected persons and was responsible for the increased oxygen affinity and erythrocytosis. Specific staining of tryptic peptidle maps of P-chains from the propositus showed that peptide PT3 was positive for a sulfur-containing amino acid. Amino acid analysis yielded a composition identical to that of normal PT3, except that there were 2.6 residues of valine and 0.4 residues of methionine (normal composition: Val = 3.0, Met = 0). This suggested that the P-chains of affected individuals consisted of a mixture of two kinds of chains, 40% of which had a methionyl residue in PT3. Structural studies of isolated cyanogen bromide fragments demonstrated unequivocally that, in the abnormal P-chains, valine in position 20 is replaced by methionine. The new hemoglobin mutant is designated hemoglobin Olympia (P20 (B2) valine >methion-ine).
Red cell 2,3-DPG and ATP levels decline rather rapidly during storage which result in poor oxygen offloading ability and post-transfusion viability respectively of such cells. Since the steady-state levels of these metabolites are determined by the relative activities of the key enzymes of glycolysis (phosphofructokinase and pyruvate kinase) and 2,3-DPG by-pass (2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase/phosphatase), we reasoned that it may be feasible to maintain near-normal levels of 2,3-DPG and ATP by manipulating, i.e. activating or inhibiting, the activities of these enzymes using their physiological effectors either singly or in combination. Since pyruvate kinase is most strategically located in glycolysis with regard to 2,3-DPG and ATP metabolism, we first elected to investigate the effects of inhibiting the enzyme during red cell storage. In this study, we first prove the validity of the proposed concept by demonstrating that red cells from individuals heterozygous-deficient for pyruvate kinase maintain higher than normal levels of both 2,3-DPG and ATP. Moreover, we demonstrate that L-alanine and L-phenylalanine, the known inhibitors of pyruvate kinase maintain higher 2,3-DPG and ATP levels throughout the five-week storage period. These results thus further confirm the scientific validity of the proposed concept and provide a means of improving the quality and/or shelf-life of stored red cells.
The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and the activities of the enzymes hexokinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, glutathione reductase and NADH-dependent methaemoglobin reductase in the erythrocytes of newborn and adult sheep were investigated. All the enzyme activities and the concentration of 2,3-diaphosphoglycerate were found to be significantly greater in the erythrocytes of newborn lambs than in those of adult sheep.
A beta-variant hemoglobin, first misjudged as a marked elevation of Hb A1, was found in a 68-year-old Japanese female with diabetes mellitus. This hemoglobin was isolated by Bio-Rex 70 chromatography combined with chromatofocusing, and was found to be Hb Hope, beta 136(H14)Gly----Asp, by classical and high performance liquid chromatographic peptide mapping techniques. Intrinsic oxygen affinity of this hemoglobin was approximately one-third as compared with that of Hb A0. This property was still observed in the constituent beta subunits isolated. Effects of such allosteric effectors as H+ (at a fixed concentration of Cl-), anion (Cl-), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and carbon dioxide were more or less depressed. Among others, a marked reduction in the carbamate effect should be noted in a structural interpretation of the functional modifications. Subunit cooperativity, on the contrary, was not different from that in Hb A0 (n = 2.8-2.9). Explanation of these altered functions were attempted on the basis of the altered structure. The reduced stability of Hb Hope is also described.
We describe two improved methods for determination of erythrocyte glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity. One method is an"enzyme-linked" procedure in which an excess of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase is used to produce two moles of NADPH for each mole of glucose-6-phosphate oxidized. In the other method 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is used to inhibit the variable contribution of endogenous 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase to glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity in erythrocyte lysates. These assays require 100 µl of blood and are performed on a centrifugal analyzer in a final reaction volume of 410 µl at 37 °C. NADPH formation is monitored at 340 nm. Hemoglobin is measured as oxyhemoglobin in the same reaction mixture used to determine enzyme activity by changing the wavelength to 550 nm. Results are expressed as international units of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity per gram of hemoglobin. The coefficient of correlation between "enzyme-linked" assay and "standard" assay was .992, the slope of the regression line was 1.07, and the intercept was at -0.76. When results of the "enzyme-linked" assay were compared to those of the "nonlinked" assay with added 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the slope of the regression line was .994, the intercept 0.109, and the correlation coefficient .994.
Abstract Minor increases in plasma inorganic phosphate concentration produce major alterations in red-cell metabolism in vitro and lead to raised levels of red-cell adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in vivo, with a resultant shift in the hemoglobin-oxygen dissociation curve to the right. Normal children have plasma phosphates 50 per cent above the normal adult range. Studies were performed to determine whether this hyperphosphatemia might alter levels of red-cell adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, as well as oxygen affinity, in childhood. In 62 normal children aged one to 12 years the levels of the red-cell organic phosphates were significantly higher than in 48 normal adults. In nine normal children the hemoglobin-oxygen dissociation curve was shifted 1.6 mm Hg to the right of that in 17 normal adults. It is postulated that the physiologic "hyperphosphatemia" of childhood leads to raised levels of red-cell organic phosphates and decreased oxygen affinity and may thus expla...
1. ::: 1. Oxygen dissociation curves were constructed on whole blood (N = 23), incubated whole blood (N = 6), dialyzed blood (n = 3) and dialyzed blood with added 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) (N= 2), ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. Hemoglobin concn averaged 12.0 ± 2.2 g%. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. The mean plasma pH after tonometry of whole blood averaged 7.375 ± 0.059 with a mean intraerythrocytic pH of 7.080 ± 0.020 which resulted in a pH gradient (ΔpH) across the red cell membrane of 0.295 ± 0.045. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. The O2 tension required to half saturate opossum hemoglobin (P50) in whole blood was 42.3 ± 2.5 mm Hg. ::: ::: 5. ::: 5. The Bohr factor (Δ log Po2/ΔpH) calculated in this study was −0.526 ± 0.05. ::: ::: 6. ::: 6. The electrophoretic pattern of opossum hemoglobin exhibits one major band which migrates slightly faster than human A hemoglobin. ::: ::: 7. ::: 7. The mean 2,3-DPG concn in fresh, whole opossum blood was 14.74 ± 1.25μm/g Hb. ::: ::: 8. ::: 8. Incubation of whole blood for 24 hr at 37°C reduced the concn of red cell 2,3-DPG to 1.39 μm/g Hb and increased the O2 affinity, shifting the P50 10 mm Hg to the left (25.7 vs 36.0 mm Hg). ::: ::: 9. ::: 9. Dialysis effectively decreased 2,3-DPG concn (2.09 vs 14.66 μm/g Hb). ::: ::: 10. ::: 10. The addition of 2,3-DPG (30 μm/g Hb) to the dialysate decreased the O2 affinity, shifting the mean P50 10.8 mm Hg to the right (43.8 vs 33.0 mm Hg).
The human erythrocyte generates high-energy adenosine triphosphate by anaerobic glycolysis and cycles oxidized and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate by the aerobic pentose phosphate shunt pathway. Certain enzymopathies of the pentose phosphate shunt are associated with hemolysis resulting from oxidative denaturation of hemoglobin. Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, an X-chromosome-linked disorder, is the prototype of these diseases and is genetically and clinically polymorphic. Six enzymopathies of anaerobic glycolysis cause hemolytic anemia; lactate dehydrogenase deficiency does not. In 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase deficiency, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is greatly reduced and asymptomatic polycythemia is noted. Pyrimidine-5'-nucleotidase deficiency, an enzymopathy of nucleotide metabolism, is characterized by intracellular accumulations of pyrimidine-containing nucleotides, marked basophilic stippling on the stained blood film, splenomegaly, and hemolysis. Lead inhibits the nucleotidase and an identical syndrome occurs during severe lead poisoning. Hemolysis also accompanies an unusual enzymopathy characterized by a 40- to 70-fold increase (not decrease) in adenosine deaminase activity.
The influence of temperature on the oxygeneration of normal and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-depleted human blood suspensions (final hemoglobin concentration: 0.75%) was studied under closed-system conditions (constant total CO2 content) beginning with standard values: pH 7.40,PCO2 40 torr, at 37°C.
There have been differences of opinion among authors concening in the levels of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and nucleotides in nonacidotic diabetic patients. Our data suggest that abnormal levels of 2, 3-DPG in diabetic patients are related to the presence of vascular complications and not to the duration of the disease per sec. 2,3-DPG levels are normal in diabetic patients with no evidence of vascular complications (group A). In ambulatory patients with vascular complications (group B), significantly higher levels of 2,3-DPG are found than in normal subjects and patients in group A. In hospitalized diabetic patients with active peripheral vascular complications (group C), levels of 2,3-DPG are likewise significantly increased over those of normal subjects and patients of group A. 2,3-DPG was found to be significantly elevated in patients of group C as compared with group B. 2,3-DPG levels in venous blood from infected legs as compared with those of the peripheral venous blood were not significantly different, thereby ruling out local factors. There were no differences in the blood lactate levels in any of the group studied. The elevation of the 2,3-DPG levels may be a reflection of attempted red blood cell compensation for tissue hypoxia in the diabetic with vascular disease.
Abstract A method for the synthesis of [ 32 P]phosphoglycolate is described; this substrate is used to assay phosphoglycolate phosphatase activity. This enzyme activity was demonstrated in several rat tissues. In human red cells, activity of the enzyme was age dependent. A correlation was found between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels and phosphoglycolate phosphatase activity in various species, suggesting that activity of this enzyme may have played some role in the evolutionary development of various mechanisms of regulation of the oxygen dissociation curve.
Abstract ::: A unique cyclic pyrophosphate compound has been detected at 10-12 mM intracellular concentration in Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum by in vivo31P NMR. This compound has been extracted from cells and purified by anion-exchange chromatography. Studies with 1H, 13C, and 31P NMR and fast-atom-bombardment mass spectrometry have identified it as 2,3-cyclopyrophosphoglycerate, an intramolecularly cyclized pyrophosphate of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Chemical degradation to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and synthesis by dicyclohexylcarbodiimide coupling of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are consistent with this identification. It is suggested that this compound serves as a primary phosphagen in methanogens.
RSR132-[4-[[(3,5-dimethylanilino)carbonyl]methyl]phenoxyl]-2-methylproprionic acid sodium salt; (Figure 1) is a compound that mimics the natural physiological effects of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate by allosterically modifying hemoglobin (Hb) saturation. RSR13 binds to and stabilizes deoxyHb in vitro (1). These actions cause a rightward shift of the oxygen (O2)-Hb dissociation curve and increase tissue O2 delivery in vivo (2). RSR13 maintains pH and preserves high-energy phosphates during myocardial ischemia by improving O2 delivery (3). Thus, allosteric modification of Hb affinity for O2 with drugs that stabilize the deoxyHb may be an important new approach to the treatment of myocardial hypoxemia due to ischemic heart disease. We tested the hypothesis that RSR13 enhances the recovery of contractile function of postischemic, reperfused myocardium generated by repetitive, brief episodes of ischemia and reperfusion in barbiturate-anesthetized, acutely instrumented dogs.
A New Silent β Chain Variant: Hb Hounslow [β80(EF4)Asn→Tyr] We report a new neutral hemoglobin (Hb) variant, found, during neonatal screening, in a child originating from Afghanistan. This variant was revealed by cation exchange and reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), but was silent in electrophoretic methods except for globin chain electrophoresis in the presence of urea and Triton X-100. The structural modification was determined by protein structure studies and the substitution established by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). The mutation, located near to the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) binding site, was without any hematological consequences. The pitfalls presented by the presence of neutral Hb variants as modulator factors of the main hemoglobinopathies is discussed.
The properties of sulfhemoglobin (sulfHb) were investigated using disc gel isoelectric focusing and optical spectrophotometry. Laboratory-prepared samples, which contained a high yield of sulfHb (70-85%), and a patient-derived sample, which contained a low yield (12%), contain a tetrameric population that reflects a random distribution of modified (sulfurated) subunits. Hybrid tetramers, i.e. those containing sulfurated and unmodified subunits, were resolved from fully sulfurated and unmodified hemoglobin upon electrofocusing of ferric or ferrous sulHb samples. The electrophoretic differences between ferric sulfHb and metHb arise from a difference in the pK for the met to hydroxymet conversion of sulfurated subunits (Carrico, R., Peisach, J., and Alben, J. O. (1978) J. Biol. Chem. 253, 2386-2391). Both partially and fully sulfurated tetramers, when in the deoxy form and when in the fully ligated CO form, co-focus with their unmodified deoxy-Hb and Hb CO counterparts. Thus, these sulfurated tetramers exhibit normal ligand-dependent ionization of Bohr protons. In air-equilibrated samples, hybrid tetramers are partially ligated as a result of the reduced O2 affinity of the sulfurated subunits. These partially ligated tetramers exhibit a pI intermediate between oxy-Hb and deoxy-Hb due to the fractional ionization of Bohr protons. The partially sulfurated, partially ligated tetramers as well as deoxy-sulfHb tetramers were found to bind 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in disc gels. Despite the preservation of these heterotropic effects, which are confirmed in CO binding studies in solution, fully sulfurated tetramers recovered using preparative isoelectric focusing exhibit little or no cooperativity.
Parameters of red cell oxygen transport were studied in 23 nonsmoking, insulin-dependent diabetic women and 20 nonsmoking healthy women late during pregnancy. In the pregnant diabetic women, arterial oxygen saturation (SAT) and arterial oxygen tension were significantly decreased. SAT correlated inversely with hemoglobin Alc (Hb Alc) (diabetic women: r = -0.43, p less than 0.05; total material: r = 0.66, p less than 0.001). Red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was significantly increased in the pregnant diabetic women (p less than 0.01), but the 2,3-DPG-induced change in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity was impaired. P50 (oxygen affinity, i.e., Po2 at 50% oxygen saturation) at actual pH correlated inversely with Hb Alc of the diabetic women (r = -0.45, p less than 0.05). The suggestion is made that, in diabetic pregnancy, particularly in poorly regulated cases, fetal hypoxia may be an important factor of the increased risk of intrauterine fetal death.
We describe two improved methods for determination of erythrocyte glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity. One method is an "enzyme-linked" procedure in which an excess of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase is used to produce two moles of NADPHfor each mole of glucose-6-phosphate oxidized. In the other method 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is used to inhibit the variable contribution of endogenous 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase to glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity in erythrocyte lysates. These assays require 100 tI of blood and are performed on a centrifugal analyzer in a final reaction volume of 410 0 at 37 #{176}C.
NADPH formation is monitored at 340 nm. Hemoglobin is measured as oxyhemoglobin in the same reaction mixture used to determine enzyme activity by changing the wavelength to 550 nm. Results are expressed as international units of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity per gram of hemoglobin. The coefficient of correlation between "enzyme-linked" assay and "standard" assay was .992, the slope of the regression line was 1.07, and the intercept was at -0.76. When results of the "enzyme-linked" assay were compared to those of the "nonlinked" assay with added 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the slope of the regression line was .994, the intercept 0.109, and the correlation coefficient .994.
The primary function of red blood cells (RBC) is uptake, transport, and delivery of oxygen. In addition, RBC contribute to the colloid osmotic pressure, to platelet-endothelium interactions, and transport of several molecules such as drugs or immune complexes. The aim of RBC transfusions is to treat or prevent tissue hypoxia. Virtually all oxygen is transported by the haemoglobin (Hb). The oxygen supply is further determined by cardiac output and by oxygen uptake capacity in the lung. Under resting circumstances, the oxygen supply exceeds the demand. Overall, only 25-35% of the available oxygen is extracted by the tissues, although some organs such as the heart, kidney, and brain have a higher basic oxygen extraction ratio of 55-70% and have less capacity to increase oxygen extraction in response to anaemia [1] . Oxygen supply is not synonymous with oxy Figgen delivery as this requires passage of erythrocytes through the microcirculation and unloading of oxygen, determined by the oxygen dissociation curve, which depends among other factors on acidosis and the red cell enzyme 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) (table 1) . During ex-vivo storage, red cells undergo changes affecting function and viability, often collectively referred to as 'storage lesions'. These raised concern for appropriate oxygen delivery, increased adhesion of erythrocytes to endothelium, and impaired deformability necessary for passage through small capillaries; however the clinical relevance is unknown [2] [3] [4] [5] . We discuss available clinical studies investigating effects of red cell storage.
The oxygen affinity of normal human blood was measured at two different pH values and three different pCO2 values over the whole saturation range. From these data, and from data on the interaction of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate with hemoglobin, values were calculated for the proton-linked oxygen affinity at different pCO2 values and for the carbamino-linked oxygen affinity at different pH values. Both the proton-linked and the carbamino-linked oxygen affinity were found to be markedly dependent on the degree of oxygen saturation. The relative contribution of the three ligands, i.e. protons, carbon dioxide and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, to the classical Bohr effect was estimated and found to be dependant on the oxygen saturation level. The values for the proton-linked oxygen affinity and the carbamino-linked oxygen affinity were found, by applications of Wyman's reciprocal relations and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding data, to give good estimates of the oxygen-linked proton binding and the oxygen-linked carbamino binding. The data show that the oxygen-linked carbamino reaction takes place mainly during the binding of the first 2 oxygen molecules with a value of about 0.25 mol per mol of oxygen. The proton release accompanying this reaction was estimated to be 1.3–1.7 mol per mol.
Blood from non-smoking donors was incubated with Althesin and the PO2 for half-saturation of haemoglobin at standard pH, PCO2 and temperature (P 50) was measured. The mean P 50 values of blood with blood concentrations of Althesin of 0.14 ml/dl and 0.42 ml/dl were greater (1.14 +/- 0.31 (SEM) mm Hg (P less than 0.005) and 2.22 +/- 0.35 (SEM) mm Hg (P less than 0.001), respectively) than that of control blood. These increases were dose-dependent (P less than 0.05). Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations were not significantly different between the Althesin-treated and the control blood. Although a decrease in the affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen in vitro in the presence of Althesin was statistically significant, this would have no clinical significance if the drug was being used for the induction of anaesthesia only.
The rise in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content of human erythrocytes occurring at high altitude (caused by the rise in blood and red cell pH, respectively, and by the increased mean desaturation of hemoglobin) and the resulting right-hand shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve of blood serve to counterbalance the left-hand shift resulting from the hypoxiainduced respiratory alkalosis (mediated by the Bohr eifect(s) of hemoglobin). Accordingly, the main role of the 2,3-DPG change at high altitude (and also in acid-base disorders) is to maintain the oxygen dissociation curve of human blood at (or near) its original position. This conclusion seems to be valid for man resting at altitudes up to 7000 m. The changes occurring at higher altitudes and during a rapid climb to a summit above 8000 m remain to be investigated.
Human red blood cells (RBCs) have high abundance in blood tissue, usually 40-50% v/v. For the in vivo administered biomedical materials in contact with blood tissue, the RBCs are the major (in most cases, undesired) targets encountered. The interaction of the biomaterials with the RBCs will unavoidably occur, affecting the structure and function of the RBCs and then the whole organism. For the clinical applications of biomaterials, this effect should be clearly elucidated since it may cause acute or chronic harm to the organism. Moreover, the RBC-based experimental results could be extended to other tissue cells to a great extent. In this study, the effect of the branched polyethyleneimines (BPEIs) as a gene carrier on the structure and function of human RBCs was studied by using different molecular weights of the BPEIs. Specifically, the RBC aggregation and lysis induced by the BPEIs were first studied; then, the structural and conformational change of hemoglobin in the presence of the BPEIs was examined by using UV-vis, fluorescence, and circular dichroism spectroscopy. Furthermore, the oxygen-carrying function of the RBCs in the presence of the BPEIs was evaluated by measuring the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) level and oxygen-dissociation curves. The results showed that the BPEIs with certain molecular weights at certain concentrations could cause RBC aggregation and lysis, alter the structure and conformation of hemoglobin, and impair the oxygen-delivery function of the RBCs. These data provide valuable information for the molecular design and clinical applications of the BPEIs and other biomedical materials.
The applicability and accuracy of isotachophoresis in measuring the concentrations of some of the intermediates of red cell metabolism during blood bank storage in acid-citrate-dextrose preservative was assessed. Preparative treatment consisted of washing with isotonic sucrose solution and centrifugation to remove serum, but white cells and platelets were not separated out from red blood cells. The results for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ATP, inorganic phosphate and lactate were also confirmed enzymatically. The technique had good reproducibility (variation less than 3%) and was extremely convenient compared to traditional enzyme assays of the same components. It enabled simultaneous measurement of components with concentrations greater than 1 mumole/red blood cell.
Abstract The rate of methemoglobin reduction by ascorbic acid was accelerated in the presence of ATP,2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP). The acceleration was as much as three times, four times, and ten times in the presence of ATP, 2.3-DPG, and IHP at pH 7.0, respectively. The changes of the concentrations of methemoglobin and ascorbic acid during the methemoglobin reduction were determined, and the reaction was found to proceed stoichiometrically in the presence of IHP. The reduction rate of methemoglobin by ascorbic acid was compared at different concentrations of organic phosphates (ATP,2,3-DPG, and IHP) at various pH values (6.3, 7.0, 7.7). From the changes in the reduction rate under different concentrations of organic phosphates, the dissociation constants of ATP, 2,3-DPG, and IHP to methemoglobin could be determined and were estimated to be 3.3 X 10(-4) M, 2 X 10(-3) M, and 8 X 10(-6) M at pH 7.0, respectively. On the basis of these results, the acceleration mechanism of methemoglobin reduction by ascorbic acid due to the presence of organic phosphates was described. The physiological role of 2,3-DPG in human red cells was discussed in relation to the reduction of methemoglobin by ascorbic acid.
Electrically permeabilised [3H]inositol-labelled SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells were employed to examine the effects of two synthetic, phosphatase-resistant analogues of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3] on the metabolism of cell membrane-derived [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 or exogenous [5-32P]Ins(1,4,4)P3. Incubation of permeabilised SH-SY5Y cells for 5 min at 37 degrees C with carbachol and guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate caused a decrease in [3H]phosphoinositol phospholipid levels and an increase in [3H]inositol phosphate accumulation with inositol 4-phosphate, inositol 1,4-bisphosphate, Ins(1,4,5)P3 and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate comprising approximately 79%, 16%, 3% and 2%, respectively, of the increase. Inositol 1-phosphate levels did not increase upon stimulation, nor was inositol 4-phosphate converted rapidly to inositol. In parallel incubations, the analogues, DL-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphorothioate (DL-InsP3S3) and DL-inositol 1,4-bisphosphate 5-phosphorothioate (DL-InsP3S), and synthetic racemic Ins(1,4,5)P3 (DL-InsP3), altered the profile of the [3H]inositol phosphates recovered and led, at millimolar concentrations, to a 10-15-fold increase in [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3. The extent of inhibition of [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 metabolism was, however, greatest in the presence of synthetic D-Ins(1,4,5)P3 (greater than or equal to 5 mM), when [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 comprised approximately 50% of the increase in total [3H]inositol phosphates. Thus, under these conditions, at least 50% of [3H]inositol phosphates were derived from [3H]phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. [32P]Pi release from exogenous [5-32P]Ins(1,4,5)P3 was also inhibited by DL-InsP3S3, DL-InsP3S and DL-InsP3, with half-maximal inhibition at approximately 50 microM, 160 microM and 240 microM respectively. These actions were approximately ten times more potent than the effects of these compounds on [3H]inositol phosphate accumulation, indicating that homogenous mixing of exogenous and cell-membrane-derived Ins(1,4,5)P3 does not occur. These findings indicate that DL-InsP3S3 and DL-InsP3S inhibit Ins(1,4,5)P3 5-phosphatase. In contrast, the effects of synthetic DL-InsP3 and D-Ins(1,4,5)P3 are due to isotopic dilution. Whilst DL-InsP3S3 was the most potent inhibitor of dephosphorylation of exogenous or cell-membrane-derived Ins(1,4,5)P3, it was the weakest inhibitor of 3-kinase-catalysed Ins(1,4,5)P3 phosphorylation. Similarly, although approximately 50 times less potent than DL-InsP3S3, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inhibited Ins(1,4,5)P3 5-phosphatase activity and was apparently without effect of Ins(1,4,5)P3 3-kinase activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The total erythrocyte population was subdivided into three age groups using as criteria the stability of red blood cells to osmotic shock and the values of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) activity. The "old" erythrocytes constituted about 8%, "mature"--87% and "young"--5% under normal conditions. In hereditary microspherocytosis 70% of erythrocytes possessed a decreased osmotic resistance and higher G6PD activity as compared with normal state. Two categories of erythrocytes was found among "young" cells in Marchiafava-Micheli disease; one of them possessed normal osmotic resistance, the other--decreased osmotic resistance. The age composition of the erythrocyte population was normal in functional hyperbilirubinemia. Content of ATP was decreased in erythrocytes of patients with hereditary microspherocytosis, it was increased in Marchiafava-Micheli disease and approached the normal level in patients with functional hyperbilirubinemia. Concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was similar to the normal level in erythrocytes of patients with functional hyperbilirubinemia; an inverse correlation was observed between contents of hemoglobin and of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in blood of patients with hereditary microspherocytosis and with Marchiafava-Michel disease.
Adult dogs with phosphofructokinase (PFK) deficiency have compensated hemolytic anemia, due to an absolute or functional deficiency of the muscle-type (M-type) subunit that normally accounts for a majority of total erythrocyte PFK activity in dogs. Potential effects of PFK deficiency on hematologic development were evaluated in dogs. Routine hematologic parameters were similar in normal and affected dogs when 1 day old, because all newborn dogs had erythrocyte PFK activities about three times that of normal adult dogs. Based on chromatographic separation of PFK isozymes and enzyme immunoprecipitation studies, the high PFK activity at birth was attributed to the predominance of the liver-type (L-type) subunit of PFK, which is negligible or absent in normal adult dog erythrocytes. Both total PFK activities and the amounts of L-type subunit present decreased dramatically during the first 6 to 8 weeks of life. The muscle-type subunit was negligible or absent at birth, but appeared and increased as the L-type decreased in normal dogs. These changes may result from the replacement of erythrocytes formed in the fetus with those formed after birth. A postnatal physiologic anemia developed to a similar degree in both affected and normal dogs because of decreases in both mean corpuscular volume and erythrocyte numbers. Reticulocyte counts were high in all dogs at birth and remained high in affected dogs, but decreased from 2 months of age onward in normal dogs. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) values were very low in all newborn pups and increased to values expected for adults in the respective groups by 2 to 4 weeks of age. A low 2,3-DPG concentration occurs in affected dogs because PFK deficiency inhibits glycolysis above the side shunt that forms 2,3-DPG.
A B S T R A C T An inherited and complete deficiency of diphosphoglycerate mutase was discovered in the erythrocytes of a 42-yr-old man of French origin whose blood hemoglobin concentration was 19.0 g/dl. Upon physical examination he was normal with the exception of a ruddy cyanosis. The morphology of his erythrocytes was also normal and there was no evidence of hemolysis. The erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level was below 3% of normal values and, as a consequence, the affinity of the cells for oxygen was increased. Diphosphoglycerate mutase activity was undetectable in erythrocytes as was that of diphosphoglycerate phosphatase. The activities of all the other erythrocyte enzymes that were tested were normal except for monophosphoglycerate mutase which was diminished to 50% of the normal value. The levels of reduced glutathione, ATP, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, and of triose phosphates were elevated, whereas those of glucose 6-phosphate and fructose 6-phosphate were decreased. This report sheds new light on the role of diphosphoglycerate mutase in the metabolism of erythrocytes.
Abstract The additive effects of increased pH of anticoagulant solutions and addition of inosine or adenine and inosine were investigated. Collection of blood in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD), pH 5.3, and addition of inosine at zero time to obtain a concentration of 60 micromoles per gram of hemoglobin maintains the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) at a level found in fresh blood, or above it, for at least 28 days. Adenine and inosine added at zero time also have a significant effect, but no better than inosine alone. The level of 2,3-DPG is directly proportional to the amount of inosine added, but increasing the concentration of inosine above 60 micromoles per gram of hemoglobin does not improve the maintenance of 2,3-DPG. Collection of blood in ACD, pH 5.6, is not as good for satisfactory maintenance of adenosine triphosphate as at pH 5.3. Addition of adenine to blood stored for 2 weeks in ACD, pH 5.3, with inosine had no effect.
Poor performance in racehorses is often due to subclinical respiratory disorders that are likely associated to hypoxia even in resting conditions. During hypoxia, the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) in blood increases, facilitating the release of oxygen to tissues. Thus, 2,3DPG is a candidate biomarker for detection of respiratory origin following a poor performance episode. The objective of this study was to determine the 2,3DPG concentrations in blood from resting horses with poor performance due to respiratory disorders and assess its diagnostic utility. To this aim, 2,3DPG was measured in blood from 11 standardbred horses with inflammatory airway disease (IAD), 5 with exercise-induced pulmonary haemorrhages (EIPH), and 7 control horses. IAD and EIPH were diagnosed by cytology and bacteriology on bronchoalveolar lavage fluids. The diagnostic sensitivity, specificity, and the likelihood ratio of 2,3DPG increases were also evaluated. 2,3DPG (μmol/g Hb) was higher in horses with EIPH (33.77±5.03) and IAD (27.69±7.37) compared to controls (18.23±4.70). This increase was associated with augmented haemoglobin and haematocrit. The optimal cut-off to discriminate horses with respiratory disorders from controls was 21.78 μmol DPG/g Hb. These results demonstrate that 2,3DPG is increased in blood from horses with IAD or EIPH, likely due to the presence of hypoxia and the measurement of 2,3DPG may have clinical utility in the diagnosis of poor performance in horses: elevated 2,3DPG levels may be used to suspect respiratory origin for poor performance in horses before resorting to more expensive and invasive techniques.
Blood from non-smoking donors was incubated with Althesin and the Po 2 for half-saturation of haemoglobin at standard pH, Pco 2 and temperature (P 60 ) was measured. The mean P 60 values of blood with blood concentrations of Althesin of 0.14ml/dl and 0.42 ml/dl were greater (1.14 + 0.31 (SEM) mm Hg (/>< 0.005) and 2.22 + 0.35 (SEM) mm Hg (P< 0.001), respectively) than that of control blood. These increases were dose-dependent (P< 0.05). Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations were not significantly different between the Althesin-treated and the control blood. Although a decrease in the affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen in vitro in the presence of Althesin was statistically significant, this would have no clinical significance if the drug was being used for the induction of anaesthesia only.
Following equilibration, the samples were withdrawn anaerobically and Po 2 , Pco 2 , pH and oxygen saturation of haemoglobin (So 2 ) were measured immediately. Po 2 , Pco 2 and pH were measured at 37 °C with a blood-gas analyser (IL-313, Instrumentation Laboratory), which was calibrated between each measurement. The Po 2 electrode was calibrated with both Althesin-treated and plain water equilibrated with air using the tonometer. Table I shows that Althesin did not influence the response of the Po 2 electrode. Haemoglobin concentrations and So 2 were determined using a Co-oximeter (IL-182, Instrumentation Laboratory), and calibrated by the cyanmethaemoglobin method and by the Van Slyke-Neill method, respectively. The carboxyhaemoglobin content was set at 1% on every measurement. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations (2,3-DPG) of 10 pairs of control and Althesin-treated blood (concentration of Althesin 0.42 ml/dl) were measured with an enzymatic method (Maeda et al., 1971) , before and after each tonometery.
Skeletal muscle mass, a major reservoir of bioavailable phosphate, is reduced early in HIV-associated weight loss, and among HIV-uninfected persons chronic undernutrition is associated with a reduction in mitochondrial enzyme activity which rapidly normalizes with nutritional support [10] [11] [12] . Prior studies of malnourished prisoners-of-war and chronically ill hospital patients found that rapid depletion of 2 Journal of Nutrition and Metabolism serum phosphate after aggressive feeding disrupts electrolyte homeostasis and can induce cardiac and pulmonary complications and death-a condition termed refeeding syndrome [13] [14] [15] [16] . We hypothesized that a similar syndrome resulting from increased metabolic demand for phosphate-dependent cellular metabolism intermediates (e.g., adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) after ART initiation, due to increased anabolism, physical activity, nutrient intake, viral suppression, or immune reconstitution, may deplete bioavailable phosphate stores in undernourished adults and contribute to the high early mortality observed in this population [17, 18] . To investigate whether hypophosphatemia is a novel determinant of early ART mortality, we measured pretreatment serum phosphate levels, several previously described predictors of poor survival, and vital status at 12 weeks among HIV-infected adults starting treatment with a range of BMI values in Lusaka, Zambia.
This study did not investigate other markers of RBC storage such as RBC ATP, reduced glutathione and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and osmotic fragility. Previous studies suggest that given the degree of RBC viability demonstrated here, these variables are likely to be within an acceptable range and/or reversible after transfusion. 9, 15, 16 Further work, however, needs to be done and ultimately cord blood RBC survival should be assessed in vivo with clinical trials comparing clinical and hematologic variables before and after cord blood transfusion. Clinical studies in children involving radiolabeled cord blood RBCs would present ethical and practical difficulties in sub-Saharan Africa. It is noteworthy that after 35 days of storage a proportion of both UC-WB and AD-WB units showed levels of hemolysis higher than international quality standard of 0.8%. 17 In addition, two-thirds of the AD-WB units provided to the study by the RBTC were below the recommended lower volume limit of 405 mL and were not labeled as such. 17 This, combined with the likelihood that some donor Hb concentrations were probably less than 12.5 g/dL, resulted in an almost twofold range in total unit Hb and 2 units having a total Hb of less than the international standard of 45 g. 17 This has implications for pediatric clinical practice, which assumes minimum Hb content for transfused blood and is therefore prescribed using a volume multiplier (20 mL/kg 18 ). The AD-WB unit with the lowest Hb content in this study would provide 30% less oxygen-carrying capacity than the average (1.6 g/kg vs. 2.2 g/kg). This may result in poor clinical outcome and/or exposure to further transfusions and raises issues about quality checks, training, and supervision with regard to donor Hb screening and blood collection within the Kenya Blood Transfusion Service.
As a response to their low respiratory rate, bears have optimized oxygen transport during hibernation. Erythrocyte count and hemoglobin are increased during hibernation in captive brown bears ( n = 7) 12 and free-ranging black bears ( n = 48). 13 We recently documented that bears have higher oxygen affi nity when hibernating compared to active state. Th is increased affi nity is associated with a signifi cant decrease in red cell hemoglobincofactor 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, which binds to the lowaffi nity conformation of mammalian hemoglobin and halves 
The high-energy myocardial phosphate metabolism of four patients with acute anterior myocardial infarction after coronary angioplasty and drug therapy was evaluated with cardiac-gated phosphorus magnetic resonance (MR) depth-resolved surface coil spectroscopy (DRESS) 5-9 days after the onset of symptoms. Significant reductions (about threefold) in the phosphocreatine (PCr) to inorganic phosphate (Pi) ratio and elevations in the Pi to adenosine triphosphate (ATP) ratio were observed in endocardially or transmurally derived MR spectra when compared with values from epicardially displaced spectra and values from seven healthy volunteers (P less than .05). High-energy phosphate metabolites and Pi ratios did not vary significantly during the cardiac cycle in healthy volunteers. However, contamination of Pi resonances by phosphomonoester components, including blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, precluded accurate spectral quantification of Pi and pH. The results indicate that localized P-31 MR spectroscopy may be used to directly assess cellular energy reserve in clinical myocardial infarction and to evaluate metabolic response to interventions.
Summary. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were studied in 12 patients with shock. Observations in the first 6 hr revealed a mean value of 2,3-DPG higher than normal with a range above and below the normal limits. After this period the mean value was lower. In the presence of metabolic acidosis, the values were low. In two patients, the improvement in clinical state was associated with a rise in the level of these compounds. The mean value for ATP was slightly higher than normal in the first 6 hr and remained the same later; there was no correlation with 2,3-DPG or with pH. Our data failed to reveal any definite relation between shock and 2,3-DPG levels in the red cells. The metabolite varied independently of ATP and did not correlate with red cell age. There was a significant correlation of the levels of 2,3-DPG with the hydrogen ion concentration of arterial blood.
Observations are presented which suggest that myocardial cellular hypoxia may account for the reduction in myocardial ATP and CP in the ketoacidotic diabetic state. It is suggested that reduced 2,3-diphosphoglycerate adversely affects oxygen release from the red blood cell, thereby leading to myocardial cellular hypoxia.
Glycolytic activity of red cells was determined in mice, rats and rabbits submitted to 4 700 and/or 6 000 m simulated altitude for variable periods of time and in controls at sea level. In all the species studied, glycolysis was found to be increased by the third week of exposure. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) content was measured in rats submitted to simulated altitude for 4 to 66 days. A highly significant increase, which was higher at 4 700 than at 6 000 m, was found from the first days of exposure and throughout the whole experimental period. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that variable DPG changes in different degrees of hypoxia are related to its ability to increase oxygen release to the tissues and negatively correlated with hematocrit increase. The data show that the increase in red cell glycolysis is only a temporary effect of relatively severe hypoxia, not related with changes in DPG concentration.
The influence of a 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG)-induced displacement of the oxygen dissociation curve (O.D.C.) on the isolated perfused rat liver was studied at different levels of anaemic hypoxia. Rat livers were perfused either with fresh or with 2,3-DPG-depleted human erythrocytes at different haematocrit values (from 30% to 2.5%) at constant Po2 of the inflowing perfusate and at constant blood flow rate. The 2,3-DPG-induced difference in oxygen affinity of the red cells did not cause a significant difference in perfusion pressure during the perfusion experiments. Therefore, there is no evidence that 2,3-DPG did alter the vascular resistance of the liver, since blood flow rate could be adusted at equal values. The decrease in oxygen supply brought about by decrease of haematocrit caused a decrease of O2 consumption, of bile flow rate and of venous Po2 and an increase of lactate/pyruvate (L/P) ratio and of beta-hydroxybutyrate/acetoacetate (betaOH/Acac) ratio. There was no influence of a difference in 2,3-DPG content of the erythrocytes on the above-metioned parameters during severe anaemic hypoxia. At moderate anaemic hypoxia the venous Po2 was higher during perfusion with fresh erythrocytes than during perfusion with 2,3-DPG-depleted erythrocytes. Thus, although 2,3-DPG may play a compensatory role during conditions of mild anaemia, no such effects can be observed during conditions of severe hypoxia.
A B STRA CT The relationship between oxygen ent study was undertaken to examine precise dissociation and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) in the red cell has been studied in subjects moving from low to high altitude and vice versa. Within 24 hr following the change in altitude there was a change in hemoglobin affinity for oxygen; this modification therefore represents an important rapid adaptive mechanism to anoxia. A parallel change occurred in the organic phosphate content of the red cell. While this study does not pro--ide direct evidence of a cause-effect relationship, the data strongly suggest that with anoxia, the observed rise in organic phosphate content of the red cell is responsible for increased availability of oxygen to tissues.
During storage of acid-citrate-dextrose-blood the oxygen affinity of the haemoglobin is increased; i.e. the oxygen dissociation curve is shifted to the left. In the meantime the red cell ATP and 2,3-diphospho-glycerate levels are decreased. In the present investigation it is shown that these changes are reversed by addition of inosine. Thus the oxygen-transport function of stored blood seems to be related to the intracorpuscular ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels.
Abstract Relationship of transcutaneous oxygen pressure (TcP O 2 ) to glycemic control and diabetic complications was investigated in patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. TcP O 2 was measured in 103 patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. Correlation of TcP O 2 to HbA 1c , fasting blood sugar (FBS), age, duration of diabetes, serum lipids, hypertension, and diabetic complications were examined. We divided the patients into three groups according to their glycemic control: good control group (HbA 1c 1c , 7.0–8.9%) and poor control group (HbA 1c ≥ 9.0). We compared TcPO 2 of these three groups with 19 non-diabetic controls. In 103 patients, TcP O 2 at baseline correlated with HbA 1c , FBS and age ( P P P O 2 of good and fair control group was not reduced comparing to the non-diabetic control (63 ± 11, 59 ± 10 and 64 ± 12 mmHg, respectively). The poor control group had significantly reduced TcP O 2 (55 ± 10 mmHg) comparing to non-diabetic control ( P P O 2 , arterial oxygen pressure (Pa O 2 ), oxygen pressure of dorsal pedal vein (Pv O 2 ) and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in eight patients with poor glycemic control were followed prospectively. Six patients with improvement of glycemic control showed a significant increase of TcP O 2 and Pa O 2 ( P P O 2 and Pa O 2 . Pv O 2 and 2,3-DPG levels of erythrocytes were not changed in six patients. These findings suggest that tissue oxygenation in diabetic patients was deteriorated in relation to hyperglycemia and was reversed with glycemic control. Improvement of Pa O 2 might contribute partly to the increase of TcPO 2 .
Abstract Human red cells, when lysed by dialysis at high haematocrit against a medium of low ionic strength and then dialysed back to physiological saline at 37°C, give rise to resealed ghosts that are invaded with high efficiency by Plasmodium falciparum parasites. When the haematocrit is reduced, a critical concentration is reached, such that the resealed ghosts no longer support invasion. This indicates that a constituent of the cytoplasm becomes diluted to a concentration below a critical level. This constituent is evidently ATP, for when extraneous ATP is added to the diluent and the dialysate, the susceptibility to invasion is fully restored. This does not occur when the non-hydrolysable analogue, adenylyl-imidodiphosphate (AMP-PNP) is substituted for ATP, whereas the hydrolysable ATP analogue, adenosine-5′- O -(3-thiotriphosphate) (ATP-γ-S), which can be utilised by kinases, can partly replace ATP. Stimulation of invasion by the addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was also associated with a perceptible rise in ATP concentration. The invasion process does not appear to involve intracellular calcium, for EGTA introduced into the resealed ghost has no detectable effect. Moreover, vanadate in the medium does not appreciably inhibit invasion, and it is thus unlikely that the requirement for ATP is linked to the activity of membrane ion-pump enzymes. An inhibitor of phosphorylation, adenosine, introduced into the cells at high concentration, causes significant inhibition of invasion. The results suggest that ATP is required for maintaining the turnover of phosphoryl groups of membrane-associated proteins, such as spectrin. A basic scheme for the mechanism of the invasion process is suggested. In addition to the effect of ATP, it is also shown that with greater dilution, and in the presence of ATP, there is an abrupt loss of susceptibility to invasion. It is inferred that this is due to the dilution of another essential cytoplasmic constituent to below a critical concentration. This second constituent has not yet been identified.
The effects of varying pH and of increasing intracellular hemoglobin (Hb) concentration on red cell sickling and oxygen affinity were studied in whole blood from persons with sickle cell anemia (SS) and sickle cell trait (SA). Small increases in SS blood pH inhibited sickling, and small reductions in both SS and SA blood pH promoted sickling far more than accounted for by the Bohr effect. Sickling behavior correlated with minimum gelling concentrations (MGC) of deoxygenated hemolysates without 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. MGC values fell sharply when pH was lowered from 7.25 to 7.15 for HbS and from 7.15 to 6.90 for SA hemolysates, suggesting effects on specific ionic interactions involved in Hb gelation. Possible clinical counterparts are acute metabolic acidosis and alkalosis (prior to change in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate), where the Bohr effect and oxygen affinity-independent effects of pH alterations on sickling would be additive. Osmotic shrinkage of HbS-containing red cells produced a large fall in oxygen affinity and a marked increase in sickling independent of that fall. The oxygen affinity and sickling properties of SA cells whose MCHC was raised to 40 per cent resembled those of unaltered SS cells, supporting a relationship between molecular aggregation of Hb and low oxygen affinity. Sickling of aerated SS cells in hypertonic saline depended upon partial Hb desaturation due to lowered oxygen affinity. Thus osmotic shrinkage of HbS-containing cells acts synergistically with partial deoxygenation to promote sickling. These conditions are present in the renal medulla, but may occur elsewhere in severe hyperosmolar states.
The changes in red cell organic phosphate compounds, in glucose consumption and in red cell membrane ATPase activity were investigated in A1 red cells exposed to anti A antibody. A1 red cells, incubated in anti A serum, were shown to have significantly decreased ATP content, increased content of ADP and of inorganic phosphate, as compared to red cells incubated in the same manner in autologous serum. The consumption of glucose, the content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and of hexose diphosphates in antiserum-exposed red cells were unchanged. The activity of red cell membrane ATPase in ghosts isolated from anti A serum-exposed A1 red cells, was significantly higher than that in autologous serum-exposed red cell ghosts. No significant differences were seen between the results in active and inactivated anti A serum. Some evidence is given and discussed that the decrease of ATP and the increase of ADP and inorganic phosphate in antiserum-incubated red cells are due to the increased activity of red cell membrane ATPase.
An examination was made of the O/sub 2/ affinity, Bohr effect, transmembrane pH gradient, mean cell hemoglobin concentration, and red blood cell sickling at half O/sub 2/ saturation in whole sickle cell (SS) and normal (AA) blood during CO/sub 2/ titration and acid-base titration at three Pco/sub 2/ levels, 10, 40, and 80 mm Hg. The CO/sub 2/-induced Bohr effect of SS blood was considerably larger than normal (maximum, 0.91, referred to cell pH) and similar to that found with acid-base titration at Pco/sub 2/ of 40. In contrast to AA blood, SS blood showed an increased O/sub 2/ affinity when Pco/sub 2/ was raised from 40 to 80, and at half O/sub 2/ saturation showed biphasic or sigmoid Bohr curves, a fall in transmembrane pH gradient with rising Pco/sub 2/, and an absence of the normal cell volume increase at low pH and Pco/sub 2/. Sickling of SS cells at half O/sub 2/ saturation was partly inhibited by increasing Pc/sub 2/, particularly in the higher pH ranges. These complex differences in the behavior of SS blood are interpreted in terms of the balancing of several effects: the lowering of hemoglobin O/sub 2/-affinity by polymerization, low pH and increased CO/submore » 2/ binding, inhibition of hemoglobin S polymerization by CO/sub 2/ binding to ..beta../sup s/-chain amino termini, differences between hemoglobin S and A in competitive binding of CO/sub 2/ and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at different pH levels, and an increased net negative charge exhibited by intracellular deoxyhemoglobin S polymers. From a clinical standpoint, in the absence of hypoxia or acidosis, an increased blood Pco/sub 2/ might have a beneficial effect by inhibiting red blood cell sickling, whereas a metabolic acidosis, with low blood pH and Pco/sub 2/, would be very hazardous.« less
Human erythrocytes are highly specialized cells containing hae~o­ globin for the transport of oxygen. It see~s reasonable to ass~~e that their simplified r.letabolic syste::J.s, the Glycolytic pathway and the pentose phosphate shunt, is essential for the maintenance of this oxygen carrying function. It has previously been reported that reduced glutathione (GSH) influences the affinity of haemoglobin to oxygen in intact erythrocytes (cf. Horejsi 1967) and it has recently been found, that several organic phosphocompounds, some of which are normally present in human erythrocytes, bind to haemo­ globin in vitro (Chanutin & Curnish 1964, Benesch & Benesch 1968, Garby & de Verdier 1968). :,rost of the compounds investigated showed a higher affinity for deoxygenated than for oxygenated hae~o­ globin. The pinding is correlated with an decreased affinity of the haemoglobin molecule for oxygen (Chanutin & Curnish 1967, Benesch & Benesch 1967). If these findings are relevant also for the condi­ tions in vivo, then there should be a correlation between the average ~~ount of deoxygenated hae~oglobin and the binding of organic phosphocompounds, i.e. the molar ratio of phosphocompound to haemoglobin should increase with increasing average deoxygena­ tion of the circulating haemoglobin. Several pieces of evidence have also been obtained, that support this concept. An increased content of phosphocompounds, mainly 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and ATP, has been found in erythrocytes from subjects with a decrease of the oxygen saturation of the blood (Lenfant et al. 1969) or Where it seems likely to assume that the time average concentraThis investigation was sponsored by the Swedish Medical Research Council (Project Xo. B 66- 19 X -153 -02)
BACKGROUND: It is unclear whether maintaining the correct whole blood-to-anticoagulant (WB : AC) ratio during collection can improve the quality of red blood cell (RBC)-containing blood products to a clinically relevant degree. ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A total of 2 × 20 CPDA-1 leukoreduced whole blood (WB) units suspended in CPDA-1 were investigated. In one group, AC was continuously added to the donated blood, maintaining the correct WB : AC ratio during collection, using a new drawing device (MacoPharma ABC). In the other group, WB units were produced conventionally. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, free hemoglobin (Hb), potassium, glucose, lactate, pH, and variables of coagulation were determined on Days 1, 7, 21, 35, 42, and 49 of storage. Variables of RBC deformability and aggregability were determined using a laser-assisted optical rotational cell analyzer. ::: ::: RESULTS: The ABC and conventional group showed comparable unit volumes of 525 (SD, 5.3) mL versus 524 (SD, 10.2) mL and Hb content of 65.9 (SD, 5.1) g/unit versus 67.5 (SD, 7.8) g/unit, but higher variation after conventional blood drawing (p = 0.006 and p = 0.07, respectively) was observed. During storage, none of the measured quality variables were significantly different between the groups. Mean (SD) ATP was 2.33 (0.41) µmol/g Hb versus 2.24 (0.39) µmol/g Hb after 42-day storage. Deformability was not different (p = 0.44), whereas the extent of the aggregability was higher in the conventional group (p = 0.04). ::: ::: CONCLUSION: The ABC device provided a better standardized blood product but did not improve RBC storage variables or plasma quality. It slightly reduced RBC aggregability during storage. Excess AC at the beginning of a donation appears not to significantly affect RBC storage in conventional blood drawing.
1. The properties and kinetics of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-dependent phosphoglycerate mutases are discussed. There are at least three possible mechanisms for the reaction: (i) a phosphoenzyme (Ping Pong) mechanism; (ii) an intermolecular transfer of phosphate from 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to the substrates (sequential mechanism); (iii) an intramolecular transfer of phosphate. It is concluded that these mechanisms cannot be distinguished by conventional kinetic measurements. 2. The fluxes for the different mechanisms are calculated and it is shown that it should be possible to distinguish between the mechanisms by appropriate induced-transport tests and by comparing the fluxes of (32)P- and (14)C-labelled substrates at chemical equilibrium. 3. With (14)C-labelled substrates no induced transport was found over a wide concentration range, and with (32)P-labelled substrates co-transport occurred that was independent of concentration over a twofold range. (14)C-labelled substrates exchange at twice the rate of (32)P-labelled substrates at chemical equilibrium. The results were completely in accord with a phosphoenzyme mechanism and indicated a rate constant for the isomerization of the phosphoenzyme of not less than 4x10(6)s(-1). The intramolecular transfer of phosphate (and intermolecular transfer between two or more molecules of substrate) were completely excluded. The intermolecular transfer of phosphate from 2,3-diphosphoglycerate would have been compatible with the results only if the K(m) for 2-phosphoglycerate had been over 7.5-fold smaller than the observed value and if an isomerization of the enzyme-2,3-diphosphoglycerate complex had been the major rate-limiting step in the reaction. 4. The very rapid isomerization of the phosphoenzyme that the experiments demonstrate suggests a mechanism that does not involve a formal isomerization. According to this new scheme the enzyme is closely related mechanistically and perhaps evolutionarily to a 2,3-diphosphoglycerate diphosphatase.
Seven English Springer Spaniels (6 adult males and 1 female) with chronic hemolysis and sporadic intravascular hemolytic crises were determined to have a deficiency in erythrocyte phosphofructokinase (PFK) activity, a key regulatory enzyme of anaerobic glycolysis. Intermittent severe pigmenturia concomitant with weakness, lethargy, and anorexia were the major clinical signs and commonly were related to exercise or other stressful situations that caused panting or barking (hyperventilation). Pale or icteric mucous membranes, fever, mild hepatosplenomegaly, and muscle wasting sometimes were evident. Results of routine laboratory testing indicated a persistent marked bilirubinuria and reticulocytosis with normal PCV, to severe anemia and intermittent hemoglobinuria and hyperkalemia. Erythrocyte PFK activities were severely reduced to 8% to 22% of values for control dogs. The block of glycolysis at the PFK step caused a markedly diminished erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content, resulting in an increased hemoglobin-oxygen affinity and compensatory accelerated erythrocyte production. Phosphofructokinase-deficient erythrocytes had increased alkaline fragility in vitro and in vivo. Hemolytic crises were induced in vivo by hyperventilation that caused transient, mild alkalemia. Studies of family members of a PFK-deficient dog suggested an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. Carrier dogs with half-normal erythrocyte PFK activities appeared clinically normal.
Abstract Lanthanum (0.25 mM) does not penetrate into fresh or Mg 2+ -depleted cells, whereas it does into ATP-depleted or ATP + 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-depleted cells , into cells containing more than 3 mM calcium, or cells stored for more than 4 weeks in acid/citrate/dextrose solution. In fresh cells loaded with calcium, extracellular lanthanum blocks the active Ca 2+ -efflux completely and inhibits (Ca 2+ + Mg 2+ )-ATPase (ATP phosphohydrolase, EC 3.6.1.3) activity to about 50%. In Mg 2+ -depleted cells Ca 2+ -Ca 2+ exchange is inhibited by lanthanum. Ca 2+ -leak is unaffected by lanthanum up to 0.25 mM concentration; higher lanthanum concentrations reduce leak rate. In NaCl medium Ca 2+ -leak ± S.D. amounts to 0.28 ± 0.08 μ mol/l of cells per min, whereas in KCl medium to 0.15 ± 0.04 μ mol/l of cells per min at 2.5 mM [Ca 2+ ] e and 0.25 mM [La 3+ ] e pH 7.1. Lanthanum inhibits Ca 2+ -dependent rapid K + transport in ATP-depleted and propranolol-treated red cells, i.e. whenever intracellular calcium is below a critical level. The inhibition of the rapid K + transport can be attributed to protein-lanthanum interactions on the cell surface, since lanthanum is effectively detached from the membrane lipids by propranolol. Lanthanum at 0.2–0.25 mM concentration has no direct effect on the morphology of red cells. The shape regeneration of Ca 2+ -loaded cells, however, is blocked by lanthanum owing to Ca 2+ -pump inhibition. Using lanthanum the transition in cell shape can be quantitatively correlated to intracellular Ca 2+ concentrations.
1. The properties and kinetics of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-dependent phosphoglycerate mutases are discussed. There are at least three possible mechanisms for the reaction: (i) a phosphoenzyme (Ping Pong) mechanism; (ii) an intermolecular transfer of phosphate from 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to the substrates (sequential mechanism); (iii) an intramolecular transfer of phosphate. It is concluded that these mechanisms cannot be distinguished by conventional kinetic measurements. 2. The fluxes for the different mechanisms are calculated and it is shown that it should be possible to distinguish between the mechanisms by appropriate induced-transport tests and by comparing the fluxes of 32P-and 'IC-labelled substrates at chemical equilibrium. 3. With 'IC-labelled substrates no induced transport was found over a wide concentration range, and with 32P-labelled substrates co-transport occurred that was independent of concentration over a twofold range. 'IC-labelled substrates exchange at twice the rate of 32P-labelled substrates at chemical equilibrium. The results were completely in accord with a phosphoenzyme mechanism and indicated a rate constant for the isomerization of the phosphoenzyme of not less than 4 x 106s-1. The intramolecular transfer of phosphate (and intermolecular transfer between two or more molecules of substrate) were completely excluded. The intermolecular transfer of phosphate from 2,3-diphosphoglycerate would have been compatible with the results only if the Km for 2-phosphoglycerate had been over 7.5-fold smaller than the observed value and if an isomerization of the enzyme-2,3-diphosphoglycerate complex had been the major rate-limiting step in the reaction. 4. The very rapid isomerization of the phosphoenzyme that the experiments demonstrate suggests a mechanism that does not involve a formal isomerization. According to this new scheme the enzyme is closely related mechanistically and perhaps evolutionarily to a 2,3-diphosphoglycerate diphosphatase.
A 3-year-old girl with pyruvate kinase deficiency has been investigated together with her family. Erythrocyte survival studies with 51Cr-labeled donor cells in the patient's circulation showed a half life of only 17 days. Direct Coomb's test was negative and cold agglutinin titres normal. Cholecystography showed gallstones and no gallbladder excretion. The pyruvate kinase activity in erythrocytes at 25° and pH 7.5 was only 9.5 and 6 μM substrate turnover/min 1011, respectively, on two occasion, whereas 2 SD of blood donors is 25.0–49.0. Corresponding activities for hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, phosphofructoaldolase, lactate dehydrogenase, glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glutathion reductase were either within or above normal range. In her crythrocytes adenosine triphosphate was low, adenosine diphosphate normal and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate high. Further studies seem to indicate that the pyruvate kinase in our patient has latered kinetic properties, an abnormal sequence of amino acids. The pyruvate kinase activity in crythrocytes from the patient's mother was low. Similar activities in crythrocytes from the patient's father and brother were at the lower limit of normal. One brother of the maternal grandmother had hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and cholelithiasis, another brother had cholelithiasis and a sister had anemia. The result of further family studies will be reported.
In their recent letter Van Kempen and co-workers presented an intriguing hypothesis linking hypophosphatemia and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) (1), founded on the work by Siren and Siren on the critical diaphragm failure being the cause of SIDS incidences (2,3). Van Kempen and co-workers argued that both etiology and symptoms of SIDS can be explained by low concentrations in erythrocytes of phosphate metabolites, mainly 2,3-biphosphoglycerate (2,3-BPG, also known as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, 2,3-DPG), which in effect would impair muscle function (especially diaphragm) and lead to respiratory failure as Siren and Siren originally stated. We find the hypothesis interesting and definitely worth further investigation; however, we would assign the main role to ATP, not to 2,3-BPG.
Publisher Summary Bovine red cells do not contain appreciable amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). However, human and bovine blood have similar oxygen affinity, indicating that either bovine hemoglobin (Hb Bv) has an intrinsically low oxygen affinity, or that its functional characteristics become physiologically efficient through a different mechanism of oxygen affinity regulation. It has been found that this hemoglobin has developed an increased sensitivity to the C l- ions of the solvent, which decreases its oxygen affinity to lower levels than those obtainable by human hemoglobin (Hb A) through the interaction with 2,3-DPG. These characteristics and the availability of bovine blood have produced an interest in exploring the use of Hb Bv as the basis for an artificial oxygen carrier. There are two types of Hb Bv—namely, A and B. They differ by three amino acid residues in the β chains in which the substitutions are GIy(A12) → Ser, Lys(AB2) → His, and Lys(GH3) → Asn, from A to B genotype, respectively.
A modified assay for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes is described. 3-phosphoglycerate, specifically formed by the action of glycerate phosphomutase modified by 2-phosphoglycolate, is determined by using a sequence of enzymes starting with phosphoglycerate kinase and ending with glycerol 1-phosphate dehydrogenase. This procedure gives a high sensitivity (2 moles NADH per mole DPG) and a favourable overall equilibrium for the assay. The effect of other metabolites and of changing the volume of the protein-precipitating solution (0.6 mol/1 PCA) was investigated. The accuracy of the method was tested by comparison with a chromatographic method and by determination of the mean value from 29 healthy non-anaemic men.
A total of 300 patients have been examined on the first-third day after surgical correction of acquired heart valve defects, aortocoronary bypass surgery, and left ventricular postinfarction aneurysm resection performed using cardiopulmonary bypass technique. The parameters of the cardio-respiratory system and the value of parameter a in Siggaard-Andersen oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve (ODC) model have been studied. It has been shown that in some patients (about 5%) arterial blood hemoglobin saturation with O2 was lower than the corresponding blood pO2. In respiratory failure, parameter a decreases and the arterial part of ODC is shifted to the left, while in circulatory failure and hypoxia, parameter a of the venous blood increases and the curve is shifted to the right. The corresponding disorders corrected, the shifts are normalized. In severe postoperative complications and critical conditions additional (beside Bohr's effect and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate /2,3-DPG/ impact) ODC shifts, if any, are less marked. A statistically significant and considerable shift in parameter a of arterial ODC segment, as compared to venous one, has been observed. This ODC deviation from the model cannot be accounted for by pH, pCO2 or 2,3-DP impact. It can't be so far excluded that the effect observed might be partially due to regular errors of the measuring devices. However, it might turn out to be a new phenomenon of compensatory ODC shape changes in patients with acute cardiorespiratory disorders.
Two brothers with combined erythrocyte and leukocyte X-chromosome-liked phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) deficiency are reported. Contrary to an earlier report of neutrophil dysfunction in this disorder, neutrophil bactericidal function was normal in these patients. The metabolic block in anaerobic glycolysis is bypassed by the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) shunt permitting normal function. The characteristics of neutrophil metabolism and microbicidal activity in this disorder are discussed.
Abstract Inorganic phosphate (Pi) plays critical roles in bone metabolism and is an essential component of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). It has been reported that animals fed a low-iron diet modulate Pi metabolism, whereas the effect of dietary Pi on iron metabolism, particularly in iron deficiency anemia (IDA), is not fully understood. In this study, we hypothesized the presence of a link between Pi and iron metabolism and tested the hypothesis by investigating the effects of dietary Pi on iron status and IDA. Wistar rats aged 4 weeks were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 experimental dietary groups: normal iron content (Con Fe)+0.5% Pi, low-iron (Low Fe)+0.5% Pi, Con Fe+1.5% Pi, and Low Fe+1.5% Pi. Rats fed the 1.5% Pi diet for 14days, but not for 28days, maintained their anemia state and plasma erythropoietin concentrations within the reference range, even under conditions of low iron. In addition, plasma concentrations of 2,3-DPG were significantly increased by the 1.5% Pi diets and were positively correlated with plasma Pi concentration ( r =0.779; P
The discovery of the effects of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) on the oxygen dissociation characteristics of hemoglobin (Chanutin & Curnish, 1967; Benesch & Benesch, 1967) has greatly increased our appreciation of the association between red cell metabolism and function. Recent evidence makes it clear that, through variations in the levels of ATP and DPG, the metabolism of the human red cell may help maintain normoxia. Increases in the concentration of DPG will produce corresponding decreases in the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. Elevation of red cell DPG content and shifting of the hemoglobin-oxygen dissociation curve to higher pO2’s have been observed in a number of conditions characterized by hypoxia, such as exposure to high altitude (Lenfant et al., 1968; Eaton et al., 1968), anemia and pulmonary disease (Brewer & Eaton, 1969). Significant adjustments in the level of DPG in the circulating red cell may occur quite rapidly, as will be discussed in the paper by Faulkner (this volume).
We report a case of refeeding-associated hypophosphatemia in a 24-year-old malnourished male patient with anorexia nervosa but no history of alcoholism. He was given tube feeding with a low-calory preparation supplemented with phosphate. During refeeding, a severe hypophosphatemia developed after 5 days, i.e., serum phosphate 0.00-0.01 mmol/l for 2 days, accompanied by a reduction in red-cell ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, mild hemolytic anemia and transient changes in cardiac repolarization; there was, however, a striking lack of clinical symptomatology. Parenteral replacement with phosphate initially was complicated by an unexpected high urinary phosphate excretion due to an extremely low TmP/GFR (0.02 mmol/l) for over 2 days. Only after an increase of the TmP/GFR to supranormal values, i.e. up to 2.5 mmol/l, unrelated to changes in serum PTH or vitamin D3, the serum phosphate concentration became normal. The case report shows that severe hypophosphatemia can occur in nonalcoholic patients after oral feeding, and may induce reversible changes in renal phosphate handling that complicate replacement therapy.
Two rabbit erythrocyte casein kinases, GTP:casein kinase I and GTP:casein kinase II, have been purified 29 000- and 47 000-fold, respectively. Studies employing sucrose density gradient centrifugation indicate that kinase I has a molecular weight of about 9.5 - 10(5) (25 S) and kinase II about 1.4 - 10(6) (32 S). These enzymes can utilize either ATP or GTP as the phosphoryl donor. Among various protein substrates examined, these kinases catalyze the phosphorylation of casein greater than 50% dephosphorylated phosvitin congruent to 50% dephosphorylated casein greater than phosvitin. Histones, protamine and bovine serum albumin are poor phosphoryl acceptors. Kinetic data indicate that both enzymes are inhibited by high casein substrate concentrations which may be partially relieved by NaCl. Both phosphotransferases require Mg(2+) for activity and are optimally active at pH 9.0. The enzymes have apparent Km values of 2.5 - 10(-5) M for GTP, 2 - 10(-5) M for ATP, and 0.4--0.6 mg/ml for casein. The incorporation of the terminal phosphate of GTP into casein as catalyzed by these enzymes is inhibited to varying degrees by ATP, ITP, ADP, and GDP but not by UTP, CTP, GMP, adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate, and guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate. In addition, NaF and 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid are also found to inhibit the activity of both kinases. The effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is interesting and suggests that this metabolite may regulate the activity of the casein kinases in the red blood cells.
Postnatal Changes in Oxygen-Hemoglobin Affinity and Erythrocyte 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate in Piglets
Individual populations of AA and SS erythrocytes were fractionated according to cell density by centrifugation, and the fractions analysed for intracellular pH (PHi), the mole ratio of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to haemoglobin (DPG:Hb), and cell concentration of haemoglobin (MCHC). The pHi of SS erythrocytes was consistently lower than that of AA erythrocytes throughout the density range, and the lowest pHi of both cell types (AA and SS) was found in cells with the highest density. As the highest density AA and SS erythrocytes are characterized by the lowest DPG:Hb values, their relatively low pHi cannot be ascribed to intracellular organic phosphate. Instead we propose that a redistribution of hydrogen ions across the membrane of both AA and SS erythrocytes is the ultimate result of progressive alterations in these membranes in vivo.
Heat-shocked organisms are known to produce not only "heat shock proteins" but also diadenosine tetraphosphate (Ap4A) and related compounds that may act as "alarmones" that alert the cell to the onset of metabolic stress. We found that Ap4A is synthesized in chicken erythrocytes and that the Ap4A level in the whole blood of heat-stressed birds increases about 10-fold. In searching for alarmone receptors, we found that the diadenosine polyphosphates bind preferentially with high affinity to the deoxy conformation of hemoglobin in a ratio of one/tetramer. The binding affinity of this new class of effectors of hemoglobin function is directly related to the number of phosphates which bridge the nucleotide moieties, with the most dramatic in vitro effect on oxygen affinity being shown by Ap6A. Decreasing effects are brought about by diadenosine penta-, tetra-, tri-, di-, and monophosphates. The association constant for Ap4A binding to deoxygenated human hemoglobin at pH 7.25 is 26 microM-1, close to that for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. At 100-fold excess over heme, Ap4A increases the P50 of stripped Hb A in 0.05 M HEPES buffer at pH 7.25, 20 degrees C, from 0.85 to 6.03 mm Hg. The binding, which markedly enhances the Bohr effect, involves the beta chain anion-binding site. The kinetics of both ligand binding and dissociation are affected, with a greater quantitative effect on the oxygen dissociation process. Although the low concentration of the diadenosine polyphosphates in red cells precludes a physiologically significant modulation of oxygen delivery, competition with the ATP- and NAD(P)H-binding sites on hemoglobin or regulatory enzymes may prove to be of adaptive significance.
The effect of change in red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration after transfusion of ACD stored blood on arteriovenous oxygen content difference, arteriovenous oxygen tension difference and oxygen consumption was assessed in 15 injured patients in Vietnam. A significant increase in the arteriovenous oxygen tension difference and oxygen consumption was observed at the time of low 2,3-DPG. Change in 2,3-DPG did not correlate, however, with change in either arteriovenous oxygen content difference or venous PO(2). This study suggests that alterations in oxyhemoglobin affinity are effectively compensated, possibly by opening capillaries to increase blood flow to tissues, by reducing the capillary-tissue oxygen gradient to maintain the rate of tissue oxygen extraction, or by increasing cardiac output.
Abstract Gelation of fully deoxygenated sickle cell hemoglobin was assayed by (1) determination of the temperature at which viscosity increased sharply and (2) a high-speed sedimentation equilibrium method in which three zones are seen. These are a pre-gelation zone, a narrow transition zone exhibiting aggregation, followed by a phase change and a zone of gelation. Only the first zone is seen with deoxyhemoglobin A and CO hemoglobins A and S up to about 0·35 g protein/ml. Minimal gelling temperatures by the viscosity method and, by ultracentrifugation, minimal gelling concentrations determined at the onset of aggregation and at the phase change showed: (a) lowering the pH toward 6·7 favors gelation; (b) deoxyhemoglobin S gels more readily in 6 m m -2,3-diphosphoglycerate than in its total absence; (c) 1 m -NaCl and l m -KCl inhibit gelation. The known favoring of gelation by warming is confirmed by the equilibrium method and is about 2% change in minimal gelling concentration per degree. The effects of pH and high ionic strengths are consistent with contributions of specific polar interactions to gel structure. The effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate probably depends on known structural changes which this cofactor induces rather than on alteration of the allosteric quaternary structure equilibrium.
1. Erythrocyte metabolism was investigated and glycolytic intermediates were measured in nine patients with chronic renal failure who were subsequently treated with haemodialysis. The same investigations were performed in nine patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) who had previously been treated with intermittent peritoneal dialysis (IPD) (eight patients) or dietary restriction (one patient). 2. The patients who received haemodialysis had a partially compensated metabolic acidosis before treatment. With haemodialysis, plasma phosphate (Pi) fell and base excess, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), glucose consumption and lactate production rose significantly. In this group the most important influence on erythrocyte metabolism was base excess. The pattern of erythrocyte glycolytic intermediates showed that the rise in 2,3-DPG with haemodialysis was brought about within the Rapoport-Luebering shunt; there was no statistically significant decrease in haemoglobin-oxygen affinity. 3. The patients who received CAPD were not acidotic before starting this form of treatment. With CAPD, there was a significant increase in haemoglobin and fall in plasma phosphate, erythrocyte 2,3-DPG and glucose consumption. The major factors influencing erythrocyte metabolism in this group were plasma phosphate and haemoglobin concentration. The fall in 2,3-DPG was produced by inhibition of 6-phosphofructokinase (EC 2.7.1.11); despite this fall, haemoglobin-oxygen affinity was not affected.
Abstract We have purified haemoglobin Philly by isoelectric focusing on polyacrylamide gel, and studied its oxygen equilibrium, proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectra, mechanical stability, and pH-dependent u.v. difference spectrum. Stripped haemoglobin Philly binds oxygen non-co-operatively with high affinity. Inorganic phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate have little effect on the equilibrium curve, but inositol hexaphosphate lowers the affinity and induces co-operativity. These properties are explained by the nuclear magnetic resonance spectra which show that stripped deoxyhaemoglobin Philly has the quaternary oxy structure and that inositol hexaphosphate converts it to the deoxy structure. An exchangeable proton resonance at −8.3 p.p.m. from water, which is present in oxy- and deoxyhaemoglobin A, is absent in both these derivatives of haemoglobin Philly and can therefore be assigned to one of the hydrogen bonds made by tyrosine C1-(35)β, probably the one to aspartate H8(126)α at the α 1 β 1 contact. Haemoglobin Philly shows the same pH-dependent u.v. difference spectrum as haemoglobin A, only weaker, so that a tyrosine other than 35β must be mainly responsible for this.
Abstract Oxygenation measurements at equilibrium were carried out for solutions of pure haemoglobin (Hb) Olympia ( α 2 β 2 20 (B2) Val → Met) at 200 μ m (haem) and revealed a high oxygen affinity ( P 50 = 4.2 torr at pH 7.20, 25 °C) compared to HbA ( P 50 = 5.6 torr), with the Hill coefficient ( n H ) reduced from the normal value of 2.9 to 2.5 for Hb Olympia at neutral pH. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate and chloride effects were normal, but measurements of the alkaline Bohr effect indicated an excess Bohr effect of about 20% for Hb Olympia. Precise determinations of the oxygen binding curves gave the unexpected finding of a dependence of co-operativity on pH with n H rising from 2.4 at pH 6.8 to 3.0 at pH 8. Moreover, the Hill coefficient was dependent upon the concentration at alkaline pH and fell to 1.8 in low concentration solutions (~30 μ m -haem) of the haemoglobin variant; at this concentration the Bohr effect was normal. This effect of concentration on co-operativity could be accounted for fully by the allosteric model, with introduction of Hb Olympia self-association. In this case the allosteric constant L for the supramolecular species has the value of the allosteric constant L for the tetramer species, raised to a power equal to the number of molecules in the aggregates and modulated by the ratio of the dissociation constants of the aggregates, D NR D NT . Model curves with N tetramers per aggregate (where N ~ 2 at pH 7.5 and N ~ 4 at pH 8.0) fully represented the concentration dependence for Hb Olympia of the n H values and the detailed shape of the experimental curves for n H as a function of log[( y (1 − y) ] , the first derivative of the Hill plot. These curves are much steeper when supramolecular species are present. Direct measurements of the protein aggregation by centrifugation confirmed the presence of aggregates in the solutions of Hb Olympia. Hb Olympia is therefore one of the few examples of mutant human haemoglobins that self-associate with functional consequences in terms of oxygen binding properties. The self-association of Hb Olympia is presumably related to the presence of the hydrophobic side-chain of methionine at the surface of the protein, which promotes intermolecular interactions involving a portion of the molecule that has been implicated in intermolecular contacts of various crystal structures of human haemoglobin.
The development of a large animal preparation using 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy for the study of cerebral and myocardial metabolism during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is reported. The effect of normothermic CPB on myocardial and cerebral metabolism was evaluated. Adolescent sheep were used which have low levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, a compound which can interfere with the calculation of intracellular pH and inorganic phosphate content. CPB was performed using standard procedures modified for the presence of a high magnetic field and limited access to the animal. High quality 31P NMR data were obtained from the brains and hearts of these animals before and during normothermic CPB. These results demonstrate that the initiation of normothermic CPB does not change high energy phosphate levels or intracellular pH. In particular, the decreased myocardial oxygen demand associated with CPB is not associated with improvement in the levels of adenosine triphosphate or phosphocreatine. The measurements of energy metabolism and intracellular pH of the brain and heart during CPB were possible within the constraints of the NMR experiment without compromising the CPB procedure. Combining NMR and CPB techniques permits future studies of cerebral and myocardial metabolism, especially those relating to ischemia.
Investigation by Schindler et al and Sheetz and Casaly have indicated that high (approximately 10 mmol/L) concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) have a destabilizing effect on erythrocyte membrane and the membrane skeleton. We have investigated changes in the membrane mechanical properties that occur at elevated 2,3-DPG levels in both intact cells and ghosts. The membrane shear modulus, viscoelastic recovery time constant, critical force, "plastic" viscosity, and material relaxation time constant were measured by standard micropipette and flow channel techniques. Intact cells showed no change in properties at physiologic ionic strength and 2,3-DPG concentrations of about 20 mmol/L, except for an increase in membrane viscosity resulting from an increased cellular hemoglobin concentration that occurs when the 2,3-DPG concentration is elevated. At ionic strengths 20% below physiologic and 2,3-DPG concentrations of approximately 20 mmol/L, decreases in membrane shear modulus and membrane viscosity were observed. In ghosts, no changes in these properties were observed at a 2,3-DPG concentration of 10 mmol/L and ionic strengths as low as 25% below physiologic, but a decrease in the force required to form tethers (critical force) was observed at physiologic ionic strength. The decrease in membrane shear modulus and viscosity of intact cells and the reduced critical force in ghosts are consistent with the results of other investigators. However, the difference in the effects of 2,3-DPG on ghosts and intact cells indicates that the effects of 2,3-DPG depend strongly on the conditions of the experiment. It appears unlikely that 2,3-DPG affects erythrocyte membrane material properties under physiologic conditions.
Serial changes in hemoglobin, hematocrit, erythrocyte (RBC) 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and whole blood oxygen affinity were studied in piglets. In the newborn piglet, the Pso averaged 19.0 mm Hg at birth and the erythrocyte 2,3-DPG was 1,670 mpmol/ml RBC's. Within 48 hr of birth, these values had increased to 27.4 mm Hg and 6,600 mpmol/ml RBC's, respectively. Normal adult values were reached by 1 month of age. The P50 bore a direct relationship to the erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration.
2. The patients who received haemodialysis had a partially compensated metabolic acidosis before treatment. With haemodialysis, plasma phosphate (Pi) fell and base excess, erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), glucose consumption and lactate production rose significantly. In this group the most important influence on erythrocyte metabolism was base excess. The pattern of erythrocyte glycolytic intermediates showed that the rise in 2,3-DPG with haemodialysis was brought about within the Rapoport-Luebering shunt; there was no statistically significant decrease in haemoglobinoxygen affinity.
The outcome of such abnormalities may be an alteration in the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin due to the effect of changes in the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) combined with various degrees of acidosis. As patients with chronic renal failure are almost invariably anaemic, a change in the position of the haemoglobin-oxygen (Hb-O,) dissociation curve due to altered Hb-0, affinity may have a significant effect on tissue oxygen delivery.
Oxygen transport by erythrocytes was studied in eight patients on maintenance hemodialysis before, during and after a 2-week stay at an altitude of 2000 m. Dialysis was continued at that altitude. In all tests, blood samples were collected one or two days following hemodialysis. Pre-altitude tests: The patients exhibited anemia (hemoglobin concentration, Hb = 97.4 +/- 17 g/l). Due to an elevated red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration (2,3-DPG) and mild metabolic acidosis, elevated standard and in vivo P50 values (pO2 at 50% oxygen saturation of hemoglobin, sO2) were measured. Altitude: Upon ascent, arterial pO2 decreased from 82 +/- 4 torr to about 60 torr, sO2 was lowered by 5%. After 2 weeks sojourn, pO2 and sO2 increased towards normal values. In contrast to healthy subjects, dialysis patients developed respiratory alkalosis (blood pH: +0.074) upon ascent. This caused a significant shift to the left of the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC), indicated by lowered in vivo P50-values (P50,vv,-2 torr). Red cell 2,3-DPG, P50,st (P50 at a blood pH = 7.4 and pCO2 = 40 torr), hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit showed a high day-to-day variability and did not change because of the altitude exposure. We interpret the increase of the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin in patients with renal anemia as beneficial, as it favors oxygen loading of hemoglobin in the lung during exposure to a hypoxic environment.
1. Adaptive mechanisms of oxygen transport by blood have been studied in severely anaemic young patients on maintenance haemodialysis, in conditions of hyperphosphataemia (Pi greater than or equal to 2.2 mmol/l) or normophosphataemia. 2. In hyperphosphataemia whole-blood affinity for oxygen was slightly decreased, as measured by an increase in P50 (the partial pressure of oxygen necessary to half saturate haemoglobin). 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate was increased by 10% (P less than 0.10) whereas Pi, total erythrocyte phosphate and ATP were increased by 100%, 47% and 36% respectively, compared with control values. 3. After correction of hyperphosphataemia a small but significant decrease in P50 and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, to normal values, was observed whereas the other variables, although significantly lowered, remained above control values. 4. In these severely anaemic and hyperphosphataemic patients P50 and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are only slightly increased. ATP synthesis appears to be favoured over that of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. This is possibly due to alterations in the erythrocyte membrane elicited by bi-weekly extracorporeal circulation. Adequate oxygen transport can be achieved only through a drastic increase in blood flow. Correction of hyperphosphataemia adds further to the abnormality. It is concluded that this condition could induce a long-term myocardial fatigue, which might be prevented with occasional small blood transfusions.
Summary Electrophoresis of 3-phosphoglycerate mutase from erythrocytes of man and several animal species has been performed on cellulose acetate strips. In most cases the electrophoretic pattern of this enzymatic activity shows three bands. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase and diphosphoglycerate mutase from erythrocytes of the same species have been revealed after migration during the same electrophoresis. We found that the band of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase and the band of diphosphoglycerate mutase activities migrate at the same level as one of the bands corresponding to 3-phosphoglycerate mutase. Here, we discuss the possible existence of a single molecule carrying three enzymatic activities.
In normal persons and in diabetics with and without tissue injuries was tried to find out a connection between the glycolyzed haemoglobin and the parameters of hypoxia. In a small number of cases no clearly evident correlation between the concentrations of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the lactate to the glycohaemoglobins was found. In connection with this investigation pathobiochemical considerations of late diabetic injuries are carried out, which are the consequence of inconveniences in the usability of glucose of diabetics and the connected with this non-enzymatic glycosylation of various proteins.
The blood concentrations of pyruvate and of some of its metabolites and the red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration were compared with the severity of uraemia in 103 patients with renal failure. In chronic renal failure 2,3-butylene glycol was distinctly elevated, and a positive linear correlation (2p Less Than 0.001) with the urea was found. The values were even higher in corresponding patients with uraemic pericarditis, but,--taking into account their relation to the urea--,they were not elevated in acute renal failure. Acetaldehyde, acetoin and acetate behaved in part likewise. Severe uraemia, which clinically was demonstrated by uraemic pericarditis, was characterized biochemically, without regard to the urea, by very elevated values of 2,3-butylene glycol and acetaldehyde and of the pyruvate: lactate ratio. In addition, the chronic patients who were not undergoing regular haemodialysis, did not show the expected rise of 2,3-diphospho-glycerate along with progressive anaemia. The data suggest that the uraemic state is characterized by the impairment of the oxidative glucose metabolism between pyruvate and the tricarbonic acid cycle more precisely than by the blood urea.
PRPP is a substrate in the synthesis of virtually all nucleotides1 and is also an important regulator of the de novo pathways of purine2 and pyrimidine 3 nucleotide synthesis. PRPP is synthesized from MgATP and Rib-5-P in a reaction requiring Mg2+ and Pi as activators and subject to inhibition by purine, pyrimidine, and pyridine nucleotides; reaction products; and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate 4-6 . The reaction is catalyzed by a family of PRPP synthetase (PRS) isoforms . Mammalian PRS isoform subunits are polypeptides of about 35 kDa, with a high degree of homology both within and across species . Purified human PRS subunits, whether recombinant or isolated from cells, undergo concentration-dependent and effector-mediated reversible aggregation in vitro, 4,10 with enzymatic activity residing in aggregates containing as many as 16 or 32 subunits. Active heteroaggregates of PRS have not been formally demonstrated, but each human recombinant PRS isoform forms active homoaggregates 4,7 . The human PRS isoform family is composed of 3 polypeptides of identical length. Each human PRS cDNA is encoded by a separate PRPS gene: human PRPS1 and PRPS2 map, respectively, to the long and the short arms of the X chromosome and are widely expressed; PRPS3 maps to human chromosome 7
Arterial blood gases,intraerythrocytic pH (pHi),2,3-diphosphoglycerate,standardP 50 (P 50std) and in vivo P 50 (P 50iv) were determined in 54 patients with cor pulmonale and23 normal subjects.It was found that no significant change of pHi was observed but the differ-ence of pHi and extraerythrocytic pH was decreased.P 50std was significantly decreased whileP 50iv remained essentially unchanged in those cases showing type I respiratory failure.Thesefindings suggest that P 50std cannot accurately reflect the changes of P 50iv in patients of corpulmonale;P 50iv in cases of cor pulmonale usually keeps relatively stable and coincides withthe ‘optimal P 50’,which indicates the adaptation of the organism to chronic hypoxia;and rel-ative intraerythrocytic alkalosis plays an important role in the relief of hypercapnia in cases ofcor pulmonale.
The beta-chain of rhinoceros hemoglobin contains glutamic acid at position beta 2, and important site for the binding of organic phosphates. We have investigated the oxygen binding properties of this hemoglobin and its interaction with ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, CO2 and chloride. The results show that the presence of GLU at position beta 2 nearly abolishes the effect of organic phosphates and CO2, whereas the oxygen-linked binding of chloride is not affected. Thus rhinoceros hemoglobin has only protons and chloride anions as major allosteric effectors for the control of its oxygen affinity. From the results obtained with hemoglobin solutions it can be calculated that the blood oxygen affinity of the rhinoceros must be rather high with a P50 of about 20 torr at pH 7.4 and 37 degrees C, which conforms with observations obtained for other large mammals.
To clarify the functional role of the 2- and 4-side chains of heme in hemoglobin we prepared several hemins carrying nonnatural side chains at positions 2 and 4, reconstituted human adult hemoglobins with them, and investigated their optical and oxygen binding properties. The absorption maxima for all these reconstituted hemoglobins, no matter whether they are oxy-, deoxy-, or carbon monoxy-form, shifted toward shorter wavelengths than those for protoheme-hemoglobin. As in the case of myoglobin (Kawabe, K., et al. (1982) J. Biochem. 92, 1703-1712), the absorption spectrum is more significantly affected by resonance effects than by the inductive effects of the peripheral heme substituents. Contrary to the case of myoglobins, the spectral difference between pemptoheme-hemoglobin and isopemptoheme-hemoglobin and that between 2-isopropyl-4-vinyl-deuteroheme-hemoglobin and 2-vinyl-4-isopropyldeuteroheme-hemoglobin were very small. All the reconstituted hemoglobins used in this study showed higher oxygen affinity and reduced cooperativity in oxygen binding than native hemoglobin. We have shown that the 2- and 4-side chains are functionally nonequivalent and that modification of the 4-side chain exerts greater influence on oxygen affinity than modifying the 2-side chain. The magnitude of the Bohr effect and response to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate were reduced in the reconstituted hemoglobins. We have proposed a stereochemical mechanism based on constraint of heme movement before ligation against the tight distal side of the heme pocket.
Abstract A novel method was developed to quantify the intermediates involved in cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate metabolism, i.e. cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate, 2-phosphoglycerate, 3-phosphoglycerate, phosphoenolpyruvate, pyruvate and phosphate. The method consists of an ion-chromatographic separation followed by conductivity and ultraviolet detection. In a single run (41 min) all compounds were readily resolved, except for 2- and 3-phosphoglycerate. Concentrations down to 10-20 μ M and up to 1.0-1.5 m M can be accurately determined. The method was suitable for the analysis of cell-free extract and for the determination of enzymic conversions of the compounds involved. It was found to be reliable and faster than isotachophoresis or enzymic determination.
The interrelationships of arterial oxygen flow rate index, oxygen binding by hemoglobin, and oxygen consumption have been examined in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Proportional extraction of oxygen increased in close association with decreasing oxygen flow rate, and hence, whole body oxygen consumption was constant over nearly a three-fold variation in arterial oxygen flow rate. A reduction in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity at in vivo conditions of pH. Pco(2) and temperature also occurred in proportion to the reduction in arterial oxygen flow rate. Therefore, the increased proportional removal of oxygen from arterial blood at low oxygen flow rates, required to maintain oxygen consumption, may have been facilitated by the reduced affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen at in vivo conditions. However, the decrease in affinity did not appear to explain more than 30-40% of the increased extraction. Respiratory alkalosis was a frequent occurrence in these patients and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was positively associated with blood pH as well as with the time-averaged proportion of deoxyhemoglobin in arterial and venous blood.Hemoglobin-oxygen affinity measured at standard conditions and the mixed venous oxygen saturation were equally good indicators of reduced arterial oxygen flow rate in patients without shock. However, Svo(2) is more easily measured and is a more useful indicator of reduced oxygen flow rate, since its relationship to oxygen flow appears to be independent of affinity changes and time.
Exposure of red cells to fluoride produces a variety of metabolic alterations, most of which are based upon the secondary effects of enolase inhibition, which reduces pyruvate synthesis and interferes with the regeneration of diphosphopyridine nucleotide (NAD). Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is consumed in the hexokinase and phosphofructokinase reactions but is not regenerated since the deficiency of NAD limits glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase. ATP depletion in the presence of fluoride and calcium induces a massive loss of cations and water. Of the other known sites of ATP utilization, membrane-bound ATPase is inhibited by fluoride, but the incorporation of fatty acids into membrane phospholipids is unaffected until ATP is depleted. The addition of methylene blue to fluoride-treated red cells regenerates NAD, permitting triose oxidation and the generation of 3-phosphoglycerate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Enolase inhibition is then partially overcome by mass action, and sufficient glycolysis proceeds to maintain the concentration of ATP. This in turn prevents the massive cation and water loss, and permits membrane phospholipid renewal to proceed. Membrane ATPase activity is not restored by the oxidant so that normal cation leakage remains unopposed by cation pumping in red cells exposed to the combination of fluoride and methylene blue.
Abstract 1. 1. Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels in patients with respiratory insufficiency were measured and the factors determining the DPG level were studied. 2. 2. Red cell DPG in cases with physiological arterial pH (7.35–7.45), PaO 2 (⩾ 80 mmHg) and hematocrit value (⩾ 35%) was 4.89 ± 0.46 μ moles/ml cells (mean and the standard deviation). 3. 3. The correlation coefficients between DPG and arterial pH in cases with physiological PaO 2 and hematocrit, between DPG and hematocrit in cases with physiological arterial pH and PaO 2 and between DPG and PaO 2 in cases with physiological arterial pH and hematocrit were 0.65, −0.55 and −0.22, respectively. 4. 4. In cases with acidosis, no or slight positive correlation was found between DPG and PaO 2 . 5. 5. There was scarcely any correlation between DPG and PaCO 2 or results of pulmonary function tests. 6. 6. In cases with hepatic disorders, increased levels of red cell DPG were found.
Seventy-five female subjects with hemoglobin (Hb) levels ranging from 6.1 to 15 .9 g/100 ml were identified in a preliminary screening program of tea estate workers in the Kandy area of Sri Lanka (Ceylon). Venous blood samples were obtained for Hb, serum iron, total iron-binding capacity, P� (partial pressure of oxygen when Hb is 50% saturated with oxygen), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and lactate determinations before performing an 18-mm multistage treadmill test. Heart rate (HR) was continuously monitored throughout the exercise period and for 3 mm during recovery. Blood samples taken after exercise were measured for lactate . For analysis purposes, seven groups were established with 1 g/ 100 ml Hb increments from 6 to 13 g/100 ml and one group of >13 g/100 ml. Performance values for the lowest Hb group compared to the highest Hb group as measured by total time on the treadmill (10.4 versus 18.0 mm), percentage of subjects that reached the highest work load (0 versus 100%), HR/work load at 4.4 km/hr, 10% grade (176 versus 130 beats/mm), and postexercise lactate (4.9 versus 2.7 �moles/ml of blood) all showed significant differences. The lowest Hb group also showed significantly increased oxygen delivery adaptation through higher 2,3-DPG levels (14.9 versus 11.3 �moles/ml of blood) and higher Pvalues (31.3 versus 27.8mm Hg) when compared to the highest Hb group. Because physical working capacity is significantly reduced by iron deficiency anemia, with a concomitant reduction in productivity, a strong case for its correction and prevention can be made on a basis of economics, as well as of health. Am. I. Clin. Nun'. 30: 910-917, 1977.
The oxygen-binaing properties of whole blood and hemoglobin solutions from adult, newborn and fetal pigs were studied and related to biochemical characteristics of the hemoglobins and the concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). The P50 at a plasma pH of 7.40 and 38°C was 32.5 mm Hg for adult pig blood and 22.0 mm Hg for fetal pig blood. The P50 of blood from newborn pigs within 24 hr of birth was 25.0 mm Hg at an intracellular pH of 7.20 and 39.5°C. The red cell 2,3-DPG concentration was twice as high in fresh maternal blood as in blood drawn from the newborn within 24 hr after birth. The P50 of hemoglobin solutions from adult, newborn and fetal pigs was the same after dialysis against phosphate or bicarbonate buffers; dialysates stripped of 2,3-DPG responded identically to the addition of excess amounts of 2,3-DPG. The hemoglobin of the miniature pig in late fetal life is indistinguishable from adult pig hemoglobin on the basis of starch gel electrophoresis, visible and ultraviolet absorption spectra, resistance to alkali denaturation, and the peptide patterns after tryptic hydrolysis. Our evidence suggests that the same hemoglobin is synthesized during late fetal and adult life in the pig and that the higher oxygen affinity of fetal pig blood is maintained by a lower concentration of red cell 2,3-DPG.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: To investigate methods for the production of red cell concentrates (RCC) in saline, adenine, glucose and mannitol (SAG-M), from whole blood or red cells stored in plasma for 5 or 6 days and to provide evidence that exchange transfusion RCC in citrate phosphate dextrose (CPD) plasma or citrate, phosphate, dextrose, adenine (CPDA-1) plasma are of comparable quality. ::: ::: ::: METHODS AND MATERIALS ::: Ten RCC in SAG-M were produced following the remanufacture of red cells in CPD plasma on day 5/6 or after 5 days hold as leucodepleted CPD whole blood. In addition, 10 RCC in CPD plasma and 9 in CPDA-1 plasma were stored without further processing. Units were assessed for red cell parameters including haemolysis, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and extracellular potassium. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Units in SAG-M produced by remanufacture of RCC in plasma or by delayed manufacture of whole blood had comparable levels of haemolysis, ATP and 2,3-DPG. Furthermore, these units underwent biochemical changes similar to reference SAG-M units, with the exception of haemolysis which was greater at the end of shelf life and supernatant potassium which was lower following remanufacture. As expected, the decline in ATP was greater in red cells stored in CPD plasma compared with CPDA-1 plasma. In general, units in CPD plasma were of similar quality at day 28 compared to those in CPDA-1 plasma at day 35. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: RCC produced following the remanufacture of RCC in plasma or the delayed manufacture of whole blood are of acceptable in vitro quality and should be assigned the same shelf life as standard RCC in SAG-M.
The relationship between blood glucose and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) has been investigated during an 8 week period in 53 Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetic women studied during the third trimester of pregnancy. Blood glucose estimations (fasting and 2 h post-prandially) were made an average of 41 times in each patient during this period and HbA1c was determined once at the end of the study. There was a significant correlation between both the mean blood glucose over the preceding 8 weeks and the standard deviation of the fasting blood glucose with HbA1c (r=0.69, p<0.001; r=0.46, p<0.001, respectively). A ‘glycosylation index’ was calculated for each patient (HbA1c divided by the mean blood glucose value). There was a significant correlation between the ‘glycosylation index’ and duration of diabetes (r=0.68, p<0.001). In contrast, there was no correlation between red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and HbA1c or ‘glycosylation index’. These findings suggest that increasing duration of diabetes influences the post-translational formation of HbA1c and that isolated HbA1c values need to be interpreted with caution in the pregnant diabetic.
The effect of an aldose reductase inhibitor, [5-(3-thienyl) tetrazol-1-yl] acetic acid (TAT), on the electroretinogram was determined in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Laboratory chow containing 0.05% TAT was given to rats for 2 months, while other diabetic rats were untreated. Groups of TAT-treated and untreated normal rats were also studied. Treatment with TAT produced significant improvement of the electroretinogram. TAT shortened the peak latencies of the b-wave oscillatory potentials, which were significantly prolonged in untreated diabetic rats (P<0.0001 vs. untreated normal rats). This was accompanied by a significant decrease in the retinal sorbitol and fructose concentrations (by 46.5% and 25.7%, respectively). TAT treatment of diabetic rats also markedly reduced ADP-induced platelet aggregation and significantly increased the red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level, accompanied by a marked reduction in sorbitol and fructose concentrations of platelet and red blood cells. There were significant correlations between the summed b-wave peak latencies and platelet aggregation or the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level in diabetic rats. These findings suggest that an aldose reductase inhibitor, TAT, has therapeutic value for diabetic retinopathy.
Respiratory alkalosis was a frequent occurrence in these patients and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was positively associated with blood pH as well as with the time-averaged proportion of deoxyhemoglobin in arterial and venous blood.
A B S T R A C T Normal red cells were incubated in the absence of glucose to develop a system in which total adenosine triphosphate (ATP) turnover could be assessed. After 1 hr, the triose pool had been completely consumed. Thereafter, the metabolism of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) to pyruvate and lactate was the sole significant source of ATP synthesis.
Summary. The relationship between blood glucose and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA~c) has been investigated during an 8 week period in 53 Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetic women studied during the third trimester of pregnancy. Blood glucose estimations (fasting and 2h post-prandially) were made an average of 41 times in each patient during this period and HbA~c was determined once at the end of the study. There was a significant correlation between both the mean blood glucose over the preceding 8weeks and the standard deviation of the fasting blood glucose with HbA]c (r = 0.69, p < 0.001 ; r = 0.46, p < 0.001, respectively). A 'glycosylation index' was calculated for each patient (HbAlc divided by the mean blood glucose value). There was a significant correlation between the 'glycosylation index' and duration of diabetes (r = 0.68, p < 0.001). In contrast, there was no correlation between red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and HbAlc or 'glycosylation index'. These findings suggest that increasing duration of diabetes influences the post-translational formation of HbAlc and that isolated HbA]c values need to be interpreted with caution in the pregnant diabetic.
The following biochemical features were measured in the red blood cells of high and low glutathione goats: reduced glutathione (GSH) stability; GSH regeneration; glucose consumption; lactate production; levels of adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and the activities of nine different enzymes of Embden-Meyerhof and pentose phosphate pathways of glucose metabolism. Apart from significant differences in the GSH stability the results of all the tests were found to be similar in the two groups.
Development of a clinically safe and effective substitute for erythrocytes that is capable of efficient oxygen delivery in vivo has progressed to the stage where cross-linked hemoglobin preparations are now undergoing clinical trials.1 Such preparations withstand storage for prolonged periods of time, can be administered without the need for cross-matching, and are free of contamination by infectious agents. ::: ::: Utilization of cell-free hemoglobin as an erythrocyte substitute was initially hampered by nephrotoxicity and an affinity for oxygen that prevented efficient oxygen delivery to tissues.2 These disadvantages were overcome when Bunn and Jandl3 chemically cross-linked the hemoglobin molecule to produce stable hemoglobin oligomers that do not pass through the glomerular filtrate. In addition, Benesch and Benesch4 developed reagents that modified the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site of hemoglobin, thereby reducing its oxygen affinity. ::: ::: Administration of cell-free hemoglobin solutions results in systemic vasoconstriction in research animals.5 This is thought to be a consequence of the high avidity of hemoglobin for nitric oxide (NO, endothelium-derived relaxing factor [EDRF]), which it binds and inactivates. The NO-hemoglobin interaction results in rapid formation of nitrite/nitrate and methemoglobin. This blocks vasodilation induced by …
BACKGROUND ::: ::: Anaerobic red blood cell (RBC) storage reduces oxidative damage, maintains adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels, and has superior 24-hour recovery at 6 weeks compared to standard storage. This study will determine if removal of CO2 during O2 depletion by gas exchange may affect RBCs during anaerobic storage. ::: ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: ::: This is a matched three-arm study (n = 14): control, O2 and CO2 depleted with Ar (AN), and O2 depleted with 95%Ar/5%CO2 (AN[CO2]). RBCs in additives AS-3 or OFAS-3 were evenly divided into three bags, and anaerobic conditions were established by gas exchange. Bags were stored at 1 to 6°C in closed chambers under anaerobic conditions or ambient air, sampled weekly for up to 9 weeks for a panel of in vitro tests. A full metabolomics screening was conducted for the first 4 weeks of storage. ::: ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: ::: Purging with Ar (AN) results in alkalization of the RBC and increased glucose consumption. The addition of 5% CO2 to the purging gas prevented CO2 loss with an equivalent starting and final pH and lactate to control bags (p > 0.5, Days 0-21). ATP levels are higher in AN[CO2] (p < 0.0001). DPG was maintained beyond 2 weeks in the AN arm (p < 0.0001). Surprisingly, DPG was lost at the same rate in both control and AN[CO2] arms (p = 0.6). ::: ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: ::: Maintenance of ATP in the AN[CO2] arm demonstrates that ATP production is not solely a function of the pH effect on glycolysis. CO2 in anaerobic storage prevented the maintenance of DPG, and DPG production appears to be pH dependent. CO2 as well as O2 depletion provides metabolic advantage for stored RBCs.
The mutations in hemoglobin Nancy beta145(HC2) Tyr leads to Asp and hemoglobin Cochin-Portal-Royal beta146(HC3) His leads to Arg involve residues which are thought to be essential for the full expression of allosteric action in hemoglobin. Relative to the structure of deoxyhemoglobin A, our x-ray study of deoxyhemoglobin Nancy shows severe disordering of the beta chain COOH-terminal tetrapeptide and a possible movement of the beta heme iron atom toward the plane of the porphyrin ring. These structural perturbations result in a high oxygen affinity, reduced Bohr effect, and lack of cooperatively in hemoglobin Nancy. In the presence of inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), the Hill constant for hemoglobin Nancy increases from 1.1 to 2.0. But relative to its action on hemoglobin A, IHP is much less effective in reducing the oxygen affinity and in increasing the Bohr effect of hemoglobin Nancy. This indicates that IHP does not influence the R in equilibrium T equilibrium as much in hemoglobin Nancy as in hemoglobin A, and this probably is due to the disordering of His 143beta which is known to be part of the IHP binding site. IHP is also known to produce large changes in the absorption spectrum of methemoglobin A, but we find that it has no effect on the spectrum of methemoglobin Nancy. In contrast to the large structural changes in deoxyhemoglobin Nancy, the structure of deoxyhemoglobin Cochin-Port-Royal differs from deoxyhemoglobin A only in the position of the side chain of residue 146beta. The intrasubunit salt bridge between His 146beta and Asp 94beta in deoxyhemoglobin A is lost in deoxyhemoglobin Cochin-Portal-Royal with the guanidinium ion of Arg 146beta floating freely in solution. This small difference in structure results in a reduced Bohr effect, but does not cause a change in the Hill coefficient, the response to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, or the oxygen affinity at physiological pH.
The structure of human foetal deoxyhaemoglobin F II has been solved at a resolution of 2·5 A. Phase angles were determined by a single isomorphous replacement with paramercuribenzoate combined with the molecular replacement method, using the atomic co-ordinates of deoxyHbA determined by Fermi (1975) . A difference Fourier electron density map of deoxyHbF—A is largely featureless except where the amino acid sequences of the two proteins differ, and at positions occupied by bound solvent molecules which were not included in the phase calculations. These occur in the same positions between neighbouring subunits as in deoxyHbA. The only detectable differences between the tertiary structures of the β and γ-chains occur in the two N-terminal segments. In the γ-chain the NA segment is further from the EF segment and from the H helix, and the A helix is closer to the E helix than in the β-chains. As a result of the former change, an anion bound between Vallβ and Lys82β in deoxyHbA is absent from deoxyHbF, and the distances from the two phosphate groups of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to Hienβ may be increased in deoxyHbF, which may contribute to the lower affinity of foetal deoxyHbF for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The reduction of the distance between helices A and E is similar to that which occurs in deoxyhaemoglobin on addition of organic phosphates, where it apparently tightens up the structure and lowers its intrinsic oxygen affinity. It may be responsible for the lower oxygen affinity of “stripped” haemoglobin F compared to A. Although deoxyHbA and F crystallize in different space groups, both crystals are made up of filaments of molecules stacked parallel to the molecular X -axis. The intermolecular contacts between neighbouring molecules along the filament are the same except for the weakening of one electrostatic interaction which may contribute to the higher solubility of deoxyHbF, and to its antisickling effect.
Anaemia is recognized as a common complication of chronic kidney disease with significant associated morbidity and mortality. Published data document the negative impact of anaemia on cardiovascular disease outcomes, progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD), hospitalizations, rehabilitation and quality of life, among others. Gender differences have been identified in many of these areas as well as, and importantly, in cardiovascular and chronic kidney disease outcomes. Female gender is associated with lower risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality as well as slower progression of chronic kidney disease. Interestingly, there are some well-described physiological adaptations to anaemia in women, which include shifting of the haemoglobin oxygen dissociation curve to reduce oxygen affinity secondary to higher levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. However, the complex physiology underlying the impact of anaemia or gender on patients with chronic kidney disease is not well-characterized to date. Furthermore, there has been little examination of the potential interaction between anaemia and gender on cardiac or kidney outcomes. ::: ::: ::: ::: In this paper, we review the documented impact of anaemia and gender on outcomes, and explore the interaction of anaemia and gender in patients with CKD. We also present data that describe the potential importance of considering gender when targeting specific levels of haemoglobin. The value of a new perspective on haemoglobin and gender in kidney disease is important from both a physiological and an economical perspective.
Long-standing hypoxemia was surgically created in dogs by inserting an aortic homograft between the inferior vena cava and right atrium. Ligation of the caval-atria1 junction resulted in a right-toleft cardiac shunt. Arterial p 0, fell immediately and P,, increased within 20 min. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration rose in 4 hr following surgery, while hemoglobin concentration increased within 7 days. Alterations in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity can occur rapidly and may be beneficial compensatory responses to acute and chronic hypoxemia caused by a right-to-left cardiac shunt.
The dimensions and refractive properties of erythrocytes and the affinity of their hemoglobin for oxygen have been assessed using laser interference microscopy and Raman spectroscopy. Lowering the pH and addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate cause comparable changes in the cell shape and the state of cytoplasm, as well as in the oxygen affinity of hemoporphyrin, but the mechanisms of these effects appear to be different. It is shown that acidification mainly decreases the hemoporphyrin oxygen-binding capacity, whereas 2,3-diphosphoglycerate increases the ability of hemoporphyrin to release oxygen.
A case of red cell adenosine deaminase (ADA) overproduction associated with hereditary hemolytic anemia is reported here. This appears to be the second report. Proband is a 38-year-old Japanese male who had hemoglobin, 15.8 g/100 ml; reticulocyte count, 4.5%; serum indirect bilirubin, 4.9 mg/100 ml; 51Cr-labeled red cell half-life, 12 days; red cells showed moderate stomatocytosis. His red cell ADA activity showed 40-fold increase while that of the mother showed 4-fold increase. The mother was hematologically normal. The father had a normal enzyme activity. The proband and the mother showed slightly high serum uric acid levels. The proband's red cell showed: ATP, 628 nmoles/ml (normal, 1,010--1,550); adenine nucleotide pool, 46% of the normal mean; 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content, 3,782 nmoles/ml (normal 4,170--5,300); increased oxygen affinity of hemoglobin, P50 of intact erythrocytes being 21.8 mmHg (normal, 24.1--26.1). Red cell glycolytic intermediates in the proband were low in general, and the rate of lactate production was low. Kinetic studies using crude hemolysate revealed a normal Km for adenosine, normal electrophoretic mobility but slightly abnormal pH curve and slightly low utilization of 2-deoxyadenosine. The ADA activity of lymphocytes was nearly normal.
70 patients have been examined in the early postoperative period after aortocoronary bypass surgery and surgical correction of acquired heart valve defects. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration was shown to increase in acute postoperative disturbances. The increase was most pronounced in reduced oxygen transport to tissues. However, with 2,3-DPG synthesis and metabolism slowed down, its concentration did not always correspond to the real state of the cardio-respiratory system. Changes in H+ concentration played a certain role in the regulation of 2,3-DPG content. In patients with cardio-respiratory disturbances 2,3-DPG concentration increased by 0.55 mcM/ml on average, with plasma pH increased by 0.1. No such regularity has been observed in patients with uncomplicated postoperative period. A positive correlation has been established between changes in 2,3-DPG concentration and the position of oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. Considerable fluctuations in P50 value standard in cardiorespiratory disturbances have been observed. However 2,3-DPG effect was not the only mechanism causing these fluctuations.
The interaction of inositol hexakisphosphate (IHP) with oxygenated human adult hemoglobin (Hb) was investigated at 25 degreesC. The affinity of IHP for oxygenated Hb is strongly pH-dependent, and potentiometric measurements of proton uptake and release upon IHP addition have shown that over the range between pH 8.0 and pH 6.0 in oxygenated Hb there are three groups of residues that change their pKa values after IHP addition, likely because of their interaction with negative charges of the heterotropic effector. On the basis of previous calculations on the electrostatic properties of human Hb (Matthew, J. B., Hanania, G. I. H., and Gurd, F. R. N. (1979) Biochemistry 18, 1919-1928; Lee, A. W.-m., Karplus, M., Poyart, C., and Bursaux, E. (1988) Biochemistry 27, 1285-1301), two of these groups might be Val1beta and His143beta, which are located in the beta1beta2 dyad axis, where they have been also proposed to interact with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, whereas the third group does not appear easily identifiable. Calorimetric measurements of the heat associated with IHP binding at different pH values over the same range indicate that IHP binding is mostly enthalpy-driven at pH < 7 and mostly entropy-driven at pH > 7.
Blood may provide superior cardioplegia compared with crystalloid cardio plegic solution. However, the results are controversial. This may be due to a leftward shift of the hemoglobin (Hb)-02 dissociation curve induced by hypo thermia, increasing the oxygen affinity for Hb. This effect may negate the po tential benefit of blood cardioplegia. The oxygen affinity for Hb can be decreased by increasing the red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and hence, more oxygen can be delivered to the myocardium. The present investiga tion was undertaken to study the effects of 2,3-DPG-enriched blood cardiople gia on the functional recovery of the myocardium and changes in the coronary sinus red blood cell (RBC) adenosine-triphosphate (ATP), lactate, and RBC DPG after one and a half hours of reperfusion following one hour of ischemic cardiac arrest in dogs. The dogs were divided into three groups: crystalloid (CR); stored blood (SB), and high 2,3-DPG blood (HDPG) cardioplegic groups. Incubation of canine RBC in phos...
BACKGROUND ::: Optimal procedure for storage of feline blood is needed. Open-collection systems have been employed in feline medicine, thus limiting the possibility for storage. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVES ::: To evaluate indicators of quality of feline blood stored for 35 days at +4°C in a closed-collection system specifically designed for cats. ::: ::: ::: ANIMALS ::: Eight healthy adult European domestic shorthair cats with a weight of 5-6.8 kg. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: This is a case series study. A bacteriological test, CBC, blood smear, pH, osmotic fragility, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) measurement were performed weekly on whole blood (WB) units from day 1 to day 35 after donation. The hemolysis index, lactate and potassium concentrations, prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), and fibrinogen were measured on plasma aliquots. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: One out of eight blood units (BUs) had bacterial growth (Serratia marcescens) at day 35. No significant differences were found regarding CBC, morphology, pH, and osmotic fragility. Despite high inter-individual variability and low starting levels, significant decreases in the mean concentrations of 2,3-DPG (T0 1.99 mmol/g Hb, SD 0.52, T35 1.25 mmol/g Hb, SD 1.43; P = .003) and ATP (T0 1.45 mmol/g Hb, SD 0.71, T35 0.62 mmol/g Hb, SD 0.51; P < .001) were detected during the study, as opposed to an increase in hemolysis (T0 0.11 mmol/L, SD 0.07, T35 0.84 mmol/L, SD 0.19; P < .001), lactate (T0 3.30 mmol/L, SD 0.86, T35 13.36 mmol/L, SD 2.90; P < .001), and potassium (T0 3.10 mmol/L, SD 0.21, T35 4.12 mmol/L, SD 0.35; P < .001) concentrations. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE ::: The commercial BU kit is appropriate for blood collection and conservation of WB in cats. The maintenance of WB quality indicators during storage is essential for future improvements of feline transfusion medicine.
The reported study was carried out in 20 patients with multiple sclerosis (12 women, 8 men) aged 23 to 54 years, with disease duration from 3 to 20 years. The patients were treated with the preparation ACTH-Polfa 2000 mg for one treatment course. The patients were divided into subgroups considering the age, disease duration, clinical form and clinical course of the disease. The control group comprised 22 healthy subjects (10 women and 12 men) aged from 22 to 41 years. The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the erythrocytes was determined by Bartlett's method twice: before and after ACTH treatment. Before the treatment the concentration of 2,3-DPG in the erythrocytes of the patients was not different from that in the controls, but after the treatment this concentration was significantly increased in all groups. It was demonstrated, furthermore, that 2,3-DPG concentration in the erythrocytes could change before ACTH treatment depending on the age of the patients and the clinical course of the disease.
Hypoxia was studied in 12 men during 63-h exposures to 17 and 13% O2, with the subjects serving as their own controls by repeating the measurements in 21% O2. All test atmospheres were contaminated with 0.9% CO2 to simulate the condition of living aboard submarines. The mean SaO2's were 97-98% in all conditions of 21% O2, 96% in 17% O2 (n.s.), and 92% in 13% O2 (P less than 0.05). The blood concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were elevated in 13 and 17% O2 (P less than 0.05). Seventeen percent O2 did not cause significant symptoms of environmental stress; however, 13% O2 caused symptoms of acute mountain sickness in 5 of 12 men. In the last 7 h of exposure to 17% O2, reduction of the barometric pressure to 576 Torr reduced the ambient PO2 to 98 Torr (similar to the PO2 of 13% O2 at normobaric pressure). This induced symptoms of acute mountain sickness in 3 of 11 men. All symptomatology and physiologic changes were reversed during recovery in 21% O2. Monitoring devices indicated the presence of volatile organic contaminants at a mean concentration of 6.1 ppm in the chamber atmosphere. Combustion tests in the occupied chamber showed that flame propagation was retarded by lowering the O2 concentration from 21 to 13-17%. We conclude that men can live comfortably in a normobaric, flame-retardant atmosphere consisting of 17% O2-0.9% CO2-6.1 ppm volatile organic compounds-balance N2.
A reduction in O2 affinity of hemoglobin should increase tissue oxygenation or maintain tissue oxygenation and at the same time spare cardiac work. Large, sustained reductions in O2 affinity of hemoglobin are induced best by primary (non-Bohr effect) stimulation of red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) caused by a dual, cumulative effect on O2 affinity for hemoglobin, direct, from DPG itself, and indirect, from DPG-induced red blood cell acidosis. In an attempt to induce significant, sustained reductions in O2 affinity of hemoglobin by primary DPG stimulation, six normal humans were given a diphosphonate (etidronate disodium [Didronel] 20 mg/kg/day p.o.) followed by infusion of 10% fructose (0.5 L/hr for 3 hours) with added phosphate (0.28 mmol/kg/hr) and, subsequently, fructose-phosphate by itself. Participants underwent exercise testing (bicycle ergometer) and cardiopulmonary parameters were measured before and after administration of Didronel plus fructose-phosphate infusion, as well as before and after fructose-phosphate infusion alone. The sum of DPG and adenosine triphosphate as well as the P50 increased significantly after infusion of fructose-phosphate with and without prior administration of Didronel. DPG-ATP correlated closely with P50. When P50 was elevated, the cardiac index at high work load was lower than when P50 was normal (with comparable O2 consumption); changes in P50 correlated inversely with changes in cardiac index. Thus, with reduced O2 affinity of hemoglobin, participants could perform at comparable work loads and utilize the same amount of O2 with less cardiac work. Future studies should include adapting these findings to states of O2 deficit.
Abstract ::: Phosphoglycerate mutase of Bacillus subtilis was purified to apparent homogeneity. It specifically required manganese ions for stability and activity, but it does not need 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as cofactor; the Km for Mn2+ is about 4.5 micrometer. Enzyme activity was inhibited by heavy-metal ions, 2,3-butanedione, and sulfhydryl agents. The mutase has a molecular weight of about 74,000 as shown by Sephadex gel filtration and by acrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate; it consisted of one polypeptide.
Abstract ::: Normal human erythrocytes (RBC) were freeze-dried under conditions that caused minimal modification in normal RBC metabolic activities. Because of the known effects of long-term storage on metabolic activities, we studied the effects of our lyophilization process on RBC metabolism. Of all the metabolic enzymes studied, only triosephosphate isomerase (D-glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate ketol-isomerase, EC 5.3.1.1), enolase (2-phospho-D-glyceratehydro-lyase, EC 4.2.1.11), and pyruvate kinase (ATP:pyruvate O2-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.40) were decreased when compared with fresh control nonlyophilized RBC. The activities of these enzymes did not differ significantly from those of blood bank RBC. Concentrations of high-energy intermediates, ATP, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, along with lactate and ATP production were decreased in lyophilized RBC. No enzymes of the pentose phosphate shunt were altered during lyophilization. In addition, our data show that lyophilized RBC possess an intact capacity to (i) synthesize adenine nucleotides and (ii) reduce MetHb to Hb and, thus, maintain the Hb in a functional physiologic state similar to fresh nonlyophilized RBC. The present study demonstrates the possibility of lyophilizing RBC in a manner that maintains normal metabolic and enzymatic function upon rehydration.
Abstract The interaction between iron and rabbit transferrin was investigated by three methods, (1) by studying iron release mediated by phosphatic compounds and iron chelators, (2) by determining the distribution of iron between the binding sites in the presence of chelators and (3) by measuring iron uptake from two iron-binding sites by rabbit reticulocytes. The distribution of iron between diferric transferrin and the two forms of monoferric transferrin was determined by electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gel containing 6 M urea. Iron release mediated by ATP, ADP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or citrate occurred at a single rate in a manner indicating that iron was released at the same rate from the two iron-binding sites and that iron release from either site was independent of that from the other. By contrast, iron release mediated by nitrilotriacetate, pyrophosphate or oxalate occurred at different rates from the two binding sites, more rapid release occurring from one site with nitrilotriacetate and pyrophosphate and from the other site with oxalate. The rates of iron release mediated by the above substances varied with incubation temperature and pH. In the presence of nitrilotriacetate, pyrophosphate or oxalate iron bound preferentially to that site from which it was more slowly released by the chelator. When transferrin was incubated with reticulocytes iron was taken up much more rapidly with diferric transferrin than from monoferric transferrin, but there was no evidence of preferential uptake of iron from either binding site. It is concluded that there are distinct chemical differences between the two iron-binding sites of rabbit transferrin. However, they were not reflected by functional differences under the conditions of incubation with reticulocytes used in this work. The results for iron release from transferrin mediated by the action of phosphatic compounds and chelators support the concept that protonation is involved in the rate-limiting step in the iron-release process.
The binding of various reducing mono- and disaccharides to hemoglobin S has been measured both before and after treatment of the sugar-protein adducts with NaBH4. Incubation of 0.3 M solutions of D-glucose, D-galactose, D-maltose, and lactose, with 2% hemoglobin for 2 h at 37 degrees C, pH 7.2, leads to the incorporation of 1.1, 1.8, 1.8, and 3.3 mol of sugar, respectively, into 1 mol of hemoglobin tetramer (either A or S). Exposure of these aldose-protein adducts to NaBH4 for an additional hour at 10 degrees C increases the binding to 2.0, 3.3, 2.5, and 4.1 mol per mol tetramer, as would be expected if Schiff base linkages were involved in this protein modification reaction. The data suggest a stereochemical requirement for enhanced binding. The dependence of the pre-reduction binding of glucose on the sugar concentration, and on the oxygenation state of hemoglobin has also been examined. Glycosylation of hemoglobin significantly increases the minimum gelling concentration of the deoxy conformation, as measured by sedimentation equilibrium ultracentrifugation. Of the sugar derivatives of hemoglobin S examined by this method, those modified by D-galactose or lactose have minimum gelling concentrations (in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) which are comparable to, or greater than, that of fully carbamylated hemoglobinS.
We previously reported that the induction of membrane fusion between pairs of erythrocyte ghosts is accompanied by the formation of a multipore fusion zone that undergoes an area expansion with condition-dependent characteristics. These characteristics allowed us to hypothesize substantial, if not major, involvement of the spectrin-based membrane skeleton in controlling this expansion. It was also found that the fusion zone, which first appears in phase optics as a flat diaphragm, has a lifetime that is also highly condition-dependent. We report here that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, wheat germ agglutinin, diamide, and N-ethylmaleimide, all known to have binding sites primarily on skeleton components (including spectrin), have condition-dependent effects on specific components of the fusion zone diameter versus time expansion curve and the flat diaphragm lifetime. We also report a pH/ionic strength condition that causes a dramatic stabilization of flat diaphragms in a manner consistent with the known pH/ionic strength dependence of the spectrin calorimetric transition, thus further supporting the hypothesis of spectrin involvement. Our data suggest that the influence of the membrane skeleton on cell fusion is to restrain the rounding up that takes place after membrane fusion and that it may have variable, rather than fixed, mechanical properties. Data show that WGA, a known ligand for sialic acid, and DPG, a known metabolite, influences the flat diaphragm stability and late period expansion rates, raising the possibility that some of these mechanical properties are biologically regulated.
Determinations of hemoglobin oxygen saturation, oxygen tension, whole blood pH, carbon dioxide tension, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and carboxy-hemoglobin concentration were carried out on venous blood from normal human subjects at rest. When the oxygen tension was calculated for the standard conditions of pH = 7.40, Pc2 = 40 mm Hg, red cell DPG = 5.0 mmol/l, and HbCO = 1.0%, it was found that the individual points coin cided with cided with the standard oxygen dissociation curve as obtained by tonometry. The procedure can therefore be used to obtain a quantitative estimation of the oxygen affinity of whole blood in vivo as well as under standard conditions. The precision is such that a deviation from normality of about 2 mm Hg can be detected by a single determination.
1. ::: 1. 6-Phosphogluconate, 3-phosphoglycerate and 2-phosphoglycerate were allosteric modifiers fo pea-sed phosphofructokinase (ATP: D-fructose 6-phosphate 1-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.11) and each inhibited enzyme activity. The inhibitions were relieved by increasing the concentration of fructose 6-phosphate or by lowering the ATP concentration. In the presence of Pi, at low ATP concentrations, 6-phosphogluconate, 3-phosphoglycerate and 2-phosphoglycerate stimulated phosphofructokinase activity. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. Experiments with other intermediates of carbohydrate metabolism showed that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inhibited pea-seed phosphofructokinase, but glucose 6-phosphate, pyruvate, succinate and malate had no effect. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. A common mechanism is suggested for the interaction of 6-phosphogluconate, 3-phosphoglycerate, 2-phosphoglycerate and phosphoenolpyruvate with the enzyme molecule. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. The possible significance of these modifiers of pea-seed phosphofructokinase in the regulatory control of plant carbohydrate metabolism is discussed.
Old blood is associated with several alterations either in the supernatants -a decrease of sodium and an increase of potassium [4] , decreases of pH and arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO 2 ), increases of lactate and arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO 2 ) [2] and procoagulant state [5] , and an increased risk of thrombosis [6] -or related to cellular modifi cations such as a decrease of 2,3-DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) [2] content, leading to an increase of hemoglobin oxygen affi nity and a decrease of RBC deformability [2] . All of these alterations in stored RBCs lead to a reduction of O 2 delivery. As a matter of fact, the oxygen uptake was improved after transfusion of fresh blood but was unchanged with older blood (28 days) in the study of Fitzgerald and colleagues [7] and tissue oxygenation was altered in trauma patients transfused with old blood [8] .
Both chl ldren and a control subject received L-15N tyroslne and D-15N tyroslne oral ly on separate occasions. Of the 15N excreted as a m n i a and urea In 5 hrs after D-tyrosine, 43% and 63% were excreted as a m n i a by the affected children, and 48% by the control. After L-tyroslne, 14s and 16% were excreted as amnonla by the tyroslnotlc chl ldren, and 16% by the control. Since Damlno acids are metabolized only through oxidative deamination, these results show that oxldatlve deamination of amino acids can be expected to yleld urlnary ammonia. Fai lure to find increased 15N-NH3 In the urine of the affected chi ldren after L-15N-tyrosine Indicates that oxidative deaminatlon of L-tyroslne does not play a quantitatively slqnlficant role In the metabolism of tyrosine in these children. Furthemre, kinetic analysis of 15N oxcretlon In these studies does not suggest any qua1 itatlve abnormallty In the metabolism of the amino nitrogen of tyroslne In the affected chlldren, indicating that thelr physlolopic abnormality Is failure of catabolism of the carbon skeleton of tyrosine. An approach to detecting genetic predisposition in infants and children to early onset coronary heart disease (CHD) in adult life is through lipid screening and lipoprotein analysis. A study of 200 children independently ascertained and 148 children ascertained through one parent having hyperlipoproteinemia has been conducted and discloses that the 1 ipoprotein phenotypes IIa. IIb and IV are detectable in infancy and childhood. Familial data may be subjected to alternate genetic models to seek best fit: multifactorial inheritance, single gene loci for IIa, IIb and IV, bivariate analysis and multiple alleles. A three month old male manifested failure to thrive, neurological dysfunction, moderate renal insufficiency, extreme hyperuricemia (16.5 mgX). and arterial hypoxemia and a radiographic picture compatible with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). A sister had died at age 6 months with IPF proven at autopsy, mild glomerular insufficiency and a disproportionate elevation in serum urate (10.6). There was no parental consanguinity nor positive family history for similar abnormalities. On a purine-free diet and 50 mg allopurinol the proband's serum urate was controlled at 5.5-7 mgX. N-15 uric acid tracer was administered intravenously while continuing allopurinol. Miscible urate pool size was considerably increased (55 mglkg). Urate turnover was 11 mg/ kgl24h; this figure may reflect increased de novo purine synthesis but sufficient data on children receiving allopurinol are not available to warrant a firm conclusion. Known enzymatic causes for purine overproduction were excluded since the following activities (nmollhrlmg prot.) in RBC hemolysates were normal: hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase, 79-83 (nl. 81'13 S.D.); adenine phosphoribosyltransferase, 18-19 (nl. 21+5); phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase, 84 (nl. 66?18), with normal inhibition by ADP, GDP, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. We conclude that the proband and his sister are examples of a previously undescribed disease state, inherited in autosomal recessive manner.
Complement receptors (CRs), along with Fc receptors, play a primary role in the removal of bacterial pathogens in poultry. The binding of serum-opsonized bacteria to CR results in the secretion of both toxic oxygen metabolites and antibacterial granules. We have previously shown that the stimulation of chicken heterophils with serum-opsonized Salmonella enteritidis induced tyrosine kinase-dependent phosphorylation regulated degranulation. In the present studies, we used selective pharmacological inhibitors to investigate the roles of protein tyrosine kinases, phospholipases C and D (PLC and PLD), phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI3-K), and the super family of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) on CR-mediated heterophil degranulation. Inhibitors of receptor-linked tyrosine kinases (the tryphostins AG1478 and AG1296) had no attenuating effects on CR-mediated degranulation. However, PP2, a selective inhibitor of the src family of protein tyrosine kinases, and piceatannol, an inhibitor of Syk tyrosine kinases, both significantly attenuated the CR-mediated degranulation. Additionally, the specific inhibitors of PLC, U73122, and PI3-K, LY294002, significantly decreased CR-mediated heterophil degranulation. Two inhibitors of PLD-mediated signaling, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and 1-butanol, hindered degranulation. Addition of purified PLD restored control levels of degranulation in heterophils in which PLD was inhibited. Lastly, SP600125, a selective inhibitor of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), inhibited degranulation; whereas neither PD98059, the inhibitor of p38 MAPK, nor SB203580, the inhibitor of extracellular signal-regulated kinase, had any effect on CR-mediated heterophil degranulation. These studies demonstrate that CRs on chicken heterophils lack intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity, but that binding of serum-opsonized bacteria activates both proximal tyrosine kinases (src and Syk kinases), but differentially activates downstream tyrosine kinases (JNK, but not p38 nor ERK). Activation of src and Syk kinases plays a significant role in signal transduction of heterophil degranulation probably by stimulating downstream phosphorylation of PLC, PLD, and PI3-K. PI3-K has also been recently shown to be an upstream mediator of JNK activation, suggesting that this enzyme can induce signaling as both a lipid kinase and protein kinase. Engaging CRs on chicken heterophils activates a proximal tyrosine kinase (src and Syk kinases)-->PLC (PLD)-->PI3-K-->JNK signal transduction pathway that induces degranulation.
OBJECTIVE--To assess the importance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and oxygen-haemoglobin binding to oxygen transport in patients with congestive heart failure. METHODS--In 30 patients with severe congestive heart failure, arterial, mixed venous, and coronary sinus venous blood concentrations of 2,3-DPG were measured and systemic output and coronary sinus blood flow were measured by a thermodilution technique. Oxygen-haemoglobin affinity was expressed as the oxygen tension in mm Hg at which blood is 50% saturated with oxygen (P50). RESULTS--Compared with normal values, 2,3-DPG was high in arterial blood (2.58 mumol/ml, p = 0.01; 20.8 mumol/g haemoglobin, p < 0.0001). Significant gradients between arterial, mixed venous, and coronary sinus blood 2,3-DPG concentrations were also found (mixed venous = 2.40 mumol/ml, p = 0.05 v arterial blood; coronary sinus venous blood = 2.23 mumol/ml, p < 0.04 v arterial blood). P50 was correspondingly high compared with the accepted normal value (mean 29.7 mm Hg, normal 26.6 mm Hg, p < 0.001). Systemic oxygen transport (351 ml O2/min/m2) varied directly with the forward cardiac index (r = 0.89, p < 0.0001). There was no relation between systemic oxygen transport and arterial oxygen content. Similarly, myocardial oxygen transport was found to vary directly with coronary sinus blood flow. Calculations of changes in cardiac index and coronary sinus blood flow at normal oxygen-haemoglobin binding indicate that a considerable increase in cardiac index and coronary blood flow would be required to maintain similar systemic and myocardial oxygen transport. CONCLUSIONS--In patients with severe heart failure increased 2,3-DPG and reduced oxygen-haemoglobin binding may be compensatory mechanisms that maintain adequate systemic and delivery of oxygen to myocardial tissue.
BACKGROUND: With buffy coat (BC) processing of whole blood (WB) donations, increase in WB storage time to facilitate overnight holding before the separation of blood components would be a logistically attractive development. This study undertakes a comparative in vitro characterization of blood components prepared from WB samples that were either processed within 8 hours or stored overnight at room temperature before processing by the BC method. ::: ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: The WB units (400 mL) collected were either processed within 8 hours (fresh blood) or stored overnight (overnight blood) at room temperature. WB units were separated into individual-component red blood cells (RBCs), BC, and plasma. The in vitro quality of these blood components (RBCs, pooled platelet concentrates [PCs], and plasma) was analyzed during storage. ::: ::: ::: ::: RESULTS: Levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were found to be significantly lower immediately after processing, compared with the fresh WB samples, in RBCs that had been separated from an overnight-hold sample. However, this difference was not apparent after 14 days of storage. In pooled PCs, measurements for glucose, lactate, PO2, PCO2, extent of shape change, and hypotonic shock response were similar. The platelet yield in PCs prepared from an overnight-hold WB sample was significantly higher, while CD62P expression and annexin V binding were lower (p < 0.05). For frozen plasma (FP), no significant differences were observed for the coagulation factors (F)II, FVII, FV, F IX, FX, and FXI; fibrinogen; and von Willebrand factor content between the 8- and 24-hour FP. The FVIII was the component that was most sensitive to the prolongation of production time and it only had 80% of the activity of the 8-hour FP. ::: ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION: These data suggest that blood components (RBCs, pooled PCs, and FP) separated from WB that has been stored overnight at room temperature by the BC method are of acceptable quality.
Packed canine red blood cells (RBCs) stored in the anticoagulant-preservative solution citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine (CPDA-1) were studied at 1, 10, 20, 30, and 40 days. The extracellular concentrations of potassium and sodium, erythrocyte mean corpuscular volume, and osmotic fragility increased during storage (P less than 0.05). There was a decrease in the pH, plasma concentration of glucose, and erythrocyte concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine-5'-triphosphate (P less than 0.05). Erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration decreased by 54% within the first 24 hours of storage (P less than 0.001). Posttransfusion viability (PTV) decreased from 90% on day 1 to 46% on day 40 (P less than 0.05). The PTV of the RBCs stored for 10 and 20 days complied with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) standard. Although there are marked biochemical and hematologic changes in stored packed red blood cells (pRBCs), 20-day-old units may be expected to be of acceptable quality. The sharp decrease in 2,3-DPG concentration suggests a reduction in oxygen carrying capacity in erythrocytes stored as pRBCs. Hyperkalemia occurs during storage of pRBCs and does not appear to be associated with high intraerythrocytic potassium concentrations.
The hematological parameters of young (2-month-old) and old (2-year-old) mice were compared. No differences could be detected with the exception of an increased percentage of reticulocytes in the old animals suggesting that anemia in senescent mice does not occur. Red blood cell mean half-life in old mice was 8 +/- 0.8 days compared to 12 +/- 1 days in young mice. This reduced survival of red blood cell is not due to a different rate of cell phagocytosis in the reticulohistiocytic system of young and old animals since erythrocytes from young mice have the same mean half-life when injected both in young and old animals and vice versa. Thus, the old mice have a reduced red cell life-span but the same hematocrit of the young, suggesting that old animals possess a chronologically younger population of erythrocytes than do young animals. This has been confirmed by measuring the specific activities of some red blood cell age-dependent enzymes (hexokinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, pyruvate kinase) that were found to be higher in the older animals, and by the separation of erythrocytes into different density (age) groups by Percoll/albumin density gradient centrifugation. However, the erythrocytes osmotic fragility, and the cellular contents of adenine and pyridine nucleotides, as well as the content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and reduced glutathione, show that circulating erythrocytes in old animals constitute an heterogeneous cell population whose properties cannot be explained on the basis of a chronologically younger erythrocyte population. Furthermore, evaluation of cell components in hemopoietic tissues have shown an increased porportion of erythroid precursor cells in old animals confirming that old mice compensate for reduced red cell survival with an increased erythropoiesis.
The linkage between the four-step binding of oxygen and the binding of heterotropic anionic ligands in hemoglobin was investigated by accurately measuring and analyzing the oxygen equilibrium curves of human adult hemoglobin in the presence and absence of various concentrations of one or two of the following materials: chloride (Cl-), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP). Each equilibrium curve was analyzed according to the Adair equation to evaluate the four-step oxygen equilibrium constants (Adair constants) and the median oxygen pressure. The binding constants of the anions for the molecular species of hemoglobin carrying j oxygen molecules, Hb(O2)j(j=0,1,...,4), were evaluated from the dependences of the Adair constants and the median oxygen pressure on the anion concentration by introducing a model which takes the competitive binding of Cl- and DPG or IHP into account. Assumptions made in the model are: (a) the hemoglobin molecule has two oxygen-linked binding sites for Cl- which are equivalent and independent and (b) no Cl- can be bound to hemoglobin to which DPG or IHP is already bound and vice versa. Thus, we could obtain values for the intrinsic binding constants of Cl- and DPG, i.e., the constants in the absence of other competitive anions. For IHP, only the binding constants and apparent binding constants for Hb and Hb(O2)2 were obtained. Values of the Cl- binding constants and apparent binding constants for DPG and IHP, i.e., the binding constants in the presence of Cl- for Hb and Hb(O2)4, were in reasonable agreement with literature values. From the binding constants we calculated anion binding curves for Hb(O2)j(J=0,1,...,4), the number of anions bound to Hb(O2)J, And the relationship between fractional anion saturation of hemoglobin and fractional oxygen saturation. The numbers of released anions are not uniform with respect to oxygenation step. This non-uniformity is the reason for the changes in the shape of the oxygen equilibrium curve with anion concentration changes and for the non-uniform dependences of the Adair constants on anion concentration, and also results in non-linear relations between anion saturation and oxygen saturation. The anion binding constants and various binding properties of the anions derived from those constants are consistent with those observed by other investigators using different techniques, indicating that the present model describes the oxygen-linked competitive anion binding well.
Abstract Ethylene production in tomato-tissue discs was inhibited to different extents by an uncoupler of oxidative phosphorylation (2,4-dinitrophenol), an inhibitor of oxygen affinity (2,3-diphosphoglycerate), free radical scavengers (ascorbic acid, n-propyl gallate, sodium benzoate), chelating agents (citric acid, diethyldithiocarbamate, EDTA, NaN 3 ), sulfhydryl reagents (cysteine, dithioerythritol, glutathione, CoCl 2 ), and polyamines (spermine, spermidine, putrescine, cadavarine). Among all the inhibitors tested, agents which are multifunctional such as DNP, n-propyl gallate, NaN 3 and polyamines were most effective in inhibiting ethylene production. Based on these results and the mode of action of these compounds, the relative importance of various factors for ethylene production has been identified and methods to control ethylene biosynthesis are discussed.
Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DGP), a primary regulator of oxygen-hemoglobin affinity, was measured in 55 infants and children with congenital cardiac diseases. The levels were compared with those from 20 normal patients and were analyzed with those from 20 normal patients and were analyzed with regard to patient age, arterial oxygen tension (PaO2), and the presence of heart failure. In 14 patients the oxygen dissociation from whole blood was also measured, and values for DPG were correlated with th ose for P 50, the PO2 for 50% oxygen saturation. Elevated levels of DPG were found in 17 of 18 infants and children with heart failure, regardless of age or PaO2. Thirty-seven patients had subnormal PaO2, but no heart failure. Among those >3 months of age, DPG was elevated in 26 of 28 with PaO2 = 16-56 mm Hg, and it was normal in 5 with PaO2 >56 mm Hg. In these 33 older patients, the level of DPG was inversely related to PaO2 ( r = −0.656). In four hypoxemic infants 3 months supports in vitro studies demonstrating deoxyhemoglobin control of red cell DPG synthesis. Among newborn infants the elevated levels of DPG measured in those with heart failure and the normal concentrations found in those with hypoxemia indicated two different control mechanisms for synthesis of this important modulator of oxygen homeostasis.
The transport of oxygen from lungs to peripheral tissues is carried out by hemoglobin (Hb), the main protein component inside red blood cells. However, the modulation of its physiological performance is regulated by the intracellular content of metabolites, mainly 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), which lower the oxygen affinity of Hb to optimal levels, so that an efficient oxygen delivery is accomplished within a narrow gradient in partial pressures of oxygen between lungs and tissues. However, intracellular levels of DPG in stored blood decay with time, which causes a gradual increase in oxygen affinity, thus imposing a limit to the lifetime of blood for practical use.
A child of Italian origin with a congenital haemolytic anaemia had spectrophotometrically undetectable erythrocyte adenylate kinase (AK) activity. Her parents and brother had approximately 50% normal AK activity, and AK electrophoresis of red blood cell (RBC) crude extract on cellulose acetate strips showed the presence of the normal allele AK1-1. No AK band was detected in the AK electrophoresis of the proband, in whom the erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3DPG) and glutathione (GSH) concentrations were normal whereas adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration, pyruvate kinase (PK) and glucose-6P-dehydrogenase (G6PD) activities were increased, reflecting the high reticulocyte count (6.9%). No other evident enzymatic defect was detected by standard procedures. Analysis of AK gene exons, based on polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformational polymorphism (PCR-SSCP), clearly showed an abnormality in the fragment containing exon 6. The subsequent sequence analysis of this abnormal fragment revealed homozygous and heterozygous A-->G substitutions in the proband and in the parents and brother respectively at codon 164, corresponding to a tyrosine-->cysteine substitution in the AK protein.
The properties of haemoglobin oxygen transport were compared under three different conditions: red cell in its natural medium, i.e. plasma (whole blood), washed red cell and haemoglobin A, the former suspended, the latter solved in an iso-osmotic tris buffer. The oxygen haemoglobin affinity (expressed as P50) and the respiratory Bohr effect variations were studied with modified media and unchanged pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration. Provided they are refered to intra-erythrocytic pH, none of these values were changed when varying environment. These results suggest that the three major ligands (H+ ions, 2,3-DPG and CO2) interaction with haemoglobin is largely predominant upon other factors which would interfere, and can completely account for oxygen transport by haemoglobin.
We have performed high-precision oxygen binding studies on human hemoglobin tetramers in the presence of a series of limited, subsaturating amounts of the effector compounds 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP). The use of thin-layer optical methods enabled the use of high hemoglobin concentrations, preventing complications arising from the dissociation of the tetramer into dimers. Model-independent, simultaneous analysis of all data for each effector demonstrated that the intrinsic oxygen binding characteristics of the molecule are in agreement with those determined in earlier high-precision studies [e.g., Gill, S. J., Di Cera, E., Doyle, M. L., Bishop, G. A., & Robert, C. H. (1987) Biochemistry 26, 3995-4002] and that the affinity of the tetramer for the tightly binding effector IHP changes most markedly between the second and fourth oxygen binding steps, perhaps indicating a large conformational change. The data were then analyzed by using the truncated allosteric model [Di Cera, E., Robert, C. H., & Gill, S. J. (1987) Biochemistry 26, 4003-4008], which is based on the hypothesis that a quaternary conformational change occurs in the hemoglobin tetramer before the third and fourth oxygen molecules bind.
The concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes, the percentage of reticulocytes present and the haemoglobin electrophoretic patterns were investigated in blood of newborn lambs and calves. A significant rise in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was observed soon after birth in both lambs and calves which corresponded to a similar rise in reticulocytes and the presence of fetal haemoglobin. The increases in reticulocytes and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration were greater in newborn lambs than calves but the return of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations to adult levels took longer in calves.
A quantitative description of the reaction and transport processes that take place in blood during and after gas exchange in capillaries is developed and used to interpret recently reported experimental results. Included in the computation are 1) CO2-H2CO3 hydration-dehydration reactions in plasma and erythrocytes, 2) CO2 reactions with hemoglobin, 3) O2 binding to hemoglobin, 4) buffering of H+ intra- and extracellularly, 5) HCO3- Cl- exchange across the red cell membrane, 6) diffusion of gases between alveolar gas and blood, and 7) transcellular movement of water. Ion and water fluxes are described assuming passive diffusion down their electrochemical potential gradients. Recent data on the magnitude of the Bohr and Haldane shifts and on carbamate formation in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are used. The analysis is used to examine the direction, magnitude, and time course of plasma pH changes in blood leaving the pulmonary capillaries and is shown to preduct results that agree very closely with recently reported experimental measurements in vivo. The time computed for plasma pH equilibration after gas exchange when carbonic anhydrase activity is absent from plasma is so great that blood may never be in complete electrochemical equilibrium as it travels around the circulation in normal man.
The effects of short and long duration exercise on serum erythropoietin concentrations [EPO]s were studied in seven male cross-country skiers of national team standard and eight male marathon runners, respectively. The short duration exercise was performed as 60 min of cycling at an intensity of 80%–95% of maximal heart rate. Arterial blood oxygen saturations monitored by pulse-oximetry remained unchanged throughout exercise. The partial pressure of O2 at which haemoglobin was half-saturated with O2 calculated from forearm venous blood gas tension and blood O2 saturation, and the erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate did not change significantly during the exercise. Blood lactate concentrations were increased at the end of exercise [from 1.3 (SEM 0.1) to 3.6 (SEM 0.3) mmol · 1−1]. The [EPO]s determined (by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) pre-exercise, 5 min, 6 h, 19 h, and 30 h after the exercise were unchanged [from 16.1 (SEM 2.6) to 19.1 (SEM 3.2), 17.9 (SEM 3.0), 17.0 (SEM 2.5), and 18.6 (SEM 2.9) U·l−1, respectively]. The [EPO]s were not correlated to the earlier parameters. The long duration exercise consisted of habitual training, a 3 week break from training followed by 2 and 4 weeks of re-training. The [EPO]s, body fat (BF), and serum free-testosterone concentrations determined at the end of each period remained unchanged. The maximal oxygen uptakes were decreased after the break from training and increased during retraining (P=0.04). Body mass (mb) increased after the break in training (P=0.02). The [EPO]s were correlated to BF,r=0.42,P=0.02;mb,r=0.45,P=0.01; and free-testosterone concentrations,r=0.44,P=0.01. Thus, short and long-duration exercise had no direct influence on [EPO]s; but relationships among [EPO]s, free-testosterone concentrations and body composition were noted.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: Hypophosphatemia is a frequent complication during continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT), a dialytic technique used to treat AKI in critically ill patients. This study sought to confirm that phosphate depletion during CRRT may decrease red blood cell (RBC) concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), a crucial allosteric effector of hemoglobin's (Hgb's) affinity for oxygen, thereby leading to impaired oxygen delivery to peripheral tissues. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS ::: Phosphate mass balance studies were performed in 20 patients with severe AKI through collection of CRRT effluent. RBC concentrations of 2,3-DPG, venous blood gas pH, and oxygen partial pressure required for 50% hemoglobin saturation (P50) were measured at CRRT initiation and days 2, 4, and 7. Similar measurements were obtained on days 0 and 2 in a reference group of 10 postsurgical patients, most of whom did not have AKI. Associations of 2,3-DPG with laboratory parameters and clinical outcomes were examined using mixed-effects and Cox regression models. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Mean 2,3-DPG levels decreased from a mean (±SD) of 13.4±3.4 µmol/g Hgb to 11.0±3.1 µmol/g Hgb after 2 days of CRRT (P<0.001). Mean hemoglobin saturation P50 levels decreased from 29.7±4.4 mmHg to 26.7±4.0 mmHg (P<0.001). No significant change was seen in the reference group. 2,3-DPG levels after 2 days of CRRT were not significantly lower than those in the reference group on day 2. Among patients receiving CRRT, 2,3-DPG decreased by 0.53 µmol/g Hgb per 1 g phosphate removed (95% confidence interval 0.38 to 0.68 µmol/g Hgb; P<0.001). Greater reductions in 2,3-DPG were associated with higher risk for death (hazard ratio, 1.43; 95% confidence interval, 1.09 to 1.88; P=0.01). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: CRRT-induced phosphate depletion is associated with measurable reductions in RBC 2,3-DPG concentration and a shift in the O2:Hgb affinity curve even in the absence of overt hypophosphatemia. 2,3-DPG reductions may be associated with higher risk for in-hospital death and represent a potentially avoidable complication of CRRT.
Red Blood Cells (RBCs) units which can be stored for up to 42 days in the US undergo biochemical and morphological changes known as the storage lesion. The clinical significance of these changes is unclear. Results from >55 observational studies have produced conflicting results: some are negative while others report associations between transfusion of longer-stored RBCs and mortality, infections, lung injury, deep vein thrombosis, multiple organ failure, and a decrease in tissue oxygenation. Recent advances are shedding some light on this controversy. While some elements of the RBC storage lesion such as pH and cationic changes and decreases in adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are well known, the recent application of "omics" technologies is revealing complex changes in metabolites, proteins, and lipids during storage. RBCs storage causes dysregulations in several metabolic (e.g., glycolytic) pathways which vary with unit processing, additive solution, storage period, and blood donor characteristics. Longer-stored RBCs demonstrate decreased antioxidant activity and impaired energy metabolism. Kinases and proteolytic enzymes become activated which affect Band 3 and structural proteins and result in remodeling of the RBCs9 cytoskeleton; leading to increasing osmotic fragility and shedding of microparticles in the supernatant. The timing and extent of these changes need to be further elucidated; some appear to occur immediately (e.g., reduction in S-nitrosohemoglobin) while most appear after 2 weeks. These changes lead one to question the safety and efficacy profiles of longer-stored RBC transfusions. Animal models have recently evaluated potential consequences and possible mechanisms that could underlie adverse events in "susceptible" hosts. Two major hypotheses have been corroborated by animal studies. The first relates to the potential inhibition of Nitric Oxide (NO)-mediated vasodilatory effects as a result of NO scavenging by excess cell-free hemoglobin or because of a loss of RBC-mediated hypoxic vasodilation. The second is based on the fact that transfusion of a 42-day old RBC unit provides a large iron bolus to the mononuclear phagocyte system. Such a bolus can result in acute increases in non-transferrin bound iron (NTBI) which can cause oxidative damage and potentiate bacteria proliferation. Both the NO and Iron hypotheses appear at play in a study in septic canines that showed that transfusion of 42-day RBCs resulted in increases in cell free hemoglobin, NTBI, and plasma labile iron resulting in increased shock, lung injury, and mortality. However, two recent clinical trials in 377 premature infants and 2430 intensive care patients, respectively, did not demonstrate differences in outcomes following transfusion of Disclosures Triulzi: Fresenius kabi: Membership on an entity9s Board of Directors or advisory committees.
INTRODUCTION: Pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency is a congenital hemolytic anemia caused by deficient function of the PK enzyme. This condition is currently managed with supportive care, including transfusions, folate supplementation, splenectomy, and reducing iron overload, but there are no treatments specifically targeting the underlying metabolic defect. AG-348 is a novel, orally available, small molecule activator of wild-type and mutant red blood cell PK. METHODS: Results of single-ascending dose (SAD) and multiple-ascending dose (MAD) studies in healthy adult volunteers (Yang H et al. Blood 2014;124[21]:4007; Yang H et al. Haematologica 2015;100[s1]:Abs S138) indicated good safety and tolerability and predictable pharmacokinetics at doses that demonstrated significant pharmacodynamic responses of increased whole blood adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels. In pre-clinical studies AG-348 inhibited the enzyme aromatase, and sex hormone profiles in the MAD study showed signs of aromatase inhibition. RESULTS: DRIVE PK is a multicenter, international, randomized, open-label, two-arm dose ranging trial of AG-348 in adults with PK deficiency. DRIVE PK is currently open for enrollment. Eligible patients are randomized to either low dose (50 mg BID) or high dose (300 mg BID) arms and receive treatment for 6 months, with the option of extended treatment. Patients are stratified by genotype to allow for genotype-phenotype correlations. A third dose may be added based on the observations made in the two original arms. The primary objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of AG-348. Secondary objectives include evaluation of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, as measured by AG-348, ATP and 2,3-DPG levels. A range of biochemical markers of clinical benefit will be assessed, including hemoglobin levels, reticulocyte count, bilirubin, erythropoietin, ferritin, transferrin saturation, and haptoglobin. PK activity, glycolytic flux assay and PK protein levels in blood will be analyzed as exploratory endpoints. The trial population consists of adult patients with PK deficiency with hemoglobin levels at screening of ≤12.0 g/dL (men) or ≤11.0 g/dL (women), who have received no more than three units of red blood cells in the 12 months preceding the first dose of AG-348, and no transfusion within 4 months. Full inclusion/exclusion criteria can be found on www.clinicaltrials.gov, NCT02476916. CONCLUSION: DRIVE PK, an ongoing phase 2 trial of the PK activator, AG-348, is the first interventional trial to target the underlying metabolic defect in patients with PK deficiency. This flexible trial with two dose arms, and potential for a third dose arm, is designed to evaluate safety and tolerability, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic responses, as well as hematological markers of red blood cell metabolism. Disclosures Barbier:Agios: Employment, Equity Ownership. Silver:Agios: Consultancy. Merica:Agios Pharmaceuticals: Employment, Equity Ownership. Cohen:Agios: Consultancy. Kung:Agios: Employment, Equity Ownership. Yang:Agios Pharmaceuticals: Employment, Equity Ownership. Grace:Agios: Honoraria, Membership on an entity9s Board of Directors or advisory committees, Research Funding. Agresta:Agios: Employment, Equity Ownership.
The present study was designed to test if dietary intake of nucleotides increases erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in neonatal rats. To this end, rat pups were fed a nucleotide-supplemented formula (S, n = 14) from d 9 until d 16 after birth. The results were compared with those obtained from a group of breast-fed pups (C, n = 14) and a group of pups artificially fed with nucleotide-free formula (NS, n = 14). Neonatal weight, 2,3-DPG concentration, hematocrit (Hct) and hemoglobin concentration (Hb) were determined before the experiment (d 9) and after 7 d of treatment (d 16). In all groups, 2,3-DPG concentration was greater at d 16 than d 9, and the increase was greater in the S group than in the NS group. Alterations in neonatal weight, Hct and Hb concentration did not differ among the groups. On d 16 the 2, 3-DPG/Hb ratio, reflecting the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, was significantly higher in the C and S groups than in the NS group. We conclude that in neonatal rats, dietary nucleotides increase erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration. Studies need to be conducted in humans to assess the effect of this increase on both neonatal peripheral hemodynamics and metabolism in this species.
Point mutations in the amino acid sequence of normal human hemoglobin have provided a powerful means of probing structure-function relationships in this respiratory protein. Through studies of specific hemoglobin variants it has been possible to gain a better understanding of how electrostatic interactions exercise control over the functional properties of hemoglobin. Human hemoglobin variants of particular interest in this respect are those with alterations of amino or carboxyl terminal residues and alterations at or near the binding site for the physiologically important cofactor 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. In deoxy hemoglobin it has been established that salt bridges formed by the terminal residues constrain the tetramer in a low affinity conformation. From the information presently available, it appears that the charge cluster of the 2,3 diphosphoglycerate binding site is an important part of the innerspring mechanism that tends to destabilize the deoxy conformation. When anions bind to these residues the repulsive interactions between the positively charged residues of this region are decreased. This provides a direct means by which anionic interactions with hemoglobin can shift the conformational equilibrium toward the low affinity state. Accordingly anion and pH effects are decreased in a number of hemoglobin variants whose substitutions reduce the positive charge density in the region of the binding site for polyphosphates. The presence of the charge cluster provides for a fine tuning of hemoglobin s functional properties that is responsive to the concentration of metabolic effectors in vivo . The degree to which this is possible varies in the vertebrate hemoglobins which have been examined. In human hemoglobin eight positively charged residues contribute to the charge cluster and anionic modulation of oxygen affinity is effective. Susceptibility to anionic modulation is decreased in hemoglobins where the charge cluster is less developed and is completely absent in some vertebrate hemoglobins. Anionic modulation, which occurs via an effect on the equilibrium between conformational states of high and low oxygen affinity is possible even in systems which do not show cooperative interactions in oxygen binding. This is well established by studies on isolated chains of human hemoglobin and by studies on enzymatically modified tetramers of Amphiuma hemoglobin.
Sodium o-iodobenzoate (OISB) was given intravenously to 15 dogs to test the in vivo effect of this drug on the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. Administration of a single dose of 500 mg/kg was followed by an average increase in P50 (PO2 at 50% oxyhemoglobin saturation) of 3.6 mmHg from 26.8 +/- 0.5 to 30.4 +/- 1.8 mmHg (corrected to pH 7.4). This elevation was sustained for 7 days. During intravenous infusions of 200 mg/kg every other day for 3 wk, there was a sustained increase in P50 of 2.6 mmHg from 27.8 +/- 1.1 to 30.4 +/- 0.9 mmHg. All dogs survived the experiment and no ill effects of the drug were noted. An increase in serum lactate and pyruvate occurred in all animals following acute or chronic exposure to the drug. There was no significant change in whole blood pH, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations, intracellular pH, or serum total phosphate. Multiple infusions of sodium cyanate (50 mg/kg per day) reduced P50 by an average of 12.2 +/- 0.3 mmHg. A subsequent single infusion of OISB (500 mg/kg) failed to increase P50. Our preliminary data indicate that pharmacological manipulation of hemoglobin O2 affinity is possible with organic compounds unrelated to erythrocyte metabolism.
A B S T R A C T Erythrocytosis associated with the pres- ence of a hemoglobin with increased oxygen affinity has been reported for 10 hemoglobin variants, most of which demonstrate altered electrophoretic mobility. Several members of a family were found to have erythrocyto- sis, and both the whole blood and the hemoglobin ex- hibited increased oxygen affinity. Phosphate-free hemo- globin solutions had a normal Bohr effect and re- activity to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The electrophoretic properties of the hemoglobin were normal, but on pep- tide mapping of a tryptic digest of the isolated f-chains, a normal PT11 peptide and an abnormal PT11 with greater Rr were seen. Analysis of the abnormal peptide showed the substitution of leucine for the normal pro- line at f100 (helical residue G2). The hemoglobin variant, designated Hb Brigham, serves to emphasize the necessity for detailed evaluation of the structure and function of hemoglobin in familial erythrocytosis even with electrophoretically "normal" hemoglobin. hemoglobin was identical to that of Hb A. An abnormal hemoglobin in which leucine replaced proline at residue 100 (G2) was ultimately found to account for about 50% of the circulating hemoglobin. This variant is designated Hb Brigham.
Serum iron deficiency has a high incidence in female athletes. We investigated the effects of a daily oral iron supplement, (160 mg) administered during an intensive 7-week physical training programme, on body iron status, and the maximal aerobic capacity (VO2max) of 13 women (group A) compared to 15 who took a placebo (group B). The subjects were 19 years old. Blood samples were obtained before training began and on days 1, 7, 21 and 42 of training. They were analysed for packed cell volume (PVC) and for haemoglobin (Hb), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), haptoglobin, iron and ferritin concentrations. TheVO2max was measured on days 0, 21 and 42 of training. Following 21 days of training Hb, PCV and ferritin were significantly higher (P⩽0.01) in group A compared to group B. Over the training period Hb rose by 9.3% and 2.4% in groups A and B, respectively. At the end of training 66% of group B exhibited ferritin concentrations below 10 ng·ml−1, while none of group A had such low values. MeanVO2max of group A had increased by 7.5% following 21 days of training (P⩽0.01) and by 15.3% after 42 days. No appreciable increase inVO2max had occurred in group B by day 21 (significantly lower thanVO2max of group A;P⩽0.05), however by day 42 it had increased by 14.3% (P⩽0.05). In both groups 2,3-DPG·g Hb−1 had increased significantly (P⩽0.005) by day 7 (22%) and remained at that level for an additional 35 days. We concluded that a daily oral iron supplement given to young women during intensive training improved several haematological variables and their body iron status. This improvement was associated with an increasedVO2max only during the early stages of their training (day 21) compared with the placebo group.
Various phospholipases are thought to be associated with the in vitro apoptosis of thymocytes. In the present study, the in vivo phospholipase D (PLD) activity of rat thymus was studied after whole-body X-irradiation or injection of dexamethasone (DEX). Using exogenous [14C]dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine (PC) as the substrate, an elevation of oleate-activated PLD activity was observed during thymic atrophy. The activity increases were sevenfold at 48 hr after 5-Gy irradiation and fourfold at 72 hr after injection of 5 mg/kg DEX. The elevation of PLD activity appeared to parallel extensive thymus shrinkage. An increased level of thymic phosphatidic acid (PA), the presumed physiological product of PLD action on PC, was also detected. By comparing the acyl chains of PA with those of other phospholipids, PA appeared to originate from PC. To assess the role of PLD during thymic atrophy, thymocytes and stromal cells were isolated. Although thymocytes themselves exhibited significant PLD activation, the major elevation in PLD activity (greater than fourfold) was found in isolated stromal cells. PLD was also activated during in vitro phagocytosis of apoptotic thymocytes by the macrophage-like cell line P388D1. This in vitro phagocytosis was significantly inhibited by PLD action blockers, such as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and 1-butanol. These observations strongly suggest that the alteration of oleate-activated PLD activity is part of an in vivo event in the progression of thymic atrophy, including phagocytic clearance of apoptotic thymocytes.
Objective-To assess the importance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and oxygen-haemoglobin binding to oxygen transport in patients with congestive heart failure.' Methods-In 30 patients with severe congestive heart failure, arterial, mixed venous, and coronary sinus venous blood concentrations of 2,3-DPG were measured and systemic output 
Background and objectives Hypophosphatemia is a frequent complication during continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT), a dialytic technique used to treat AKI in critically ill patients. This study sought to confirm that phosphate depletion during CRRT may decrease red blood cell (RBC) concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), a crucial allosteric effector of hemoglobin's (Hgb's) affinity for oxygen, thereby leading to impaired oxygen delivery to peripheral tissues.
Phosphate also plays a key role in red blood cell (RBC) function and oxygen transport by influencing the intracellular concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), an allosteric effector of hemoglobin (Hgb). Reductions in 2,3-DPG concentration lead to increased affinity of hemoglobin for O 2 and a leftward shift of the O 2 -hemoglobin dissociation curve as measured by oxygen partial pressure required for 50% hemoglobin saturation (P50), thereby limiting oxygen unloading in peripheral tissues (12) . We conducted this study to test whether phosphate depletion during CRRT leads to measureable changes in RBC 2,3-DPG concentrations and therefore may limit peripheral tissue oxygen delivery in critically ill patients.
ABSTRACT The present study was designed to test if dietary intake of nucleotides increases erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in neonatal rats. To this end, rat pups were fed a nucleotide-supplemented formula (S, n ‫؍‬ 14) from d 9 until d 16 after birth. The results were compared with those obtained from a group of breast-fed pups (C, n ‫؍‬ 14) and a group of pups artificially fed with nucleotide-free formula (NS, n ‫؍‬ 14). Neonatal weight, 2,3-DPG concentration, hematocrit (Hct) and hemoglobin concentration (Hb) were determined before the experiment (d 9) and after 7 d of treatment (d 16). In all groups, 2,3-DPG concentration was greater at d 16 than d 9, and the increase was greater in the S group than in the NS group. Alterations in neonatal weight, Hct and Hb concentration did not differ among the groups. On d 16 the 2,3-DPG/Hb ratio, reflecting the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, was significantly higher in the C and S groups than in the NS group. We conclude that in neonatal rats, dietary nucleotides increase erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration. Studies need to be conducted in humans to assess the effect of this increase on both neonatal peripheral hemodynamics and metabolism in this species. J. Nutr. 129: 662-665, 1999.
The higher affinity of hemoglobin for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), 4 compared to oxygen, shifts the oxygen dissociation curve to the right when the concentration of 2,3-DPG in erythrocytes is raised (Benesh et al. 1969) . This results in a diminished affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, leading to enhanced peripheral oxygen release at a given oxygen tension. In conditions associated with decreased oxygen availability, such as high altitude, chronic lung disease or cyanotic heart disease, the concentration of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG is physiologically augmented to compensate for the decrease in peripheral oxygen delivery (Oski et al. 1969). The rise in erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration, associated with the increase in peripheral oxygen supply, might offer new therapeutic perspectives in conditions that are associated with a compromised peripheral metabolic environment. An example is intrauterine growthretarded neonates who have been described as having a compromised metabolic environment and decreased erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentrations (Farquharson 1983 , Siegel et al. 1979 . Previously, it was demonstrated that the concentration of 2,3-DPG can be increased in isolated erythrocyte when nucleosides (adenosine and/or inosine) are added to the incubation medium (Akerblom et al. 1968 , Dawson et al. 1971 , Hogman et al. 1973 ). This can be ascribed to a biochemical pathway involving a phosphorolytic cleavage to hypoxantine and ribose 1-phosphate which led to a rise in 2,3-DPG production through pentose-shunt reactions and anaerobic glycolisis.
3 To whom correspondence should be addressed at Dept. of Neonatology, Istituto "Giannina Gaslini" Direzione Scientifica, Largo Gerolamo Gaslini, 5, 16147 Genova, Italy. 4 Abbreviations used: C, breast-fed rat pups; 2,3-DPG, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate; HbF, fetal hemoglobin; Hct, hematocrit; NS, rat pups fed a nucleotide-free formula; P 50 , O 2 pressure at which 50% of blood is saturated; S, rat pups fed a nucleotide-supplemented formula.
We investigated the influence of a right shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve on tissue oxygenation in two groups of anesthetized rabbits subjected to short periods of graded hypoxia: Group 1 (n = 5) with elevated P50 due to increased RBC 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate and Group 2 (n = 5) with normal P50. Hemoglobin fell progressively in all animals due to blood letting for necessary measurements. During 16% inspired O2 (FIO2), both groups remained stable. During 13% FIO2, arterial pO2 was the same in both groups, but only in Group I did it fall below the crossover point (C.O.P.), which was raised by the high P50. Arterial pH and arterial-venous O2 content difference remained within the normal range in both groups throughout the experiment. During 13% FIO2, animals with high P50 showed a fall in cardiac output and oxygen consumption while animals with normal P50 remained stable. We postulate that when systemic O2 content is sufficiently reduced and tissue O2 extraction is maximal, the O2 needs of the myocardium perfused with a pO2 below the C.O.P. cannot be met: under these conditions cardiac output and systemic O2 consumption fall, presumably due to a reduction in coronary blood flow.
Parameters of the Bohr effect (delta log P50/delta pHi) for human normal red blood cell suspensions have been calculated between intracellular pH (pHi) 5.5 and 8.5, in order to test how these quantities compare with those measured in dilute human hemoglobin solution (Hb). For a precise comparison between red cell and Hb solutions data, the cells were fractionated to reduce cellular heterogeneity and depleted of their 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) content. The P50 values were related to pHi. From the value of the Donnan equilibrium factor rH+ and the cellular water content at each extracellular pH (pHe), the variations of the intracellular chloride concentration were calculated. This quantity exhibited a three fold change between pHi 5.5 and 8.5, with extracellular chloride concentration [Cl-]e fixed at 140 mM. In the absence of DPG, chloride is the main allosteric effector of Hb and increases the alkaline Bohr effect. When all these interacting factors are accounted for, the oxygen affinity and Bohr parameters for red cell suspensions become identical to those observed for dilute Hb solutions. These results indicate that the hydration of the Hb molecules in the highly concentrated red cell milieu is not much different from that of nearly ideal solutions.
It has previously been possible to double the level of ATP in human erythrocytes by incubation of the cells at 37° for 10 hr with glucose and adenine. The present study describes a further increase in the ATP level and some of the possible mechanisms involved. Addition of 5 m M pyruvate to a medium containing 32 m M inorganic phosphate, glucose, and adenine elevated the level of ATP threefold during a 10-hr incubation. Pyruvate could be replaced by inosine but the presence of both limited the elevation of ATP to twice that of fresh cells. This limitation may be overcome by the use of 96 m M phosphate in the incubation medium, in which case the intracellular level of ATP is tripled within 2 hr. The conditions which limit the accumulation of ATP are associated with low intracellular phosphate concentrations and the accumulation of organic phosphates, especially, in the presence of inosine, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Utilizing 14C-glucose labeled in carbons 1, 2, or 6, it has been shown that when ATP is being rapidly elevated, the pentose moiety of the adenine nucleotides is mainly supplied (about 80%) by oxidation of carbon 1 of glucose, catalyzed by the dehydrogenases of the hexosemonophosphate shunt. In the presence of pyruvate this activity is doubled. Pyruvate reoxidizes NADPH formed by this pathway, since lactic dehydrogenase has some specificity towards the NADPH. The involvement of the dehydrogenases of the hexosemonophosphate shunt is illustrated by the use of erythrocytes deficient in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. Incubation of these cells for 5 hr with glucose and adenine results in only a slight increase in ATP formation, and pyruvate has no additional effect. Addition of inosine, however, leads to the same increment in ATP levels seen in normal cells. The ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels in 6-wk preserved blood can also be increased to three times that of fresh cells by incubation with glucose, adenine, pyruvate, and inosine in a medium high in inorganic phosphate.
We used the phase modulated rotating frame imaging technique to measure transmural distribution of phosphorus metabolites in 10 anaesthetised ventilated pigs using a double surface coil placed on the surface of the left ventricle. Anaesthesia was maintained in five animals with halothane, barbiturate and nitrous oxide and in five others with intravenous chloralose. 31Phosphorus spectra were acquired, gated to expiration and systole. From phantom experiments the resolution of the experiment was shown to be approximately 2 mm. The anatomical limits of the myocardium were identified by the appearance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate peaks from red blood cells. The limits of the epicardium were confirmed by obtaining images after placing a phantom containing fluorophosphate on the surface of the heart. The endocardium was identified by inserting a small balloon catheter through the centre of the coil into the left ventricular cavity, filling it with 0.5 ml of fluorophosphate and pulling it gently against the endocardium. No transmural differences in phosphocreatine to ATP ratio were identified in the normal heart. The animals anaesthetised with chloralose showed a significantly higher phosphocreatine to ATP ratio compared to those anaesthetised with halothane and barbiturate. The chloralose animals tended to have a higher blood pressure and a lower heart rate when compared to the other animals. No transmural differences, however, were identified in either group. When regional ischaemia was produced using a snare to occlude the left coronary artery, phosphocreatine fell and the signal from the inorganic phosphate + 2,3-diphosphoglycerate region increased. The inner wall tended to become more acid compared to the outer wall during ischaemia. These experiments show that the phase modulated rotating frame imaging technique can be used to study the effects of changes in workload, ischaemia, or pharmacological intervention on transmural distribution of metabolites in the heart and thus help elucidate factors responsible for subendocardial vulnerability to stress.
Thirty-three diabetic subjects were given the aldose reductase inhibitor sorbinil (Pfizer, UK) for 3 wk. There was a significant fall in mean erythrocyte sorbitol concentration over this period. In all subjects erythrocyte sorbitol concentrations after treatment were within or below the range found in normal subjects. No changes in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) or myo-inositol concentrations, plasma beta-thromboglobulin (beta-TG) concentration, or P50--a measure of the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin--were observed. There was a high incidence of adverse reactions to the drug.
BACKGROUND ::: Rejuvenation of stored red blood cells (RBCs) increases levels of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) to those of fresh cells. This study aimed to optimize and validate the US-approved process to a UK setting for manufacture and issue of rejuvenated RBCs for a multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial in cardiac surgery. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Rejuvenation of leukoreduced RBC units involved adding a solution containing pyruvate, inosine, phosphate, and adenine (Rejuvesol, Zimmer Biomet), warming at 37°C for 60 minutes, then "manual" washing with saline adenine glucose mannitol solution. A laboratory study was conducted on six pools of ABO/D-matched units made the day after donation. On Days 7, 21, and 28 of 4 ± 2°C storage, one unit per pool was rejuvenated and measured over 96 hours for volume, hematocrit, hemolysis, ATP, 2,3-DPG, supernatant potassium, lactate, and purines added (inosine) or produced (hypoxanthine) by rejuvenation. Subsequently, an operational validation (two phases of 32 units each) was undertaken, with results from the first informing a trial component specification applied to the second. Rejuvenation effects were also tested on crossmatch reactivity and RBC antigen profiles. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Rejuvenation raised 2,3-DPG to, and ATP above, levels of fresh cells. The final component had potassium and hemolysis values below those of standard storage Days 7 and 21, respectively, containing 1.2% exogenous inosine and 500 to 1900 μmoles/unit of hypoxanthine. The second operational validation met compliance to the trial component specification. Rejuvenation did not adversely affect crossmatch reactivity or RBC antigen profiles. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The validated rejuvenation process operates within defined quality limits, preserving RBC immunophenotypes, enabling manufacture for clinical trials.
We show that crocodilian hemoglobins (Hbs), which previously have been considered to be model pigments lacking allosteric interaction with organic phosphate esters, do exhibit oxylabile ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) binding that decreases O2 affinity and increases pH sensitivity (Bohr effect), in the absence of Cl- and at the low Cl- concentrations that may occur in crocodilian plasma during 'post-ingestive alkaline tides'. Hbs from different species vary in their phosphate sensitivities. In Alligator mississippiensis Hb, O2 affinity shows greater ATP than DPG sensitivity at low [cofactor]/[Hb] ratios. In Paleosuchus palpebrosus Hb, where even a high Cl- concentration (0.1 mol l-1) does not completely suppress the phosphate effects, the opposite is true, whereas both ATP and DPG exert similar effects in Caiman crocodilus Hb. Lactate, at concentrations that may occur after intensive exercise, similarly depresses Hb O2-affinity, indicating an O2 demand/O2 supply feedback regulation. Curiously, inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), a potent allosteric effector in other vertebrate Hbs, has no effect on A. mississippiensis and P. palpebrosus Hb and only small effects on C. crocodilus Hb, presumably because of steric hindrance at the binding site. The molecular mechanisms underlying the observations (particularly the implication of ss82-Lys, i.e. the lysine residue at position 82 of the ss-chains that binds phosphate and Cl-) are considered. Their physiological significance requires further study.
Todetermine theeffects ofmaternal hyperglycemia onfetal hemodynamic andcardiac function, astudy wascarried outonnine chronically catheterized fetal sheep. Insixfetuses, glucose was infused intravenously withaninitial doseof5mg/kgpermin. Datawerecompared withcontrols. Thisdosewasgradually increased to16mg/kgperminbythefifth day. Theinitial blood glucose was14.7±3.0 mg/dl andincreased to54.6±16.4 mg/dl bythelast dayoftheinfusion period (P< 0.001). TheP02 decreased fromabaseline of20.25±3.40 to15.88±5.24 mmHg (P< 0.01). Similarly significant decreases werealso observed fortheblood 02content and02hemoglobin saturation: 8.5±1.7 to6.4±2.2 ml/dl and62.3±13.6 to46.1±17.6%, respectively, during hyperglycemia (P<0.01). Theduration ofthepreejection period (PEP)before thestart oftheexperiment was45±4ms; afinal value of57±10mswasobtained (P< 0.01). However, theelectromechanical delay andejection time(ET)showedno significant variation. Theratio ofthePEP/ETincreased from 0.31±0.04 to0.38±0.07 (P< 0.01) during hyperglycemia. The reticulocytes increased from1.4±1.8 to3.1±2.9% (P< 0.05) andthe2,3-diphosphoglycerate decreased from4.4±1.1 to 2.8±1.2 ,mol/g hemoglobin (P< 0.005). Thisstudy demonstrated that fetal hyperglycemia depresses myocardial function inthefetal lamb. Thechanges incardiac function could notbe explained bythesmall dropin02saturation.
Abstract 1. 1. The activity of 21 red cell enzymes and three red cell metabolic intermediates were measured in adult Dasyurus viverrinus and compared with published data on other marsupials. 2. 2. Phosphofructokinase (PFK), glyceraldehyde dehydrogenase (GAPD) and phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) were elevated in comparison to other marsupials. 3. 3. Enolase (ENO) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) were lower than in other marsupials.
With a seriously ill postoperative patient, selecting the best course of action may be difficult when laboratory data suggest hematologic abnormalities. If an Afro-American is to undergo major surgery, simple postoperative screening procedures are available for certain hereditary erythrocyte abnormalities. Acute hemolysis, from any cause, may mimic advanced liver disease. Bleeding into closed body spaces, with erythrocyte destruction secondarily, may mimic generalized hemolysis. One basic premise is always to review the medications being administered; many drugs may induce granulocytopenia or anemia. Because there is a compensatory increase in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content that increases oxygen release to the tissues in the normovolemic anemic patient, less frequent use of blood transfusion is possible in these patients. Healing will continue even when the packed red cell volume is 25 per cent.
Publisher Summary Phosphorus plays an important role in cellular physiology and skeletal mineralization, serving as a constituent of nucleic acids and hydroxyapatite, a source of the high energy phosphate in adenosine triphosphate, an essential element of the phospholipids in cell membranes, and a factor influencing a variety of enzymatic reactions (e.g., glycolysis) and protein functions (e.g., the oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin by regulation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate synthesis). The critical role that phosphorus plays in cell physiology has resulted in development of elaborate mechanisms designed to maintain phosphate balance. Under usual conditions, phosphate homeostasis depends for the most part on the renal mechanisms that regulate tubular phosphate transport. Alternatively, during times of severe phosphate deprivation, the phosphate contained in bone mineral provides a source of phosphate for the metabolic needs of the organism. The variety of diseases, therapeutic agents, and physiological states that affect phosphate homeostasis are numerous and reflect a diverse pathophysiology. Rational choice of an appropriate treatment for many of these disorders depends on determining the precise cause for the abnormality. Several clinical states that represent primary disorders of phosphate homeostasis include X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets/osteomalacia (XLH); autosomal-dominant hypophosphatemic rickets (ADHR); autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets (ARHR); tumor-induced osteomalacia (TIO); hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria (HHRH); Dent's disease; Fanconi's syndrome (FS), types I and II; and tumoral calcinosis (TC).
Within the same family erythrocytosis occurred in the mother, in three of five children and possibly in one child of an affected daughter. The occurrence of the anomaly in successive generations as well as the distribution of affected and healthy persons in the offspring of affected individuals are in excellent agreement with autosomal dominant inheritance. ::: ::: ::: ::: Hemoglobin function (P50) and red cell function (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) were normal. Plasma erythropoitin activity in plasma of affected individuals was undetectable when measured by cell culture assay. Only low levels of activity, comparable to that occurring in normal plasma, were detected using 59Fe incorporation in erythrocytes of exhypoxic, polycythemic mice and this activity did not increase upon phlebotomy of 15–20% of the blood volume. Thus, erythrocytosis was not caused by increased erythropoitin production but some other, unknown mechanism.
Abstract The proton and oxygen affinity was studied of both human hemoglobin A and A2 over the pH region 5.5–9.0. This study revealed the following: 1. 1. The Bohr effect of hemoglobin A is identical to that of hemoglobin A2. 2. 2. There is no difference in the oxygen affinity between the two hemoglobins. 3. 3. The oxygen binding curves of hemoglobin A and A2 are identically affected by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. 4. 4. His G19(117)β in hemoglobin A has an abnormally high p K value of about 7.8 in both oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin.
The reduction of methemoglobin by ascorbic acid was accelerated by the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate
Abstract Oxygen equilibria of hemoglobin in the presence of different concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were simulated by using Adair's stepwise oxygenation scheme in which changes of the concentration of free 2,3-diphosphoglycerate during oxygenation were taken into account. The calculated equilibrium curves fitted well to experimental points and also well expressed biphasic features in the presence of less than 1 mole of the phosphate per mole of hemoglobin.
The release of iron from transferrin was investigated by incubating the diferric protein in the presence of potential iron-releasing agents. The effective chemical group appears to be pyrophosphate, which is present in blood cells as nucleoside di- and triphosphates, notably adenosine triphosphate (ATP). An alternative structure with comparable activity is represented by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Neither 1 mM adenosine monophosphate (AMP) nor 1 mM orthophosphate released iron from transferrin. The ATP-induced iron-releasing activity was dependent on weak acidic conditions and was sensitive to temperature and sodium chloride concentration. The rate of iron release rapidly increased as transferrin was titrated with HCl from pH 6.8 to 6.1 in the presence of 1 mM ATP and 160 mM NaCl at 20 degrees C. Iron release from transferrin without ATP was observed below pH 5.5. Ascorbate (10(-4) M) reduced Fe(III), but only after iron release from transferrin by a physiological concentration of ATP. A proposal for the mechanism of iron release from transferrin by ATP and the utilization of reduced iron by erythroid cells is described.
Recent data indicate that integrin-generated signals can modulate different receptor-stimulated cell functions in both a positive (costimulation) and a negative (inhibition) fashion. Here we investigated the ability of beta 1 integrins, namely alpha 4 beta 1 and alpha 5 beta 1 fibronectin receptors, to modulate CD16-triggered phospholipase activation in human NK cells. beta 1 integrin simultaneous cross-linking selectively inhibited CD16-induced phospholipase D (PLD) activation, without affecting either phosphatidylinositol-phospholipase C or cytosolic phospholipase A2 (PLA2) enzymatic activity. CD16-induced secretory PLA2 (sPLA2) protein release as well as its enzymatic activity in both cell-associated and soluble forms were also found to be inhibited upon beta 1 integrin coengagement. The similar effects exerted by specific PLD pharmacological inhibitors (2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ethanol) suggest that in our experimental system, sPLA2 secretion and activation are under the control of a PLD-dependent pathway. By using pharmacological inhibitors (2,3-diphosphoglycerate, wortmannin, ethanol) we also demonstrated that PLD activation is an important step in the CD16-triggered signaling cascade that leads to NK cytotoxic granule exocytosis. Consistent with these findings, fibronectin receptor engagement, by either mAbs or natural ligands, resulted in a selective inhibition of CD16-triggered, but not of PMA/ionomycin-induced, degranulation that was reversed by the exogenous addition of purified PLD from Streptomyces chromofuscus.
Although extensive studies have been performed on human erythrocytes, there is a shortage of information on marsupial erythrocytes. Studies on haematology and biochemistry are useful in the ecomanagement of these animals especially those in wildlife parks and zoos. The present review summarises our findings from ∼30 species of marsupials. As marsupials show great diversity in physical and behavioural characteristics, it is not surprising that examination of their red blood cells reveals variation in the biochemical features. Many variations in red cell biochemistry appear to be species specific and, although interesting, are too numerous to list here and have been discussed in the relevant sections. Red blood cells of several species of marsupial differ from those in placental mammals by having higher haemoglobin concentration and haematocrit, lower ATP and higher 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations. These features are consistent across the majority of marsupial species, but the relevance of these variations from red cell metabolism in the placental mammals is unknown.
Abstract Hb Montefiore was found, in the heterozygous state, in a Puerto Rican female who had a slightly elevated total Hb level. Structural analysis revealed that Asp-α126 was replaced by Tyr. Hb Montefiore migrates close to HbF (at pH 8.6) and accounts for 20.3% of the hemolysate. Oxygen binding of red blood cells revealed a 40% decrease in the P50 (pH 7.4) and a low n value of 1.6 (normal: 2.6). Depletion of red blood cell 2,3-DPG did not change the results. Stripped Hb Montefiore at pH 7.2 showed an 8-fold reduction in P50 (0.6 versus 4.6 mm Hg) and very low cooperativity (n = 1.2 versus 2.9 for the control). Heterotopic effectors, as 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate had a normal effect and in addition, they increased cooperativity. The chloride ion effect and the Bohr effect were moderately reduced. A bezafibrate derivative (L345), known to bind α126, increases the P50 of HbA by 9-fold, but only by 1.5-fold that of Hb Montefiore. Combining these functional studies with intrinsic fluorescence and Resonance Raman spectroscopy, we interpret the very low n value and the high oxygen affinity for Hb Montefiore as a result of both a destabilized T state that switches to R upon ligand binding and a deoxy T state that binds ligands with higher affinity than that of deoxy HbA. Hb Montefiore still binds ligands cooperatively, but the difference in ligand binding properties of the two quaternary states has been drastically reduced.
The need to conserve a patient's own blood and avoid homologous transfusion is now well recognized. Therefore, techniques designed to reduce requirements for homologous blood transfusions have been developed. One of the methods is autotransfusion of shed mediastinal blood after open-heart surgery. The objectives of the present study were to investigate osmotic fragility and oxygen transport capacity of shed mediastinal blood compared to patient blood and stored packed red blood cells (SAGM). ::: ::: Shed mediastinal blood from ten consecutive patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery (coronary bypass grafting) was studied and compared to patient blood, 10 units of 3 weeks old and 10 units of 5 weeks old stored packed red blood cells (SAGM). Oxygen transport capacity was investigated by calculation of p50 for oxygen by use of the oxygen status algorithm (OSA 2.0) programme and measurement of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations. The osmotic fragility was determined using increasing concentrations of saline. ::: ::: 2,3-DPG concentrations in shed mediastinal blood (5,3 mikromol/ml erythrocyte) were within the range measured in patient blood, but significantly higher than SAGM blood (P<0.001). P50 for oxygen (3.5 kPa) in shed mediastinal blood was not significantly different compared to patient blood, but significantly higher (P<0.01) compared with stored SAGM blood. The osmotic fragility in shed mediastinal blood was not significantly different compared to patient blood, but significantly lower (P<0.001) than the osmotic fragility in stored SAGM blood. This suggests that red cells saved from shed mediastinal blood have better oxygen transport capacity and may have longer survival compared to stored blood.
Abstract Oxygen equilibrium of Hb Toyoake (142 (H20)β, Ala → Pro) is characterized by an oxygen affinity 6-times higher than that of Hb A, a slightly decreased alkaline Bohr effect, diminished cooperativity, with Hill's coefficient decreased by 1.2, and reduced response to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate. These properties are in qualitative agreement with those shown previously from oxygen equilibrium data for hemolysate containing Hb Toyoake. The heat of oxygenation was −13.5 kcal/mol for Hb Toyoake and −12.9 kcal/mol for Hb A at pH 7.4 in 0.1 M Cl− and they became equal when corrected for the heat of oxygen-linked proton and Cl− release. OxyHb Toyoake autooxidized faster than oxyHb A. The visible adsorption spectrum and electron paramagnetic resonance spectrum of oxidized Hb Toyoake indicated that oxidation of this hemoglobin, either by autooxidation or by K3Fe(CN)6, is followed by gradual conversion into hemichrome derivatives. The Soret peak of deoxyHb Toyoake was lowered compared to that of deoxyHb A and the magnitude of narrow-banded oxy-minus-deoxy difference spectrum around 290 nm was smaller for Hb Toyoake than for Hb A, indicating that the former remains predominantly in the R state upon deoxygenation. The functional abnormalities, including tendency to lose heme groups previously reported, were interpreted in terms of structural disturbance by proline at 142β of 141 leucine, 143 histidine, 145 tyrosine, and 146 histidine residues of the same β chain.
The relationships between spectrin, a structural protein of the red blood cell (RBC) membrane facing the cytoplasm, and hemoglobin were studied. The oxygen-binding properties of stripped hemoglobin were not altered by the presence of spectrin, but the interaction of hemoglobin with organic phosphates was reduced by the addition of spectrin. The presence of the enzyme glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PD), another component of the RBC membrane used as a control, did not change the oxygen affinity of either stripped hemoglobin or of hemoglobin solutions containing phosphates. Binding studies using the gel filtration method at pH 7.3 indicated reversible binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to spectrin. A unit of 220,000 daltons was calculated to have seven binding sites and a binding constant of 1.2 X 10(4) M-1. A mechanism is proposed in which spectrin may facilitate oxygen transport for hemoglobin molecules reaching the membrane.
The whole blood oxygen affinity of a Negro carrier of SC disease was found to be characterized by some right-shifted p50 and clearly increased Bohr effect, whereas the isolated and purified Hb-S and Hb-C exhibited slight deficiencies mainly of the Bohr effect. The right-shifted p50 from whole blood can be easily explained by the mild anemia with a parallel increase of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), whereas the functional discrepancies between whole blood function and that of the purified Hb-S and C could be due, at least in part, to the presence in vivo of consistent amounts of hybrid Hb tetramers of the type alpha alpha beta S beta C. Unfortunately, the mechanism promoting the formation (or dissolution) of hybrids are fundamentally unknown; so, either their presence and functional properties are very difficult to be explored.
The oxygen affinities of horse and human haemoglobins were compared in the absence and presence of the allosteric effector 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Horse haemoglobin solutions showed significantly smaller responses to the presence of 2,3-DPG, and this difference may be due to different amino acid substitutions at position NA2(2)beta. Horse haemoglobin solutions from erythrocytes containing different ratios of the two different haemoglobin types showed similar oxygen affinities in the absence and presence of 2,3-DPG. Horse haemoglobins in solution were found to autoxidise to methaemoglobin much more readily than human haemoglobin under the same conditions, and this is an important consideration when measuring the oxygen affinity of horse haemoglobin solutions. This difference could be due to different amino acid residues at position NA2(2)beta.
2. There is no difference in the oxygen affinity bet ween the two hemoglobins. 3. The oxygen binding curves of hemoglobin A and A 2 are identically affected by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
The visceral leishmaniasis (VL) known as kala-azar in India is characterized by severe anaemia. The anaemia seems to be the result, at least in part, of the relatively short life-time of the erythrocytes, which have weakened cell membranes, possibly because of elevated concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). There is a negative correlation (r = 0.91; P < 0.01) between erythrocytic 2,3-DPG concentrations and the blood concentration of haemoglobin, and the erythrocytes from infected patients display higher osmotic fragility than those from uninfected controls. Spectrofluorometry, using 1,6-diphenyl 1,3,5-hexatriene as a probe, indicated that fluorescence depolarization and microviscosity are also higher in the erythrocytic membranes from VL cases than in those from the controls. The cholesterol/phospholipid ratio is also relatively high in the membranes from the VL cases and there is degradation of the skeletal components and the major integral protein (band 3). The enhanced concentration of 2,3-DPG may be related to the altered structural integrity of the erythrocytes and this may lead to anisocytosis and the reduction in the erythrocytic half life.
The effects of acrylonitrile (VCN) on hemoglobin and red cell metabolism were studied in vitro and in vivo using male Sprague-Dawley rats. Reduced glutathione (GSH) was rapidly depleted by VCN. The reaction between VCN and GSH to form S-cyanoethyl glutathione is both enzymic and nonenzymic. GSH depletion induced oxidation of considerable amount of hemoglobin to methemoglobin. Incubation of nitrite-treated erythrocytes with VCN (2-10 mM) resulted in a significant decrease in methemoglobin reduction. VCN initiated hemolysis in vitro at a concentration of 0.05 M, and at concentrations lower than 0.05 M rendered erythrocytes susceptible to osmotic fragility even at higher concentration of NaCl. Following oral administration of VCN (80 mg/kg), significant perturbations of levels of red-cell GSH, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate, pyruvate, lactate, and oxidized glutathione occurred within 1 h. These changes returned to normal levels between 6 and 24 h. A strong correlation between the depletion of GSH in vivo and covalent binding [2,3-14C]VCN to hemoglobin was observed. These in vivo and in vitro results suggest that chronic exposure to VCN may lead to methemoglobinemia and consequently may cause impaired delivery of oxygen to various tissues.
Abstract The effect of inositol hexakisphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, dextran sulphate, and heparin on the spectroscopie (absorbance, circular dichroism, EPR) properties of the nitric oxide derivative of ferrous dromedary ( Camelus dromedarius ) hemoglobin was investigated. The results obtained show that: (i) all polyanions bind to the protein at the same sites, but with different affinities; (ii) polyanions affect the protein conformation of the ferrous nitrosyl derivative in a different way with respect to aquo-ferric and ferrous oxy dromedary hemoglobin; and (iii) the data obtained provide further independent evidence for the existence in dromedary hemoglobin of two functionally distinct polyanion binding sites that affect the conformational equilibrium of the protein in opposite ways.
A noninvasive, inexpensive method of excluding significant sleep-associated hypoxemia would be desirable for patients being investigated and treated for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Sixty-eight such patients provided specimens before and after sleep studies for estimation of urinary uric acid:creatinine ratio (UA:Cr), serum erythropoietin (EPO), and blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Mean (SD) morning 2,3-DPG was higher in 26 patients with overnight hypoxemia than in 42 normoxemic patients (2.54 [0.46] versus 2.24 [0.44] mmol/L; p = 0.01). Neither overnight change nor absolute values of serum EPO or urinary UA:Cr were significantly different between hypoxemic and normoxemic groups. There was a diurnal variation in serum EPO in normoxemic patients (P.M. EPO = 14.8 [7.1] mU/ml; A.M. EPO = 10.7 [7.1] mU/ml; p less than 0.05) but not in hypoxemic patients. Eighteen hypoxemic patients were restudied after using nasal continuous positive airway pressure (nCPAP) for at least 4 wk. Seven normoxemic patients not using nCPAP were restudied after a similar time. There were no significant differences between pretreatment and posttreatment nights in absolute values or percentage overnight change of blood 2,3-DPG or serum EPO in either group. In the hypoxemic (nCPAP) group, overnight change in urinary UA:Cr was lower on the second night (p = 0.04); there was no significant change in the control group. We conclude that although urinary UA:Cr, serum EPO, and 2,3-DPG may be physiologically related to hypoxemia, none of these measures can be used to predict accurately the presence of moderate nocturnal hypoxemia in patients with OSA or in monitoring the effect of their therapy.
Relatively few studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of hypophosphatemia on cardiac function. The goal of this review was to determine whether there is an association between hypophosphatemia and cardiac function and to increase awareness of hypophosphatemia-induced cardiomyopathy as a new clinical entity and a reversible cause of heart failure. We searched MEDLINE and PubMed from 1971 until March 2015 for primary studies, which reported the relationship between hypophosphatemia and cardiac function. A total of 837 articles were initially obtained. Of these articles, 826 publications were excluded according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. In all, 11 articles were included in this review. These articles included 7 case series or case reports, 1 case-control study, 1 pretest versus posttest in a single group and 2 animal studies. In conclusion, the mechanisms of hypophosphatemia in cardiomyopathy have been reported to be a depletion of adenosine triphosphate in myocardial cells and decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes. After correction of hypophosphatemia, left ventricular performance seems to improve in patients with severe hypophosphatemia, but not in those with mild-to-moderate hypophosphatemia. However, analyses of the relationship between cardiac function and hypophosphatemia using clinical end points have not been conducted.
Bis(3,5-dibromosalicyl) fumarate and a number of related bifunctional reagents react preferentially with oxyhemoglobin to cross-link the beta chains within the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-binding site. In this report we describe a new derivative cross-linked between the alpha chains which is formed specifically in the reaction with deoxyhemoglobin. X-ray crystallographic studies show that the cross-link lies between Lys-99 alpha 1 and Lys-99 alpha 2, spanning the central cavity of the tetramer. Lys-99 alpha 1 and Lys-99 alpha 2 are located within a cluster of charged residues very near the middle of the hemoglobin molecule. In oxyhemoglobin, this site is completely inaccessible to the cross-linking agent. Competition experiments with inositol hexaphosphate indicate that the compound enters the central cavity in deoxyhemoglobin through the cleft between the alpha chains. Despite the presence of the cross-link between the alpha chains, the modified hemoglobin remains highly cooperative. The Hill coefficient for HbXL99 alpha is 2.6. The oxygen affinity of the cross-linked derivative is decreased by approximately 2-fold; at pH 7.0 in the presence of 0.1 M NaCl the P50 is 13.9 mm Hg compared to 6.6 mm Hg for HbA. This difference appears to be due to relatively small changes in both KR, the association constant for binding of oxygen to the R state, and the allosteric constant L. Surprisingly, the isoelectric point of oxyHbXL99 alpha is almost identical to that of oxyHbA, whereas in the deoxy form the isoelectric point of the cross-linked derivative is decreased relative to native hemoglobin as expected due to the loss of the two positive charges of the modified amino groups. In agreement with these findings, the alkaline Bohr effect of HbXL99 alpha is decreased by more than 50%. Earlier studies argue strongly against the possibility that Lys-99 alpha is directly responsible for this large fraction of the Bohr effect in HbA. Analysis of the structure suggests that in the cross-linked derivative Glu-101 beta, which is in close proximity to Lys-99 alpha in oxyhemoglobin, becomes an acid Bohr group.
The isozyme pattern of pyruvate kinase in canine erythrocytes changes following birth. These changes have been followed by electrophoretic, immunologic, and kinetic measurements of the isozymes. At birth, a mixture of isozymes is present consisting of the M2 isozyme and hybrid molecules containing M2 and R subunits. With increasing animal age, the content of M2 subunits decreases and the content of R subunits increases. At 6 months of age, the isozyme pattern is indistinguishable from that of adult erythrocytes which contain only the R tetramer. We conclude that there is a switch in erythrocyte pyruvate kinase gene expression during the first 6 months of postnatal life. The existence of hybrid molecules during the switch indicates that both M2 and R genes are expressed within each erythroid precursor cell. The developmental changes in erythrocyte pyruvate kinase are consistent with the role of this enzyme in the regulation of the oxygen-transport function of canine hemoglobin by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the postnatal period.
Abstract Time-resolved fluorescence methods have been used to show that 8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonate (HPT), a fluorescent analog of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, binds to the central cavity of carboxyhemoglobin A (HbACO) at pH 6.35. A direct quantitative approach, based on the distinctive free and bound HPT fluorescent lifetimes of 5.6 ns and ∼27 ps, respectively, was developed to measure the binding affinity of this probe. HPT binds to a single site and is displaced by inositol hexaphosphate at a 1:1 mol ratio, indicating that binding occurs at the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate site in the central cavity. Furthermore, the results imply that low pH HbACO exists as an altered R state and not an equilibrium mixture of R and T states. The probe was also used to monitor competitive effector binding and to compare the affinity of the binding site in several cross-bridged HbA derivatives.
The aim of the investigations was to estimate the influence of horse training on hematological and biochemical parameters and the occurrence of myopathias. The study was performed on twelve 2-2,5-year-old stallions of the Wielkopolan breed. Training included daily10 km runs in different styles. The final test included a 2500 m cross-country run at a pace of 450 m/min and a 500 m one at a pace of 700 m/min together with steeplechase obstacles. Examinations were performed seven times at regular 30-40-day intervals, blood was taken from the vena iuguralis externa directly before and after exertion. The blood morphology, red cell indices, level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erytrocytes, level of glucose and lactate in plasma, level of electrolytes (Na + , K + , Cl - ), the activity of CK, AST, LDH total and its isoenzymes, parameters of acid-base balance (blood pH, pCO 2 , pO 2 , HCO 3 -, BE, O 2 SAT, ctCO 2 ) were estimated. The exertion caused an increase of the hemoglobin level, red blood cell and hematocrite amount, which together with water-electrolyte balance parameters indicated progressive hypotonic dehydration. After exertion the levels of the biochemical parameters revealed metabolic acidosis and increased blood oxygen saturation. The increase of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level in erytrocytes was also noticed. The increase of the activity of such enzymes as CK, LDH and LDH 5 isoenzyme after exertion indicates that during standard endurance-technical training subclinical forms of muscle damage arise.
Disperse systems based on hemoglobin sorption immobilization in reticular carboxylic polyelectrolytes are proposed as model of erythrocytes. The efficiency of oxygen transport of these systems is much higher than that of native hemoglobin and is comparable with the gas transport of erythrocytes. This is believed to be due to highly selective sorption of hemoglobin in microdisperse forms of permeable polyelectrolytes. Microparticles of immobilized hemoglobin exhibit high local concentration of hemoglobin: the protein mass being one order of magnitude than that of polymer-carrier. Besides, it is presumed that structure of the carboxylic polyelectrolyte matrix is a polymer analog of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Microdispersion of immobilized hemoglobin exhibits a aggregative resistance and have identity of surface charge with erythrocytes. Studies in vivo have revealed biocompatibility of immobilized hemoglobin.
Abstract : The biochemical mechanisms by which the erythrocyte elevates its 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and decreases its oxygen affinity were studied. It appears that a complex set of mechanisms involving the rate limiting enzymes of glycolysis, hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, and pyruvate kinase, are involved. Secondly, an approach to preadaptation to altitude was attempted using pharmacological means. Orally administered phosphate was used in a double-blind study involving 20 subjects taken to Pikes Peak (altitude 4300 m). While differences were not large, the phosphate-treated group had better overall performance in a number of areas compared to the placebo group. Some differences reach statistical significance. These results suggest that a drug with greater effect on reducing oxygen affinity than phosphate might have very salutary effects in altitude preadaptation. (Author)
Lipemic plasma with marked elevations of plasma triglyceride levels (3221 +/- 1590 mg/dl) and fasting chylomicronemia was observed in nine patients with uncontrolled non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Every case had hypertriglyceridemic relatives, suggesting that the very high triglyceride values seen resulted from the coexistence of diabetes with a familial form of hypertriglyceridemia. A number of clinical and biochemical features observed in the diabetic patients and also in a group of nondiabetic controls with comparable degrees of hypertriglyceridemia suggests that these manifestations are related to high plasma triglyceride levels rather than to the diabetes per se. Chronic abdominal pain, mental confusion, and memory loss improved with lipid-lowering therapy and clearing the plasma of chylomicrons. Pulmonary function tests, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and hemoglobin oxygen affinity were normal; the mild hypoxemia observed is believed to be an artifact. It is suggested that a syndrome due to chylomicronemia can occur in uncontrolled non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients, who in addition have a familial form of hypertriglyceridemia. To prevent manifestations of this syndrome in these patients, specific lipid-lowering therapy may be required in addition to control of their diabetes.
Dipyridamol has in addition to a coronardilatating effect an ati-thrombotic one too. Moreover it facilitates the release of O2 from haemoglobin by increase of the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the erythrocytes. Allopurinol causes a potential resynthesis of ATP in the cells by inhibition of the metabolism of uric acid. Both substances therefore seemed to be suitable for a medicamental therapy of the noise-induced cochlear damage. The expected favourable effect of Dipyridamol and Allopurinol on the organ of Corti after sound exposure (RMP-measurement before and after exposure to pure tone 120 dB SPL) however had not been confirmed by experiment on animals (guinea pig).
BACKGROUND: A donation of whole blood is most commonly collected in acidic citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) variants with pH 5.2 to 6.2 as anticoagulants. Previously, we have shown that the initial pH after red blood cell (RBC) preparation can have an effect on RBCs during storage. First, we investigated the effect of the pH of the anticoagulant on RBCs. Second, we investigated the possibility of decreasing the pH of our new additive solution (AS) phosphate-adenine-glucose-guanosine-gluconate-mannitol (PAGGGM) from pH 8.2 to 7.4 in combination with an anticoagulant with a physiologic pH. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Whole blood was collected in CPD (pH 5.6) or trisodiumcitrate (TNC; pH 7.4), and leukoreduced units were prepared using saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol as AS. Second, whole blood was collected in TNC (pH 7.4), and leukoreduced units were prepared using PAGGGM (pH 7.4) or PAGGGM (pH 8.2) as AS. During cold storage, several in vitro characteristics were analyzed. RESULTS: In agreement with our previous findings, the initial pH of whole blood has an effect during storage of RBCs. In the second part we show that there are no differences between PAGGGM (pH 7.4) and PAGGGM (pH 8.2) units when an anticoagulant with a physiologic pH was used. CONCLUSION: These results indicate that the pH of the anticoagulant used during whole blood collection has an effect during storage of RBCs. When an anticoagulant with a physiologic pH is used during whole blood collection, the pH of PAGGGM can be decreased to physiologic levels, while maintaining adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels
It has much more advantages to preserve human red blood cells (RBC) in freezing and drying form than conventional blood storage, even though it is still under developing. In the present study, we successfully used 0.045% glutaraldehyde(GA) to fix RBCs under appropriate conditions prior to lyophilization and regained the bulk of RBCs membrane filterability. The phlebotomized whole blood was anti-coagulated with CPDA-1 and the plasma was removed by centrifugation. White blood cells were removed using Leucocytes filter (Pall Corporation). 1 x 10 9 cells/ml were separately incubated with 0.03%, 0.045% and 0.05% GA at 37 °C for 10 min; RBCs at concentrations 0.5 x 10 9 , 1 x 10 9 and 2 x 10 9 cell/ml were incubated with 0.045% GA at 37 °C for 10 min; Bovine serum albumin (BSA), trehalose, hydroxyethyl starch and dextran were used as protective additive in freezing and drying RBCs, respectively; ethanolamine, glycine, lysine, BSA, glutamic acid and homocysteic acid were used to recover membrane deformability due to GA fixation. Recovery RBCs yield after reconstituion was determined by a cell counter. Fee hemoglobin , glutathione (GSH), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), ATP, and Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH) in RBCs were determined before and after lyophilization. Membrane flexibility was assayed by osmotic fragility test. RBCs filterability was determined using positive filter apparatus through 5 micrometer pore size nitrocellulose membrane. Our results suggested that RBCs at 1 x 10 9 cells/ml fixed by 0.045% GA for10 min at pH 7.8 were enough to resist freezing and drying damages and the bulk of RBCs’s membrane filterability were remained. The effective fixation of GA is dependent on GA’s concentration, RBCs concentration, incubation period and pH etc. BSA is the most potential additive in preserving RBCs. More interestingly, the following reagents can recover the reduced RBCs membrane filterability by GA fixation. The potency of recovery is in the order of : 10 mM ethanolamine > 5 mM lysine > 0.5%BSA > 10 mM glutamatic acid > 5 mM homcysteic acid > 2% glycine. After reconstitution, 85 ± 2.3% RBCs yield is achieved, 71 ± 4.1% of these RBCs can freely pass through 5 micrometer pore size filter membrane. Biochemical function indexes as GSH, 2,3-DPG, ATP, and G-6-PDH are saved by 20 ± 1.2%. Lyophilized human red blood cells yields from reconstitution by different treatment. Effects of various treatment on lyophilized RBCs after reconstitution.
The effects of pregnancy on the levels of maternal plasma total oxypurines (hypoxanthine, xanthine and uric acid) and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was investigated. With advancing gestation there was a slight increasing tendency in plasma total oxypurines as well as erythrocyte 2,3-DPG in pregnant women. When the ratio of 2,3-DPG to total oxypurines was calculated, the ratio was almost unchanged until week 34. After week 35, the ratio decreased to week 37; the ratios between week 37 and 40 had similar values to cord blood. The above data suggest that the changes of these metabolites in maternal peripheral blood may be indicative for hypoxia with fetoplacental tissue.
The relation of fetal growth and maternal oxygen transport as assessed by red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, hemoglobin oxygen affinity, hemoglobin, pH, and PCO 2 was evaluated in 21 pregnant women. The study was performed in the third trimester and each subject evaluated had sonographic evidence of fetal growth retardation without other obvious abnormalities. Decreased maternal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate/hemoglobin molar ratio and hemoglobin oxygen affinity were related linearly to the birth weight normalized for the expected sea level values of gestational age expressed as a birth weight (gestational age-normalized) Z score. The correlation coefficients and p values were r=0.71, p p p 2 , or pH. In the regulation of hemoglobin oxygen affinity, calculations indicated that the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate/hemoglobin molar ratio played a highly significant role (p
In 23 hemodialyzed patients the metabolic defect of erythrocytes related to uremia and potentiated by dialysis was studied to establish a possible link with the shortened erythrocyte survival. A highly significant correlation was found between sulfhemoglobin provoked by oxidative stress and erythrocyte rigidity measured by filterability. Impaired filterability also correlated with the degree of splenic sequestration. Both sulfhemoglobin and impaired filterability correlated with the degree of hemolysis. Finally, erythrocyte survival showed a highly significant correlation with the degree of anemia. From osmotic fragility, plasma trapping, erythrocyte ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and serum phosphorus, calcium, and magnesium measurements it seems unlikely that either spheric transformation or sol-gel transformation of the membrane is causing the increased erythrocyte rigidity. In view of the impaired erythrocyte defense capacity against oxidative injury, cell content rigidity as mediated by reduced hemoglobin solubility is a more likely explanation. Our results give a rational basis for a trial of splenectomy in severely anemia hemodialyzed patients.
Muscular dystrophy patients fall in respiratory failure in the terminal stage. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is an important regulator of oxygen release, as it affects the position of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. In order to survey the internal respiration in these patients, we studied the erythrocyte 2,3-DPG which regulates oxygen transport function. The concentration of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG was determined in 27 cases with Duchenne type muscular dystrophy and 10 cases with myotonic dystrophy (MyD). We analyzed the relation of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG to spirogram, arterial blood gas and acid-base analysis in these patients. 14 normal males were used as controls. In control subjects, the mean concentration ratio of 2,3-DPG and hemoglobin (DPG/Hb) was 0.880 +/- 0.072. 18 cases of DMD and 9 of MyD, which showed more than 45 torr of Pco2 in arterial blood gas, revealed 0.823 +/- 0.053 and 0.814 +/- 0.092 of DPG/Hb respectively. These values were significantly lower than that of controls. DPG/Hb correlated to % VC, Pao2, Paco2, pH, HCO3 and BE in DMD, but no relation to these parameters in MyD. The low ratio of DPG/Hb in erythrocyte was considered to be metabolic compensation of respiratory failure in DMD. On the other hand, 2,3-DPG of MyD seemed to be also affected by any other factors in addition to respiratory failure.
There are two major limitations on the use of acellular hemoglobin solutions in vivo: rapid renal clearance and increased oxygen affinity. A series of chemical modifications of hemoglobin are presented in an attempt to address these problems. Reactions of hemoglobin with phosphorylated sugars and gluteraldehyde under a number of conditions, resulted in either hemoglobin denaturation or production of multiple hemoglobin polymers. In contrast, phosphorylated cyclic nucleotides upon ring opening with sodium periodate resulted in high-yield crosslinking of hemoglobin to exclusively form species with a molecular weight of 68,000. Because yield of modified hemoglobin increased with degree of phosphorylation of the cyclic nucleotide, this reaction is most consistent with formation of a crosslinked product within the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate pocket. Resultant oxygen affinities of such modified hemoglobins were variable and believed to be due to residual nonspecific sodium periodate oxidation. Affinity difunctional crosslinking agents like the phosphorylated dialdehydes seem useful in overcoming the major limitations of unmodified hemoglobin while maintaining basic hemoglobin structure.
Two sublines of commercially available Long-Evans hooded rats have been developed by genetic selection. These sublines have widely differing levels of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) due to different alleles at a single genetic locus. In the present work, it is shown that rats from the commercial population are also polymorphic at a hemoglobin locus, probably involving two alleles of the IIIβ-globin chain locus. Particular hemoglobin types have been found to be strongly associated with certain DPG types, not only in the high-DPG and low-DPG lines but also in the commercial population. Two explanations for this association are considered. One is a single-locus hypothesis, with hemoglobin allelic variation causing DPG variation, and the other is a two-locus hypothesis, with marked linkage disequilibrium.
Recombinant human erythropoietin (epoetin) is widely used for the treatment of renal anemia. The aim of our study was to determine the influence of epoetin on erythrocyte metabolism. Thirty-six hemodialysis patients (22 men, 14 female), aged from 17 to 64 years (mean age 43) and 30 healthy volunteers (12 men, 18 female), aged from 25 to 65 years (mean age 40) were studied. Epoetin (Eprex, Janssen-Cilag) was administered subcutaneously with the starting dose of 2000 IU three times per week for twelve months (range from 75 to 133 IU/kg/week, mean dose 102+/-21 IU/kg/week). Laboratory markers of: hematological response, iron status and erythrocyte metabolism were measured before epoetin administration. Afterwards the markers were controlled every three months. During epoetin treatment a significant increase in hemoglobin concentration was observed (100% patients responded in a positive way to epoetin). The following changes in erythrocyte metabolism were noticed: 1) in glycolytic enzymes: a significant increase in the activity of hexokinase and that of lactate dehydrogenase, 2) in glycolytic intermediates: a significant increase in the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate concentrations, 3) a significant increase sodium, potassium adenosine triphosphatase concentration, 4) the glucose uptake by erythrocytes significantly decreased while the lactate production remained stable. During anemia treatment with epoetin in hemodialysis patients not only quantitative but also qualitative changes in erythrocytes were observed.
Abstract Precise oxygen equilibrium curves of hemoglobin (Hb) Chesapeake and human adult hemoglobin (Hb A) were determined by the automatic recording method in the presence and absence of NaCl, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP). The Adair constants, k1, k2, k3, and k4, and some oxygenation parameters were obtained from the equilibrium data. Maximum slope of the Hill plot for Hb Chesapeake, which was 1.22 under stripped conditions, was profoundly increased on the addition of 2 mm DPG and still more, beyond 2, on the addition of 2 mm IHP. It has been shown that DPG increases the cooperativity of oxygen binding to Hb Chesapeake by reducing k1, k2, and k3 without significant change of k4, as previously observed in Hb A. Within experimental errors, the k4 value for Hb Chesapeake was equal to that for Hb A whether DPG was present or absent. The ki value for Hb Chesapeake did not monotonously increase with i: k3 was significantly smaller than k2 whether DPG and IHP were present or absent. This resulted in slightly biphasic oxygen equilibrium curves of Hb Chesapeake. The biphasic oxygen binding was tentatively interpreted as a result of significantly cooperative interactions between the α1 and β1 (and α2 and β2) subunits and impaired subunit interactions at the α1β2 (and α2-β1) interface.
WE have all learned that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) progressively decreases during storage of erythrocytes, 1 resulting in an increase of the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen.
Vertebrates living at high altitudes provide excellent examples of adaptive changes in Hb structure and function (Weber 2007; Storz et al. 2010b ). To cope with the reduced ambient PO 2 at high altitudes, the Hb-O 2 affinity of highland natives is often increased (Weber 2007 , as this will enhance blood-O 2 loading in pulmonary capillaries, thereby securing high saturation of arterial blood. However, there is a trade-off, as a high affinity Hb may compromise O 2 unloading to the tissues in the systemic capillaries. To facilitate O 2 unloading to metabolizing tissues, mammalian Hbs are typically sensitive to the organic phosphate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), chloride, protons and CO 2 , which all bind to specific sites and stabilize the low-affinity T (tense) state relative to the high-affinity R (relaxed) state of the Hb (Weber and Fago 2004) . The well-known effect of a pH change on Hb-O 2 affinity, the Bohr effect, facilitates unloading of O 2 in systemic capillaries in response to an increase in blood lactic acid and CO 2 , the end-products of energy metabolism, to locally match O 2 supply with O 2 consumption. The magnitude of the Bohr effect varies greatly among the Hbs of different species, but it is unclear whether changes in the Bohr effect have evolved as an adaptive response to changes in environmental O 2 availability (Jensen 2004; Giardina et al. 2004; Weber 2007) .
Abstract A procedure for microestimation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, utilizing its role as coenzyme in the phosphoglycerate mutase reaction is described. The coenzymic activity was determined by assaying phosphoglycerate mutase polarimetrically without a coupled enzyme. This method is applicable to samples containing as little as 0.002 μmole of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate/ml. The content in various biological extracts was determined.
The alkaline Bohr effect (release of protons as a result of the oxygenation of hemoglobin) has been shown to be enhanced in human hemoglobin in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (1–4). A similar enhancement of the Bohr effect has been found in studies of certain fish hemoglobins (5). Both Bailey et al. (2) and De Bruin et al. (6) have reported differential titration experiments which show enhancement not only of the alkaline Bohr effect but also of the acid Bohr effect. That is, oxygenation of human hemoglobin at sufficiently low pH is associated with an additional uptake of protons in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The data of De Bruin et al. (6) but not those of Bailey et al. (2) suggested that this additional uptake was, in fact, equal to the additional release of protons which occurs in alkaline solution. These experiments are not sufficient by themselves to ascertain whether the oxygen affinity is raised or lowered in the presence of organic phosphates at low pH. We have therefore undertaken a study of the oxygen equilibrium to determine which of these two alternatives may prevail.
In order to study the effect of prolonged elevation of plasma inorganic phosphate (P1) on red cell metabolism and function, oxyhemolobin dissociation curves (ODC) from zero to full saturation were performed on whole blood from 14 insulintreated, nonacidotic diabetics and 5 healthy volunteers following oral administration of disodium ethane-l-hydroxy-l, l-diphosphonate (EHDP; 20 mg kg−1 day−1 or placebo for 28 days. EHDP significantly increased mean Pi (diabetics, 1.18 to 1.67 mmol/liter; P < 0.001; controls 1.14 to 1.69 mmol/liter; P < 0.005 and P50 at in vivo pH of the ODC (diabetics, 25.6 to 26.7 mm Hg, P < 0.025; controls, 27.6 to 29.5 mm Hg, P < 0.02). Pi and P50 were correlated in both diabetics (r = 0.58, P < 0.01) and controls (r = 0.69, P < 0.05). Mean P50 in diabetics was significantly lower than normal in spite of normal red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) (diabetics, 15.2μmol/g of Hb; controls, 14.3 μmol/g of Hb). 2,3-DPG increased when the diabetics were on EHDP (15.2 to 16.3 μmol/g of Hb, P < 0.005), while no significant changes occurred in hemoglobin concentration, oxygen saturation, or blood pH. The study emphasizes the importance of Pi on red cell function and indicates that an elevation of Pi tends to counteract the defect in oxygen-release capacity of the red cells in diabetic subjects.
Abstract 1. 1. Erythrocytes in whole blood samples from dogs with phosphofructokinase (PFK) deficiency had lower 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations, higher ATP concentrations, and were more alkaline fragile than normal canine erythrocytes. 2. 2. Reticulocytes from a PFK-deficient dog contained nearly three times the ATP concentration of normal canine erythrocytes, and had 2,3-DPG concentrations similar to normal canine erythrocytes. 3. 3. PFK-deficient reticulocytes are not alkaline fragile. 4. 4. The erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentration in whole blood samples from PFK-deficient dogs was increased to normal by in vitro incubation with dihydroxyacetone, pyruvate and phosphate. This incubation resulted in only a slight increase in ATP concentration. 5. 5. The alkaline fragility of these 2,3-DPG replenished PFK-deficient erythrocytes was normal. 6. 6. Findings in this study indicate that the increased alkaline fragility of canine PFK-deficient erythrocytes is the result of decreased intracellular 2,3-DPG concentration.
Abstract : Hemoglobin affinity for oxygen and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) were evaluated in relation to other parameters of oxygen transport in experimental hemorrhagic and endotoxic shock. Eight rhesus monkeys were studied before and at intervals for 4 hr after the development of shock induced by the administration of Escherichia coli endotoxin. Seven other animals were phlebotomized to produce hemodynamically comparable hemorrhagic shock. The two groups had similar reductions in blood pressure and cardiac output. Oxygen consumption was unchanged during the study. Hemoglobin concentration was reduced in both groups but to a greater degree in those in hemorrhagic shock. The most striking physiological difference in parameters measured was more severe metabolic acidosis in the endotoxin group. The animals in hemorrhagic shock had a uniform increase in P50 (mean increase 2.9 mm Hg). The animals in endotoxin shock varied considerably with no significant change in P50. No consistent or statistically significant changes in 2,3-DPG were observed in either group. It is unlikely that 2,3-DPG-related changes in P50 play a major role in augmenting oxygen delivery early in experimental shock. (Author)
Abstract Hemoglobins of three baboons, Theropithecus gelada, Papio hamadryas- and Papio anubis, were purified and their oxygen equilibrium characteristics were studied. (a) Oxygen affinity, as expressed by P50, oxygen partial pressure for 50% oxygen binding, was in the order of gelada hemoglobin > anubis hemoglobin > hamadryas hemoglobin although the differences were small. (b) The presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate reduced their oxygen affinity in a similar manner. The effect on baboon hemoglobins was greater than that on human and Japanese monkey hemoglobins. (c) The intensity of the Bohr effect, as expressed by −Δlog P 50 ΔpH , at pH 7·4 agreed well with each other and the value was 0·62 in the presence of 2 m m diphosphoglycerate and 0·52 in its absence. These results indicate that phenotypic adaptation (acclimatory) may play an important role in the adaptation of gelada baboon to high altitudes.
Abstract The role of Lys-95(β), which is on the exterior of the hemoglobin (HbS) tetramer, in the aggregation process has been addressed because there is a lack of agreement on its importance. The early studies on the aggregation of HbS in the presence of other mutant hemoglobins are consistent with the subsequent electron microscopic studies in demonstrating the participation of Lys-95(β) in gelation; the results of the crystal structure do not agree with these conclusions. Therefore, with the objective of clarifying its role we have carried out site-directed substitution of Lys-95(β) to an isoleucine residue. The mutation was introduced by polymerase chain reaction recombination methodology, and the absence of other mutations in the β-globin gene was established by sequencing the gene in its entirety. The recombinant mutant hemoglobin was expressed in yeast and characterized by peptide mapping and sequencing, which demonstrated that the only different tryptic peptide had the Ile substitution at position 95(β). The recombinant hemoglobin had the correct amino acid composition and molecular weight by mass spectrometric analysis. It was also pure as judged by isoelectric focusing. It was fully functional because it had an average Hill coefficient of 3.1 and responded normally to the allosteric regulators, chloride, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and inositol hexaphosphate. Of particular interest was the finding that this hemoglobin mutant aggregated at a concentration of about 40 g/dl, nearly twice that at which HbS itself aggregated (24 g/dl). Therefore, Lys-95(β) has a very important role in the aggregation process and is a good candidate site for the design of a therapeutic agent for sickle cell anemia.
The mechanism by which cells reduce cytoplasmic vanadium(V) (vanadate) to vanadium(IV) was investigated using the human red cell as a model system. Vanadate uptake by red cells occurs with a rapid phase involving chemical equilibration across the plasma membrane and a slower phase resulting in a high concentration of bound vanadium(IV). The slow phase was inhibited in glucose-starved cells and restored upon addition of glucose indicating an energy requirement for this process. The time course of vanadium(IV) appearance (monitored by EPR spectroscopy of intact cells) paralleled the slow phase of uptake indicating that this phase involves vanadium reduction. The reduction of intracellular vanadate to vanadium(IV) was nearly quantitative after 23 h. The intracellular reduction is not enzymatic, since a similar time course of vanadium reduction and binding to hemoglobin was observed when glutathione was added to a hemoglobin + vanadate solution in vitro. Vanadium(IV) binding to hemoglobin was reduced by addition of ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or EDTA, probably through chelation of the cation. The stability constant of the ATP-vanadium (IV) complex was determined to be 150 M-1 at pH 4.9. The time course of red cell vanadate uptake and reduction was followed in the concentration range in which approximately 60% inhibition of the (Na+ + K+)-ATPase is observed. It is concluded that vanadate is reduced by cytoplasmic glutathione in this concentration range and that the reduction explains the resistance of the (Na+ + K+)-ATPase to vanadium in intact cells.
textabstractIn sickle cell disease (SCD), sickle hemoglobin (HbS) polymerizes upon deoxygenation, ::: resulting in sickling of red blood cells (RBCs). These sickled RBCs have strongly reduced ::: deformability, leading to vaso-occlusive crises and chronic hemolytic anemia. To date, ::: there are no reliable laboratory parameters or assays capable of predicting disease severity ::: or monitoring treatment effects. We here report on the oxygenscan, a newly developed ::: method to measure RBC deformability (expressed as Elongation Index - EI) as a function of ::: pO2. Upon a standardized, 22 minute, automated cycle of deoxygenation (pO2 median ::: 16 mmHg ± 0.17) and reoxygenation, a number of clinically relevant parameters are produced in a highly reproducible manner (coefficients of variation <5%). In particular, physiological modulators of oxygen affinity, such as, pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate showed a ::: significant correlation (respectively R = ‑0.993 and R = 0.980) with Point of Sickling ::: (PoS5%), which is defined as the pO2 where a 5% decrease in EI is observed during deoxygenation. Furthermore, in vitro treatment with antisickling agents, including GBT440, ::: which alter the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin, caused a reproducible left-shift of the PoS, ::: indicating improved deformability at lower oxygen tensions. When RBCs from 21 SCD ::: patients were analyzed, we observed a significantly higher PoS in untreated homozygous ::: SCD patients compared to treated patients and other genotypes. We conclude that the ::: oxygenscan is a state-of-the-art technique that allows for rapid analysis of sickling behavior in SCD patients. The method is promising for personalized treatment, development of ::: new treatment strategies and could have potential in prediction of complications.
The regulatory properties of pig erythrocyte hexokinase III have been studied. Among mammalian erythrocyte hexokinases, the pig enzyme shows the highest affinity for glucose and a positive cooperative effect with nH = 1.5 at all the MgATP concentrations studied (for 0.5 to 5 mM). Glucose at high concentrations is also an inhibitor of hexokinase III. Similarly, the apparent affinity constant for MgATP is independent of glucose concentration. Uncomplexed ATP and Mg are both competitive inhibitors with respect to MgATP. Glucose 6-phosphate, known as a stronger inhibitor of all mammalian erythrocyte hexokinases, is a poor inhibitor for the pig enzyme (Ki = 120 microM). Furthermore, this inhibition is not relieved by orthophosphate as with other mammalian red blood cell hexokinases. A variety of red blood cell-phosphorylated compounds were tested and found to be inhibitors of pig hexokinase III. Of these, glucose 1,6-diphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate displayed inhibition constants in the range of their intracellular concentrations. In an attempt to investigate the role of hexokinase type III in pig erythrocytes some metabolic properties of this cell have been studied. The adult pig erythrocyte is able to utilize 0.27 mumol of glucose/h/ml red blood cells (RBC) compared with values of 0.56-2.85 mumol/h/ml RBC for the other mammalian species. This reduced capacity to metabolize glucose results from a relatively poor ability of the cell membrane to transport glucose. In fact, all the glycolytic enzymes were present and a low intracellular glucose concentration was measured (0.5 mM against a plasma level of 5 mM). Furthermore, transport and utilization were concentration-dependent processes. Inosine, proposed as the major energy substrate of the pig erythrocyte, at physiological concentrations is not as efficient as glucose in maintaining reduced glutathione levels under oxidative stress. Furthermore, newborn pig erythrocytes (fully permeable to glucose) possess hexokinase type II as the predominant glucose-phosphorylating activity. This fact and the information derived from the study of the regulatory characteristics of hexokinase III and from metabolic studies on intact pig erythrocytes permit the hypothesis that the presence of this peculiar hexokinase isozyme (type III) enables the adult pig erythrocyte to metabolize low but appreciable amounts of glucose.
Propranolol, a blocking agent for the beta adrenergic receptor, produces a redistribution of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red cell. At concentrations of 3.3 x10(-5)M, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red cell membrane becomes unbound in vitro. The administration of propranolol to hunmns produces similar changes and results in a decrease in the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen.
Hb Sendsgi, a new unstable hemoglobin variant, was found in a Japanese male and his daughter, who have a moderate hemolytic anemia. The variant showed decreased stability upon heat and isopropanol precipitation tests. The variant did not separate from hemoglobin A by electrophoresis, but the abnormal chain emerged ahead of the normal β-chain on reverse-phase HPLC. Structural analyses revealed that the phenylalanine β42 (CD1), one of the critical amino acid residues in the heme pocket, had been replaced by valine. Oxygen equilibrium studies of the patient's hemolysates indicated that Hb Sendagi had a lowered oxygen affinity and a normal response to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Hb Hammersmith (β42 Phe→Ser) and Hb Louisville (Bucuresti) (β42 Phe→Leu) have previously been reported to have varying degrees of molecular instability and altered oxygen binding function. Hb Sendagi provides an additional model for elucidation of the role of the phenylalanine βCD1 on the structure and function of hemoglobin.
Abstract : The objective of the study was to determine if a higher concentration of inorganic phosphate than 2mM (CPD: citrate-phosphate-dextrose) would benefit red cell concentrations of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate during blood storage. Blood preservatives with phosphate concentrations of 2 mM (CPD), 5 mM, 10mM, 15mM, and 20 mM were used to study red cell preservation under blood bank storage conditions at 4 C. Procedural and analytic methods previously employed in these laboratories were employed. Concentrations of phosphate higher than 2 mM (CPD) were found to be of no benefit for maintenance of ATP and 2,3-DPG during 5 weeks of storage. (Author)
Human aorta, brain, and muscle aldose reductase, partially purified by DEAE-cellulose (DE-52) column chromatography, is activated 2-2.5-fold on incubation with 10 microM each of glucose-6-phosphate, NADPH, and glucose for 20 min at 25 degrees C. The activation of the enzyme was established by following the NADPH oxidation as well as the sorbitol formation using glucose as substrate. The activated form of aldose reductase exhibited monophasic kinetics with glucose and glyceraldehyde, whereas the unactivated or native enzyme exhibited a biphasic kinetics with both the substrates. The activated enzyme was less susceptible to inhibition by aldose reductase inhibitors such as sorbinil, alrestatin, and quercetrin as compared with the unactivated enzyme. Similarly, the native enzyme was strongly inhibited by some of the phosphorylated intermediates of glycolytic pathway, such as 3-phosphoglycerate, 1,3-diphosphoglycerate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and ADP, whereas the activated enzyme was either not inhibited or inhibition was 20-30% only. Partially purified aldose reductase from the normal human lens exhibited properties similar to the native enzyme of other tissues, whereas the enzyme from clear lens obtained from diabetic subjects with severe hyperglycemia expressed properties similar to the in vitro activated enzyme of aorta, brain, and muscle.
1. Blood gas tensions, pH, PCV, O(2) affinity and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels have been measured in uterine and umbilical blood in conscious cows and mares with indwelling vascular catheters and in sows under sodium pentobarbitone anaesthesia.2. Large P(O2) gradients (20-24 mmHg) were observed between the uterine and umbilical venous blood in the cow and pig, while in the mare the corresponding P(O2) difference was only 2.7 +/- 1.7 mmHg. Alterations in maternal arterial P(O2) did not affect the large vein-to-vein P(O2) difference in either ruminant or pig.3. In the cow the presence of different haemoglobin types in the adult (A, AB or B) did not appear to affect the O(2) affinity. In six animals the mean P(50) of the foetal blood (24.8 mmHg) was considerably lower than that of the mother (35.5 mmHg); no changes in P(50) were observed during the last month of gestation. Red cell 2,3-DPG levels were higher in the calf foetus than in the mother, but in the ruminant 2,3-DPG has no effect on the affinity of haemoglobin for O(2) and the differences in P(50) between foetus and mother could be ascribed to the presence of a foetal haemoglobin.4. In the sow large differences in O(2) affinity between foetal and maternal blood were observed, which were related to red cell 2,3-DPG concentration. A rise in foetal blood P(50) during the last half of gestation was associated with increased foetal weight and a rise in red cell 2,3-DPG.5. In the mare the P(50) of the foetal blood was 2-5 mmHg below that of the mother. This difference appeared to be due to the lower 2,3-DPG concentration in the foetal red cells as in the sow; in both species the haemoglobin of the foetus is similar to that of the mother.6. The differences in foetal and maternal O(2) affinity found in the various species and the changes which may occur during gestation or in the perinatal period are discussed in relation to the observed transplacental P(O) (2) gradients and the O(2) requirements of the foetus and neonate.
Abstract Expressions that take into account the effects of thennodynamic non-ideality, described in terms of a high-order virial expansion, are derived for the concentration-dependence of the weight-average partition coefficient in exclusion chromatography of a single solute and of a solute undergoing reversible self-association. Comparison of the concentration-dependences predicted by those expressions with results obtained for bovine and human oxyhemoglobins on CPG-10-120 porous glass beads in 0.156 I phosphate-chloride buffer, pH 7.3, shows that neither oxyhemoglobin conforms with the concept of it being a single α 2 β 2 entity with Stokes radius of 3.13 run, the experimental value. Previously published osmotic pressure and sedimentation equilibrium results are also shown to be inconsistent with this concept. On the other hand, both sets of exclusion chromatography results are consistent with the joint operation of thermodynamic non-ideality and reversible association of the α 2 α 2 species. From the magnitude of the equilibrium constant, derived for either of two possible modes of association, it is calculated that only half of the oxyhemoglibin would be in the α 2 β 2 states under conditions of oxygen saturation and a concentration of 320 g/liter, that pertaining in the red blood cell. The consequences of this association phenomenon are discussed in relation to the oxygen binding curves obtained by others in the presence and absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). An explanation is provided of the observed dependence on hemoglobin concentration of oxygen-binding in the presence of DPG, and of the absence of such an effect in DPG-free solutions. It is concluded that the control of oxygen binding to hemoglobin in the physiological situation involves the joint operation of self-association and allosteric effects.
Abstract The α and β chains within the human hemoglobin tetramer possess different reactivities toward n-butyl isocyanide. Identification of the kinetic components involved in the binding of the fourth ligand molecule is made possible by intrinsic spectral differences between the α and β chains. In the last step in ligand binding, the association rate constants for the α and β chains were determined to be 35 x 103 m-1 sec-1 and 240 x 103 m-1 sec-1, respectively; the dissociation constants were 0.32 sec-1 and 4.00 sec-1, respectively. These kinetic parameters were little affected by heme concentration and pH. Similarly, inorganic phosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate had little effect. However, inositol hexaphosphate did influence the parameters through its ability to bind to the liganded form of hemoglobin. Under all the experimental conditions investigated the β chain association and dissociation rate constants were both significantly greater than the corresponding α chain constants. The equilibrium constants for both chains were roughly equivalent.
Recombinant alpha-D-galactosidase (rGal) from soybean (Glycine max) hydrolyzed the immunodominant alpha-D-galactose residue from the B epitope of red blood cells. This converted type B erythrocytes to type O which are "universally" transfusable. Type B red blood cells were obtained from four different donors and enzymatically converted. Cell function parameters, including red cell indices, pH, methemoglobin, carboxyhemoglobin, osmotic fragility, hemolysis, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, cholinesterase, ATP, and antigen typing of treated cells were compared to controls. These pilot studies indicate that rGal could have potential biotechnical application in the production of universally transfusable red blood cells.
Desferrioxamine (DFO) in therapeutically useful amounts was incorporated into red blood cells (RBC) by means of a dialysis method. Entrapped DFO interacted with hemoglobin which was indicated by the formation of methemoglobin. This process was influenced to a great extent by the duration and temperature of the incubation steps. In contrast to added methylene blue the co-entrapment of ascorbic acid proved to be a very effective measure for protecting hemoglobin from oxidation and maintaining intracellular 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Hypernormal values of 2,3-DPG could be obtained by the incubation in solutions containing phosphate, inosine, and pyruvate. Loaded RBC prepared in such a way should be characterized by a nearly normal oxygen-transport function and survival in vivo.
Chronic hypophosphatemia in humans is associated with a slow depletion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in erythrocytes, combined with shape alteration, impaired deformability, and viability of the cells. Likewise, incubation of erythrocytes in alkaline solution is associated with ATP depletion. Since in hyperventilation both hypophosphatemia and alkalosis are present, we have investigated red cell organic phosphates, shape, deformability, and osmotic fragility before, during, and after 20 min of voluntary hyperventilation. On the average, red cell ATP decreased by 42%, the blood pH increased by 0.2 units, and plasma inorganic phosphorus decreased by 46% compared with the initial values. Red cell 2,3-DPG, shape, deformability, and osmotic fragility remained unchanged. After the end of hyperventilation ATP increased rapidly to control values in parallel with the normalization of the blood pH, whereas inorganic plasma phosphorus remained at the low level observed during hyperventilation. It is concluded that the combined effects of hypophosphatemia and alkalosis in acute hyperventilation lead to an isolated fall of red cell ATP, which occurs as rapid as after total inhibition of red cell glycolysis in vitro.
1. ::: 1. Measurements of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate were performed on normal mouse blood and blood obtained from mice infected with Plasmodium berghei malaria. Results indicate that malarial infection leads to a significant lowering of the level of this phosphate ester. The possible significance of this finding in rodent malaria is discussed. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. An improved procedure for the estimation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is also described.
We have previously obtained evidence that N-terminal band 3 peptides inhibited deoxyhemoglobin S (deoxy S) polymerization as determined by equilibrium solubility assays. An N:1-15AA fragment binds to the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) receptor locus of deoxy S with five to seven amino acids (AA) extending internally, while ten to eight AA remained external to deoxy S and inhibited polymerization by steric hindrance. A true mirror-image peptide, corresponding to two N:1-8AA + lysine (K) linked by coupler, binds to the 2,3-DPG loci of two deoxy S molecules, tethering them together to form "binary complexes" incapable of entering the polymer chains. The reduction in the concentration of deoxy S available for extended chain formation decreased polymerization. We now report time:viscosity profiles of the sol-gel transformation of purified solutions of deoxy S with and without peptides and studies of the gel solidity at equilibrium. Samples with peptides had longer lag times than controls of similar deoxy S concentrations. The mirror-image peptide was a more effective inhibitor than the N:1-15AA peptide. When the mirror-image peptide was present in peptide:hemoglobin molar ratios of 0.25-1:1, the increases in lag time were equivalent to decreasing the deoxy S concentrations by 15-25%, comparable to projected major therapeutic effects. Gel solidity, determined by yield temperature, was less in the sample with mirror-image peptide compared to control. These results support the proposed mechanisms of inhibition of deoxy S polymerization by band 3 peptides.
Whole blood pH values measured in response to changes in gas phase carbon dioxide concentration are compared with predictions derived from the analysis of Part I of this series. Comparison is also made of experimental oxyhemoglobin saturation with algorithmic predictions. The role of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is examined in each case. Furthermore, means of inferring DPG concentration from saturation measurements are demonstrated.
Summary. ::: ::: The role of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in increasing the availability of haemoglobin oxygen in neonatal jaundice and hereditary haemolytic anaemias was investigated. Measurements of 2,3-DPG were carried out on 58 normal children and six normal adults, 18 full-term newborns with neonatal jaundice and 57 cases (51 children and six adults) with hereditary haemolytic anaemias. In normal children and adults, with a mean haemoglobin of 12.69 g/dl, mean 2,3-DPG was 14.90 μmol/g Hb. In jaundiced newborns with a mean haemoglobin of 16.04 g/dl mean 2,3-DPG levels were 14.51 μmol/g Hb, i.e. normal. 2,3-DPG levels were increased in patients with β-thalassaemia major, α-thalassaemia, sickle-cell disease, favism, hereditary spherocytosis and in heterozygotes for β-thalassaemia with increased haemoglobin F. In heterozygotes for β-thalassaemia with increased haemoglobin A2 only and in sickle cell trait 2,3-DPG levels were normal.
This study did not investigate other markers of RBC storage such as RBC ATP, reduced glutathione and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and osmotic fragility. Previous studies suggest that given the degree of RBC viability demonstrated here, these variables are likely to be within an acceptable range and/or reversible after transfusion. 9, 15, 16 Further work, however, needs to be done and ultimately cord blood RBC survival should be assessed in vivo with clinical trials comparing clinical and hematologic variables before and after cord blood transfusion. Clinical studies in children involving radiolabeled cord blood RBCs would present ethical and practical difficulties in sub-Saharan Africa. It is noteworthy that after 35 days of storage a proportion of both UC-WB and AD-WB units showed levels of hemolysis higher than international quality standard of 0.8%. 17 In addition, two-thirds of the AD-WB units provided to the study by the RBTC were below the recommended lower volume limit of 405 mL and were not labeled as such. 17 This, combined with the likelihood that some donor Hb concentrations were probably less than 12.5 g/dL, resulted in an almost twofold range in total unit Hb and 2 units having a total Hb of less than the international standard of 45 g. 17 This has implications for pediatric clinical practice, which assumes minimum Hb content for transfused blood and is therefore prescribed using a volume multiplier (20 mL/kg 18 ). The AD-WB unit with the lowest Hb content in this study would provide 30% less oxygen-carrying capacity than the average (1.6 g/kg vs. 2.2 g/kg). This may result in poor clinical outcome and/or exposure to further transfusions and raises issues about quality checks, training, and supervision with regard to donor Hb screening and blood collection within the Kenya Blood Transfusion Service.
In sickle cell disease (SCD), sickle hemoglobin (HbS) polymerizes upon deoxygenation, resulting in sickling of red blood cells (RBCs). These sickled RBCs have strongly reduced deformability, leading to vaso-occlusive crises and chronic hemolytic anemia. To date, there are no reliable laboratory parameters or assays capable of predicting disease severity or monitoring treatment effects. We here report on the oxygenscan, a newly developed method to measure RBC deformability (expressed as Elongation Index -EI) as a function of pO 2 . Upon a standardized, 22 minute, automated cycle of deoxygenation (pO 2 median 16 mmHg ± 0.17) and reoxygenation, a number of clinically relevant parameters are produced in a highly reproducible manner (coefficients of variation <5%). In particular, physiological modulators of oxygen affinity, such as, pH and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate showed a significant correlation (respectively R = -0.993 and R = 0.980) with Point of Sickling (PoS 5% ), which is defined as the pO 2 where a 5% decrease in EI is observed during deoxygenation. Furthermore, in vitro treatment with antisickling agents, including GBT440, which alter the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin, caused a reproducible left-shift of the PoS, indicating improved deformability at lower oxygen tensions. When RBCs from 21 SCD patients were analyzed, we observed a significantly higher PoS in untreated homozygous SCD patients compared to treated patients and other genotypes. We conclude that the oxygenscan is a state-of-the-art technique that allows for rapid analysis of sickling behavior in SCD patients. The method is promising for personalized treatment, development of new treatment strategies and could have potential in prediction of complications.
Altered properties of stored blood products might explain this paradoxical effect. Biochemical and hemorrheological alterations of packed RBC units due to prolonged storage (depletion of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, membrane phospholipid vesiculation and loss, protein and lipid peroxidation, and loss of deformability) [4] [5] [6] may affect their O 2 delivery capacity [7] [8] [9] . Residual leukocytes in RBC units may also compromise the efficacy of blood transfusion by producing cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-1b, IL6, IL8, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα), which may interfere with immune function [10] , alter circulating lymphocytes, and enhance neutrophil activity in recipients [11, 12] . These effects, collectively referred to as "transfusion-related immunomodulation", may be responsible for higher incidences of infections among transfused patients [13] . Moreover, cytokines may contribute to RBC membrane alterations during storage [14] and impair RBC rheology. These effects, in theory, should be prevented by leukocyte reduction; however, clinical data remain controversial [15] .
An unknown intense signal (Pun ) with a mean chemical shift of 5.3 ppm was observed in 31 P MR spectra from the calf muscles of patients with the diabetic foot syndrome. The aim of the study was to identify the origin of this signal and its potential as a biomarker of muscle injury. Calf muscles of 68 diabetic patients (66.3 ± 8.6 years; body mass index = 28.2 ± 4.3 kg/m2 ) and 12 age-matched healthy controls were examined by (dynamic) 31 P MRS (3 T system, 31 P/1 H coil). Phantoms (glucose-1-phosphate, Pi and PCr) were measured at pH values of 7.05 and 7.51. At rest, Pun signals with intensities higher than 50% of the Pi intensity were observed in 10 of the 68 examined diabetic subjects. We tested two hypothetical origins of the Pun signal: (1) phosphorus from phosphoesters and (2) phosphorus from extra- and intracellular alkaline phosphate pools. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and glucose-1-phosphate are the only phosphoesters with signals in the chemical shift region close to 5.3 ppm. Both compounds can be excluded: 2,3-diphosphoglycerate due to the missing second signal component at 6.31 ppm; glucose-1-phosphate because its chemical shifts are about 0.2 ppm downfield from the Pi signal (4.9 ppm). If the Pun signal is from phosphate, it represents a pH value of 7.54 ± 0.05. Therefore, it could correspond to signals of Pi in mitochondria. However, patients with critical limb ischemia have rather few mitochondria and so the Pun signal probably originates from interstitia. Our data suggest that the increased Pun signal observed in patients with the diabetic foot syndrome is a biomarker of severe muscular damage.
Abstract. Red cells washed and stored in a citrate-phosphate-glucose-adenine solution at pH 7.4–7.6 demonstrate excellent maintenance of adenosine triphosphate, elevation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate well above normal levels for more than 6 weeks, reduced hemolysis and 24-hour in vivo survival comparable to that of cells stored in ADSOL. These results can be attributed in part to a chloride shift in which the washout of intracellular chloride is associated with an influx of OH“, which increases intracellular pH and thereby increases the rate of glycolysis. The phosphate functions primarily as a buffer to maintain both extra- and intracellular pH. Reducing the effective osmolality of the storage solution reduces hemolysis and improves cell morphology.
High resolution 31P-NMR has been used for the non-invasive observation of metabolites and metabolic rates in blood of normal mice and of mice infected with Plasmodium berghei, the causative agent of malaria. 31P-NMR was used to quantitate levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in whole cells as a function of the degree of parasitemia and yielded good agreement with the results of enzymatic assays. The time-dependence of 31P metabolites was monitored in both normal and infected erythrocytes, greater rates of decay of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate being observed in malarial blood which correlate with the level of parasitemia. Very high metabolic rates of infected cells render measurement of intracellular pH unreliable on freshly drawn whole blood. When appropriate measures are taken to avoid this complication, no difference is observed in the intracellular pH of parasitized and non-parasitized erythrocytes from infected animals. In both normal and parasitized mice the intraerythrocytic pH is more acidic than that of the suspending medium by 0.15 pH unit at 25 degrees C. Unlike free-living protozoa, the parasitic protozoan Plasmodium does not contain detectable levels of phosphonates or polyphosphates, in either whole cells or perchloric acid extracts thereof.
The behavior of the oxyhemoglobin curve was studied in ten patients with respiratory alkalosis (arterial [H+] less than 37 nM, pCO2 less than 32 mmHg and HCO-3 less than 22.0 mEq/L) and ten patients with metabolic alkalosis ([H+] less than 34 nM, pCO2 greater than 37 mmHg and HCO-3 greater than 28.0 mEq/L) to determine whether different alkalotic states similarly affect the red blood cell [H+] and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate interaction and thus the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. The findings were statistically indistinguishable in respiratory alkalosis and metabolic alkalosis: a) low plasma [H+], normal red blood cell [H+], and high transmembrane [H+] gradient; b) elevated red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inversely proportional to low arterial plasma [H+]; c) decrease in oxygen affinity of hemoglobin when normalized for plasma [H+], but less decreased when normalized for red blood cell [H+]. Other factors capable of affecting the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin were: mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration; red blood cell adenosine triphosphate; carboxyhemoglobin; and methemoglobin were not significantly different between groups. These results: 1) agree with data previously reported from this laboratory on patients with portal-systemic encephalopathy; 2) underscore the importance of RBC [H+] in defining the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin; 3) suggest the decrease in oxygen affinity of hemoglobin is mediated through the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate elevation; and 4) indicate the high transmembrane [H+] gradient is principally due to the cellular accumulation of [H+] (2,3-diphosphoglycerate ionization).
The biological response to controlled exposures of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) was studied in 19 human subjects exposed to 0.2 ppm NO2 for 2 hr and compared to 15 control subjects exposed to filtered air for 2 hr. Seven biochemical blood parameters, including glutathione, red blood cell glutathione reductase, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, methemoglobin, vitamin E, complement C2, and IgA were measured prior to exposure, immediately after exposure, and 22 hr following exposure. The only variable that showed significant change due to NO2 exposure was glutathione. Glutathione is known to protect the erythrocyte from oxidative stress. The increase in glutathione observed upon exposure to NO2 may be a protective reaction of the erythrocyte to meet the oxidative stress.
Summary. The structural basis of the crystallizing tendencies of oxyHbC (b6Glu ! Lys), that produces haemolytic anaemia in homozygotes, is unknown. Using a fluorescent organic phosphate analogue (8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulphonate), and conventional oxygen equilibrium studies, data suggest that the binding of inositolhexaphosphate (IHP) to oxyHbC differs from HbA, indicating perturbations of the oxyHbC central cavity, which was predicted from our earlier spectroscopic findings. To define the relationship between this conformational change in oxyHbC and its tendency to crystallize, the effect of four central cavity ligands on the crystallization rate was studied: a peptide containing 11 residues from the N-terminal portion of band 3, the full cytoplasmic domain of band 3, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and IHP. OxyHbC crystallization was accelerated by all these central cavity ligands and not by the appropriate controls. These central cavity changes become an excellent candidate for the dramatic increase in the crystallization rate of oxyHbC.
Impaired erythrocyte deformability was considered to play an important role in microcirculatory disturbances. We recently confirmed that brazilin, the main active principle ofCaesalpinia sappan, enhanced activity of erythrocyte deformability and reduced blood viscosity. In this study, we examined the effects of brazilin on three biochemical parameters (ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and calcium) which influenced erythrocyte deformability. Treatment with brazilin increased erythrocyte deformability and ATP concentrations in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and calcium in diabetic rats following brazilin administration were decreased significantly compared to those of diabetic control rats. The results suggest that brazilin have a potential effect to improve rheological abnormalities in diabetes.
Summary Conformational differences between manganese hemoglobin and its liganded derivatives are observed in the tetramer-dimer dissociation equilibrium, in the binding of 8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonate (an analogue of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate) and bromthymol blue, and in the reaction with p-hydroxymercuribenzoate. The reaction of manganese hemoglobin with NO is readily followed by stopped flow, the resulting NO derivative is photodissociable, and rapid kinetic measurements exhibit the hemoglobin allosteric interaction.
Summary Using a pH titration method we have observed the ligation Bohr effect in sulfhemoglobin and find that it is increased upon the addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. These results indicate that sulfhemoglobin undergoes a quaternary structure change upon ligation.
Abstract : Inorganic phosphate which is known to stimulate red cell glycolysis is present in one of the preservatives for storing whole blood, citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD), but not the other, acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD). Both of these preservatives for liquid storage were developed before 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was found to be necessary for normal hemoglobin function. In a recent study we have shown that very high concentrations of phosphate (10, 15, and 20 mM) were deleterious for maintaining 2,3-DPG. In the present study a lower range of phosphate concentrations (2, 4, 6, and 9 mM) was studied for maintenance of 2,3-DPG and ATP during storage under blood banking conditions. The lowest concentration, 2 mM, which corresponds to CPD was found to be the best concentration for maintaining 2,3-DPG and thus hemoglobin function. Four mM phosphate were not quite as good but better than no phosphate. Six and 8 mM phosphate were considerably worse. (Author)
Oxygen affinity (expressed as oxygen half saturation pressure P;g) and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG) concentration of miniature pig blood was examined in fetuses (95–110 days gestational age) and piglets from birth until 50 days post partum. Fetuses had the highest oxygen affinity (P50 23 mm Hg) and lowest 2,3 DPG concentration (2.40 mM 2,3 DPG/1, RBC). Both P50 and 2,3 DPG concentration increased rapidly during the first week after birth towards adult levels. ::: ::: Haemoglobin electrophoresis did not show different behaviour of haemoglobin obtained from foetal, postnatal or adult pig blood. The oxygen equilibrium curves of the respective dialysed haemoglobin solutions were identical and upon addition of 2,3 DPG the same decrease in oxygen affinity was observed. It is concluded that the postnatal decrease in pig blood oxygen affinity is caused by a concomitant increase in red cell 2,3 DPG concentration.
In order to study the effect of the decrease in P-Pi caused by low pH on hemoglobin-oxygen affinity, we measured P-Pi,2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and oxygen tension at 50% saturation (P50) in 36 cases with acute exacerbation of chronic respiratory failure with hypercapnia. The cases were classified into two groups by arterial blood pH values obtained on the day of admission. Group A: pH less than or equal to 7.35 and Group B: pH greater than or equal to 7.36. P50 was calculated by a modification of Severinghaus' equation developed by Yusa and Kohsaka, and it was corrected by applying the carboxy-hemoglobin (COHb) coefficient. On the day of admission (stage I), 2,3-DPG and P50 in both groups were slightly higher than in the control group. In Group A, a week after admission (stage II), these values decreased and became significantly lower than they had been at stage I. Especially 2,3-DPG in stage II was even lower than those of the control group. Approximately 14 days after admission, in stage III, it was found that these values had risen to the initial level at stage I. In Group A, similar changes were also observed for P-Pi. The value of P-Pi was low in stage II and recovered to the initial value in stage III. On the other hand, we found that the urinary excretion of phosphorus (U-Pi) increased at stage I in Group A. It was supposed that the increase in U-Pi at stage I caused a decrease in P-Pi, which caused the decrease in 2,3-DPG, in stage II.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
the authors presented, the measured Po 2 at 50% saturation (p50) was normal and the oximetry was low. This suggests the dissociation curve was not shifted and the low oximetry seen in their patient was due to the fraction of the abnormal hemoglobin not binding oxygen. Secondly, the authors state that a rightward shift in the dissociation curve results in a higher p50. However, they incorrectly state that a rightward shift in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve occurs with blood transfusion, reduced levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), hypophosphatemia, and hypothyroidism. Reduced levels of 2,3-DPG result in a leftward shift of the curve and increased affinity of oxygen binding to hemoglobin (lower p50). 2 Reduced levels of 2,3-DPG are known to occur with hypothyroidism and hypophosphatemia. 3 As well, stored blood has reduced levels of 2,3-DPG, potentially resulting in a leftward shift of the curve after transfusion. 4
Today oxygen-ozone therapy is recognised to have a disinfectant property and to induce a strong oxidative stress which stimulates the protective mechanisms of cells and organs increasing the efficacy of endogenous oxygen free 2 Case Reports in Medicine [3, [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] . The antibacterial properties of oxygen-ozone therapy have been studied in detail and have been extensively reported in dental and other literature [16, 17, 20, 21] . Oxygen-ozone therapy inactivates bacteria disrupting their cell envelope through oxidation of the phospholipids and lipoproteins, inhibits fungi growth, damages the capsid of viruses, and upsets the reproductive cycle by disrupting the virus-to-cell contact with peroxidation. Oxygen-ozone therapy causes an increase in the red blood cell glycolysis rate, causing the stimulation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate which leads to an increase of oxygen released to the tissues and activates the Krebs cycle stimulating production of ATP. It also causes a reduction in NADH and helps to oxidize cytochrome C. There is a stimulation of production of prostacyclin, a vasodilator, and of enzymes which act as free radical scavengers and cell-wall protectors: glutathione peroxidase, catalase, and superoxide dismutase. Then it increases the production of interferon, tumor necrosis factor, and interleukin-2, activating the immune system [17, 19] . Today oxygen-ozone therapy is recognised to have a role along with standard treatments as is highlighted by other studies [1, 3] .
THE bulk of organic phosphate in the erythrocyte exists in the form of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), which is known to determine the position of the oxygen dissociation curve1,2 as well as to influence the glycolytic pathway as a cofactor of the monophosphoglyceromutase (MPGM) reaction3 and as an inhibitor of its own formation in the diphosphoglyceromutase reaction4. But whether 2,3-DPG inhibits the hexokinase reaction is unclear and reports are contradictory5–7.
Abstract 1. 1. Phosphofructokinase from botli the mouse preputial gland tumour and the gland itself have electrophoretic properties similar to the enzyme from mouse brain. 2. 2. The tumour enzyme showed allosteric kinetics with respect to both substrates and was similar to the brain in the response to a number of known effectors of phosphofructokinase. 3. 3. The tumour enzyme was however less sensitive to AMP activation and more sensitive to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate inhibition than the brain enzyme. 4. 4. Phosphofructokinase from the preputial gland was similar to the enzyme from brain in its response to AMP, but was intermediate between those of the tumour and brain in its sensitivity to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
The physiological effect of chronic exposure to altitude hypoxia on the glycolytic intermediates, adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid, and the hematologic parameters, hemoglobin, hematocrit, and mean cell hemoglobin concentration, has been examined in an indigenous population, the Aymara, of the Departamento de Arica, Chile. This population normally resides at three altitudes: the coast (0-500 m), the sierra (2,500-3,500 m), and the altiplano (above 4,200 m). After isolation of altitude from other environmental factors (age, sex, body build, ethnicity, smoking, and residential permanence), an increase in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and a decrease in adenosine triphosphate was observed. Both hemoglobin and hematocrit increased as expected, but mean cell hemoglobin concentration declined. It is proposed that a decline in the activity of a single enzyme, pyruvate kinase, can account for these observed changes and suggests a pivotal role for pyruvate kinase in the physiological adaptation to altitude hypoxia.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: During storage, red blood cells (RBCs) undergo physicochemical changes which affect the quality, function, and in vivo survival of transfused packed RBCs (pRBC). Changes include decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels, decreased ATP, changes in mechanical properties and oxidative injury. RBC rejuvenation is a method used to increase levels of 2,3-DPG and ATP in pRBCs. This process requires incubating the pRBCs with a rejuvenation solution and subsequent washing. Standard blood bank protocols using the COBE 2991 Cell Processor require several hours of preparation. The objective of this study was to verify if a bedside protocol for rejuvenating pRBC and washing with the Sorin Xtra autologous cell salvage system could be used. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: Outdated pRBC units were obtained and rejuvenated in a model operating suite using a dry air incubator for 1 h at 37°C. Six units of pRBCs were pre-diluted with saline (1000 ml) and six units were not pre-diluted with saline. All units were washed with normal saline (1000 ml) using an apheresis-design cell salvage device in manual mode and wash volume set to 3000 ml. Samples were collected and analyzed for standard RBC quality parameters at baseline and post-wash. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Total pRBC wash efficiency was 94% ± 12% at a final hematocrit of 67.7 ± 5.9% while maintaining post-wash hemolysis 0.24 ± 0.12 %. Pre-dilution prior to washing did not confer statistically significant differences in final RBC quality parameters with the notable exceptions of calculated hemolysis and supernatant potassium levels (P < 0.05). The washing process can be completed within 10 min. The post-wash RBC parameters are appropriate for immediate transfusion to patients.
Abstract In patients with primary refractory anemia, red cell lactate formation, oxygen consumption in the presence of methylene blue, the content of adenosinetriphosphate, adenosinediphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, inorganic phosphate, reduced glutathione, the stability of reduced glutathione and the activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase were investigated. The following differences were observed between patients with normal or hyperplastic and with hypo- or aplastic bone marrow: In the patients with normal or hyperplastic bone marrow, lactate formation, oxygen consumption in the presence of methylene blue, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity were significantly higher. In the patients with hypoplastic and aplastic bone marrow, lactate formation and the activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase were slightly decreased and oxygen consumption in the presence of methylene blue was within the normal range. Adenosinetriphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content was increased in both groups of patients. The levels of inorganic phosphate, reduced glutathione and the stability of reduced glutathione were not significantly changed. Some evidence is given that these changes are due mainly to the differences in mean red cell age in both groups.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: Red blood cell (RBC) storage systems are licensed based on their ability to prevent haemolysis and maintain RBC 24-h in vivo recovery. Preclinical testing includes measurement of RBC ATP as a surrogate for recovery, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) as a surrogate for oxygen affinity, and free haemoglobin, which is indicative of red cell lysis. The reproducibility of RBC ATP, DPG and haemolysis measurements between centres was investigated. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: Five, 4-day-old leucoreduced AS-1 RBC units were pooled, aliquotted and shipped on ice to 14 laboratories in the USA and European Union (EU). Each laboratory was to sample the bag twice on day 7 and measure RBC ATP, DPG, haemoglobin and haemolysis levels in triplicate on each sample. The variability of results was assessed by using coefficients of variation (CV) and analysis of variance. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Measurements were highly reproducible at the individual sites. Between sites, the CV was 16% for ATP, 35% for DPG, 2% for total haemoglobin and 54% for haemolysis. For ATP and total haemoglobin, 94 and 80% of the variance in measurements was contributed by differences between sites, and more than 80% of the variance for DPG and haemolysis measurements came from markedly discordant results from three sites and one site, respectively. In descending order, mathematical errors, unvalidated analytical methods, a lack of shared standards and fluid handling errors contributed to the variability in measurements from different sites. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: While the methods used by laboratories engaged in RBC storage system clinical trials demonstrated good precision, differences in results between laboratories may hinder comparative analysis. Efforts to improve performance should focus on developing robust methods, especially for measuring RBC ATP.
The functional properties of two new abnormal hemoglobins with high oxygen affinity were studied. Hb Hôtel Dieu beta99 (G1) Asp replaced by Gly is situated in the alpha1beta2 contact. Hb Pitié Salpétrière beta34 (B16) Val replaced by Phe is situated in the alpha1beta1 contact. Both hemoglobins exhibited similar functional properties with a 10-fold increased oxygen affinity, a decreased cooperativity, a decreased Bohr effect and a normal or slightly decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effect. The structure-function relationship is discussed in the light of these results.
Thirty-seven young adult male highland residents at 3,600-4,100 m in La Paz, Bolivia, performed short-duration cycle ergometry at 60, 80, and 100% of maximal voluntary O2 consumption (VO2max). Three groups of subjects representing the high-altitude population mean hemoglobin (Hb), the 10th percentile Hb, and below the 1st percentile were examined to test the hypothesis that the relationship of exercise performance to Hb concentration is similar to those relationships established at low altitude. Anemic individuals (n = 8) had 23% lower voluntary VO2max and 28% lower maximal work loads compared with controls (n = 17) or marginally anemic subjects (n = 12) although the relationship of VO2 to work load was similar. Anemic individuals maintained significantly higher arterial O2 partial pressures and Hb saturations during heavy exercise (90 +/- 0.5 vs. 85 +/- 0.6%) in conjunction with a greater heart rate up to maximal effort. A significantly decreased erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG)-to-Hb molar ratio (0.70 +/- 0.04 vs. 1.12 +/- 0.06), suggestive of a left-shifted dissociation curve in anemics, is in contrast to the expected right-shifted curve. Moderate anemics were similar to controls. Anemic individuals did not differ in arterial lactate concentration from controls at absolute work loads; anemics had significantly lower arterial lactate concentrations at maximal effort than controls with no differences in the work load-to-lactate relationship. In conclusion, O2 transport during exercise at high altitude seems unaffected by the Hb concentrations as low as the 10th percentile of the population mean.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
pH and blood gases were measured in simultaneous samples of arterial blood from the radial artery and mixed venous blood from the pulmonary artery using an ABL300 and OSM3 (Radiometer A/S, Denmark). Cardiac output was measured by thermodilution. The patients were suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or adult respiratory distress syndrome. The data indicate that patients respond to a decreased arterial oxygen availability by allowing the mixed venous pO2 to fall rather than by increasing the cardiac output to maintain a normal mixed venous pO2. In other words, the arterial oxygen extraction tension and the oxygen compensation factor were both highly correlated to the mixed venous pO2 but unrelated to the cardiac index. For this reason the arterial oxygen extraction tension appears to be a more relevant parameter of the overall arterial oxygen availability than the oxygen compensation factor. Comparison of the arterial and mixed venous data confirms the accuracy of the Oxygen Status Algorithm for calculating the various oxygen parameters, including the p50, the estimated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, and the estimated physiological shunt, on the basis of a single arterial blood sample.
Since ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate cause an increase in the lateral mobility of integral membrane proteins in the erythrocyte (Schindler, M., Koppel, D., and Sheetz, M. P. (1980) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 77, 1457-1461), we have studied their effects on the membrane skeletal complex or shell (composed of spectrin, actin, and bands 4.1 (78,000 daltons) and 4.9 (50,000 daltons)) and its interaction with the erythrocyte membrane. Both phosphate compounds dissociated the delipidated shell complex, with half-maximal dissociation at 2.5 mM 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and 8 mM ATP, whereas equivalent concentrations of EDTA did not. Concomitant with complex dissociation, spectrin was solubilized but band 4.1 and actin remained in a complexed or polymeric form. When proteins which were involved in linking spectrin to the membrane were present on the shell, higher concentrations of the phosphate compounds still dissociated the complex but less spectrin was solubilized. Treatment of erythrocyte membranes with the same phosphate compounds caused membrane vesiculation but no proteins were solubilized. We suggest that ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, at concentrations which are normally present in erythrocytes, can weaken associations in the shell but will not dissociate the complex from membrane attachment sites.
The binding of inorganic vanadate (Vi) to rabbit muscle phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM), studied by using 51V nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, shows a sigmoidal dependence on vanadate concentration with a stoichiometry of four vanadium atoms per PGM molecule at saturating [Vi]. The data are consistent with binding of one divanadate ion to each of the two subunits of PGM in a noncooperative manner with an intrinsic dissociation constant of 4 X 10(-6) M. The relevance of this result to other studies which have shown that the Vi-stimulated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) phosphatase activity of PGM has a sigmoidal dependence on [Vi] with a Hill coefficient of 2.0 is discussed. At pH 7.0, inorganic phosphate has little effect on the 2,3-DPG phosphatase activity of PGM, even at concentrations as high as 50 mM. Similarly, 25 microM Vi has little effect on the phosphatase activity. However, in the presence of 25 microM Vi, a phosphate concentration of 20 mM increases the phosphatase activity by more than 3-fold. This behavior is rationalized in terms of activation of the phosphatase activity by a phosphate/vanadate mixed anhydride. This interpretation is supported by the observation of strong activation of the phosphatase activity by inorganic pyrophosphate. A molecular mechanism for the observed effects of vanadate is proposed, and the relevance of this study to the possible use of vanadate as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of sickle cell anemia is discussed.
Publisher Summary There is a group of hemoglobins like the one of ruminants and feloidea, who have developed a mechanism of oxygen affinity modulation by the Cl− ions of the solvent as an alternative to the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) modulation found in human Hb. Aspect of the structure–function relationship in Hb is the role of heterotropic ligands on the modulation of oxygen affinity. These effectors interact preferentially with the deoxy-form of Hb, increasing its stability and as a result decreasing the oxygen affinity of the system. This mechanism allows an efficient release of oxygen by Hb at the level of the tissues. Examples of heterotropic ligands are protons, Cl− ions, and 2,3-DPG. The only approach to the elucidation of the mechanism of oxygen affinity modulation by Cl− is through genetic engineering. The construction of mutant human Hbs with different combinations of these amino acid substitutions will produce a system representing various stages in the formation of oxygen-linked Cl− binding sites in human Hb.
BACKGROUND ::: Autotransfusion of shed mediastinal blood after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) has been shown to reduce the requirement for allogeneic blood. We have previously demonstrated in non-randomized studies that the oxygen capacity of shed mediastinal blood is similar to the patient's circulating blood and better than stored allogeneic blood. Therefore, we wanted to examine the influence of autotransfusion of shed mediastinal blood on oxygen transport capacity in patients undergoing CABG. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: A prospective, randomized, controlled study involving 120 patients having elective, uncomplicated CABG was performed. The autotransfusion group received transfusion of shed mediastinal blood for 18 h. Both groups received allogeneic red cells if their hemoglobin concentration decreased below 5 mmol/L. Red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was measured preoperatively and at intervals up to the hospital discharged. Hemodynamic measurements as well as blood gas and hemoglobin measurements from samples of arterial and mixed venous blood were used for calculation of oxygen transport capacity. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: During the autotransfusion period only 2 patients (4%) in the autotransfusion group required allogeneic blood compared to 11 patients (20%) in the control group. The 2,3-DPG levels in the autotransfusion group were unchanged before and after autotransfusion (4.4 vs. 4.3 mumol/ml erythrocyte). In the control group, 2,3-DPG levels decreased from 4.3 to 3.9 mumol/ml erythrocyte during the same period. There were no differences in the other measured parameters for oxygen transport capacity between the groups. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Autotransfusion of shed mediastinal blood conserves the 2,3-DPG level of the red blood cells, while transfusion of stored blood leads to a decrease in 2,3-DPG levels. Autotransfusion had no effect on hemodynamic parameters, oxygen delivery or oxygen extraction.
Carbachol and guanine nucleotides stimulate formation of the (/sup 3/H)inositol phosphates IP, IP2, and IP3 in saponin-permeabilized monolayers labelled with (/sup 3/H) inositol. Carbachol alone has little effect on formation of the (/sup 3/H) inositol phosphates (IPs), but GTP..gamma..S causes synergistic accumulation of (/sup 3/H)IPs to levels similar to those seen in intact cells. GTP, GppNHp, and GTP..gamma..S all support formation of the (/sup 3/H)IPs, with or without hormone, but GTP..gamma..S is the most effective. In the presence of GTP..gamma..S, the effect of carbachol is dose-dependent. Half-maximal and maximal accumulation of the (/sup 3/H)IPs occur at approx. 5 ..mu..M and approx. 100 ..mu..M carbachol, respectively; values close to those seen in intact cells. GTP..gamma..S alone stimulates formation of the (/sup 3/H)IPs after a brief lag time. The combination of GTP..gamma..S and carbachol both increases the rate of, and decreases the lag in, formation of the (/sup 3/H)IPs. LiCl increases (/sup 3/H)IP and IP2, but not IP3, accumulation; while 2,3-diphosphoglycerate substantially increases that of (/sup 3/H)IP3. GTP..gamma..S and carbachol cause formation of (/sup 3/H)IPs in the absence of Ca/sup + +/, but formation induced by GTP..gamma..S with or without carbachol is Ca/sup + +/-sensitive over a range of physiological concentrations. Althoughmore » carbachol, Ca/sup + +/, and GTP..gamma..S all have effects on formation of (/sup 3/H)IPs, GTP..gamma..S appears to be a primary and obligatory regulator of phosphoinositide hydrolysis in the permeabilized 1321N1 astrocytoma cell.« less
. Assay of seven glycolytic enzymes, steady-state levels of glycolytic metabolites, oxidized and reduced glutathione, inorganic phosphate, adenine nucleotides, sodium and potassium, and various incubation experiments were performed on red cells isolated from children with Duchenne-Erb muscular dystrophy. The activity of hexokinase, aldolase, pyruvate kinase, and the levels of glucose-6-phosphate, ADP and intracellular inorganic phosphate were significantly increased. Long term incubation (15 h at 4° C) showed a phosphofructokinase activation; during shorter incubation (3 h at pH 7.6 and 38° C) similar behaviour of glycolytic metabolites, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenine nucleotides was observed in both normal and dystrophic red cells, while the lactate output was greater in the latter. The regulation of phosphoglycerate kinase and pyruvate kinase in vivo followed a normal pattern. Addition of ouabain to red cells incubated in a low-potassium buffer was followed by increase of ATP in the normal and a decrease in the dystrophic red cell. Ouabain had no effect on glycolytic metabolites in the dystrophic cell, whereas sharp increases of fructose-1,6-diphosphate and dihydroxyacetone-phosphate were observed in the normal cell.
A binding method that detects only the strongest binding site for a ligand on a protein has been used to show that folates and folate analogs, conjugated with poly-gamma-glutamates, are bound to hemoglobin. When the concentration of hemoglobin is much larger than that of the polyglutamate, as is the case in the red cell, the fraction bound is a direct function of the hemoglobin concentration and is independent of the total polyglutamate concentration. Binding to deoxyhemoglobin tetramers is competitive with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. In oxyhemoglobin the folyl and methotrexate polyglutamates are bound preferentially by free alpha beta dimers, but removal of the pteridine moiety leads to tetramer binding even in oxyhemoglobin. Changes in the length of the polyglutamate side chain and alterations of the pteridine structure such as reduction and/or methylation have a much larger effect on the constant for binding to deoxyhemoglobin tetramers than on that for oxyhemoglobin dimers. The implications of these results for the storage of pteroylpolyglutamates in the erythrocyte and their release from the red cell under the influence of the degree of oxygenation and variations in the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level are discussed.
The oxygen affinity of hemoglobin in K562 cells induced by hemin and the relationship between levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and hemoglobin have been investigated. Absorption spectra of induced cells indicate that the hemoglobin is oxygenated; oxygen dissociation curves are symmetric, with a P50 of 20 +/- 0.9 mm Hg, Hill coefficient of 2.5, and a normal temperature dependence. The intracellular pH measured by phosphorus 31 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) was 7.3. The amount of 2,3-DPG was determined by an enzymatic method and by 31P NMR. The level of 2,3-DPG in uninduced K562 cells, containing 0.5 pg of hemoglobin per cell, was low (5 +/- 0.5 mumole/10(8) cells), but increased to 64 +/- 5 mumole/10(8) cells upon induction of hemoglobin accumulation (to a final level of 20 pg hemoglobin/cell). For several experiments, there was a closely coordinated relationship between 2,3-DPG and hemoglobin levels, at about 1:1 stoichiometry of the two molecules. The time course of induction of hemoglobin, and of 2,3-DPG levels, are very similar; both processes are reversible. These data suggest that induction of hemoglobin synthesis in K562 cells by hemin results in hemoglobin-containing cells with normal oxygenation properties and that 2,3-DPG and hemoglobin levels are coordinately controlled in these cells. Elucidation of the mechanism of this effect should be of importance in understanding the erythroid-like differentiation of these cells.
We investigated the action of mexicor on functional indices of erythrocytes and the structure of myocardial ::: microcirculation in rats suffered from traumatic brain injury (TBI). At 3, 7 and 12 day after TBI we measured ::: the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), the degree of erythrocyte aggregation and their electrophoretic ::: mobility (EPME) in the blood of rats, and also analyzed sections of left ventricular myocardium. During ::: the first day after the TBI we observed a decrease in EPME, an increase of erythrocyte aggregation and an ::: increase of 2,3-DFG concentration in erythrocytes compared with intact animals. Intraperitoneal injection of ::: mexicor led to an increase of EPME, 2,3-DPG level and reduce an aggregation of erythrocytes, which was the ::: most pronounced during the 3—7 day of post-traumatic period. Improved functional parameters of erythrocytes ::: were combined with the dynamics of regenerative processes in the heart. Intraperitoneal injection of mexicor ::: restrained architectonic damage of microvasculature and cardiomyocytes ultrastructure of the myocardium of ::: the left ventricle of the heart.
The alpha- and beta-chains of the main component of hemoglobin of the greylag goose (Anser anser) were isolated. For determination of the primary structure of hemoglobin, the chains were cleaved and the cleavage products isolated. The chains and peptides were degraded automatically in the sequenator: the complete primary structure of the alpha-and beta-chains was obtained and compared with the human adult hemoglobin. Comparison with human sequences show 1 substitutions in the alpha-chain and 44 in beta-chain. The mutations are discussed. The alpha-chains contain no tryptophan, only one methionine and two cysteines. Seven alpha 1 beta 1-contacts and one alpha 1 beta 2-oxy- and deoxy-contact are altered. In the beta-chains two acidic amino acids are eliminated. This is probably the reason for the more basic character of the greylag goose hemoglobin. The contact points of the allosteric effector (inositol pentaphosphate in case of birds, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in case of mamals) with the beta-chains are identical in chicken and greylag goose, two more than in the human beta-chains. Six alpha 1 beta 1-contacts and one hem-contact are changed. This work forms a basis to allow comparison of the functions of several bird hemoglobins and for further studies of bird hemoglobins and for further studies of evolution and systematics of birds.
Cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate synthetase (cDPGS) catalyzes the synthesis of cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG) by formation of an intramolecular phosphoanhydride bond in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. cDPG is known to be accumulated to high intracellular concentrations (>300 mM) as a putative thermoadapter in some hyperthermophilic methanogens. For the first time, we have purified active cDPGS from a methanogen, the hyperthermophilic archaeon Methanothermus fervidus, sequenced the coding gene, and expressed it in Escherichia coli. cDPGS purification resulted in enzyme preparations containing two isoforms differing in their electrophoretic mobility under denaturing conditions. Since both polypeptides showed the same N-terminal amino acid sequence and Southern analyses indicate the presence of only one gene coding for cDPGS in M. fervidus, the two polypeptides originate from the same gene but differ by a not yet identified modification. The native cDPGS represents a dimer with an apparent molecular mass of 112 kDa and catalyzes the reversible formation of the intramolecular phosphoanhydride bond at the expense of ATP. The enzyme shows a clear preference for the synthetic reaction: the substrate affinity and the Vmax of the synthetic reaction are a factor of 8 to 10 higher than the corresponding values for the reverse reaction. Comparison with the kinetic properties of the electrophoretically homogeneous, apparently unmodified recombinant enzyme from E. coli revealed a twofold-higher Vmax of the enzyme from M. fervidus in the synthesizing direction.
Very few data exist on phosphate metabolism in critically ill neonates. Therefore we studied the incidence of hypophosphataemia, the intracellular metabolism of phosphate by measuring adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in red blood cells, and excretion of phosphate in urine. The aims of the study were early detection of changes in phosphate metabolism as possible diagnostic markers of sepsis and defining the cause of hypophosphataemia.Neonates, treated in multidisciplinary paediatric intensive care unit (PICU), included in the study, were less than three days of age. Eighteen of them had respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) and 16 had microbiologically confirmed or clinical sepsis. The overall incidence of hypophosphataemia in critically ill neonates was over 80%, and was more common (88%) and more profound in those with sepsis than in those with RDS (79%). Therefore the septic neonates needed significantly larger amounts of phosphate to maintain normophosphataemia. In septic neonates ATP concentration in red blood cells was significantly lower than in neonates with RDS and controls, while the 2,3-DPG concentration was increased as a result of compensation. In septic neonates urinary losses of inorganic phosphate (Pi) were significantly higher than in neonates with RDS. Hypophosphataemia in critically ill neonates is at least partly due to higher urinary losses of phosphate.
Background ::: ::: Extended room temperature (RT) hold of whole blood (WB) may affect the quality of red blood cell (RBC) components produced from these donations. The availability of better RBC additive solutions (ASs) may help reduce the effects. A new AS, AS-7 (SOLX, Haemonetics Corporation), was investigated for improved in vitro quality of RBCs prepared from WB held overnight at RT. ::: ::: ::: ::: Study Design and Methods ::: ::: Sixteen WB units were held for 21.4 hours ± 40 minutes at 22°C on cooling plates before processing. Each pair of ABO-matched WB units were pooled, divided into a WB filter pack containing saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (control) and a LEUKOSEP WB-filter pack containing SOLX, and processed according to manufacturer's instructions. RBCs were stored at 2 to 6°C and sampled weekly until expiry. Glycophorin A (GPA+) and annexin V–binding microparticles (MPs) were quantitated using flow cytometry. Osmotic fragility, intracellular pH (pHi), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and routine quality variables were measured. Adhesion of RBCs to human endothelial cells (ECs) was evaluated by flow perfusion under low shear stress (0.5 dyne/cm2), similar to low blood flow in microvessels. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results ::: ::: ATP and 2,3-DPG levels were improved for SOLX-RBCs. SOLX-RBCs maintained higher pHi, increased resistance to hypotonic stress, and reduced numbers of GPA+ MPs. No significant difference was observed between annexin V binding to MPs or adhesion of RBCs to ECs under shear stress. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: ::: SOLX-stored RBCs showed increased osmotic resistance, pHi, and reduced GPA+ MPs and together with higher ATP and 2,3-DPG levels demonstrated improved in vitro RBC quality measures during 42 days of storage.
Acid-base titrations were performed on oxygenated and deoxygenated erythrolysates at constant PCO2. The Haldane coefficient, - (δHb-bound H+)/(δHb-bound O2), was determined as a function of pH and PCO2 for various concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). At PCO2=0 DPG causes a decrease or increase in the coefficient for pH 7.0, respectively. The equilibrium constants Kz (acid-base) and Kc (carbamate) of the terminal -NH2 of the β-chains of deoxy-hemoglobin were evaluated. DPG decreases both constants, especially Kz.
The binding tendencies of the enantiomeric forms, R,R and S,S, of the neutral receptor 1 towards anions were investigated through UV-vis and 1H NMR titration experiments in DMSO. Both enantiomers form stable H-bond complexes with carboxylates and phosphates. In particular, receptor 1 strongly binds two H2PO4- ions according two stepwise equilibria, in which logK2 is higher than logK1. Such an unusual cooperativity effect is to be ascribed to the formation of strong H-bond interactions between the two H2PO4- anions, when bound to the two urea subunits of the receptor, as demonstrated by the crystal and molecular structures of the 1 : 2 complex salt: [Bu4N]2[R,R-1...(H2PO4)2]. The S,S enantiomer forms an H-bond complex with the biologically relevant D-2,3-diphosphoglycerate anion, whose association constant is twice that of the R,R complex. Such an effect is ascribed to the different structural features of the two diastereomeric complexes in solution, as shown by 31P NMR studies.
Blood transfusion in a modern sense means the transfusion of red cells, when necessary supplemented by other components. The demand for plasma and plasma fractions and for platelets for therapeutic use has had an influence on the technique for preparing red cells. Automated devices have made it possible to perform collection as well as separation under more standardized conditions. Improved techniques for storage of red cells have prolonged the shelf life somewhat but most of the available methods disregard the rapid loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the accompanying increase in oxygen affinity. Methods are available which reduce the number of contaminating leukocytes to low levels, but information is still incomplete as to the degree of depletion actually needed.
The erythrocytes of 350 pigtailed macaques (Macaca nemestrina) were examined for electrophoretic variation of hemoglobin and 26 enzymes. Seven enzymes showed variation in more than 1% of individuals: phosphoglucose isomerase, phosphoglucomutase-1, soluble NADP-dependent isocitric dehydrogenase, peptidase A, peptidase C, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, and acid phosphatase. Variation with lesser frequency was found in soluble glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase, phosphoglycerate kinase, lactic dehydrogenase, and hemoglobin. Only eight samples were tested for esterase D, and one of these had a variant phenotype. Enzymes with no clear variation were adenylate kinase, adenosine deaminase, phosphofructokinase, hexokinase, pyruvate kinase, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, aldolase, phosphoglycerate mutase, phosphopyruvate hydratase (enolase), phosphoglucomutase-3, and superoxide dismutase. There was father-to-son transmission of PGI, PGM 1 , peptidase C, 6PGD, 2,3-DPGAM, NADP-ICD, and acid phosphatase variants, suggesting that these loci are autosomal as in man.
Background and Objectives During storage, red blood cells (RBCs) undergo physicochemical changes which affect the quality, function, and in vivo survival of transfused packed RBCs (pRBC). Changes include decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels, decreased ATP, changes in mechanical properties and oxidative injury. RBC rejuvenation is a method used to increase levels of 2,3-DPG and ATP in pRBCs. This process requires incubating the pRBCs with a rejuvenation solution and subsequent washing. Standard blood bank protocols using the COBE 2991 Cell Processor require several hours of preparation. The objective of this study was to verify if a bedside protocol for rejuvenating pRBC and washing with the Sorin Xtra autologous cell salvage system could be used.
Cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate synthetase (cDPGS) catalyzes the synthesis of cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG) by formation of an intramolecular phosphoanhydride bond in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. cDPG is known to be accumulated to high intracellular concentrations (>300 mM) as a putative thermoadapter in some hyperthermophilic methanogens. For the first time, we have purified active cDPGS from a methanogen, the hyperthermophilic archaeon Methanothermus fervidus, sequenced the coding gene, and expressed it in Escherichia coli. cDPGS purification resulted in enzyme preparations containing two isoforms differing in their electrophoretic mobility under denaturing conditions. Since both polypeptides showed the same N-terminal amino acid sequence and Southern analyses indicate the presence of only one gene coding for cDPGS in M. fervidus, the two polypeptides originate from the same gene but differ by a not yet identified modification. The native cDPGS represents a dimer with an apparent molecular mass of 112 kDa and catalyzes the reversible formation of the intramolecular phosphoanhydride bond at the expense of ATP. The enzyme shows a clear preference for the synthetic reaction: the substrate affinity and the V max of the synthetic reaction are a factor of 8 to 10 higher than the corresponding values for the reverse reaction. Comparison with the kinetic properties of the electrophoretically homogeneous, apparently unmodified recombinant enzyme from E. coli revealed a twofold-higher V max of the enzyme from M. fervidus in the synthesizing direction.
Reports on the high intracellular concentrations of low-molecular-weight compounds in prokaryotes (members of the Bacteria as well as the Archaea) adapted to high temperatures have become more common over the last few years, leading to speculation about a role for these compounds as thermoadapters. In some cases, the thermoadaptive function is supported by the observed dependence of the intracellular concentrations of the compounds on growth temperature, as found for cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG), di-myo-inositol-1,1Ј-phosphate, and 2-O-␤-di-mannosyl-di-myo-inositol-1, 1Ј-phosphate (8, 15, 26, 27). In line with the proposed thermoadaptive function, some of these compounds such as cDPG, di-myo-inositol-1,1Ј-phosphate, and mannosylglycerate stabilize proteins against heat inactivation in vitro (15, 32, 41) . However, for a reliable assessment of the physiological function of these compounds, studies on their individual interactions with various cell constituents and detailed analyses of the regulation of their intracellular concentration in response to environmental factors are needed, and these have not been performed.
The metabolism of this unusual compound has been studied mainly in the moderately thermophilic Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum and the hyperthermophilic Methanothermus fervidus. From enzymatic analyses, Lehmacher et al. (24) proposed that the biosynthesis of cDPG in M. fervidus branches off the main carbon metabolism at 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PG) and proceeds via two ATP-dependent reactions catalyzed by 2-phosphoglycerate kinase (2-PGK) and cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate synthetase (cDPGS). In vivo nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies with M. thermoautotrophicum (12), as well as comparative enzymatic analyses with cell extracts of various cDPG-containing methanogens (23), indicate that the proposed biosynthetic pathway applies in general. For the degradation of cDPG, data are available only for M. thermoautotrophicum. Pulse-chase experiments and enzymatic investigations indicated a degradation pathway via 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) by cDPG hydrolase activity (40, 49) . Finally, a DPG phosphatase converts DPG back to 3-PG, as described by Van Alebeek et al. (47).
A four-fold increase in red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels occurs within 1-2 weeks after birth resulting in a decrease in oxygen affinity in the newborn pig. In this study, we found that although newborn pig red blood cells seem to be equally capable of net DPG synthesis as adult pig cells when challenged by a mixture of inosine, pyruvate and phosphate, the cells from newborns degrade DPG much faster than do cells from adults. As a result, DPG levels in the newborn's cells do not seem to increase in comparison to the adult's cells. Using a density centrifugation technique, it was found that the postnatal cells initially entering the circulation have a relatively low rather than high DPG content. However, DPG content quickly increases as they age. These findings suggest that the rapid rise of DPG seen in the growing piglet is brought about in part (a) by an elimination of the fetal cells with low DPG, and (b) by an emergence of postnatal cells having the capacity to augment their DPG content while in circulation.
Red blood cell (RBC) antioxidant defense was investigated in eight individuals with hemoglobin E (Six EE and two E-B+ thalassemia) and compared to that in six individuals with thalassemia and ten normal subjects. Individuals with hemoglobin E had increased incubated Heinz body formation (68% ± 18%; p < 0.001) compared to normal and thalassemic RBC (10% ± 2% and 11% ± 5%, respectively). Stimulated pentose phosphate shunt activity was increased in the thalassemic and decreased in the hemoglobin E RBC as compared to normal. The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) content of the EE RBC was increased to 5.59 ± 0.69 μmol/ml RBC as compared to normal (4.51 ± 0.77; p < 0.001). In the EE RBC, there was a direct correlation between Heinz body formation and DPG content (r = 0.73). Ascorbic and dehydroascorbic acid (0.1 and 1.0 mM) were able to decrease the degree of Heinz body formation in the hemoglobin E RBC. Ascorbic acid (0.1 mM) prolonged the response of the pentose shunt. Thus impaired antioxidant defense may account for the persistence of the hemoglobin E gene in areas where malaria is endemic. Oxidant medications should be used with caution in individuals of Southeast Asian origin.
The affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen did not differ significantly between normal and glutathione-deficient sheep. Although phlebotomy in sheep of both types did not significantly alter the partial pressure values at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated with oxygen, it did increase significantly the erythrocyte glutathione and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (GSH) and (DPG) concentrations. Because DPG does not bind to sheep hemoglobin, its increase in hypoxic sheep must mean DPG is metabolically controlled in the absence of physiologic effect.
Abstract The time course of the appearance of rapid hemoglobin, as judged by the results of partial photodissociation of carbon monoxide, was followed with a stopped-flow flash photolysis apparatus. Deoxyhemoglobin was mixed with carbon monoxide and a photolysis flash was fired after a short accurately measured time interval. There is a marked lag in the appearance of rapid hemoglobin. Analysis of the results suggests that this is not due to a first order process following ligand binding. The lag cannot, therefore, be due to dissociation of hemoglobin into subunits or to loss of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The results appear to be incompatible with schemes having the dimer as the prime unit of function. It is proposed that the change in reactivity associated with the appearance of rapid hemoglobin occurs after at least three ligand molecules have combined. This conclusion is supported by experiments with the hybrid species αNOβCO which behaves as a functional tetramer. The time course of the appearance of rapid hemoglobin was not significantly influenced by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
The present study deals with the fixing of benzenehexacarboxylate (BHC) on dextran, with the aim of obtaining polyanionic polymers capable of decreasing the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin (Hb) by interacting with its phosphate binding site (allosteric site). The covalent coupling of these polymers onto oxyHb has been investigated for the synthesis of oxygen carriers with low oxygen affinity. This type of covalent conjugate could be of interest in intravascular use. Several steps were necessary to synthesize dextran with linked BHC (DEX-BHC). In each step, the structure of the modified dextran was determined by means of gel permeation chromatography, 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy, and low-angle laser light scattering. The aim was to determine the conditions of the reaction which lead to a minimization of cross-linking phenomena. The DEX-BHC obtained (0,27 mmol BHC/g polymer) decreased the oxygen affinity of Hb in the same way as the natural effector, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) i.e., by reacting specifically with the amines of the protein allosteric site. This decrease in oxygen affinity was more accentuated after covalent coupling onto oxyHb, which means that the fixing point was probably localized in the 2,3-DPG binding site.
Abstract Based upon existing crystallographic evidence, HbS, HbC, and HbA have essentially the same molecular structure. However, important areas of the molecule are not well defined crystallographically (e.g. the N-terminal nonhelical portion of the α and β chains), and conformational constraints differ in solution and in the crystalline state. Over the years, our laboratory and others have provided evidence of conformational changes in HbS and, more recently, in HbC. We now present data based upon allosteric perturbation monitored by front-face fluorescence, ultraviolet resonance Raman spectroscopy, circular dichroism, and oxygen equilibrium studies that confirm and significantly expand previous findings suggesting solution-active structural differences in liganded forms of HbS and HbC distal to the site of mutation and involving the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding pocket. The liganded forms of these hemoglobins are of significant interest because HbC crystallizes in the erythrocyte in the oxy form, and oxy HbS exhibits increased mechanical precipitability and a high propensity to oxidize. Specific findings are as follows: 1) differences in the intrinsic fluorescence indicate that the Trp microenvironments are more hydrophobic for HbS > HbC > HbA, 2) ultraviolet resonance Raman spectroscopy detects alterations in Tyr hydrogen bonding, in Trp hydrophobicity at the α1β2interface (β37), and in the A-helix (α14/β15) of both chains, 3) displacement by inositol hexaphosphate of the Hb-bound 8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonate (the fluorescent 2,3-diphosphoglycerate analog) follows the order HbA > HbS > HbC, and 4) oxygen equilibria measurements indicate a differential allosteric effect by inositol hexaphosphate for HbC ∼ HbS > HbA.
IN contrast to adult frog haemoglobin of Rana catesbeiana, the tadpole haemoglobin has long been known to be one of the unusual haemoglobins with no Bohr effect. They are tetramers composed of two kinds of unlike chains1–5. We have demonstrated a substantial decrease in the oxygen affinity of the tadpole and the frog haemoglobins6, as influenced by organic phosphates, for example, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), at pH 7.0. It has been reported that DPG additionally enhances the Bohr effect of mammalian haemoglobins7,8 and so we examined the effect of organic phosphates at various pH on tadpole and frog haemoglobins.
1. Metabolic intermediates, substrate utilization and enzyme activities were determined in the red blood cells of the common bent-wing bat and the red fruit bat. Standard haematological parameters and oxy-haemoglobin dissociation curves were also determined in both species. 2. The glycolytic rate as measured by lactate production was much higher for all substrates in the bent-wing bats. The activities of the glycolytic enzymes were also much higher in this species. 3. The standard haematological parameters were similar for the two species. The levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in the red cells of the fruit bat were nearly twice as high as those in the bent-wing bats. 4. The oxy-haemoglobin dissociation curve for the red fruit bat was located to the right of that for the bent-wing bat and both these curves were located to the right of that normally seen for human blood. 5. Both species of bat show blood characteristics well adapted to carrying the increased oxygen demands of flight.
An allosteric modulator of oxygen release in human erythrocytes is 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, but bovine erythrocytes apparently utilize chloride for this purpose since they contain little, if any, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. In order to identify the sites to which these anions bind, the site-specific acetylating agent, methyl acetyl phosphate, has been employed to compete with these allosteric modulators and to mimic their effects on hemoglobin function. With human hemoglobin A, methyl acetyl phosphate competes with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and acetylates only Val-1(beta), Lys-82(beta), and Lys-144(beta) within or near the cleft that binds this organic phosphate (Ueno, H., Pospischil, M. A., Manning, J. M., and Kluger, R. (1986) Arch Biochem. Biophys. 244, 795). With bovine hemoglobin, the acetylation is competitive with chloride ion. The sites of acetylation in oxy bovine hemoglobin are Met-1(beta) and Lys-81(beta) and for deoxy bovine hemoglobin, they are Val-1(alpha) and Lys-81(beta). Thus, these sites are expected to be involved in the binding of chloride to bovine hemoglobin. Treatment of either human or bovine hemoglobins with methyl acetyl phosphate under anaerobic conditions leads to a lowering of their oxygen affinity and hence the covalent modifier has the same effect on hemoglobin function as the non-covalent regulators, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and chloride. The Hill's coefficient of hemoglobin is unaffected by treatment with methyl acetyl phosphate. Under aerobic conditions, specifically acetylated bovine hemoglobin also has a lowered oxygen affinity, and human hemoglobin A shows a slight change in its oxygen affinity. In general, bovine hemoglobin is more responsive than human hemoglobin to both chloride and methyl acetyl phosphate; the latter agent results in a permanent covalent labeling of the protein. Therefore, the results support the idea that methyl acetyl phosphate may be a useful probe for deciphering the sites of binding of anions to proteins.
Abstract High-resolution 1H-NMR spectroscopy has been used to investigate the molecular basis of the Bohr effect in human normal adult hemoglobin in the presence of anions which serve as heterotropic effectors, i.e., Cl−, Pi, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The individual H+ equilibria of 22–26 histidyl residues of hemoglobin in both deoxy and carbonmonoxy forms have been measured under buffer conditions chosen to demonstrate the effects of anion binding. The results indicate that β2His residues are binding sites for Cl− and Pi, in both dcoxy and carbonmonoxy forms, and that the affinity of this site for these anions is greater in the deoxy form. Recently assigned, the resonance of β146His does not show evidence of involvement in anion binding. The results also indicate that the binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate at the central cavity between the two β-chains in deoxyhemoglobin involves the β2His residues, and that the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-binding site in carbonmonoxyhemoglobin may remain similar to that in deoxyhemoglobin. The interactions of Cl−, Pi and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate also result in changes in the pK values for other surface histidyl residues which vary in both magnitude and direction. The array of pK changes is specific for the interaction of each effector. The participation of β2His in the Bohr effect demonstrates that this residue can release or capture protons, depending on its protonation properties and its linkage to anion binding, and therefore provides an excellent illustration of the variable roles of a given amino acid. Although β146His does not bind anions, its contributions to the Bohr effect are substantially affected by the presence of anions. These results demonstrate that long-range electrostatic and/or conformational effects of anions binding play significant roles in the molecular basis of the Bohr effect of hemoglobin.
We describe a new method for tonometry of small amounts of blood (up to 0.25 mL) at known pO2, PCO2, and temperature, in small, reusable, closed Pyrex flasks. Equilibrated blood is analyzed for oxygen saturation, pH, and organic phosphate concentration with standard techniques, and its p50 (the pO2 at which hemoglobin is half-saturated with oxygen) is determined with full control of all the variables known to affect it. The SD in the measurement of p50 is 0.044 kPa (0.33 mmHg). We made 63 determinations of p50 on normal human blood under different conditions of pH and pCO2, and with different concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and ATP. Empirical equations and a nomogram were derived, which allow the calculation of p50 from known values of pCO2, pH, and [2,3-DPG]/[Hb4] molar ratio with a SD of 97 and 114 Pa (0.73 and 0.86 mmHg), respectively.
Human phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase has been purified 4500-fold to electrophoretic homogeneity from the erythrocytes of normal individuals and of two brothers in whom excessive activity of this enzyme results in excessive rated of purine nucleotide and uric acid synthesis de novo and gouty arthritis. Structural differences between the normal and mutant enzymes are indicated by a lower isoelectric point for the mutant enzyme (pI 4.85) than for the normal enzyme (pI 5.10); decreased electrophoretic mobility of the mutant preparation on cellulose acetate gel at low inorganic phosphate concentrations; increased (2.4-fold) inactivation of the mutant enzyme activity relative to the normal by identical amounts of a specific antiserum which precipitates identical quantities of normal and mutant enzyme; increased thermal lability of the mutant enzyme at 55 degrees; and an increased (2.2-fold) specific enzyme activity for the mutant enzyme despite the comparable purity of the preparations. Antibody inactivation, quantitative precipitin, and immunodiffusion studies as well as the disparity in specific enzyme activities during the course of purification suggest that a structural alteration in the mutant enzyme leads to increased catalytic activity per enzyme molecule, either from a primary alteration in the structural gene(s) for phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase or from a post-transcriptional alteration in the enzyme. Purified preparations of normal and mutant enzymes showed nearly identical affinity constants for magnesium and the substrates, ATP and ribose 5-phosphate, as well as similar inhibition constants for the products, PP-ribose-P and AMP, and the inhibitors ADP, GDP, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. An increased maximal velocity of the reaction was, thus, the sole kinetic difference identified. The increased velocity of the mutant enzyme reaction was constant over a range of inorganic phosphate concentrations from 0.1 to 100 mM. Subunit molecular weights of the enzyme preparations, estimated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide electrophoresis, were identical (32,000), although the undenatured mutant enzyme showed a greater proportion of stainable protein in the smaller of two molecular weight forms (both greater than 500,000) of the enzyme demonstrated on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of 1 mM sodium phosphate.
Abnormal phosphate metabolism of the myocardium was evaluated in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) using 31P magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy. The results were compared with those from left ventricular function and thallium 201 (Tl-201) perfusion scintigraphy. Six normal volunteers and 19 patients with HCM were studied with a 1.5 T MR system. The spectra were localized to the myocardium using volume selection with the depth-resolved surface coil spectroscopy (DRESS) technique. Peak areas of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), phosphodiesters (PDE), phosphocreatine (PCr), and beta-ATP were determined by fitting Gaussian functions to the phased spectra. The peak areas were corrected for contamination of blood adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and PDE. The corrected PCr/beta-ATP ratio in patients (1.07 +/- 0.10, mean +/- SE) was significantly lower compared with that in normal volunteers (1.71 +/- 0.13, p < .01). The PCr/beta-ATP ratio showed an abnormal decrease (< mean -2 SD of the controls) in 11 (58%) of 19 patients. The averaged PCr/beta-ATP ratio in 15 patients with normal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 1.14 +/- 0.10, significantly lower than in healthy subjects. By contrast, the corrected PDE/PCr ratio in HCM did not differ significantly compared with that in healthy subjects (0.46 +/- 0.09 vs 0.36 +/- 0.09). The PDE/PCr ratio was abnormally elevated (> mean + 2 SD of the controls) in only four (21%) of the patients. On Tl-201 myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging, the perfusion of the left ventricular wall looked normal in 6 and abnormal in 5 of 11 HCM patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
BACKGROUND ::: Some effects of the red blood cell (RBC) storage lesion are well documented whereas others are not. Whether a period of room temperature hold (RTH) during RBC production enhances the RBC storage lesion has remained controversial. In this study, we compared whole blood (WB)-derived RBCs produced after 24-h RTH with rapidly cooled (RC) RBCs and tested them for classical metabolic markers and signs of oxidative damage. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: SAGM-RBCs were prepared from mixed and split pairs (n = 12) of WB units. RBCs prepared after a 24-h period of RTH on day+1 after collection (RTH-RBCs) were compared with RC-RBCs. All RBCs were stored at 4°C for 42 days with assay of in vitro variables on days+1, +15, +22, +29 and +42. The study examined standard quality parameters, glutathione, catalase and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities, and indicative markers of oxidative cell damage including post-translational haemoglobin modification, malondialdehyde (MDA), and phosphatidylserine expression. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: RTH-RBCs exhibited decreased levels of potassium (1·98 ± 0·26 vs. 5·23 ± 0·65 mmol/l) and of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) on day+1 compared with RC-RBCs. Haemolysis rate on day+42 was higher in RTH-RBCs than in RC-RBCs (0·52 ± 0·13 vs. 0·37 ± 0·12%). The phosphatidylserine expression amounted to 0·25 ± 0·20% in RTH-RBCs and 0·07 ± 0·12% in RC-RBCs. Haemoglobin modification was not different between both RBC groups. RTH-RBCs showed slightly higher MDA concentration on days +29 and +42. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: RC-RBCs and RTH-RBCs show only small differences of classical in vitro parameters and no relevant differences in antioxidative metabolism and oxidative haemoglobin modification. These findings do not explain the loss observed in in vivo survival studies with RBCs.
Anion transport across the red cell membrane has been measured as sulfate self-exchange flux (Ja) in fresh and metabolically depleted human red cells. Depletion of metabolic stores by a starvation of the cells decreases Ja by 50%. A similar effect was observed when ATP was acutely and selectively depleted by iodoacetamide. This inhibition was independent of the presence of calcium and reversible after metabolic rejuvenation of the cells. Ghosts prepared from fresh red cells exhibited the same value of Ja as fresh red cells. By contrast, ghosts prepared from depleted red cells exhibited a decrease in Ja which was reverted by a physiological concentration of ATP. The effect of ATP was dependent on its concentration (Km approximately 40 microM) and on the duration of the metabolic depletion: complete restoration of Ja was obtained only in ghosts prepared from red cells acutely depleted of ATP by a 2 h incubation with iodoacetamide. After a 20 h starvation, Ja restoration was never more than 80%. We postulate that ATP acts primarily through the phosphorylation of band 3 protein, the anion exchanger; it acts also through the stabilization of the normal organization of the membrane. This latter effect may involve the phosphorylation of membrane components, but also a direct interaction, as shown by the influence of other organic phosphates (2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol hexaphosphate) on Ja in the absence of ATP.
Changes in pH and pO2 of the blood have been studied for age peculiarities of their effect on the glycolysis rate and the content of ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in erythrocytes (in vitro). The fresh venous blood of practically healthy young (aged 20-29) and old (aged 75-85) people was used. Acidosis was shown to induce inhibition of glycolysis and decrease of the ATP and 2.3-DPG concentrations in erythrocytes, while alkalosis and hypoxemia-an increase of the glycolysis rate and 2.3-DPG content. In the both cases changes in the indices studied were considerably lower in old people as compared to young ones.
Although the superiority of transfusing only fresh RBCs (i.e., units stored no longer than 7 to 10 days) has not been definitively proven by large, well-designed RCTs, the "storage lesions" known to occur in RBC units during blood bank storage make compelling arguments that transfusions of older/stored RBCs might pose dangersespecially when given in large volumes to critically ill patients. These storage lesions include decreased levels of RBC adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), altered RBC shape with decreased deformability, decreased Hb-bound nitric oxide, and accumulation in the extracellular storage fluid of cytokines, microparticles/vesicles and microaggregates consisting of cells, cell fragments, and fibrin. These "lesions" become progressively more extensive as the duration of storage lengthens, are only partially abrogated by prestorage leukoreduction, cannot be eliminated by filtration at the time of transfusion, and logically, can be presumed to diminish microvascular blood flow-the last of which likely contributes to tissue ischemia. Although many reports exist either to support or to question the merits of transfusing only "fresh" RBC units and/or only leukoreduced blood products, 13,19-24 scientifically sound RCTs have not provided widely accepted guidelines for clinical transfusion practice. For decades, physicians treating preterm infants have debated the need to transfuse only fresh RBC units (usually defined as stored Յ7 days) versus accepting "stored" RBC units (usually defined as up to the permitted storage limit for the anticoagulant/preservative solution used by the local blood bank-i.e., usually 35 or 42 days since donation). Physicians supporting transfusions of only fresh RBCs have four concerns about transfusing stored RBCs to preterm infants: 1) the accumulation of potentially toxic substances in the extracellular storage fluid such as potassium, ammonia, RBC-free Hb, and acidic ions; 2) the possible risks of constituents/additives present in RBC anticoagulant/preservation solutions; 3) poor oxygen off-loading due to loss of RBC 2,3-DPG; and 4) diminished microvascular blood flow due to misshapen and poorly deformable RBCs. Physicians supporting transfusions of stored RBCs, as a means to diminish the risks of allogeneic donor exposures, believe that these four concerns do not pose significant risks to preterm infants for small-volume (i.e., 15 mL/kg infant weight at the time of transfusion) RBC transfusions. 11, 25, 26 Although several RCTs have compared the effects of transfusions of RBCs from fresh versus stored units to preterm infants, only one of them will be discussed here.
Anaesthetic management. Neuroleptanalgesia was conducted with the following drugs: a neuroleptic (chlorprotixene), an analgesic (fentanyl) and a sedative hypnotic (diazepam). Tracheal intabation was performed and ventilation was controlled throughout with a volumecycled respirator (RPR). No accidents or complications were encountered during the study. were done before, during and after the administration of SNP: methaemoglobinaemia, cyanmethaemoglobinaemia, carbonic anhydrase, arterial lactate and pyruvate (n = 17); arterial and mixed venous blood Po~, Pcoz and pH, haemoglobin, and haematocrit and, from these, base excess and arterio-venous oxygen difference Da'~o2 (n = 16). Before, during (one, two, three and four hours from onset) and at one and two hours after SNP, measurements were made of plasma thiocyanate (SCN-) (n = 42), plasma and corpuscular cyanide (CN-) (n = 25) and corpuscular 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) (n = 17).
For many years 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) has been known to be generated in the erythrocyte by a shunt in the Embden-Myerhof pathway. Levels of DPG are very high in the eythrocyte compared to its concentration in other tissues.' Because its function was unknown, DPG could have been characterized as "a substance in search of a function." Conversely, the greatly decreased oxygen affinity of intact red cells as compared to purified hemoglobin was "a function in search of an explanation." Now it appears that the "substance" and the "function" have come together. The pioneering work of Chanutin and Curnish2 and of Benesch and coworkers3 has shown that DPG complexes with reduced hemoglobin. This binding of DPG markedly decreases the oxygen affinity of the hemoglobin as compared with that of purified hemoglobin.
Studies concerning the relationship between glucose level, hematocrit to which cells were packed (within three hours of initial collection) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration were undertaken in CPD supplemented with adenine (0.25 mM final concentration). It was found that apparently adequate ATP levels could be maintained in 90 per cent hematocrit packed units at 42 days only if glucose was present in amounts 1.5 times or greater than that provided by CPD. Less tight packing of the units to 70 and 80 per cent hematocrit maintained ATP at greater than 50 per cent of the initial level for a full 42 days of storage when 1.25 times the usual glucose concentration was present in the initial anticoagulant. No difference in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or pH was found in any of the modified media under study.
Ten mongrel dogs (mean weight: 27 kg) awake and with an implanted femoral catheter have been maintained for three days in a controlled chamber (10% CO2 and 21% O2). Arterial blood samples, taken before admission and after one, two, four, six, 24, 48 and 72 hours of exposure, allowed to study blood gases and acid-base equilibrium. Glycemia, phosphatemia, erythrocyte concentration of glucose-6-phosphate (G-6-P), fructose-6-phosphate (F-6-P), fructose-1,6-diphosphate (F-1,6-DP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), pyruvate, lactate and ATP were also titrated by various enzymatic methods. In addition, nine reference subjects were studied in air (without CO2). During the hypercapnia, [H+] rapidly increases to 70 nmol/1, then progressively decreases after 24 hours, while [HCO3-] slowly rises. The glycemia stays high during the whole exposure. There is also an increase in inorganic phosphate, G-6-P and F-6-P, but during the first 24 hours only. F-1,6-DP, pyruvate and lactate remain lowered during the whole exposure. The 2,3-DPG diminishes after the sixth hour. These phenomena, related to the acidosis and probably to the phosphofructokinase inhibition don't arise in the reference subjects. However the latter present after a two and four hour-stay in the chamber a small decrease in pyruvicemia and lactacidemia.
(1) Blood was stored in polyvinyl-chloride bags containing citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) with adenine in a final concentration of 0.25 mM. (2) Red cell ATP was well maintained (greater than 70% of original) for 4 weeks in whole blood as well as in red cell concentrate (PCV 85 plus or minus 2%). After 5 weeks the ATP level was about 70% in whole blood and about 40% in red cell concentrate. (3) Red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) was about 60% of the original after 2 weeks and about 30% after 3 weeks of storage when stored both as whole blood and as red cell concentrate. (4) The red cell 24-hour post-transfusion viability was about 80% after 4 weeks of storage both as whole blood and as red cell concentrate. After 5 weeks of storage the 24-hour viability was 78.7 plus or minus 3.5% in whole blood and 76.5 plus or minus 6.7% in red cell concentrate. (5) 820 patients received 3,238 units of CPD-adenine blood, and 761 patients serving as controls received 2,807 units of acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) blood. The frequency of transfusion reactions was 3.5% for patients receiving CPD-adenine blood and 4.1% for the control group. (6) The maximum storage time was set at 5 weeks for the CPD-adenine blood and 3 weeks for the ACD blood. The longer preservation time decreased out-dating by at least 50%.
Studies were made of the O2 affinities of fetal and maternal haemoglobins in the horse, and correlations were found with erythrocytic levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
BACKGROUND ::: Routine storage of red blood cells (RBCs) results in the progressive accumulation of storage lesions. While the clinical relevance of these lesions is still a matter of debate, alterations to RBC morphology and biochemistry, especially in terms of energy and redox homeostasis, are likely to affect RBC physiology and functionality at a minimum. Identification of oxidative modifications that accumulate on key RBC proteins will help bridge the gap between storage induced alterations and post-transfusion RBC viability. ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Five AS-3 units were analyzed during routine storage via one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis–nano-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled online with tandem mass spectrometry and advanced database searches. ::: ::: RESULTS ::: We identified oxidative modifications to functional residues of hemoglobin (Hb) beta chain, including proximal histidine, cysteine beta 94 (counting initiator methionine in the sequence), and histidine 144. Semiquantitative analysis indicates that up to approximately 20% of total Hb could be targeted by these oxidative modifications that are overlooked by standard proteomics approaches using routine database search conditions. Progressive accumulation of oxidized residues in stored RBCs and selective accumulation in vesicles was observed, further substantiating the hypothesis that vesiculation represents a self-protective mechanism in ageing RBCs. ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Several of the oxidized residues identified play well-established roles in heme iron coordination, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding, and nitric oxide homeostasis. Further functional and structural studies are necessary to determine possible associations between these modifications and impaired gas transport homeostasis in RBCs from old units.
Infection of the J774 murine macrophage-derived cell line with Listeria monocytogenes results in several elevations of intracellular calcium during the first 15 min of infection. These appear to result from the actions of secreted bacterial proteins, including phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC), a broad-range phospholipase C, and listeriolysin O (LLO) (S. J. Wadsworth and H. Goldfine, Infect. Immun. 67:1770–1778, 1999). We have measured hydrolysis of host PI and the activation of host polyphosphoinositide-specific PLC and host phospholipase D (PLD) during infection with wild-type and mutant L. monocytogenes. Elevated hydrolysis of host PI occurred within the first 10 min of infection and was dependent on both bacterial PI-PLC and LLO, both of which were required for the earliest elevations of intracellular calcium in the host cell. A more rapid hydrolysis of host PI was observed at 30 min after infection, at the time when wild-type bacteria have been internalized. Activation of host PLC, also occurred in the first 10 min of infection but was not dependent on the presence of bacterial PI-PLC. Similar observations were made in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages. In J774 cells, activation of host PLD was observed after 20 min of infection and was dependent on bacterial LLO. Mutants in the bacterial phospholipases produced levels of PLD activation similar to those produced by the wild type. Phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) also activated host PLD, while long-term treatment with PMA resulted in loss of the ability of L. monocytogenes to activate host PLD, suggesting an involvement of protein kinase C (PKC) in the activation of PLD. Rottlerin, an inhibitor of PKC δ in J774 cells, also inhibited the activation of PLD, but hispidin, an inhibitor of PKC βI and βII, did not. Pretreatment of J774 cells with the PLD inhibitor, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate partially inhibited escape of the bacteria from the primary phagocytic vacuole.
Abstract Carbamylation of the NH2-terminal residues of the beta chains on hemoglobin (alpha2beta2c) leads to a reduced but still significant binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, but has no effect on the oxygen-linked binding of chloride or phosphate, both of which are thought to bind to some of the same residues as the organic phosphate. Studies by others have shown that the binding of inorganic anions is not diminished in either horse hemoglobin or in hemoglobin Little Rock, in which four of the six other binding sites (histidine residues) for organic phosphates are replaced by glutamine residues. We suggest, therefore, that lysines 82 of the beta chains, which are the remaining 2 residues in the binding crevice for the organic phosphate, and which are invariant in the known sequences of mammalian hemoglobins, may be the primary binding site for inorganic anions. The extent of inhibition of gelation by increasing ionic strength is identical for the hybrids alpha2beta2, alpha2cbeta2, and alpha2beta2c of hemoglobin S. These results indicate the NH2-terminal residues of the chains are not involved in primary electrostatic interactions during aggregation of deoxyhemoglobin S.
A unique compound, cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG), is the major soluble carbon and phosphorus solute in Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum delta H under optimal conditions of cell growth. It is a component of an unusual branch in gluconeogenesis in these bacteria. [U-13C]acetate pulse-[12C]acetate chase methodology was used to observe the relationship between cDPG and other metabolites (2-phosphoglycerate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate [2-PG and 2,3-DPG, respectively]) of this branch. It was demonstrated that cells could grow exponentially under conditions in which 2-PG and 2,3-DPG, rather than cDPG, were the major solutes. While the total concentration of these three phosphorylated molecules was maintained, rapid interconversion of 13C label among them was observed. Label flow from 2-PG to 2,3-DPG to cDPG to polymer is the usual direction in this pathway in exponentially growing cells, while the reverse reactions sometimes predominate in the stationary phase. Evidence of the presence of a polymeric compound in this pathway was provided by 13C nuclear magnetic resonance (one-dimensional and two-dimensional INADEQUATE) studies of solubilized cell debris. Images
The age dynamics of activities of enzymes which catalysis several stages of metabolism (hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, pyruvate kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, isocitrate dehydrogenase and cytochrome oxidase) and antioxidant system (superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase) was studied in the bone marrow erythroid cells of pig during the 10-day period after birth as well as in the cells of 30 days old animals. It was established that in the neonatal period of development the reorganization of energy metabolism in pig bone marrow erythrokaryocytes took place. It consisted in the intensification of oxidative processes and in a great measure was directed on the activation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase formation in the nature red cells. During the early period after birth the activation of antioxidant system in erythroid cells of pig bone marrow was observed.
With acute hemic hypoxia a rise in the content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the rat erythrocytes is rather pronounced. Under conditions of acute hypoxia (hyprobaric) hypoxia, with a less gravity of hypoxic affection the content is considerabley higher than in normalcy. Daily administration of the vitamin D preparations significant doses to animals causes a gradual rise in the level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in erythrocytes. The rise is more intense under the effect of vitamin D2 alchol solution than with administration of videin, a protein complex of vitamin D3.
The equilibrium binding of hemoglobin to isolated band 3 protein exhibited positive cooperativity [Hill coefficient = 1.65 +/- 0.1; total number of binding sites at pH 6.6 in 5 mM sodium phosphate buffer = 32 500 +/- 940 pmol/mg; Ka = (3.0 +/- 0.5) X 10(5) M-1]. The binding was reversible and ionic in nature as the bound hemoglobin was readily displaced by KCl, ATP, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the latter two being more effective than KCl on a molar basis. The ratio of the interaction of hemoglobin to band 3 protein per se was 1:1, whereas the band 3 preparation as a whole (protein + lipids) was 3:1. Saturating levels of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase blocked only 33% of the total binding sites which were localized at the cytoplasmic segment; the remaining 67% was localized in lipids by their extraction with acetone. Reconstitution of acetone-extracted band 3 with phospholipid liposomes indicated phosphatidylserine as the binding site. The positive cooperativity in binding to acetone-extracted band 3 was increased (Hill constant = 2.1 +/- 0.1) compared to the band 3 preparation. After separation of the alpha and beta chains of hemoglobin, only the alpha chain binds to band 3 with positive cooperativity to an extent of 45-50% of native hemoglobin with similar affinity. The binding capacity of p-(hydroxymercuri)benzoate (HMB) derivatives of hemoglobin and its alpha chain was less than that of native hemoglobin, whereas HMB-beta chain or beta chain did not bind.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2,3-Bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM) [EC 5.4.2.4] is a multifunctional enzyme that catalyzes both the synthesis and the degradation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and contains three types of activities in that it functions as a 2,3-DPG synthetase, a phosphoglycerate mutase and a 2,3-DPG phosphatase. In humans, BPGM occurs only in erythrocytes and plays a pivotal role in the dissociation of oxygen from hemoglobin via 2,3-DPG. The present study shows that the specific activity of BPGM in erythrocytes of diabetic patients is decreased, compared to normal controls as judged by 2,3-DPG synthetase activity and immunoreactive contents. To understand the mechanism by which the enzyme is inactivated, the enzyme was purified from pooled erythrocytes from diabetic patients and subjected to a boronate affinity column. The flow through fraction was active while the bound fraction was completely inactive. The bound fraction was reactive to an anti-hexitollysine antibody, indicating that the enzyme had undergone glycation and inactivation. The primary glycated site of the enzyme was found to be Lys158 as judged by amino acid sequencing and the reactivity with an anti-hexitollysine IgG, after reverse-phase HPLC of the lysyl-endopeptidase-digested peptides. Extensive glycation of recombinant BPGM in vitro indicated that the glycation sites were Lys2, Lys4, Lys17, Lys42, Lys158, and Lys196. From these results, the loss of enzymatic activity appears to be due to the glycation of Lys158 which may be located in the vicinity of the substrate binding site.
Abstract 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPGA) can be determined in the presence of 3-PGA by a coupled enzymic uv method with the oxidation of NADH as an indicator reaction. This method utilizes the determination of the reaction rate of nonactivated 2,3-DPGA phosphatase activity for purposes of extrapolation. 2,3-DPGA can therefore be determined quantitatively in crude cell extracts such as those obtained from deproteinized blood.
2 men) preand 1 year post-bariatric surgery (vertical banded gastroplasty 8, gastric bypass 5, duodenal switch 3). Patients on anti-hypertensive or cholesterol lowering drugs were excluded. We measured leptin, lactate, pyruvate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), pH, and the OTR by dynamic oximetry. OTR methodology initiated in our laboratory and consists of the evaluation of the rate of hemoglobin desaturation in vitro as the blood O2 saturation goes from 100% to 60%. The endpoint of anaerobic glycolysis is lactate, of aerobic it is pyruvate. The lactate-pyruvate ratio decreases with increasing aerobic glycolysis. 2,3-DPG, an intermediate in glycolysis, modulates the hemoglobin/oxygen dissociation curve; when 2,3-DPG decreases, the curve shifts to the left, reducing the OTR. Statistical analysis by t-test. Results: The 1 year average %EBWL was 55.6% (37.7 kg). All calculated indicators decreased: leptin -34.8% (p .04), lactate/ pyruvate ratio -16% (p .12), 2,3-DPG -38.8% (p .001), and pH -.7% (p .05). The OTR decreased -18.3% (p .03 at 5 minutes. Conclusion: Bariatric surgery is associated with changes in metabolic parameter indicative of a shift from anaerobic to more energy efficient aerobic metabolism.
Extract: In view of previous studies which did not show a precise relation between the percentage fetal hemoglobin and the position of the oxygen hemoglobin equilibrium curve, this problem was reexamined taking into account both the concentration of fetal hemoglobin and the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content of the cell. Forty-eight normal infants weighing 2500 g or more at birth were studied on days 1 and 5 of life and then at 3 and 6–9 weeks, and at 3–4, 5–6, and 8–11 months of age. Fifty-six ingfants ranging in birth weight from 900 to 2420 g were studied during the first 8 days of life and then at 2− to 3-week intervals until approximately 16 weeks of life. Twelve premature infants who were ill with the respiratory distress syndrome were also studied. Laboratory procedures consisted of measurement of total hemoglobin, fetal hemoglobin, red cell 2,3-DPG, and oxygen equilibrium curves. The “functioning DPG fraction” in millimicromoles per milliliter red blood cells (RBC) was obtained by multiplication of the total red cell DPG content (millimicromoles per milliliter RBC) by the percentage of adult hemoglobin. These studies confirm previous observations that the term infant begins life with blood that has an increased affinity for oxygen. During the first few months of life the oxygen-hemoglobin equilibrium curve gradually shifts to the right and between 4 and 6 months of age becomes similar to that observed in the normal adult. The change in P60 in these infants correlated neither with the change in red cell DPG content alone nor with the decline in fetal hemoglobin alone. Instead, the progressive decrease in oxygen affinity during the first 6 months of life correlated significantly (r = 0.876, P < 0.001) with the functioning DPG fraction. The term “functioning DPG fraction” is suggested to reflect the fact that both the DPG concentration and the adult hemoglobin concentration within the cell, with which the DPG interacts, are necessary factors in determining the position of the oxygen equilibrium curve. Infants with respiratory distress appear to have P50 s that are lower than those of healthy infants of similar gestational age and birth weight. This appears to be primarily a result of a decrease in red cell DPG concentration. It is this type of infant who may benefit from exchange transfusion with fresh adult blood.
Drug treatment of diseases follows different disease-dependent therapeutic strategies, such as replacing certain systemic deficiencies as seen in insulin management of type I diabetes mellitus, prophylactic treatments as seen in the use of pyrimethamine in preventing malaria, modulating receptor interaction often involving dysfunctional biochemical processes either in the host or in the offending pathogen. In a number of diseases of special interest, however, pathological sequelae as well as clinical manifestations can be directly traced to critical defects in protein folding and aggregation [1] . A number of diseases fall into this category, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's diseases, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, type II diabetes mellitus, and sickle cell disease. Their clinical presentations can often be traced to mutational changes in amino acid sequence, which frequently instigate abnormal folding and aggregation behavior of the concerned protein. In sickle cell disease (SCD), a point mutation involving the replacement of glutamic acid at position 6 of the β-globin chain of hemoglobin to valine leads to the polymerization of hemoglobin [2] . In manifestation, SCD represents a symptom complex that involves dehydration of the Glu6 to Val6 mutated hemoglobin, which is called sickle hemoglobin or hemoglobin S (HbS), and elevated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels whose interaction Before examining the role and potential of peptide inhibitors in SCD, we first provide a brief overview of the structure and aggregation of sickle hemoglobin, as well as of previous therapeutic approaches aimed at inhibiting HbS polymerization, allowing peptide inhibitors to be put into context.
To investigate the possible mechanisms of adaptation to chronic hypoxia in the pulmonary circulation, we made direct measurements of pulmonary arterial pressure (Ppa) in 10 awake pika rodents that were transported to Xining, People’s Republic of China (altitude 2,260 m) after being captured at 4,300 m and in 10 Wistar rats in a decompression chamber (simulated altitudes of 4,300 and 5,000 m) in Xining. Ppa was obtained at 1 h of exposure to each simulated altitude. The histology and immunohistochemistry of the lung tissues were also studied. Ppa in the pikas after the 4,300- and 5,000-m altitude exposures did not significantly increase, whereas in the rats Ppa rose significantly. Mean changes in Ppafrom 2,260 to 4,300 and 5,000 m were 1.48 ± 0.49 and 4.80 ± 0.67 mmHg in the pikas and 10.38 ± 3.36 and 19.10 ± 2.28 mmHg in the rats. The ratio of right ventricular to left ventricular plus septal weight in the pikas and rats was 0.22 and 0.45, respectively. The pikas maintained levels of Hb, hematocrit, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate lower than those of the rats. The percent wall thickness of the small pulmonary arteries in the pikas and rats was 9.22 and 27.21%, respectively, and it was well correlated with the degree of Ppa in both groups. Mast cells were observed in the lungs of the rats (7.1 ± 0.33 cells/mm2) but not in the pikas. There was highly positive staining for mast cell tryptase and transforming growth factor-β around pulmonary vessels in the rats, whereas no demonstrable reaction was observed in the pikas. We conclude that the pika has adapted to high altitude by losing hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and thin-walled pulmonary arterioles.
Studies were carried out on fresh cord blood obtained at delivery from nonstressed normal fetuses ranging from 24 to 42 weeks of gestation, to determine the relationship of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), the intracellular red cell and extracellular pH, and the proportions of adult and fetal hemoglobin in regulating the position of fetal red cell oxygen affinity in utero. There was a significant positive correlation between P50 and gestational age (r = .62, P less than .001), the linear regression increased from 17.8 to 22.5 mm Hg. There was also a significant positive correlation between P50 and the percentage of adult type hemoglobin (HbA) (r = .67, P less than .001). In contrast gestational age had no effect of 2,3-DPG levels, the mean and SD was 14.86 +/- 2.04 mol/gm of Hb or delta pH between plasma and red cell, the mean was 0.187 +/- SD 0.032. However, there was a significant negative correlation between the intraerythrocyte hydrogen ion concentration and DPG level (r = .5, P less than .025). It is concluded therefore that the decrease in fetal oxygen affinity as gestation progresses is related mainly to the increase in the amount of HbA and the levels of DPG or delta pH between plasma and red cells are not a function of gestational age.
We investigated whether red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations are reduced in critical illness, whether acidaemia, hypophosphataemia or anaemia influence 2,3-DPG, and whether there is any net effect on in vivo P50. Twenty healthy, non-smoking, male volunteers were compared with 20 male intensive care patients with APACHE 2 scores >20 on the preceding day. Those transfused in this time were excluded. Venous red cell 2,3-DPG concentrations were measured in both groups. In the patient group, routine multichannel biochemical profile and arterial blood gas analysis were also performed and in vivo P50 calculated. The mean 2,3-DPG concentration was significantly lower in the patient group than in the controls (4.2+/-1.3 mmol/l vs 4.9+/-0.5 mmol/l, P=0.016). The patients were well oxygenated (lowest arterial PO2=75 mm Hg) and showed a tendency to acidaemia (median pH 7.37, range 7.06 to 7.48) and anaemia (median haemoglobin concentration 113 g/l, range 89 to 154 g/l). By linear regression of patient data, pH had a significant effect on 2,3-DPG concentrations (r=0.6, P=0.011). Haemoglobin and phosphate concentrations did not, but there were few abnormal phosphate values. There was no correlation between 2,3-DPG concentrations and in vivo P50 (r2 < or = 0.08). We conclude that 2,3-DPG concentrations were reduced in a broad group of critically ill patients. Although this would normally reduce the P50, the reduction was primarily linked with acidaemia, which increases the P50. Overall, there was no net effect on the P50 and thus no affinity-related decrease in tissue oxygenation.
Physical exercise appears to affect both blood magnesium status and erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration. Concentrations of erythrocyte and plasma magnesium (ErMg and PlMg) and erythrocyte 2,3-DPG were measured three times over a period of 2 months in a group of 11 athletes who were training for a marathon. The concentration of 2,3-DPG was found to be significantly increased at the end of the 1st month (P < 0.05) compared to its level at the beginning of the study. However, at the end of the 2nd month, it was significantly lower (P < 0.05) than at the end of the 1st month. This decrease might have been due to the reduction in the intensity of training, despite an increase in the training distance. Both ErMg and PlMg did not change significantly after the 1st and 2nd months of training. However, the decrease of total circulating magnesium, i.e., whole blood magnesium was significant, after both the 1st and 2nd months. This decrease may have been due to an increased loss of magnesium or to a shift of magnesium from the blood to other compartments. We observed a significant negative correlation between ErMg and 2,3-DPG after the 1st month: r = -0.59, P < 0.05. We hypothesized that this inverse relationship might have been due to the sympathetic stimulation secondary to physical stress. Furthermore, in view of the mechanism of binding ErMg and 2,3-DPG by haemoglobin, the negative correlation between ErMg and 2,3-DPG might have been due to the relative tissue hypoxia that accompanies aerobic exercise.
The past two decades have witnessed increased scrutiny regarding efficacy and risk of the once unquestioned therapy of red blood cell (RBC) transfusion. Simultaneously, a variety of changes have been identified within the RBC and storage media during RBC preservation that are correlated with reduced tissue oxygenation and transfusion-associated adverse effects. These alterations are collectively termed the storage lesion and include extensive biochemical, biomechanical, and immunologic changes involving cells of diverse origin. Time-dependent falls is 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, intracellular RBC adenosine triphosphate, and nitric oxide have been shown to impact RBC deformability and delivery of oxygen to the end-organ. The accumulation of biologic response modifiers such as soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L), lysophosphatidylcholine (lyso-PC), and Regulated on Activation, Normal T-cell Expressed and Secreted (RANTES) have been associated with altered recipient immune function as well. This review will address the alterations occurring within the RBC and storage media during RBC preservation and will address the potential clinical consequence thereof.
The intracellular pH (pHi) of red cells stored in acid citrate dextrose (ACD) medium was estimated by the 5,5'-dimethyloxazoldine,-2,4-dione (DMO) method. The initial pHi at 4degrees was about 7.6 and was higher than the extracellular pH (pHe) at 4degrees. During storage, both pHi and pHe decreased, but the former was always higher than the latter and the former decreased more slowly than the latter. The high pHi of ACD blood was a results of the temperature at which the pHe and the pHi were measured (4degrees) and the presence of citrate anions in the medium, and could be explained by application of the Donnan-Gibbs equilibrium. ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) were well-maintained in heparinized blood when it was acidified and pHe and pHi at 4degrees were both about 7.4, which suggests that improvement of blood preservation may be attained by suitable adjustment of the pHi and pHe of the blood.
Human and bovine hemoglobins (Hbs) exhibit several functional differences. They have a similar oxygen affinity in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG); however, bovine Hb has a greatly diminished 2,3-DPG effect, which itself is chloride dependent. The question is to determine whether these differences have a common structural origin, or whether they evolved in an independent fashion. The decreased 2,3-DPG effect can be partially reproduced by mutations at the effector binding sites, substituting the betaNA1 valine-NA2 histidine present in human Hb with a methionine. While changes of human Hb at these sites could provoke the bovine characteristic of the lower 2,3-DPG effect, the oxygen affinities of these mutated Hbs were not as low as that of the bovine Hb. Modifications responsible for tertiary structural modifications of helix A in human Hb might help shift the N-terminal methionine position, thereby locking helix A in place. We replaced the residues proline beta5(A2), arginine beta104(G6), and tyrosine beta130(H8) of human Hb by the residues present in bovine beta-globin, namely alanine, lysine, and phenylalanine, respectively. These mutations did not allow us to obtain a low oxygen affinity recombinant Hb (rHb). This indicates that other factors also influence oxygen binding and the effects are only partially coupled.
The age changes of 2,3-DPG concentration, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase, hexokinase and pyruvate kinase activities in pigs erythroid cells during the first 10 days after birth have been investigated for study of the mechanism of blood oxygen-transport function regulation at the early stages of postnatal adaptation. It was established, that there are age peculiarities in young, mature and old erythrocytes metabolism in piglets during the transition to postnatal development. It was shown that the rise of 2,3-DPG, the allosteric effector of hemoglobin oxygen affinity level, is due to the increased activities of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase and hexokinase after birth, that is particularly characteristic of the young pigs erythrocytes.
FTIR associated with multi-bounce horizontal attenuated total reflectance was used to diagnose α-thalassemia patients.In ranges of 800~1780cm-1 and 2480~3600cm-1,we calculated all intensity ratios to detect spectra differences between patient and health groups.We found that there are significant differences between α-thalassemia patients and health groups in intensity ratios of I1074/I1152,I1517/I1074 and I3295/I3372.At the peaks of 1074cm-1,1152cm-1,1517cm-1 and 3295cm-1,they are assigned to deformation vibration of O-P=O,C-O stretching vibration of carbohydrate,breathing vibration of tyrosine ring and Amide A,respectively.It suggests that the difference of intensity ratios between two groups may result from increasing 2,3-diphosphoglycerate,decreasing glucose and hemoglobin in α-thalassemia patients.Furthermore,principal components analysis(PCA) was used to assess these ratios and demonstrated a correct classification on the basis of PC scores.
We have compared the efficiency of four methods to remove 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) from hemoglobin (Hb), comprising dialysis, repeated ultrafiltration, gel filtration, and ion-exchange chromatography. All the methods eventually yielded hemoglobin solutions with a ratio of <0.002 mol of DPG/mol of Hb4 and identical oxygen-binding properties but differed with respect to duration and versatility. Considering these factors, we found the combination of an ion-retardation resin and a mixed-bed resin to be most satisfactory.
A study was made of the haemoglobin (Hb) system from the Sardinian dwarf horse (Equus caballus jara), one of the last surviving wild horse species in Europe. The oxygen binding properties of the whole haemolysate and of the four different horse Hbs, separated by ion-exchange chromatography, were studied with special regard to the effect of chloride, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and lactate. Results indicate that no significant functional differences exist between the four Hb components of horse haemolysate. Moreover, the molecular basis of the intrinsically low oxygen affinity and of the weak interaction of horse Hb with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is discussed in the light of the primary structure of the molecule and of the results of a computer modelling approach. On these bases, it is suggested that the A1 (Thr-->Ser) and A2 (Pro-->Gly) substitutions observed in the beta chains from horse Hb may be responsible for the displacement of the A helix that is known to be a key structural feature of those Hbs that display an altered interaction with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate as compared with human Hb.
Absolute 31P-NMR measurements of ATP, ADP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in oxygenated and partly deoxygenated human erythrocytes, compared to measurements by standard assays after acid extraction, show that ATP is only 65% NMR visible, ADP measured by NMR is unexpectedly 400% higher than the enzymatic measurement and 2,3-DPG is fully NMR visible, regardless of the degree of oxygenation. These results show that binding to hemoglobin is unlikely to cause the decreased visibility of ATP in human erythrocytes as deoxyhemoglobin binds the phosphorylated metabolites more tightly than oxyhemoglobin. The high ADP visibility is unexplained. The levels of free Mg2+ [( Mg2+]free) in human erythrocytes are 225 mumol/l at an oxygen saturation of 98.6% and instead of the expected increase, the level decreased to 196 mumol/l at an oxygen saturation of 38.1% based on the separation between the alpha- and beta-ATP peaks. [Mg2+]free in the erythrocytes decreased to 104 mumol/l at a high 2,3-DPG concentration of 25.4 mmol/l red blood cells (RBC) and a normal ATP concentration of 2.05 mmol/l RBC. By increasing the ATP concentration to 3.57 mmol/l RBC, and with a high 2,3-DPG concentration of 24.7 mmol/l RBC, the 31P-NMR measured [Mg2+]free decreased to 61 mumol/l. These results indicate, that the 31P-NMR determined [Mg2+]free in human erythrocytes, based solely on the separation of the alpha- and beta-ATP peaks, does not give a true measure of intracellular free Mg2+ changes with different oxygen saturation levels. Furthermore the measurement is influenced by the concentration of the Mg2+ binding metabolites ATP and 2,3-DPG. Failure to take these factors into account when interpreting 31P-NMR data from human erythrocytes may explain some discrepancies in the literature regarding [Mg2+]free.
Abstract Hemoglobin function can be modulated by the red cell membrane but some mechanistic details are incomplete. For example, the 43-kDa chymotryptic fragment of the cytoplasmic portion of red cell membrane Band 3 protein and its corresponding N-terminal 11-residue synthetic peptide lower the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin but effects on cooperativity are unclear. Using highly purified preparations, we also find a lowered Hill coefficient (n values <2) at subequivalent ratios of Band 3 fragment or of synthetic peptide to Hb, resulting in an oxygen affinity that is moderately decreased and a partially hyperbolic shape for the O2 binding curve. Both normal HbA and sickle HbS display this property. Thus, the determinant responsible for the Hb cooperativity decreases by the 43-kDa fragment resides within its first 11 N-terminal residues. This effect is observed in the absence of chloride and is reversed by its addition. As effector to Hb ratios approach equivalence or with saturating chloride normal cooperativity is restored, and oxygen affinity is further lowered because the shape of the oxygen binding curve becomes completely sigmoidal. The relative efficiencies of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), the 43-kDa Band 3 fragment, and the 11-residue synthetic peptide in lowering cooperativity are very similar. The findings are explained based on the stereochemical mechanism of cooperativity because of two populations of T-state hemoglobin tetramers, one with bound effector and the other with free (Perutz, M. F. (1989) Q. Rev. Biophys. 22, 139–237). As a result of this property, hemoglobin at the membrane inner surface in contact with the N-terminal region of Band 3 could preferentially bind O2 at low oxygen tension and then release it upon saturation with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the interior of the red cell. Membrane modulation of hemoglobin oxygen affinity has particularly interesting implications for the polymerization of hemoglobin S in the sickle red cell.
Blood oxygen transport and oxygen extraction were assessed in horses with colic. A gravity score (GS) ranging from I to 3 was attributed to each colic case with healthy horses used as controls. Jugular venous and carotid arterial blood samples were collected and concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, adenosine triphosphate, inorganic phosphate and chloride were determined. pH and partial pressures of carbon dioxide (PCO2), and oxygen (PO2) were also measured. Oxygen equilibrium curves (OEC) were constructed under standard conditions and oxygen extraction ratios calculated. Haemoglobin oxygen affinity measured under standard conditions (P50(std)) was unchanged in colic horses compared with healthy controls. Horses with the highest GS, i.e. 3 had lower blood pH values than healthy animals. Arterial and venous partial pressures of oxygen at 50% haemoglobin saturation (P50(a) and P50(v)) were significantly higher in horses suffering from colic (GS = 3) than in healthy horses. The oxygen extraction ratio was also significantly increased in colic horses with a GS of 3. A rise in the oxygen extraction ratio detected in the most severely affected animals seemed to reflect the compensatory properties of the oxygen transport system where extraction of oxygen from the blood increases when systemic oxygen delivery decreases, as might be anticipated in horses with colic. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A kindred with partial deficiency of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase (2,3-DPGM) was studied. The propositus presented with indirect hyperbilirubinemia, normal hemoglobin (15.8 g/dl), and elevated reticulocyte count (4.6%). The red cell 51Cr survival was decreased (tau1/2 16 days). Incubated osmotic fragility was normal; autohemolysis was increased and corrected with glucose and ATP. The P50 was 18.5 mm Hg (normal 25.5 +/- 3), but the stability, electrophoresis, and fingerprinting of hemoglobin were normal. The concentration of 2,3- diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was reduced to 43% of normal. Red cell 2,3- DPGM was decreased to 59% of normal; 2,3-DPG phosphatase was similarly decreased. All red cell glycolytic and hexose monophosphate shunt enzymes, glycolytic intermediates other than 2,3-DPG, and glucose consumption and lactate production were normal. Five family members showed similar hematologic findings. The deficiency appears to be secondary to decreased enzyme synthesis and to be inherited as an autosomal dominant trait in this family. Partial deficiency of 2,3-DPGM should now be considered in the differential diagnosis of compensated hemolysis associated with increased oxygen affinity.
The unusually high blood-O2 affinity in the bar-headed and Andean geese is a necessary adaptation for migration across high mountain ranges. The amino acid residues alpha-119 and beta-55, which form an alpha 1 beta 1 contact in human hemoglobin (Hb), are altered in bar-headed and Andean geese, respectively, which suggests that loss of this contact increases O2 affinity. Two mutant human Hbs with equivalent mutations at these sites prepared by site-directed mutagenesis show the same increase in O2 affinity compared with Hb A, which indicates that these mutations are responsible for the changes in the protein. The intrinsic affinity difference compared with native Hb A is amplified by organic phosphates. Whereas the recombinant and native Hbs displayed similar sensitivities to pH, chloride, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, the oxygenation heat of the alpha-chain mutant decreased in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. O2 association constants for the deoxygenated state of the alpha-mutant were about three times those for Hb A. The mutant Hb analogously exhibited higher affinity constants for binding the first three O2 molecules. Calculated heme-heme interaction energies indicated that loss of a single contact, resulting in destabilization of the deoxy (tense) structure, underlies the increased O2 affinity. Adaptations securing Hb-O2 binding at extreme altitude are discussed.
Abstract When hemoglobin switches from the deoxy (T) to the liganded (R) form, several of its peptide group NH experience a great increase in their rate of exchange with water. Selective labeling and fragment isolation experiments identify some of the sensitive protons as three to four near-neighbor H-bonded peptide NH placed between Ala140β and the C-terminal His146β residue. These NH have differing solvent accessibilities, yet all exchange at about the same rate, and they maintain a common rate in the face of modifications that change their exchange rate over a 1000-fold range. This suggests that their exchange is mediated by a concerted transient unfolding reaction. The removal of allosterically important salt links at the distant alpha subunit N termini (des-Arg141α hemoglobin) has little if any effect on the indicator NH at the beta C terminus. This demonstrates the restricted reach of the separate allosteric interactions in the T form as well as the localized nature of the H-exchange probe. Breakage of a salt link at the beta chain C terminus (His146β to Asp94β) by chemical modification (NES-Cys93β hemoglobin) speeds exchange of the indicator peptide NH in T-state hemoglobin by sixfold, which corresponds to an allosteric destabilization at the C-terminal segment of 1 kcal (pH 7.4, 0 °C), according to local unfolding theory. This is in quantitative agreement with energy values obtainable from other measurements. These NH exchange with an average halftime of five hours in deoxy hemoglobin and 15 seconds in oxy hemoglobin. According to the unfolding model for protein H-exchange, the 1200-fold increase in rate indicates a loss of 3.8 kcal in structural stabilization free energy at or near the C terminus of each beta chain in the T to R transition (pH 7.4, 0 °C, with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate). This result together with other available data places about 70% of hemoglobin's total allosterically significant structural energy change at the beta chain C termini.
In 12 healthy newborn infants, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and plasma thyroxine levels were studied during the first 2 weeks of life. The data obtained indicate that thyroxine increases the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration in the erythrocytes. Thus, thyroxine initiates via 2,3-diphosphoglycerate the accelerated decline of hemoglobin oxygen affinity taking place after birth, which facilates oxygen release from hemoglobin to the tissues.
Changes in oxygen transport and delivery noted in many diseases are related to altered concentrations of organic phosphates in red blood cells, primarily 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Elevated 2,3-DPG levels enhance delivery of oxygen to the tissues; lowered levels compromise oxygen delivery. Maintaining 2,3-DPG levels in stored blood is of particular concern.
Besides, over long-term evolution, many plateau-native animals also have developed their own unique mechanisms to adapt to the harsh plateau environment. They also developed some important characteristics to avoid unfavorable environmental aspects and effectively acquire matter or energy from their environment to ensure their normal growth and reproduction. Plateau pika (Ochotona curzoniae), an endemic species of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, inhabits meadows at altitudes 3000-5000 m above sea level. The pika is a key species on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, where it plays an important role in biodiversity of the ecosystem [4, 5] . Pika fossil samples found on the north edge of the Qinghai-Tibetan plateau are about 37 million years old [6] . During evolution, the pika underwent a series of changes to adapt to the harsh environment and become a high hypoxia-tolerant mammal. First, the pika developed larger pulmonaryalveoli and higher capillary density to obtain oxygen from the hypoxic environment more efficiently [7] . Additionally, pika developed thin walled pulmonary arterioles, blunted hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction [8] , increased erythrocyte counts [9] , reduced mean corpuscular volume [10] , changes in hemoglobin (Hb) [11] and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations [8] , and an increased Hb affinity for oxygen [11] . Pikas also have a larger heart and smaller right-to-left ventricular plus septum weights, leading to increased cardiac function [12] . Thirdly, pikas have a high ratio of oxygen utilization by increasing capillary and mitochondrial densities [13] and concentration of myoglobin in tissues [9, 12] . In addition to these physiologic mechanisms, pikas have reduced dependence on oxygen by increasing anaerobic glycolysis in skeletal muscle [14] and gluconeogenesis in liver [15] . The molecular basis of these adaptations in the pika have occurred because of a series of genetic evolutionary changes, tissue-specific protein expression, and changes related to altitude, including HIF-1α [16, 17] , hemoglobin [6] , vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) [18, 19] , testis-specific lactate dehydrogenase (LDH-C4) [20] , pyruvate carboxylase [15] , myoglobin [12] , cytochromic oxidase [21] , inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) [22] , and leptin [23, 24] .
Effects of training and exercise on blood respiratory properties were investigated in standardbred race horses. Training caused an increase in the circulating O2 capacity at rest from 18.4 to 21.0 vol%, and in the O; capacity during exercise from 24.9 to 30.3 vol%. An increase in the m vitro oxygen affinity [P50(pH7.4, 37.9 Cl)] of about 2 mm Hg correlated with a decrease in the red cell concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) from 6.32 to 5.35 mM . 1−(E), erythrocytes. Trained horses also showed an acute lowering of the red cell DPG concentration after maximal exercise. ::: ::: The physiological significance of the increases in O2 capacity and O2 affinity are discussed and a hypothesis presented to explain the possible relationship between changes in spleenic size, total red cell volume and red cell DPG concentration.
Interspecies hybrids of HbA and Hb from mouse C57BL/10 [alpha 2M beta 2H and alpha 2H beta 2M (H = human, M = mouse)], representing 19 and 27 sequence differences per alpha beta dimers (as compared with human alpha beta dimer) have been generated in vitro. The efficiency of the assembly of the interspecies hybrids by the alloplex intermediate pathway is about twofold higher than the low-pH-mediated subunit approach. The interspecies hybrids exhibit a cooperative O2 binding. The intrinsic O2 affinity of mouse Hb is slightly lower than HbA, while the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) effect is comparable. Interestingly, the interspecies hybrid alpha 2M beta 2H has high O2 affinity (compared to either human or mouse Hb), while the interspecies hybrid alpha 2H beta 2M exhibits a very low O2 affinity. These results suggest that the mouse beta chain generates a tetramer with very low oxygen affinity. However, the complementarity of the mouse alpha and beta chains generates a set of unique interactions that compensate for the low-oxygen-affinity propensity of the mouse beta chain. DPG binds the tetramer in the central cavity formed by the two beta subunits, hence the DPG effects on the interspecies hybrids should be as in the parent molecule. However, the results of the present study demonstrate that the DPG binding pocket is influenced by the nature of the alpha chain present in the tetramer. The mouse alpha chain reduces considerably the DPG right shift of the O2 affinity of the human beta-chain containing hybrid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A new approach to the prevention of sickling in vitro by use of the bifunctional crosslinking reagent, dimethyl adipimidate, is described. Prior treat- ment of sickle erythrocytes with dimethyl adipimidate will inhibit sickling in completely deoxygenated eryth- rocytes. Treated erythrocytes do not demonstrate the potassium loss and viscosity increase that usually accom- pany sickling. The oxygen affinity of hemoglobin in these cells is increased independently from changes in the con- centration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The hemoglobin obtained from treated erythrocytes contains a high- molecular-weight component as well as additional posi- tively charged components. The relative degree to which chemical modification and/or crosslinking is an essential part of the antisickling properties of the material is not known.
We investigated the cardiovascular effects of lifelong passive cigarette smoke exposure in preadolescent children and examined the following questions: 1) Is systemic oxygen transport altered? 2) Are coronary heart disease risk factors adversely affected? We recruited 216 families from the MCV Twin Study; 105 had at least one smoking parent. Serum thiocyanate and cotinine levels were used as measures of smoke exposure in the children and thiocyanate was proportional to the number of parental cigarettes smoked each day (p = 0.0001). Paternal smoking had no effect on these measures. Whole blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was higher in smoke-exposed than unexposed children (p less than 0.01) and was related to the thiocyanate level (p less than 0.02). High density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol was lower in passive smoking children (p less than 0.05); the HDL2 subfraction was reduced in passive smoking boys, while the HDL3 subfraction was reduced in passive smoking girls. Significant adverse alterations in system...
A rapidly induced and readily reversible shift in the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen has been demonstrated. The shift, similar to the Bohr effect, is independent of or pH changes. It occurred within 30 min of hemodilution and was seen in portal venous blood but not arterial blood. A hypothesis is suggested involving a phasic alteration in levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) or ATP binding to hemoglobin. It is proposed that, following hemodilution, the degree of binding of these phosphates to hemoglobin increases on passage through the intestinal vascular bed. The increased DPG binding to hemoglobin results in displacement of additional oxygen. As the blood becomes reoxygen-ated, the levels of DPG-hemoglobin binding decline and DPG is displaced from the hemoglobin by oxygen.
ABSTRACT Binding of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate to Hb A and Hb S was studied using proton uptake measurements. As expected from oxygen affinity and CO2, competition experiments,18 the binding constant of deoxy Hb S for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was lower than that for deoxy Hb A. This result represents a functional abnormality of the deoxy Hb S molecule that is independent of a polymerization properties and suggests a small alteration of the conformation of the N termini of the βs chain.
Stored, depleted RBC were rejuvenated with respect to their levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), and P50 by acid-citrate-dextrose per-servatives containing phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) without sucrose. The restorations of P50 and 2,3-DPG were dependent on the phosphoenolpyruvate concentration. Erythrocyte P50 and 2,3-DPG, even after treatment with these preservatives, decreased with increasing storage period, but the P50 and 2,3-DPG of five-week-old blood were still higher than the corresponding values of fresh blood. ATP concentration was also increased by treating stored blood with preservatives containing phosphoenolpyruvate, but the elevated ATP of five-week-old blood was only about 50 percent of fresh blood. The ATP level could not be raised further by increasing phosphoenolpyruvate concentration but was improved by supplementation with adenine and nucleosides. Incubation of stored blood with 15 mM phosphoenolpyruvate was sufficient to restore ATP, 2,3-DPG and P50 of three-week-old blood to nearly normal. The results of these studies indicate that sucrose is not necessary for PEP to be effective as a preservative additive.
Incubation of human erythrocytes with varying concentrations of glucose resulted in a several-fold increase in aldose reductase (alditol:NADP+ 1-oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.21) activity as determined by the rate of NADPH oxidation and the rate of sorbitol formation. As compared to aldose reductase from human erythrocytes not incubated with glucose (native enzyme), aldose reductase from 30 mM glucose-incubated erythrocytes (activated enzyme) exhibited altered kinetic and inhibition properties. Native enzyme showed biphasic kinetics with substrates (glucose and glyceraldehyde), was strongly inhibited by 15 microM ADP, 1,3-diphosphoglycerate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and 3-phosphoglycerate, and aldose reductase inhibitors such as sorbinil and alrestatin. The activated enzyme, on the other hand, exhibited monophasic kinetics, low Km for substrates, was not inhibited by the phosphorylated intermediates, and was less susceptible to inhibition by aldose reductase inhibitors. In erythrocytes of the diabetic subjects, we have found an excellent correlation between aldose reductase activity and plasma glucose levels and have observed that whenever the blood glucose level was higher than 15 mM, all of the erythrocyte aldose reductase was present in the activated form and exhibited properties similar to those observed with aldose reductase obtained from 30 mM glucose-incubated erythrocytes.
Recent functional studies reported on human adult hemoglobin (HbA) show that heterotropic effector-linked tertiary structural changes are primarily responsible for modulating the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. We present the results of 6-ns molecular dynamics simulations performed to gain insights into the dynamical and structural details of these effector-linked tertiary changes. All-atom simulations were carried out on a series of models generated for T- and R-state HbA, and for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate-bound models. Cross-correlation analyses identify both intra- and intersubunit correlated motions that are perturbed by the presence of the effector. Principal components analysis was used to decompose the covariance matrix extracted from the simulations and reconstruct the trajectories along the principal coordinates representative of functionally important collective motions. It is found that HbA in both quaternary states exists as ensembles of tertiary conformations that introduce dynamic heterogeneity in the protein. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate induces significant perturbations in the fluctuations of both HbA states that translate into the protein visiting different tertiary conformations within each quaternary state. The analysis reveals that the presence of the effector affects the most important components of HbA motions and that heterotropic effectors modify the overall dynamics of the quaternary equilibrium via tertiary changes occurring in regions where conserved functionally significant residues are located, namely in the loop regions between helices C and E, E and F, and F and G, and in concerted helix motions. The changes are not apparent when comparing the available x-ray crystal structures in the presence and absence of effector, but are striking when comparing the respective dynamic tertiary conformations of the R and T tetramers.
Hematology and the red cell enzymes, metabolites, and rates of lactate production were measured in a small marsupial, the spectacled hare-wallaby Lagorchestes conspicillatus. In common with other marsupials of similar body weights, the red cells of this wallaby were found to have low levels of ATP and higher levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and produced no lactate when incubated with inosine. One of the five animals examined was suffering from anemia (hematocrit of 22.0% and hemoglobin concentration of 7.2 g/dl compared with the normal values of 46.6% and 15.8 g/dl, respectively); its red cells had almost twice the concentrations of ATP and DPG and had significantly higher activities of several enzymes of the glycolytic pathway.
Abstract The shape and position of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve contribute to efficient transport of oxygen from the lungs to the tissues. In the past several years, factors affecting the position of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve in many disease states have been studied, and the important role of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in mediating alterations in the affinity of blood for oxygen has been repeatedly confirmed. At present, the effects of blood pH and blood oxygenation on levels of 2,3-DPG and on the oxygen affinity of blood are well established; on the other hand, precise prediction of the position of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve in complex disease states is not yet possible.
Oxygen Affinity of Hemoglobins F and A Partially Oxidized to Methemoglobin: Influence of 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate
Adult rats were subjected to the combined stress of low atmospheric pressure and temperature at a simulated altitude of 7620 metres and at 5‡C for 5 hours. A significant increase in the influx of rubidium-86 and the efflux of sodium-22 was observed in erythrocytes of experimental ratsin vitro. Blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was appreciably enhanced while blood sodium and reduced glutathione contents in the experimental animals remained unchanged.
The ability of phosphate alone and in combination with sodium bicarbonate, vitamin C and pyruvate to elevate 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels was examined in normal human subjects in vivo. Statistically significant increases in DPG levels were noted (P less than .001) for all regimens pooled. Average rise in DPG levels reached 6% above pretreatment levels after 2 to 3 days of treatment. No changes in DPG levels were detectable in a group of control subjects over the same time period. Variation among pharmacologic trials and among subjects within trials in the actual magnitude of DPG build-up was marked. Significant differences could not be detected among the pharmacologic regimens in their ability to produce DPG increases. Previous reports suggested the use of these agents to stimulate red cell glycolysis but it seems that their effects and the mechanisms of glycolytic control in vivo are considerably more complex than has been previously suggested.
Serum inorganic phosphorous was decreased significantly on the third postoperative day following cardiac surgery in 18 patients initially studied. Reduced plasma inorganic phosphate has been shown to cause a reduced concentration of red cell organic phosphates, an important determinant of hemoglobin-oxygen affinity. Therefore, 10 consecutive patients were studied to determine if reduced 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration and increased hemoglobin-oxygen affinity accompanied the fall in serum inorganic phosphate concentration. A significant fall in 2,3-DPG and an increase in hemoglobin-oxygen affinity was present in red cells of patients studied on the first postoperative day. A reduction in red cell ATP was also present and persisted for 5 days during which time red cell 2,3-DPG returned to levels which were in excess of preoperative values. The reduction in serum inorganic phosphorous followed the reduction in red cell 2,3-DPG and correlated with the reduction in A...
Phosphoglycerate mutases catalyze the interconversion of 2- and 3-phosphoglycerate in the glycolytic and gluconeogenic pathways. They exist in two unrelated forms that are either cofactor (2,3-diphosphoglycerate)-dependent or cofactor-independent. The two enzymes have no similarity in amino acid sequence, tertiary structure, or catalytic mechanism. Certain organisms including vertebrates have only the cofactor-dependent form, whereas other organisms can possess the independent form or both. Caenorhabditis elegans has been predicted to have only independent phosphoglycerate mutase. In this study, we have cloned and produced recombinant, independent phosphoglycerate mutases from C. elegans and the human-parasitic nematode Brugia malayi. They are 70% identical to each other and related to known bacterial, fungal, and protozoan enzymes. The nematode enzymes possess the catalytic serine, and other key amino acids proposed for catalysis and recombinant enzymes showed typical phosphoglycerate mutase activities in both the glycolytic and gluconeogenic directions. The gene is essential in C. elegans, because the reduction of its activity by RNA interference led to embryonic lethality, larval lethality, and abnormal body morphology. Promoter reporter analysis indicated widespread expression in larval and adult C. elegans with the highest levels apparent in the nerve ring, intestine, and body wall muscles. The enzyme was found in a diverse group of nematodes representing the major clades, indicating that it is conserved throughout this phylum. Our results demonstrate that nematodes, unlike vertebrates, utilize independent phosphoglycerate mutase in glycolytic and gluconeogenic pathways and that the enzyme is probably essential for all nematodes.
Hb Tarrant [αl26(H9)Asp→Asn] is an abnormal variant with high oxygen affinity and decreased cooperativity in the absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and a normal Bohr effect (1,2). At room temperature, it migrates close to Hb F on cellulose acetate electrophoresis at pH 8.6 and shows a hybrid formation at 4°C (1,3). The biochemical studies showed a substitution of asparagine for aspartic acid at codon 126 in the α chain; this substitution suggested a GAC→AAC transition at an undefined α-globin gene (1-4). Hb Tarrant was previously detected in four families with Mexican ancestors, but molecular studies were not performed (2-4).
Eight patients with mild-to-moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and average resting Pao2 of 66 mm Hg were studied clinically and physiologically at sea level and after ascent to 1,920 m. At sea level the patients were symptomatic but not disabled. After ascent the patients had only mild symptoms of fatigue and insomnia, and one had severe headache during exercise on the first day. Funduscopic changes were not observed, nor did cardiac or pulmonary findings change. Resting sea level Pao2 dropped to 51.5 mm Hg within three hours of ascent, and the Paco2 fell from 37.8 to 33.9 mm Hg. Over the next three days, the Pao2 increased to 54.5 mm Hg as hyperventilation continued. At exercise, sea level Pao2 dropped from a mean value of 63 to 46.8 mm Hg at altitude. Pulse rates at rest or exercise did not change. Normal values for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) did not change after ascent at 16 and 42 hours. We believe aircraft flight or travel to moderate altitudes for this type of COPD patient is safe. Preexisting hypoxemia resulting from disease may facilitate the adaptation of patients to severe hypoxia and may prevent symptoms similar to acute mountain sickness.
Abstract Since the organic phosphate compounds, ATP (adenosine triphosphate) and 2,3-DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate), facilitate the release of oxygen from hemoglobin, the concentration of these compounds in the red cell may change in an attempt to compensate for any impairment in oxygen supply to tissue. We have observed elevated levels of red-cell 2,3-DPG and creatine in patients suffering from red-cell mass deficits and cardiopulmonary insufficiency; a significant correlation was noted between levels of red-cell 2,3-DPG and creatine. The mechanisms responsible for these elevations, however, are not known. Our data suggest that assays of the levels of peripheral red-cell 2,3-DPG and creatine constitute an excellent functional biopsy for evaluation of the state of tissue oxygenation. Such assays are useful for diagnosis and serial evaluation of therapy in patients with red-cell mass deficits and should be helpful in patients with cardiopulmonary disease.
Abstract 1. 1.|Human erythrocyte pyruvate kinase (ATP:pyruvate phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.40) has been proposed to conform to the two state conformational model for allosteric enzymes of Monod, Wyman and Changeux. We have examined the kinetic properties of the enzyme in this light and where appropriate made comparative studies on the non-allosteric isozyme from rabbit muscle. 2. 2.|In the pH range from 7 to 8 at low phosphoenolpyruvate concentration the erythrocyte enzyme activity has a strong pH dependence. This behaviour is of practical concern in the conditions used for blood banking. 3. 3.|A number of intracellular organic phosphates were tested. The most likely physiological activators of the erythrocyte enzyme are glucose 6-phosphate and fructose 1,6-diphosphate. Conflicting reports on the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate on the enzyme appear due to differences in the magnesium concentration used in the assays. 4. 4.| l -Amino acids inhibit human erythrocyte pyruvic kinase in a pH and substrate-concentration dependent manner. Various alanine depeptides activate the erythrocyte enzyme, others inhibit. Dipeptides give only inhibition with the muscle enzyme. 5. 5.|Anions inhibit both enzymes. Inhibition of the erythrocyte enzyme is pH and substrate-concentration dependent. 6. 6.|All of these observations are consistent with alterations in the R ⇌ T equilibrium proposed for human erythrocyte pyruvate kinase.
Abstract 1. 1. Red blood cells were analyzed for ATP, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and inositol polyphosphate at different stages of development of two birds; pigeon and Western gull, and several reptiles: Pacific Ridley, snapping and Pseudemys turtles; green iguana, yellow rat snake and American alligator. Other species were examined only as juveniles or adults: ostrich, Boa constrictor and the Nile and Moreleti crocodiles. The results were compared with the phosphate compounds found in red cells of adult man, rat and rabbit. 2. 2. The presence, concentration, and time of occurrence of diphosphoglycerate and inositol polyphosphate, separately or together, during development, provided new biochemical clues to evolutionary relationships. 3. 3. Remarkably large differences in the concentration of ATP in red cells during the development of an animal, and among different kinds of animals, could not be explained.
Summary. Addition of non-saturating amounts of 2,3-DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) within the red cell (2,3-DPG/haemoglobin less than I) intially reduces Hill's parameter, n. With increasing 2,3-DPG/haemoglobin, n increases until a maximum is reached at 2,3-DPG/haemoglobin greater than I. Thus, 2,3-DPG influences the shape as well as the position of the whole blood oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC). The importance of this effect on the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood is considered. The effect of 2,3-DPG on the position of the OEC (p50, the pO2 at one-half maximal O2 saturation) is via its allosteric effect on haemoglobin at 2,3-DPG/Haemoglobin less than I. Above that ratio, its effect is to reduce intracellular relative to the extracellular pH.
We investigated the cardiovascular effects of lifelong passive cigarette smoke exposure in preadolescent children and examined the following questions: 1) Is systemic oxygen transport altered? 2) Are coronary heart disease risk factors adversely affected? We recruited 216 families from the MCV Twin Study; 105 had at least one smoking parent. Serum thiocyanate and cotinine levels were used as measures of smoke exposure in the children and thiocyanate was proportional to the number of parental cigarettes smoked each day (p =0.0001). Paternal smoking had no effect on these measures. Whole blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was higher in smoke-exposed than unexposed children (p<0.01) and was related to the thiocyanate level (p<0.02). High density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol was lower in passive smoking children (p<0.05); the HDL2 subfraction was reduced in passive smoking boys, while the HDL3 subfraction was reduced in passive smoking girls. Significant adverse alterations in systemic oxygen transport and lipoprotein profiles are already present in preadolescent children exposed to long-term passive cigarette smoke, primarily from maternal smoke. Children with long-term exposure to passive smoke may be at elevated risk for the development of premature coronary heart disease. (Circulation 1990;81:586-592) 
Serum inorganic phosphorous was decreased significantly on the third postoperative day following cardiac surgery in 18 patients initially studied. Reduced plasma inorganic phosphate has been shown to cause a reduced concentration of red cell organic phosphates, an important determinant of hemoglobin-oxygen affinity. Therefore, 10 consecutive patients were studied to determine if reduced 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration and increased hemoglobin-oxygen affinity accompanied the fall in serum inorganic phosphate concentration.
Phosphoglycerate mutases catalyze the inter-conversion of 2-and 3-phosphoglycerate in the glycolytic and gluconeogenic pathways. They exist in two unrelated forms that are either cofactor (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) -dependent or independent. The two enzymes have no similarity in amino acid sequence, tertiary structure or catalytic mechanism. Certain organisms including vertebrates have only the cofactor-dependent form whereas other organisms can possess the independent form or both. Caenorhabditis elegans has been predicted to have only independent phosphoglycerate mutase. In this study we have cloned and produced recombinant independent phosphoglycerate mutases from C. elegans and the human parasitic nematode Brugia malayi. They are 70% identical to each other and related to known bacterial, fungal and protozoan enzymes. The nematode enzymes possess the catalytic serine and other key amino acids proposed for catalysis and recombinant enzymes showed typical phosphoglycerate mutase activities in both the glycolytic and gluconeogenic directions. The gene is essential in C. elegans as reduction of its activity by RNA interference led to embryonic lethality, larval lethality and abnormal body morphology. Promoter reporter analysis indicated widespread expression in larval and adult C. elegans with highest levels apparent in the nerve ring, intestine and body wall muscles. The enzyme was found in a diverse group of nematodes representing the major clades indicating it is conserved throughout this phylum. Our results demonstrate that nematodes, unlike vertebrates, utilize independent phosphoglycerate mutase in glycolytic and gluconeogenic pathways, and it is likely essential for all nematodes.
The 'storage lesion' refers to the multiple complex biochemical and biomechanical alterations that occur during ex vivo storage, modifying RBC properties and the supernatant [4] (Table 1) . A progressive decrease in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels may impair oxygen delivery [5] , and a decreased adenosine triphosphate (ATP) pool reduces Na + -K + -ATPase activity and, possibly, ATPmediated hypoxic vasodilation. Decreased antioxidant capacities of the erythrocyte may alter reduction of methemoglobin [6] , generating reactive oxygen species (ROS) through the Fenton reaction. Complex, irreversible membrane changes (including alterations in protein band 3 [7] and release of procoagulant [8] vesicles) lead to poorly deformable sphero-echinocytes with increased adherence to the endothelium [9] and increased susceptibility to phagocytosis [10] . Changes also occur in the supernatant, with a progressive decrease in pH, increased potassium concentration, and release of proinflammatory molecules, complement or biologically active lipids (platelet-activating factor). Release of hemoglobin (free or contained in microparticles) may scavenge nitric oxide (NO) in the transfusion recipient and lead to vasoconstriction [11] and iron and heme may generate redox injuries, cytotoxicity and inflammation [12, 13] . RBCs prone to increased oxidative injury undergo protein and lipid peroxidation with release of lysophospholipids, which may cause transfusion-associated acute lung injury (ALI) [14] . However, animal models describing altered blood flow following transfusion of old RBCs [15, 16] may be of limited relevance to humans [17] . Some alterations described ex vivo, such as the decreases in 2,3-DPG or ATP levels, may be at least partly reversible after transfusion [17] . Therefore, the impact of storage lesions observed in vitro may not be relevant clinically [18, 19] . Some recent meta-analyses [20] [21] [22] have been attempted, but the heterogeneity and methodological limitations of the studies included prevented definitive conclusions. The duration of RBC storage varies among units. Large observational studies have reported a mean duration of RBC storage of between 16 and 21 days [23] , with a maximum storage duration before transfusion being generally limited to 42 days (with standard preservative solutions). However, the regulatory requirements for this limit are based only on the percentage RBC survival 24 h after transfusion (which has to be ≥ 75%), not on oxygen delivery capacities or clinical endpoints [24] .
Background/aim: Hyperphosphatemia is a well-recognized complication of chronic kidney disease, and phosphorus kinetics during hemodialysis (HD) remains a vague area of investigation. We studied the inorganic phosphorus homeostasis during the first hour of an HD session. Materials/methods: Twelve patients were studied twice, in two consecutive HD sessions. Total (TPR), extracellular (EPR), and intracellular (IPR) phosphorus mass removal was determined using the direct dialysate quantification (DDQ) method. Alterations of serum inorganic phosphorus (sP), erythrocyte intracellular phosphorus (PERY), and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations were measured before HD initiation and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 30, and 60 min. Results: The contribution of IPR to TPR was negative in the first 10 min of both HD sessions (–27.2 ± 6.5 and −26.4 ± 58 mmol, respectively, p = ns) while the contribution of the IPR to TPR increased as the time elapsed. Intracellular phosphorus and 2,3-DPG remained almost unchanged dur...
Arterial acid-base balance, lactate, pyruvate, lactate dehydrogenase activity (LDH), 2,3-diphosphoglycerate content (2,3-DPG) of normoxic control rats were compared with those of rats exposed to a hypoxic normobaric environment (10% O2 in N2) within a few hours after birth (hypoxic animals of first generation or H1), and with those of rats of second generation (H2) conceived and born in the above mentioned hypoxic environment of H1 parents and maintained always in the same place since their utilization. The H1 rats showed a displacement of acid-base balance towards acidosis and an increase of lactate, pyruvate, LDH and 2,3-DPG in comparison with normoxic controls. The H2 rats showed a significant attenuation of acidosis in comparison with H1 rats; the values of lactate, pyruvate, LDH and 2,3-DPG were intermediate between those found in H1 and normoxic control rats. We believe that these results are in relation with the evolution of adaptative processes to hypoxic environment in hypoxic animals of second generation.
Cell-free extracts of Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum were found to catalyze ATP synthesis from an endogeneous substrate. Synthesis was stimulated under hydrogen atmosphere and inhibited by KCL (Ki=150 mM). Comparison of the properties of a number of cell constituents showed the endogeneous substrate to be 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The compound is converted into 3-phosphoglycerate, and via 2-phosphoglycerate and phosphoenolpyruvate into pyruvate, at which the latter reaction is linked with ATP synthesis.
1. A 6 hr time-course response of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate was studied in rabbits following adrenaline administration. 2. Eight female New Zealand white rabbits weighing about 3.6 Kg each were injected intra-peritoneally with a total of 0.97 mg/kg of adrenaline (0.56 mg/kg at time 0 min and 0.41 mg/kg at time 0.5 hr), and the venous level of red blood cell (RBC) 2,3-DPG was monitored at 0 hr, 1 hr, 3 hr, and 6 hr, respectively. As controls, the level of 2,3-DPG was also monitored in these rabbits weeks prior to the experiment. 3. A significant (p < 0.05) rise in the mean level of 2.3-DPG (mumol.ml-1 RBC) was reached 3 hr after the initial injection of adrenaline, and the level returned to the preexposure level by the end of 6 hr. 4. It is speculated that adrenaline may be one of the contributors that increases the level of 2,3-DPG during the resting period following exhaustive exercise because this catecholamine has been reported to increase following this type of hypoxia.
In 9 healthy subjects the erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration, which modifies the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin, decreased by more than 25 per cent within 60 minutes of the beginning of a fructose infusion (0.5 g.kg body weight-1.h-1). In contrast erythrocyte adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration was unchanged. In spite of the diminished 2,3-DPG concentrations the oxygen affinity of whole blood actually measured remained unaltered. However, at the same time both the arterial and the venous blood pH had fallen by 0.05 or more. In vitro experiments indicated that this fall of erythrocyte 2,3-DPG was not due to a direct effect of fructose on the intra-erythrocytic regulation of 2,3-DPG or to changes indirectly related to the intravenous administration of fructose in vivo, i.e. an increase of the blood lactate/pyruvate ratio or a decrease of plasma inorganic phosphate. It is suggested that two opposing effects on the oxygen transport system of blood are induced by fructose infusions: 1) a displacement of the oxygen dissociation curve to the right due to the Bohr effect 2) a virtually counterbalancing shift of the oxygen dissociation curve to the left due to decreased erythrocyte 2,3-DPG concentrations.
1. The metabolism of the erythrocytes in the gentian violet (GV)-treated blood from ten donors was studied weekly from time zero to the 28th day of storage in order to evaluate the efficacy of the use of GV in the chemoprophylaxis of transfusional Chagas' disease. 2. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels in erythrocytes of GV-treated blood were similar to the control until and including the 21st day, with a significant decrease of approximately 40% in relation to control detected only on the 28th day. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate levels of GV-treated blood significantly decreased from the 21st to the 28th day in relation to the control. However, they were above the minimum accepted for good preservation. pH, partial oxygen pressure (pO2), partial carbon dioxide pressure (pCO2), sodium and potassium levels were similar to the respective controls. 3. The use of gentian violet in the chemoprophylaxis of transfusional Chagas' disease is strongly recommended in endemic areas and/or where no safe serologic tests are available.
Red cell concentrates with hematocrit values of 80 +/- 5 percent were stored at 4 degrees C either in citrate-phosphate-dextrose for 22 to 28 days or in citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine-one for 35 to 39 days. After storage, the red cells had reduced 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate levels, and biochemical treatment with a solution called PIPA was used to restore these levels. The red cells were not preserved further, but instead were washed after rejuvenation with an unbuffered sodium chloride-glucose solution, pH 5.0, for in vivo studies, and with a buffered sodium chloride-glucose-phosphate solution, pH 6.8, for comparative in vitro studies. The red cells were stored in the wash solution at 4 degrees C for 72 hours after washing. Red cell recovery after washing was about 95 percent. Twenty-four-hour posttransfusion survival value was about 80 percent, and the index of therapeutic effectiveness was greater than 75 percent. These biochemically modified washed red cells exhibited higher than normal P50 values, even after 3 days of postwash storage at 4 degrees C. The units that were washed with the sodium chloride-glucose solution with a pH of 5.0 exhibited a greater degree of hemolysis after 3 days of postwash storage at 4 degrees C than did the units that were washed with the sodium chloride-glucose-phosphate solution with a pH of 6.8.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To investigate the possible mechanisms of adaptation to chronic hypoxia in the pulmonary circulation, we made direct measurements of pulmonary arterial pressure (Ppa) in 10 awake pika rodents that were transported to Xining, People's Republic of China (altitude 2,260 m) after being captured at 4,300 m and in 10 Wistar rats in a decompression chamber (simulated altitudes of 4,300 and 5,000 m) in Xining. Ppa was obtained at 1 h of exposure to each simulated altitude. The histology and immunohistochemistry of the lung tissues were also studied. Ppa in the pikas after the 4,300- and 5,000-m altitude exposures did not significantly increase, whereas in the rats Ppa rose significantly. Mean changes in Ppafrom 2,260 to 4,300 and 5,000 m were 1.48 ± 0.49 and 4.80 ± 0.67 mmHg in the pikas and 10.38 ± 3.36 and 19.10 ± 2.28 mmHg in the rats. The ratio of right ventricular to left ventricular plus septal weight in the pikas and rats was 0.22 and 0.45, respectively. The pikas maintained levels of Hb, hematocrit, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate lower than those of the rats. The percent wall thickness of the small pulmonary arteries in the pikas and rats was 9.22 and 27.21%, respectively, and it was well correlated with the degree of Ppa in both groups. Mast cells were observed in the lungs of the rats (7.1 ± 0.33 cells/mm2) but not in the pikas. There was highly positive staining for mast cell tryptase and transforming growth factor-β around pulmonary vessels in the rats, whereas no demonstrable reaction was observed in the pikas. We conclude that the pika has adapted to high altitude by losing hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and thin-walled pulmonary arterioles.
Following the reports of Chanutin and Curnish (1) and Benesch and Benesch (2) in 1967, numerous reports have emerged extending our knowledge of the molecular physiologic and clinical aspects of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Some of these molecular findings may now be tested physiologically using an animal model. The first part of this paper will consider the molecular basis for oxygen release from the red cell while the second will deal with a physiologic model and the question of whether a decrease in the rate of release of oxygen from the red cell can induce myocardial ischemia in the dog.
Effects of an infusion of Na2HPO4 on diaphragm strength, endurance, and magnitude of recovery were evaluated in in situ canine diaphragm strips. Results showed no effect on maximal isometric tetanic tension. Twitch tension and tension in the low- (10-Hz) frequency range were significantly increased (P less than 0.01). Time to fatigue (endurance) increased by 38 +/- 4.5% in the group that received phosphorus compared with its control and decreased by 18.5 +/- 2.5% in the group that received dextrose compared with its control (P less than 0.005). Recovery from fatigue was also significantly improved after the phosphorus infusion. Serum ATP and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels were unchanged throughout the experiment. The results of this study support the notion that hyperphosphatemia improves diaphragmatic endurance and recovery from fatigue. The mechanisms involved may in part be due to the phosphate-buffering effects, which limit the extent of the muscle intracellular acidosis produced with fatigue.
Dihydroxyacetone (DHA) is effective in maintaining 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations in stored red blood cells. One limitation to the use of DHA is its instability when added to anticoagulant solutions during blood bag manufacture. The stability of DHA solutions have been evaluated. Solutions of DHA are stable at 25 C in water or isotonic saline, with or without the addition of glucose or adenine. DHA is stable to auto-claving; 99 + per cent surviving at 150 mM, and 89 per cent surviving at 1.9 M concentrations. DHA can be incorporated into a satellite addition pouch attached to the main blood drawing bag, and be added to the blood-anticoagulant mixture after phlebotomy or the preparation of red blood cells. Addition of the DHA solution, containing adenine and extra glucose, to packed cells causes significantly improved maintenance of 2,3-DPG during 42 days of 4 C storage, while maintaining adequate concentrations of red blood cell ATP. The use of DHA, adenine, and glucose in extended storage of packed cells, using either zero or seven day addition of the nutrient solution, produces similar efficacious results.
The interaction of three inositol esters, inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), inositol pentaphosphate (IPP), and inositol hexasulfate (IHS), with hemoglobin has been investigated. The proton uptake method was used to obtain the six binding constants for deoxy- and oxyhemoglobin. These data combined with oxygen binding curves over a range of cofactor concentrations were used to test theoretical and empirical equations relating the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen and allosteric effectors. The Bohr and Haldane coefficients in the presence of the inositol esters are unequal at low, but not at high, concentration of the cofactors. The maximum value reached by both parameters increases with the number of negative charges of the polyanion. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (DPG) differs sharply from the inositol esters since even at high concentrations of this cofactor, the Haldane coefficient remains elevated. This is a reflection of the negligible affinity of DPG for fully oxygenated hemoglobin.
A new case of phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) deficiency is described. The propositus displayed episodes of rhabdomyolysis crises and acute renal failure but did not exhibit any sign of hemolysis. A severe deficiency in phosphoglycerate kinase was revealed in muscle and was also found in erythrocytes, white cells and platelets. A partial defect in the same enzyme was present in the mother's and the two daughters' erythrocytes, indicating a X-linked recessive genetic transmission of the enzyme defect. In the propositus, erythrocyte ATP concentration was normal, although 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and triose phosphate levels were moderately increased. Lactate production from glucose, in vitro, was close to normal in intact red cells. The partial PGK was characterized by an increased Km for ADP and more especially for ATP, reduced thermostability, and diminished electrophoretic mobility. Lack of this enzyme, which is a key step in the glycolytic process (generation of one molecule of ATP), is thought to be responsible for rhabdomyolysis, a fact that has not been reported previously.
Oxygen binding curves were determined, at two plasma pH values in the range 7.0–7.5, each at two pCOa values of 22 and 77 mm Hg, respectively, on human whole blood where the red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentration had been decreased to about 1 mmol/1 of packed cells and increased to about 9 mmol/1 of packed cells. Numerical values are given for the oxygen-saturation-dependant ligand interaction coefficients AlogpOzl ApH, AiogpOzl/llog/>C02 and /llog/)02//llogDPG and their dependance on pH, PCO2 and DPG, respectively.
The ability of marine mammals to hunt prey at depth is known to rely on enhanced oxygen stores and on selective distribution of blood flow, but the molecular mechanisms regulating blood flow and oxygen transport remain unresolved. To investigate the molecular mechanisms that may be important in regulating blood flow, we measured concentration of nitrite and S-nitrosothiols (SNO), two metabolites of the vasodilator nitric oxide (NO), in the blood of 5 species of marine mammals differing in their dive duration: bottlenose dolphin, South American sea lion, harbor seal, walrus and beluga whale. We also examined oxygen affinity, sensitivity to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and nitrite reductase activity of the hemoglobin (Hb) to search for possible adaptive variations in these functional properties. We found levels of plasma and red blood cells nitrite similar to those reported for terrestrial mammals, but unusually high concentrations of red blood cell SNO in bottlenose dolphin, walrus and beluga whale, suggesting enhanced SNO-dependent signaling in these species. Purified Hbs showed similar functional properties in terms of oxygen affinity and sensitivity to DPG, indicating that reported large variations in blood oxygen affinity among diving mammals likely derive from phenotypic variations in red blood cell DPG levels. The nitrite reductase activities of the Hbs were overall slightly higher than that of human Hb, with the Hb of beluga whale, capable of longest dives, having the highest activity. Taken together, these results underscore adaptive variations in circulatory NO metabolism in diving mammals but not in the oxygenation properties of the Hb.
Hemoglobin A2 (alpha2delta2), which is present at low concentration (1-2%) in the circulating red cells of normal individuals, has two important features that merit its study, i.e., it inhibits polymerization of sickle HbS and its elevated concentration in some thalassemias is a useful clinical diagnostic. However, reports on its functional properties regarding O2 binding are conflicting. We have attempted to resolve these discrepancies by expressing, for the first time, recombinant hemoglobin A2 and systematically studying its functional properties. The construct expressing HbA2 contains only alpha and delta genes so that the extensive purification required to isolate natural HbA2 is circumvented. Although natural hemoglobin A2 is expressed at low levels in vivo, the amount of recombinant alpha2delta2 expressed in yeast is similar to that found for adult hemoglobin A and for fetal hemoglobin F when the alpha + beta or the alpha + gamma genes, respectively, are present on the construct. Recombinant HbA2 is stable, i.e., not easily oxidized, and it is a cooperative functional hemoglobin with tetramer-dimer dissociation properties like those of adult HbA. However, its intrinsic oxygen affinity and response to the allosteric regulators chloride and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are lower than the corresponding properties for adult hemoglobin. Molecular modeling studies which attempt to understand these properties of HbA2 are described.
The kinetic properties of placental glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase were studied, since this enzyme is expected to be an important component of the placental protection system. In this capacity it is also very important for the health of the fetus. The placental enzyme obeyed "Rapid Equilibrium Ordered Bi Bi" sequential kinetics with K(m) values of 40+/-8 microM for glucose-6-phosphate and 20+/-10 microM for NADP. Glucose-6-phosphate, 2-deoxyglucose-6-phosphate and galactose-6-phosphate were used with catalytic efficiencies (k(cat)/K(m)) of 7.4 x 10(6), 4.89 x 10(4) and 1.57 x 10(4) M(-1).s(-1), respectively. The K(m)app values for galactose-6-phosphate and for 2-deoxyglucose-6-phosphate were 10+/-2 and 0.87+/-0.06 mM. With galactose-6-phosphate as substrate, the same K(m) value for NADP as glucose-6-phosphate was obtained and it was independent of galactose-6-phosphate concentration. On the other hand, when 2-deoxyglucose-6-phosphate used as substrate, the K(m) for NADP decreased from 30+/-6 to 10+/-2 microM as the substrate concentration was increased from 0.3 to 1.5 mM. Deamino-NADP, but not NAD, was a coenzyme for placental glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. The catalytic efficiencies of NADP and deamino-NADP (glucose-6-phosphate as substrate) were 1.48 x 10(7) and 4.80 x 10(6) M(-1)s(-1), respectively. With both coenzymes, a hyperbolic saturation and an inhibition above 300 microM coenzyme concentration, was observed. Human placental glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was inhibited competitively by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (K(i)=15+/-3 mM) and NADPH (K(i)=17.1+/-3.2 microM). The small dissociation constant for the G6PD:NADPH complex pointed to tight enzyme:NADPH binding and the important role of NADPH in the regulation of the pentose phosphate pathway.
Ion exchange chromatography was used to study perchloric acid extracts of the erythrocytes from the cord blood of normal infants and infants with erythroblastosis fetalis due to anti-D and, for comparison, the red blood cells of adults. Adenosine triphosphate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and the total phosphates were found to be highest in the infants with the most severe form of erythroblastosis fetalis. Evidence is given to show that these findings are not related to the relative immaturity of the erythrocytes in hemolytic discase of the newborn. No changes could be demonstrated in the partition of the intraerythrocytic phosphates in a patient with pernicious anemia before B12 therapy and at the height of the reticulocyte response. It is suggested that the high level of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate found in the erythrocytes in hemolytic disease due to anti-D may be due to alterations in the Embden-Meyerhof glycolytic pathway. The nature of the upheaval is not clear at present.
The functional properties and primary structure of a new β-chain mutant of human hemoglobin are described. The mutant was transmitted as an autosomal dominant characteristic. Affected members of the kindred exhibited marked erythrocytosis due to the high oxygen affinity of the resultant hemoglobin. The abnormality is associated with a substitution of an asparaginyl residue for lysine in the 144 position of the β-chain, αA2β144Lys→Asn2, presumably due to an AAA/G to AAA/U transversion. The mutant hemoglobin displayed a profound increase in oxygen affinity, with a P50 of the fresh whole blood of 14 mm Hg. The isolated mutant hemoglobin exhibited near normal heme—heme interaction, a half-normal Bohr effect, and normal reactivity with 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
ABSTRACT. This study was carried out to investigate the effect of fetal hypoxemia, as a result of acute intermittent maternal hypoxia, on the switchover from fetal to adult type Hb as well as Hb oxygen affinity and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels in the near-term fetus. These experiments were carried out using 10 fetal lambs with gestational ages ranging from 132 to 140 d. After the installation of appropriate fetal catheters, five of the ewes were exposed to an air mixture containing 10% O2 for 90 min/d for 4 consecutive d. Blood samples were withdrawn before the beginning of the hypoxic experiments and between the 5th and 6th d after the first episode of hypoxia. These samples were for the determination of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration, arterial 0 2 pressure at which Hb is 50% saturated, and Hb type synthesis. Blood gases were monitored during each hypoxic episode. During the hypoxia, fetal arterial O2 pressure decreased from 2.43 f 0.36 kPa (18.2 f 2.7 mm Hg) to 1.57 f 0.17 kPa (11.8 + 1.3 mm Hg).
However, the level of fetal Hb synthesis did not significantly change in the hypoxic group (85.1 + 11.1 versus 80.6 f 18.9%). At the end of the study, the hypoxic group had higher levels of fetal Hb synthesis when compared with the control group (80.6 + 18.9 versus 57.4 f 10.2%, p < 0.05). The 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentrations as well as the values of arterial O2 pressure at which Hb was 50% saturated remained within normal limits. The data obtained in this study show that intermittent episodes of fetal hypoxemia cause an increase in the level of fetal Hb synthesis in relation to gestational age. (Pediatr Res 31: 483-485,1992) Abbreviations HbF, fetal hemoglobin 2,3-DPG, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate PSo, arterial O2 pressure at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated
Several studies have demonstrated that blood transfusions result in increased morbidity risk of AF, CKF, stroke, CHF, infections and malignancies [5] [6] [7] , consequently, these pathologies contribute to the increased risk of both early and late mortality. The exact mechanisms in which the homologous blood transfusions lead to the morbidity and mortality are not fully known, and several explanations have been suggested. During the storage, the red blood cells undergo a series of chemical and structural changes, such as depletion of adenosine triphosphate, reduction of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3 DPG), and loss of elasticity. With only three hours of storage is already noted the nitric oxide's falling of bioactivity in the red blood cells, which would result in decreased oxygen delivery in the microcirculation, and hence, adverse clinical outcomes [22] . Another explanation is the similarity between blood transfusion and transplantation. According to Flohe et al. [23], as in transplantation, the Rev Bras Cir Cardiovasc 2013;28(4):509-17 Santos AA, et al. -Mortality risk is dose-dependent on the number of packed red blood cell transfused after coronary artery bypass graft
We performed a docking study followed by a 500-ps molecular dynamics simulation of R-state human adult hemoglobin (HbA) complexed to different heterotropic effectors [2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), and 2-[4-[(3,5-dichlorophenylcarbamoyl)-]methyl]-phenoxy]-2-methylpropionic acid (RSR13)) to propose a molecular basis for recently reported interactions of effectors with oxygenated hemoglobin. The simulations were carried out with counterions and explicit solvation. As reported for T-state HbA, the effector binding sites are also located in the central cavity of the R-state and differ depending on effector anionic character. DPG and IHP bind between the α-subunits and the RSR13 site spans the α1-, α2- and β2-subunits. The generated models provide the first report of the molecular details of R-state HbA bound to heterotropic effectors.
BACKGROUND ::: Red blood cells (RBCs) are thought to have a relatively simple metabolic network compared to other human cell types. Recent proteomics reports challenge the notion that RBCs are mere hemoglobin carriers with limited metabolic activity. Expanding our understanding of RBC metabolism has key implications in many biomedical areas, including transfusion medicine. ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: In-gel digestion coupled with mass spectrometric analysis proteomics approaches were combined with state-of-the-art tracing experiments by incubating leukofiltered RBCs in additive solution-3 for up to 42 days under blood bank conditions, in presence of 13C1,2,3-glucose, 2,2,4,4-d-citrate, and 13C,15N-glutamine. ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Results indicate that the pentose phosphate pathway/glycolysis ratio increases during storage in additive solution-3. While the majority of supernatant glucose is consumed to fuel glycolysis, incorporation of glucose-derived pentose phosphate moieties was observed in nucleoside monophosphates. Incubation with deuterated citrate indicated that citrate uptake and metabolism contribute to explain the origin of up to approximately 20% to 30% lactate that could not be explained by glucose oxidation and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate consumption alone. Incubation with 13C,15N-glutamine showed that glutaminolysis fuels transamination reactions and accumulation of millimolar levels of 5-oxoproline, while de novo glutathione synthesis was not significantly active during refrigerated storage. ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Quantitative tracing metabolic experiments revealed that mature RBCs can metabolize other substrates than glucose, such as citrate, an observation relevant to transfusion medicine (i.e., formulation of novel additives), and other research endeavors where metabolic modulation of RBCs opens potential avenues for therapeutic interventions, such as in sickle cell disease.
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate levels were assayed in 154 pregnant women in the third trimester (61 normal, 52 diabetic, 19 with gestational hypertension, 7 with fetal macrosomia, and 15 with idiopathic fetal underdevelopment). A correlation was found between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels and birth weight (absolute and relative birth weight or birth weight expressed as percentile), which was negative in normal patients evaluated in the last 7 days before delivery ( r = 0.38; p = 0.04) and positive in diabetic patients (evaluated in the third trimester and in the last 7 days before delivery) and in patients with gestational hypertension (evaluated in the third trimester) (r and p values differ according to whether birth weight is expressed as absolute, relative, or a percentile). No correlation was found between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels and birth weight in patients with neonatal underdevelopment or macrosomia of unknown origin. On the basis of these results we hypothesize that in some conditions the fetus can influence maternal 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels and hence its own oxygen supply and growth in utero.
Batch-grown Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum cells grew nonexponentially in the absence of exogenous Pi until intracellular cyclic-2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cyclic DPG) had fallen below 2 mumol/g (dry weight), the limit of detection. Growth resumed immediately upon transfer to medium containing Pi Cyclic DPG levels were also below detection in Pi-limited chemostat cultures operating at a dilution rate of 0.173 h-1 (4-h doubling time), with reservoir Pi concentrations below 200 microM. At this dilution rate, the Pi concentration in the culture was 4 microM. An H2-limited steady state was achieved with 400 microM Pi in the inflowing medium (67 microM in the culture). The cyclic DPG content of these cells was 72 to 74 mumol/g, about one-third the amount in batch-grown cells. The specific growth rate accelerated immediately to 0.36 h-1 (1.9-h doubling time) under washout conditions at high dilution rate. The cellular content of cyclic DPG declined over a 2-h period, and then increased rapidly as the Pi level in the medium approached 200 microM. Expansion of the cyclic DPG pool coincided with a marked increase in Pi assimilation. These results indicated that M. thermoautotrophicum accumulated cyclic DPG only when Pi and H2 were readily available.
Two synthetic peptides corresponding to the N-terminal amino acids (AA) of band 3 were designed to inhibit deoxyhemoglobin S (deoxy S) polymerization through two different mechanisms. Peptide I, an N:1–15AA fragment, was employed to bind to the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) receptor locus of single deoxy S molecules with 5–7 AA extending internally and the remaining 10-8 AA projecting external to hemoglobin (Hb) S, thereby inhibiting polymerization by steric hindrance. Peptide II consisted of two N:1-8AA + K (lysine) sequences linked by a coupler through the lysine, and it was employed to bind to the 2,3-DPG loci of two deoxy S molecules, tethering them together to form “binary hemoglobin complexes” incapable of entering the polymer chains. Decreased polymerization would result from reduction in effective concentration of deoxy S. ::: ::: ::: ::: Binding of peptides to the 2,3-DPG receptor loci was demonstrated by a progressive rightward shift in the hemoglobin oxygen binding curves as a function of increasing peptide concentrations. ::: ::: ::: ::: Inhibition of deoxy S polymerization was studied by equilibrium solubility measurements of purified, stripped solutions of Hb S. Physiologically significant inhibition was demonstrated for both peptides with near-maximum increases in solubility achieved by Peptide II at 1:1 peptide:Hb S ratios. ::: ::: ::: ::: These peptides represent a new class of inhibitors of deoxy S polymerization. © 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
In vertebrates living at high altitude, arterial hypoxemia may be ameliorated by reversible changes in the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood (regulated by erythropoiesis) and/or changes in blood-oxygen affinity (regulated by allosteric effectors of hemoglobin function). These hematological traits often differ between taxa that are native to different elevational zones, but it is often unknown whether the observed physiological differences reflect fixed, genetically based differences or environmentally induced acclimatization responses (phenotypic plasticity). Here, we report measurements of hematological traits related to blood-O2 transport in populations of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) that are native to high- and low-altitude environments. We conducted a common-garden breeding experiment to assess whether altitude-related physiological differences were attributable to developmental plasticity and/or physiological plasticity during adulthood. Under conditions prevailing in their native habitats, high-altitude deer mice from the Rocky Mountains exhibited a number of pronounced hematological differences relative to low-altitude conspecifics from the Great Plains: higher hemoglobin concentrations, higher hematocrits, higher erythrocytic concentrations of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (an allosteric regulator of hemoglobin-oxygen affinity), lower mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentrations and smaller red blood cells. However, these differences disappeared after 6 weeks of acclimation to normoxia at low altitude. The measured traits were also indistinguishable between the F1 progeny of highland and lowland mice, indicating that there were no persistent differences in phenotype that could be attributed to developmental plasticity. These results indicate that the naturally occurring hematological differences between highland and lowland mice are environmentally induced and are largely attributable to physiological plasticity during adulthood.
Oxygen binding curves (OEC) for red cell suspensions have a biphasic shape and reduced n50 values when the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) is lowered by aging or experimental procedures. The mechanism for the abnormal shape of the OEC has been related to variations in the activity of free DPG. DPG binds to tetrameric Hb at a single site, and in red cells its normal concentration is equivalent to that of tetrameric Hb. This equivalence renders the oxygen affinity of Hb and the shape of the OEC very sensitive to small changes in the activity of DPG. The OEC for stripped Hb solutions in the presence of nonsaturating concentrations of DPG also exhibit a biphasic shape but with much larger changes in the n values than observed for red cells. Upon addition of chloride, a known competitor of DPG binding to Hb, the shape of the OEC becomes similar to that of red cell suspensions with the same DPG/Hb ratio. Studies on Hb solutions in the presence of varying concentrations of DPG, but without chloride, have revealed that the cofactor shifts the entire OEC to the right, including both its upper and lower asymptotes. This finding indicates that DPG lowers the intrinsic oxygen affinity for both the T and R states. Theoretical considerations leading to a successful modeling of OEC obtained under varying conditions of DPG and chloride require an expanded two-state allosteric model in which allowance is made for DPG-dependent variations in the dissociation constants of oxygen for both the T and R conformations.
The experiment was conducted on sheep receiving NH4Cl infusions into v. mesentericta anterior. During first 3 h animals received ammonia in a dose of 13 mumol X min-1 X kg body wt.-1 and then next 3 h in a dose of 30 mumol X min-1 X kg body wt.-1. When ammonia was administered in smaller doses its concentration increased to 0.65 and 0.22 mmol/l in portal and peripheral blood, respectively. Simultaneous slight increase of ATP and marked of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) was observed. These effects of moderate ammonia loading are probably caused by the rise of glucose utilization in erythrocytes. Ammonia given in a higher dose induced further rise of its concentration to 1.1 and 0.51 mmol/l in portal and peripheral blood, respectively. Such NH4Cl infusion caused a further rise of 2,3-DPG concentration connected with the drop of ATP level in ovine red blood cells. It seems that a decrease of ATP level was mainly the result of local high 2,3-DPG level which inhibits glycolytic enzymes.
Abstract Phosphoglycerate mutase (EC 2.7.5.3) was purified 2000-fold from pork kidney. The molecular weight estimated by Sephadex gel filtration was approx. 65000. This is in close agreement with other animal phosphoglyceromutases. The previously observed Hg 2+− induced reversible transformation of chicken and rabbit muscle phosphoglycerate mutase (EC 2.7.5.3) into 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase but does not occur with purified pork kidney phosphoglycerate mutase or with preparations of phosphoglycerate metase from beef liver, beef brain and human red cells. The uniqueness of the bahavvior of muscle phosphoglycerate mutase from a number of species is illustrated. On the other hand, the insensitivity of phosphoglycerate mutase from other tissues to Hg 2+ is typified by the kidney enzyme. Pyrophosphate and phosphoglycolate stimulated the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activity of purified preparations of phosphoglycerate mutase from pork kidney and chicken breast. The mutase activity was unaffected by these reagents.
Erythrocytosis associated with the presence of a hemoglobin with increased oxygen affinity has been reported for 10 hemoglobin variants, most of which demonstrate altered electrophoretic mobility. Several members of a family were found to have erythrocytosis, and both the whole blood and the hemoglobin exhibited increased oxygen affinity. Phosphate-free hemoglobin solutions had a normal Bohr effect and reactivity to 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The electrophoretic properties of the hemoglobin were normal, but on peptide mapping of a tryptic digest of the isolated β-chains, a normal βT11 peptide and an abnormal βT11 with greater Rf were seen. Analysis of the abnormal peptide showed the substitution of leucine for the normal proline at β100 (helical residue G2). ::: ::: The hemoglobin variant, designated Hb Brigham, serves to emphasize the necessity for detailed evaluation of the structure and function of hemoglobin in familial erythrocytosis even with electrophoretically “normal” hemoglobin.
1 ::: In erythrocytes of man and rabbits methylene blue catalysis is limited by the following factors at the pH optimum 7.5; primarily by the cellular concentration of NADP+, next by that of glucose-6-P. Possible further limiting steps are glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and reduced-NADP dehydrogenase. ::: ::: 2 ::: Calculation of the intracellular NADP+ concentration with the two-substrate equation for the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase-reaction does not yield reasonable results. The existence of inhibiting factors of the methylene blue catalysis is postulated. Their amount is presumably lower in intact cells as compared with hemolysates. ::: ::: 3 ::: There is no pH dependence of the glucose-6-P concentration in presence of methylene blue. There exists a competition between the oxidative pentose-phosphate-pathway and the Embden-Meyerhof pathway, in which the phosphofructokinase plays a key role. ::: ::: 4 ::: The proportions of the two pathways at different pH values are calculated from data on oxygen and glucose consumption. At pH values below 7.6 glucose is utilized practically exclusively via the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, whereas the Embden-Meyerhof pathway is inhibited. At pH 8.2 the participation of the oxidative pentose-phosphate pathway amounts to 40% of the total glucose utilization, while the Embden-Meyerhof pathway is little if any reduced as compared to cells without methylene blue. ::: ::: 5 ::: With increased degree of oxidation of the pyridine nucleotides there occur decreases in the levels of hexose- and triose-phosphates. With these changes and the decreased flow to lactate an increased formation of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate occurs.
Pig RBCs share several common characteristics with human erythrocytes. Pig RBC diameters and counts are similar, although the average life span of pig erythrocytes is shorter than that of human ones. The knowledge acquired to date on porcine blood shows that it is characterized by a high intraerythrocyte concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) (8 -10 mM) [1] [2] and the hemoglobin (Hb) shows a low temperature sensitivity. In addition, pig RBCs have the slowest metabolic rate of any mammalian cell type [3] ; they contain both hexokinase (EC 2.7.1.1) types II and III, the latter being the predominant form accounting almost for 98% of the total glucose phosphorylating activity [4] . The adult pig erythrocyte is able to utilize 0.27 μmol of glucose h/ml RBC vs 0.56 -2.85 μmol/h/ml RBC for the other mammalian species. This reduced capacity to metabolize glucose results from a relatively poor ability of the cell membrane to transport glucose. In fact, in spite of the presence of all the glycolytic enzymes (GE), a low intracellular glucose concentration has been measured (0.5 mM against a plasma level of 5 mM) [5] . Evidences have been presented showing that pig RBCs supply their energy metabolic substrate with inosine [6] . However, the inosine at physiological concentrations does not seem to be as efficient as glucose in maintaining reduced glutathione levels under oxidative stress, whereas in the pig blood and RBCs catalase activity was found to be high [5] [7] [8] .
Prolonged storage of packed red blood cell units (pRBCs) is associated with biochemical changes that may cause adverse transfusion effects. These alterations include depletion of adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, hemolysis, formation of microparticles and oxidation of lipids amongst other metabolic and cellular disruptions.
BACKGROUND ::: A filter has been developed (P-Capt, MacoPharma) to remove infectious prions from red blood cells (RBCs). We sought to assess 1) its operational use, 2) the quality of filtered components, and 3) whether filtration resulted in any significant changes to blood group antigens. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: A total of 272 leukoreduced RBC units, including units processed using "top-and-top" (TAT) and "bottom-and-top" (BAT) methods, were prion reduced using the P-Capt filter. All RBCs were assessed using standard in vitro tests of RBC quality. Changes to blood group antigen expression were also investigated, including the exposure of cryptantigens and the ability of filtered RBCs to be crossmatched. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Ninety-nine percent of TAT units and 58% of BAT units had a hemoglobin (Hb) content of more than 40 g. Hemolysis increased immediately after filtration, but units remained within UK specification throughout storage. Prion reduction resulted in the loss of 7 to 8 g of Hb and reductions in hematocrit of 6% to 9% due to the filter containing 40 mL of saline, adenine, glucose, and mannitol. Other RBC quality data, including extracellular potassium, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and adenosine triphosphate were similar to historical control data. There was no evidence of any immunologic changes of clinical relevance to the RBC membrane after filtration. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Prion filtration does not appear to have a detrimental effect on basic in vitro measures of RBC quality or on blood group antigens as assessed by in vitro methods. However, prion filtration using the P-Capt filter results in loss of Hb.
Depression of thyroid function in patients with hemoglobin SS disease might be expected to: (1) reduce tissue oxygen consumption, (2) decrease erythrocyte 2, 3-diphosphoglycerate, (3) decrease p50, (4) increase the average level of erythrocyte oxygenation, and (5) increase in vivo red cell survival with associated improvement in anemia and possibly in musculoskeletal symptoms. Accordingly, 150-200 mg of 6-n-propylthiouracil were administered three times a day for 143 days to a 21-yr-old male with hemoglobin SS disease. Thyrosuppression was indicated by typical symptoms and appropriate changes in physical and biochemical parameters. Detailed hematologic follow-up, including multiple measurements of red cell mass, 51Cr erythrocyte survival, red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, and p50, showed no change. Furthermore, musculoskeletal symptoms continued in the pattern characteristic of the euthyroid state. A possible explanation for the lack of any change in clinical status may be that decreased cardiac output, with attendant prolonged circulation time and increased tissue oxygen demand per red cell per unit time, offset the absolute decrease in tissue oxygen consumption. The study provided an opportunity to make detailed clinical observations of sickle cell disease in association with thyroid suppression. The results suggest that thyrosuppression within the limits of symptomatic and physiologic tolerance has no therapeutic application in the clinical management of hemoglobin SS disease.
A human placental soluble "high Km" 5'-nucleotidase has been separated from "low Km" 5'-nucleotidase and nonspecific phosphatase by AMP-Sepharose affinity chromatography. The enzyme was purified 8000-fold to a specific activity of 25.6 mumol/min/mg. The subunit molecular mass is 53 kDa, and the native molecular mass is 210 kDa, suggesting a tetrameric structure. Soluble high Km 5'-nucleotidase is most active with IMP and GMP and their deoxy derivatives. IMP is hydrolyzed 15 times faster than AMP. The enzyme has a virtually absolute requirement for magnesium ions and is regulated by them. Purine nucleoside 5'-triphosphates strongly activate the enzyme with the potency order dATP greater than ATP greater than GTP. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate activates the enzyme as potently as ATP. Three millimolar ATP decreased the Km for IMP from 0.33 to 0.09 mM and increased the Vmax 12-fold. ATP activation was modified by the IMP concentration. At 20 microM IMP the ATP-dependent activation curve was sigmoidal, while at 2 mM IMP it was hyperbolic. The A0.5 values for ATP were 2.26 and 0.70 mM, and the relative maximal velocities were 32.9 and 126.0 nmol/min, respectively. Inorganic phosphate shifts the hyperbolic substrate velocity relationship for IMP to a sigmoidal one. With physiological concentrations of cofactors (3 mM ATP, 1-4 mM Pi, 150 mM KCl) at pH 7.4, the enzyme is 25-35 times more active toward 100 microM IMP than 100 microM AMP. These data show that: (a) soluble human placental high Km 5'-nucleotidase coexists in human placenta with the low Km enzyme; (b) under physiological conditions the enzyme favors the hydrolysis of IMP and is critically regulated by IMP, ATP, and Pi levels; and (c) kinetic properties of ATP and IMP are each modified by the other compound suggesting complex interaction of the associated binding sites.
Blood banking underpins modern medical care, but blood storage, necessary for testing and inventory management, reduces the safety and efficacy of individual units of red blood cells (RBCs). Stored RBCs are damaged by the accumulation of their own waste products, by enzymatic and oxidative injury, and by metabolically programmed cell death. These chemical activities lead to a complex RBC storage lesion that includes haemolysis, reduced in vivo recovery, energy and membrane loss, altered oxygen release, reduced adenosine tri-phosphate and nitric oxide secretion, and shedding of toxic products. These toxic products include lysophospholipids that can cause transfusion-related acute lung injury, free iron that can potentiate infections and cause inflammation, and shed microvesicles that can scavenge nitric oxide and potentiate inflammation and thrombosis. However, most of the obvious negative outcomes of RBC storage are uncommon and appear to be related to exceptionally bad units. Generally, the quality of stored RBCs is highly related to the conditions of storage, so refrigerator temperature, intact bags, residual leucocyte counts and visible haemolysis remain excellent general measures. Specific biochemical measures, such as adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentrations, calcium and potassium content or lipid breakdown products, require specialized measures that are not widely available, involve destructive testing and generally reflect only a part of the storage lesion. This review describes a number of components of the storage lesion and their measurement and attempts to access the utility of the measures.
. Blood collected in ACD was supplemented with PIGP solution or PIGPA solution. The presence of adenine enhanced the mechanical resistance to trauma of erythrocytes. The levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate were restored to a normal to subnormal level. The PIGPA media seemed satisfactory for rejuvenation of stored blood for freezing purposes.
2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) has been found to be the product of the enzymatic degradation of cyclic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (cDPG) in the archaebacterium Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum {Delta}H. Although 2,3-DPG has not previously been detected as a major soluble component of M. thermoautotrophicum, large pools accumulated at an incubation temperature of 50C. Under these conditions, cellular activity was significantly decreased; a return of the culture to the optimum growth temperature restored the 2,3-DPG pool back to original low levels and caused steady-state cDPG levels to increase again. While {sup 13}CO{sub 2}-pulse/{sup 12}CO{sub 2}-chase experiments at 50C showed that the cDPG turned over, the appearance of 2,3-DPG at NMR-visible concentrations required at least 10 h. Production of 2,3-DPG in vivo was prevented by exposure of the cells to O{sub 2}. the enzyme responsible for this hydrolysis of cDPG was purified by affinity chromatography and appears to be a 33-kDa protein. Activity was detected in the presence of oxygen and was enhanced by a solution of 1 M KCl, 25 mM MgCl{sub 2}, and dithiothreitol. Both K{sub m} and V{sub max} have been determined at 37C; kinetics also indicate that in vitro the product, 2,3-DPG, is an inhibitor of cDPG hydrolysis. These findings are discussed in viewmore » of a proposed role for cDPG in methanogens.« less
Abstract A reversible transformation induced by HgCl2 of phosphoglycerate mutase (EC 2.7.5.3) into 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.13) has been discovered and is documented. Maximum effects are obtained at pH 7 and above and at 3 mM Hg2−. The interconversion occurs with all animal phosphoglycerate mutases tested, i.e. chicken breast, rabbit muscle and pig heart. All these phosphoglycerate mutases contain SH groups and require 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Interconversion does not occur with yeast phosphoglycerate mutase which contains no SH groups. Also the phosphoglycerate mutases which are non-2,3-diphosphoglycerate dependent (EC 5.4.2.1) are neither inhibited nor the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase activity increased with SH reagents. This reversible Hg2+-induced phosphoglycerate mutase-2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase interconversion is not carried out by other heavy metals such as Cd2+ and Pb2+ nor by organic mercurials such as p- hydroxymercuribenzoate and p- chloromercuribenzene sulfonate which are believed to be more specific for mercaptide formation than HgCl2; indeed N- ethylmaleimide cannot convert the phosphoglycerate mutase into a 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase. The Hg2+-induced reversible phosphoglycerate mutase-2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase transformation does not entail changes in quaternary structure of the protein as shown by ultracentrifuge measurements. However, Hg2+ seems to modify the tertiary structure as shown by spectropolarimetric and fluorimetric measurements. Mercury modifies the active site sufficiently so that the Michaelis constant for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate decreases for the phosphoglycerate mutase and increases for the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase.
Prolonged endurance training causes a decreased O2 affinity of Hb, which is due to an increase in erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration. Possible mechanisms were studied in 20 males with varying degrees of fitness. Training status was tested by ergometry. Red cell density and O2 transport parameters were determined before this test. The O2 tension at 50% O2 saturation of Hb (P50) was higher in the more fit subjects (+1.3 mmHg) and the 2,3-DPG concentration was higher (+2.3 mumol/g Hb) in this group. The mean density was significantly lower in fit subjects (1.1002 g/ml) as compared with less fit subjects (1.1056 g/ml), indicating a lower mean age. Density distribution curves show that in the fit subjects more young erythrocytes were in blood and that the very old erythrocytes were missing. After correction for the differences in the density distribution, no differences in the P50 value and 2,3-DPG concentration between less fit and fit subjects were found. Therefore, the decreased Hb-O2 affinity after training can be explained by the presence of more young erythrocytes in the blood of trained subjects. The magnitude of this effect correlates with the training status.
Hemoglobin A2 (α2δ2), which is present at low concentration (1–2%) in the circulating red cells of normal individuals, has two important features that merit its study, i.e., it inhibits polymerization of sickle HbS and its elevated concentration in some thalassemias is a useful clinical diagnostic. However, reports on its functional properties regarding O2 binding are conflicting. We have attempted to resolve these discrepancies by expressing, for the first time, recombinant hemoglobin A2 and systematically studying its functional properties. The construct expressing HbA2 contains only α and δ genes so that the extensive purification required to isolate natural HbA2 is circumvented. Although natural hemoglobin A2 is expressed at low levels in vivo, the amount of recombinant α2δ2 expressed in yeast is similar to that found for adult hemoglobin A and for fetal hemoglobin F when the α + β or the α + γ genes, respectively, are present on the construct. Recombinant HbA2 is stable, i.e., not easily oxidized, and it is a cooperative functional hemoglobin with tetramer-dimer dissociation properties like those of adult HbA. However, its intrinsic oxygen affinity and response to the allosteric regulators chloride and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate are lower than the corresponding properties for adult hemoglobin. Molecular modeling studies which attempt to understand these properties of HbA2 are described.
The effects of glucose-insulin-potassium (GIK) on hemodynamics, oxygen transport, P50, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2.3-DPG), and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were evaluated in canine endotoxin shock. Ten dogs were studied under general anesthesia and controlled ventilation. Shock was induced with Escherichia coli endotoxin (1.5 mg/kg body wt). Thereafter two groups of five dogs each were formed by randomization. The one group received GIK (glucose 50%, 2 g/kg, insulin 3 U/kg, and 10 mmole K) in the period between 90 and 120 min after endotoxin. The other group received an equal amount of NaCl infusion and served as a control group. Observations were completed at 180 min after endotoxin. GIK resulted in a significant increase of cardiac output, stroke volume, mean arterial pressure, and oxygen consumption. Serum phosphate levels decreased. No changes were observed of P50 in vitro (at 37 degrees C and pH 7.40) and of P50 in vivo, nor of 2.3-DPG and ATP in the red cells. The data suggest that the increased oxygen consumption after GIK in canine endotoxin shock is caused only by improvement of cardiac output and oxygen availability and not by an effect on oxygen unloading capacity of hemoglobin.
Red cell enzymes, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP), were evaluated in a 23-mo-old boy with juvenile chronic myelocytic leukemia (JCML) at the onset of his illness and 6 mo later during the accelerated phase. The activities of the age-dependent red cell enzymes, hexokinase, aldolase, pyruvate kinase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, were elevated, as were the concentrations of red cell 2,3-DPG and ATP, consistent with a young red cell population metabolizing at an increased glycolytic rate. The activities of the non-age-dependent enzymes, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PD), phosphoglycerate kinase, and enolase, were also increased to levels similar to or greater than those observed in term infants. As the illness progressed, the activity of red cell G3PD increased further, and phosphoglucose isomerase activity increased markedly. These results are consistent with the prior suggestion that JCML represents a reversion to "fetal" erythropoiesis.
Fetal plasma 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and glucose levels were observed during infusion of arginine vasopressin into 6 chronically catheterized fetal lambs. Low dose infusion of arginine vasopressin (5-10 mIU/min.) did not change fetal arterial blood gases significantly. At a high concentration of vasopressin (20-40 mIU/min.), infusion for 60 minutes increased fetal arterial pO2 by approximately 5 mmHg (p less than 0.005 by paired t-test), and decreased pCO2 by approximately 2 mmHg (p less than 0.005 by paired t-test) without significant changes in pH. Neither low nor high dose infusion of arginine vasopressin was accompanied by significant changes in 2,3-DPG or the glucose level.
Red blood cells (pRBC) collected in citrate, phosphate, dextrose, adenine-formula 1 (CPDA-1) and citrate, phosphate, dextrose-adenine, manitol saline solution (CPD-ADSOL (AS-1)) anticoagulants are increasingly being stored for variable periods in transfusion service inventories following irradiation. While anecdotal reports of increased K+ following irradiation and storage have recently appeared in the literature, concomitant in vitro biochemical changes resulting from differences in anticoagulants have not been reported. Utilizing two venipunctures, two units each of 225 mL of blood from five volunteers were collected in anticoagulant-adjusted CPDA-1 and AS-1 bags. Within two hours of collection, each unit was equally divided. One of each pair was irradiated (2000 rads). Samples were analyzed on Days 0, 1, 3, 7, and every seven days to expiration. Irradiation resulted in a 2.3 fold increase in K+ during the first seven days of storage for both anticoagulants, although significantly greater K+ levels were observed in the CPDA-1 pairs compared to the AS-1 pairs. Comparison of glucose utilization, plasma free hemoglobin, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and lactate dehydrogenase between control and irradiated CPDA-1 and AS-1 pairs and between anticoagulants were documented.
The essentially indefinite storage life of previously frozen erythrocytes (PFE), combined with the virtual freedom from hepatitis, high 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) content, and low level of HL-A antigens, should make its use in open-heart surgery attractive. However, since the suspension medium for PFE is usually saline, the potential exists for creating a hemorrhagic diathesis by accentuating the dilution of plasma procoagulants by the pump prime. To test this possibility, we used PFE exclusively in transfusing a group of 13 open-heart surgery patients; they were given no plasma or platelets. A control group of 12 open-heart surgery patients were transfused with only shelf blood. Determination of prothrombin times (PT), partial thromboplastin times (PTT), platelets, and fibrinogen were done at various intervals. No clinically significant differences between the two groups were seen in any of these parameters at any interval, and there was no significant difference between the groups in amount of chest tube drainage or transfusions in the first 24 hours. It is concluded that most open-heart surgery can be safely performed exclusively with frozen blood.
During genetic selection of rats for high and low levels of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) the decreased fertility in Low-DPG animals was due to significantly (P less than 0.01) fewer offspring born per litter. The rat lines were intercrossed and animals at the tails of the F2 2,3-diphosphoglycerate distribution were mated. Subsequent matings of F3 offspring were monitored. Low-DPG F3 pregnant females killed at 20 days of gestation showed significantly (P less than 0.05) fewer corpora lutea than High-DPG F3 females. There were also significantly (P less than 0.01) fewer corpora lutea in Low-DPG line rats compared to High-DPG rats. It is concluded that the relationship between 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels and fertility is not due to inbreeding but to a possible genetic linkage, a shared biochemical determinant or a relationship through the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels on oxygen delivery to tissue.
The neonatal, childhood, and adolescent periods have unique physiologic properties which affect the ability to tolerate anemia. In order to increase oxygen affinity in utero, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels are decreased in the fetus. Additionally, fetal hemoglobin (Hb) does not interact with 2,3-DPG further increasing Hb oxygen affinity in a low oxygen tension environment. 1 After birth, levels of 2,3-DPG increase while fetal Hb decreases to ,1% over a 6-month period in the infant with no underlying ineffective erythropoiesis. Due to the presence of fetal Hb at birth, tissue unloading of oxygen will be decreased, necessitating a higher baseline Hb concentration. 2 Fetal Hb is also less deformable, leading to increased blood viscosity. 2 Premature infants are at risk of anemia secondary to decreased endogenous EPO production and smaller total blood volume (TBV), leading to anemia from serial phlebotomy. [2] [3] [4] Decreased EPO leads to the physiologic nadir at 8-10 weeks of age, which is significantly more pronounced in premature infants. 3, 4 Additionally, due to higher baseline heart rate, infants have a limited ability to increase myocardial contractility in response to hypovolemia. 2 Infants suffering from cyanotic congenital heart disease generally have polycythemia, which can also adversely affect blood viscosity. 2 Infants, children, and adolescents have increased metabolic demand as compared with adult patients. This is especially important in considering a critically ill pediatric patient with increased metabolic needs secondary to sepsis or significant trauma. 2 Unlike younger children, adolescents may not tolerate the same level of anemia, such as during cancer therapy, and may require RBC transfusion to maintain higher Hb levels which can improve fatigue and quality of life. 5
1. Our findings of a low total magnesium content in the dense fraction (over 1.118 g ml-1) of sickle cell anaemia (SS) red cells seemed inconsistent with the low Mg2+ permeability and outward Mg2+ gradient seen in normal red cells, and prompted studies of the Mg2+ permeability and equilibria in the SS cells. 2. Deoxygenation and sickling induced Mg2+ permeabilization in SS cells, supporting non-specificity of the sickling-induced cation permeabilization, previously described for Na+, K+ and Ca2+. The extent of Mg2+ permeabilization was comparable in SS cells with normal or high density. 3. Compared with normal-density SS cells and normal red cells, the dense SS cells showed a much larger increase in the fraction of ionized magnesium ([Mg2+]i) on deoxygenation, resulting in [Mg2+]i levels sufficient to reverse the normal inward direction of the transmembrane Mg2+ gradient. 4. The molar ratio of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) to haemoglobin was markedly reduced in the dense SS cells. Since 2,3-DPG and ATP are the main cytoplasmic Mg2+ buffers, their further reduction upon binding to deoxyhaemoglobin accounts for the high [Mg2+]i in the deoxygenated dense SS cells; the resulting outward electrochemical Mg2+ gradient, together with sickling-induced Mg2+ permeabilization, could explain the decreased total magnesium content of these cells. 5. The above findings suggested that the documented low sodium pump fluxes in dense SS cells may result from an increased Mg2+:ATP ratio, which is known to inhibit Na(+)-K+ exchange fluxes through the sodium pump. If so, deoxygenation, by increasing the Mg2+:ATP ratio, should inhibit the pump further, whereas increasing ATP should relieve the inhibition. Experiments designed to test this possibility showed that in these dense SS cells, the ouabain-sensitive K(86Rb) influx was low in oxygenated cells, was reduced further by deoxygenation, but was substantially increased after treatment with inosine, pyruvate and phosphate to increase their organic phosphate pool. These results were thus consistent with such a mechanism for Na+ pump inhibition in the dense SS cells.
In the isolated supported dog heart preparation perfused at a constant coronary blood flow, heart rate and left ventricular systolic pressure were not changed significantly by a 3-minute intracoronary infusion of nitroglycerin (5 and 10 mug/min). Nitroglycerin produced a significant increase in coronary venous pO2 and coronary venous P-50. These effects were accompanied by a significant decrease in myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO2). An infusion of dipyridamole (25 and 50 mug/min) did not produce significant changes in coronary venous pO2, P-50 or MVO2. Both drugs produced equivalent decreases in coronary artery perfusion pressure which suggests that the increase in coronary venous P-50 or reduction in MVO2 observed with nitroglycerin is not related to coronary vasodilation. The increase in P-50 induced by nitroglycerin was not accompanied by an increase in total erythrocytic 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and was not observed in vitro. The increase in P-50 produced by nitroglycerin provides a potential reservoir of readily diffusible oxygen that may be utilized during periods of myocardial hypoxia.
Depleted 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels and defective oxygen-transport function of blood stored in ACD can be normalized within 30 minutes by incubating the erythrocytes in a medium containing inosine (10 mM), pyruvate (10 mM), and phosphate (50 mM). The mechanisms responsible for these effects and practical implications for blood transfusion are discussed.
The effect of changes in effector ligand activity on the oxygen affinity of human whole blood was calculated for protons, carbon dioxide, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) at various concentrations of these ligands. The data were used to obtain, from experimentally obtained oxygen dissociation curves of blood from apparently healthy subjects, the standard oxygen dissociation curve (pH = 7.40, Pco2 = 40 mm Hg, DPG = 5.0 mmol/l, and HbCO = 1.0%) of normal human blood.
Abstract Levels of rabbit erythrocyte carbonic anhydrase B and C isozymes were determined in experimental hyperthyroidism using a quantitative immunologic technique. Levels of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and protein binding iodine were simultaneously determined. Thyroxine and 3,5,3′-triiodothyronine were administered to rabbits orally for 30 days. A significant decrease in carbonic anhydrase B type was observed after 30 days, although no significant change was observed in carbonic anhydrase C type. These findings suggest that the steady state level of carbonic anhydrase B type in red cells is affected by thyroid hormone more readily than that of carbonic anhydrase C type. The level of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate increased markedly after 10 days of treatment, corresponding to the increase of protein binding iodine. The clinical or pathologic significances were discussed in relation to the changes in the levels of these isozymes and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in red cells.
To determine the mechanism for the formation of hemoglobin A1c (Hb A1c) in vivo, we incubated human hemoglobin with glucose and metabolites of glucose. [14C]Glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) reacted readily with deoxyhemoglobin, and formed a covalent linkage. The reaction rate was considerably reduced in the presence of carbon monoxide or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG). Purified G6P hemoglobin had a lowered oxygen affinity and decreased reactivity with 2,3-DPG compared to Hb A. G6P behaved as a 2,3-DPG analog and reacted specifically at the NH2-terminal amino group of the beta chain. In contrast, the interaction of hemoglobin with glucose was much slower, and was unaffected by carbon monoxide or 2,3-DPG. Neither glucose-1-phosphate, fructose-6-phosphate, nor fructose-1,6-diphosphate formed a reaction product with hemoglobin. G6P behaves as an affinity label with the phosphate group forming electrostatic bonds at the 2,3-DPG binding site and the aldehvde group reacting with the NH2-terminal amino group of the beta chain. Thus, G6P hemoglobin may be an intermediate in the conversion of Hb A to Hb A1c.
Site-directed mutagenesis of an important subunit contact site, Asp-99(@), by a Lys residue (D99K(@)) was proven by sequencing the entire @-globin gene and the mutant tryptic peptide. Oxygen equilibrium curves of the mutant hemoglobin (Hb) (2-15 mM in heme) indicated that it had an increased oxygen affinity and a lowered but significant amount of cooperativity compared to native HbA. However, in contrast to normal HbA, oxygen binding of the recombinant mutant Hb was only marginally affected by the allosteric regulators 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate and was not at all responsive to chloride. The efficiency of oxygen binding by HbA in the presence of allosteric regulators was limited by the mutant Hb. At concentrations of 0.2 mM or lower in heme, the mutant D99K(@) Hb was predominantly a dimer as demonstrated by gel filtration, haptoglobin binding, fluorescence quenching, and light scattering. The purified dimeric recombinant Hb mutant exists in 2 forms that are separable on isoelectric focusing by about 0.1 pH unit, in contrast to tetrameric hemoglobin, which shows 1 band. These mutant forms, which were present in a ratio of 60:40, had the same masses for their heme and globin moieties as determined by mass spectrometry. The elution positions of the a- and @-globin subunits on HPLC were identical. Circular dichroism studies showed that one form of the mutant Hb had a negative ellipticity at 410 nm and the other had positive ellipticity at this wavelength. The findings suggest that the 2 D99K(@) recombinant mutant forms have differences in their heme-protein environments.
The in vitro effects of a solution of fructose-1,6-diphosphate on hemoglobin-oxygen affinity and electrolyte distribution between plasma and red cells were evaluated. Fructose-1,6-diphosphate increased intracellular pH and decreased extracellular pH. There were no shifts in Na+, K+, Ca++ and Cl- between plasma and red cells. Red cell content of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate remained unchanged, while P50 was reduced (as a consequence of the intracellular alkalosis). The therapeutical implications of these results are discussed.
Abstract Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPD) was isolated from human erythrocyte ghosts by a simple procedure utilizing ammonium sulfate precipitation and affinity chromatography on NAD + -Sepharose 4B. The purified enzyme had a specific activity of 98 units/mg protein. The kinetic mechanism of GAPD was studied by product and deadend inhibition using NADH, α-glycerophosphate, nitrate, and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The results indicated that the human erythrocyte GAPD-catalyzed reaction follows an ordered ter bi mechanism characterized by the sequential addition of NAD + , glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate (GAP), and phosphate to the enzyme and the sequential release of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate and NADH from the enzyme. This contrasts with the mechanism (rapid equilibrium random ter bi) proposed by Oguchi (1970, J. Biochem. (Tokyo) 68 , 427–439) who based his conclusion on the initial rate data alone. Since the Michaelis-Menten kinetics were not applicable to this enzyme because of the competitive substrate inhibition by GAP, we devised a new kinetic approach for determining the parameters of the GAPD-catalyzed reaction. Results of this study indicate that the GAPD-catalyzed reaction is regulated by both ATP and GAP. We propose that GAP acts as an “amplifier” for the feedback inhibition effect of ATP. We discuss the effect this may have played in causing controversy over the regulatory role of this enzyme in glycolysis.
Abstract Phosphoglycerate mutase is inactivated by butanedione in borate buffer. Inactivation by 0.13 mM reagent correlates with the modification of one arginyl residue per subunit, and is prevented by either 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or 3-phosphoglycerate. With 0.50 mM butanedione, inactivation is accompanied by the modification of three arginyl residues per subunit, two of which are protected by the combined presence of cofactor and substrate.
We measured red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and the P50 value in vitro of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve, which is the oxygen tension at half saturation of hemoglobin, in order to quantitate red blood cell oxygen transport function in individuals who were diagnosed as hypothyroid, euthyroid, or hyperthyroid based on measurements of thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3), thyrotropin (TSH), and their clinical status. Hypothyroid (mean T4 2.8 microgram/dl, T3 49 ng/dl, TSH 37 microU/ml) and hyperthyroid (mean T4 14 microgram/dl, T3 271 ng/dl, TSH less than 0.7 microU/ml) patients had normal red cell 2,3-DPG and ATP levels and normal P50 values in vitro. The known changes in oxygen consumption produced by alterations in thyroid hormone levels in patients with hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism did not affect red blood cell oxygen transport function.
BACKGROUND ::: Blood transfusion is a lifesaving intervention for millions of recipients worldwide every year. Storing blood makes this possible but also promotes a series of alterations to the metabolism of the stored erythrocyte. It is unclear whether the metabolic storage lesion is correlated with clinically relevant outcomes and whether strategies aimed at improving the metabolic quality of stored units, such as hypoxic storage, ultimately improve performance in the transfused recipient. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS ::: Twelve healthy donor volunteers were recruited in a two-arm cross-sectional study, in which each subject donated 2 units to be stored under standard (normoxic) or hypoxic conditions (Hemanext technology). End-of-storage measurements of hemolysis and autologous posttransfusion recovery (PTR) were correlated to metabolomics measurements at Days 0, 21, and 42. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Hypoxic red blood cells (RBCs) showed superior PTR and comparable hemolysis to donor-paired standard units. Hypoxic storage improved energy and redox metabolism (glycolysis and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate), improved glutathione and methionine homeostasis, decreased purine oxidation and membrane lipid remodeling (free fatty acid levels, unsaturation and hydroxylation, acyl-carnitines). Intra- and extracellular metabolites in these pathways (including some dietary purines) showed significant correlations with PTR and hemolysis, though the degree of correlation was influenced by sulfur dioxide (SO2 ) levels. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Hypoxic storage improves energy and redox metabolism of stored RBCs, which results in improved posttransfusion recoveries in healthy autologous recipients-a Food and Drug Administration gold standard of stored blood quality. In addition, we identified candidate metabolic predictors of PTR for RBCs stored under standard and hypoxic conditions.
Rare genetic variants of human red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate mutase (DPGM) and monophosphoglycerate mutase (MPGM) were compared by starch gel electrophoresis. The isozyme patterns showed that genetic variation of the enzymes were independent from each other, thus DPGM and MPGM must be controlled by two separate loci.
We have studied 105 individuals in the village of Jasser El Zarka in the Northern Coast of Israel of whom 59% had at least one abnormal hemoglobin. Of the individuals studied 41% were AA, 13.3% AS, 28.6% AOArab, 10.5% SOArab, 0.9% SS, 38% Arab-β+ Thal, and 1.9% β Thal trait. The SOArab double heterozygotes were characterized by a normal mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), and an increase of Hb F (11.7±4.3%) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels (27.8 μm/g Hb). The increase of Hb F is higher than the one seen among OArabs of other ethnic backgrounds. Their clinical course was moderately severe and osteoporosis was quite frequent. The interactions of Hb OArab and Hb S were studied in vitro and it was confirmed the Hb OArab lowers the minimal gelling concentration of mixtures with Hb S (as compared to mixtures of Hb S and Hb A), but that this effect is ionic-strength dependent. Our data are in conflict with previous claims that Hb OArab mixtures with Hb S polymerized almost as much as pure S. Oxygen association curves show a significant displacement of the p50 to the right, but the effect of oxygen dissociation is less apparent. The displacement was not nearly as significant as with SS cells, confirming our gelation data. Blood group determinations establish that these Arab populations had black African admixture.
This study is designed to examine the participation of the major red cell membrane protein, band 3 protein, in the chain which transmits information from the cardiac glycoside site on the external face of the cell (Na+ + K+)-ATPase to the megadalton glycolytic enzyme complex within the cell. The experiments show that the anion transport inhibitor, 4,4'-diisothiocyano-2,2'-stilbenedisulfonic acid, affects the resonance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, as does the cardiac glycoside cation transport inhibitor, ouabain. Resonance shifts induced by the cardiac glycoside alone are modulated by addition of the anion transport inhibitor which indicates that there is coupling in the red cell between the (Na+ + K+)-ATPase and band 3 protein. Band 3 protein was separated from the membrane and partially purified following the technique of Yu and Steck ((1975) J. Biol. Chem. 250, 9170-9175). When glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was added to the separated band 3 protein preparation, addition of cardiac glycosides caused shifts in the 31P resonance of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate. These experiments indicate that there is coupling between the (Na+ + K+)-ATPase and band 3 protein in the separated preparation and suggest that the anion and cation transport systems may be closely related spatially and functionally in the intact red cell.
Low flow O2 therapy may relieve the disabling effects of hypoxemia owing to severe COPD. Improvement can be demonstrated in general life style, exercise ability, neuropsychologic status, and pulmonary hypertension. Reversal occurs in hematologic compensatory mechanisms for hypoxia such that polycythemia is relieved and elevated 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels decrease. Improved survival is suggested but is not yet proved. Criteria for the use of this therapy are presented and suggestions are made for future research.
Abstract The dependence of blood oxygen affinity and the Bohr effect on the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate ( DPG ) in erythrocytes was investigated in 24 trotter horses and 24 healthy men. The oxygen tension at half saturation and standard conditions (P 50 st at pH 7·4 PCO 2 40 mniHg and 37°C) and the carbon dioxide or fixed-acid-induced Bohr effect (dlogP 50 /dpH) were determined. Samples of fresh blood and blood depleted of or enriched with DPG were studied. In the absence of measurable DPG , the equine and human blood had similar mean ( SD ) values of P 50 st (16·6 [0·6] and 16·2 [0·7] mmHg, respectively). In both species these values increased with increasing DPG , but the response of equine blood was significantly lower, at least up to physiological values (P 50 st =24·6 [0·6] and 26·2 [0·7]) mmHg; DPG =14([1·8] and 12·8 [1·2] μmol gHb −1 , respectively, in fresh blood). concentrations above 20 to 25 μmol gHb −1 of DPG the difference between the values of P 50 st in the two species tended to de crease because the response in human blood reached a plateau. The interactions between the Bohr effect and the concentration of DPG showed that in the horses, as in the men, the level of DPG played an important role in governing the relative magnitude of carbon dioxide and fixed acid factors. The difference between them, which is associated with the oxylabile carbamino binding, was greatest in DPG -depleted blood, but whereas in the men the difference was suppressed by an above normal DPG concentration, in the horses it was still measurable.
A modified automated colorimetric micromethod for the determination of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) adapted from that of Grisolia et al (1969) is described. In the modified method, ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid (EDTA) is not used and consequently concentrations of several reagents are changed. During the development of the method it was found that the presence of EDTA, either in the blood or in reagents, consistently reduced the measured value of 2,3-DPG by 15%. This effect of EDTA, not previously recognized, is independent of the EDTA concentration within the range of 5 to 50 mmol/1 and is at present unexplianed. In normal subjects (41 men and 30 women) the mean red cell 2,3-DPG was 14-5 mol/g haemoglobin (range 12-1-18-1 mol/g haemoglobin). There was no significant difference in 2,3-DPG concentrations between male and female subjects.
The primary structures of the beta-chains from pig (Suidae) and llama (Lama glama, Camelidae) hemoglobins are given. They differ from human beta-chains in the exchange of 22 and 23 amino acid residues, respectively. Some aspects of the sequences are discussed and the molecular interpretation of respiration at high altitudes is given. This interpretation is based on the exchange of the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate contact beta2His leads to Asn from man to llama: the interaction between the heterotropic allosteric effector 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and protein is diminished, which results in higher oxygen affinity of the hemoglobin of llama. Thus the placental respiration and the high-altitudes respiration have the same molecular mechanism.
ABSTRACT To determine the mechanism for the formation of hemoglobin Alc (Hb Ale) in vivo, we incubated human hemoglobin with glucose and metabolites of glucose. ['4CJGlu-cose-6-phosphate (G6P) reacted readily with deoxyhemoglobin, and formed a covalent linkage. The reaction rate was considerably reduced in the presence of carbon monoxide or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2, . Purified G6P hemoglobin had a lowered oxygen affinity and decreased reactivity with 2,3-DPG compared to Hb A. G6P behaved as a 2,3-DPG analog and reacted specifically at the NHrterminal amino group of the P chain. In contrast, the interaction of hemoglobin with glucose was much slower, and was unaffected by carbon monoxide or 2,3-DPG. Neither glucose-i-phosphate, fructose-1-phosphate, fructose-6phosphate, nor fructose-1,6-diphosphate formed a reaction product with hemoglobin. G6P action. We have examined the interaction of human hemoglobin with glucose and glucose metabolites in a cell free system devoid of enzymes or cofactors. Our results indicate that 1)-glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) readily forms a covalent linkage specifically at the NH2-terminus of the fl chain, while glucose does not.
Abstract Changes in the oxygenation properties and the relevant biochemical parameters of canine blood were followed during its storage in acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD) medium (4°C) and after transfusion of the stored blood. Reductions of the blood P50 (pH 7.40, P~o2 40 Torr, 37°C) and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) during storage was much slower than in human blood. Half decay time for DPG was 21 and 5 days for canine and human blood, respectively. The DPG decay could be extensively accelerated in the presence of bisulfite in ACD. The stored and DPGdepleted red cells required a considerably long period of time for the complete posttransfusional restoration of the DPG and P50. In five dogs whose blood were exchanged by 84% in average with the stored blood of mean DPG depletion of 88%, mean extents of the DPG and P50 restoration were 74 and 89% of the normal values after 24 h. After 5 days both the parameters were within the normal ranges. The red cell extraalong with intra-cellular pH fell immediately after the transfusion, and restored to the normal level after 24 h. From these results, correlations between P50 or red cell transmembrane pH gradient at the extracellular pH of 7.40 (dpH) and red cell DPG/hemoglobin molar ratio (x) were derived as P50 = 10.92x+ 14.2 (r=0.91) or dpH =0.060x+0. 135 (r=0.70).
SYNOPSIS A modified automated colorimetric micromethod for the determination of red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) adapted from that of Grisolia et al (1969) is described. In the modified method, ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid (EDTA) is not used and consequently concentrations of several reagents are changed.
Since the first description of an automated method for measuring 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) in the blood (Grisolia et al, 1969) several modifications have been published (Atkinson, 1972; Powell et al 1972; Lappin et al, 1973) . These methods depend on the effect of 2,3-DPG on the rate of conversion of 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PG) to 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PG) in the presence of phosphoglyceromutase (PGM). The 2-PG formed is converted to pyruvate which is measured colorimetrically. Alternatively, pyruvate is further converted to lactate and the oxidation of NADH is determined fluorometrically (Prins and Loos, 1970) .
