The incidence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), characterized by chronic, relapsing intestinal inflammation, has continually increased in recent years. A previous study by our group identified five potential metabolic markers possibly associated with the pathology of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced IBD in rats. The present study aimed to examine the potential therapeutic effects of the essential oil of Pogostemon cablin (also known as patchouli; PO) on TNBS-induced rats and investigate the concomitant metabolic changes by targeting the previously identified potential markers. Pogostemon cablin is widely used to treat gastrointestinal diseases, including IBD, in China. The results of the present study showed that PO (270 mg/kg, rectal instillation) significantly alleviated colonic damage and reduced disease activity indicators and colonic myeloperoxidase in TNBS-induced rats. In addition, a targeted metabolic profiling study identified that four metabolites were elevated in the urine of the animals in the TNBS group, which were significantly inhibited by treatment with PO: Two tryptophan metabolites [4-(2-aminophenyl)-2,4-dioxobutanoic acid and 4,6-cihydroxyquinoline] and two gut microbial metabolites (phenylacetylglycine and p-cresol glucuronide). Taken together, these findings suggested that PO ameliorated the symptoms of TNBS-induced IBD and reversed the metabolic changes potentially associated with TNBS-induced IBD in rats.
The incidence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), characterized by chronic, relapsing intestinal inflammation, has continually increased in recent years. A previous study by our group identified five potential metabolic markers possibly associated with the pathology of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced IBD in rats. The present study aimed to examine the potential therapeutic effects of the essential oil of Pogostemon cablin (also known as patchouli; PO) on TNBS-induced rats and investigate the concomitant metabolic changes by targeting the previously identified potential markers. Pogostemon cablin is widely used to treat gastrointestinal diseases, including IBD, in China. The results of the present study showed that PO (270 mg/kg, rectal instillation) significantly alleviated colonic damage and reduced disease activity indicators and colonic myeloperoxidase in TNBS-induced rats. In addition, a targeted metabolic profiling study identified that four metabolites were elevated in the urine of the animals in the TNBS group, which were significantly inhibited by treatment with PO: Two tryptophan metabolites [4-(2-aminophenyl)-2,4-dioxobutanoic acid and 4,6-cihydroxyquinoline] and two gut microbial metabolites (phenylacetylglycine and p-cresol glucuronide). Taken together, these findings suggested that PO ameliorated the symptoms of TNBS-induced IBD and reversed the metabolic changes potentially associated with TNBS-induced IBD in rats.
The incidence of inflammatory bowel disease, a relapsing intestinal condition whose precise etiology is still unclear, has continually increased over recent years. Metabolic profiling is an effective method with high sample throughput that can detect and identify potential biomarkers, and thus may be useful in investigating the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease. In this study, using a metabonomics approach, a pilot study based on ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS) was performed to characterize the metabolic profile of plasma and urine samples of rats with experimental colitis induced by 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid. Acquired metabolic profile data were processed by multivariate data analysis for differentiation and screening of potential biomarkers. Five metabolites were identified in urine: two tryptophan metabolites [4-(2-aminophenyl)-2,4-dioxobutanoic acid and 4,6-cihydroxyquinoline], two gut microbial metabolites (phenyl-acetylglycine and p-cresol glucuronide), and the bile acid 12α-hydroxy-3-oxocholadienic acid. Seven metabolites were identified in plasma: three members of the bile acid/alcohol group (cholic acid, 12α-hydroxy-3-oxocholadienic acid and cholestane-3,7,12,24,25-pentol) and four lysophosphatidylcholines [LysoPC(20:4), LysoPC(16:0), LysoPC(18:1) and LysoPC(18:0)]. These metabolites are associated with damage of the intestinal barrier function, microbiota homeostasis, immune modulation and the inflammatory response, and play important roles in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease. Our results positively support application of the metabonomic approach in study of the pathophysiological mechanism of inflammatory bowel disease.
Kynurenine (1) and indole-3-acetic acid (2) are considered as potential precursors of 2-aminoacetophenone (3), which is regarded to be the aroma impact compound causing an “untypical aging off-flavor” (UTA) in Vitis vinifera wines. The mechanism of the formation of 3 was studied using model fermentation and model sulfuration media spiked with 1 or 2 as potential precursors. Possible degradation products such as kynurenamine (4) and kynurenic acid (5), or skatole (6), 2-oxoskatole (7), 2-formamidoacetophenone (8), 2-oxindole-3-acetic acid (9), and 3-(2-formylaminophenyl)-3-oxopropionic acid (10) were evaluated by HPLC−UV of the fermentation and sulfuration media and comparison with synthesized 7, 8, 9, and 10. The synthesis of the possible precursor 4-(2-aminophenyl)-2,4-dioxobutanoic acid (11), a proposed metabolite of 1 failed because a spontaneous cyclization yields 5 and N-oxo-kynurenic acid (12), but not 11. It could be shown that the formation of 3 is triggered by an oxidative degradation of 2 after ...
There have been many studies suggesting that probiotics are effective in patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D). However, its mechanism of action as well as prediction of response is still to be elucidated. In the present study, to find out metabolomic characteristics of probiotic effect in IBS-D, we compared IBS symptom changes and metabolomic characteristics in the subjects’ urine samples between multi-strain probiotics (one strain of Lactobacillus sp. and four strains of Bifidobacterium sp.) group (n = 32) and placebo group (n = 31). After 8 weeks’ administration (3 times/day), dissatisfaction in bowel habits and stool frequencies were significantly improved. Also, probiotics group had significantly changed seven metabolites including palmitic acid methyl ester (PAME) and 4,6-dihydroxyquinoline, 4-(2-aminophenyl)-2,4-dioxobutanoic acid (DOBA). According to IBS-SSS and IBS-QoL questionnaires, IBS-SSS responders showed higher PAME levels and IBS-QoL responders showed lower DOBA levels. This suggests potential role of these metabolites as a biomarker to predict probiotics effect in IBS-D patients.
