For instance, in Figure 3B we know that the activator (Ac) is reduced ferredoxin, which through 294 ferredoxin-thioredoxin reductase forms reduced thioredoxin which in-turn activates dihydroxy-295 acid dehydratase (E) by reducing a disulfide bond. This allows the enzyme to act on 2,3-dihydroxy-296 3-methylbutanoate (A), to form 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid (P). For this reaction, KOPTIC 297 lumps the intermediate regulatory steps into a single step, but with low fit error (0.17%), giving 298 confidence that the derived kinetic parameters returned by KOPTIC capture the net effects of the 299 intermediate steps for this reaction. Other reactions were fit by low (<10%) or moderate to high 300 error (27 to 37%), depending on the efficacy of the single model regulation step capturing the 301 multi-step mechanism. It is likely that the low fit error cases are activated by the transient 302 activation mechanism (Figure 3A). One enzyme with relatively high error (ATPase, 37%) has high 303 error because Trx activates ATPase by forming an enzyme complex [39], resulting in significantly 304 more complex reaction kinetics which are more difficult to fit with a single step. High fit error 305 cases are likely mechanisms with complex activation. Generally, KOPTIC is more successful in 306 simplifying regulation mechanisms to a single step when the regulation mechanism is less 307 complex. Despite KOPTIC's predictive success in the examples listed in
A UV-guided fractionation of the AcOEt extract of the fermentation broth of Guignardia sp., an endophytic fungus from the leaves of the tropical tree Spondias mombin, resulted in the identification of the new metabolite (−)-(2S,5Z)-2-(1-methylethyl)-4-oxo-5-(phenylmethylene)-1,3-dioxolane-2-carboxylic acid (1), isolated as NH salt 1a. The metabolite 1 was designated (−)-(S)-guignardic acid. This first member of a new class of natural compounds contains a dioxolanone moiety formed by fusion of 2-oxo-3-phenylpropanoic acid (phenylpyruvic acid) and 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid (dimethylpyruvic acid), products of the oxidative deamination of phenylalanine and valine, respectively. The structure of 1a was deduced from spectral data (UV, IR, MS, 1H- and 13C-NMR) and confirmed by asymmetric synthesis.
The determination of the acid-base dissociation constants, and thus the pKa values, of a-keto acids such as pyruvic acid is complex because of the existence of these acids in their hydrated and nonhydrated or oxo state. Equilibria involved in the hydration and dehydration of the a-keto group of pyruvic acid and three other a-keto acids, 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, and 2-oxo-2-phenylacetic acid, were investigated by proton and carbon nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry, at constant ionic strength, 0.15, and 25
Photocatalytic asymmetric reduction of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid giving 2-hydroxy-3-methylbutanoic acid has been carried out in up to 60% ee in aqueous methanol with chiral BINAP–Rh(I) complexes and semiconductor photocatalysts, TiO2 or CdS.
The Prins reaction of a chiral alkylidene morpholinone derived from (1R,2S)-ephedrine and 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid proceeds with good diastereoselectivity to generate a spiro bis-acetal. Lewis acid mediated diastereoselective reductive cleavage of the spiro acetal and subsequent removal of the ephedrine portion generates a α-hydroxy-γ-methoxy carboxamide which is readily converted to (S)-(+)-pantolactone with high enantiomeric excess.
Esters of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid are reduced with bakers’ yeast by three methods: free bakers’ yeast in water, immobilized bakers’ yeast in water, and immobilized bakers’ yeast in hexane. Although (R)-hydroxy esters are obtained in all cases, the enantiomeric excess vanes from 3% (reduction of the methyl ester with free bakers’ yeast in water) to 93% (reduction of the butyl ester with immobilized bakers’ yeast in hexane) depending on the structure of substrate and on the reaction conditions. The mechanism of the present stereochemical control is discussed.
The determination of the acid-base dissociation constants, and thus the pKa values, of α-keto acids such as pyruvic acid is complex because of the existence of these acids in their hydrated and nonhydrated or oxo state. Equilibria involved in the hydration and dehydration of the α-keto group of pyruvic acid and three other α-keto acids, 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, and 2-oxo-2-phenylacetic acid, were investigated by proton and carbon nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry, at constant ionic strength, 0.15, and 25 °C. Dissociation constants for the oxo (pKa(oxo)) and hydrated (pKa(hyd)) acids of each compound were estimated from the change in the degree of hydration with changes in pH and directly from the changes in chemical shifts of various hydrogen and carbons nuclei with pH. α-Keto acids showed greater hydration in their acidic forms than their carboxylate forms. The degree of hydration was sensitive to steric and electronic/resonance factors. As expected, the oxo forms of the acids were stronger acids compared with their hydrated analogs, and their dissociation constants were also sensitive to steric and electronic factors.
By reacting isobutyraldehyde with diethyl oxalate using sodium methoxide as catalyst,3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid,sodium salt was prepared by one pot.On basis of investigating the single factor level of starting materials,the best synthetic process was determined through the orthogonal experiments,are that n(sodium methoxide) ∶n(isobutyraldehyde) ∶n(sodium hydroxide) ∶n(methanol) ∶n(diethyl oxalate) =1.4 ∶1.4 ∶1.2 ∶7.5 ∶1,and the yield can reach 75%.The data of element analysis,melting point,IR and NMR for the product are consistent with the standard data,the purity exceeds 98%.
The appearance and concentration of the fusel alcohol 3-methyl-1-butanol is important for the flavour of fermented foods. 3-Methyl-1-butanol is formed by yeast during the conversion of L-leucine. Identification of the enzymes and genes involved in the formation of 3-methyl-1-butanol is a major prerequisite to optimize and control the final food flavour. To identify genes involved in this metabolic route, cDNA microarrays were carried out to study yeast gene expression genome-wide. Crosshybridisation with probes from the ‘soy-yeast’ Zygosaccharomycs rouxii, responsible for flavour formation during soysauce fermentation, on Saccharomyces cerevisiae cDNA microarrays, revealed the presence of several Zr genes. However, this group (115 out of ~5000 Zr ORFs) was too small for studying the 3-methyl-1-butanol pathway. Conversely, arraydata of S. cerevisiae resulted in several clues concerning flavour formation. For example BAT2, encoding an enzyme responsible for the first step in the L-leucine breakdown, was strongly expressed in yeast grown on ethanol. In addition to the transcription data, deletion studies revealed that 3-methyl-1-butanol production stopped in S. cerevisiae lacking BAT2, indicating a major role for Bat2p. Furthermore, the microarrays showed that genes involved in branched chain amino acid biosynthesis, but also genes of amine biosynthesis, caboxylic acid- and organic acid metabolism, were altered in expression level. Interestingly, non-branched chain amino acids: aromatic amino acids, serine, arginine, glutamine, homoserine and lycine, superficially unrelated with branched chain amino acids, were also effected when L-leucine was used as nitrogen source. A subgroup of genes was significantly present, which contained regulatory elements for GCN4 and GLN3. GCN4 and GLN3 encoding transcription factors involved in nitrogen metabolism. BAP2 and BAP3, encoding permeases necessary for the uptake of L-leucine, PDX1 and YDL080c, encoding decarboxylases for 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate and ADH3, ADH5, YMR 318c and YCR105w, encoding alcohol dehydrogenases were also upregulated in S. cerevisiae. Concerning flavour formation from L-leucine, besides 3-methyl-1-butanol, also 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate, 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid and 3-methylbutyric acid emerged. The combination of metabolite formation and the expression data from cDNA microarrays thus provides strong indications of the existence of alternative pathways. Automated microtiter plates (MTP) fermentations with a pH or/and NaCl range, revealed the optimal fusel alcohol formation at pH 3.0 without NaCl. In addition to this metabolic screening, cDNA microarrays were carried out and showed a total 747 genes, which displayed significantly altered transcription activity at pH 3.0, compared to the standard pH 5.0. Further investigation on this dataset, by the web-tool SGD Gene Ontology (GO) Term Finder revealed that a significant part of these genes had a function in the metabolism of nicotinamides, vitamins, fatty acids, glutamate or carboxylic acids. From this group, 11 genes, BNA6, BNA2, BNA4, BNA3, YOR356W, RPE1, MDH3, CIT1, CIT2, KGD1 and KGD2, were appointed as promising targets for the development of improved production strains, based on their altered gene expression at pH 3.0 and literature research. Further experiments will establish the weight of these identified genes on the final taste of fermented foods.
Photo catalytic asymmetric synthesis of L-α-valine from 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid has been carried out in up to 64%e.e. in apueous solution of metbanol ammonia with chiral(+)-diop-Rh(Ⅰ)complexes(diop:2,3-o-isopropylidene-2,3-dihydroxy-1,4-bis(diphenyl-phosphino)butane)and semiconductor photocatalysts CdS,Pt/CdS,TiO_2,Pt/TiO_2 irradi-ated 10 h under 500W Xenon lamp.
The kinetics of the nonenzymatic transamination reaction from pyridoxamine analogs with a pyridinophane structure to α-keto acids catalyzed by Zn2+ were investigated by monitoring the changes in the absorption spectra in methanol. It was found that these reactions obeyed first-order kinetics for the formation of the Zn2+ chelate of an aldimine. No appreciable change in the reaction rate was observed when the concentration of the α-keto acid was increased, indicating that the isomerization of the ketimine chelate to the aldimine chelate is the ratedetermining step. There was a considerable enhancement of the reaction rate when the molar ratio of the zinc ion to the pyridoxamine analogs was reduced from 1/1 to 0.5/1. The reaction rates corresponding to the various α-keto acids employed in the presence of an amount of Zn2+ equimolar to the pyridoxamine analog decreased in this order; phenylpyruvic acid>pyruvic acid≈4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid>3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, whereas those in the presence of hal...
The α-keto carboxylic acid, pyruvic acid (1) was found to be a very effective peroxide scavenger but is subject to an aldol-like self-condensation/polymerization reaction. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the hydrogen peroxide, H2O2, scavenging ability of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid (2), 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid (3), and 2-oxo-2-phenylacetic acid (phenylglyoxylic acid, 4) in the pH range 2-9 at 25°C and the effect of molecular structure on the relative reactivity. The reaction with H2O2 was followed by UV spectrophotometry at 220 or 260 nm and high-performance liquid chromatography. Pseudo-first order, buffer-independent decarboxylation kinetics were observed in the presence of molar excess H2O2. The second-order rate constants for 2-4 followed a sigmoidal shape and mechanism similar to pyruvic acid. Pyruvic acid was a superior H2O2 scavenger to 2-4 over the pH range 2-9 but 4 was more reactive than 2 and 3 at pH values above 6. There was a qualitative correlation between the degree of keto-group hydration and reactivity of the acids in the pH range 4-6 while the data above pH 7 suggested that the intrinsic decarboxylation step for 4 was faster than for pyruvic acid. Differences in reactivity to molecular structure were analyzed.
L-Homophenylalanine (L-Hph) is a useful chiral building block for synthesis of several drugs, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and the novel proteasome inhibitor carfilzomib. While the chemoenzymatic route of synthesis is fully developed, we investigated microbial production of L-Hph to explore the possibility of a more efficient and sustainable approach to L-Hph production. We hypothesized that L-Hph is synthesized from L-Phe via a mechanism homologous to 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid conversion to 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid during leucine biosynthesis. Based on bioinformatics analysis, we found three putative homophenylalanine biosynthesis genes, hphA (Npun_F2464), hphB (Npun_F2457), and hphCD (Npun_F2458), in the cyanobacterium Nostoc punctiforme PCC73102, located around the gene cluster responsible for anabaenopeptin biosynthesis. We constructed Escherichia coli strains harboring hphABCD-expressing plasmids and achieved the fermentative production of L-Hph from L-Phe. To our knowledge, this is the first identification of the genes responsible for homophenylalanine synthesis in any organism. Furthermore, to improve the low conversion efficiency of the initial strain, we optimized the expression of hphA, hphB, and hphCD, which increased the yield to ∼630 mg/liter. The L-Hph biosynthesis and L-Leu biosynthesis genes from E. coli were also compared. This analysis revealed that HphB has comparatively relaxed substrate specificity and can perform the function of LeuB, but HphA and HphCD show tight substrate specificity and cannot complement the LeuA and LeuC/LeuD functions, and vice versa. Finally, the range of substrate tolerance of the L-Hph-producing strain was examined, which showed that m-fluorophenylalanine, o-fluorophenylalanine, and L-tyrosine were accepted as substrates and that the corresponding homoamino acids were generated.
In order to improve the productivity of specified TPPs, we have focused on the biosynthesis of branched chain fatty acids, since the chain length is the sole structural difference between the TPPs. Fortunately, the biosynthesis of branched chain fatty acids has already been elucidated in detail, 4 and the following coenzyme esters are known to be the primers involved in their biosynthesis. Coenzyme A esters of isovaleric acid, isobutyric acid and 2-methylbutyric acid could contribute to the productions of iso-fatty acid with odd number of carbon atoms, iso-fatty acids with even number of carbon atoms, and anteiso-fatty acids, respectively. These branched fatty acids can also be biosynthesized from the branched chain amino acids, namely leucine, valine and isoleucine, respectively, as shown in Figure 2 . The improved productions of other cyclic lipopeptide antibiotics with acyl side chains have previously been achieved by supplement of these amino acids or fatty acids. 5, 6, 7 Here, we report an improvement in the production ratio of TPPs by addition of the postulated precursors such as branched chain amino acids, short-chain carboxylic acids or 3-hydroxy fatty acids. Under the standard culture conditions, TPPs were produced in the ratio of TPPA (8.4%), TPPB (8.9%), TPPC (71.3%) and TPPD (11.4%). With the addition of L-leucine, a well-known precursor of branched-chain fatty acids to the culture medium, the production ratio of TPPC was increased in a dose-dependent manner, resulting in the predominant production of TPPC and diminished formation of TPPB and TPPD, as shown in Table 2 and Figure 3 . A similar result was also observed by the addition of D-leucine, as shown in Table 2 . A maximum ratio of TPPC (92%) was achieved by adding 1.25-10 mg/ml L-leucine. Under the addition of L-leucine, neither growth inhibition nor enhancement of total amount of TPPs productivity was observed. On the other hand, the addition of L-or D-valine to the culture medium did not significantly affect TPP production, as shown in Table 2 . At high concentrations of L-valine and especially Dvaline, the productivity of TPPs was decreased, resulting in growth inhibition. Next, we examined effect of the addition of postulated precursors such as 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxo-pentanoic acid and isovaleric acid on TPP production ( Figure 2 ).
These results indicate that the transaminases of the producing organisms act specifically on leucine, but not on valine, to produce α-keto acids. This also suggests that 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, a precursor of iso type, even carbon fatty acids could be derived from amino acids other than valine by an alternative metabolic pathway. Next, we examined effect of the addition of an unusual amino acid, L-homoleucine, which was expected to increase TPPB and TPPD production. However, as shown in Table 4 , Lhomoleucine had no effect on the production of TPPs. It may be explained that L-homoleuine is not recognized as a substrate for fatty acid biosynthesis by the producing organism because Lhomoleucine is not a natural amino acid. L-Homoleucine at 1 mg/ml decreased pH of culture broth and TPP production. Improvement in TPPD productivity was further examined by the addition of its constituting fatty acid, 3-hydroxy-14-methylpentadecanoic acid (5), and was proved successful by its increased production in a dose-dependent manner up to 0.3 mg/ml. However, this fatty acid when used at the higher doses caused growth inhibition and lowering of TPP production. The maximum production of TPPD was achieved to 2.2 fold by the addition of the fatty acid at 0.15-0.3 mg/ml (Figure 4) . Next, we examined the effect of the stereoisomers of 3-hydroxy-14-methylpentadecanoicacids, 3(R)-isomer 9 and 3(S)-isomer 11, on TPPD production and found that 3(R)-isomer 9 was preferentially incorporated into TPPD to yield 28 µg/ml, but on the contrary, the addition of 3(S)-isomer 11 has only slight effect on TPPD formation as shown in figure 5 . These results suggest that 3(S)-isomer 11 can be incorporated into TPPs only after enzymatic isomerization, which are easily understandable because natural TPPD has 3(R)-hydroxy-14-methylpentadecanoic acid. 3 The fatty acids were synthesized as outlined in Schemes 1 and 2. 
The thiamin diphosphate (ThDP) dependent branched-chain keto acid decarboxylase (KdcA) from Lactococcus lactis catalyzes the decarboxylation of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid to 3-methylpropanal (isobutyraldehyde) and CO2. The enzyme is also able to catalyze carboligation reactions with an exceptionally broad substrate range, a feature that makes KdcA a potentially valuable biocatalyst for C-C bond formation, in particular for the enzymatic synthesis of diversely substituted 2-hydroxyketones with high enantioselectivity. The crystal structures of recombinant holo-KdcA and of a complex with an inhibitory ThDP analogue mimicking a reaction intermediate have been determined to resolutions of 1.6 and 1.8 A, respectively. KdcA shows the fold and cofactor-protein interactions typical of thiamin-dependent enzymes. In contrast to the tetrameric assembly displayed by most other ThDP-dependent decarboxylases of known structure, KdcA is a homodimer. The crystal structures provide insights into the structural basis of substrate selectivity and stereoselectivity of the enzyme and thus are suitable as a framework for the redesign of the substrate profile in carboligation reactions.
Esters of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid are reduced with bakers' yeast by three methods: free bakers' yeast in water, immobilized bakers' yeast in water, and immobilized bakers' yeast in hexane. Although (R)-hydroxy esters are obtained in all cases, the enantiomeric excess varies from 3% (reduction of the methyl ester with free bakers' yeast in water) to 93% (reduction of the butyl ester with immobilized bakers' yeast in hexane) depending on the structure of substrate and on the reaction conditions. The mechanism of the present stereochemical control is discussed.
