Abstract Tartrate dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas putida has been purified and crystallized. The enzyme catalyzes the reversible, DPN-linked oxidation of mesotartrate and of l(+)-tartrate to oxaloglycolate; l(-)- and d(+)-malate are inactive as either substrates or inhibitors. The enzyme requires manganous ions and one of several monovalent cations for activity. Both qualitative and quantitative differences are found in the requirement for monovalent cation, depending on whether meso- or l(+)-tartrate serves as substrate. The active enzyme has a molecular weight of 145,000 and appears to be composed of four subunits, each of which has a molecular weight of approximately 36,800.
Tartrate dehydrogenase catalyzes the divalent metal ion- and NAD-dependent oxidative decarboxylation of D-malate to yield CO 2 , pyruvate, and NADH. The enzyme also catalyzes the metal ion-dependent oxidation of (+)-tartrate to yield oxaloglycolate and NADH. pH-rate profiles and isotope effects were measured to probe the mechanism of this unique enzyme. Data suggest a general base mechanism with likely general acid catalysis in the oxidative decarboxylation of D-malate. Of interest, the mechanism of oxidative decarboxylation of D-malate is stepwise with NAD + or the more oxidizing thio-NAD + . The mechanism does not become concerted with the latter as observed for the malic enzyme, which catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of L-malate [Karsten, W. E., and Cook, P. F. (1994) Biochemistry 33, 2096-2103]. It appears the change in mechanism observed with malic enzyme is specific to its transition state structure and not a generalized trait of metal ion- and NAD(P)-dependent β-hydroxy acid oxidative decarboxylases. The V/K m a l a t e pH-rate profile decreases at low and high pH and exhibits pK a values of about 6.3 and 8.3, while that for V/K t a r t r a t e (measured from pH 7.5 to pH 9) exhibits a pK a of 8.6 on the basic side. A single pK a of 6.3 is observed on the acid side of the V m a x pH profile, but the pK a seen on the basic side of the V/K pH profiles is not observed in the V m a x pH profiles. Data suggest the requirement for a general base that accepts a proton from the 2-hydroxyl group of either substrate to facilitate hydride transfer. A second enzymatic group is also required protonated for optimum binding of substrates and may also function as a general acid to donate a proton to the enolpyruvate intermediate to form pyruvate. The 1 3 C isotope effect, measured on the decarboxylation of D-malate using NAD + as the dinucleotide substrate, decreases from a value of 1.0096 ′ 0.0006 with D-malate to 1.00787 ′ 0.00006 with D-malate-2-d, suggesting a stepwise mechanism for the oxidative decarboxylation of D-malate. Using thio-NAD + as the dinucleotide substrate the 1 3 C isotope effects are 1.0034 ′ 0.0007 and 1.0027 ′ 0.0002 with D-malate and D-malate-2-d, respectively.
Abstract Oxaloglycolate reductive decarboxylase catalyzes the formation of d-glycerate from dihydroxyfumarate and TPNH or DPNH. The keto form of dihydroxyfumarate, oxaloglycolate, is presumed to be the actual substrate. The enzyme also catalyzes the formation of d-glycerate from hydroxypyruvate and of glycolate from glyoxylate; both reactions require reduced pyridine nucleotide. The enzyme has been obtained in a homogeneous state and has a molecular weight of 63,000.
Abstract l-Malic dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas acidovorans has been purified and crystallized. The enzyme requires DPN for the reversible oxidation of l-malate and mesotartrate to oxalacetate and oxaloglycolate, respectively. Equilibrium constants and constants for the general rate equation have been obtained for both reactions. The protein has a molecular weight of 43,000.
Tartrate dehydrogenase (TDH) has been purified to apparent homogeneity from Pseudomonas putida and has been demonstrated to catalyze three different NAD(+)-dependent reactions. TDH catalyzes the oxidation of (+)-tartrate to form oxaloglycolate and the oxidative decarboxylation of D-malate to form pyruvate and CO2. D-Glycerate and CO2 are formed from meso-tartrate in a reaction that is formally a decarboxylation with no net oxidation or reduction. The steady-state kinetics of the first two reactions have been investigated and found to follow primarily ordered mechanisms. The pH dependence of V and V/K was determined and indicates that catalysis requires that a base on the enzyme with a pK of 6.7 be unprotonated. TDH activity requires a divalent and a monovalent cation. Kinetic data suggest that the cations function in substrate binding and facilitation of the decarboxylation of beta-ketoacid intermediates.
Interestingly, sequence-homology differences within the hydroxy-acid dehydrogenase family allow further classification based on the stereochemistry of the substrates and also on whether the enzyme can catalyze the subsequent decarboxylation of the reaction intermediate. Thus, (S)-hydroxy-acid dehydrogenases show little homology to (R)-hydroxy-acid dehydrogenases and are also quite distinct from the metal-ion-dependent decarboxylating hydroxy-acid dehydrogenases (Grant, 1989) . TDH is a member of this latter metal iondependent (R)-hydroxy-acid dehydrogenase family. This family has an evolutionarily distinct nucleotide-binding domain that differs from the more traditional pyridine nucleotide-linked dehydrogenases . TDH catalyzes the oxidation of (+)-tartrate to form oxaloglycolate and can also catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of d-malate to produce pyruvate and CO 2 ( Figs. 2a and 2b) . Among the characterized members of the (R)-hydroxy-acid dehydrogenase family, only homoisocitrate dehydrogenase (HIcDH) is similar to TDH in its ability to be activated by K + (Lin et al., 2008) . However, HIcDH has been shown to follow a random mechanism (Lin et al., 2006) , while TDH has an ordered kinetic mechanism (Tipton & Peisach, 1990) .
A detailed kinetic investigation, including pH rate-profile and isotope-effect studies, supports an acid-base catalytic mechanism with participation of general acid catalysis in the oxidative decarboxylation of d-malate (Karsten et al., 2002) . The reaction in the forward direction commences with a hydride transfer from the 2-hydroxy-acid substrate to NAD followed by decarboxylation. However, the reverse hydride transfer from NADH back to the oxaloacetate (OAA) intermediate is twice as fast as the decarboxylation of OAA (Tipton, 1993) . However, since the re-carboxylation of pyruvate is negligible the irreversibility of this step ensures that the reaction proceeds to the pyruvate product. Significantly, the rate constant for the dissociation of the OAA intermediate from the enzyme active site is much slower than that for the dissociation of oxaloglycolate, the product of the enzyme-catalyzed oxidation of (+)-tartrate. TDH also catalyzes a third type of reaction, the decarboxylation of meso-tartrate to produce d-glycerate and CO 2 (Fig. 2c ). This reaction differs from the previously described reactions in that it is formally a decarboxylation with no net oxidation or reduction; however, NAD is still required for the reaction to proceed. TDH requires both a divalent metal ion (Mn 2+ or Mg 2+ ) and a monovalent (K + ) cation for activity. The cations have been proposed to function in substrate binding and in facilitating the decarboxylation of -keto-acid intermediates (Karsten & Cook, 2006) . Binding studies suggest a half-of-the-sites mechanism for TDH in which NAD binds to the enzymemetal ion complexes with a stoichiometry of two per enzyme dimer (Karsten & Cook, 2006) .
Previous studies have shown that each of the different substrates of TDH undergoes the same initial oxidation to produce the corresponding -keto acid with concomitant reduction of NAD (Tipton & Peisach, 1990) . The ultimate fate of these intermediates, oxaloacetate, oxaloglycolate and hydroxypyruvate ( Fig. 2 ), seems to depend on their relative rates of dissociation from the enzyme. The oxaloglycolate obtained from the oxidation of (+)-tartrate is released and then rearranges non-enzymatically to yield dihydroxyfumarate. The failure of TDH to catalyze the decarboxylation of oxaloglycolate may simply be a consequence of unfavorable kinetics caused by the more rapid dissociation of this product (Tipton, 1993) . The keto acids obtained from d-malate and meso-tartrate each undergo enzyme-catalyzed decarboxylation with assistance from the bound divalent metal ion, yielding pyruvate and the enol form of hydroxypyruvate, respectively. Pyruvate is released from the enzyme, while hydroxypyruvate remains bound and is subsequently reduced to d-glycerate before being released (Tipton & Peisach, 1990) . Oxalate acts as a time-dependent inhibitor of TDH through the formation of an abortive enzyme-NADH-oxalate complex . Oxalate resembles the intermediates formed during the catalytic cycle of the enzyme because of its sp 2 -hybridized C atoms and also because of its ability to form a bidentate coordinate with the active-site divalent metal ion. TDH is an ideal system for the study of catalytic evolution since its catalytic capabilities have not been optimized for a single substrate. Our interest in this enzyme comes not only from the unusual multiple reactions that it catalyzes but also from some interesting protein-engineering challenges. For the reaction in the reverse direction, TDH produces a chiral center adjacent to another chiral carbon ( Fig. 2a ). If the specificity of this enzyme can be expanded to include nonsymmetric substrates, then a series of chiral synthons can be produced with controlled stereochemistry at adjacent C atoms. Since the final outcome of the TDH-catalyzed reactions appears to be dictated by the kinetics of the intermediate released from the active site, the structural characterization of an intermediate complex can provide valuable insights into the reasons behind the diverse consequences of these reactions.
There are three stereoisomers of tartaric acid, L-tartrate being the most widely distributed isomer (Fig. 1) . They can be degraded under aerobic or anaerobic conditions by a variety of bacteria, e.g. Pseudomonas (Shilo & Stanier, 1957) , Aerobacter (Barker, 1936) , Clostridium (Mercer & Vaughn, 195 l) , Rhodopseudomonas (van Niel, 1944) , Bacteroides (Wagener & Pfennig, 1987) , Lactobacillus (Radler & Yannissis, 1972) , and coliform bacteria including Escherichia coli (Vaughn et al., 1946) . Two major pathways of bacterial tartrate metabolism have been identified. One involves the conversion of tartrate to oxaloacetate by stereospecific dehydratases (Barker, 1936; La Rivikre, 1956; Shilo, 1957; Krampitz & Lynen, 1964; Rode & Gifiorn, 1982a,b; Schink, 1984; Janssen, 1991 tartrate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.93) and oxaloglycolate reductase (EC 1.1.1.92) , or by L-tartrate decarboxylase (Furuyoshi et al., 1991) . A bifunctional L-tartrate dehydrogenase-D-malate dehydrogenase, which catalyses the decarboxylation of meso-tartrate as a side reaction, has also been described in Rhodopseudomonas sphaeroides, but its role in tartrate metabolism is unknown (GifThorn & Kuhn, 1983; Ebbighausen & GifThorn, 1984) . The route(s) used by E. coli have not been defined, but m-tartrate is known to be taken up by the dctB-encoded C,-dicarboxylic acid transport system (Kay & Kornberg, 1971) .
