In a previous communication (Rann & Cain, 1969) we described some aspects of the regulation of the 3-oxoadipate pathway in Nocardia opaca. This organism, which has a versatile nutritional spectrum, can metabolize a wide range of aromatic precursors through the protocatechuate and catechol branches of this pathway. The inducer for the protocatechuate-branch enzymes (protocatechuate oxygenase, 3-carboxymuconate sycloisomerase, 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase and 3-oxoadipate enol lactone hydrolase), all of which are co-ordinately induced, was 3-oxoadipate. Similarly, there was a co-ordinate pattern of induction in the catechol branch of the pathway between muconolactone isomerase and enol lactone hydrolase. Catechol 1 ,Zoxygenase and cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase, although both induced by cis,cis-muconate, were independently regulated. The apparent anomaly of enol lactone hydrolase being a member of two distinct, co-ordinately induced blocks was resolved when it was observed that N. opaca formed two isoenzymes, one characteristically associated with the catechol branch and the other with the protocatechuate branch. The phenotypic result of this regulation pattern is that growth of the bacterium upon a catechol precursor such as benzoate results in the appearance of all four enzymes of the protocatechuate branch although under these circumstances they are entirely without any physiological function. These regulation patterns have subsequently been confirmed by using inducer analogues such as adipate and 3-methylglutarate and by examination of the enzyme contents of mutant strains of N. opaca blocked in each step of both pathways. In one particular mutant which failed to grow on both benzoate or protocatechuate, more than one enzyme activity was affected. Protocatechuate oxygenase was present at only 16%, 3-carboxymuconate cycloisomerase at only 0.26 %, 4carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase at 65 % and 3-oxoadipyl-CoA transferase at 93 ”/, of the amounts found in a revertant to wild-phenotype of this mutant. No serious genetic analyses have ever been carried out in this genus but these results are consistent with this mutant carrying a polarity mutation in an operon controlling the co-ordinate synthesis of the enzymes of the protocatechuate branch. On this assumption, the order of genes in this operon would be: operator; cycloisomerase; oxygenase; decarboxylase. The transferase, which does not form part of the co-ordinate block, was independently regulated (D. L. Rann, unpublished work), so would be expected to exhibit no effect of the putative polarity mutation and show the virtually unchanged enzyme content that was observed. An identical regulatory system was found in Nocardiu globerulu N.C.T.B. 9158, in Nocardia cauiue A.T.T.C. 14629 and in N. cauiae strain R1315 (Tsukamura, 1969), in Nocurdia erythropolis, in Nocardia corallina and in Mycobacterium rhodocrous strains N.C.I.B. 9259 and N55, which Goodfellow (1971) has classified as Nocardiu rzibra on the basis of an extensive numerical taxonomy study. These species share many phenotypic traits and are quite similar in their DNA base composition so that this particular control mechanism for aromatic catabolism may have had a single evolutionary origin within this group of organisms (Stanier, 1968). One nocardioform organism of uncertain taxonomic position, Jenseniu canicvuria (Bissett & Moore, 1950), has recently been classified as a mating type of N. erythropolis by Adams et al. (1970) and within N. rubra by Goodfellow (1971). It showed some
The Miscellaneous Crenarchaeota group (MCG) Archaea is one of the predominant archaeal groups in anoxic environments and may have significant roles in the global biogeochemical cycles. However, no isolate of MCG has been cultivated or characterized to date. In this study, we investigated the genetic organization, ecophysiological properties and evolutionary relationships of MCG archaea with other archaeal members using metagenome information and the result of gene expression experiments. A comparison of the gene organizations and similarities around the 16S rRNA genes from all available MCG fosmid and cosmid clones revealed no significant synteny among genomic fragments, demonstrating that there are large genetic variations within members of the MCG. Phylogenetic analyses of large-subunit+small-subunit rRNA, concatenated ribosomal protein genes and topoisomerases IB gene (TopoIB) all demonstrate that MCG constituted a sister lineage to the newly proposed archaeal phylum Aigarchaeota and Thaumarchaeota. Genes involved in protocatechuate degradation and chemotaxis were found in a MCG fosmid 75G8 genome fragment, suggesting that this MCG member may have a role in the degradation of aromatic compounds. Moreover, the expression of a putative 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase was observed when the sediment was supplemented with protocatechuate, further supporting the hypothesis that this MCG member degrades aromatic compounds.
The Miscellaneous Crenarchaeota group (MCG) Archaea is one of the predominant archaeal groups in anoxic environments and may have significant roles in the global biogeochemical cycles. However, no isolate of MCG has been cultivated or characterized to date. In this study, we investigated the genetic organization, ecophysiological properties and evolutionary relationships of MCG archaea with other archaeal members using metagenome information and the result of gene expression experiments. A comparison of the gene organizations and similarities around the 16S rRNA genes from all available MCG fosmid and cosmid clones revealed no significant synteny among genomic fragments, demonstrating that there are large genetic variations within members of the MCG. Phylogenetic analyses of large-subunit þ small-subunit rRNA, concatenated ribosomal protein genes and topoisomerases IB gene (TopoIB) all demonstrate that MCG constituted a sister lineage to the newly proposed archaeal phylum Aigarchaeota and Thaumarchaeota. Genes involved in protocatechuate degradation and chemotaxis were found in a MCG fosmid 75G8 genome fragment, suggesting that this MCG member may have a role in the degradation of aromatic compounds. Moreover, the expression of a putative 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase was observed when the sediment was supplemented with protocatechuate, further supporting the hypothesis that this MCG member degrades aromatic compounds.
The NCBI Prokaryotic Genome Annotation Pipeline (http: //www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/annotation_prok/) predicted the benzene 1,2-dioxygenase, vanillate monooxygenase, catechol 1,2-dioxygenase (catA), homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase, and 4-hydroxybenzoate 3-monooxygenase genes. The cum gene cluster (4) for isopropylbenze (cumene) degradation was present. This cluster is 99% similar to that of P. fluorescens, accession number D37828. P. frederiksbergensis SI8 showed at least 71% homology with twenty of the twenty one genes, with the exception of ditE, of the dit cluster for abietane diterpenoids catabolism of P. abietaniphila, accession number AF119621 (5). Additionally, the genes encoding protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (ligA and ligB), 3-carboxymuconate cycloisomerase, and 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, of the central protocatechuate catabolic pathway for aromatic degradation were observed (6). The gentisate 1,2-dioxygenase (gdo) gene essential for the gentisate catabolic pathway of polycyclic aromatics was not detected (6). Important hydrocarbon degradation genes encoding 2,4-dichlorophenol 6-monooxygenase, alkanesulfonate monooxygenase, 2-polyprenyl-6-methoxyphenol hydroxylase, aminobenzoate oxygenase, and 2-nitropropane dioxygenase were observed. A gene cluster with at least 80% homology to the ttg2 operon encoding an ABC-type transporter essential for toluene resistance in P. Putida and P. aeruginosa, was observed (7, 8) . The alkB genes were not detected, explaining its inability to degrade n-alkanes. This genome will provide valuable insight into the genetics and metabolism of hydrocarbon-degrading psychrotrophic bacteria.
The protocatechuate and catechol pathways, two separate and parallel branches of the ..beta..-ketoadipate pathway in Pseudomonas putida, converge at a common intermediate - ..beta..-ketoadipate enol-lactone. The enol-lactone is generated by 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase in the protocatechuate pathway while muconolactone isomerase produces it in the catechol pathway. The presence of these enzymes as well as ..beta..-carboxymuconate cycloisomerase and its substrate, ..beta..-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate, in a NMR tube, leads to the following sequence of events. Lactonization of ..beta..-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate produces 4-carboxymuconolactone which decarboxylates enzymatically with deuteration by D/sub 2/O to afford 2-(/sup 2/H)-4-ketoadipate enol-lactone - the substrate for muconolactone isomerase. Further conversion of the monodeuterated enol-lactone by muconolactone isomerase affords muconolactone which is nearly completely deuterated at the 4 position. The proton ricochets between the 2 and 4 positions with concurrent washout while in the 2 position. Based on the known absolute stereochemistry of 4-carboxymuconolactone and muconolactone, these results suggest that both the decarboxylase and isomerase proceed by syn mechanisms, but operate on opposite faces of the common enol-lactone substrate.
Phthalate isomers and their esters are important pollutants whose biodegradation is not well understood. Rhodococcus sp. strain RHA1 is notable for its ability to degrade a wide range of aromatic compounds. RHA1 was previously shown to degrade phthalate (PTH) and to have genes putatively encoding terephthalate (TPA) degradation. Transcriptomic analysis of 8,213 genes indicated that 150 were up-regulated during growth on PTH and that 521 were up-regulated during growth on TPA. Distinct ring cleavage dioxygenase systems were differentially expressed during growth on PTH and TPA. Genes encoding the protocatechuate (PCA) pathway were induced on both substrates, while genes encoding the catechol branch of the PCA pathway were additionally induced only on TPA. Accordingly, protocatechuate-3,4-dioxygenase activity was induced in cells grown on both substrates, while catechol-1,2-dioxygenase activity was induced only in cells grown on TPA. Knockout analysis indicated that pcaL, encoding 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase and 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, was required for growth on both substrates but that pcaB, encoding beta-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme, was required for growth on PTH only. These results indicate that PTH is degraded solely via the PCA pathway, whereas TPA is degraded via a bifurcated pathway that additionally includes the catechol branch of the PCA pathway.
It was decided to investigate MS patients for possible immune responses to pathogens that carry molecular mimicry sequences resembling brain components, such as Acinetobacter species and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We have identified an amino acid sequence similarity between the encephalitogenic peptide of bovine MBP (5) and a sequence present in 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus (3). A similar sequence was also found in ␥-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase of P. aeruginosa (Swissprot).
The catechol and protocatechuate branches of the 3-oxoadipate pathway, which are important for the bacterial degradation of aromatic compounds, converge at the common intermediate 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone. A 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone-hydrolyzing enzyme, purified from benzoate-grown cells of Rhodococcus opacus (erythropolis) 1CP, was found to have a larger molecular mass under denaturing conditions than the corresponding enzymes previously purified from gamma-proteobacteria. Sequencing of the N terminus and of tryptic peptides allowed cloning of the gene coding for the 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase by using PCR with degenerate primers. Sequencing showed that the gene belongs to a protocatechuate catabolic gene cluster. Most interestingly, the hydrolase gene, usually termed pcaD, was fused to a second gene, usually termed pcaC, which encodes the enzyme catalyzing the preceding reaction, i.e., 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase. The two enzymatic activities could not be separated chromatographically. At least six genes of protocatechuate catabolism appear to be transcribed in the same direction and in the following order: pcaH and pcaG, coding for the subunits of protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase, as shown by N-terminal sequencing of the subunits of the purified protein; a gene termed pcaB due to the homology of its gene product to 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerases; pcaL, the fused gene coding for PcaD and PcaC activities; pcaR, presumably coding for a regulator of the IclR-family; and a gene designated pcaF because its product resembles 3-oxoadipyl coenzyme A (3-oxoadipyl-CoA) thiolases. The presumed pcaI, coding for a subunit of succinyl-CoA:3-oxoadipate CoA-transferase, was found to be transcribed divergently from pcaH.
Bacterial lignin degradation could be used to generate aromatic chemicals from the renewable resource lignin, provided that the breakdown pathways can be manipulated. In this study, selective inhibitors of enzymatic steps in bacterial degradation pathways were developed and tested for their effects upon lignin degradation. Screening of a collection of hydroxamic acid metallo-oxygenase inhibitors against two catechol dioxygenase enzymes, protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (3,4-PCD) and 2,3-dihydroxyphenylpropionate 1,2-dioxygenase (MhpB), resulted in the identification of selective inhibitors D13 for 3,4-PCD (IC50 15μM) and D3 for MhpB (IC50 110μM). Application of D13 to Rhodococcus jostii RHA1 in minimal media containing ferulic acid led to the appearance of metabolic precursor protocatechuic acid at low concentration. Application of 1mM disulfiram, an inhibitor of mammalian aldehyde dehydrogenase, to R. jostii RHA1, gave rise to 4-carboxymuconolactone on the β-ketoadipate pathway, whereas in Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf-5 disulfiram treatment gave rise to a metabolite found to be glycine betaine aldehyde.
The protocatechuate pathway is a central catabolic route for aromatic compounds, which is widely distributed among taxonomically diverse bacteria and fungi [1] [2] [3] 19, 20] . Protocatechuate is a key central intermediate in bacterial degradation of diverse aromatic compounds, including 4-HBA, 3-HBA, vanillate, ferulate, coniferyl alcohol, p-coumarate, phthalate, isophthalate and terephthalate. Protocatechuate oxygenolytic ring-cleavage is catalyzed by protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (PcaGH) to generate 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate, which is converted into 4-carboxymuconolactone by 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase (PcaB). 4-Carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (PcaC) transforms the 4-carboxymuconolactone into b-ketoadipate enol-lactone, which is then hydrolyzed by b-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (PcaD) into b-ketoadipate. The enzyme b-ketoadipate succinyl-CoA tranferase (PcaIJ) converts b-ketoadipate into b-ketoadipyl-CoA, which is finally transformed into succinyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA by b-ketoadipyl-CoA thiolase (PcaF).
