Cinnamaldehyde is reduced at the dropping mercury electrode in two main two-electron steps. In the first the CC double bond is reduced, in the second the aldehydic group. The rate of dehydration of 3-phenylpropionaldehyde governs the height of the more negative step. In acid media the first two-electron process is split into two one-electron steps. The radical formed in the first one-electron step can react with cations and the adduct formed gives a separate wave iN. In electrolyses with electrodes which do not have a periodically renewed surface (mercury pool and hanging mercury drop electrodes, single-sweep techniques) the radical formed undergoes further reactions and can eventually polymerize.
Four zeolites with different topologies (H-MCM-22, H-BETA, H-ZSM-5 and clinoptilolite) and nine mesoporous solids (silica-alumina, MCM-41, SBA-15 and Al-SBA-15 with various Si/Al ratios) were investigated in relation to their capacity to be used as adsorbents for depollution of the contaminated air or waste water. The structural properties were determined by XRD, nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms, chemical analysis, SEM, 27Al and 29Si NMR, IR-TF, and XPS. The acidity of the solids was checked by adsorption calorimetry using NH3 and pyridine as probe molecules and by liquid phase calorimetry using aniline as probe. In this last case, n-decane was used as solvent. The IR-TF of pyridine adsorption and the XPS of NH3 adsorption completed the results obtained by microcalorimetry. Five polluting molecules were adsorbed on the solids. Two of them (nicotine and phenol) were adsorbed in liquid phase and the other three (methyl ethyl ketone, propionaldehyde and acetonitrile) were adsorbed in gas phase
Aldehydes from allylic alcohols and Phenylpalladium acetate: 2-Methyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 2-methyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: cinnamaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: C6H5CH2CH2CHO ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: C6H5CH(CH3)CH2CHO ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: C6H5CH(CH3)CH2COCH3 ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: C6H5C(CH3)2CH2COCH3 ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: arylation; ::: metal-catalyzed reactions, palladium
A range of structurally novel acetal-spiroacetal-enol ethers were readily synthesized from 3-[5-(methoxymethyl)-2-furyl]propionaldehydes by dearomatization to form carbocations that were trapped intramolecularly by the formyl group with subsequent acetalization.
HsaF and HsaG are an aldolase and dehydrogenase from the cholesterol degradation pathway of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. HsaF could be heterologously expressed and purified as a soluble dimer, but the enzyme was inactive in the absence of HsaG. HsaF catalyzes the aldol cleavage of 4-hydroxy-2-oxoacids to produce pyruvate and an aldehyde. The enzyme requires divalent metals for activity, with a preference for Mn2+. The Km values for 4-hydroxy-2-oxoacids were about 20-fold lower than observed for the aldolase homologue, BphI from the polychlorinated biphenyl degradation pathway. Acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were channeled directly to the dehydrogenase, HsaG, without export to the bulk solvent where they were transformed to acyl-CoA in an NAD+ and coenzyme A dependent reaction. HsaG is able to utilize aldehydes up to five carbons in length as substrates, with similar catalytic efficiencies. The HsaF–HsaG complex was crystallized and its structure was determined to a resolution of 1.93 A. Substitution of s...
While the (hydroxymethyl)carbene complex [RuCl2(CHCH2OH)(PCy3)2] (2), prepared by metathesis from [RuCl2(CHPh)(PCy3)2] (1) and allyl alcohol, reacts in solution to give the carbonyl derivative [RuCl2(CO)(PCy3)2] (3), in the absence of solvent the methoxycarbene isomer [RuCl2(CHOCH3)(PCy3)2] (4) is formed. The catalytic reaction of 1 with allyl alcohol affords, besides small amounts of ethene and acrolein, predominantly propionaldehyde; with 3-buten-2-ol and catalytic amounts of 1, 3-butanone is obtained exclusively.
Abstract Germanium-substituted ZSM-5 zeolite membranes with various Si/Ge ratios were synthesized by in situ crystallization on porous tubular stainless steel and α-Al2O3 supports. For a Si/Ge ratio in the synthesis gel of 25, the Si/Ge ratio in the membrane was 41–82, depending on the support. When the Si/Ge ratio was 5, extra framework compounds that contained Ge formed. The fraction of permeation through non-zeolite pores increased as the Si/Ge ratio decreased. The Ge-ZSM-5 membranes were effective for separating acetone from water by pervaporation. The highest acetone/water selectivity of 330 (at 323 K) and the highest total flux of 0.95 kg/m2 h (at 333 K) were obtained for a membrane with a Si/Ge ratio of 41. This membrane selectively removed alcohols, ketones, carboxylic acids, esters, and propionaldehyde from 5 wt.% aqueous solutions because the organics preferentially adsorbed. The C3 organics showed higher organic/water selectivities than C2 or C4 organics with the same functional group. The organic/water separation selectivity increased as the liquid-phase fugacity of the organic in the feed increased.
Stereospecific sequential condensation of paraformaldehyde and propionaldehyde with a tripodal bis(triamine)cobalt(III) template rapidly encapsulates the metal, and a subsequent facile reduction of imine functions gives an expanded cavity hexaazabicyclic cage system with unusual structural and chromophore electron properties, complemented by an exceptional stability and relatively fast CoII/III electron exchange rates.
The chain reaction in gaseous H2O2+ NO2+ CO mixtures, previously used as a thermal source of OH radicals in static systems, has been adapted for use in a flow system operating at total pressures of 39.9 kPa and 298.2 K. The reaction mechanism is H2O2+ NO2→ OH + HNO3(1), OH + CO → CO2+ H (2), H + NO2→ OH + NO (3), OH + NO2(+M)→ HNO3(+M). (4), Addition of a substrate S reactive towards OH induces the competitive reaction OH + S → products. (S) From the variation in the yield of CO2(monitored by gas chromatography) as a function of [S] the rate constant ratio kS/k2 may be derived. It is shown that such ratios can be successfully measured for systems (in this case a series of aldehydes) which would be difficult to study in the corresponding static system.The aldehyde rate constants, kS, are expressed relative to kS(acetaldehyde), and taking kS(acetaldehyde)= 0.94 × 1010 dm3 mol–1 s–1 values of 10–10kS/dm3 mol–1 s–1 of 1.08 ± 0.14, 1.52 ± 0.19, 1.05 ± 0.12, 0.83 ± 0.10, 1.11 ± 0.12 and 0.51 ± 0.05 are obtained for, respectively, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, i-butyraldehyde, n-valeraldehyde, i-valeraldehyde and trimethylacetaldehyde.Comparison with other measurements is made and the variations in these values are discussed.
Acetaldehyde and formaldehyde vapours wer passed over mixed solid oxide catlysts containing silica and alumina in different Al2O3/SiO2 ratios. Acrolein, acetone and propionaldehyde were the main reaction products. Small quantities of methyl ethyl ketone wer found to be present among the products. The correlation between acrolein formation and the Bronsted acidity of the catalysts is discussed.
Klebsiella pneumoniae produces 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) from glycerol with oxidation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 3-HP in a reaction catalyzed by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH). In the present study, two putative ALDHs of K. pneumoniae, YneI and YdcW were identified and characterized. Recombinant YneI was specifically active on 3-HPA and preferred NAD(+) as a cofactor, whereas YdcW exhibited broad substrate specificity and preferred NADP(+) as a cofactor. Overexpression of ALDHs in the glycerol oxidative pathway-deficient mutant K. pneumoniae AK resulted in a significant increase in 3-HP production upon shake-flask culture. The final titers of 3-HP were 2.4 and 1.8 g L(-1) by recombinants overexpressing YneI and YdcW, respectively. Deletion of the ALDH gene from K. pneumoniae did not affect the extent of 3-HP synthesis, implying non-specific activity of ALDHs on 3-HPA. The ALDHs might play major roles in detoxifying the aldehyde generated in glycerol metabolism.
To clarify the suppressing effect of perilla for fishy odor, the volatile components of the sardine boiled with pickled “ume”, soy sauce and perilla were studied by comparing them with that of the sardine boiled with pickled “ume” and soy sauce. By sensory test, it was found that the fishy odor was distinctly controlled by the addition of perilla. Six carbonyls (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, benzaldehyde and perillaldehyde), two alcohols (ethyl alcohol and 1-penten-3-ol) and limonene were identified in the head-space volatiles of the sardine boiled with pickled “ume”, soy sauce and perilla by gas chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. But perillaldehyde and limonene of these components were not identified in the volatiles of the sardine boiled with pickled “ume” and soy sauce, and were caused by perilla. By sensory test on the odor of the sardine boiled with pickled “ume”, soy sauce, authentic perillaldehyde and limonene, it was confirmed that perillaldehyde greatly contributed to mask the odor specific for the boiled sardine, but limonene didn't play an important part to mask the fishy odor.
Abstract A high yield preparation of α-formylethylidenetriphenylphosphorane from the ethyltriphenylphosphonium iodide and ethyl formate Is reported. The α-triethylsilyl t -butylimine of propionaldehyde is a thermally stable and easily purified reagent that smoothly olefinates aldehydes and ketones.
The gas‐phase microwave spectrum of the gauche rotational isomer of propanal (propionaldehyde, CH3CH2CHO) has been studied in detail. Vibration‐rotation interaction between torsional energy levels which are split by quantum tunneling results in the splitting of several ground‐state absorption lines. Treatment of this interaction by methods described in an earlier paper successfully accounts for the anomalous spectrum. Observation of several predicted transitions (including transitions nominally forbidden) confirms the theoretical treatment and allows an accurate determination of the energy level splitting (471.80±0.07 MHz) of the two lowest levels of gauche propanal. This new information is used in the determination of an internal rotation potential, which is compared with recent theoretical calculations for propanal.
An antifungal protein isolated from Escherichia coli BL21 (PPEBL21) and predicted to be alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) was subjected to biological characterization. The PPEBL21, indeed, demonstrated propionaldehyde-specific ADH activity. The Km and Vmax of PPEBL21 were found to be 644.8 𝜇M and 1.2 U/mg, respectively. In-gel activity assay also showed that PPEBL21 was a propionaldehyde-specific ADH. The pI of PPEBL21 was observed to be 7.8. PPEBL21 was found to be stable up to a temperature of 40∘C with optimum activity at pH 7.5. The decrease in pH decreased the activity of PPEBL21. These results suggested that PPEBL21 having alcohol dehydrogenase activity and stability at significantly high temperature might be an important lead antifungal molecule. Experiments were performed to identify the possible target of PPEBL21 in the pathogen A. fumigatus. Results revealed that PPEBL21 inhibited completely the expression of a 16 kDa protein in A. fumigatus. The 16 kDa protein of A. fumigatus targeted by PPEBL21 was identified as a hypothetical protein by peptide mass fingerprinting. It is thus hypothesized that a 16 kDa factor is essentially required by A. fumigatus for survival and its impaired synthesis due to treatment with PPEBL21 may lead to the death of pathogen.
The objective of this research is to elucidate the role of various chemical additives on ethanol synthesis over Rh- and Ni-based catalysts. Chemical additives used for this study will include S, P, Ag, Cu, Mn, and Na which have different electronegativeities. The effect of additives on the surface state of the catalysts, heat of adsorption of reactant molecules, reaction intermediates, reaction pathways, reaction kinetics, and product distributions is/will be investigated by a series of experimental studies of NO adsorption, reactive probing, steady state rate measurement, and transient kinetic study. CO insertion is known to be a key step to the formation of acetaldehyde and ethanol from CO hydrogenation. Reaction of ethylene with syngas is used as a probe to determine CO insertion capabilities of metal catalysts. During the sixth quarter of the project, the mechanism of CO insertion on Ni/SiO{sub 2} was investigated by in-situ infrared spectroscopy. Ni/SiO{sub 2}, a methanation catalyst, has been shown to exhibit CO insertion activity. In situ infrared studies of CO/H{sub 2} and C{sub 2}H{sub 4}/CO/H{sub 2} reactions show that the carbonylation of Ni/SiO{sub 2} to Ni(CO){sub 4} leads to an inhibition of methanation in CO hydrogenation but an enhancement of formation of propionaldehyde inmore » C{sub 2}H{sub 4}/CO/H{sub 2} reaction. The results suggest that the sites for propionaldehyde formation is different from those for methanation.« less
Alcohol dehydrogenase activity of Clostridium acetobutylicum ATCC 4259 was studied for its specificity against substrates in acidogenic and solventogenic cultures. The bacterium reduces propionate, valerate and caproate added to the medium to the corresponding alcohols. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldhyde, pentanal, and hexanal were used as the substrates by alcohol dehydrogenase, and all were reduced to the corresponding alcohols with varying affinities and reaction velocities. Acetaldehyde showed the lowest affinity and lowest velocity while the other aldehydes showed similar values. NADPH was used as the electron donor for the reduction of aldehydes. Alcohol dehydrogenase activity was low in acidogenic culture, and high in solventogenic culture.
Abstract The reaction of m-methoxyphenol 7 with 3-chloropropionaldehyde diethyl acetal 8 and the subsquent treatments gave the corresponding 7-methoxychromanone 6 in overall 54% yield. This method represents an efficient preparation of chromanone.
Abstract Acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde passed over heated lithium phosphate in the vapor phase gives aldol condensation products, crotonaldehyde, or 2-methyl-2-pentenal, respectively, with selectivities of greater than 95%. Propionaldehyde passed over calcium hydroxide under the same conditions gives 2-methyl-2-pentenal, 1-propanol, and 3-pentanone with respective selectivities of 40%, 42%, and 18%. Evidence is presented which indicates that the formation of the last two compounds occurs largely via a Cannizzaro-type reaction. Cyclohexanone passed over heated lithium phosphate in the vapor phase gives 2-(1-cyclohexen-1-yl)-cyclohexanone with 97% selectivity. Other aldehydes and ketones give aldol condensation products with lower selectivities than the above.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) is a toxic intermediary metabolite in the biological route of 1,3-propanediol biosynthesis from glycerol. 3-HPA accumulated in culture medium would arouse an irreversible cessation of the fermentation process. The role of substrate (glycerol) on 3-HPA accumulation in aerobic fermentation was investigated in this paper. 1,3-Propanediol oxidoreductase and glycerol dehydratase, two key enzyme catalyzing reactions of 3-HPA formation and consumption, were sensitive to high concentration of 3-HPA. When the concentration of 3-HPA increased to a higher level in medium (ac 10 mmol/L), the activity of 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase in cell decreased correspondingly, which led to decrease of the 3-HPA conversion rate, then the 3-HPA concentration increasing was accelerated furthermore. 3-HPA accumulation in culture medium was triggered by this positive feedback mechanism. In the cell exponential growth phase, the reaction catalyzed by 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase was the rate limiting step in 1,3-propanediol production. The level of 3-HPA in culture medium could be controlled by the substrate (glycerol) concentration, and lower level of glycerol could avoid 3-HPA accumulating to a high, lethal concentration. In fed batch fermentation, under the condition of initial glycerol concentration 30 g/L, and keeping glycerol concentration lower than 7–8 g/L in cell exponential growth phase, 3-HPA accumulation could not be incurred. Based on this result, a glycerol feeding strategy was set up in fed batch fermentation. Under the optimized condition, 50.1 g/L of 1,3-propanediol was produced in 24 h, and 73.1 g/L of final 1,3-propanediol concentration was obtained in 54 h.
The separating methods for acrolein remainder from the synthesized of 3-hydroxy propionaldehyde(HPA) by the acrolein hydration was studied.Aspen Plus simulative software was used for optimizing the important parameters process of and simulating the whole seperation process,and the NRTL equation was selected as activity coefficient equation.The important process parameters were optimized to minimize the wastage of acrolein.The process project was put forward which could bring the theoretical base for the design of an industrial process.
Lewis acid-catalyzed cyclization of aminoacetals 2 and triethyl ethenetricarboxylate (1a) has been examined. The reaction of 3-aminopropionaldehyde diethyl acetal (2a) and 1a in the presence of 1 equiv of TiCl4 at room temperature gave 4-ethoxypiperidine-2,3,3-tricarboxylate 3a in 92% yield with a 2,4-diastereomer ratio of 1:1. The reaction in the presence of 3 equiv of TiCl4 gave 2,4-trans-piperidine derivative 3a in 86% yield predominantly. The reaction of aminoacetaldehyde diethyl/dimethyl acetals 2c,d and 1a with 3 equiv of TiCl4 gave 2,4-trans-4-pyrrolidine-2,3,3-tricarboxylates 5a,b predominantly.
We propose that 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionaldehyde is an intermediate in the metabolism of felbamate, an anti-epileptic drug with a unique profile of therapeutic activity, and undergoes a cascade of chemical reactions responsible for the toxic properties of the parent drug. To test this hypothesis, we have synthesized 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionaldehyde and evaluated its in vitro reactivity. This molecule was found to be highly unstable at physiological pH (t1/2 ≤ 30 s) and to undergo facile elimination to 2-phenylpropenal, an α,β-unsaturated aldehyde commonly termed atropaldehyde. However, the predominant reaction pathway for 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionaldehyde was reversible cyclization to generate 4-hydroxy-5-phenyltetrahydro-1,3-oxazin-2-one, a urethane that has a considerably longer half-life at physiological pH (t1/2 ≥ 5 h) and may serve as a stable reservoir of the reactive aldehyde both in vitro and in vivo. Atropaldehyde is a potent electrophile and was found to exhibit cytotoxicity to cultured ...
The present invention provides a concentration method for concentrating comprises at least 3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-propionaldehyde and or its / dimer aqueous solution, the concentrate comprises the step of: at least containing 3- aqueous hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl propionaldehyde and / or a dimer thereof, as the azeotropic agent is added selected from 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 2-methyl-1-propanol, 1 - pentanol and 1-hexanol in at least one of the mixed solution and the resulting aqueous solution was subjected to azeotropic distillation entrainer in the distillation column, distilled water and entrainer.
By using cytoplasmic and mitochondrial serine transhydroxymethylase isoenzymes from rabbit liver, it was shown that both enzymes exhibited similar ratios of serine transhydroxymethylase/threonine aldolase activities. Both enzymes catalysed the removal of the pro-S hydrogen atom of glycine, which was greatly enhanced by the presence of tetrahydrofolate. The cytoplasmic as well as the mitochondrial enzyme catalysed the synthesis of serine from glycine and [3H2]formaldehyde in the absence of tetrahydrofolate. The results are consistent with our previous suggestion that a role of tetrahydrofolate in the serine transhydroxymethylase reaction is to transport formaldehyde in and out of the active site (Jordan & Akhtar, 1970). The isoenzymes, however, showed remarkable differences in their inactivation by inhibitors. The serine transhydroxymethylase as well as the threonine aldolase activities of the cytoplasmic enzyme were inactivated in a similar fashion by chloroacetaldehyde, iodoacetamide, bromopyruvate and glycidaldehyde (2,3-epoxypropionaldehyde). These inhibitors had no effect on the two activities of the mitochondrial enzyme. The rate of inactivation of the cytoplasmic enzyme by glycidaldehyde was enhanced by the presence of glycine but decreased by the presence of serine. The implications of these results to the mechanism of catalysis and the nature of the active site of the enzymes are discussed.
A method for purifying acrolein or propionaldehyde, comprising the steps of: 1) providing a dilute aqueous solution comprising acrolein or that propionic and impurities of low boiling point; 2) Provide a distillation system a single column comprising: i. a distillation column having a top condenser: ii. a feed inlet of crude product in the distillation column; iii. distillation site for impurities of low boiling point above the feed inlet of crude product; iv. output outlet side fluid extraction for recovering purified acrolein or propionaldehyde located between the feed inlet and the crude distillation site for impurities of low boiling point; and V. a discharge location for the removal of water and heavy impurities, which preferably includes a distillation site for the heavy impurities, below dela feed inlet of crude product; 3) introducing the dilute aqueous solution into the distillation column by the feed inlet and distilling the crude dilute aqueous solution; and 4) recovering purified acrolein or propionaldehyde through the outlet of the outlet side of extraction liquid.
Two approaches to the synthesis of the aglycon 120 of polycavernoside A (1) were developed, only one of which was completed. The successful “second-generation” route assembled the aglycon seco acids 102 and 106 via Nozaki−Hiyama−Kishi coupling of aldehyde 70, prepared from methyl (S)-3-hydroxy-2-methylpropionate (72) and (S)-pantolactone (73), with vinyl bromide 71. The latter was obtained from a sequence which commenced from the silyl ether 24 of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and entailed cyclization of (Z)-ζ-hydroxy-α,β-unsaturated ester 82. Regioselective Yamaguchi lactonization of trihydroxycarboxylic acids 102 and 106 and subsequent functional-group adjustments led to macrolactone 120, to which the fucopyranosylxylopyranoside moiety was attached. Stille coupling of the glycosidated aglycon 128 with dienylstannane 129 furnished polycavernoside A in a synthesis for which the longest linear sequence was 25 steps. The overall yield to lactone 120 was 4.7%.
C(2)H(4)/CO/H(2) reaction is investigated on Rh/SiO(2) model catalyst surfaces. Kinetic reactivity and infrared spectroscopic measurements are investigated as a function of Rh particle size under near atmospheric reaction conditions. Results show that propionaldehyde turnover frequency (TOF) (CO insertion pathway) exhibits a maximum activity near = 2.5 nm. Polarization modulation infrared reflection absorption spectroscopy under CO and reaction (C(2)H(4)/CO/H(2)) conditions indicate the presence of Rh carbonyl species (Rh(CO)(2), Rh(CO)H) on small Rh particles, whereas larger particles appear resistant to dispersion and carbonyl formation. Combined these observations suggest the observed particle size dependence for propionaldehyde production via CO insertion is driven by two factors: (i) an increase in propionaldehyde formation on undercoordinated Rh sites and (ii) creation of carbonyl hydride species (Rh(CO)H)) on smaller Rh particles, whose presence correlates with the lower activity for propionaldehyde formation for < 2.5 nm.
Sensing material plays an important role in a sensor system, it interacts with analytes to induce detectable signals. The characteristic of the sensing material directly affects the sensitivity, selectivity and stability of the sensor. In 2002, Zhang et al. first introduced nanomaterials as sensing material into the design of CTL gas sensor, they demonstrated that nanomaterials can greatly enhance CTL performances, due to the pleasing advantages of high surface areas and high reaction activity for nanomaterials [17] . Since then, many nanomaterials were prepared and used for design of CCL sensors. For instance, nanomaterial Zn/SiO 2 -based sensor for ethyne [18] , nanosized NaYF 4 :Er-based sensor for ketone [19] , sensor based on α-MoO 3 nanobelts for diethyl ether [20] , sensor based on nano-MgO 2 for iso-butanol [21] , sensor based on nanomaterial g-C 3 N 4 for carbon monoxide [22] , nanomaterial NiO for H 2 S sensor [23] , nanosized ZnO-based sensor for propionaldehyde [24] .
Whether anabolic or catabolic, experimentally characterized BMCs share a common functional theme: the shell sequesters enzymes and provides a diffusion barrier for volatile and/or toxic reaction intermediates. For example, in carboxysomes, CO 2 is generated by carbonic anhydrase (CA) and then fixed within the compartment by RuBisCO; the shell helps to confine the CO 2 near RuBisCO [26] (Fig. 1A) . Likewise, the PDU and EUT BMC shells prevent the leakage of propionaldehyde [27] and acetaldehyde [28] , respectively, which are toxic and/or volatile intermediates of the encapsulated biochemical pathway. These experimental observations were used to infer the type of aldehyde intermediate in recently characterized BMCs: propionaldehyde in the fucosome [24] and lactaldehyde in the PVM BMC [25] .
An antifungal protein isolated from Escherichia coli BL21 (PPEBL21) and predicted to be alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) was subjected to biological characterization. The PPEBL21, indeed, demonstrated propionaldehyde-specific ADH activity. The Km and Vmax of PPEBL21 were found to be 644.8 μM and 1.2 U/mg, respectively. In-gel activity assay also showed that PPEBL21 was a propionaldehyde-specific ADH. The pI of PPEBL21 was observed to be 7.8. PPEBL21 was found to be stable up to a temperature of 40
By using cytoplasmic and mitochondrial serine transhydroxymethylase isoenzymes from rabbit liver, it was shown that both enzymes exhibited similar ratios of serine transhydroxymethylase/threonine aldolase activities. Both enzymes catalysed the removal of the pro-S hydrogen atom of glycine, which was greatly enhanced by the presence of tetrahydrofolate. The cytoplasmic as well as the mitochondrial enzyme catalysed the synthesis of serine from glycine and [3H2]formaldehyde in the absence of tetrahydrofolate. The results are consistent with our previous suggestion that a role of tetrahydrofolate in the serine transhydroxymethylase reaction is to transport formaldehyde in and out of the active site (Jordan & Akhtar, 1970) . The isoenzymes, however, showed remarkable differences in their inactivation by inhibitors. The serine transhydroxymethylase as well as the threonine aldolase activities of the cytoplasmic enzyme were inactivated in a similar fashion by chloroacetaldehyde, iodoacetamide, bromopyruvate and glycidaldehyde (2,3-epoxypropionaldehyde). These inhibitors had no effect on the two activities of the mitochondrial enzyme. The rate of inactivation of the cytoplasmic enzyme by glycidaldehyde was enhanced by the presence of glycine but decreased by the presence of serine. The implications of these results to the mechanism of catalysis and the nature of the active site of the enzymes are discussed.
C 2 H 4 ∕CO∕H 2 reaction is investigated on Rh∕SiO 2 model catalyst surfaces. Kinetic reactivity and infrared spectroscopic measurements are investigated as a function of Rh particle size under near atmospheric reaction conditions. Results show that propionaldehyde turnover frequency (TOF) (CO insertion pathway) exhibits a maximum activity near hd p i ¼ 2.5 nm. Polarization modulation infrared reflection absorption spectroscopy under CO and reaction (C 2 H 4 ∕CO∕H 2 ) conditions indicate the presence of Rh carbonyl species (RhðCOÞ 2 , Rh(CO)H) on small Rh particles, whereas larger particles appear resistant to dispersion and carbonyl formation. Combined these observations suggest the observed particle size dependence for propionaldehyde production via CO insertion is driven by two factors: (i) an increase in propionaldehyde formation on undercoordinated Rh sites and (ii) creation of carbonyl hydride species (Rh(CO)H)) on smaller Rh particles, whose presence correlates with the lower activity for propionaldehyde formation for hd p i < 2.5 nm.
CO insertion into adsorbed alkyl groups (R-C x H y ) to form oxygenates (e.g., alcohols, aldehydes) is an important reaction step in many heterogeneous catalytic reactions. For example, C 2 H 4 hydroformylation (C 2 H 4 þ CO þ H 2 ) is a well known reaction for the synthesis of aldehydes via the CO insertion reaction (13). Insightful studies by Chuang and coworkers (14-17) and others (18, 19) have investigated C 2 H 4 hydroformylation on oxide supported Rh particles to gain information on the reaction mechanism and reactivity of various adsorbed CO surface species. Motivated by the desire to understand oxygenate reaction pathways in CO hydrogenation catalysis, investigators have utilized C 2 H 4 hydroformylation as a probe reaction to understand CO insertion into adsorbed surface ethyl species (R-C 2 H 5 ), without the complications of the CO dissociation step. It has been proposed that propionaldehyde production (CO insertion pathway) proceeds via hydrogenation of adsorbed C 2 H 4 to form a surface ethyl species (R-C 2 H 5 ), followed by insertion of adsorbed CO to form an acyl intermediate (R-C 2 H 5 CO), followed by hydrogenation to form propionaldehyde (C 2 H 6 CO) (14, 15). Studies of propionaldehyde decomposition on Rh surfaces under ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) conditions, which produces H 2 , CO, and ethyl species (along with surface C), also supports these general reaction steps (20). Interestingly, surface coordination of adsorbed CO on Rh also appears to influence its reactivity for CO insertion reactions; for example, linear bound CO appears to be more reactive than CO bound to Rh in a dispersed and/or carbonyl state (e.g., gem-dicarbonyl RhðCOÞ 2 ) (16, 19) . The effect of Rh particle size on CO insertion activity has been studied to a lesser extent. Studies of C 2 H 4 hydroformylation on cluster derived (19) and traditional (18) Rh powder catalysts have shown that propionaldehyde formation (TOF) is increased as Rh dispersion is increased. Competing ethylene hydrogenation TOF was observed to be structure insensitive over this particle dispersion range in one case (19), but structure sensitive in another study, exhibiting a maximum activity near 4 nm (18). Studies of Rh alloy surfaces (e.g., RhZn (21), RhIr (22), and RhS (23)) have suggested isolated Rh sites on alloy surfaces are favorable for CO insertion under CO hydrogenation or hydroformylation conditions. Combined, these results indicate that undercoordinated and isolated Rh sites on Rh particle surfaces are favorable reaction sites for CO insertion reactions. Thus, the C 2 H 4 þ CO þ H 2 system presents an interesting probe reaction to investigate a surface reaction (CO insertion into adsorbed R-C 2 H 5 alkyl groups) whose selectivity, surface adsorbates, and surface morphology can all potentially depend on the initial Rh particle size and the reactant gas conditions. In the present study, we aim to gain insights into the structureactivity relationships of the CO þ C 2 H 4 þ H 2 reaction on oxide supported Rh nanoparticle surfaces. Our primary goal is to understand the structure-activity relationships of the CO insertion pathway during C 2 H 4 hydroformylation, the underlying reasons driving these structure-activity relationships, and the role of elevated pressure reactant gas in altering the morphology and surface adsorbates present on supported Rh NPs. To accomplish this task we employ well defined Rh∕SiO 2 silica model catalyst surfaces (24, 25) to conduct reaction and spectroscopic measurements at elevated pressures (near atm), enabling careful study of the reactivity and selectivity as a function of average Rh particle size. Complementary spectroscopic investigations under ambient The authors declare no conflict of interest.
Reactions of four aldehydes with five aromatic compounds have been carried out on a series of USY zeolites with unit cell size in the 24.56 to 24.25-t1 range. Conversion decreased in the order formaldehyde > benzaldehyde > acetaldehyde > propionaldehyde and also in the series anisole > toluene > benzene > chlorobenzene. For aliphatic aldehydes a mixture of ortho-ortho', ortho-para', and para-para' diarylmethanes was obtained. USY zeolites show a higherpara-directing selectivity than AICl3. Benzaldehyde reacted with benzene derivatives to afford mixtures of diaryland triarylmethanes. Formation of ditolyl- and dianisylmethanes in the corresponding reactions indicated that bulky triarylmethanes, once formed inside the crystalline framework, have strong diffusional limitations to get out of the zeolite cavities and can undergo subsequent protolytic cleavage. A decrease in the activity of the zeolite to catalyze hydride transfer reactions lead to a decrease on the diphenylmethane yield. Finally, diphenylmethane appears as a primary product indicating that a series of consecutive reactions such as the formation of diarylcarbinols followed by protonation, water elimination, and hydride abstraction are taking place inside the pores of the zeolite before the real primary product comes out from the zeolite.
Temik, (2, methyl 2(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime) and Lannate, (S methyl N ((methylcarbamoyl)oxy)thioacetimidate) were compared in broadcast and drill row applications at different rates for control of Heterodera avenae on wheat at two sites in Victoria during 1969-1972. All broadcast applications and all drill row treatments except Lannate 0.3 kg ha-1 in 1971, significantly reduced white cyst production. Lannate dusted wheat seed was ineffective. Temik at 9 kg ha-1 broadcast, and 2.2 kg ha-1 in the drill row gave best control of H. avenae and completely prevented production of cysts. Temik, at comparable rates, was a better nematicide than Lannate, and on a rate for rate basis drill row treatments were more effective than broadcast treatments. The degree of nematode control was directly related to the amount of nematicide applied. Significant increases in grain yield were obtained in each experiment. All chemical treatments (except Lannate dusted seed) applied in 1969 significantly reduced white cyst production in 1971 but only four of these provided significant increases in grain yield, viz. Temik (at 9, 4.5 and 2.2 kg ha-1 broadcast, and 2.2 kg ha-1 in the drill row)
The simultaneous fermentation of glycerol and sugar by lactobacillus brevis B22 and Lactobacillus buchneri B190 increases both the growth rate and total growth. The reduction of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol by the lactobacilli was found to influence the metabolism of the sugar cofermented by channelling some of the intermediate metabolites (e.g., pyruvate) towards NADH-producing (rather than NADH-consuming) reactions. Ultimately, the absolute requirement for NADH to prevent the accumulation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde leads to a novel lactate-glycerol cofermentation. As a result, additional ATP can be made not only by (i) converting pyruvate to acetate via acetyl phosphate rather than to the ethanol usually found and (ii) oxidizing part of the intermediate pyruvate to acetate instead of the usual reduction to lactate but also by (iii) reoxidation of accumulated lactate to acetate via pyruvate. The conversion of lactate to pyruvate is probably catalyzed by NAD-independent lactate dehydrogenases that are found only in the cultures oxidizing lactate and producing 1,3-propanediol, suggesting a correlation between the expression of these enzymes and a raised intracellular NAD/NADH ratio. The enzymes metabolizing glycerol (glycerol dehydratase and 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase) were expressed in concert without necessary induction by added glycerol, although their expression may also be influenced by the intracellular NAD/NADH ratio set by the different carbohydrates fermented.
Vapor−liquid equilibria are reported for the following four systems: 2-phenylpropionaldehyde + phenol at 100 °C and 150 °C; propylene glycol monomethyl ether + nitroethane at 40 °C and 80 °C; dimethyl ether + propylene at −20 °C and 20 °C; and n-butyric acid + propionic acid at 100 °C and 140 °C. The system pressure and temperature were measured at several charge compositions along a given isotherm for each system. Equilibrium vapor- and liquid-phase compositions were derived from the measured PTx data using the Soave equation of state to represent the vapor phase and the Wilson or three-parameter Redlich−Kister activity coefficient model to represent the liquid phase. Vapor-phase dimerization of the carboxylic acids was accounted for in reducing the n-butyric acid + propionic acid PTx data. A single Txy data point was also measured for this system at each temperature by withdrawing and analyzing multiple samples from the equilibrium vapor and liquid phases.
Nitroreductase (NTR) is a flavin-containing enzyme that uses NADH as the electron source to reduce nitroaromatic compounds to the corresponding amines. Previous studies have shown that nitroreductase-targeted latent fluorophores exhibit low solubility in the aqueous media and fluoresce at lower wavelengths upon uncloaking, thus limiting their effective applications. Here, we have prepared a new switch-on long-wavelength latent fluorogenic substrate, NTRLF (4), for NTR. In the presence of NADH, NTR catalyzes the reduction of the nitroaromatic moiety in NTRLF (4), followed by the cascade reaction, 1,6-rearrangement-elimination reaction, cyclic urea formation, and concomitant ejects a long-wavelength fluorescence coumarin (8). However, this reaction was inhibited in the presence of nitroaromatic analogues. The fluorescence signal generated by the cascade reaction was specific and insensitive to various reductants. Accordingly, we propose that NTRLF and NTR in the presences of NADH constitute a useful switch-off high-throughput fluorescence sensor for screening nitroaromatic compounds. Furthermore, NTRLF in the NTR-coupled 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase assay reactions was a sensitive fluorimetric indicator for the quantitatively measurement of 3-hydroxybutyrate and propionaldehyde, respectively within micromolar range. Our novel NTRLF and NTR-coupled dehydrogenase assay platform may thus be effectively applied for the quantitative estimation of a broad range of analytes.
The condensation of α,α-dichloropropionyl chloride (IVa) and of trichloroacetyl chloride (IVb) with α-chloropropionyl chloride (Ia) in the presence of triethylamine led to two acid chloride enol-esters, both as mixtures of cis- and trans-isomers, namely 1, 2-dichloropropenyl α,α-dichloropropionate (Va) and 1, 2-dichloropropenyl trichloroacetate (Vb). ::: ::: ::: ::: A mixture of triethylamine and trichloroacetyl chloride produced an oxidation-reduction reaction to give 48% 1, 2, 2, 2-tetrachloroethyltrichloroacetate (VIII) and 69% 1-diethylamino-4, 4, 4-trichloro-1-butene-3-one (IX). Basic hydrolysis of IX led to 43% of glutaconic acid (XIII). Tripropylamine reacted in the same way with trichloroacetyl chloride to yield 1-dipropylamino-2-methyl-4, 4, 4-trichloro-but-1-ene-3-one (XIX) which was readily hydrolyzed in acid solution to α-trichloroacetyl-propionaldehyde (XX).
Aldehyde reductases (alcohol: NADP+-oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.2) I and II from human placenta have been purified to homogeneity. Aldehyde reductase I, molecular weight about 74 000, is a dimer of two nonidentical subunits of molecular weights of about 32 500 and 39 000, whereas aldehyde reductase II is a monomer of about 32 500. Aldehyde reductase I can be dissociated into subunits under high ionic concentrations. The isoelectric pH for aldehyde reductases I and II are 5.76 and 5.20, respectively. Amino acid compositions of the two enzymes are significantly different. Placenta aldehyde reductase I can utilize glucose with a lower affinity, whereas aldehyde reductase II is not capable of reducing aldo-sugars. Similarly, aldehyde reductase I does not catalyse the reduction of glucuronate while aldehyde reductase II has a high affinity for glucuronate. Both enzymes, however, exhibit strong affinity towards various other aldehydes such as glyceraldehyde, propionaldehyde, and pyridine-3-aldehyde. The pH optima for aldehyde reductases I and II are 6.0 and 7.0, respectively. Aldehyde reductase I can use both NADH and NADPH as cofactors, whereas aldehyde reductase II activity is dependent on NADPH only. Both enzymes are susceptible to inhibition by sulfhydryl group reagents, aldose reductase inhibitors, lithium sulfate, and sodium chloride to varying degrees.
The invention belongs to the field of chemical synthesis, and particularly relates to a new preparation method of a glufosinate-ammonium weed killer. The preparation method is characterized in that methyl phosphorus dichloride reacts with alcohol so as to prepare a methyl phosphonate compound IV, and then the methyl phosphonate compound IV reacts with acrolein so as to prepare a methyl propionaldehyde phosphonate compound II; the methyl propionaldehyde phosphonate compound II is subjected to Bucherer-Bergs ring-closure reaction so as to prepare a hydantoin derivative shown in a formula III, and the hydantoin derivative is subjected to hydrolysis reaction so as to prepare the glufosinate-ammonium compound shown in a formula I. The preparation method of the glufosinate-ammonium has the advantages that required conditions are mild, the detection is easy, the required raw materials are easily available and low in cost, the yield of the obtained product is high, the obtained product has high purity, and ammonium salt is removed without needing recrystallization over and over again.
The isolation of crystalline triose phosphate isomerase from chicken breast muscle is described. The values of kcat. and Km for the reaction in each direction were determined from experiments over wide substrate-concentration ranges, and the reactions were shown to obey simple Michaelis–Menten kinetics. With d-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate as substrate, kcat. is 2.56×105min−1 and Km is 0.47mm; with dihydroxyacetone phosphate as substrate, kcat. is 2.59×104min−1 and Km is 0.97mm. The enzyme-catalysed exchange of the methyl hydrogen atoms of the `virtual substrate' monohydroxyacetone phosphate with solvent 2H2O or 3H2O was shown. This exchange is about 104-fold slower than the corresponding exchange of the C-3 hydrogen of dihydroxyacetone phosphate. The other deoxy substrate, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde phosphate, was synthesized, but is too unstable in aqueous solution for analogous proton-exchange reactions to be studied.
FIELD: chemistry.SUBSTANCE: invention relates to a process for the preparation of methyl methacrylate which comprises the following steps: A) preparation of methacrolein from propionaldehyde and formaldehyde, and B) converting the methacrolein obtained in step A) using methanol via oxidative esterification to methyl methacrylate, wherein steps A) and B) are carried out in a liquid phase at a pressure of 2 to 100 bar, wherein step B) is carried out in the presence of a noble metal-containing heterogeneous catalyst comprising metals and / or metal oxides. Method enables to significantly reduce the number and volumes of backflows.EFFECT: by-products can be easily separated, which allows the process to be carried out with high yield without the need for expensive purification operations.17 cl, 3 dwg, 3 tbl, 8 ex
The majority of computer simulations exploring biomolecular function employ Class I additive force fields (FF), which do not treat polarization explicitly. Accordingly, much effort has been made into developing models that go beyond the additive approximation. Development and optimization of the Drude polarizable FF has yielded parameters for selected lipids, proteins, DNA and a limited number of carbohydrates. The work presented here details parametrization of aliphatic aldehydes and ketones (viz. acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butaryaldehyde, isobutaryaldehyde, acetone, and butanone) as well as their associated acyclic sugars (D-allose and D-psicose). LJ parameters are optimized targeting experimental heats of vaporization and molecular volumes, while the electrostatic parameters are optimized targeting QM water interactions, dipole moments, and molecular polarizabilities. Bonded parameters are targeted to both QM and crystal survey values, with the models for ketones and aldehydes shown to be in good agreement with QM and experimental target data. The reported heats of vaporization and molecular volumes represent a compromise between the studied model compounds. Simulations of the model compounds show an increase in the magnitude and the fluctuations of the dipole moments in moving from gas phase to condensed phases, which is a phenomenon that the additive FF is intrinsically unable to reproduce. The result is a polarizable model for aliphatic ketones and aldehydes including the acyclic sugars D-allose and D-psicose, thereby extending the available biomolecules in the Drude polarizable FF.
Abstract The rate and equilibrium constants of the condensation of urea with some aliphatic aldehydes to form alkylidenediureas have been measured spectrophotometrically in aqueous solutions at 24·2°. The rate is always expressed as: v = k [H 2 NCONH 2 ][free RCHO]. Electron-releasing groups in aldehydes tend to decrease the rate of forward reaction with Taft's ρ * value of +3·5. The reaction is reversible and is subject to both acid and base catalysis. The Bronsted catalysis law, κ A = G A K A α , is applicable to the acid catalysis, and the α values in the equation are 0·38 for propionaldehyde, 0·43 for n-butyraldehyde, and 0·45 for isobutyraldehyde. These results agree with the expectation from the suggested reaction mechanism involving the rate-determining attack of urea on free aldehyde molecule.
Thermal desorption spectrometry (TDS) is used to measure cross sections for reactions induced in condensed thin films of acetaldehyde by low-energy electrons with incident energies ranging from 4 to 15 eV. The obtained values for the decay of acetaldehyde and the formation of CO and CH 4 are in reasonable agreement with cross sections obtained previously for similar samples by high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS). In addition to propionaldehyde that has been identified as additional product previously, evidence of the formation of 2-propanol, ethanol, CO 2 , and ethylene is obtained here. Whereas the former two may result directly from an attack of methyl and H radicals released upon electron-induced fragmentation of acetaldehyde on an adjacent molecule, CO 2 is shown to be formed through electron-induced reactions of the initial product CO. The production of ethylene can be explained by rapid elimination of H 2 O from ethanol under electron exposure.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is an important platform C3 chemical; production of 3-HP in recombinant Escherichia coli by synthetic pathways has been the focus of a lot of research. When glycerol is used as a substrate to produce 3-HP in E. coli, only the ALDH pathway (employing aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) for conversion of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) into 3-HP) has been utilized as a synthetic pathway. However, several bacteria (including Klebsiella pneumoniae) are known to have the ability to produce 3-HP by the Pdu pathway (employing the PduP, PduL, and PduW enzymes). Here, we report the production of 3-HP in E. coli by using the Pdu pathway from K. pneumoniae as a synthetic pathway. Moreover, a strain harboring a dual synthetic pathways (ALDH and Pdu) exhibited a 70% increase in 3-HP titer compared to one harboring the ALDH pathway alone (56.1 ± 0.736 mM and 33.1 ± 0.920 mM, respectively). To our knowledge, this is the first report of 3-HP production by E. coli harboring the Pdu pathway, with the dual synthetic pathway showing the highest yield ever reported by batch culture [54.1% (mol/mol)].
The present invention relates to a simple process, easily industrialized acid preparation process. The process comprises propionaldehyde as raw materials, with oxygen, air or oxygen and inert to the reaction gas mixture of the oxidant, the oxidation reaction in the absence of a catalyst, to obtain a high acid product selectivity. Reaction is carried out in a bubble column or a tank reactor, the reaction temperature is 10 ~ 90 ℃, reaction pressure 0.1 ~ 1.0MPa, the conversion of greater than 99% propionaldehyde, propionic acid selectivity 97%. Since the reaction process without a catalyst can achieve a high reaction yield, thus eliminating the need for catalyst separation and recovery processes, low production cost, high product selectivity, simplifying the separation step directly. The entire process is simple, high yield, easy to industrial promotion.
Among the more promising synthons to be obtained from renewable resources, 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) has been listed in the top 10 by the United States Department of Energy. Lactobacillus reuteri is able to convert glycerol into a mixture of 3-HP, 1,3 propanediol (1,3-PDO) and in some cases 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). In batch systems, if the bioconversion is started with a high level of glycerol (e.g. 10g/l), a high speed of conversion over a short period of time (about 2.5h) could be achieved, but the number of cell deaths is such that the bioconversion then stops. It has previously been shown that the accumulation of 3-HPA was a factor associated with the cell death. ::: The aim of this work was to optimize the bioconversion of glycerol to 3-HP in avoiding 3-HPA accumulation. Lactobacillus reuteri was used as a whole-cell biocatalyst for this conversion in aqueous solutions. For this, all steps of the process had been revised: growth on glucose in "batch" mode, collection of the bacterial biomass and bioconversion with a controlled supply of the glycerol substrate ("fed-batch" mode), with particular attention given to this last step. The study of the growth phase has helped to standardize the best moment for harvesting, and the harvesting was initialized at the moment when there was no further requirement for base addition. ::: The new collection protocol (centrifugation then direct packaging of bacteria in sterile demineralised water) improved the initial physiological state of the bacteria during the bioconversion. For the bioconversion, the influence of several operating parameters were evaluated: nitrogen bubbling, the presence of yeast extract (to enhance cell maintenance), pH control or not during the pre growth and, adding acetoin as a regeneration agent of the enzyme cofactor NAD+. ::: This led us to test its performance over a longer term (> 50 h). A concentration of 12,2 g/L of 3-HP was obtained, which is similar to data reported in the recent literature. The revised process minimized the accumulation of 3-HPA. A molar ratio 3-HP/1,3PDO close to 1 was obtained. The perspectives of this work is the 1,3-PDO oxidation and the use of in situ product recovery to extract and concentrate the 3-HP.
Abstract The influence of hypolipidemic drug clofibrate on the activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase with different substrates was studied in subcellular fractions of rat liver homogenate. It was shown that under the action of clofibrate the content of the enzyme was increased 2–3-fold in purified peroxisomal fraction as well as in microsomes and mitochondria. No difference was found in the cytoplasmic fraction. Partial purification of clofibrate-induced aldehyde dehydrogenase from microsomes was undertaken. The enzyme is apparently membrane-bound. It has a molecular weight of 187,000 and a subunit size of 47,000, indicating that the molecule is a tetramer. An induced aldehyde dehydrogenase is active with several aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes but not with formaldehyde and glyceraldehyde. The enzyme has K m -values in the millimolar range for acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde and phenylacetaldehyde and in the micromolar range for nonanal. Both NAD and NADP serve as coenzymes for the purified aldehyde dehydrogenase. According to subtrate specificity, kinetic and molecular properties clofibrate-induced aldehyde dehydrogenase appears to be identical to normal liver microsomal enzyme.
Single-strain cultures of Pseudomonas fragi, P. fluorescens, P. putrefaciens, and strains of two marine species, Pseudomonas type I and Pseudomonas type II, were found to be capable of reducing added acetaldehyde, proprionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde to the corresponding alcohols at 21 C. All species studied reduced propionaldehyde at 6 C. P. fragi, Pseudomonas type I, and Pseudomonas type II reduced butanone at 6 and 21 C. P. fragi and Pseudomonas type II reduced acetone at 21 C. Dehydrogenase activity was found in some cultures in which growth was not evident. Under aerobic conditions, a strain of P. fragi reduced added propionaldehyde to n-propanol quantitatively within 36 hr at 21 C.
Three more or less structured bands (at 55, 60, and 68 kK in propionaldehyde) are located in compounds containing carbonyl. These bands are tentatively assigned, respectively, as n′→π; n→σ* (n→3s); and π→π*.The π→π* is tentatively located in compounds containing carboxyl, e.g, at about 67 kK in formic acid and acetic acid, and is followed as it red shifts in methyl formate and finally to 58 kK in formamide. The band is considered as perturbed carbonyl with some charge transfer until the perturbation becomes too strong—as it evidently is in dimethyl formamide where the band comes at 51 kK. Here one sees (from the absence of a Brooker deviation) that the molecule must be regarded as allylic. Other bands in carboxyl are tentatively identified as being analogous to the 55‐ and 60‐kK bands in propionaldehyde, though the possibility of a second π→π* absorption in the region studied cannot be ruled out. The spectra of formic acid and acetic acid dimer are presented and interpreted.
Infrared spectra of propionaldehyde was studied over silica-supported Rh−Sn bimetallic catalysts. Two absorption bands of the carbonyl group were observed at 1670 and 1720 cm-1, and the aldehyde hydrogen (−CHO) was also observed at 2748 and 2848 cm-1 over the Sn/Rh/SiO2 catalysts on which propionaldehyde was preadsorbed. One of the absorption bands of carbonyl groups at 1670 cm-1 readily disappeared by contact with H2, whereas the other band at 1720 cm-1 remained. The band of the aldehyde hydrogen also disappeared by the contact with H2. The absorption band at 1670 cm-1 was assigned to a donating-on-top η1 adsorbed species that were bound to tin atoms with oxygen atoms of carbonyl groups. The band observed at 1720 cm-1 was assigned to a species weakly adsorbed on the catalyst surface. The intensity of the band at 1670 cm-1 was increased with an Sn/Rh ratio up to unity and then was gradually decreased with the Sn/Rh ratio of the catalysts. The reduction temperature at 573 K yielded a maximum intensity rati...
Abstract Objectives The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of two additives, propionaldehyde/aldehyde or 2,3-butanedione/diketone, on mechanical properties of Bis-GMA-based composites containing TEGDMA, propoxylated Bis-GMA (CH 3 Bis-GMA) or propoxylated fluorinated Bis-GMA (CF 3 Bis-GMA). Methods Three control composites, Bis-GMA/diluent monomer (25/75 mol%), and six test composites, Bis-GMA/diluent monomer/aldehyde or diketone (17/51/32 mol%) were prepared. All composites contained hybrid treated filler (barium aluminosilicate glass/pyrogenic silica; 60 wt%), and 0.2 wt% each of camphorquinone and N , N -dimethyl- p -toluidine. Degree of conversion (DC%), flexural strength (FS), modulus of elasticity ( E ), modulus of resilience ( R ) and diametral tensile strength (DTS) were determined. DC% ( n = 3) was investigated by FT-IR. For FS and E , beam-shaped specimens (25 mm × 2 mm × 2 mm) were prepared ( n = 6), stored for 7 days in 37 °C deionized water and tested on an Instron utilizing a three-point loading jig (0.5 mm/min). The R -values were obtained from the following equation: R = (FS) 2 /2 E . For DTS, cylindrical specimens (4 mm × 8 mm) were prepared ( n = 6), stored for 7 days in 37 °C deionized water and diametrically loaded on an Instron (0.5 mm/min). Data were analyzed by one-way ANOVA and Tukey's test ( α = 0.05). Results Incorporation of additives led to an increase in DC%, FS and E for Bis-GMA/TEGDMA and Bis-GMA/CH 3 Bis-GMA systems. R -values for all systems were unaffected by addition of additives. They had no significant effect on DC% or mechanical properties of Bis-GMA/CF 3 Bis-GMA. Significance The findings correlate with the ability of additives to improve degree of conversion of some composite systems thereby enhancing mechanical properties.
Katsuwobushi, made from skipjack by boiling, smoking, and moulding processes, is used commonly as soup stock in Japan for its appetitive flavors. In this study, the aromatic components of the katsuwobushi were swept off by nitrogen stream at 50°C and collected in traps cooled in dry ice-methanol. Carbonyl compounds were converted into 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazone derivatives and subjected to direct gas chromatographic analysis according to SOUKUP et al.5) using SF-96 silicone oil as a liquid phase at 240°C. As a result, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde (and/or acetone), iso-butyraldehyde, iso-valeraldehyde, capronaldehyde, methylamylketone, and methylhexylketone were identified.
Abstract In four in vitro trials, the effectiveness of different chemical treatments in protecting cereal grains from ruminal degradation was studied. Corn, wheat and oats were treated by mixing with either 0, 0.5, 1 or 1.5% (w/w) formaldehyde, formaldehyde plus propionic acid, propionaldehyde, propionaldehyde plus propionic acid or propionic acid. The combinations of aldehydes plus propionic acid were in a 3:1 ratio. Corn, wheat and oats were also treated with 0, 2.5 or 3% propionaldehyde or combinations of propionaldehyde and sodium or ammonium hydroxide. Formaldehyde, either alone or in combination with acid, consistently reduced in vitro dry matter disappearance (IVDMD) of cereal grains. Propionaldehyde alone or in combination with either acid or alkali was less effective than formaldehyde in restricting fermentation. Although formaldehyde treatment of cereal grains reduced dry matter disappearance in vitro, treatment of the corn included in concentrate diets fed to growing steers produced no difference in their performance.
Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) is an enzyme that participates in multiple metabolic pathways, including the oxidation of toxic biogenic and environmental aldehydes. Our laboratory is interested in developing novel and selective ALDH2 inhibitors. We recently identified and studied three distinct classes of small molecules based on their ability to inhibit ALDH2 activity (esterase, dehydrogenase, and both). These inhibitors were identified by virtual screen which consisted of three steps: 1) docking 800,000 ChemBridge molecules to the substrate cavity in ALDH2; 2) scoring the receptor-ligand complexes while computing the binding affinity; and 3) ranking the top 1,000 compounds using GlideScore to determine the top 250 compounds for study. From this list, 112 compounds were selected for purchase and screened for inhibitory activity at 50 uM. 19 compounds were selected for further evaluation based on their ability to inhibit hALDH2 propionaldehyde oxidation by more than 60%. IC50 values for these compounds were determined using both the dehydrogenase and esterase assays.We selected 4 compounds with IC50 values less than 20uM for further kinetic and structural studies: I32, I72, I76, and I78. These inhibitors show a competitive inhibition pattern toward varied NAD+ concentrations and either uncompetitive or noncompetitive inhibition towards varied priopionaldehyde concentrations. Based on their structural similarity and x-ray crystallography structures obtained with these compounds bound to the enzyme, fragments were then chosen for studying the mechanism by which they inhibit ALDH2. The next step is to solve the structures of these fragments bound to ALDH2 and develop SAR data for fragment based compound development that will enhance their specificity for and inhibition of ALDH2. This work was supported by NIH R01-AA18123 and NIH R01-AA18123S1.
The aromas of cultivar Meeker red raspberry from Oregon and Washington were analyzed by aroma extract dilution analysis. Seventy-five aromas were identified [some tentatively (superscript T)] by mass spectrometry and gas chromatography−retention index; 53 were common to both, and 22 have not been previously reported in red raspberry. Twenty-one compounds had an equivalent odor impact in both: 2,5-dimethyl-4-hydroxy-3-(2H)-furanone, hexanal, 4-(2,6,6-trimethyl-1-cyclohexen-1-yl)-3-buten-2-one, (E)-β-3,7-dimethyl-1,3,6-octatrieneT, 6,6-dimethyl-2-methylenebicyclo[3.1.1]heptaneT, 1-(2,6,6-trimethyl-1,3-cyclohexadien-1-yl)-2-buten-1-one, ethanoic acid, (Z)-3-hexenalT, 3-methylmercaptopropionaldehyde, (Z)-3-hexenol, 2,6-dimethyl-2,7-octadien-6-ol, butanoic acid, ethyl 2-methylpropanoate, (E)-2-hexenal, hexyl formateT, 2,3-butanedione, heptanalT, thiacyclopentadieneT, cyclohexane carbaldehydeT, (E)-3,7-dimethyl-2,6-octadien-1-olT, and 4-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-2-butanone. Oregon Meeker had 14 odorants with higher fl...
The simultaneous fermentation of glycerol and sugar by Lactobaillus brevis B22 and Lactobacillus buchneri B190 increases both the growth rate and total growth. The reduction of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol by the lactobacilli was found to influence the metabolism of the sugar cofermented by channelling some of the intermediate metabolites (e.g., pyruvate) towards NADH-producing (rather than NADH-consuming) reactions. Ultimately, the absolute requirement for NADH to prevent the accumulation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde leads to a novel lactate-glycerol cofermentation. As a result, additional ATP can be made not only by (i) converting pyruvate to acetate via acetyl phosphate rather than to the ethanol usually found and (ii) oxidizing part of the intermediate pyruvate to acetate instead of the usual reduction to lactate but also by (iii) reoxidation of accumulated lactate to acetate via pyruvate. The conversion of lactate to pyruvate is probably catalyzed by NAD-independent lactate dehydrogenases that are found only in the cultures oxidizing lactate and producing 1,3-propanediol, suggesting a correlation between the expression of these enzymes and a raised intracellular NAD/NADH ratio. The enzymes metabolizing glycerol (glycerol dehydratase and 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase) were expressed in concert without necessary induction by added glycerol, although their expression may also be influenced by the intracellular NAD/NADH ratio set by the different carbohydrates fermented.
A few strains of lactobacilli have the ability to produce 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDL) from glycerol while metabolizing glucose or fructose (18, 23, 25) . These bacteria all have a coenzyme B12-dependent dehydratase responsible for the dehydration of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), which is subsequently reduced by NADH to 1,3-PDL (19, 22, 27) . Since glycerol is not metabolized as a sole energy source, its cofermentation with sugar was reported to affect the metabolism of glucose or fructose (but not of ribose) exclusively by reoxidizing NADH equivalent to that formed during the catabolism of the sugar via the 6-phosphogluconate pathway. Work with growing cultures by Schutz and Radler (18) supported this idea; by suppressing ethanol formation, glycerol allowed greater acetate production, the extra carbon flow through acetyl phosphate leading to consistently better growth of lactobacilli.
Two polyethylene glycol (PEG)-modified interferons, interferon (IFN)-α-2a containing a branched 40-kD PEG molecule (PEGASYS ® ; F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc., Basel, Switzerland) and IFN-α-2b containing a linear 12-kD PEG molecule (PEG-INTRON ® ; Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, USA) are currently on the market. However, side effects are quite problematic, and the efficacy of PEG-IFN monotherapy is limited. Consensus interferon (CIFN) was designed in order to maximize efficacy, and minimize side effects. It is composed of the most frequently observed amino acids in each corresponding position in the natural α IFNs. CIFN shares an 89, 30, and 60% homology with IFN-α, IFN-β and IFN-ω, respectively (13) . CIFN has been shown to be efficacious in HCV genotype 1 patients who have failed therapy with PEG-IFN (14) . In order to increase the duration of action, Tolerability and efficacy of pegylated consensus interferon-α in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (15) . The PEG-CIFN investigated in the current study was produced by the covalent attachment of a single 20-kDa methoxypolyethylene glycol-propionaldehyde molecule to the N-terminus of IFN, forming a molecule with an average molecular weight of ~40 kDa. This modification results in a longer half-life and sustained antiviral action (15) . PEG-CIFN has exhibited improved pharmacokinetic properties compared with CIFN in monkeys and rats, with 12-and 15-fold increases in elimination half-life, and 100-and 10-fold reductions in serum clearance, as well as a 2.5-and 10-fold increases in the time to reach peak serum concentrations, respectively (15) .
Development and optimization of the CHARMM Drude polarizable FF has been the subject of ongoing work in our laboratory in collaboration with Roux and coworkers since 2000 [54] . To date, protein, [20] DNA, [22] , ions, [57] and limited carbohydrate [17, 58, 59] and lipid [16] parameters are available. The CHARMM Drude Polarizable FF has been successfully implemented in CHARMM, [60, 61] NAMD, [62, 63] GROMACS, [64, 65] and recently OpenMM [66] (Huang and MacKerell, Work in progress). In NAMD the computational demand was shown to be 2.4-3.6 more than the additive force field when taking into account both the overhead for the treatment of polarization and the need to use a 1 fs integration time steps versus 2 fs typically used for additive force fields [63] . Benchmarking of ubiquitin in aqueous solution on 64 cores showed a 2-5 time improvement in speed in GROMACS over NAMD or CHARMM, respectively [65] . Recently, a polarizable energy function based on thermal Drude oscillators was introduced in LAMMPS [67, 68] . The work presented here details parametrization of aliphatic aldehydes and ketones (viz. acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, and butanone) as shown in Fig. 1 as well as their associated acyclic sugars (d-allose and d-psicose) as part of the development of a comprehensive polarizable force field for biomolecules. Given that Drude FF parameters are optimized with transferability in mind, the acyclic sugars can be considered as an extension of the polyols previously parametrized in this laboratory [17] with the addition of a ketone or aldehyde functionality. Accordingly, the developed aldehyde and ketone parameters are used in combination with the existing polyol parameters in the optimization of a Drude model for d-allose and d-psicose.
Abstract We report the values of electro optic Kerr constant of liquids belonging to Carbonyl (Ketone and Aldehyde) and Nitrile series at λ = 632.8nm. These investigations have been carried out for the first time in the liquids, Methyl n propyl ketone, Methyl isopropyl ketone, Methyl isobutyl ketone, Propionaldehyde, Butyraldehyde, Propionitrile and Butyronitrile belonging to these homologous series. We have observed a decreasing trend in Kerr constant values with an increasing chain length by a CH2 intervening group in all these series. The variations in the inductive effect arising from different substituents in the molecular structures of the liquids are used to interpret the decreasing trend in the values of the Kerr constant.
Abstract Owing to their harmful effects on human health, the presence of carbonyl compounds in e-cigarette aerosols raises concerns. To date, the reported concentration levels in e-vapors vary greatly between studies and several factors that markedly influence carbonyl emission during vaping have been highlighted including the heating temperature, the power supply, the device architecture, the filling level of the tank and the main e-liquid constituents. This study investigated the impact of puffing regimen parameters on the carbonyl composition of e-cigarette aerosols with the aim of: (1) better estimating the variability of carbonyl emissions depending on puffing conditions; (2) highlighting puffing profiles that increase the exposure to carbonyls; and (3) estimating to what extent puffing topography could be implied in the variability of carbonyl concentrations reported in the current literature. E-vapors from a single e-liquid were generated from two e-cigarette models with a smoking machine. A total of 7 different puffing regimens were used to individually study the influence of the puff volume, duration and frequency. Carbonyls were collected by DNPH cartridges and analysed by HPLC-UV. E-liquid consumption and e-vapor temperature were also monitored. E-vapor concentrations of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde and methylglyoxal were affected, sometimes differently, by the modification of the puffing regimen, as well as by the e-cigarette model. For example, formaldehyde concentration ranged from 20 to 255 ng/puff depending on the puffing conditions. The results of principal component analyses, applied to the concentration data sets for the 6 carbonyls, suggest that the studied parameters interact and highlight some “carbonyl-emitting” combinations of concern (e-cigarette model/puffing regimen). However, the highest concentrations measured in the present study remain far lower than those observed in conventional cigarette mainstream smoke. This study confirms that the chosen puffing regimen contributes a part of the observed variability in the carbonyl levels reported in the scientific literature, hampering comparisons between studies and making interpretation difficult. Thus, harmonized and realistic protocols for the assessment of e-cigarette toxicity by physicochemical or experimental approaches are clearly needed.
The catalytic decomposition of allyl alcohol has been studied by Ipatiev, who passed the vapour through a brass tube filled with brass filings maintained at 600° C. He found hydrogen and acrolein, some propylene and carbon monoxide, with a little divinyl in the reaction products, showing that under these conditions of elevated temperature very little hydrogenation of the double bond of the unsaturated alcohol takes place. Sabatier and Senderensf used reduced copper as catalyst at temperatures varying from 180-300° C. They found that a yield of over 50 per cent, of propionaldehyde could be obtained and only a little acrolein and hydrogen. The lower temperature seems to favour the production of the saturated aldehyde. The observations of Moureu and Boismenu have shown that acrolein is very appreciably hydrogenated by copper at temperatures between 110 and 250° C. At 300° C. the destruction of the acrolein is very rapid. It is evident, therefore, that there are two reactions to be followed in the initial stages of the dehydrogenation of allyl alcohol by copper CH2 ═ CH . CH2OH— ↗CH3. CH2. CHO ↘ CH2 = CH. CHO + H2 A detailed study was made of these two reactions to attempt to throw light on the state of the adsorbed molecules, and to consider in detail the mechanism of the two reactions and the connection between them.
It was reported that acrolein (AL) in tetrahydrofuran (THF) polymerizes at temperatures below 0°C in the presence of pyridine (Py) and water. To clarify this polymerization mechanism the polymerization of AL and methyl vinyl ketone (MVK) by an initiation system such as Py–water, triethylamine (Et3N)–water, or Py–phenol(Ph) was carried out. The polymerization rate (Rp) of MVK in the Et3N–water system was expressed by the same equation, Rp = k [Et3N] [H2O] [MVK]2, used for AL in the Py–water system. Meanwhile, β-hydroxypropionaldehyde, β-phenoxypropionaldehyde, γ-ketobutanol, and β-phenoxy-1-methylpropionketone were obtained as the initial addition products. The polymer of AL obtained was composed of polymer units of vinyl and aldehyde polymerization, but the structure of MVK polymer obtained by the Py–water system was composed of only vinyl polymerization units. The polymerization of MVK by the Py–Ph system did not occur, however. These results were discussed in terms of the initiation and propagation mechanisms.
Abstract We have identified propionaldehyde, n-propanol, isopropanol and N-nitroso-2-hydroxy-propylpropylamine following incubation of N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine with a microsomal fraction from rat liver. Based on the yields of the various products, we have shown that β-oxidation occurs at about 15% of the level of α-oxidation. β-as well as α-oxidation was shown to be carried out by the microsomal mixed function oxidase system. N-nitroso-2-hydroxy-propylpropylamine is further oxidized by the microsomal preparation to yield N-nitroso-2-oxopropylpropylamine.
The nematicides Temik (2, methyl 2 (methylthio) propionaldehyde 0-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime), Lannate (S methyl N-((methylcarbamoyl) oxy) thioacetimidate), Nemafos (0, 0-diethyl 0-2 pyrazinyl phosphorothioate), Nemacur P (ethyl 4-(methylthio)-m-tolyl isopropyl phosphoramidate), Mocap (0-ethyl S, S-dipropyl phosphorothioate), and Vydate (S-methyl l-(dimethylcarbam0~1)-N-((methylcarbamoyl) oxy) thioformidate) were tested for control of the cereal cyst nematode (Hekrodera avenae Woll.) in field experiments with wheat in the seasons 1969-70 to 1971-72 at Sea Lake, Victoria. All chemical treatments significantly reduced white cyst production and nematode carry-over in each of the three seasons. In 1969 the plots were severely damaged by field mice, and in 1970 unfavourable seasonal conditions prevented large increases in grain yield from being obtained, although significant yield increases were obtained in 1971. Temik (9 kg a.i. ha-1) and Vydate (2 kg a.i. ha-1) provided excellent nematode control and gave the best grain yield increases (880 kg ha-1). Plants from plots treated with Temik at the higher rate (9 kg a.i. ha-1) were cyst-free in each experiment, and hlocap used at the same rate was severely phytotoxic. In a resowing experiment, all 1969 chemical treatments significantly reduced white cyst production and lowered nematode carry-over in 1971, although only four of the treatments provided significant increases in grain yield viz (Temik 9 at 2 kg a.i. ha-1 with added sulphate of ammonia, and Nemafos and Mocap both at 9 kg a i ha-1). Grain from plots treated with Temik and Lannate at the higher rate (9 kg a.i. ha-1) was analysed for the presence of chemical residues. No Lannate residues were detected, and Temik residues were less than 0.1 p.p.m
This paper describes an anionic polymerization of n-valeraldehyde (VA) in tetrahydrofuran (THF) initiated by benzophenone-monolithium complex in a high vacuum system. In spite of the deposition of the resulting polymer an equilibrium state between the monomer and the polymer was observed at a temperature range of −90 to −68°C. From the linear relationship between the equilibrium monomer concentration and the polymerization temperature, values of −5.3 ± 0.3 kcal/mole and −25.7 ± 1.4 cal/mole-deg, respectively, were evaluated for the enthalpy change and the entropy change in the present system. The effect of polar substituents on the polymerizability of aldehydes is discussed from the comparison of these values with those in the case of β-methoxypropionaldehyde.
The photolysis of propionaldehyde at λλ2537, ∼2900, and ∼3200A has been studied by the Paneth mirror method. The alkyl radicals produced are exclusively ethyl; no atomic hydrogen can be detected by the guard mirror method in amounts exceeding 2 percent of the total number of mirror‐active particles present. The yield of C2H5 radicals has been determined and compared with the yields of CO, H2, and C2H6. The results are most readily interpreted in terms of competing primary decomposition processes producing free radicals in one reaction and ultimate molecules in another. Whereas the former reaction increases in importance at shorter wave‐lengths, the latter becomes less significant. On the other hand, an explanation for the results can be given on the basis of a mechanism involving only the production of free radicals in the primary process at all wave‐lengths. The role played by excited propionaldehyde molecules (of life which may be >10−3 sec.) and by freshly formed (energy‐rich) C2H5 and HCO radicals on ...
Abstract Fermentative degradation of alcohols and aldehydes in the absence of sulfate was investigated using a propionate-oxidizing, sulfate-reducing bacterium, Desulfobulbus propionicus strain MUD (DSM 6523). The organism converted ethanol plus CO 2 to acetate and propionate. The conversion was not affected by the presence of hydrogen. Strain MUD converted propanol plus acetate to propionate. Acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were also converted with a dismutation reaction in the absence of sulfate. The products were propionate and acetate from acetaldehyde, and propionate from propionaldehyde plus acetate.
The main aim of this work is to substantiate the mechanism of 1-propanol oxidation by ozone in aqueous solution when the substrate is present in large excess. Further goals are assessment of the products, their formation yields as well as the kinetic parameters of the considered reaction. The reaction of ozone with 1-propanol in aqueous solution occurs via hydride transfer, H-abstraction and insertion. Of these three mechanisms, the largest share is for hydride transfer. This implies the extraction of an hydride ion from the activated C−H group by O3 according to reaction: (C2H5)(H)(HO)C−H + O3 → [(C2H5)(H)(HO)C+ + HO3−]cage → (C2H5)(H)(HO)C+ + HO3−. The experimentally determined products and their overall formation yields with respect to ozone are: propionaldehyde—(60 ± 3)%, propionic acid—(27.4 ± 1.0)%, acetaldehyde—(4.9 ± 0.3)%, acetic acid—(0.3 ± 0.1)%, formaldehyde—(1.0 ± 0.1)%, formic acid—(4.6 ± 0.3)%, hydrogen peroxide—(11.1 ± 0.3)% and hydroxyl radical—(9.8 ± 0.3)%. The reaction of ozone with 1-propanol in aqueous media follows a second order kinetics with a reaction rate constant of (0.64 ± 0.02) M−1·s−1 at pH = 7 and 23 °C. The dependence of the second order rate constant on temperature is described by the equation: l n k I I = ( 27.17 ± 0.38 ) – ( 8180 ± 120 ) × T − 1 , which gives the activation energy, Ea = (68 ± 1) kJ mol−1 and pre-exponential factor, A = (6.3 ± 2.4) × 1011 M−1 s−1. The nature of products, their yields and the kinetic data can be used in water treatment. The fact that the hydride transfer is the main pathway in the 1-propanol/ozone system can probably be transferred on other systems in which the substrate is characterized by C−H active sites only.
The synthesis of isobutanol and methanol from CO/H{sub 2} on K-Cu-Mg-CeO{sub x} catalysts is inhibited by CO{sub 2}, one of the reaction products. Alcohol coupling reactions show that CO{sub 2} decreases the rates of both alcohol dehydrogenation and base-catalyzed chain growth condensation reactions. Basic site density and reactivity were determined using a {sup 12}CO{sub 2}/{sup 13}CO{sub 2} isotopic transient technique. Addition of K to Cu-Mg-CeO{sub x} increases both basic site density and strength, but influences weakly the rate of base-catalyzed alcohol coupling reactions. Cu enhances the rates of alcohol dehydrogenation, and Ce increases Cu dispersion and stabilizes high surface area MgO. The cross-coupling reactions of acetaldehyde and {sup 13}C-labeled methanol produce singly-labeled propionaldehyde, suggesting that it forms by the condensation of acetaldehyde and a reactive intermediate derived from methanol. Isobutyraldehyde, a precursor to isobutanol, forms via the condensation of propionaldehyde and reactive C{sub 1} species resulting from methanol. Temperature-programmed surface reaction studies of preadsorbed ethanol have shown that CO decreases the rate of base-catalyzed self-condensation reactions of ethanol to acetone, possibly due to the poisoning of basic and metal sites by the CO{sub 2} formed from CO by water-gas shift or Boudouard reactions.
Abstract The photolysis of dilute mixtures of HONO in synthetic air containing NO, NO2 and C2H5CHO has been carried out at room temperature and atmospheric pressure. Hydroxyl radicals from the photolysis of HONO initiate a short-chain reaction in which NO is oxidized to NO2 in reactions of the type RO2 + NO → RO + NO2 (R  C2H5CO, C2H5, CH3 or H). When R is C2H5CO, reaction with NO2 to form peroxypropionyl nitrate (PPN) competes with NO oxidation: From measurements of the rates of formation of NO, NO2 and PPN in a flow system with short contact times, kinetic information has been derived for the reactions which occur following the attack of HO on propionaldehyde: A kinetic analysis of the results yielded the ratio k7/k8 = 1.9 and k5 ⩽ 2.6 × 10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1 based on the value kHO + HONO = 6.6 × 10−12 cm3 molecule−1 s−1.
Composite films consisting of Co-porphyrin centres and a zeolitic ruthenium oxide/cyanoruthenate matrix were grown by oxidative electrodeposition, coupled with electrostatic attraction, from the colloidal suspension formed upon dispersion of a DMSO solution of Co(II) tetra(p-tolyl)porphyrin in an aqueous solution of RuCl3, K4Ru(CN)6 and KCl electrolyte at pH 2. Infrared spectroscopy showed the presence of a CN group, H2O and characteristic metalloporphyrin peaks in the deposit, but it also suggested that the system was not a simple mixture of the components. Further information about the chemical composition was obtained from the absorption spectra of the coatings prepared at SnO2-covered glass slide electrodes. Cyclic voltammetric studies of the composite film on glassy carbon are consistent with the observation that the formation of Ru(IV)-oxo species in the system induces oxidation of the co-existing Co-porphyrin species. The Co-porphyrin cation radicals seem to be both stabilized and activated by the ruthenium oxide/cyanoruthenate portions of the film. The composite system exhibits a notable electrocatalytic oxidation of otherwise highly electrochemically irreversible/inert propionaldehyde. The catalytic effect is related to the primary action of the Co-porphyrin radical, leading to H-abstraction from the aldehyde group, and the secondary action of Ru-oxo species, providing O-transfer pathways. Some analogies to the action of the high-valent iron porphyrin portions in cytochrome P450 are proposed here. The composite system also exhibited some reactivity towards the electro-oxidations of glucose and chloride.
Summary Reactions of C4H90 radicals have been investigated in mixtures of OzlNz under atmospheric pressure in the temperature range 313-503 K, for s-C4H90, and 343-503 K, for n-C4H90 radicals. Flow and static experiments were performed in various vessels (quartz or Pyrex, different diameters, walls passivated or not towards reactions of radicals), and products were analysed by HPLC and GCIMS. The main products formed by reactions of s-butoxy radicals CH3CH(0)CHzCH3 are: hydrogen peroxide and ethyl-hydroperoxide as peroxides, acetaldehyde, methylethylketone and traces of propionaldehyde as carbonyl compounds. The reaction of the s-butoxy radical with oxygen, (2) s-C4H90 + O2 ~ H02 + CH3COCzH 5, yielding H02 radicals and methylethylketone, is by far the main channel from room temperature to about 393 K, whereas the decomposition reaction (3) s-C4H90 ~ CZH5 + CH3CHO plays the main role when the temperature is raised above 393 K. The rate constant ratio kikz[Oz] was obtained from the experimental values of [CH3CHO]/[CH3COCzH 5], and the decomposition
The toxicities of the first five normal aliphatic aldehydes and two isomers, iso-butyraldehyde and iso-valeraldehyde, have been compared by measuring the rate of exosmosis of electrolytes from potato tuber into solutions of these aldehydes of various concentrations. From these results the toxicities have been determined and it has been shown that considerable and important differences exist between the alcohol and the aldehyde series. ::: ::: 1. ::: ::: A very much smaller molecular concentration, 0.005 M of formaldehyde is lethal within 24 hours, whereas a molecular solution of methyl alcohol causes only a slight increase in exosmosis over that of distilled water. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Acetaldehyde is less toxic than formaldehyde. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Propionaldehyde and normal butyraldehyde show only a slight increase in toxicity over that of formaldehyde. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: There is a sudden increase in toxicity in the case of normal valeraldehyde. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 5. ::: ::: Iso-butyraldehyde and iso-valeraldehyde are more toxic than the corresponding normal aldehydes. This behaviour is in striking contrast with that exhibited by the alcohols.
It was established that complex compounds of copper(I) are capable of highly selective catalysis of the oxidation of alcohols to aldehydes by molecular oxygen in anhydrous alkaline media. It was found that n-propanol and benzyl alcohol are oxidized to propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde, respectively, in the presence of phenanthroline complexes of univalent copper and alkali at exceptionally high rates. It was shown that the formation of aldehydes occurs in the interaction of alcoholate ions, coordinated in the sphere of the Cu(I) complexes, with molecular oxygen.
Ethylene hydroformylation, CO hydrogenation and CO adsorption on RU/SiO2 and sulfided RU/SiO2 were studied by in situ infrared spectroscopy. Ethylene hydroformylation was shown to occur on the surface of Ru/SiO2 and sulfided Ru/SiO2 catalysts. Increasing reaction pressure slightly increased the infrared absorbance of linear CO and greatly enhanced selectivities and activities for the formation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in CO hydrogenation and ethylene hydroformylation, respectively. No relation between the IR spectra of adsorbed CO and the hydroformylation activity was observed. Sulfidation of Ru/SiO2 led to a decrease in the wavenumber and absorbance of linearly adsorbed CO and to the inhibition of CO hydrogenation, ethylene hydrogenation and ethylene hydroformylation. Transient and temperature-programmed reaction studies revealed that sulfur poisoning of the Ru/SiO2 catalyst for ethylene hydroformylation was due primarily to the inhibition of desorption of propionaldehyde from the sulfided Ru/SiO2. The presence of residual chlorine on the Ru/SiO2 resulted in an appreciable decrease in the hydrocarbon synthesis activity but only a slight modification of the IR band for the adsorbed CO.
Abstract Lipid peroxidation (LPO) is the oxidative deterioration of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) with the production of lipid hydroperoxides, cyclic peroxides, cyclic endoperoxides, and finally fragmentation to ketones and aldehydes (including malonaldehyde, MDA). Estimation of LPO through MDA formation measured by assaying thiobarbituric acid (TBA) reactive products remains the method of choice to study the development of oxidative stress in tissues. However, MDA estimation by TBA reactive products is non-specific and often gives erroneous results. In this report we describe a method using high-performance liquid chromatographic separation to estimate MDA, formaldehyde (FDA), acetaldehyde (ADA), acetone, and propionaldehyde (PDA), the degradation products of oxygen-derived free radicals (ODFR) and PUFA, as presumptive markers for LPO. Oxidative stress was induced in the tissue by perfusing an isolated rat heart with hydroxyl radical generating system (xanthine + xanthine oxidase + FeCl3 + EDTA). The coronary effluents were collected, derivatized with 2,4-dinitrophenyl-hydrazine (DNPH), and extracted with pentane. Aliquots of 25 μl in acetonitrile were injected onto a Beckman Ultrasphere C18 (3 μm) column. The products were eluted isocratically with a mobile phase containing acetonitrile-water-acetic acid (40:60:0.1, v/v/v), measured at three different wavelengths (307, 325 and 356 nm) using a Waters M-490 multichannel UV detector and collected for gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis. The peaks were identified by cochromatography with DNPH derivatives of authentic standards, peak addition, UV pattern of absorption at the three wavelengths, and by GC-MS. The retention items of MDA, FDA, ADA, acetone, and PDA were 5.3, 6.6, 10.3, 16.5, and 20.5 min, respectively. The results of our study indicated progressive increase of all five lipid metabolites as a function of the duration of ODFR perfusion. Hydroxyl radical scavengers, superoxide dismutase plus catalase, completely inhibited the formation of these lipid metabolites, demonstrating that the release of lipid metabolites from the isolated heart was indeed in response to oxidative stress. Since MDA, FDA, ADA, acetone, and PDA are the products of ODFR-PUFA interactions, this method allows proper estimation of LPO which monitors the oxidative stress developed during the reperfusion of ischemic myocardium.
We have investigated the photodecomposition of propionaldehyde (C2H5CHO; propanal) at 5 nm intervals in the 280-330 nm region by using dye laser photolysis combined with cavity ring-down spectroscopy. Absorption cross sections were determined for propionaldehyde. The HCO radical was a fragment from photodissociation. The HCO radical yields, obtained by monitoring its transient absorption at 613.8 nm, decreased with increasing C2H5CHO pressure in the 1-10 Torr range due to the increasing HCO + HCO, HCO + C2H5, and HCO + C2H5CHO reactions at higher propionaldehyde pressures and quenching by ground state propionaldehyde. After separating the contribution of HCO radical reactions, the propionaldehyde pressure quenching effect was only observed at photolysis wavelengths longer than 315 nm. Values of zero-pressure HCO yields (all λ) and ratios of quenching to unimolecular decay rate constant of excited propionaldehyde (λ g 315 nm) were given. The HCO yields (aeHCO°) were 0.98 ( 0.06, 0.92 ( 0.06, 0.95 ( 0.08, 0.98 ( 0.11, 0.91 ( 0.05, and 1.08 ( 0.07 at 295, 300, 305, 310, 315, and 320 nm, indicating that C2H5CHO + hν f C2H5 + HCO is the dominant photolysis pathway. The HCO yields decreased at both the shorter-wavelength (280 nm) and the longer-wavelength (330 nm) ends. The wavelength dependence of the HCO yields from propionaldehyde photolysis was compared to that from t-pentanal ((CH3)3CCHO) photolysis. The HCO yields from t-pentanal photolysis decayed much more rapidly at the shorter-wavelength end, which might reveal the difference in the excited states singlet-triplet surface crossing of t-pentanal versus propionaldehyde. The dependence of the HCO yields on nitrogen buffer gas pressure was examined between 10 and 400 Torr. No dependence was observed. Cross section results were combined with HCO radical yields to estimate atmospheric photodissociation rate constants of propionaldehyde to form HCO as a function of zenith angle for cloudless conditions and at 760 Torr nitrogen pressure. Radical formation rate constants were 1.6 × 10-5 4.6 × 10-5 s-1 for zenith angles of 0-60°.
The experimentally determined products and their overall formation yields with respect to ozone are: propionaldehyde-(60 ± 3)%, propionic acid-(27.4 ± 1.0)%, acetaldehyde-(4.9 ± 0.3)%, acetic acid-(0.3 ± 0.1)%, formaldehyde-(1.0 ± 0.1)%, formic acid-(4.6 ± 0.3)%, hydrogen peroxide-(11.1 ± 0.3)% and hydroxyl radical-(9.8 ± 0.3)%. The reaction of ozone with 1-propanol in aqueous media follows a second order kinetics with a reaction rate constant of (0.64 ± 0.02) M −1 ·s −1 at pH = 7 and 23 • C. The dependence of the second order rate constant on temperature is described by the equation: ln k II = (27.17 ± 0.38)-(8180 ± 120) × T −1 , which gives the activation energy, Ea = (68 ± 1) kJ mol −1 and pre-exponential factor, A = (6.3 ± 2.4) × 10 11 M −1 s −1 . The nature of products, their yields and the kinetic data can be used in water treatment. The fact that the hydride transfer is the main pathway in the 1-propanol/ozone system can probably be transferred on other systems in which the substrate is characterized by C−H active sites only.
As part of this category, propionaldehyde was formed by oxidation, while acetaldehyde and formaldehyde resulted from oxidative cleavage of 1-propanol.
Acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were determined by means of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and formaldehyde by spectrophotometric method. Details can be found in the Materials and Methods section.
The formation yield of propionaldehyde was (60 ± 3)% and it was obtained from the plot of the formed propionaldehyde versus the added ozone concentrations, as shown in Figure 2 . Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019, 20, x 4 of 19 As part of this category, propionaldehyde was formed by oxidation, while acetaldehyde and formaldehyde resulted from oxidative cleavage of 1-propanol.
Acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were determined by means of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and formaldehyde by spectrophotometric method. Details can be found in the Materials and Methods section.
The formation yield of propionaldehyde was (60 ± 3)% and it was obtained from the plot of the formed propionaldehyde versus the added ozone concentrations, as shown in Figure 2 .
The formation yields for formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were one order of magnitude lower than the one for propionaldehyde. Thus, the formation yield of formaldehyde was (1.0 ± 0.1)% and that one for acetaldehyde was (4.9 ± 0.3)%. These results were based on data from Figure 1 (for formaldehyde; triangles in the main graph) and the inset of Figure 2 (for acetaldehyde).
Glycerol/diol dehydratases catalyze the conversion of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), the basis of a multi-component system called reuterin. Reuterin has antimicrobial properties and undergoes chemical conjugation with dietary heterocyclic amines (HCAs). In aqueous solution reuterin is in dynamic equilibrium with the toxicant acrolein. It was the aim of this study to investigate the extent of acrolein formation at various physiological conditions and to determine its role in biological and chemical activities. The application of a combined novel analytical approach including IC-PAD, LC-MS and NMR together with specific acrolein scavengers suggested for the first time that acrolein, and not 3-HPA, is the active compound responsible for HCA conjugation and antimicrobial activity attributed to reuterin. As formation of the HCA conjugate was observed in vivo, our results imply that acrolein is formed in the human gut with implications on detoxification of HCAs. We propose to redefine the term reuterin to include acrolein.
There are some routes in different microorganisms for the bioproduction of 1,3-PD from renewable resources [1, 2, 13, 14, 17] . Among these strains, Klebsiella is the most efficient cell factory. In Klebsiella, glycerol can be assimilated by the oxidative and reductive pathways. In the oxidative pathway, glycerol is oxidized to dihydroxyacetone and pyruvate successively and NADH is generated. In the reductive route, glycerol is dehydrated by a coenzyme B12-dependent glycerol dehydratase (DhaB) to 3hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). 3-HPA can be further reduced to 1,3-PD by 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (DhaT) with the consumption of NADH, which is generated by the glycerol oxidative pathway, to maintain intracellular redox balance. Previous attempts to increase the production of 1,3-PD in K. pneumoniae by overexpression of DhaB and DhaT demonstrated that the catalytic activities of these two enzymes were not the limiting factors in the synthesis of 1,3-PD [20] . Apart from the enzymes involved in the 1,3-PD biosynthesis pathway, some reports showed that the intracellular redox balance might be critical for the synthesis of 1,3-PD from glycerol [18, 19] .
1. Five oxazolidines were synthesized by reaction of (-) ephedrine with formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and acetone, respectively. 2. Half-lives of hydrolysis were measured in pH 7.4 aqueous buffer. Half-lives varied from 12 seconds to 11 minutes. 3. The compounds were evaluated for their ability to increase locomotor activity in rats. All compounds significantly increased locomotor activity at 50 mg/kg dose. 4. The formaldehyde derivative had similar activity to (-) ephedrine. All other compounds were less active than (-) ephedrine.
Abstract The transient responses of deuterated ethylene, ethane, and propionaldehyde to a deuterium pulse during ethylene hydroformylation have been studied on 4 wt% Rh/SiO2 at 0.1 MPa and 483 to 573 K. This study shows the complexity of the deuterated product formation from the deuterium pulse. The deuterated ethylene/ethane responses overlapped at all temperatures, indicating that rapid H/D exchange and alkyl hydrogenation take place on the catalyst surface consistent with the Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. The d1- and d2-propionaldehyde responses exhibited a two-hump response to the D2 pulse, indicating two distinguishable deuteration pathways contributing to their formation. Activation energy for the production of deuterated propionaldehyde was found to be directly proportional to the number of deuterium atoms in the final product. This isotope effect supports a previous study which suggests acyl hydrogenation to be the rate-limiting step.
Abstract A sampling campaign was carried out at nine Chinese cities in 2010/2011. Fifteen monocarbonyls (C# = 1–9) were quantified. Temperature is the rate-determining factor of the summertime carbonyl levels. The carbonyl emissions in winter are mainly driven by the primary anthropogenic sources like automobile. A molar ratio of propionaldehyde to nonaldehyde is a barometer of the impact of atmospheric vegetation emission which suggesting that strong vegetation emissions exist in summer and high propionaldehyde abundance is caused by fossil fuel combustion in winter. Potential health risk assessment of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde was conducted and the highest cumulative risks were observed at Chengdu in summer and Wuhan in winter. Because of the strong photochemical reaction and large amount of anthropogenic emissions, high concentrations of carbonyl compounds were observed in Chengdu. The use of ethanol-blended gasoline in Wuhan is the key reason of acetaldehyde emission and action should be taken to avoid potential health risks.
In the Klebsiella pneumoniae reduction pathway for 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) synthesis, glycerol is first dehydrated to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) and then reduced to 1,3-PD with NADH consumption. Rapid conversion of 3-HPA to 1,3-PD is one of the ways to improve the yield of 1,3-PD from glycerol and to avoid 3-HPA accumulation, which depends on enzyme activity of the reaction and the amount of reducing equivalents available from the oxidative pathway of glycerol. In the present study, the yqhD gene, encoding 3-propanediol oxidoreductase isoenzyme from Escherichia coli and the dhaT gene, encoding 3-propanediol oxidoreductase from K. pneumoniae were expressed individually and co-expressed in K. pneumoniae using the double tac promoter expression plasmid pEtac-dhaT-tac-yqhD. The three resultant recombinant strains (K. pneumoniae/pEtac-yqhD, K. pneumoniae/pEtac-dhaT, and K. pneumoniae/pEtac-dhaT-tac-yqhD) were used for fermentation studies. Experimental results showed that the peak values for 3-HPA production in broth of the three recombinant strains were less than 25% of that of the parent strain. Expression of dhaT reduced formation of by-products (ethanol and lactic acid) and increased molar yield of 1,3-PD slightly, while expression of yqhD did not enhance molar yield of 1,3-PD, but increased ethanol concentration in broth as NADPH participation in transforming 3-HPA to 1,3-PD allowed more cellular NADH to be used to produce ethanol. Co-expression of both genes therefore decreased by-products and increased the molar yield of 1,3-PD by 11.8%, by catalyzing 3-HPA conversion to 1,3-propanediol using two cofactors (NADH and NADPH). These results have important implications for further studies involving use of YqhD and DhaT for bioconversion of glycerol into 1,3-PD.
Abstract The reactions of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acrolein on the (0001)-Zn polar surface of zinc oxide were investigated using temperature-programmed desorption and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Oxidation of these aldehydes on the (0001)-Zn surface proceeded via two competing pathways: nucleophilic addition of lattice oxygen at the carbonyl carbon followed by hydride elimination to form the corresponding surface carboxylate species, and nucleophilic attack of lattice oxygen at the carbonyl carbon followed by alkyl elimination to form surface formate species. There was a strong temperature dependence of the selectivity toward these two competing pathways; low temperatures favored alkyl elimination, while high temperatures favored hydride elimination. The decomposition of the higher carboxylates resulted in the formation of both unsaturated carbonyl compounds and carbon oxides. The possible implications of these results for allylic oxidation reactions on metal oxide catalysts are discussed.
It is shown that protonated acetone undergoes a rate-determining isomerisation onto the same potential surface as protonated propionaldehyde prior to unimolecular decomposition.
Our laboratory has investigated the azoreduction of dimethylaminoazobenzene (DAB) and its analogs by hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450. We have extended these studies to the cytosolic fraction of the mammalian liver using the molybdoflavoenzyme, aldehyde oxidase. Purified rabbit liver aldehyde oxidase readily reduced azo dyes which are mainly water soluble and contain charged groups. Lipophilic azo dyes, although readily reduced by microsomal cytochrome P450, were either poor substrates or not reduced at all. Kinetic measurements revealed no relationship between Vmax and Km for all dyes. More extensive studies were conducted on four azo dyes, o-methyl, red, 2'-pyridyl-DAB, sulfonazo III and Orange II, with characteristic functional groups. With each of these substrates, azoreductase activity was greatest when 2-hydropyrimidine (2-OHP) was the electron donor compared to N1-methylnicotinamide (N-MN), propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde. With 2-OHP as the electron donor, o-methyl red and 2'-pyridyl DAB exhibited maximal activity at pH 5.0 while sulfonazo III and Orange II showed maximal activity at pH 9.5 and 7.0, respectively. Km values for o-methyl red and 2'-pyridyl DAB were lower at their pH optima whereas that for sulfonazo III was higher at its pH optimum. There was also no correlation between maximal activity and Km; apparently Km is not a primary determinant for activity. The degree of ionization of function groups depends on pH. Since highest activity is seen at that pH in which maximal ionization of the substrate occurs, it can be concluded that rate of reduction is at least partially dependent on the charged state of the substrate. Azoreduction was inhibited by menadione and SKF 525-A. Sensitivity to inhibition by menadione was greatest at the pH where 2-OHP exhibited considerably higher activity than N-MN, but no differential was seen at the pH where activities with the two-electron donors were similar. On the other hand, sensitivity of azoreductase activity to inhibition by SKF 525-A was the same irrespective of electron donor, indicating that the mechanisms for these two inhibitors were different.
Using smog chamber,Secondary organic aerosol (SOA) formation from the reaction of isoprene with OH radical was studied.Gaseous products were determined by proton-transfer-reaction mass spectrometer (PTR-MS) while SOA concentration and size distribution were determined by EEPS3090.The dominating gaseous products were methacrolein (MAC)/methyl vinyl ketone (MVK),acetaldehyde,formaldehyde,methanol,formic acid/ethanol,glycollic aldehyde,methylglyoxal,acetone/propionaldehyde and so on.The highest production of MAC/MVK and acetaldehyde were 13.78% 37.72% and 5.38% 9.34% (based on C).SOA production and its mean size increased with increasing reacted isoprene.When the gas phase products were stable,the SOA yields were in the range of 5.6% 11.7% and the particle sizes were from 22 nm to 165 nm.
Background ::: The widespread antibiotic resistance is an imminent problem in today’s world. As the number of antibiotic resistance cases increase, it is inevitable to discover alternate treatment options. Probiotics could be one of the potentially important avenues which could be exploited to treat antibiotic resistance and other infections. The holistic approach of probiotics in exerting their beneficial characteristics not only makes it an attractive member in this regard, but also in providing essential nutrients to the host. ::: ::: Results ::: Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 is one of the most commonly used probiotics and so, the production of antimicrobial reuterin (3-hydroxypropionaldehyde) by the conversion of glycerol and its antagonistic effects on E.coli C600 were studied by co-culturing the microorganisms. Different growth media and analytical techniques such as HPLC, flow-cytometry were used to determine the qualitative and quantitative results of the reuterin production and its activity on the co-cultures. The experiments revealed that glycerol alone does not exhibit an inhibitory property on E.coli, but a concentration of 5g/L induced the production of lethal amounts of reuterin in L.reuteri grown together with E.coli in SD4 medium with galactose. It was also found that glycerol concentrations beyond 10 g/L will lead to lethal doses of reuterin for L.reuteri too. ::: ::: Conclusion ::: Thus, the work showed an optimal amount of glycerol concentration imparting antagonistic effect through the antimicrobial reuterin in co-cultures. ::: ::: Results ::: Secondly, to study the exocellular electron transfer between two microorganisms, an attempt to design a modified reactor setup to explore the co-culturing possibilities was accomplished. The co-culturing possibilities of L.reuteri and Prevotella copri in Schaedler anaerobe broth yielded results that need to be studied in detail further. ::: ::: Conclusion ::: More investigations are required to design a medium where both microorganisms can be adequately grown on.
Abstract Age-related changes in the urinary excretion of aldehydes arising from lipid peroxidation have been investigated in male Sprague–Dawley rats aged 2, 4, 6, 12, 18, 24 and 27 months, fed ad libitum or subjected to two different regimens of calorie restriction (namely every-other-day ad libitum feeding — EOD — and 40% calorie restriction — 40%DR). For only some age groups, results were compared with those obtained in ad libitum fed male Fisher 344 and Lewis rats. Results show that the urinary excretion of malondialdehyde (MDA) and formaldehyde (FA) significantly decreases, whereas that of propionaldehyde (PROP) progressively increases with age, and that urinary excretion of acetaldehyde (ACT) does not show any significant age-related variations. Dietary restriction significantly increases the urinary levels of MDA, FA and PROP without affecting their age-related modifications, and does not affect ACT urinary excretion. In conclusion, results indicate that the quantitative pattern of aldehyde production and urinary excretion may be altered by the process of aging.
A rate equation is developed for the liquid-phase oxidation of propionaldehyde with oxygen in the presence of manganese propionate catalyst in a sparged reactor. The equation takes into account diffusional limitations based on Brian's solution for mass transfer accompanied by a pseudo m-. nth-order reaction. Sauter-mean bubble diameter, gas holdup, interfacial area, and bubble rise velocity are measured, and rates of mass transfer within the gas phase and across the gas-liquid interface are computed. Statistically designed experiments show the adequacy of the equation. The oxidation reaction is zero order with respect to oxygen concentration, 3/2 order with respect to aldehyde concentration, and order with respect to catalyst concentration. The activation energy is 12.1 kcal/g mole.
In assays of Areca-specific N-nitrosamines, 3-(methylnitrosamino) propionaldehyde (MNPA) exhibits higher cytotoxicity than nitrosoguvacine (NGC), nitrosoguvacoline (NG) and 3-(methylnitrosamino) propionitrile (MNPN). NGC is not mutagenic. However, NG is a weak carcinogen in F344 rats while MNPN is a potent carcinogen ; MNPA had thus far not been tested
The reaction of C(60) with propionaldehyde (butyraldehyde or phenylacetaldehyde) and MeONa-MeOH or EtONa-EtOH in anhydrous chlorobenzene in the presence of air at room temperature unexpectedly gave rare fullerene acetals 2aa-cb, while the reaction of C(60) with acetone (acetophenone, cyclohexanone, or cyclopentanone) and MeONa-MeOH or EtONa-EtOH under the same conditions afforded the uncommon fullerene ketals 4aa-db. A possible reaction mechanism for the formation of the fullerene acetals and ketals is proposed based on further experimental results.
Measurements of the rate constant for the reaction of OH radicals with propionaldehyde as a function of temperature were performed using low-pressure discharge-flow tube techniques coupled with laser-induced fluorescence detection of OH radicals. The measured room-temperature rate constant of (1.51 ± 0.22) × 10–11 cm3 molecules–1 s–1 at 4 Torr was generally lower but in reasonable agreement with previous absolute and relative rate studies at higher pressures. Measurements as a function of temperature resulted in an Arrhenius expression of (2.3 ± 0.4) × 10–11 exp[(−110 ± 50)/T] cm3 molecules–1 s–1 between 277 and 375 K at 4 Torr. The observed temperature dependence at low pressure is in contrast to previous measurements of a negative temperature dependence at higher pressures. Ab initio calculations of the potential energy surface for this reaction suggest that the primary reaction pathway involves the formation of a hydrogen-bonded prereactive complex, which could account for the difference in the observe...
The metabolism of N-nitrosodipropylamine (NDPA), N-nitrosodibutylamine (NDBA) and N-nitroso-n-butyl-n-propylamine (NBPA) was investigated in vitro using liver microsomes and purified isoforms of cytochrome P450 in a reconstituted system. Liver microsomes were prepared from rats pretreated with phenobarbital (PB), pyridine (PYR), β-naphthoflavone (BNF), butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), clofibrate (CLO) or from untreated rats. The purified cytochrome P450s used in the reconstituted system were rat 1A1 and 2B1 and rabbit 2E1. The rates of metabolism and the product profiles for NDPA, NDBA and NBPA changed significantly depending on the pretreatment of the rats or the identity of the purified cytochrome P450 isoforms. Induction by PB dramatically increased cleavage of NDPA, NDBA and NBPA at C-N bonds, leading to substantial increases in formation of the respective aldehydes and the overall metabolic rates. Microsomes from PYR-pretreated rats exhibited increased activities for formation of formaldehyde and propionaldehyde from NDPA and NBPA. Microsomes from BHT-pretreated rats showed a slight increase in activity for N-dealkylation of NDBA and NBPA. Treatment with BHA decreased the overall metabolism of NDBA, but slightly increased N-dealkylation of NBPA. Microsomal metabolism of NDPA, NDBA and NBPA was decreased by pretreatment with BNF and CLO. Results from studies using the reconstituted system with purified cytochrome P450 isoforms demonstrated that cytochrome P450 2B1 specifically catalyzed α-hydroxylation of these three long chain nitrosamines with high activity. Cytochrome P450 2E1 catalyzed formation of formaldehyde and propionaldehyde from NDPA and NBPA, but did not catalyze formation of acetaldehyde or butyraldehyde. Cytochrome P450 1A1 exhibited no activity for metabolism of NDPA, NDBA and NBPA. The contributions of cytochrome P450 2B1 and 2E1 to N-dealkylation reactions were determined using inhibitory monoclonal antibodies (mAb). With microsomes from PB-pretreated rats, inhibition by mAb-2B1 indicated a 62% contribution by cytochrome P450 2B1 to debutylation of NDBA and 65% to depropylation of NDPA. In microsomes from PYR-pretreated rats inhibition by mAbs also showed a role for cytochrome P450 2E1 in depropylation of NDPA. These studies provide a better understanding of the role of various forms of cytochrome P450 in metabolic activation of these long chain N-nitrosodialkylamines to potentially toxic, mutagenic and carcinogenic intermediates.
Abstract Reticular oxygen of Al2O3 or CeOx supported on Al2O3 was used for the epoxidation of propene without any double bond cleavage. In batch reaction, Al2O3 alone was able to convert propene into propene oxide (PO) with 100% selectivity and 2% conversion of propene with a close to 3:1 ratio with respect to the number of Al(III) reduced to elemental Al. When Ce2O3/Al2O3 or CeO2/Al2O3 was used, Al remained in its +3 oxidation state, while the Ce oxide was the oxidant as demonstrated by XPS analyses. CeOx/Al2O3 was more active (propene conversion yield of 4–5%) but the selectivity was lower (70%) as PO was isomerized into acetone and propionaldehyde. Interestingly the use of reticular oxygen very much improves the selectivity with respect to the use of pure O2. In fact, while propene was more efficiently oxidized (10%) with O2 in presence of Al2O3 or CeOx/Al2O3, the selectivity was as low as 40% because C1 and C2 products were formed. However, the use of reticular oxygen represents a selective two-step technique for the use of molecular oxygen as oxidant of propene. The used oxides can be re-oxidized and the whole process can be further improved towards higher yields. PO is quantitatively converted into propene carbonate by reaction with CO2 in presence of Nb2O5.
Rats were exposed to 300 ppm m-xylene vapour for 1 or 2 weeks, 6 h daily, 5 days a week. One group was simultaneously given disulfiram in the drinking water (53 μmol kg−1, daily). The disulfiram treatment inhibited propionaldehyde dehydrogenase; such inhibition did not occur when m-methylbenzaldehyde (i.e., the aldehyde of m-xylene metabolism) was used as the substrate. Gastric gavage with higher drug doses (0.5 g kg−1, administered one or three times) confirmed this finding. Intermittent inhalation exposure to m-xylene for 2 weeks lowered the non-protein sulphhydryl group content in liver and increased the activities of microsomal NADPH-cytochrome c reductase, 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase in liver. Concomitantly, the oxidation of m-xylene in vitro was also enhanced. Combined exposure to the solvent and the drug somewhat inhibited the increases in the hepatic drug metabolism and in the rate of microsomal xylene oxidation in vitro which m-xylene had induced, whereas the renal drug metabolism remained almost unaffected. Despite the changes in the monooxygenase, the solvent burden in the perirenal fat remained comparable. The significance of impaired aldehyde metabolism in m-xylene toxicity could not be confirmed in male Wistar rats at the above exposure levels.
The metastable ion spectra of ethylene oxide, acetaldehyde, acetaldehyde-d4, propylene oxide, propionaldehyde and trimethylene oxide are presented. They reveal no reason to suppose that electron-impact-induced isomerisation of oxide to aldehyde structure occurs, although many spectral features are common to various members of this set. The spectra of phenylacetaldehyde and styrene oxide are compared, and the more plausible possibility of partial isomerisation in this case is discussed.
The results of studies of the kinetics and mechanism of the gas-phase oxidation of aliphatic aldehydes are examined in relation to CH2O, CH3CHO, and C2H5CHO, which are intermediates in the oxidation of hydrocarbons and the general rules governing the course of these degenerate-branched chain processes are established. Attention has been concentrated on the role of heterogeneous factors. It is shown that heterogeneous chain branching as a consequence of the radical decomposition of CH3CO3H or C2H5CO3H takes place in the low-temperature oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde; the experimental data on the heterogeneous radical decomposition of organic peroxy-compounds are considered. The bibliography includes 163 references.
The present invention, glycerol or glycerine of performing at least one heteropoly acid and, zirconium dioxide, titanium dioxide, tungsten trioxide, or in the presence of a catalyst consisting of at least one silica modified by any combination of these oxides, glycerol or glycerin dehydration reaction of from relates to a process for producing acrolein. The method may be used for the manufacture of 3- (methylthio) propionaldehyde (MMP), 2- hydroxy-4-methylthio butyric acrylonitrile (HMBTN), methionine or its analogues from the acrolein.
The invention discloses a preparation method of BTPA ((Z)-2-(2-tert-butoxycarbonyl amino-thiazol-4-yl)-2-pentenoic acid). The method comprises the steps that by taking D301 type weak-base ion-exchange resin in Formula (II) as shown in the specification and metal oxide as a composite catalyst, and dichloromethane as a solvent, bromo acetylacetic ester, propionaldehyde, thiourea and di-tert-butyl dicarbonate ester undergo a one pot reaction at 0-30 DEG C for 1-10h; 2-(2-tert-butoxycarbonyl amino-thiazol-4-yl)-2-pentenoic acid ethyl ester in Formula (III) as shown in the specification is generated; the composite catalyst and the solvent are then removed; and hydrolysis is performed; and BTPA in Formula (I) as shown in the specification is obtained. Metal oxide is one of, a mixture of random two of, or a mixture of the three of magnesium oxide, aluminium oxide or calcium oxide; R1 and R2 in Formula (II) are independent methyl or hydrogen atom respectively; and n is a polymerization degree.
As far as we know, only three examples of atropisom erism in polymers have been reported in the literature. There is indirect evidence that polychloral prepared from chloral with a chiral initiator forms a stable helix with preference of one helical screw sense over the other.4 It has been shown that triphenylmethyl methacrylate, when polymerized by chiral anionic catalysts, yields an isotactic, optically active polymer. 5 The optical activity is attributed to the presence of a rigid helix, which is stable because of the bulky triphenylmethyl ester functions. The third ex ample of atropisomerism is found in polymers of iso cyanides.6,39 These polymers, also called poly(iminomethylenes) or, more properly, poly(carbonimidoyls), are obtained by polymerization of isocyanides with several catalysts, among them nickel(II) catalysts. Ni(II) n R -N = C -----(R -N = C < )n The polymers have a rigid helical structure with four monomeric units per helical turn.6,7 Poly(£er£-butyliminomethylene) has been resolved into right-handed (P) and left-handed (M) helices by column chromatography. 8 These helices show negative and positive signs of optical rotation at X = 578 nm, respectively.9 The resolution of poly(ieri-butyliminomethylene) indicates that polymeri zation of isocyanides is stereoselective with respect to screw sense. Thus, when the monomer is nonchiral a racemic mixture of P and M screws is formed. However, when the monomer is one enantiomer of a chiral isocyanide, its polymer will be a mixture of diastereoisomers, and P and M screws will not be obtained in equal amounts. In a previous paper10 we compared the CD spectra of polymers of optically active alkyl isocyanides with those of model compounds. This comparison, although restricted to three examples, supported the hypothesis that optically active isocyanides yield polymers with an excess of one helical chain over the other. In the present paper11 we describe the synthesis and CD spectra of an additional number of nine optically active poly(iminomethylenes), compounds 3a-i (Scheme I), which have different side chains R. The spectra of representative model compounds. A major goal of our investigations is the development of chiral supports, such as deoxygenated 3i, which can bind metal complexes. These polymeric systems are of interest as chiral catalysts, e.g., in hydrogenation reactions .12 Results and Discussion Synthesis. Polymers 3a-i were prepared according to the general procedure of Scheme I. Optically active Nformylamines served as starting materials. L(S)-N-Formylalanine ethyl ester (la) was obtained from L-alanine by esterification with HC1 and subsequent reaction with sodium formate, formic acid, and acetic anhydride. (S)-AT-Formyl-0-acetyl-2-aminopropanol (lb), (S ) -Nformyl-0-acetyl-2-amino-3-methyl-l-butanol (lc), and CR)-N-formyl-0-acetyl-2-amino-2-phenylethanol (Id) were prepared from L-alanine, L-valine, and D-phenylglycine, respectively, as outlined in Scheme II. The carboxylic function of the latter compounds was esterified and sub sequently reduced to the hydroxymethyl group with Li-A1H4. In order to facilitate the isolation of alcohols 5j and 5k from the reaction mixtures, we attached a benzoyl group to the amino group of 4j and 4k.10 This benzoyl group is converted into a benzyl group during the reduction process. The latter group was removed by hydrogenolysis with palladium on carbon. The unprotected alcohols 5j and 5k were treated with formic acid-acetic anhydride to give N,0-diformylated products. The latter compounds were selectively deformylated at oxygen by reaction with sodium hydrogen carbonate in 10% aqueous methanol to give 6j and 6k. Formamide 61 was obtained from 51 with excess of ethyl formate. Compounds 6 were O-acetylated using acetic anhydride and pyridine. (S)-TV-Formyl-lamino-l-phenylethane (le) and (S)-Af-formyl-2-amino-lphenylpropane (If) were prepared from (S)-l-amino-lphenylethane and (S)-2-amino-l-phenylpropane (Samphetamine), respectively, using ethyl formate. Formamides lg and lh were synthesized from (S)-3amino-l-pentyne and (S)-3-amino-l-pentene, respectively. The latter amines were obtained according to Scheme III. Reaction of sodium acetylide in liquid ammonia with propionaldehyde provided alcohol 7. Compound 7 was converted with p-toluenesulfonyl chloride into the corre sponding tosylate 8. When 8 was treated with excess liquid ammonia in an autoclave at room temperature for 24 h, amine 9 was formed in 85% yield. No reaction was ob served at the boiling temperature of ammonia (-33 °C). In the literature, the reaction of a tosylate similar to 8 with sodium amide in liquid ammonia has been described. 13 This procedure gives amine in a much lower yield (40%). The racemic amine 9 was resolved through crystallization of its bitartrate from water. After two crystallizations L H N M R shift experiments showed that 9 was optically pure with [a]20D +14.2°. After we had completed this experi ment, Scandinavian workers14 published the resolution of 9 by a similar procedure. Their optically pure amine had [a]22D +14.4°, and its absolute configuration was estab lished to be S. A sample of optically pure (S)-9 was con verted into amine (S)-10 by catalytic hydrogenation using a deactivated Lindlar catalyst.15 Scheme I I I 10 (S)-Ar-Formyl-l-amino-2-(diphenylphosphinyl)propane (li) was prepared according to Scheme IV. L-Alanine (4j) was converted into its methyl ester and, subsequently, protected at its amine function with two benzyl (Bn) groups. For the introduction of the latter groups we used the combination benzyl bromide and solid sodium carbo nate in acetonitrile as solvent. We found this procedure more convenient than the literature procedure,16 which makes use of benzyl chloride and KOH in ethanol-water as solvent. The double-protected L-alanine ester was re duced with LiAlH4 to give alcohol 11. Compound 11 was treated with p-toluenesulfonyl chloride in pyridine with the purpose of preparing the O-tosyl derivative 15. How ever, the expected reaction product was not formed. In stead the chloride 12 and pyridine salt 1617 were obtained in approximately 45% and 30% yield, respectively. Sub stitution of N-methylimidazole for pyridine gave chloride 12 in an even higher than 95% yield. The latter compound could also be obtained by using thionyl chloride as reagent, albeit in lower yields (<70%) and longer reaction time. The rearrangement, which takes place during the synthesis of 12 from 11 by the procedures mentioned above, is not unexpected and has some precedents in literature. 18 It probably proceeds via the following three-membered-ring intermediate:
Highly syn-selective cross-aldol reaction of aldehydes has remained a challenging subject in the field of aminocatalysis. To achieve this end, chiral primary amines have been explored and the primary-tertiary diamine-Brønsted acid salts are found to promote the cross-aldol reactions of aldehydes with high activity and syn selectivity. Among various vicinal diamines screened, l-phenylalanine derived 2a/TfOH conjugate is identified as the optimal catalyst, showing good catalytic activity (up to 97% yield) and high syn selectivities (syn/anti up to 24:1, 87% ee). The current catalysis works selectively with small aliphatic aldehydes donors such as propionaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde, but not with aliphatic aldehydes bearing larger beta-substitute (>Me). In addition, the use of 2a/TfOH conjugate has also enabled the first syn-selective cross-aldol reactions of glycoaldehyde donors.
In-furrow treatments with Union Carbide UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde 0-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime, applied as Temik®, a 10% granular formulation, at 1 lb/acre at planting effectively controlled the boll weevil, Anthonomus grandis Boheman, until the plants began to square; as a sidedressing, it was as effective against the boll weevil as sprays of carbaryl and azinphosmethyl. Also, sidedressing with UC-21149 controlled light infestations of the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch, and the cotton aphid, Aphis gossypii Glover. It was ineffective against the bollworm, Heliothis zea (Boddie), and the tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens (F.). The toxicant did not adversely affect fruiting, germination, percentage of lint, seed index, or fiber quality.
Acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde have been polymerized at room temperature and pressures of about 10 kb. The infrared spectra of the polymers have been investigated and it is shown that the polymers have the formula HO(CHR•O)nH. The spectra are too complicated to be understood if there is only one monomer unit in the repeating unit of the chain; there are at least two units.
Canola (Brassica napus L.) can be profitably grown as a winter crop in a double-crop system in the southeastern USA. However, stand reductions of double-cropped cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) following canola have been observed. Field experiments were conducted over 2 yr to examine the effects of previous crop, tillage, planting date, and pesticide use on stand establishment of double-cropped cotton. In all 1999 experiments, cotton stand and seed cotton yields were reduced following canola compared with following winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). In four of five comparisons, cotton seedling infection by Rhizoctonia solani was greater following canola than following wheat or fallow. All R. solani isolates were anastomosis group AG-4, indicating that canola production did not selectively increase an unusual biotype of R. solani. In both years, R. solani AG-4 infection rates were enhanced by use of aldicarb [2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime] granular insecticide regardless of the preceding winter crop. The fungicide treatment did not prevent seedling infection by R. solani but did reduce stand and yield losses in 1999. Tillage had no consistent affect on R. solani AG-4 infection, stand, or yield following any winter crop treatment. Delayed cotton planting also did not consistently affect R. solani AG-4 infection or cotton stand but did reduce seed cotton yield at Tifton. Thus, modified tillage practices and delayed cotton planting are not viable management tools for controlling R. solani AG-4 infection and minimizing stand losses of cotton when double-cropped following canola.
Good control of Tetanops myopaeformis (ROder) was obtained when granular insecticides were applied to the at planting time or when foliar sprays were directed at the adult flies when they emerged. In 1966, a relatively dry, warm year, the best materials gave 84% control of the maggot and increased yields up to 39%. Better control of the maggots was obtained in 1967, but yields were not increased. Stormy, cool weather was favorable for beet growth and unfavorable for fly activity during emergence. Consequently, the maggot populations were large enough to reduce yields. Granular formulations of Bay 37289 (O -ethyl 0-2,4,5-trichlorophenyl ethylphos-phonothioate), Stauffer N-2790 (O-ethyl S-phenyl ethylphos-phonodithioate), Bay 25141 ( O, O -diethyl O-[p-(methylsulfinyl)phenyl] phosphorothioate), diazinon, phorate, UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O -(methy]-carbamoyl)oxime), and carbofuran were the most promising in 1966 gave yield increases of 4 tons per Foliar sprays directed at the adult flies at the peak of acre. However, the plots were too small to show any differences between individual materials. In 1967 on acre-sized sized or larger plots, malathion emulsion gave the best control. On a 584-acre experiment, ultra-low-volume technical malathion gave 97% reduction in fly populations and yield increases of 3–4 tons.
Five kinds of odorous aldehyde were investigated at industrial complex in Busan. Samples were collected by DNPH cartridge at 24 work places, 81 samples in 44 sites, and analysed by HPLC/UV system. Acetaldehyde was detected in 78 samples with range of 1.2~299.7 ppbv. Propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, n-valeraldehyde and i-valeraldehyde were detected in 7 samples, 11 samples, 2 samples and 9 samples, respectively. Measured concentration of propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, n-valeraldehyde and iso-valeraldehyde were ranged 14.8~74.1 ppbv, 1.6~132.0 ppbv, 11.7~13.3 ppbv and 113.9~8858.9 ppbv, respectively. Among total analysed samples, 15 samples were over than degree 3 of calculated odor intensity. All of i- Valeraldehyde detected samples were showed over than degree 3. The work places subsisted aldehydes with high concentrations were related with leather-factory wastes disposal plant, leather, feedstuff, producing synthetic seasoning and textile mill.
Acrolein is a highly reactive electrophile causing toxic effects, such as DNA and protein adduction, oxidative stress, endoplasmic reticulum stress, immune dysfunction, and membrane damage. This Opinion/Hypothesis provides an overview of endogenous and exogenous acrolein sources, acrolein's mode of action, and its metabolic fate. Recent reports underpin the finding that gut microbial glycerol metabolism leading to the formation of reuterin is an additional source of endogenous acrolein. Reuterin is an antimicrobial multicomponent system consisting of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, its dimer and hydrate, and also acrolein. The major conclusion is that gut microbes can metabolize glycerol to reuterin and that this transformation occurs in vivo Given the known toxicity of acrolein, the observation that acrolein is formed in the gut necessitates further investigations on functional relevance for gut microbiota and the host.
Glycerol dehydratase that catalyses the conversion of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde was previously supposed to be a limiting step in the 1,3-propanediol production from glycerol. In this study, glycerol dehydratase was over-expressed separately or coordinately with 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase in Klebsiella pneumoniae DSM2026 to investigate its effects on the glycerol fermentation. The overexpression of glycerol dehydratase surprisingly led to a serious impairment of growth of K. pneumoniae in both continuous and batch cultures. Instability of the plasmids bearing the genes encoding glycerol dehydratase and/or 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase was observed in recombinant cells, especially in anaerobic cultures using glycerol as sole carbon source. It is postulated that an imbalanced conversion of glycerol to the intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and its further conversion to 1,3-propanediol and the associated accumulation and toxicity of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde are responsible for the phenomena observed. Furthermore, the putative regulatory gene dhaR of the dha regulon was also overexpressed in K. pneumoniae. The increased expression of 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase confirmed the role of DhaR as a positive regulator of the dhaT gene.
The cobalt carbonyl-catalyzed hydroesterification of 3-(β-cyanoethoxy)propene with carbon monoxide and methanol occurred in the presence of a small amount of hydrogen at a moderate temperature, methyl 4-(β-cyanoethoxy)butyrate being produced in a much larger amount than methyl 2-methyl-3-(β-cyanoethoxy)propionate. The double-bond isomerization leading to the formation of propionaldehyde dimethylacetal and ethylene cyanohydrin occurred simultaneously. The selectivity to the double-bond isomerization was very large at a low pressure; it decreased as the pressure was increased, with a corresponding increase in selectivity to the hydroesterification. The reaction rate was not increased by the addition of pyridine, but it was increased about tenfold by the addition of palladium chloride. Thus, the reaction could be carried out at a lower temperature in the presence of palladium chloride. The selectivity to the hydroesterification, however, did not increase upon the addition of palladium chloride, as the double...
Photochemical reaction products from irradiated mixtures of propionaldehyde, trimethyl, benzene, or Butene-1 and nitrogen oxide injured selected plant species in much the same way as irradiated auto exhaust. Whereas irradiated auto exhaust rarely injures old primary leaves of pinto bean severely, the reaction products do. Pigmentation developed on the lower surface of some young trifoliate leaves of pinto bean plants as an aftereffect of fumigation with reaction products of nitrogen oxide mixtures. Also, new growth occurred between spongy cells and the lower epidermis.
Time-mated Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed whole body to analytically measured 3-(methylthio) propionaldehyde (3-MTP) vapor concentrations of 0 (air controls), 9.87, 58.3 and 127.8 ppm over gestational days (gd) 6-15 for 6 h day(-1). There was an exposure concentration-related maternal toxicity (clinical signs, body weight change and food consumption) that was marginal at 9.87 ppm. No effects on gestational parameters, fetal numbers and sex ratio or fetal body weights were noted. There was no increase in the incidence of either malformations or variations (total, external, visceral or skeletal). Thus, the no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) for development toxicity for exposure to 3-MTP vapor was 127.8 ppm.
SN-38 (7-ethyl-10-hydroxy camptothecin) is a topoisomerase I inhibitor that is the active chemotherapeutic agent of irinotecan, indicated for colon cancer. Because the rate of response to irinotecan treatment is low, it is of interest to have a prognostic indicator to identify and more selectively treat those who are likely to respond to treatment. We have therefore prepared SN-38 labeled with carbon-11. SN-38 was prepared by radical oxidation of 3-[11C]propionaldehyde and subsequent radical addition of the ethyl fragment to 10-hydroxycamptothecin. Labeled propionaldehyde was prepared by reaction of methyl iodide with 2-lithiomethyl-1,3-dioxolane. Overall chemical yield was 34% from carbon dioxide. The murine biodistribution and radiation dosimetry of [11C]SN-38 was measured by PET scanning in preparation for initial human studies. Biodistribution was fairly uniform except for hepatobiliary and urinary excretion. Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Abstract The oxidation of 2-methyloxirane and propionaldehyde on ZnO has been studied by infrared spectroscopy. It was found that 2-methyloxirane was adsorbed on ZnO to form alkoxide species by scission of the α bond (OCH) of the epoxy ring. With time of adsorption, this alkoxide was dehydrogenated to form the enolate complex (CH 3 CH..CH..O) The enolate complex was oxidized to formate and acetate ions at about 400 °K in the presence of oxygen. In the case of oxidation by nitrous oxide, only propionate ions were formed. In the case of propionaldehyde, the adsorption occurred on zinc oxide by coordination of the carbonyl group. Upon oxidation by oxygen or nitrous oxide, scission of the CC bond of adsorbed species took place to a much smaller extent compared to 2-methyloxirane, the majority of the carboxylate species formed being propionate ions.
Developing a catalyst to resolve deactivation caused from coke is a primary challenge in the dehydration of glycerol to acrolein. An open-macropore-structured and Brønsted-acidic catalyst (Marigold-like silica functionalized with sulfonic acid groups, MS-FS) was synthesized for the stable and selective production of acrolein from glycerol. A high acrolein yield of 73% was achieved and maintained for 50 h in the presence of the MS-FS catalyst. The hierarchical structure of the catalyst with macropores was found to have an important effect on the stability of the catalyst because coke polymerization and pore blocking caused by coke deposition were inhibited. In addition, the behavior of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) during the sequential dehydration was studied using density functional theory (DFT) calculations because 3-HPA conversion is one of the main causes for coke formation. We found that the easily reproducible Brønsted acid sites in MS-FS permit the selective and stable production of acrolein. This is because the reactive intermediate (3-HPA) is readily adsorbed on the regenerated acid sites, which is essential for the selective production of acrolein during the sequential dehydration. The regeneration ability of the acid sites is related not only to the selective production of acrolein but also to the retardation of catalyst deactivation by suppressing the formation of coke precursors originating from 3-HPA degradation.
Production of chemicals directly from carbon dioxide using light energy is an attractive option for a sustainable future. The 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) production directly from carbon dioxide was achieved by engineered Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 with a synthetic metabolic pathway. Glycerol dehydratase catalyzing the conversion of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde in a coenzyme B12-dependent manner worked in S. elongatus PCC 7942 without addition of vitamin B12, suggesting that the intrinsic pseudovitamin B12 served as a substitute of coenzyme B12. The highest titers of 1,3-PDO (3.79±0.23 mM; 288±17.7 mg/L) and glycerol (12.62±1.55 mM; 1.16±0.14 g/L), precursor of 1,3-PDO, were reached after 14 days of culture under optimized conditions in this study.
Carbonyl compounds in air were measured at two houses, three museums, and two offices. All sites lacked air-conditioning systems. Although indoor and outdoor air was measured simultaneously at each site, the sites themselves were sampled in different dates. Mean concentrations were higher in indoor air. Outdoor means concentrations of acetone were the highest in all sites, ranging from 12 to 60 microg m(-3). In general, formaldehyde and acetaldehyde had similar mean concentrations, ranging from 4 to 32 and 6 to 28 microg m(-3), respectively. Formaldehyde and acetone mean indoor concentrations were the highest, ranging from 11 to 97 and 17 to 89 microg m(-3), respectively, followed by acetaldehyde with 5 to 47 microg m(-3). Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde had the highest mean concentration in the offices where there were smokers. Propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde concentrations did not show definite differences between indoor and outdoor air. In general, the highest outdoor and indoor hourly concentrations were observed from 10:00 to 15:00 h. Mean indoor/outdoor ratios of carbonyls exceeded 1. Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde risks were higher in smoking environments.
Abstract A direct GC/MS determination of aldicarb[2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(-N-methylcarbamoyl) oxime] and its structural isomer butocarboxime[2-methylthio-O-(-N-methylcarbamoyl) butanone-3-oxime] is reported. Mild GC conditions, using 2% OV-17 as liquid phase provide the lowest extent of degradation. Butocarboxime is analyzed intact as its[M+H]+ ion whereas aldicarb undergoes an on column dehydration, leading to an [M-18]+ fragment with an intact carbon skeleton in the isobutane - Cl mass spectra. The GC/CI of these molecules shows characteristic fragmentation patterns which allow the mass spectrometric distinction between the two isomers.
Ring-closure reactions of 3-phenyltiopropionaldehyde (1 a) and its methyl derivatives which were formed by the additions of benzenethiols to acrylaldehydes using acetonitrile as a solvent have been investigated. The reactions of ( 1 a) and its methyl derivatives with a variety of thiols in acetonitrile at room temperature provided 3-plienylthiopropionaldehyde hemithioacetals (2). The reaction of (2) in the presence of sulfuric acid in acetonitrile afforded the corresponding 4-arylthioand alkylthiothiochromans (3 a-i) in good yields.
Mononuclear nonheme iron(III)-hydroperoxo intermediates play key roles in biological oxidation reactions. In the present study, we report the highly intriguing reactivity of a nonheme iron(III)–hydroperoxo complex, [(TMC)FeIII(OOH)]2+ (1), in the deformylation of aldehydes, such as 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (2-PPA) and its derivatives; that is, the reaction pathway of the aldehyde deformylation by 1 varies depending on reaction conditions, such as temperature and substrate. At temperature above 248 K, the aldehyde deformylation occurs predominantly via a nucleophilic addition (NA) pathway. However, as the reaction temperature is lowered, the reaction pathway changes to a hydrogen atom transfer (HAT) pathway. Interestingly, the reaction rate becomes independent of temperature below 233 K with a huge kinetic isotope effect (KIE) value of 93 at 203 K, suggesting that the HAT reaction results from tunneling. In contrast, reactions with a deuterated 2-PPA at the α-position and 2-methyl-2-phenylpropionaldehyde pr...
By using a fixed-bed reactor,the stability of the bimetal supported catalyst Ni-D/HM for two-stage hydrogenation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 1,3-propanediol was studied.The deactivation of the second-stage hydrogenation catalyst was studied by activity evaluation,XRD,BET,TG-DTA,atomic absorption spectroscopy and element analysis.It was found that for the second-stage hydrogenation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 1,3-propanediol,the surface area,pore volume and framework of the deactivated catalyst changed apparently compared to the fresh catalyst,and coke formed on and Ni was spilt from the surface of the deactivated catalyst,which were the main reasons of the deactivation of the catalyst.Long time stability test showed that the Ni-D/HM catalyst could keep relatively high activity and excellent stability with decreasing the reaction temperature and space velocity.
Lactobacillus reuteri converts glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3HP) and 1,3-propanediol (1,3PDO) via 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) as an intermediate using enzymes encoded in its propanediol-utilization (pdu) operon. Since 3HP, 1,3PDO and 3HPA are important building blocks for the bio-based chemical industry, L. reuteri can be an attractive candidate for their production. However, little is known about the kinetics of glycerol utilization in the Pdu pathway in L. reuteri. In this study, the metabolic fluxes through the Pdu pathway were determined as a first step towards optimizing the production of 3HPA, and co-production of 3HP and 1,3PDO from glycerol. Resting cells of wild-type (DSM 20016) and recombinant (RPRB3007, with overexpressed pdu operon) strains were used as biocatalysts. The conversion rate of glycerol to 3HPA by the resting cells of L. reuteri was evaluated by in situ complexation of the aldehyde with carbohydrazide to avoid the aldehyde-mediated inactivation of glycerol dehydratase. Under operational conditions, the specific 3HPA production rate of the RPRB3007 strain was 1.9 times higher than that of the wild-type strain (1718.2 versus 889.0 mg/gCDW.h, respectively). Flux analysis of glycerol conversion to 1,3PDO and 3HP in the cells using multi-step variable-volume fed-batch operation showed that the maximum specific production rates of 3HP and 1,3PDO were 110.8 and 93.7 mg/gCDW.h, respectively, for the wild-type strain, and 179.2 and 151.4 mg/gCDW.h, respectively, for the RPRB3007 strain. The cumulative molar yield of the two compounds was ~1 mol/mol glycerol and their molar ratio was ~1 mol3HP/mol1,3PDO. A balance of redox equivalents between the glycerol oxidative and reductive pathway branches led to equimolar amounts of the two products. Metabolic flux analysis was a useful approach for finding conditions for maximal conversion of glycerol to 3HPA, 3HP and 1,3PDO. Improved specific production rates were obtained with resting cells of the engineered RPRB3007 strain, highlighting the potential of metabolic engineering to render an industrially sound strain. This is the first report on the production of 3HP and 1,3PDO as sole products using the wild-type or mutant L. reuteri strains, and has laid ground for further work on improving the productivity of the biotransformation process using resting cells.
Characteristics of carbonyl compounds (CBCs) emissions from neat diesel and methanol-containing diesel,in which methanol accounted for 13% by volume,were studied under various engine operating conditions,and a method combining deriva- tive sample pretreatment with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis technology was adopted in this study.The analytical result revealed that 13 kinds of CBCs could be determined accurately by this method.The brake specific CBCs emissions (BSCE) of methanol-containing diesel amounted to 15.2—332.1 mg/(kW·h),which were 1.49—3.24 times as much as those of neat diesel.Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde constituded the highest contents among CBCs emissions,followed by acrolein,ace- tone and propionaldehyde.These 5 kinds of CBCs accounted for more than 80% of the BSCE.With the increase d brake mean ef- fective pressure,the BSCE were observed to decrease significantly apart from hexaldehyde and propionaldehyde from neat diesel.
In addition to species identification, the volatile components of dalbergia odorifera and dalbergia spp, were investigated by solid phase microextraction-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (SPME-GC-MS). Small amounts of powder samples were acquired by drilling from dalbergia, then the volatile components of the powder samples were concentrated by SPME, and separated by AB-FFAP polar capillary GC column. Of all the volatile components, twenty types were identified, and two pairs of them, 2-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-5-heptyl-5-methyl-1,3-dioxolan-4-one and 2,6,10-trimethyl-7,10-epoxy-2,11-dodecadien-6-ol, 2-methylbutylidene-cyclopentane and 2-(5-methyl-furan-2-yl)-propionaldehyde, could be considered specific volatile components for the identification of dalbergia odorifera and dalbergia spp, and the relative contents of these two pairs were compared for the species identification analysis. The method has the advantages of less sample requirement, simple operation, and no construction damage. The method is suitable for the research of volatile components and species identification analysis of dalbergia odorifera and dalbergia spp, and has broad prospective application in the analysis of furniture, art collections and raw wood of dalbergia.
The most potent high volatile odorants occurring in the air above boiled cod and trout were evaluated by GCO of decreasing headspace volumes. Acetaldehyde, dimethyl sulfide, dimethyl trisulfide, and (Z)-1,5-octadien-3-one were found in small headspace samples of boiled cod (Gadus morhua), and acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, methional, 1-octen-3-one, and (Z)-1,5-octadien-3-one in that of boiled trout (Salmo fario). Storage of the raw material at -13 o C led to odor defects in the boiled fish. The increase of trimethylamine, butane-2,3-dione, methylpropanal, and 2- and 3-methylbutanal in cod and that of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butane-2,3-dione, pentane-2,3-dione, and C 6 , C 8 , and C 9 carbonyl compounds in trout contributed to the formation of the odor defects
Aldicarb, [2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoy1)-oxime], the active ingredient in TEMIK® insecticide/nematicide, was discovered in 1962 (Weiden et al. 1965) and is currently registered in over 60 countries for a large number of crops. It is applied to the soil for nematode control and for insect or mite control as a result of its efficient translocation (systemic activity) by the plant. Toxic metabolites, primarily a result of soil microbial action, are the sulfoxide, [2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime], and the sulfone, [2-methyl-2-(methylsulfonyl)-propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime]. Aldicarb, aldicarb sulfoxide, and aldicarb sulfone are all white crystalline materials at room temperature with water solubilities of 6, 330, and 8 mg/mL, respectively (Hornsby et al. 1983).
Cyanide anion was used to attempt to trap possible imine intermediates in the oxidative N-dealkylation of propranolol (1). Reaction of 3-(1-naphthoxy)-1-amino-2-propanol (desisopropylpropranolol, 2) with acetone provided this expected intermediate in an approximately 7:1 ratio of oxazolidine 6 to imine 5, as determined by 1H NMR. The mixture when treated with sodium cyanide gave the expected alpha-aminonitrile 7. Microsomal oxidation of propranolol in the presence of sodium cyanide gave two cyanide-containing adducts as shown by GC-MS (12a and 12b). Using specifically deuterated propranolols (8, 9, 10, and 11) as substrates showed both of these cyanide-containing adducts to have lost the N-isopropyl group. Compounds 12a and 12b were shown to be diastereomeric alpha-aminonitriles arising from the reaction of 2 with propionaldehyde, a contaminant from the ether used for extraction, and cyanide anion. Authentic 7, stable to derivatization and GC-MS conditions, rapidly decomposed under the conditions of the metabolic experiments.
Several enzymes active in the presence of NAD with acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde have been purified from human brain and characterized. The enzymes have been identified as aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3), NAD-linked succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.24), and glyceraldehyde-3–phosphate dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.12). Glyceraldehyde-3–phosphate dehydrogenase is extremely heterogeneous with some isozymes active with acetaldehyde, others inactive. The cytoplasmic enzyme, which is the classical glyceraldehyde-3–phosphate dehydrogenase, is inactive with acetaldehyde as substrate; the isozymes that are active with short chain aliphatic aldehydes are localized in the mitochondrial fraction. Properties of glyceraldehyde-3–phosphate dehydrogenase isozymes with respect to short chain aliphatic aldehydes and inhibition by disulfiram are described. Their Km values for acetaldehyde range from 300 to 2000 MM. All glyceraldehyde-3–phosphate dehydrogenases that are active with acetaldehyde are easily inactivated by low concentrations of disulfiram. In all cases activity regain can be obtained with 2–mercaptoethanol; in the case of two glyceralde-hyde-3–phosphate isozymes (E8.5 and 9.0), activity can also be regained with cysteine and with glutathione; activity of E6.6 and E6.8 glyceraldehyde-3–phosphate dehydrogenases could not be regained with 33 MM cysteine or glutathione. Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) were also inhibited by disulfiram; their activity could be regained with 2–mercaptoethanol but not with 33 MM cysteine or glutathione. Comparison of human brain succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase with glyceraldehyde-3–phosphate dehydrogenase shows that the activity with short chain aldehydes is not unique to aldehyde dehydrogenase; neither is sensitivity to disulfiram; activity with 3,4–dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde appears to be a unique property of aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3).
Aldehydes are an airborne byproduct of many industrialprocesses, vehicle transportation, and emissions fromnumerous natural sources. To characterize aldehydeconcentrations in ambient air of the Savannah, Georgiaarea, air samples for 3 aldehydes (formaldehyde,acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde) were collected atfive sites on a monthly basis over a 12-month periodfrom December of 1995 through November 1996. Four ofthe sites were in central Savannah and the fifth sitewas located in a rural area about 56 km south ofSavannah. During each 24-hr sampling episode, sampleswere collected in two 12-hr periods approximatingdaylight and nighttime hours, following U.S. EPAMethod TO-11. Formaldehyde concentrations ranged from0.17 to 6.80 μg m-3, acetaldehydeconcentrations ranged from 0.07 to7.60 μg m-3, and propionaldehyde levels rangedfrom 0.02 to 9.10 μg m-3. On average, thefour sites in Savannah had higher aldehydeconcentrations than the rural site (2.0 versus1.2 μg m-3 for formaldehyde, 2.3 versus1.7 μg m-3 for acetaldehyde, and 1.2 versus1.0 μg m-3 for propionaldehyde). The daytimeconcentrations for formaldehyde and acetaldehyde werehigher than the nighttime levels. The data from allthe sites were within published worldwide backgroundvalues for aldehydes.
Organic chemistry textbooks generally treat geminal diols as curiosities--exceptions to the stability of the C=O double bond. However, most aldehydes of environmental significance, to wit, trichloroethanal (chloral), methanal (formaldehyde), ethanal (acetaldehyde), and propanal (propionaldehyde), exhibit this behavior. Carbinolamines (hemiaminals) are usually considered to be unstable reaction intermediates of very short lifetime, despite a considerable volume of literature that suggests otherwise. In aqueous solution, carbinolamines can build up to substantial concentrations and play important roles in kinetics of aldehyde reactions, subsequent to formation of aldehydes as ozonation by-products during drinking water disinfection. A few carbinolamines are isolable, although these are not encountered in environmental systems. In general, the minimal conceptual treatment of these chemical species results from the central theme of synthetic utility that quite reasonably dominates organic chemistry courses an...
ABSTRACT Acrolein is a highly reactive electrophile causing toxic effects, such as DNA and protein adduction, oxidative stress, endoplasmic reticulum stress, immune dysfunction, and membrane damage. This Opinion/Hypothesis provides an overview of endogenous and exogenous acrolein sources, acrolein's mode of action, and its metabolic fate. Recent reports underpin the finding that gut microbial glycerol metabolism leading to the formation of reuterin is an additional source of endogenous acrolein. Reuterin is an antimicrobial multicomponent system consisting of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, its dimer and hydrate, and also acrolein. The major conclusion is that gut microbes can metabolize glycerol to reuterin and that this transformation occurs in vivo. Given the known toxicity of acrolein, the observation that acrolein is formed in the gut necessitates further investigations on functional relevance for gut microbiota and the host.
Background: Lactobacillus reuteri converts glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3HP) and 1,3-propanediol (1,3PDO) via 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) as an intermediate using enzymes encoded in its propanediol-utilization (pdu) operon. Since 3HP, 1,3PDO and 3HPA are important building blocks for the bio-based chemical industry, L. reuteri can be an attractive candidate for their production. However, little is known about the kinetics of glycerol utilization in the Pdu pathway in L. reuteri. In this study, the metabolic fluxes through the Pdu pathway were determined as a first step towards optimizing the production of 3HPA, and co-production of 3HP and 1,3PDO from glycerol. Resting cells of wild-type (DSM 20016) and recombinant (RPRB3007, with overexpressed pdu operon) strains were used as biocatalysts.
Abstract A multivariate data analysis, partial least-squares regression (PLS) was performed on chronoamperometric data. These data were obtained using a disposable screen-printed NAD + -dependent dehydrogenase biosensor suited to determine propionaldehyde concentration. The influence of several data pre-treatments on prediction ability of the built PLS models was studied. Propionaldehyde determination was efficiently achieved for concentrations ranging from 0.2 to 1.2 mM using a model with six significant latent variables. Treatment of the overall chronoamperometric data (using PLS regression) compared to regression on a single data point of chronoamperograms improved substrate determination reliability: the overall coefficient of variation for the determination of propionaldehyde was reduced from 33 to 15%. This study opened up opportunities for further developments of disposable sensors for field use.
In situ i.r. studies and the effects of the delayed addition of propionaldehyde after ozonolysis show conclusively the existence and persistence of unstable intermediates in the ozonolysis of trans-di-isopropylethylene in the liquid phase at –105° to –78 °C.
Abstract One histidine residue (H235) is conserved in all known aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH), from Escherichia coli to human, except for those from P. oleovorans and rat hepatoma. Kinetic studies with horse liver mitochondrial ALDH indicated that a group with a p K a of 7 may be involved in the active site. Using site-directed mutagenesis, the four conserved histidine residues of the six histidines in rat liver mitochondrial ALDH were converted to alanines. Only modification of H235 and H29 caused alterations in properties of the enzyme. H29A had a decreased p I suggesting that this residue may normally be protonated. Its V max increased, as did the K m for NAD + , while the K m for propionaldehyde decreased. H235A had the same p I as the native enzyme but the V max decreased by 50%. Like native enzyme, H235A was active in Hepes and Mops buffer as well as in phosphate buffer. Purified H235A was thermally less stable than was native enzyme. H235 was also changed to F, Y, E, K, and Q. All of these substitutions resulted in the formation of insoluble aggregates or inclusion bodies when they were expressed in E. coli . It appears then that the highly conserved histidine residues may not be functioning as a general base in the deacylation step as we originally suggested. Instead, both H29 and H235 may be of structural importance and the presence of a histidine residue at position 235 may be required for the newly synthesized peptide to fold and/or assemble into the native conformation of ALDH.
Pesticide use in agroecosystems can adversely impact groundwater quality via chemical leaching through soils. Few studies have investigated the effects of antecedent soil water content (SWC) and timing of initial irrigation (TII) after chemical application on pesticide transport and degradation. The objectives of this study were to investigate the effects of antecedent soil water content (wet vs dry) and timing of initial irrigation (0h Delay vs 24h Delay) on aldicarb [(EZ)-2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-methylcarbamoyloxime] and carbofuran [2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethylbenzofuran-7-yl methylcarbamate] transport and degradation parameters at a field site with Menfro silt loam (fine-silty, mixed, superactive, mesic Typic Hapludalf) soils. Aldicarb and carbofuran were applied to plots near field capacity (wet) or near permanent wilting point (dry). Half of the dry and wet plots received irrigation water immediately after chemical application and the remaining plots were irrigated after a 24h Delay. The transport and degradation parameters were estimated using the method of moments. Statistical significance determined for SWC included averages across TII levels, and significance determined for TII included averages across SWC levels. For the dry treatment, aldicarb was detected 0.10 m deeper (P<0.01) on two of the four sampling dates and carbofuran was detected at least 0.10 m deeper (P<0.05) on all of the sampling dates compared to the wet treatment. Pore water velocity was found to be higher (P<0.10) in the dry vs wet treatments on three of four dates for aldicarb and two of four dates for carbofuran. Retardation coefficients for both pesticides showed similar evidence of reduced values for the dry vs wet treatments. These results indicate deeper pesticide movement in the initially dry treatment. For aldicarb and carbofuran, estimated values of the degradation rate were approximately 40-49% lower in the initially dry plots compared to the initially wet plots, respectively. When the initial irrigation was delayed for 24h, irrespective of antecedent moisture conditions, a 30% reduction in aldicarb degradation occurred. This study illustrates the deeper transport of pesticides and their increased persistence when applied to initially dry soils.
To better understand the genetic disorder Sjogren-Larsson syndrome which is caused by a deficiency of fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase activity, we determined the subcellular localization of the enzyme and investigated its biochemical properties. Using density gradient centrifugation, we found that fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase activity was predominantly localized in the microsomal fraction in human liver. This fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase was solubilized from human liver microsomes and purified by chromatography on columns consisting of omega-aminohexyl-agarose and 5'-AMP-Sepharose 4B. The enzyme had an apparent subunit molecular weight of 54000, required NAD+ as cofactor, had optimal activity at pH 9.8, and was thermolabile at 47 degrees C. Fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase had high activity towards saturated and unsaturated aliphatic aldehydes ranging from 6 to 24 carbons in length, as well as dihydrophytal, a 20-carbon branched chain aldehyde. In contrast, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, glutaraldehyde, benzaldehyde, and retinaldehyde were poor substrates. The enzyme was inhibited by disulfiram, iodoacetamide, alpha,p-dibromoacetophenone, and p-chloromercuribenzoate. These results indicate that microsomal fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase is a distinct human aldehyde dehydrogenase isozyme that acts on a variety of medium- and long-chain aliphatic substrates.
Abstract Nitroaldol reaction of a nitro compound with a carbonyl compound was carried out over a variety of solid base catalysts to elucidate the activity-determining factors in the nature of the catalysts and in the nature of nitro and carbonyl compounds. Among the catalysts examined, MgO, CaO, Ba(OH) 2 , KOH/alumina, KF/alumina, Sr(OH) 2 , hydrotalcite, and MgCO 3 exhibited high activity for nitroaldol reaction of nitromethane with propionaldehyde, the activities being in this order. Over these catalysts, the yields exceeded 20% at a reaction temperature of 313 K and a reaction time of 1 h. Mg(OH) 2 , γ-alumina, SrO, Ca(OH) 2 , BaCO 3 , SrCO 3 , BaO, and La 2 O 3 exhibited moderate activites; the yield were in the range 20–2%. CaCO 3 , ZrO 2 , and ZnO scarcely showed the activity. It is suggested that strongly basic sites are not required for the reaction because the abstraction of a proton from a nitro compound is easy. The reactivities of the nitro compounds were nitroethane > nitromethane > 2-nitropropane, and those of carbonyl compounds were propionaldehyde>isobutyraldehyde>pivalaldehyde>acetone>benzaldehyde>methylpropionate. On the basis of IR study of adsorbed reactants and the reactivities of the reactants, the reaction mechanisms are proposed. The reaction proceeds by the nucleophilic addition of the carbanion formed by the abstraction of a proton from nitro compounds to the cationic species formed by the adsorption of carbonyl compounds on the acidic sites (metal cations). The nitroaldol reaction of nitromethane with propionaldehyde over MgO was scarcely poisoned by carbon dioxide and water; nitromethane is so acidic that it is able to be adsorbed on the catalyst on which carbon dioxide or water was preadsorbed.
Abstract An aldehyde oxidase extracted from guinea pig granulocytes with isotonic KCl catalyzes the oxidation of a variety of aliphatic aldehydes and 2-OH-pyrimidine. The stoichiometry of the oxidation of 2-OH-pyrimidine is consistent with the reaction 2-OH-pyrimidine + OH- + O2 leads to uracil + H2O2. Between 75 and 90% of the peroxide produced results from dismutation of superoxide formed as an intermediate. The Km for 2-OH-pyrimidine is approximately 1.65 mM and the maximum velocity is 22.9 +/- 5.5 S.D. nmol of superoxide/min/10(7) cells. This same maximum velocity is observed for the substrates isobutyraldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acetaldehyde. Unlike other aldehyde oxidases, this enzyme is inactive with purines as substrates and is insensitive to antimycin A, menadione, and Triton X-100. The enzyme is inhibited by cyanide, methanol, and arsenite. The apparent molecular weight is approximately 340,000 +/- 25,000 and the pH optimum is in the range of 7.5 to 9.0. Electron cytochemistry reveals an association of this oxidase with the phagosome membrane. The potential significance of this oxidase is discussed in relation to microbicidal mechanisms.
Phenylacetaldehyde dehydrogenase (PADH) was purified and characterized from Brevibacterium sp. KU1309, which can grow on the medium containing 2-phenylethanol as the sole carbon source. This enzyme was a homotetrameric protein with a subunit of 61 kDa. The enzyme catalyzed the oxidation of aryl (benzaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde, 3-phenylpropionaldehyde) and aliphatic (hexanal, octanal, decanal) aldehydes to the corresponding carboxylic acids using NAD+ as the electron acceptor. The PADH activity was enhanced by several divalent cationic ions such as Mg2+, Ca2+, and Mn2+. On the other hand, it was inhibited by SH reagents (Hg2+, p-chloromercuribenzoate, iodoacetamide, and N-ethylmaleinimide). The substrate specificity of the enzyme is compared with those of various aldehyde dehydrogenases.
Condensation reactions of copper(II) complexes of DL a n d L forms of alanine, serine and threonine with aliphatic aldehydes show differential reactivity patterns. The reaction of Cu(DL-Ala)2 with formaldehyde and ammonia at pH 5 yields pentamethylene diaza group containing product (_1) but at pH > 8"0 yields oxazolidine group containing product (_2). However, reaction of Cu(L-AIa)2 with formaldehyde and ammonia at pH 8.5 yields an optically active isomer of 1. Similarly copper(II) complexes of DL-serine and DL-threonine readily undergo condensation reaction with aldehydes such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde etc. yielding oxazolidine group containing products whereas the corresponding L-amino acidato copper(II) complexes do not undergo condensation reactions under the same experimental conditions. These aspects are discussed.
Previous studies found the lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxynon-2-enal (4HNE) to be both a substrate and an inhibitor of mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2). Inhibition of the enzyme by 4HNE was demonstrated kinetically to be reversible at low micromolar aldehyde but may involve covalent modification at higher concentrations. Structurally analogous to 4HNE is the lipid peroxidation product 4-oxonon-2-enal (4ONE), which is more reactive than 4HNE toward protein nucleophiles. The goal of this work was to determine whether 4ONE is a substrate or inhibitor of human ALDH2 (hALDH2) and elucidate the mechanism of enzyme inhibition by 4HNE and 4ONE. Both 4ONE and its glutathione conjugate were found to be substrates for the enzyme in the presence of NAD. At low concentrations of 4ONE (< or = 10 microM), hALDH2 catalyzed the oxidation of 4ONE to 4-oxonon-2-enoic acid (4ONEA) with a maximal yield of 5.2 mol 4ONEA produced per mol of enzyme (monomer). However, subsequent analysis of hALDH2 activity toward propionaldehyde revealed that both 4ONE and the oxidation product, 4ONEA, were potent, irreversible inhibitors of the enzyme. In contrast, inhibition of hALDH2 by a high concentration of 4HNE (i.e., 50 microM) was primarily reversible. The reactivity of 4ONEA toward glutathione was measured and found to be comparable to that of 4HNE, indicating that the 4ONE-oxidation product is a reactive electrophile. hALDH2/NAD was incubated with 4HNE, 4ONE, and 4ONEA, and mass spectral analysis of tryptic peptides revealed covalent modification of an hALDH2 active site peptide by both 4ONE and 4ONEA. These data demonstrate that hALDH2 catalyzes the oxidation of 4ONE to 4ONEA; however, the product 4ONEA is a reactive electrophile. Furthermore, both 4ONE and 4ONEA are potent, irreversible inhibitors of the enzyme.
A mild and highly efficient synthesis of C7-C14 and C15-C21 fragments of epothilone B and D is described in which racemic C7-C14 fragment is prepared from nerol through four steps, and C15-C21 fragment is obtained from 1, 3-dichloroacetone, thioacetamide and propionaldehyde.
Abstract Acetals of 4-arylbutyraldehydes and 3-aryloxy-, 3-arylamino- and 3-arylthiopropionaldehydes react with Na-sulfinates in formic or trifluoroacetic acid to give good yields of the corresponding 4-(sulfonyl) substituted tetralins, tetrahydroquinolines, chromans and thiochromans.
The Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons condensations of α-phosphono lactones were investigated under a variety of conditions. Upon treatment with KHMDS and 18-crown-6 in THF, condensations of the five-membered ring phosphono lactones 7a and 8 with propionaldehyde afforded the E olefins cleanly. In contrast, these phosphonates gave predominantly the Z olefins upon treatment with propionaldehyde, K 2 CO 3 , and 18-crown-6 in THF. A similar, though somewhat less-pronounced trend was observed with the six-membered ring phosphono lactone 9a. However, in its condensation with acetaldehyde the more functionalized five-membered ring phosphono lactone 4 gave the best E selectivity (ca.9:1) when DBU/CH 3 CN was used, providing the methyl ester of integerrinecic acid lactone (5) in 77% isolated yield. When K 2 CO 3 /18-crown-6/toluene was employed in parallel reaction, only slight selectivity for the Z isomer was observed, but the methyl ester of senecic acid lactone (6) still was obtained in 43-46% yield from the product mixture
It follows from the distribution of activity in the individual fragments of erythromycin after the addition of acetic acid-1-14C and −2-14C that acetic acid is not a direct precursor of desosamine and cladinose. The distribution of the activity in propionaldehyde isolated from erythronolide indicates that acetic acid, before being incorporated into erythromycin, passes through a cycle resembling the cycle of dicarboxylic or tricarboxylic acids.
A simple method for the collection of low boiling aldehydes and ketones in air has been developed. It is based on the use of small traps filled with Carbopack B adsorbent coated with suitable amounts of 2.4-Dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) and H3PO4. Aldehydes and ketones are enriched by passing 100 to 200 L of air through the trap. After sampling, the cartridges are extracted with small volumes of CH3CN and aliquots subjected to HPLC fractionation. Specific detection of DNPH derivatives is carried out with a UV-visible adsorbance detector set at 365 nm or by an amperometric detector working in the oxidation mode. The methods allows the determination of acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetone at sub-ppb levels. Typical profiles of carbonyl compounds collected in a Diesel exhaust, in urban air and in a rural area are presented. Diurnal variations of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and acetone, occurring during a two-days photochemical smog event observed in a rural area, are reported together with the trends of ozone, PAN and toluene. The results are critically discussed.
Pyrrolidine, morpholine and piperidine derived Mannich bases of types 1–3 react with acetone, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde to form 2-methyl and 3-methylbenzopyrans of types 4–8. Hydrolysis of these benzopyrans yields alcoholic benzopyrans which readily condense with a variety of amine, aniline and hydrazine derivatives to form diverse isomeric benzopyrans of types of 9 and 10. The benzopyrans 4–9 which contain a 3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl ring are active anti-tumor agents, particularly against human breast, CNS and colon cancer cell lines, total growth inhibition of these tumors often occurring in vitro at concentrations as low as 10−5-10−6 moles/1. Because of their in vitro activities and unusual structures a number of these benzopyrans have been selected for in vivo Xenograft testing against breast and other susceptible human cancers.
Due to its indeterminate growth habit, maturation of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) is affected by many environmental and cultural factors. An easy and reliable measure of its progression toward maturity that can be attained during crop development is needed for both production and research programs. As a cotton plant develops, first-position flowers progress toward the plant apex, and their relative position can be determined by counting the number of main-stem nodes above the uppermost white flower. After plants attain nodes above white flower = 5.0 (physiological cutout date; i.e., flowering date of the last effective boll population), subsequent flowers have a low probability of producing bolls of adequate size and quality. The objective of this study was to evaluate physiological cutout date (days from planting to physiological cutout) as a measure of maturity in cotton by comparing it with two established harvestbased methods: mean maturity date and percentage of crop harvested in the first of two harvests (% first F.M. Bourland, N.R. Benson, and E.D. Vories, Northeast Research & Extension Center, P.O. Box 48, Keiser, AR 72351; N.P. Tugwell, Department of Entomology, and D.M. Danforth, Department of Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 72701. Received 17 Aug. 2000. *Corresponding author (bourland@comp.uark.edu). 2 BOURLAND ET AL.: MEASURING COTTON MATURITY WITH NODES ABOVE WHITE FLOWER pick). Comparisons were made in three tests: (i) evaluation of varying treatments for thrips (Frankliniella spp.), (ii) nitrogen rate on three cultivars, (iii) cultivar evaluation at different locations in Arkansas. Within each test, sequential nodes above white flower counts were used to determine physiological cutout date, while mean maturity date (days from planting until 50% yield can be harvested), and % first pick were determined from sequential harvests. Significant variation was found within each test for all of the maturity measurements. Physiological cutout date tended to be closely related to mean maturity date and % first pick. Exceptions occurred when values of % first pick exceeded 90% (variation in maturity was not expressed) and when Verticillium wilt (caused by Verticillium dahliae Kleb.) affected crop maturity after physiological cutout. Thus, physiological cutout date provides a precise, easy, and reliable measurement of the accumulated effects of environmental and cultural factors on crop development that occurs before the flowering of the last effective boll population. E crop maturation and harvest of cotton can enhance production efficiency by alleviating late-season risks associated with insect problems and adverse weather (Anderson et al., 1976). Various measurements have been used to evaluate earliness of cotton. Richmond and Radwan (1962) found that phenological (first square, flower, and open boll) and product-quantity measurements (ratios of fractions relative to total yield) of earliness were significantly correlated. They suggested that the most practical method by which to measure maturity involved examining the ratio of weights in early harvests to total seedcotton harvested. Although percentage of total crop yield harvested in the first of two harvests (% first pick) has been the most frequently used measurement of earliness, it has disadvantages. First, data from different tests cannot be compared directly because values depend on when the first harvest was made. Second, variation in maturity may be masked by delayed harvests, such as when average first pick exceeds 90%. Third, the use of boll-openers (e.g., ethephon [2-chloroethylphosphonic acid]) has frequently led to once-over harvesting, thus negating the time and expense of second-harvest as well as eliminating the possible use of % first pick as a measure of maturity. Richmond and Ray (1966) found that mean maturity date provided a more exact measurement of earliness than did percentages of total harvest in multiple harvests. Mean maturity date is determined by multiplying sequential yield weights by days from planting, then dividing by total yield. Thus, mean maturity date directly measures realized maturity of the crop and quantifies maturity in a meaningful, comparable unit; i.e., number of days from planting to harvest. However, mean maturity date requires multiple harvests with its accuracy enhanced as number of harvests increases, and it cannot be calculated until after harvests are completed. As boll load increases, maturation of cotton plants is signaled by slowed development of new main-stem nodes, which causes first-position white flowers to appear progressively closer to the plant apex (Oosterhuis et al.,1992). Waddle (1974) was the first to report the use of node number of firstposition white flower relative to the plant apex as an indicator of maturity in cotton. Comparing cultivars that differed in maturation time, he observed that earlier maturing cultivars had fewer nodes above the last white flower during the third and fourth weeks of flowering than did later maturing cultivars. Furthermore, he indicated that “it is reasonable to expect that the number of nodes above the last white bloom will be an excellent herald for cutout and a general growth indicator for any one variety.” Sequential measurements of this plant parameter, now referred to as nodes above white flower, can be used to monitor the development and maturation of cotton (Bourland et al., 1992). Within the COTMAN expert system, physiological cutout has been defined as the flowering date of the last effective flower population, as determined by an average nodes above white flower of 5.0 (Oosterhuis et al., 1996). Flower retention and subsequent boll size decline rapidly when flowers occur five nodes (and closer) from the plant terminal. If nodes above white flower = 5.0 is attained after the latest possible cutout date (based on historical weather data, the latest date from which sufficient heat likely will be available to mature a population of bolls), seasonal cutout is indicated. Maturity is then determined by weather limitations rather than crop maturation, because late-developing flowers (even those that occur at nodes above white flower > 5.0) will not have time to develop into economically viable bolls. 3 JOURNAL OF COTTON SCIENCE, Volume 5, Issue 1, 2001 Crop maturity, as defined by the date that physiological cutout occurs, can be determined from multiple measurements of nodes above white flower and expressed as days from planting to nodes above white flower = 5.0 (physiological cutout date). Like mean maturity date, physiological cutout date may provide a temporal measure of maturity that can be compared among diverse environments, but it does not require multiple harvests. Determination of maturity based on harvest data, as done with % first pick or mean maturity date, precludes in-season management that is based on crop maturation. To utilize early maturation effectively, a simple and reliable in-season measure of maturity is needed. The relation of physiological cutout date (an in-season measurement of maturity) to mean maturity date and % first pick (harvestbased measurements of maturity) has not been established. The objective of this study was to determine whether physiological cutout date provides an accurate in-season measure of maturity. MATERIALS AND METHODS Comparisons of physiological cutout date with harvest-based measures of maturity were made using data from three data sets. These data, which evaluated treatments that would likely affect crop maturity, were selected because they included measurements of nodes above white flower, sequential harvests, and yield. The three experiments were established to evaluate: (i) thrips c o n t r o l b y a l d i c a r b ( 2 m e t h y l 2 [methlythio]propionaldehyde O-[methylcarbamoyl] oxime) treatments in 1986 and 1988; (ii) effects of N-application rates on different cultivars in 1994; (iii) cultivar performance at three locations of the Arkansas Cotton Variety Test in 1989 and 1990.
OH-induced oxidation mechanisms of ethyl and n-propyl acetates have been investigated at room temperature (298 ± 5 K) and atmospheric pressure by photolysing CH3ONO/acetate/NO mixtures with FTIR spectroscopy as analytical device. The main oxidation products and their yields were as follows: from ethyl ::: acetate, acetic acid (0.75 ± 0.13), acetoxyacetaldehyde (0.15 ± 0.05), acetic anhydride (0.02 ± 0.01), formic ::: acetic anhydride (0.02 ± 0.01) and peroxyacetyl nitrate (PAN); from n-propyl acetate, acetoxyacetaldehyde ::: (0.22 ± 0.06), formic acetic anhydride (0.28 ± 0.03), acetic acid (0.15 ± 0.02), acetaldehyde (0.35 ± 0.10), ::: peroxypropionyl nitrate (PPN) and probably acetoxypropionaldehyde (0.30 ± 0.10). From these data, oxidation schemes of these two acetates were elucidated. This study reveals in particular the specific reactivity of acetates by confirming the novel α-ester rearrangement proposed recently by Tuazon et al. (J. Phys. Chem. A, 1998, ::: 102, 2316) and then by showing that oxygenated alkoxyl radicals may not follow the same rules of reactivity ::: as other alkoxyl radicals. This last observation shows the necessity for further experiments to understand the influence ::: of the oxygenated function on alkoxyl reactivity.
The reaction of allylic compounds in the presence of some nickel catalysts has been studied. 2,7-Octadienyl isopropyl ether is converted into 2-methylenevinylcyclopentane in moderate yield by NiX2(n-Bu3P)2-t-BuOK (1:2) (where X is Cl, Br, or NO3) in ethanol. In amines the hydroxyl or ether group of allyl compound is smoothly substituted with the amino group; corresponding allyl substituted amines are formed in high yields. Allyl alcohol is selectively converted to diallyl ether in the presence of Ni(Acac)2-n-Bu3P-NaBH4 (1:3:1) at 40°C. At higher temperature isomerization of allyl alcohol into propionaldehyde is predominate. These reactions are considered to proceed through π-allyl intermediates.
Feasible photocatalysis: The rhodium catalyst [Rh(CO)(PMe3 )2 Cl] photochemically transforms ethane to propionaldehyde in single-phase mixtures of ethane and in carbon dioxide/ethane single phases [Eq. (1)]. A side reaction of carbon dioxide with the catalyst to give OPMe3 and [Rh(CO)2 (PMe3 )Cl] or [Rh2 (CO)2 (PMe3 )2 (μ-Cl)2 ] has also been observed.
The phenolic oxidative coupling of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-hydroxy-1-(3-hydroxy-2,4-dimethoxyphenethyl)-7-methoxy-2-methylisoquinoline (XV) with potassium ferricyanide gave abnormal products; phenylpropionaldehyde (XVI), dehydro-seco-homoerythrinadienone (XVII), seco-homoerythrinadienone (XVIII) and a quinoline derivative (XIX). Two synthetic routes to the starting diphenolic isoquinoline (XV) are described.
The mammalian kidney is composed of numerous cell populations associated with the interstitial spaces, vasculature and various portions of the nephron. Not surprisingly, mammalian kidneys also exhibit an array of drug metabolizing activities, including the pyridine nucleotide-linked aldehyde dehydrogenase(s) (ALDH). To define the ALDH activity in segment 2 of the proximal tubule, a portion of the nephron which frequently shows drug-induced pathology, proximal tubules were isolated by purely mechanical methods from female rabbits. Isopycnic centrifugation of tubule-derived postnuclear supernates in linear sucrose gradients resulted in propionaldehyde (5 mM)-driven ALDH activity being distributed in a manner consistent with both a mitochondrial and cytosolic localization. Mitochondrial and cystosolic fractions yielded biphasic reciprocal plots when propionaldehyde was used as substrate. Km values of 282 microM and 4 mM were obtained from the mitochondrial enzymes, whereas the cytosolic enzymes gave KmS of 132 microM and 2.4 mM. The apparent Vmax values (nanomoles of NADH produced per minute per milligram of protein) are 16.3 and 37.8 for the mitochondrial enzymes and 23.5 and 19.0 for the cytosolic enzymes. Thus, the S2 proximal tubule cells contain ALDH activities at levels and subcellular sites comparable to those found in the liver. Because the proximal tubules constitute approximately 40% of the renal cortical mass, the high levels of ALDH activity observed in these cells may protect other cortical cells and more distal nephron components by detoxifying potentially cytotoxic aldehydes.
Trends in technological and scientifi c progress in catalysis lean towards the production of more efficient catalysts, smaller particle sizes and more fi nely dispersed particles to optimise yields and decrease reaction times. For this reason, nanosized catalytic particles have received much attention and they are known to display higher catalytic activity (9) . Hybrid metal-CNT systems have been shown by theoretical calculations to have altered properties compared to unmodifi ed CNTs (10) . The results of hydrogenation reactions on various supports suggest that the interaction between the metal catalyst and the support greatly infl uences the catalytic activity in a hydrogenation reaction (11) (12) (13) This article covers a wide range of literature on Pd/ CNT systems. The examples chosen for this review mainly involve some current studies of Pd/CNT systems for hydrogenation reactions. Specifi cally, examples based on cinnamaldehyde (Figure 2(a) ), which has useful applications such as a fl avouring, fungicide, antimicrobial agent or anticancer agent among others, are provided. The reduction of this organic compound is interesting because it has more than one functional group that can be reduced. The useful products that are obtained include cinnamyl alcohol (Figure 2(b) ), 3-phenylpropionaldehyde (Figure 2(c) ) and 3-phenylpropan-1-ol (Figure 2(d) ), among others, depending on chemoselectivity. Hence, this compound, as an example, could form the basis for the comparison of conversions and the effect or infl uence of the support on Pd chemoselectivity.
Construction of retroviral vectors. In preliminary experiments, it was found that the cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter was a stronger promoter in HeLa and CV-1 cells than the SV-40 promoter; therefore, the expression vectors were built from the retroviral plasmid pLNCX (15) . This vector expresses the G418 resistance gene neo driven by the long terminal repeat. The ALDH2 *1 and ALDH2 *2 cDNAs, containing the mitochondrial leader sequences, were cloned into the HindHII site. These plasmids were named pLNCE and pLNCK, denoting vectors for expression of ALDH2E and ALDH2K, respectively. To Isoelectric focusing was performed using 1% agarose gels containing 0.5 ml of pH 3-10 Ampholines, 1.5 ml of pH 4-6 Ampholines, and 20% glycerol in a total volume of 34 ml. The anode and cathode buffers were 0.5 M acetic acid and 0.5 M NaOH, respectively. The gel was prefocused at 5 W for 1 h, then the protein samples were applied and the focusing was continued at 10 W for 2 h. The gel was then stained for enzyme activity in a solution of 10 mM propionaldehyde, 1 mM NAD+, 0.1 mM 4-methylpyrazole, 0.3 mM 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl] 2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide, and 0.14 mM phenazine methosulfate in 50 mM sodium pyrophosphate, pH 8.8. Native ALDH2 was purified from human liver by chromatography of 100,000 g supernatants on DEAE-cellulose and a-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamate-Sepharose affinity columns (20) . This preparation showed a single band of 54,000 molecular weight on SDS-PAGE gels stained with Coomassie blue and was used as a positive control for the isoelectric focusing gels and Western blots.
Methyl-2-pentenolaldehyde was synthesized by KF as catalyst form raw material propionaldehyde.Which was oxidized with NaClO 2 to form strawberry acid in an yield of 78%.
Systemic insecticides were evaluated for effect on insect control, plant stand, and early fruiting of cotton in field tests at Stoneville, Mississippi, in 1965. A granular formulation of Union Carbide UC-21149 [2-mcthyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime] applied with the seed at planting gave outstanding control of tobacco thrips. Frankliniclla fusca (Hinds), and was effective against the tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris (Palisot de Beauvois). Granular formulations of General Chemical GC-6506 [dimethyl p- (methylthio) phenyl phosphate] and Niagara NIA-I0242 (2,3-dihydro-2.2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate) applied with the seed at planting were not so effective as UC-21149. When NIA-10242 and UC-21149 were applied to the seed, they were less effective against thrips than when they were applied in a granular formulation with the seed at planting. Granular formulations of UC-21149 applied as a sidedressing gave good control of caged boil weevils, Anthonomus grandis Boheman, and better suppression of the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae (Koch), than the other materials tested. Granular formulations applied with the seed at planting did not adversely affect seed germination and emergence of plants, but the higher rates of treatment reduced stands later. Treatment of the seed did adversely affect germination and/or emergence. Control of thrips resulted in earlier fruiting of plants, but yields usuaily were not increased.
The amides of 2,2,3-trichloropropionaldehyde were synthesized and their physical and chemical constants determined. These compounds showed significant anticonvulsant activity, N-(2,2,3-trichloro-1-hydroxypropyl)-acetamide being the most active.
A synthetic Nylon production wastewater high in nitrate (400-800 mg/L NO 3 -N), total organic carbon (TOC=2000 mg/L), and chemical oxygen demand (COD=5450 mg/L) was treated in a laboratory-scale, anoxic Sequencing Batch Reactor (AxSBR). The purpose was to determine the extent of organic carbon removal with different nitrate doses and the feasibility of achieving complete removal of oxidized forms of nitrogen (NOx) and organic carbon. The organic carbon consisted of 27 different alcohols, acids, aldehydes, and ketones. A concentration of 400 mg/L NO 3 -N (NO x -N/C=0.2) in the AxSBR resulted in removal of 33% TOC and 35% COD. Doubling the concentration to 800 mg/L NO3-N (NO x -N/C=0.4) increased removal of TOC and COD to 46% and 44%, respectively. An equivalent of 5000 mg/L NO 3 -N (NO x -N/C=2.5) was required to achieve 92% removal of TOC and COD. Under nitrate-limiting conditions the readily degraded organics included: n-butanol, methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, 1-pentanol, cyclopentanol, picric acid, formic acid, acetone, n-butyraldehyde, and propionaldehyde; and less readily degraded were s- and t- butanol, isopropanol, cyclohexanol, MEK, and cyclohexanone.
Abstract The amount of hydrogen evolved during the oxidation of formaldehyde at Ib electrodes was determined as a function of the potential. The current efficiency (amount of H 2 per two anodic electrons) can exceed 100% suggesting a reaction sequence which involves the (non-electrochemical) dissociation of a formaldehyde molecule into H 2 and HCOO − . Further support for such a potential dependent and heterogeneously catalyzed chemical reaction is given by isotope experiments. Smaller amounts of hydrogen are also evolved during the oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, showing that the release of a hydrogen molecule can also be coupled to electrochemical oxidation.
The ability of amino acids to form nucleophilic enamines with aldehydes and ketones has been used in the development of asymmetric α-oxidation reactions with electrophilic oxidizing agents. Singlet molecular oxygen has for the first time been asymmetrically incorporated into aldehydes and ketones, and the products were isolated as their corresponding diols in good yields and ee’s. Organocatalytic α-oxidations of cyclic ketones with iodosobenzene and N-sulfonyloxaziridine were also possible and furnished after reduction the product diols in generally low yields and in low to good ee’s. Amino acids have also been shown to catalyze the formation of carbohydrates by sequential aldol reactions. For example, proline and hydroxy proline mediate a highly selective trimerisation of α-benzyloxyacetaldehyde into allose, which was obtained in >99 % ee. Non linear effect studies of this reaction revealed the largest permanent nonlinear effect observed in a proline-catalyzed reaction to date. Moreover, polyketides were also assembled in a similar fashion by an amino acid-catalyzed one-pot reaction, and was successful for the trimerisation of propionaldehyde, however the sequential cross aldol reactions suffered from lower selectivities. This problem was overcome by the development of a two-step synthesis that enabled the formation of a range of polyketides with excellent selectivities from a variety of aldehydes. The method furnishes the polyketides via the shortest route reported and in comparable product yields to most multi-step synthesis. All polyketides were isolated as single diastereomers with >99 % ee. Based on the observed amino acid-catalysis, amino acids are thought to have taken part in the prebiotic formation of tetroses and hexoses.
An enantiomerically pure (1,2-isopropylidenedioxy)tetrahydrofuran derivative, 9, bearing acetonyl and propionaldehyde side chains smoothly underwent aldol cyclization under basic conditions. The major product was the cis-aldol 21S, accompanied by the trans-diasteromer 21R in a ratio of 4 to 1. Further functionalized substrates 10 and 11, with either a (4-acetyl)- or a (4-ethoxycarbonyl)-3(E)-butenyl group, smoothly underwent a tandem Michael addition/aldol condensation or acylation by treatment with sodium hydride (NaH)
Biotechnological processes for bulk chemicals production have been gaining great interest in the past decades, within the context of transition towards a more sustainable, bio-based economy [1]. Thanks to its two functional groups (carboxyl and β-hydroxyl), 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) has been identified by the US Department of Energy to be amongst the most promising building-blocks that can be obtained from biomass for further transformation into useful chemicals or polymers. The development of a biotechnological process to produce 3-HP with competitive performances is a key issue. Lactobacillus reuteri is known as a natural producer of 3-HP from glycerol (by-product of biodiesel industries). However, high production performance is hindered by some major hurdles. In fact, redox balance of the metabolic pathway implies that the maximal yield is limited to 0.5 mol.mol-1 , with 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) as an inevitable by-product. Then, accumulation of the toxic metabolic intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), when glycerol is supplied in batch mode, is deleterious to bacteria. Lastly, energetic cost to export the organic acid outside the cell, as well as inhibitory effects of 3-HP prevent reaching high titers [2]. The aim of this work was to improve the 3-HP production yield and titers by avoiding 3-HPA accumulation and further converting 1,3-PDO into 3-HP. After a standardization of L. reuteri growth on glucose at regulated pH, biomass was harvested just when base consumption stopped. The revised harvest protocol (centrifugation then direct packaging of cells in sterile distilled water) improved the physiological state of bacteria for the following step. The whole-cell biocatalyst was then used for bioconversion with a controlled supply of glycerol in the bioreactor. At a feeding rate of 1 g glycerol /h, 12 g.L-1 of 3-HP was obtained in 58 h along with 10 g.L-1 of 1,3-PDO (molar ratio of 0.98), which is similar to recent reported results [3] and much higher than the maximal concentration reached in batch mode (1 g.L-1 [2]). 3-HPA accumulation was minimized (0.14 g.L-1 , that is below its minimal inhibitory concentration). It was then tested whether the residual 1,3-PDO could be oxidized into 3-HP using Acetobacter aceti. A. aceti was first grown on ethanol (8 g.L-1), collected at the end of the exponential phase, then suspended in aerated baffled Erlenmeyer flasks containing the preceding bioconversion medium (without L. reuteri cells). 1,3-PDO bioconversion happened although incompletely and 4 g.L-1 of 3-HP was further produced in 24 h. The prospect of this work is to perform the 1,3-PDO conversion in controlled environmental conditions in a bioreactor, while avoiding toxic 3-HPA accumulation by A. aceti.
Sjögren-Larsson syndrome (SLS) is an inherited disorder associated with impaired fatty alcohol oxidation due to deficient activity of fatty alcohol:NAD+ oxidoreductase (FAO). FAO is a complex enzyme which consists of two separate proteins that sequentially catalyze the oxidation of fatty alcohol to fatty aldehyde and fatty acid. To determine which enzymatic component of FAO was deficient in SLS, we assayed fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase (FALDH) and fatty alcohol dehydrogenase in cultured fibroblasts from seven unrelated SLS patients. All SLS cells were selectively deficient in the FALDH component of FAO, and had normal activity of fatty alcohol dehydrogenase. The extent of FALDH deficiency in SLS cells depended on the aliphatic aldehyde used as substrate, ranging from 62% of mean normal activity using propionaldehyde as substrate to 8% of mean normal activity with octadecanal. FALDH activity in obligate SLS heterozygotes was partially decreased to 49 +/- 7% of mean normal activity using octadecanal as substrate. Differential centrifugation studies in fibroblasts indicated that this FALDH enzyme was largely particulate; soluble FALDH activity was normal in SLS cells. Intact SLS fibroblasts oxidized octadecanol to fatty acid at less than 10% of the normal rate, but oxidized free octadecanal normally, suggesting that the FALDH affected in SLS is chiefly involved in the oxidation of fatty alcohol to fatty acid. These results show that the primary enzymatic defect in SLS is the FALDH component of the FAO complex, which leads to deficient oxidation of fatty aldehyde derived from fatty alcohol.
A sample of vapor of methyl ester is passed at a rate of 0.5 l/min through a midget impinger (with fritted glass beads attached to the tip of bubbler) containing 20ml of 0.5N sodium hydroxide solution. The solution is allowed to stand for 20 minutes or longer at room temperature until the ester is hydrolyzed to methanol.The recommended analytical procedure is as follows. Acidify a 20 ml portion of the 0.5 M sodium hydroxide solution containing 20300μg of methyl ester by adding 2ml of 2.7M sulfuric acid. Swirl, add 1ml of 0.01g/ml potassium permanganate solution and 2ml of 0.3% (by volume) propionaldehyde solution. Swirl, keep the mixture at room temperature for 10 minutes. Reduce the excess oxidizing reagent by adding 1 ml of 0.02g/ml sodium sulfite solution. Swirl, add 2ml of p-rosaniline hydrochloride solution (dissolve 0.16g of the reagent completely in 24ml of conc. hydrochloric acid, and dilute to 100 ml) and 1ml of 2.7 M sulfuric acid. Swirl, and let stand for 30 minutes at room temperature. Measure the absorbance at 585 nm against the reagent blank obtained by the same procedure.
The adsorption of the chromate ion on cured diphenyl phosphonate-aldehyde resins has been investigated. Phosphorus-containing novolak type resins, obtained from the reaction of diphenyl phosphonate with aldehydes have been cured with additional hexamethylenetetramine. The adsorption of the chromate ion on the cured resins decreased in the order: propionaldehyde≈acrylaldehyde>butyraldehyde>crotonaldehyde>acetaldehyde>furfuial> formaldehyde. The optimum pH for the adsorption of the chromate ion was in the range 3.0 to 4.0. In the case of the cured diphenyl phosphonate-propionaldehyde resin, the amount of the adsorption of the chromate ion was 20.5 mg Cr/g resin. Under the same conditions, the amounts of the adsorption of molybdate and tungstate ions were 40.5 mg Mo/g resin and 80.0 mg W/g resin, respectively. The adsorbed chromate ion was recovered at approximately 80 wt% as chromium by elution with 1.0 mol/1 aqueous HCl solution. The adsorbed molybdate and tungstate ions were desorbed with 2.0 and 3.0 mol/...
Abstract Molecular distributions of monocarboxylic acids (C 1 –C 10 ) and aldehydes (C 1 –C 6 ) have been studied in the atmosphere of Los Angeles, as well as in motor exhaust and city dust samples. Acetic and formic acids followed by propionic acid were found to be the dominant organic acid in the gaseous phase. Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde are two dominant carbonyls, followed by propionaldehyde and glyoxal. The concentrations of organic acids and aldehydes in Los Angeles air during autumn 1984 was 0.52–5.2 and 0.94–5.8 ppb, respectively. In contrast, concentrations of the organic acids and aldehydes in motor exhaust collected under running modes were 140–410 and 340–2500 ppb, respectively. This suggests that internal combustion engines are important primary sources of both volatile organic acids and aldehydes in the urban atmosphere. By contrast, diurnal variations in concentrations of organic acids were observed during clear hot days (maximum temperature: up to 40°C), whereas such trends were largely absent during low overcast days. A positive correlation ( r =0.8) was observed between the acid concentrations and maximum ambient temperatures, suggesting that secondary photochemical production of organic acids is much more important in Los Angeles than primary emissions from automobiles during daytime under strong solar radiation.
Fructose-2,6-bisphosphate (Fru-2,6-bisP) was evaluated as a potential marker for the dormancy-breaking phase or the germination phase before pericarp splitting in red rice (Oryza sativa). During 4 h of imbibition at 30[deg]C, Fru-2,6-bisP of dehulled dormant and nondormant seeds increased to 0.26 and 0.38 pmol embryo-1, respectively. In nondormant seeds, embryo Fru-2,6-bisP content remained stable until the onset of pericarp splitting (12 h) and increased rapidly thereafter. In dormant seeds, Fru-2,6-bisP declined to 0.09 pmol embryo-1 at 24 h. Embryo Fru-2,6-bisP was correlated with O2 uptake of dormant and nondormant seeds. A 24-h exposure of dehulled, water-imbibed, dormant seeds to treatments yielding >90% germination (sodium nitrite [4 mM], propionic acid [22 mM], methyl propionate [32 mM], propanol [75 mM], and propionaldehyde [40 mM]) led to changes in embryo Fru-2,6-bisP that were unrelated to the final germination percentages. Furthermore, a 2-h pulse of propionaldehyde increased Fru-2,6-bisP 4-fold but did not break dormancy. Whereas nitrite and propionaldehyde increased Fru-2,6-bisP to 0.33 pmol embryo-1 after 2 h of contact, propionic acid and methyl propionate did not increase Fru-2,6-bisP above the untreated control. In all cases, further increases in Fru-2,6-bisP occurred after pericarp splitting. However, the plateau Fru-2,6-bisP attained during chemical contact was inversely correlated with elapsed time to 30% germination (r = -0.978). Therefore, although Fru-2,6-bisP is not a universal marker for dormancy release, its rapid increase during nitrite and propionaldehyde treatments suggests that events associated with dormancy breaking can occur within 2 h of chemical treatment.
A novel consecutive three-component four step synthesis of 5-(hetero)arylpent-2-enoates has been disclosed. Various (hetero)aryl iodides can be coupled with allyl alcohol under Heck conditions to give 3-(hetero)arylpropionaldehyde in termediates, which were transformed without isolation with in situ generated stabilized phosphorus ylides to furnish 5-(hetero)arylpent-2enoates in moderate to excellent yield. This one-po t procedure circumvents the isolation of sensitive aldehydes and phosphorus ylides as interm ediates and finally gives the product isomers with good to excellent E/Z and β/α selectivity.
Abstract Acrylic acid can be successfully produced in a single reactor via subsequent oxidation of the glycerol-dehydrated products. Selective dehydration of glycerol to acrolein was studied at 275–400 °C over HZSM-5, HBeta, HMordenite and HY. The V–Mo oxides (15–70 mol%V) on silicic acid support (20–100 wt% mixed oxides loading) were then included as a second bed for subsequent oxidation of the dehydrated products. Over the acid zeolites, acrolein and acetol are mainly generated, together with acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, pyruvaldehyde and other oxygenates as secondary products. A complete conversion of glycerol with high selectivity to acrolein (up to 81 mol%) can be obtained when medium pore zeolites (HZSM-5) and low glycerol concentration (10–30 wt%) was used at 300 °C. A separated-sequential bed system provides high selectivity for acrylic acid with small amount of acetic acid and acetaldehyde (∼15 mol%). The catalyst with high V content promotes total oxidation of the dehydrated products to CO while that with highly dispersed V–Mo–O phases affords 98% selectivity to acrylic acid with 48% acrolein conversion.
Abstract The aim of this study was the detailed organic speciation of fine (PM2.5) and coarse (PM2.5–10) particles and gaseous carbonyl compounds from plumes emitted by wildfires during the summer of 2009 in Portugal. Complementary characterisation of the smoke particulate inorganic fraction, along with emission factors of major trace gases, have already been published in Atmospheric Environment. The detailed speciation of organic compounds in particle samples was carried out by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry after multi-solvent extraction, flash chromatography on silica gel and appropriate derivatisation techniques. PM2.5 constitutes an important fraction of PM10 (PM2.5/PM10 > 80%). Gaseous carbonyls were sampled from the Tedlar bags containing the smoke samples in DNHP cartridges and analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography. A clear predominance of carbonaceous constituents was observed, with OC concentrations always much higher than EC in both particle size fractions (OC/EC >> 7). The chromatographically resolved organics were dominated by diterpenoids, acids, sugars, phenols and aliphatic compounds in both size fractions. Retene, a biomarker of softwood smoke, was the dominant aromatic hydrocarbon in samples. The major anhydrosugar detected was levoglucosan, followed by mannosan and galactosan. Among the measured oxygenated volatile organic compounds, the most abundant was acetaldehyde with EFs (dry basis) between 1.03 and 1.87 g kg−1, followed by formaldehyde with values in the range of 0.09–0.96 g kg−1. Propionaldehyde was the less abundant carbonyl, with values in the range of 0.03–0.17 g kg−1.
The microwave spectrum of propionaldehyde, CH3CH2CHO, has been investigated in the frequency region 8–38 Gc/sec. The existence of two stable rotamers has been demonstrated. The cis rotamer, in which the four heavy atoms are coplanar, is more stable by 900±100 cal/mole. An approximate treatment of the coupling of the —CH3 and C–C torsional motions in the cis rotamer is presented. Using this treatment the barrier to internal rotation in the cis rotamer is found to be 2280±110 cal/mole. The dihedral angle in the higher energy, gauche rotamer is about 131°. Evidence is given for coupling of the C–C torsional momentum and over‐all rotational angular momentum in the gauche rotamer. Other aspects of the spectrum are also discussed.
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED: To obtain methionine and its salt low in discoloration, excellent in storage stability with a by-product as small an amount as possible by a large- scale apparatus by a continuous operation. SOLUTION: 3-Methylmercaptopropionaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide, ammonia and carbon dioxide or components capable of producing these components are converted optionally in the presence of water into 5-(2-methylmercaptoethyl)- hydantoin and further converted into methionine or a methionine salt to give methionine as the objective compound. The conversion is preferably carried out at ≥80°C under ≥10bar. The conversion of the components is preferably performed through at least one premixture. COPYRIGHT: (C)1997,JPO
Dosage-mortality studies were conducted on both sexes of house flies Musca domestica L., the pupae receiving 5000 R X-irradiation, Single doses of the toxicant were applied to flies from pupae which had been irradiated with 7500 and 10,000 R, and to flies receiving 25,000, 50,000, and 75,000 R immediately before topical application. Generally, irradiation of pupae (1) increased toxicity of heptachlor to males and females; (2) reduced significantly the toxicity of malathion to females, with no effect on males; and (3) reduced significantly the toxicity of Temik® (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbarbamoyl) oxime) to males, with no effect on females. Irradiation of adults (a) had no evident effect with heptachlor for either sex; (b) had no effect with malathion, and (c) increased significantly the toxicity of Temik to both sexes at 75,000 R. It is suggested that the phenomenal response observed in (2) may be attributed to altered ratios or increased levels of csterases involved in detoxication of malathion.
Abstract Gas chromatographic investigation of milk cultures of three strains of Propionibacterium shermanii revealed the production of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, ethanol, and propanol by all strains. One strain produced dimethyl sulfide in quantities significant from the standpoint of flavor. The ability of all strains to reduce added acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde to the corresponding primary alcohols was demonstrated. Acetone and butanone, however, were not reduced to the corresponding secondary alcohols.
The influence of Trp128-substituted mutants of the hydroxynitrile lyase from Manihot esculenta (MeHNL) on the stereoselectivity of MeHNL-catalyzed HCN additions to aldehydes with stereogenic centers, which yield the corresponding cyanohydrins, is described. In rac-2-phenylpropionaldehyde (rac-1) reactions, wild-type (wtMeHNL) and all MeHNL Trp128 mutants are highly (S)-selective toward the (R) enantiomer of rac-1; this results exclusively in (2S,3R)-cyanohydrin ((2S,3R)-2) with > or =96 % de. The (S) enantiomer of rac-1, however, only reacts (S)-selectively with wtMeHNL to give (2S,3S)-2 with 80 % de, whereas with Trp128 mutants, (R) selectivity increases with decreasing size of the amino acids exchanged. The MeHNL W128A mutant is exclusively (R)-selective, resulting in (2R,3S)-2 with 86 % de. The reaction behavior of rac-phenylbutyraldehyde (rac-5) is comparable with rac-1, which also inverts the stereoselectivity from (S) to (R) when the enzyme is exchanged from wtMeHNL to the W128A mutant. Stereogenic centers not adjacent to the aldehyde group, as in 7 and 9, do not influence the stereoselectivity of MeHNL catalysis, and (S) selectivity is observed in all cases. Stereoselectivity and inversion of stereoselectivity of MeHNL Trp128 mutant-catalyzed cyanohydrin formation can be explained and rationalized with crystal-structure-based molecular modeling.
The breakdown of fucose and rhamnose released from plant cell walls by the cellulolytic soil bacterium Clostridium phytofermentans produces toxic aldehyde intermediates. To enable growth on these carbon sources, the pathway for the breakdown of fucose and rhamnose is encapsulated within a bacterial microcompartment (BMC). These proteinaceous organelles sequester the toxic aldehyde intermediates and allow the efficient action of acylating aldehyde dehydrogenase enzymes to produce an acyl-CoA that is ultimately used in substrate-level phosphorylation to produce ATP. Here we analyse the kinetics of the aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme from the fucose/rhamnose utilisation BMC with different short-chain fatty aldehydes and show that it has activity against substrates with up to six carbon atoms, with optimal activity against propionaldehyde. We have also determined the X-ray crystal structure of this enzyme in complex with CoA and show that the adenine nucleotide of this cofactor is bound in a distinct pocket to the same group in NAD+. This work is the first report of the structure of CoA bound to an aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme and our crystallographic model provides important insight into the differences within the active site that distinguish the acylating from non-acylating aldehyde dehydrogenase enzymes.
Sjögren-Larsson syndrome (SLS) is an inherited disorder associated with impaired fatty alcohol oxidation due to deficient activity of fatty alcohol:NAD+ oxidoreductase (FAO). FAO is a complex enzyme which consists of two separate proteins that sequentially catalyze the oxidation of fatty alcohol to fatty aldehyde and fatty acid. To determine which enzymatic component of FAO was deficient in SLS, we assayed fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase (FALDH) and fatty alcohol dehydrogenase in cultured fibroblasts from seven unrelated SLS patients. All SLS cells were selectively deficient in the FALDH component of FAO, and had normal activity of fatty alcohol dehydrogenase. The extent of FALDH deficiency in SLS cells depended on the aliphatic aldehyde used as substrate, ranging from 62% of mean normal activity using propionaldehyde as substrate to 8% of mean normal activity with octadecanal. FALDH activity in obligate SLS heterozygotes was partially decreased to 49 +/-7% of mean normal activity using octadecanal as substrate. Differential centrifugation studies in fibroblasts indicated that this FALDH enzyme was largely particulate; soluble FALDH activity was normal in SLS cells. Intact SLS fibroblasts oxidized octadecanol to fatty acid at less than 10% of the normal rate, but oxidized free octadecanal normally, suggesting that the FALDH affected in SLS is chiefly involved in the oxidation of fatty alcohol to fatty acid. These results show that the primary enzymatic […] Abstract Sjogren-Larsson syndrome (SLS) is an inherited disorder associated with impaired fatty alcohol oxidation due to deficient activity of fatty alcohol:NAD+ oxidoreductase (FAO). FAO is a complex enzyme which consists of two separate proteins that sequentially catalyze the oxidation of fatty alcohol to fatty aldehyde and fatty acid. To determine which enzymatic component of FAO was deficient in SLS, we assayed fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase (FALDH) and fatty alcohol dehydrogenase in cultured fibroblasts from seven unrelated SLS patients. All SLS cells were selectively deficient in the FALDH component of FAO, and had normal activity of fatty alcohol dehydrogenase. The extent of FALDH deficiency in SLS cells depended on the aliphatic aldehyde used as substrate, ranng from 62% of mean normal activity using propionaldehyde as substrate to 8% of mean normal activity with octadecanal. FALDH activity in obligate SLS heterozygotes was partially decreased to 49±7% of mean normal activity using octadecanal as substrate. Differential centrifugation studies in fibroblasts indicated that this FALDH enzyme was largely particulate; soluble FALDH activity was normal in SLS cells. Intact SLS fibroblasts oxidized octadecanol to fatty acid at < 10% of the normal rate, but oxidized free octadecanal normally, suggesting that the FALDH affected in SLS is chiefly involved in the oxidation of fatty alcohol to fatty acid. These results show that the primary enzymatic defect in SLS is the FALDH component of the FAO complex, which leads to deficient oxidation of fatty aldehyde derived from fatty alcohol. (J. Clin. Invest. 1991. 88:1643-1648.) Key words: ichthyosismental retardation *ipid metabolism * genetic diseaseneurological disease Fatty Aldehyde Dehydrogenase Deficiency in Sjtigren-Larsson Syndrome 1643 J. Clin. Invest.
A novel consecutive three-component four step synthesis of 5-(hetero)arylpent-2-enoates has been disclosed. Various (hetero)aryl iodides can be coupled with allyl alcohol under Heck conditions to give 3-(hetero)arylpropionaldehyde intermediates, which were transformed without isolation with in situ generated stabilized phosphorus ylides to furnish 5-(hetero)arylpent-2-enoates in moderate to excellent yield. This one-pot procedure circumvents the isolation of sensitive aldehydes and phosphorus ylides as intermediates and finally gives the product isomers with good to excellent E/Z and β/α selectivity.
The breakdown of fucose and rhamnose released from plant cell walls by the cellulolytic soil bacterium Clostridium phytofermentans produces toxic aldehyde intermediates. To enable growth on these carbon sources, the pathway for the breakdown of fucose and rhamnose is encapsulated within a bacterial microcompartment (BMC). These proteinaceous organelles sequester the toxic aldehyde intermediates and allow the efficient action of acylating aldehyde dehydrogenase enzymes to produce an acyl-CoA that is ultimately used in substrate-level phosphorylation to produce ATP. Here we analyse the kinetics of the aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme from the fucose/rhamnose utilisation BMC with different short-chain fatty aldehydes and show that it has activity against substrates with up to six carbon atoms, with optimal activity against propionaldehyde. We have also determined the X-ray crystal structure of this enzyme in complex with CoA and show that the adenine nucleotide of this cofactor is bound in a distinct pocket to the same group in NAD + . This work is the first report of the structure of CoA bound to an aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme and our crystallographic model provides important insight into the differences within the active site that distinguish the acylating from nonacylating aldehyde dehydrogenase enzymes.
Protein hydrophobicity can be modified after a PEGylation process. However, hydrophobic interaction chromatography (HIC) has been used to separate PEGylation reaction products less frequently than other techniques. In this context, chromatographic monoliths represent a good alternative to continue exploring the separation of PEGylated proteins with HIC. In this work, the separation of PEGylated proteins using C4 A monolith as well as Toyopearl Butyl 650C and Butyl Sepharose was analyzed. Three proteins were used as models: RNase A, β-lactoglobulin, and lysozyme. All proteins were PEGylated in the N-terminal amino groups with 20 kDa methoxy poly(ethylene glycol) propionaldehyde. The concentration of ammonium sulfate (1 M) used was the same for all stationary phases. The results obtained demonstrated that the C4 A monolith could better resolve all protein PEGylation reaction mixtures, since the peaks of mono- and di-PEGylated proteins can be clearly distinguished in the chromatographic profiles. On the contrary, while using Butyl Sepharose media only the PEGylation reaction mixtures of RNase A could be partially separated at 35 and 45 CVs. PEGylated proteins of β-lactoglobulin and lysozyme could not be resolved when Toyopearl Butyl 650C and Butyl Sepharose were used. It is then clear that monoliths are an excellent choice to explore the purification process of PEGylated proteins exploiting the advantages of HIC. © 2016 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Biotechnol. Prog., 32:702-707, 2016.
Evidence for a requirement for CO2 in the productive metabolism of aliphatic alkenes and epoxides by the propylene-oxidizing bacterium Xanthobacter strain Py2 is presented. In the absence of CO2, whole-cell suspensions of propylene-grown cells catalyzed the isomerization of propylene oxide (epoxypropane) to acetone. In the presence of CO2, no acetone was produced. Acetone was not metabolized by suspensions of propylene-grown cells, in either the absence or presence of CO2. The degradation of propylene and propylene oxide by propylene-grown cells supported the fixation of 14CO2 into cell material, and the time course of 14C fixation correlated with the time course of propylene and propylene oxide degradation. The degradation of glucose and propionaldehyde by propylene-grown or glucose-grown cells did not support significant 14CO2 fixation. With propylene oxide as the substrate, the concentration dependence of 14CO2 fixation exhibited saturation kinetics, and at saturation, 0.9 mol of CO2 was fixed per mol of propylene oxide consumed. Cultures grown with propylene in a nitrogen-deficient medium supplemented with NaH13CO3 specifically incorporated 13C label into the C-1 (major labeled position) and C-3 (minor labeled position) carbon atoms of the endogenous storage compound poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate. No specific label incorporation was observed when cells were cultured with glucose or n-propanol as a carbon source. The depletion of CO2 from cultures grown with propylene, but not glucose or n-propanol, inhibited bacterial growth. We propose that propylene oxide metabolism in Xanthobacter strain Py2 proceeds by terminal carboxylation of an isomerization intermediate, which, in the absence of CO2, is released as acetone.
Lactobacillus reuteri is a new probiotic.It is important to know the metabolism characteristics of L.reuteri using glucose and glycerol.This paper focused on the metabolism characteristics of L.reuteri CG001 under the conditions of glucose/glycerol co-substrate fermentations with glycerol addition at initial time,log phase and stationary phase,respectively.The results show that the metabolic migration will happen whenever glycerol was added during fermentation.Addition of glycerol at initial time would cause glucose to convert mainly to lactic acid and acetic acid.The net accumulation of NADH in this pathway would be used in pathway of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol(1,3-PD).Addition of glycerol at log phase would also lead to the slow metabolic migration from ethanol pathway to acetic acid pathway.Initially accumulated 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde(3-HPA) would be transformed to 1,3-PD.More 1,3-PD and lactic acid would be produced when glucose is added at 12 h.Addition of glycerol at stationary phase would make L.reuteri to accumulate more 3-HPA,which would cause the cell death at a definite concentration,especially when there is no glucose to maintain the cell activity.It was also observed that the L.reuteri can reuse its metabolism product of lactic acid to regulate NADH/NAD during fermentation.
Malonic acid or a salt thereof is produced in high yield by catalytic oxidation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde or 3-hydroxypropionic acid in the aqueous phase with oxygen or a gas containing oxygen. The reaction proceeds in the presence of at least 10% by weight of noble metal of the platinum group with respect to the C3 component used. Preferred are Pd supported catalysts and Pt.
Exploitation of the synthetic route to optically active (R) (-)-4a-methyl-4, 4a, 9, 10-tetrahydro-2 (3H)-phenanthrone ((R) (-)-6a) and its 7-methoxy derivative ((R) (-)-6b) from optically active (R)-2-cyclohexenones ((R) (+)-1) or (S) (+)-δ-ketoaldehydes ((S) (+)-2) were attempted. (R) (+)-1 and (S) (+)-2 could be obtained by the asymmetric synthesis via the enamines prepared from L-proline-derived pyrrolidines ((S)-5) and dl-2-arylpropionaldehydes (dl-4). Base-catalysed cyclization of (S) (+)-2, followed by ketalization and Jones oxidation, gave (S) (-)-cyclohexanone ((S) (-)-7). The same compounds could be also prepared from (R) (+)-1 by successive epoxidation, ketalization, reduction, and Jones oxidation. Addition of N, N-dimethyl lithioacetamide 1, 4-diazabicyclo [2, 2, 2] octane complex to (S) (-)-7, followed by reduction with Vitride and cyclization with polyphosphoric acid, afforded (R) (-)-6a, 85% optically pure, and (R) (-)-6b, [α]20D-223° (ethanol). Detailed studies on reaction products and conditions, and preliminary experiments with racemic compounds were also carried out.
A simple unit is described which can be incorporated in a high resolution nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer to remove the spin coupling between two groups of hydrogen nuclei in the same molecule. Applied to the molecule of propionaldehyde, the method considerably simplifies the analysis of the high resolution spectrum measured at 60 Mc/s.
Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) is used in the treatment of angina pectoris and cardiac failure, but the rapid onset of GTN tolerance limits its clinical utility. Research suggests that a principal cause of tolerance is inhibition of an enzyme responsible for the production of physiologically active concentrations of NO from GTN. This enzyme has not conclusively been identified. However, the mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) is inhibited in GTN-tolerant tissues and produces NO2- from GTN, which is proposed to be converted to NO within mitochondria. To investigate the role of this enzyme in GTN tolerance, cumulative GTN concentration-response curves were obtained for both GTN-tolerant and -nontolerant rat aortic rings treated with the ALDH inhibitor cyanamide or the ALDH substrate propionaldehyde. Tolerance to GTN was induced using both in vivo and in vitro protocols. The in vivo protocol resulted in almost complete inhibition of ALDH2 activity and GTN biotransformation in hepatic mitochondria, indicating that long-term GTN exposure results in inactivation of the enzyme. Treatment with cyanamide or propionaldehyde caused a dose-dependent increase in the EC50 value for GTN-induced relaxation of similar magnitude in both tolerant and nontolerant aorta, suggesting that although cyanamide and propionaldehyde inhibit GTN-induced vasodilation, these inhibitors do not affect the enzyme or system involved in tolerance development to GTN. Treatment with cyanamide or propionaldehyde did not significantly inhibit 1,1-diethyl-2-hydroxy-2-nitrosohydrazine-mediated vasodilation in tolerant or nontolerant aorta, indicating that these ALDH inhibitors do not affect the downstream effectors of NO-induced vasodilation. Immunoblot analysis indicated that the majority of vascular ALDH2 is present in the cytoplasm, suggesting that mitochondrial biotransformation of GTN by ALDH2 plays a minor role in the overall vascular biotransformation of GTN by this enzyme.
1. A process for preparing gidroftoralkanolov structural formula RfCFXCHROH, comprising reacting galogenftorugleroda structural formula RfCFX2, wherein each X is independently selected from Cl, Br and I, with an aldehyde and reactive metal in a reactive solvent to form a reaction product containing metal gidroftoralkoksid and neutralizing said gidroftoralkoksida to obtain metal gidroftoralkanola. ! 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising isolating said gidroftoralkanola. ! 3. The method of claim 1 wherein Rf is selected from the group consisting of perfluoromethyl, perfluoroethyl, perfluoro-n-propyl, perftorizopropila, perfluoro-n-butyl and perftorizobutila. ! 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the aldehyde is selected from the group consisting of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde and isobutyraldehyde. ! 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactive metal is selected from the group consisting of magnesium turnings activated zinc powder, aluminum powder and any of the following metals: magnesium, calcium, titanium, iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, zinc, indium, and combinations thereof. ! 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises adding a zinc salt in addition to the reactive metal. ! 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactive solvent is selected from the group consisting of linear or cyclic alkyl-, dialkyl- and trialkylamines, N-methylpyrrolidine, N-methylpiperidine, pyridine, alkyl- substituted pyridines, dimethylformamide, pyrazine or pyrimidine, and mixtures thereof. ! 8. A process for preparing gidroftoralkenov structural formula RfCF = CHR, comprising reacting galogenftorugleroda structural formula RfCFX2, wherein each X independently
[reaction: see text] The enantioselective synthesis of the carbon skeleton of 6-deoxyerythronolide B has been achieved in 23 linear steps from propionaldehyde. The synthesis relies on an iterative approach employing an asymmetric acyl-thiazolidinethione propionate aldol reaction to establish eight of nine stereogenic centers. The remaining stereogenic center at C6 was set through a Myers alkylation employing a complex alkyl iodide.
The carbon-carbon bond forming ability of transketolase (TK), along with its broad substrate specificity, makes it very attractive as a biocatalyst in industrial organic synthesis. Through the production of saturation mutagenesis libraries focused on individual active site residues, several variants of TK have been discovered with enhanced activities on non-natural substrates. We have used computational and bioinformatics tools to increase our understanding of TK and to guide engineering of the enzyme for further improvements in activity. ::: Computational automated docking is a powerful technique with the potential to identify transient structures along an enzyme reaction pathway that are difficult to obtain by experimental structure determination. We have used the AutoDock algorithm to dock a series of known ketol donor and aldehyde acceptor substrates into the active site of E. coli TK, both in the presence and the absence of reactive intermediates. Comparison of docked conformations with available crystal structure complexes allows us to propose a more complete mechanism at a level of detail not currently possible by experimental structure determination alone. ::: Statistical coupling analysis (SCA) utilises evolutionary sequence data present within multiple sequence alignments to identify energetically coupled networks of residues within protein structures. Using this technique we have identified several coupled networks within the TK enzyme which we have targeted for mutagenesis in multiple mutant variant libraries. Screening of these libraries for increased activity on the non-natural substrate propionaldehyde (PA) has identified combinations of mutations that act synergistically on enzyme activity. Notably, a double variant has been discovered with a 20-fold improvement in kcat relative to wild type on the PA reaction, this is higher than any other TK variant discovered to date.
Object:Improved the conditions and routes of the 4-methyl-3-decen-5-ol,this way increased the yield of the product and being morehelpful for the industrial production.Method:The first step of the synthetic pathway was obtained 2-methyl-2-pentenal by condensation of the propionaldehyde under condition of the alkali.Then taked the pentyl alchol as the raw material,reacted with thionyl chloride obtained 1-chloropentane.Which reacted with magnesium obtain Grignard reagent.The Grignard reagent reacted with 2-methyl-2-pentenal then hydrolyzed to obtain 4-methyl-3-decen-5-ol.Conclusion:The 4-methyl-3-decen-5-ol were confirmed by1H-NMR and IR,and the characters of physical and chemical character is according with the objective compound,the assay is more than 98.0% by GC.
The invention provides a preparation method of 2,2-dimethylolpropionic acid, which comprises the steps of condensation reaction, neutralization, recovery, oxidization, replacement, concentration, crystallization, filtering, mother solution recovery, crystallization and recrystallization. Compared with foreign production methods, the used catalyst selectivity and the propionaldehyde conversion rate are high, the energy consumption is low and less waste water is generated.
Cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyses the hydrolysis of methyl p-nitrophenyl (PNP) carbonate at an appreciable rate that is markedly stimualted by NAD+ or NADH. The nuleotides accelerate the rate-limiting hydrolysis of the acyl-enzyme intermediate while slowing the observed burst of p-nitrophenoxide production. With PNP dimethylcarbamate the enzyme catalyses the slow release of approx. 1 molecule of p-nitrophenoxide per tetrameric enzyme molecule; during the reaction the enzyme becomes effectively inactivated, as the rate of hydrolysis of the acyl-enzyme is virtually zero. The presence of NAD+, NADH, propionaldehyde, chloral hydrate, diethylstilboestrol or disulfiram slows the reaction of enzyme with PNP dimethylcarbamate. The reaction appears to be dependent on a group of pKa 7.6, possibly a cysteine residue. The effect of PNP dimethylcarbamate on the dehydrogenase activity of the enzyme is consistent with there being a single type of active site for the enzyme9s dehydrogenase and esterase activities. Steric and electronic factors that govern reaction of the enzyme with PNP substrates are discussed.
The objectives of this study were to determine whether blood pressure and heart rate are affected by concentrations of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde likely to occur in cigarette smoke and, if not, to determine the concentrations required in the inspired air to affect these parameters. In this study anesthetized rats inhaled varying concentrations of acetaldehyde (0.5–30 μg/ml) and propionaldehyde (3.0–200 μg/ml) for 1 min intervals while changes in arterial blood pressure and heart rate were measured. With acetaldehyde, significant (P < 0.01) increases were seen in blood pressure at concentrations of 3.0 μg/ml and above. Concentrations of 12 and 25 μg/ml significantly increased heart rate. Similar effects were seen with slightly higher concentrations of propionaldehyde. It appears that concentrations of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde producing significant changes in blood pressure and heart rate are somewhat higher than those that would be encountered in cigarette smoking.
Abstract Propylene epoxidation is investigated on RuO 2 (110) and oxygen added RuO 2 -O ot (110) surfaces by periodic DFT computational method. The desired product propylene oxide (PO) as well as the undesired products acetone (AC) or propionaldehyde (PA) form on both surfaces through either surface intermediate oxometallopropylene (OMMP) or direct oxygen insertion mechanisms. On RuO 2 (110) surface, nucleophilic lattice oxygen at bridge position (O br ) favors the stable surface intermediate mechanism where high energy requirements for forward reactions are demonstrated in our calculations. On RuO 2 -O ot (110) surface, however, higher reactivity of the electrophilic oxygen (O ot ) species lowers the reaction barriers and enables an exothermic reaction path to the direct oxygen insertion for PO production. Therefore, RuO 2 -O ot surface is expected to show a higher PO rate.
The reaction of adsorbed CO with C2H4/H2 and ethylene hydroformylation over reduced, oxidized, and sulfided Rh/SiO2 catalysts has been investigated under reaction conditions by in situ infrared spectroscopy. Both reactions involve the CO insertion step resulting in the formation of propionaldehyde. The linear CO adsorbed on the Rh0 site of the reduced Rh/SiO2 and the linear CO adsorbed on the Rh+ site of the oxidized Rh/SiO2 are consumed and propionaldehyde is produced as the adsorbed CO reacts with C2H4 and H2. The results show that both single Rh0 atoms and Rh+ ion sites are active for the CO insertion reaction. In situ infrared observations of steady-state ethylene hydroformylation show that the oxidized Rh/SiO2 containing considerable amounts of Rh+ sites exhibits rate and selectivity for the formation of propionaldehyde higher than those of the reduced Rh/SiO2; the sulfided Rh/SiO2 comprising mainly single Rh sites shows rate and selectivity for the formation of propionaldehyde higher than that of the reduced Rh/SiO,. The low selectivity of the reduced Rh/SiO2 for ethylene hydroformylation is attributed to the high hydrogenation activity of the Rh crystallite surface on the reduced Rh/SiO2.
DL-Tryptophan hydrantoin was obtained from phenylhydrazone of β-(hydanto-5-yl)-propionaldehyde acetal (5-(γ,γ-dialkoxypropyl)hydantoin) by Fischer’s indole synthesis. β-(Hydanto-5-yl)propionaldehyde acetal was prepared by Bucherer’s reaction from 1,1-diacetoxy-4,4-dialkoxybutane obtained by the hydroformylation of acrolein acetate. Attempts to crystallize β-(hydanto-5-yl)-propionaldehyde acetal from Bucherer’s reaction solution were unsuccessful, but 5-alkoxy-1,3-dioxoperhydropyrro[1,2-c]imidazole was obtained by treating the solution with ion exchange resins in alcohol. It could be also converted to tryptophan hydantoin.
An ant venom alkaloid (–)-[3S-(3β, 5β, 8α)]-3-heptyl-5-methylpyrrolizidine (1) has been synthesized in an enantioselective fashion from 3-(5-methyl-2-furly)propionaldehyde (2) employing enantioselective epoxidation at the key stage.
1. Sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase showed little pH dependence of V or kcat. Some buffer anion effects were noted. 2. The oxidation of aldehydes at pH 7.6 was quantitative but irreversible. The initial velocity data indicated a sequential mechanism for the addition of substrates. Inhibition by NADH and the product analogue 2-bromo-2-phenylacetic acid, together with the known tight binding of NADH to the free enzyme, indicated an ordered mechanism with NAD+ as leading substrate. 3. Values for the rate of binding and dissociation of NAD+ were obtained from the steady-state data. The values obtained were virtually identical with those which could be calculated from the data for the horse liver cytoplasmic enzyme. Close similarities are in general apparent for the horse and sheep liver cytoplasmic enzymes and with other tissue aldehyde dehydrogenases. 4. Apparent substrate activation was observed with high concentrations of both acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, a limiting value of 0.25s-1 being obtained for kcat. No isotope effect was observed on V using [1-2H]propionaldehyde as substrate suggesting that NADH release might be rate-limiting in the steady-state. 5. The implications of the non-linear steady-state behaviour are discussed.
1'3-Dioxolanes were synthesized by reactions of 3-cyclohexenecarboxaldehyde, 5-norbornene-2-endo-carboxaldehyde with 1,2-ethanedithiol and 3-(2-propenyloxy)- and 3-propoxy-1,2-propanediols, aswell as of propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, and trichloroacetaldehyde with the latter two thiols. Dichlorocarbene addition, bromination, and epoxidation of the ring C = C were accomplished, and activity of the resulting products as dienophiles in Dield-Alder reactions was assessed.
The protonated form of acrolein is reduced at pH 9 a more negative wave (i4) is observed in the potential region where propionaldehyde is reduced. Identification of this wave was complicated by formation of β-hydroxypropionaldehyde in a bulk reaction of acrolein with hydroxide ions. Controlled-potential electrolysis at the limiting current of wave i2 or i3 at pH 5 and 7 yielded propionaldehyde, identified by gas-liquid chromatography (glc) and using waves of semicarbazones. Absence of formation of allyl alcohol was proved by glc and bromine titration. Voltammetric curves obtained with a hanging mercury drop electrode indicated that the mechanism of reduction at a mercury electrode with a constant surface differs from that at the dropping mercury electrode (DME). Polarographic reduction at the DME in the two-electron step yields predominantly saturated aldehyde, as was observed for the majority of α,β-unsaturated ketones and for cinnamaldehyde, rather than an unsaturated alcohol, as proved for crotonaldehyde. Substitution of cinnamaldehyde by a methyl group in the α-position or by a phenyl group in the β-position does not result in a change in the preferred protonation site. Saturated aldehydes are still the predominating product found at the DME. Similarly, introduction of a methyl group in the α-position of crotonaldehyde does not affect the affinity to protonation. Tiglaldehyde is reduced at the DME to an α,β-unsaturated alcohol. ::: ::: Electrolysis products obtained with a mercury pool electrode should not be used for interpretation of the electrode processes at the DME without a proof of analogous processes.
Brief heating of safflower oil with 1% by weight of DL-methionine at 200 C stabilized the oil to subse-quent autoxidation. Since this treatment also caused development of a strong cabbage-like aroma, it was difficult to follow the oxidation organoleptically. Measurements of oxygen absorption rate and per-oxide development confirmed that the heated oil was quite stable. The major product of the reaction between methionine and safflower oil, N(3-methyl-thiopropyl) linoleic amide, was found to be a pro-oxidant. There was evidence that methional (β-methylmercaptopropionaldehyde), formed by de-gradation of methionine, is the active antioxidant. Commercial methional contains significant quantities of a dimer and trimer, both of which were also found to have antioxidant activity. The dimer is a de-hydrated aldol condensation product whereas the trimer is cyclic, a substituted trioxymethylene. Meth-ional and its polymers have such strong objectionable odors, even at low concentrations in oil, that their usefulness as antioxidants may be very limited.
Abstract PEGylation is one of the strategies used for enhancing in vivo residence time of recombinant human Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor (rhG-CSF) and therefore reducing in dose frequency to better fit with patient comfort treatment. In this study, three methoxy polyethylene glycol propionaldehydes (mPEG- ALD) of 10, 20 and 30 kDa MW were utilized to produce biologically active monoPEGylated rhG-CSF with enhanced molecular weight. PEGylation reactions were carried out at room temperature and pH 5.0 in the presence of cyanoborohydride and two mPEG-ALD: protein molar ratios (3:1 and 5:1). The reactions were monitored with sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and size exclusion chromatography (SEC-HPLC). The results showed that a 2 h reaction with 5:1 mPEG-ALD: protein molar ratio was sufficient to direct the reaction toward optimal yields of monoPEGylated protein (86%). Subsequently, isolation of the monoPEGylated forms was successfully achieved. The purified products were compared with respect to their purity (≥95%), identity and isoelectric focusing parameter characteristics. Biological potencies were measured by cell proliferation assay and showed 20.80–42.73% retention of bioactivities. This study highlights the possible improvement of rhG-CSF efficiency by PEGylation. Further studies will investigate in vitro and in vivo immunogenicity and toxicity of monoPEGylated conjugates.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is a carcinogenic heterocyclic aromatic amine formed in meat products during cooking. Although the formation of hazardous PhIP metabolites by mammalian enzymes has been extensively reported, research on the putative involvement of the human intestinal microbiota in PhIP metabolism remains scarce. In this study, the in vitro conversion of PhIP into its microbial derivate, 7-hydroxy-5-methyl-3-phenyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydropyrido[3',2':4,5]imidazo[1,2-a]pyrimidin-5-ium chloride (PhIP-M1), by fecal samples from 18 human volunteers was investigated. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis showed that all human fecal samples transformed PhIP but with efficiencies ranging from 1.8 to 96% after 72 h of incubation. Two PhIP-transforming strains, PhIP-M1-a and PhIP-M1-b, were isolated from human feces and identified by fluorescent amplified fragment length polymorphism and pheS sequence analyses as Enterococcus faecium strains. Some strains from culture collections belonging to the species E. durans, E. avium, E. faecium, and Lactobacillus reuteri were also able to perform this transformation. Yeast extract, special peptone, and meat extract supported PhIP transformation by the enriched E. faecium strains, while tryptone, monomeric sugars, starch, and cellulose did not. Glycerol was identified as a fecal matrix constituent required for PhIP transformation. Abiotic synthesis of PhIP-M1 and quantification of the glycerol metabolite 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) confirmed that the anaerobic fermentation of glycerol via 3-HPA is the critical bacterial transformation process responsible for the formation of PhIP-M1. Whether it is a detoxification is still a matter of debate, since PhIP-M1 has been shown to be cytotoxic toward Caco-2 cells but is not mutagenic in the Ames assay.
The chemical ionization mass spectra of five isomers of C3H6O (acetone, propionaldehyde, oxetane, propylene oxide and allyl alcohol) have been determined using a variety of reagent gases (H2, D2, N2/H2, CO2/H2 and CO/H2). The [C3H7O]+ ions produced by protonation of these isomers undergo very similar reactions to those reported for analogous [C3H7O]+ metastable ions; however, decomposing ions generated by chemical ionization appear to have somewhat higher internal energies. The results of 2H labelling studies (D2 reagent gas or labelled analogues of C3H6O) indicate that protonation occurs mainly on oxygen and are consistent with previous investigations of metastable oxonium ions. The protonated acetone ion is particularly stable, in agreement with the higher activation energies for fragmentation of this isomer than for other [C3H7O]+ structures. As the calculated heat of protonation of C3H6O is reduced by changing the reagent gas, so the extent to which fragmentation occurs decreases. This is discussed in the context of competition between fragmentation and collisional stabilization of the excited [C3H7O]+* ion. It is concluded that on average a large fraction (approaching 1) of the exothermicity of the protonation reaction resides in the [C3H7O]+* ions produced initially.
A number of offensive odorants including volatile organic compounds (VOCs), reduced sulfur compounds (RSCs), carbonyls, and ammonia were measured along with several reference pollutants (like benzene (B), CS(2), SO(2), CO, and total hydrocarbon (THC)) from combusted fumes of barbecue charcoals produced from five different countries (Korea, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the US). Although the emission concentrations of most odorants were generally below the reference guideline set by the malodor prevention law in Korea, the mean concentration of some aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and isovaleraldehyde) and ammonia exceeded those guidelines. As such, aldehydes were the most dominant odorant released from charcoal combustion followed by VOC and ammonia. If odorant levels of charcoal products are compared, there are great distinctions between the products of different countries. If comparison is made using the concept of the sum of odor intensity (SOI), the magnitude of SOI for the charcoal products from the five different countries varied in the order of 4.30 (Korea), 3.10 (Indonesia), 2.97 (China), 2.76 (Malaysia), and 2.76 (the US).
1. Growth and manometric experiments showed that a Pseudomonas sp. P6 (N.C.I.B. 10431), formerly known as Achromobacter sp. P6, was capable of growth on both stereoisomers of 1-aminopropan-2-ol, and supported the hypothesis that assimilation involved metabolism to propionaldehyde, propionate and possibly 2-hydroxyglutarate. A number of alternative intermediary metabolites were ruled out. 2. Accumulation of propionaldehyde from 1-aminopropan-2-ol by intact cells occurred only during active growth, was transitory and was accompanied by morphological changes in the pseudomonad. 3. Enzymic and radioactive tracer evidence showed that 1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate was the intermediate between amino alcohol and aldehyde. The operation of an inducibly formed ATP-amino alcohol phosphotransferase was established by measuring substrate disappearance, ADP formation and amino alcohol O-phosphate formation. This novel kinase had two activity peaks at about pH7 and 9. It acted on both l- and d-isomers of 1-aminopropan-2-ol, and also on l-threonine and ethanolamine, but had only low activity towards choline. The enzyme was partially purified by ion-exchange chromatography. 4. An amino alcohol O-phosphate phospho-lyase (deaminating) produced propionaldehyde from dl- and d-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate, and also formed acetaldehyde less rapidly from ethanolamine O-phosphate. It had optimum activity at about pH8 in Tris-HCl buffers. The enzyme was partially purified and evidence was obtained that a single enzyme was responsible for both activities. Apparent K(m) values for the substrates were determined. Activity was inhibited by dl-threonine O-phosphate, dl-serine O-phosphate, choline O-phosphate and P(i). Enzyme formation was induced by growth with either amino alcohol substrate. 5. Radioactive tracer experiments with dl-1-amino[3-(14)C]propan-2-ol confirmed the operation of the amino alcohol kinase and demonstrated coupling with the phospho-lyase enzyme in vitro to produce [(14)C]-propionaldehyde. 6. An aldehyde dehydrogenase, found in extracts of the pseudomonad after growth on 1-aminopropan-2-ol, was characterized and concluded to be responsible for propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde oxidation. The enzyme was inactive with methylglyoxal. 7. Propionate and acetate were concluded to be metabolized via propionyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA, and studies were made of a CoA ester synthase found in extracts. 8. Studies of a strain of Pseudomonas putida N.C.I.B. 10558 suggested that 1-aminopropan-2-ols were metabolized via their O-phosphates, propionaldehyde and propionate. Amino alcohol kinase activity was detected and extracts contained a phospho-lyase showing higher activity with the 1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate than with ethanolamine O-phosphate.
Temik(R) aldicarb pesticide [2-Methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde-O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime] is an effective contact and systemic compound against a wide variety of agricultural pests. Its metabolism in soils may lead to aldicarb sulfoxide and aldicarb sulfone which are both toxicologically important. The comparative effects of these compounds on body activity and stylet movement of second-stage larvae of the potato cyst nematode, Heterodera rostochiensis, were investigated. Temik aldicarb was the most effective contact toxicant, rapidly inhibiting body activity and stimulating abnormal stylet movement. A 24-hr post-nematicide water treatment allowed effective recovery of body vigor and cessation of abnormal stylet movement of the larvae treated with Temik aldicarb at low concentrations, and with aldicarb sulfoxide and aldicarb sulfone at all the dosage levels used. Larvae treated with 10 ppm Temik aldicarb remained paralyzed, the toxic effect being apparently irreversible. Control of Heterodera rostochiensis by direct contact toxicity may not be effective in soil since Temik degrades to compounds having reversible toxic effect.
Background ::: In their quest for sustainable development and effective management of greenhouse gas emissions, our societies pursue a shift away from fossil-based resources towards renewable resources. With 95% of our current transportation energy being petroleum based, the application of alternative, carbon-neutral products-among them biodiesel-is inevitable. In order to enhance the cost structure of biodiesel biorefineries, the valorization of the crude glycerol waste stream into high-value platform chemicals is of major importance. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: The purpose of this study is the production of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) from biodiesel-derived crude glycerol by Lactobacillus diolivorans. Particular focus is given on overcoming potential limitations of glycerol transport into the cell, in order to use the cells' total glycerol dehydratase capability towards the formation of 3-HPA as the main product. Recombinant overexpression of the endogenous glycerol uptake facilitating protein PduF results in a significant increase of glycerol conversion by a factor of 1.3. Concomitantly, glycerol dehydratase activity increased from initially 1.70 ± 0.03 U/mg protein to 2.23 ± 0.11 U/mg protein. With this approach, an average productivity of 4.8 g3-HPA/(gCDM h) yielding up to 35.9 g/L 3-HPA and 0.91 mol3-HPA/molGlycerol have been obtained. ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: Lactobacillus diolivorans proves to be a valuable cell factory for the utilization of crude glycerol delivering high-value C3 chemicals like 3-HPA, 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) and 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). Enhancing the glycerol influx into the cell by genetic engineering was successful paving the way towards the commercial production of 3-HPA.
Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) is used in the treatment of angina pectoris and cardiac failure, but the rapid onset of GTN tolerance limits its clinical utility. Research suggests that a principal cause of tolerance is inhibition of an enzyme responsible for the production of physiologically active concentrations of NO from GTN. This enzyme has not conclusively been identified. However, the mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) is inhibited in GTN-tolerant tissues and produces NO 2 Ϫ from GTN, which is proposed to be converted to NO within mitochondria. To investigate the role of this enzyme in GTN tolerance, cumulative GTN concentration-response curves were obtained for both GTN-tolerant and -nontolerant rat aortic rings treated with the ALDH inhibitor cyanamide or the ALDH substrate propionaldehyde. Tolerance to GTN was induced using both in vivo and in vitro protocols. The in vivo protocol resulted in almost complete inhibition of ALDH2 activity and GTN biotransformation in hepatic mitochondria, indicating that long-term GTN exposure results in inactivation of the enzyme. Treatment with cyanamide or propionaldehyde caused a dose-dependent increase in the EC 50 value for GTN-induced relaxation of similar magnitude in both tolerant and nontolerant aorta, suggesting that although cyanamide and propionaldehyde inhibit GTN-induced vasodilation, these inhibitors do not affect the enzyme or system involved in tolerance development to GTN. Treatment with cyanamide or propionaldehyde did not significantly inhibit 1,1-diethyl-2-hydroxy-2-nitrosohydrazine-mediated vasodilation in tolerant or nontolerant aorta, indicating that these ALDH inhibitors do not affect the downstream effectors of NO-induced vasodilation. Immunoblot analysis indicated that the majority of vascular ALDH2 is present in the cytoplasm, suggesting that mitochondrial biotransformation of GTN by ALDH2 plays a minor role in the overall vascular biotransformation of GTN by this enzyme.
The enantioselective synthesis of the carbon skeleton of 6-deoxyerythronolide B has been achieved in 23 linear steps from propionaldehyde. The synthesis relies on an iterative approach employing an asymmetric acyl-thiazolidinethione propionate aldol reaction to establish eight of nine stereogenic centers. The remaining stereogenic center at C6 was set through a Myers alkylation employing a complex alkyl iodide.
The aim of this study was to engineer a synthetic pathway for the conversion of glycerol to poly(3HP) in the enteric bacterium Shimwellia blattae (20, 21) . S. blattae does not naturally accumulate PHAs. This bacterium is industrially relevant, as it synthesizes the commercially attractive compound 1,3-propanediol from glycerol through 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde under anaerobic conditions. It also synthesizes cobalamin (vitamin B 12 ), which is a cofactor of the glycerol dehydratase DhaB, the key enzyme in the formation of 1,3-propanediol (22) . We chose S. blattae for the synthesis of poly(3HP) from glycerol because it can naturally convert glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde via catalysis by DhaB, thereby building an intermediate of the poly(3HP) biosynthetic pathway. In order to synthesize poly(3HP) from glycerol in S. blattae, we heterologously expressed the genes for (i) the 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase DhaT, (ii) the aldehyde dehydrogenase AldD from Pseudomonas putida KT2442 (23, 24) , (iii) the propionate-coenzyme A (propionate-CoA) transferase Pct from Clostridium propionicum X2 (25) (26) (27) , and (iv) the PHA synthase PhaC1 from Ralstonia eutropha H16 (28, 29) . By this synthetic pathway, 1,3-propanediol, which is produced by S. blattae under anaerobic conditions, is oxidized to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (DhaT). The latter is then oxidized to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3HP; AldD). Pct activates 3HP to 3HP-CoA by the addition of coenzyme A, followed by polymerization of the 3HP moieties by PhaC1 (Fig. 1 ). With this recombinant S. blattae strain, it was possible to accumulate poly(3HP) to levels of up to almost 10% (wt/wt [CDW]).
The antimicrobial activity of LAB is commonly explained by the synthesis of small organic acids such as lactic, acetic, and formic acids, which may exert the biological effect either directly or by acidification of the growth medium (reviewed in reference 23). Other substances produced by LAB have been reported to have antimicrobial effects, e.g., 2,3-butadione, reuterin (3-hydroxypropionaldehyde), acetaldehyde, hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radical, and peptides or proteins such as the bacteriocins (10, 23). Recently, we isolated and characterized a number of antifungal substances from different strains of Lactobacillus plantarum. The strains MiLAB14 and MiLAB393 were found to produce 3-phenyllactic acid, several 3-hydroxy fatty acids, and a series of diketopiperazines (24, 25, 28) . Among these compounds, the 3-hydroxy fatty acids were the most potent antifungal substances, with MICs against important spoilage yeasts and molds on the order of 10 to 100 g ml Ϫ1 , whereas 3-phenyllactic acid and the diketopiperazines were significantly less active (MICs of several milligrams per milliliter) (25, 28) . These studies were performed to characterize promising biocontrol LAB strains that were isolated from various sources and have the ability to suppress the growth or spore germination of several important food and feed spoilage organisms, such as Penicillium roqueforti and Aspergillus fumigatus. In these studies, the LAB strains were cultivated in liquid media under conditions optimized for growth, and the bioactive metabolites were isolated and characterized. For future applications of LAB as biocontrol agents on, e.g., grass in airtight silos, the growth conditions will be different and probably less than optimal, including the absence of a balanced growth medium and a restricted oxygen supply.
D r u m m o n d and W a t e r s 1 have investigated the oxidation of propionaldehyde and n -butyraldehyde by manganese(III)-pyrophosphate. They found that oxidation of both these aldehydes are fairly rapid reactions. The rate of oxidation is proportional to the concentration of both the aldehydes and that of hydrogen ions but is independent of Mn(III)-pyrophosphate. The latter observation has been taken as an evidence to suggest that oxidation proceeds via enolisation. This is further supported by the fact that non-enolisable aldehydes like formaldehyde and chloral do not react with Mn(III)-pyrophosphate.
Specificity of an enzyme can also be altered by steric modifications to the active site of an enzyme. The substrate specificity of BphI, a class II pyruvate aldolase [10], was altered using the crystal structure of an orthologous aldolase, DmpG (PDB 1NVM), as a guide [11]. The natural substrate 4-hydroxy-2-oxopentanoate and 4-hydroxy-2-oxoacids containing unfunctionalized aldehydes of different lengths were modeled into the active site of DmpG [12] (Figure 1 ). Leu-87, which was proposed to be located proximal to the C4-methyl of 4-hydroxy-2-oxopentanoate and Leu-89, located at the opposite side of the active site from the pyruvvl moiety in BphI were replaced with smaller alanine residues. The replacement of Leu-87 with alanine reduced the specificity constants of the enzyme toward acetaldehyde by 32-fold while maintaining the same specificity constant for propionaldehyde as in the wild-type enzyme. The L89A variant exhibited similar kcat/Km values for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde as in the wild-type enzyme, however specificities toward butyraldehyde, pentaldehyde, and hexaldehyde increased CSBJ Abstract: Enzymes that catalyze carbon-carbon bond formation can be exploited as biocatalyst for synthetic organic chemistry. However, natural enzymes frequently do not possess the required properties or specificities to catalyze industrially useful transformations. This mini-review describes recent work using knowledge-guided site-specific mutagenesis of key active site residues to alter substrate specificity, stereospecificity and reaction specificity of these enzymes. In addition, examples of de novo designed enzymes that catalyze C-C bond reactions not found in nature will be discussed.
The purpose of this study is the production of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) from biodiesel-derived crude glycerol by Lactobacillus diolivorans. Particular focus is given on overcoming potential limitations of glycerol transport into the cell, in order to use the cells' total glycerol dehydratase capability towards the formation of 3-HPA as the main product. Recombinant overexpression of the endogenous glycerol uptake facilitating protein PduF results in a significant increase of glycerol conversion by a factor of 1.3. Concomitantly, glycerol dehydratase activity increased from initially 1.70 ± 0.03 U/mg protein to 2.23 ± 0.11 U/mg protein. With this approach, an average productivity of 4.8 g 3-HPA /(g CDM h) yielding up to 35.9 g/L 3-HPA and 0.91 mol 3-HPA /mol Glycerol have been obtained.
Abstract A conformational study on the lowest triplet states of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetone has been done using a minimal basis set, within the unrestricted Hartree—Fock framework. For the C 3 H 6 O species, the energy hypersurfaces ( E θ 1 , θ 2 , θ 3 ) were generated, where energy is a function of the methyl rotations (θ 1 , θ 2 ) and CO out-of-plane bending for acetone, and a function of methyl rotation (θ 1 ), C 2 H 5 C rotation (θ 2 ) and CHO out-of-plane deformation (θ 3 ) for propionaldehyde. The analysis of the hypersurface equations revealed the location and relative energies of the critical points (minima, first and second order saddle points as well as maxima): the barriers to inversion at the carbonyl group were 2.7 kcal mol −1 for acetone and 4.2 kcal mol −1 for propionaldehyde. Partial geometry optimization reduced these barriers to 2.5 and 2.4 kcal mol −1 respectively. For comparison, both the pyramidal minimum and planar saddle point for the inversion of triplet formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were totally optimized; the resultant barriers were 2.0 kcal mol −1 and 2.3 kcal mol −1 , respectively. The barrier to rotation about the bond to the α-carbon was 1.1 kcal mol −1 for pyramidal acetone, 1.0 for acetaldehyde and ranged from 0.8 to 1.8 kcal mol −1 for the various propionaldehyde conformers.
Abstract This study describes a method based on direct contact sorptive tape extraction followed by on-line thermal desorption gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (DC-STE–GC–MS) to detect and quantify a group of suspected volatile allergens on the European Union (E.U.) list and a related compound on the skin (the stratum corneum) of volunteers treated with a cream of known composition fortified with the reference allergens. The following compounds were tested: citronellol, Z-citral (neral), geraniol, cinnamaldehyde, anisyl alcohol, cinnamyl alcohol, eugenol, methyleugenol, coumarin, isoeugenol, α-isomethylionone, 2-(4-tert-butylbenzyl)propionaldehyde (lilial), α-amylcinnamaldehyde, α-hexylcinnamaldehyde. Sorptive tape extraction (STE) is a sorption-based sampling technique in which a flexible polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) tape is used to recover analytes by direct contact with the surface of a solid matrix or from the headspace in equilibrium with it. The reliability of the method was confirmed by: (i) allergen recoveries varying from 52.3% for lilial to 95.7% for neral, (ii) linearity in the range 10–150 ppm, with regression coefficient R 2 always above 0.97, (iii) repeatability of each analyte, RSD% never exceeding 10%, (iv) intermediate precision, always below 15%, and (v) LOD and LOQ in the ppb range, therefore fully compatible with E.U. prescriptions (ppm). Other parameters such as substantivity analyte, approximate permeation through skin and influence of different nature of stratum corneum on recovery were also investigated. The method was also successfully applied to five commercially available creams declared to contain some of the allergens in question spread on the skin of the same volunteers.
To prepare the N-terminal site-specific PEGylated uricase and to study the immunogenicity in vivo,the uricase reacted with monomethoxyl polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde(20 ku).The PEGylated uricase was purified by source 30Q ion-exchange and sephacryl S-200 size-exclusion chromatography, and the enzyme kinetics and immunogenicity were then investigated.SDS-PAGE demonstrated that the PEGylated uricase and uricase showed a single band.Retention time of PEGylated uricase detected by SE-HPLC was 23.818 min and uricase was 26.578 min.PEG modified uricase retained 80%of the enzymatic V_(max) of native uricase.In addition,the binding affinity was shown to be reduced for the PEG-uricase using ELISA assay.Finally,it was indicated that the PEG uricase induced a delayed immunoresponse in mice following repeated administrations.The N-terminal site-specific PEGylated uricase can be prepared by this method.PEGylated can decrease the immunogenicity of uricase.
The Raman spectra of neat propionaldehyde [CH3CH2CHO or propanal (Pr)] and its binary mixtures with hydrogen-donor solvents, water (W) and methanol (M), [CH3CH2CHO + H2O] and CH3CH2CHO + CH3OH] with different mole fractions of the reference system, Pr varying from 0.1 to 0.9 at a regular interval of 0.1, were recorded in the ν(CO) stretching region, 1600–1800 cm−1. The isotropic parts of the Raman spectra were analyzed for both the cases. The wavenumber positions and line widths of the component bands were determined by a rigorous line-shape analysis, and the peaks corresponding to self-associated and hydrogen-bonded species were identified. Raman peak at ∼1721 cm−1 in neat Pr, which has been attributed to the self-associated species, downshifts slightly (∼1 cm−1) in going from mole fraction 0.9 to 0.6 in (Pr + W) binary mixture, but on further dilution it shows a sudden downshift of ∼7 cm−1. This has been attributed to the low solubility of Pr in W (∼30%), which does not permit a hydrogen-bonded network to form at higher concentrations of Pr. A significant decrease in the intensity of this peak in the Raman spectra of Pr in a nonpolar solvent, n-heptane, at high dilution (C = 0.05) further confirms that this peak corresponds to the self-associated species. In case of the (Pr + M) binary mixture, however, the spectral changes with concentration show a rather regular trend and no special features were observed. Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Leaves of Wollastonia biflora (L.) DC. synthesize the osmoprotectant 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) from methionine via S-methylmethionine (SMM) and 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde (DMSP-ald); no other intermediates have been detected. To test whether the amino group of SMM is lost by transamination or deamination, [methyl-2H3,15N]SMM was supplied to leaf discs, and 15N-labeling of amino acids was monitored, along with synthesis of [2H3]DMSP. After short incubations more 15N was incorporated into glutamate than into other amino acids, and the 15N abundance in glutamate exceeded that in the amide group of glutamine (Gln). This is more consistent with transamination than deamination, because deamination would be predicted to give greater labeling of Gln amide N due to reassimilation, via Gln synthetase, of the 15NH4+ released. This prediction was borne out by control experiments with 15NH4Cl. The transamination product of SMM, 4-dimethylsulfonio-2-oxobutyrate (DMSOB), is expected to be extremely unstable. This was confirmed by attempting to synthesize it enzymatically from SMM using L-amino acid oxidase or Gln transaminase K and from 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate using methionine S-methyltransferase. In each case, the reaction product decomposed rapidly, releasing dimethylsulfide. The conversion of SMM to DMSP-ald is therefore unlikely to involve a simple transamination that generates free DMSOB. Plausible alternatives are that DMSOB is channeled within a specialized transaminase-decarboxylase complex or that it exists only as the bound intermediate of a single enzyme catalyzing an unusual transamination-decarboxylation reaction.
Greenhouse and field cage tests were conducted to determine the effectiveness of selected systemic inscticides, Temik® (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl)oxime), Azodrin® (3-hydroxy- N -methyl- cis -crotonamide dimethyl phosphate), Stauffer B-10497 (O,O -dimethyl [ethyl(2-hydroxyproyl)thiocarbamoyl]phosphoramidothioate), Niagara NIA-10242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate), and American Cyanamid CL-47031 (cyclic ethylene (diethoxyphosphinyl). dithioimidocarbonate) against the tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris (Palisot de Beauvois). The insecticides were applied to cotton stems in a lanolin formulation and to the soil in which plants were grown in a granular formulation. Temik and Azodrin were more effective than the other insecticides. In field cage tests, Temik applied to the soil was slightly more effective than Temik or Azodrin applied to the stems. Temik reduced hatch of tarnished plant bug eggs when the insecticide was applied to the plant after the eggs were laid in various plant parts.
3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) is an intermediate metabolite of glycerol metabolism towards the formation of 1,3-propanediol. Voisenet (1910) in fact has observed this substance and its formation from glycerol during bacterial spoilage of wine. Being one of the antibiotics and precursors for high quality plastics, unfortunately there are still no complete set of analytical data available for this substance. From the experimental data from this paper, NMR analysis using 2-H showed that –CHO bond of aldehyde observed at δ9.5, RCH-3 at δ1.37, R-2 CH-2 at δ3.68, R-3 CH at δ1.9 and so on. The carbon-13 NMR spectrum showed six signals, at chemical shifts of 40.1, 46.3, 56.2, 58.7, 89.7, and 207.7 ppm. In FTIR, spectral contained a broad O-H stretch band at 3,450 cm^(-1) and a large peak due to C-O stretching at 1,050 to 1,150 cm^(-1), indicating hydroxyl functional group. A C-H stretches at 2,880 and 1,380 along with a C=O stretch typical of aldehydes was present at 1,730 cm^(-1). All the analytical information above is similar to the previous record (Talarico, 1989). GPC data, although not fully accurate, will help to estimate the molecular weight of 3-HPA as 257 with 63% errors. The HPLC data with three peaks may reveal the three components of 3-HPA available. SEM analysis did not reveal any important solid data but revealing its solid state as homogenous particle. By applying Circle plot, quantitative data on the concentration of 3-HPA synthesized chemically is estimated to be 19.62 μmol / ml at absorbance of 600 nm.
The rate constants and free energies of activation of the acid-and base-catalyzed reactions of floroglucinolic and resorcinolic flavonoid A rings of pine and wattle tannins, respectively, as well as the model compounds resorcinol, floroglucinol, and catechol, with formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and furfural, were obtained. Second-order kinetics were found to fit these reactions. Indication and proof of the existence of unstable aldehyde ether bridges and their fast rearrangement at ambient temperature to alkyl bridges for fast-reacting phenols or phenolic compounds, such as tannins, were obtained for the first time. The dependence of the reaction kinetics on the concentration of OH- catalyst was investigated. Anomalies in the behavior of wattle tannin with aldehydes and n-butyraldehyde with phenols were observed and partially explained. The results led to a slightly different interpretation of the wattle tannin flavonoid structure.
Glycerin is applied to cigarette tobacco at levels in the range of about 1–5% to improve moisture holding characteristics of tobacco and act as a surface active agent for flavor application. Neat material pyrolysis studies, smoke chemistry and biological activity studies (bacterial mutagenicity, cytotoxicity, in vivo micronucleus, and sub-chronic rodent inhalation) with mainstream smoke, or mainstream smoke preparations from cigarettes containing various target levels (5%, 10%, and 15%) of the glycerin were performed to provide data for an assessment of the use of glycerin as a cigarette tobacco ingredient. The actual levels of glycerin in the respective test cigarettes were determined to be 3.2%, 6.2% and 8.4% after cigarette production. At simulated tobacco burning temperatures up to 900 °C, neat glycerin did not pyrolyze extensively suggesting that glycerin would transfer intact to mainstream smoke (smoke was not analyzed for glycerin in this study). On a tar basis, nicotine in smoke was significantly decreased at 10% and 15% glycerin while water was increased at all addition levels. Addition of 10% or 15% glycerin also resulted in a statistically significant increase in acrolein (9%) and a decrease in acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, aromatic amines, nitrogen oxides, tobacco specific nitrosamines, and phenols. Addition of 5% glycerin produced the same decrease in smoke constituents as the 10% and 15% groups but there was no concomitant increase in acrolein. Biological tests indicated no relevant differences in the genotoxic or cytotoxic potential of either mainstream smoke (or smoke preparations) from cigarettes with added glycerin compared to control cigarettes. Cigarette smoke atmosphere dilution, coupled with the lower nicotine delivery in the test cigarettes containing glycerin resulted in a lower nicotine delivery to the glycerin cigarette smoke exposed rats of the 90-day inhalation study. Smoke atmosphere acrolein was also reduced in a concentration-related manner. Incorporation of glycerin at target levels up to 15% did not produce any adverse effects in rats exposed for 90-days. The major observation in the study was a reduced biological activity of the smoke as indicated by a reduction in the severity and/or incidence of focal macrophage accumulation in the lungs and goblet cell hyperplasia/hypertrophy in the nose (level 1), and goblet cell staining depletion in the nose (level 1). The results of these studies with glycerin applied to cigarette tobacco suggest that adding glycerin to cigarette tobacco at typical use levels does not adversely alter the smoke chemistry or biological effects normally associated with exposure to mainstream cigarette smoke.
The ultrasonic velocities ( U), densities ( �), and viscosities ( �) were measured for solutions containing equimolar concentrations of eight aldehydes namely, benzaldehyde, o-chlorobenzaldehyde, anisaldehyde, p-tolualdehyde, cinnamaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and valeraldehyde as acceptors, benzylamine and cyclohexylamine as donors in n-hexane at 303K. Acoustical parameters such as adiabatic compressibility ( �), free length ( Lf), viscous relaxation time ( �), molecular interaction parameter ( �u) have been computed. These values indicate the formation of charge transfer complexes between aldehydes and amines. Formation constant ( K) values of the complexes have been evaluated using a modified Bhat equation proposed by Kannappan. The constant values of free energy of activation ( �G # ) and relaxation time indicate the formation of similar type of complexes in these systems. However, the variation in free energy of formation (�G) values suggests that their thermodynamic stability depends on the structure of donor and acceptor.
Abstract Ethylene is readily produced aerobically from α-keto-γmethylthiobutyric acid as well as from β-methylthiopropionaldehyde (methional) by peroxidase in the presence of Mn2+, SO32-, and phenol. Tracer studies indicate that carbons 1, 2, 3 plus 4, and the methyl carbon of α-keto-γ-methylthiobutyric acid gives rise to carbon dioxide, carbon dioxide, ethylene, and methyldisulfide, respectively. Carbons 1, 2 plus 3, and the methyl carbon of methional give rise to formic acid, ethylene, and methyldisulfide, respectively. A chemical mechanism accounting for the production of these products is described in which the peroxidase functions as 1-electron oxidizing agent.
Acrolein (propenal) is found in many foods and beverages and may pose a health hazard due to its cytotoxicity. Considerable knowledge gaps regarding human exposure to acrolein exist, and there is a lack of reliable analytical methods. Hydroalcoholic dilutions prepared for calibration purposes from pure acrolein show considerable degradation of the compound and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy showed that 1,3,3-propanetriol and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde are formed. The degradation can be prevented by addition of hydroquinone as stabilizer to the calibration solutions, which then show linear concentration-response behaviour required for quantitative analysis. The stabilized calibration solutions were used for quantitative headspace solid-phase microextraction/gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (HS-SPME/GC-MS) determination of acrolein in alcoholic beverages with a detection limit of 14 μg L(-1). Of 117 tested alcoholic beverages, 64 were tested positive with the highest incidence in grape marc spirits and whiskey (100%, mean 252 μg L(-1)), followed by fruit spirits (86%, mean 591 μg/L(-1)), tequila (86%, mean 404 μg L(-1)), Asian spirits (43%, mean 54 μg L(-1)) and wine (9%, mean 0.7 μg L(-1)). Acrolein could not be detected in beer, vodka, absinthe and bottled water. Six of the fruit and grape marc spirits had acrolein levels above the World Health Organization (WHO) provisional tolerable concentration of 1.5 mg L(-1).
Temperature programmed desorption (TPD) and high resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS) were used to investigate the reactions of 1-propanol and propionaldehyde on the clean Rh(111) surface. The principal emphasis of this study was to determine the reaction pathways and intermediates involved in alcohol and aldehyde decomposition. Propoxide intermediates were formed by the dissociation of 1-propanol; these were easily isolated in the HREEL spectrum at 147 K. Decarbonylation occurred at ca. 226 K, resulting in the formation of adsorbed hydrocarbon fragments and adsorbed CO. No aldehyde or acyl intermediates were detected during the course of the decomposition of this primary alcohol. 1-Propanol decomposed on the Rh(111) surface to produce CO, H[sub 2], and surface carbon. In contrast, propionaldehyde adsorbed on Rh(111) decomposed to form ethane, as well as CO, H[sub 2], and surface carbon. At 145 K, [eta][sup 2](C,O)-propionaldehyde was observed by HREELS. By 251 K, some decarbonylation had occurred to yield bridge-bonded CO and ethyl species. A portion of the ethyl species formed by low temperature decarbonylation of propionaldehyde was hydrogenated to ethane, while the rest dehydrogenated to form ethylidynes, observed at 301 K by HREELS. Ethylidyne species dehydrogenated to acetylides which ultimately decomposed to carbon and hydrogen. Themore » surprising divergence of reaction pathways for propanol and propionaldehyde is consistent with observations for ethanol and acetaldehyde decomposition on Rh(111) and suggests that higher alkoxide decomposition on this surface may involve C-H scission along the alkyl chain, rather than at the [alpha]-carbon. 36 refs., 8 figs., 4 tabs.« less
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) produced by Lactobacillus reuteri is a broad-spectrum antimicrobial substance of glycerol conversion. The aim of the present work was to optimize 3-HPA production by Lb. reuteri ATCC 53608 using a two-step process. The first step was the production of Lb. reuteri cells in optimal conditions. Cells were then harvested by centrifugation and suspended in glycerol solution, which the resting cells bioconverted to 3-HPA. The effect of biomass concentration, temperature, glycerol concentration, anaerobic/micro-aerophilic conditions, and incubation time was studied for high 3-HPA production. 3-HPA accumulation was limited by the death of cells in contact with high concentrations of 3-HPA. However, a very high 3-HPA concentration of 235+/-3 mM was obtained after 45 min of incubation at 30 degrees C in 400 mM glycerol for an initial free-cell concentration of 1.6+/-0.3x10(10) viable cells/ml. A high viability was maintained at low temperatures in the range 5-15 degrees C, but with a slightly lower yield of 3-HPA at 5 degrees C compared with higher temperatures, up to 37 degrees C. Successive 1-h incubations of Lb. reuteri cells in 200 mM glycerol at 15 degrees C to tentatively reuse the cells resulted in decreasing 3-HPA concentrations at the end of each cycle, with two successful production cycles yielding high 3-HPA concentrations of 147+/-1 mM and 128+/-2 mM.
Abstract The aim of this study was to investigate the emission characteristics of a single cylinder diesel engine using a blended fuel of diesel with hydrated butanol. The characteristics of the combustion and exhaust emissions of two blended fuels (diesel + n-butanol + water) were compared with the results of 100% diesel, according to the operating conditions of the engine. The blended fuels were DB10W2 (diesel + 10 wt% n-butanol + 2 wt% water) and DB10W5 (diesel + 10 wt% n-butanol + 5 wt% water). Four aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, and propionaldehyde) and one ketone (acetone) were described mainly by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and sampled using 2,4–dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH). The engine operating conditions include two engine speeds, one fixed injection quantity, and four different injection timings. It was found that the blended fuel slightly increased the THC and CO with increase in the water content, relative to those with diesel fuel. NOX and PM were simultaneously decreased when blended fuels were used. The number of PM particles decreased by 81% and 67% when blended fuel (DB10W2 and DB10W5, respectively) was used. And use of blended fuels decreased the PM mass by about 89%. Carbonyl compounds increased when the lower exhaust temperature, shorter mixing time for air and fuel and increase of the water content in the blended fuel.
The photolysis mapping technique is a marriage of an old radical detecting system with the following principle: If polarized light is used for photodissociation, the flux of fragments will be anisotropic because the molecular absorption is anisotropic in the molecular axis system. The simplest aliphatic carbonyl compounds (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acetone) were photodissociated using polarized ultraviolet light. The gases were held at such a low pressure that the fragments travel to the walls without collision in the gas phase. On the walls the radicals were detected by the old mirror removal technique. There is a substantial anisotropy of removal. The sense of the anistropy is different for the different molecules, being perpendicular for formaldehyde and acetone, and parallel for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. These results are interpreted by assuming that the carbonyl compounds all become nonplanar in the excited state and the ultimate direction of the fragments can be inferr...
ABSTRACT The aroma-active compounds present in Sachima samples purchased at retail from the same batch code and stored for different durations of the shelf life were analysed by two methods: solid phase micro extraction (SPME) and solvent-assisted flavour evaporation (SAFE)-gas chromatography-olfactometry-mass spectrometry (GC-O-MS). A total of 41 volatile key compounds were identified. Among them, the predominant compounds in Sachima were tentatively identified by dilution analysis as being 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, 2-pentylfuran, 2-methyl-3-(methylthio)pyrazine, dimethyl disulfide, and dipropyl trisulfide. These compounds produced the highest due to their highest calculated flavour dilution (FD) factors. Sensory evaluations of the extracted compounds by a panel of trained individuals revealed that the ‘egg’ aroma was the main characteristic aroma due to its high sensory assessment score. With increasing length of storage of the product from 0 to 10 months, the overall acceptability of the Sachima aroma declined gradually. The observed changes in concentration of the different volatile compounds during storage indicated that the Maillard reaction and lipid oxidation continued during storage, so that aroma compounds and off-flavour compounds were being generated simultaneously. In addition, the undesirable smell of Sachima that increased during storage was not just generated from one volatile compound with a distinct off-flavour, but rather it was the result of an increase in both pleasant and unpleasant aromas. Furthermore, the pleasant aroma components appeared to still play a dominant role in the overall aroma profile of Sachima even after 10 Months of storage, which is within the stated shelf life on the product label.
[Bis(dimethylgermyl)alkane]iron tetracarbonyls, Me 2 Ge(CH 2 ) n GeMe 2 Fe(CO) 4 (n=1, 2), react with chloral, propionaldehyde, and benzaldehyde to give heterocyclic expansion reactions. Thermal decompositions of the adducts produce germylated heterocycles, Me 2 Ge (CH 2 ) n GeMe 2 O, and alkylidene intermediates, which were isolated as the ylides (CO) 4 Fe - CH(R)PPh 3 + . The reaction of [bis(dimethylgermyl)alkane]iron tetracarbonyls with quinones involves an electron-transfer process that results in the formation of new digermylated dioxepane and dioxocane
We have used a novel photochemical Knudsen cell reactor to investigate the uptake and phototransformation of some atmospherically important trace organics on TiO2 and TiO2–SiO2 mixed films. Illumination of TiO2 films led to an enhanced uptake of isopropanol and n-propanol and the concurrent production of gas-phase acetone and propionaldehyde, respectively, with high efficiency. Acetone production from isopropanol on illuminated TiO2 films displayed a significant enhancement in the presence of cosorbed AgNO3 or KNO3. Uptake of cyclohexene by TiO2 films required the presence of both nitrate anion and light. The wavelength and substrate (TiO2 vs SiO2) dependence of the nitrate-induced enhancement in uptake indicates that it was not caused by direct photolysis of nitrate anion. We propose a 2-fold role for nitrate anion in the present experiments: first, as an electron trapping agent that activates the TiO2 surface toward photooxidation; second, as suggested by our results for cyclohexene, as a source of reac...
Abstract An ene-type reaction of lactol-derived allylic ethers is found to be catalyzed by silyl triflates to afford the propionaldehyde-substituted tetrahydrofuranes and -pyrans stereoselectively via the cyclic oxonium ion intermediate and allyloxysilyl moiety derived from the lactol allylic ethers.
The invention relates to a method used to separate ethylene and hydrogen at the same time from the dry gas of an oil refinery, in particular to a method used to separate ethylene and hydrogen from the dry gas of an oil refinery through pressure swing adsorption. The method is carried out according to the following: the first step: elimination of carbon dioxide is completed; the second step: dehydration is completed; the third step: the extraction of ethylene is realized through pressure swing adsorption; and the fourth step: the recovery of hydrogen is finished through pressure swing adsorption. The method has the advantages that: both ethylene and hydrogen are separated from the dry gas of an oil refinery along with better separation effect, a simple flow and low energy consumption; the raw material adopted by the method has low price and adapts well to the raw gas of the dry gas of an oil refinery; valuable resource is obtained from waste gas and is used to further manufacture subsequent products with high added value; meanwhile, the method reduces atmospheric emission to protect the environment and has a long service life of equipment, low operating cost and lower cost; moreover, the method is especially suitable to make the raw material of a propionaldehyde production device which adopts water-soluble rhodium-phosphine complex compound as catalyst.
Background Lipegfilgrastim and pegfilgrastim are long-acting, once-per-cycle recombinant granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (G-CSFs) developed to reduce the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy (CTx). Lipegfilgrastim is recombinant methionyl human G-CSF that is modified at its natural O-glycosylation site (threonine134) using a novel glycoPEGylation technology. Pegfilgrastim is a recombinant methionyl human G-CSF with a methoxy-polyethylene glycol-propionaldehyde covalently conjugated to its N-terminus. GlycoPEGylation generates functional PEGylated proteins with increased bioavailability and prolonged duration of action. Previous studies show that lipegfilgrastim has a 60% higher bioavailability and a 30% greater neutrophil response versus pegfilgrastim in healthy volunteers. When exposed to neutrophil elastase, G-CSF is rapidly cleaved and rendered inactive, suggesting that resistance to this degradation may result in an extended half-life. ::: ::: Objective The objectives of these studies were to characterize lipegfilgrastim versus pegfilgrastim with respect to bioavailability and affinity for the G-CSF receptor, to evaluate the effect of human neutrophil elastase on the degradation of lipegfilgrastim versus pegfilgrastim, and to evaluate the effect of degradation on the activity of these study drugs. ::: ::: Methods Lipegfilgrastim and pegfilgrastim binding to the G-CSF receptor was evaluated using: 1) a NFS-60-cell–based [125I]-G-CSF competitive G-CSF receptor binding assay; and 2) a label-free surface plasmon resonance (SPR) technology by Biacore™ platform using a recombinant human G-CSF receptor. For the competitive binding assay, cocktails of NFS-60 cells, free [125I]-G-CSF, and multiple concentrations of either (unlabeled) lipegfilgrastim or pegfilgrastim were incubated, and the cells were analyzed for bound [125I]-G-CSF. Dose-dependent inhibition of [125I]-G-CSF binding is indicative of the study drug binding to the G-CSF receptor. The SPR study evaluated binding kinetics and overall binding affinity between G-CSF receptor and lipegfilgrastim or pegfilgrastim. Degradation of lipegfilgrastim and pegfilgrastim by purified human neutrophil elastase was evaluated by incubation ± elastase and visualization using Coomassie-stained sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). To evaluate the effect of elastase degradation on lipegfilgrastim or pegfilgrastim activity, samples treated with or without elastase for 15 or 120 minutes were incubated with NFS-60 cells for 20 hours, then pulsed with [3H]-thymidine for 4 hours. The level of active G-CSF–stimulated NFS-60 cell proliferation was measured by [3H]-thymidine incorporation. ::: ::: Results In the cell-based [125I]-G-CSF competitive G-CSF receptor binding assay, G-CSF receptor binding was equivalent between lipegfilgrastim and pegfilgrastim as indicated by inhibition of [125I]-G-CSF binding (0.70±0.09 nM IC50 versus 0.72±0.18 nM IC50 (mean±SD). In the SPR study, the affinity for lipegfilgrastim and pegfilgrastim was 481±84 nM and 516±153 nM (mean±SD), respectively. Lipegfilgrastim treated with purified neutrophil elastase for 15 minutes appeared minimally degraded in SDS-PAGE gels and demonstrated a 67% relative activity in [3H]-thymidine proliferation assays compared with undigested lipegfilgrastim. In contrast, pegfilgrastim treated under the same conditions appeared markedly degraded and demonstrated an ∼9% relative activity compared with undigested pegfilgrastim. After treatment with purified neutrophil elastase for 120 minutes, lipegfilgrastim was noticeably degraded and the protein retained an ∼18% relative proliferative activity compared with undigested lipegfilgrastim, versus pegfilgrastim, which was almost entirely degraded and retained no activity compared with undigested pegfilgrastim. ::: ::: Conclusions Based on the present studies, there is no apparent difference in G-CSF receptor-binding affinity between lipegfilgrastim and pegfilgrastim. In addition, lipegfilgrastim showed a greater time-dependent resistance to neutrophil elastase degradation and a greater retention of functional activity, which may provide an explanation for the longer in vivo half-life of lipegfilgrastim versus pegfilgrastim. ::: ::: Disclosures: Abdolzade-Bavil: Merckle GmbH (a Teva Pharmaceutical Inc., company): Employment. Cooksey: Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc: Employment. Scheckermann: Merckle Biotec GmbH (a Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. company): Employment. Lammerich: Merckle/ratiopharm/Teva Pharm Industries: Employment. Pukac: Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc: Employment. Krasney: Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc: Employment. Allgaier: Merckle GmbH (a Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. company): Employment. Shen: Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc: Employment. Muller: Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc: Employment. Liu: Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc: Employment. von Kerczek: 2Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: Employment.
Electron photodetachment spectra have been measured in an ICR spectrometer for the enolate ions of acetone, cyclobutanone, cyclopentanone, cyclohexanone, cycloheptanone, methyl vinyl ketone, pinacolone, propionaldehyde, and 1,1,1‐trifluoroacetone enolates. Electron affinities have been determined for acetone enolate radical 1.758±0.019, cyclobutanone enolate radical 1.801±0.008, cyclopentanone enolate radical 1.598±0.007, cyclohexanone enolate radical 1.526±0.010, cycloheptanone enolate radical 1.444+0.02/−0.002, tert‐butyl methyl ketone (pinacolone) enolate radical 1.755+0.05/0.005, propionaldehyde enolate radical 1.621±0.006, and 1,1,1‐trifluoroacetone enolate radical 2.625±0.010 eV. Autodetaching dipole‐bound states are observed in some but not all of these spectra. The mechanism for autodetachment of these states is discussed and it is seen that the binding of an electron by a dipole is very sensitive to the motions of the dipole. The motions of the dipole can be predicted from the rotational motions of the molecule, allowing us to correlate the observation of dipole‐bound states with the rotational motions of the dipole moment.Electron photodetachment spectra have been measured in an ICR spectrometer for the enolate ions of acetone, cyclobutanone, cyclopentanone, cyclohexanone, cycloheptanone, methyl vinyl ketone, pinacolone, propionaldehyde, and 1,1,1‐trifluoroacetone enolates. Electron affinities have been determined for acetone enolate radical 1.758±0.019, cyclobutanone enolate radical 1.801±0.008, cyclopentanone enolate radical 1.598±0.007, cyclohexanone enolate radical 1.526±0.010, cycloheptanone enolate radical 1.444+0.02/−0.002, tert‐butyl methyl ketone (pinacolone) enolate radical 1.755+0.05/0.005, propionaldehyde enolate radical 1.621±0.006, and 1,1,1‐trifluoroacetone enolate radical 2.625±0.010 eV. Autodetaching dipole‐bound states are observed in some but not all of these spectra. The mechanism for autodetachment of these states is discussed and it is seen that the binding of an electron by a dipole is very sensitive to the motions of the dipole. The motions of the dipole can be predicted from the rotational motions ...
The total synthesis of the entitled four alkaloids, which were oxindole alkaloids of Uncaria species and Mitragyna species, has been completed through several steps starting from the condensation of 2-hydroxytryptamine hydrochloride (IV) with 3, 3-dimethoxy-propionaldehyde (V). The condensation product (XV) was submitted to the Michael addition with methyl vinyl ketone, followed by acid treatment to give the α, β-unsaturated ketones (XIVa, b) as two stereoisomers. The isomer (XIVb) was condensed with methyl malonate to yield the ester (XXb), which was hydrogenated with Adams' catalyst to XXIb. The compound (XXIb) was treated with dil. sulfuric acid to give the lactones (XXIIa, b) as two spiro-iso-mers, the isomer (XXIIa) of which in turn, was heated with the aminal ester, then stirred with 5% MeOH-HCl, refluxed with aq. dioxane and heated with PPA to afford (±)-for-mosanine (IIIa) and (±)-isoformosanine (IIIb). Similarly, the lactone (XXVa) which was obtained from (XXb) by reduction with NaBH4 and hydrolysis with acid, gave (±)-mitraphylline (IIa) and (±)-isomitraphylline (IIb).
Characteristics of carbonyl compounds (carbonyls) emissions from biodiesel-ethanol-diesel (BE-diesel) were investigated in a Commins-4B diesel engine and compared with those from fossil diesel. Acetaldehyde was the most abundant carbonyls in the exhaust, followed by formaldehyde, acetone, propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde. Apliphatic carbonyls emitted from BE-diesel were higher than those from diesel fuel, while formaldehyde and aromatic carbonyls were less than those from diesel fuel. Total carbonyls emissions from BE-diesel were 1-12% higher than those from diesel fuel depending on engine operating conditions. The effects of engine speed and load level were also investigated carefully. It was found that total carbonyls emission was in positive correlation with the engine speed. During the constant speed/varying load tests, minimum total carbonyls emission was found at 50% load. Compared with fossil diesel, the BE-diesel was observed to significantly reduce PM emission and increase slightly NO, emission. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Abstract The overall rate constants for the reactions of hydroxyl radicals (OH) with a series of aldehydes, formaldehyde (CH 2 O), acetaldehyde (CH 3 CHO), propionaldehyde (C 2 H 5 CHO) and n-butyraldehyde (n-C 3 H 7 CHO), were studied behind reflected shock waves at temperatures of 950–1400 K and pressures of 1–2 atm. OH radicals were produced by rapid thermal decomposition of tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP), and OH time-histories were monitored by narrow-linewidth UV laser absorption of the well-characterized R 1 (5) line in the OH A-X (0, 0) band near 306.69 nm. The overall rate constants were inferred by fitting simulated OH profiles to the measured OH time histories using detailed mechanisms of Veloo et al. (2013), USC Mech-II (2007) and GRI Mech 3.0. The measured high-temperature aldehydes + OH rate constants can be expressed in modified Arrhenius equations, in units of cm 3 mol −1 s −1 and K, as k CH 2 O = 1.02 × 10 7 T 1.92 exp ( 779 / T ) ± 13 % k CH 3 CHO = 4.32 × 10 6 T 2.02 exp ( 716 K / T ) ± 22 % k C 2 H 5 CHO = 5.94 × 10 6 T 1.98 exp ( 823 K / T ) ± 27 % k nC 3 H 7 CHO = 5.36 × 10 6 T 2.06 exp ( 658 K / T ) ± 25 % No pressure dependence was observed in these measurements. The measured rate constant for the formaldehyde + OH reaction is consistent with previous experimental work from Vasudevan et al. (2005) within ±25%. For C 2 –C 4 aldehydes + OH, this study provides the first direct rate constant measurement at high temperatures. More general rate constant expressions covering a much wider temperature range (200–1400 K) were also determined by combining current measurements with existing low temperature data in the literature. These wide-range expressions were seen to be in excellent agreement with most existing experimental data.
Liver aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity was found to be two-fold greater in pregnant (days 16-20 of gestation) mice than in non-pregnant controls. A subcellular fractionation revealed that the increase in ALDH activity was confined to the cystosolic fraction of the liver. Kinetic characterization of partially purified liver ALDH revealed similar Km values for either acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde in pregnant and non-pregnant animals. The similarity of apparent Km values suggests that the increase in cytosolic ALDH may involve induction of normally present ALDH isozyme, rather than originating from synthesis of a new enzyme. Induction of liver ALDH was found to significantly decrease blood acetaldehyde concentrations in pregnant mice receiving 2.0 or 3.0 g/kg ethanol when compared to the respective control (non-pregnant) animals. However, differences in blood acetaldehyde levels measured in pregnant and control animals were not apparent when blood ethanol concentrations were below 40 mumol/ml.
Publisher Summary This chapter examines the gas-phase oxidation of the lower aldehydes in various temperature regions, in an attempt to recognize the principal elementary steps comprising the overall mechanism for particular systems and, where possible, to give the kinetic parameters for these steps. The chapter deals principally with the oxidations of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde below about 200 C and with the oxidation of formaldehyde. The chapter considers the extent of temperature range and examines which material is available for the oxidation of aldehydes containing more than three carbon atoms. The chapter also examines the cool flame phenomena. The change in temperature accompanying rapidly developing reactions such as cool flames is used to monitor events in hydrocarbon oxidations, and the method can no doubt be applied to aldehyde cool-flame studies. In this method, the rapid temperature rise is recorded by means of a storage oscilloscope coupled to a fine-wire thermocouple rendered inert toward the reacting system by means of a coating of silica.
Abstract Metalloporphyrins of the first transition series have been studied as catalysts in the oxidation of propene by dioxygen in ethyl acetate in the presence of propionaldehyde. With Mn III TTP and Fe III TTP of low redox potential, the reaction starts with generation of acyl radicals by transfer of electrons to metal orbitals, followed by formation of peroxy acid. In the case of Co II TTP, acyl radicals are generated through abstraction of hydrogen by the readily formed Co II TTP-O 2 complex. Co-porphyrin binds peroxy acid in two types of complexes: through oxygen of the carbonyl group with the peroxy oxygen atoms sticking out, or through peroxy oxygen with double-bonded oxygen of the carbonyl group exposed. Quantum chemical calculations revealed that only the terminal oxygen of the exposed peroxy group in the first type of complexes acquires electrophilic properties and can perform the addition of oxygen atom to the olefinic double bond. Such a complex of Mn III -porphyrin is unstable and decomposes to form manganese oxo species which are responsible for epoxidation. Mn III -porphyrin also shows high activity in the homolytic decomposition of peroxy acid with evolution of CO 2 . In the case of Cr(III), Ni(II), Cu(II) and Zn(II) porphyrins, the reduction potential is too high to allow electron transfer from aldehyde to the metal centre, rendering the first step of the reaction difficult.
The synthesis and biological evaluation of tittle compound(I)(5-DACTHF, 543U76), an acyclic analogue of 5,6,7,8-tetrahydrofolic acid (THFA), are described. The key intermediate(II) was prepared in four stages from 3-chloropropionaldehyde diethyl acetal. Reaction of II with dimethyl N-(4-aminobenzoyl)-L-glutamate gave the 2,4-bis(acetylamino) derivative(III), which was hydrolyzed with 1 N sodium hydroxide to give I; the glycine analogue was prepared in a similar manner. The N-methyl analogue IV and N-formyl analogue V were prepared from III and I respectively
The purpose of this study is to investigate concentration level and characteristics of malodour substances generated from landfill site in C city. Also, it is tried to predict distribution of concentration level using ISCST3 model around landfill site. From the results, it can be confirmed that twelfth-class malodour substances such as ammonia, methyl mercaptan, hydrogen sulfide, dimethyl sulfate, dimethyl disulfate, toluene, acetaldehyde, styrene, propionaldehyde, butylaldehyde, n-Valeraldehyde, xylene were generated from landfill site. The levels of the malodour substances were lower than that of permeable concentration regulated by odor control law in Korea. However, the concentration of malodour substances including methyl mercaptan, hydrogen sulfide, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde exceeded threshold limit value(TLV). It was seemed that these substances caused the problem of offensive odor around circumstance of landfill. The concentration of malodour substances was higher in slant than in upper part of landfill. The concentrations of malodour substances measured at night time were shown higher level than those at night time because atmospheric condition was stable at night time. It showed that the concentration of malodour substances were higher in spring. The results of atmospheric diffusion model predicted that tolerance limit level of hydrogen sulfide and methyl mercaptan was detected within nearly 5km from the boundary of landfill.
The exhaust gases of a LPG-fuelled engine contain formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein and acetone. Carbonyl compounds of more than 3 C-atoms were not found in detectable amounts. The engine was fund under stoichiometric, lean and rich air/fuel conditions. Under rich conditions the concentrations of the aldehydes were: formaldehyde 2.8ppm, acetaldehyde 1.3 ppm, propionaldehyde 0.06 ppm, acrolein 0.03 ppm, acetone 0.17ppm; under stoichiometric conditions: 4.5, 1.6, 0.10, 0.03 and 0.18ppm respectively; under lean conditions 17.0, 2.9, 0.13, 0.07 and O.27ppm respectively. These figures demonstrate the necessity of measuring aldehydes in exhaust gases of LPG-fuelled engines.
Abstract 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) produced by Lactobacillus reuteri is a broad-spectrum antimicrobial substance of glycerol conversion. The aim of the present work was to optimize 3-HPA production by Lb. reuteri ATCC 53608 using a two-step process. The first step was the production of Lb. reuteri cells in optimal conditions. Cells were then harvested by centrifugation and suspended in glycerol solution, which the resting cells bioconverted to 3-HPA. The effect of biomass concentration, temperature, glycerol concentration, anaerobic/micro-aerophilic conditions, and incubation time was studied for high 3-HPA production. 3-HPA accumulation was limited by the death of cells in contact with high concentrations of 3-HPA. However, a very high 3-HPA concentration of 235±3 mM was obtained after 45 min of incubation at 30°C in 400 mM glycerol for an initial free-cell concentration of 1.6± 0.3×10 10 viable cells/ml. A high viability was maintained at low temperatures in the range 5-15°C, but with a slightly lower yield of 3-HPA at 5°C compared with higher temperatures, up to 37°C. Successive 1-h incubations of Lb. reuteri cells in 200 mM glycerol at 15°C to tentatively reuse the cells resulted in decreasing 3-HPA concentrations at the end of each cycle, with two successful production cycles yielding high 3-HPA concentrations of 147±1 mM and 128±2 mM.
Lactobacillus reuteri is a bacterial strain known to inhabit the gastrointestinal tract of humans, swine, poultry, and other animals (Casas and Dobrogosz 2000) . In glycerolcontaining media, it has the ability to excrete high amounts of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), a potent bacterial inhibitor (Axelsson et al. 1989 ) which in aqueous solution undergoes a reversible dimerization and hydration, forming an equilibrium mixture of 3-HPA, HPA hydrate, and HPA dimer, also called reuterin (Vollenweider et al. 2003) . Until now, five other genera of bacteria that are able to transform glycerol into 3-HPA have been identified (Bacillus, Klebsiella, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Clostridium) and from all of these Lb. reuteri produced the highest concentration of 3-HPA in pure glycerol solution (Vollenweider and Lacroix 2004) .
The aroma-active compounds present in Sachima samples purchased at retail from the same batch code and stored for different durations of the shelf life were analysed by two methods: solid phase micro extraction (SPME) and solvent-assisted flavour evaporation (SAFE)-gas chromatography-olfactometry-mass spectrometry (GC-O-MS). A total of 41 volatile key compounds were identified. Among them, the predominant compounds in Sachima were tentatively identified by dilution analysis as being 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, 2-pentylfuran, 2-methyl-3-(methylthio)pyrazine, dimethyl disulfide, and dipropyl trisulfide. These compounds produced the highest due to their highest calculated flavour dilution (FD) factors. Sensory evaluations of the extracted compounds by a panel of trained individuals revealed that the 'egg' aroma was the main characteristic aroma due to its high sensory assessment score. With increasing length of storage of the product from 0 to 10 months, the overall acceptability of the Sachima aroma declined gradually. The observed changes in concentration of the different volatile compounds during storage indicated that the Maillard reaction and lipid oxidation continued during storage, so that aroma compounds and off-flavour compounds were being generated simultaneously. In addition, the undesirable smell of Sachima that increased during storage was not just generated from one volatile compound with a distinct off-flavour, but rather it was the result of an increase in both pleasant and unpleasant aromas. Furthermore, the pleasant aroma components appeared to still play a dominant role in the overall aroma profile of Sachima even after 10 Months of storage, which is within the stated shelf life on the product label.
A total of 41 aroma-active compounds were detected in Sachima samples by SPME/SAFE-GC-O-MS methods. Among them, the predominant compounds were tentatively identified by dilution analysis, as: 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, 2-pentylfuran, 2-methyl-3-(methylthio)pyrazine, dimethyl disulfide, and dipropyl trisulfide. The two extraction methods employed had their own advantages. While SAFE was well suited to extraction of those middle or high molecular weight volatile compounds like thioethers, SPME was appropriate for the extraction of very volatile compounds such as aldehydes. Overall, the combination of the two extraction methods with the GC-O-MS technique enabled a more comprehensive analysis of Linear partial least-squares analysis (PLS) biplot of sensory attributes versus prominent aroma-active compounds quantified by SPME-GC-MS (the prominent aroma-avitve compounds'numbers in biplot were 6, 11, 15, 16, 17, 19, 28, 37 , 39, 49, 50, 52, 54, 56, 57, 62, which corresponding to Table 2, respectively.).
Abstract: Cyclohexanone oximes 6 and 7 bearing olefinic dipolarophile moieties at the 2-position underwent a thermally induced oxime-olefin cycloaddition reaction under mild conditions leading to isoxazolo [4,3-c] Since a new concept on the isomerization of oxime to nitrone via the thermal 1,2-hydrogen shift was proposed by Grigg et α/' and the existence of the resultant ΝΗ-nitrone was elucidated by forming intramolecular cycloaddition products (Scheme 1), extensive investigations on the synthesis of highly functionalized isoxazolidine derivatives have been developed by many groups.^ Recently, we have also reported the simple oxime-nitrone isomerization and intramolecular nitrone-olefin cycloaddition reaction of 3-(alk-2-enyIamino)-propionaldehyde oximes, which afford isoxazolidine derivatives fused to a piperidine ring (Scheme 1).3 In order to extend this synthetic methodology to further functionalized isoxazolidines, we examined the thermal reaction of cyclohexanone oximes bearing olefinic dipolarophile moieties at the 2-position.
Abstract The reaction of 3-amino-1-propanol with propionaldehyde yielded as the main product 2-ethyltetrahydro-1,2-oxazine, the nitrosation of which gave 2-ethyl-3-nitrosotetrahydro-1,3-oxazine. Conclusive evidence for the tetrahydro-1,3-oxazine structure was obtained by NMR spectroscopy.
The reaction of diisopropyl formamide with lithium diisopropylamide produces, by abstraction of the formyl proton, the carbonyl anion, LiCON[CH(CH3)2]2. Reactions of this anion with benzaldehyde, benzophenone, ethyl benzoate, acetone, and propionaldehyde occur in yields ranging from 30–92%. Thus, this anion provides a useful method for the synthesis of α-hydroxy and α-keto acids, particularly in cases where cyanohydrin formation is difficult.
The structures of the anions formed by deprotonation of acetaldehyde dimethylhydrazone (DMH), propionaldehyde DMH, phenylacetaldehyde DMH, and trimethylsilylacetaldehyde DMH have been determined by 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and limits for rotational barriers in these aza-allyl anions have been calculated.
Forearm cutaneous blood flow was monitored continuously by laser Doppler velocimetry in 12 normal human subjects before and after a 5-min topical challenge with 5 M propionaldehyde. The aldehyde challenge routinely provoked an increase in cutaneous blood flow. During the recovery phase from peak stimulated blood flow to a lower, stable, resting level of flow, the cutaneous blood flow exhibited rhythmic oscillatory activity. Three stages of oscillatory vasomotion were defined to characterize changes: the first 5 min after onset (I), the 5-min span bracketing the temporal midpoint (II), and the final 5 min (III). The average period, wave height, and erythrocyte flux decreased during these three stages of oscillatory vasomotion. These changes and the temporal characteristics of onset and disappearance of oscillatory vasomotion suggest an origin of the oscillations in the slow wave activity of vascular smooth muscle.
Abstract The oxidation of gaseous propane under gamma radiolysis was studied at 100 torr pressure and 25°C, at oxygen pressures from 1 to 15 torr. Major oxygen-containing products and their G -values with 10% added oxygen are as follows: acetone, 0.98; i -propyl alcohol, 0.86; propionaldehyde, 0.43; n -propyl alcohol, 0.11; acrolein, 0.14; and allyl alcohol, 0.038. Minor products include i -butyl alcohol, t -amyl alcohol, n -butyl alcohol, n -amyl alcohol, and i -amyl alcohol. Small yields of i -hexyl alcohol and n -hexyl alcohol were also observed. There was no apparent difference in the G -values at pressures of 50, 100 and 150 torr. When the oxygen concentration was decreased below 5%, the yields of acetone, i -propyl alcohol, and n -propyl alcohol increased, the propionaldehyde yield decreased, and the yields of other products remained constant. The formation of major oxygen-containing products was explained on the basis that the alkyl radicals combine with molecular oxygen to give peroxyl radicals; the peroxyl radicals react with one another to give alkoxyl radicals, which in turn react with one another to form carbonyl compounds and alcohols. The reaction scheme for the formation of major products was examined using computer modeling based on a mechanism involving 28 reactions. Yields could be brought into agreement with the data within experimental error in nearly all cases.
Abstract Homo- and copolymerizations of β-allyloxypropionaldehyde (I) have been carried out by photoirradiation at 12–13°C in degassed glass ampules. The number-average molecular weights of the homopolymers of I obtained in a few reaction conditions were determined by means of gel-permeation chromatography. I initiated and/or accelerated the photopolymerizations of such vinyl monomers as methyl methacrylate and vinyl acetate. Photocopolymerizabilities of I with styrene (St) and acrylonitrile (AN) were also investigated, and the copolymerization parameters were obtained as follows: for the St-I system, r1 = 12, r2 = 0.01; for the AN-I system, r1 = 5.2, r2 = 0.01.
Abstract Niobium chloride promoted the addition of allylstannanes to aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes. Excellent syn diastereoselectivity was obtained in the addition of E -cinnamylstannane to benzaldehyde (49:1). In the addition of allylstannane to racemic 2-phenylpropionaldehyde, syn diastereoselection (Cram– anti -Cram=3:1) was observed. The same level of diastereoselection was achieved in the reaction between crotylstannane and benzaldehyde.
The present invention relates to a process for preparing acrolein from glycerol using an acidic solid catalyst containing a tungsten compound and a further promoter. Furthermore, in particular, a method for manufacturing a methylmercapto-propionaldehyde in the presence of a catalyst from the glycerol is described.
The combustion properties and pyrolysis behavior of cigarette paper under the pyrolysis conditions of cigarette smouldering were investigated by micro-scale combustion calorimetry (MCC), thermogravimetric analysis coupled to Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (TG-FTIR), respectively. MCC results demonstrated that the combustion and pyrolysis behavior are influenced by heating rate obviously. TG-FTIR results illustrated that the composition of the gaseous products were mainly composed of CO2, H2O carbonyl compounds, CO, and methanol. Flash pyrolysis experiment in combination with high performance liquid chromatography (FPy-HPLC) was used to study the pyrolytic formation of eight carbonyl compounds (i.e., formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, and butyraldehyde) during the pyrolysis of cigarette paper under the pyrolysis conditions of cigarette puffing. Moreover, the solid char formed after the flash pyrolysis experiments were studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). It had been found that the pyrolysis temperature influenced the formation of carbonyl compounds and the composition of char greatly.
1-Aryl-1-propenes were converted into the corresponding 2-arylpropionaldehydes in high yields by treatment with iodine and silver(I)oxide in aqueous dioxane at room temperature.
The present invention relates to a method for environmental technology continuous synthesis of methionine, a combined use of a reactor for producing methionine, to realize a highly automated, highly energy efficient, highly environmentally friendly synthesis of methionine new continuous process. Wherein the joint is to provide a method for the synthesis of methionine reactor employed: an acrolein, a methyl mercaptan synthesis methylthio substituting propionaldehyde for raw materials, reacted with hydrogen cyanide to give intermediate 2-hydroxy-4 - methylthiobutanenitrile, the intermediate 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutanenitrile in the presence of excess ammonia and carbon dioxide in a combined continuous reactor to give a first reaction bed reaction solution hydantoin, such hydantoin solution parsed column effluent released from the first reactor bed an excess of carbon dioxide and ammonia, the second sea bed reaction solution flows parsed by joint hydrolysis reactor and an aqueous solution of potassium methionine under basic conditions; methionine with carbon dioxide in an aqueous solution of potassium and methionine and potassium hydrogen carbonate to give an aqueous solution, crystallized methionine is separated from the aqueous solution; potassium bicarbonate mother liquor after subsequent treatment with recycled and reused.
Abstract The photo-epoxidation of propylene has gained preference among many alternative processes because the current processes for propylene oxide (PO) production are neither economical nor environmentally sustainable. We synthesized various single and binary metal oxides (Ti and V) constructed within the MCM-41 framework and demonstrated their favorable efficiency for the photo-epoxidation of propylene. The results indicated that highly dispersed tetrahedral coordination states played a role in photo-epoxidation. The maximum PO formation rate was 634 ± 17 (μmol g −1 h −1 ) on V 0.2 Ti 0.3 /MCM-41 under UV-light irradiation of 0.3 mW cm −2 at 323 K. The Delplot method revealed two pathways to produce PO. One is indirectly from propionaldehyde via either V or Ti oxides, and the other is directly from a C 3 H 6 reactant via Ti oxides. This paper clearly illustrates how V and Ti oxides affect the photo-epoxidation pathways. Furthermore, a possible photo-epoxidation mechanism via the metal oxide active site is proposed to elucidate the synergetic photoactivity.
The effect of beta-naphthoflavone (beta-NF) on several catalytic activities of cytochrome P450 (CYP) and phase II enzymes putatively controlled by [Ah]-receptor activation in the liver, heart and kidney of gilthead seabream, was investigated. In the liver, beta-NF treatment [intraperitoneal injection (i.p.) 50 mg/kg] resulted in an increase of CYP content, immunoreactive CYP 1A and methoxyresorufin-O-demethylase (MEROD), pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase (PROD) and ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activities. However, beta-NF had no effect on any of the hepatic phase II enzymes examined (benzaldehyde dehydrogenase, propionaldehyde dehydrogenase, glutathione S-transferase, UDP-glucuronyl-transferase, DT-diaphorase). Single i.p. injection of 10 mg/kg beta-NF showed a maximal induction of CYP 1A-like protein and EROD activity after 3-7 days. CYP 1A and EROD returned to control levels 18-days post-treatment. beta-NF injection also caused a rapid increase of a single band size of mRNA recognized by a CYP 1A1 cDNA fragment from sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax). Expression of mRNA preceded the increase of EROD activity and declined rapidly by 96 h. Dose-response experiments demonstrated that EROD was significantly enhanced in liver by a single injection of 0.3 mg/kg beta-NF and was the most sensitive measurement for CYP 1A-like induction. beta-NF treatments also increased the expression of CYP 1A-like protein, mRNA and EROD, but not MEROD and PROD activities in heart and kidney.
Half-life extension (HLE) is becoming an essential component of the industrial development of small-sized therapeutic peptides and proteins. HESylation(®) is a HLE technology based on coupling drug molecules to the biodegradable hydroxyethyl starch (HES). In this study, we report on the synthesis, characterization and pharmacokinetics of HESylated anakinra, where anakinra was conjugated to propionaldehyde-HES using reductive amination, leading to a monoHESylated protein. Characterization using size exclusion chromatography and dynamic light scattering confirmed conjugation and the increase in molecular size, while Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy showed that the secondary structure of the conjugate was not affected by coupling. Meanwhile, microcalorimetry and aggregation studies showed a significant increase in protein stability. Surface plasmon resonance and microscale thermophoresis showed that the conjugate retained its nanomolar affinity, and finally, the pharmacokinetics of the HESylated protein exhibited a 6.5-fold increase in the half-life, and a 45-fold increase in the AUC. These results indicate that HESylation(®) is a promising HLE technology.
Propionaldehyde undergoes autoxidation to propionic acid in benzene solution in the presence of millimolar quantitites of iron(III) tetraphenylporphyrin complexes. The iron prophyrin catalyst promotes oxidation of some 200 equivalents of aldehyde prior to prophyrin ring destruction that takes place over a period of hours. Addition of cyclohexene to the initial reaction mixture serves to diminish the yield of propionic acid, and produce cyclohexene oxide, 2-cyclohexene-l-ol, and 2-cyclohexen-l-one as major oxidation products. Yields of the oxide approximate those of propionic acid, and are higher than the allylic cyclohexene oxidation products. A mechanism is suggested that involves significant metal-oxo group transfer, rather than total radical chain oxidation. The manganese(III) tetraphenylporphyrin analogue also serves as an efficient catalyst.
Abstract NAD-dependent aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase was partially purified ca 110-fold from pea epicotyls. The purified enzyme ( M r ca 82 00) catalysed the oxidation of 1,5-diazabicyclo[4.3.0]nonane (1,5-DBN) to N -(3-aminopropyl)-2-pyrrolidinone. The K m values were 1.0 × 10 −4 M for 1,5-DBN, 2.6 × 10 −5 M for 3-aminopropionaldehyde (3-APA), 1.2 × 10 −4 M for 4-aminobutyraldehyde, 2.2 × 10 −4 M for indole-3-acetaldehyde and 3.7 × 10 −5 M for NAD (in the case of 3-APA). The enzyme had some activity for an aldehyde from spermine oxidized by pea diamine oxidase.
Abstract Aldehydes concentrations were measured in 162 homes in the Strasbourg area (East of France) in the context of a case/control study pairing asthmatic and non-asthmatic people. The surveyed people have completed a questionnaire aiming to characterize the indoor homes and the people life practices. Gaseous aldehyde levels were quantified by a conventional DNHP-derivatization method followed by HPLC/UV. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and hexanal were the main encountered aldehydes with mean concentrations of 32.2±14.6, 14.3±9.7 and 8.6±8.1 μg m −3 , respectively, while propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde concentrations were usually −3 . The aldehydes concentrations simultaneously measured in both bedroom and living room were not significantly different except for formaldehyde and were correlated between them meaning that indoor air was quite homogenous in homes. Combination of information collected in our questionnaires and statistical analysis was used to investigate indoor aldehydes determinants. Even if formaldehyde sources are theoretically well identified, they are multiple so that it was difficult to determine the main parameters influencing its concentrations in domestic environment. Higher hexanal concentrations were related to new coatings such as painting, wallpapers and laminate floorings. Hexanal concentration decreased with both coating and furniture ages so that this compound may be considered as a tracer of these emissions.
A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectroscopy(LC-MS/MS)method was developed for analysis of carbonyl compounds in cigarette mainstream smoke.The cigarette smoke was collected using a Cambridge filter treated with acidic solution of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine,then extracted with acetonitrile.The extract was diluted with acetonitrile-water and analyzed by LC-MS/MS in negative electro-spray ionization mode.Formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,acetone,acrolein,propionaldehyde,methyl ethyl ketone,butyraldehyde and crotonaldehyde in mainstream cigarette smoke were analyzed with the recovery at the range of 83% to 103%.The minimum detectable quantity for the carbonyls ranged from 0.08 to 0.28 μg/L,and relative standard deviations were below 6%.This new method had higher selectivity and sensitivity compared to conventional methods.5 kinds of foreign and domestic cigarette were analyzed.
The invention relates to a new liquid chain hydrocarbon fuel synthetic route that acquires a platform chemical compound based on a lignocellulose raw material and is completely independent of fossil energy. The liquid fuel obtained by the method can be used as a substitute of aviation kerosene and diesel oil or as an additive for improving the cetane number and cold hardiness of fuels, thereby reducing the national dependence on imported petroleum in terms of liquid fuels. The method provided in the invention consists of two parts: 1) on a novel solid acid catalyst, an aldehyde group-containing compound (such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde, etc.) and a furan platform compound (such as furan, methyl furan, and hydroxylmethyl furan, etc.) undergo an acid catalyzed alkylation reaction to prepare an oxygen-containing organic compound with a carbon chain length of 8-16; and 2) hydrogenation and hydrodeoxygenation are conducted on an alkylation product to hydrogenate unsaturated bonds and remove the oxygen therein, thus preparing aviation kerosene or high grade diesel oil with a carbon chain length ranging from 8 to 16.
In the presence of bis(3-methyl-2,4-pentanedionato)cobalt(II) complex catalyst, various trisubstituted olefins are smoothly monooxygenated into the corresponding epoxides in high yields under neutral conditions by the combined use of molecular oxygen and propionaldehyde diethyl acetal.
Quantum-chemistry calculations were carried out allowing the rationalization of the observed stereoselective formation of the anti-dipole for the decarboxylative condensation of thiazolidine-4-carboxylic acid with propionaldehyde and with benzaldehyde.
Source of material 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (1 mmol, 0.198 g) was dissolved in anhydrous ethanol (10 ml), H 2 SO 4 (98 %, 0.5 ml) was added to this, the mixture was stirred for several minutes at 351 K, propionaldehyde (1 mmol, 0.058 g) in ethanol (5 ml) was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred at refluxing temperature for 5 h. The product was separated and recrystallized in dichloromethane, red single crystals were obtained after 3 d.
Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (BADH2) has been reported to play a role in the level of 2AP in rice 4, 5 . The loss of BADH2 function accounts for the accumulation of 2AP resulting in an increase in rice fragrance 5 . BADH2 belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) family whose members include NAD(P) + -dependent enzymes catalysing the oxidation of many intermediate aldehydes to their corresponding carboxylic acids 6 . BADH2 oxidizes a broad range of aminoaldehydes (e.g. γ-aminobutyraldehyde (GAB-ald), 3-aminopropionaldehyde (AP-ald), and 4-N-trimethylaminobutyraldehyde (TMAB-ald)) in addition to its natural substrate, betaine aldehyde (Bet-ald) [7] [8] [9] . Furthermore, previous studies demonstrated that BADH2 catalyses the oxidation of GAB-ald more efficiently than Bet-ald 4, 7 . Generally, BADH2 converts GAB-ald into GABA, but the absence or nonfunction of BADH2 results in the accumulation of GAB-ald which is subsequently converted to 2AP.
The invention aims to manufacture high-purity 1,3-propanediol through effectively eliminating by-products when the 1,3-propanediol is manufactured from glycerol. The task can be settled through 1,3-propanediol manufacturing process of the invention. The 1,3-propanediol manufacturing process comprises the following steps: a supercritical reaction step for causing glycerol to react with supercritical water and acid for generating acrolein; a hydration step for causing hydration of the acrolein which is generated in the supercritical reaction step and generating 3-hydroxy-propionaldehyde; a first eliminating step of eliminating allyl alcohol as a by-product from the 3-hydroxy-propionaldehyde which is generated in the hydration step; a hydrogenation step of performing hydrogenation on the 3-hydroxy-propionaldehyde after the first eliminating step for generating 1,3-propanediol; and a second eliminating step of eliminating 1,2-propanediol generated as a by-product from the 1,-propanediol generated in the hydrogenation step.
The apparent activation energies for propionaldehyde and ethane formation from C2H4, CO, and H2 on a Rh/active-carbon catalyst, once used for a reaction at 453 K, were found to be 40 and 76 kJ mol−1, respectively. These values were much lower than those on a fresh Rh/active-carbon catalyst (120 and 125 kJ mol−1). Changes in the apparent activation energies were also induced by exposure of a fresh catalyst to CO at temperatures > 433 K. Such catalytic behaviors, however, were not observed on a Rh/silica-gel catalyst. On the fresh Rh/active-carbon catalyst, the amount of adsorbed CO was found to be much more than that of adsorbed H2. The temperature-programmed desorption spectrum (TPD) of CO on the catalyst exposed to CO at 353 K after an H2 treatment at 573 K showed a single desorption peak at ca. 470 K; the value for the CO/Rh molar ratio was found to be 2.6. The amount of CO desorbed from the catalyst exposed to CO at 473 K, however, was found to be much less than that on the catalyst exposed to CO at 35...
Insecticide tests to control Contarinia spp. on Douglas-fir were conducted in a small Christmas tree plantation in western Oregon. Acceptable control was achieved with the following materials: endosulfan, dimethoate, lindane (ground spray), carbofuran, and Temik® a 10% granular formulation of UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde 0 -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime), Adult midge emergence was monitored and was found to provide an index for timing insecticides.
The invention discloses a method for preparing a cuprous oxide-doped OMS-2 catalyst. According to the method, propionaldehyde, a Fehling reagent and a potassium permanganate solution are used as raw materials. In a same system, potassium permanganate is used as an oxidizing agent and propionaldehyde is used as a reducing agent to carry out an oxidation reduction reaction so as to generate OMS-2; the Fehling reagent is used as an oxidizing agent and propionaldehyde is used as a reducing agent to reduce Cu to Cu2O and Cu2O is mixed in the newly-generated OMS-2, so as to obtain a cuprous oxide-doped manganese oxide octahedral molecular sieve XCu2O-OMS-2 catalyst material, wherein X indicates copper-manganese molar ratio. The preparation process is simple. XCu2O-OMS-2 is used as a catalyst and o-xylene is used as a target pollutant. Catalytic combustion performance of the material is evaluated. At the temperature of 190-210 DEG C, 450 ppm o-xylene is completely converted to CO2 and H2O. Catalytic combustion temperature is low, treatment efficiency is high, and there is no secondary pollution.
The structure and stereochemistry of the dimer of 3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethylpropionaldehyde (1) has been deduced by i.r. and n.m.r. spectroscopy. Equilibria involved in solutions of (1) have been observed and discussed. It has been proved that the dimer is a mixture of two stereoisomers, of which the cis is more stable.
Previously, we constructed a glycerol oxidative pathway-deficient mutant strain of Klebsiella pneumoniae by inactivation of glycerol dehydrogenase (dhaD) to eliminate by-product synthesis during production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) from glycerol. Although by-product formation was successfully blocked in the resultant strain, the yield of 1,3-PD was not enhanced, probably because dhaD disruption resulted in insufficient regeneration of the cofactor NADH essential for the activity of 1,3-PD oxidoreductase (DhaT). To improve cofactor regeneration, in the present study we overexpressed an NAD+-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase in the recombinant strain. To this end, an aldehyde dehydrogenase AldHk homologous to E. coli AldH but with NAD+-dependent propionaldehyde dehydrogenase activity was identified in K. pneumoniae. Functional analysis revealed that the substrate specificity of AldHk embraced various aldehydes including propionaldehyde, and that NAD+ was preferred over NADP+ as a cofactor. Overexpression of AldHk in the glycerol oxidative pathway-deficient mutant AK/pVOTHk resulted in a 3.6-fold increase (0.57 g l−1 to 2.07 g l−1) in the production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), and a 1.1-fold enhancement (8.43 g l−1 to 9.65 g l−1) of 1,3-PD synthesis, when glycerol was provided as the carbon source, compared to the levels synthesized by the control strain (AK/pVOT). Batch fermentation using AK/pVOTHk showed a significant increase (to 70%, w/w) in conversion of glycerol to the reductive metabolites, 1,3-PD and 3-HP, with no production of by-products except acetate.
A wide variety of cinnamic acid derivatives are inhibitors of the low Km mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase. Two of the most potent inhibitors are alpha-cyano-3,4-dihydroxythiocinnamamide (Ki0.6 microM) and alpha-cyano-3,4,5-trihydroxycinnamonitrile (Ki2.6 microM). With propionaldehyde as substrate the inhibition by these compounds was competitive with respect to NAD+. alpha-Fluorocinnamate was a much less effective inhibitor of the enzyme, with mixed behaviour towards NAD+, but with a major competitive component. These cinnamic acid derivatives were ineffective as inhibitors of the aldehyde dehydrogenase-catalysed hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl acetate, but inhibited the ability of NAD+ and NADH to activate this activity. Inhibition of the stimulation of esterase activity was competitive with respect to NAD+ and NADH, and the derived Ki values were the same as for inhibition of dehydrogenase activity. NAD+, but not acetaldehyde, could elute the low Km aldehyde dehydrogenase from alpha-cyanocinnamate-Sepharose, to which the enzyme binds specifically (Poole RC and Halestrap AP, Biochem J 259: 105-110, 1989). The cinnamic acid derivatives have little effect on lactate dehydrogenase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase or a high Km aldehyde dehydrogenase present in rat liver mitochondria. It is concluded that some cinnamic acid derivatives are potent inhibitors of the low Km aldehyde dehydrogenase, by competing with NAD+/NADH for binding to the enzyme. They are much less effective as inhibitors of other NAD(+)-dependent dehydrogenases.
Lactobacillus reuteri metabolizes glycerol through propanediol-utilization (Pdu) pathway to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) via 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) as intermediate. In the resting cells, the oxidized co-factor obtained in the reaction is regenerated by simultaneous oxidation of 3-HPA to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) using propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP), phosphotransacylase (PduL) and propionate kinase (PduW). We have earlier shown that the use of resting cells of recombinant Escherichia coli expressing the oxidative pathway gives the highest theoretical yield of 1 mol 3-HP per mol 3-HPA but is limited by cofactor depletion. In the present study, the gene encoding the enzyme NAD(P)H oxidase (LreuNox) that utilizes molecular oxygen as substrate, was isolated from L. reuteri and heterologously overexpressed in E. coli. LreuNox has a pH optimum of 6 and exhibits Vmax of 101.1 ± 2.2 U/mg with NADH, which is 30% higher than that for NADPH. Co-expression of LreuNox with PduP, PduL and PduW in E. coli enhances the biocatalytic lifetime as well as productivity at least two-fold compared to that achieved without co-factor regeneration.
Radicals, such as acyl, hydrated acyl, alkyl and ketyl radicals, from aliphatic aldehyde photochemistry were detected by NO spin trapping and EPR techniques. Deuterium effects on EPR spectra and the generation of radicals by 2-amido-2-propyl radical attack on substrate molecules in aqueous solution via hydrogen-atom abstraction were applied to identify radicals produced photochemically from aldehydes. Aliphatic aldehydes used in the present investigation were formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetaldehyde-d4, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, isopentanal and tert-pentanal. Possible reaction mechanisms are suggested. Copyright © 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The invention provides a production technique for preparing n-propanol with the hydrogenated propionaldehyde under the Cu-Zn catalyst, which is characterized in that the propionaldehyde is hydrogenated in the gas phase under the action of the Cu-Zn catalyst to generate the crude propanol; then the light components and the heavy components are removed when the crude propanol is entering a distillation system to obtain the product of n-propanol; and the Cu-Zn catalyst mainly comprises 29.4% to 50% copper oxide and 49.4% to 70% zinc oxide by weight. The preparation method for n-propanol with the hydrogenated propionaldehyde under the Cu-Zn catalyst has the advantages of adoption of the Cu-Zn catalyst, less side reaction, large production capacity, good hydrogenation selectivity, high purity of the produced product with the content of n-propanol up to more than 99.7%, low cost and price, simple technique and easy operation.
Studies of the relative yields of C2H6 produced in the oxidation of propionaldehyde at 440°C in the presence and absence of H2 or D2 have enabled the velocity constant ratios k3/k14 and k5/k14 to be determined: C2H5+ C2H5CHO = C2H6+ C2H5CO (14) C2H5+ H2= C2H6+ H (5) C2H5+ D2= C2H5D + D (3) From the known values of k14, absolute values of k3 and k5 were obtained. By combining these values at 440°C with other values at lower temperatures, the best values for the velocity constants are k3= 4.07 × 109 exp (–14,700/RT), k5= 6.46 × 109 exp (–14,100/RT), in l. mole–1 sec–1 units.
Abstract 8‐Methyl‐4‐thia‐6‐aza‐spiro[2.5]oct‐5‐en‐7‐ols and 8‐methyl‐4‐selena‐6‐aza‐spiro[2.5]oct‐5‐en‐7‐ols were synthesized in moderate to good yields via tandem Michael–nucleophilic addition of 2‐cyclopropylidenepropionaldehyde under mild conditions.
In this study, the spatial and temporal distribution of odorants in ambient air was investigated at three measurement points in a University campus in Seoul city during a 15 day study period. The concentrations of 12 target analytes designated as malodor compounds by KMOE were measured through time. The highest mean concentration (in ppb unit) was found from NH₃(25.3) followed by styrene (0.51) ＞ acetaldehyde (0.13) ＞ H₂S, propionaldehyde (0.07) ＞ butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde (0.06) ＞ DMDS (0.04) ＞ TMA (0.03) ＞ CH₃SH and DMS (0.01). Comparison of odorant data showed fairly strong distinctions across diurnal period, while differences in concentration levels were not clear enough between different sampling locations. The results of correlation analysis showed that the concentrations of DMS and NH₃ were strongly correlated with relative humidity. In addition, most of reduced sulfur compounds (RSC) exhibited strong correlations with each other. When the odorant concentrations were converted into odor intensity, the values were typically found below the odor degree of 1. The odor intensity, if assessed by the maximum values of each compound, were generally in between 1~2 odor degree level (e.g., H₂S, CH₃SH, DMDS, acetaldehyde, and TMA). The results of this study thus show that most odorant species occurred below the threshold value at clean space like a University campus. Hence, more efforts are desirable toward the development of the analytical technique at various concentration levels.
Olefin isomerization of allylic ethers and alcohols is catalyzed by Ru^(II)(H_2O) (tos = p-toluenesulfonate) (1) under mild conditions in aqueous solution to yield the corresponding carbonyl compounds. Non-allylic olefins are also isomerized, although homoallylic alcohols exhibit stability toward isomerization. An exclusive 1,3-hydrogen shift is observed in the isomerization of allyl-1,1 d_2 alcohol to propionaldehyde-1,3-d_2 and allyl-1,1-d_2 methyl ether to 1-propenyl-1,3-d_2 methyl ether by 1 in aqueous solution. The presence of crossover products from the isomerizations of mixtures of (a) allyl-3-^(13)C alcohol and allyl-1,1-d_2 alcohol and (b) allyl-1 ,1-d_2 methyl ether and allyl ethyl ether demonstrates that the isomerization of both alcohols and ethers occurs via intermolecular hydrogen shifts. A modified metal hydride addition-elimination mechanism involving exclusive Markovnikov addition to the double bond directed by the oxygen functionality of the substrate has been proposed.
The electrostatic adsorption onto charged surfaces of comb copolymers comprising a polyelectrolyte backbone and pendent PEG side chains, such as poly(l-lysine)-g-poly(ethylene glycol) (PLL-g-PEG), has in previous studies provided protein-repellent thin coatings, particularly on metal oxide surfaces. A drawback of this approach is, however, the instability of such adsorbed layers under extreme pH values or high ionic strength. We have overcome this limitation in the present study by covalently immobilizing PLL-g-PEG copolymers onto aldehyde plasma-modified substrates. Silicon wafers, optical waveguide chips, and perfluorinated ethylene-co-propylene (FEP) polymer substrates were first coated with a thin plasma polymer layer using a propionaldehyde plasma, followed by covalent immobilization of PLL-g-PEG via reductive amination between amine groups of the PLL backbone with aldehyde groups on the plasma-deposited interlayer. The stability in high salt media and the protein resistance of different molecular ar...
The cell of Klebsiella penumonia was immobilized by sol-gel process and transformed glycerol to produce 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde(3-HPA).The usher and modifier effect on immobilization during gel preparation was studied.It showed that 3-HPA ferment level of immobilized cell with sodium silicate as precursor was 57.14% higher than that with tetraethyl orthosilicate(TEOS).The 3-HPA ferment levels of immobilized cell with polyethylene glycol(PEG),glucose and maltose as the modifier were respectively 110%,98.12% and 90.1% of that without modifier.The immobilized cell gel using sodium silicate as precursor without modifier or with different modifiers were prepared and continually fermented for seven batchs.The 3-HPA ferment level of the former was maintained between 70%～80%,and those of the latter were maintain between 80%～93.5%,69%～78% and 78%～83% respectively.Immobilized cell with PEG as modifier had higher 3-HPA ferment level,and the overall yield of 3-HPA maintained 0.480～0.561 g/g glycerol.
Metabolism of chloral hydrate (CH) by male B6C3F1 mouse liver microsomes (control-microsomes) generated free radical intermediates that resulted in endogenous lipid peroxidation, forming malondialdehyde (MDA), formaldehyde (FA), acetaldehyde (ACT), acetone, and propionaldehyde. Because MDA, FA, and ACT are tumorigens, endogenous formation of lipid peroxidation products via a free radical mechanism may be responsible for hepatocellular tumorigenicity of CH to the B6C3F1 mice. Trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and trichloroethanol (TCE), the primary metabolites of CH, also generated free radicals and induced lipid peroxidation. Lipid peroxidation from TCA equaled that induced by CH, whereas that from TCE was 3- to 4-fold lower, suggesting that metabolism of CH to TCA may be the predominant pathway leading to lipid peroxidation. Metabolism of CH, TCA, and TCE by liver microsomes of mice pretreated with pyrazole (pyrazole-microsomes) yielded lipid peroxidation products at a level 2- to 3-fold higher than those from liver microsomes of untreated mice. In addition, CH-induced lipid peroxidation catalyzed by control-microsomes and pyrazole-microsomes was reduced significantly by 2,4-dichloro-6-phenylphenoxyethylamine, a general cytochrome P450 inhibitor. Thus, our study suggests that cytochrome P450 is the enzyme catalyzing the metabolic activation of CH and its metabolites (TCA and TCE) leading to lipid peroxidation, and that CYP2E1 may be the major isozyme responsible. This latter conclusion was supported by results using human lymphoblastoid cells expressing cytochrome P4502E1, which metabolized CH to reactants inducing mutations, whereas the parental cell line was inactive.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) has been purified to homogeneity from Sprague-Dawley rat liver mitochondrial matrix; its specific activity with propionaldehyde (1 mM at pH 9.0) is 1.4 mumol/min/mg. It has a native molecular weight of ca. 260,000 daltons, a subunit weight of 54,000 daltons and separates into two bands on isoelectric focusing (pI, 5.15 and 5.30); its extinction coefficient at 280 nm for 1 mg/ml solution is 1.2 and 280/260 nm ratio is 1.6. The enzyme prefers NAD over NADP as the coenzyme; the Km for NADP (67,000 microM) is three orders of magnitude greater than that for NAD (61 microM); the Km for acetaldehyde is 2 microM and for propionaldehyde is 0.8 microM at pH 7.0. The enzyme is reversibly inhibited by chloral (Ki = 3 microM) but is resistant to disulfiram inhibition. In addition another aldehyde dehydrogenase, first observed in the mitochondrial matrix during isoelectric focusing, has been partially purified. It has a Km for propionaldehyde of 0.7 mM and an isoelectric point of 6.4. Its activity with glutamic-gamma-semialdehyde (Km = 0.13 mM) is ca. 20 times higher than with propionaldehyde identifying the enzyme as glutamic-gamma-semialdehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.5.1.12).
An emission inventory of atmospheric pollutants from crop residue burning in Guangdong for the period 2008-2016 was developed, based on crop yield data. Emissions of species of volatile organic compounds(VOCs)and corresponding ozone formation potential (OFP) in 2016 were also estimated. Results showed that emissions of atmospheric pollutants from crop residue burning in 2013-2016 were lower than in 2008-2012. This was mainly due to the policy of prohibiting open burning of straw and to improvement of rural living standards, which reduced the proportion of straw burning. In 2016, emissions of SO2, NOx, NH3, CH4, EC, OC, NMVOC, CO, and PM2.5 were 2443.7, 16187.9, 6943.8, 29174.4, 3625.5, 14830.7, 65612.6, 591613.9, and 49463.0 t, respectively. Rice straw burning was the main source of pollutants, accounting for about 68.55% of total pollutant emissions. The five municipalities with highest atmospheric pollutant emissions were Zhanjiang, Maoming, Meizhou, Zhaoqing, and Shaoguan, together accounting for about 58.63% of total emissions. The top 10 VOC species for mass-based emissions consisted of ethylene, acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, benzene, ethyne, propylene, ethane, toluene, propane, and propionaldehyde, together contributing 67.91% to total emissions. The top ten OFP-based VOC species were ethylene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propylene, 1-butylene, propionaldehyde, toluene, acrolein, isoprene, and crotonaldehyde, accounting for 80.83% of total OFP.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity was assayed spectrophotometrically by measuring the increase in delta A at 340 nm, as a criteria of NAD conversion to NADH in the presence of propionaldehyde. The effect of pH and substrate(s) concentration of nonenzymatic increase in absorbance at 340 nm was studied. Results indicate that the increase in absorbance at 340 nm is not entirely due to NAD conversion to NADH. It was observed that nonenzymatic interaction of NAD and aldehyde could as well result in increase in absorbance at 340 nm. The magnitude of the nonenzymatic contribution towards increase in absorbance at 340 nm is found to be pH, substrate(s) conc., and time dependent. Further, the observed nonenzymatic reaction product was found to be different from that of NADH as confirmed by u.v. spectral characteristics (lambda max. 346 nm) and its inability to activate NADH/NADPH-dependent glutathione reductase. Based on these findings, a final assay method comprising a substrate blank consisting of NAD and aldehyde, and the assay pH of 7.4 is recommended for measuring the ALDH activity. Further, under these experimental conditions the Km value of human RBC ALDH was found to be 0.59 mM for propionaldehyde substrate.
Controlled addition of dry hydrogen chloride to a mixture of propionaldehyde and trans-crotyl alcohol at –5° gives cis- and trans-prop-1-enyl trans-but-2-enyl ether which are separable by spinning-band fractional distillation. At 142° the cis-isomer is cleanly converted into erythro-2,3-dimethylpent-4-enal, the trans-isomer giving the threo-isomer. The aldehydes are separately transformed into meso- and (±)-3,4-dimethylhexa-1,5-diene respectively by reaction with methylenetriphenylphosphorane in dimethyl sulphoxide; the isomeric purity of the resulting olefins is 95%(meso) and 96·5%[(±)]. The dienes react with acetylacetonato(bis-ethylene)rhodium(I) to form the corresponding hexadiene complexes; evidence pertaining to their stereochemistry, relative stability, and thermal stability is presented.
The effect of silver promotion on CO hydrogenation and ethylene hydroformylation over Rh/SiO2 has been studied. Catalyst characterization before reaction reveals that Ag and Rh form separate crystallites; part of the Ag is atomically spread on the surface of Rh crystallite and blocks the Rh ensembles required for the bridge CO. Although both reactions restructure the catalyst surface and increase the ratio of bridge to linear CO sites on AgRh/SiO2 catalysts, the ratio of the bridge to the linear CO sites remains lower on Ag-Rh/SiO2 than on Rh/SiO2 under reaction conditions. Ag is found to increase the selectivity and the rate of formation for acetaldehyde (C2 oxygenate) during CO hydrogenation and for propionaldehyde (C3 oxygenate) during ethylene hydroformylation on Rh/SiO2. The increased activity and selectivity for C2 and C3 oxygenates is attributed to a high ratio of the linear CO to bridge CO sites and a possible presence of isolated Rh+ sites under reaction conditions. The results are consistent with a previous report that the single Rh atom site that chemisorbs linear CO is active for CO insertion.
7-Alkyl- or a mixture of 6- and 7-alkylpteridines are formed when 2,5,6-triamino-4-hydroxypyrimidine and tetraaminopyrimidine are reacted with N-substituted α-aminoketones in aqueous medium in the presence of piperidine. The cyclocondensation of the indicated pyrimidines with N-acetyl-α-aminopropionaldehyde in the presence of Et3N leads to 6-methylpterin and 2,4-diamino-6-methylpteridine.
The geometries of the reactant, the intermediate, the transition state and the product in T1 state for the photo-rearrangement of allyl alcohol to propionaldehyde are optimized by gradient technique, based on UHF ab initio methods with 6-31G basis set. The whole reaction path (intrinsic reaction coordinate proposed by Fukui) is traced. Our results of calculation with correlation correction by means of MP2/6-31G* method not only support that the photo-rearrangement of allyl alcohol proceeds via hydrogen shift in the excited electronic state, but also predict that the isomerization is a two step reaction via a diradical as an intermediate with the main primary product excited propenol.
The present invention discloses a method of separating close boiling species polyol mixture, containing di- or polyhydric alcohol is ethylene glycol as raw materials heteroaryl, under the action of an acid catalyst, di- or polyhydric alcohols via hetero (1) dehydration reaction ( 2) pinacol rearrangement (3) frequency acetal or ketal reaction to produce acetal, ketal (rarely), and collected by distillation; the same time, the progress of the reaction solution after separation to obtain high purity ethylene glycol. The present invention provides a liquid phase dehydration reaction is removed by a species glycol di- or polyhydric alcohols route heteroaryl, mild reaction conditions, in particular a high removal of 1,2-butanediol are difficult to remove by conventional means rate, to give the final product of high purity ethylene glycol; while the higher value byproduct acetals or ketals compound also can produce a predetermined acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acetone and other basic chemical raw materials. The present invention is difficult to separate the crude product was converted to high-purity ethylene glycol, and other chemical products green technology.
Abstract ： The absorption characteristics of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde and valeraldehyde by Schefflera octophylla and Chamaedorea elegans were investigated at the laboratory simulation environment of short-term exposure to different CO 2 concentrations. Under normal circumstances, the C 1 -C 5 aldehyde removal rates of Schefflera octophylla and Chamaedorea elegans were ranged from 0.311μmol/m 2 / h for valeraldehyde to 0.677 μmol/m 2 / h for formaldehyde, and 0.526 μmol/m 2 / h for propionaldehyde to 1.440 μmol/m 2 / h for formaldehyde, respectively. The CO 2 experiments showed that the total aldehydes removal rates of Schefflera octophylla and Chamaedorea elegans decreased 32.0% and 43.2%, respectively, with the increasing of CO 2 experiments from 350ppmv to 1400ppmv. This might be explaned by that high CO 2 concentrations can induce stomatal closure, which as an responce for plants facing environmental changes, and consequently impacts on the abilities of absorbing air pollutants.
Abstract The pduP gene encodes a propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) was investigated for the role in 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) glycerol metabolism in Klebsiella pneumoniae . The enzyme assay showed that cell extracts from a pduP mutant strain lacked measurable dehydrogenase activity. Additionally, the mutant strain accumulated the cytotoxic intermediate metabolite 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), causing both cell death and a lower final 3-HP titer. Ectopic expression of pduP restored normal cell growth to mutant. The enzymatic property of recombinant protein from Escherichia coli was examined, exhibiting a broad substrate specificity, being active on 3-HPA. The present work is thus the first to demonstrate the role of PduP in glycerol metabolism and biosynthesis of 3-HP.
Aldicarb is taken up by earthworms from aqueous solution to give concentrations in the worms comparable to that in the external aqueous solutions. Uptake from waterlogged soils is similar, but much less aldicarb is taken up from drier soils. Aldicarb sulphoxide [2-methyl-2-(methylsulphinylpropionaldehyde O-methylcar-bamoyloxime], aldoxycarb and oxamyl are poorly taken up, giving concentrations in the worm of about 5% of the external aqueous concentration. In worms, aldicarb is rapidly converted to the sulphoxide which has a half-life in worms of 19 h at 15°C, and 50 h at 5°C.
Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and acrolein, all of which are constituents of tobacco smoke, were reacted in 5 mM concentration with the purified major fraction of normal adult human hemoglobin (hemoglobin Ao) in 1 mM concentration. A cigarette smoke condensate, diluted to contain 5 mM total aldehydes, was also reacted with 1 mM hemoglobin Ao. Cationic exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) showed that the products formed from simple aliphatic aldehydes, with the exception of formaldehyde, were analogues of those formed from acetaldehyde, earlier shown by us to be imidazolidinone derivatives, that is, cyclic addition products of the N-terminal aminoamide function of alpha and beta chains. Formaldehyde and acrolein produced a heterogeneous mixture of derivatives including cross-linked hemoglobin dimers. The greater proportion of modified hemoglobins produced by condensate aldehydes resembled those formed from acetaldehyde, the most abundant aldehyde in the condensate. A smaller fraction consisted of cross-linked hemoglobin dimers, presumably due to the action of formaldehyde. Mass spectrometric and HPLC analyses of the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones precipitated from the condensate documented the presence of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, furfural, and methylfurfural. The toxicity of aldehydes is briefly discussed in the context of the findings of this study.
Six systemic insecticides, Azodrin® (3-hydroxy- N -methyl- cis -crotonamide dimethyl phosphate), Baygon® ( o -iso-propoxyphenyl methylcarbamate), disulfoton, NIA 10242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate), phorate, UG 21149 (Temik®) (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime), were tested in 1965 and 1966 at Portageville, Missouri, to evaluate the possibility of reducing the incidence of corn virus disease symptoms through the control of disease vectors, and to study their effects on the southwestern corn borer, Zeadiatraea grandiosella (Dyar). Five systemic insecticides were tested in 1965 on 2 hybrids susceptible to and 2 resistant to corn virus disease. The systemic insecticides were placed in the furrow with the seed at planting. NIA 10242 at 2.0 and 3.0 lb technical material per acre gave promising results. Tests with 4 systemic insecticides and 1 hybrid susceptible to corn virus disease in 1966 gave similar results. Corn virus disease symptoms were present each year in all treated plots, but the severity and incidence of infection were decreased, especially by NIA 10242. These results reflect the possibility that a portion of the virus disease syndrome present in southern Missouri is due to infections by a persistent virus transmitted by 1 or more vectors. The most effective control of southwestern corn borer was obtained by NIA 10242.
Abstract The acaricidal activity of cinnamaldehyde and its 11 congeners against adults of Tyrophagus putrescentiae was examined using direct contact application and fumigation methods and compared with that of benzyl benzoate, N , N -diethyl- m -toluamide (DEET) and dibutyl phthalate. On the basis of 24 h LD 50 values, the compound most toxic to T . putrescentiae was cinnamyl acetate (0.89 μg/cm 2 ) followed by cinnamaldehyde (1.12 μg/cm 2 ), benzaldehyde (1.93 μg/cm 2 ), 3-phenylpropionaldehyde (2.08 μg/cm 2 ), cinnamyl alcohol (2.12 μg/cm 2 ), salicylaldehyde (2.75 μg/cm 2 ), and ( E )-2-hydroxycinnamic acid (4.32 μg/cm 2 ). These compounds were more potent than benzyl benzoate (10.03 μg/cm 2 ), DEET (13.39 μg/cm 2 ) and dibutyl phthalate (12.87 μg/cm 2 ). Very low activity ( 2 ) was observed with cinnamic acid and ( E )-4-hydroxycinnamic acid. Moderate activity was obtained from cinnamic acid methyl ester, ( E )-3-hydroxycinnamic acid and 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde. These results indicate that hydrophobicity appears to play a crucial role in T . putrescentiae toxicity whereas a conjugated double bond and a length of CH chain outside the ring seem not to be implicated. In a fumigation test with T . putrescentiae adults, ( E )-cinnamaldehyde, cinnamyl alcohol and salicylaldehyde were much more effective in closed containers than in open ones, indicating that the mode of delivery of these compounds was largely due to action in the vapour phase. Natural and synthetic congeners of ( E )-cinnamaldehyde merit further study as potential T . putrescentiae control agents.
Dimethyl acetals of phenylacetaldehyde 1a and 2-phenylpropionaldehyde 1b, upon treatment with 1.25 equiv. of LICKOR reagent, undergo 1,2-elimination (THF at –95 °C) promoted by metallation at the benzylic site, and afford the corresponding enol ethers in the E-form. When the substrate is treated with an excess of the base (2.5 equiv.), further hydrogen–metal exchange takes place at the α-vinyl site of the elimination product, and carbonyl electrophiles can be added to the carbanionic intermediate yielding allyl alcohols. Experimental procedures are given for the conversion of the α-substituted derivatives into carbonyl compounds, according to an inverse polarity approach. Moreover, allyl alcohols synthesised starting from acetal 1a, can be transformed into prop-2-ynyl alcohols by treatment with LICKOR base.
A series of renewable bis(cyanate) esters have been prepared from bisphenols synthesized by condensation of 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (creosol) with formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde. The cyanate esters have been fully characterized by infrared spectroscopy, (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy, and single crystal X-ray diffraction. These compounds melt from 88 to 143 °C, while cured resins have glass transition temperatures from 219 to 248 °C, water uptake (96 h, 85 °C immersion) in the range of 2.05-3.21%, and wet glass transition temperatures from 174 to 193 °C. These properties suggest that creosol-derived cyanate esters may be useful for a wide variety of military and commercial applications. The cure chemistry of the cyanate esters has been studied with FTIR spectroscopy and differential scanning calorimetry. The results show that cyanate esters with more sterically demanding bridging groups cure more slowly, but also more completely than those with a bridging methylene group. In addition to the structural differences, the purity of the cyanate esters has a significant effect on both the cure chemistry and final Tg of the materials. In some cases, post-cure of the resins at 350 °C resulted in significant decomposition and off-gassing, but cure protocols that terminated at 250-300 °C generated void-free resin pucks without degradation. Thermogravimetric analysis revealed that cured resins were stable up to 400 °C and then rapidly degraded. TGA/FTIR and mass spectrometry results showed that the resins decomposed to phenols, isocyanic acid, and secondary decomposition products, including CO2. Char yields of cured resins under N2 ranged from 27 to 35%, while char yields in air ranged from 8 to 11%. These data suggest that resins of this type may potentially be recycled to parent phenols, creosol, and other alkylated creosols by pyrolysis in the presence of excess water vapor. The ability to synthesize these high temperature resins from a phenol (creosol) that can be derived from lignin, coupled with the potential to recycle the composites, provides a possible route to the production of sustainable, high-performance, thermosetting resins with reduced environmental impact.
The room-temperature adsorption and surface chemistry of several categories of organic molecules used as reactants or solvents in liquid-phase catalysis, of carboxylic acids, esters, aldehydes, acetone, alcohols and ethers in particular, were characterized in situ on polycrystalline Pt in the presence of the liquid phase by reflection-absorption infrared spectroscopy (RAIRS). For carboxylic acids and esters it was found that the propensity for decomposition and CO formation follows a formic acid ≫ methyl formate, ethyl formate > acetic acid, propionic acid, acrylic acid, ethyl acetate sequence. For aldehydes and acetone, the observed trend is formaldehyde ≫ acetaldehyde > acrolein, crotonaldehyde > propionaldehyde, acetone. Virtually no adsorbed CO was detected when Pt surfaces were exposed to liquid solutions of either alcohols or ethers. The observed trends could be correlated with the corresponding molecular structures. They are discussed in the context of previous results obtained from studies under ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) and under electro-oxidation conditions.
Abstract The bacteriocin enterocin AS-48 was tested against exopolysaccharide producing lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains of Lactobacillus collinoides, Lactobacillus dioliovorans and Pediococcus parvulus as well as two 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA)-producing Lb. collinoides strains causing apple cider spoilage. In fresh-made apple juice, a bacteriocin concentration of 2.5 μg/ml reduced the LAB viable cell counts below detection levels during the course of incubation at 10 and 22 °C for most strains tested, except for Lb. collinoides 5 and Lb. dioliovorans 29. These two strains were significantly inhibited at 10 °C by 5 μg/ml AS-48 or completely inactivated at 22 °C. In a commercial Basque apple cider, the added bacteriocin (2.5 μg/ml for Lb. collinoides strains 9 and 10, and 5 μg/ml for the rest of strains) completely inactivated all LAB strains tested during storage at 10 as well as 22 °C. In the commercial Asturian apple cider tested the LAB strains showed a poor capacity for survival, but the added bacteriocin was equally effective in reducing the numbers of survivors. When a cocktail of the five LAB strains was tested in commercial Basque apple cider, viable cell counts were reduced below detection levels after 2 days for a bacteriocin concentration of 12.5 μg/ml regardless of storage temperature. Comparison of RAPD-PCR profiles revealed that strain Lb. dioliovorans 29 was always the predominant survivor detected in bacteriocin-treated samples.
An improved high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method was devoloped for the analysis of carbonyl compounds in cigarette mainstream smoke. Cigarette smoke was collected using DNPH-treated pads, which is a simpler procedure compared to conventional impinger collection, and the diminishing of acrolein-DNPH derivatives was prevented. After 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) derivatization, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, butyraldehyde, and crotonaldehyde in mainstream cigarette smoke were analyzed with recovery at the range of 86.6% to 99.0%. The minimum detectable quantity for carbonyls ranged from 0.036 to 0.095 μg/cigarette. 2R4F Kentucky reference cigarette and 36 foreign and domestic cigarettes were analyzed.
Abstract Malonaldehyde (MDA), a product of lipid peroxidation, is a presumptive marker for the development of oxidative stress in tissues and plasmas. In this study we report the photodiode array detection of the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) derivatives of MDA using HPLC. Oxidative stress was produced by injecting (i.p.) bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) into rats at a dose of 100 μg/kg, or i.v. into rabbits (1 μg/kg), or added to freshly drawn human blood (200 ng/ml). Blood was collected at several time points up to 5 h, centrifuged, and equal volumes of 20% TCA were used to precipitate proteins from the plasma. The supernatants were derivatized with DNPH, and the aldehyde–DNPHs were extracted with pentane. After evaporation, aliquots of 10 μl in acetonitrile were injected onto a Beckman Ultrasphere C 18 (3 μm) column, chromatographed with an acetonitrile–water–acetic acid gradient mobile phase and scanned using Waters 996 photodiode array detector. Peak identification and homogeneity was determined by comparing the experimental peaks and UV scans with those of authentic standards. A significant increase in the DNPH derivative of malonaldehyde (MDA–DNPH), but not of the other aldehyde–DNPH derivatives of formaldehyde (FDA), acetaldehyde (ADA), acetone and propionaldehyde (PDA) was seen over the first hour after LPS administration in anesthetized rats, while in conscious rabbits this trend lasted up to 3 h. The retention times as well as the UV scans of the derivatized aldehydes matched the authentic standards. Thus, photodiode array detection has proved valuable in establishing this HPLC method for estimating oxidative stress. This technique could accurately measure pmol amounts of MDA–DNPH indicating the usefulness of photodiode array detection method for estimating small changes in the oxidative stress.
The quantities of gaseous and volatile metabolites liberated by germinating seeds and seedlings appeared to be related, in general, to the amount of storage substances present in the seeds. Both qualitative and quantitative differences were found between various plant species and varieties of both angiosperms and gymnosperms. The release of volatile compounds preceded the appearance of the first root and, with most seeds, was greatest in the first 24 to 48 h. Organic volatiles could be detected, by gas chromatography, in as little as 5% of the atmosphere from one germinating seed. All seeds that were studied liberated ethanol, and most seeds evolved methanol, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, formic acid, ethylene, and propylene. Propionaldehyde and (or) acetone was also evolved by cotton, pea, and yellow pine. The possible source of these volatile metabolites and their ecological implications are discussed.
Poly(3-hydroxypropionate), P(3HP), is a polymer combining good biodegradability with favorable material properties. In the present study, a production system for P(3HP) was designed, comprising conversion of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) as equilibrium mixture with 3HPA-hydrate and -dimer in aqueous system (reuterin) using resting cells of native Lactobacillus reuteri in a first stage followed by transformation of the 3HPA to P(3HP) using recombinant Escherichia coli strain co-expressing highly active coenzyme A-acylating propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) from L. reuteri and polyhydroxyalkanoate synthase (PhaCcs) from Chromobacterium sp. P(3HP) content of up to 40% (w/w) cell dry weight was reached, and the yield with respect to the reuterin consumed by the cells was 78%. Short biotransformation period (4.5h), lack of additives or expensive cofactors, and use of a cheap medium for cultivation of the recombinant strain, provides a new efficient and potentially economical system for P(3HP) production.
The present invention relates to a method of preparing antipsychotic olanzapine, comprising three steps, a first step, sulfur, propionaldehyde and malononitrile as starting material, triethylamine as a catalyst, ring closure to give 5-methyl-2- 3-cyano thienyl; a second step, 5-methyl-2-thiophen-3-cyano-o-fluorophenyl and 5-methyl-generating action of sodium hydride 2- (2-nitro phenylamino) -3-cyano-thiophene; a third step, the solvent environment, in the presence of ferric chloride / activated carbon catalyst, 5-methyl-2- (2-nitrophenyl-amino) -3-cyano thiophene with hydrazine hydrate and N- methylpiperazine effect reductive ring closure reaction to produce the title compound olanzapine pot process. The method of the present invention is readily available and inexpensive starting material, a small step, by a simple process. The third step is carried out one-pot reaction, the compound intermediate state produced during the reaction without isolation or removal, they can be converted to the title compound, yield high purity can be obtained olanzapine. Facilitates the process on an industrial scale, high yield, cost reduction, easy post-treatment.
O ur study of the N aO effect on dioldehydrase inRequests for reprints should be sent to G. N. S c h r a u z e r , D epartm ent of Chemistry, The University of California at San Diego, Revelle College, La Jolla, C alifornia, U.S.A. 92037. dicated striking variations of the degree of N aO sensitivity with the source and age of the enzyme preparations. Freshly dissolved solutions of apoen zyme assayed immediately usually showed the highest sensitivity to N zO ; the N zO effect was occasionally absent in aged, but otherwise active enzyme prepara tions. We subsequently found that dioldehydrase apoenzyme is converted into an N 20 insensitive modi fication on exposure to air. Typical results and ex perimental conditions obtained with a commercial preparation of dioldehydrase are described below: Two vials of dioldehydrase5 were dissolved in 2.2 ml of Buffer E 6> 7 under complete exclusion of air, using pure argon as the protecting gas. After 30 min of standing at 25 °C this dioldehydrase solution was assayed for activity in rubber serum capped reaction tubes of 25 ml capacity, which contained pure Ar, N 20 8, CO, and 0 2, respectively, all at 1 atm of par tial pressure. The reaction tubes were filled success ively with 0.2 ml of 0.2 F pH 8.0 potassium phosphate buffer solution, 0.4 ml of boiled, deionized H aO, 0 .2 ml of an aqueous solution containing 16 jug of coenzyme B12, and 0.1 ml of apoenzyme solution. All operations involving the coenzyme were performed in dimmed light; the reaction tubes were covered with aluminium foil to eliminate light-inactivation of the coenzyme. Aliquots of the reaction solutions (0.2 ml) were withdrawn after 10, 20, 30, and 40 min of incubation at 37 °C and assayed for propionaldehyde by the standard spectrophotometric pro cedure. The results of a typical experiment are shown graphically in Fig. 1 A. With this enzyme prepara tion the observed inactivation by N 20 , CO, and 0 2 was 38, 48, and 56 °/o relative to the run under argon. Storage of an aliquot of the apoenzyme solution under
In our previous study, three strategies have been adopted for P3HP biosynthesis. One pathway starts from malonyl-CoA, which is reduced to free 3HP by the malonyl-CoA reductase (MCR) from Chloroflexus aurantiacus. Unfortunately, our recombinant Escherichia coli strain accumulated only 13 mg/L P3HP when using glucose as sole carbon source [2] . In the second strategy, glycerol is converted into 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde by glycerol dehydratase from Klebsiella pneumoniae, followed by CoA ligation with propionaldehyde dehydrogenase from Salmonella typhimurium, and polymerization with polyhydroxyalkanoate synthase from Cupriavidus necator. Though 10.1 g/L P3HP was produced from glycerol in fed-batch fermentation, exogenous supply of vitamin B 12 was required to maintain the activity of glycerol dehydratase, which resulted in high production cost [3] .
Currently, apart from the species of L. buchneri and Lactobacillus parabuchneri, other heterofermentative species of the genus Lactobacillus are known to be capable of synthesis or metabolism of 1,2-PD, including Lactobacillus diolivorans, which is a relatively new species isolated and characterized by Krooneman et al. [8] as metabolizing 1,2-PD to 1-propanol and propionic acid, or Lactobacillus reuteri, which is capable of metabolizing 1,2-PD to propionaldehyde and propionic acid [8, 9, 10] .
Optically active bicyclic nitrocyclopropanes are readily prepared from primary chiral nitro compounds, prepared by the conjugate addition of propionaldehyde to a nitro alkene in the presence of proline-derived organocatalysts. The one-step cyclopropanation took place smoothly in a highly stereoselective manner regardless of the stereogenic center adjacent to the allylic unit. Although the allylation reaction catalyzed by BF3·OEt2 provides a mixture of two possible diastereomers, subsequent oxidation of the alcoholic carbon after the formation of nitrocyclopropanes gave diastereomerically pure single products. As a result, separation of the diastereomers during the reaction sequence is unnecessary. Baeyer–Villiger oxidation of the bicyclic nitrocyclopropane ketones followed by enolization resulted in stereoselective formation of a novel cyclopenta[b]furan ring in good yield via ring expansion followed by transannular nucleophilic cyclization.
The substrate benzaldehyde (but not propionaldehyde) could elute aldehyde dehydrogenase from a p-hydroxyacetophenone-affinity column, and inhibit the esterase activity (K(i)=47 microM), indicating that this simple aromatic aldehyde binds to the free enzyme and possibly in the substrate-binding site. Thus, the kinetic mechanism for aldehyde dehydrogenase might be dependent upon which aldehyde is used in the reaction. Chloramphenicol which also elutes the enzyme from the affinity column, shows a discriminatory effect by inhibiting the ALDH1 oxidation of benzaldehyde and activating that of propionaldehyde while showing no effect when assayed with hexanal or cyclohexane-carboxaldehyde. Chloramphenicol is an uncompetitive inhibitor against NAD when benzaldehyde is the substrate. We propose that this drug might interact with both the benzaldehyde and NAD binding sites.
Abstract In an effort to test the applicability of the semi-empirical model for asymmetric induction 5 to reactions of α-hydroxycarbonyl compounds, we monitored the diastereomeric ratio of diols obtained from the reactions of R-α-hydroxypropionaldehyde with LAH, MeLi and PhLi as a function of temperature and reagent concentration. In all these reactions the predominant diastereomer had the RR -configuration. However, whereas the diastereomeric product ratio of the first two reactions was enthalpy controlled, i.e. enthalpy favored the “correct” or predominant diastereomer, that of the reaction involving PhLi favored the “incorrect”, or minor diastereomer. In this reaction the diastereomeric ratio was entropy controlled. The usefulness and limitations of this model are discussed.
This study investigated the physicochemical characteristics and flavor attributes of navel oranges to determine the effect of low-dose phytosanitary irradiation and subsequent storage at 4 °C. Electronic sensing techniques such as E-tongue and E-nose successfully detected irradiated oranges based on their taste attributes and volatile patterns, respectively, even after prolonged storage. Organic acids and sensory properties were not significantly influenced by gamma irradiation. However, the fructose and vitamin C content of irradiated samples significantly decreased compared with that of non-irradiated samples, thereby affecting E-tongue taste attributes. The relationship between irradiation dose and principal component analysis showed significant increases for E-tongue scores over different storage periods (0, 3, and 6 weeks). Irradiated samples had higher concentrations of propionaldehyde and limonene, the most prominent compounds detected by E-nose. Along with fruit quality parameter characterization during extended storage, E-sensing techniques successfully differentiated taste and aromatic profiles of irradiated navel oranges.
The Raman spectra of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and n-butyraladehyde (CnH2nO,n = 1, 2, 3, 4) were obtained by portable Raman spectrometer. The molecules of the four aldehydes were calculated by density functional theory (DFT). By comparing the calculated result and the experimental result, the bands of these Raman spectra were assigned. And the Raman spectra of these aldehydes molecules were analyzed and compared. These aldehydes could be real-time rapidly identified by Raman spectroscopy technology.
Polyclonal antibodies abletorecognize protein-acetaldehyde conjugates wereproduced andcharacterized. Theantibodies react withsodiumcyanoborohydride-reduced Schiff's basesbetweenacetaldehyde andaprotein, independently ofthenature ofthemacromolecule binding theacetaldehyde moiety. Only conjugates between acetaldehyde orpropionaldehyde andaprotein arerecognized; conjugates obtained withother aldehydes arenotreactive. Results conceming theformation ofacetaldehydeadducts withcarrot (Daucus carota L.)proteins arepresented aswellasthepresence ofsuchconjugates inethanoltreated carrot cellcultures, a systemhighly sensitive tothe presence ofethanol intheculture medium.
The reaction of oxygen atoms generated by mercury-sensitized decomposition of nitrous oxide with the fluoro-olefin yields almost wholly the addition products 2-(trifluoromethyl)-propylene oxide and 2-(trifluoromethyl)-propionaldehyde over the pressure range 10–500mm Hg. The rate constant for the reaction relative to that for butene–1 has been measured as 0.077.
The metabolism of acetaldehyde (ACA), benzaldehyde (BA), propionaldehyde (PA) and valeraldehyde (VA) has been studied in two hepatoma cell lines, the rat HTC and mouse Hepa 1c1c7 cells. The cytotoxicity of the four aldehydes to these two cell lines has been compared. The end-points for evaluating cytotoxicity were 1) total macromolecular content (TMC) of confluent cultures, and 2) colony forming ability of dividing cells. These two assay systems had different sensitivities for the toxicity of aldehydes, probably due to different numbers of target cells. The activities of aldehyde dehydrogenases (NAD- and NADP-dependent, ALDH), alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde reductase were markedly greater in the HTC cell line compared to the Hepa 1c1c7 cell line, especially with BA as substrate. The cytotoxicities of aldehydes were generally stronger in the HTC cell line than in the Hepa 1c1c7 cell line; with the CF test. Particularly, BA was highly toxic to the HTC cells, which possessed the highest ALDH levels. Moreover, the treatment with (diethylamino)benzaldehyde, an ALDH inhibitor, completely abolished the toxicity of BA. Taken together, all these findings suggest that several cell lines expressing different aldehyde metabolizing activities could be used especially in the pre-screening phase to distinguish the metabolism-dependent cytotoxic effects from the metabolism independent effects.
Elucidating the site requirements for reactions over heterogeneous catalysts can be challenging since, unlike their homogenous counterparts, the surfaces of these materials are comprised of a variety of diverse features where reactions can occur. Because there is strong evidence suggesting that reactions will occur at a specific type (or group) of active site(s), significant effort has been put forth in the field to try to determine the site requirements for particular reactions. Here, we report a new approach for controlling the availability of specific active sites on supported Pd/Al 2 O 3 catalysts using alkanethiolate self-assembled monolayers (SAMs). SAMs form consistent and ordered structures on metal surfaces; these features were exploited to form monolayers that preferentially block or expose specific types of sites on catalyst particles. The structure of the tail moiety played an important role in the overall organization of the resulting monolayer and was tuned to control the types of active sites that were exposed on metal particle surfaces. Infrared spectroscopy using CO as a probe molecule was used to characterize site availability on the catalysts. A monolayer formed from a bulky caged molecule like 1-adamanetanethiol (AT) restricted the availability of contiguous active sites on particle terraces with respect to the uncoated catalyst. Increasing the density of the monolayer using a linear alkanethiol like 1-octadecanethiol (C18) further restricted adsorption on terraces. For both of these monolayers, adsorption at particle edges and steps was nearly unaffected but could be blocked by forming a high coverage monolayer from 1,2-benzene dithiol (BDT). The relationship between monolayer spacing and reactivity dramatically depended on the structure of the reactant, even for small species. For example, employing a C18 monolayer reduced the rate of epoxybutane hydrogenation by nearly 3 orders of magnitude with respect to the unmodified catalyst, whereas hydrogenation of propionaldehyde was only reduced by a single order of magnitude. These results suggested 1) that site requirements for conversion of these two species were substantially different and 2) this modification approach could potentially be utilized to direct selectivity of more complex reactants where competing reaction pathways have different site requirements. To demonstrate the feasibility of the latter hypothesis, this approach was utilized for the hydrogenation of furfural. On palladium catalysts, furfural tends to decarbonylate to produce furan and carbon monoxide. A competing process involves hydrogenation of the aldehyde to produce furfuryl alcohol and subsequent hydrodeoxygenation producing methylfuran. Site requirements for each pathway were investigated by comparing reactivity on uncoated, C18-coated and BDT-coated catalysts. Comparison between reaction rates and site availability suggested that decarbonylation occurred primarily on terrace sites while hydrodeoxygenation occurred on particle…
SUMMARY ::: ::: Volatile compounds in the aroma of five varieties of roasted and unroasted (raw) cocoa beans have been identified by mass spectral analysis and gas chromatography. The five common varieties selected for this study all contain the following compounds usually in this order of abundance: isovaleraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, propionaldehyde, methyl alcohol, acetaldehyde, methyl acetate, n-butyraldehyde, and diacetyl. An additional eight compounds appear in smaller amounts. As evidenced by gas chromatographic analysis, the raw bean aroma contains the same components but in lower concentrations. The principal differences between varieties are shown to be due to the ratios of these compounds rather than new compounds. The effect of roasting period on the concentration of four aldehydes in the aroma of the ground bean is shown.
To better understand the effects of water properties on the reaction characteristics of acrolein production from glycerol, dehydration of refined glycerol and crude glycerol was comparatively conducted in both sub- and super-critical water states, and the effect of changing water properties was studied to optimize the reaction conditions. The effects of reaction temperature, pressure, residence time, water/glycerol ratio, and catalyst concentration on the yields and distribution of chemical products were also examined. Acrolein yield >80 mol% from both refined glycerol and crude glycerol can be achieved by controlling water properties in the sub-critical water state with the addition of sulfuric acid as a homogeneous catalyst and the formation of undesired acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde can be greatly restrained. These results provide valuable information for the production of value-added chemicals from crude glycerol.
Aldehydes have been proposed as important intermediates during alcohol synthesis on supported transition metal catalysts. To develop insights into higher oxygenate syntheses, adsorption and reaction of aldehydes on transition metal surfaces and the surface structure dependence of these processes are considered here. In this work, the adsorption and reactions of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde on Pd(110) surfaces were investigated with temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) and high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy techniques. The slate of desorption products observed in TPD experiments following acetaldehyde adsorption on the clean Pd(111) and Pd(110) surfaces was the same: CO, H2, CH4, and CH3CHO were observed in both cases. Likewise, propionaldehyde decomposition gave rise to CO, H2, C2H4, and C2H6 on both surfaces. However, acetaldehyde isotope-labeling experiments indicated that methyl groups were released following decarbonylation reactions of acetaldehyde on Pd(110), in contrast with ...
The low-temperature oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in reaction vessels with a relatively developed surface is a complex process involving many homogeneous and heterogeneous steps. The oxidation process is known to proceed through a radical chain reaction probably not only in the gas phase, but also on the solid surface. The mean values of the length of heterogeneous chains have been estimated on the basis of experimental data by comparison of the complex reaction rate with the rate of model reaction between the adsorbed forms of peroxy radicals and aldehyde. As follows from the calculations, the adsorbed forms of peroxy radicals develop a chain, the length of which is equal to ∼50.
A monomeric titanocene(III) derivative, Cp2TiPh, effectively promoted the pinacol coupling of both an aromatic aldehyde, benzaldehyde, and an aliphatic aldehyde, 3-phenylpropionaldehyde. The same reactive complex was successfully generated by a catalytic amount of a precursor, Cp2Ti(Ph)Cl, and its stoichiometric amount of Zn. The Cp2TiPh-catalyzed pinacol coupling of benzaldehyde derivatives and aliphatic aldehydes afforded the corresponding 1,2-diols in high yields with moderate to good threo-selectivity. On the other hand, Cp2TiPh-catalyzed pinacol cyclization of dials gave cyclic 1,2-diols with excellent diastereoselectivity. The extension of this protocol to chiral dials demonstrated that the phenyltitanium complex catalytically transmitted an axial chirality or a central chirality of the starting dials to the central chirality of the resultant 1,2-diols.
Carbonyl compounds(including aldehydes and ketones)are one group of the major pollutants in ambient air,which are harmful to human.In 2005,four low-molecular-weight carbonyl compounds(formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,acetone and propionaldehyde)in atmosphere during haze and non-haze periods of Guangzhou were determined using 2,4-nitrobenzene hydrazine-high pressure liquid chromatography(HPLC).During haze period,concentrations of these four carbonyls varied from 1.00 to 32.19μg·m-3,and acetaldehyde was the highest,while during non-haze period acetone was the highest one.Compared with non-haze period,concentrations of four carbonyl compounds during haze period were significantly increased.Concentration ratios of formaldehyde/acetaldehyde and acetaldehyde/propionaldehyde and correlation analysis of four carbonyls showed that they were mainly from the anthropogenic emission sources,and that during haze period formaldehyde,acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde have the similar sources and sinks.The average exposure levels of human to formaldehyde and acetaldehyde during haze period(55.2μg·d-1 and 62.7μg·d-1,respectively)were about twice than those during non-haze period(22.8μg·d-1 and 27.8μg·d-1,respectively).
In this work, two capillary zone electrophoresis methodologies using UV absorption detection (214 nm) and laser-induced fluorescence detection (He/Cd laser, 325 nm excitation, 520 nm emission) of selected aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acrolein) derivatized with dansylhydrazine (DNSH, 5-dimethylaminonaphthalene-1-sulfohydrazide) were proposed and validated. The aldehydes react with DNSH to form negatively charged molecules in methanolic medium. In both methodologies, nine DNSH-derivatives, including isomers of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acrolein and two impurities were baseline separated in 20 mmol l(-1) phosphate buffer at pH 7.02, in less than 9 min. The limits of detection for the UV and LIF methodologies ranged from 1.1-9.5 microg l(-1) and 0.29-5.3 microg l(-1), respectively. The applicability of both methodologies to contemplate real samples was confirmed in the analysis of aldehyde-DNSH derivatives in indoor and outdoor air samples.
The determination of ambient carbonyls by the derivative method inevitably leads to the introduction of extra 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH) into the sample solution. Traditional solid phase extraction (SPE) materials cannot remove this interference. To address this issue, a selective molecularly imprinted solid phase extraction (MISPE) column was prepared. With 2,4-dinitroaniline (2,4-DNAN) as the dummy template, MISPE could eliminate the excessive derivative agent (2,4-DNPH) in the air samples. Consequently, the sample could be concentrated effectively while the sensitivity increased greatly. By coupling MISPE and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), the developed method was used to study the concentration and source of 14 carbonyls of PM2.5 during spring in Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center. Results showed that the total concentration of carbonyls increased with the level of air pollution. Particularly, the content of isovaleraldehyde increased sharply to account for 21% of the 14 total carbonyls in the haze days. Moreover, a high positive correlation between isovaleraldehyde and propionaldehyde was found either in normal days or haze days. From the correlation analysis, it was shown that anthropogenic emissions together with photochemical reaction had contributed to the abnormally high levels of carbonyls in ambient PM2.5 in the haze days. This aspect should be further investigated.
2-(4-tert-Butylbenzyl)propionaldehyde, also known as lysmeral, lilial or lily-aldehyde (CAS No 80-54-6) is a synthetic fragrance used in a variety of consumer products like perfumes, after shave lotions, cosmetics and others. Due to its broad application, lysmeral was selected for the development of a biomonitoring method for the general population within the frame of the cooperation project of the Federal Ministry for the Environment (BMUB) and the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). The project also comprises the identification of suitable biomarkers of exposure in human urine as well as basic toxicokinetic data after defined, experimental exposure. For this purpose, 5 healthy subjects were orally dosed once with 5.26mg lysmeral. Urine was collected immediately before and for 48h after administration of the fragrance. The lysmeral metabolites lysmerol, lysmerylic acid, hydroxylated lysmerylic acid and 4-tert-butylbenzoic acid (TBBA) were determined in all urine samples by a newly developed UPLC-MS/MS (ultra-high pressure liquid chromatography combined with tandem mass spectrometry) method. Peak excretion for all metabolites occurred between 2 and 5h after oral application, with the primary metabolites (lysmerol and lysmerylic acid) being excreted about 1h earlier than the secondary metabolites (hydroxylated lysmerylic acid and TBBA). More than 90% of all measured lysmeral metabolites were excreted after 12h, with the renal excretion being virtually complete after 48h. After this time period, TBBA, lysmerol, lysmerylic acid and hydroxyl-lysmerylic acid represent on average 14.3, 1.82, 0.20 and 0.16%, respectively, of the dose administered. In total, the 4 metabolites determined represent about 16.5% of the dose. With the conversion factors derived from the controlled human study, we estimated median exposure doses for lysmeral in a group of 40 human volunteers from the general population of approximately 140-220μg per day. In conclusion, the lysmeral metabolites lysmerol, lysmerylic acid, hydroxyl-lysmerylic acid and TBBA in urine are suitable biomarkers of exposure and can be applied, either single or in any combination, for biomonitoring of the general population.
Polyethylene glycol (PEG) conjugation technology has been successfully applied to improve the performance of protein drugs. In this study, L-asparaginase was N-terminal site-specifically modified by alkylating PEG with monomethoxy polyethylene glycol-propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD20000). The optimum reaction parameters were determined as pH 5.0, a molar ratio of mPEG-ALD2000 to L-asparaginase of 10:1, a reaction time of 16 h and temperature of 25 degrees C. PEG-L-asparaginase (PEG-L-ASNase) was isolated and purified with consecutive anion-exchange (XK, 16 x 20 cm, Q Sepharose FF) and gel-filtration (Tricorn, 10 x 600 cm, Sephacryl S-300 HR) chromatography, respectively. PEG-L-ASNase retained 43.5% of its activity and the N-terminal amino groups were modified to an extent of 3.67%.
Recently, Barker et al. (5) have isolated from Clostridium tetanomorphum and Propionibacterium shermanii three highly purified cobamide coenzymes. These were subsequently identified as adenylcobamide (AC), benzimidazolylcobamide (BC), and 5,6-dimethylbenzimidazolylcobamide (DBC). It has been shown that these compounds function as cofactors in the conversion of glutamate to ,-methyl aspartate (4), in the isomeration of methylmalonyl CoA to succinyl CoA (9), and in the conversion of 1,2-propanediol to propionaldehyde (1). All of the cobamide coenzyme molecules contain cobalt, but they differ in that adenine, benzimidazole, or dimethylbenzimadazole bases are constituents of the AC, BC, and DBC coenzymes, respectively (4, 5). It has been established that several Rhizobium species (7,8) and legumes (2,3) grown without a fixed source of nitrogen, require cobalt for normal growth. Evidence also has been provided that Rhizobium meliloti and nodules from several legumes and alder, contain a cobamide coenzyme (6)3 capable of serving as a cofactor for the enzymatic conversion of glutamate to P-methyl aspartate. Identification and characterization of the cobamide coenzymes in these organisms is obviously of interest. A preliminary paper reports that the B12 coenzyme isolated from Rhizobium meliloti was the 5,6-dimethylbenzimidazolylcobamide compound (6). This paper presents evidence establishing the identity of the B12 coenzyme from R. meliloti. Also, data on the distribution of B12 coenzymes in the nodules of symbionts are reported.
The present invention discloses a cinacalcet hydrochloride preparation method, which comprises: 1, adopting 3-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl propionaldehyde and R-1-(1-naphthyl)ethylamine as raw materials, and carrying out a condensation reduction reaction in a mixing reaction solvent in the presence of sodium triacetoxyborohydride, 2, extracting the reaction product with water, a salt or an alkali aqueous solution to obtain a cinacalcet base organic phase solution, and 3, carrying out acidification salification on the obtained cinacalcet base organic phase solution with hydrochloric acid to obtain the cinacalcet hydrochloride, wherein one of components in the mixing reaction solvent is water. According to the present invention, the water-containing mixing solvent is adopted as the reaction medium, such that technical defects of solvent use during the sodium triacetoxyborohydride use process are overcome, the harsh condition that the reaction solvent requires a water-free treatment is avoided while reaction selectivity is increased, types of produced impurities and impurity content are substantially reduced, cost is reduced, and environment pollution is reduced.
Polyethylene glycol (PEG) conjugation technology has been successfully applied to improve the performance of protein drugs. In this study, L-asparaginase was N-terminal sitespecifi cally modifi ed by alkylating PEG with monomethoxy polyethylene glycol-propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD 20000 ). The optimum reaction parameters were determined as pH 5.0, a molar ratio of mPEG-ALD 20000 to L-asparaginase of 10:1, a reaction time of 16 h and temperature of 25 °C. PEG-L-asparaginase (PEG-L-ASNase) was isolated and purifi ed with consecutive anion-exchange (XK, 16 × 20 cm, Q Sepharose FF) and gel-fi ltration (Tricorn, 10 × 600 cm, Sephacryl S-300 HR) chromatography, respectively. PEG-L-ASNase retained 43.5% of its activity and the N-terminal amino groups were modifi ed to an extent of 3.67%.
PEG-L-asparaginase (PEG-L-ASNase) has been developed since the early nineties and is used for the treatment of ALL in patients who are hypersensitive to native L-ASNase. PEG-L-ASNases, commercially available, are formed by non-specifi c random PEGylation of ε-amino groups on the lysine residues of enzymes (Narta et al., 2007) . Although this type of conjugation has resulted in increased retention of the blood and hence circulation time, it can lead to steric hindrance of the specifi c binding of PEGylated proteins to their cellular receptors thus decreasing their bioactivity (Bailon and Berthold, 1998) . PEGylation strategies have been improved in recent years so as to introduce a reactive amino acid at a desired site of a protein to achieve site-specifi c PEGylation (Lee et al., 2003; Veronese and Pasut, 2005) . One such strategy available is alkylation, which maintains the positive charges of the starting amino groups required for retaining biological activity and solubility, rather than acylation (Veronese and Pasut, 2005) . These strate gies can also be utilized to achieve the mono-site-specifi c PEGylation by controlling the reaction conditions. It has been shown that alkylated PEGylation rhG-CSF could preserve the charges on the N-terminal amino groups thus retaining the biological activity (Kinstler et al., 1996) . In the present study, we conjugated the N-terminus of L-ASNase with monomethoxy polyethylene glycol-propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD 20000 ) using the alkylation strategy. The optimum reaction parameters and the purifi cation strategies of bioconjugates have been assessed. 
SUMMARY: Two acetamidoaldehyde dehydrogenases were identified in Candida boidinii grown on putrescine as sole nitrogen source with glucose as carbon source. One of them, enzyme A, although present when cells were grown on ammonium or l-lysine, increased in activity when cells were grown on putrescine or spermidine. The other, enzyme B, was absent when the putrescine was replaced by l-lysine or ammonium, but was present if the nitrogen source was spermidine or acetylputrescine. Both dehydrogenases were active with NAD+ or NADP+ as electron acceptor. Apparent K ::: m values for 3-acetamidopropionaldehyde and 4-acetamidobutyr-aldehyde were respectively 0·83 mM and 0·041 mM for enzyme A and 0·077 mM and 0·015 mM for enzyme B. Enzyme A was competitively inhibited by chloral hydrate with a K ::: i of 0·6 mM, whiile enzyme B was unaffected. Both enzymes were slightly (20%) stimulated by 50 mM-KCl. Although both enzymes catalysed the oxidation of a range of aldehyde substrates, and are thus both general aldehyde dehydrogenases, it is suggested that acetamidoaldehyde dehydrogenase B is more probably specifically involved in putrescine degradation. Subcellular fractionation of spheroplast lysates showed that enzyme B was cytosolic, remaining unsedimented at 100000 g, while enzyme A co-sedimented with mitochondrial marker enzymes in a sucrose density gradient. It was also shown that acetamidoalkanoate deacetylase and acetylputrescine oxidase activities, two other key enzymes in the breakdown of putrescine and spermidine, were respectively cytosolic and peroxisomal in their location in the cell.
BACKGROUND ::: Interferon-α2b is FDA approved drug for the treatment of chronic HCV and HBV, melanoma, AIDS-related KS, carcinomas, hairy cell leukemia and chronic myelogenous leukemia. However, administration of Interferon-α2b to patients takes place thrice in a week due to short in vivo circulation half-life. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: To extend the circulation half-life of IFN-α2b, it is conjugation with polyethylene glycol (PEG). However, PEGylation may results in reduction of its antiviral and antiproliferative activities but on the other side, it results in prolonged plasma half-life. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: Human Interferon-α2b was PEGylated with linear 20kDa methoxypolyethlene glycol (mPEG) Propionaldehyde (IFN-Ald20K), Y-Shaped 40kDa mPEG-Propionaldehyde (IFN-Ald40K), linear 20-kDa mPEG-Succinimidyl Succinate (IFN-NHS20K), and Y shaped 40 KDa mPEG-Succinimidyl Succinate (IFN-NHS40K). Impact of PEG size, shape and PEGylation site was studied to establish their relationship with antiprolifetaive activities and serum retention time of PEGylated IFN-α2b. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: RP-HPLC studies showed that larger PEGs (40 kDa) increased the hydrodynamic volume and increased the serum retention time while antiproliferative activity in HepG2 cell line was decreased with increase in PEGylated Interferon-α2b size. Molecular docking results also dictated the same effect as with increase in PEGylated Interferon-α2b size; the receptor-binding site on Interferon-α2b was sterically shielded. IFN-Ald20K showed highest (45%) biological activity with serum half-life 40 hours while IFN-NHS40K showed least (7%) biological activity with serum half-life 56 hours. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Thus, IFN-Ald40K with 12% residual activity and 62 hours of serum half-life proved to be a potent anticancerous and antiviral drug with enhanced serum retention time.
An enzyme which catalyses dehydrogenation of gamma-aminobutyraldehyde (ABAL) to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) was purified to homogeneity from rat brain tissues by using DEAE-cellulose and affinity chromatography on 5'-AMP-Sepharose, phosphocellulose and Blue Agarose, followed by gel filtration. Such an enzyme was first purified from mammalian brain tissues, and was identified as an isoenzyme of aldehyde dehydrogenase. It has an Mr of 210,000 determined by polyacrylamide-gradient-gel electrophoresis, and appeared to be composed of subunits of Mr 50,000. The close similarity of substrate specificity toward acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and glycolaldehyde between the enzyme and other aldehyde dehydrogenases previously reported was observed. But substrate specificity of the enzyme toward ABAL was higher than those of aldehyde dehydrogenases from human liver (E1 and E2), and was lower than those of ABAL dehydrogenases from human liver (E3), Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas species. The Mr and relative amino acid composition of the enzyme are also similar to those of E1 and E2. The existence of this enzyme in mammalian brain seems to be related to a glutamate decarboxylase-independent pathway (alternative pathway) for GABA synthesis from putrescine.
Studies have been made of the relative yields of C2H4 and C2H6 produced in the oxidation of propionaldehyde over the temperature range 593–753 K and the results have been used to obtain the values E2–E1= 36.7 ± 2.5 kJ mol–1 and A2/A1= 14.8 ± 4.5: C2H5+ O2→ C2H4+ HO2(1), C2H5+ C2H5CHO → C2H6+ C2H5CO. (2), Use of the literature values of A2 and E2, with suitable corrections, gives E1=–6.3 ± 3.5 kJ mol–1 and A2= 107.05 ± 0.18 dm3 mol–1 s–1, which confirm a recent experimental observation that reaction (1) has a small negative activation energy. Use of these parameters to extrapolate down to 295 K gives (subject to considerable uncertainty) a value for k1 in almost exact agreement with a value obtained independently from direct measurements of C2H4 formation.The mechanism of the formation of C2H4 from C2H5+ O2 is discussed in the light of the present results and those from independent studies. A direct bimolecular reaction appears to be inconsistent with the negative temperature coefficient, and the possibility that the reaction path involves formation and decomposition of C2H4OOH radicals is ruled out by independent work. C2H4 formation from the decomposition of C2H5O*2 radicals is consistent with the present results, but if the same mechanism operates over the range 295–750 K then a different route is required. The possibility of a modified abstraction process which involves a cyclic intermediate of some stability is considered in an attempt to explain the negative temperature coefficient.
The reactions of 2 mol of butadiene and 1 mol of the phenylhydrazones of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, and butanone in the presence of nickel and palladium complexes have been shown to yield a series of two isomeric azo-compounds. In the presence of the latter complexes N-octadienylated phenylhydrazones were also formed and the ratio of products varied with the anion of the palladium salt and the nature of the added organophosphorus ligand. With tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium, formation of the azo-adducts was predominant, whereas exclusive alkylation was found in the presence of PdCl2–PPh3 and Pd(NO3)2–PPh3. The results of the palladium-complex catalysed reactions have been discussed in terms of the σ–π character of the bis(π-allyl)palladium intermediates and their reactivity towards electrophilic and nucleophilic reagents. A system containing bis(cyclo-octa-1,5-diene)triphenylphosphinenickel at room temperature gave higher yields than an analogous system in which αω-octadienediylnickel was produced in situ from a nickel(II) salt and tri-isobutylaluminium. This has been shown to be due to the preferred decomposition of one of the isomeric azo-compounds.
Abstract The interaction of a series of aldehydes with collagen has been examined. Substitution of amino groups, as assessed by the formol titration, varies with the aldehyde and is greatest with formaldehyde, acrolein, succinaldehyde and glutaraldehyde and least with propionaldehyde and adipaldehyde. Except with formaldehyde, glyoxal and dialdehyde starch there is a corresponding decrease in lysine and hydroxylysine recoverable on hydrolysis, suggesting that the bond formed is relatively stable. Most of the amino groups reacting appear to be involved in cross-links. Losses of lysine are accompanied by increase in ultraviolet absorption of the hydrolysates with, in some cases, a maximum at 265 mμ. With glutaraldehyde three distinct ultraviolet absorbing fractions can be separated on Sephadex G-10. One of these appears to be a compound containing two lysine and six glutaraldehyde residues. Glyoxal and other compounds containing adjacent carbonyl groups reacted with guanidyl groups of arginine under acid conditions. One primary product is formed in the cold which on heating in 6 M HCl gives a second ninhydrin positive compound. The implication of the results with respect to the natural cross-links in collagen is briefly discussed.
Propylene-grown Xanthobacter cells (strain Py2) degraded several chlorinated alkenes of environmental concern, including trichloroethylene, 1-chloroethylene (vinyl chloride), cis- and trans-1,2-dichloroethylene, 1,3-dichloropropylene, and 2,3-dichloropropylene. 1,1-Dichloroethylene was not degraded efficiently, while tetrachloroethylene was not degraded. The role of alkene monooxygenase in catalyzing chlorinated alkene degradations was established by demonstrating that glucose-grown cells which lack alkene monooxygenase and propylene-grown cells in which alkene monooxygenase was selectively inactivated by propyne were unable to degrade the compounds. C2 and C3 chlorinated alkanes were not oxidized by alkene monooxygenase, but a number of these compounds were inhibitors of propylene and ethylene oxidation, suggesting that they compete for binding to the enzyme. A number of metabolites enhanced the rate of degradation of chlorinated alkenes, including propylene oxide, propionaldehyde, and glucose. Propylene stimulated chlorinated alkene oxidation slightly when present at a low concentration but became inhibitory at higher concentrations. Toxic effects associated with chlorinated alkene oxidations were determined by measuring the propylene oxidation and propylene oxide-dependent O2 uptake rates of cells previously incubated with chlorinated alkenes. Compounds which were substrates for alkene monooxygenase exhibited various levels of toxicity, with 1,1-dichloroethylene and trichloroethylene being the most potent inactivators of propylene oxidation and 1,3- and 2,3-dichloropropylene being the most potent inactivators of propylene oxide-dependent O2 uptake. No toxic effects were seen when cells were incubated with chlorinated alkenes anaerobically, indicating that the product(s) of chlorinated alkene oxidation mediates toxicity.
Abstract The oxidation of propylamine to propionaldehyde oxime with 30 wt.-% hydrogen peroxide has been studied over the following catalysts: TS-1, TS-2, Ti-β, Ti-MCM-41, Ti-HMS, amorphous SiO 2 TiO 2 and Al-β. Only TS-1, TS-2 and Ti-β were found to be active in this reaction. All other catalysts were almost inactive. The main oxidation products were syn and anti oximes, the by-products being the corresponding hydrazone, imine and some unidentified compounds. The influence of various parameters like the amount of catalyst, the concentration of hydrogen peroxide, the nature and amount of solvent, the temperature and the reaction time were systematically investigated. Alcohols were found to be better solvents in the oxidation of primary amines containing α-hydrogen than chloroform and acetone.
1. ::: ::: Absorption spectra were measured for 3,3,3-tris(p-dimethylaminophenyl)propionaldehyde, allyltris(p-dimethylaminophenyl)methane, and tris(p-dimethylaminophenyl)prophylmethane as solutions in polar solvents and after interaction with acetic, chloroacetic, and trichloroacetic acids. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: On the basis of the phospectrometric data it was shown that scission of a C-C bond occurs in the first two compounds under the action of acids and polar solvents, but in the third only under the action of acids. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: It was shown how the scission of the C-C bond depends on the character of the conjugation in the molecules of the compounds investigated.
A novel expression system of Klebsiella pneumoniae was developed in order to improve 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) production using a K. pneumoniae-Escherichia coli shuttle vector pET28a consisting of the kanamycin-resistance gene promoter Pkan. The recombinant plasmid pETPkan-cat carrying the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene cat as selectable marker was constructed to test the availability of the promoter Pkan in K. pneumoniae. The results showed that the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase was apparently expressed in K. pneumoniae, and the recombinant strain had a high-level resistance to chloramphenicol, suggesting that the promoter Pkan was efficient in K. pneumoniae. Then, the expression system was applied to the expression of 1,3-PD oxidoreductase in K. pneumoniae. The enzyme was over-expressed, and the recombinant K. pneumoniae showed a nearly 3.0-fold decrease in peak level of the intermediary metabolite 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and an increase of 16.5% in yield of 1,3-PD with respect to the wild-type strain. From these results, the first reported expression system has paved the way for improvement of 1,3-PD production and will be available and efficient for other heterologous gene expression in K. pneumoniae.
Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) are a family of several isoenzymes expressed in various tissues and in all subcellular fractions. In some tumours, there is an increase of ALDH activity, especially that of class 1 and 3. The increase in the activity of these isoenzymes is correlated with cell growth and drug resistance shown by these cells. It has been observed that hepatoma cells expressing low ALDH3 activity are more susceptible to growth inhibition by low concentration of lipid peroxidation products than hepatoma cells expressing high ALDH3 activity. The products of lipid peroxidation are good substrates for ALDH, but when their intracellular levels are increased in hepatoma cells treated repeatedly with prooxidants, they inhibit ALDH3 and bring about growth inhibition or cell death. As a follow up to the work previously reported on S-methyl 4-amino-4-methylpent-2-ynethioate, a synthetic suicide inhibitor of ALDH1, which induced bcl2 overexpressing cells into apoptosis and exhibited an ED50 of 400 microM, a novel broad spectrum inhibitor of ALDH1 and ALDH3 was synthesised. This new compound (ATEM) is a suicide inhibitor of ALDH1, an irreversible inhibitor of ALDH3 and exhibits an ED50 of 10-25 microM on rat cultured hepatoma cells. Four hours after treatment with 25 microM ATEM, ALDH activity using benzaldehyde or propionaldehyde in hepatoma cells was decreased by 40% and cell number by 15% compared with controls. As cell growth did not resume when the inhibitor was removed from the culture medium, it suggested strongly that ALDHs play a pivotal role in mediating cell death.
The dielectric behaviour of polar liquids such as propan-1-ol, propionaldehyde and their equimolar binary mixture in non-polar solvent benzene is studied in the microwave frequency range using the cavity perturbation technique at 6.218 GHz (J band), 9.880 GHz (X band), 16.331 GHz (P band) and 24.951 GHz (K band). Ab initio geometry optimization is performed in the 6-31G (d) basis set using the Gaussian 94W program for both pure and binary systems of propan-1-ol and propionaldehyde. Dipole moments of the binary mixtures are calculated from the dielectric data using Higasi's method and compared with the ab initio results. Conformational analysis of the formation of hydrogen bond between the propan-1-ol and propionaldehyde is supported by the FT-IR spectra. The average relaxation times are calculated from their respective Cole–Cole plots.
The metabolic conversion of propranolol to propranolol-diol [1-(1-naphthyloxy)-2,3-propyleneglycol] by rat liver 9000g supernatant was demonstrated to proceed through the intermediate 3-naphthyloxy-2-hydroxypropionaldehyde. Using side chain deuterated propranolol-d5 as substrate, propranolol-diol-d4 was produced, indicating an obligatory aldehyde intermediate. Analysis of desisopropylpropranolol obtained in the same incubation showed no loss of deuterium indicating that the possibility of rapidly tautomerizing imine intermediate did not make a significant contribution in this metabolic conversion. Desisopropylpropranolol, added in small amounts to the incubation mixture is more rapidly converted to the propranolol-diol than is propranolol, indicating that the major pathway of conversion of propranolol to its diol metabolite is through the desisopropylpropranolol intermediate.
An integrated performance analysis of a vanadium-based urea-SCR system used for the reduction of exhaust emissions from a diesel engine was carried ou t. The engine was run on an AC electrical dynamometer in accordance with an 8-mode steady-state cycle. The number-size distribution of particles and carbonyls was analyzed using an electrical low pressure impactor (ELPI) and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), respectively. It was found that conversion and/or reduction efficiency (RE) of the SCR were highly affected by the catalyst temperature and space velocity (SV). The NOx pollutants were greatly reduced with the decrease in SV within the load modes of cyclic speeds. The SCR exhibited an RE of more than 50% for NOx emissions at 321-435 ◦ C, while the maximum RE was 80.5%. Total hydrocarbon (HC) emissions were also increased with the decrease in load for both cyclic speeds, while the RE varied from 38.7% to 71.1%. Significant increases in upstream and downstream carbon monoxide (CO) emissions were noticed with the decrease in engine load. Reluctance to reduction or a negative RE, ranging from 1.5% to 72%, was observed for CO emissions with the SCR. In addition, nanoparticles were greatly reduced, whereas particles of the size range 57-255 nm showed less reduction. The number-size distribution of particles was shifted from smaller to larger sizes with the SCR retrofit. Furthermore, a substantial conversion of up to 55.3% was obtained in the case of carbonyl emissions. The maximum RE was 58%, 67%, 50%, and 64% for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein and acetone, and propionaldehyde, respectively.
S. ABBAD-ANDALOUSSI, E. GUEDON, E. SPIESSER AND H. PETITDEMANGE. 1996. Glycerol catabolism by Clostridium butyricum DSM 5431 into acetate, butyrate and 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) was studied in chemostat culture. The fact that the intracellular concentrations of NADH (18–22 μUmol g-1dry cell mass) were extremely high suggested that the dehydratase activity was the rate limiting step in 1,3-PD formation. This limitation was proved by the addition of propionaldehyde, another substrate of propanediol dehydrogenase, into the culture medium. This resulted in an increase in (i) glycerol utilization, (ii) biomass formation and (iii) product biosynthesis.
The invention discloses a preparation method of Gamithromycin. The method comprises steps of: dissolving raw materials of 9-deoxidation-8a-aza-8a-homoerythromycin A and propionaldehyde in a solvent; using cyan sodium borohydride or sodium triacetoxyborohydride as a reducing agent; adjusting a pH to 6-7; reacting thoroughly; and purifying to obtain the Gamithromycin. A molar ratio of 9-deoxidation-8a-aza-8a-homoerythromycin A to propionaldehyde to the reducing agent is 1:1-2:1-2, and a mass-volume ratio of 9-deoxidation-8a-aza-8a-homoerythromycin A to the solvent is 1:1.5-4. The invention employs a method with high yield and safe operations to prepare the Gamithromycin, so as to reduce a preparation cost of the Gamithromycin.
Isobutyraldehyde, a branched alkyl aldehyde, is used as a chemical intermediate and flavoring agent. It was nominated by the National Cancer Institute for toxicity and carcinogenicity studies by the NTP. Reasons for nomination and selection of isobutyraldehyde for study included its high potential for human exposure as suggested by its high production volume, its use as a chemical intermediate and food flavoring agent, suspicion of carcinogenicity due to an increased incidence of cancer at an aldehyde manufacturing plant where workers were exposed to a variety of aldehydes, its structural relationship to formaldehyde (a nasal carcinogen in rats), and the lack of toxicity and carcinogenicity studies on isobutyraldehyde in animals. Although human exposure occurs orally, dermally, or via inhalation, the inhalation route of exposure was selected for these animal studies because of the instability of isobutyraldehyde in water and feed. Male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were exposed to isobutyraldehyde (approximately 99% pure) by inhalation for 13 weeks or 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in vitro in Salmonella typhimurium, L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells, and cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells; in vivo tests were conducted in Drosophila melanogaster germ cells and bone marrow cells of rats and mice. 13-WEEK STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 10 male and 10 female F344/N rats were exposed to 0, 500, 1,000, 2,000, 4,000, or 8,000 ppm isobutyraldehyde by inhalation, 6 hours per day, 5 days a week, for 13 weeks. All rats exposed to 8,000 ppm died before the end of the study. Three male rats and six female rats in the 4,000 ppm groups and one female in the 500 ppm group died before the end of the study. The final mean body weight of male rats in the 4,000 ppm group and the body weight gains of 4,000 ppm males and females were significantly less than those of the chamber controls. Clinical findings in rats exposed to 4,000 or 8,000 ppm included abnormal respiratory sounds, decreased activity, nasal discharge, prostration, and slowed respiration. A minimal mature neutrophilia, evidenced by increased segmented neutrophil numbers, occurred in exposed groups of male and female rats. Exposure to isobutyraldehyde resulted in minimal increases in alanine aminotransferase activity in all groups of male and female rats. Spermatozoal motility in 500 and 1,000 ppm males was significantly reduced and females exposed to 4,000 ppm differed significantly from the chamber control females in the relative time spent in the estrous stages. No gross lesions were observed at necropsy that could be associated with isobutyraldehyde exposure. In the 8,000 ppm groups, severe necrosis of the epithelium, and occasionally of the entire mucosa, of the nasal turbinates accompanied by an acute inflammatory reaction was observed. Increased incidences of squamous metaplasia and mild acute inflammation occurred in male and female rats exposed to 4,000 ppm. Minimal to mild degeneration of the olfactory epithelium was observed in all male rats in the 2,000 and 4,000 ppm groups. Male rats exposed to 4,000 or 8,000 ppm and females exposed to 4,000 ppm had mild osteodystrophy of the turbinate bone. The incidences of necrosis/degeneration of the larynx and trachea were increased in male rats in the 8,000 ppm group. The incidences of mild to moderate lymphoid depletion of the spleen and thymus and lymphoid necrosis of the thymus were significantly increased in male and female rats exposed to 8,000 ppm. 13-WEEK STUDY IN MICE: Ten male and 10 female B6C3F1 mice were exposed to 0, 500, 1,000, 2,000, 4,000, or 8,000 ppm isobutyraldehyde by inhalation, 6 hours per day, 5 days per week, for 13 weeks. One male in the chamber control group, one male in the 1,000 ppm group, nine males and all females in the 4,000 ppm groups, and all males and females in the 8,000 ppm groups died before the end of the study. The final mean body weight and body weight gain of female mice in the 1,000 ppm group were significantly less than those of the chamber controls. Clinical findal findings included decreased activity, tremors, prostration, and slower and labored respiration. The absolute and relative kidney weights of males in the 1,000 and 2,000 ppm groups were significantly increased. There were no gross lesions observed at necropsy that could be associated with isobutyraldehyde exposure. Histopathologically, the nasal cavity and lymphopoietic tissues were considered target organs, with changes similar, but not identical, to those observed in rats. Increased incidences of nonneoplastic lesions of the nasal cavity were observed in male and female mice exposed to 1,000 ppm or greater. These lesions included necrosis, inflammation, hyperplasia, and squamous metaplasia of the epithelium; serous and suppurative exudate within the nasal passages; olfactory epithelial degeneration; and osteodystrophy of the turbinate bone. Mild to moderate lymphoid depletion and/or lymphoid necrosis were observed in the thymus of male and female mice exposed to 8,000 ppm. 2-YEAR STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 50 male and 50 female F344/N rats were exposed to 0, 500, 1,000, or 2,000 ppm isobutyraldehyde by inhalation, 6 hours per day, 5 days per week, for 105 weeks Survival, Body Weights, and Clinical Findings No differences in survival rates between exposed and chamber control rats were found. The mean body weights of male and female rats were generally similar to those of the chamber controls throughout the study. Pathology Findings No increase in neoplasm incidences that could be attributed to exposure to isobutyraldehyde was observed in male or female rats. Nonneoplastic lesions related to isobutyraldehyde exposure were limited to the nose and consisted of squamous metaplasia of the respiratory epithelium, degeneration of the olfactory epithelium, and suppurative inflammation. Incidences of minimal to mild squamous metaplasia in 1,000 and 2,000 ppm males and females and in 500 ppm females were significantly greater than those in the chamber controls. Another lesion associated with isobutyraldehyde exposure was minimal to mild degeneration of the olfactory epithelium in 2,000 ppm males and females. The incidences of suppurative inflammation (rhinitis) in male and female rats exposed to 2,000 ppm were increased compared to the chamber controls. 2-YEAR STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 50 male and 50 female B6C3F1 mice were exposed to 0, 500, 1,000, or 2,000 ppm isobutyraldehyde by inhalation, 6 hours per day, 5 days per week, for 105 weeks. Survival, Body Weights, and Clinical Findings There was an exposure-related decrease in survival of male mice, and the survival of males exposed to 2,000 ppm was marginally lower than that of the chamber controls. The mean body weights of female mice exposed to 1,000 or 2,000 ppm were lower than those of the chamber controls during the second year of the study. Pathology Findings No neoplasms that could be attributed to iso butyraldehyde exposure were observed in mice. Non neoplastic lesions related to isobutyraldehyde exposure were limited to the nose. The incidences of olfactory epithelial degeneration in 1,000 and 2,000 ppm males and females were significantly greater than in the chamber controls. GENETIC TOXICOLOGY: Isobutyraldehyde is mutagenic in vitro and in vivo, with the strongest responses observed in mammalian cell assays that measured chromosomal damage. Results of an initial mutagenicity test in S. typhimurium were negative; a second test, con ducted with different strains and varying concentrations of induced S9 activation enzymes, gave equivocal results. Strongly positive responses were obtained in the mouse lymphoma assay for mutation induction in L5178Y cells without S9 and in cytogenetic tests for induction of sister chromatid exchanges and chromosomal aberrations in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells. Sister chromatid exchanges were significantly increased with and without S9, but induction of chromosomal aberrations was noted unequivocally only in the absence of S9. No induction of sex-linked recessive lethal mutations was observed in germ cells of male D. melanogaster administered isobutyraldehyde by feeding or by injection. In vivo, isobutyraldehyde was demonstrated to induce chromosomal aberrations in bone marrow cells of male mice, but no increases in micronuclei were observed in bone marrow cells of mice or rats after administration of isobutyraldehyde. All these in vivo cytogenetic studies used doses that reached lethality CONCLUSIONS: Under the conditions of these 2-year inhalation studies, there was no evidence of carcinogenic activity of isobutyraldehyde in male or female F344/N rats or male or female B6C3F1 mice exposed to 500, 1,000, or 2,000 ppm isobutyraldehyde. In male and female rats, exposure to isobutyraldehyde induced squamous metaplasia and suppurative inflammation of the nasal respiratory epithelium and degeneration of the nasal olfactory epithelium. In male and female mice, exposure to isobutyraldehyde caused degeneration of the nasal olfactory epithelium. Synonyms: Dimethylacetaldehyde; 2-formylpropane; isobutanal; isobutylcarboxaldehyde; isobutyral; isobutyric aldehyde; isobutyrylaldehyde; isopropylformaldehyde; 2-methylpropanal; 2-methyl-1-propanal; a-methylpropionaldehyde; 2-methylpropionaldehyde; valine aldehyde
Abstract An improved gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS) method was described for the analysis of carbonyl compounds in cigarette mainstream smoke (CMS) after 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) derivatization. Besides formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, butyraldehyde, and crotonaldehyde that are routinely analyzed in cigarette smoke, this technique separates and allows the analysis of several C 4 , C 5 and C 6 isomeric carbonyl compounds. Differentiation could be made between the linear and branched carbon chain components. In cigarette smoke, the branched chain carbonyls are found at higher level than the linear chain carbonyls. Also, several trace carbonyl compounds such as methoxyacetaldehyde were found for the first time in cigarette smoke. For the analysis, cigarette smoke was collected using DNPH-treated pads, which is a simpler procedure compared to conventional impinger collection. Thermal decomposition of DNPH–carbonyl compounds was minimized by the optimization of the GC conditions. The linear range of the method was significantly improved by using a standard mixture of DNPH–carbonyl compounds instead of individual compounds for calibration. The minimum detectable quantity for the carbonyls ranged from 1.4 to 5.6 μg/cigarette.
alpha-Methyl-1,3-benzodioxole-5-propionaldehyde (methyl-3,4-methylene-dioxy-hydrocinnamic Aldehyde, MMDHCA) is a widely used commercially available fragrance material. Because of the wide range of product availability, there is dermal exposure associated with its use. The objective of this study was to determine the in vitro human skin absorption of (14)C MMDHCA and subchronic toxicity of the material. Twenty mL of a 1% solution of radiolabeled MMDHCA in ethanol was applied to the surface of epidermal membranes isolated from full thickness human skin samples and placed in diffusion cells. Samples of the receptor fluid (50% ethanol/water) were harvested at 2, 8, 24, and 48 h and analyzed by liquid scintillation chromatography to assess dermal absorption. At 24 and 48 h, respectively, 42% and 50% of the applied dose of MMDHCA had permeated the human skin in vitro. Only 67% of the applied dose was recovered by 48 h. For the subchronic toxicity, MMDHCA was applied dermally once daily to male and female Sprague-Dawley rats (15/sex/group) at 50, 150, or 300 mg/kg/day (0.043, 0.129, or 0.259 mL/kg/day applied neat to 5 cm(2) dorsal skin) for at least 90 consecutive days. A control group (15/sex) was given vehicle (reverse osmosis water) at 0.259 mL/kg/day for a similar duration. Rats were necropsied at the end of treatment (10/sex/group) or following a 4-week recovery period (5/sex/group). The following parameters were evaluated: dermal irritation, estrous cycle, ophthalmologic examinations, body weight, feed consumption, hematology, blood coagulation, serum chemistry, organ weights, macroscopic and histopathologic examinations, and male reproductive assessment. No test article-related mortalities or effects on, estrous cycles, ophthalmic exams, mean body weights, mean body weight change, feed consumption, absolute or relative organ weights, macroscopic observations, or male reproductive morphology/function were observed. MMDHCA-related dermal irritation was observed across all dose levels with increased incidence and severity at 300 mg/kg/day. Dermal irritation that initially ranged from slight to marked improved to slight or resolved completely during the recovery phase. Based on the findings in this study, it can be concluded that (1) MMDHCA exhibits moderately high human skin permeation; (2) the NOEL for dermal irritation is below 50mg/kg/day when applied undiluted to 5 cm(2) dorsal skin and (3) the NOEL for systemic toxicity is greater than 300 mg/kg/day. During the 4-week recovery period of the 90-day study, the animals had largely recovered from MMDHCA induced dermal irritation and the associated microscopic findings.
The activities of 2-oxoaldehyde-metabolizing enzymes (glyoxalase I, glyoxalase II, methyl- glyoxal reductase, methylglyoxal dehydrogenase and lactaldehyde dehydrogenase) were found to be widely distributed among microorganisms. One of the enzymes, methylglyoxal reductase, which catalyzes the reductive conversion of methylglyoxal into lactaldehyde, was purified from Escherichia coli cells. The enzyme was judged to be homogeneous on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and was a monomer with a molecular weight of 43000. The enzyme was most active at pH 6.5 and 45°C. The enzyme utilized both NADPH and NADH for the reduction of 2- oxoaldehydes (glyoxal, methylglyoxal, phenylglyoxal and 4,5-dioxovalerate) and some aldehydes (glycolaldehyde, D,l-glyceraldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde). The Km values of the enzyme for methylglyoxal, NADPH and NADH were 4.0 mm, 1.7 fiM and 2.8 /?m, respectively. The product of methylglyoxal reduction was identified as lactaldehyde. The enzyme from E. coli cells was differ...
Abstract Although alkyl-titanium-(IV) compounds have been used extensively as polymerization catalysts, practically nothing is known concerning their utility in synthetic organic chemistry1. As part of our systematic study directed toward exploring this unknown area, we have previously reported that 1) methyltitaniumtrichloride and dimethyltitaniumdichloride react smoothly with tertiary alkyl halides to form alkanes having quarternary carbon atoms2,3, 2) the above reagents as well as methyltitaniumtriisopropylate react with 2-phenylpropionaldehyde diastereoselectively to form the corresponding erythro and threo alcohols4 (up to 88:12 ratio), and 3) methyl-and phenyltitanium (IV) compounds add to aldehydes faster than to ketones.
A new tool for airborne volatile aldehydes sampling is presented. Aldehydes such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde can be simultaneously monitored. The tool is made of a solid, inert support of sintered glass (Siran), held in a small tube (7 cm length) and coated with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine. Collected aldehydes are analysed as their hydrazones by high performance liquid chromatography. This method has been successfully employed to sampling of airborne formaldehyde between 0.06 ppmv and 4 ppmv (4 h sampling time). Comparison with the NIOSH method n. 2502 gave a high correlation coefficient (r=0.993).
Abstract Ab initio SCF-MO calculations have been carried out for thioacetone and thiopropionaldehyde using STO-3G and 3-21G basis sets. Structures and energies of several conformations of these molecules have been determined by the gradient geometry refinement, and some conformationally dependent local geometry trends are discussed. The results are compared with available data on acetone and proprionaldehyde to assess the effects of oxygen-by-sulphur substitution on the molecular properties. It was found that thiopropionaldehyde possesses energy minima at CCCS dihedral angles of 0° and near 120°, and energy maxima near 60° and at 180°. The calculated molecular atomic charges, dipole moments and ionization potentials are reported and compared with available experimental data.
The reaction of 2-mercaptonaphth[1,2-d]imidazole with chloroacetaldehyde, bromoacetaldehyde, and α-bromopropionaldehyde diethylacetals leads to the formation of (naphth[1,2-d]-2-mercaptoimidazolyl)acetaldehyde and α-(naphth[1,2-d]-2-mercaptoimidazolyl)propionaldehyde which in the solid state exist as tautomeric forms — 3-hydroxy derivatives of naphth[1,2-d]-imidazo[3,2-d]thiazoline. The corresponding naphth[1,2-d]imidazo[3,2-b]thiazoles were obtained by dehydration of the latter. The structure of the four-ring compounds was proved by reductive desulfurizatton to 3-alkylnaphth[1,2-d]imidazoles and alternative synthesis from 2-chloro-3-acylnaethylnaphth[1,2-d]imidazoles.
Abstract 1. 1. 3-Methylthiopropionaldehyde peroxidase, a 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde-cleavage ethylene-forming enzyme, was isolated from apples, after separation from phenols and polyphenols by dialysis and gel-filtration on Sephadex G-25. The specific activity of 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde peroxidase was increased about 300 times by purification with DEAE- and CM-cellulose. 2. 2. This enzyme was separated into three fractions by free-flow electrophoresis. Each fraction had a different specific activity for the 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde-cleavage and the o-dianisidine peroxidase reaction, respectively. 3. 3. The purified enzyme showed a spectral absorption peak in the ultraviolet at 278 nm and a broad peak in the visible spectrum at 410 nm with a shoulder at 525 nm. 4. 4. The enzyme produced ethylene from 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde in a system which required p-coumaric acid, HSO3− and H2O2. This enzyme was inhibited by sodium diethyldithiocarbamate, cupferron, azide, iodoacetamide, N-ethylmaleimide ascorbate, Cu2+, diphenols and catalase. Streptomycin approximately doubled the activity of the 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde-cleavage system. 5. 5. 3-Methylthiopropionaldehyde peroxidase also produced ethylene, in lower amounts, from l -methionine in a two-step reaction. The first step involves a reaction with Mn2+, p-coumaric acid, and codecarboxylase. The second step appears to be the 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde-cleavage reaction requiring HSO3− and H2O2.
Propylene-grown Xanthobacter cells (strain Py2) degraded several chlorinated alkenes of environmental concern, including trichloroethylene, 1-chloroethylene (vinyl chloride), cis-and trans-1,2-dichloroethylene, 1,3-dichloropropylene, and 2,3-dichloropropylene. 1,1-Dichloroethylene was not degraded efficiently, while tetrachloroethylene was not degraded. The role of alkene monooxygenase in catalyzing chlorinated alkene degradations was established by demonstrating that glucose-grown cells which lack alkene monooxygenase and propylene-grown cells in which alkene monooxygenase was selectively inactivated by propyne were unable to degrade the compounds. C2 and C3 chlorinated alkanes were not oxidized by alkene monooxygenase, but a number of these compounds were inhibitors of propylene and ethylene oxidation, suggesting that they compete for binding to the enzyme. A number of metabolites enhanced the rate of degradation of chlorinated alkenes, including propylene oxide, propionaldehyde, and glucose. Propylene stimulated chlorinated alkene oxidation slightly when present at a low concentration but became inhibitory at higher concentrations. Toxic effects associated with chlorinated alkene oxidations were determined by measuring the propylene oxidation and propylene oxide-dependent 02 uptake rates of cells previously incubated with chlorinated alkenes. Compounds which were substrates for alkene monooxygenase exhibited various levels of toxicity, with 1,1-dichloroethylene and trichloroethylene being the most potent inactivators of propylene oxidation and 1,3-and 2,3-dichloropropylene being the most potent inactivators of propylene oxide-dependent 02 uptake. No toxic effects were seen when cells were incubated with chlorinated alkenes anaerobically, indicating that the product(s) of chlorinated alkene oxidation mediates toxicity.
(l), an enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of 1,2-propanediol to propionaldehyde in the presence of B,Z-coenzynle.' can be used to assay the coenzyme qunntitativcly,
ALD-mPEG and SC-mPEG are two different types of PEG, which are currently the most commonly used and relatively mature with active groups to modify polypeptide drugs. The active groups of ALD-mPEG and SC-mPEG are propionaldehyde and succinimidyl carbonate, respectively, which are specificity reactive groups of the peptide's end amino. Physical properties, reaction activity with the peptide's end amino of ALD-mPEG and SC-mPEG were different, and the remaining bioactivity of the same peptide PEGylated by the different two PEG were different too. A previous study [1] reported that HM-3 modified with ALD-mPEG 10k showed improved half-life and biological activity in vitro, but the half-life improvement was not significant.
Our study was performed with a haloalkaliphilc bacterium, Halanaerobium hydrogeniformans, isolated from Soap Lake in Washington State [11] . H. hydrogeniformans possesses the ability to convert crude glycerol into PDO. It should be noted that optimum growth conditions for this bacterium are: pH of 11, NaCl concentration of 7.5%, and a temperature of 30 °C [12] . Moreover, this bacterium is capable of growing at a broader pH range (7.5-12) and salt range (2.5%-15%) in comparison to other PDO-producing bacterial species. This property of H. hydrogeniformans makes it ideal for the conversion of crude glycerol into PDO. The use of this organism removes the need for the neutralization of crude glycerol, possibly making PDO production a cost-effective approach. Genome data analysis of H. hydrogeniformans revealed that it possesses the genes for PDO production [11] . In general, glycerol to PDO production pathway entails two steps (Figure 1 ). In the first step, a water molecule is removed from glycerol, forming 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, catalyzed by the enzyme glycerol dehydratase. In the following step, enzyme 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase regenerates NAD + needed by cell through the oxidation of NADH2 and produces PDO. Glycerol dehydratase is a vitamin B12 dependent enzyme. Moreover, H. hydrogeniformans possesses vitamin B12 Genome data analysis of H. hydrogeniformans revealed that it possesses the genes for PDO production [11] . In general, glycerol to PDO production pathway entails two steps (Figure 1 ). In the first step, a water molecule is removed from glycerol, forming 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, catalyzed by the enzyme glycerol dehydratase. In the following step, enzyme 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase regenerates NAD + needed by cell through the oxidation of NADH 2 and produces PDO. Glycerol dehydratase is a vitamin B 12 dependent enzyme. Moreover, H. hydrogeniformans possesses vitamin B 12 synthesis pathway. However, earlier experiments performed with H. hydrogeniformans, on glycerol fermentation, suggest that the production of PDO almost doubles when media is supplemented with vitamin B 12 . This previous work also indicated that H. hydrogeniformans had a 60.3% conversion of glycerol in our standard growth media [14] .
Mutants of transketolase (TK) with improved substrate specificity towards the non-natural aliphatic aldehyde substrate propionaldehyde have been obtained by directed evolution. We used the same active-site targeted saturation mutagenesis libraries from which we previously identified mutants with improved activity towards glycolaldehyde, which is C2-hydroxylated like all natural TK substrates. Comparison of the new mutants to those obtained previously reveals distinctly different subsets of enzyme active-site mutations with either improved overall enzyme activity, or improved specificity towards either the C2-hydroxylated or non-natural aliphatic aldehyde substrate. While mutation of phylogenetically variant residues was found previously to yield improved enzyme activity on glycolaldehyde, we show here that these mutants in fact gave improved activity on both substrate types. In comparison, the new mutants were obtained at conserved residues which interact with the C2-hydroxyl group of natural substrates, and gave up to 5-fold improvement in specific activity and 64-fold improvement in specificity towards propionaldehyde relative to glycolaldehyde. This suggests that saturation mutagenesis can be more selectively guided for evolution towards either natural or non-natural substrates, using both structural and sequence information.
A putative aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) gene, ybcD (gene locus b1467), was identified in the genome sequence of Bacillus licheniformis ATCC 14580. B. licheniformis ALDH (BlALDH) encoded by ybcD consists of 488 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of approximately 52.7 kDa. The coding sequence of ybcD gene was cloned in pQE-31, and functionally expressed in recombinant Escherichia coli M15. BlALDH had a subunit molecular mass of approximately 53 kDa and the molecular mass of the native enzyme was determined to be 220 kDa by FPLC, reflecting that the oilgomeric state of this enzyme is tetrameric. The temperature and pH optima for BlALDH were 37 degrees C and 7.0, respectively. In the presence of either NAD(+) or NADP(+), the enzyme could oxidize a number of aliphatic aldehydes, particularly C3- and C5-aliphatic aldehyde. Steady-state kinetic study revealed that BlALDH had a K (M) value of 0.46 mM and a k (cat) value of 49.38/s when propionaldehyde was used as the substrate. BlALDH did not require metal ions for its enzymatic reaction, whereas the dehydrogenase activity was enhanced by the addition of disulfide reductants, 2-mercaptoethanol and dithiothreitol. Taken together, this study lays a foundation for future structure-function studies with BlALDH, a typical member of NAD(P)(+)-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenases.
Chronic exposure to ethionine (0.05%) combined with dietary choline deficiency was used to study changes in aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity during hepatocarcinogenesis in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Over a period of 43 weeks, animals were sacrificed at intervals and the ALDH phenotype of normal liver and any lesions was characterized by histochemical analysis, total activity assays, and gel electrophoresis, using propionaldehyde and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) to detect normal liver ALDH activity and benzaldehyde and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP+) for tumor-associated ALDH. In animals receiving ethionine plus choline deficiency, significant changes in ALDH were observed histochemically by 9 weeks, when there was a distinct shift in activity from its normal centrilobular pattern to a periportal distribution. The first NAD+- and NADP+-dependent ALDH-positive enzyme-altered foci were also seen at 9 weeks. There was no correlation between the ALDH and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase phenotypes of an individual focus. Areas of cholangiofibrosis, cystic degeneration, and bile duct proliferation were distinctly ALDH negative. No significant changes in benzaldehyde and NADP+ ALDH activity were detectable by total activity assays or gel electrophoresis prior to the appearance of overt neoplasms at 26 weeks. No significant changes in ALDH activity occurred in animals receiving either ethionine or choline deficient diet alone. By histochemistry, total activity assays and gel electrophoresis, only 7 of the 28 (25%) of the hepatic neoplasms examined expressed the tumor-associated ALDH phenotype. An additional five neoplasms had barely detectable levels of benzaldehyde and NADP+ ALDH activity. These results are in striking contrast to changes in ALDH activity occurring during hepatocarcinogenesis induced by other protocols we have tested previously in which from 50 to 96% of all neoplasms were ALDH positive.
A study was made of the oligomerization of ethylene, initiated by the thermal decomposition of azoethane and azo-isopropane at low temperatures, where the polymerization equilibria are shifted somewhat in the direction of the formation of products with longer carbon chains. The findings supported the picture acquired from a study of the propionaldehyde–ethylene system. Also under these conditions the oligomerization proceeds via addition between the ethylene and radicals, followed by isomerization and decomposition of the longer radicals, with a tendency to yield propylene and longer olefins. At the lower temperatures the decomposition of radicals with shorter carbon chain becomes less important in comparison with their addition reactions and, in spite of the otherwise identical mechanism, this leads to a different product distribution.
Isothermal vapor-liquid equilibrium (VLE) data were measured for the mixtures n-pentane/propionaldehyde, n-heptane/n-butyraldehyde, and isobutyraldehyde/n-heptane at low pressures (100-1000 mmHg) by using a dynamic still. The data reported here are thermodynamically consistent according to the point-to-point consistency test. These data are correlated with five activity coefficient models with parameters estimated from the maximum likelihood method. Also, UNIFAC parameters were estimated for the aldehyde/hydrocarbon functional-group interactions based on the new data.
The oxidation of propionaldehyde was examined on electrodes modified by Ru, Ag, Hg, Ge, Sn, As, Sb, Bi, S, Se and Te ad-atoms. The feature of the enhancement of propionaldehyde oxidation by ad-atoms was found to be quite similar to that of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde oxidation. The oxidation was found to be enhanced strikingly by oxygen donation by oxygen-adsorbing ad-atoms as well as by the inhibition of poison formation by Shole control by non-oxygen-adsorbing ad-atoms, but to a lesser extent. In the enhancement by Shole control, steric hindrance by alkyl groups is observed. In the enhancement by oxygen-adsorbing ad-atoms, the difficulty in oxygen donation from ad-atoms to aldehyde molecules depends on the size of the alkyl group: the smaller the electronegativity of the oxygen-adsorbing ad-atoms, the more difficult is this donation. The donation is discouraged by the orientation of aldehyde molecules caused by the induced negative charge of adsorbed oxygen atoms.
The "Latescibacteria" (formerly WS3), member of the Fibrobacteres-Chlorobi-Bacteroidetes (FCB) superphylum, represents a ubiquitous candidate phylum found in terrestrial, aquatic, and marine ecosystems. Recently, single-cell amplified genomes (SAGs) representing the "Latescibacteria" were obtained from the anoxic monimolimnion layers of Sakinaw Lake (British Columbia, Canada), and anoxic sediments of a coastal lagoon (Etoliko lagoon, Western Greece). Here, we present a detailed in-silico analysis of the four SAGs to gain some insights on their metabolic potential and apparent ecological roles. Metabolic reconstruction suggests an anaerobic fermentative mode of metabolism, as well as the capability to degrade multiple polysaccharides and glycoproteins that represent integral components of green (Charophyta and Chlorophyta) and brown (Phaeophycaea) algae cell walls (pectin, alginate, ulvan, fucan, hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins), storage molecules (starch and trehalose), and extracellular polymeric substances (EPSs). The analyzed SAGs also encode dedicated transporters for the uptake of produced sugars and amino acids/oligopeptides, as well as an extensive machinery for the catabolism of all transported sugars, including the production of a bacterial microcompartment (BMC) to sequester propionaldehyde, a toxic intermediate produced during fucose and rhamnose metabolism. Finally, genes for the formation of gas vesicles, flagella, type IV pili, and oxidative stress response were found, features that could aid in cellular association with algal detritus. Collectively, these results indicate that the analyzed "Latescibacteria" mediate the turnover of multiple complex organic polymers of algal origin that reach deeper anoxic/microoxic habitats in lakes and lagoons. The implications of such process on our understanding of niche specialization in microbial communities mediating organic carbon turnover in stratified water bodies are discussed.
Substituted cyclopentanols with three contiguous stereocenters were prepared with impressive diastereocontrol through a samarium diiodide induced 5-exo-trig radical process. The chiral unsaturated oxo ester precursors were prepared with ee values up to 90 % from propionaldehyde through a two-step organocatalyzed aldolization and Wittig–Horner olefination reaction sequence.
Cyanobacterium Plectonema boryanum IU 594 and cyanophage LPP-1 were used as indicator organisms in a bioassay of 16 pesticides. Experiments such as spot tests, disk assays, growth curves, and one-step growth experiments were used to examine the effects of pesticides on the host and virus. Also, experiments were done in which host or virus was incubated in pesticide solutions and then assayed for PFU. P. boryanum was inhibited by four herbicides: 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea (DCMU), 1,1-dimethyl-3-(alpha, alpha,alpha-trifluoro-m-tolyl)urea ( Fluometeron ), 2-chloro-4-(ethylamino)-6-(isopropylamino)-s-triazine (Atrazine), 2-(ethylamino)-4-(isopropylamino)-6-(methylthio)-s-triazine ( Ametryn ). One insecticide, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)-propionaldehyde O-( methylcarbamoyl )oxime (Aldicarb), also inhibited the cyanobacterium. Two insecticides inactivated LPP-1, O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate of diethyl mercaptosuccinate (malathion) and Isotox . Isotox is a mixture of three pesticides: S-[2-( ethylsulfinyl )ethyl]O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate ( Metasystox -R), 1-naphthyl methylcarbamate ( Sevin ) and 4,4'-dichloro-alpha- (trichloromethyl) benzhydrom ( Kelthane ). Two pesticide-resistant strains of P. boryanum were isolated against DCMU and Atrazine. These mutants showed resistance to all four herbicides, which indicates a relationship between these phototoxic chemicals. The results indicate that P. boryanum may be a useful indicator species for phototoxic agents in bioassay procedures.
Abstract The effect of the iron distribution in steam-activated FeZSM-5 and Fe-silicalite on their catalytic performance for direct N2O decomposition and for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with N2O and O2 was investigated by means of steady-state and transient pulse experiments. Steam-activated FeZSM-5, containing a large fraction of iron as oligonuclear FexOy clusters, is more active and selective in ODHP and direct N2O decomposition than steam-activated Fe-silicalite, where isolated iron species predominate. This suggests that the same type of iron centers is involved in both conversions. The higher activity of steam-activated FeZSM-5 is associated to the higher mobility of atomic oxygen species attached to oligonuclear iron species, which lead to a faster oxygen desorption in direct N2O decomposition as well as to a faster transfer to propane in the ODHP reaction. Steam-activated FeMFI zeolites were found to be highly effective catalysts for ODHP with N2O, with initial propene yields up to 24%. Relatively high yields of propionaldehyde are also obtained, which mainly originates from the selective oxidation of propene. The unique ODHP performance of iron zeolites requires the use of N2O as monooxygen donor. Such species cannot be created by O2. Only a fraction of oxygen species deposited over iron sites of FeMFI upon N2O activation was found to be active towards propane oxidation under transient vacuum conditions. This is explained by a fast transformation of short-living highly reactive atomic oxygen species into less reactive ones.
Hydraulic fracturing fluids are injected into shales to extend fracture networks that enhance oil and natural gas production from unconventional reservoirs. Here we evaluated the biodegradability of three widely used nonionic polyglycol ether surfactants (alkyl ethoxylates (AEOs), nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPEOs), and polypropylene glycols (PPGs)) that function as weatherizers, emulsifiers, wetting agents, and corrosion inhibitors in injected fluids. Under anaerobic conditions, we observed complete removal of AEOs and NPEOs from solution within 3 weeks regardless of whether surfactants were part of a chemical mixture or amended as individual additives. Microbial enzymatic chain shortening was responsible for a shift in ethoxymer molecular weight distributions and the accumulation of the metabolite acetate. PPGs bioattenuated the slowest, producing sizable concentrations of acetone, an isomer of propionaldehyde. Surfactant chain shortening was coupled to an increased abundance of the diol dehydratase gene cluster (pduCDE) in Firmicutes metagenomes predicted from the 16S rRNA gene. The pduCDE enzymes are responsible for cleaving ethoxylate chain units into aldehydes before their fermentation into alcohols and carboxylic acids. These data provide new mechanistic insight into the environmental fate of hydraulic fracturing surfactants after accidental release through chain shortening and biotransformation, emphasizing the importance of compound structure disclosure for predicting biodegradation products.
Addition of aldicarb (2 methyl-2(methyl thio) propionaldehyde-0-methyl carbamoyl oxime) in the growth medium enhanced the growth ofRhizobium sp. (cowpea group) at 2 ppm level while an inhibition was observed at the normal (5 ppm) and higher (10 ppm) concentrations. Respiration of the cells was also inhibited by 5 and 10 ppm levels of the chemical eventhough a stimulation was observed at 2 ppm (lower) concentration. The insecticide, when incorporated at 5 and 10 ppm levels in the medium increased the14C-glucose incorporation and considerably altered the assimilation of the radioactive carbon in different fractions of rhizobium cells. Soil application of this insecticide (Temik 10 G) reduced the number of nodules formed and the total nitrogen content in cowpea plants inoculated with theRhizobium sp. but enhanced the dry matter production of cowpea plants.
Abstract The removal of mixed acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde as a model of the binary contaminants in waste gas was studied in the packed column containing the immobilized activated sludge gel beads together with the hollow plastic balls developed for the removal of a single aldehyde in the previous work. The rate of each aldehyde biodegradation by the gel beads in the aldehydes mixture was expressed by the Michaelis–Menten type rate equation with an inhibitory term due to the other coexistent aldehyde. The kinetic parameters involved were found to be the same as those determined previously for biodegradation of a single aldehyde. A model for prediction of removal of each aldehyde in the packed column was developed assuming that each aldehyde dissolved in the aqueous phase within the gel bead was biodegraded according to the above rate equation with no mass transfer effect. The packed column was stable and efficient for removal of the binary aldehydes mixture with a very low pressure drop for gas flow due to a reduced gel beads bed compaction by the hollow plastic balls. Removal of each aldehyde decreased with increasing the inlet aldehyde concentrations since each biodegradation rate itself approached asymptotically the maximum one with increase in each aldehyde concentration. The observed removals for each aldehyde in the aldehydes mixture agreed well with those calculated from the design equations developed. The contact efficiency of gel beads with the waste gas stream was estimated to be the same value of 0.24 as in the previous work, supporting that the efficiency was specific to the geometrical and physical properties of the packed column used.
Ni28Ti72 alloy catalyst was found to have a high selectivity for the hydrogenation of acrolein to propionaldehyde. However, both the carbon-carbon double bond and the formyl group were hydrogenated by supported nickel or nickel ultra-fine particles, leading to the simultaneous production of 1-propanol together with propionaldehyde. The retardation of the formyl group hydrogenation by alloying has been suggested to be caused by the electronic effect.
Abstract A concise and highly enantioselective (>99% ee) synthesis of falcarinol and panaxjapyne A and their enantiomers has been accomplished. The key steps involve the asymmetric addition of alkynylzinc reagent to acrolein and propionaldehyde catalyzed by a BINOL–Ti(O i Pr) 4 complex and a classic Cadiot–Chodkiewicz cross-coupling reaction. The chiral polyacetylenic alcohols synthesized herein have potential utility in the development of antitumor drugs and antidiabetic agents.
The direct oxidative cross-dehydrogenative coupling (CDC) of two C H bonds can be an efficient and relatively clean strategy in organic synthesis. Various sp C Hbonds, such as benzylic and allylic C H bonds, the a-C H bonds of amines and ethers, and the C H bonds of alkanes can be oxidized for direct reaction with carbon nucleophiles. Among these reactions, the oxidation of tertiary amines to generate iminium intermediates, as pioneered by Murahashi et al., Li et al. and others, has received considerable attention. Carbonyl compounds, such as 1,3-dicarbonyls, 10b,g] a,bunsaturated ketones, and simple ketones have been successfully coupled with tertiary amines by using metal catalysis, acid catalysis, metal/organic cooperative catalysis, or photoredox catalysis. In all of these reactions, the development of enantioselective catalysis remains a challenge. Very recently, Wang and co-workers used metals together with chiral bisoxazoline ligands to realize enantioselective reactions of activated carbonyl nucleophiles (such as 1,3dicarbonyls and acetyl phosphates) to oxidatively generate iminiums or their analogues. However, this approach with chiral ligands was found to be unsuccessful for reactions starting with simple ketone nucleophiles, as reported by Klussmann and co-workers as well as Xie and Huang. Approaches that use asymmetric enamine catalysis for the activation of carbonyl compounds have led to disappointing results (for example, less than 20% ee) as well . As part of a larger program for developing sustainable oxidation chemistry, we herein report an enantioselective oxidative coupling reaction of aldehydes and tertiary amines under cooperative amine and metal catalysis. The racemic version of this reaction was also realized by using metal catalysts alone (without amine catalysts), on account of its potential utility and the very different optimized conditions, relative to the enantioselective reactions. We examined metal-catalyzed oxidative coupling reactions between N-phenyltetrahydroisoquinoline (1a) and propionaldehyde (2a) in the presence of tBuOOH without an amine catalyst. An initial survey of solvents and catalysts indicated that DMF is a good solvent and CuBr2 is an effective metal catalyst (Table 1, entries 1–3, see also the Supporting Information). The amino aldehyde product 3a is unstable and, thus, was isolated as the corresponding amino alcohol product 4a in 72% yield after reduction with NaBH4 in situ, albeit with no diastereoselectivity (Table 1, entry 3). Under these conditions, various amines, such as N-aryl tetrahydroisoquinolines 1 and N,N-dialkyl anilines, and aldehydes 2 were used to obtain the corresponding racemic amino alcohols 4 in acceptable yields. Aldehydes with longer carbon chains required elevated reaction temperatures. N,Ndialkyl anilines gave the corresponding products in lower yields (Table S6 and Scheme S3 in the Supporting Information).
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is an important platform chemical to be converted to acrylic acid and acrylamide. Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), an enzyme that catalyzes the reaction of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 3-HP, determines 3-HP production rate during the conversion of glycerol to 3-HP. To elucidate molecular mechanism of 3-HP production, we determined the first crystal structure of a 3-HP producing ALDH, α-ketoglutarate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase from Azospirillum basilensis (AbKGSADH), in its apo-form and in complex with NAD+. Although showing an overall structure similar to other ALDHs, the AbKGSADH enzyme had an optimal substrate binding site for accepting 3-HPA as a substrate. Molecular docking simulation of 3-HPA into the AbKGSADH structure revealed that the residues Asn159, Gln160 and Arg163 stabilize the aldehyde- and the hydroxyl-groups of 3-HPA through hydrogen bonds, and several hydrophobic residues, such as Phe156, Val286, Ile288, and Phe450, provide the optimal size and shape for 3-HPA binding. We also compared AbKGSADH with other reported 3-HP producing ALDHs for the crucial amino acid residues for enzyme catalysis and substrate binding, which provides structural implications on how these enzymes utilize 3-HPA as a substrate.
Regioselectivity of phenol alkylation with propionaldehyde could be controlled in supercritical water under non-catalytic conditions at 673 K by manipulating water density.
Glycerol dehydrogenase (GDH) and 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) oxidoreductase had been proved two key enzymes for 1,3-PD production by Klebsiella pneumoniae. Fed-batch fermentations of the recombinant K. pneumoniae strains, over-expressing the two enzymes individually, were carried out under micro-aerobic conditions, and the behaviors of the recombinants were investigated. Results showed that over-expression of 1,3-PD oxidoreductase did not affect the concentration of 1,3-PD. However, it enhanced the molar yield from 50.6 to 64.0% and reduced the concentration of by-products. Among them, the concentrations of lactic acid, ethanol and succinic acid were decreased by 51.8, 50.6 and 47.4%, respectively. Moreover, in the recombinant the maximal concentration of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde decreased by 73.6%. Over-expression of GDH decreased the yield of ethanol and 2,3-butanediol, meanwhile it increased the concentration of acetic acid. No significant changes were observed both in 1,3-PD yield and glycerol flux distributed to oxidative branch.
The "Latescibacteria" (formerly WS3), member of the Fibrobacteres-Chlorobi-Bacteroidetes (FCB) superphylum, represents a ubiquitous candidate phylum found in terrestrial, aquatic, and marine ecosystems. Recently, single-cell amplified genomes (SAGs) representing the "Latescibacteria" were obtained from the anoxic monimolimnion layers of Sakinaw Lake (British Columbia, Canada), and anoxic sediments of a coastal lagoon (Etoliko lagoon, Western Greece). Here, we present a detailed in-silico analysis of the four SAGs to gain some insights on their metabolic potential and apparent ecological roles. Metabolic reconstruction suggests an anaerobic fermentative mode of metabolism, as well as the capability to degrade multiple polysaccharides and glycoproteins that represent integral components of green (Charophyta and Chlorophyta) and brown (Phaeophycaea) algae cell walls (pectin, alginate, ulvan, fucan, hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins), storage molecules (starch and trehalose), and extracellular polymeric substances (EPSs). The analyzed SAGs also encode dedicated transporters for the uptake of produced sugars and amino acids/oligopeptides, as well as an extensive machinery for the catabolism of all transported sugars, including the production of a bacterial microcompartment (BMC) to sequester propionaldehyde, a toxic intermediate produced during fucose and rhamnose metabolism. Finally, genes for the formation of gas vesicles, flagella, type IV pili, and oxidative stress response were found, features that could aid in cellular association with algal detritus. Collectively, these results indicate that the analyzed "Latescibacteria" mediate the turnover of multiple complex organic polymers of algal origin that reach deeper anoxic/microoxic habitats in lakes and lagoons. The implications of such process on our understanding of niche specialization in microbial communities mediating organic carbon turnover in stratified water bodies are discussed.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is an important platform chemical to be converted to acrylic acid and acrylamide. Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), an enzyme that catalyzes the reaction of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 3-HP, determines 3-HP production rate during the conversion of glycerol to 3-HP. To elucidate molecular mechanism of 3-HP production, we determined the first crystal structure of a 3-HP producing ALDH, α-ketoglutarate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase from Azospirillum basilensis (AbKGSADH), in its apo-form and in complex with NAD + . Although showing an overall structure similar to other ALDHs, the AbKGSADH enzyme had an optimal substrate binding site for accepting 3-HPA as a substrate. Molecular docking simulation of 3-HPA into the AbKGSADH structure revealed that the residues Asn159, Gln160 and Arg163 stabilize the aldehyde-and the hydroxyl-groups of 3-HPA through hydrogen bonds, and several hydrophobic residues, such as Phe156, Val286, Ile288, and Phe450, provide the optimal size and shape for 3-HPA binding. We also compared AbKGSADH with other reported 3-HP producing ALDHs for the crucial amino acid residues for enzyme catalysis and substrate binding, which provides structural implications on how these enzymes utilize 3-HPA as a substrate.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is one of top twelve value-added platform chemicals which can be produced from renewable biomass products 1 . 3-HP has diverse industrial applications in the production of such chemicals as acrylic acid, acrylamide, ethyl 3-HP, 3-hydroxymethyl-propionate, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, malonic acid, methylacrylate, 1,3-propanediol, propiolactone, and 3-HP-or acryl-based polymers [1] [2] [3] 
Abstract Malondialdehyde, a product of polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolism and degradation, has been reported to be mutagenic and carcinogenic. The malondialdehyde used for testing was generated by the acidic hydrolysis of tetraalkoxypropanes. We have studied the production of compounds mutagenic to Salmonella typhimurium strain his D 3052 following the hydrolysis of tetraalkoxypropanes. The major mutagenic compound produced from tetraethoxypropane is β-ethoxy-acrolein (90 to 100 revertants/µmol) and not malondialdehyde (3 to 5 revertants/µmol). Hydrolysis of tetramethoxypropane produces two compounds, β-methoxy-acrolein (125 to 160 revertants/µmol) and 3,3-dimethoxypropionaldehyde (105 to 135 revertants/µmol), which are more mutagenic than is malondialdehyde. Using standard conditions for the hydrolysis of tetraethoxypropane, the yield of malondialdehyde is 25%, and the yield of β-ethoxyacrolein is 13%. Considering the differences in specific mutagenicity, the compound which accounts for the bulk of the mutagenicity of a crude hydrolysate of tetraethoxypropane is not malondialdehyde. The presence of these incomplete hydrolysis products may lead to a substantial overestimation of the actual mutagenicity and carcinogenicity of malondialdehyde.
A glycerol dehydrase has been isolated from Lactobacillus 208-A which requires a cobamide coenzyme and a univalent cation for activity. ::: ::: The enzyme is measured by the colorimetric determination of the acrolein formed from β-hydroxypropionaldehyde produced from glycerol by the dehydrase. Vitamin B12 inhibits the dehydrase. The degree of inhibition by vitamin B12 is greater when it contacts the apoenzyme before the cobamide coenzyme. The toxicity of mercurial compounds can be relieved by cobamide coenzymes or by 2,3-dimercaptopropanol (BAL). This dehydrase has an optimum pH of 5.8–6.0.
Since roaming mechanism have been reported in photolysis of formaldehyde at 2004, the papers on this topic have been published mushroomed, such as acetaldehyde (CH3CHO), propionaldehyde (C2H5CHO), methyl formate (HCOOCH3 ) etc. were found to have traces of the roaming mechanism. CO were found to be bi- rotational distribution and with the detection of different rotational states, the proportion contributed by the two mechanism are different. The low-J component of CO are correlated to a very low translational energy. Later, the quasi-classical trajectory calculations also confirmed that the conventional transition state mechanism to form molecular products H2 + CO, CO will have higher angular momentum and with substantial translational energy released. We use time-resolved Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy to study photolysis reaction of acetaldehyde and methyl formate at 308nm / 248nm. In project of methyl formate, we collaborate with prof. Aquilanti research team in Perugia university in Italy. We obtain the range of 1900-2200cm-1 CO high-resolution (0.25cm-1) spectrum to analyze the internal energy of CO and with the aid of spectral simulation We found that the CO molecule in v = 1 and 2 are bi-rotational distribution. Prof. Aquilanti team perform quasi-classical trajectory calculations, and the experimental results and calculations are quite consistent. In acetaldehyde experiments, we got branching ratio of roaming mechanism in v=1 is 0.10±0.02. Compare to Kable’s LIF results of 0.13, which represents that the time-resolved Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy is a promising method to observe roaming reaction in the internal energy aspect.
Abstract A convenient synthesis of natural (±)-blastmycino-lactol from the aldol addition reaction of n-pentanoylurea and (±)-2-benzyloxypropionaldehyde is described.
Sorbent tubes (STs) are highly efficient and versatile tools for collecting gaseous samples of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). In order to assess the experimental bias in their application, the relative recovery (RR) of 19 VOCs (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, valeraldehyde, benzene, toluene, m-xylene, p-xylene, o-xylene, styrene, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone, isobutyl alcohol, butyl acetate, propionic acid, butyric acid, isovaleric acid, and n-valeric acid) was evaluated in accordance to three different sorbent tube types: (1) Tenax (Te), (2) Carbopack X (X), and (3) Tenax + Carbopack B + Carboxen 1000 (TBC). Calibration was initially made by direct injection of the liquid working standard (L-WS) into the link tube (LT) of the thermal desorption (TD) system. The LT was modified to optimize the transfer of all the VOCs to the focusing trap of the TD. Three different types of ST were then loaded with the same L-WS using (1) direct injection (DI) to tube and...
4-Hydroxyalkynyl ethers can be prepared from epoxides and ethoxyethynyllithium in liquid ammonia or bis-ethoxyethynylmagnesium in ether-tetrahydrofuran. ::: ::: ::: ::: Under other conditions, notably in the presence of metal halides other products are obtained, including halohydrins and 3-hydroxyalkynyl ethers, the latter arising from carbonyl compounds formed by isomerisation of the epoxides. For propylene oxide two types of isomerisation into carbonyl compounds have been described in the literature. Lewis acids like magnesium bromide convert the substance into propionaldehyde or into acetone. We found that the same change can also be caused by lithium iodide. For the preparation of pure 4-hydroxyalkynyl ethers from epoxides it is therefore desirable to employ solutions of metallated acetylenic ethers devoid of salts. ::: ::: ::: ::: The reaction of epichlorohydrin with metallated ethoxyethyne or metallated ethylthioethyne leads to three and four successive products, respectively, depending on the reaction conditions and the solvent. The primary product is a 5-chloro-4-hydroxyalkynyl (thio)ether which under alkaline conditions is converted into a 4,5-epoxyalkynyl (thio)ether and, when sodamide is present, into a 5-hydroxy-Δ3,4 alkynyl (thio)ether. The thio compound (but not the oxygen analogue) finally undergoes ring closure to 2-(alkylthiomethyl)furan. ::: ::: ::: ::: Hydrolysis and also pyrolysis of 4-hydroxyalkynyl ethers gives γ-lactones in good yields.
Study of oxidative and non-oxidative xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes was undertaken in microsomal and cytosolic fractions of two human livers, 10 individual and several pooled samples of human respiratory nasal mucosa obtained by surgical operation of male and female patients affected by hypertrophy of the inferior turbinates. The purity of nasal microsomes was checked by electron microscopy and marker enzyme assay. The pooled samples of respiratory nasal epithelium contained, relative to liver, a low amount of cytochrome P450 (about 25 pmol/mg protein) and associated biotransformation activities, and a low level of other components of the mixed-function oxidase system such as cytochrome b5, NADH and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase however the NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase activity was comparable to that of liver. The P450-dependent monooxygenase activities such as ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase, ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase and the dimethylnitrosamine N-demethylase were found in nearly all nasal microsomal specimens. The aniline hydroxylase and the aminopyrine or hexamethylphosphoramide N-demethylases were detected only in the pooled nasal samples. With regard to the non-oxidative enzymes, the activities of glutathione S-transferase, DT-diaphorase, epoxide hydrolase, UDP-glucuronyl-transferase, carbonyl reductase, benzaldehyde and propionaldehyde dehydrogenases, were investigated both in the individual and pooled nasal tissues and livers. These activities were similar in nasal and liver tissue, except for UDP-glucuronyltransferase which was not detected in nasal mucosa. The present findings demonstrate that the respiratory section of human nose contains a wide array of oxidative and non-oxidative enzymes, which could play a crucial role in the bioactivation or detoxication in situ of inhaled xenobiotics.
Abstract The origin of the products of oxidation of propylene over the polymolybdic surface sites of an MoO 3 · SiO 2 catalyst has been correlated to the oxidation states of molybdenum by studying the effects of temperature (380–440 °C), O 2 C 3 H 6 ratio (0.5–18), and dopants [Zn(II) and Na(I) ions] on overall conversion and selectivity in microreactor experiments, both in the presence and absence of steam. The selective oxidation product, acrolein, requires Mo(VI) active sites, as opposed to the other primary reaction product, acetaldehyde, and the by-products acetone, acetic acid, and propionaldehyde, which arise from interaction with Mo(V) and eventually Mo(IV) sites, respectively. Products of total oxidation, CO and CO 2 , are formed over Mo(VI) active sites by consecutive reactions of the oxidized products mentioned or directly from propylene over Mo(IV) and Mo(V) sites in the case of CO 2 . Propionaldehyde is indicated as a homogeneous reaction product.
1,195,877. Separation of vaporous aldehydes obtained in the oxo process. BADISCHE ANILIN- & SODA FABRIK A.G. 29 Nov., 1967 [30 Nov., 1966], No. 54282/67. Heading C2C. Vaporous aldehydes are separated from offgas formed in the oxo process, by scrubbing the offgas with an oxonation product boiling above 95‹ C. and/or a hydrogenated oxonation product boiling above 95‹ C. Preferably 0A1-2 kg. of the scrubbing material is used per cubic metre of offgas to be scrubbed. Examples recover (a) propionaldehyde by scrubbing the oxo product obtained from ethylene, carbon monoxide and water with a mixture comprising npropanol, para-propionaldehyde and higher boiling condensation products of propionaldehyde, (b) n - butyraldehyde and isobutyraldehyde. Valeraldehyde is also particularly suitable for separation by the method of the invention.
The synthesis of N-acetyl-α-aminobutyric acid by amidocarbonylation of propionaldehyde with acetamide in the presence of palladium catalysts is studied in detail. The influence of various reaction conditions and compositions (e.g., the co-catalysts acid and bromide) on the yield of N-acetyl-α-aminobutyric acid is shown. For the first time it is demonstrated that the palladium-catalyzed amidocarbonylations of aldehydes can be run with significantly lower halide concentrations (<30 mol %) without a major yield decrease. While phosphine-free catalyst systems give best yields at low CO pressure, phosphine-ligated palladium catalysts lead to better yields at higher CO pressure. At low palladium loadings (<0.1 mol %), unwanted condensation reactions of propionaldehyde become increasingly competitive.
Abstract A study on the photocatalytic degradation of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) vapor was performed with respect to reaction parameters, kinetics, and mechanism. A conventional TiO 2 -coated plate system was used for this initial work on vaporized MTBE. On irradiating with UVBLB (∼5 mW/cm 2 ), 0.6 mg/cm 2 of TiO 2 (P25) photocatalyst showed the highest reaction rate (0.85 μmol/min) for 25.76 μmole of MTBE (1000 ppmv). The numerical values obtained depended predictably with respect to light intensity, initial concentration, and quantity of P25. The photocatalytic degradation of MTBE followed Lanmuir-Hinshelwood kinetics with a linearity of 0.989. As far as the mechanism of degradation is concerned, attack by generated hydroxyl radicals on the methoxy group in the MTBE structure dominated and proceeded through tert-butyl formate (TBF) as an intermediate, instead of methyl group to proceed through producing 2-methoxy-2-methyl propionaldehyde (MMP). TBF finally degrades to CO 2 through acetone, which was shown easily converted to CO 2 . This study shows that the use of sunlight seems to be possible given adequate tools for concentrating the light.
This study describes the synthesis and in vitro antitumor activity of inhibitors of purine de novo biosynthesis that are analogues of N-[4-[[3-(2,4-diamino-1,6-dihydro-6-oxo-5-pyrimidinyl) propyl]amino]benzoyl-L-glutamic acid (5-DACTHF). Benzene ring substituted analogues were synthesized from a protected pyrimidinyl propionaldehyde and a substituted benzoyl glutamate moiety by a key reductive amination step. Pyrimidine and linking chain substituted analogues were built up stepwise from p-aminobenzoic acid or analogues. The compounds were tested as inhibitors of methotrexate uptake as a measure of binding to the reduced folate transport system, as inhibitors of glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase, as substrates for folylpolyglutamate synthetase, and as inhibitors of tumor cell growth in cell culture. With the exception of 2'-F substituent, the ring-substituted analogues are less active than the parent compound. Replacement of the 10-nitrogen by carbon, sulfur, or oxygen produced less than 2-fold changes to biological activity in vitro. A four-atom linking chain and an amino group at the 2-position on the pyrimidine ring are important for good activity.
A B S T R A C T 3-Dimethylamino-1-p-arylpropenones 3a,b coupled with phenyl diazonium salt to give the corresponding 3-oxo-2-(phenylhydrazono)-3-p- arylpropionaldehydes disperse dyes. Fastness properties of the dyes were examined against light, rubbing, perspiration and washing fastness. The biological activities of the synthesized dyes against Gram positive bacteria, Gram negative bacteria, yeast and fungi were also evaluated.
p-Chloromercuribenzoate (PCMB) at stoichiometric levels reacts with a thiol group of the binary NAD+ complex of sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase (E.NAD+) faster than with the corresponding thiol group of either the free enzyme or the binary enzyme. NADH complexes. High concentrations of propionaldehyde have a protective effect against modification of the enzyme with PCMB in steady-state assays. This protection arises from a reduction in the concentration of the E.NAD+ binary complex rather than competition for a common binding site. PCMB has three major effects on aldehyde dehydrogenase. First, rapid reaction with a high-affinity thiol group in the E.NAD+ binary complex causes activation of the steady-state rate. The activation results from an increase in the rate of NADH release from the enzyme. This modification simultaneously protects against dilution-induced dissociation of enzyme tetramers. Second, premodification of the high-affinity thiol group leads to inhibition of the steady-state rate at high propionaldehyde concentrations, because of the increased affinity of the free enzyme for propionaldehyde with the resultant formation of an enzyme-aldehyde dead-end complex. Third, when higher ratios of PCMB to enzyme (> 3:1) are used, one or more other thiol groups are also modified, causing enzyme dissociation and subsequent inactivation. Since modification of the high-affinity thiol by PCMB causes activation, clearly it cannot be the active site acylation center involved in propionaldehyde oxidation. The different amplitudes of the proton burst at high and low propionaldehyde concentrations for the PCMB modified enzyme provide support for a second binding site for propionaldehyde on the enzyme.
Summary One of the great problems in keeping petroleum products is their degradation by microorganism, particularly fungi, actinomycetes, and bacteria. In the presence of these microorganisms, in combination with organic materials and other impurities, are formed sludges. Petroleum products, especially those used in jet fuels, are required to be completely free from water and microbial sludges. The preferable microbial inhibitors, used in keeping petroleum products, are: 2,4-dimethoxy benzaldehyde, bromoacetic acid, dimethylamine borane, ethyldidene diacetate, tri-n-butyl borate, sodium tetraborate, sulphanilamide, iso-butyl, resorcinol, amyl resorcinol, hexyl resorcinol, octyl resorcinol p-chloro-m-cresol, salicylanilide, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, 3-methoxy propionaldehyde, 2-bromo-ethyl-l,2-propanediol or mixtures of these microbial inhibitors. Beside the addition of microbial inhibitors, tanks used in keeping petroleum products must be clean and furnished iniside with an inert material. Tanks are preferably kept in places of low relative humidity in order to avoid water.
The kinetics of propanol oxidation by quinquivalent vanadium in the presence of H2SO4 has been followed by UV-spectrophotometer at 30 °C temperature. It has been found that sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) micelles produce a large catalytic effect on this oxidation process. The pseudo-first-order rate constants for the reaction increases with SDS concentrations. The kinetic results have been explained by considering the preferential partitioning of reactants between the micellar and aqueous phase and also local the concentration effect. The oxidized product propionaldehyde is identified by 2,4-DNP test and 1H-NMR spectral measurement. The formation of aggregate in reaction condition was confirmed by measuring the CMC value of SDS in aqueous medium and in the presence of propanol by conductivity measurements. The change in the size of aggregate, from DLS measurement, confirms the localization of reactant species towards the aggregate, which is the consequence of rate enhancement.
Recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEpo) is a glycoprotein expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell. Carbohydrates play an important role in maintaining the protein's stability and bioactivity. However, mammalian expressing system has low yields and high costs of production. In this article, a strategy of PEGylating E. coli expressed recombinant human non-glycosylated Epo (rh-ngEpo) by a 20000 site-specific monomethoxy polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde(mPEG-ALD) was investigated. The modification reaction was optimized and a high mono-modification yield of 55% was achieved. Ion exchange chromatography was then used to separate the monoPEGylated rh-ngEpo from the reaction mixture. The purity of the monoPEGylated rh-ngEpo was higher than 95% as indicated by HPSEC and RP-HPLC. The secondary and tertiary structures of rh-ngEpo were not changed by PEGylation. Rh-ngEpo was PEGylated mostly at the N-terminus by peptide mapping analysis. The in vitro bioactivity of the monoPEGylated rh-ngEpo decreased 30% compared with its unmodified counterpart while the thermal stability was greatly enhanced. The in vivo pharmacokinetic parameters were greatly enhanced. These results show that PEG could replace carbohydrates in enhancing the in vivo stability of nonglycosylated Epo. This research provides a direction for the development of new erythropoiesis-stimulating drugs.
The title crystals with well-defined edges, corners, and smooth surfaces are hydrothermally synthesized from an aqueous solution containing Fe(NO3)3, Cu(NO3)2, NaOH, and propionaldehyde as a reducing agent (autoclave, 180 °C, 24—64 h).
The odor emission characteristics in a food waste treatment plant, in terms of odor active compounds and odor unit concentration, were evaluated using an air dilution method and instrumental analysis method, respectively. A GC/MS analysis of the emission source was also carried out to investigate the effect of waste polymer incineration on the formation of organic materials. The result, as evaluated using the instrumental analysis method, showed that ammonia, acetaldehyde, dimethylsulfide and propionaldehyde were detected in high amounts from the outlet at "A" food waste treatment plant. The major odorous compounds, however, were acetaldehyde and metylmercaptan, which were derived using an odor quotient method. Limonene, benzene and toluene were also detected from the GC/MS analysis of the emission source. The criteria were 500 at the final outlet, 15 at the site boundary line, but the observed results were 10000 and 30, respectively.
Previous work on the acetaldehyde pyrolysis is shown to be vitiated by the presence, in the acetaldehyde, of impurities, mainly ethanol and crotonaldehyde. The reaction has been remvestigated with the use of acetaldehyde, prepared from paraldehyde, which is free from these and other impurities. On the basis of a study of the kinetics of formation of the major products (methane and carbon monoxide) and of a number of minor products (hydrogen, acetone, propionaldehyde, ethane and ethylene) a reaction mechanism is proposed. This includes all of the reactions in the original Rice-Herzfeld scheme, together with a number of other elementary processes, in particular $CH\_3 + CH\_3CHO \rightarrow CH\_4 + CH\_2CHO.$ The decomposition of the radical CH$\_2$CHO into CH$\_2$CO and H provides an additional source of hydrogen, the rate of production of which is therefore not a measure of the rate of the initiation process. Acetone is believed to arise mainly by the reaction $CH\_3 + CH\_3CHO \rightarrow CH\_3COCH\_3 + H,$ and only to a negligible extent by the combination of CH$\_3$ and CH$\_3$CO. The main chainending step is concluded to be $CH\_3 + CH\_3 \rightarrow C\_2H\_6,$ with a small contribution from $CH\_3 + CH\_2CHO \rightarrow CH\_3CH\_2CHO.$ The work provides further evidence for the falling off, at low pressures, of the second order coefficient for the combination of methyl radicals. Rate constants for various elementary processes are deduced from the rates of formation of the various products, and are shown to be consistent with values obtained directly.
This invention is a cosmetic material containing a pasty composition obtained by adding at least one acidic substance selected from a group comprising organic acids, phosphoric acid and phosphates to a mixture comprising a crosslinking type organopolysiloxane polymer having a polyoxyalkylene group and a liquid oil, adding a basic neutralizing agent to adjust the pH to 5-8, and removing volatile components by heating and/or decompression . This pasty composition is a composition wherein the propionaldehyde amount produced by adding an identical amount of water to the composition and heating at 60 DEG C for 24 hours is 100 ppm or less.
Abstract New phosphonate analogues of 3′-thia-2′,3′-dideoxycytidine (BCH-189) were synthesized in 5 steps via cyclocondensation of 2-mercaptoacetaldehyde di[2-methoxyethyl]acetal with 3-diethylphosphonopropionaldehyde as a key step, followed by a Lewis acid catalyst addition of the appropriate nucleic base. Anti-HIV evaluation of these analogues showed that the α-form 3b of 3′-thia-2′,3′-dideoxycytidine-4′-ethylene phosphonic acid was inactive while the β-form 3a was found to be less potent than the parent compound (BCH-189), showing that the replacement of the oxygen in position 5′ by a methylene group in the monophosphorylated intermediate diminishes the antiviral activity.
Abstract 3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) can be produced from glycerol via two enzymatic reactions catalyzed by a coenzyme B 12 -dependent glycerol dehydratase (GDHt) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) in Klebsiella pneumoniae . As the intracellular GDHt activity in K. pneumoniae is high, the overall rate of 3-HP production is controlled by the ALDH activity. To examine the effect of different ALDH activity on 3-HP production, three different ALDHs, AldH from Escherichia coli (EaldH), PuuC from K. pneumoniae (PuuC) and KGSADH from Azospirillum brasilense (KGSADH), were overexpressed and compared in various recombinant K. pneumoniae strains. In addition, the genes encoding DhaT and YqhD, which are responsible for the conversion of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO), were disrupted individually from K. pneumoniae to enhance the carbon flux from 3-HPA to 3-HP. When the ALDH activity was measured in various recombinant K. pneumoniae , KGSADH showed the highest crude cell activity of 8.0 U/mg protein, which was 2 and 4 times higher than that of PuuC and EaldH, respectively. The different ALDH activities had a significant effect on 3-HP production in a flask culture containing 100 mM glycerol, and K. pneumoniae Δ dhaT (KGSADH) resulted in the highest titer (64 mM) among the nine recombinant strains (three ALDH × three host strains; one wild type and two mutants). In glycerol fed-batch bioreactor cultivation, K. pneumoniae Δ dhaT (KGSADH) exhibited 3-HP production at >16 g/L in 48 h with a glycerol carbon yield of >40%. In comparison, K. pneumoniae Δ dhaT (PuuC) produced only 11 g/L 3-HP in 48 h with a yield of >23%. This study demonstrates that a high ALDH activity is essential for the effective production of 3-HP from glycerol with recombinant K. pneumoniae .
The kinetics of the oxidation of aliphatic aldehydes, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, and trichloroacetaldehyde by Peroxomonosulphate (PMS) was carried out in aqueous perchloric acid medium (0.1–1 M H+) at constant ionic strength of 1.2 M in the temperature range 10°–60°C. The reactions of all the aldehydes were found to obey a total second-order kinetics, first order each with respect to [Peroxomonosulphate] and [aldehyde]. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde exhibited acid catalysis with the concurrent occurrence of acid-independent reaction path conforming to the rate law ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Formaldehyde was found to undergo oxidation only by acid-dependent path (kb = 0) and trichloroacetaldehyde exhibited only the acid-independent reaction path (ka = 0). The products of oxidation were found to be the respective carboxylic acids in each case. The stoichiometry of the reaction, [Peroxomonosulphate]:[Aldehyde] = 1:1, indicated the absence of carbonyl-assisted decomposition and self-decomposition of peroxomonosulphate. The kinetic and thermodynamic parameters evaluated pointed to the mechanism of a fast nucleophilic attack of the oxidant on the aldehyde followed by slow acid catalyzed and/or uncatalyzed decomposition of the intermediate to product. A sharp comparison is made with the corresponding reactions of the similar peroxides, S2O and H2PO.
Reduction and dissolution of manganese(III,IV) oxide suspensions by 27 aromatic and nonaromatic compounds resembling natural organics were examined in order to understand the solubilization reaction in nature. At pH 7.2 10/sup -3/ M formate, fumarate, glycerol, lactate, malonate, phthalate, propanol, propionaldehyde, propionate, and sorbitol did not dissolve appreciable amounts of oxide after 3 h of reaction. The following organics did dissolve manganese oxides under these conditions and are listed in order of decreasing reactivity: 3-methoxycatechol approx. catechol approx. 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acidapprox. ascorbate > 4-nitro-catechol > thiosalicylate > hydroquinone > 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid > syringic acid > o-methoxyphenol > vanillic acidapprox. orcinol approx. 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid > resorcinol > oxalite approx. pyruvate approx. salicylate. Relative reactivities of organic substrates are discussed in terms of surface complex formation prior to electron transfer. Dissolution of manganese oxides by marine fulvic acid was enhanced by illumination, verifying that the reaction is photocatalyzed.
Guanethidine (G) is currently used in the treatment of essential hypertension. Acetaldehyde (A), acrolein (AR), formaldehyde (F) and propionaldehyde (P) are constituents of cigarette smoke and (A) is also an intermediate oxidative metabolite of ethanol. These aldehydes are known to produce sympathomimetic effects by the release of NE from adrenergic neurons and to exert cardioinhibitory effects. The type of predominant effect is dose-dependent. This study was undertaken to determine if these aldehydes result in sympathomimetic effects in the presence of G (15 mg/kg iv) in anesthetized rats. G enhanced the pressor responses to A and P in dose ranges of 5-20 and 5-10 mg/kg respectively. However, AR and F at dose ranges of 0.05-5 and 0.1-10 mg/kg, respectively, elicited only depressor responses after G. Thus, A and P exerted greater sympathomimetic effects through the release of intraneuronal NE in the presence of G. The adrenergic neuronal blocking action of G changes the blood pressure effects of AR and F. When these two compounds are administered in the absence of G, they cause predominant pressor effects, whereas in the presence of G a depressor response is noted. This depressor response is possibly by vagal stimulation and/or direct vasodilation.
The hydrolysis kinetics of several oxazolidines derived from (-)-ephedrine and various aldehydes and ketones were studied to assess their suitability as prodrug forms for beta-amino alcohols and/or carbonyl-containing compounds. The oxazolidines were found to undergo a facile and complete hydrolysis in the pH range of 1-11 at 37 degrees. The hydrolysis rates were subject to general acid-base catalysis by buffer substances and depended strongly on pH. Most oxazolidines showed sigmoidal pH-rate profiles with maximum rates at pH greater than 7-7.5. At pH 7.40 and 37 degrees the following half-lives of hydrolysis for the various ephedrine oxazolidines were found: 5 sec (formaldehyde), 18 sec (propionaldehyde), 5 min (benzaldehyde), 5 sec (salicylaldehyde), 30 min (pivalaldehyde), 4 min (acetone), and 6 min (cyclohexanone). The reaction rates in neutral and basic solutions were shown to decrease with increasing steric effects of the substituents derived from the carbonyl component and to decrease with increasing basicity of the oxazolidines. The oxazolidines are weaker bases (pKa 5.2-6.9) than the parent beta-amino alcohol and more lipophilic at physiological pH. It is suggested that oxazolidines can be considered as potentially useful prodrug candidates for drugs containing a beta-amino alcohol moiety or carbonyl groups.
The molecular structures of two rotational isomers (anticlinal and synperiplanar forms) of gaseous (E)-propionaldehyde oxime have been determined from electron diffraction and microwave spectroscopic data. The anticlinal form is more stable by 0.15 ± 0.10 kcal mol−1 than the synperiplanar form. The molecular parameters of the anticlinal form are rg(C1–C2) = 1.552(3) A, rg(C2–C3) = 1.493(2) A, rg(C3=N) = 1.284(2) A, rg(N–O) = 1.429(2) A, ∠C1C2C3 = 111.5(1)°, ∠C2C3N = 119.0(3)°, and ∠C3NO = 109.4(2)°. The ∠C2C3N, ∠C1C2C3, and rg(C3–N) values of the synperiplanar form (122.6(6)°, 112.6(6)°, and 1.291(3) A, respectively) are not equal to those of the anticlinal form.
The metabolism of alcohols and glycols is catalyzed sequentially by alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases to toxic oxidation products. The study of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) is complicated by instability and limited availability of aldehyde substrates. We have synthesized aldehydes by use of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH)-catalyzed oxidation of alcohols; aldehydes produced were immediately used as substrates for ALDH measurements on a centrifugal analyzer. The accuracy of the ADH-ALDH assay was investigated by comparison of the reaction kinetics determined by this method with those obtained using commercially available aliphatic aldehydes as substrates. The mean Michaelis constants determined by the two methods were identical for butyraldehyde and propionaldehyde (3.7 and 4.6 mumol/L, respectively). For glycoaldehyde, values agreed within experimental error: 670 +/- 50 mumol/L and 720 +/- 20 mumol/L using commercial substrate and the proposed method, respectively. This technique allows kinetic studies of the oxidation of a wide variety of toxic aldehydes.
Stopped-flow experiments in spectrophotometric and fluorescence modes reveal different aspects of the aldehyde dehydrogenase mechanism. Spectrophotometric experiments show a rapid burst of NADH production whose course is not affected by Mg2+. The slower burst seen in the fluorescence mode is markedly accelerated by Mg2+. It is argued that the fluorescence burst accompanies acyl-enzyme hydrolysis and, therefore, that Mg2+ increases the rate of this process. Experiments on the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl propionate indicate that acyl-enzyme hydrolysis is indeed accelerated by Mg2+ and a combination of Mg2+ and NADH. Vmax. values for p-nitrophenyl propionate hydrolysis in the presence of NADH and NADH and Mg2+ agree closely with the specific rates of acyl hydrolysis from the E . NADH . acyl and E . NADH . acyl . Mg2+ complexes seen in the dehydrogenase reaction with propionaldehyde. These observations support the view that esterase and dehydrogenase activities occur at the same site on the enzyme. Other evidence is presented to support this conclusion.
Two forms of formaldehyde dismutase distinguishable on disc-gel electrophoresis were isolated from the cell-free extract of Pseudomonas putida F61. The mobilities on SDS-gel electrophoresis and the NH2-terminal amino acids (arginine) of the two enzyme species were identical. The COOH-terminal amino acid sequence was found to be -Ser-Gly-Lys. The enzyme was inhibited by carbonyl, reducing and sulfhydryl reagents.The enzyme catalyzed the cross-dismutation reaction between formaldehyde and an aldehyde, such as propionaldehyde, acrolein, butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and crotonaldehyde. The enzyme also catalyzed a coupled oxidoreduction between an alcohol and an aldehyde (RCH2OH+R'CHO RCHO +R'CH2OH) without addition of an electron acceptor. Aliphatic alcohols and aldehydes of C2 to C4 were utilized in this reaction.
Rat liver contains two class 1 aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs): a constitutive isozyme (ALDH1) and a phenobarbital-inducible isozyme (ALDH-PB). Defining characteristics of mammalian class 1 ALDHs include a homotetrameric structure, high expression in liver, sensitivity to the inhibitor disulfiram, and high activity for the oxidation of retinal. It is often presumed that ALDH-PB is the rat ortholog of mammalian ALDH1, and the identity of rat ALDH-PB is commonly interchanged with ALDH1. In this study, we characterized recombinant rat liver cytosolic ALDH1 and ALDH-PB. Previous reports indicate that ALDH-PB is a homodimer; however, we found by mass spectrometry and gel electrophoresis that it is a homotetramer. ALDH1 mRNA was highly expressed in untreated rat liver, while ALDH-PB had very weak expression, in contrast to a previous report that ALDH-PB mRNA is expressed in untreated rat liver. Rat liver ALDH1 had a high affinity for retinal (K(m) = 0.6 microM), while no oxidation by ALDH-PB could be detected with 20 microM retinal. ALDH1 was more efficient at oxidizing acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and benzaldehyde and was more sensitive to disulfiram inhibition. We conclude that rat liver ALDH1 is the ortholog of mammalian liver ALDH1. Furthermore, despite a high level of sequence identity and classification as a class 1 ALDH, ALDH-PB does not function like ALDH1. ALDH-PB is not merely an inducible ALDH1 isozyme; it is a distinct ALDH isozyme.
Abstract The two-photon 3s ← n Rydberg spectra of propionaldehyde have been recorded under cell and free-jet expansion conditions. The occurrence of two separate electronic systems for the cis and disfavoured gauche conformers has been confirmed. In-phase electronic transitions are found in both formyl and methyl torsional coordinates, and the analysis of torsional sequences has provided new information on conformational potential functions. The cis (n, 3s) conformer is stabilised, the energy gap between cis and gauche conformers increases to 1260 cm −1 and the methyl internal rotation barriers increase for both conformers on electronic excitation.
A new method of synthesis 2,2-dimethylolpropionic acid from 2,2-dimethylolpropionaldehyde was put forward. The electrochemical oxidation behavior of 2,2-dimethylolpropionaldehyde has been investigated on a Ti/SnO2 + Sb2O4/PbO2 electrode by cyclic voltammetry (CV) and stable polarization curves in sulfuric acid. The results showed that it was an irreversible reaction controlled by diffusion. The formation mechanism of 2,2-dimethylolpropionic acid in the sulfuric acid was then proposed and the transfer coefficients of the reaction were calculated. It was concluded that RCHO+ỌHads→RCHOỌHads was the rate-determining step in the electrolysis process. The rate of this step obtained from the assumed process agrees well with experiment.
Inhibitory activity of reuterin (β-hydroxypropionaldehyde) combined with the antimicrobial peptide nisin or the lactoperoxidase system (LPOS) against food-borne Gram-negative pathogens in milk refrigerated at 4 and 8 °C was investigated. At 4 °C, reuterin (8 AU/ml) and LPOS were bactericidal against Salmonella enterica, Campylobacter jejuni, Aeromonas hydrophila and Yersinia enterocolitica, whereas the only effect recorded for nisin was a slight inhibition of Escherichia coli O157:H7. At 8 °C, reuterin was bactericidal against all the Gram-negative pathogens studied. Same results were attained with LPOS, except for its effect on Y. enterocolitica which was only bacteriostatic. The combination of reuterin with nisin did not enhance the antimicrobial effect of reuterin. A strong synergistic bactericidal activity of reuterin in combination with LPOS on E. coli O157:H7 and S. enterica was observed in milk at 4 °C, and against all the Gram-negative bacteria assayed in milk refrigerated at 8 °C. The application of both antimicrobials would be a useful means to inhibit pathogenic microorganisms, which may be present in milk due to postpasteurization contamination.
Abstract 1. 1. Subcellular fractionation of rat, guinea pig and human livers showed that aldehyde dehydrogenase metabolizing γ-aminobutyraldehyde was exclusively localized in the cytoplasmic fraction in all three mammalian species. 2. 2. Total γ-aminobutyraldehyde activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase was found to be ca 0.41, 0.3 and 0.24 μmol NADH min −1 g −1 tissue, respectively in rat, guinea pig and human liver, with more than 95% of activity in the cytoplasm. 3. 3. Partially purified cytoplasmic isozyme from rat liver showed similar chromatographic behaviour and kinetic properties to the E3 isonzyme isolated from human liver. 4. 4. The rat isozyme was insensitive to disulfiram (40 μM) and to magnesium (160 μM) and had K m values of 5 μM (pH 7.4) for γ-aminobutyraldehyde, 7.5 μM (pH 9.0) for propionaldehyde and 4 μM (pH 7.4) for NAD.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate concentrations of carbonyl compounds during summer season in Seoul metropolitan area. The air samples were collected at 7 sites in this area from June 2001 to June 2003. The carbonyl compounds were analyzed by DNPH/HPLC method. The analytical method applied in this study showed good repeatability, linearity, and sensitivity. The most abundant carbonyl was formaldehyde (average 4.48 ppb), and followed by acetone, acetaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, butyraldehyde, propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde, respectively. Concentrations of carbonyl compounds in June were higher than those in August. There was not only higher solar radiation but also higher ozone concentration in June than in August. As a result o photochemical reactions, carbonyl compounds from both primary and secondary sources are likely to contribute to the formation of ozone. The contributions to photochemical ozone creation of two carbonyl compounds such as formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were estimated to be about 70%. Ratios of formaldehyde to acetaldehyde in this study ranged from 1.13 to 4.26, which are generally equivalent levels to those of other urban areas in domestic and foreign countries.
A study was made of the accumulation of aldicarb, ethiofencarb and dimethoate in citrus leaves and fruit; the toxicity of these insecticides to the spirea aphid (Aphis citricola Van der Goot) was also studied. The effectiveness of the treatments was affected mainly by the rate of accumulation of the toxicant in the leaves. At 18 g a.i. per tree, the greatest residues found in the leaves were 106, 12.2 and 1.3 μg 8−1 fresh weight for aldicarb, ethiofencarb and dimethoate, respectively. The concentration in mature leaves was very similar to that in young leaves. The residue levels in the mature fruits were much lower than in the leaves. The main components of the residues in the leaves were aldicarb sulphoxide [2-methyl-2-(methylsulphinyl)- propionaldehyde O-methylcarbamoyloxime], dimethoate, omethoate and ethiofencarb sulphoxide [2-(ethylsulphinylmethyl)phenyl methylcarbamate]. A laboratory study with synthetic diets showed similar toxicity for all three insecticides, whereas in detached leaves, or when taken up by citrus trees, ethiofencarb was the least toxic to the aphids.
A novel cyano-functionalized monophosphine palladium substrate containing the ortho-metalated (R)-(1-(dimethylamino)ethyl)naphthalene as the chiral auxiliary was synthesized from 3-chloropropionaldehyde diethylacetal via a one-pot process. The asymmetric hydrophosphination reactions between diphenylphosphine and the trans- or cis-monophosphine substrates were carried out under mild conditions, which gave the corresponding cyano-substituted chiral 1,3-bis(diphenylphosphino)propane palladium complexes with good yields and stereoselectivities. Subsequent functional group transformation reactions were conducted by successive treatment of the hydrophosphination products with Dibal-H and chemoselectively yielded the formyl- and hydroxyl-functionalized chiral 1,3-diphosphine complexes. The absolute configurations and coordination information of the novel 1,3-diphosphine complexes were analyzed by X-ray crystallography. The optically pure 1,3-bis(diphenylphosphino)propane ligands with cyano, formyl, and hydroxyl ...
Heterogeneous reactions have been shown to contribute to the formation of propionaldehyde, acetone, and allylol in the pyrolysis of propylene oxide. Methyl vinyl ether, however, is formed entirely homogeneously and may be an intermediate in the oxygen atom – propylene system.
Abstract Vanadium pentoxide—phosphorus pentoxide binary oxides with a P:V atomic ratio of 1.06–1.2 were found to be effective as catalysts for the aldol condensation of formaldehyde with propionic acid to form methacrylic acid. As the source of formaldehyde, trioxane and 37% formalin were employed. In the case of trioxane, the chief product was methacrylic acid at low conversion, while the formation of carbon dioxide and propylene increased markedly with an increase in the conversion. The yield of methacrylic acid attained about 39 mol%, based on the charged formaldehyde, with a propionic acid: formaldehyde molar ratio of 2. On the other hand, in the case of the reaction with formalin, the rate was markedly slower than in the reaction with trioxane and, as a result, a higher reaction temperature was required to achieve an appreciable conversion. Methyl propionate and methyl methacrylate were obtained by the esterification of the acids with methanol present in the formalin, besides methacrylic acid, carbon dioxide and propylene. The yield of methacrylic acid attained about 27 mol%. The reactions of formaldehyde with derivatives of propionic acid, such as methyl propionate and propionaldehyde, were also studied.
A method for simultaneous determination of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, and crotonaldehyde in gas phase of cigarette mainstream smoke by headspace gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was developed and validated. Gas phase components of mainstream cigarette smoke were extracted with methanol, and then the samples were separated on a DB 624 (60 m, 0.32 mm x 1.8 mm) column, analyzed with headspace gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, and quantified by isotope internal standard. The linearities of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, and crotonaldehyde were good (R2>0.992). The recoveries of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, and crotonaldehyde were between 78.5% and 115%. The relative standard deviations were less than 10%. The limits of detection and limits of quantitation were 0.014 μg/cigarette ~0.12 μg/cigarette and 0.045 μg/cigarette ~0.38 μg/cigarette, respectively. The method had advantage of high sensitivity, it did not require derivatization of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine and avoided a large number of adverse reactions during the process of derivation to improve the accuracy of result, and it was suitable for quantitative analysis of four aldehydes in gas phase of cigarette mainstream smoke.
Cyclic orthoester type 1,3-dipolar cycloadducts of 1-methoxy-2-benzopyrylium-4-olate with carbonyl compounds were obtained in high yields in the copper(II) acetylacetonate-catalyzed decomposition of o-methoxycarbonyl-α-diazoacetophenone in the presence of carbonyl compounds such as substituted benzaldehydes, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, pivalaldehyde, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isopropyl ketone, 1,3-dichloroacetone, substituted acetophenones, benzoyl cyanides, cyclopentanone, cyclohexanone, 1-indanone, 9-fluorenone, anthrone, and anthraquinone. However, methyl t-butyl ketone, benzophenone, and xthanthone gave no adduct. Aldehydes and asymmetric ketones gave endo- and exo-adducts. The regiochemistry and stereochemistry of the adducts of aldehydes were determined on the basis of their coupling constants of methine protons. The reactions of p-methoxyphenyl o-diazoacetylbenzoate also gave similar 1,3-dipolar adducts. When carbonyl compounds of medium reactivity were used as a sub...
When incorporated in the top 5-cm of Tifton sandy loam at 11.2 kg/ha in the field, B-68138 [ethyl 4-(methylthio)-m-tolyl isopropyl phosphoramidate] prevented galling of tomato roots by Meloidogyne sp. down to 20 cm. A similar application of 16.8 kg/ha of V-C 9-104 [0-ethyl S,S-dipropyl phosphorodithioate] was 99% effective down to 20 cm. Aldicarb [2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde 0-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime], B-25141 [0,0-diethyl 0-{p-(methylsulfinyl) phenyl}phosphorothioate], and carbofuran [2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate] prevented galling only in the zone of incorporation (top 5-cm of soil). When aldicarb (11.2 kg/ha) was applied to the surface of Ontario fine sandy loam contained in clay pots in the greenhouse, it prevented galling of tomato roots down to 20 cm deep. V-C 9-104 and B-68138, applied similarly, were 100% effective to a depth of 5 cm. B-25141 was 100% effective in the zone of incorporation only. D-1410 [S-methyl-l-(dimethylcarbamoyl)-N-l(methylcarbamoyl)oxy] thioformimidatel did not control 100% of the root-knot nematodes at any depth.
Background and Objectives ::: Surgical smoke contains various malodorous and hazardous combustion byproducts. We aimed to analyze hydrocarbons accumulated in the abdominal cavity during laparoscopic gynecologic surgery and determine the efficiency of a built-in-filter port. ::: ::: ::: Methods ::: We prospectively followed seven patients with benign uterine pathology. Surgical smoke was generated using laparoscopic or robotic electrocautery. The smoke was collected twice for each patient using a built-in-filter port and a conventional port. The concentrations of volatile organic compounds and aldehydes were determined using gas chromatography with mass spectrometry and high-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet visible light detection and compared using the paired-sample Wilcoxon signed-rank test. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: Five volatile organic compounds and five aldehydes had toxic effects or unpleasant odors. The median concentration of formaldehyde before filtration (0.870 ppm) exceeded the time-weighted average concentration (0.75 ppm) of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Built-in-filter ports significantly reduced the concentration of five volatile organic compounds and two aldehydes but not that of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde. Formaldehyde concentration decreased by 50% after filtration but remained above the recommended exposure limit (0.016 ppm) of the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health. ::: ::: ::: Conclusions ::: Surgical smoke in minimally invasive gynecologic procedures contains several hazardous hydrocarbons including formaldehyde. Built-in-filter ports have the potential to reduce the exposure of surgical smoke to surgeons and operating room personnel; nevertheless, development of built-in-filter ports is necessary to improve the filtering efficiency for highly concentrated formaldehydes.
The reactions of boron sulphide with some types of carbonyls have been studied. The reaction of boron sulphide with aromatic aldehydes and aliphatic aldehydes which have been deprived of active hydrogen in the α position gives a good yield of the corresponding trithioaldehydes. This reaction is examined for four aldehydes, namely, benzaldehyde, 3-methylbenzaldehyde, 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, and 2,2′-dimethylpropionaldehyde. Through this study the authors have brought out a method which enables either the α-trithiobenzaldehyde, m.p. 166–167 °C, or the β-trithiobenzaldehyde, m.p. 225–226 °C, to be obtained selectively. The reaction of 3-methylbenzaldehyde with boron sulphide yields only one β stereoisomer, but nitrobenzaldehyde remains completely inert. The aldehydes having one active hydrogen in the α position undergo a dehydrogenation at the same time as the oxygen is being replaced by one atom of sulphur. 2,2′-Dimethylthiopropanal exists in a trimeric state at normal temperatures and becomes monomeric at hig...
(R)-2-Methylpyrrolidine was synthesized from (R)-2-(tritylamino)-propionaldehyde by Wittig-Horner reaction and catalytic hydrogenation to give (R)-5-methyl-2-oxopyrrolidine, which was subjected to reduction with borane-dimethylsulfide with an overall yield of 63%.
1,3-Propanediol (1,3-PD) has long been an important chemical and is used in the polymer and cosmetics industries. The synthetic production of 1,3-PD involves toxic intermediates (Marçal et al., 2009; Raynaud et al., 2003) and therefore 1,3-PD has been produced from microorganisms via microbial fermentation of glycerol as an alternative to chemical synthesis (Cameron et al., 1998) . 1,3-PD has successfully been produced in some anaerobic and microaerophilic bacteria such as Klebsiella, Citrobacter and Clostridum (Luers et al., 1997; Bouvet et al., 1995; Daniel et al., 1995) . 1,3-PD has also been produced by glycerol fermentation using a two-step sequential enzymatic reaction in the microorganism Lactobacillus (Veiga-da- Talarico et al., 1990) . In the reductive pathway, glycerol is converted to the intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde by a vitamin-B 12 -dependent glycerol dehydratase. The intermediate product 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde is then reduced to 1,3-PD by NADH-dependent 1,3-PD dehydrogenase (Ahrens et al., 1998; Cheng et al., 2006) .
and PgC 3 OH in methanol and acetonitrile. Cocrystals with fluorescent probes can lead to insight into the chemical environment inside and outside the bowl of the pyrogallol [4] arene, intermolecular and intramolecular interactions, and the formation of novel supramolecular architectures. It has been shown that structural properties can be "finetuned" by changing the shape, size, and chemical composition of the components. 9 More extensive studies are needed in order to learn more about the influence of characteristics such as aliphatic tail length and solvent systems on structural properties. In this study we examine cocrystals of rhodamine B and of pyronin Y with pyrogallol[4]arenes of different aliphatic chain length and in various solvent. Herein is described two cocrystal systems: one with pyronin Y and one with rhodamine B (see Fig. 1 ). Cocrystals of pyronin Y with C-methylpyrogallolĳ4]arene (PgC 1 ) in methanol (cocrystal 1) and with C-ethylpyrogallolĳ4]arene (PgC 2 ) in ethanol (cocrystal 2) are described and analyzed. Additionally, cocrystals of rhodamine B with PgC 1 in methanol (cocrystal 3) and ethanol (cocrystal 4), with PgC 2 in ethanol (cocrystal 5), and with C-propylpyrogallolĳ4]arene (PgC 3 ) in methanol (cocrystal 6), ethanol (cocrystal 7), and acetonitrile (cocrystal 8) are examined. synthesized using the previously reported method by Gerkensmeier et al., using acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde as the respective aldehydes. 10 Cocrystal 1 was crystallized by mixing PgC 1 and pyronin Y in a 1 : 1 molar ratio (0.1 : 0.0497 g) in 15 mL of methanol. The mixture was then sonicated for 30 minutes and allowed to slowly evaporate until crystallization of pink, prism-shaped crystals formed. In the same manner, cocrystal 2 was crystallized by mixing PgC 2 and pyronin Y in a 1 : 1 molar ratio (0.05 : 0.0228 g) in 10 mL of ethanol and allowed to slowly evaporate until crystallization of pink, plate-shaped crystals.
A method for simultaneous determination of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, and crotonaldehyde in gas phase of cigarette mainstream smoke by headspace gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was developed and validated. Gas phase components of mainstream cigarette smoke were extracted with methanol, and then the samples were separated on a DB 624 (60 m, 0.32 mm x 1.8 mm) column, analyzed with headspace gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, and quantified by isotope internal standard. The linearities of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, and crotonaldehyde were good (R 2 >0.992). The recoveries of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, and crotonaldehyde were between 78.5% and 115%. The relative standard deviations were less than 10%. The limits of detection and limits of quantitation were 0.014 g/cigarette ∼0.12 g/cigarette and 0.045 g/cigarette ∼0.38 g/cigarette, respectively. The method had advantage of high sensitivity, it did not require derivatization of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine and avoided a large number of adverse reactions during the process of derivation to improve the accuracy of result, and it was suitable for quantitative analysis of four aldehydes in gas phase of cigarette mainstream smoke.
Smoking is a risk factor for lung diseases [1] and many cancers [2] . Cigarette mainstream smoke is a dynamic aerosol that contains more than 5,000 chemical constituents, containing particulate phase and a remaining gas phase [3] . The gas phase can pass into the bloodstream through the pulmonary circulation, which leads to acute and latent systemic actions [4] . Various carbonyl compounds present in the gas phase of cigarette smoke play a significant role in cigarette smoke toxicology [5] , e.g., acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, crotonaldehyde, etc. These aldehydes react with nucleophilic targets in cells such as lipids, proteins, and DNA to form adducts. Those adducts may disturb cellular functions as well as damage proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids [6] . Acetaldehyde has been classified as a group 2B carcinogen for humans by the International Agency for Research on Cancer [7] , while acrolein and crotonaldehyde have been classified as a group 3 carcinogen. It is important to quantitatively analyze the content of carbonyl compounds in the gas phase of cigarette mainstream smoke so as to understand smokerelated exposure estimates and systemic toxicity related to cigarette smoking.
Here, an impinger containing 20 mL methanol and cooled to a temperature of less than -70 ∘ C in a dry-ice/isopropanol bath was used to trapping acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, and crotonaldehyde in gas phase of mainstream smoke, then the impinger solution was analyzed by headspace gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (HS-GC-MS). It did not require derivatization of DNPH and avoided a large number of adverse reactions during the process of derivation to improve the accuracy of result.
A method for simultaneous determination of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, and crotonaldehyde in gas phase of cigarette mainstream smoke by HS-GC-MS was developed and validated. The method had advantage of high sensitivity, it did not require derivatization of DNPH and avoided a large number of adverse reactions (e.g., the formation of E and Z stereoisomers) during the process of derivation to improve the accuracy of result, and it was suitable for quantitative analysis of four aldehydes in gas phase of cigarette mainstream smoke.
Results: Five volatile organic compounds and five aldehydes had toxic effects or unpleasant odors. The median concentration of formaldehyde before filtration (0.870 ppm) exceeded the time-weighted average concentration (0.75 ppm) of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Built-in-filter ports significantly reduced the concentration of five volatile organic compounds and two aldehydes but not that of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde. Formaldehyde concentration decreased by 50% after filtration but remained above the recommended exposure limit (0.016 ppm) of the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health.
Convenient three-stage syntheses (32–35% overall) of cis-jasmone and cis-cinerone, from readily available 3-(5-methyl-2-furyl)propionaldehyde (2) are described. Witting reactions, under' salt-free conditions are used for the cis-alkenylation (ca 12%trans is concurrently produced). Use of an allyl Witting reagent (3c) led to a mixture (2:3) of cis-and trans-dienes which was converted into a mixture of cis-and trans-pyrethrone, from which cis-pyrethrone was separated and characterised. Thermal rearrangement of cis-pyrethrone gavi isopyrethrone.
Process for manufacturing methylmercaptopropionaldehyde by addition of methyl mercaptan to acrolein, characterized in that at least one of, acrolein and methyl mercaptan, employed in this reaction was obtained by a reaction or sequence of reactions from biomass, said method comprising at least the following steps: (a) dehydration of glycerol to acrolein from an aqueous solution of glycerol in the presence of an acid catalyst, (b) purifying the aqueous stream from step (a) to obtain a flow of acrolein contains less than 15%, preferably less than 7%, preferably even less than 4% by mass of water to acrolein, (c) flow reaction of acrolein obtained in step (b) with methyl mercaptan in the presence of a catalyst , (d) optionally purification of the product obtained in step (c).
The relative rate technique has been used to determine the rate constants for the reaction of chlorine atoms with a series of oxygenated organic species. Experiments were performed at 295 ± 2 K and atmospheric pressure of synthetic air or nitrogen. The decay rates of the organic species were measured relative to that of ethane or n-butane. Using rate constants of 5.7 × 10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1, and 2.25 × 10−10 cm3 molecule−1 s−1 for the reaction of Cl with ethane and n-butane respectively the following rate constants were derived, in units of 10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1: propane, (16.0 ± 0.4);i-butane, (15.1 ± 0.9) n-pentane, (31.0 ± 1.6); n-hexane, (34.5 ± 2.3); cyclohexane, (36.1 ± 1.5); methanol, (4.57 ± 0.40); ethanol, (8.45 ± 0.91); n-propanol, (14.4 ± 1.2); t-butylalcohol, (3.26 ± 0.19); acetaldehyde, (8.45 ± 0.79); propionaldehyde, (11.3 ± 0.9); dimethylether, (20.5 ± 0.8); diethylether, (35.6 ± 2.8); and methyl-t-butylether, (16.6 ± 1.2). Quoted errors represent 2σ, and do not include any errors due to uncertainties in the rate constants used to place our relative measurements on an absolute basis. The results are discussed with respect to the mechanisms of these reactions and to previous literature data.
Klebsiella pneumoniae converts glycerol to the specialty chemical 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO), which is used for the production of polytrimethylene terepthalate (PTT). In this study, an NAD+-dependent gamma-glutamyl-gamma-aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase (PuuC) of K. pneumoniae DSM 2026, which oxidizes 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to a platform chemical 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), was cloned and overexpressed in K. pneumoniae DSM 2026 for the co-production of 3-HP and 1,3-PDO from glycerol. In addition, the gene dhaT, encoding NADH-dependent 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (1,3-PDOR), was deleted from the chromosome for the balanced production of 3-HP and 1,3-PDO. The recombinant K. pneumoniae ∆dhaT, expressing puuC, produced 3.6 g 3-HP and 3.0 g 1,3-PDO per liter with an average yield of 81% on glycerol carbon in shake flask culture under microaerobic conditions. When a fed-batch culture was carried out under microaerobic conditions at pH 7.0 in a 5-l bioreactor, the recombinant K. pneumoniae ∆dhaT (puuC) strain produced 16.0 g 3-HP and 16.8 g 1,3-PDO per liter with a cumulative yield of 51% on glycerol carbon in 24 h. The production of 1,3-PDO in the dhaT-deletion mutant was attributed to the expression of NAD(P)H-dependent hypothetical oxidoreductase. This study demonstrates the feasibility of obtaining two commercially valuable chemicals, 3-HP and 1,3-PDO, at a significant scale.
Abstract The new enzyme, propioin synthase, concerned with the formation of propioin from propionaldehyde was purified 270-fold from the crude enzyme in a yield of 28% by protamine sulfate precipitation, ammonium sulfate fractionation and G-200 gel chromatography using citrate-phosphate buffer (0.1 M Na2HPO4–0.02 M citric acid, pH 6.8, containing 0.33 mM MgSO4, 0.1 mM thiamine pyrophosphate, 2.5 mM MnSO4 and 30 mM β-mercaptoethanol). The purified enzyme was homogeneous on disc gel electrophoresis. It was most active at pH 6.8–7.0 and 37°C, and stable at pH 7–8 and below 45°C. Its activity was enhanced by FeSO4·7H2O, MnSO4, thiamine pyrophosphate, β-mercaptoethanol, MgSO4, CaCO3, and NaCl, and inhibited by AgNO3, HgCl2, CuSO4, ZnSO4, SnCl2, NH4Cl, (CH3COO)2Pb·3H2O, iodoacetic acid, FeCl3·6H2O, and (NH4)2SO4. Its molecular weight was 96,000 by sedimentation equilibrium, and 100,000 by Sephadex G-200 column chromatography.
Because of its vapor pressure (0.6 torr at 20 C) there is a potential for vapor exposure to 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde (3-MTP) vapor. Liquid 3-MTP may contain trace amounts of acrolein (up to 0.1%), and therefore acrolein vapor may also be present. Acute exposure (24 min to 4 h) of rats to substantially saturated atmospheres of 3-MTP generated statically (measured concentrations of 261-951 ppm) resulted in marked ocular and respiratory irritancy followed by death. Deaths occurred either during exposure or a few days postexposure, depending on exposure time. Measured acrolein vapor concentrations in these static studies were 16.7-216 ppm. In contrast, when substantially saturated vapor atmospheres were generated dynamically (277-320 ppm 3-MTP) only minor transient signs of irritancy were present, and only 1/40 exposed animals died. Acrolein vapor concentrations ranged 0-6.8 ppm. These findings indicate that the toxicity associated with acute static exposures to 3-MTP vapor was due to accumulated acrolein vapor, and that 3-MTP per se has a low order of acute vapor inhalation toxicity. In a first 9-d repeated vapor exposure study (6 h/d) rats were exposed to 0, 23.6, 96.8 or 246.2 ppm 3-MTP vapor; the mean acrolein concentration was 1.34 ppm (range 1.08-1.72 ppm). There were no mortalities, but exposure concentration-related indications of toxicity were present. These included reduced body weights, hematology (increased lymphocytes), serum chemistry (reduced total protein and globulin), and respiratory tract histopathology. The latter consisted mainly of squamous metaplasia in the anterior nasal passages at all concentrations, being minimal at 23.6 ppm. At the high concentration there was also olfactory atrophy and squamous metaplasia in the larynx, trachea, and larger bronchi; 23.6 ppm was a threshold effect level. The respiratory tract histopathology was compatible with exposure to acrolein vapor. In a second 9-d study, rats were exposed to 0, 0.47, 4.99 or 50.5 ppm (6 h/d); no acrolein could be detected in the chamber air samples. There were no differences between the controls (air alone) and 3-MTP exposed animals with respect to signs, body weights, food consumption, hematology, serum chemistry, urinalysis, and gross and microscopic pathology. Without detectable acrolein vapor, 50.5 ppm 3-MTP was a no observable effects level.
The aldehyde reductases from the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) family were identified as a series of critical enzymes for the improved tolerance of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to the aldehydes by catalyzing the detoxification reactions of aldehydes. Herein, we report that a novel aldehyde reductase Ykl107wp deduced from YKL107W from S. cerevisiae belongs to the classical SDR group and can catalyze the reduction reactions of acetaldehyde (AA), glycolaldehyde (GA), furfural (FF), formaldehyde (FA), and propionaldehyde (PA) but cannot reduce the six representative ketones. Ykl107wp displayed the best maximum velocity (Vmax), catalytic rate constant (Kcat), catalytic efficiency (Kcat/Km), and highest affinity (Km) to acetaldehyde. The optimum pH of Ykl107wp was 6.0 for the reduction of AA and 7.0 for the reduction of GA and FF, and the optimum temperatures were 40, 35, and 30 °C for the reduction of AA, GA, and FF, respectively. Ykl107wp for the reduction of AA was greatly affected by metal ions, chemical additives, and salts and showed poor thermal and pH stability, but its stability was slightly affected by a substrate. Ykl107wp was localized in endoplasmic reticulum and prevented the yeast cells from damage caused by furfural via the detoxification of furfural to furfural alcohol. This research provides guidelines for the study of uncharacterized classical SDR aldehyde reductases and exploration of their protective mechanisms on the corresponding organelles.
PEGylation which is reversed after the therapeutic agent reaches the target cell presents an attractive feature for drug, protein or nucleic acid delivery. Amine-reactive, endosomal pH cleavable polyethylene glycol aldehyde-carboxypyridylhydrazone, N-hydroxysuccinimide esters (PEG-HZN-NHS) were synthesized and applied for bioreversible surface shielding of DNA polyplexes. Monofunctional mPEG-HZN-NHS was synthesized by reacting succinimidyl hydraziniumnicotinate with mPEG-butyraldehyde (20 kDa). Bifunctional OPSS-PEG-HZN-NHS was synthesized analogously via a omega-2-pyridyldithio-PEG (10 kDa) propionaldehyde intermediate. Polyethylenimine (PEI) polyplexes were reacted with the pH-sensitive (mPEG-HZN-NHS) or the corresponding stable (mPEG-NHS) reagent. Both types of polyplexes remained shielded at pH 7.4 as demonstrated by particle size and zeta potential measurements after 4h of incubation at 37 degrees C. Polyplex deshielding at endosomal pH 5 was observed only with the mPEG-HZN-NHS shielded particles. This was confirmed by fluorescence correlation spectroscopy using the analogous Alexa-488 fluorescently labeled bifunctional PEGylation reagents. Luciferase gene transfections with epidermal growth factor (EGF) containing polyplexes using EGF-receptor overexpressing hepatoma HUH7 cells showed an up to 16-fold enhancement in gene expression with the reversibly shielded polyplexes as compared to stably shielded polyplexes. Consistently, the reversibly shielded polyplexes mediated also an enhanced tumor specific in vivo transgene expression after intravenous administration in a subcutaneous HUH7 tumor model in SCID mice.
Aroma intensity of 5 concentrations (0.5, 2.5, 12.5, 62.5, and 312.5 ppm) of dimethyl trisulfide, methional [3-(methylthio) propionaldehyde], linalool (3,7-dimethyl-1, 6-octadien-3-ol), and vanillin (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzaldehyde) were evaluated by using sensory panels (n= 15) and gas chromatography olfactometry (GCO, n= 3) coupled with the Osme technique. The exponent (n) from Steven's Power Law was calculated as the slope of the logarithmic scale of perceived intensity versus compound concentration. Both sensory analysis and GCO data demonstrated that all odorants of interest followed Steven's Power Law (R2= 0.92 to 0.99). The relationship between concentration and aroma intensity was more completely explained by Steven's Law than by dilution methods. Results also revealed that GCO-Osme is a time-saving method that provides valuable information about odorants in foods. This method may also be used with other GCO techniques such as combined hedonic aroma response measurement (CHARM) and aroma extraction dilution analysis (AEDA) to more completely explain the contribution of compounds to the flavor of food products.
2-(4-tert-Butylbenzyl)propionaldehyde also known as lysmeral, lilial, or lily aldehyde (CAS No. 80-54-6) is a synthetic odorant mainly used as a fragrance in a variety of consumer products like cleaning agents, fine fragrances, cosmetics, and air fresheners. Due to its broad application in various fields, lysmeral was selected for the development of a biomonitoring method for the quantitative exposure assessment within the frame of the cooperation project of the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety (BMUB) and the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). A method based on ultra-high pressure liquid chromatography combined with tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) was developed for the simultaneous determination of potential biomarkers of lysmeral in human urine samples. Sample cleanup was performed by liquid-liquid extraction (LLE). Quantification was achieved by standard addition using stable isotope-labeled, authentic reference standards. The method is characterized by its robustness, reliability, and excellent sensitivity as proven during method validation according to approved standard guidelines. The following five lysmeral metabolites were identified as potential biomarkers of exposure for lysmeral in human urine samples: lysmerol, lysmerylic acid, hydroxylated lysmerylic acid, tert-butylbenzoic acid (TBBA), and tert-butylhippuric acid (TBHA). The determination of lysmerol required derivatization with 3-nitrophthalic acid anhydride and showed the lowest limit of detection (LOD) and limit of quantification (LOQ) in urine (0.035 and 0.10 μg/L, respectively). LOD and LOQ for the other metabolites were in the range of 0.12-0.15 and 0.36-0.45 μg/L, respectively. Accuracy for all analytes was in the range of 90-110 %. Intra- and inter-day precision was in the range of 5-10 %, except for TBHA, for which the coefficient of variation was unacceptably high (>20 %) and therefore excluded from the method. The method was applied to urine samples of 40 adult volunteers. The four remaining lysmeral metabolites were detectable in most of the 40 urine samples in the following order according to quantity excreted: TBBA >> lysmerol ≈ lysmerylic acid > hydroxy-lysmerylic acid. In conclusion, we successfully developed a biomonitoring method for the assessment of the exposure to lysmeral in the general population. The method is characterized by its precision, robustness, and accuracy. The metabolites lysmerol, lysmerylic acid, hydroxylated lysmerylic acid, and TBBA turned out to be suitable biomarkers of exposure to lysmeral, either alone or in combination with one or more of the other metabolites. Sensitivity was found to be sufficient for assessing the background exposure to this chemical in the general population.
Two routes for the synthesis of mer-W(CO)(H)(NO)(PMe3)3 (4) are described, starting from mer-W(Cl)(CO)(NO)(PMe3)3 (1) or the borohydride complex mer-W(η1-BH4)(CO)(NO)(PMe3)3 (3). The propensity of 4 to undergo insertion reactions has been investigated. 4 reacts with benzaldehyde, propionaldehyde, pivalaldehyde, benzophenone, acetophenone, and acetone to afford the corresponding alkoxide complexes mer-W(CO)(NO)(PMe3)3(OCHR‘R‘ ‘) (R‘ = H, R‘ ‘ = Ph (5a); R‘ = H, R‘ ‘ = CH2CH2CH3 (5b); R‘ = H, R‘ ‘ = CH2C(CH3)3 (5c); R‘ = Ph, R‘ ‘ = Ph (5d); R‘ = CH3, R‘ ‘ = Ph (5e); R‘ = CH3, R‘ ‘ = CH3 (5f)). Insertion of CO2 yields the formato-O complex mer-W(CO)(NO)(OCHO)(PMe3)3 (6). Reaction of 4 with CO leads to immediate loss of PMe3 and formation of trans,trans-W(CO)2(H)(NO)(PMe3)2. In a reversible way Fe(CO)5 and Re2(CO)10 insert into the W−H bond of 4, affording the isolable μ-formyl complex mer-W(CO)(NO)(PMe3)3[(μ-OCH)Fe(CO)4] (7a) and mer-W(CO)(NO)(PMe3)3[(μ-OCH)Re2(CO)9] (7b) as an equilibrium constituent. For b...
A cigarette comprises a tobacco rod and a carbon-on-tow filter comprising a fiber tow with flavored or unflavored carbon particles distributed throughout the tow. The carbon particles have high activity in the range of 90 to 115%, preferably 95%. As mainstream smoke is drawn through the filter, gas phase smoke constituents are removed and flavor is released when the particles are flavored. Ventilation is provided to limit the amount of tobacco being combusted during each puff and such ventilation is arranged at a location near the downstream end of the carbon-on-tow filter to lower mainstream smoke velocity through the filter. The filter achieves significant reductions in gas phase constituents of mainstream smoke, including 90% reductions or greater in at least one of 1, 3 butadiene, acrolein, isoprene, propionaldehyde, acrylonitrile, benzene, toluene, and 80% reductions or greater in acetaldehyde over extended shelf life of the cigarettes.
Hydrated and anhydrous rhodium oxides, Rh2O3 · 5H2O and Rh2O3 crystallites, were used as catalysts for the hydrogenation of CO at 6 atm and in the range of 250–350 °C. The anhydrous oxide reduced to metallic rhodium rapidly, while the hydrated oxide was quite stable under the reaction conditions. The hydrated oxide produces a high concentration of oxygenated hydrocarbons, mostly acetaldehyde in addition to C2C5 alkenes and methane, in contrast to the unsupported metal which is a mediocre methanation catalyst. The activation energy for the formation of all of the products is 26 ± 2 kcal/mole indicating that they are likely to be produced from a common precursor intermediate, CxHy. The addition of ethylene to CO and H2 results in the conversion of the olefin to propionaldehyde. This carbonylation reaction was not observed on the rhodium metal. The slower rates of hydrogenation on the oxide and its ability to insert CO into the CxHy, intermediates appear to be responsible for the changed product distribution in the CO/H2 reaction. Electron spectroscopy studies indicate the presence of patches of oxide and metal both participate in the reaction and control the product distribution.
Soil treatments of granular formulations of systemic compounds UC 21149 [2-methyl-1-2 (methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime] and NIA 10242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl N -methylcarbamate) gave complete control of birch leaf miner, Fenusa pusilla (Lepeletier) for 2 years, and of holly leaf miner, Phytomyza ilicis (Curtis), and Andromeda lace bug, Stephanitis takeyai (Drake and Maa) [ globulifera (Matsmura) ] during the season in which they were used. UC 21149 gave somewhat better control of boxwood leaf miner, Monarthrapolpus buxi (Laboulbene), than NIA 10242. Bidrin® liquid concentrate [3-(dimethoxyphosphinyloxy) -N , N -dimethyl-cis-crotonamidej and Thiocron® granules [ O , O -dimethyl- S -(2-methoxyethyl-carbamoylmethyl) dithiophosphate] were effective only at the highest concentrations for control of birth leaf miner. Dimetilan granules did not give good control of Andromeda lace bug.
The reactions of the nickel(0) complex [Ni(bipy)(COD)] (COD = cyclooctadiene, bipy = 2,2‘-bipyridine) with benzaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and carbon dioxide/propionaldehyde were investigated. A detailed kinetic analysis revealed that [Ni(bipy)(COD)] reacts reversible with aldehydes and activation parameters for the forward and back reactions were calculated from a temperature dependence study: forward reaction (benzaldehyde) ΔH⧧ = 47.8 ± 0.4 kJ/mol, ΔS⧧ = −47 ± 1 J/(mol K); back reaction (COD) ΔH⧧ = 45 ± 6 kJ/mol, ΔS⧧ = −61 ± 19 J/(mol K) and forward reaction (propionaldehyde) ΔH⧧ = 55 ± 3 kJ/mol, ΔS⧧ = −58 ± 9.0 J/(mol K); back reaction (COD) ΔH⧧ = 39 ± 0.5 kJ/mol, ΔS⧧ = −58 ± 2 J/(mol K). It could be shown that carbon dioxide did not react with [Ni(bipy)(COD)] directly but with the nickel propionaldehyde complex to form a five-membered cyclic nickel complex. The reaction proceeded according to an associative mechanism, during which the carbon dioxide was inserted into a Ni−O bond by an oxidative coupli...
The stress response of Escherichia coli to 3-hydroxypropanoic acid (3-HP) was elucidated through global transcriptomic analysis. Around 375 genes showed difference of more than 2-fold in 3-HP-treated samples. Further analysis revealed that the toxicity effect of 3-HP was due to the cation and anion components of this acid and some effects-specific to 3-HP. Genes related to the oxidative stress, DNA protection, and repair were upregulated in treated cells due to the lowered cytoplasmic pH caused by accumulated cations. 3-HP-treated E. coli used the arginine acid tolerance mechanism to increase the cytoplasmic pH. Additionally, the anion effects were manifested as imbalance in the osmotic pressure. Analysis of top ten highly upregulated genes suggests the formation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde under 3-HP stress. The transcriptomic analysis shed light on the global genetic reprogramming due to 3-HP stress and suggests strategies for increasing the tolerance of E. coli toward 3-HP.
Hylemya brassicae (Bouche) can no longer be controlled with aldrin, dieldrin, chlordane, or lindane in western New York. The level of resistance is different in 2 areas tested. Diazinon provided fair control in furrow or drench applications to radish but did not prove satisfactory as a preplanting broadcast application at 4 lb per acre. Bay 37289 ( O -ethyl O -2.4,5-trichlorophenyl ethylphosphonothioate) and Stauffer N-2790 ( O -ethyl S -phenyl ethylphosphonodithioate) were the most effective materials tested. No control was provided by Bay 77488 ( O, O -diethylphosphorothioate O -ester with phenylglyoxylonitrile oxime), Temik® (a 10% granular formulation of DC 21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime)), NIA-I0242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate), Zolone® ( O, O -diethylphosphorodithioate S -ester with 6-chloro-3-(mercaptomethyl)-2-benzoxazolinone), Zinophos® ( O, O -diethyl O -2-pyrazinyl phosphorothioate), American Hoechst Corp. 2838 (1, 2, 3, 4,-7,7-hexachloro-5-(2, 2, 3, 3-tetrafluorocyclobutyl)-2-norbornene), and Lannate® (methyl N -[ (methylcarbamoyl) oxy]-thioacetimidate).
(1R,2R,3S,4R)-2-Amino-6,6-dimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]heptane-3-carboxylic acid 1 was reacted with three aldehydes and two isocyanides in methanol, in water, and under solvent-free conditions to prepare enantiomeric beta-lactams via U-4C-3CRs. The yields in methanol were found to be from acceptable to good. High diastereoselectivities of the reactions were observed, and the diastereoisomers were successfully separated in most cases. In water or under solvent-free conditions, the yields were similar to those in methanol when the aldehyde was pivalaldehyde or propionaldehyde. The advantages of water are the facile isolation of the precipitated product and the shorter reaction time.
Abstract Sec-amines catalyzed two-step Mannich reaction for preparation of methacrolein from propionaldehyde and formaldehyde was more attractive than the C4 selective oxidation route. Herein, a novel continuous fixed-bed process was developed for direct preparation of methacrolein from above stocks with catalysis of sec-amine grafted D301 resin. The effect of resin, sec-amine structure and grafting percentage on catalytic performance of the modified resin were detailed investigated and demonstrated by using FT-IR, TG-DTA, titration and solid-state NMR characterization methods before the optimal conditions were obtained. The grafting percentage of amine with abundant sec-amino groups onto D301 resin could reach 93.7% at optimal condition. With this new strategy, the yield and selectivity of methacrolein could attain 40.2% and 99.3%. In addition, the Mannich reaction step with activation energy of 66.3 kJ/mol was determined as the rate-controlling step through mechanism-based kinetic calculation.
In model studies, nitrosation of the major areca alkaloid, arecoline, leads to the formation of N-nitrosoguvacoline, 3-(methylnitrosamino)propionitrile (MNPN), 3-(methylnitrosamino)propionaldehyde and two unknown N-nitrosamines. MNPN is a strong carcinogen in Fischer 344 rats. After subcutaneous injection of 1.1 mmol MNPN in 60 doses, all 15 male and 15 female rats developed tumours within 24 weeks; multiple tumours occurred in 26 of the rats. Eighty-seven percent of the animals had tumours of the oesophagus, 70% had nasal cavity tumours, 37% had tumours of the tongue, 7% tumours of the pharynx and 7% tumors of the forestomach. At the dose used, male and female rats showed no significant difference in tumour incidence or site of tumours. The formation of MNPN during betel quid chewing, although likely, has not yet been proven, while the areca-derived N-nitrosamine, N-nitrosoguvacoline (NG), has been found in the saliva of betel quid chewers at levels of 2.2-348 micrograms/L. N-Nitrosoguvacoline levels were higher in the saliva of chewers who used betel quid together with tobacco. The saliva of these chewers also contained tobacco-specific N-nitrosamines.
Glycerol dehydratase (GDHt), which converts glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, is essential to the production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) or 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). A reliable GDHt activity assay in crude-cell extract was developed. In the assay, GDHt converted 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PDO) to propionaldehyde, which was further converted to 1-propionic acid by aldehyde dehydrogenase (KGSADH) or to 1-propanol by yeast-alcohol dehydrogenase (yADH), while the NADH concentration change was monitored spectrophotometrically. Cells should be disintegrated by Bead Beater/French Press, not by chemical methods (BugBuster®/B-PER™), because the reagents significantly inactivated GDHt and coupling enzymes. Furthermore, in the assay mixture, a much higher activity of KGSADH (>200-fold) or yADH (>400-fold) than that of GDHt should have been maintained. Under optimal conditions, both KGSADH and yADH showed practically the same activity. The coupled-enzyme assay method established here should prove to be applicable to recombinant strains developed for the production of 3-HP and/or 1,3-PDO from glycerol.
Bacterial microcompartments (MCPs) are protein-based organelles that consist of metabolic enzymes encapsulated within a protein shell. The function of MCPs is to optimize metabolic pathways by increasing reaction rates and sequestering toxic pathway intermediates. A substantial amount of effort has been directed toward engineering synthetic MCPs as intracellular nanoreactors for the improved production of renewable chemicals. A key challenge in this area is engineering protein shells that allow the entry of desired substrates. In this study, we used site-directed mutagenesis of the PduT shell protein to remove its central iron–sulfur cluster and create openings (pores) in the shell of the Pdu MCP that have varied chemical properties. Subsequently, in vivo and in vitro studies were used to show that PduT-C38S and PduT-C38A variants increased the diffusion of 1,2-propanediol, propionaldehyde, NAD+ and NADH across the shell of the MCP. In contrast, PduT-C38I and PduT-C38W eliminated the iron–sulfur cluster without altering the permeability of the Pdu MCP, suggesting that the side-chains of C38I and C38W occluded the opening formed by removal of the iron–sulfur cluster. Thus, genetic modification offers an approach to engineering the movement of larger molecules (such as NAD/H) across MCP shells, as well as a method for blocking transport through trimeric bacterial microcompartment (BMC) domain shell proteins.
Abstract Photolyses of unsubstituted and methyl substituted pyridazine 1-oxides afforded the corresponding cyclopropenyl ketones (6) and furans (7), respectively. Photolysis of 3-phenyl-, 3-methoxy-and 3-hydroxy-pyridazine 1-oxides afforded furans alone, whereas 3-aminopyridazine 1-oxides gave levulinonitriles and 3-cyanopropionaldehydes (11). Mechanism of their formation are discussed.
As back diffusion gases from automobiles are significant sources of in-vehicular pollution, we investigated eight automobiles, five for back diffusion (driving) measurements and three for reference conditions (non-driving). To characterize the back diffusion emission conditions, seven volatile organic compounds (VOC) and four carbonyl compounds (CCs) were measured along with dilution-to-threshold (D/T) ratio. The data obtained from back diffusion measurements were examined after having been divided into three subcategories: (i) driving and non-driving, (ii) with and without automobile upgrading (sealing the inner line), and (iii) differences in CO emission levels. Among the VOCs, the concentrations of toluene (T) was found to be the highest (range: 13.6-155 ppb), while benzene (0.19-1.47 ppb) was hardly distinguishable from its ambient levels. Other VOCs (xylene, trimethylbenzene, and styrene) were generally below <1 ppb. Unlike VOCs, the concentrations (ppb) of CCs were seen at fairly enhanced levels: 30.1-95 (formaldehyde), 34.6-87.2 (acetaldehyde), 4.56-34.7 (propionaldehyde), and 3.45-68.8 (butyraldehyde). The results of our study suggest that the back diffusion phenomenon, if occurring, can deteriorate in-vehicle air, especially with the most imminent health hazards from a compound such as formaldehyde in view of its exceedance pattern over common guidelines.
The pathway of 1,2-PD degradation begins with the conversion of 1,2-PD to propionaldehyde by AdoCbldependent diol dehydratase (Bobik et al., 1997; Obradors et al., 1988; Toraya et al., 1979) . Subsequently, propionaldehyde is converted to propanol and propionate by alcohol dehydrogenase, CoA-dependent propionaldehyde dehydrogenase, phosphotransacylase and propionate kinase (Obradors et al., 1988; Toraya et al., 1979) . This pathway generates one ATP, an electron sink for the regeneration of NAD and an intermediate (propionyl-CoA) that can serve as a carbon and energy source via the methylcitrate pathway (Horswill & Escalante-Semerena, 1997) .
Starting in the 1950's, the first synthesis of 13-aza-4,4,8,8,12,12-hexamethyl-2,6,10-trioxatricyclo [7,3,l,05'13] tridecane included 3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-propionaldehyde as one o f the start ing materials [3, 2] , Hasek and Martin isolated III by destructive distillation o f the self-condensation product I V after removal of formaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and other volatile products [4] (see * Reprint requests to Prof. Dr. I. Ugi. Scheme 1). Analogous compounds were synthe sized by H. R Fritz et al. [5] by reaction of acrolein or crotonaldehyde with solutions o f ammonium sulfate in aqueous sulfuric acid.
The cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) isozyme from cyclophosphamide (CPA) resistant L1210 cells (L1210/CPA) was purified to apparent homogeneity using ternary enzyme complex-dye ligand chromatography. The purified isozyme migrates as a single band at Mr 51,000 in sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and as a single charge species at isoelectric point = 5.8 in isoelectric focusing. Micromolar Km values were estimated with both propionaldehyde (Km = 5 microM) and 4-hydroxy cyclophosphamide (4-OH CPA) (Km = 4 microM) as substrates, indicating that this isozyme is capable of oxidizing the activated cyclophosphamide intermediate 4-hydroxy CPA/aldophosphamide to carboxyphosphamide. This isozyme is also potently inhibited by disulfiram (Ki = 6 microM) and 4-(diethylamino)benzaldehyde (Ki = 0.04 microM). Both of these inhibitors are capable of sensitizing L1210/CPA cells to activated CPA in clonogenic survival assays. Thus, the increased levels of only the cytosolic ALDH isoform in L1210/CPA cells appear to be the single phenotypic difference necessary for conferring resistance to CPA. Monospecific antibodies to the L1210/CPA isozyme have been used in Western blot analysis to detect nanogram levels of ALDH in cell and tissue extracts. These antibodies cross-react with the cytosolic isozyme in P388/CPA cells, mouse liver, mouse small intestine, and the 1C1C7 hepatoma cell line, whereas no ALDH is detected in sensitive L1210 or P388 cells. Also, these antibodies show little cross-reactivity with the mitochondrial isozyme from mouse liver or 1C1C7 cells. From immunological and inhibitor characterization, the soluble ALDH isozyme in L1210/CPA cells appears identical to the normal mouse tissue isozyme.
Glutaraldehyde (GA) fixation of bioprosthetic tissue is a well adapted technique, with commercial products on the market for almost 40 years. Amine groups present in tissue react with GA to form different types of cross-links. An estimation of the degree of cross-linking of the tissue can be obtained by measuring the concentration of residual amine groups, which is frequently carried out with the 2,4,6 trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS) assay. Cross-linked tissue and collagen matrices are usually further characterized by determining their physical properties (such as the shrinkage temperature), biological properties (such as resistance to enzymatic degradation), and mechanical properties before in vivo evaluation takes place. In an effort to improve the properties of cross-linked tissue and collagen, alternative cross-linking methods have been developed. One of these methods is based on the use of water soluble carbodiimides (CDI). It is generally accepted that this cross-linking method leads only to the formation of amide linkages between tissue carboxyl and amine groups. Therefore, until recently the TNBS assay was also used to determine the degree of cross-linking of CDI cross-linked tissue and collagen. However, it cannot be excluded that after activation of carboxyl groups of tissue and collagen by CDI, these groups can react with other nucleophiles (like hydroxyl groups) present in the matrix. To obtain a better insight in the degree of cross-linking of CDI cross-linked matrices a reliable assay for quantification of residual carboxyl groups is required. Up to now such an assay was not available. In this study a new assay to determine residual carboxyl groups in CDI cross-linked collagen matrices is presented. Reconstituted dermal bovine collagen matrices (RDBC) were cross-linked with a water soluble CDI and N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) and residual carboxyl groups were labeled using 5-bromomethyl fluorescein. Subsequently, the fluorescent label was released by mild hydrolysis and quantified with capillary zone electrophoresis. A calibration curve relating the concentration of carboxyl groups with peak intensities was obtained using SephadexTM standards with known concentrations of carboxyl groups. The concentration of carboxyl groups in unprocessed RDBC as determined with this new technique was equal to the concentration of carboxyl groups measured by amino acid analysis. On the basis of the concentration of residual carboxyl groups determined for CDI/NHS cross-linked RDBC and RDBC, in which the amine groups were blocked with propionaldehyde before CDI/NHS cross-linking, it was concluded that activated carboxyl groups can also react with other groups (such as hydroxyl groups) present in the matrix. This implies that the crosslink density of RDBC matrices after treatment with CDI/NHS is higher than expected on the basis of amide bond formation only, as determined by the TNBS assay.
Abstract A combined in situ infrared with transient D 2 tracing study of ethylene hydroformylation showed that d 1 -propionaldehyde is produced from two modes of acyl hydrogenation: via adsorbed hydrogen on the metal surface and spillover hydrogen from Si-OH. Si-OH was removed by SiH 4 treatment, but was regenerated by CO/H 2 /C 2 H 4 flow. NO pulses into CO/H 2 /C 2 H 4 flow oxidized Rh sites to Rh + sites and decreased catalyst activity.
Abstract 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) is a potential valuable chemical and new broad-spectrum antimicrobial substance. In order to improve the conversion of 3-HPA/glycerol, our work studied the two-step process from glycerol to 3-HPA, and investigated the influence of cell harvest time, glycerol concentration, biomass concentration, pH and temperature on the production of 3-HPA by Lactobacillus reuteri CG001, respectively. The results showed that molar conversion yield of 3-HPA/glycerol reached 97.9% under the condition that 200 mmol·L −1 glycerol was converted by 25.3 g·L −1 resting cell for 1 h at 30°C. The cells could not be reused directly because the L. reuteri almost lost its bioconversion activity completely, but the ability of glycerol conversion could gradually recover if the fresh medium was added to the deactivated cell for 4 h.
The hydroxypropionaldehyde (HPA) system is a natural defense system synthesized by the probiotic bacterium Lactobacillus reuteri. To elucidate which of the molecules composing the HPA system (3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), reuterin (HPA dimer), and HPA hydrate) is responsible for the potent antimicrobial activity in biological systems, a combination of biochemical, genetic, and proteomic assays was used. The HPA system reacts with sulfhydryl-containing compounds such as cysteine and reduced glutathione (GSH) in solution. In situ, GSH knock-out Escherichia coli is significantly more susceptible to HPA-mediated cell death than E. coli wild type; GSH supplementation protects either bacteria from HPA attack. Proteomic analysis of HPA-treated bacteria (Haemophilus influenzae) revealed induction of redox- and heat shock-related proteins. A new antimicrobial mechanism of HPA is proposed, whereby the activity of HPA leads to depletion of free SH− groups in GSH and proteins through the action of 3-hydroxypropio...
Concerns have been raised about the potential health effects of potential bystander exposure to exhaled aerosols from e-vapor products (EVPs). An exhaled breath collection system (EBS) was developed and analytical methods were verified for collection and analysis of exhaled breath from users of EVPs. Analytical methods were adapted and verified for collection of environmental air samples during EVP use in an exposure chamber. Analysis of constituents in exhaled breath focused on nicotine, propylene glycol, and glycerin (because these are reported as the major constituents in EVPs) and selected carbonyl compounds (acetaldehyde, acrolein, and formaldehyde). Analysis of environmental samples included nicotine, propylene glycol, glycerin, 12 volatile organic compounds (VOCs), 15 carbonyl compounds and 4 metals. The EBS and analytical methods used were found to be suitable for collection and analysis of the target constituents in exhaled breath. Environmental sampling for background levels of VOCs and carbonyl compounds found only acetone, acetaldehyde, benzene, ethylbenzene, formaldehyde, isoprene, methyl ethyl ketone, hexaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and toluene above the limit of quantification in some samples. None of the targeted metals were detected. Background levels of VOCs and carbonyl compounds were consistent with levels previously reported for ambient air.
Investigation of the propanediol dehydrase reaction with18O-labelled substrates indicates that the conversion of propane-1,2-diol to propionaldehyde involves transfer of the oxygen atom from C-2 to C-1. The dehydration of the so formed propane-1,1-diol is sterically controlled by the enzyme.
Isozyme phenotypes of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) from human gastroendoscopic as well as surgical gastric biopsies were determined by starch gel electrophoresis and agarose isoelectric focusing. γγ ADH isozymes were expressed predominantly in the mucosal layer of the stomach, whereas ββ isozymes were in the muscular layer. In the 56 gastroendoscopic mucosal biopsies examined, the homozygous ADH3 1-1 phenotype was found in 75% of the samples, and the heterozygous ADH3 2-1 phenotype in 25%. Accordingly, the gene frequencies of the allelesADH31 andADH32 were calculated to be 0.88 and 0.12, respectively. Using a modified agarose isoelectric focusing procedure, gastric ALDH I, ALDH II, and up to five ALDH III forms could be clearly resolved. The ALDH III isozymes accounted for more than 80% of the total ALDH activities in gastric mucosa and exhibitedKm values in the millimolar range for propionaldehyde atpH 9.0. Forty-five percent of the 55 gastroendoscopic biopsies studied lacked ALDH I isozyme. The complex gastric ALDH III isozyme phenotypes seen in these biopsies fall into three patterns. They can be interpreted by a genetic hypothesis, based on a dimeric molecule, in which there are two separate genes,ALDH3a andALDH3b, with theALDH3b locus exhibiting polymorphism. The homozygous phenotypes ALDH3b 1-1 and ALDH3b 2-2 were found to be 4 and 76%, respectively, and the heterozygous ALDH3b 2-1 phenotype 20%, of the total. Therefore, the allele frequencies forALDH3b1 andALDH3b2 were calculated to be 0.14 and 0.86, respectively. Several lines of biochemical evidence consistent with this genetic model are discussed.
Abstract BF3-OEt2 mediated thioester silylketene acetal additions to aldehydes are stereoconvergent and give high anti-syn ratios and good chemical yields. An acyclic transition state model was hypothesized in order to account for the observed selectivity. Theoretical methods (MNDO) were used to evaluate the ground-state conformations of thioester silylketene acetals and to model the acyclic transition states. Lewis acid mediated additions of thioester silylketene acetals to 2-phenylpropion-aldehyde (BF3-OEt2), O-benzyl lactic aldehyde (SnCl4), 2,3-0,O-dibenzyl glyceraldehyde (SnCl4), and 3-benzyloxy-2-methylpropionaldehyde (TiCl4) were found to be highly diastereoface selective so that three contiguous stereocenters could be established. With α-, β- , or α,β-alkoxy aldehydes, relative stereoselection (chelation) effectively controls internal stereolection. The ground state conformations of the chiral aldehydes were studied using molecular mechanics (MM2).
A mutant strain of Citrobacter freundii capable of elevated 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde production from glycerol was isolated using chemical mutagenesis and a screening protocol. The protocol involved screening mutagenized bacterial cells on solid minimal medium containing 5 % (v/v) glycerol. Colonies were picked onto duplicate solid minimal medium plates and one plate was stained with 1 % (w/v) phloroglucinol. Those colonies staining red were further screened and a mutant, HPAO-1, was identified. The mutant strain produced a several-fold higher 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde concentration than did the parent strain when grown on 5 % (v/v) glycerol. The ratio of culture volume to flask volume influenced 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde production by the mutant cells compared to the parent cells. Aldehyde production was highest when the mutant strain was grown on 5 % (v/v) glycerol at a ratio of culture volume to flask volume of 1:3 or 1:12.5.
To assure that virus-free raspberry varieties remain virus free during field propagation of planting stock requires the application of an effective program for the control of the mosaic vector Amphorophora agathonica Hottes. In New York the aphid is present in the field from mid-May through late October and control is needed throughout the entire period. Several foliar spray materials were investigated and were found to lack the needed persistence for a continuous protective program. of those tested, Niagara 10242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate) was the most effective. ::: ::: Granular systemic materials applied over the row provided greatly improved control in comparison with the foliar spray applications, of the materials tested, Temik®, a 10% granular formulation of UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl)oxime), was consistently the most effective. The results suggest that 2 applications of Temik, 1 in mid-May and 1 in early August, at a rate of 6.0 lb actual UG-21149 per acre to the rows (2-foot row on 4-foot center), will provide effective season-long control of the aphid.
In the temperature range 402–425 °C, propylene oxide in a toluene medium decomposes to form propionaldehyde (60–70%), acetone (14%), and free radicals (25%). The ratio of products is invarient with temperature, suggesting a common precursor to all three products. Propionaldehyde further decomposes into free radicals. The first order rate expression for propylene oxide disappearance is3.7 × 1012 e−51900/RT s−1.
Abstract The transformation of propionitrile to propionaldehyde via the corresponding methyl acetal was studied on a commercial 10 wt.-% palladium-on-carbon catalyst. Hydrogen sorption characteristics of the catalyst and the effect of purification were studied by an electrochemical polarization method. Good yields (approx. 80%) could be achieved under circumstances in which hydrogen availability was poor. Amine formation (hydrogenation of aldimine intermediate) was promoted by metal ion poisoning.
Alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes such as acrolein (ACR) and crotonaldehyde (CRO) have been shown previously in our laboratory to inhibit the production of superoxide anion radical (O2-) by stimulated phagocytic cells in vitro in a dose-related manner. Based on the known reactivity of these compounds towards cellular sulfhydryls (SH), the present studies were aimed at investigating cellular SH status in relation to O2- production. Plasma membrane surface SH groups were measured using carboxypyridinedisulfide and monitoring the resultant formation of mixed disulfides through assay of thione released into the supernatant fraction. Intracellular non-protein sulfhydryls were measured using 5,5'-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid. In both human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and rat pulmonary alveolar macrophages (PAM) there was a dose-related decrease in surface SH and soluble SH after ACR and CRO treatment. Propionaldehyde, a three-carbon saturated aldehyde, was without effect. The decrease in surface SH was greater than the decrease in soluble SH. In addition, in PMN and PAM preincubated with 5-40 microM ACR, there was a dose-related inhibition in the rate of O2- production with no effect on the lag time as measured by cytochrome c reduction. In stimulated PMN, there was a dose-related decrease in the rate after addition of 5-40 microM ACR. These data suggest that changes in SH status by reactive aldehydes can modulate the activity of the plasma membrane NADPH oxidase responsible for O2- production.
Gem-dinitroalkanes condense readily with acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and amines. The use of these aldehydes instead of formaldehyde extends the field of application of the Mannich reaction with nitro compounds.
In this paper,the glycerol and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde structures is modeled by using density function theory(DFT) method at the level of(GGA)-VWNBP and the DND basis set.Then their geometrical structures,electronic structures,Fukui frontier orbital and thermodynamics properties have been computed providing theoretical basis for the study of the structure and activity relationship of these compounds.
This paper reports experiments on the purification of exhaust air containing organic pollutants by a new biological process using a trickle-bed reactor. Pollutant-specific microorganisms in high concentration were fixed to a suitable bed. The absorption and conversion of propionaldehyde as a model pollutant was measured by systematic variation of the gas and liquid flow rates in the reaction system. At a space velocity of 1000 h−1, it was possible to achieve conversion rates of between 68 and 96%, depending on the trickling density. The degradation capacity of the biological trickle bed is over 500 g propionaldehyde/m3 of reactor per hour. By using a tube bundle (honeycomb tube), it was possible to ensure continuous operation of the reactor with reduced conversion and pressure loss.
BACKGROUND: 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) microbial synthesis through glycerol bioconversion by Lactobacillus reuteri is at the moment characterized by too low performances to consider production at industrial scale. To avoid its toxic accumulation in the medium and to recover this molecule of interest, 3-HP in situ reactive extraction from bioconversion broth was investigated using a hollow fiber membrane contactor (HFMC) in order to intensify its production. The so-called integrated system was compared with the conventional bioconversion system. The impact of the extractive bioconversion on the overall production performance and on cell physiological state was studied. RESULTS: Results underlined drastic inhibitory effects on the producing bacteria, especially under extractive bioconversion conditions despite the use of a HFMC supposed to avoid direct contact between organic phase and bacteria. Indeed, the extractant phase components (trioctylamine in n-decanol) were found to be toxic for the cells (due to solubility and by direct contact). These phenomena were increased by the presence of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) and 3-HP produced during glycerol bioconversion. These cumulative effects induced complete loss of the cellmembrane integrity and esterase activity after 1.5 h of extractive bioconversion. When the bioconversion was conducted alone, the bacterial inhibition was lower, as around 50% of L. reuteri cells remained active with unaltered membrane after 3 h. Hypotheses concerning the mechanisms of action of the observed inhibitions were proposed and discussed.
The effects of a series of sugars, aldehydes, and other substances on the time of set of silica gels have been investigated over a pH range. Diacetone alcohol, propionaldehyde, rhamnose hydrate, and xylose give curves similar to those previously obtained with the alcohols having a constant and equal effect at pH 7. The hexoses behave as a group while the disaccharides show divergent effects. Propionaldehyde and acetone give very similar curves. The implications of the results are discussed.
The Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons reaction of diphenylphosphonoacetamides [(PhO) 2 P(O)CH 2 CONRR'] ( 2a : R, R' = CH 2 Ph; 2b : R = CH 2 Ph, R' = H; 2c : R = Me, R' = OMe) was examined. The reaction of 2a was found to be Z -selective for benzaldehyde with selectivities up to 94:6. Reagent 2b led to reasonable selectivity for both benzaldehyde (85:15) and 3-phenylpropionaldehyde (87:13), while 2c was somewhat effective only for the latter aldehyde (83:17).
Reductive alkylation of porcine pancreatic trypsin with acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, octaldehyde and benzaldehyde resulted in about 5 to 6 folds increase in the sugar esterification activities of the enzyme in DMF. The optimum activities of the modified enzymes depend on the degrees of their modification with the respective aldehydes. These alkylated trypsins were more stable in DMF compared to the native unmodified enzyme at temperatures between 26 and 60°C.
Heterogeneous CO/H{sub 2}/C{sub 2}H{sub 4} reaction of 4 wt% Rh/SiO{sub 2} catalyst was studied using steady-state pulse transient method coupled with in situ infrared spectroscopy. The dynamic responses measured at various partial pressures of reactants show that the CO/H{sub 2}/C{sub 2}H{sub 4} reaction can accurately be described by a Langmuir-Hinshelwood-Hougen-Watson (LHHW) model with the hydrogenation of adsorbed C{sub 2}H{sub 5}CO as the rate-determining step for propionaldehyde formation and the hydrogenation of adsorbed C{sub 2}H{sub 5} as the rate-determining step for ethane formation. The kinetic model also accurately describes the adsorption isotherm OF acyl intermediates measured by the pulse isotopic transient and adsorption isotherm of CO measured by IR spectroscopy. This study also demonstrates that the measurement of coverage of adsorbates by isotopic tracer pulsing and in situ infrared spectroscopy provides direct experimental evidence to confirm a postulated mechanism and rate law.
The norspermidine-pyruvate reaction catalyzed by polyamine aminotransferase from Arthrobacter sp. TMP-1 formed N-3-aminopropyl-3-aminopropionaldehyde (APAPAL), L-alanine, 1,3-diaminopropane (DAP), allylamine, and acrolein, and the relative rates of formation of the latter four products were 24, 3.3, 2.3, and 1.2%, respectively, of the rate of the DAP-pyruvate transamination. The identification of APAPAL was done by 13C-NMR after it had been enzymatically oxidized to N-3-aminopropyl-beta-alanine followed by isolation of the oxidized product. The DAP was also isolated and identified by 13C-NMR. The allylamine and acrolein were identified by HPLC and a specific color reaction with m-aminophenol, respectively. In the absence of pyruvate, the enzyme catalyzed the elimination of DAP from norspermidine to yield allylamine, and the addition of DAP to allylamine to yield norspermidine with relative rates of 0.007 and 0.095%, respectively. When allylamine was incubated with the enzyme as the sole substrate, it was converted to N-allyl-1,3-diaminopropane and an unidentified product.
Objective The reactions of quaternary ammoniumsalts of N-heterocycles were investigated. Methods The rearrangement reactions of N-heterocycles might be performed if the N-ylide intermediates can be generated.In compounds containing a β-hydrogen atom,Hofmann elimination may compete and in many cases provides the major product.We tried N-cyanomethyl-N-methylpiperidine bromide and N-cyanomethyl-N-methyltropinone bromide which were treated with sodium hydride. Results The quaternary ammonium salt N-cyanomethyl-N-methylpiperidine bromide furnished the rearrangement reactions products 2-piperidinyl-2-cyanoyl-propionaldehyde and N-cyanomethyl-atropine bromide gave Hofmann elimination product 2-piperidinyl-2-cyanoyl-propionaldehyde. Conclusion Thus we have explored the reaction quaternary ammoniumsalts of N-heterocycles with sodium hydride.Some of them performed Hofmann elimination reactions and some of them underwent rearrangement reactions.N-methylpiperidine and tropinone derivatives were tested.N-methylpiperidine derivative react with sodium borohydride to performed rearrangement reactions.Tropinone derivatives performed Hofmann elimination reaction and cyclize to produce 7.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde isa precursortoacrolein, whichcanbeusedasan intermediate formakingacrylic acidanda variety ofotheruseful industrial chemicals. Conversion ofglycerol, arenewable resource, to3-hydroxypropionaldehyde was attempted viaaction ofglycerol dehydrase isolated fromLactobacillussp.strain NRRL B-1720. Thismethod, however, wasunsatisfactory because enzyme activity was lostwithin60to90minafter thereaction initiation. Fermentation ofglycerol bywholecells ofKlebsiella pneumoniae NRRL B-199 in thepresenceofoptimal semicarbazide hydrochloride proved more effective. Usingthis technique, glycerol solutions of30g/liter yielded 3-hydroxypropionaldehydesolutions of13.1g/liter. Thus, aconversion efficiency equal to55%ofthe theoretical maximumwas realized. Inalcoholic fermentations ofglucose, glycerol isoften present asabyproduct formed viathe Eoffprocess. 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA)canbederived fromglycerol bytheaction ofcertain bacterial contaminants. Ifthese processes occurina fermentation, theresulting beverage isleft witha bitter flavor thatis accentuated upondistillation. This"peppery" flavor isassociated withthepresence ofacrolein,whichisnotaproduct ofglycerol metabolism, butrather occurs inchemical equilibrium with3-HPAinaqueous solution. Pressman and Lucas(9)havedemonstrated thisequilibrium andhavefoundittofavor acrolein inthepresenceofhydronium ionsorheat(orboth)as during distillation. Beginning withVoisenet in1910(15), researchers investigated thecauseofacrolein's presence inalcoholic beverages todevelop methods forpreventing it. Formanyyears acrolein wasbelieved tobeaproduct inthebacterial metabolism ofglycerol (seereviews inreferences10and12), butthis theory waseventually refuted. Themetabolism ofglycerol by3-HPAforming bacteria wasfirst accurately postulated in1960bySobolov andSmiley(Fig. 1)via Lactobacillus sp.strain 208-A(12), anorganism identified asa contaminant ofgrainalcohol fermentations (7,10).Whenresting cells were allowed tometabolize [1-14C]glycerol, theyproducedequimolar concentrations oflabeled 1,3propanediol and3-hydroxypropionic acid.A carbon balance showed100%recovery ofthe carbon inthese twoproducts. Basedonthese observations, 3-HPAwaspostulated tobean intermediate susceptible todismutation toequimolar amountsofdiol andacid. Inthesameyear chemical analyses ofAbeles etal.(1)positively identified 3-HPAastheintermediate produced andsuggested NADH andH+ astheenzyme cofactors involved inthedismutation. In1962 Smiley andSobolov (11) isolated thecobamiderequiring enzymethat catalyzes thedehydration ofglycerol to3-HPAfromLactobacillus sp. strain 208-A. Contrary tothephilosophy ofearly scientists dedicated toperfecting theflavors ofalcoholic beverages, thefermentative production of3HPAfromglycerol could becomeahighly desirable process, since 3-HPAcanbedehydrated to acrolein andsubsequently oxidized toacrylic acid(Fig. 2).Acrylic acidisanindustrially important polymerizable monomercurrently valued at$0.60 perlb(1lbisca.453.59 g)(2), buteachpoundisderived from3lbofpetroleum.Although thecountry's total petroleum consumption wasunstable between 1978and 1980, thepercentage diverted tothepetrochemicalindustry increased from8.1to9.9, andnearly one-fourth ofthe200x 109lbofchemicals produced annually consisted ofsynthetic monomerslikeacrylic acid(Table 1)(4;personal communication withKitty Seiferleim, DepartmentofEnergyInformation Administration, Washington, D.C.). Toreduce ourdependence onlimited fossil oilreserves, newenergy-efficient routes areneededthatutilize renewable resources asfeedstocks forthesynthesis of acrylic acid andother petroleum-derived chemi
The gas phase hydrogenation of acrolein over 7.5% Ag/SiO2 has been studied in a broad pressure range from 7.5 mbar to 20 bar. Higher pressures favour the formation of allyl alcohol (selectivities up to 42%), whereas at low pressures propionaldehyde is by far the main product. In situ-XAS has been performed at 7.5 mbar in order to gain insight into the interaction of acrolein with Ag(1 1 1). Hydrogenated propionaldehyde-like surface species could be detected which orientated parallel to the surface. The observed intermediate correlates perfectly with the online catalytic data.
The reactivity of allyl alcohol and 1-propanol has been studied with TDS and XPS on the polar, Cu[sup +]-terminated, Cu[sub 2]O(100) surface. Allyl alcohol reacts on the (100) surface to give selective and nonselective oxidation products (acrolein, CO, CO[sub 2], H[sub 2]O), an isomerization product (propionaldehyde), and a reduction product (propene). 1-Propanol also reacts on the (100) surface to give selective and nonselective oxidation products (acrolein, propionaldehyde, CO, CO[sub 2], H[sub 2]O) and a reduction product (propene). Both alcohols dissociatively adsorb to form alkoxides. The alkoxide species undergo hydride elimination on the carbon [alpha] to the oxygen to form the corresponding aldehydes. The acrolein and propionaldehyde formed from the alcohols are linked by a common surface enolate intermediate which explains the similarity in C[sub 3] products observed from the two alcohols. A low-temperature reaction to propene is attributed to pathways involving C-O bond scission from unsaturated surface oxygenates to give a surface allyl. Hydrogenation of the resulting allyl produces propene at low temperature. 28 refs., 6 figs., 2 tabs.
Abstract Lactobacillus reuteri converts glycerol into 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), a promising preservative and chemical precursor. Production of 3-HPA by L. reuteri is limited due to the toxicity of 3-HPA to the producing cells. To circumvent this toxicity, the suitability of bisulfite as 3-HPA scavenger during production was assessed. Concentrations of 400 mM 3-HPA or bisulfite caused a viable cell number decrease from 10 10 to 10 7 and 10 8 cells/ml, respectively, in 1 h. In contrast, the 3-HPA-bisulfite adduct was not toxic for the cells. Cells exhibiting high specific 3-HPA yield in a standardized glycerol conversion test were used to test bisulfite as scavenger during 3-HPA production. Addition of bisulfite (pH 5.8) after 2, 25, and 50 min resulted in conversion of 591 ± 15 mM glycerol within 2 h, similar to the rates under control conditions without bisulfite (501 ± 22 mM). Furthermore, cells from the production with bisulfite were still biological active after 3 consecutive production cycles, converting in total 974 ± 8 mM glycerol in 4 cycles, whereas cells from the control virtually lost their capability to utilize glycerol after two cycles and converted 695.5 ± 3.5 mM. Our results demonstrate the suitability of bisulfite to scavenge 3-HPA to obtain high yields during biotechnological production by the food grade microorganism L. reuteri .
1. The properties and distribution of the NAD-linked unspecific aldehyde dehydrogenase activity (aldehyde: NAD+ oxidoreductase EC 1.2.1.3) has been studied in isolated cytoplasmic, mitochondrial and microsomal fractions of rat liver. The various types of aldehyde dehydrogenase were separated by ion exchange chromatography and isoelectric focusing. 2. The cytoplasmic fraction contained 10-15, the mitochondrial fraction 45-50 and the microsomal fraction 35-40% of the total aldehyde dehydrogenase activity, when assayed with 6.0 mM propionaldehyde as substrate. 3. The cytoplasmic fraction contained two separable unspecific aldehyde dehydrogenases, one with high Km for aldehydes (in the millimolar range) and the other with low Km for aldehydes (in the micromolar range). The latter can, however, be due to leakage from mitochondria. The high-Km enzyme fraction contained also all D-glucuronolactone dehydrogenase activity of the cytoplasmic fraction. The specific formaldehyde and betaine aldehyde dehydrogenases present in the cytoplasmic fraction could be separated from the unspecific activities. 4. In the mitochondrial fraction there was one enzyme with a low Km for aldehydes and another with high Km for aldehydes, which was different from the cytoplasmic enzyme. 5. The microsomal aldehyde dehydrogenase had a high Km for aldehydes and had similar properties as the mitochondrial high-Km enzyme. Both enzymes have very little activity with formaldehyde and glycolaldehyde in contrast to the other aldehyde dehydrogenases. They are apparently membranebound.
Abstract: Glutaraldehyde (GA) fixation of bioprosthetic tissue is a well adapted technique, with commercial products on the market for almost 40 years. Amine groups present in tissue react with GA to form different types of cross-links. An estimation of the degree of cross-linking of the tissue can be obtained by measuring the concentration of residual amine groups, which is frequently carried out with the 2,4,6 trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS) assay. Cross-linked tissue and collagen matrices are usually further characterized by determining their physical properties (such as the shrinkage temperature), biological properties (such as resistance to enzymatic degradation), and mechanical properties before in vivo evaluation takes place. In an effort to improve the properties of cross-linked tissue and collagen, alternative cross-linking methods have been developed. One of these methods is based on the use of water soluble carbodiimides (CDI). It is generally accepted that this cross-linking method leads only to the formation of amide linkages between tissue carboxyl and amine groups. Therefore, until recently the TNBS assay was also used to determine the degree of cross-linking of CDI crosslinked tissue and collagen. However, it cannot be excluded that after activation of carboxyl groups of tissue and collagen by CDI, these groups can react with other nucleophiles (like hydroxyl groups) present in the matrix. To obtain a better insight in the degree of cross-linking of CDI crosslinked matrices a reliable assay for quantification of residual carboxyl groups is required. Up to now such an assay was not available. In this study a new assay to determine residual carboxyl groups in CDI cross-linked collagen matrices is presented. Reconstituted dermal bovine collagen matrices (RDBC) were cross-linked with a water soluble CDI and N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) and residual carboxyl groups were labeled using 5-bromomethyl fluorescein. Subsequently, the fluorescent label was released by mild hydrolysis and quantified with capillary zone electrophoresis. A calibration curve relating the concentration of carboxyl groups with peak intensities was obtained using Sephadex TM standards with known concentrations of carboxyl groups. The concentration of carboxyl groups in unprocessed RDBC as determined with this new technique was equal to the concentration of carboxyl groups measured by amino acid analysis. On the basis of the concentration of residual carboxyl groups determined for CDI/ NHS cross-linked RDBC and RDBC, in which the amine groups were blocked with propionaldehyde before CDI/ NHS cross-linking, it was concluded that activated carboxyl groups can also react with other groups (such as hydroxyl groups) present in the matrix. This implies that the crosslink density of RDBC matrices after treatment with CDI/NHS is higher than expected on the basis of amide bond formation only, as determined by the TNBS assay.
Concerns have been raised about the potential health effects of potential bystander exposure to exhaled aerosols from e-vapor products (EVPs). An exhaled breath collection system (EBS) was developed and analytical methods were verified for collection and analysis of exhaled breath from users of EVPs. Analytical methods were adapted and verified for collection of environmental air samples during EVP use in an exposure chamber. Analysis of constituents in exhaled breath focused on nicotine, propylene glycol, and glycerin (because these are reported as the major constituents in EVPs) and selected carbonyl compounds (acetaldehyde, acrolein, and formaldehyde). Analysis of environmental samples included nicotine, propylene glycol, glycerin, 12 volatile organic compounds (VOCs), 15 carbonyl compounds and 4 metals. The EBS and analytical methods used were found to be suitable for collection and analysis of the target constituents in exhaled breath. Environmental sampling for background levels of VOCs and carbonyl compounds found only acetone, acetaldehyde, benzene, ethylbenzene, formaldehyde, isoprene, methyl ethyl ketone, hexaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and toluene above the limit of quantification in some samples. None of the targeted metals were detected. Background levels of VOCs and carbonyl compounds were consistent with levels previously reported for ambient air.
The gas phase hydrogenation of acrolein over 7.5% Ag/SiO 2 has been studied in a broad pressure range from 7.5 mbar to 20 bar. Higher pressures favour the formation of allyl alcohol (selectivities up to 42 %), whereas at low pressures propionaldehyde is by far the main product. In situ-XAS has been performed at 7.5 mbar in order to gain insight into the interaction of acrolein with Ag(111). Hydrogenated propionaldehyde-like surface species could be detected which orientated parallel to the surface. The observed intermediate correlates perfectly with the online catalytic data.
One feasible way to produce unsaturated alcohols, a desired group of intermediates of fine chemical processes, is the selective hydrogenation of unsaturated aldehydes [1] . However, when using lower α,β-unsaturated aldehydes, like acrolein and crotonaldehyde, and conventional hydrogenation catalysts like Pt, Ni or Ru on SiO 2 or Al 2 O 3 , the observed selectivities to unsaturated alcohols are not attractive for industrial applications. Acrolein, for example, can either be hydrogenated to the saturated aldehyde, propionaldehyde (PA), or to the unsaturated alcohol, allyl alcohol (AyOH). From both products, the consecutive hydrogenation to n-propanol is possible. Using Ru-and Ni catalysts, the selectivity to the unsaturated alcohol is low [1] . Gold and silver catalysts, on the other hand, show much higher intrinsic selectivities to the desired allylic alcohols [ 2 -6] . In case of acrolein hydrogenation, the selectivity to propanol or by-products is low (in most cases below 5 %), and mainly allyl alcohol and propionaldehyde are formed via hydrogenation of the C=O group and C=C bond, respectively. We therefore turned our focus on the investigation of acrolein hydrogenation over silver (and gold) catalysts. Many important features in catalysis like adsorption/desorption, orientation of adsorbates, solubility of reactants in the active phase etc. and even the reaction mechanism may exhibit strong pressure dependence and may influence the product distribution in heterogeneously catalyzed reactions. Due to the absence of consecutive reactions, the reaction network of acrolein hydrogenation is very simple (indeed, the reaction can be treated as simple parallel reaction) and perfectly suited to study the effect of reaction pressure on the intramolecular selectivity. We have therefore studied acrolein hydrogenation in a broad pressure range to evaluate the influence of pressure on the product distribution. Additionally, in situ-X-ray absorption spectroscopy has been applied for the first time to gain information about the chemisorption modus of acrolein or possible reaction intermediates.
In order to obtain enantiomerically pure σ1 receptor ligands with a 2-benzopyran scaffold an Oxa-Pictet-Spengler reaction with the enantiomerically pure 2-phenylethanol derivatives (R)-4 and (S)-4 was envisaged. The kinetic resolution of racemic alcohol (±)-4 using Amano Lipase PS-C II and isopropenyl acetate in tert-butyl methyl ether led to the (R)-configured alcohol (R)-4 in 42% yield with an enantiomeric excess of 99.6%. The (S)-configured alcohol (S)-4 was obtained by Amano Lipase PS-C II catalyzed hydrolysis of enantiomerically enriched acetate (S)-5 (76.9% ee) and provided (S)-4 in 26% yield and 99.7% ee. The absolute configuration of alcohol (R)-4 was determined by exciton coupled CD spectroscopy of the bis(bromobenzoate) (R)-7. The next important step for the synthesis of 2-benzopyrans 2 and 3 was the Oxa-Pictet-Spengler reaction of the enantiomerically pure alcohols (R)-4 and (S)-4 with piperidone ketal 8 and chloropropionaldehyde acetal 12. The conformationally restricted spirocyclic 2-benzopyrans 2 revealed higher σ1 affinity than the more flexible aminoethyl derivatives 3. The (R)- and (R,R)-configured enantiomers (R)-2 and (R,R)-3 represent the eutomers of this class of compounds with eudismic ratios of 4.8 (2b) and 4.5 (2c). High σ1/σ2 selectivity (>49) was found for the most potent σ1 ligands (R)-2b, (R)-2c, (R)-2d, and (S)-2d (Ki(σ1) 9-15nM).
A 10% granular formulation of Temik® (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) applied at 20 pounds per acre in the fertilizer band at planting time gave good season-long control of the potato psyllid, Paratrioza cockerelli (Sulc), and the green peach aphid, Myzus persicae (Sulzer), on Kennebec potatoes. Yields of marketable grades were substantially increased over the next best treatment and were more than twice that of the untreated check.
2-Methylimidazole (2MI), as well as imidazole, has been thought to undergo cupro-ascorbate (Cu-VC)-catalyzed oxidative transformation in vitro to become a reactive species capable of combining with aldehydes intrinsic to connective-tissue proteins. We attempted to seize the essence of the above reaction through obtaining the structural information of an aldehyde-bonding species. As major products from 2MI in the in vitro Cu-VC system, 2-hydroxymethylimidazole (2(OH)MI) and 2-methyl-4(5H)(or 5(4H))-imidazolone (2MIone) were identified by mass-spectral and chromatographic comparison with the corresponding authentic standards synthesized. The in situ addition of acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde as a simple protein-aldehyde model to the system resulted in the deducible formation of an aldol condensate, 2-methyl-4(or 5)-ethylidene-4(5H)(or 5(4H))-imidazolone (2MEIone) or its possible analogue with a propylidene moiety, respectively. The authentic compound of 2MIone directly reacted with acetaldehyde and easily afforded the products assignable to the isomers of 2MEIone through the ethylidene moiety at physiological pH and temperature, whereas neither 2MI or 2(OH)MI reacted at all. These results suggest that a 4(5H)(or 5(4H))-imidazolone product, although simply a monooxygenated form, is sufficiently reactive to give aldol condensation-typed covalent adducts with aldehydes, even under physiological conditions, probably having an activated methylene moiety in the ring structure. Based on the present results, we discussed the mechanism of the retention of imidazole-containing drugs in connective tissue.
β-(Pyridyl-4′)-propionaldehyde-diethylacetal (II) is obtained in a yield of 39% by the action of bromoacetal on γ-picolyllithium (I). By allowing I to react with acetyl bromide or with ethyl acetate, a 34% yield of (pyridyl-4′)-propanone (III) is obtained. By the action of carbon dioxide on I, (pyridyl-4′)-acetic acid is prepared, which is isolated as the ethyl ester (IV) (yield 34%).
The cytosolic activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) was studied in the rat liver, after acute administration of various carcinogenic and chemically related compounds. Male Wistar rats were treated with 27 different chemicals, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, aromatic amines, nitrosamines, azo dyes, as well as with some known direct-acting carcinogens. The cytosolic ALDH activity of the liver was determined either with propionaldehyde and NAD (P/NAD), or with benzaldehyde and NADP (B/NADP). The activity of ALDH remained unaffected after treatment with 1-naphthylamine, nitrosamines and also with the direct-acting chemical carcinogens tested. On the contrary, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, polychlorinated biphenyls (Arochlor 1254) and 2-naphthylamine produced a remarkable increase of ALDH. In general, the response to the effectors was disproportionate between the two types of enzyme activity, being much in favour for the B/NADP activity. This fact resulted to an inversion of the ratio B/NADP vs. P/NAD, which under constitutive conditions is lower than 1. In this respect, the most potent compounds were found to be polychlorinated biphenyls, 3-methylcholanthrene, benzo(a)pyrene and 1,2,5,6-dibenzoanthracene. Our results suggest that the B/NADP activity of the soluble ALDH is greatly induced after treatment with compounds possessing aromatic ring(s) in their molecule. It is not known, if this response of the hepatocytes is related with the process of chemical carcinogenesis.
Despite of all its therapeutic values for human beings,the use of recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor(rhG-CSF) has a primary limitation because of its short half-life in the peripheral blood.In order to solve this problem,the N-terminus of rhG-CSF was PEGylated in a site-specific manner by methoxy poly-ethylene glycol(mPEG) propionaldehydes with an average molecular weight of either 5 kD or 20 kD,respectively.With a statistical L_9(3~4) orthogonal test,the optimal conditions of the site-specific reaction were achieved.The results indicated that PEG-rhG-CSF had higher stability than unmodified rhG-CSF while incubated with protease or human serum or placed in an extreme environment such as at an extreme temperature or in a solution with extreme pH.Meanwhile the modified rhG-CSF increased the number of leukocytes in the blood of Kunming mice much more significantly than did unmodified rhG-CSF.In conclusion,these results show that PEGylation not only enhances the stability of rhG-CSF in vitro,but also distinctly increases its in vivo activity and thus this PEGylation promotes the clinical application of rhG-CSF.
The free-living protist Euglena gracilis showed an enhanced growth when cultured in the dark with high concentrations of ethanol as carbon source. In a medium containing glutamate/malate plus 1% ethanol, E. gracilis reached a density of 3 x 10(7) cells/ml after 100 h of culture, which was 5 times higher than that attained with glutamate/malate or ethanol separately. This observation suggested the involvement of a highly active aldehyde dehydrogenase in the metabolism of ethanol. Purification of the E. gracilis aldehyde dehydrogenase from the mitochondrial fraction by affinity chromatography yielded an enrichment of 34 times and recovery of 33% of the total mitochondrial activity. SDS-PAGE and molecular exclusion chromatography revealed a native tetrameric protein of 160 kDa. Kinetic analysis showed Km values of 5 and 50 microM for propionaldehyde and NAD(+), respectively, and a Vm value of 1,300 nmol (min x mg protein)(-1). NAD(+) and NADH stimulated the esterase activity of the purified aldehyde dehydrogenase. The present data indicated that the E. gracilis aldehyde dehydrogenase has kinetic and structural properties similar to those of human aldehyde dehydrogenases class 1 and 2.
Abstract The stereochemistry of the oxidative dehydrogenation of ( Z )-allyl alcohol-3- d 1 to acrolein over a silver catalyst has been studied using microwave spectroscopy for analyses. With oxygen present randomization was less than 16% over the temperature range 160–290 °C. In the absence of oxygen acrolein was still produced by dehydrogenation but randomization rose to 60–80% and some propionaldehyde- d 1 was observed. Under both conditions repassage of stereolabeled acrolein along with unlabeled allyl alcohol led to similar amounts of randomization to the above. The data indicate that the reaction of allyl alcohol occurs with retention of alkene stereochemistry while a repeated readsorption process leads to randomization in the acrolein. It would appear likely that the primary interaction of acrolein and allyl alcohol with the reduced silver is via the oxygen atom of each. Thus the chemistry does not involve the formation of π-allyl intermediates as observed with oxide catalysts.
Oxidative dehydrogenation of amines using heterogeneous gold catalysts has unanticipated potential; chemisorbed atomic oxygen is used to activate propylamine, producing propionitrile and/or propionaldehyde on a single-crystal Au(111) surface.
Background ::: 1,3-Propanediol is the starting point of a new-generation polymer with superior properties which can be used in many industrial fields. 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde and lactate have been identified as two important metabolites in the biological route of 1,3-propanediol bioconversion from glycerol. Here, influence of lactate on the inhibition caused by 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde of 1,3-propanediol fermentation by Klebsiella pneumoniae is reported.
2,2-Dialkylpropionaldehydes I I where R1 and R2 are each C1-C4-alkyl, are prepared by hydroformylation of 1,1-dialkylethylenes II II with cobalt carbonyl complexes, entailing (a) carrying out the reaction in the presence of water-containing solvents in which water is soluble or at least partially soluble, with the water content of the reaction mixture being from 0.1 to 20% by weight, or (b) carrying out the reaction in the presence of a lactone which can have one or more C1-C4-alkyl substituents, or of an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic sulfone.
When grown anaerobically on L-rhamnose, Salmonella typhimurium excreted 1,2-propanediol as a fermentation product. Upon exhaustion of the methyl pentose, 1,2-propanediol was recaptured and further metabolized, provided the culture was kept under anaerobic conditions. n-Propanol and propionate were found in the medium as end products of this process at concentrations one-half that of 1,2-propanediol. As in Klebsiella pneumoniae (T. Toraya, S. Honda, and S. Fukui, J. Bacteriol. 139:39-47, 1979), a diol dehydratase which transforms 1,2-propanediol to propionaldehyde and the enzymes involved in a dismutation that converts propionaldehyde to n-propanol and propionate were induced in S. typhimurium cultures able to transform 1,2-propanediol anaerobically.
Biodegradation of the herbicide EPTC (s-ethyl dipropylcarbamothioate) at greatly enhanced rates, which may lead to poor weed control, can occur in soil after successive annual applications. The mechanisms of EPTC degradation by a strain of Rhodococcus sp. (designated JE1) previously isolated from soil were evaluated. Degredation of 14 C-labeled (at the 1-propyl position) and unlabeled EPTC was followed by thin layer chromatogaphy and gas chromatography- mass spectrometry. The N-depropyl EPTC and EPTC sulfoxide were identified as initial metabolites formed, apparently via hydroxylation of the α-propyl C and oxidation of the S atom of EPTC, respectively. Other products of EPTC degradation identified were propionaldehyde, s-ethyl carbonothioic acid, s-methyl carbonothioic acid, and traces of propylamine. It is proposed that the soil isolate Rhodococcus JE1 degrades EPTC via either an initial hydroxylation or sulfoxidation reaction, producing metabolites that can be further mineralized to form CO 2 . The α-propyl hydroxylation reaction, however, is thought to be the dominant pathway whereby degradation of EPTC occurs in soil at enhanced rates.
The invention relates to a synthetic method of 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-cyclopropyl-1-propanone. The synthetic method comprises steps as follows: (1), hydroxy lamine hydrochloride is dissolved in a solvent, alkali is added, the pH (potential of hydrogen) value is adjusted, a raw material of cyclopropyl propionaldehyde is added at the appropriate temperature for a reaction, and cyclopropyl acetaldoxime is obtained through extraction, concentration and drying after the reaction ends; (2), newly prepared p-chlorophenyl diazonium salt and a catalyst are added to cyclopropyl acetaldoxime at the lower temperature, acid is added, the mixture is heated to have a reaction, and 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-cyclopropyl-1-propanone is obtained through aftertreatment after the reaction ends. The synthetic route is shown in the specification. The synthetic method has the advantages as follows: the cost of raw materials is low, the overall yield of the reaction is high, the technological operation is safe, aftertreatment is simple and convenient, and the synthetic method has industrial application value.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is a value-added chemical for polymer synthesis. For biosynthesis of 3-HP from glycerol, two dhaB and dhaR clusters encoding glycerol dehydratase and its reactivating factor, respectively, were cloned from Lactobacillus brevis KCTC33069 and expressed in Escherichia coli. Coexpression of dhaB and dhaR allowed the recombinant E. coli to convert glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, an intermediate of 3-HP biosynthesis. To produce 3-HP from glycerol, fed-batch fermentation with a two-step feeding strategy was designed to separate the cell growth from the 3-HP production stages. Finally, E. coli JHS00947 expressing L .brevis dhaB and dhaR, and E. coli aldH produced 14.3g/L 3-HP with 0.26 g/L-h productivity, which were 14.6 and 8.53 times higher than those of the batch culture. In conclusion, overexpression of L. brevis dhaB and dhaR clusters and E. coli aldH, and implementation of the two-step feeding strategy enabled recombinant E. coli to convert glycerol to 3-HP efficiently.
1-3 PPD dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.202) was purified to homogeneity from Clostridium butyricum E5 grown anaerobically on glycerol in continuous culture. The native enzyme was estimated by gel filtration to have a molecular weight of 384 200 +/- 31 100 Da; it is predicted to exist as an octamer or a decamer of identical molecular weight subunits. When tested as a dehydrogenase, the enzyme was most active with 1-3 propane diol. In the physiological direction, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde was the preferred substrate. The apparent K(m) values of the enzyme for 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and NADH were 0.17 mM and 0.06 mM, respectively. The enzyme requires only Mn(2+) for full activity. The enzyme was found to have properties similar to those reported for Klebsellia pneumoniae, Citrobacter freundii, and Clostridium pasteurianum.
The reaction of trifluoroacetaldehyde ethyl hemiacetal or hydrate with an equimolar amount of enamines, derived from various methyl ketones, smoothly proceeded to give the corresponding β-hydroxy-β-trifluoromethyl ketones in high yields. An equimolar amount of imines derived from various methyl ketones with aliphatic, aromatic, and heteroaromatic substituents also readily reacted with trifluoroacetaldehyde ethyl hemiacetal or hydrate to afford the corresponding β-hydroxy-β-trifluoromethyl ketones in good to excellent yields. Difluoroacetaldehyde ethyl hemiacetal as well as pentafluoropropionaldehyde also participated in the reaction, affording good yields of the corresponding β-hydroxy-β-difluoromethyl or β-pentafluoropropyl ketones.
Short, efficient routes to several 7,8-dimethoxy-1-haloalkyl-1,3,4,5-tetrahydro-2-benzoxepins were developed. These benzoxepins were prepared by the Lewis acid catalyzed condensation of the acetals of chloropropionaldehyde or bromoacetaldehyde with 3-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-propanol. This condensation was facilitated by methyl substitution on the propanol. In an alternate route, ethyl 3-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)propanoate was acylated with 3-chloropropionyl chloride. The adduct was reduced with lithium aluminum hydride. The resultant 3-[2-(3-chloro-1-hydroxypropyl)-4,5-dimethoxyphenyl]propanol was dehydrated to the corresponding tetrahydrobenzoxepin. By these two general routes, 7,8-dimethoxy-1,3,4,5-tetrahydro-2-benzoxepins were produced which were substituted by hydrogen or methyl at benzoxepin C-4 and chloroethyl or bromomethyl at benzoxepin C-1.
The role of single electron transfer (SET) in P450-catalyzed N-dealkylation reactions has been studied using the probe substrates N-cyclopropyl-N-methylaniline (2a) and N-(1'-methylcyclopropyl)-N-methylaniline (2b). In earlier work, we showed that SET oxidation of 2a by horseadish peroxidase leads exclusively to products arising via fragmentation of the cyclopropane ring [Shaffer, C. L.; Morton, M. D.; Hanzlik, R. P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 8502-8508]. In the present study, we found that liver microsomes from phenobarbital pretreated rats (which contain CYP2B1 as the predominant isozyme) oxidize [1'-(13)C, 1'-(14)C]-2a efficiently (80% consumption in 90 min). Disappearance of 2a follows first-order kinetics throughout, indicating a lack of P450 inactivation by 2a. HPLC examination of incubation mixtures revealed three UV-absorbing metabolites: N-methylaniline (4), N-cyclopropylaniline (6a), and a metabolite (M1) tentatively identified as p-hydroxy-2a, in a 2:5:2 mole ratio, respectively. 2,4-Dinitrophenylhydrazine trapping indicated formation of formaldehyde equimolar with 6a; 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and acrolein were not detected. Examination of incubations of 2a by (13)C NMR revealed four (13)C-enriched signals, three of which were identified by comparison to authentic standards as N-cyclopropylaniline (6a, 33.6 ppm), cyclopropanone hydrate (11, 79.2 ppm), and propionic acid (12, 179.9 ppm); the fourth signal (42.2 ppm) was tentatively determined to be p-hydroxy-2a. Incubation of 2a with purified reconstituted CYP2B1 also afforded 4, 6a, and M1 in a 2:5:2 mole ratio (by HPLC), indicating that all metabolites are formed at a single active site. Incubation of 2b with PB microsomes resulted in p-hydroxylation and N-demethylation only; no loss or ring-opening of the cyclopropyl group occurred. These results effectively rule out the participation of a SET mechanism in the P450-catalyzed N-dealkylation of cyclopropylamines 2a and 2b, and argue strongly for the N-dealkylation of 2a via a carbinolamine intermediate formed by a conventional C-hydroxylation mechanism.
Engineering strain was acquired by transforming directly evolved plasmid from the incubated conservation bacterium E.coli BL21(DE3)pLysS/PET-15b-dhaT’-24 to the host cell E.coli BL21(DE3)pLysS.The lactose induced engineering strain was fermented to acquire 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase(PDOR)with 182 U/mL activity.The optimal reaction pH was 10 and the pH stabile range was 7.0—9.0.The optimal reaction temperature was 55 ℃ and stabile temperature range was 30 — 45 ℃.3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde(3-HPA) was catalysed by the PDOR to produce 1,3-propanediol(1,3-PD).The reaction was coupled with another reaction of glycerol dehydrogenase(GDH,acquired from another engineering strain)to realize NADH regeneration.Thus,1,3-PD coupling enzymatic catalysis was constructed.Due to the two enzymes from engineering strains showed suitable characteristics,the reaction was continued for 34 hours and 63.4% translation rate of 3-HPA,64.6% 1,3-PD production rate were acquired.
Abstract Ethylene was produced when methional (β-methylthio-propionaldehyde) was incubated under aerobic conditions with milk xanthine oxidase plus xanthine. The accumulation of ethylene under these conditions exhibited a brief lag phase which was overcome by small amounts of hydrogen peroxide. The production of ethylene was inhibited by either superoxide dismutase or by catalase, indicating that both superoxide anion radicals and hydrogen peroxide were required. We have proposed that the hydroxyl radical is the chemical species actually responsible for the production of ethylene from methional and that hydroxyl radicals are generated in the aerobic xanthine oxidase system. This proposal generated several predictions which were experimentally affirmed. 1. Compounds which act as scavengers of hydroxyl radicals inhibited the production of ethylene. 2. Xanthine oxidase acting on limiting amounts of xanthine accumulated less than the theoretical amount of hydrogen peroxide and superoxide dismutase increased the amount of peroxide accumulated. 3. Xanthine oxidase plus ample xanthine reduced cytochrome c to a plateau representing a balance between the reduction of ferricytochrome c by O2- and the oxidation of ferrocytochrome c by ·OH. Scavengers of the hydroxyl radical allowed more nearly complete reduction of cytochrome c. Catalase did likewise. 4. Xanthine oxidase exhibited a xanthine-dependent ferrocytochrome c peroxidase activity which was inhibited by catalase, superoxide dismutase, or by scavengers of the hydroxyl radical. These results have led to the conclusion that xanthine oxidase generates O2- and H2O2 as the primary products of the reduction of oxygen and generates ·OH as a secondary consequence of the interaction of O2- with H2O2 and that it is the hydroxyl radical rather than the superoxide anion radical which reacts with methional to generate ethylene.
Background: 1,3-Propanediol is the starting point of a new-generation polymer with superior properties which can be used in many industrial fields. 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde and lactate have been identified as two important metabolites in the biological route of 1,3-propanediol bioconversion from glycerol. Here, influence of lactate on the inhibition caused by 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde of 1,3-propanediol fermentation by Klebsiella pneumoniae is reported.
To date, glycerol-based biosynthesis of chemicals has attracted much attention due to ample glycerol derived from biodiesel production. Klebsiella pneumoniae can naturally convert glycerol into a series of economically important chemicals, including 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) [1] , 2,3-butanediol (2,3-BD) [2] , and 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) [3] . In K. pneumoniae, glycerol metabolism is mediated by the dha regulon which governs the parallel oxidation and reduction pathways [4] . In the oxidation pathway, glycerol is converted into dihydroxyacetone phosphate which subsequently enters the glycolic pathway. In the reduction pathway, glycerol is converted into 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) by glycerol dehydratase (dhaB) [5] . 3-HPA is catalyzed into 1,3-PD by 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (dhaT) [4] . 3-HPA can also be naturally catalyzed into 3-HP by aldehyde dehydrogenases (AldHs) [6] . Since native AldHs show lower activities than dhaT, 3-HP is less than 1,3-PD in wild type K. pneumoniae. Although AldH overexpression benefits 3-HP production, the lack of appropriate promoter restricts the metabolic engineering of K. pneumoniae [7] .
Short-chain polyols such as ethanediol, propanediol, and butanediol are important commodity chemicals used as solvents, drugs, cosmetics, antifreezes, or as precursors for synthesizing unsaturated polyester resins [1, 2] . Conventionally, short-chain polyols are produced from petroleum-based feedstocks, in which ethanediol is produced by epoxidation of ethylene; 1,2-propanediol is by chlorohydrination of propylene or epoxidation of ethylbenzene hydroperoxide; 1,3-propanediol is by hydration of acrolein known as "Degussa-DuPont route" or by hydroformylation of ethylene oxide to produce 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and then hydrogenated known as "Shell route" [3, 4] ; and 1,4-butanediol is by synthesis of 1,4-butynediol with acetylene and formaldehyde and then hydrogenated known as "Reppe chemistry" [5] .
Tobacco (Nicotianum tabacum L.) plants engineered to express a sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.) betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) cDNA acquired not only BADH activity, but also three other aldehyde dehydrogenase activities (those measured with 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde, 3-aminopropionaldehyde, and 4-aminobutyraldehyde, all of which are natural products). This shows that BADH is not, as believed up to now, a substrate-specific enzyme and that its role may not be limited to glycine betaine synthesis.
The relative importance in the atmosphere of UV photolysis of perfluoropropionaldehyde, CF3CF2CHO, and reaction with hydroxyl (OH) radicals has been investigated in this work. First, the forbidden n → π* transition of the carbonyl chromophore was characterized between 230 and 380 nm as a function of temperature (269–298 K) and UV absorption cross sections, σλ, were determined in those ranges. In addition, IR absorption cross sections were determined between 4000 and 500 cm–1. Pulsed laser photolysis (PLP) of CF3CF2CHO coupled to Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) was employed to determine the overall photolysis quantum yield, Φλ, at 308 nm and 298 K. Φλ=308 nm was pressure dependent, ranging from (0.94 ± 0.14) at 75 Torr to (0.30 ± 0.01) at 760 Torr. This dependence is characterized by the Stern–Volmer parameters Φλ=308 nm0 = (1.19 ± 0.34) and KSV = (1.22 ± 0.52) × 10–19 cm3 molecule–1. End products of the photodissociation of CF3CF2CHO were measured and quantified by FTIR spectroscopy. Furthermore, the ra...
There is little chemical information concerning the volatile odours of silages. This investigation was carried out to investigate the volatile constituents and the chemical quality of two grass-legume silages which were prepared at different cutting stages and therefore having different chemical composition. The ensiling method was essentially the same as that described earlier1).Approximately 2.5kg of each silage was distilled under normal atmospheric pressure, and 10 liters of distillate from each sample was extracted with proper quantity of ether. The ether extracts were analyzed by gas liquid chromatography employing FID.The results obtained were as follows:1. In the silage A extracts, the n-propyl alcohol and/or n-valeraldehyde and n-capron-aldehyde were the major constituents and ethyl alcohol and n-butyl alcohol, and methyl-n-propyl ketone and butyl acetate and the unknown components of unidentified peak No. 11 were the minor constituents.2. On the other hand, the distillate from silage B contained appreciable amounts of ethyl alcohol and n-propyl alcohol and/or n-valeraldehyde and n butyraldehyde and the unknown constituents of unidentified peak No. 15.3. It was assumed that acetaldehyde and/or propionaldehyde were included in peak No. 1, but they were not separated with ether used for extracting the solvent from the columns employed. Similarly, in peak No. 7 the volatiles were not separated.4. An analytical method for the head space vapor was effective to investigate the constituents of low boiling points.5. The n-butyric and n-caproic acid contents of silage A showed higher values, but in the silage B the contents of acetic and lactic acid were contained in higher values.6. In feeding trials with goats, silage B was more palatable than silage A.
Abstract Ru 3 (CO) 12 /1,10-phenanthroline shows excellent catalytic activity for hydroformylation of α-olefins. For example, propylene was hydroformylated under 80 atm of syngas (CO:H 2 = 1:1) at 120–130°C in an amide solvent to give C 4 -aldehydes in high yield (65–93%) with high linearity (n-selectivity = 95%). In the case of 1-octene, corresponding C 9 -aldehydes were obtained in moderate yields (49–55%) with high linearity (n-selectivity > 95%). In the reaction of ethylene, propionaldehyde was obtained in high yield.
Iodine is found to be an effective reagent for the cross-coupling of olefins with aldehydes under mild conditions to produce 4-substituted 1,3-dioxane derivatives in excellent yields and in short reaction times with high selectivity. The use of iodine makes this procedure simple, convenient, cost-effective and practical. This method works not only with formaldehyde but also with acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and cyclohexanecarboxaldehyde.
Aldehyde production by cells of a methanol utilizing yeast, Hansenula nonfermentans KYP-1 was improved when they were grown in a methanol-limited continuous culture, in comparison with cells grown in a batch culture. A higher cell yield was also obtained in continuous culture than in batch culture. This could be due to the fact that a lower methanol concentration was maintained in the jar fermentor to minimize growth inhibition by methanol. A maximum cell productivity of 0.219 g. and a cell yield of 47% were obtained at dilution rates of 0.1 and 0.06 hr{-1}, respectively. The greatest amount of aldehyde was measured at a dilution rate of 0.08 . Under optimum reaction conditions, 915.7 mM of acetaldehyde was produced from 1.5 M ethanol after 21 hours reaction, with a conversion rate of 61%. Propionaldehyde and acrolein were produced with conversion rates of 32.7% and 44%, respectively.
In field experiments granules of Union Carbide UC-21149 [2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(meth-ylcarbamoyl) oxime], Niagara 10242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate), and phorate applied in the furrow at planting controlled thrips ( Frankliniella sp.), and the cotton aphid, Aphis gossypii Glover, for 9 weeks after planting. UC-21149 controlled the cotton fltahopper, Psallus seriatus (Reuter) for 7-10 weeks after planting. Shell 50-9129 (dimethyl phosphate ester with 3-nydroxy- N -methyl- cis -crotonamidc) applied as a stem treatment and UC-21149 applied as a granule sidedrcss treatment gave good control of the cotton flcahopper for at least 2 weeks.
Abstract The movement and degradation of aldicarb (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime) residues was measured in a Dotham loamy sand soil in Barnwell County in southern South Carolina. The experiment was designed to compare movement in a fallow plot versus a soya bean plot and to compare residue results from soil suction lysimeters and soil samples. The soil sample data indicate that aldicarb degraded at a rate corresponding to a half life of approximately 9 days with essentially no residues present 4 months after application. This degradation rate is faster than the 14–39-day half-life measured in nearby states. Because this relatively rapid degradation rate generally constrained residue movement to the upper 0.3 m in both plots (resulting in no significant residues in the lysimeters and monitoring wells), comparison between data from soil cores and suction lysimeters was not possible and the reduced evapotranspiration in the fallow plot had little effect on residue movement. Simulations using the unsaturated zone model PRZM with rainfall records from 15 years were used to illustrate that aldicarb residues should be limited to the upper 1.5 m, regardless of year-to-year variations in rainfall.
Abstract Diphenylethenyl- and methylphenylethenyl-substituted triphenylamines were prepared by condensation of trimethoxy-substituted triphenylamines with 2,2-diphenylacetaldehyde or 2-phenylpropionaldehyde respectively. The synthesized compounds were found to be capable of glass formation with glass transition temperatures above 49 °C for methylphenylethenyl-substituted derivatives and above 82 °C for diphenylethenyl-substituted compounds. The ionization potentials of the layers of the derivatives were found to be in the range of 5.31–5.44 eV. Time-of-flight hole drift mobility values of the glassy layer of tri(4-diphenylethenyl-2-methoxyphenyl)amine well exceeded 10 −2 cm 2 /Vs at high electric fields at room temperature. The clear dependence of the charge mobilities on the positions of methoxy groups was observed. Compounds having methoxy groups at the meta positions of triphenylamine groups exhibited superior hole-transporting properties compared to the compounds having methoxy groups at the ortho positions. Blue-green emitting OLEDs based on triphenylamine derivatives exhibited relatively high efficiencies (brightness in order 10000 cd/m 2 and current efficiency from 4 to 10 cd/A) as for the fluorescent OLEDs.
The volatile substances stripped from crushed sporophorus of Lentinus edodes were analyzed by chromatographic procedures. Three of 8 major components behaved as carbonyl compounds; 2 of them were identified as acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, respectively, and the remaining one appearing to be a sulfur-containing unsaturated aldehyde was left unidentified. Five sulfur compounds were also detected in the stripped volatiles; 3 of them were characterized as methylmercaptan, methylsulfide, and dimethyldisulfide, respectively; all of which appear to contribute significantly to the flavor the crushed mushroom bearing. Free formaldehyde contents in fresh and dried mushrooms were measured colorime-trically after the dimedone-chromotropic acid reaction. In any case formaldehyde contents were found never to exceed above 40μg per g of the mushroom on dry weight basis. On contrary, a significant amount of formaldehyde was found to be evolved on refluxing the mushroom extracts in 2% phosphoric acid, i. e. under the conditions that were much the same as those of steam distillation adopted in the official methods of analysis for formaldehyde. Evidences were given for evolution of formaldehyde via an acidic decomposition of lentinic acid during the refluxing procedure.
Abstract Soy and corn gluten proteins are common ingredients in adhesives and resins together with kraft lignin and condensed tannin. The relative contribution of these additives to volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions in the course of processing hardwood veneer products was evaluated. Press emissions were captured and separated into condensate and gaseous fractions. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was employed to characterize aldehydes in condensate and gaseous fractions, while GCMS served for identification and quantitative determination of the compounds in the gas phase. Aldehydes dominate the press emissions with both proteinaceous binders producing significantly higher formaldehyde (FA), acetaldehyde (AcA) and hexaldehyde (hexA) emissions compared to pressed veneer without additives. Other aldehydes, including valeraldehyde and propionaldehyde were also captured, but in relatively lower amounts. In contrast, lignin as a binder led to lower FA content in press emissions, whereas tannin significantly reduced contributions of FA, AcA and other aldehydes. VOC emissions from plywood panels during chamber testing were similar to compounds evolved on hot-pressing.
Abstract Absorption cross-sections are reported for acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, n -butyraldehyde, acetone, 2-butanone, 2-pentanone, and 3-pentanone at wavelengths greater than 200 nm, a temperature of 300 K, and a spectral resolution of 0.50 nm. In general, the results are in good agreement with previous measurements of the spectra of these molecules, but are of higher precision than past measurements. For acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and acetone the cross-section results are combined with previous experimental measurements of the primary quantum yield for photolysis to estimate photodissociation rate constants for a representative set of atmospheric conditions. For the other four carbonyl compounds, upper limits for the photodissociation rate constant are calculated assuming a primary quantum yield of unity at all wavelengths. For acetaldehyde, photolysis is slow in comparison with reaction with hydroxyl radical. For the larger aldehydes and for acetone, photolysis and reaction with OH radical take place at comparable rates. For larger ketones, if the quantum yields for photolysis are unity, as assumed in our calculations, the rate of loss of the compounds by photodissociation could be important compared to reaction with hydroxyl radical.
SummaryOxygen-free aqueous solution of CH3CH2CN (0.1 M, pH 6) were exposed to gamma rays from a60Co source and the mixture of radiolytic products fractionated. The separated fractions were analysed by magnetic resoncance methods (EPR, NMR), spectrophotometry (UV-VIS-IR), gas chromatography and amino acids analysis. About 70% of radiolytic products consist of non volatile material. A large variety of compounds was detected: propionaldehyde, acetaldeyde, sixteen carboxylic acids and, in the hydrolysate, eleven protein and nonprotein amino acids. About 20% of the nonvolatile radiolytic products have a hydrophobic character and can be extracted with chloroform. Among them is a long-living nitroxide free radical which is stable for months at room temperature. It has been suggested that the nitroso compounds are formed as radiolytic products, and that they act as spin-traps by converting some of the short living radicals to the observed nitroxide radical. This and other experimental findings are discussed in the light of free radical reactions induced by ionizing radiation.
In the present investigation chitosan has been chemically modified by treating with two different aldehydes like acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde to form Schiff's bases. Schiff's bases of chitosan with acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were named as polymer A and polymer B, respectively. Fourier Transform Infra Red (FTIR) spectral data have confirmed the reaction carried out on chitosan. Drug free polymeric films of chitosan, chemically modified chitosan and chitosan/hydroxypropylmethylcellulose blend were prepared and evaluated for various physicochemical characters. Further, the films were incorporated with anti-inflammatory drug, etoricoxib using glycerol as plasticizer. The drug loaded films were cross-linked with sodium citrate and studied for permeation characteristics across dialysis membrane and rat skin. All the films were evaluated for bursting strength, swelling index, moisture uptake, thickness uniformity, drug content uniformity, tensile strength, percent elongation at break, percent flatness, water vapour transmission rate and in vitro drug permeation study.
The aim of this thesis was the development and characterization of colorimetric indicators for food and work safety applications. For this several immobilization techniques and measurement setups were examined. ::: The first part of this work discusses a novel application of Schiff’s reagent as indicator for substances generated by the deterioration of fat-containing food. Here the indicator was immobilized on the surface of silica particles and was characterized analytically regarding its feasibility for the detection of hexanal as a quality indicator for fats. An experimental setup for measuring the color change by RGB readout was successfully designed and calibration measurements were performed for hexanal, propionaldehyde, and acetaldehyde. Based on these, the indicator was characterized regarding its limits of detection which was 0.5 ppm for hexanal and propionaldehyde and 1 ppm for acetaldehyde. Furthermore, the indicator particles showed an excellent long-term stability of at least 6 months. Cross sensitivity measurements were also investigated towards substances without aldehyde groups. By using a principal component analysis approach all compounds could be clearly distinguished from hexanal. Finally, in collaboration with Fraunhofer IVV, the indicator was immobilized in polyvinylacetate as matrix polymer and was successfully integrated into food packaging. Thus, further experiments on real food samples with high content of linoleic acid were conducted. As a result the indicator shows an excellent performance for detecting the rancidity of hazelnuts and peanuts. However, also limitations were observed since the detection of rancid sunflower oil is not possible due to insufficient volatilization of dissolved hexanal. ::: The second part of this thesis describes a colorimetric sensor for work safety applications. For this previously developed sensor systems for carbon monoxide were subjected to further analytical characterization and optimization. Here, two different Co(III)-corrole compounds were immobilized in matrix polymers, cast onto a transparent solid support, and studied towards their performance for carbon monoxide sensing. A suitable measurement setup was designed enabling an on-line monitoring of the absorbance changes and therefore, the characterization of the sensors. Developed sensor foils were stable for at least 120 min, and did not show any signs of photodegradation. They furthermore exhibited outstanding properties for carbon monoxide sensing in ambient air, with response times in the range of seconds and good reversibility. Both sensor systems exhibited limits of detection lower than the threshold limit in Germany (30 ppm) and no cross sensitivities towards CO2 (up to 3000 ppm) and NO2 (up to 10 ppm). The system with CoTPFPC as sensor dye showed a slightly faster response (and best reversibility) whereas CoTDCPC provided a slightly lower detection limit for carbon monoxide. As a result two excellent CO sensors for different areas of application have been developed. ::: Another sensor for work safety application is finally presented in the third part of the thesis. Here, commercially available pH-indicator dyes were used as dyeing agents for polyamide fabrics. This enabled the production of intelligent sensor textiles for visualizing gaseous ammonia in working places. Quantifying the color of intelligent textiles was accomplished via a custom-built measurement setup and ratiometric evaluation of the RGB color channels here. Obtained sensor textiles were characterized by their response times, limits of detection, and reversibility. All sensor fabrics were found to exhibit good response times (10 - 14 min) and reversibility (10 - 18 min) for ammonia. Measurements of various other amines showed an increase of response times with increasing analyte size and decreasing hydrophilicity. The sensor reversibility also depends on the type of pH indicator. For all sensor textiles ammonia concentrations below the threshold (20 ppm) have been detected. In conclusion, the first practical application of sensor textiles for a colorimetric detection of gaseous ammonia has been presented.
Abstract Alcohols are selectively produced from CO/H 2 on K–CuMgCeO x catalysts, but synthesis rates are strongly inhibited by CO 2 formed during reaction. Reaction pathways involve methanol synthesis on Cu, chain growth to C 2+ alcohols, and metal–base bifunctional coupling of alcohols to form isobutanol. Ethanol reactions on K–Cu 0.5 Mg 5 CeO x show that Cu catalyzes both alcohol dehydrogenation and aldol condensation reactions. CeO 2 increases Cu dispersion and MgO surface area and K decreases Cu dispersion, but increases the density of basic sites. Reactions of acetaldehyde and 13 C-labeled methanol lead to 1- 13 C-propionaldehyde, a precursor to isobutanol. The density and strength of basic sites were measured using a 12 CO 2 / 13 CO 2 isotopic jump method that probes the number and chemical properties of basic sites available at typical isobutanol synthesis temperatures. K or CeO 2 addition to CuMgO x increases the density and strength of basic sites and the rates of base-catalyzed ethanol condensation reactions leading to acetone and n -butyraldehyde. The presence of CO in the He carrier during temperature-programmed surface reactions of ethanol preadsorbed on Cu 0.5 Mg 5 CeO x decreases the rate of base-catalyzed condensation reactions of preadsorbed ethanol, possibly due to the poisoning of basic and Cu sites by the CO 2 formed from CO via water–gas shift reactions.
Abstract Propionaldehyde was photolyzed by flash photolysis in the presence of air or by steady state photolysis in the presence of O2 at 298 or 263 K. For the flash photolysis experiments, the transient absorption of RO2 radicals was monitored and quantum yields were obtained at 293.7, 302.0, 311.7 and 325.0 nm incident radiation. For the steady state photolysis, quantum yields for both CO and C2H6 were monitored at 253.7, 312.8 and 334.1 nm incident radiation. C2H6 was found at 253.7 nm but not at the longer wavelengths. For the steady state photolysis, the difference between the quantum yields for CO and C2H6 corresponds to the quantum yield of C2H5 formation. Good agreement was obtained for the radical yields by both methods. The radical yields decreased with increasing pressure, increasing wavelength or decreasing temperature. At 298 K, the half-quenching pressures were ∞, 7800 Torr, 5100 Torr, about 750 Torr, 308 Torr and 291 Torr at 254 nm, 294 nm, 302 nm, 312 nm, 325 nm and 334 nm respectively. These lead to atmospheric photodissociation coefficients for radical formation at 298 K of 2.4 × 10−5s−1 and 1.6 × 10−5s−1 for solar zenith angles of 30° and 58° respectively.
Abstract The biotransformation of 34 aromatic and related aldehydes such as benzaldehyde, salicylaldehyde, anisaldehydes, chlorobenzaldehydes, cyanobenzaldehydes, phthalaldehydes, nitrobenzaldehydes, vanillin, ethylvanillin, 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, cinnamaldehyde and nicotin aldehyde by Euglena gracilis Z cultured photohetero-trophically has been investigated. The phytoflagellate reduced most of the aromatic and related aldehydes to the corresponding alcohols. In the cases of 2-cyanobenzaldehyde, o -phthalaldehyde and o -phthalaldehydic acid, phthalide was obtained as the main and final product.
Abstract This paper presents the results of the propylene epoxidation in co-presence of hydrogen and oxygen on both dried and calcined Au catalysts, which were prepared by liquid grafting method using Me 2 Au(acac) as a precursor and trimethylsilylated Ti-MCM-48 as a support. The calcined catalyst shows PO activity at temperatures much higher and wider than the dried one. Addition of inorganic salts greatly modified the catalytic behaviors. CsNO 3 could be a promising promoter whereas KBr led to the production of propionaldehyde instead of propylene oxide.
Batch fermentation of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol (1,3PPD) by Enterobacter agglomerans CNCM 1210 showed the lethal accumulation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) when performed under initial substrate content higher than 40 g/L. Assigned to the inhibition by the NAD/NADH ratio of the 3-HPA converting enzyme: 1,3PPD dehydrogenase, intracellular assays were conducted in an attempt to identify the metabolic mechanisms involved in the increase of that ratio. An overflow metabolism through the 1,3PPD formation pathway was established, while a catabolic limitation in the oxidative branch at the level of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase occurred. Uncoupled activities of synthesis and consumption of reducing equivalents are thus suspected to provoke the increase of the NAD/NADH ratio and the subsequent accumulation of 3-HPA. Copyright 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Residue dynamics in giapevine of the nematicide aldicarb (2-methyl-(metbylthio) propionaldehyde-O-(Methylcarbamoyl) oxime) and its biologically similar active metabolites, aldicarb sulfoxide and aldicarb sulfone, were determined by gas chromatographic techniques. Residues were found in the roots, trunks, stems, and leaves of grapevine 120 d after application. Residues in leaves as high as 1.40 and 8.89 ppm resulted from 4.5 and 9 kg ai/ha respectively. In roots, trunks, and stems the residues had also declined after 180 d. No residues were detected in the newly forming immature fruit. Residues in roots, trunks, young branches, and leaves declined further after 270 d, but residues in mature fruit at harvest time were 0.03 and 0.05 ppm from application of 4.5 and 9 kg ai/ha, respectively. In other trials the amount of aldicarb toxic residues found in mature fruit at harvest time varied with grape varieties, time and rate of application, total amount of rainfall, irrigation water, and soil type. Key words: systemic nematicides.
Abstract This study evaluates the relative recovery (RR) of five different carbonyls (CCs) (i.e., acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde) following their reaction as 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) derivatives when using gas phase and liquid phase standards. To this end, relative efficiency of CC-DNPH derivatization is compared between two liquid-phase standards (commercially available vs. lab made mixture) and between liquid and gas-phase standard. If the results are compared in terms of response factors (RF) derived for five carbonyls from all different standard phases, the recovery of gaseous CC standard was distinguished from that of liquid counterparts. The RR of the heavier carbonyls (propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde) was approximately 60% low relative to their liquid counterparts; however, it was not the case for the lighter carbonyls (acetaldehyde) with the RR of ∼92%. This study thus suggests that the quantification of heavy carbonyls in ambient air, unless made by standards of the same matrix (i.e., gas phase) or compensated by the proper correction factor, may be subject to a large bias due to difference in derivatization reaction efficiency between matrix types. Hence, consideration of the matrix effect at the calibration stage is of particular importance to measure CC quantitatively.
Abstract Structures of superelectrophilic diprotonated propionaldehyde ( CH 3 CH 2 CHOH 2 2 + ) , isobutyraldehyde ( ( CH 3 ) 2 CHCHOH 2 2 + ) and pivalaldehyde ( ( CH 3 ) 3 CCHOH 2 2 + ) dications and their parent monocations were calculated using ab initio methods at the MP2/6-31G ∗∗ and MP2/cc-pVTZ levels. Proton affinities of the neutral as well as monoprotonated aldehydes were calculated. Compared to proton affinities of neutral aldehydes, relative proton affinities of monoprotonated aldehydes were found to increase much more rapidly with the increase of methyl substitution. 13 C NMR chemical shifts were also calculated using the GIAO-CCSD(T), GIAO-MP2 and GIAO-SCF methods. 13 C NMR chemical shifts of the related tert -butyl cation ((CH 3 ) 3 C + ) and protonated tert -butyl dication ( ( CH 3 ) 2 CCH 4 2 + ) were computed at the same level for comparison and to explore the effect of the additional charge in dications.
3-Dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) is an osmoprotectant accumulated by the cordgrass Spartina alterniflora and other salt-tolerant plants. Previous in vivo isotope tracer and metabolic modeling studies demonstrated that S. alterniflora synthesizes DMSP via the route S -methyl-Met → 3-dimethylsulfoniopropylamine (DMSP-amine) → 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde → DMSP and indicated that the first reaction requires a far higher substrate concentration than the second to attain one-half-maximal rate. As neither of these reactions is known from other organisms, two novel enzymes are predicted. Two corresponding activities were identified in S. alterniflora leaf extracts using specific radioassays. The first, S -methyl-Met decarboxylase (SDC), strongly prefers the l-enantiomer of S -methyl-Met, is pyridoxal 5′-phosphate-dependent, generates equimolar amounts of CO 2 and DMSP-amine, and has a high apparent K m (approximately 18 mm) for its substrate. The second enzyme, DMSP-amine oxidase (DOX), requires O 2 for activity, shows an apparent K m for DMSP-amine of 1.8 mm, and is not accompanied by DMSP-amine dehydrogenase or transaminase activity. Very little SDC or DOX activity was found in grasses lacking DMSP. These data indicate that SDC and DOX are the predicted novel enzymes of DMSP synthesis.
An aldolase and dehydrogenase complex from the polychlorinated biphenyl degradation pathway of the bacterium Burkholderia xenovorans LB400 was purified. The aldolase, BphI, had the highest activity with Mn2+ as the cofactor and was able to transform 4-hydroxy-2-oxopentanoate and 4-hydroxy-2-oxohexanoate to pyruvate and acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde with similar specificity constants. Aldolase activity was competitively inhibited by the pyruvate enolate analogue, oxalate, with a Kic of 0.93 μM. The pH−rate profiles suggested the involvement of a pKa 7.7 catalytic base in the reaction mechanism. BphI activity was activated 15-fold when substrate turnover was occurring in the dehydrogenase, BphJ, which can be attributed partially to nicotinamide coenzyme binding to BphJ. BphJ had similar specificity constants for acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde and was able to utilize aliphatic aldehydes from two to five carbons in length as substrates, although Km values for these aldehyes were >20 mM. When 4-hydroxy-2-ox...
BphI-BphJ, an aldolase-dehydrogenase complex from the polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) degradation pathway, cleaves 4-hydroxy-2-oxoacids to pyruvate and an aldehyde. The enzyme complex was shown to exhibit substrate channeling, whereby linear aldehydes of up to 6 carbons long and branched isobutyraldehyde were directly channeled from the aldolase to the dehydrogenase with greater than 80% efficiency. BphI variants G322F, G322L, and G323F were created and were found to block aldehyde channeling. The dehydrogenase cofactor NADH was able to activate the catalytic activity of the aldol cleavage reaction in these variants, suggesting that activation of BphI by BphJ cofactors is not solely due to faster aldehyde release. A G323L variant was able to channel acetaldehyde but not the larger propionaldehyde while the G323A variant was able to channel butyraldehyde but not its isomer isobutyraldehyde, confirming that the restricted channeling of aldehydes in these glycine variants are due to steric blockage of the channel. Substitution of His-20 and Tyr-290 in BphI led to significant reductions in aldehyde channeling efficiencies. A mechanism of substrate channeling involving these two gating residues is proposed.
1 ::: The enzyme kinetics of semi-purified pig brain aldehyde dehydrogenase have been investigated. ::: ::: 2 ::: The form of the basic double reciprocal plots and plots in the presence of known concentrations of NADH are consistent with a compulsory order reaction pathway in which NAD+ is bound first, followed by the aldehyde. The products are released in a fixed order, acid first then NADH. ::: ::: 3 ::: The overall reaction is irreversible, and proceeds to completion. Acid products are not inhibitory. This is consistent with the release of acid products being irreversible. ::: ::: 4 ::: The form of inhibition by high aldehyde concentrations is consistent with the proposed reaction pathway. ::: ::: 5 ::: Apparent substrate activation is observed with acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde.
In this study, gas phase photocatalytic oxidation (PCO) of n-butyraldehyde was carried out in a packed-bed reactor (titania supported on an inert packing). An on-line system consisting of two collection columns (one glass bead and one activated carbon) and a GC/MS was used for by-product identification. Various temperature levels (50, 90, 115, 170, 270, 320°C) were used in the by-product desorption from the activated carbon column. The oxidation yielded carbon dioxide as the end product. The by-products revealed many reaction pathways of the photocatalytic process. The major by-products (propionaldehyde, 1-propanol, ethanol, and acetaldehyde) were believed to undergo a C-C bond cleavage followed by hydrolysis. Secondary by-products (propyl formate, di-n-propyl ether, and 3-heptene) were caused by esterification, dehydration, and reductive coupling. Aldol condensation of the vapor phase aldehydes on TiO 2 surfaces followed by cyclization may be partially responsible for the formation of some minor by-produ...
The present invention relates to a method for producing 3-hydroxy-propionic acid from glycerol using recombinant E. coli, Glycerol 3-hydroxy-propionic acid 3-hydroxy-propionaldehyde (3-hydroxypropionaldehyde; 3-HPA ) which is the precursor of (3-hydroxypropionic acid) in order to switch to, Lactobacillus brevis An enzyme for converting 3-hydroxy propionaldehyde to propionic acid 3-hydroxy-transformed such that the expression switching; The glycerol is added to the recombinant Escherichia coli, a method of glucose production from glycerol 3-hydroxy-propionic acid which comprises culturing in a medium the presence enough not to deplete the culture. NAD, 3- hydroxy-propionic acid, glycerol, glycerol having hydratase, glycerol having hydratase Li aektiba claim, Escherichia coli, Lactobacillus brevis, glucose
Abstract In this paper, the formation mechanism of pyrolysis gases released during the pyrolysis of pectin under the conditions that simulate cigarette smouldering was investigated by thermogravimetric analysis coupled to Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (TG–FTIR). Moreover, the combustion behavior of pyrolysis gases was studied by micro-scale combustion calorimetry (MCC). TG–FTIR results illustrated that the composition of the gaseous products was mainly composed of CO 2 , H 2 O, CO, methanol, methane and carbonyl compounds. MCC results demonstrated that the combustion of pectin was mainly determined by the prolysis gases formed in the temperature range of 200–300 °C. Flash pyrolysis experiment in combination with high performance liquid chromatography (FPy–HPLC) was used to study the pyrolytic formation of eight carbonyl compounds (i.e. formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone and butyraldehyde) during the pyrolysis of pectin under the pyrolysis conditions of cigarette puffing. Results demonstrated that pyrolysis temperature influenced the formation of acetaldehyde, acrolein, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde greatly, while nitrogen flow affected the generation of formaldehyde, acetone, crotonaldehyde and methyl ethyl ketone deeply.
Beta-aminopropionaldehyde is one of the serum aldehydes whose level increases on treating serum with As2O3 and methanol. In animal tissues, beta-aminopropionaldehyde can arise directly from the oxidation of spermidine or diaminopropane. A pathway linking spermidine, b-aminopropionaldehyde and malondialdehyde to the control of RNA and DNA synthesis is proposed (AU)
Carbonyl compounds are toxic volatile organic compounds in atmosphere. Large number of surveys and studies on carbonyl compounds at home and abroad were carried out during recent decade. The main findings of some investigations and studies were reviewed systematically in this paper. The literature shows that the investigation and studies in China were conducted mainly in Beijing, Guangzhou, Qingdao, Hangzhou and Hong Kong, particularly in Guangzhou. Among the carbonyl compounds detected frequently, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and acetone were the most abundant carbonyl species. The results of most of studies indicate that the concentrations of carbonyls in urban and industrial area were higher than those in suburban or rural area, indoor higher than outdoor, summer higher than winter, and exhibit clear diurnal trend. Many researchers deduced the potential sources (including vehicular emission, atmospheric photochemical reaction, etc.) according to the concentration ratios of formaldehyde/acetaldehyde (C1/C2) and acetaldehyde/propionaldehyde (C2/C3) as well as the correlations among different carbonyl compounds. However, the above methods can not provide the exact sources of carbonyls and the contributions of different sources. In our opinion, compound-specific carbon isotopic compositions or other new technology should be applied to strengthen the studies on the carbonyl sources and their contributions. Further research is considered necessary on the formation, reaction, transportation and transformation of carbonyls under different climate.
Culture-independent approaches to analyze metagenome are practical choices for rapid exploring useful genes. The mg-MSDH gene, acquired from the hot spring metagenomic, was retrieved full lengths of functional gene using semi-nest touch-down PCR. Two pairs of degenerate primers were used to separate seven conserve partial sequences by semi-nest touch-down PCR. One of them showed similarity with aldehyde dehydrogenase was used as a target fragment for isolating full-length sequence. The full-length mg-MSDH sequence contained a 1,473 bp coding sequence encoding a 490-amino-acid polypeptide and assigned an accession number JQ715422 in Genbank. The upstream sequences TAGGAG of the start codon (GTG), suggested that was a ribosome binding site. The coding sequence of mg-MSDH was ligated to pET-303 vector and the reconstructive plasmid was successfully overexpressed in E. coli. The purified recombinant mg-MSDH enzyme showed propionaldehyde oxidative activity of 3.0 U mg(-1) at 37 °C.
3-Dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) is an osmoprotectant accumulated by the cordgrass Spartina alterniflora and other salt-tolerant plants. Previous in vivo isotope tracer and metabolic modeling studies demonstrated that S. alterniflora synthesizes DMSP via the route S-methyl-Met 3 3-dimethylsulfoniopropylamine (DMSP-amine) 3 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde 3 DMSP and indicated that the first reaction requires a far higher substrate concentration than the second to attain one-half-maximal rate. As neither of these reactions is known from other organisms, two novel enzymes are predicted. Two corresponding activities were identified in S. alterniflora leaf extracts using specific radioassays. The first, S-methyl-Met decarboxylase (SDC), strongly prefers the l-enantiomer of S-methyl-Met, is pyridoxal 5Ј-phosphate-dependent, generates equimolar amounts of CO 2 and DMSP-amine, and has a high apparent K m (approximately 18 mm) for its substrate. The second enzyme, DMSP-amine oxidase (DOX), requires O 2 for activity, shows an apparent K m for DMSP-amine of 1.8 mm, and is not accompanied by DMSP-amine dehydrogenase or transaminase activity. Very little SDC or DOX activity was found in grasses lacking DMSP. These data indicate that SDC and DOX are the predicted novel enzymes of DMSP synthesis.
Culture-independent approaches to analyze metagenome are practical choices for rapid exploring useful genes. The mg-MSDH gene, acquired from the hot spring metagenomic, was retrieved full lengths of functional gene using semi-nest touch-down PCR. Two pairs of degenerate primers were used to separate seven conserve partial sequences by semi-nest touch-down PCR. One of them showed similarity with aldehyde dehydrogenase was used as a target fragment for isolating full-length sequence. The full-length mg-MSDH sequence contained a 1,473 bp coding sequence encoding a 490-amino-acid polypeptide and assigned an accession number JQ715422 in Genbank. The upstream sequences TAGGAG of the start codon (GTG), suggested that was a ribosome binding site. The coding sequence of mg-MSDH was ligated to pET-303 vector and the reconstructive plasmid was successfully overexpressed in E. coli. The purified recombinant mg-MSDH enzyme showed propionaldehyde oxidative activity of 3.0 U mg -1 at 37°C.
The metabolic pathway for Gly betaine synthesis in higher plants involves two enzymes, i.e. choline monooxygenase (CMO) and betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH), which are compartmentalized within the chloroplast Nuccio et al., 1998) . b-Ala betaine is produced after methylation of b-Ala that is derived from 3-aminopropionaldehyde in a reaction catalyzed by the BADH enzyme (Rathinasabapathi et al., 2001) . Overexpression of betaine by manipulation of badh via chloroplast genetic engineering may prove to be an important strategy in order to confer salt tolerance on desired crops. Expressing a transgene in the chloroplast allows for high-level transgene expression (Daniell et al., 2002a), multigene engineering in a single trans-1 This work was supported, in part, by the National Institutes of Health (grant no. R-01-GM63879) and by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (grant no. 3611-21000-017-00D) to H.D.
Enzymes can perform complex multistep cascade reactions by linking multiple distinct catalytic sites via substrate channeling. We mimic this feature in a generalized approach with an electrocatalytic nanoparticle for the carbon dioxide reduction reaction comprising a Ag core surrounded by a porous Cu shell, providing different active sites in nanoconfined volumes. The architecture of the nanozyme provides the basis for a cascade reaction, which promotes C–C coupling reactions. The first step occurs on the Ag core, and the subsequent steps on the porous copper shell, where a sufficiently high CO concentration due to the nanoconfinement facilitates C–C bond formation. The architecture yields the formation of n-propanol and propionaldehyde at potentials as low as −0.6 V vs RHE.
This chapter describes a method in which the enzyme propanediol dehydratase, obtained from Aerobacter aerogenes , in the presence of coenzyme B 12 catalyzes the oxidation of propanediol to propionaldehyde. The enzyme is also active in the presence of other B 12 coenzymes such as adenyl-cobamide coenzyme and benzimidazolyl coenzyme. The V max with all these coenzymes is the same; therefore, the method described in this chapter should be applicable with these coenzymes, as well. Some extracts of biological material can contain unidentified forms of the coenzyme that may be less active. The application of the method is in the field of biochemistry. With low concentrations of the coenzyme, the rate of propionaldehyde formation is directly proportional to the coenzyme concentration. The amount of propionaldehyde formed per unit time is measured in a colorimetric assay with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine. Vitamin B 12 and related derivatives inhibit the determination of the enzyme. To decrease this inhibition, a 2- to 4-fold excess of enzyme is used.
Glycerol dehydratase (GDHt) is a pivotal enzyme for fermentative utilization of glycerol by catalyzing radical-mediated conversion of glycerol into 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). Precise and sensitive monitoring of cellular GDHt activity during the fermentation process is a prerequisite for reliable metabolic analysis to afford efficient cellular engineering and process optimization. Here we report a new spectrophotometric assay for the sensitive measurement of the GDHt activity with a sub-nanomolar limit of detection (LOD). The assay method employs aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) as a reporter enzyme, so the readout of the GDHt activity is recorded at 340 nm as an increase in UV absorbance which results from NADH generation accompanied by oxidation of 3-HPA to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). The GDHt assay was performed under the reaction conditions where the ALDH activity overwhelms the GDHt activity (i.e., 50-fold higher activity of ALDH relative to GDHt activity), affording sensitive detection of GDHt with 360 pM LOD. The ALDH-coupled assay was used to determine kinetic parameters of GDHt for glycerol, leading to KM = 0.73 ± 0.09 mM and kcat = 400 ± 20 s-1 which are in reasonable agreements with the previous reports. Our assay method allowed measurement of even a 104-fold decrease in the cellular GDHt activity during fermentative production of 3-HP, which demonstrates the detection sensitivity much higher than the previous methods.
Oxygen-free aqueous solutions of CH3CN (0.1 M, pH 6) were exposed to gamma rays from a60Co source, the mixture of nonvolatile radiolytic products was fractionated and the fractions were analysed. Succinic, maleic, fumaric, malonic and pyruvic acids were identified. Glycol aldehyde, glucose and probably ribose were observed in the hydrolysate of fractionated material. It has been suggested that an oligomer is formed which has a fragment with the polyhydroxy structure and on hydrolysis releases the carbohydrates. Radiolytic products which release amino acids on hydrolysis were found in several fractions. The amino acid contents of the hydrolysates were up to about 2.8% of the fraction mass. The presence of several protein and nonprotein amino acids suggests that their origin should be in a peptidic structure, which is probably a fragment of an oligomer radiolytically produced. A direct analysis of the irradiated solution shows the presence of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, glyoxal and of biacetyl. Experimental findings are discussed and a free-radical mechanism is proposed to account for the chemical changes observed.
The application of the UV/H2O2 process to the degradation of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) in dilute aqueous solution resulted in the generation of tert-butyl formate (TBF), 2-methoxy-2-methyl propionaldehyde (MMP), formaldehyde, acetone, tert-butyl alcohol (TBA), and methyl acetate as primary byproducts. Other intermediates, such as carbonyl compounds (hydroxy-iso-butyraldehyde, hydroxyacetone, pyruvaldehyde) and organic acids (hydroxy-iso-butyric, formic, pyruvic, acetic, oxalic) were also detected and quantified during the irradiation. A good organic carbon balance is obtained throughout the treatment, indicating that almost all of the intermediates have been detected. The TOC pattern shows that eventually all the organic compounds are mineralized. Various analytical techniques, such as GC/MS, GC, IC, HPLC, and TOC analysis, were employed in order to identify and quantify the organic products. The detailed reaction mechanism proposed in this study for the degradation of MTBE by •OH-driven oxidation pr...
The effect of ethanol ingestion on aldehyde dehydrogenase activity in the subcellular fractions of livers from 14 pair-fed male Sprague-Dawley rats was tested. Enzymatic assays were performed at two different concentrations of propionaldehyde (0.068 and 13.6 mM) sufficient to saturate enzymes with high and low affinities for propionaldehyde, respectively. The effect of alcohol ingestion varied depending on the subcellular fraction tested and the propionaldehyde concentration used in the assay. There was a 60% increase in the activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase with high affinity for propionaldehyde in the mitochondrial membranes. Conversely there was a 50% decrease in the activity of aldehyde dehydrogenases with high affinity for propionaldehyde in the microsomal fraction. There was also a 58% decrease in the activity of enzymes from the mitochondrial matrix with low affinity for propionaldehyde. The results suggest that differences in the assay systems employed may account for the conflicting results obtained by previous investigators of the effect of ethanol feeding.
Abstract α-Methyl-1,3-benzodioxole-5-propionaldehyde (methyl-3,4-methylene-dioxy-hydrocinnamic Aldehyde, MMDHCA) is a widely used commercially available fragrance material. Because of the wide range of product availability, there is dermal exposure associated with its use. The objective of this study was to determine the in vitro human skin absorption of 14 C MMDHCA and subchronic toxicity of the material. Twenty mL of a 1% solution of radiolabeled MMDHCA in ethanol was applied to the surface of epidermal membranes isolated from full thickness human skin samples and placed in diffusion cells. Samples of the receptor fluid (50% ethanol/water) were harvested at 2, 8, 24, and 48 h and analyzed by liquid scintillation chromatography to assess dermal absorption. At 24 and 48 h, respectively, 42% and 50% of the applied dose of MMDHCA had permeated the human skin in vitro . Only 67% of the applied dose was recovered by 48 h. For the subchronic toxicity, MMDHCA was applied dermally once daily to male and female Sprague–Dawley rats (15/sex/group) at 50, 150, or 300 mg/kg/day (0.043, 0.129, or 0.259 mL/kg/day applied neat to 5 cm 2 dorsal skin) for at least 90 consecutive days. A control group (15/sex) was given vehicle (reverse osmosis water) at 0.259 mL/kg/day for a similar duration. Rats were necropsied at the end of treatment (10/sex/group) or following a 4-week recovery period (5/sex/group). The following parameters were evaluated: dermal irritation, estrous cycle, ophthalmologic examinations, body weight, feed consumption, hematology, blood coagulation, serum chemistry, organ weights, macroscopic and histopathologic examinations, and male reproductive assessment. No test article-related mortalities or effects on, estrous cycles, ophthalmic exams, mean body weights, mean body weight change, feed consumption, absolute or relative organ weights, macroscopic observations, or male reproductive morphology/function were observed. MMDHCA-related dermal irritation was observed across all dose levels with increased incidence and severity at 300 mg/kg/day. Dermal irritation that initially ranged from slight to marked improved to slight or resolved completely during the recovery phase. Based on the findings in this study, it can be concluded that (1) MMDHCA exhibits moderately high human skin permeation; (2) the NOEL for dermal irritation is below 50 mg/kg/day when applied undiluted to 5 cm 2 dorsal skin and (3) the NOEL for systemic toxicity is greater than 300 mg/kg/day. During the 4-week recovery period of the 90-day study, the animals had largely recovered from MMDHCA induced dermal irritation and the associated microscopic findings.
Abstract Crisscross addition polymerization of alkyl aldazines (i.e., acetaldehyde azine, propionaldehyde azine, and butyraldehyde azine (BuAz)) and 1,4-phenylene diisocyanate (Ph(IC) 2 ) was investigated under various conditions. The crisscross addition polymerizations in pyridine yielded polymers in higher yields. The polymers obtained in the present study exhibited very limited solubilities and contained fractions insoluble in conventional organic solvents. However, since the BuAz/Ph(IC) 2 polymers obtained at 24 and 48 h were soluble in pyridine, the M w values for these polymers were determined to be 2.2 × 10 3 and 4.4 × 10 3 , respectively, by small angle X-ray scattering. These data indicated that molecular weights of the pyridine-insoluble polymers were as high as or close to 10 4 . IR, 1 H NMR, and MALDI-TOF-MS data confirmed the formation of linear polymers by crisscross addition polymerization. Thermogravimetric analyses indicated that the polymers were considerably decomposed in the region of 300–400 °C, but the polymers exhibited residual weights of 15–25% even at 500 °C. Differential scanning calorimetry data indicated that glass transition temperatures for the polymers were higher than the onset of decomposition presumably because of the rigid backbone.
The major soluble protein of bovine cornea (BCP 54: bovine corneal protein 54 kDa) was isolated successively by gel filtration, anion-exchange chromatography and chromatofocusing. The amino acid sequence of a fragment of the purified BCP 54 obtained by lysyl-endopeptidase digestion showed marked homology with tumor-associated and 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-dibenzo-p-dioxin-inducible aldehyde dehydrogenase (AIDH). From the high similarity of BCP 54 with tumor-associated AIDH in structural form, it is suggested that BCP 54 has AIDH activity. We confirmed a high AIDH activity of BCP 54 by immunoprecipitation using a mouse anti-BCP 54 monoclonal antibody followed by a spectrophotometric assay for AIDH activity. Next we demonstrated the unique properties of the purified BCP 54 as AIDH. The major isoelectric point is 6.41. BCP 54 preferentially oxidizes aromatic aldehyde such as benzaldehyde with NAD as coenzyme, but cannot oxidize phenylacetaldehyde. After heat treatment the AIDH activity is more stable with propionaldehyde-NAD than with benzaldehyde-NADP. With propionaldehyde-NAD the pH profile shows a broad plateau from pH 6-9 followed by a sharp rise up to pH 10. In contrast, with benzaldehyde-NADP there is a sharp optimum at pH 9.0. The activity with only benzaldehyde-NADP is inhibited by p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, but is not affected by disulfiram and diethylstilbestrol. So we suggested that BCP 54 is an AIDH with kinetic properties different from the rat tumor-associated AIDH.
3-Phenylpropionitrile was synthesized from Z-3-phenylpropionaldoxime (0.75 M) in a quantitative yield (98 g/l) by the use of cells of Eschrichia coli JM 109/pOxD-9OF, a transformant harboring a gene for a new enzyme, phenylacetaldoxime dehydratase, from Bacillus sp. strain OxB-1. Other arylalkyl- and alkyl-nitriles were also synthesized in high yields from the corresponding aldoximes. Moreover, 3-phenylpropionitrile was successfully synthesized by the recombinant cells in 70 and 100% yields from 0.1 M unpurified E/Z-3-phenylpropionaldoxime, which is spontaneously formed from 3-phenylpropionaldehyde and hydroxylamine in a butyl acetate/water biphasic system and aqueous phase, respectively.
During condensation with ammonia over cadmium catalysts at 400°, a secondary vinylethynylcarbinols are decomposed to aldehydes and vinylacetylene. Acetaldehyde formed in the process undergoes the Chichibabin reaction with ammonia to give α- and γ -picolines and 2,4-lutidine; propionaldehyde gives 2-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-pyridine.
The methods of synthesis of acrolein and its α-alkyl-substituted derivatives are examined: (a) catalytic oxidation of propene, isobutene, propane, isobutane, propyl and tert-butyl alcohols, tert-butyl alkanoates, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and allyl alcohol and its ethers: (b) condensation of formaldehyde with aliphatic aldehydes by the Mannich reactions and also in the vapour phase over heterogeneous catalysts. Both general methods (the Mannich reaction, ipso-substitution of a α-halogen in the acrylic system, and interaction of 1-brom-2-ethoxycyclopropyllithium with electrophiles) and various special methods are used in the synthesis of the α, β-unsaturated aldehydes with functional-group-substitutents. The bibliography includes 323 references.
A series of second amines were used to catalyze the synthesis of methacrolein from formaldehyde and propionaldehyde via Mannich reactionBy using diethylamine,the highest yield of 94% was obtained.The kinetic model was obtained by analysis of the reaction process.The parameters in the model were determined:reaction order 2.456,activation energy 62.45 kJ/mol and frequency factor 8.182×107(mol/L)~(-1.456)/s.In situ FT-IR spectroscopy was introduced to monitor the concentration of compounds in real time during the reaction.The samples taken in different reaction times were analyzed by GC-MS,and the intermediate Mannich base was detected,laying a foundation for the reaction mechanism.
A chelate complex (4) with high homogeneity was precipitated upon stirring a mixture of zinc(II) ion and a Schiff base produced from glycine and (R)- or (S)-15-formyl-14-hydroxy-2,8-dithia[9](2,5)pyridinophane, chiral pyridoxal-like pyridinophane. A four-coordinated zinc chelate complex was newly proposed as the structure of 4. Aldol condensations between 4 and several aldehydes were attempted at pH 10.0. Only small linear chain aldehydes, such as acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, could react with 4 under these conditions to give the corresponding α-amino-β-hydroxy acid in the range of 27–77% enantiomeric excess.
The initial activity of catalyst in isomerization reaction of propylene oxide have been evaluated with microreactorchromatograph. At 275℃, with Al2(SO4)3/K2SO4 mixed catalyst, which the mass ratio was 15:85, the conversion ratio of propylene oxid could be as high as 97.60%, and the selectivity of propionaldehyde was 94.57%; while with Al2(SO4)3γAl2O3 which the mass ratio was 60:40,the conversion ratio was 83.37%, and the selectivity was 100% at 275℃. The moulding problem of WO3/SiO2 was solved, which have good catalytic effect. The properties of catalyst were also discussed under the influence of reaction temperature and way of activatio of catalyst.
The Reppe hydroformylation of ethylene to produce propionaldehyde and 1-propanol in basic solutions containing Fe(CO)/sub 5/ as a catalyst has been studied under carefully controlled conditions at temperatures ranging from 110 to 140 /sup 0/C. Propionaldehyde is the principal product formed when NaOH is used as the base. The rate of reaction is found to increase with ethylene concentration and is second order with respect to Fe(CO)/sub 5/. The reaction is inhibited by CO. The increase in reaction rate with temperature corresponds to an activation energy of 31 kcal/mol. Infrared spectra indicate that HFe(CO)/sub 4/-and Fe(CO)/sub 5/ are present in the solution phase under reaction conditions. The experimental results are shown to be consistent with a mechanism in which the rate-determining step involves a binuclear iron carbonyl derivative. The substitution of (C/sub 2/H/sub 5/)/sub 3/N for NaOH facilitates the reduction of propionaldehyde to form 1-propanol but results in a slower rate for the overall reaction.
The objective of this study was to assess the catalytic activities of manganese oxide (MnO, , , and ) catalysts for odors (acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde) removal. We used a fixed bed reactor as the experimental apparatus and the catalytic performance were carried out over the temperature range of . The properties and performance of catalysts were characterized by the X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET). The catalytic activities of manganese oxide catalysts for acetaldehyde combustion were in the order of MnO , and it is similar to that of propionaldehyde combustion. We also confirmed that the reactions have well followed the kinetic model of Power-Rate Law and the reaction order (n) is 1 for both of the acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde combustion. In addition, the reaction activation energy of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde combustion over were found to be for 487~503 K and for 473~533 K, respectively.
Glycerol is a co-product of the conversion of vegetable oils and animal fats to soap, fatty acids, fatty acid esters and biodiesel fuel. We have investigated the use of both native and recombinant microorganisms for the conversion of glycerol to more valuable products. Fed-batch fermentations of glycerol by Klebsiella pneumoniae gave over 50 g/L of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD, trimethylene glycol) with high volumetric productivity. Escherichia coli containing genes for glycerol dehydratase and 1,3-PD oxidoreductase from K. pneumoniae also gave 1,3-PD from glycerol, but at a lower level than the native organism. Experiments with the recombinant E. coli have provided insights into ways to improve 1,3-PD production in both the recombinant and native organism and to modify the pathway for the production of compounds such as 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and dihydroxyacetone.
alternative driving force for acetoacetyl-CoA synthesis, which is the first committed step in the 1-butanol pathway (Lan and Liao 2012) . Furthermore, 1-butanol productivity was dramatically improved under photosynthetic condition by substituting the oxygen-sensitive butanal dehydrogenase with an oxygen-tolerant CoA-acylating propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (Lan et al. 2013 ). However, the maximum titer in cyanobacteria is still low compared to the 1-butanol-producing Escherichia coli with the heterologous CoA-dependent pathway; the 1-butanol titer is 317 mg/L from CO 2 in 12 days using Synechococcus elongatus and 30 g/L from glucose in 7 days using Escherichia coli (Lan et al. 2013; Shen et al. 2011) . Although the improvement of 1-butanol productivity in cyanobacteria has been made by focusing on the CoA-dependent 1-butanol biosynthesis pathway, there is no information about in vivo metabolic state of the CoA-dependent pathway in cyanobacteria. Therefore, intracellular metabolic profiling of the intermediates in the CoA-dependent pathway is expected to be essential for gaining clues for further optimization of the 1-butanol biosynthesis pathway.
There are certain emissions (unregulated) that should be considered to ascertain the impact of blended fuels on air quality, such as acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein and fine particulates (Merritt et al., 2005; Bunger et al., 2007) . Additionally, unburned ethanol emissions (evaporative and exhaust processes) are important, mainly because it affects the ozone formation by oxidation and is an important secondary source of carbonyl compounds such as acetaldehyde in Brazil (Jacobson, 2007; Martins and Andrade, 2008) .
3-hydroxypropionaldehyde(3-HPA) is an important chemical product,which could be transformed from glycerol by glycerol dehydratase.In order to acquire an engineering strain to produce 3-HPA,gdrB encoding glycerol dehydratase reactivating factor small-subunit was amplified and employed to construct the plasmid pEtac-dhaB-gdrA-gdrB on the basis of the plasmid pEtac-dhaB-gdrA,which contained glycerol dehydratase reactivating factor large-subunit.The common Escherichia coli tac promoter was used for expression of pEtac-dhaB-gdrA-gdrB in different hosts E.coli BL21,DH5a,JM109.The positive clones1were induced with IPTG,and the complete cDNA was obtained by RT-PCR using the total RNA as template.It was found that the gene of glycerol dehydratase could be transcribed well in all 3 hosts.The results of SDSPAGE,enzyme analysis and the fermentation of 3-HPA indicated that the expression of glycerol dehydratase in different hosts were not the same.The specific enzyme activities of recombinant strains with different hosts(E.coli BL21,DH5a,JM109) were 4.7(±0.44),3.5(±0.95) and 8.1(±0.66) U/mg,respectively,and the 3-HPA productions by shake flask fermentation were 0.012(±0.0044),0.014(±0.003) and 0.375(±0.018) g L-1,respectively.The recombinant E.coli JM109/pEtac-dhaB-gdrA-gdrB had the best ability in glycerol dehydratase expression and 3-HPA production.Compared with Klebsiella pneumoniae,the byproducts of recombinant E.coli were much less,which was good for separation and purification.This study provides a new route for the biosynthesis of 3-HPA.
Abstract Of the various noble metals (Ru/C, Rh/C, Pt/C, and Pd/C) and acid catalysts [an ion-exchange resin (Amberlyst), H 2 SO 4 (aq), and HCl(aq)], the combination of Ru/C with Amberlyst is effective in the dehydration + hydrogenation (i.e., hydrogenolysis) of glycerol under mild reaction conditions (393 K, 8.0 MPa). The dehydration of glycerol to acetol is catalyzed by the acid catalysts. The subsequent hydrogenation of acetol on the metal catalysts gives 1,2-propanediol. The activity of the metal catalyst + Amberlyst in glycerol hydrogenolysis can be related to that of acetol hydrogenation over the metal catalysts. Regarding acid catalysts, H 2 SO 4 (aq) shows lower glycerol dehydration activity than Amberlyst, and HCl(aq) strongly decreases the activity of acetol hydrogenation on Ru/C. In addition, the OH group on Ru/C can also catalyze the dehydration of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which can then be converted to 1,3-propanediol through subsequent hydrogenation and other degradation products.
Cl atom initiated photo-oxidation of monochlorinated propanes to form the carbonyl compounds was investigated. Propionaldehyde and acetone were identified to be major products in the oxidation of 1-chloropropane and 2-chloropropane, respectively. The complete product analyses were carried out using gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS) and gas chromatography–infrared spectroscopy (GC–IR) as analytical tools, and an appropriate oxidation mechanism was proposed on the basis of the product analyses. The temperature dependent rate coefficients for the reactions of Cl atoms with 1-chloropropane (1-CP) and 2-chloropropane (2-CP) were measured experimentally in the gas phase, using the relative rate method in the temperature range 268–363 K and at 1 atm pressure. Ethane, ethylene, and ethyl acetate were used as reference compounds. The obtained rate coefficients for the reactions of Cl atoms with 1-CP and 2-CP at room temperature (298 K) and at 1 atm pressure were (4.64 ± 0.70) × 10–11 and (2.57 ± 0.44) ×...
Sub-MHz dielectric absorption at low temperatures is used to demonstrate the formation by acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde of unstable clathrate hydrates, probably of type II. This result is supported by the proton nmr line shapes of propionaldehyde enclathrated in D2O, which also show fast rotational tunnelling of the methyl group at 4 K.
It has been established (Parts I and II) that the photochemical oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde obeys the kinetic expressionwhere RCHO represents the aldehyde and RCO3H the corresponding peracid. k3 is the velocity constant for the propagating reaction, and k6 that for the terminating reaction involving the mutual interaction of two RCO3 radicals. represents the rate of initiation of the photooxidation.Alcohols have been found to retard the photooxidation and it has been shown that the retarded reaction obeys the kinetic expression:It has thus been possible to determine the rates of initiation for each of the photooxidations. Application of the rotating sector technique has enabled the lifetime of the oxidation chains to be measured. These data together with the information given in Parts I and II have been used to calculate the absolute values for the velocity constants for the propagating and terminating reactions, k3 and k6:in the gas-phase photooxidations of acetaldehyde and propionaldeh...
We report on experimentally determined and computationally predicted diastereoselectivities of (a) multicomponent crotylation (MCC) reactions of simple aliphatic aldehydes and ketones and (b) of acetal substitution (AS) reactions of aldehyde dimethyl acetals with E- and Z-configurated crotyl trimethylsilane to give homoallylic methyl ethers bearing two newly formed stereogenic centers. We found that corresponding MCC and AS reactions give nearly equal syn/anti ratios. While the crotylations of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde mainly result in the syn product for E-configurated silane and in the anti product for Z-configurated silane, the syn product is found as main product for the crotylation of pivaldehyde regardless of substrate double bond geometry. Using butanone as substrate, the anti product is found as main product in both cases. By computational investigation employing the B3LYP/6-31+G(d) level of theory in dichloromethane solution (PCM/UAKS), we found that the attack of O-methyl-substituted carb...
Abstract Experimental results of the decomposition of glycerol in near- and supercritical water are presented considering measurements in the temperature range of 622–748 K, at pressures of 25, 35, or 45 MPa, reaction times from 32 to 165 s, and different initial concentrations. The reaction was carried out in a tubular reactor and a conversion between 0.4 and 31% was observed. The main products of the glycerol degradation are methanol, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, allyl alcohol, ethanol, formaldehyde, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen. The results are compared with the studies of other working groups. The non-Arrhenius behavior of the overall degradation, as well as the pressure dependence of the reaction rate, and furthermore, the product distribution indicates the occurrence of two competing reaction pathways. One pathway consists of ionic reaction steps, which are preferred at higher pressures and/or lower temperatures. The second reaction pathway is a free radical degradation and dominates at lower pressures and/or higher temperatures. For reaction modeling, both mechanisms, the ionic and the free radical reaction network are compiled into one reaction model. The computer software package chemkin was used for the model calculations. The reaction model and the kinetic parameters were optimized in order to describe the experimental results for glycerol and the main products at 450 bar and all temperatures. This reaction model, consisting of the ionic and the free radical sub-mechanism satisfactorily describes the complex reaction at 450 bar.
The eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (eIF5A) is the only cellular protein that contains an unusual amino acid, hypusine [N (ε)-(4-amino-2-hydroxybutyl)-lysine]. eIF5A and its hypusine/deoxyhypusine modification are vital for eukaryotic cell proliferation. Hypusine is formed posttranslationally by two enzymatic steps catalyzed by deoxyhypusine synthase and deoxyhypusine hydroxylase. Deoxyhypusine hydroxylase catalyzes a stereo-specific hydroxylation of the deoxyhypusine residue in the eIF5A intermediate protein, eIF5A(Dhp). The enzyme is totally specific for this protein and does not act on short peptides (<50 amino acids). The assay measures the conversion of the radiolabeled deoxyhypusine residue to a hypusine residue in eIF5A. Optimum conditions for the reaction and two detection methods for the product, hypusine-containing eIF5A, are described in this chapter. The first, and most reliable, method is the measurement of the amount of [(3)H]hypusine in the protein hydrolysate after its separation from [(3)H]deoxyhypusine, by ion exchange chromatography. This method does require specialized equipment. The second method is based on counting the total TCA soluble radioactivity after sodium periodate oxidation of the reaction mixture, since the radiolabeled 4-amino-2-hydroxy butyl moiety of the hypusine residue is cleaved and is released from protein as radiolabeled β-propionaldehyde and formaldehyde by periodate oxidation.
Abstract The electrochemical and optical properties of two types of non-conjugated electrochromic polymers derived from aromatic amine derivatives (DDP-A, DDB-P) are presented. DDP-A is synthesized by the polymerization of N , N ′-dimethyl- N , N ′-diphenyl-1,4-phenylenediamine (DDP) and acetaldehyde (A), and DDB-P is polymerized with N , N ′-dimethyl- N , N ′-diphenylbenzidine (DDB) and propionaldehyde (P). Both DDP-A and DDB-P have a band gap in the ultraviolet region, and are colorless and transparent in neutral states. At one-electron oxidation states, DDP-A + absorbs light mainly in a visible region, whereas DDB-P + absorbs light mainly in a near-infrared (NIR) region. DDP-A + and DDB-P + are nitrogen-centered π-bridged mixed-valence compounds showing intervalence-charge transfer bands. The electrochemical and optical properties of DDP-A and DDB-P depend on the nitrogen–nitrogen distance correlating the electronic coupling of nitrogen redox centers. From the standpoint of energy saving, DDB-P is very interesting because it absorbs light in an NIR region. Finally, focusing on the smart window application, the optical properties of the solid-state electrochromic cell fabricated with DDP-A and heptyl viologen are examined. The cell was confirmed to be colored blue by applying a potential of about 1.0 V, and bleached at 0 V.
Abstract A kinetic study is presented of the collisional removal of ground state atomic carbon, C[2p 2 ( 3 P J )], with various aldehydes and ketones in the gas phase following pulsed irradiation. The atomic carbon was generated by the photolysis of C 3 O 2 ( λ > ca. 160 nm) in the presence of excess helium buffer gas and the added reactant gases in a slow flow system, kinetically equivalent to a static system, and monitored photoelectrically by time-resolved atomic resonance absorption spectroscopy in the vacuum ultra-violet at λ = 166 nm (3 3 P J ← 2 3 P J ) using signal averaging techniques. Absolute second-order rate constants ( k R /cm 3 molecule −1 s −1 , 300 K) for the removal of C(2 3 P J ) with these reactants were found to be as follows: formaldehyde 6.2 ± 0.3 × 10 −10 ; acetaldehyde 5.4 ± 0.3 × 10 −10 ; propionaldehyde 4.1 ± 0.3 × 10 −10 ; n -butyraldehyde 6.6 ± 0.3 × 10 −10 ; pentanal 4.6 ± 0.2 × 10 −10 ; hexanal 5.3 ± 0.4 × 10 −10 ; acetone 5.9 ± 0.3 × 10 −10 ; butanone 5.1 ± 0.2 × 10 −10 ; 2-pentanone 3.8 ± 0.2 × 10 −10 ; and 3-pentanone 4.6 ± 0.1 × 10 −10 . No significant monotonic variation is thus observed in the rate data within these series of collisional processes where, from the similarity in the observed results, it is concluded that reaction is dominated by attack on the carbonyl group. The large values of these rate constants indicate that reactions of C(2 3 P J ) with aldehydes and ketones, some of which have been observed by radio frequency spectroscopy in interstellar clouds and considered to be generated initially by hot atom reactions, are sufficiently rapid to be included in modelling of the interstellar medium.
The volatile aldehydes and ketones produced by whole Granny Smith apples at 30°C. were identified by paper chromatography and spectral absorption of the dinitrophenylhydrazones, and by conversion of the aldehydes to hydroxamic acids. Acetaldehyde was found to be the major constituent, with smaller amounts of propionaldehyde and acetone.
Abstract The amino derivative of the UiO-66 metal organic framework (MOF) was investigated for potential use as a sensing probe for formaldehyde (FA) in an aqueous medium. The sensitivity and specificity of this MOF probe were virtually unaffected by the presence of other tested reference aldehydes, e.g., propionaldehyde (PA), butyraldehyde (BA), and valeraldehyde (VA). The maximum incubation time for the interaction of the MOF probe against 100 ppm of FA standard was estimated at 2 min. The linear detection of FA molecules using the proposed probe was performed in the range of 10–100 ppm with a limit of detection (LOD) at 4 ppm. The stability of the MOF for FA detection was estimated through a series of adsorption-desorption cycles. DFT calculations showed that the selective sensing/capture of FA corresponded to the formation of a stable, non-covalent bond between FA and the C 6 H 3 NH 2 unit of the MOF. This interaction decreased the HOMO/LUMO gap of FA by approximately 0.8 eV, a trend that was not evident for all other aldehydes. The results of FTIR, TGA, and XPS analysis confirmed a small but visible change in the chemical environment of the N H and C H bonds of UiO-66-NH 2 upon their interactions with FA molecules. Therefore, the proposed MOF probe appears suitable for sensing FA in an aqueous medium.
Comets harbor the most pristine material in our solar system in the form of ice, dust, silicates, and refractory organic material with some interstellar heritage. The evolved gas analyzer Cometary Sampling and Composition (COSAC) experiment aboard Rosetta's Philae lander was designed for in situ analysis of organic molecules on comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko. Twenty-five minutes after Philae's initial comet touchdown, the COSAC mass spectrometer took a spectrum in sniffing mode, which displayed a suite of 16 organic compounds, including many nitrogen-bearing species but no sulfur-bearing species, and four compounds—methyl isocyanate, acetone, propionaldehyde, and acetamide—that had not previously been reported in comets.
Abstract The ketonization of various renewable biomass-derived oxygenated feedstocks such as carboxylic acids, aldehydes, alcohols, and esters is presented. As most previous ketonization reports focused on carboxylic acids, this overview extends the scope to homo-, cross-, and cyclo-ketonization of not only carboxylic acids (e.g., acetic, propionic, butyric, lactic, valeric, levulinic, dicarboxylic, and higher acids), but also of lesser reported aldehydes (e.g., acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde), alcohols (e.g., ethanol, propanol, butanol, diols, and higher alcohols), and esters (e.g., small, intermediate, and large alkanoate chain length esters) aiming at obtaining more stable products, biofuels, and high-value chemicals. Ketonization of carboxylic acids (e.g., catalysts, mechanisms) is presented to provide the basis for understanding the ketonization of aldehydes, alcohols, and esters over metal oxides including ceria, titania, and zirconia, which have been the most active and studied catalysts for this reaction. Whenever possible, examples of ketonization of biomass-derived oxygenated compounds are presented to highlight the utility of the reaction and its practical application. As biomass product streams can contain a large number of different oxygenated compounds (e.g., more than 350 compounds in bio-oil), ketonization examples in the presence of more than one oxygenated molecule have also been considered.
This paper presents an investigation of the carbonyl emissions from a direct injection heavy-duty diesel engine fueled with pure diesel fuel (DF) and blended fuel containing 15% by volume of ethanol (E/DF). The tests have been conducted under steady-state operating conditions at 1200, 1800, 2600 rpm and idle speed. The experimental results show that acetaldehyde is the most predominant carbonyl, followed by formaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde and crotonaldehyde, produced from both fuels. The emission factors of total carbonyls vary in the range 13.8-295.9 mg(kWh)(-1) for DF and 17.8-380.2mg(kWh)(-1) for E/DF, respectively. The introduction of ethanol into diesel fuel results in a decrease in acrolein emissions, while the other carbonyls show general increases: at low engine speed (1200 rpm), 0-55% for formaldehyde, 4-44% for acetaldehyde, 38-224% for acetone, and 5-52% for crotonaldehyde; at medium engine speed (1800 rpm), 106-413% for formaldehyde, 4-143% for acetaldehyde, 74-113% for acetone, 114-1216% for propionaldehyde, and 15-163% for crotonaldehyde; at high engine speed (2600 rpm), 36-431% for formaldehyde, 18-61% for acetaldehyde, 22-241% for acetone, and 6-61% for propionaldehyde. A gradual reduction in the brake specific emissions of each carbonyl compound from both fuels is observed with increase in engine load. Among three levels of engine speed employed, both DF and E/DF emit most CBC emissions at high engine speed. On the whole, the presence of ethanol in diesel fuel leads to an increase in aldehyde emissions.
The effect of H2S on ethylene addition to CO hydrogenation has been studied over Ni/SiO2, Rh/ SiO2, and Ru/SiO2 catalysts at 300°C and 10 atm. The major products of the ethylene addition on the unsulfided catalysts are ethane and propionaldehyde which result from ethylene hydrogenation and the insertion of CO into adsorbed ethylene species, respectively. Sulfidation of the catalysts led to the suppression of ethylene hydrogenation and CO hydrogenation. CO insertion over Ni/SiO2 and Rh/SiO2 catalysts was insensitive to sulfidation, whereas CO insertion on Ru/SiO2 was inhibited by sulfidation. Infrared studies of CO adsorption reveal that sulfidation of the catalysts led to the disruption of neighboring surface atoms for bridge CO resulting in the formation of isolated atom sites which maybe responsible for CO insertion on the sulfided Ni and Rh catalysts.
Aldehydes are known to inactivate cytochrome P450 in the reconstituted enzyme system containing NADPH and NADPH−cytochrome P450 reductase under aerobic conditions in a mechanism-based reaction involving heme adduct formation [Raner, G. M., Chiang, E. W., Vaz, A. D. N., and Coon, M. J. (1997) Biochemistry 36, 4895−4902]. In the study presented here, artificial oxidants were used to examine the mechanism of aldehyde activation by purified P450 2B4 in the absence of the usual O2-reducing system, and the adducts that were formed were isolated and characterized. With hydrogen peroxide as the oxidant, 3-phenylpropionaldehyde gives an adduct with a mass corresponding to that of native heme modified by a phenylethyl group, presumably arising from the reaction of a peroxy−iron species with the aldehyde to give a peroxyhemiacetal, which upon deformylation yields the alkyl radical. NMR analysis indicated that the substitution is specifically at the γ-meso position. In contrast, with m-chloroperbenzoic acid as the ox...
Vapours of acetaldehyde and formaldehyde were passed over silica-alumina catalysts. The catalysts were obtained by soaking silica-alumina with aqueous hydrofluoric acid, the composition of silica-alumina was 75% SiO2, 25% Al2O3. The main products of the reaction were acrolein acetone and propionaldehyde. Also, small amounts of methylethylketone were found in the reaction mixture. It is suggested that the surface of the catalysts studied contains both donor and acceptor sites and also free radical centers.
Abstract : One mission of the Civil Aeromedical Institute is to determine the concentrations of alcohol in postmortem specimens related to aviation accidents. This requires the ability to identify and quantitate a wide range of alcohols that are produced in postmortem specimens. A headspace gas chromatographic procedure utilizing n-propanol as an internal standard had been used in the past. However, n-propanol has been found in postmortem specimens, making n-propanol an unsuitable specimen for an internal standard in the analysis of postmortem specimens. This study evaluated 3 potential replacement internal standards for postmortem ethanol analysis. Method: A mixture of alcohols commonly found in postmortem specimens was prepared and tested using headspace gas chromatography. Solutions were prepared using the test mix and the new internal standards. Data were collected on the resolution and reproducibility of the proposed new internal standards with the test mix. Postmortem cases collected over the past 8 years were reviewed for the presence of specific volatile compounds. Results: Baseline resolution from the test mix was not obtained with propionaldehyde, while propionic acid methyl ester exhibited degradation over time. T-butanol was found to give baseline resolution from all volatile compounds commonly found in antimortem and postmortem specimens. No t-butanol was found in 2880 fatal pilots analyzed over the past 8 years for the presence of volatiles. Conclusion: t-butanol is a better internal standard for the analysis of alcohols in postmortem specimens than propionaldehyde, n-propanol, and propionic acid methyl ester, and is not produced in postmortem specimens.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde(3-HPA) is a potential valuable chemical.The methods of 3-HPA preparation include ethylene oxide process,acrolein hydration and biosynthesis.With the brief introduction of properties and usages of 3-HPA,the paper presents the technological processes and research status of the chemical preparation for 3-HPA.Besides,the paper focuses on the principle,strains and process route of biosynthesis of 3-HPA.In the end,the future development of 3-HPA production is prospected.
The mechanism of the oxidation of propylene is studied through the addition of t-butyl hydroperoxide, acetaldehyde, or propionaldehyde to the reactant (propylene and oxygen), and also through the direct addition of the products of the (C3H5Br+O2 or CH3CHO+O2) reaction to propylene. The following conclusions are reached: acetaldehyde and not propionaldehyde is responsible for chain-branching, acetaldehyde is formed from the allyl peroxy radical alone, propylene oxide is formed mainly by the reaction of the acetyl peroxy radical with propylene, the allyl peroxy radical probably contributes to the formation of propylene oxide, propionaldehyde, and acrolein in an equal extent, and the recombination of radicals is highly retarded in this propylene-excess system. On the basis of the data obtained, a plausible reaction scheme is proposed.
CO insertion is an important reaction step in the fields of both heterogeneous and homogeneous catalysis for the production of oxygenated fuels and useful C 2+ oxygenates. Enhancement of CO insertion rate on the supported Rh catalysts by the addition of oxophilic promoters (i.e., Ce, Mn, Fe, and La oxide) has been suggested to result from the high activity of a postulated tilted CO of which oxygen interacts with the oxophilic promoter. Investigation of the reactivity of adsorbed CO by in situ infrared spectroscopy combined with transient studies reveals that tilted CO on Ce-Rh/SiO 2 is inactive for CO insertion at 303 K. The reactivities of CO species toward CO insertion were determined to be as follows: Rh(CO) 4 > linear CO > gem-dicarbonyl CO. Steady-state isotopic transient studies show that gaseous CO rapidly exchanges with adsorbed CO and Ce decreases the residence time of intermediates leading to propionaldehyde formation.
Poly(3-hydroxypropionate) (P3HP) is a biodegradable and biocompatible plastic exhibiting high rigidity, ductility, and exceptional tensile strength in drawn films, and was regarded as one of the alternatives to petrochemical-derived plastic [10] . The biosynthesis of P3HP and 3HP-containing copolymers was previously dependent on structurally related precursors, such as 3HP, acrylate and 1,3-propanediol [11] [12] [13] [14] . However the addition of these expensive precursors increased P3HP production cost. To solve this problem, we constructed a recombinant E. coli strain to synthesize P3HP using inexpensive carbon source glycerol ( Figure 1 ) [15] . The genes involved in P3HP synthesis were cloned into two plasmids: the glycerol dehydratase and its reactivating factor genes, dhaB123 and gdrAB, from Klebsiella pneumoniae were inserted in the expression vector pACYCDuet-1 to generate plasmid pWQ04, and the propionaldehyde dehydrogenase gene pduP from Salmonella typhimurium and polyhydroxyalkanoate synthase gene phaC1 from Cupriavidus necator were carried by pWQ02. Under the optimized culture conditions, the recombinant E. coli strain accumulated 10.1 g/L P3HP (representing 46.4% of the cell dry weight) in a fed-batch fermentation.
Before these new carbamates can be considered for use in the control of ticks it is necessary to assess the adverse effects that they could cause in mammals. Previous studies have shown that the toxicity of known carbamates is variable [6] . Some carbamates are highly toxic, for example aldicarb (2-methyl-2-[methylthio] propionaldehyde o-[methylcarbamoyl] Oxime) which has an oral 50% lethal dose (LD 50 ) of 0.3 to 0.9 mg/kg, carbofuran ( 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranylmethylcarbamate) which has an oral LD 50 of 8 mg/kg, and carbaryl (1-naphthyl methylcarbamate) which has an oral LD 50 of 12.5 mg/kg [7] . Other carbamates such as propoxur (2-isopropoxyphenyl methylcarbamate), which has an oral LD 50 of 68 to 94 mg/kg and dermal LD 50 of >2000 mg/kg [8] , are considered to be of mid-level toxicity. In contrast, benzimidazoles show low toxicity [9] . Albendazole (5-[propylthio]-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl carbamic acid methyl ester) shows an LD 50 of 1320-2400 mg/kg, whereas mebendazole (methyl 5-benzoyl-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl-carbamate) has an oral LD 50 of 715 to 1434 mg/kg [10] .
1. ::: ::: The possibility of using rhodium as the basis of a catalyst for the hydrocondensation of carbon monoxide with olefins and their hydropolymerization under the action of CO and H2 was investigated, using ethylene as an example ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The hydrocondensation of CO with ethylene over a Rh-clay catalyst proceeds with a maximum yield of 70% of the reacted ethylene (280 ml/m3 of initial gas) at 150° and 30 atm. Ethylene does not polymerize over this catalyst at 150–250° and 1–30 atm. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The liquid products of the hydrocondensation of ethylene with CO and H2 represent a complex mixture of oxygen-containing organic compounds, with a predominance of aldehydes (propionaldehyde and 2-methylpentene-2-al-l) and alcohols (propanol-1). ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: The hydrogenation of carbon monoxide with oxygen over Rh catalysts at 1–50 atm and 250–300° proceeds with the predominant formation of methane. Pt and Pd catalysts were inactive.
By computer modelling and protein engineering we have investigated changes in two amino acid residues located in the coenzyme pocket of the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis mitochondrial alcohol dehydrogenase III. These two residues, Gly 225 and Ala 274, were hypothesized to be involved in the enzyme discrimination between NAD(H) and NADP(H). Upon changing Gly 225 to Ala we produced an enzyme (mutant G225A) showing very little difference from the wild-type. On the contrary, change at position 274 of Phe instead of Ala (mutant A274F) caused a significant increase of K(m) values for NAD(P) and for NADPH and even a more marked decrease in catalytic activity. The k(cat)/K(m) rates for NADP(H) were also decreased in this mutant. Enzymes with the double changes at 225 and 274 (mutant G225A-A274F) showed, apart the substantial low K(m) value for NADPH and its high catalytic efficiency, kinetic parameters relative to coenzymes which were not additive over the single substitutions. Surprisingly, enzymes with changes at the two positions reduced efficiently acetaldehyde, displaying a K(m) value 10-fold lower and a catalytic efficiency sevenfold higher with respect to parent or singularly mutated enzymes. None of the engineered enzymes would convert formaldehyde, glutaraldehyde or aromatic aldehydes but all enzymes reduced propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde at relative reaction rates approximately half of that exhibited by acetaldehyde. Interestingly only mutant A274F was able to oxidize methanol almost as well as ethanol. In addition, this mutant was capable to convert secondary and cyclic alcohols, at a rate not detected in the other isoforms. These results are in general agreement with the prediction that increasing the size of amino acids in the proximity of the coenzyme pocket would hamper the accommodation of NADP but discord the increased affinity for NADPH as well as for alcoholic or aldehydic substrates with high steric hindrance.
A thermostable lipase from Geobacillus zalihae strain T1 was chemically modified using propionaldehyde via reductive alkylation. The targeted alkylation sites were lysines, in which T1 lipase possessed 11 residues. Far-UV circular dichroism (CD) spectra of both native and alkylated enzyme showed a similar broad minimum between 208 and 222 nm, thus suggesting a substantial amount of secondary structures in modified enzyme, as compared with the corresponding native enzyme. The hydrolytic activity of the modified enzymes dropped drastically by nearly 15-fold upon chemical modification, despite both the native and modified form showed distinctive α-helical bands at 208 and 222 nm in CD spectra, leading us to the hypothesis of formation of a molten globule (MG)-like structure. As cooperative unfolding transitions were observed, the modified lipase was distinguished from the native state, in which the former possessed a denaturation temperature (T(m)) in lower temperature range at 61 °C while the latter at 68 °C. This was further supported by 8-anilino-1-naphthalenesulfonic acid (ANS) probed fluorescence which indicated higher exposure of hydrophobic residues, consequential of chemical modification. Based on matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) analysis, a small number of lysine residues were confirmed to be alkylated.
The use of Folsomia fimetaria (L.) as an additional test insect for the detection of toxic insecticidal residues was of advantage when Drosophila melanogaster Meigen was relatively resistant to some insecticides. A rearing method for, and bioassay method with F. fimetaria is described. It was found that F. fimetaria was more susceptible to the organophosphorus and carbamate insecticides, and D. melanogaster was more susceptible to the chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides tested. With parathion and diazinon, 1.2 to 2.7 times larger amounts had to be used with D. melanogaster to obtain the same toxicity effects as with F. fimetaria . With Temik® (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) a 9 times higher dosage had to be used, while with carbaryl almost no mortalities of D. melanogaster could be obtained. However, with the chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides, F. fimetaria was more resistant and it took a 33 times higher dosage of aldrin to obtain the same LD50 as observed with D. melanogaster. These differences were considerably reduced with lindane, and only a double dosage of this insecticide was necessary to obtain the same LD50 value with F. fimetaria . Both species were rather resistant to DDT.
The activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) in the cerebrum, cerebellum, striatum, and medulla oblongata was examined and mitochondrial matrix ALDH was purified prior to immunohistochemical study on the localization of ALDH isozymes in pig brain. Relatively high enzyme activity was found in the striatum and medulla oblongata when using indole-3-acetaldehyde as substrate, and in the striatum when using 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL). The main part of mitochondrial ALDH activities with both acetaldehyde and DOPAL existed in the matrix fraction. The ratio of activity of the matrix to the membrane fraction in the cerebrum was higher than in the cerebellum, suggesting that the distribution pattern of ALDH isozymes was different according to the brain regions. The 276-fold purified mitochondrial matrix ALDH from pig brain was identified to be homologous tetramers with 53 KD subunits. The enzyme showed maximal activity at pH 9.0 and was stable in the temperature range from to . The mitochondrial matrix ALDH activity was considerably inhibited by acetaldehyde in vitro. The values of the enzyme for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were 5.8 mM and 4.9 mM, respectively, whereas values for indole-3-acetaldehyde and DOPAL were 44 and 1.6 , respectively. The ratio was the highest with DOPAL as compared with other substrates. These results suggested that mitochondrial matrix ALDH in the present work might be a low Km isozyme involved in biogenic aldehyde oxidation in pig brain.
The effect of 19 volatile products on the development of superficial scald was investigated. These included formic, acetic, butyric and caproic acids and their ethyl esters; methanol, ethanol, butanol, and hexanol; butyl and hexyl acetates; acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, hexanal, and acetone; and ethylene. At a concentration of one mole in 10,000 moles of air only butyric and caproic acids and butyl and hexyl acetates significantly increased scald in oil-wrapped apples, and the level in all cases was below that of unwrappped untreated fruit. ::: ::: ::: ::: The concentration of volatile acids, alcohols and esters in the scald-liable tissue was unaffected by storage in oil wraps. ::: ::: ::: ::: Crude ‘hexane’ at a concentration of one mole in 150 moles of air gave excellent control, which was reduced by purification of the ‘hexane’. ::: ::: ::: ::: The volatile theory of scald, the nature of the causal factor, and the mechanism of control by oil wraps is discussed.
Abstract Size-tunable metal–organic coordination polymers of Dy 2 aBDC 3 based on dysprosium (Dy) and 2-amino-1,4-benzene dicarboxylic acid (H 2 aBDC) were synthesized, and we for the first time reported that the Dy 2 aBDC 3 polymer particles can be applied to fluorescent visualization of water and aldehydes. The Dy 2 aBDC 3 polymer particles either in the solid state or dispersed in the solvent such as N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), ethanol and acetone exhibited no fluorescence. If in the presence of small amounts of water, the particles would show strongly blue emission. Furthermore, when the Dy 2 aBDC 3 polymer particles were dispersed in DMF containing aldehyde such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, cyan fluorescence emission could be observed with the naked eyes, and a redshift of the emission wavelength would occur in varying degrees according to the amounts of the aldehydes. So, we can visualize water and aldehydes based on the emission colors of the Dy 2 aBDC 3 polymer particles under 365 nm UV lamp light.
(i) Odyssic acid and odyssin were isolated in 1955 by Jones and his collaborators from cultures of the Basidiomycete "B841", and were assigaed the structures (IV; R=H) and (V) respectively on the basis of degradative studies. Although work on the synthesis of the two compounds could be justified on the grounds of confirmation of structure alone, other factors wore also of importance, e.g. investigation of the antibiotic activity was desired. Owing to the sensitivity of the allene-acetylene system present in odyssin, the following synthetic scheme was devised in which the allene was to be introduced in the final step. Condensation of ethynylmagnesium bromide with β-carbethoxypropionaldehyde gave a 50% yield of the hydroxy-ester (I; R=H, R′=Et), which was then hydrolysed quantitatively to the free acid (I; R=R′=H). Attempted coupling of both the free acid (I; R=R′=H) and the protected acid (I; R=2′-tetrahydropyranyl; R′=H), as the bromo-magnesium derivatives, with the bromide (II; X=Br) in the presence of cuprous chloride gave none of the required product (III) even though model work on hydrocarbons had been successful. Attention was then focussed on an alternative preparative route to the ≡C.CH 2 .C≡ system which incorporated the reaction of an acetylenic Grignard reagent with a βγ-acetylenic sulphonate. As preferential reaction with the halogen anion of the bromo-magnesium destroyed half the sulphonate, model experiments were carried cut with halogen free dialkynylmagnesium solutions. Dihex-1-ynylmagnesium and the tosylate (II; X= p -SO 3 .C 6 H 4 .CH 3 ) reacted to the extent of 65%, but the product when isolated had rearranged to a mixture of all the possible isomers, the composition of which is given below. Application of the model conditions to the magnesium derivative of the protected acid (I; R=2p R′=H) and the above tosylate in ether gave a heterogeneous reaction mixture which, after isomerisation, afforded only a 0.0006% yield of 2′-tetrahydropyranyl odyssic acid (IV; R=2′-tetrahydropyranyl), In tetrahydrofuran, a homogeneous solution was obtaine, but the doncitions required to replace the ethynyl proton of the protected acid (with diethylmagnesium) resulted in the conversion of the carboxyl group to an ethyl ketone. (ii) Odyssin and odyssic acid were known to undergo alkali-catalysed isomerisation to odyssin A (VIII) and iso-odyssic acid (VI) respectively. The synthesis of the two isomers and also of iso-odyssic lactone (VII) was accomplished by the scheme outlined overleaf. (iii) The difficulties associated with the synthesis of polyacetylenes are considerably increased when cis -double bonds are present as the most convenient starting materials, viz . alcohols and acids with cis -ethylenic linkages, are tedious to purify and are readily cyclised acidic and basic conditions. The possibility of using the well known photochemical isomerisation of double bonds as a preparative method for converting the more readily available trans -polyacetylenes into the cis -forms was therefore investigated. Two examples only of photoequilibration in the polyacetylene field had been reported, both being cis to trans conversions. In 1941, Sorensen et al . discovered that cis -matricaria ester (IX) could be photoisomerised to the " trans "-compound (X), and eighteen years later, the sulphur compound (XI) was converted into (XII) by irradiation. It was considered that trans to cis conversion should also be possible, and as the above isomerisations had been effected with double bonds conjugated to an ester group, this type of system was selected for the initial studies. trans -Lachnophyllum ester (XIII), on Irradiation (λ > 2900 A) in light petroleum was mainly converted (80%) into the cis -isomer (XIV). Chromatography on alumina gave a 60% yield of the pure cis -ester. It was of interest to discover whether or not the ester activation could be relayed by an acetylenic chain. For this purpose the trans -ester (XV) was used. It was readily photoisomerised (under the above conditions) to a mixture which was shown by vapour phase chromatography to consist of 45% of the cis - and 55% of the trans -compound. Preparative scale experiments were not attempted as decomposition of the L cis -ester (XVI) occurred during chromatographic purification. An ethylenic system with acetylenic activation only was considered next. trans -Dehydromatricarianol (XVII) was irradiated (λ > 2200 A) in ethanol and was partly converted (27%) into the cis -isomer. (XVIII). A portion of the latter had cyclised during the experiment to give the dihydrofuran. (XIX) (10% overall) which on careful chromatography was resolved into its 4,5-double bond isomers. The structure of (XIX) was authenticated by comparison of its ultraviolet spectrum with that of a synthetic spectrum of the new chromophore. [For the diagrams and bibliography to accompany this abstract, please consult the PDF.]
Carbonyl compounds (aldehydes and ketones) are suspected to be among the chemical compounds responsible for Sick Building Syndrome and Multiple Chemical Sensitivities. A headspace gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) analysis for these compounds was developed using derivatization of the compounds into volatile derivatives with o-(2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzyl)hydroxylamine (PFBOA). For GC/MS detection, two ionization modes including electron impact ionization (EI) and negative chemical ionization (NCI) were compared. The NCI mode seemed to be better because of its higher selectivity and sensitivity. This headspace GC/MS (NCI mode) was employed as analysis for aldehydes and ketones in materials (fiber products, adhesives, and printed materials). Formaldehyde was detected in the range of N.D. (not detected) to 39 microg/g; acetaldehyde, N.D. to 4.1 microg/g; propionaldehyde, N.D. to 1.0 microg/g; n-butyraldehyde, N.D. to 0.10 microg/g; and acetone, N.D. to 3.1 microg/g in the samples analyzed.
The multistep preparation of 11C-levetiracetam (11C-LEV) was carried out by a one-pot radiosynthesis with 8.3 ± 1.6% (n = 8) radiochemical yield in 50 ± 5.0 min. Briefly, the propionaldehyde was converted to propan-1-imine in situ as labeling precursor by incubation with ammonia. Without further separation, the imine was reacted with 11C-HCN to form 11C-aminonitrile. This crude was then reacted with 4-chlorobutyryl chloride and followed by hydrolysis to yield 11C-LEV after purification by chiral high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Both the radiochemical and enantiomeric purities of 11C-LEV were >98%.
Methacrolein is an important intermediate in the synthesis of methyl methacrylate (MMA), which is widely used for producing acrylic plastics or producing polymer dispersions for paints and coatings. In this paper, methacrolein was synthesized by condensation of propionaldehyde with formaldehyde in the pressense of amine salt through Mannich base intermediate at the atmospheric pressure. The optimal reaction conditions were obtained. The water content in starting mixture were also investigated
1. A comparison of rates of oxidation of various compounds by whole cells indicated that protocatechuate was a reaction intermediate when a non-fluorescent species of Pseudomonas oxidized p-cresol. In contrast, a fluorescent Pseudomonas oxidized 3-methylcatechol and 4-methylcatechol when grown with p-cresol, but did not oxidize protocatechuate. 2. Heat-treated extracts of the fluorescent Pseudomonas oxidized catechol, 3-methylcatechol and 4-methylcatechol to ring-fission products, the spectroscopic properties of which were recorded. Rates of enzymic degradation of these products were also measured. 3. Acetic acid and formic acid were obtained by the action of a Sephadex-treated extract on 3-methylcatechol and 4-methylcatechol respectively. In each case 0.8mol. of the carboxylic acid was formed from 1.0mol. of substrate. 4. Dialysed extracts converted 3-methylcatechol into acetaldehyde and pyruvate, with 4-hydroxy-2-oxovalerate as a reaction intermediate. 4-Methylcatechol was converted first into 4-hydroxy-2-oxohexanoate and then into propionaldehyde and pyruvate. 5. The ring-fission product of catechol was formed from phenol by a fluorescent Pseudomonas, that of 3-methylcatechol was formed from o-cresol and m-cresol, and the ring-fission product of 4-methylcatechol was given from p-cresol. Propionate was readily oxidized by these cells after growth with p-cresol, but this compound was not attacked when phenol, o-cresol or m-cresol served as source of carbon. 6. Cell extracts appeared to attack only one enantiomer of synthetic 4-hydroxy-2-oxohexanoate.
【Effects of ginsenosides on the activities of bovine liver mitochondrial matrix ALDH and membrane bound ALDH were observed in vitro and it was found that both matrix and membrane bound ALDH were stimulated appreciably. The maximum activity for the matrix AkDH was found at the concentration of ginsenoside mixture being $10^{-7}$ ~ $10^5$ % and that for the membrane bound ALDH was at $10^{-6}$ ~ $10^{-4}$ %. It was also found that Km values of both ALDHS were lowered and their maximum velocity was increased. It was realized that the bovine liver mitochondrial matrix AkDH is Quite specific for the oxidation of low aliphatic aldehydes such as acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. Therefore the increase of Vmax/Km value of the matrix ALDH in the presence of ginsenosides suggest that ginsenosides might stimulate the ALDH activity thereby resulting in the quick removal of harmful acetaldehyde from the liver to protect its toxicity.】
Abstract The rosebengal-sensitized photooxygenation of 2-methoxynorborn-2-ene( 1 )in acetaldehyde gave cis -1-carboxaldehyde-3-carbomethoxycyclopentane (31%) and the cis and trans -Me derivatives of the cis -fuscd exo -1,2,4-trioxanes arising by addition of a molecule of oxygen and acetaldehyde to 1 at C3 and C2 respectively (13%) Similar photooxygenation of 2-(methoxymethylidene)adamantane in the presence of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and pivalaldehyde gave adamantanone (31–42%), and the cis and trans tricylo[3.3.1.1 3,7 ]decane-2-spiro-6'-[3-alkyl-5-methoxy-1,2,4-trioxanes] in yields of 32–53% Trioxane formation under similar conditions was experienced for 1,1-di-t-butyl-2-methoxyethene and 2-(methylmercaptomethylidene) adamantane. The results are discussed in terms of an intermediate zwitterionic peroxide which can either close directly to a 1,2-dioxetane or, if aldehyde is present, condense across the CO function giving the 1,2,4-trioxane.
Abstract In the hydroformylation of ethylene with approximately equimolar H 2 /D 2 mixtures and Rh 4 (CO) 12 or Co 2 (CO) 8 as the catalyst precursor about 50% of propionaldehyde- d 1 was formed. The propionaldehyde- d 0 / d 2 ratio was ∼ 3 for rhodium and ∼ 2.6 for the cobalt catalyst. On the basis of the results and assuming that there is no rapid M(H) 2 /M(D) 2 scrambling, activation of hydrogen through M(H) 2 or M(H) 2 (olefin) complexes can be excluded.
Low molecular weight carbonyl compounds from a variety of source operations were collected in bisulfite solution and analyzed by a gas chromatographic procedure. Formaldehyde could not be determined by gas chromatography and was measured colorimetrically. Studies on the efficiency of collection of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butraldehyde, and crotonaldehyde, along with acetone, meth-ylethyl ketone, and diethyl ketone were made in a laboratory aeration setup. Data on the concentration of these compounds in source effluents are presented.
Mesostructure-fine-tuned and size-controlled hierarchical porous silica nanospheres were synthesized by aldehyde-modified Stober method in the TEOS–CTAB–NH3·H2O–aldehyde system. The samples were characterized by XRD, N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms, SEM, TEM and TG analysis. The results indicate that the particle size of the micro/mesoporous silica nanospheres synthesized with acetaldehyde as a co-solvent can be controlled from 40 to 850 nm by regulating the molar ratio of acetaldehyde to water and the initial pH of the synthesis solution. When propionaldehyde or butyraldehyde was used as a co-solvent, hierarchical porous silica nanospheres with large cone-like cavities and small mesopores in the cavity wall were synthesized; the diameter of the flower-like nanospheres is less than 130 nm. The hierarchical pore structure of the flower-like silica nanospheres can be fine-tuned by controlling the polymerization of butyraldehyde by the synthesis temperature from 27 to 100 °C, both the depth and opening diameter of the cone-like cavities can be fine-tuned from 40 to 2 nm; simultaneously, the small mesopores templated by CTAB become more ordered.
γ-hydroxy-α,β-unsaturated aldehydes via 1,3-bis(methylthio)allyllithium: trans-4-hydroxy-2-hexenal ::: ::: ::: ::: reactant: 50 g. (56 ml., 1.0 mole) of methanethiol ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: intermediate: 1,3-bis(methylthio)-2-propanol ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: solvent: 100-ml. portions of hexane ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: intermediate: 1,3-bis(methylthio)-2-methoxypropane ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: intermediate: 1,3-bis(methylthio)-1-hexen-4-ol ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: trans-4-hydroxy-2-hexenal ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: byproduct: 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: byproduct: 1,3-bis(methylthio)propene ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: byproduct: 1,3-bis(methylthio)-1-butene ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: addition, to CO; ::: alkylation, O-alkylation; ::: etherification; ::: hydrolysis, miscellaneous; ::: replacement reactions, miscellaneous; ::: assay methods, for butyllithium, with 2-butanol, menthol, 2-pentanol, or 2-propanol, 1,10-phenanthroline indicator; ::: 1,3-bis(methylthio)allyllithium, preparation; ::: diisopropylamine; ::: lithium diisopropylamide (LDA), preparation of; ::: propionaldehyde; ::: tetrahydrofuran; ::: methyl iodide; ::: apparatus, for measuring volume of liquid methanethiol
The synthesis of (2Z,4RS)-5-acetamido-4-guanidino-2-benzamidopent-2-enoic acid (sodium salt) 5 is reported. Wittig–Horner olefination of diamino protected propionaldehyde 8 with phosphonoglycine trimethyl ester 11 provided (Z)-olefin methyl ester 12. The methyl ester was converted to allyl ester 15 by initial hydrolysis with lithium hydroxide followed by reaction with allyl bromide. Target compound 5 was prepared from allyl ester 15 by initial formation of bis(Boc)guanidino ester 16 followed by treatment with tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(0). The product was evaluated for activity against ::: influenza neuraminidase and was found to be weakly active.
The synthesis of the tungsten carbyne hydride complex trans-W(CMes)(dmpe)2H, 7, which is obtained from the borohydride complex trans-W(CMes)(η1-BH4)(dmpe)2, 6, (dmpe = Me2PCH2CH2PMe2) is reported. 6 is readily prepared from trans-W(CMes)(dmpe)2Cl, 5, which is prepared from [W(CO)5C(O)Mes][N(CH3)4] via the isolable intermediates trans-W(CMes)(CO)2(Py)2Cl, 2, and trans-W(CMes)(CO)[P(OMe)3]3Cl, 3. 7 was spectroscopically fully characterized, and reactivity studies have revealed its potential in hydrogen transfer reactions. The results of studies into the reactivity of the W−H bond toward small unsaturated molecules, such as propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, acetone, acetophenone, and benzophenone, to give the corresponding alkoxides trans-W(CMes)(dmpe)2(OCHR‘R‘ ‘) (R‘ = H, R‘ ‘ = Pr 9, R‘ = H, R‘ ‘ = Ph 10, R‘ = R‘ ‘ = Me 11, R‘ = Me, R‘ ‘ = Ph 12, R‘ = R‘ ‘ = Ph 13) are presented. Facile insertion of the CO moiety into the W−H bond was also observed with CO2 to yield the formato-O-complex trans-W(CMes)(dmpe)2(...
A volatile fraction obtained from meat extract was examined by gas-liquid chromatography. Twelve compounds were identified (methyl mercaptan, acetaldehyde, ethyl mercaptan, dimethyl sulphide, acetone, ethyl methyl ketone, methanol and ethanol—which have also been shown to be present in meat by other workers—together with hydrogen sulphide, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and isovaleraldehyde) but others may be present.
The following inhibitors of spore germination were identified in collections of volatile metabolites from cultures of Fusarium oxysporum : acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n -butyraldehyde, n -propanol, iso -butanol, ethyl acetate, iso -butyl acetate and acetone. When mixtures of any two of these substances were assayed for retardation of spore germination the activity detected was in many instances less than would have been expected from the germination-retarding activities of the component substances. Collections of volatile metabolites from F. oxysporum were only slightly more active in retarding germination than some of the individual components when the latter were assayed individually at the same concentration as that occurring in the collections. A mixture of pure volatile substances was prepared to match, both qualitatively and quantitatively, the composition of a natural collection and no significant difference in retarding germination was detected between the two mixtures. The contribution of volatile metabolites to sporostasis is assessed.
A simple procedure for the preparation of 3-(hetero)arylpropionaldehydes has been developed employing a gold-catalyzed [1,3]-rearrangement of vinyl ethers. Using this protocol, Canthoxal, an aromatic aldehyde used in perfumery, has been prepared on a gram scale.
Glycerol, a by-product of biodiesel, is a source of carbon for the bioproduction of chemical intermediates with high commercial value, such as 1,3-propanediol. One strain of Klebsiella oxytoca , isolated from soil samples, was tested to determine its potential to produce 1,3-propanediol through fermentation of a glycerol solution, under excess substrate conditions. The microbial growth curve was evaluated by optical density reading using a spectrophotometer (600 nm), while glycerol consumption and concentration of the products were determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with HPX 87H column (BioRad). Formate, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and ethanol were produced in the early hours of fermentation. The increased rate of glycerol consumption and the formation of 1,3-propanediol coincides with formate degradation. This indicates that formate degradation likely works as an alternative means to generate part of the nicotine adenine dinucleotide (NADH) used by the 1,3-propanediol-dehydrogenase enzyme. Yield in mole of product per 100 mol of substrate reached 48.5, which is higher than that of previously investigated K. oxytoca strains. Keywords: Klebsiella oxytoca , glycerol, fermentation, 1,3-propanediol, biodiesel
Alcohols, aldehydes and ketones identified in the Murchison C2 chondrite include: methanol, ethanol, 2-propanol, butyl alcohols, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, 2-butanone, 3-pentanone and 2-pentanone.
When grown in 700 mM glycerol within the pH range 6.0 to 7.5, anaerobic pH-regulated cultures of Enterobacter agglomerans exhibited an extracellular accumulation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). This phenomenon, which causes fermentation cessation, occurred earlier when pH was low. In contrast, substrate consumption was complete at pH 8. Levels of glycerol-catabolizing enzymes, i.e., glycerol dehydrogenase and dihydroxyacetone kinase for the oxidative route and glycerol dehydratase and 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase for the reductive route, as well as the nucleotide pools were determined periodically in the pH 7- and pH 8-regulated cultures. A NAD/NADH ratio of 1.7 was correlated with the beginning of the production of the inhibitory metabolite. Further accumulation was dependent on the ratio of glycerol dehydratase activity to 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase activity. For a ratio higher than 1, 3-HPA was produced until fermentation ceased, which occurred for the pH 7-regulated culture. At pH 8, a value below 1 was noticed and 3-HPA accumulation was transient, while the NAD/NADH ratio decreased. The low rate of glycerol dissimilation following the appearance of 3-HPA in the culture medium was attributed to the strong inhibitory effect exerted by 3-HPA on glycerol dehydrogenase activity.
Using supported MgO/SiO2 as catalyst,the synthesis of hydroxypivalic acid neopentyl glycol monoesters(HPN) from industrial formaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde was studied.The effect of reaction temperature,reaction time and dosage of catalyst were investigated.The optimum conditions were obtained as follows: reaction temperature 90 ℃,reaction time 90 min,dosage of catalyst 3% of 2,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxy propionaldehyde(HPA).Under these conditions,the conversion of HPA reached 90%,and the selectivity of HPN reached 97%.The purity of the product reached 99% after vacuum distillation.The total yield of HPN was 80%.The supported MgO/SiO2 catalyst could easily be filt after the reaction.The supported catalysts were characterized by BET and SEM,and the results showed that the supported MgO/SiO2 catalyst could be reused up to 4 times with no apparent decrease in the conversion of HPA and yield of HPN.
Though MCPs differ substantially according to their metabolic nature, they share a number of genomic and structural characteristics. In particular, most MCP proteins are encoded within Figure 1 . An idealized model of the Pdu MCP shell and its encapsulated pathway. The MCP shell is assembled from a few thousand copies of proteins belonging to the BMC (bacterial microcompartment) protein family. Several distinct paralogs from the BMC family are present within a single shell. BMC proteins self-assemble into cyclical hexamers (in blue). Also present in fewer copies are proteins from a distinct family, referred to as BMVs, which are pentameric proteins (in yellow) forming the vertices of the polyhedral structure. The polyhedron is shown here idealized as an icosahedron, while the Pdu MCP is typically less regular in shape. Sequentially acting enzymes (in black) carrying out the Pdu pathway are enclosed by the shell (A). The Pdu pathway degrades 1,2-propanediol to propionaldehyde via a B 12 -dependent catalytic mechanism, the aldehyde being subsequently converted to 1-propanol or propionyl-phosphate (B).
The reduced dosing frequency results in part from improved pharmacological properties achieved by conjugation of a polyethylene glycol (PEG) molecule to the native protein to increase molecular size and thereby reduce the rate of clearance by glomerular filtration. Pegylation is an approach that has been used for several protein therapeutics, including pegylated interferons used in the treatment of hepatitis C, which have consistently been found to provide efficacy, safety and tolerability comparable with their unmodified forms [3] . Peginterferon beta-1a was developed by covalent binding of a 20 kDa methoxy-PEG-O-2-methyl propionaldehyde group to the specific alpha-amino group at the N-terminus of interferon beta-1a [4] . Phase 1 studies comparing the pharmacokinetics (PK) of peginterferon beta-1a and i.m. interferon beta-1a demonstrated that pegylation of interferon beta-1a provided a longer terminal half-life (t 1/2 ) and greater cumulative area under the curve (AUC), compared with the non-pegylated product, with no peginterferon beta-1a accumulation [5] .
Glycerol, a by-product of biodiesel, is a source of carbon for the bioproduction of chemical intermediates with high commercial value, such as 1,3-propanediol. One strain of Klebsiella oxytoca, isolated from soil samples, was tested to determine its potential to produce 1,3-propanediol through fermentation of a glycerol solution, under excess substrate conditions. The microbial growth curve was evaluated by optical density reading using a spectrophotometer (600 nm), while glycerol consumption and concentration of the products were determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with HPX 87H column (BioRad). Formate, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and ethanol were produced in the early hours of fermentation. The increased rate of glycerol consumption and the formation of 1,3propanediol coincides with formate degradation. This indicates that formate degradation likely works as an alternative means to generate part of the nicotine adenine dinucleotide (NADH) used by the 1,3propanediol-dehydrogenase enzyme. Yield in mole of product per 100 mol of substrate reached 48.5, which is higher than that of previously investigated K. oxytoca strains.
2,2-Dimethylol propionic acid was synthesized by two steps using sodium hydroxide as the catalyst in this article. The influence of various factors on the yield of 2,2-Dimethylol propionic acid were studied by single factor experiment that included condensation temperature, condensation time, propionaldehyde-formaldehyde ratioetc.. On the basis of this foundation, the orthogonal design was carried out in order to confirm the preferable synthesis conditions of 2,2-Dimethylolpropanoic. The results show that the optimal synthesis conditions are as follows: condensation time is 8 hours, condensation temperature is 35°C, propionaldehyde-formaldehyde ratio is 2.2, sodium hydroxide-formaldehyde ratio is 0.03, the oxidation temperature is 90°C, oxidation time is 6 hours. The product yield can reach to 71.35% under these reaction conditions that is higher than the value reported in references.
An investigation has been made of the gas phase slow combustion of propionaldehyde between 155° and 220°C. The process is autocatalytic, and at 155°C the reaction proceeded with a pressure decrease throughout most of its course, perpropionic acid (the branching intermediate) being the major product over the first half of the reaction. With increase of temperature the reaction became more complex because of the instability of the peracid, and the pressure/time curve showed a minimum. Considerable amounts of secondary products including acetaldehyde and ethylene were formed at 220°C. At constant temperature (220°C) the maximum rate of pressure decrease was proportional to the rate of oxygen uptake, but the proportionality constant was temperature dependent, and overall activation energies estimated from the rate of oxygen consumption were higher than those estimated from the rate of pressure decrease. At high oxygen concentrations the rate was independent of oxygen pressure but proportional to the square of the aldehyde pressure. The rate became increasingly dependent on the oxygen pressure and less dependent on the aldehyde pressure as the pressure of the oxygen decreased. The overall activation energy was higher for oxygen-rich mixtures. A possible reaction scheme to account for the oxygen dependent rate is discussed.
The flavorous substances in Soy were isolated from newly pressed Soy-cake. By means of steam distillation I divided them into about thirty fractions. From the distillate of lower boiling points two kinds of flavorous substances were isolated. Their empirical formulas are C6H14O3 and C9H18O2. Both of them have strong flavors and especially the latter's resembles very much to that in Soy. Besides them acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butylaldehyde and valeraldehyde were isolated. The most nonvolatile flavors were catched by means of adsorption with activated carbon. In this case the flavors obtained were very good and most resembling to that in Soy.
Imbalance in cofactors causing the accumulation of intermediates in biosynthesis pathways is a frequently occurring problem in metabolic engineering when optimizing a production pathway in a microorganism. In our previous study, a single knock-out Citrobacter werkmanii ∆dhaD was constructed for improved 1,3-propanediol (PDO) production. Instead of an enhanced PDO concentration on this strain, the gene knock-out led to the accumulation of the toxic intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). The hypothesis was emerged that the accumulation of this toxic intermediate, 3-HPA, is due to a cofactor imbalance, i.e. to the limited supply of reducing equivalents (NADH). Here, this bottleneck is alleviated by rationally engineering cell metabolism to balance the cofactor supply. By eliminating non-essential NADH consuming enzymes (such as lactate dehydrogenase coded by ldhA, and ethanol dehydrogenase coded by adhE) or by increasing NADH producing enzymes, the accumulation of 3-HPA is minimized. Combining the above modifications in C. werkmanii ∆dhaD resulted in the strain C. werkmanii ∆dhaD∆ldhA∆adhE::ChlFRT which provided the maximum theoretical yield of 1.00 ± 0.03 mol PDO/mol glycerol when grown on glucose/glycerol (0.33 molar ratio) on flask scale under anaerobic conditions. On bioreactor scale, the yield decreased to 0.73 ± 0.01 mol PDO/mol glycerol although no 3-HPA could be measured, which indicates the existence of a sink of glycerol by a putative glycerol dehydrogenase, channeling glycerol to the central metabolism. In this study, a multiple knock-out was created in Citrobacter species for the first time. As a result, the concentration of the toxic intermediate 3-HPA was reduced to below the detection limit and the maximal theoretical PDO yield on glycerol was reached.
The development of a practical and highly convergent synthesis of an αvβ3 antagonist is described. The two key fragments present in this compound, a tetrahydropyrido[2,3-b]azepine ring system and a chiral 3-aryl-5-oxopentanoic acid, were constructed independently and then coupled at a late stage using a Wittig reaction. The pyridoazepine moiety was prepared from N-Boc 6-chloro-2-aminopyridine via directed ortho-metalation/alkylation followed by in situ cyclization. A Suzuki reaction was then used to attach the propionaldehyde side-chain required for Wittig coupling. The coupling partner was prepared from asymmetric methanolysis of a 3-substituted glutaric anhydride followed by elaboration of the acid moiety to the requisite β-keto phosphorane. Using this route, kilogram quantities of the desired drug candidate were prepared.
Abstract Concentrations of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde were measured in a semi-urban coastal site in the Gulf of Campeche, Mexico, during the winter, summer and autumn seasons. Measurements were carried out from 10 February 2004 to 16 November 2004. Carbonyl compound levels showed pronounced diurnal and seasonal variations. Maximum concentrations occurred between 13:00 h and 16:00 h, when vehicular traffic and photochemical activity were intense, and during the summer (when there was greater solar radiation). Only acetone during the first campaign (winter) did not correlate with temperature; it showed an inverse diurnal pattern, with higher concentrations during the night, probably due to a local and temporal source. The low concentrations of the main carbonyls found in this study, compared with the values reported for other urban areas, seem to indicate that air quality is still satisfactory in Carmen City.
Products of the reaction of OH radicals with 1-butene have been investigated in the presence of NO in one atmosphere of air at room temperature using gas chromatography and in situ long pathlength Fourier transform infrared absorption spectroscopy. The major product observed was propionaldehyde, with a formation yield (after allowing for its subsequent loss processes) of 0.94 ± 0.12. Minor yields of organic nitrates (RONO2) and of peroxypropionyl nitrate, a secondary product arising from propionaldehyde, were also observed. However, none of the products expected from the reactions subsequent to H-atom abstraction from 1-butene by OH radicals were observed, allowing an upper limit of 10% for this process to be derived. These data are compared with the available literature results and the implications are discussed.
Reuterin is a compound that contains the monomeric, hydrated monomeric, and cyclic dimeric forms of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). It is widely used as a food preservative due to its antimicrobial properties, and 3-HPA is also an important precursor for several industrial chemicals. In this study, we first developed an efficient immobilization process involving magnetic cell entrapment for production of reuterin from glycerol by Lactobacillus reuteri. The cell growth condition was optimized by statistical approaches. High conversion efficiency was achieved using k-carrageenan as the immobilization support and Fe3O4 as magnetic nanoparticles. Furthermore, addition of 0.02 g/L vitamin B12, 10 mmol/L Mg(2+), and glucose in a molar ratio of 0.15 to glycerol significantly increased the conversion rate. Under optimal conditions, 235.9 mmol/L 3-HPA was produced from 250 mmol/L initial glycerol in 1.5 h, with a molar yield of 94.4 % and a productivity of 15.4 mmol/(g dry cell weight∙L∙h), which were the highest values to date. Thus, this study demonstrated a promising process for the improvement of biocatalyst efficiency in biotransformation.
Time resolved Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy with millisecond resolution (rapid scan technique) has been employed to detect multiple kinetically relevant surface intermediates in heterogeneous catalytic hydroformylation of ethylene over alumina-supported Rh nanoparticles at 443 K (1 atm total pressure). While corresponding single component C2H4 hydrogenation over Rh/Al2O3 nanoparticle catalysts yields ethane, no hydrogenation of transient ethyl intermediate is observed in the presence of CO. Hence, complete product selectivity is observed with respect to branching between hydroformylation and direct ethylene hydrogenation to ethane. Surface ethyl intermediate (C2H5Rh: 2876, 2855, 1190 cm−1) is converted to propionyl intermediate (C2H5C(═O)Rh: 2869, 1675 cm−1) by reaction with CO with a time constant of 2.7 s. The spectral assignments of propionyl were confirmed by the observation of 13C shifts. Hydrogenation of propionyl to propionaldehyde with its characteristic C═O (1737 cm−1; 13C═O at 1...
The proposed structures of the dimeric products obtained from aliphatic aldehydes and arylamines were reexamined by IR and NMR spectra. The 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline structure was ascertained in the case of acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde, and aldolic structure was confirmed in the case of n-butyraldehyde. It was observed that the latter readily isomerizes to the former type in the presence of acetic acid. Conformational analysis of a racemic pair of the former (IIIa–c: 2,4-disubstituted, IIId- 2,3,4-trisubstituted) indicated that two isomers of IIIa–c (one has 2-equatorial, 4-quasi-equatorial and the other 2-equatorial, 4-quasi-axial substituents) have a flattened half-chair conformation and two isomers of Hid (one has 2,3-diequatorial, 4-quasi-equatorial, and the other 2-equatorial, 3-axial, 4-quasi-axial substituents) have a more remarkably flattened half-chair, i. e. a nearly plane structure. The acylation of ring nitrogen enhanced this tendency, and one of the 1-acetyl derivatives of III was deduce...
The catalytic activity of MO_x/γ-Al_2O_3 was tested by a probe reaction,in which 3,5-dimethylpyridine(DMP) was synthesized from aldehyde and ammonia in vapor phase.The experamental results showed that Cr_2O_3/γ-Al_2O_3 exhibited higher selectivity and yield for synthesis of DMP.The optimal reaction conditions were as follows: Cr_2O_3/γ-Al_2O_3[w(Cr_2O_3)=8%] was 1.0 g,V(aldehyde) ∶V(ammonia) was(1 ∶)4～1 ∶6,V(propionaldehyde) ∶V(formaldehyde) was(1 ∶)1～1 ∶2,GHSV was 1200 h~(-1),the yield of DMP was 76.1% and the conversion of propionaldehyde was(92.7%) under normal pressure at 340 ℃～400 ℃.
Abstract A gauche–gauche interaction is proposed as a powerful controlling factor for the stereochemistry in the intramolecular nitrile oxide cycloaddition reaction derived from N-protected 3-( N -allylamino)propionaldehyde and 2-( N -homoallylamino)acetaldehyde oximes. High levels of stereoselectivity (76% de to perfect) were obtained from the reaction involving nitrile oxides with substituents at the adjacent carbon atom to the tether nitrogen.
The electrocatalytic oxidation and amperometric detection of simple and furanic aldehydes at a mixed-valent ruthenium oxide-ruthenium cyanide (mvRuO-RuCN) modified glassy carbon (GC) electrode is described. The oxoruthenium centers cross-linked with ruthenium cyanide are believed to be the electroactive surface species in acidic media. The capability of mvRuO-RuCN films to catalyze the slow electrode reaction of aldehydic compounds is illustrated in cyclic voltammetry and flowing streams amperometric detection. A sensitive quantitation of aliphatic and furanic aldehydes without the need of derivatization steps was achieved by coupling ion exclusion chromatography (IEC) with electrochemical detection, using the mvRuO-RuCN film electrode. The presence of low RuCl 3 and K 4 Ru(CN) 6 levels in the mobile phase considerably improves the response stability. Of practical importance is that this modified electrode can be used without detrimental effects at a column temperature of 60 °C. At room temperature, the detection limits of aliphatic aldehydes such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde in IEC with amperometric detection (E appl = +1.08 V vs Ag/AgCl) were 1.0, 0.8, and 0.8 nmol injected (S/N = 3), respectively.
Herring were cooked at 100° under a stream of nitrogen and the resulting vapour passed through a solution of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine. the main components of the resulting mixture of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones were shown to be the derivatives of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, 2-methylbutyraldehyde and acetone.
Reaction of 3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethylpropionaldehyde and malonic acid in acetic anhydride-acetic acid yields 4,4-dimethylpent-2-en-5-olide, corresponding to the normal product of condensation of one molecule of aldehyde and one molecule of malonic acid, along with two novel related δ-lactones derived from two molecules of aldehyde and one molecule of malonic acid: one is a saturated lactone having a hydroxy-gem- dimethyltetrahydropyran ring fused across the 2,3-bond of the above normal product, and the other is the corresponding unsaturated fused dihydropyranolactone.
BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY ::: Failure of implanted bioprostheses due to calcification is a commonly occurring phenomenon. In order to prevent calcification, many alternative cross-linking methods to glutaraldehyde (GA) have been developed and evaluated. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: In a novel approach an improved carbodiimide (EDC) cross-linking method that comprises a two-step process was developed. First, the available amine groups in (tissue) collagen were blocked with a monoaldehyde, followed by an EDC-activated cross-linking reaction of the carboxyl groups in the tissue with a poly (propylene glycol) bis 2-(amino-propyl) ether (Jeffamine). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Samples processed via this method have shown a significantly reduced calcification in a subdermal juvenile rat model compared to samples with standard GA treatment. In the present study, heart valve tissue was blocked with various monoaldehydes, followed by reaction with Jeffamine using carbodiimide cross-linking chemistry. Leaflet calcification was almost eliminated using different aldehydes, whereas wall calcification was maximally 95% reduced when propionaldehyde was used as blocking agent, as compared to a carbodiimide cross-linked control without Jeffamine and blocked amine groups. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Amine blocking and cross-linking technology appears promising in the design of the next generation of tissue valves. Calcification was significantly reduced compared to GA cross-linking. The mechanistic insight of decreased wall calcification is still unknown, and research investigations are ongoing.
Abstract The internal rotation of propionaldehyde about the 1–2 bond has been studied by means of ab initio calculations. The most stable conformer has methyl and carbonyl eclipsed. Increasing the 1–2 dihedral angle to 60°, 120°, and 180° gives energies of 1.7, 0.4, and 0.7 Kcal/mol, respectively. The agreement with force field calculations and with experiment is reasonable.
Background: Imbalance in cofactors causing the accumulation of intermediates in biosynthesis pathways is a frequently occurring problem in metabolic engineering when optimizing a production pathway in a microorganism. In our previous study, a single knock-out Citrobacter werkmanii ∆dhaD was constructed for improved 1,3-propanediol (PDO) production. Instead of an enhanced PDO concentration on this strain, the gene knock-out led to the accumulation of the toxic intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). The hypothesis was emerged that the accumulation of this toxic intermediate, 3-HPA, is due to a cofactor imbalance, i.e. to the limited supply of reducing equivalents (NADH). Here, this bottleneck is alleviated by rationally engineering cell metabolism to balance the cofactor supply.
Abstract The activities and electrophoretic profiles of NAD + -aldehyde dehydrogenases (EC 1.2.1.3, ALDHs) in the different brain regions from the mice of inbred C57BL 6J strain (alcohol preferring) and DBA/2 sirain (alcohol avoicling) were studied. 1. 1. Kinetic studies on ALDH of the different brain regions revealed the existence of at least two ALDHs in both strains. 2. 2. The ALDH activity in the cerebellum, which was measured spectrophotometrically with 0.1 and 5mM acetaldehyde as the substrates, was the highest of the three regions and it was about 2-fold higher than that in the cortex in both strains. 3. 3. The ALDH activities of mice of DBA/2 strain were higher than those ol mice of C57BL/6J strain in all the regions. Only in the cortex the F 1 hybrids (intermediate alcohol preferring) between C57BL/6J and DBA/2 strains had intermediate ALDH activity between their parental strains. 4. 4. Electrophoretic analysis of cortex ALDH revealed that strain differences were observed in the isozyme pattern between pH 7.2 and 7.8 with cither acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde as substrate. These findings suggest that the ALDH activity in the cerebral cortex could be related to alcohol preference.
The mRNA for the novel aldehyde dehydrogenase 5 (ALDH5) gene was detected in HuH7 hepatoma cells. The cells also expressed cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH1) mRNA, but no mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) mRNA. Extracts of the hepatoma cells contained an enzymatic activity with an isoelectric point similar to that of ALDH1. This enzyme activity was insensitive to inhibition by disulfiram, a potent inhibitor of ALDH1. The enzyme was active with short chain aldehydes (acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde) and NAD+, but not with NADP+, and the activity was higher in the mitochondrial pellet than other cell fractions. These studies demonstrate the expression of ALDH5 mRNA in a human hepatoma and suggest that the gene product is enzymatically active and probably resides in the mitochondria.
A study of the gaseous oxidation of n-propyl alcohol (1-propanol) at 264 $^\circ$C shows that, after an induction period during which higher aldehydes and hydrogen peroxide are apparently the only products formed, the pressure starts to rise autocatalytically and methanol, formaldehyde and carbon monoxide become detectable. Additions of higher aldehydes reduce the induction period but the amounts required for its complete elimination are considerably greater than those normally present at the end of the induction period. A chain mechanism is proposed which involves initially abstraction of hydrogen from 1-propanol by HO$\_2$ radicals followed by interaction of the resulting hydroxypropyl radicals with oxygen to yield propionaldehyde. Further reactions of this aldehyde are believed to be responsible for chain-branching and for the formation of the various C$\_1$ products. Isopropyl alcohol (2-propanol) is much less readily oxidized than 1-propanol. At 330 $^\circ$C the main oxidation product is acetone which is formed together with hydrogen peroxide in somewhat smaller quantities. Minor products include methanol, acetaldehyde and form-aldehyde. The course of the oxidation of 2-propanol is little affected by additions of acetone or formaldehyde but the induction period is markedly reduced by added acetaldehyde. The chain cycle suggested for the initial stages of oxidation involves attack by HO$\_2$ radicals at the tertiary C-H bond of the alcohol followed by reaction of the resulting free radicals with oxygen to give acetone. The intermediate responsible for chain-branching is believed to be acetaldehyde which is produced by side reactions. C$\_1$ compounds are formed partly by oxidation of this aldehyde and partly by further reactions of acetone.
Carbamate systemic insecticides were applied to 5 soil mixtures under greenhouse conditions. They were Temik® (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcar-bamoyl) oxime) and NIA 10242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-.benzofuranyl methylcarbamate). Cotton plants growing in these soils took up the insecticides to varying extents as indicated by aphid bioassay. Of the variability in uptake, 99% was associated with soil clay content. Higher clay soils furnished the toxicant at a lower rate. During the period showing maximum mortality the effect of organic matter content became apparent. The rate at which bioassay mortalities declined increased with soil organic matter content. Temik was taken up more rapidly and persisted longer than NIA 10242. Phytotoxicity was severe in soils low in clay content, whereas, it was virtually nonexistent in those with high clay content. This fact indicated further the greater uptake of toxicant from soils low in clay content. More plant injury occurred with NIA 10242 than with Temik.
Abstract Treatment of β-(1-ethoxycarbonyl-2-keto-3-methylcyclohexyl)-propionaldehyde with concentrated sulphuric acid furnishes not only the expected ethyl 5-methylbicyclo[3:3:1]non-3-en-9-one-1-carboxylate (II),but also two rearranged products,7-methylindan-4-carboxylic acid (VI) and ethyl 2-acetylbicyclo[3:3:0]oct-1(2)-ene-5-carboxylate(IX).
The responses of walking adult female western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis, to plant volatiles at several concentrations were investigated in a Y-shaped glass tube olfactometer. The simple experimental design allowed comparing the effect of numerous volatiles and differentiated clearly between attractive and repellent compounds. Western flower thrips were attracted by the benzenoids benzaldehyde and pand o-anisaldehyde; the monoterpenes geraniol, nerol, linalool, and (+)-citronellol; the sesquiterpene (E)-β-farnesene, eugenol, and 3-phenylpropionaldehyde; two phenylpropanoids; and the nonfloral odor ethyl nicotinate. p-Anisaldehyde, nerol, ethyl nicotinate, and (E)-β-farnesene elicited positive responses at several concentrations; all other volatiles were attractive at a specific concentration. Salicylaldehyde, a benzenoid, elicited negative responses at two concentrations. Experimental series with several other volatiles belonging to the above mentioned chemical groups and the essential oils from rose and geranium did not result in either clearly positive or negative responses by tested thrips.
The sensitivity, range of applications, and reaction mechanism of 2-hydrazinoquinoline as a reactive matrix for matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) were examined. Using a reaction chamber (125 L) equipped with a stirring fan and a window for moving the MALDI-MS plate and volatile samples in and out, the sensitivities of 2-hydrazinoquinoline to gaseous aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde) and ketones (acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, and methyl isobutyl ketone) were determined to be at least parts per million (ppm) levels. On the other hand, carboxylic acids (formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, and butyric acid) and esters (ethyl acetate, pentyl acetate, isoamyl acetate, and methyl salicylate) could not be detected by 2-hydrazinoquinoline in MALDI-MS. In addition to 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine, a common derivatization reagent for analyzing carbonyl compounds quantitatively in gas chromatography and liquid chromatography, the dis...
The invention provides novel substituted phenylpropionaldehyde (benzylideneacetaldehyde) thiosemicarbazone compounds shown as the formula I and applications of the compounds as agricultural bactericides, wherein R is C1-C4 alkyl, C1-C4 alkoxy, halogen, trifluoromethyl, trifluoromethoxy and nitro; the substitution position of the R is mono-substituted, di-substituted or multi-substituted; the R refers in particular to 2-fluro, 4-bromo, 3-trifluoromethyl, 3-methyl and 3,4,5-trimethoxy, and -A- is -CH2-CH2- or -CH=CH-. Bactericidal activity tests show that the compounds shown in the formula I have good inhibition functions for four plant pathogens (botrytis cinerea, sclerotinia rot of colza, fusarium wilt of cotton and rice sheath blight disease), and can be used for controlling the plant pathogens as bactericides.
Lactobacillus collinoides is a lactic acid bacterium commonly found in fermenting apple juice. Although this bacterium is not particularly involved in malolactic conversion, the presence of L. collinoides in cider may have serious consequences on the product. L. collinoides is indeed considered to be responsible for the transformation of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), a precursor of acrolein that spoils the product quality by generating bitter tastes. The purpose of our work was to evaluate the influence of environmental and culture conditions on the conversion of glycerol to 3-HPA in L. collinoides, and to obtain a DNA probe of the gene coding for glycerol dehydratase, the enzyme responsible for this conversion.
An investigation has been made of the chemical, aerosol plant damage, and eye irritation effects of irradiating various single hydrocarbon - aldehyde or multi-component hydrocarbon - NO systems under dynamic flow conditions. The systems investigated included the following individual hydrocarbons which were irradiated in the presence of NO (and traces of NO/sub 2/): ethylene, 1-butene, 1,3-butadiene, toluene, xylene, and 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene, n-hexane, 3-methylpentane, 2,4,4-trimethylpentane, and cyclohexane. Mixtures of hydrocarbons including ethylene and 1-butene; ethylene, 1-butene, and trans-2-butene; and ethylene, 1-butene, trans-2-butene, and mixed xylenes also were irradiated in the presence of nitrogen oxide in air. In addition the photooxidation of the formaldehyde - oxygen, propionaldehyde - oxygen, formaldehyde - NO and propionaldehyde - NO systems were investiaged.
The mechanism of l-proline-catalyzed α-amination of 3-phenylpropionaldehyde was studied using a combination of experimental kinetic isotope effects (KIEs) and theoretical calculations. Observation of a significant carbonyl 13C KIE and a large primary α-deuterium KIE support rate-determining enamine formation. Theoretical predictions of KIEs exclude the widely accepted mechanism of enamine formation via intramolecular deprotonation of an iminium carboxylate intermediate. An E2 elimination mechanism catalyzed by a bifunctional base that directly forms an N-protonated enamine species from an oxazolidinone intermediate accounts for the experimental KIEs. These findings provide the first experimental picture of the transition-state geometry of enamine formation and clarify the role of oxazolidinones as nonparasitic intermediates in proline catalysis.
Summary The kinetics of the enzyme reaction of ethanol and propanol oxidation and acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde reduction catalyzed by alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) (EC 1.1.1.1) isolated from germinating broad bean seeds proceed according to the bi-bi ordered mechanism of Theorell and Chance. The p H optimum for the oxidation of ethanol is 8.7 and for the oxidation of propanal 9.2; the p H optimum for the reduction of acetaldehyde is 7.1 and for the reduction of propionaldehyde 7.3. The reaction catalyzed by broad bean ADH was inhibited by adenosine and AMP. It was found that inhibition is competitive with respect to NAD. Inhibition by AMP is p H-dependent and by adenosine p H-independent. From the competitive inhibition it follows that the adenine part of NAD is important for bonding of the coenzyme to ADH. The phosphate groups also influence the enzyme-coenzyme interaction.
Abstract Glycerol reforming was investigated under supercritical water conditions (450–575 °C, 250 bar). A feed containing 5 wt.% of glycerol was continuously fed to an empty Inconel 625 reactor. The products of the reaction were separated into gas and liquid phases in a condenser. At a feed rate of 2.15 g/min, the glycerol conversion significantly increased from 0.05 to 0.97 when increasing operating temperature from 450 to 575 °C. Although lowering the feed rate (i.e. increasing the residence time) could considerably improve the conversion, carbon formation became a problem especially at high operating temperatures (550–575 °C). The major gaseous products were hydrogen (approximately 60 mol%), carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and methane with some traces of ethane, ethylene, propane, and propylene. Various liquid products were detected including acetaldehyde, acetol, methanol, acetic acid, propionaldehyde, allyl alcohol, acetone, acrolein, ethanol, ethylene glycol, and acrylic acid but the major liquid components were acetaldehyde and acetol. With a feed glycerol concentration of 2.5 wt.% and operating temperature of 525 °C, glycerol conversion of 0.91 and H 2 yield of 2.86 can be obtained without carbon formation. Finally, it was demonstrated that higher H 2 yield with much lower carbon formation was observed in supercritical water reforming (250 bar) compared to conventional steam reforming at 1 bar under similar temperatures.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) proteins are a superfamily of 19 human genes that play crucial role in epithelial cell homeostatsis. Several of these enzymes have been studied in cancer and were shown to protect cells against cytotoxic drugs and oxidative stress in addition to the promotion of cancer cell proliferation and invasion. Our study focuses on 5 less studied isoenzymes (ALDH1B1, ALDH3B1, ALDH4A1, ALDH5A1, and ALDH7A1) using lentiviral mediated overexpression of the enzymes in H1299 lung cancer cell line which is previously known to have negligible amount of ALDH activity. H1299 wild type cells (WT) and cells expressing GFP or RFP were used as controls. Expression of the proteins was confirmed by Western blots and ALDH enzymatic activity assay. We used cell culture, colorimetric MTT assay, wound healing assay, aldefluor assay, colony-forming assay, and in vitro treatment with doxorubicin (Doxo) and 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphaimde (4-HC). All the proteins were highly expressed and resulted in increased ALDH activity detected by using propionaldehyde or benzaldehyde as substrates with NAD + as a co-factor. The activity of ALDH4A1, 5A1 and 7A1 was not detected by aldefluor flow cytometry assay. Cells expressing ALDH1B1, ALDH4A1 or ALDH7A1 had delayed wound healing at 6 hr, while overall cell proliferation was depressed for ALDH1B1, ALDH3B1 and ALDH5A1 and normal for the other isoenzymes. Cells overexpressing ALDH4A1 or ALDH7A1 showed higher clonal efficiency as well. Only ALDH1B1 and ALDH7A1 showed significant protection against the toxicity of 4-HC (10 μM for 72 hrs) as measured by MTT assay with an increase in average cell survival of 52 and 23%, respectively. Cells overexpressing ALDH5A1 showed significantly increased sensitivity to Doxo (1 and 10 μM for 72 hrs). There was a trend for ALDH7A1 to be protective against Doxo toxicity but did not reach statistical significance. In conclusion, the overexpression of ALDH isoenzymes in this manner may contribute to better understanding of their role in cancer biology and may lead to new cancer treatment approaches that incorporate specific inhibition or stimulation of these enzymes. This is an important goal especially in view of the high ALDH activity in cancer stem cells and their potential contribution to cancer recurrence. Citation Format: Jan S. Moreb, Mahmoud Mona, Lung-Ji Chang, Yu-Ling Yeh, John Amory, Alex Goldstein. The role of aldehyde dehydrogenase isoenzymes in cancer cell proliferation, migration and drug resistance. [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 104th Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2013 Apr 6-10; Washington, DC. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2013;73(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 3762. doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2013-3762
Iron pentacarbonyl is a poor hydroformylation catalyst, and gives only 17% conversion of ethylene to propionaldehyde and n-propanol under normal hydroformylation conditions. In the presence of traces of cobalt metal, or cobalt salts such as the carbonate or formate, it is an efficient hydroformylation catalyst giving conversions of ethylene, propene, and cyclohexene comparable to those obtained with dicobalt octacarbonyl as catalyst.
All cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes contain heme as a prosthetic group. In contrast to other CYP enzymes, murine CYP 2 A 5 is upregulated in vivo by several agents that disturb cellular heme balance. To test the hypothesis that porphyrinogenic agents have the common feature of being able to increase CYP 2 A 5 expression, mouse liver primary hepatocytes were exposed to various porphyrinogenic chemicals and changes in CYP 2 A 5 catalytic activity and levels of mRNA were monitored. Phenobarbital increased hepatic CYP 2 A 5-mediated coumarin 7-hydroxylase (COH) activity (13.2-fold) and the amount of CYP 2 A 5 steady-state mRNA (10.6-fold). Hepatocyte COH activity was increased also by the ferrochelatase inhibitor griseofulvin and the protoporphyrinogen oxidase inhibitor acifluorfen (about 9-fold induction). Of these inducers, only phenobarbital affected CYP 1 A 12 and CYP 2 B 10 expression. In contrast, many other porphyrinogenic agents such as cobalt, 2,2,4-trimethyl-1,2-dihydroquinoline (TMDQ), 1-[4-(3-acetyl-2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)-2,6-cyclohexanedionyl]-O-eth yl propionaldehyde oxime (ATMP), aminotriazole, and thioacetamide either decreased or had no effect on CYP 2 A 5. The increases in COH activity and CYP 2 A 5 mRNA were unaffected by combined treatment with the inducers and heme arginate, suggesting that heme is not a regulator of CYP 2 A 5 induction. Treatment with actinomycin D totally abolished both constitutive CYP 2 A 5 expression and its inducibility, suggesting that a transcriptional component is involved. These data suggest that, in mouse primary hepatocytes, CYP 2 A 5 induction is not a universal response to disturbed cellular heme biosynthesis.
The reactions of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde photosensitized by cadmium (3P1) have been investigated at 270 °C. The pressure dependence of the main products, CO, RH (R=CH3, C2H5, and n-C3H7) and R2, was well explained by the following reaction mechanism; Cd*+RCHO→R+CHO+Cd or RH+CO+Cd. R+RCHO→RH+RCO, RCO→R+CO, CHO→H+CO, H+RCHO→H2+RCO, R+R→R2 or RH+ Olefin. Carbon dioxide was found to be a rather good quencher for triplet cadmium atoms, and was used for estimating the relative quenching efficiencies of the three aldehydes and acetone. The values obtained were 0.16, 1.0, 1.3, 1.2, and 1.4, respectively for carbon dioxide, acetone, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde, when the efficiency of cis-2-butene was assumed to be unity.
Our continued interest in the anticancer agent paclitaxel is driven by the desire to understand the structural features and spatial arrangement necessary for tubulin binding2 and stabilization of microtubule dynamics.3 The recently reported class of natural products, epothilone, now provides us with compounds structurally distinct from taxol and taxol analogues but with similar biological activity. In addition, epothilones have much greater activity against multi-drug resistant cell lines.4 After independently determining the relative stereochemistry of epothilone A we reported our synthetic approach, Figure 1, which includes a late-stage macrocyclic olefin metathesis.5 Our initial publication presented an enantioselective preparation of thiazole fragment C and the successful application of a ring-closing olefin metathesis reaction to an epothilone model system. Concurrently, three other synthetic groups reported similar approaches to epothilone A all of which have culminated in total synthesis.6-10 Herein we report the details of our independent, enantioselective preparation of the ketone fragment B and aldehyde A. Ketone B has been prepared from a sequence which is highlighted by a samarium-mediated Reformatsky reaction11 originally developed by Molander, Scheme 1. The sequence begins with racemic alcohol 2 readily prepared in one step from propionaldehyde and 3-methyl-2-butenylmagnesium chloride. Enzymatic resolution in methyl tert-butyl ether using Altus Biologics12 Chiro-CLECPC(which is reusable without significant loss of activity) provided an efficient route to gram quantities of (R)-2 after purification and deacylation. The enantioselectivity of the resolution at 47% conversion was determined to be >20:1 by Mosher ester methodology13 and chiral capillary gas chromatography (see Experimental Section for details). The enantiomeric excess was found to be dependent upon percent conversion (97% ee at 15% conversion and 92% ee at 48% conversion). The unreacted alcohol 2 can be easily recycled by a two-step oxidationreduction sequence. Acylation of the secondary hydroxyl occurred readily with bromoacetyl bromide in the presence of N,N-dimethylaniline to provide ester 3 in excellent yield. Ozonolytic cleavage of the terminal olefin yielded the necessary Reformatsky precursor which under exposure to freshly prepared SmI2 provided the lactone 4 in quantitative yield with >20:1 diastereose-
A fluorescence spectroscopic assay using Newton black film (NBF) for sensitive and selective detection of gaseous formaldehyde at room temperature is reported. The method relies on the Hantzsch reaction of formaldehyde with ammonium citrate and acetylacetone, plus a combination of the large surface area-to-volume ratio (5 × 108 m-1) and efficient uptake of gas by the nanometer-thick aqueous core of NBF. The assay has a limit of detection (LOD) of 4 ppb, a linear signal-to-concentration correlation up to 300 ppb of HCHO gas in the air, and a nonlinear monotonic increasing correlation in the range of 300 ppb to 1.2 ppm. It is unaffected by relevant analytes such as acetaldehyde, benzaldehyde, acetone, and propionaldehyde. We also demonstrate the sensing of formaldehyde outgassing from a plywood sample using this method and the results agree with the factory specifications.
3-Aryl substituted quinolines in yields of 51%~74% were sythesized by "one-pot" method using trifluoromethanesulfonic acid(TfOH,5 mol%) as the catalyst in chlorobenzene from chalcone epoxide(1) by ring-opening-rearrangement reaction,then by Meinwald-Friedlnder reaction with o-aminobenzaldehyde in the presence of KOBut.3-Oxo-2,3-diarylpropionaldehydes in yields of 48%~89% were prepared by Meinwald rearrangement reaction of 1 using TfOH(5 mol%) as the catalyst in methylene chloride.The structures were confirmed by NMR and MS.
In this study, we introduce a novel and simple EIS method for aldehydes determination based on their derivatization with DNPH, profiting of the presence in the derivatizing agent of hydrazine group, which can be easily oxidizable electrochemically. In this work, four aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, heptanaldehyde and hexanaldehyde) were selected as model compounds. The experimental parameters that may influence the derivatization were studied and optimized. Under the optimal conditions, the analytical methodology was applied for the determination of aldehydes content in water, orange juice and apple cider vinegar samples.
Plegridy is an iFn β-1a conjugated with a single, linear molecule of methoxy poly(ethyleneglycol)-O-2-methylpropionaldehyde. it binds to the type i iFn receptor on the cell surface inducing a cascade of intracellular events leading to the regulation of iFn-responsive gene expression. Biological effects may include upregulation of antiinflammatory cytokines, downregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and inhibition of activated T cells' migration across the blood-brain barrier 18 ga Copaxone ® ; Teva Pharmaceutical industries, Petach Tikva, israel ga is a pool of synthetic peptides that simulate sequences of myelin and then acts as a false target preventing the immune system attack against this protein 6, 19 naT Tysabri ® ; Biogen, Cambridge, Ma, Usa naT is a recombinant humanized anti-α4-integrin antibody produced in a murine cell line by recombinant Dna technology. its binding to the integrin blocks the interaction with its endothelial receptor, the VCaM-1, leading to the inhibition of leukocyte migration into the CNS and attenuating inflammation 5, 20 Teriflunomide aubagio ® ; Sanofi, Paris, France
Cardiovascular disease is one of the leading causes of mortality in the United States with 81 million reported cases from cardiovascular disease (CVD) in 2006 [1] . Risk factors for CVD are high blood pressure and coronary heart disease (myocardial infarction), which is acute heart attack and angina pectoris (chest pain). Environmental pollutants play an important role in heart disease, as demonstrated by our previous study [2] . Ozone, has been shown to increase heart disease, possibly through oxidation of the plasma membrane resulting in apoptosis of cardiomyocytes [3] or ozone-induced inflammatory response (mediators released into the circulatory system [4] ) resulting in organ damage and resultant CVD. Although, the effect of chronic exposure of ozone on CVD was previously investigated and shown to be related to changes in cardiac function after I/R injury. This approach measured left ventricular end diastolic pressure (LVEDP) which decreased whereas myocardial tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) and lipid peroxidation levels increased. In addition, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and IL-10 levels decreased in ozone exposed I/R hearts compared to I/R hearts exposed to filtered air [2] . Collectively, the results suggest that polyamines play a role as possible cardioprotectants to myocardium damage due to chronic ozone exposure [5] , which was previously unknown. Polyamines (such as spermidine, cadaverine and putrescine) are linear polycations with one or more amine groups and are involved in cell synthesis of DNA and protein. These metabolites are catalyzed by catabolic enzymes such as ornithine decarboxylase and spermidine-N1-acetyltransferase which aid synthesis and breakdown respectively. The former also converts ornithine to putrescine and then converts spermidine and spermine in acetylated form, which are converted to putrescine via po-lyamine oxidase producing hydrogen peroxide and aminopropionaldehyde in the process [6] .
1. Synthesis 2. UV-Vis experiments 3. X-ray 4. Magnetic Measurements 5. Computational 1. Synthesis 2-Aminopyrazine (1 mmol, 0.095 g) was added to salicylaldehyde (1mmol, 0.122 g) in 1:1 methanol/acetonitrile (20 mL) and stirred for 10 min. Ferric chloride hydrate (2 mmol, 0.541 g) was then added to this solution resulting in a deep purple colour immediately. The solution was filtered after 20 min stirring and small purple rectangular plate-like crystals formed after several days of slow solvent evaporation. The crystals were then washed with acetone. Yield: 35.3 mg, 11.5 % 2-Aminopyrazine (1 mmol, 0.095 g) was added to 3-methoxysalicylaldehyde (1mmol, 0.152 g) in 1:1 methanol/acetonitrile (20 mL) and stirred for 10 min. Ferric chloride hydrate (2 mmol, 0.541 g) was then added to this solution resulting in a deep purple colour immediately. The solution was filtered after 20 min stirring and small purple rectangular plate-like crystals formed after several days of slow solvent evaporation. The crystals were then washed with acetone. Yield: 9.9 mg, 2.5 % 2-Aminopyrazine (1 mmol, 0.095 g) was added to 5-chlorosalicylaldehyde (1mmol, 0.156 g) in 1:1 methanol/acetonitrile (20 mL) and stirred for 10 min. Ferric chloride hydrate (2 mmol, 0.541 g) was then added to this solution resulting in a deep purple colour immediately. The solution was filtered after 20 min stirring and small purple rectangular plate-like crystals formed after several days of slow solvent evaporation. The crystals were then washed with acetone. Yield: 67.4 mg, 17.3 % 2-Aminopyrazine (1 mmol, 0.095 g) was added to propionaldehyde (1mmol, 0.058 g) in 1:1 methanol/acetonitrile (20 mL) and stirred for 10 min. Ferric chloride hydrate (2 mmol, 0.541 g) was then added to this solution resulting in an orange colour. The solution was filtered after 20 min stirring Electronic Supplementary Material (ESI) for Dalton Transactions. This journal is
Sialic acid aldolases (E.C.4.1.3.3) catalyze the reversible aldol cleavage of N-acetyl-d-neuraminic acid (Neu5Ac) to from N-acetyl-d-mannosamine (ManNAc) and pyruvate. In this study, a sialic acid aldolase (PdNAL) from Peptoclostridium difficile NAP08 was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). This homotetrameric enzyme was purified with a specific activity of 18.34U/mg for the cleavage of Neu5Ac. The optimal pH and temperature for aldol addition reaction were 7.4 and 65°C, respectively. PdNAL was quite stable at neutral and alkaline pH (6.0-10.0) and maintained about 89% of the activity after incubation at pH 10.0 for 24h. After incubation at 70°C for 15min, almost no activity loss was observed. The high thermostability simplified the purification of this enzyme. Interestingly, substrate profiling showed that PdNAL not only accepted ManNAc but also short chain aliphatic aldehydes such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and n-butyraldehyde as the substrates. This is the first example that a sialic acid aldolase is active toward aliphatic aldehyde acceptors with two or more carbons. The amino acid sequence analysis indicates that PdNAL belongs to the NAL subfamily rather than 4-hydroxy-2-oxopentanoate (HOPA) aldolase, but it is interesting that the enzyme possesses the activity of HOPA aldolase.
The N,N-dimethyl derivatives of neutral amino acids, such as glycine, L-alanine, DL-alanine, L-valine, DL-valine, •L-leucine, L-phenylalanine, and L-tyrosine, were prepared by the catalytic reductive condensation of the corresponding amino acids with formaldehyde. The N-oxides were satisfactorily synthesized by the oxidation of the N,N-dimethyl derivatives with an aqueous mixture of hydrogen peroxide and acetic acid. Further studies of ,the similar condensations of glycine with various aliphatic aldehydes have been investigated. In the case of straight chain aliphatic aldehydes, such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde, the corresponding N,N-dialkyl derivatives were obtained. The ZV-monoalkyl derivative has not been obtained in any case. On the other hand, in the case of aliphatic branched chain aldehydes, such as isobutyraldehyde qnd isova!eraldehyde, considerable 4mount of N-mono41,kylation has taken place besides the dialkylation. The oxidations of IV,N-dialkylglycines to .the corres.ponding N-oxides have been carried out except in the case of N,IV-diisobutylglycine.
s-Butoxy radicals have been generated by reacting fluorine with s-butanol: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Over the temperature range 398.6 to 493.3 K the s-butoxy radical decomposes by two different pathways to yield acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde being the major product: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: The ratio k1/k2 was found to be temperature dependent. An Arrhenius plot of the data (398.6 to 493.3 K) yields the relative Arrhenius parameters, E1 - E2 = −11.2 ± 0.8 kJ mol−1 and (A1/A2) = 0.59 ± 0.14. The ratio of rate constants k1/k2 was shown to be independent of total pressure (80–600 torr) and of the pressure of s-butanol (2–13 torr). The kinetic results for these s-butoxy decomposition reactions are discussed in relation to the literature data and in terms of the thermochemistry of the reactions.
The action of conc. HNO3 on N,N′-bis-(2,2-dinitropropyl)hydrazine and azo-(2,2-dinitro)propane at low temperatures was investigated, and it has been shown that in both cases 2,2-dinitropropionylhydrazone of 2,2-dinitropropionaldehyde is formed.
The kinetics of the NAD+-dependent oxidation of aldehydes, catalysed by aldehyde dehydrogenase purified from sheep liver mitochondria, were studied in detail. Lag phases were observed in the assays, the length of which were dependent on the enzyme concentration. The measured rates after the lag phase was over were directly proportional to the enzyme concentration. If enzyme was preincubated with NAD+, the lag phase was eliminated. Double-reciprocal plots with aldehyde as the variable substrate were non-linear, showing marked substrate activation. With NAD+ as the variable substrate, double-reciprocal plots were linear, and apparently parallel. Double-reciprocal plots with enzyme modified with disulfiram (tetraethylthiuram disulphide) or iodoacetamide, such that at pH 8.0 the activity was decreased to 50% of the control value, showed no substrate activation, and the plots were linear. At pH 7.0, the kinetic parameters Vmax. and Km NAD+- for the oxidation of acetaldehyde and butyraldehyde by the native enzyme are almost identical. Formaldehyde and propionaldehyde show the same apparent maximum rate. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is able to catalyse the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl esters. This esterase activity was stimulated by both NAD+ and NADH, the maximum rate for the NAD+ stimulated esterase reaction being roughly equal to the maximum rate for the oxidation of aldehydes. The mechanistic implications of the above behaviour are discussed.
The asymmetric Michael addition between propionaldehyde and nitroalkene catalyzed by 8-(ethoxycarbonyl)-1,2,3,3a,8,8a-hexahydropyrrolo[2,3-b]indole-2-carboxylic acid has obtained relatively high yields and excellent enantioselectivities at room temperature. In this study, the molecular structures and optical activity of the most stable conformation I are optimized at B3LYP/6-311++ G(d,p) level. We find that levorotatory conformation I catalyzing the same Michael addition can produce laevo-product A and dextrorotatory conformation I' can obtain the dextral-product A'. These results have guiding significance for further studying on the new chemzymes and the mechanism of the obtained different chiral products.
( S )- N -Benzyl-3-pyrrolidinol is widely used in the synthesis of pharmaceuticals as a chiral building block. We produced 30 mM ( S )- N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinol (enantiometric excess > 99.9%) from the corresponding ketone N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinone with more than 99.9% yield in 28 h of the resting-cell reaction of Geotrichum capitatum JCM 3908. NAD + -dependent alcohol dehydrogenase reducing N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinone from G. capitatum JCM 3908 was purified to homogeneity by ammonium sulfate fractionation and a series of DEAE-Toyopearl, Butyl-Toyopearl, Superdex 200, and Hydroxyapatite column chromatographies. The results of SDS–PAGE and HPLC showed the enzyme to be a dimer with a molecular mass of 78 kDa. The purified enzyme produced ( S )- N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinol ( e.e. >99.9%) from N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinone. The enzyme reduced 2,3-butanedione, 2-hexanone, cyclohexanone, propionaldehyde, n -butylaldehyde, n -hexylaldehyde, n -octylaldehyde, n -valeraldehyde, and benzylacetone more effectively than it did N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinone. No activity was detected towards N -benzyl-2-pyrrolidinone or 2-pyrrolidinone. The activity towards ( R )- N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinol was not detected under the assay conditions employed. The oxidizing activity of the enzyme was higher towards 2-propanol, 2-butanol, 2-pentanol, 2-hexanol, 3-hexanol, and 1-phenyl-2-propanol than towards ( S )- N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinol. The K m values for N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinone reduction and ( S )- N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinol oxidation were 0.13 and 8.47 mM, respectively. To our knowledge, this is the first time that an N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinol/ N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinone oxidoreductase was purified from a eukaryote; moreover, this is the first report of ( S )- N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinol dehydrogenase activity in microorganisms. This enzyme showed features different from those of known prokaryotic N -benzyl-3-pyrrolidinone reductases. This enzyme will be very useful for the production of chiral compounds.
This paper investigates the hypothesis that cloud and fog processes produce fine organic particulate matter in the atmosphere. The evidence provided suggests that cloud and fog processes could be important contributors to secondary organic aerosol formation, and the contribution of this formation pathway should be further investigated. This conclusion is based on the following observations: (1) many organic vapors present in the atmosphere are sorbed by suspended droplets and have been measured in cloud and fog water, (2) organics participate in aqueous-phase reactions, and (3) organic particulate matter is sometimes found in the size mode attributed to cloud processing (i.e. the droplet mode). Specific compounds identified as potential precursors include aldehydes (e.g. formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde), acetone, alcohols (e.g. methanol, ethanol, 2-propanol, and phenol), monocarboxylic acids, and organic peroxides. Carboxylic acids (e.g. diacids and oxo-acids), glyoxal, esters, organosulfur compounds, polyols, amines and amino acids are potential products of cloud and fog processing.
Catalytic activity of selected materials (BaY and NaY zeolites, and g-Alumina) for selective NOx reduction in combination with a non-thermal plasma was investigated. Our studies suggest that aldehydes formed during the plasma treatment of simulated diesel exhaust are the important species for the reduction of NOx to N2. Indeed, all materials that are active in plasma-assisted catalysis were found to be very effective in the thermal reduction of NOx in the presence of aldehydes. For example, the thermal catalytic activity of a BaY zeolite with aldehydes gives 80-90% NOx removal at 250 C with 200ppm NOx at the inlet, 1000ppm of C1 as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde, and SV=12,000 h?. The hydrocarbon reductants, n-octane and 1-propyl alcohol have also shown high thermal catalytic activity for NOx removal over BaY, NaY and g-alumina. We believe that this activity is due to the fact that in an oxygen rich environment these compounds can be thermally oxidized over the catalysts to form the important aldehyde reaction intermediates.
This work describes a convenient one-pot procedure for the synthesis of 2,2-disubstituted 2,3-dihydro-1 H-naphtho[2,1- B]pyrans {i.e. 2,2-disubstituted 1 H-benzo[ F]chromans} by the reaction of 2-tetralones and α,α-disubstituted β-hydroxy propionaldehydes under acidic conditions.
The present invention is directed to the field of chemical industry, relates to D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid ester method. Angle Method The method uses a mixed gas with hydrogen cyanide to give methylthio propionaldehyde base-catalyzed, reaction sufficiently to give 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutanenitrile reaction system; 2-hydroxy-4-methylthio the reaction mixture 2RS system with an alcohol, an inorganic acid catalyst at, by hydrolysis and esterification, to obtain D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid ester. The method uses a starting material has not been purified by distillation, inexpensive, readily available starting materials, the nature of the reaction intermediate obtained in a stable, less reaction steps, the final product by simple separation and purification, to obtain high purity and high yield of D, L -2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid ester.
The invention relates to a chemical synthesis process and particularly relates to a method for synthesizing 2-chloropropionaldehyde. In the method, chloralkane is used as a solvent, acid is used as a catalyst, chlorine gas is used a chlorine source, propionaldehyde is used as a raw material, and the dosage of the acidic catalyst used in the invention is a catalytic dosage, so that the problem of high acidity of a product during after-treatment is solved; the reaction condition is mild, and no problems such as temperature runaway and the like exist; the reaction time is short; almost no water or a small deal of water is contained in a chlorination liquid, so that the complex dewatering operation during the after-treatment is avoided; and the product is high in purity and yield and few in three wastes.
Catalytic ring-opening polymerization of propylene oxide (PO) was studied with 12 organoborane and aluminum catalysts in combination with 12 hydroxylic initiators. These catalysts vary in Lewis acidity and ligand steric bulk, whereas the initiators differ in their functional groups and Bronsted acidity. This study examined four aspects of PO polymerization: degree of polymerization control, effects of catalyst and initiator structure on activity and polymer molecular weight, reactions of catalyst with initiator and catalyst with monomer, and structures of PPOs produced. In the absence of hydroxylic initiators, B(C6F5)3 predominantly catalyzes isomerization of PO to propionaldehyde in hexanes and additionally produces low oligomers in toluene; interestingly, the sterically encumbered perfluorobiphenyl borane B(C12F9)3 affords no such isomerization products. With addition of sufficient high concentration of hydroxylic initiators in a [PO]0:[−OH]0 ratio of 41.7, however, PPOs with the desired Mn range of a ...
Mathematical models are widely used to predict leaching of pesticides and nutrients in agricultural systems. The work was conducted to investigate the predictive capability of the Pesticide Root Zone Model (PRZM) and the Aggregate Model (AGGR) for the pesticides aldicarb (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde-O-(methyl-carbamoyl)oxime), metolachlor (2-chloro-N-(2-ethyl-6-methylphenyl)-N-(2-methoxy-1-methylethyl)acetamide) and for a bromide tracer. Model predictions were compared with data collected from 1984 to 1987 in the Dougherty Plain area of southwestern Georgia. Field data were used to estimate mean concentrations of pesticide and bromide residues in the soil profile on various dates after application in each of four growing seasons. Both models tended to predict rates of movement of bromide tracer compounds in excess of that observed. For metolachlor, a pesticide with a soprption-partition coefficient that is higher than for other compounds in the study, both models provided reasonably accurate predictions within the upper 30-cm zone. For the pesticide aldicarb, results were more variable.
Previous studies by a number of authors have shown that during a number of B12-dependent enzyme reactions, e.g., catalysis of amino-2,1-propanol to propionaldehyde in the presence of ethanolamine ammonia lyase as reported by Babior et al., a very characteristic e.s.r. spectrum is observed. It consists of a broad line at g∼ 2.3 and a pair of lines in the intensity ratio of approximately 2:1, split by 7–14 mT, centred about g= 2. Schepler et al. have given a partial explanation for this and four other similar results, basing their interpretation on isotropic exchange coupling between a radical and the cobalt (II) from B12. In this paper we have interpreted the results on the basis of a coupling model which includes both isotropic exchange and dipolar interactions, and which represents a logical extension of previous work of two of the the authors on dissimilar ion coupling. The presence of dipolar coupling brings about an important improvement in the computer simulated lineshapes for the “radical” part of the spectrum, especially for ethanolamine ammonia lyase. The spectra are also sensitive to the sign of the exchange coupling when second order effects are included in the line positions and, more particularly, the intensities. From comparison between computed and experimental spectra, it is concluded that a lower limit for the cobalt (II)-radical separation of 10 A exists in all cases and that it is in the range 10–12 A for ethanolamine ammonia lyase. Clearly this new information regarding distance must be borne in mind in the development of models for the reactions of such enzyme–substrate–coenzyme systems.
A gas chromatographic method for the simultaneous determination of methamphetamine and its metabolite amphetamine in human plasma and urine is described. The method utilizes reductive alkylation with propionaldehyde and sodium borohydride to produce N-propyl derivatives, which have excellent chromatographic properties. Structural analogs of the analytes, p-methylmethamphetamine and p-methylamphetamine, are used as internal standards. The method has good precision and accuracy for concentrations ranging from less than 10 ng/ml to 5000 ng/ml and has been used to measure plasma concentrations as part of a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic study of methamphetamine in humans.
Abstract An excellent aldehyde diastereofacial selectivity has been observed during the aldol condensation between the lithium enolate of endo-2-methyl-bicyclo[2.2.1]-hept-5-enyl ethyl ketone 1 and a variety of α-methyl chiral aldehydes. 2-Aryl- and 2-vinyl-propionaldehyde gave rise to the predicted syn, syn “Felkin-Anh” diastereoisomers. In contrast β-alkoxy or β-silyloxy α-methyl aldehydes lead to the syn, anti aldols arising from an apparent chelation control.
In Salmonella enterica, 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) utilization (Pdu) is mediated by a bacterial microcompartment (MCP). The Pdu MCP consists of a multiprotein shell that encapsulates enzymes and cofactors for 1,2-PD catabolism, and its role is to sequester a reactive intermediate (propionaldehyde) to minimize cellular toxicity and DNA damage. For the Pdu MCP to function, the enzymes encapsulated within must be provided with a steady supply of substrates and cofactors. In the present study, Western blotting assays were used to demonstrate that the PduL phosphotransacylase is a component of the Pdu MCP. We also show that the N-terminal 20-residue-long peptide of PduL is necessary and sufficient for targeting PduL and enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) to the lumen of the Pdu MCP. We present the results of genetic tests that indicate that PduL plays a role in the recycling of coenzyme A internally within the Pdu MCP. However, the results indicate that some coenzyme A recycling occurs externally to the Pdu MCP. Hence, our results support a model in which a steady supply of coenzyme A is provided to MCP lumen enzymes by internal recycling by PduL as well as by the movement of coenzyme A across the shell by an unknown mechanism. These studies expand our understanding of the Pdu MCP, which has been linked to enteric pathogenesis and which provides a possible basis for the development of intracellular bioreactors for use in biotechnology. ::: ::: IMPORTANCE Bacterial MCPs are widespread organelles that play important roles in pathogenesis and global carbon fixation. Here we show that the PduL phosphotransacylase is a component of the Pdu MCP. We also show that PduL plays a key role in cofactor homeostasis by recycling coenzyme A internally within the Pdu MCP. Further, we identify a potential N-terminal targeting sequence using a bioinformatic approach and show that this short sequence extension is necessary and sufficient for directing PduL as well as heterologous proteins to the lumen of the Pdu MCP. These findings expand our general understanding of bacterial MCP assembly and cofactor homeostasis.
Heterogeneous ethylene hydroformylation on a 4 wt% Rh/SiO2 catalyst was studied using a steady-state pulse transient method coupled with in situ infrared spectroscopy. Four independent quantities, including the rates of propionaldehyde and ethane formation and the surface coverages of adsorbed CO and adsorbed acyl species, were measured at steady state as a function of the partial pressures of the reactants. The coverage of intermediates during ethylene hydroformylation was determined from the dynamic response of (C2H513CHO to a 13CO pulse input. The coverage of adsorbed CO was measured by in situ IR spectroscopy. The rate laws for C2H5CHO and C2H6 formation and the isotherm equations for adsorbed C2H5CO and adsorbed CO were derived using the Langmuir-Hinshelwood-Hougen-Watson (LHHW) approach from a proposed mechanism with the hydrogenation of adsorbed C2H5CO as the rate-determining step for propionaldehyde formation and the hydrogenation of adsorbed C2H5 as the rate-determining step for ethane formation. The high degree of fitting of rate and coverage data to the derived rate law and isotherm equations suggests that the LHHW model describes the surface reaction with high accuracy. Although the assumptions for the Langmuir isotherm do not account for the interactions between adsorbates, the LHHW equations and the proposed mechanism satisfactorily describe the kinetics, reaction pathways, and rate-limiting steps for the formation of ethane and propionaldehyde. This study demonstrates that the measurement of coverage of adsorbates by isotopic tracer pulsing and in situ infrared spectroscopy provides direct experimental evidence to confirm a postulated mechanism and rate law.
We have identified propionaldehyde, n-propranolo, isopropanol and N-nitroso-2-hydroxy-propylpropylamine following incubation of N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine with a microsomal fraction from rat liver. Based on the yields of the various products, we have shown that beta-oxidation occurs at about 15% of the level of alpha-oxidation, beta- as well as alpha-oxidation was shown to be carried out by the microsomal mixed function oxidase system. N-nitroso-2-hydroxy-propylpropylamine is further oxidized by the microsomal preparation to yield N-nitroso-2-oxopropylpropylamine.
In light of complexities and concerns associated with this plant's operation in a densely populated locale, a field study was undertaken to obtain diagnostic data sets to assess the status of odor propagation along the main process lines and the pattern of their reduction through the treatment system. To comply with the study purpose, it was focused on a total of 22 offensive odorants regulated by the malodor prevention law in Korea (KMOE 2008) as the primary target of this investigation. These 22 odorants can be divided into five chemical groups: (1) reduced sulfur compounds (RSCs: H 2 S, CH 3 SH, DMS, and DMDS); (2) carbonyls [propionaldehyde (PA), butyraldehyde (BA), valeraldehyde (VA), iso-valeraldehyde (IA), and acetaldehyde (AA)]; (3) nitrogenous compounds [ammonia and trimethylamine (TMA)]; (4) VOCs [toluene (T), styrene (S), para-xylene (p-X), methyl ethyl ketone (MEK), methyl isobutyl ketone (MIBK), butyl acetate (BuAc), and isobutyl alcohol (i-BuAl)]; and (5) volatile fatty acids (VFA) [propionic acid (PPA), butyric acid (BTA), isovaleric acid (IVA), and valeric acid (VLA)]. This study reports the initial measurements of 22 odorants using samples collected from 16 spots at the ERC facility and provide some insights into the odor treatment along its main process lines under routine operating conditions. Field measurements were carried out on 27 December 2010. The collection of field samples for odorant analysis was made from 1 to 5 PM of the day as a collaborative team work made by three sampling groups each of which were deployed to cover the treatment units of the similar types or in the same underground floor. Table 1 summarizes the basic physicochemical properties (e.g., chemical formula, structural formula, molecular weight, CAS number, etc.) of all target compounds along with their properties as odorants (e.g., threshold values).
Aldicarb, the active ingredient in Temik ® , is the common name for 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)-oxime, represented by the molecular formula C 7 H 14 N 2 O 2 S. It is a systemic carbamate insecticide of broad-spectrum used to control a variety of insects, mites and nematodes. It inhibits the action of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), which is an essential enzyme of a common metabolic pathway shared by insects and mammalians. 1 The high mobility of aldicarb and its residues (aldicarb sulfoxide and aldicarb sulfone) is due to their low sorption coefficients. In thin soil layer or under specific conditions (high water table, sandy soils, low pH, low temperature, high rainfall, irrigation practices etc.) the use of aldicarb can result in a potential problem for groundwater contamination. 2 Moreover, the use of pesticides can be Vol. 19, No. 6, 2008 potentially hazardous as a result of accidental spills and runoff from areas of application. , respectively. 4 In Brazil, the lack of an integrated management program of groundwater does not allow the control of the pollution caused by pesticides. 5 However, the aldicarb was detected in maximum concentration of 5 µg L -1 in rural water supply. 6 In the presence of microorganisms, aldicarb degradation occurs by two routes: oxidation to aldicarb sulfoxide and later to aldicarb sulfone (aerobic conditions); or hydrolysis of aldicarb and its residues to the corresponding oximes (anaerobic conditions). 1 Aldicarb and its oxidation products can be determined in terms of their nitrile derivatives by capillary gas chromatography with a nitrogen-phosphorus detector. 7 On the other hand, gas chromatographic procedures are difficult to perform due to several factors: (i) many of these compounds are thermally unstable, (ii) samples must be extracted and treated before analysis, and (iii) speciation of the residues requires an additional liquid chromatographic clean-up step. 8 The determination of carbamates by capillary electrophoresis (CE) 9 and micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) 10 has also been reported. Aldicarb and its degradation products in water may be determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).
Acetaldehyde production by ethanol oxidation involving alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) is well known as a typical metabolic process of alcohol in a living organism. Several papers reported that ethanol and ADH were present in the leaves and stems of trees, and acetaldehyde resulted in the oxidation of ethanol emitted from leaves into the atmosphere [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] . However, it remains unclear whether the enzymatic alcohol oxidation mechanism is adoptable in the case of wood. Kurosaki et al. [18] showed important evidence of the enzymatic mechanism by ADH. They found that softwood powder had much more interaction with ethanol than hardwood powder. They also used various alcohols for Japanese cedar powder and elucidated that rather than methanol and 2-propanol, ethanol and 1-propanol could produce each corresponding oxidation product, namely, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. ADH enzymes were confirmed to be located in a vascular cambium in trees as well as in leaves [13, 15] . Therefore, ADH is very likely to remain in wood after harvest.
In Salmonella enterica, 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) utilization (Pdu) is mediated by a bacterial microcompartment (MCP). The Pdu MCP consists of a multiprotein shell that encapsulates enzymes and cofactors for 1,2-PD catabolism, and its role is to sequester a reactive intermediate (propionaldehyde) to minimize cellular toxicity and DNA damage. For the Pdu MCP to function, the enzymes encapsulated within must be provided with a steady supply of substrates and cofactors. In the present study, Western blotting assays were used to demonstrate that the PduL phosphotransacylase is a component of the Pdu MCP. We also show that the N-terminal 20-residue-long peptide of PduL is necessary and sufficient for targeting PduL and enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) to the lumen of the Pdu MCP. We present the results of genetic tests that indicate that PduL plays a role in the recycling of coenzyme A internally within the Pdu MCP. However, the results indicate that some coenzyme A recycling occurs externally to the Pdu MCP. Hence, our results support a model in which a steady supply of coenzyme A is provided to MCP lumen enzymes by internal recycling by PduL as well as by the movement of coenzyme A across the shell by an unknown mechanism. These studies expand our understanding of the Pdu MCP, which has been linked to enteric pathogenesis and which provides a possible basis for the development of intracellular bioreactors for use in biotechnology.
The MCP involved in 1,2-PD utilization (the Pdu MCP) has been most extensively studied in Salmonella enterica (1). In this system, nine different polypeptides (PduABB=JKMNTU) are proposed to self-assemble to form a polyhedral shell that encapsulates enzymes and cofactors for 1,2-PD metabolism (16) (17) (18) . In current models, 1,2-PD moves across the shell and into the lumen of the Pdu MCP, where it is converted to propionaldehyde by coenzyme B 12 -dependent diol dehydratase PduCDE (Fig. 1) (19) . Next, propionaldehyde is converted to propionyl coenzyme A (propionylCoA) or 1-propanol by the PduP aldehyde dehydrogenase or the PduQ alcohol dehydrogenase, respectively (20, 21). 1-Propanol exits the MCP and is excreted into the medium (22). The PduL phosphotransacylase converts propionyl-CoA to propionyl-PO 4 2Ϫ , which is converted to propionate by the PduW propionate kinase with the formation of 1 ATP molecule (23). Some propionyl-CoA also diffuses out of the Pdu MCP and enters the methylcitrate pathway to provide carbon and energy for cell growth. The proposed function of the Pdu MCP is to sequester the propionaldehyde intermediate to prevent cell toxicity and carbon loss (7, 
Abstract Molecular unrestricted Hartree-Fock calculations with geometry optimization have been carried out on eight triplet isomers of C 3 H 6 O considered to be possible intermediates in the addition of O( 3 P) atoms to propylene and in the Hg( 3 P) sensitization of methyloxirane. The computed thermodynamic stabilities reveal that four triplet states are available in the former and eight triplet states are available in the latter reaction. The isomer CH 3 ĊHCH 2 Ȯ is more stable than ȮCHCH 3 ĊH 2 . This latter feature gives a satisfactory explanation for the experimental observation that in the O( 3 P) + C 3 H 6 reaction propionaldehyde is the major carbonyl product.
In the present study, the conformational analysis, intramolecular hydrogen bond, π-electron delocalization, and tautomeric equilibriums in 2-selenoformyl-3-thioxo-propionaldehyde (STP) were investigated. First, conformational analysis of STP was performed, and our results have shown that the chelated thiol structures are more stable than the chelated enol and selenol ones; HB Thiol < HB Enol < HB Selenol. To justify this order, the affective factors on this stability such as tautomerism, hydrogen bonding, and π-electron delocalization were comprehensively investigated. Survey of tautomeric equilibriums in STP indicates that destabilization energy of keto⇋enol equilibrium (about 50 kJ/mol) is more than the seleno⇋selenol (about 22 kJ/mol) and then thio⇋thiol (about 20 kJ/mol) cases. Description of different hydrogen bonds by energetic, geometrical, topological, and molecular orbitals emphasizes on the presence of a stronger intramolecular hydrogen bond (IMHB) in the enol forms. Furthermore, evaluation of π-electron delocalization (π-ED) represents approximate superiority of enol conformers. The achieved results by HB and π-ED analyzes are in contrast with the mentioned stability order. Ultimately, investigation of above factors indicates that the tautomerism phenomenon plays a dominant role in determining of the conformational preferences.
INTRODUCTION ::: Motor vehicle exhaust is an important source of air pollutants and greenhouse gases. Concerns over the health and climate effects of mobile-source emissions have prompted worldwide efforts to reduce vehicle emissions. Implementation of more stringent emission standards have driven advances in vehicle, engine, and exhaust after-treatment technologies as well as fuel formulations. On the other hand, vehicle numbers and travel distances have been increasing because of population and economic growth and changes in land use. These factors have resulted in changes to the amount and chemical composition of vehicle emissions. ::: Roadway tunnel studies are a practical way to characterize real-world emissions from the on-road vehicle fleet in an environment isolated from other combustion pollution sources. Measurements in the same tunnel over time allow evaluation of vehicle emission changes and the effectiveness of emission reduction measures. Tunnel studies estimate the impacts of vehicle emissions on air quality and traffic-related exposures, generate source profile inputs for receptor-oriented source apportionment models, provide data to evaluate emission models, and serve as a baseline for future comparisons. ::: The present study characterized motor vehicle emission factors and compositions in two roadway tunnels that were first studied over a decade ago. The specific aims were to (1) quantify current fleet air pollutant emission factors, (2) evaluate emission change over time, (3) establish source profiles for volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and particulate matter ≤2.5 μm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5), (4) estimate contributions of fleet components and non-tailpipe emissions to VOCs and PM2.5, and (5) evaluate the performance of the latest versions of mobile-source emission models (i.e., the EMission FACtors vehicle emission model used in Hong Kong [EMFAC-HK] and the MOtor Vehicle Emission Simulator used in the United States [MOVES]). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Measurements were conducted in the Shing Mun Tunnel (SMT) in Hong Kong and the Fort McHenry Tunnel (FMT) in Baltimore, Maryland, in the United States, representing the different fleet compositions, emission controls, fuels, and near-road exposure levels found in Hong Kong and the United States. These tunnels have extensive databases acquired in 2003-2004 for the SMT and 1992 for the FMT. The SMT sampling was conducted during the period from 1/19/2015 to 3/31/2015, and the FMT sampling occurred during the periods from 2/8/2015 to 2/15/2015 (winter) and 7/31/2015 to 8/7/2015 (summer). Concentrations of criteria pollutants (e.g., carbon monoxide [CO], nitrogen oxides [NOx], and particulate matter [PM]) were measured in real time, and integrated samples of VOCs, carbonyls, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), and PM2.5 were collected in canisters and sampling media for off-line analyses. Emission factors were calculated from the tunnel measurements and compared with previous studies to evaluate emission changes over time. Emission contributions by different vehicle types were assessed by source apportionment modeling or linear regression. Vehicle emissions were modeled by EMFAC-HK version 3.3 and MOVES version 2014a for the SMT and the FMT, respectively, and compared with measured values. The influences of vehicle fleet composition and environmental parameters (i.e., temperature and relative humidity) on emissions were evaluated. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: In the SMT, emissions of PM2.5, sulfur dioxide (SO2), and total non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHCs) markedly decreased from 2003-2004 to 2015: SO2 and PM2.5 were reduced by ~80%, and total NMHCs was reduced by ~44%. Emission factors of ethene and propene, key tracers for diesel vehicle (DV) emissions, decreased by ~65%. These reductions demonstrate the effectiveness of control measures, such as the implementation of low-sulfur fuel regulations and the phasing out of older DVs. However, the emission factors of isobutane and n-butane, markers for liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), increased by 32% and 17% between 2003-2004 and 2015, respectively, because the number of LPG vehicles increased. Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) to NOx volume ratios increased between 2003-2004 and 2015, indicating an increased NO2 fraction in primary exhaust emissions. Although geological mineral concentrations were similar between the 2003-2004 and 2015 studies, the contribution of geological materials to PM2.5 increased from 2% in 2003-2004 to 5% in 2015, signifying the continuing importance of non-tailpipe PM emissions as tailpipe emissions decrease. Emissions of CO, ammonia (NH3), nitric oxide (NO), NO2, and NOx, as well as carbonyls and PAHs in the SMT did not show statistically significant (at P < 0.05 based on Student's t-test) decreases from 2003-2004 to 2015. The reason for this is not clear and requires further investigation. ::: A steady decrease in emissions of all measured pollutants during the past 23 years has been observed from tunnel studies in the United States, reflecting the effect of emission standards and new technologies that were introduced during this period. Emission reductions were more pronounced for the light-duty (LD) fleet than for the heavy-duty (HD) fleet. In comparison with the 1992 FMT study, the 2015 FMT study demonstrated marked reductions in LD emissions for all pollutants: emission factors for naphthalene were reduced the most, by 98%; benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene (BTEX), by 94%; CO, NMHCs, and NOx, by 87%; and aldehydes by about 71%. Smaller reductions were observed for HD emission factors: naphthalene emissions were reduced by 95%, carbonyl emissions decreased by about 75%, BTEX by 60%, and NOx 58%. ::: The 2015 fleet-average emission factors were higher in the SMT for CO, NOx, and summer PM2.5 than those in the FMT. The higher CO emissions in the SMT were possibly attributable to a larger fraction of motorcycles and LPG vehicles in the Hong Kong fleet. DVs in Hong Kong and the United States had similar emission factors for NOx. However, the non-diesel vehicles (NDVs), particularly LPG vehicles, had higher emission factors than those of gasoline cars, contributing to higher NOx emissions in the SMT. The higher PM2.5 emission factors in the SMT were probably attributable to there being more double-deck buses in Hong Kong. ::: In both tunnels, PAHs were predominantly in the gas phase, with larger (four and more aromatic rings) PAHs mostly in the particulate phase. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, and acetone were the most abundant carbonyl compounds in the SMT. In the FMT, the most abundant carbonyls were formaldehyde, acetone, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde. HD vehicles emitted about threefold more carbonyl compounds than LD vehicles did. In the SMT, the NMHC species were enriched with marker species for LPG (e.g., n-butane, isobutane, and propane) and gasoline fuel vapor (e.g., toluene, isopentane, and m/p-xylene), indicating evaporative losses. Source contributions to SMT PM2.5 mass were diesel exhaust (51.5 ± 1.8%), gasoline exhaust (10.0 ± 0.8%), LPG exhaust (5.0 ± 0.5%), secondary sulfate (19.9 ± 1.0%), secondary nitrate (6.3 ± 0.9%), and road dust (7.3 ± 1.3%). In the FMT, total NMHC emissions were 14% and 8% higher in winter than in summer for LD and HD vehicles, respectively. Elemental carbon (EC) and organic carbon (OC) were the major constituents of tunnel PM2.5. De-icing salt contributions to PM2.5 were observed in the FMT in winter. ::: Emission estimates by the EMFAC-HK agreed with SMT measurements for CO2; the modeled emission factors for CO, NOx, and NMHCs were 1.5, 1.6, and 2.2 times the measurements, respectively; and the modeled emission factor for PM2.5 was 61% of the measured value in 2003. The EMFAC-HK estimates and SMT measurements for 2015 differed by less than 35%. The MOVES2014a model generally overestimated emissions of most of the pollutants measured in the FMT. No pollutants were significantly underestimated. The largest overestimation was observed for emissions measured during HD-rich driving conditions in winter. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Significant reductions in SO2 and PM2.5 emissions between 2003 and 2015 were observed in the SMT, indicating the effectiveness of control measures on these two pollutants. The total NMHC emissions in the SMT were reduced by 44%, although isobutane and n-butane emissions increased because of the increase in the size of the LPG fleet. No significant reductions were observed for CO and NOx, results that differed from those for roadside ambient concentrations, emission inventory estimates, and EMFAC-HK estimates. In contrast, there was a steady decrease in emissions of most pollutants in the tunnels in the United States.
Solid base catalyst,K2CO3/Al2O3 was prepared and applied in the condensation preparation of 2-methyl-2-pentenal from propionaldehyde.When the reaction temperature was 85 ℃,reaction time 1 h,ethanol 10 mL,the amount of propionaldehyde 9.4 mL and the catalyst 1.0 g,the yield of 2-methyl-2-pentenal was 71.2%.Pure K2CO3 did not possess catalytic ability to the contrary.
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric calcium continuous production using crude hydrocyanic acid D,. The apparatus comprises a synthesis column hydrocyanic acid column, multi-stage series tank reactors, tank reactors, calcium salts and synthesis reactor cooling crystallizer; further comprising a cryogenic storage tank, incinerators, stripping column; continuous production of D , L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric calcium, comprising preparing a mixed gas ⅱ cyanate prepared in a multi-stage 2-hydroxy-tank reactors in tandem 4-methylthiobutanenitrile, dried autoclave reactor preparation of D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid, calcium D was prepared in the synthesis reactor, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric calcium; also use the low temperature reservoir cans, incinerator, etc. The product stripper or residue treated reaction. The method and apparatus of the present invention utilize crude hydrocyanic acid and crude methylthio propionaldehyde continuous production of D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric calcium, low production costs and less side reactions and high yields , can achieve large-scale industrial continuous production.
Volatile components of roasted green tea (hoji-cha) were collected by_vacuum distillation with four steps of low temperature trapping. Some carbonyl compounds were converted to 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazones, and the mixtures of them were fractionated by thin layer and gas liquid chromatographies. Among the low boiling carbonyls, acetaldehyde, acetone, propionaldehyde, and isobutylaldehyde were identified, and the presence of 2- or 3-methylbutylaldehyde was also indicated. Furfural, 2-acetylfuran, and 5-ethylfurfural were found in carbonyl compounds of higher boiling temperature, and two unknown carbonyl compounds which seemed to contribute to the roast flavor were also isolated.
Alcohol-free beers are usually characterized by worty off-flavors and the lack of the pleasant fruity or ester aroma found in regular beers. Enhancing yeast reduction of 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde, 3-methylbutanal, and 2-methylbutanal appears to be a good means of improving the organoleptic quality of alcohol-free beers. Upon screening of various Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeasts for in vitro reductase activity, a haploid adh0 strain emerged as the most efficient yeast for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced form) (NADPH)-dependent Strecker aldehyde reduction. Tetrad analysis of diploids (adh0 x 15D wild-type) demonstrated the predominant role of adh1 mutation to enhance aldehyde reductase. Consequent to such alcohol dehydrogenase gene disruption, acetaldehyde accumulates, although partly oxidized into acetic acid by the NADP cofactor. We propose that regeneration of this cofactor in adh1 strains can be improved by promoting NADPH-dependent aldehyde reductase activity.
Using phase transfer catalyst,2,2-dimethylolbutyric acid was prepared by the aldol condensation and oxidation from formaldehyde and propionaldehyde.The most suitable technological conditions for the aldol condensation were as follows: phase transfer catalyst was HDTMAB;molar ratio n(formaldehyde)∶ n(propionaldehyde)=2.2∶1;pH=10;reaction temperature 30℃,and reaction time 2.0 h.The most suitable technological conditions for the oxidation were as follows: pH =4;reaction temperature 70℃,and reaction time 2.5h.The product structure was identified by FT-IR.
Abstract Despite the fact that it is an aldehyde, glyoxylic acid is not a substrate for sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase; instead it functions as an inhibitor of both the esterase and dehydrogenase activities. From a consideration of the inhibition patterns it is concluded that glyoxylic acid does not bind in the catalytic propionaldehyde-binding domain, thus confirming the two-site model as proposed previously. Since the corresponding neutral methyl ester is a substrate it is suggested that the catalytic binding domain must contain a negatively charged group which prevents the binding of glyoxylic acid. Steady-state and pre-steady-state kinetic studies indicate that glyoxylic acid inhibits the dehydrogenase activity by converting the enzyme into a dead-end form which cannot undergo the catalytically essential conformational change. Incubation of the enzyme with NAD + and glyoxylic acid for 10 min before the addition of propionaldehyde gave rise to hysteresis effects which can be explained on the basis of a slow isomerization of the enzyme · NAD + · glyoxylic acid complex.
Abstract Self-condensation of propanol was carried out at atmospheric pressure over MgO as catalyst. The reaction gave 2-methylpentanol and propionaldehyde as the major products. The introduction of hydrogen before and during the reaction enhanced the catalyst selectivity to 2-methylpentanol. The effect of possible reaction intermediates on the catalyst selectivity and the mechanism of the reaction were investigated over MgO and indicated the important role of hydrogen transfer in the reaction. The highest selectivity (69%) was achieved in the presence of hydrogen at 450 °C with propanol conversion of 24%.
According to our knowledge, this is the first purification ::: method developed, enabling isolation of a homogeneous ::: aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase (AMADH) from etiolated pea ::: seedlings. The procedure involved initial purification with ::: precipitants followed by three low pressure chromatographic ::: steps. Partially purified enzyme was further subjected to fast ::: protein liquid chromatography on a Mono Q column and to ::: affinity^interaction chromatography on 5P-AMP Sepharose. Purity ::: of the final enzyme preparation was checked by sodium dodecyl ::: sulfate^polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and ::: chromatofocusing. Pea AMADH exists as a tetramer of 230 kDa in ::: the native state, a molecular mass of one subunit was ::: determined as 57 kDa. The enzyme was found to be an acidic ::: protein with pI 5.4. AMADH showed a broad substrate specificity ::: utilising various aminoaldehydes (C3^C6) as substrates. The ::: best substrate of pea AMADH was 3- aminopropionaldehyde, the ::: enzyme also efficiently oxidised 4-aminobutyraldehyde and ::: g-guanidinoanalogues of the aminoaldehydes. Pea AMADH was ::: inhibited by SH reagents, several elementary aldehydes and ::: metal-binding agents. Although AMADH did not oxidise betaine ::: aldehyde at all, the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the ::: enzyme shows a high degree of homology with those of plant ::: betaine aldehyde dehydrogenases (BADHs) of spinach, sugar beet ::: and amaranth. Several conserved amino acids were found in ::: comparison with BADH from cod liver of known crystal structure.
2-Cyano-2-methyltrimethylene carbonate (CMTC, 2) was synthesized starting from 2-methylacrolein (6), propionaldehyde (8) or 2-hydroxymethyl-2-methyl-1,3-propanediol (9). A key position in this synthesis is held by 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)propionitrile (3), which in a first step, is reacted - in conjunction with 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol (20) - with diphenyl carbonate (17) to result in a statistical copolycarbonate. Ring-closing depolymerization of this polymer, with a catalyst based on tin, yields in a second step the title monomer, CMTC (2), along with 2,2-dimethyltrimethylene carbonate (DTC, 1a). Separation of the two monomers can be achieved by selective solubilization of the latter in toluene. Polymerization of CMTC is performed preferentially by using weak nucleophiles as initiators, such as Et 2 AlOEt, Al(O-secBu) 3 or MgBu 2 , since strong nucleophiles such as BuLi or ZnEt 2 tend to give side reactions with the cyano group. Copolymerization of CMTC with DTC results in statistical copolymers. With Et 2 AlOEt as initiator copolymers with Bernoulli statistics are obtained, with a ratio of diads DTC/DTC : (DTC/CMTC + CMTC/DTC) : CMTC/CMTC equal to 1 :2 :1 for equimolar feed composition. With MgBu 2 as initiator and the same feed composition, a copolymer with the diad ratio 1 :5 :1 is obtained. Poly(CMTC) is a crystalline polymer with a melting point of 132.9 °C and a glass transition temperature of 68.8 °C.
The synthesis of trimethylolethane using formaldehyde and propionaldehyde as material and a mixed solution of calcium hydroxide and a little triethylamine as catalyst was studied.The trimethylolethane was separated from the mixed solution of the reaction by different mathods to obtain purified trimethylolethane.The optimum conditions were:The trimethylolethane was separated by ethanedioic acid and then recrystallized by ethyl alcohol.The purity of trimethylolethane was 99.5% and the yield of trimethylolethane was 81.6%(based on propionaldehyde).Ethyl alcohol could be recovered for reusing.
The reaction between benzophenone radical-anions produced through electrochemical reduction of benzophenone and propionaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde has been amperometrically and polarographically investigated. The study has been made in dimethylformamide at –30 and –20°C. Owing to the interaction with the aldehydes, 50 % of the benzophenone radical-anions are oxidized to benzophenone. With propionaldehyde the decay of benzophenone radical-anions substantially follows the first-order law with respect to both radical-anions concentration and aldehyde concentration. For isobutyraldehyde the decay depends on radical-anion concentration to a power between one and two and on aldehyde concentration to the first power. Experimental results are interpreted through a kinetic scheme involving a protonic transfer from aldehydes to radical-anions and to dianions formed by disproportionation of benzophenone radical-anions.
The Cope-Knoevenagel reaction of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (7) with methyl cyanoacetate (8) produced methyl (E)-2-cyano-4-phenylpent-2-enoate (9) and the two highly fluorescent secondary products, 2-amino-3-carbomethoxy-6-phenyl-4-(1-phenylethyl)pyridine (10) and 3-cyano-6-phenyl-4-(1-phenylethyl)-2-pyridone (11). The structure of 10 was determined by X-ray crystallography while the structure of 11 was confirmed by the conversion of 9 into 11. The mechanism of their formation is discussed. Fluorescence of 10 and 11 and the related compounds are also described.
The salt generated from the diamine shown in the scheme and TfOH efficiently promotes the asymmetric, syn-selective cross-aldol reaction of electron-poor aromatic aldehydes with propionaldehyde and the protected glycol aldehyde (VI).
Abstract The kinetics of OH oxidation of several organic compounds of atmospheric relevance were measured in the aqueous phase. Relative kinetics were performed using various organic references and OH sources. After validation of the protocol, temperature-dependent rate constants for the reactions of OH radical with ethyl ter-butyl ether ( k 297 K = 1.5 ( ± 1.7 ) × 1 0 9 M - 1 s - 1 , E a / R = 580 (±560) K), n-butyl acetate ( k 297 K = 1.8 (±0.4)×109 M−1 s−1, E a / R = 1000 (±200) K), acetone ( k 298 K = 0.11 (±0.05)×109 M−1 s−1, E a / R = 1400 (±500) K), methyl ethyl ketone ( k 298 K = 0.81 ( ± 0.18 ) × 1 0 9 M - 1 s - 1 , E a / R = 1200 (±200) K), methyl iso-butyl ketone ( k 298 K = 2.1 ( ± 0.5 ) × 1 0 9 M - 1 s - 1 , E a / R = 1200 (±300) K) and methylglyoxal ( k 298 K = 0.53 ( ± 0.04 ) × 1 0 9 M - 1 s - 1 , E a / R = 1100 (±300) K) were determined. A non-Arrhenius behavior was found for phenol, in good agreement with the contribution of an OH addition to the mechanism, which also includes H-abstraction by OH radicals. Global rate constants of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde and valeraldehyde were studied at 298 K only, as these compounds partly hydrate in the aqueous phase. All the obtained data (except those of phenol) complemented by literature data were used to investigate three methods to estimate rate constants for H-abstraction reactions of OH radicals in aqueous solutions when measured data were not available: Evans-Polanyi-type correlations, comparisons with gas-phase data, structure activity relationships (SAR). The results show that the SAR method is promising; however, the data set is currently too small to extend this method to temperatures other than 298 K. The atmospheric impact of aqueous phase OH oxidation of water-soluble organic compounds is discussed with the determination of their global atmospheric lifetimes, taking into account both gas- and aqueous-phase reactivities. The results show that atmospheric droplets can act as powerful photoreactors to eliminate soluble organic compounds from the atmosphere.
An improved method for synthesizing the herbicide clomazone was suggested using 3-hydroxyl-2,2-dimethyl-propionaldehyde.
Journal of Exposure Science and Environmental Epidemiology (2008) 18 (1) location of release, the height from which the pollutants are released, meteorological variables such as wind speeds, wind direction, and atmospheric stability from the meteorological stations nearest to the release, breakdown of the pollutants in the atmosphere after being released (i.e., reactive decay), settling of pollutants out of the atmosphere (i.e., deposition), and transformation of one pollutant into another (i.e., secondary formation). ASPEN calculates annual average concentrations at census tract internal point, or centroid, locations. Meteorological conditions in 1999 are used to match the emission period, and census tract data from 2000 are used. Meteorological data for 1999 were used to generate frequency distributions stratified by time of day into eight 3 h time blocks. This along with similar emission rate stratification helps preserve any characteristic diurnal patterns that might be important in subsequent estimation of population exposure. The resulting output of ASPEN is a grid of annual average concentration estimates for each source/pollutant combination by diurnal time block (US EPA, 2000) . ASPEN only accounts for sources within a 50 km radius of each source when calculating ambient concentrations. Thus, the contribution to ambient levels of HAPs from sources further away than 50 km, as well as the contribution of uninventoried sources is addressed through the addition of a ''background '' term (Battelle, 2003). An empirical approach (Rosenbaum et al., 1999 ) is used to estimate the secondary contribution through photochemical transformation of reactive pollutants such as acetaldehyde, acrolein, formaldehyde, and propionaldehyde. Model to monitor comparisons showed that the model performed within a factor of two for inert gases such as benzene, but underpredicted for metals.
Fresh garlic contains water, carbohydrates, proteins, fiber, and fat, as well as essential amino acids, vitamins, and minerals. When garlic is cut, chopped, or crushed, the clove's membrane is disrupted and S-allylcysteine sulfoxide (an odorless compound called alliine) is transformed enzymatically into allicin by alliinase (1). Allicin is responsible for the typical odor of garlic, but it is unstable and converts readily into mono-, di-, and trisulfides and other compounds such as ajoene. Onions mainly contain S-propenylcysteine sulfoxide (1), but also other sulfoxides, including S-propylcysteine sulfoxide and S-methylcysteine sulfoxide (2). S-Propenylcysteine sulfoxide, positional isomer of alliin, is called lacrimatory precursor, because it is tranformed by alliinase into the lacrimatory factor propanethial S-oxide. The lacrimatory factor is highly reactive and hydrolyzes to propionaldehyde, sulfuric acid, and hydrogen sulfide; it is also the precursor of several sulfur derivatives. Organosulfur compounds present in Allium vegetables, which are either lipid or water soluble (Table 1) , are considered responsible for the beneficial effects of these herbs. Garlic derivatives generally have a thioallyl moiety, whereas onion extracts contain a thiopropyl group with somewhat different chemical properties. The amounts of volatile compounds present in garlic bulbs are reported in Table 2 .
The preparation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde by hydration of acrolein was studied The best catalyst for hydration of acrolein was from selected a great variety of acid catalysts.The effect of temperature,space velocity,mass fraction of acrolein and pressure on the hydration reaction was investigated for the selected catalyst.The conversion of acrolein and the selectivity of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde could be 80% and greater than 88% respectively in the presence of the selected catalyst under the conditions of 50 ℃,LHSV 1.2 h~(-1) and the mass fraction of acrolein 14.0%.
A new photoaldol route to alpha-amino-beta-hydroxy carboxylic acid esters is initiated by the photocycloaddition of aromatic or aliphatic aldehydes to 5-methoxyoxazoles. The 4-unsubstituted 5-methyloxazole 1 gave the cycloadducts 8a-f in high yields and excellent exo-diastereoselectivities. Hydrolysis of 8a-f gives the N-acetyl alpha-amino-beta-hydroxy esters 9a-f, which could be subsequently converted into the corresponding Z-didehydro alpha-amino acids 10a-f. Quartenary alpha-amino-beta-hydroxy esters 12, 14, 16, 18, and 20, which are stable against dehydration, were obtained from the 4-alkylated 5-methoxyoxazoles 2-6, in most cases highly erythro-selective due to the high degree of stereocontrol (exo) at the photocycloaddition (to give 11, 13, 15, 17, and 19) level. The relative configurations of the N-acetyl alpha-amino-beta-hydroxy esters were determined by NMR spectroscopy and comparison with chiral pool-derived compounds as well as by X-ray structure determination of the ester 23, formed by hydrolysis of the cycloadduct 22, derived from photocycloaddition of propionaldehyde to the isoleucine-derived oxazole 21.
The main products of the radiolytic oxidation of propan-1-ol have been identified as hydrogen, propionaldehyde, hydrogen peroxide, propionic acid, formaldehyde, and ethane. The yield of hydrogen is lower and that of propionaldehyde three to four times higher than in deaerated propanol. The yields of propionaldehyde and hydrogen peroxide are higher and that of propionic acid lower in air-saturated than in oxygen-saturated solution. The results indicate a short chain reaction and a mechanism is suggested to explain the observed effects.
Medicinal plants play an important role as useful resources in producing new and safer drugs for the treatment of various diseases. The objective of this study was to compare the yield, chemical composition and antimicrobial activity of essential oils (EOs) obtained by two different techniques from rhizomes of genius Cyperus of which C. rotundus (Family: Cyperaceae) belongs to. The EOs was obtained by Steam Distillation (SD) and Hydrodistillation (HD). The chemical compositions were analyzed by Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectroscopy (GC-MS). The antimicrobial activity was tested by disc diffusion method against four microbes namely; Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus and Candida albicans. The oil content was 0.18% and 0.27% (v/w) for HD and SD, respectively. The GC-MS analysis led to identification of 71 and 74 components, respectively. The dominant compounds for HD were: 3-Hydroxy-2-(2-methylcyclohex-1-enyl) propionaldehyde (11.20%); 2-cyclohexene-1-1one, 3-methyl-6(1-methyl-31) (8.23%) and 1,4-methanoazulene-9-methanol (5.43%). Whereas for SD were: 3-Hydroxy-2-(2-methylcyclohex-1enyl) propionaldehyde (12.94%), Tricyclo [6.3.0.0(2,4) undec-8ene,3,3,7,11-tetramethyl-(6,48%), 1-Oxaspiro[2.5]octane,5,5-dimethyl-4-(3-methyl-1,3-butan dienyl)- (5.66%) and 4,8,13-Cyclotetradecatriene-1,3-diol,1,5,9-diol,1,5,9-trimethyl-12-(1-methylethyl) -(5.57%). The antimicrobial activities of the oils against tested microorganism were extremely broad, the inhibition zones ranged between 10 and 17 mm. For HD oil, the Candida was the most sensitive to the oil (16 mm) and S. aureus was the most resistant (10 mm). Whereas, for SD oil, the S. aureus was the most sensitive (17 mm) while K. pneumoniae and C. albicans were the most resistance (12 mm). In conclusion, the results obtained from this study proved that the extraction technique is one of the main factors that can affect in the EOs yield, constituents and biological activities. Moreover, the results suggest that the EOs of C. rotundus could be a potential source of antimicrobial ingredients for food and pharmaceutical industries. Therefore, a wide bioassay against more microbes, isolation and identification of bioactive compounds would be an interesting line of inquiry for the further studies.
The product quantum yields in the photolysis of 2,2,4,4-tetramethyl-3-pentanone have been measured in homogeneous solvents of different viscosities, in micellar solutions of cetyltrimethylammonium chloride and sodium dodecyl sulfate, and in dioctadecyl ammonium chloride vesicles. ::: ::: ::: ::: The product quantum yield in n-heptane was found to be 1. This value decreases to 0.5 in paraffin oil as a consequence of geminate recombination. In the presence of free radical scavengers, the extent of geminate disproportionation can be evaluated from the yields of isobutene and 2,2-dimethyl propionaldehyde. From these yields and the geminate recombination yields the total amount of geminate processes and the disproportionation-to-combination ratio for caged radicals are estimated. It is found that micelles provide the most efficient cages. In these media only about 10% of the radicals avoid cage processes. The disproportionation-to-combination ratio of tert-butyl and pivaloyl radicals was found to be extremely media dependent. The measured values ranged from about 0.2 in paraffin oil to 0.8 in cetyltrimethylammonium chloride micelles.
SUMMARY ::: Volatile compounds isolated from dry-cured hams were tentatively identified by gas chromatography retention times and further verification of the compounds made by infrared spectroscopy. These compounds were as follows: formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, n-valeraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, acetone, diacetyl, methyl ethyl ketone, formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, and isocaproic acid. RF values and selective indicators were used to identify ammonia and methylamine. Selective trapping was used to identify hydrogen sulfide and trace amounts of disulfides and/or monosulfides.
It is found out that an addition of not only potassium permanganate, phosphoric acid, but also propionaldehyde accelerates more oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde.By using this fact the following procedure of the spectrophotometric determination of methanol is proposed.Oxidize 1ml of the test solution containing 115 μg of methanol by adding 0.2 ml of 0.3 v/v% propionaldehyde solution, 0.4 ml of potassium permanganate solution which is prepared by dissolving 1.5 g of the salt in 30 ml of water and 7.5 ml of 85% phosphoric acid, and by diluting the mixture to 50 ml. Swirl the mixture, and keep it at the room temperature for 5 minutes. Reduce excess permanganate by adding 0.2 ml of 0.2 g/ml sodium sulfite solution. Swirl the mixture, and add 0.3 ml of 0.02 g/ml aqueous chromotropic acid solution. Slowly add 4 ml of 75 v/v% sulfuric acid. Heat the mixture at 8085 °C for 10 minutes with occasional swirling. After cooling to the room temperature, measure the absorbance at 575 nm against the reagent blank obtained by the same procedure. The improved method has higher sensitivity in comparison with the common method, and the calibration curve follows Beer's law over the range of 115 μg/ ml of methanol.
Vapor phase reactions of a mixture of two types of primary alcohols to esters and ketones over a reduced copper catalyst have been investigated. The reactions between primary alcohols and propionaldehyde have also been investigated. The effects of the molar ratio of the reactants and the reaction temperature on the yields of esters, ketones, and aldehydes have been examined. A mixture of ethyl alcohol and propyl alcohol when passed over the catalyst, the main products have been found to be propyl acetate, ethyl acetate, propyl propionate, ethyl propionate, ethyl methyl ketone, diethyl ketone, acetone, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde. The formation of the ester and the ketone may be presented as follows: (Remark: Graphics omitted.)
Abstract The asymmetric Michael addition of propionaldehyde to (2 E )-(3-nitro-but-2-enyloxymethyl)-benzene 8 , catalyzed by the chiral diamine ( S , S )- N - i Pr-2,2′-bipyrrolidine, afforded, with 93% ee, a precursor 9 of (−)-botryodiplodin. The nitro functionality of 9 was converted to a ketone via a Nef reaction to give, after a few steps, the enantiomerically enriched (−)-botryodiplodin.
Abstract Glycerol is the main by-product from the conversion of agricultural crops into non-alimentary products such as ester and bioethanol. Its microbiological transformation to 1,3-propanediol constitutes a recent approach. The bioproduction of 1,3-propanediol by bacterial species Klebsiella pneumoniae, Citrobacter freundii, Enterobacter agglomerans and Clostridium butyricum have been investigated by batch fermentation and compared at low and high glycerol contents. An important metabolic flexibility was observed with the enterobacteria in contrast to C. butyricum. Fermentation of glycerol by the enterobacterial species revealed the occurrence of an inhibitory phenomenon. It was assigned to the accumulation in the fermentation medium of a strongly inhibitory compound, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, the only intermediate of the 1,3-propanediol metabolic pathway. This phenomenon was shown to significantly decrease the biological activities and to be dependent on the culture pH conditions. It was not observed with C. butyricum. By comparing the efficiency of the fermentation among the four bacteria, C. butyricum was chosen for an applied study consisting of the bioconversion of glycerol containing industrial wastewaters. With glycerin coming from the ester production and from wine stillage, a high efficiency of conversion to 1,3-propanediol was observed. The 1,3-propanediol produced was purified by liquid/liquid extraction with a recovery yield about 100%.
The synthesis of 7(E), 9(Z)-dodecadien-1-yl acetate using for the olefination steps Wittig and Horner reactions under phase transfer conditions is reported. The 7(E) double bond was prepared by Horner coupling of 7-tert-butoxy-heptanal (1) with 0,0-diethylphosphonoacetate (2) in a two phase system. ::: ::: ::: ::: Wittig olefination was used to build up the 9(Z) double bond by reacting 9-tert-butoxy-2-nonen-1-yl-triphenyl-phosphonium bromide(13) with propionaldehyde under phase transfer catalytic conditions.
Abstract Irgarol 1051 is highly toxic to marine autotrophs and has been widely used as an antifouling booster biocide. This study tested the toxicities of two s-triazine derivatives of Irgarol, namely M2 (3-[4-tert-butylamino-6-methylthiol-s-triazin-2-ylamino]propionaldehyde) and M3 (2-methylthio-4,6-bis-tert-butylamino-s-triazine) to two marine diatom species, Skeletonema costatum and Thalassiosira pseudonana through standard acute (96h) and chronic (7d) growth inhibition tests. Results showed that both of the two chemicals significantly inhibited the growth of S. costatum (M2: 96h-EC50 = 6789.7 μg L−1, 7d-EC50 = 3503.7 μg L−1; M3: 96h-EC50 = 45193.9 μg L−1, 7d-EC50 = 5330.0 μg L−1) and T. pseudonana (M2: 96h-EC50 = 366.2 μg L−1, 7d-EC50 = 312.5 μg L−1; M3: 96h-EC50 = 2633.4 μg L−1, 7d-EC50 = 710.5 μg L−1), while their toxicity effects were much milder than Irgarol and its major degradation product M1. By comparing with previous findings, the susceptibilities of these s-triazine compounds to two tested species were ranked as: Irgarol > M1 ≫ M2 > M3. This study promotes future research efforts on better understanding of the ecotoxicities of M2 and M3, and incorporating such information to improve the current monitoring, risk assessment and regulation of the use of Irgarol.
This study aimed to synthesize methoxy polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde (mPEG20,000-ALD) for the preparation of PEGylated nanoliposomal cisplatin. Nanocarriers such as liposomes are developed for a wide range of drug delivery systems. PEG with high molecular weight (Mw) is used to coat the liposomes. In this study, simulated Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra of mPEG-ALD were obtained using density functional theory (DFT) calculations and then compared with actual FTIR spectrum of mPEG20,000-ALD (Mw = 20 kDa). We found that the intensity of C = O stretching vibration at 1,700 cm-1 related to the carbonyl functional group of mPEG20,000-ALD was very weak. The results of DFT calculations of mPEG-ALD showed that by increasing the Mw of mPEG-ALD, the intensity of C = O stretching vibration related to the carbonyl functional group of mPEG-ALD was decreased, so we concluded the hypothesis of decreasing the intensity of C = O stretching vibration at 1,700 cm-1 as a result of increasing the Mw of mPEG-ALD. In vitro release of cisplatin showed that the percentages of released cisplatin from PEGylated nanoliposomal cisplatin and free cisplatin were determined to be 46 ± 2% and 97 ± 3% after 35 h, respectively. Cytotoxicity of free cisplatin and PEGylated nanoliposomal cisplatin was evaluated and related half-maximal inhibitory concentration on human ovarian cancer cell line A2780CP was obtained to be 76.6 ± 3.1 and 46.6 ± 2.3 μg/mL, respectively.
β-Methoxycarbonylpropionaldehyde (MCPA) was polymerized in tetrahydrofuran (THF) with benzophenone–monolithium complex as the initiator. An equilibrium between the monomer and its polymer was observed in the temperature range of −96 to −78°C. MCPA had lower polymerizability than ether-substituted aldehydes and their corresponding unsubstituted aliphatic aldehydes in the temperature range. The thermodynamic parameters were evaluated from the temperature dependence of the equilibrium monomer concentration: ΔHss = −4.3 ± 0.2 kcal/mole, ΔSss = −21.9 ± 1.0 cal/mole deg, Tcss = −76°C. Not only an ether substitution but also an ester substitution in propionaldehyde caused the decrease in the absolute values of the thermodynamic parameters for the aldehyde polymerization. These substituent effects may have been the result mainly of the strong intermolecular dipole–dipole interactions of polar groups in monomer states.
Severe injury from tobacco thrips [Frankliniella fusca (Hinds)] to seedling peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) has not been documented to reduce yield and quality. However, thrips injury may be economically important when combined with another factor, such as postemergence herbicide injury. This note reports results of a field experiment in which control of tobacco thrips during an unusually dry early season greatly increased peanut seed yield and quality. 'Florunner' peanut was grown using preplant and postemergence herbicides for weed control. Treatments consisted of an untreated control and four labeled insectiddes applied at planting or soon after crop emergence. Populations of adult tobacco thrips were significantly suppressed by aldicarb [2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime] ; all insecticides significantly suppressed immature thrips. Aldicarb, the most efficacious insecticide treatment, significantly improved peanut yield by 32% and quality as determined by percentage of total sound mature kernels. All but one of the remaining insecticide treatments significantly improved seed yield, with increases ranging from 9 to 31%. Rainfall was extremely low early in the growing season, and (based on 41 yr of records at the site) drier conditions occur 10% of the time. This is a frequency great enough to matter, but low enough to make further research difficult. The observations reported here suggest that early-season moisture stress intensifies peanut yield and quality losses associated with combined injury from thrips and postemergence herbicides.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), which can be derived from biomass, is an important precursor for low-cost, large-volume acrolein-based chemicals like acrylic acid and acrylamide with a wide range of applications. In order to find an efficient process for isolating 3-HPA from fermentation broth, we comparatively investigated several separation methods including precipitation with hydrazides, immobilization with amines, reactive extraction with thiols, extraction with hydrophilic solvents, and reactive distillation as acrolein. It turned out that the reactive distillation is the most efficient method for in situ recovery of 3-HPA as acrolein. In a reactive distillation process at 37°C and Hammett acidity H0 = –1, the aldehyde concentration was reduced to 6 ± 1 mM in the transformation medium and increased to 1866 ± 146 mM in the distillate. The yield was 96 ± 8%. These experimental results are close to the calculated ideal equilibrium results assuming total dehydration of 3-HPA to acrolein. The main advantages of the reactive distillation process are that the recovery, purification, and concentration of acrolein are carried out in one step and the process is well suited for large-scale production at low costs.
The anode reaction includes a single electrochemical reaction plus a multistage reaction network of chemical reactions (dehydrogenation of adsorbed C-H species, water dissociation, hydroxylation of adsorbed carbon species, and carbon-carbon bond cleavage) through which production of a number of intermediate by-products (such as propanol, propionaldehyde, propionic acid, ethanol, acetaldehyde, acetic acid, methanol, formaldehyde, formic acid, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide) is possible.
Over the last decade, efforts have been made to investigate PEGylation of r-Sak, but limited success has been achieved. Vanwetswinkel et al. [5] have selected six positions as chemoselective cysteine PEGylation site, which contained four positions (Lys96, Lys102, Lys109, and Lys135) in the core structure of Sak and two positions (Ser2 and Ser3) in the NH 2 terminal region. The results of pharmacokinetic evaluation have shown that all of the PEGylated Sak variants have a significant increase in serum half-life. However, the specific activities of the PEGylated Sak variants at Positions 96, 102, 109, and 135 have decreased by 54%, 75%, 66%, and 15% Acta Biochim Biophys Sin 2014, 46: 782 -791 | ª The Author 2014. Published by ABBS Editorial Office in association with Oxford University Press on behalf of the Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences. DOI: 10.1093/abbs/gmu068. Advance Access Publication 6 August 2014 compared with that of r-Sak, respectively. Moreover, the PEGylation at all of six selected positions have not significantly reduced the immunogenicity of the Sak analogs. Then, they further constructed PEGylated Sak variant SY161-P5, SakSTAR (S3C-P5, K35A, E65Q, K74R, E80A, D82A,  T90A, E99D, T101S, E108A, K109A, K130T, K135R) , which contains 12 amino acid substitutions to reduce its antigenicity and a single site-specific PEG modification at the N-terminus to improve its pharmcokinetics [6] . As SY161 possesses significantly prolonged plasma half-life, it could be administered with an intravenous bolus injection in stead of continuous infusion. The CAPTORS II clinical trial has indicated that SY161 exhibits the thrombolytic effect on patients with acute myocardial infarction, which is similar to that of conventional tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) [7] . However, the relatively high neutralizing antibody titers are still induced by a low dose of SY161, when compared with the titers elicited by a high dose of r-Sak (SakSTAR). Moreover, too many charged residues are replaced by noncharged amino acids in SY161. These substitutions obviously result in the significant reduction of the protein thermal stability [8] , which often leads to the increase of protein immunogenicity. Xue et al. [9] modified r-Sak with 20-kDa methoxyl PEG amine at the C-terminus of Sak. A tripeptide GlyGly-Cys was covalently linked to r-Sak at the C-terminus and then the site-specific PEGylation was conducted at the engineered cysteine residue. The results showed that the immunogenicities of the PEGylated r-Sak variants were apparently decreased. However, PEGylation significantly decreases fibrinolytic activity of the PEGylated r-Sak variants by 38%-62% compared with that of r-Sak. Wang et al. performed N-terminal PEGylation of r-Sak using methoxyl PEG propionaldehyde with a molecular weight (MW) of 20 kDa [10] . Due to the presence of the competitive PEGylation between the N-terminus and the Lys residues, the obtained monoPEGylated Sak might be the complex of the monoPEGylated Sak modified at the N-terminus or at one of the several lysine residues of Sak. The mono-PEG-Sak retained 38% of the biological activity when compared with r-Sak. Recently, four PEGylated Saks have been prepared by sitespecific conjugation of 5/20-kDa PEG to N-terminus and C-terminus of Sak, respectively [11] . The result of docking analysis indicated that the binding affinity of the PEGylated Sak to micro-plasminogen is dependent on the length of PEG chain and the PEGylation site. The bioactivity analysis showed that the PEGylation significantly decreased the fibrinolytic activity of PEGylated r-Sak variants by 40%-70% compared with that of native r-Sak, respectively. Therefore, reducing the immunogenicity of r-Sak by PEGylation and simultaneously maintaining its fibrinolytic activity was still a pending problem up to now.
Polydimethylsiloxane grafted with polyoxyethylene (PDMS-g-POE) was synthesized by the hydro- silylation reactions in the presence of various platinum-based catalysts. The hydrosilylation reactions also gave small amount of side products such as propionaldehyde and isomers of unsaturated polyoxyethylene. When the reactivities of catalytic systems including Speier's, Lamoreaux's, and Karstedt's catalyst and platinum ad- sorbed on carbon (Pt/C) were compared based on the amount of platinum, Speier's catalyst was found to be the most effective in the hydrosilylation reaction and Pt/C showed extremely low reactivity compared to three oth- er catalytic systems.
Abstract The genetic diversity of 128 carbofuran-degrading bacteria was determined by ARDRA (amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis)of 16S rDNA and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of the 16S^23S rDNA spacer region (IGS) using five endonucleases.The isolates were distributed in 26 distinct ARDRA groups and 45 IGS types revealing a high level of microbial diversity confirmed byARDRA clustering and sequencing of 16S rDNA. The occurrence of a methylcarbamate-degrading gene (mcd) was monitored bypolymerase chain reaction amplification using specific primers. The mcd gene was detected only in 58 bacteria and there was no clearrelationship between the presence of this gene and the phylogenetic position of the strain. s 2000 Federation of European MicrobiologicalSocieties. Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords: Carbofuran; Aldicarb; Pesticide-degrading bacteria; Genetic diversity; mcd gene 1. IntroductionCarbofuran (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranylmethylcarbamate) is a broad-spectrum carbamate insecti-cide. It is applied as a soil treatment to control insect pestsin a range of agricultural and horticultural crops. Aldicarb(2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-methylcarba-moyloxime) is an insecticide^nematicide used in large-scaleand ornamental farming. A decrease in the persistence andthus in the ¢eld performance of these compounds, due torepeated applications, has been reported [1^4]. The micro-bial origin of the phenomenon was con¢rmed by the iso-lation of N-methylcarbamate-degrading micro-organismsfrom soils with diierent histories of pesticide treatments[5^8]. Cross-adaptation of bacteria to the degradation ofmost N-methylcarbamate insecticides has also been re-ported [9]. Metabolism of the pesticide is mainly by hy-drolysis of the methylcarbamate linkage, yielding carbo-furan 7-phenol and methylamine. Methylamine iscommonly used by soil micro-organisms for growthalthough metabolism of the aromatic moiety has alsobeen reported [6]. The mcd gene, which encodes a carbo-furan hydrolase, was located on a 100-kb plasmid calledpPDL11 and has been cloned from Achromobacter sp.WM111 [10]. This gene is present and expressed in manyGram-negative bacteria [8] and diierent isolates exhibiteda 100-, 105-, 115- or 124-kb plasmid which hybridized witha mcd gene probe [7,8]. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)detection of the mcd gene using speci¢c primers wasstrongly correlated with detection by DNA hybridization[11]. The ¢rst objective of this work was to isolate newcarbofuran-degrading bacteria by enrichment in soil andliquid media using diierent methylcarbamate pesticides(aldicarb or carbofuran) at various concentrations. Thesecond objective was to determine the genetic diversityof a large collection of carbofuran-degrading isolates byampli¢ed ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA)of the 16S rDNA and PCR restriction fragment lengthpolymorphism (RFLP) of the 16S^23S rDNA spacer(IGS) region. The phylogenetic position of these bacteriawas determined by sequence analysis of the 16S rDNAgenes.2. Materials and methods2.1. ChemicalsCarbonyl-[
1. Five oxazolidines were synthesized by reaction of (-) ephedrine with aliphatic aldehydes. The aldehydes used were formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and trimethylacetaldehye. 2. These five oxazolidines were tested in rats for ephedrine-like pharmacological activity using the hyperthermia and anorexia models. 3. All five oxazolidines caused significant elevation of body temperature in the hyperthermia model. The oxazolidine synthesized from (-) ephedrine and butyraldehyde caused greatest hyperthermia. 4. Four oxazolidines caused significant anorectic responses. The oxazolidine synthesized from (-) ephedrine and isobutyraldehyde caused greatest anorexia. 5. A possible tolerance to the anorectic effects of some of the compounds was observed.
Abstract 2- and 4-Acetylpyridines, and 2- and 4-pyridinealdehydes when allowed to react with two-equiv. of aqueous titanium trichloride add to the carbonyl carbon atom of simple ketones (acetone, cyclopentanone, cyclohexanone) and aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde) affording subatituted pyridylglycols in very good yields. The present one-pot method has considerable advantage over the existing procedure. The reaction is discussed in terms of a radical mechanism in which the Ti(III) species plays the fundamental role.
Lactobacillus reuteri converts glycerol into a potent cell growth inhibitor. This substance, termed reuterin, inhibits the growth of gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria as well as yeasts, fungi, and protozoa. Semipreparative chromatography was used to purify reuterin, and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry were used to establish the molecular weight as well as the molecular functionality of the reuterin molecule. Nuclear magnetic resonance studies of purified reuterin carried out with deuterium oxide confirmed the presence of two three-carbon compounds, beta-hydroxypropionaldehyde and the corresponding hydrated acetal, and a six-carbon cyclic dimer of the aldehyde. Further nuclear magnetic resonance studies with deuterated methanol revealed that in this solvent the compound existed as a three-carbon compound in a methoxy form. Trimethylsilyl derivatives of reuterin were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, and a molecule was identified which had a molecular weight corresponding to a disilylated dimeric structure. On the basis of the above information, reuterin was determined to be an equilibrium mixture of monomeric, hydrated monomeric, and cyclic dimeric forms of beta-hydroxypropionaldehyde. This was subsequently confirmed by chemical synthesis.
The reaction of hydrogen peroxide and certain aromatic aldehydes with cytochrome P450 BM3 -F87G results in the covalent modification of the heme cofactor of this monooxygenase. Analysis of the resulting heme by electronic absorption spectrophotometry indicates that the reaction in the BM3 isoform is analogous to that in P450 2B4 , which apparently occurs via a peroxyhemiacetal intermediate [Kuo et al., Biochemistry, 38 (1999) 10511]. It was observed that replacement of the Phe-87 in the P450 BM3 by the smaller glycyl residue was essential for the modification to proceed, as the wild-type enzyme showed no spectral changes under identical conditions. The kinetics of this reaction were examined by stopped-flow spectrophotometry with 3-phenylpropionaldehyde and 3-phenylbutyraldehyde as reactants. In each case, the process of heme modification was biphasic, with initial bleaching of the Soret absorbance, followed by an increase in absorbance centered at 430 nm, consistent with meso-heme adduct formation. The intermediate formed during phase I also showed an increased absorbance between 700 and 900 nm, relative to the native heme and the final product. Phase I showed a linear dependence on peroxide concentration, whereas saturation kinetics were observed for phase II. All of these observations are consistent with a mechanism involving radical attack at the γ -meso position of the heme cofactor, resulting in the intermediate formation of an isoporphyrin, the deprotonation of which produces the γ -meso-alkyl heme derivative.
This study investigated high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to identify and measure aldehydes from automobile exhaust gas. Four aldehydes: formaldehyde (HCHO), acetaldehyde (CH 3 CHO), acrolein (H 2 C=CHCHO) and propionaldehyde (CH 3 CH 2 CHO), and one ketone, acetone (CH 3 ) 2 CO are separated. The other aldehydes in exhaust gas are very small and cannot be separated. A new method of gas sampling, hereafter called bag-sampling in HPLC is introduced instead of trapping gas sampling method. The superiority of bag-sampling method is its transient gas checking capability. In the second part of this study, HPLC results are applied to compare exhaust odor and irritation of exhaust gases in different types of gasoline and diesel engines. Exhaust odor, irritation and aldehydes are found worst in direct injection (DI) diesel engines and best in some good multi-point injection (MPI) gasoline and direct injection gasoline (DIG) engines. Indirect injection (IDI) diesel engines showed odor, irritation and aldehydes in between the level of MPI gasoline, DIG and DI diesel engines.
Abstract Indoor and outdoor carbonyl concentrations were measured simultaneously in 12 urban dwellings in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Xi’an, China in summer (from July to September in 2004) and winter (from December 2004 to February 2005). Formaldehyde was the most abundant indoor carbonyls species, while formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and acetone were found to be the most abundant outdoor carbonyls species. The average formaldehyde concentrations in summer indoor air varied widely between cities, ranging from a low of 19.3 μg m −3 in Xi’an to a high of 92.8 μg m −3 in Beijing. The results showed that the dwellings with tobacco smoke, incense burning or poor ventilation had significantly higher indoor concentrations of certain carbonyls. It was noticed that although one half of the dwellings in this study installed with low emission building materials or furniture, the carbonyls levels were still significantly high. It was also noted that in winter both the indoor and outdoor acetone concentrations in two dwellings in Guangzhou were significantly high, which were mainly caused by the usage of acetone as industrial solvent in many paint manufacturing and other industries located around Guangzhou and relatively longer lifetime of acetone for removal by photolysis and OH reaction than other carbonyls species. The indoor carbonyls levels in Chinese dwellings were higher than that in dwellings in the other countries. The levels of indoor and ambient carbonyls showed great seasonal differences. Six carbonyls species were carried out the estimation of indoor source strengths. Formaldehyde had the largest indoor source strength, with an average of 5.25 mg h −1 in summer and 1.98 mg h −1 in winter, respectively. However, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde and benzaldehyde had the weakest indoor sources.
An experimental investigation of the hydroxyl radical initiated gas-phase photooxidation of 1-propanol in the presence of NO was carried out in a reaction chamber using gas chromatography mass spectrometry. The products identified in the OH radical reactions of 1-propanol were propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde, with corresponding formation yields of 0.719 ± 0.058 and 0.184 ± 0.030, respectively. Errors represent ±2σ. The experimental product yields were compared to predictions made using chemical mechanisms. © 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 31: 810–818, 1999
Nitriles are potential soil pollutants from industrial wastewater. There has been increased demand for efficient process for nitrile degradation process. Nitrile hydratase (NHase) has been extensively used in the production of acrylamide and treatment of organocyanide contaminated industrial effluents. The NHase of Mesorhizobium sp., isolated from polyacrylonitrile activated sludge from fiber manufacturing wastewater treatment systems was studied in the whole bacterial cells. Different chemicals were added to observe the variation in the percentage of acrylonitrile converted into acrylamide. The result indicated that cobalt ions were the NHase cofactor and could increase the NHase activity. The addition of propionaldehyde, or butyraldehyde could enhance the acrylonitrile conversion rate. Therefore, acrylamide could be accumulated effectively and the percentage of acrylonitrile converted into acrylamide increased. Propionaldehyde was the most effective NHase activator. The percentage of acrylonitrile converted into acrylamide was nearly 100% at 3.8 h when propionaldehyde was added at about 207.4 mg/l. The addition of benzaldehyde was unable to increase the percentage of acrylonitrile converted into acrylamide. EDTA and acrylamide showed no effect on NHase activity. However, 0.1 mg/l of Ag2SO4 would slightly inhibit NHase activity, producing an acrylonitrile conversion rate of 492.9 mg/l with 54.9% converted at 29.1 h. The ability of the acrylonitrile biotransformation was completely inhibited if the Ag2SO4 concentration was above 0.5 mg/l.
Abstract The time-course responses of hepatic biotransformation and antioxidant enzymes to cytochrome P4501A-inducers in fish were examined using marine and freshwater species, viz. respectively, sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax) and dab (Limanda limanda) exposed up to 5 to 11 days to 3-methylcholanthrene (3MC; intraperitoneal (i.p.) 20 mg kg−1), and rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) exposed up to 15 days to β-naphthoflavone (BNF; i.p. 5 mg kg−1). The enzymes included those which are part of the mammalian [Ah]-gene locus, viz. cytochrome P4501A (CYP1A), DT-diaphorase (DTD; EC 1.6.99.2), aldehyde dehydrogenase (ADH; EC 1.2.1.3), glutathione S-transferase (GST; EC 2.5.1.18) and UDP-glucuronyltransferase (UDPGT). DTD was assayed as dicoumarol-inhibitable menadione reductase, dicoumarol-inhibitable dichlorophenolindophenol (DCPIP) reductase and resorufin reductase activities; and ADH as benzaldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) and propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PADH) activities. The responses varied considerably with enzyme, species and treatment. CYP1A-dependent 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity was markedly inducible, more so in BNF-treated O. mykiss (maximal 284-fold increase after 2 days) than the 3MC-treated species (maximal 24–30-fold). Modest increases (up to 2-fold) and/or inhibition were seen in UDPGT and GST activities. DTD activities increased about 2-fold after 8 to 15 days in BNF-treated O. mykiss, but were not elevated in the other species. Changes in dicoumarol-inhibitable DCPIP and menadione reductase activities were more similar than resorufin reductase activity. No marked increases were evident in BADH, PADH, superoxide dismutase (SOD; EC 1.15.1.1), catalase (EC 1.11.1.6) and glutathione peroxidase (GPX; EC 1.11.1.9) activities in any species. Overall, some co-induction of CYP1A and DTD, over different time-courses, was indicated for BNF-treated O. mykiss.
Diethylnitrosamine following partial hepatectomy followed by phenobarbital promotion was used to study changes in aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity during rat hepatocarcinogenesis. Over a period of 350 days, animals were killed at intervals and the ALDH phenotype of normal liver and any lesions was characterized by histochemical analysis, total activity assays and gel electrophoresis using propionaldehyde and NAD+ to detect normal liver ALDH activities, and benzaldehyde and NADP+ for tumor-associated ALDH. In contrast to previously tested protocols, no significant changes in ALDH activity were demonstrable by histochemistry or total activity assays in preneoplastic livers. However, nine of 16 (56%) of the hepatocellular carcinomas examined expressed the tumor-associated ALDH phenotype. The present results are integrated with previous observations as a hypothesis explaining the roles of initiation and promotion in expression of the tumor-associated aldehyde dehydrogenase phenotype.
The kinetic data of Rollefson and Faull for the iodine‐catalyzed decomposition of acetaldehyde are summarized, and the RF mechanism of the reaction is critically reviewed. A new mechanism for the iodine‐catalysis reaction is presented. Properties predicted from the new mechanism are compared with the observed reaction rates, reaction orders, and the unusual experimental behavior of the reactive system. Excellent agreement is found. The reaction is initiated by an iodine atom attack on acetaldehyde to abstract a hydrogen atom and produce hydrogen iodide and an acetyl radical. The rate‐determining step for the reaction is the decomposition of the acetyl radical, which is a unimolecular pressure‐dependent decomposition. The characteristic falloff of the rate of decomposition in the later stages of reaction is shown to be the result of this pressure dependence. The mechanism is also applied to the iodine‐catalyzed decomposition of propionaldehyde. Satisfactory agreement with observed reaction orders and react...
Abstract We developed a headspace solid-phase microextraction (headspace SPME) method to measure acrolein in human urine. This new technique resolves some problems with the headspace gas chromatography and mass spectrometry (GC–MS) method which we developed previously. With the original method, a column and a filament were damaged by the injection of air. A 0.5-ml urine (or phosphate-buffered saline) sample in a glass vial containing propionaldehyde as an internal standard was heated for 5 min. The SPME fiber (65 μm carbonwax–divinylbenzene fiber) was exposed to the headspace and then inserted into a GC–MS instrument in which a DB-WAX capillary column (30 m×0.32 mm, film thickness 0.5 μm) was installed. The total analysis time was 15 min. The inter-assay and intra-assay coefficients of variation were 10.07 and 5.79%, respectively. The calibration curve demonstrated good linearity throughout concentrations ranging from 1 to 10 000 n M . The headspace SPME method exhibits high sensitivity and requires a short analysis time as well as the previous method. We conclude that this method is useful to measure urinary acrolein.
The purification method was improved and ADH-1 from skipjack liver was purified and characterized. This enzyme was a tetramer with subunit molecular weight of 33 kDa and distinct from mammalian ADHs. This enzyme was a SH-enzyme that was inhibited by SH-blocking reagents and had a higher affinity for butanol and ethanol, but a lower affinity for hexanol and propionaldehyde. Km value of alcohols did not decrease with an increase in the chain length of alcohol as true in mammals. The isozymes were present in skipjack liver as well as mammals and grass carp. However, it was suggested that another type of enzyme may exist in skipjack liver from that in grass carp liver.
The microwave spectrum of (Z)-(propionaldehyde oxime) was observed in the frequency region of 10 to 30 GHz. The rotational constants (MHz) for the ground vibrational state were determined to be A=15453.95±0.20, B=2733.60±0.03, and C=2394.85±0.02. The conformation has been plausibly deduced to be the ap, Z-form from the rotational constants. The dipole moments were determined by the Stark effect: μa=0.889±0.010 and μb=0.364±0.025 D.
The oxidative degradation of white wines rapidly leads to a loss of their sensorial qualities. The identification of the most important descriptors related with oxidation-spoiled wine was performed by a trained sensory panel. The terms selected were “honey-like”, “farm-feed”, “hay”, and “woody-like”. By gas chromatography−olfactometry analysis three aromatic zones related to these descriptors in the oxidation-spoiled white wines could be determined. Comparison of the aroma extract dilution analysis aromagrams of oxidation-spoiled white wines and a nonspoiled wine showed the highest values of dilution factors were attributed to 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde, 1,1,6-trimethyl-1,2-dihydronaphthalene (TDN), and 4,5-dimethyl-3-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (sotolon). A “forced aging” experiment was implemented to simulate the typical oxidation-spoiled aroma. Samples rated with the highest score in the ranking test were also those that presented the highest concentration of these four molecules. To ...
Recombinant human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (rhIL-1RA) is an important cytokine in the treatment of inflammatory diseases. However, it is instable in aqueous solution and prone to degrade without the addition of any excipient. Following the 30- or 60-day storage in 50 mM sodium acetate (pH 5.0) at room temperature, rhIL-1RA markedly degraded into three species (denoted as P1, P2 and P3 in this study), the bioactivities of which to a different extent was lost (from 9.72 x 104 Ul/mg to 3.07 x 10(3) Ul/mg for P1, 5.49 x 10(3) Ul/mg for P2, 1.09 X 10(4) Ul/mg for P3, respectively). To solve this problem, we prepared the mono-PEGylated rhIL-IRA with propionaldehyde mPEG (ALD-PEG, M(w) 5000 Da). The conjugate showed more favorable stability than original protein, and remained homogeneous under the similar storage conditions. In addition, the activity of the conjugate was well retained (from 5.80 x 10(4) Ul/mg to 4.92 X 10(4) Ul/mg), compared to that of original protein. The results based on the combination analysis of CD, ion exchange chromatography and RP-HPLC, revealed that the stability improvement of rhIL-1RA majorly benefited from the PEG strands protection against the protein conformational changes occurred during the storage. (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The isomerization of propylene oxide was carried out on metal phosphate catalysts. The main products were allyl alcohol, propionaldehyde, acetone, and 1-propanol. It was found that allyl alcohol is produced by acid-base bifunctional catalysts, acetone, by basic-site catalysts only, and propionaldehyde, by acid-site catalysts. 1-Propanol may be produced by the hydrogen-transfer reaction of allyl alcohol. The conversion to propionaldehyde is proportional to the acidity of the catalyst, the strength of which is stronger than H0=+4.8. The sum of the conversions to allyl alcohol, acetone, and 1-propanol correlate linearly with the observed basicity (H0≥+7.2) of the catalyst. The selectivity and activity are determined by the basic and acidic properties of the catalyst. The mechanisms of the propylene oxide isomerization are also discussed.
Acrylic acid is an important industrial feedstock. In this study, a de novo acrylate biosynthetic pathway from inexpensive carbon source glycerol was constructed in Escherichia coli. The acrylic acid was produced from glycerol via 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, 3-hydroxypropionyl-CoA, and acrylyl-CoA. The acrylate production was improved by screening and site-directed mutagenesis of key enzyme enoyl-CoA hydratase and chromosomal integration of some exogenous genes. Finally, our recombinant strain produced 37.7 mg/L acrylic acid under shaking flask conditions. Although the acrylate production is low, our study shows feasibility of engineering an acrylate biosynthetic pathway from inexpensive carbon source. Furthermore, the reasons for limited acrylate production and further strain optimization that should be performed in the future were also discussed.
This work describes a novel approach for the analysis of selected aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acrolein) and acetone in environmental samples using micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC). The method is based on the reaction of carbonyl compounds with 3-methyl-2-benzothiazoline hydrazone (MBTH) that gives an azine intermediate with maximum absorbance at 216 nm. A systematic evaluation of sample dissolution medium was conducted as a means to enhancing sensitivity. In the best condition, samples were dissolved in 0.030 mol.L(-1) tetraborate solution. This condition presented enhancement factors in the range of 35-54 for the aldehydes under investigation, computed as the improvement of the concentration limits of detection (LODs) with reference to the sample dissolved in pure water. The running buffer was 0.020 mol.L(-1) tetraborate, pH 9.3, containing 0.050 mol.L(-1) sodium dodecyly sulfate (SDS). The overall methodology presented several advantages over established methods for aldehydes. Worthy mentioning that MBTH is available in high purity degree, dispensing laborious reagent purification procedures. A few method validation parameters were determined revealing good migration time repeatability (< 2.5% coefficient of variation, CV) and area repeatability (< 4% CV), excellent linearity (20-120 micro g/L, r > 0.995) and adequate sensitivity for environmental applications. The LODs with respect to each single aldehyde were in the range of 0.54-4.0 micro g.L(-1) and 11 micro g.L(-1) for acetone. The methodology was applied to the determination of aldehydes indoors. Samples were collected in an impinger flask containing 0.05% MBTH solution, at a flow rate of 0.80 L.min(-1), during 2.5 h, at different times during the day. The most abundant carbonyls in the samples were acetone, followed by formaldehyde and acetaldehyde, with estimate peak concentrations of 452, 5.2 and 2.2 ppbv, respectively.
The polarographic behavior and semi- and thiosemicarbazones of acetic, butyric, isobutyric, and isovaleric aldehydes and the thiosemicarbazone of propionaldehyde was studied.
Combining whole cell biocatalysis and chemocatalysis in a single reaction sequence avoids unnecessary separations, and the associated waste and energy consumption. Bacterial fermentation has been employed to convert waste glycerol from biodiesel production into 1,3-propanediol. This 1,3-propanediol can be extracted selectively from the aqueous fermentation broth using ionic liquids. 1,3-Propanediol in ionic liquid solution was converted to propionaldehyde by hydrogen transfer initiated dehydration (HTID) catalysed by a Cp*IrCl2(NHC) (Cp* = pentamethylcyclopentadienyl; NHC = carbene ligand) complex. The use of an ionic liquid solvent enabled the reaction to be performed under reduced pressure, facilitating the isolation of the product, and improving the reaction selectivity. The Ir(III) catalyst in ionic liquid was found to be highly recyclable.
Abstract : The vapour phase photolysis of acetone, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde and isobutyraldehyde has been investigated at very high light intensities. Analyses for all major products were made on samples which were exposed to unfiltered light in a cylindrical reaction vessel. In the present case 1800 joules were discharged in this apparatus, giving absorbed intensities of the order of 10 to the 25th power quanta/sec/litre with a flash period of 10 microsec. The stoichiometry of the products showed that all important constituents were measured. By using a very intense point-discharce, quantum yields for the formation of the main products were determined in parallel light. The samples absorbed light in the absorption band around 280 milliicrons. Flashes of 100,000 joules, which gave absorbed intensities of the order of 10 to the 23rd power quanta/sec/litre were used throughout. The product yields were determined by means of gas chromatography using a flame ionization detector or a high sensitivity thermal conductivity detector.
Based on previous studies which identified onion-produced oviposition stimulants for the onion maggot, Hylemya antiqua (Meigen), it was hypothesized that a common thiopropyl functional group was responsible for olfactory receptor stimulation. Experimental examination of this hypothesis revealed specifically the requirement of a single sulfur atom with 2 unshared electron pairs, bonded 10 a saturated hydrocarbon chain 3–5 carbons long. Associated groups compatable with the active structures ranged from a single hydrogen as in propanethiol, to saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbon chains 1–5 carbons long. Molecular moieties nullifying the oviposition inducing properties of the active structures were observed in propyl thiocyanate, dipropyl sulfoxide and propionaldehyde dipropylthioacetal. New oviposition stimulants identified on the basis of the initial and revised hypothesis are: dipropyl sulfide, cis - and trans -propenyl propyl sulfide, methyl propyl sulfide, dibutyl disulfide, methyl butyl disulfide, dipentyl disulfide, dipropyl trisulfide, 2-butyl propyl sulfide and butanethiol.
Following a random mass screening, Urwyler et al. 1 recently reported that 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-2,2-dimethylpropionaldehyde, CGP 13501, (1) acted as a positive allosteric modulator for GABA B receptors, 2, 3 and its reduction product, the corresponding alcohol CGP 7930 (2) was found to be even more potent. Because of our interest in such modulators, 2, 4, 5 we speculated that the latter could be regarded as a hybrid of propofol (3) and hydroxybutyric acid (GHB, 4). Propofol 6,7 is a shortacting hypnotic agent (GABA A modulator), effective for induction and maintenance of anaesthesia when administered intravenously either as repeated bolus injections or by continuous infusion. GHB is best known as a drug of abuse, 8 and is a GABA analogue. Accordingly, we have recently synthesized a series of compounds modifying the structure 2, all of which acted as positive modulators at GABA B receptors. 9 The most active was the cyclohexyl analogue (5) , which was 2 to 3 times as active as the lead compound (2) . Our working hypothesis for the lead compound (2) is that it acts through the 3-hydroxyphenylpropyl moiety, with the hydroxyphenyl group corresponding to the carboxyl group of GHB, in addition to providing hydrophobic properties that would facilitate transport across cell membranes. Since our previous work 9 was concerned mainly with an examination of the effect of changing the hydrophobicity and steric bulk near the hydroxyl end of the molecule, we now report the preparation of some variants at the phenolic portion of the molecule; at this stage little is known of the pharmacokinetics of these compounds, and their therapeutic potential is uncertain. The basic synthetic approach continues to be basically that of Urweyler et al.
The reaction of hydrogen peroxide and certain aromatic aldehydes with cytochrome P450 BM3 -F87G results in the covalent modification of the heme cofactor of this monooxygenase. Analysis of the resulting heme by electronic absorption spectrophotometry indicates that the reaction in the BM3 isoform is analogous to that in P450 2B4 , which apparently occurs via a peroxyhemiacetal intermediate [Kuo et al., Biochemistry, 38 (1999) 10511]. It was observed that replacement of the Phe-87 in the P450 BM3 by the smaller glycyl residue was essential for the modification to proceed, as the wild-type enzyme showed no spectral changes under identical conditions. The kinetics of this reaction were examined by stopped-flow spectrophotometry with 3-phenylpropionaldehyde and 3-phenylbutyraldehyde as reactants. In each case, the process of heme modification was biphasic, with initial bleaching of the Soret absorbance, followed by an increase in absorbance centered at 430 nm, consistent with meso-heme adduct formation. The intermediate formed during phase I also showed an increased absorbance between 700 and 900 nm, relative to the native heme and the final product. Phase I showed a linear dependence on peroxide concentration, whereas saturation kinetics were observed for phase II. All of these observations are consistent with a mechanism involving radical attack at the γ-meso position of the heme cofactor, resulting in the intermediate formation of an isoporphyrin, the deprotonation of which produces the γ-meso-alkyl heme derivative.
The present work started with observations that pyridoxal and pyridoxal phosphate slightly accelerated the uptake of oxygen by pea-seedling extracts; when Mn2+ ions were also added, oxygen was taken up rapidly. The increases in total oxygen uptake were proportional to the amounts of pyridoxal or pyridoxal phosphate added and were accompanied by the disappearance of these compounds. showed that sap from many plants, including pea seedlings, oxidizes phenylacetaldehyde. He found that the oxidizing system in peaseedling sap consisted of a thermolabile factor, apparently a peroxidase, and a thermostable factor that could be partially replaced by Mn2+ ions. A system with similarpropertiesto that inpea-seedling sap was constructed with horse-radish peroxidase and Mn2+ ions. With either system, benzaldehyde and formic acid were formed. The only other aldehydes oxidized by the system were 1-naphthylacetaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde; formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, glyoxal, n-butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, cinnamaldehyde and phenylpropionaldehyde were not oxidized. Pyridoxal and pyridoxal phosphate were not tested.
The purification method was improved and ADH-1 from skipjack liver was purified and characterized. This enzyme was a tetramer with subunit molecular weight of 33 kDa and distinct from mammalian ADHs. This enzyme was a SH-enzyme that was inhibited by SH-blocking reagents and had a higher affinity for butanol and ethanol, but a lower affinity for hexanol and propionaldehyde. K m value of alcohols did not decrease with an increase in the chain length of alcohol as true in mammals. The isozymes were present in skipjack liver as well as mammals and grass carp. However, it was suggested that another type of enzyme may exist in skipjack liver from that in grass carp liver.
Vitamin B 12 is a cofactor of the glycerol dehydratase (Martens et al., 2002) , which converts glycerol to 3-hyrdoxypropionaldehyde (3HPA), a precursor of 3HP-CoA (Wang et al., 2013) , to produce 1,3-propanediol (1,3PD). However, only few bacteria are capable of synthesizing vitamin B 12 (Sun et al., 2003) . To solve this problem, we used the enteric bacterium Shimwellia blattae ATCC33430 (Burgess et al., 1973; Priest and Barker, 2010) which cannot naturally produce PHA but synthesizes vitamin B 12 (Andres et al., 2004) and converts glycerol to 1,3PD.
Abstract Acrylic acid is an important industrial feedstock. In this study, a de novo acrylate biosynthetic pathway from inexpensive carbon source glycerol was constructed in Escherichia coli. The acrylic acid was produced from glycerol via 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, 3-hydroxypropionyl-CoA, and acrylyl-CoA. The acrylate production was improved by screening and site-directed mutagenesis of key enzyme enoylCoA hydratase and chromosomal integration of some exogenous genes. Finally, our recombinant strain produced 37.7 mg/ L acrylic acid under shaking flask conditions. Although the acrylate production is low, our study shows feasibility of engineering an acrylate biosynthetic pathway from inexpensive carbon source. Furthermore, the reasons for limited acrylate production and further strain optimization that should be performed in the future were also discussed.
The purpose of this study was to analyse the major compound in the leaf essential oil of Cinnamomum osmophloeum Kaneh. and to examine its in vivo toxicity and cytokine-modulatory effects. The HS-GC/MS and quantitative HPLC analyses showed the concentrations of the major compounds, cinnamaldehyde, benzaldehyde and 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, in the leaf essential oil of Cinnamomum osmophloeum to be 16.88, 1.28 and 1.70 mg/mL, respectively. Acute and sub-acute toxicity tests identified no significant changes in body weight, liver and kidney function indices, and pathology for the mice treated with up to 1 mL/kg body weight of Cinnamomum osmophloeum leaf essential oil or up to 4 mg/kg body weight of cinnamaldehyde. A murine model was established using ovalbumin (OVA)-primed Balb/C mice treated with various concentrations of Cinnamomum osmophloeum leaf essential oil or cinnamaldehyde daily for 4 weeks. The results of tests with commercial ELISA kits indicated no significant cytokine-modulatory effects in mice treated with Cinnamomum osmophloeum leaf essential oil; however, the serum concentrations of IL-2, IL-4 and IL-10, but not IFN-γ, significantly increased in animals treated with 1 mg/kg body weight of cinnamaldehyde during the 4-week period. The possibility that the other constituents act as antagonists of cinnamaldehyde cannot be excluded.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) can be biologically produced from glycerol by two consecutive enzymatic reactions, dehydration of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) and oxidation of 3-HPA. The pathway has been proved efficient, but imbalance between the rates of the two enzymatic reactions often results in the accumulation of the toxic 3-HPA, which severely reduces cell viability and 3-HP production. In this study, we used UTR engineering to maximally increase the activities of glycerol dehydratase (GDHt) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) for the high conversion of glycerol to 3-HP. Thereafter, the activity of GDHt was precisely controlled to avoid the accumulation of 3-HPA by varying expression of dhaB1, a gene encoding a main subunit of GDHt. The optimally balanced E. coli HGL_DBK4 showed a substantially enhanced 3-HP titer and productivity compared with the parental strain. The yield on glycerol, 0.97 g 3-HP/g glycerol, in a fed-batch experiment, was the highest ever reported.
The kinetics of the oxidation of 1-propanol, one of the major components of the gaseous waste products in the manufacture of synthetic fatty acids, were studied in the gas phase to establish a kinetic model for the reaction and to design an air purification reactor. AP-65 aluminum-platinum catalyst was used in a flow-circulation system. The oxidation of 1-propanol is seen as a heterogeneous reaction with three reaction pathways: 1) the formation of a hypothetical surface compound (C/sub 3/H/sub 7/OH)0 obtained by the reaction of 1-propanol with a surface layer of O/sub 2/ on the catalyst and then the parallel slow decomposition of this product to propionaldehyde; 2) the intense oxidation of 1-propanol leads to the formation of CO/sub 2/ and H/sub 2/O; and 3) with increasing temperature, the contributions of propionaldehyde to the formation of the intense oxidation products CO/sub 2/ and H/sub 2/O increases.
Abstract The substrate specificity of adenosylcobalamin-dependent diol dehydrase was further studied in detail using an enzyme preparation that appears homogeneous by ultracentrifugal and gel electrophoretical criteria. Besides 1,2-propanediol and 1,2-ethanediol, glycerol, 1,2- and 2,3-butanediol were found to serve as substrate for the enzyme, whereas 1,3-propanediol was not. Of the substrate analogs tested, glycerol displayed some striking features: it was dehydrated to β-hydroxypropionaldehyde with concomitant inactivation of the enzyme. Although the initial velocity with glycerol was comparable to that with 1,2-propanediol, the dehydration reaction ceased almost completely within 3 min accompanying rapid, irreversible inactivation of the holoenzyme. 1,2- and 2,3-Butanediol were converted to butyraldehyde and methyl ethyl ketone, respectively, at a rate much lower than that with 1,2-propanediol. 2,3-Butanediol is the only compound, other than 1,2-diols, known at present to show a considerable substrate activity.
A rapid and sensitive headspace gas chromatographic and mass spectrometric (GC-MS) method was developed for the determination of acrolein in human urine. A 0.5-ml urine sample in a glass vial containing propionaldehyde as an internal standard was heated at 80 degrees C for 5 min. A 0.1-ml volume of headspace vapor was injected into a GC-MS instrument. Acrolein and propionaldehyde were coeluted at 3.1 min using a DB-1 capillary column, and well separated by selective ion monitoring (SIM) mode using ions m/z 56.05 and m/z 58.05. The interassay and intraassay coefficient of variation were 0.99% and 3.3%. The calibration curve demonstrated a good linearity throughout concentrations ranging from 1 to 1000 nM. However, due to a wide variation of acrolein evaporation rates from human urine, a calibration curve must be established for each urine specimen using a standard addition method and detection limit varied from 1 to 5 nM. The total analysis time for two samples from one urine specimen required about 15 min. Therefore, this method is convenient for the urgent monitoring of urinary acrolein in patients to whom alkylating agents are administered.
Abstract This paper reports the density, refraction index, and (vapor + liquid) equilibria (VLE) for binary systems {aldehyde + 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium ethylsulfate ([emim][EtSO4])}: {propionaldehyde + [emim][EtSO4]} and {valeraldehyde + [emim][EtSO4]}. The uncertainties for the temperature, pressure, and compositions measurements for the phase equilibria are ±0.1 K, ±0.01 kPa and ±0.0004, respectively. A qualitative analysis of the variation of the properties with changes in solvent and temperature was performed. The Peng–Robinson equation of state (PR EoS), coupled with the Wong–Sandler mixing rule (WS), is used to describe the experimental data. To calculate activity coefficients we used three different models: NRTL, UNIQUAC, and COSMO-SAC. Since the predictive liquid activity coefficient model COSMO-SAC is used in the Wong–Sandler mixing rule, the resulting thermodynamic model is a completely predictive one. The prediction results for the density and for the (vapor + liquid) equilibria have a deviation lower than 2.3% and 1.6%, respectively. The (vapor + liquid) equilibria predictions show a good description for the propionaldehyde system and only a qualitative description for the valeraldehyde system.
Vanadium (V) only possesses oxidising properties in acid solutions. The main species present in these conditions is that cation VO 2 + , but this is protonated to a small extent to give the more powerfully oxidising species V(OH) 2 3 + . Previous work in this laboratory has shown that vanadium (V) is a one-electron oxidising agent and is reduced by organic compounds to vanadium (IV) only. No vanadium (III) has yet been detected in any of these oxidation reactions while the presence of free radicals, which are usually associated with one-electron oxidations, has been demonstrated in many vanadium (V) oxidations of organic compounds. To extend the knowledge of these oxidations a number of alcohols, α-hydroxy acids, acyloins and aldehydes, and also pinacol and oxalic acid have been oxidised by acid solutions of vanadium (V). The products of these oxidations have been investigated and in many cases a detailed investigation of the kinetics of the reactions has been made. 1. α-t-Butyl=benzyl alcohol PhCHOH.C(CH 3 ) 3 was shown to be oxidised initially to benzaldehyde with direct carbon-carbon bond fission. The yield of pivalophenone Ph CO.C(CH 3 ) 3 , which is not oxidised under the conditions used, was only about 10-15%. This direct carbon-carbon bond fission has been noted previously in the oxidation of various secondary alcohols with chromium (VI) and manganese (VII), but in general the yield of fission products is much smaller with these reagents. The following mechanism is proposed for the fission reaction in the vanadium (V) oxidation. [For the diagram omitted here, please consult the PDF.] 2. 2-Phenyl=ethyl alcohol was also found to be oxidised by vanadium (V) with carbon-carbon bond fission. Benzaldehyde was the main product of the reaction. Phenyl=acetic acid, which is not oxidised by vanadium (V) was not found in the reaction products. 3. The oxidations of the α-hydroxy acids lactic acid, malic acid, mandelic acid and α-hydroxy iso-butyric acid, and also of pinacol, were found to follow the rate equation -d[V V ] ⁄ dt = k[V V ][Substrate](1 + a h 0 ) where a is a constant and h 0 is the Hammett acidity function. The acid independent reaction must be due to VO 2 + while the acid dependent reaction must be due to V(OH) 2 3 + . The above expression contrasts with that obtained for the oxidation of pinacol monomethyl ether:- -d[V V ] ⁄ dt = k[V V ][ether](H + ) This has no acid independent term and is the same as the expression obtained for the oxidation of cyclohexanol. Apparently pinacol monomethyl ether is oxidised as an alcohol:- [For the diagram omitted here, please consult the PDF.] The mechanism of oxidation of the hydroxy acids is postulated to be [For the diagram omitted here, please consult the PDF.] and for pinacol [For the diagram omitted here, please consult the PDF.] Complex I contains a molecule of water which is not present in II or III and this fact has been used to explain the difference in the observed acidity dependences of the two reactions. The products of the oxidations were shown to be lactic acid → acetaldehyde + carbon dioxide malic acid → acetaldehyde + carbon dioxide mandolic acid → benzaldehyde + carbon dioxide α-hydroxy iso-butyric acid → acetone + carbon dioxide pinacol → Acetone These products are consistent with the above mechanisms. 4. In two respects the oxidation of oxalic acid is unique among vanadium (V) oxidations which have been investigated so far; firstly oxidation can occur in the complete absence of mineral acid; secondly at acid concentrations above 3.5 M, the addition of mineral acid decreases the rate of oxidation. The kinetics of the oxidation were found to be somewhat complex and have been interpreted by postulating that a series of complexes is formed between the reactants. It was shown that a complex of formula (H 2 C 2 O 4 ) 2 . V V is formed in the absence of mineral acid. The main reaction at low acidities is probably assisted by the formation of a cyclic chelate structure [For the diagram omitted here, please consult the PDF.] 5. Acetoin was found to be oxidised by vanadium according to the rate equation -d[V V ] ⁄ dt = k[Acetoin][V V ].h 0 but the oxidation of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl 2-butanone (methyl acetoin) was found to have the rate equation -d[V V ] ⁄ dt = k[Methyl acetoin][V V ].(1 + ah 0 ) Methyl acetoin must therefore be oxidised in a similar manner to the hydroxy acids giving acetone and acetic acid as products. [For the diagram omitted here, please consult the PDF.] Acetoin was found to be oxidised to diacetyl initially. In order to account accurately for the observed oxidation kinetics it has been necessary to postulate a vanadium (V) complex containing acetoin as a tridentate ligand. The following mechanism is suggested for the oxidation, [For the diagram omitted here, please consult the PDF.] and in the discussion it is explained that this mechanism is equivalent to an oxidation of acetoin both as a ketone and as an alcohol. 6. Three aldehydes, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehye and iso-butyraldehyde were oxidised by vanadium (V) and were found to undergo carbon-carbon bond fission rather than to be oxidised to the corresponding carboxylic acids. CH 3 CH 2 CHO → 4 V V CH 3 CHO + HCOOH CH 3 CH 3 CH 2 CHO → 3 V V CH 3 CHO + 2 HCOOH (CH 3 ) 2 CH CHO → 4 V V (CH 3 ) 2 CO + HCOOH The kinetics of the iso-butyraldehyde oxidation followed the rate equation -d[V V ] ⁄ dt = k[aldehyde][H + ] The rate of oxidation was independent of the concentration of oxidising agent and was equal to the rate of enolisation of the aldehyde. The aldehyde is therefore oxidised in its enolic form. For propionaldehyde and n-butyraldehyde the rate equation was found to be -d[V V ] ⁄ dt = k[V V ][aldehyde][H + ] at low acid concentrations, but the rate increased more rapidly at high acid concentrations than this equation would indicate. The rate of enolisation of these two aldehydes was found to be faster than the rate of oxidation and although the reaction kinetics are consistent with a reaction of the aldehyde in its enolic form, they cannot confirm this definitely. Various possible mechanisms for the reaction have been discussed.
We performed systematic temperature and concentration dependent measurements of the Soret coefficient in different associated binary mixtures of water, deuterated water, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), methanol, ethanol, acetone, methanol, 1-propanol, 2-propanol, and propionaldehyde using the so-called thermal diffusion forced Rayleigh scattering method. For some of the associating binary mixtures such as ethanol/water, acetone/water, and DMSO/water, the concentration xw± at which the Soret coefficient changes its sign does not depend on temperature and is equal to the concentration xw× where the Soret coefficient isotherms intersect. For others such as 1-propanol/water, 2-propanol/water, and ethanol/DMSO, the sign change concentration is temperature dependent, which is the typical behavior observed for nonassociating mixtures. For systems with xw±=xw×, we found that xw± depends linearly on the ratio of the vaporization enthalpies of the pure components. Probably due to the similarity of methanol and DMSO, we ...
Abstract A “one-pot” process for the preparation of a carotenoid synthon (4) has been developed that involves methoxide-promoted condensation of propionaldehyde with methyl formate, followed by exclusive o-alkylation of the resultant stabilized enolate (6).
Abstract The developing brain is extremely sensitive to the neurotoxicity of ethanol; however, the mechanism(s) of its developmental neurotoxicity are still elusive. In the developing rat brain, ethanol exerts an age-, brain region-, and receptor-specific inhibitory effect on muscarinic receptor-stimulated phosphoinositide metabolism, which may be linked to some of the neurotoxic effects of ethanol found in children with fetal alcohol syndrome. Since some studies have suggested that the ethanol metabolite acetaldehyde may mediate, at least in part, the developmental effects of ethanol, in the present study we have examined whether acetaldehyde would inhibit carbachol-stimulated phosphoinositide metabolism in brain slices from immature rats. We also tested propionaldehyde, the corresponding aldehyde of n -propanol, another alcohol shown to cause microencephaly and to affect phosphoinositide metabolism in the developing rat. Neither acetaldehyde nor propionaldehyde, at concentrations up to 1 mM, had any inhibitory effect on this system, while the two alcohols did, as previously reported. These results suggest that ethanol itself may be the primary agent responsible for its developmental neurotoxicity.
Abstract When dl -1,2-propanediol is converted to propionaldehyde by dioldehydrase, an enzyme which requires B 12 -coenzyme, the product is unhydrated propionaldehyde. Its formation was demonstrated by measuring the rate of reduction of the enzymically formed aldehyde by NADH, catalyzed by yeast alcohol dehydrogenase.
The hydrogenation of propionaldehyde with various nickel catalysts was studied kinetically for a wide range of reaction conditions. The catalysts were supported on Al2O3, SiO2, TiO2, Ta2O5, and Nb2O5. The reaction rates were well correlated with the irreversibly adsorbed hydrogen uptakes. A detailed analysis concluded that this reaction was structure-insensitive under all reaction conditions tested.
The long-term administration of acyclovir (ACV) for therapy against herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infections can result in the emergence of ACV-resistant HSV strains. It is therefore urgent to develop new anti-herpetic compounds with mechanisms that differ from that of ACV. Cyanovirin-N (CV-N) is an antiviral agent that has an inhibitory effect on HSV-1 infections, and PEGylation of CV-N is potentially useful for pharmaceutical applications. Here, a (Gly4Ser)3 linker molecule was attached to the N-terminus of CV-N, and the resulting compound, linker-CV-N (LCV-N), was produced on a pilot scale with purity up to 95%. Then, PEG10k-LCV-N was synthesized by modifying at the α-amine group of the N-terminus of LCV-N with 10-kDa polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD). CV-N, LCV-N and PEG10k-LCV-N were all found to have potent inhibitory activity against ACV-resistant HSV strains with IC50 values in the nM range. LCV-N was the most potent of these three compounds against both normal and ACV-resistant HSV strains. Although PEG10k-LCV-N showed less antiviral activity than CV-N and LCV-N, it still exhibited significant and universal virucidal activity against drug-resistant viruses. The toxicity and immunogenicity of PEG10k-LCV-N were dramatically lower than those of CV-N and LCV-N. In conclusion, we suggest that LCV-N and PEG10k-LCV-N are promising and safe microbicides for the control and/or treatment of ACV-resistant HSV infection.
Abstract Utilizing fructose diphosphate aldolase and glucose isomerase as catalysts, 3-, 5, and 6-deoxy- and 6-0-methylhexoses have been synthesized from dihydroxyacetone phosphate or acetol phosphate and the corresponding hydroxypropionaldehydes.
1. The inducibility of hepatic cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase activity was studied in rat, mouse, guinea pig, chicken, frog, salamander and rainbow trout, by using two different types of inducers of drug metabolism. 2. Phenobarbital (a type I inducer of drug metabolizing enzymes) increased total liver cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase activity (up to 20-fold) in a genetically defined substrain of responsive rats (RR) and only slightly, if at all, in a non-responsive substrain (rr). On the contrary, both types of rats showed a highly induced aldehyde dehydrogenase activity after treatment with methylcholanthrene (a type II inducer). Phenobarbital is affecting mainly an isozyme of aldehyde dehydrogenase which is best measured with propionaldehyde as the substrate and NAD as the coenzyme (P/NAD). 3. Administration of phenobarbital to mice produced only a slight increase (2-fold) in the P/NAD aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. 4. Methylcholanthrene treatment caused a 2-fold increase of the hepatic P/NAD aldehyde dehydrogenase activity in the chicken. 5. In the guinea pig, phenobarbital produced an approximate 3-fold increase of the P/NAD activity. Methylcholanthrene had a similar effect, although to a lesser extent. 6. In the salamander, a 4-fold increase was detected in the enzyme activity measured with benzaldehyde as the substrate and NADP as the coenzyme (B/NADP), after treatment with either phenobarbital or methylcholanthrene. 7. The hepatic aldehyde dehydrogenase activities were found unchanged in the rainbow trout, after treatment with phenobarbital or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin. 8. The rat model remains the only one examined that shares with human hepatocytes strong inducibility of the B/NADP aldehyde dehydrogenase isozyme upon treatment with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
Regulations on e-cigarettes in the U.S. do not provide guidelines on the chemical content of e-cigarette liquids. We evaluated emissions of aldehydes and flavoring chemicals in e-cigarette vapor under typical usage conditions. We selected 24 e-cigarette flavors from the top selling disposable e-cigarette brands. E-cigarettes were connected to a pump drawing air for two second puffs with sixty-second intervals between puffs. The vapor was analyzed for the presence of aldehydes using high-performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet detector and for the presence of flavoring chemicals with gas chromatography and an electron capture detector. All e-cigarette emissions tested contained at least one aldehyde and/or flavoring chemical on either the FEMA "High Priority Chemicals" or FDA Harmful and Potentially Harmful Constituents lists when sampled at typical usage conditions. Diacetyl, a known respiratory hazard, along with acetoin, were the most prevalent of the flavoring chemicals in e-cigarette vapor, being found in more than 60% of samples. The presence of propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde and formaldehyde were correlated, corroborating previous work suggesting thermal degradation as a pathway for aldehyde generation in e-cigarette vapors. Median formaldehyde concentrations of 626 μg/m3 in e-cigarette vapor exceed the ACGIH maximum concentrations allowable for workers of 370 μg/m3.
Alumina for chromatography (acidic, basic and neutral), magnesia and sodium-doped magnesia calcined at 350, 450, 550, 650 and 750oC for 4 h were used as solid bases to catalyze the synthesis of 1-nitro-2-butanol from nitromethane and propionaldehyde (Henry reaction).
Through the preparation of a novel controlled pore glass-poly(pyrrole) material we have developed a conducting support that is not only suitable for the co-immobilisation of enzymes and co-factors, but also enables the facile electrochemical regeneration of the co-factor during a reaction. Employing the selective reduction of (rac)-2-phenylpropionaldehyde to (S)-phenyl-1-propanol as a model, we have demonstrated the successful co-immobilisation of the HLADH enzyme and co-factor NAD(H); with incorporation of the material into a continuous flow reactor facilitating the in situ electrochemical regeneration of NAD(H) for in excess of 100 h. Using this approach we have developed a reagent-less, atom efficient system applicable to the cost-effective, continuous biosynthesis of chiral compounds.
When cells of Klebsiella pneumoniae NRRL B-199 (ATCC 8724) were grown aerobically on a rich glycerol medium and then suspended in buffer supplemented with semicarbazide and glycerol, aerobic conversion of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) ensued. Depending on conditions, 0.38 to 0.67 g of 3-HPA were formed per gram of glycerol consumed. This means that up to 83.8% of the carbon invested as glycerol could potentially be recovered as the target product, 3-HPA. Production of 3-HPA was sensitive to the age of cells harvested for resuspension and was nonexistent if cells were cultivated on glucose instead of glycerol as the sole carbon source. Compared with 24- and 72-h cells, 48-h cells produced 3-HPA at the highest rate and with the greatest yield. The cell biomass concentration present during the fermentation was never particularly critical to the 3-HPA yield, but initial fermentation rates and 3-HPA accumulation displayed a linear dependence on biomass concentration that faded when biomass exceeded 3 g/liter. Fermentation performance was a function of temperature, and an optimum initial specific 3-HPA productivity occurred at 32 degrees C, although the overall 3-HPA yield increased continuously within the 25 to 37 degrees C range studied. The pH optimum based on fermentation rate was different from that based on overall yield; 8 versus 7, respectively. Initial glycerol concentrations in the 20 to 50 g/liter range optimized initial 3-HPA productivity and yield.
Abstract The activities of the most important aldehyde oxidizing enzymes, the aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH), were detected histochemically in liver cryosections of dab (Limanda limanda L.) caught at differently polluted stations along the North Sea coast. In parallel, glucose-6-phospate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) as an NADPH-generating enzyme was measured. Increased activities of both enzymes localized putatively preneoplastic hepatocytes (foci), but ALDH in combination with propionaldehyde and NAD marked 50% more foci than G6PDH alone. Nevertheless, at the more contaminated stations with highest prevalences of foci, ALDH activities showed a shift in substrate and coenzyme dependence from propionaldehyde and NAD to benzaldehyde and NADP in altered hepatocytes, a possible result of physiological adaption to the toxic environment. Increased G6PDH activities in focal hepatocytes indicated elevated NADPH production in contrast to the injured extrafocal liver parenchyma showing reduced G6PDH activities compared to normal livers. Using the ALDH inhibitor disulfiram, the existence of a specific tumor-associated isozyme previously found in rats could not be clearly demonstrated in early enzyme-altered hepatocellular foci of dab. However, based on the total inhibition of Bz-NADP-dependent ALDH, the presence of a xenobiotic-induced ALDH isozyme can be anticipated.
Volatile compounds from three types of yeast extract(YE) were extracted by solid phase microextract(SP-ME),analyzed by GC-O-MS and key aroma compounds in YE was identified by aroma extract dilution analysis(AEDA).Totally,48 kinds of aroma compounds were separated and identified,which included ketones,aldehyde,acids,alcohols,furans,pyrazine,thiazole and tepenes.Flavor dilution factor(FD) of key aroma compounds including 3-methyl-butanal(chocolate),2-methyl5-methylthiofuran(meat) and 3-(methylthio) propionaldehyde(cooked potato) were 125,thus these aroma compounds made a significant contribution to the overall flavor characteristics of YE.
Homogenates of salmon (A, B) and of cod (C, D) were stored at −60 °C (A, C) and at −13 °C (B, D). After boiling, A and C exhibited the mild flavor of the fresh fish, whereas B smelled fatty and train-oily and D showed a malty odor defect. The potent odorants of the four samples were screened by dilution experiments and then quantified by stable isotope dilution assays. Calculation of odor activity values (ratio of concentration to odor threshold) revealed (Z)-1,5-octadien-3-one (I), (E,Z)-2,6-nonadienal (II), propionaldehyde (III), acetaldehyde (IV), and methional (V) as the character impact odorants of A as well as I, II, IV, V, and (E,E)-2,4-decadienal as those of C. The off-flavors, which were formed when the raw material was stored at the higher temperature, were mainly caused by an increase of II, (Z)-3-hexenal, and (Z,Z)-3,6-nonadienal in B and of 3-methylbutanal in D. Keywords: Fish; cod; salmon; odor; off-flavor; lipid peroxidation; determination; AEDA
Glycerol has been identied as an important biomass-derived feedstock to a variety of commodity chemicals. 10, 11 It is readily available as a byproduct of the oleochemical industry and enjoys wide application as moisturizer in cosmetic products. Increasing biodiesel productions in recent times has brought about an oversupply of glycerol for its traditional applications. 12, 13 Hence, there are efforts at channeling the oversupply of glycerol towards serving as feedstock to valuable C 3 chemicals. Examples of derivable high value C 3 chemicals from glycerol include: propylene glycols, hydroxyacids, and diacid. [14] [15] [16] Among the possible glycerol derivable C 3 chemicals, 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) is of special interest because it is a bulk chemical that has wide applications in polymers, lubricants, cosmetics, foods and in the synthesis of heterocyclic compounds. 17 The traditional routes of commercial synthesis of 1,3-PD use acrolein (DuPont) and ethylene oxide (Shell) as starting feedstock. The DuPont route involves hydration of acrolein to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), followed by hydrogenation of 3-HPA to produce 1,3-PD. While shells route involves hydroformylation of ethylene oxide to 3-hydroxypropanal and subsequent hydrogenation to 1,3-PD. 18 These traditional commercial routes to 1,3-PD depend exclusively on petroleum-derived feedstocks. DuPont and Tate & Lyle developed and commercialized a glucose-based process route to 1,3-PD. The process involves fermentation of corn syrup using genetically modied e. coli with addition of vitamin B 12 . This bioconversion route to 1,3-PD is reported to consume 40% less energy than the traditional petroleum-based route. However, the need for vitamin B 12 addition has an impact on the economics of the glucosebased process route to 1,3-PD. 19 Moreover, this bio-process route to 1,3-PD involved glycerol as an intermediate, which further motivates interest in glycerol to 1,3-PD considering oversupply of glycerol from biodiesel production.
We performed systematic temperature and concentration dependent measurements of the Soret coefficient in different associated binary mixtures of water, deuterated water, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), methanol, ethanol, acetone, methanol, 1-propanol, 2-propanol, propionaldehyde using the so called thermal diffusion forced Rayleigh scattering method. For some of the associating binary mixtures such as ethanol/water, acetone/water and DMSO/water the concentration x ± w at which the Soret coefficient changes its sign does not depend on temperature and is equal to the concentration x × w where the Soret coefficient isotherms intersect. While for others such as 1-propanol/water, 2-propanol/water and ethanol/DMSO the sign change concentration is temperature dependent, which is the typical behavior observed for non-associating mixtures. For systems with x ± w = x × w we found that x ± w depends linearly on the ratio of the vaporization enthalpies of the pure components. Probably due to the similarity of methanol and DMSO we do not observe a sign change for this mixture. The obtained results are related to structural changes in the fluid observed by nuclear magnetic resonance, mass specrometric and X-ray experiments in the literature. Furthermore we discuss the influence of hydrophilic and hydrophobic interactions and the solubility on thermal diffusion behavior.
Polyamine oxidases (PAOs) have been found in most mammalian tissues (15, 24) . Studies in the past have concentrated mainly on PAOs from two sources, bovine serum and rat liver (13-15). PAO from bovine serum acts on the primary amino groups of spermine to form an aminodialdehyde, while rat liver PAO cleaves spermine at secondary amino groups, with the formation of spermidine and 3-aminopropionaldehyde (13; Fig. 1 ). In both reactions, hydrogen peroxide (H202) is formed. Preliminary studies have also been conducted with macrophage and human pregnancy serum PAOs. These resemble the rat liver enzyme (14, 15, 18; Fig. 1) .
More recent pegylation chemistries reduce heterogeneity by more precisely targeting the N-terminal amino group for modification. Ultimately, an mPEG-propionaldehyde reductive alkylation process 26 was used to attach a 20-kDa linear PEG to the N-terminal methionine of the recombinant protein.
Dye-linked formaldehyde dehydrogenase (I) was partially purified (11-fold) from MeOH- and EtOH-grown Hyphomicrobium X. Through not homogeneous, it did not contain MeOH dehydrogenase, formate dehydrogenase, or cytochrome c. Methylphenazonium methylsulfate (II), cytochrome c, Wurster's Blue, dichlorophenolindophenol (III), and methylphenazonium ethosulfate could act as primary electron acceptors with apparent Km values for the first 3 substances of 0.69, 128, and 3.07 mM, resp. The activity of partially purified I could be maintained over 3 mo at -20 Deg in the presence of EtOH (10%). The mol. wt. of I was 83,500 and it was active from pH 6.5 to 9.0 with max. activity at pH 7.2 using cytochrome c as electron acceptor and at pH 7.6 when II and III were used. The Km values for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and heptaldehyde as substrates were 2860, 270, 13, and 2.5 mM, resp. I is probably a general aldehyde dehydrogenase not directly involved in the dissimilation of C-1 compds. [on SciFinder (R)]
The ALDH2 gene encodes the mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2), a critical enzyme involved in ethanol clearance through acetaldehyde metabolism. ALDH2 also catalyzes the metabolism of other bioreactive aldehydes, including propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and 4-hydroxykenals (4-HNE). Increased levels of 4-HNE in adipose tissue positively correlate with obesity and insulin resistance. However, it remains unclear whether ALDH2 is involved in regulation of adipocyte differentiation. Here, we found that ALDH2 protein levels were lower in white adipose tissue of high-fat diet-fed mice and ob/ob mice relative to lean mice. Knockdown of ALDH2 expression in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes caused an increase in intracellular 4-HNE, thereby attenuated adipocyte differentiation. By contrast, an ALDH2 activator, Alda-1, significantly accelerated adipogenesis, which was accompanied by an increase in adipogenic gene expression. Consistently, adipogenesis was reduced when protein kinase C ε (PKCε), an ALDH2 phosphorylating activator, was silenced in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, whereas treatment with a PKCε agonist in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes enhanced adipogenesis. Whole-genome microarray profiling of Alda-1-treated cells demonstrated several upregulated transcripts encoding proteins involved in metabolism and the majority of these transcripts are for proteins involved in PPAR signaling pathways. Furthermore, PKCε-ALDH2 interaction alleviates 4-HNE induced aberrant PPARγ regulation on adipogenesis. Taken together, these results demonstrate that ALDH2 activation enhances adipogenesis and signaling pathways involving PPARγ. Thus, activation of PKCε-ALDH2 regulatory axis may be a therapeutic target for treating obesity and type 2 diabetes.
The paper describes some reaction engineering fundamentals of the separation of organic air pollutants (volatile organic compounds) from waste gases using fixed-bacteria monocultures (biocatalysts) in a trickle-bed reactor. In particular the influence of pollutant concentration and oxygen concentration are investigated. The separation efficiency of certain substances such as acetone and isopropanol depends strongly on the oxygen concentration. The results obtained can be described by a mathematical model based on the diffusion of oxygen into the biofilm (diffusion regime of the catalyst). The non-stationary operation of the reactor – interruption of the oxygen stream and strong fluctuation in the exhaust gas stream – showed that other components such as propionaldehyde and n-propanol could be eliminated for a certain time without oxygen. Propionic acid is formed.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: The aim of this study was to increase the serum half-life of recombinant CD44 hyaluronan (HA) binding domain by PEGylation. We have previously found that recombinant soluble CD44 HA binding domain (CD44HABD) and its non-HA-binding triple mutant CD44HABD(R41AY78SY79S) (CD44-3MUT) inhibits angiogenesis and subcutaneous tumor growth. However, this ~12 kDa recombinant protein displays a high serum clearance rate. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Here, we report the purification of monomeric CD44-3MUT from urea solubilized inclusion bodies using weak anion exchange chromatography and gel filtration. To increase the serum residence time of CD44-3MUT we PEGylated the resulting protein using 20 kDa methoxy-PEG-propionaldehyde. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: PEGylation of CD44-3MUT prolonged its in vivo serum half-life about 70-fold from 0.03 to 1.8 hours. Along with extended plasma residence time, PEGylation also increased the systemic exposure. By cell impedance assay we confirmed that PEGylated CD44-3MUT maintained its in vitro function. The results from the impedance assay additionally demonstrate that the CD44-3MUT effect on endothelial cells is mediated by vimentin. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: In summary, we have developed a purification protocol for large-scale production of CD44-3MUT and generated a PEGylated form of CD44-3MUT. HA binding domain of CD44(CD44HABD) and its modified non-HA binding form (CD44-3MUT) inhibit angiogenesis and tumor growth in vivo without disturbing HA-binding functions. CD44-3MUT has been PEGylated for use as a new type of anti-angiogenic human drug. PEGylation of CD44-3MUT improved pharmacokinetic properties but retains its functional activity.
The focus of this work is on quantifying the degree of the aqueous-phase formation of -hydroxyhydroperoxides ( -HHPs) via reversible nucleophilic addition of H2O2 to aldehydes. Formation of this class of highly oxygenated organic hydroperoxides represents a poorly characterized aqueous-phase processing pathway that may lead to en- hanced SOA formation and aerosol toxicity. Specifically, the equilibrium constants of -HHP formation have been deter- mined using proton nuclear-magnetic-resonance ( 1 H NMR) spectroscopy and proton-transfer-reaction mass spectrome- try (PTR-MS). Significant -HHP formation was observed from formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, glyco- laldehyde, glyoxylic acid, and methylglyoxal, but not from methacrolein and ketones. Low temperatures enhanced the formation of -HHPs but slowed their formation rates. High inorganic salt concentrations shifted the equilibria toward the hydrated form of the aldehydes and slightly suppressed -HHP formation. Using the experimental equilibrium con- stants, we predict the equilibrium concentration of -HHPs to be in the µM level in cloud water, but it may also be present in the mM level in aerosol liquid water (ALW), where the concentrations of H2O2 and aldehydes can be high. Forma- tion of -HHPs in ALW may significantly affect the effective Henry's law constants of H 2O2 and aldehydes but may not af- fect their gas-phase levels. The photochemistry and reactivity of this class of atmospheric species have not been studied.
Abstract Objectives The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of two additives: propionaldehyde (aldehyde) and 2,3-butanedione (diketone) on the properties of Bis-GMA diluted with TEGDMA and the synthesized Bis-GMA analogs, propoxylated Bis-GMA (CH 3 Bis-GMA) and propoxylated fluorinated Bis-GMA (CF 3 Bis-GMA). Methods Nine experimental comonomers were prepared combining Bis-GMA and TEGDMA, CH 3 Bis-GMA, CF 3 Bis-GMA, with aldehyde (32 mol%) and diketone (32 mol%). Photopolymerization was effected by using Camphorquinone (0.2 wt%) and N , N -dimethyl- p -toluidine (0.2 wt%). Experimental comonomer viscosity (Brookfield viscometer), polymerization shrinkage (gravimetrically), degree of conversion (FT-IR) and contact angles (contact angle goniometer) were determined. Comonomer and copolymer T g s (DSC and Fox equation) were also evaluated. Data were analyzed by one-way ANOVA and Tukey test ( α = 0.05). Results Bis-GMA/CH 3 Bis-GMA and Bis-GMA/CF 3 Bis-GMA with additives exhibited lower viscosities ( p p > 0.05). A significant increase in degree of conversion was shown for Bis-GMA/TEGDMA and Bis-GMA/CH 3 Bis-GMA with additives ( p T g values, whereas the corresponding copolymers with additives showed an increase in T g . Significance Use of novel comonomer systems with the addition of aldehyde and diketone functional groups would improve dental resin composite properties.
One kind of oxidation of propionaldehyde and propionic acid producing reaction column continuously, the production process is first mixed with the catalyst material propionaldehyde, followed by propionaldehyde and the mixed catalyst with air or oxygen to the bottom of the reaction column, and then the reaction column reaction at reaction temperature 80 ℃ to 100 ℃, propionic acid produced by the reaction gradually to give a crude acid overflowing from the top of the reaction column. Production method of the present invention has the features of: a simplified process flow, high catalyst activity, low reaction pressure and reaction temperature, short reaction time, good selectivity, for large-scale industrial production, the resulting product acid stability, high purity, good product quality. Rational and compact structure of the reaction column of the present invention, continuous production of propionic acid by using the reactor column, so that to improve the oxidation efficiency, conducive to the production method of the present invention. Conversion of the present invention, propanal, propionic acid selectivity and yield were 95%, 97% and 92%.
The infra-red and Raman spectra of s-trioxane and paraldehyde-I [1] have been re-examined. With the help of spectra of parapropionaldehyde and parabutyraldehyde, and with the aid of earlier work on s-trioxane, p-dioxane and cyclohexane, improved assignments are made. These, in turn, lead to re-assessments of the earlier assignments for p-dioxane and cyclohexane.
Despite their crucial roles in health and climate concerns, the gas-particle partitioning of carbonyl compounds is poorly characterized in the ambient atmosphere. In this study, we investigate their partitioning by simultaneously measuring six carbonyl compounds (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, propionaldehyde, glyoxal, and methylglyoxal) in the gas and particle phase at an urban site in Beijing. The field-derived partitioning coefficients ( Kpf) are in the range of 10-5-10-3 m3 μg-1, and the corresponding effective Henry's law coefficients ( KHf) should be 107-109 M atm-1. The Pankow's absorptive partitioning theory and Henry's law both significantly underestimate concentrations of particle-phase carbonyl compounds (105-106 times and >103 times, respectively). The observed "salting-in" effects only partially explain the enhanced partitioning to particles, which is approximately 1 order of magnitude. The measured Kpf values are higher at low relative humidity, and the overall effective vapor pressure of these carbonyl species are lower than their hydrates, indicating that carbonyl oligomers potentially formed in highly concentrated particle phase. The reaction kinetics of oligomer formation should be included if applying Henry's law to low-to-moderate relative humidity, and the high partitioning coefficients observed need to be proved by further field and laboratory studies. These findings provide deeper insights into the formation of carbonyl secondary organic aerosols in the ambient atmosphere.
A method for the production of monocojugates of recombinant human thymosin s4 (rs4) with capronic acid, polysialic acid (PSA) and polyethylene glycol (PEG) has been developed. The acylation reaction was carried out using hexanoic anhydride; syalilation, by butyraldehyde derivative of polysialic acid (14 kDa) and PEGylation, by a PEG propionaldehyde derivative (10 kDa). As a result of multifactorial experiments, the components of the reaction mixtures were identified, and conditions of those reactions were optimized. For each analog, we developed a single-stage RP HPLC purification procedure that enabled to attain the purity of no less than 98%. The peptide mapping results backed up by chromatography-mass spectrometry and electrophoresis demonstrated that the produced Тs4 analogs are monoconjugates in which the initial peptide is modified at the N-terminal serine residue. The produced analogs feature a higher resistance to degradation in the blood plasma as compared to non-modified Тs4, and they can be regarded as promising candidates for further biological testing.
This paper presents the effects of molecular structure on the catalytic behavior of bio-oil components in the steam-re-forming reactions. Methanol, ethanol, 1-propanol, butanol, 2-propanol, 1,2-propanediol, glycerol, propionaldehyde, acetone, and propionic acid were used as model compounds. Steam re-forming of the alcohols with a long carbon chain was relatively difficult and yielded large amounts of CH4 and coke deposits. An increased number of hydroxyl groups in the alcohols suppressed the generation of CH4 while promoting the production of CO and coke deposits. Furthermore, the location of the hydroxyl group also impacted both the product distribution and carbon deposition in the re-forming process. The type of functional group significantly affected steam re-forming as well. Alcohol steam re-forming tended to produce a significant amount of CH4, while aldehyde (propionaldehyde) steam re-forming produced only small amounts of CH4 and other organic byproducts. Severe coke deposition was encountered in t...
NAD-dependent aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase (AMADH, EC 1.2.1.-) from Avena shoots was purified by DEAE Sephacel, hydroxyapatite, 5'-AMP Sepharose 4B, Mono Q, and TSK-GEL column chromatographies to homogeneity by the criterion of native PAGE. SDS-PAGE yielded a single band at a molecular mass of 55 kDa. IEF studies showed a band with a p I value of 5.3. In contrast to AMADHs from other species, the TSK-GEL chromatography showed that AvenaAMADH exists as a monomer in the native state. The purified enzyme catalyzed the oxidations of 3-aminopropionaldehyde (APAL), 4-aminobutyraldehyde (ABAL) N-(3-aminopropyl)-4-aminobutyraldehyde (APBAL), and 4-guanidinobutyraldehyde (GBAL), but not of betaine aldehyde or indoleacetaldehyde. The K(m) values for APAL, ABAL, and GBAL were 1.5x10(-6), 2.2x10(-6), and 1.3x10(-5) M, respectively. Although N-terminal amino acid sequence of Avena AMADH could not be determined due to a modification of the amino residue, the sequence of the fragment of AMADH cleaved by V8 protease showed greater similarity to the barley BADH than to the pea AMADH.
Glycerol catabolism was studied in Lactobacillus hilgardii X(1)B from wine, growing on glycerol and limiting glucose or fructose concentrations in anaerobiosis and microaerophilia. Glycerol consumption occurred simultaneously with sugar use, and it was higher with fructose as a cofermenting sugar in microaerophilia. Enzymatic activities of the glycerol kinase and glycerol dehydratase pathways were detected in both incubation conditions. In anaerobiosis, the main products were lactate, acetate, ethanol, and the intermediary product of the glycerol dehydratase pathway, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde. However, in microaerophilia, 1,3-propanediol was also detected. In anaerobic glucose + glycerol and fructose + glycerol cultures as in microaerophilic glucose + glycerol cultures, glycerol was degraded mainly through the reductive pathway. However, when L. hilgardii X(1)B was grown on fructose + glycerol cultures in microaerophilia, glycerol dissimilation occurred mainly via the glycerol kinase way. According to these results, L. hilgardii X(1)B can degrade glycerol by producing 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and acetic acid, both undesirable products for wine sensorial quality.
The reaction of peracetylgluco(galacto)pyranosyl isothiocyanates with β-aminopropionaldehyde diethylacetal gave the corresponding glycosylthioureas, which, after removal of the protective groups, are converted spontaneously to 3-gluco(galacto)pyranosyl-4-hydroxyhexahydropyrimidine-2-thiones.
The triple condensation of propionaldehyde, malononitrile, and cyanothioacetamide gives 2,6-diamino-3,5-dicyano-4-ethyl-4H-thiopyran, which recyclizes to give 6-amino-3, 5-dicyano-4-ethylpyridine-2(1H)-thione. This thione was used to synthesize substituted 2-alkylthiopyridines and the corresponding thieno[2,3-b]pyridines.
Rare sugars are valuable natural products widely used in pharmaceutical and food industries. In this study, we expected to synthesize rare ketoses from abundant glycerol using dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP)-dependent aldolases. First, a new glycerol assimilation pathway was constructed to synthesize DHAP. The enzymes which convert glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and l-glyceraldehyde were selected, and their corresponding aldehyde synthesis pathways were constructed in vivo. Four aldol pathways based on different aldolases and phosphorylase were gathered. Next, three pathways were assembled and the resulting strains synthesized 5-deoxypsicose, 5-deoxysorbose, and 5-deoxyfructose from glucose and glycerol and produce l-fructose, l-tagatose, l-sorbose, and l-psicose with glycerol as the only carbon source. To achieve higher product titer and yield, the recombinant strains were further engineered and fermentation conditions were optimized. Fed-batch culture of engineered strains obtained 38.1 g/L 5-deoxypsicose with a yield of 0.91 ± 0.04 mol product per mol of glycerol and synthesized 20.8 g/L l-fructose, 10.3 g/L l-tagatose, 1.2 g/L l-sorbose, and 0.95 g/L l-psicose.
Kinetic secondary deuterium isotope effects for the hydrolysis of ethyl orthoformate and propionaldehyde diethylacetal reveal that the transition state resembles the substrate in the former case and the carbonium-ion intermediate in the latter; for substituted benzaldehyde diethylacetal hydrolysis, the transition states increasingly resemble the carbonium-ion intermediates as the electron withdrawing power of the polar substitutent increases.
Abstract The carbonyl compounds produced by the growth of Lactobacillus bulgaricus on whey permeate supplemented with amino acids and on a defined medium were identified by reacting the media with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine and separating the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones by thin-layer chromatography. The 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones of ketoacids were reduced to the corresponding amino acids and identified by thin-layer chromatography. Compounds identified were ketoacids corresponding to alanine, valine, isoleucine, threonine, and histidine;acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, valeraldehyde, benzaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde, glyoxal, methylglyoxal, dihydroxyacetone, diacetyl, levulinic acid, and acetonylacetone.
Aldicarb is a highly active systemic miticide, insecticide and nematicide. The active ingredient is 2-methyl-2(methylthio) propionaldehyde 0(methylcarbamoyl) oxime and the product trade name is TEMIK | The most significant biological effect of aldicarb and its sulfoxide and sulfone metabolites is acute toxicity due to inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (Harvey 1975). In addition, aldicarb is extremely toxic to mammals, the oral LD50 to rats being about 1 mg/kg (Payne et al. 1966).
The present invention relates to a process for the preparation of propanol, propionaldehyde and / or propionic acid, are provided in which CO and C
Chemical reactions have been induced in condensed acetaldehyde by exposure to low-energy electrons as demonstrated by use of high-resolution electron energy loss (HREEL) spectroscopy and thermal desorption spectroscopy (TDS). The HREEL spectra show that the acetaldehyde film is modified significantly when the incident electron energy is increased above 10 eV. Release of CO upon exposure to electrons at an incident energy of 14 eV is observed by electronic HREEL spectra. The changes in the vibrational spectra upon exposure of the molecular film to electrons at an incident energy of 15.5 eV are analyzed in detail using reference spectra for a number of potential product molecules. TDS data reveal clearly the decomposition of acetaldehyde and formation of CO and CH4 as major products under electron exposure. The combined results also give evidence for the formation of propionaldehyde. Other less prominent products are acetone and possibly an alcoholic species. A reaction mechanism is suggested that rationali...
Alcohol-free beers are usually criticized for two major defects: a lack of fruity aroma and a strong worty flavor. 3-Methylbutanal and 2-methylbutanal are described in the literature as being predominantly responsible for the worty taste. Although detected in large amounts in most malt and wort extracts, both compounds have proven unable to confer worty taste to beers. In this work, we extracted volatiles from wort with a Likens-Nickerson microextractor. The resulting extract had a strong worty aroma. Following GC/MS and GC/olfactometry analysis, 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde turned out to be the key feature since it remained the most organoleptically active compound through extract dilution. In vitro assays showed that 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde is a substrate for several Saccharomyces cerevisiae reducing enzymes. Screening of various strains led us to conclude that the higher the 3-methylbutanal reductase activity, the higher the 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde reductase activity. Monitoring of 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde concentration through an in vivo cold contact process has also been undertaken.
The phase-shift technique has been used to determine the temperature dependence of the reaction of ground state oxygen atoms with several aldehydes. Oxygen atoms were generated by modulated photosensitized decomposition of nitrous oxide and were monitored by the chemiluminescence from their reaction with nitric oxide. The Arrhenius expressions determined over the temperature interval 298–472 K are: k1 (acetaldehyde) = (7.21 ± 1.49) × 109 exp (−1960 ± 153/RT); k1(propionaldehyde) = (7.78 ± 0.75) × 109 exp (−1727 ± 66/RT); k1(butyralde-hyde) = (9.99 ± 0.56) × 109 exp (−1702 ± 40/RT); k1(isobutyraldehyde) = (7.92 ± 1.02) × 109 exp (−1445 ± 91/RT), where the units are l mol−1 s−1 and cal mol−1. The indicated uncertainties are one standard deviation. After small corrections were made for the potential abstraction of alkyl hydrogens, the activation energies of aldehydic hydrogen abstraction were used to estimate the aldehydic C—H bond dissociation energies, D(RCO—H). The trend of slightly decreasing values of D...
A kinetic study of the catalytic vapor-phase hydrogenation of three aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde) was made at low conversions with a commercial supported nickel catalyst. A simple initial rate equation was determined and found to agree with a mechanism suggested by the ideal kinetics of Hougen and known experimental evidence. By means of this equation the relative reactivities of the aldehydes were compared and found to agree with the predictions of organic theory. An improved reactor designed to ensure isothermal operation is described.
Bovine lens aldehyde dehydrogenase is located predominantly in the cortical and nuclear regions, although the specific activity is highest in the epithelial cells. A novel two-step procedure has been used to purify aldehyde dehydrogenase from bovine lens to homogeneity. A comparison using published assay methods for aldehyde dehydrogenases showed that the dimeric lens enzyme had the highest specific activity of any cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase, although the kcat value was not exceptional. Computer curve-fitting showed that the minimum degree of the rate equation with propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde as substrates was 2:2. The relationship (a2 X b1)/(a1 X b2) was used to show the marked effect of temperature, and to a lesser extent pH, on the non-linear steady-state kinetics. These results indicate that the rate-determining step at low aldehyde concentrations (probably aldehyde binding) is accelerated by increasing temperature to a much greater degree than the rate-determining step at high aldehyde concentration (probably NADH release).
Aroma extraction by solid phase micro extraction (SPME) was combined with comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography (2D-GC) using two column configurations and detection by time-of-flight mass spectrometry (TOF-MS) for the quantitative assessment of trace sulfur compounds in coffee. Based on the optimization of 2D separation and TOF-MS detection parameters, quantification assays were established for 3-methyl-2-butene-1-thiol (MBT) and 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde (methional). The quantification of these compounds in roast and ground (R&G) coffee as well as in filter coffee brew resulted in satisfactory detection limits and repeatability of the method. Furthermore, quantitative results highlighted the importance of MBT in the aroma above a freshly ground coffee. Data indicated that it is almost quantitatively lost during preparation of filter coffee beverage due to evaporation and degradation. In contrast, methional was found quite abundant in R&G coffee and is highly recovered in the final beverage. In addition, identification was compared to standard methods comprising aroma isolation by high vacuum transfer and solvent aroma extraction. The evaluation of the solvent extract by 2D-GC-TOFMS as well as GC-olfactometry resulted in fewer sulfur compounds identified, thus indicating high degradation rates of reactive sulfur compounds during
The ALDH2 gene encodes the mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2), a critical enzyme involved in ethanol clearance through acetaldehyde metabolism. ALDH2 also catalyzes the metabolism of other bioreactive aldehydes, including propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and 4-hydroxykenals (4-HNE). Increased levels of 4-HNE in adipose tissue positively correlate with obesity and insulin resistance. However, it remains unclear whether ALDH2 is involved in regulation of adipocyte differentiation. Here, we found that ALDH2 protein levels were lower in white adipose tissue of high-fat diet-fed mice and ob/ob mice relative to lean mice. Knockdown of ALDH2 expression in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes caused an increase in intracellular 4-HNE, thereby attenuated adipocyte differentiation. By contrast, an ALDH2 activator, Alda-1, significantly accelerated adipogenesis, which was accompanied by an increase in adipogenic gene expression. Consistently, adipogenesis was reduced when protein kinase C ε (PKCε), an ALDH2 phosphorylating activator, was silenced in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, whereas treatment with a PKCε agonist in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes enhanced adipogenesis. Whole-genome microarray profiling of Alda-1-treated cells demonstrated several upregulated transcripts encoding proteins involved in metabolism and the majority of these transcripts are for proteins involved in PPAR signaling pathways. Furthermore, PKCε-ALDH2 interaction alleviates 4-HNE induced aberrant PPARγ regulation on adipogenesis. Taken together, these results demonstrate that ALDH2 activation enhances adipogenesis and signaling pathways involving PPARγ. Thus, activation of PKCε-ALDH2 regulatory axis may be a therapeutic target for treating obesity and type 2 diabetes.
The reaction of 3 with propionaldehyde (4b) under neat refluxing conditions provided 2-ethyl-3-nitro-1-(2-phenethyl)-1,2-dihydropyridine (5b) in 82% yield. The structure of the product 5b was confirmed on the basis of the following spectroscopic analyses. The molecular formula of 5b was found to be C 15 In a similar manner, several other 2-substituted 3-nitro-1-(2-phenethyl)-1,2-dihydropyridines 5c-g listed in Table 1 were prepared from the corresponding 4c-g (Chart 1, Table  1 ).
Polyamines are common cell components among almost all types of organisms, which regulate cell proliferation and differentiation. The function of polyamines has been studied at the molecular level. Polyamines modulate the function of RNA, DNA, and protein by promoting their stability and synthesis [1] . Polyamine content within cells is tightly regulated and retained both by polyamine biosynthesis and by polyamine transport according to needs [2] . For example, it is reported that proliferative stimuli, such as DNA synthesis, trigger uptake and/or biosynthesis of polyamines [3] . There are three polyamines in eukaryotic cells: putrescine, spermidine, and spermine. As long as the polyamine pool is strictly regulated also by interconversion, excessive polyamine accumulation following exogenous addition may exert a different effect on cells. Extracellular polyamines first undergo oxidation by serum amine oxidase, producing aminoaldehydes, such as aminomonoaldehyde [N -(4-aminobutyl)-aminopropionaldehyde] and a dialdehyde [NN -bis-(3-propionaldehyde)-1,4-diaminobutane] [4] . These aminoaldehydes and other oxidation products (e.g., H 2 O 2 and NH 3 ) show cytotoxicity in several cell types [5, 6] . Due to the oxidation by serum amine oxidase, the endothelium would be the first tissue with which the products of polyamine oxidation interact.
In the flowering plant Wollastonia biflora (L.) DC. the first step in 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) synthesis is conversion of methionine to S-methylmethionine (SMM) and the last is oxidation of 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde (DMSP-ald) (F. James, L. Paquet, S.A. Sparace, D.A. Gage, A.D. Hanson [1995] Plant Physiol 108: 1439–1448). DMSP-ald was shown to undergo rapid, spontaneous decomposition to dimethylsulfide and acrolein. However, it was stable enough (half-life [greater than or equal to] 1 h) in tertiary amine buffers to use as a substrate for enzyme assays. A dehydrogenase catalyzing DMSP-ald oxidation was detected in extracts of W. biflora mesophyll protoplasts. This enzyme had a high affinity for DMSP-ald (Km = 1.5 [mu]M), was subject to substrate inhibition, preferred NAD to NADP, and was immunologically related to plant betaine aldehyde dehydrogenases. After fractionation of protoplast lysates, [greater than or equal to]90% of DMSP-ald dehydrogenase activity was recovered from the chloroplast stromal fraction, whereas the enzyme that mediates SMM synthesis, S-adenosylmethionine:methionine S-methyltransferase, was found exclusively in the cytosolic fraction. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed that the S-methyltransferase was cytosolic. Intact W. biflora chloroplasts were able to metabolize supplied [35S]SMM to [35S]DMSP. These findings indicate that SMM is made in the cytosol, imported into the chloroplast, and there converted successively to DMSP-ald and DMSP.
Comparable experiments on emission characteristics for BE-D and diesel were conducted on a single cylinder diesel engine.Exhaust aldehydes emissions were sampled with derivation method,and the components and concentration were analyzed by liquid chromatography.The results show that total aldehydes emissions rate decrease with the increase of load.Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde are the highest contents in all aldehydes emissions,about 80% under most conditions.The occupancy ratios of aldehydes with more than four C atoms are low.With the increase of load,occupancy ratio of formaldehyde increases while that of acetaldehyde decreases.Under most conditions,occupancy ratio of formaldehyde is higher than that of acetaldehyde.The total aldehydes emission rate for BE-D is lower than that of diesel at 1 200 r/min and 1 800 r/min,but is higher at 1 500 r/min.Propionaldehyde emission for BE-D is higher than that of diesel,while acrolein emission is lower than that of diesel.Butyraldehyde emission for BE-D is higher than that of diesel under medium and heavy load,but is lower than that of diesel under low load.This paper also presented a calculation method for toxic equivalence of aldehydes emissions,and the results show that toxic equivalence of aldehydes emissions for BE-D is much lower than that of diesel,up to a maximum of 40%.
Enaminone 1 was reacted with hydrazonoyl halides 2a-d to yield 3,4-disubstituted pyrazoles 6a-d. Coupling with arenediazonium chlorides afforded the 2-(arylhydrazono)-3-(1-naphthalenyl)-3-oxopropionaldehydes 13a-c. Compounds 13 could be utilized for the synthesis of a variety of arylpyrazoles, arylazolopyrimidines, and pyridazinones via reaction with hydrazines, aminoazoles, and active methylene derivatives, respectively. A comparative study of aforementioned reactions was carried out with chitosan as a basic ecofriendly catalyst under conventional heating as well as under pressurized microwave irradiation conditions.
(57) Abstract: The present invention provides an improved method for producing a biological fermentable 1,3-propanediol from a carbon source in a single microorganism. In one aspect of the present invention, an improved method for the conversion of glucose to 1,3-propanediol, Klebsiella pneumoniae dha regulon genes, dhaR, orfY, dhaT, orfX, orfW, dhaB1, dhaB2, dhaB3 and orfZ E. coli transformed with the It is achieved by the use of E. coli, all of these genes are located in the same genetic structure when found in the wild-type Klebsiella pneumoniae. In another aspect of the present invention, G3PDH, recombinant containing the gene encoding G3P phosphatase, a dehydratase, and dehydratase reactivation factor E. Using E. coli, G3PDH, recombinant containing the gene encoding G3P phosphatase, dehydratase, dehydratase reactivation factor, and 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase and (dhaT) E. Provides a method for the production of 1,3-propanediol from glucose was improved compared to the same method using the stiffness. Dramatically improved method is sufficiently non to convert 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 1,3-propanediol - a gene that encodes a specific catalytic activity is E. It relies to be present in E. coli.
In this study, recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 (rhBMP-2) was directly immobilized on the plasma-polymerized propionaldehyde (PA) and allylglycidyl ether (AGE) surface through the imine bonding and epoxy-amine bonding, respectively. Aldehyde and epoxide plasma-polymerization were carried out at plasma power 60 W for 10 min and monomers were used to PA and AGE. After the plasma-polymerization and rhBMP-2 immobilization, substrate surfaces were characterized by contact angle, field emission scanning electron microscopy, and attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared. In addition, the biological activities of MC3T3-E1 cells were evaluated by initial adhesion and alkaline phosphate (ALP) activity. The rhBMP-2 immobilized PA and AGE surfaces promoted significantly higher ALP activity of MC3T3-E1 cells than pristine surface.
PURPOSE ::: To elucidate additional substrate specificities of ALDH1B1 and determine the effect that human ALDH1B1 polymorphisms will have on substrate specificity. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Computational-based molecular modeling was used to predict the binding of the substrates propionaldehyde, 4-hydroxynonenal, nitroglycerin, and all-trans retinaldehyde to ALDH1B1. Based on positive in silico results, the capacity of purified human recombinant ALDH1B1 to metabolize nitroglycerin and all-trans retinaldehyde was explored. Additionally, metabolism of 4-HNE by ALDH1B1 was revisited. Databases queried to find human polymorphisms of ALDH1B1 identified three major variants: ALDH1B1*2 (A86V), ALDH1B1*3 (L107R), and ALDH1B1*5 (M253V). Computational modeling was used to predict the binding of substrates and of cofactor (NAD(+)) to the variants. These human polymorphisms were created and expressed in a bacterial system and specific activity was determined. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: ALDH1B1 metabolizes (and appears to be inhibited by) nitroglycerin and has favorable kinetics for the metabolism of all-trans retinaldehyde. ALDH1B1 metabolizes 4-HNE with higher apparent affinity than previously described, but with low throughput. Recombinant ALDH1B1*2 is catalytically inactive, whereas both ALDH1B1*3 and ALDH1B1*5 are catalytically active. Modeling indicated that the lack of activity in ALDH1B1*2 is likely due to poor NAD(+) binding. Modeling also suggests that ALDH1B1*3 may be less able to metabolize all-trans retinaldehyde and that ALDH1B1*5 may bind NAD(+) poorly. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: ALDH1B1 metabolizes nitroglycerin and all-trans-retinaldehyde. One of the three human polymorphisms, ALDH1B1*2, is catalytically inactive, likely due to poor NAD(+) binding. Expression of this variant may affect ALDH1B1-dependent metabolic functions in stem cells and ethanol metabolism.
A new class of hybrid Lewis acid/Lewis base catalysts has been designed and prepared with an initial objective of promoting stereoselective direct aldol reactions. Several scaffolds were synthesized that contain amine moieties capable of enamine catalysis, connected to heterocyclic metal-chelating sections composed of an oxazole–oxazoline or thiazole–oxazoline. Early screening results have identified oxa­zole–oxazoline-based systems capable of promoting a highly diastereo- and enantioselective direct aldol reaction of propionaldehyde with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, when combined with Lewis acids such as zinc triflate.
The methods for sampling and analyzing 10 carbonyl compounds such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, butyraldehyde, benzaldehyde, cyclohexanone, valeraldehyde in indoor air were proposed with the sampling efficiency, recovery and detection limit being 92% - 100%, 91% - 104%, 0.26ng/m3 - 0.82ng/m3, respectively. Pollution survey of 10 carbonyl compounds in air of 6 trains was conducted. It was indicated that the total concentrations of carbonyl compounds were 0. 1591 mg/m3 - 0.2828 mg/m3 with the average concentration of 0.2330 mg/m3, the average concentrations of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and acetone were 0.0922 mg/m3, 0.0499 mg/m3 and 0.0580 mg/m3, accounted for 42.6%, 21.4%, 24.9% of the total carbonyl compounds' concentrations, respectively. The carbonyl compounds probably came from woodwork and tobacco. The intake of carbonyl compounds for the passengers was approximately 0.043 mg/h - 0.076 mg/h.
Treatment of young tobacco plants with the insecticide aldicarb (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde 0-(methylcarbomoyl)oxime) resulted in ultrastructural changes usually associated with senescence of plant tissues. Starch grains and osmiophilic globules accumulated in the chloroplasts and some of the globules were released into the ground plasm and vacuole as the outer membranes of the chloroplasts ruptured. Deformation of mitochondrial cristae of leaf and root cells was accompanied by partial disintegration of the outer mitochondrial membrane, implying a decrease in respiratory efficiency. Disintegration of the plasmalemma, tonoplast and cytoplasm was observed after treatment with aldicarb.
Although studies on the effect of pH on aldehyde dehydrogenase have been carried out in a number of laboratories, the results of these studies do not give a complete picture of the mechanism of the aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyzed oxidation of propionaldehyde over an extended pH range. The enzyme catalyzed oxidation reaction at pH 7.0 and 7.6 is generally agreed to occur by the following ordered mechanism: ::: ::: $$E \rightleftharpoons E.NA{D^ + } \rightleftharpoons E.NA{D^ + }.ALD \rightleftharpoons E.NADH.acyl \to *E.NADH \rightleftharpoons E.NADH \rightleftharpoons E$$ ::: ::: Scheme I At least at low propionaldehyde concentrations, the rate of the reaction is controlled by the slow conformational change which occurs during the release of NADH from the enzyme (Blackwell et al., 1987; Dickinson, 1985).
Ethers are an important group of organic compounds that are primarily prepared via homogeneous catalysis, which can lead to operational and environmental issues. Here we demonstrate the production of ethers via heterogeneous catalysis over H adatom-covered gold at temperatures lower than 250 K. Symmetrical ethers can be formed via a self-coupling reaction of corresponding aldehydes; for example, homocoupling of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde yields diethyl ether and di-n-propyl ether, respectively. In addition, coupling reactions between alcohols and aldehydes, with different carbon chain lengths, are observed via the production of the corresponding unsymmetrical ethers. A reaction mechanism is proposed, suggesting that an alcohol-like intermediate via partial hydrogenation of aldehydes on the surface plays a key role in these reactions. These surface chemical reactions suggest possible heterogeneous routes to low-temperature production of ethers.
Pargyline has previously been shown to increase ethanol-induced sleep time, decrease ethanol elimination rate and greatly increase acetaldehyde levels after ethanol administration in mice. In rats pargyline treatment did not significantly alter blood ethanol levels but increased blood acetaldehyde levels in a dose-dependent manner. Using 5 mM propionaldehyde to assay aldehyde dehydrogenase activity only about 40 per cent inhibition of the mitochondrial aldehyde oxidizing capacity was seen with the highest pargyline dose (100 mg/kg). Almost total inhibition of the low Km mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase activity was observed with 50 μM propionaldehyde or 1 mM formaldehyde.
Abstract: Enaminone 1 was reacted with hydrazonoyl halides 2a-d to yield 3,4-disubstituted pyrazoles 6a-d. Coupling with arenediazonium chlorides afforded the 2-(arylhydrazono)-3-(1-naphthalenyl)-3-oxopropionaldehydes 13a-c. Compounds 13 could be utilized for the synthesis of a variety of arylpyrazoles, arylazolopyrimidines, and pyridazinones via reaction with hydrazines, aminoazoles, and active methylene derivatives, respectively. A comparative study of aforementioned reactions was carried out with chitosan as a basic ecofriendly catalyst under conventional heating as well as under pressurized microwave irradiation conditions.
Purpose To elucidate additional substrate specificities of ALDH1B1 and determine the effect that human ALDH1B1 polymorphisms will have on substrate specificity. Methods Computational-based molecular modeling was used to predict the binding of the substrates propionaldehyde, 4-hydroxynonenal, nitroglycerin, and all-trans retinaldehyde to ALDH1B1. Based on positive in silico results, the capacity of purified human recombinant ALDH1B1 to metabolize nitroglycerin and alltrans retinaldehyde was explored. Additionally, metabolism of 4-HNE by ALDH1B1 was revisited. Databases queried to find human polymorphisms of ALDH1B1 identified three major variants: ALDH1B1*2 (A86V), ALDH1B1*3 (L107R), and ALDH1B1*5 (M253V). Computational modeling was used to predict the binding of substrates and of cofactor (NAD + ) to the variants. These human polymorphisms were created and expressed in a bacterial system and specific activity was determined. Results ALDH1B1 metabolizes (and appears to be inhibited by) nitroglycerin and has favorable kinetics for the metabolism of alltrans retinaldehyde. ALDH1B1 metabolizes 4-HNE with higher apparent affinity than previously described, but with low throughput. Recombinant ALDH1B1*2 is catalytically inactive, whereas both ALDH1B1*3 and ALDH1B1*5 are catalytically active. Modeling indicated that the lack of activity in ALDH1B1*2 is likely due to poor NAD + binding. Modeling also suggests that ALDH1B1*3 may be less able to metabolize all-trans retinaldehyde and that ALDH1B1*5 may bind NAD + poorly. Conclusions ALDH1B1 metabolizes nitroglycerin and all-transretinaldehyde. One of the three human polymorphisms, ALDH1B1*2, is catalytically inactive, likely due to poor NAD + binding. Expression of this variant may affect ALDH1B1-dependent metabolic functions in stem cells and ethanol metabolism.
Biosynthesis has emerged as an alternative to conventional chemical synthesis owing to fast consumption of petroleum resources. 3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is one of the 12 top-added platform compounds suggested by US DOE [1] . As a versatile precursor, 3-HP can be readily converted into a series of economically important chemicals, including 1,3-propandiol (1,3-PDO), 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), acrylic acid, and malonic acid [2] . Additionally, the hydroxyl and carboxyl in 3-HP molecule can be polymerized to form poly-3-hydroxypropionate [3] , which is a novel polymer displaying higher mechanical strength and elongation at break compared with poly lactic acid (2-hydroxypropionic acid). Because of its broad applications, 3-HP has been fueled in recent years.
So far myriads of 3-HP biosynthesis pathways have been identified [4] . Based on carbon sources, 3-HP pathways can be divided into two types: glucose-and glycerol-based routes. In the glucose-based pathway, glucose is converted to acetyl-CoA which is catalyzed to propionyl-CoA by Acetyl-CoA carboxylase. Next, propionyl-CoA is catalyzed to 3-HP by malonyl-CoA reductase [5] . Except this, there exist other biosynthetic pathways where glucose is converted to glycerol and next to 3-HP [6] . In the glycerol pathway, glycerol dehydratase catalyzes glycerol into 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), next, 3-HPA is converted to 3-HP by aldehyde dehydrogenase (AldH) [7] , and to 1,3-propanediol by 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase [8] (see Fig. 1 ).
Experiments were conducted to identify the emissions from the car air freshener and to identify the formation of ultra-fine particles and secondary gaseous compounds during the ozone-initiated oxidations with emitted volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The identified primary constituents emitted from the car air freshener in this study were alpha-pinene, beta-pinene, p-cymene, and limonene. Formation of ultra-fine particles (4.4-160 nm) was observed when ozone was injected into the chamber containing emitted monoterpenes from the air freshener. Particle number concentrations, particle mass concentrations, and surface concentrations were measured in time dependent experiments to describe the particle formation and growth within the chamber. The irritating secondary gaseous products formed during the ozone-initiated reactions include formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, and propionaldehyde. Ozone concentration (50 and 100 ppb) and temperature (30 and 40 degrees C) significantly affect the formation of particles and gaseous products during the ozone-initiated reactions. The results obtained in this study provided an insight on the potential exposure of particles and irritating secondary products formed during the ozone-initiated reaction to passengers in confined spaces.
The high pressure reaction of Danishefsky’s diene with aromatic aldehydes produces the [4 + 2] cycloadduct, while with an aliphatic aldehyde such as 2-phenylpropionaldehyde the intermolecular silicon migration from oxygen to oxygen takes place.
The authors describe a method for the determination of carbonyl pollutants adsorbed on ambient particulate matter (diameter < 2.5 μm; PM2.5). 2,4-Dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) was used to derivatize carbonyl compounds. Magnetic molecularly imprinted polymers (MMIPs) selective for 2,4-DNPH were synthesized to remove excess of the derivatization reagent 2,4-DNPH. Micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) was then applied to the separation of DNPH-derivatized carbonyl compounds. The increased sensitivity of MEKC with UV detection and the sample cleanup resulted in drastically reduced sampling times (15 min) with detection limits ranging from 0.005-0.068 μg·m-3 for different carbonyls. The method was applied to continuous monitoring of carbonyl compounds on ambient PM 2.5 for two consecutive months. The concentrations and gas-to-particle ratios of carbonyls were determined, and a statistical method was used to evaluate the correlation among different carbonyls. It was observed that the total concentration of carbonyls, especially of multi-carbon carbonyls, increases with the level of air pollution. The level of isovaleraldehyde rises sharply and accounts for 37% of total carbonyls on days with extremely humid haze. The ratio of acetaldehyde to propionaldehyde (C2/C3) decreases with the duration and heaviness of haze conditions. Results indicate that anthropogenic emissions and the characteristics of the atmosphere (e.g. temperature, sunlight, and relative humidity) are the main factors that lead to abnormally high levels of isovaleraldehyde and other carbonyls in ambient PM 2.5. Graphical abstract Schematic of a method for the determination of carbonyl pollutants adsorbed on ambient fine particle of type PM2.5. Magnetic molecularly imprinted polymers (MMIPs) were synthesized to remove the excess derivatization reagent (2,4-DNPH) in air sample prior to CE separation.
RP-HPLC and GC methods are described for the determination of the compounds in synthesis mixtures of 2,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (DHPAL). Special attention is paid to the analysis of DHPAL. Conditions for analysis are developed so that no derivatization is needed despite the equilibrium reactions typical of hydroxy aldehydes. Different solvent matrices, pH and sample concentrations are tested in sampling and analysis. Linearity of the calibration lines and precision of the methods are evaluated for all compounds. Detection limits of different compounds are calculated for both methods.
Aldicarb, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde-O-methylcarbamoyloxime, is an oxime carbamate insecticide manufactured by the Union Carbide Corporation and sold under the trade name Temik. It is a...
[53282-30-7] C5H7F3O3S (MW 204.19) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C5H7F3O3S/c1-4(2)3-11-12(9,10)5(6,7)8/h3H,1-2H3 ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = ZBMXEMUYHOPIKB-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (precursor to dimethylvinylidene carbene,1 2-methyl-1-propenyl ethers,1 isopropylidenecyclopropanes,2 isopropylidenecyclopropenes,2 3-isopropylindazoles,3 and 2-methyl-1-propenyltriphenylphosphonium triflates4) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: bp 65–66 °C/70 mmHg. ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sol most organic solvents. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Method: prepared in a single step from 2-methylpropionaldehyde, Trifluoromethanesulfonic Anhydride, and a hindered pyridine in 1,2-dichloroethane at reflux (eq 1). Distillation gives the product in 45% yield.5 ::: ::: (1)
This paper reviews the history of industrialization of imidacloprid,and introduces its present situation in China.Three synthesis routes of imidacloprid are discussesd and compared,and the problems of synthesis routes are also proposed.It is suggested that 3-methyl pyridine oxidation method and benzylamine-propionaldehyde cyclization method may be used as substitutes of cyclopentadienyl cyclization method.
Abstract Several new classes of hybrid catalysts have been synthesized by tethering heterocyclic metal (Lewis acid) chelating scaffolds to several different amines capable of facilitating enamine catalysis. Oxazole, thiazole, and imidazole-based chiral precatalysts were prepared in several steps from amino acid starting materials, and these were combined with a variety of metal Lewis acids for potential use as catalysts for various carbon–carbon bond formations. Air- and moisture-tolerant catalysts for enantioselective direct aldol reactions with activated benzaldehyde acceptors were identified, with optimal results obtained with proline-derived oxazole–carboxamide precatalysts combined with Zn(OTf)2 or lanthanide (III) salts. Control studies support the hypothesis that these act as unimolecular hybrid catalysts for the aldol reaction of propionaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.
Arrhenius parameters for the reaction of hydrogen atoms with acetone, 2-butanone, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde in aqueous solution have been directly measured by electron paramagnetic resonan...
Glycogen phosphorylase b modified by NaBH4 and aliphatic aldehydes of varying chain length: ranging from acetaldehyde to n-heptanaldehyde were purified by heat-treatment. Kinetic studies showed that the various purified enzyme derivatives were similar to native phosphorylase b in kinetic properties with respect to glucose-I-P. They, however, exhibited different affinities toward AMP. For acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde modified phosphorylases b, increase in chain length of the modifying aldehyde resulted in a decrease in AMP affinity of the modified enzyme. For the other aldehydes increase in chain length resulted in an increased AMP affinity of the modified enzyme. Consequently, the apparent values of butyraldehyde and heptanaldehyde modified phosphorylase b exhibited greatest deviation from that of native phosphorylase b. These two enzyme derivatives were studied in more detail. The activation of both enzyme derivatives by AMP could be greatly stimulated by spermine at suboptimal levels of AMP. Both derivatives could be activated by IMP, UMP or CMP in addition to AMP. The extents of activation of heptanaldehyde modified phosphorylase b by these nucleotides were higher than those found for native phosphorylase b. Thus, under certain conditions which included using suboptimal AMP or using IMP, UMP or GMP instead of AMP, heptanaldehyde modified phosphorylase b had much higher catalytic activity than native phosphorylase b. The interactions between burtyraldehyde or heptanaldehyde modified phosphorylases b with IMP were respectively weaker or stronger than that between native phosphorylase b and IMP. The interactions between butyraldehyde or heptanaldehyde modified phosphorylase b with glucose-6-P, an inhibitor of phosphorylase b partially competitive with respective to AMP, were also respectively weaker or stronger than that between the inhibitor and the native enzyme.
Czerkawski J.W., Piatkova M. & Breckenridge, G. 1984. Microbial metabolism of 1,2-propanediol studied by the Rumen. Simulation Technique (Rusitec). Journal of Applied Bacteriology, 56, 81–94. ::: ::: ::: ::: A series of experiments with the Rumen Simulation Technique (Rusitec) showed that 1,2-propanediol was metabolized efficiently by rumen micro-organisms and that the main end-products of fermentation were propionic and 2-methylbutyric acids. ‘Propionaldehyde and n-propanol were also formed as intermediate compounds.’ The effect of the diol on digestion of the basal diet appeared to be small with concentrate, or when the roughage was supplemented with additional nitrogen (urea). The decrease in the output of acetic and butyric acids was consistent with utilization of C2 units for synthesis of 2-methylbutyric acid. The fermentation of 1,2-propanediol resulted in little or no increase in the output of additional microbial matter. The distribution of radioactivity from [1-14C] 1,2-propanediol confirmed that propionaldehyde and n-propanol were the primary products of metabolism of the diol and that the end-products were propionic and 2-methylbutyric acids, with very little labelling of microbial matter. Between 2% and 3% of radioactivity was found in gases and surprisingly the specific radioactivity of methane was higher than that of carbon dioxide, particularly during the initial stages of incubation. Possible pathways in the degradation of 1,2-propanediol by rumen micro-organisms are suggested and discussed in relation to similar reactions established in other systems.
The photodissociation dynamics of jet-cooled formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde have been investigated at wavelengths of 308 nm or 309 nm by monitoring the resultant nascent HCO fragments by laser induced fluorescence excitation spectroscopy (LIF). For acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, the distribution of energy in the HCO fragment was deduced directly from intensities in the rotationally resolved spectrum while the Doppler widths of selected rotational lines provided an estimate of the translational energy release. This has revealed that for both reactions, at these excitation wavelengths, most of the excess energy is deposited as translational energy in the two fragments (80 - 90%) and rotation of the HCO fragment (10 - 20%) with apparently minimal internal energy deposited in the alkyl fragment. The experimental observations indicate that the radical channel photodissociation mechanisms for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde are similar. The reaction occurs following intersystem crossing onto the lowest lying triplet surface. On this surface there is a loose transition state above a relatively high, late barrier. The fixed energy of the exit channel appears to be converted almost solely into translation and HCO rotation. Very preliminary results are also presented for the 309 nm photolysis of formaldehyde. For this system, the HCO spectrum demonstrates clearly a dominance of Ka equals 1 states over Ka equals 0 states. This is consistent with ab initio calculations which place the departing hydrogen atom almost perpendicularly above the carbon atom at the triplet transition state. However the results are inconsistent with the singlet transition state geometry which is planar.© (1995) COPYRIGHT SPIE--The International Society for Optical Engineering. Downloading of the abstract is permitted for personal use only.
Heteropoly acids catalyse the cyclotrimerization of propionaldehyde to 2,4,6-triethyl-1,3,5-trioxane; catalyst and product characteristically separate into two phases so the recovered catalyst can be used repeatedly in the reaction.
1. ::: ::: It was shown that zinc and zinc-copper catalysts are highly active in the reduction of allyl alcohol to propyl alcohol at 75–150° in presence of hydrogen at atmospheric pressure. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: It was found that the reaction proceeds through the intermediate stage of isomerization of allyl alcohol into propionaldehyde. It was shown that the isomerization stage outstrips the reduction stage. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: In both reactions the zinc-copper catalyst is more active than the zinc catalyst.
Received for publication 21 February 1978. 1Broom's Barn Experimental Station, Higham, Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk, England. 2 Department of Nematology, University of California, Riverside, California 92521. 3Farm Advisor, Cooperative Extension, Santa Maria, California 93456. 4 Farm Advisor, Cooperative Extension, El Centro, California 92243. Much of this work was done while the senior author was on a one-year secondment to the Nematology Department, University of California, Riverside. We thank J. Fukuto for assistance. tonnes /ha were obtained in 1974-75 following fumigation with Te lone (1,3-dichloropropene) or D-D in combination with an "at-planting" treatment with Tem ik 15 G (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O(methylcarbamoyl)oxime) in a silty clay soil (Brinkman, Imperial Valley, southern California) (4). Yield increases were greater with fumigant nematicides (D-D or Telone), alone or in combination with the granular Tem ik 15 G or Furadan 10 G (2-dihydro-2,2dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methyl carbamate), than with the granular compounds used alone (3). T h e five tests reported here were conducted to test effects of chemical control in fields infested with low populations of H. schachtii. Four of the five experiments (Chew, Lerno, Doel I, Doel II) were on clay
Most Montana county weed control programs continue to emphasize herbicide applications at a time when public concern for the potential contamination of groundwater resources is increasing. Approximately 50% of Montana's population obtains its drinking water from wells that tap groundwater; consequently, the transport of agricultural chemicals, including nitrates and pesticides, through soils into groundwater represents a potential threat to water quality in Montana and elsewhere. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency reported that 17 pesticides had been detected in the groundwater of 23 states at concentrations ranging from trace amounts to several hundred parts per million (19) . Locally, the Environmental Management Division of the Montana Department of Agriculture reported detectable quantities of picloram, 2,4-D [(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)acetic acid], MCPA [(4-chloro-2-methylphenoxy)acetic acid], dicamba (3,6-dichloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid), and aldicarb [2-methyl-2(methylthio) propionaldehyde 0-methylcarbamoyl oxime] in ground-waters around the state (4). Public health risks increase and environmental problems occur when groundwater becomes polluted with these chemicals. County weed control programs may contribute to these problems because county weed supervisors currently lack the tools and databases required to identify weed-infested areas where herbicide applications are likely to contaminate groundwater. This paper describes a procedure for identifying potential pesticide contamination problems and some sample results. The methods combine modified versions of the CMLS model (10, 11) and WGEN weather generator (18) with the STATSGO (1, 17) and MAPS (10) databases. CMLS 3 is a one-dimensional solute transport model that utilizes piston flow theory to simulate the vertical movement of selected chemicals in and beyond the agricultural root zone in a layer-by-layer manner. Although this model was written primarily as a management and educational tool, it has been tested favorably and used in many parts of the country (5, 9) . Current studies are underway at two field sites in Montana to compare CMLS output to observed transport of nonsorbing tracers and several herbicides. The WGEN weather generator 4 was designed to estimate daily weather at locations with no weather stations and/or to extend daily records at locations with weather stations. The model provides daily precipitation, maximum and minimum temperatures, and solar radiation values with the same statistical characteristics as the actual weather at specified locations.
Analyzing harmful constituents in e-cigarette aerosols typically involves adopting a methodology used for analyzing tobacco smoke. Cambridge filter pads (CFP) are the basis of numerous protocols for analyzing the various classes of compounds representing 93 harmful and potentially harmful constituents identified in tobacco smoke by the FDA. This paper describes a simplified method for trapping the low volatility components of e-cigarette aerosols using a single trapping procedure followed by physical extraction. The trap is a plug of amorphous silica fibers (0.75 g of 4 μm diameter) within a 10 mL syringe inserted between the e-cigarette mouthpiece and the pump of the vaping machine. The method is evaluated for emissions from three generations of e-cigarette device (Kangertech CE4, EVOD, and Subox Mini-C). On average, the silica wool traps about 94% of the vaporized liquid mass in the three devices and higher levels of condensate is retained before reaching saturation compared with CFP. The condensate is then physically extracted from the silica wool plug using a centrifuge. Condensate is then available for use directly in multiple analytical procedures or toxicological experiments. The method is tested by comparison with published analyses of carbonyls, among the most potent toxicants and carcinogens in e-cigarette emissions. Ranges for HPLC-DAD analyses of carbonyl-DNPH derivatives in a laboratory formulation of e-liquid are formaldehyde (0.182 ± 0.023 to 9.896 ± 0.709 μg puff −1 ), acetaldehyde (0.059 ± 0.005 to 0.791 ± 0.073 μg puff −1 ), and propionaldehyde (0.008 ± 0.0001 to 0.033 ± 0.023 μg puff −1 ); other carbonyls are identified and quantified. Carbonyl concentrations are also consistent with published experiments showing marked increases with variable power settings (10W to 50W). Compared with CFPs, e-cigarette aerosol collection by silica wool requires only one vaping session for multiple analyte groups, traps more condensate per puff, and collects more condensate before saturation.
Aldicarb, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde 0-(methylcarbamoyl)-oxime, is an oxime carbamate insecticide produced by the Union Carbide Corporation under the code number "UC 21149," trademark "Temik," and has the structural formula: Aldicarb is relatively soluble in water and most organic solvents. It is a stable compound, except in strong alkaline solutions, and is nonflammable and noncorrosive to metal. Aldicarb is a systemic pesticide used against a variety of insects and nematodes. The insecticide is applied below the soil surface for absorption by plant root systems, and moisture is required to release the toxicant from granules. Aldicarb is currently registered for use on a variety of crops, including cotton, sugar beets, sugar cane, certain citrus fruits, potatoes, sweet potatoes, peanuts, and ornamental plants; it may generally provide plant protection for a period of up to 12 weeks after application, depending on soil and climatic conditions. The half-life of aldicarb varies from approximately 1 to 2 weeks under laboratory conditions, but may be much shorter in the field or longer if it leaches to groundwater or if cool, nonalkaline conditions prevail.
Clostridium butyricum is considered to be one of the most promising producer of 1,3-PD from glycerol, among the Clostridium genera, followed by C. acetobutylicum, C. pasteurianum, and C. beijerinckii [25] . C. butyricum affords a higher yield of 1,3-PD (0.64 mol/mol) [26] and shorter fermentation time; in addition, no accumulation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde is observed when using C. butyricum [4] . Moreover, in contrast to other microorganisms, 1,3-PD production by C. butyricum does not depend on vitamin B12, which is an economic advantage in industrial applications [27] . While using crude glycerol for fermentation has the economic advantage of eliminating difficult purification steps, yield and productivity could be affected due to the presence of impurities and inhibitors, such as high concentrations of sodium, lead and nickel ions, as well as methanol, soap, and different solid organic materials [28] . In addition, low tolerance of C. butyricum to long chain fatty acids, such as oleic, linoleic, stearic, and palmitic acid, which are present in crude glycerol in high concentrations [3] , could also affect the fermentation performance. One of the strategies for avoiding interaction between cells and high molecular weight impurities is to create a protective barrier between cells and the surrounding environment. The production of 1,3-PD was, therefore, investigated by using cells immobilized into polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) hydrogel particles, by the LentiKats ® method (Lentikats a.s., Prague, Czech Republic). Hydrogel particles provide a stable, consistent, and protective microenvironment, designed to prolong the survival and metabolic activity of cells, which tolerate environmental stresses better, when protected in this way [29] . Moreover, PVA hydrogel particles [30] represent a promising protective barrier against the fatty acids contained in crude glycerol, as it is difficult for large molecules to penetrate them.
Few studies have been made regarding carbonyl concentrations in Monterrey, Mexico. The Monterrey Metropolitan Area (MMA) has the third largest population in the country and has increasing pollution issues. The concentrations of 10 aldehydes and two ketones were measured in the MMA, in the spring and fall of 2011 and 2012. Formaldehyde (16–42 ppbv) was the most abundant carbonyl, followed by acetaldehyde (5–15 ppbv) and acetone (7–15 ppbv). The concentrations showed marked diurnal trends with maximum values between 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m., when photochemical activity is intense. Thus, secondary production of carbonyls is statistically significant in the city. Biogenic production of several carbonyls, such as 2-butanone, was supported by their mid correlation with solar radiation and low correlation with propionaldehyde, which is mainly emitted by anthropogenic sources. The seasonal variability of the concentrations was observed in the first three samplings, with the highest levels reached in the fall. The...
Skimmilks were fortified with 1, 10, 100, 1000, 10,000, and 100,000 ppm of the following milk-associated volatile compounds: acetaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, 2-butanone, 2-pentanone, ethanethiol, 1-propanethiol, 2-propanethiol, chloroform, ether, acetonitrile, ethylene dichloride, and methylsulfide. They were then inoculated with Streptococcus cremoris, incubated at 22 C, and tested after 2, 5, 8, 11, and 16 hr of incubation for total numbers and titratable acid. The aldehydes, at concentrations of 10 – 100 ppm and higher, markedly reduced both growth and acid production with the effects most pronounced at and beyond 11 hr of incubation. Ketones tested were less inhibitory than the aldehydes and, at the higher concentration, caused a more pronounced reduction in acid development than in growth. The thiols, especially at concentrations of 100 and 1000 ppm, markedly reduced growth but this was not reflected in a similar reduction of acid production. Chloroform and ether were more de...
The invention discloses a process method for producing L-2-aminobutanamide hydrochloride serving as an intermediate of levetiracetam, which solves the problem that the conventional produced product has excessively high impurity content or production cost is too high for an enterprise to bear and the like. The method is characterized by comprising the following steps of: reacting propionaldehyde with ammonia water, ammonium chloride and sodium cyanide to obtain 2-amino butyronitrile; hydrolyzing the 2-amino butyronitrile under an alkali condition to obtain 2-aminobutanamide; and splitting the 2-aminobutanamide with L-tartaric acid to obtain the L-2-aminobutanamide hydrochloride. An L-2-amino amides product of which the content is over 99.5 percent is obtained by removing a byproduct, namely, sodium chloride by recrystallization so as to meet the use requirement of foreign customers. The process has the advantages of high yield, high safety and low cost and can be widely suitable for industrialized production of medium-sized and small enterprises.
Electrophilicity is one of the most common features of skin contact sensitizers and is necessary for protein haptenation. The Keap1 (Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1)/Nrf2 -signaling pathway is dedicated to the detection of electrophilic stress in cells leading to the upregulation of genes involved in protection or neutralization of chemical reactive species. Signals provided by chemical stress could play an important role in dendritic cell activation and the aim of this work was to test whether contact sensitizers were specific activators of the Keap1/Nrf2 pathway. CD34-derived dendritic cells (CD34-DC) and the THP-1 myeloid cell line were treated by a panel of sensitizers (Ni, 1-chloro 2,4-dinitrobenzene, cinnamaldehyde, 7-hydroxycitronellal, 1,4-dihydroquinone, alpha-methyl-trans-cinnamaldehyde, 2-4-tert-(butylbenzyl)propionaldehyde or Lilial, and 1,4-phenylenediamine), irritants (sodium dodecyl sulfate, benzalkonium chloride), and a nonsensitizer molecule (chlorobenzene). Three well-known Nrf2 activators (tert-butylhydroquinone, lipoic acid, sulforaphane) were also tested. Expression of hmox1 and nqo1 was measured using real-time PCR and cellular accumulation of Nrf2 was assessed by Western blot. Our results showed an increased expression at early time points of hmox1 and nqo1 mRNAs in response to sensitizers but not to irritants. Accumulation of the Nrf2 protein was also observed only with chemical sensitizers. A significant inhibition of the expression of hmox1 and nqo1 mRNAs and CD86 expression was found in 1-chloro 2,4-dinitrobenzene-treated THP-1 cells preincubated with N-acetyl cysteine, a glutathione precursor. Altogether, these data suggested that the Keap1/Nrf2-signaling pathway was activated by electrophilic molecules including sensitizers in dendritic cells and in the THP-1 cell line. Monitoring of this pathway may provide new biomarkers (e.g., Nrf2, hmox1) for the detection of the sensitization potential of chemicals.
This paper describes 2 alternative methodologies for the determination of selected aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, and benzaldehyde) by capillary electrophoresis (CE). The first approach is based on the formation of aldehyde-bisulfite adducts and employs free solution CE with reversed electroosmotic flow and indirect detection, using 10 mmol/L 3,5-dinitrobenzoic acid (pH 4.5) containing 0.2 mmol/L cetyltrimethylammonium bromide as the electrolyte. This novel methodology showed a fairly good sensitivity to concentration, with detection limits with respect to a single aldehyde on the order of 10-40 μg/L, a reasonable analysis time (separation was achieved in <8 min), and no need for sample manipulation. A second approach was proposed in which 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine derivatives of the aldehydes were detected in a micellar electrolyte medium (20 mmol/L borate buffer containing 50 mmol/L sodium dodecyl sulfate and 15 mmol/L β-cyclodextrin). This latter methodology included a laborious sample preconcentration step and showed much poorer sensitivity (0.5-2 mg/L detection limit, with respect to a single aldehyde), despite the use of sodium chloride to promote sample stacking. Both methodologies proved adequate to evaluate aldehyde levels in vehicular emissions. Samples from the tailpipe exhaust of a passenger car vehicle without a catalytic converter and operated with an ethanol-based fuel were collected and analyzed; the results showed high levels of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde (0.41-6.1 ppm, v/v). The concentrations estimated by the 2 methodologies, which were not in good agreement, suggest the possibility of striking differences in sample collection efficiency, which was not the concern of this work.
In 80 dogs anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital (30 mg/kg i.v.), the cardiac effects of some simple aliphatic aldehydes were studied, utilizing direct perfusion of the sinus node through its nutrient artery and also i.v. administration. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and but yraldehyde produced an immediate sympathomimetic action, manifested by sinus tachycardia and arterial hypertension, but had no significant effect on Q-T interval. Formaldehyde amid glutaraldehyde produced Q-T prolongation, and thereby ventricular fibrillation, but had no significant sympathomimetic effect. Formic acid, acetic acid, methanol, ethanol and other closely related substances produced neither sympathomimetic activity nor Q-T prolongation. On examining the structure of the active substances, it was determined that the sympathomimetic activity of aliphatic aldehydes depends on the presene of a terminal aldehyde and a free contralateral, nearby terminal methyl group, and that this action was stromigest in the compound containing only these two essential groups (acetaldehyde). The Q-T prolonging effect is directly caused by the aldehyde group, and the presence of neighboring free methyl or hvdroxyl groups eliminated this effect.
The crystal structures of both isoforms of the aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase from pea (PsAMADH) have been solved recently [Tylichováet al. (2010) J Mol Biol396, 870-882]. The characterization of the PsAMADH2 proteins, altered here by site-directed mutagenesis, suggests that the D110 and D113 residues at the entrance to the substrate channel are required for high-affinity binding of ω-aminoaldehydes to PsAMADH2 and for enzyme activity, whereas N162, near catalytic C294, contributes mainly to the enzyme's catalytic rate. Inside the substrate cavity, W170 and Y163, and, to a certain extent, L166 and M167 probably preserve the optimal overall geometry of the substrate channel that allows for the appropriate orientation of the substrate. Unconserved W288 appears to affect the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate amino group through control of the substrate channel diameter without affecting the reaction rate. Therefore, W288 may be a key determinant of the differences in substrate specificity found among plant AMADH isoforms when they interact with naturally occurring substrates such as 3-aminopropionaldehyde and 4-aminobutyraldehyde.
Effects of the use of inert supports for TiO2 loading on photocatalyzed decomposition of propionaldehyde in the gas phase was investigated for mordenite support with various amounts of TiO2 loading and for several kinds of supports such as other zeolites, alumina, silica, and activated carbon. The adsorption constant and the amount of adsorption of propionaldehyde were evaluated for TiO2-loaded supports by obtaining Langmuir adsorption isotherms. By correlating these parameters to the photodecomposition rates of propionaldehyde, the involvement of the support in the photodecomposition reaction is clarified. The photocatalytic activity of TiO2 on mordenite having various amounts of TiO2 loading increases with increase in the amount of loaded TiO2 up to an optimum value (ca. 50 wt %), beyond which a decreasing tendency of the activity appeared. In the region of ascending activity, plenty of adsorbed substrate is available and the activity is controlled by the content of TiO2, while in the region of descending activity, the decrease in the amount of adsorbed substrate due to a decrease in the occupancy of the support by the TiO2 loading is responsible for the activity decrease. The photocatalytic activities are greatly influenced by the kind of inert supports used and show a volcano type dependence on the adsorption constant of the TiO2-loaded supports. In cases where the adsorption constant is low, the decomposition rate is determined by the amount of adsorbed substrate, while if the adsorption constant is very high, plenty of adsorbed substrate is available on the support, but it is not mobile to the loaded TiO2. We conclude that the use of an inert support having a medium adsorption constant is necessary to obtain the highest activity, where a high amount of adsorbed substrate that can be supplied to TiO2 particles is available.
Smog chamber/FTIR techniques were used to study the atmospheric chemistry of 3-pentanol and determine rate constants of k(Cl+3-pentanol) = (2.03 +/- 0.23) x 10 (-10) and k(OH+3-pentanol) = (1.32 +/- 0.15) x 10 (-11) cm (3) molecule (-1) s (-1) in 700 Torr of N 2/O 2 diluent at 296 +/- 2 K. The primary products of the Cl atom initiated oxidation of 3-pentanol in the absence of NO were (with molar yields) 3-pentanone (26 +/- 2%), propionaldehyde (12 +/- 2%), acetaldehyde (13 +/- 2%) and formaldehyde (2 +/- 1%). The primary products of the Cl atom initiated oxidation of 3-pentanol in the presence of NO were (with molar yields) 3-pentanone (51 +/- 4%), propionaldehyde (39 +/- 2%), acetaldehyde (44 +/- 4%) and formaldehyde (4 +/- 1%). The primary products of the OH radical initiated oxidation of 3-pentanol in the presence of NO were (with molar yields) 3-pentanone (58 +/- 3%), propionaldehyde (28 +/- 2%), and acetaldehyde (37 +/- 2%). In all cases the product yields were independent of oxygen concentration over the partial pressure range 10-700 Torr. The reactions of Cl atoms and OH radicals with 3-pentanol proceed 26 +/- 2 and 58 +/- 3%, respectively, via attack on the 3-position to give an alpha-hydroxyalkyl radical, which reacts with O 2 to give 3-pentanone. The results are discussed with respect to the literature data and atmospheric chemistry of 3-pentanol.
A one-pot procedure was developed for the synthesis of 3-isothiocyanatopropionaldehyde and 3-isothiocyanatobutyraldehyde diethyl acetals from the corresponding α,β-unsaturated aldehydes. Reactions of 1,1-diethoxy-3-isothiocyanatobutane with aliphatic amines and hydrazines gave, respectively, substituted thioureas and thiosemicarbazides which underwent acid-catalyzed cyclization to form 6-ethoxytetrahydropyrimidine-2(1H)-thiones, 9,10-dimethoxy-2-methyl-1,2,3,6,7,11b-hexahydro-4H-pyrimido[6,1-a]isoquinoline-4-thiones, and 2-methyl-2,3,6,7,12,12b-hexahydropyrimido[1′,6′:1,2]pyrido[3,4-b]indole-4(1H)-thione.
In this article we examine results obtained in a direct quantum calculation (based on the semiempirical MINDO/3 method) of the electrooptical parameters (EOPs) and the optimized molecular geometry of a series of saturated aldehydes: formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and valeraldehyde. The quantum calculation was performed in a system of dependent natural coordinates. The EOPs of the molecules were found within the framework of a valence—optical scheme and have been used in solving problems of determining intensities of IR absorption bands. Theoretical and experimental curves have been compared.
Laboratory experiments have been performed to examine the potential of adsorptive enrichment thermal desorption and gas chromatography for the analysis of low molecular-weight oxygenated compounds in gaseous samples. The experiments were conducted with test atmospheres containing, for example, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, methacrolein, and acetone. The suitability of the graphitized carbon blacks Carbotrap X and Carbograph 5 for sampling these compounds was tested. In this context the influence of humidity on the recovery of the analytes and on the storage stability of the loaded adsorbent tubes over a period of seven days under different storage conditions was investigated. Losses of up to 60% propionaldehyde and acrolein were observed for Carbotrap X, even immediately after sampling. In contrast Carbograph 5 seems promising for the sampling of low molecular-weight oxygenated compounds, although with some limitations. The laboratory investigations were proved by use of an interlaboratory experiment.
We successfully converted myoglobin, an oxygen-storage hemoprotein, into an oxygen-activating hemoprotein like cytochrome P450s by replacing the native hemin with the artificially created flavohemin. The reconstituted myoglobin, rMb(1), was chacterized by ESI-TOF-mass, UV-vis, and fluorescence spectra. The 1H NMR spectrum of cyanomet rMb(1) indicates that two hemin conformers are present in a ratio of 1:1. Upon the addition of NADH to the buffer solution of rMb(1) in the presence of SOD and catalase, the oxymyoglobin was rapidly formed. As compared with the formation of the oxygenated native myoglobin in the presence of 10-N-(acetylaminoethyl)isoalloxazine, the rate constant of the oxyheme formation in rMb(1) is 6 times larger. This is because the flavin covalently linked to the terminal heme propionate functions as an effective mediator of an electron transfer from NADH to the hemin in rMb(1). Furthermore, rMb(1) shows the deformylation activity, when 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (2-PPA) was employed as a substrate. This result indicates that the oxyheme is reductively activated to Fe(III)-peroxoanion (Fe(III)-O22-). The result in this report is the first example of the activation of dioxygen by myoglobin. This study shows the utility of the replacement of the native hemin with a chemically modified one for the functionalization of myoglobin.
Objectives: Aldicarb (2-methyl-2[methylthio] propionaldehyde-o-[methylcarbomyl] oxime), an inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase, is an extremely toxic systemic carbamate pesticide and used commonly in Turkey for crop protection against a wide variety of insects. Its agricultural usage may also cause environmental contamination leading to some harmful effects on human health. In addition, aldicarb has a potential risk that terrorist groups might use delibaretely against public as a chemical weapon due to its commercial availability on the markets and handling without any restriction. Therefore, its removal or detoxification has been increasingly gaining a great importance. Methods: In this study, we investigated the degradation effect of soil bacteria on aldicarb which contaminates the soil following usage for a long time by using some biochemical methods including chromatograhic and spectrophotometric techniques. Results: The results of various biochemical methods showed that some of the soil bacteria had the ability to utilize aldicarb through hydrolysis and degradation by bacterial enzyme-esterase. Stenotrophomonas maltophilia was also determined as having the most biodegradative effect on aldicarb. Conclusion: Based on these data, we may expect that some soil bacteria in the form of biotechnological materials can be used in order to decontaminate / detoxify aldicarb or chemical agents similar to such pesticides.
: Poly(m-xylylene adipamide) (nylon MXD6), D-sorbitol, and a-cyclodextrin aldehyde-scavenging agents were blended with poly(ethylene terephthalate) and thermally pressed into films. Films were stored in an acidified aqueous model solution (pH 3.6) containing a 25 μM mixture of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, valeraldehyde, and caproaldehyde for 1, 3, 7, and 14 d. The total amount of aldehydes sorbed by films was 2 to 10 times higher for films containing aldehyde-scavenging agents than nonblended films. Aldehyde-scavenging films demonstrated selective scalping, preferring smaller molecular weight aldehydes to larger aldehydes. Partition coefficients for smaller aldehydes were 3 to 6 times greater for aldehyde-scavenging films than control film.
The essential oil of fresh Paederia scandens (Lour.) Merr. was extracted by general steam distillation,and then separated the constituents by GC and identified their structures by MS.A total of 27 compounds were identified.The identified constituents represent 99.98% of the peak area of the components of the essential oil of fresh Paederia scandens (Lour.) Merr.The principal chemical constituents of the essential oil of fresh Paederia scandens (Lour.) Merr. are Acetic acid(31.14%), 2-Methyl-2-buten-1-ol(3.32%), Furfural(7.49%), 3-Furanmethanol(6.10%), 3-(Methylthio)propionaldehyde(0.61%), Linalool oxide(8.54%), trans-Linalool oxide(10.37%), Linalool( 3.93%), Isophorone(1.90%), 5-Methyl-6,7-dihydro-(5H)-cyclopentapyrazine(0.72%), Epoxylinalol( 1.00%), Isoborneol(6.35%), beta.Fenchyl alcohol(7.30%), etc.
The rhodium supported on active carbon has been found to be active for pentan-3-one formation from C2H4 CO and H2, whereas other supported Rh catalysts investigated were inactive for this reaction. In the reaction at temperatures < 373 K, the rate of formation of pentan-3-one was higher than that of propionaldehyde. However, the deactivation of the active species for pentan-3-one formation was observed in the reaction at 413 K.
Aldicarb toxicosis was diagnosed in 200 sheep that died suddenly. Carbamate insecticide toxicosis Aldicarb toxicosis was diagnosed in 200 sheep that died suddenly. Carbamate insecticide toxicosis was suspected based on observed clinical signs (hypersalivation, diarrhea, urination, paddling, seizures, miosis, was suspected based on observed clinical signs (hypersalivation, diarrhea, urination, paddling, seizures, miosis, and deaths occurring within 1 hour). Tissue samples were submitted from 4 Columbian ewes for pathologic and deaths occurring within 1 hour). Tissue samples were submitted from 4 Columbian ewes for pathologic and analytical evaluation. Severe diffuse pulmonary edema was observed on gross and histologic examination. and analytical evaluation. Severe diffuse pulmonary edema was observed on gross and histologic examination. Inhibition of cholinesterase activity in retina (21.2-68.1% of normal activity, n = 3), brain (40.6-45.6% of normal activity, n = 3), and whole blood (27% of normal activity, n = 3), and whole blood (27% of normal activity, n = 1) supported a diagnosis of carbamate 1) supported a diagnosis of carbamate toxicosis. Reversal of brain and whole blood cholinesterase activities (reactivation factor > 1.4) following an toxicosis. Reversal of brain and whole blood cholinesterase activities (reactivation factor > 1.4) following an in vitro 1 hour incubation at 37 C was also consistent with carbamate poisoning. Aldicarb toxicosis was confirmed following its detection in rumen contents at 1.5, 5.5, and 334 ppm using both high-pressure liquid chromatog- raphy with UV detection and gas chromatography with nitrogen/phosphorus detection. raphy with UV detection and gas chromatography with nitrogen/phosphorus detection. Aldicarb (2-methyl-2(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)-oxime) (Temik®) is a highly toxic carbamate insecticide. Carbamate insecticides are potent reversible inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase ac- tivity. A toxic dose of aldicarb produces severe cho- linergic signs including salivation, urination, defeca- tion, ataxia, dyspnea, seizures, and death. The onset of clinical signs is rapid, and the severity is dependent on the dose, route of exposure, and species involved. A diagnosis of aldicarb toxicosis is based upon the presence of appropriate clinical signs, acetylcholines- terase activity inhibition, and analytical confirmation.
The invention relates to a 1,3-propanediol production method. The invention mainly aims at solving the problems of low activity and low selectivity of 1,3-propanediol catalyst in prior arts. The 1,3-propanediol production method comprises the following steps: vinyl acetate is subjected to hydroformylation, such that 3-acetoxypropionaldehyde is obtained; 3-acetoxypropionaldehyde is hydrogenated, such that 3-acetoxypropanol is obtained; and 3-acetoxypropanol is hydrolyzed, such that 1,3-propanediol is obtained. A hydroformylation catalyst adopts SiO2, Al2O3 or a mixture thereof as a carrier, and active components comprise rhodium, alkaline earth metal and at least one metal element selected from VA and IVB. With the above technical scheme, the technical problem is well solved. The method can be applied in 1,3-propanediol industrial production.
Novel 4'-cyclopropyl-5'-norcarbocyclic adenosine phosphonic acid analogues were designed and racemically synthesized from propionaldehyde 5 through a de novo acyclic stereoselective route using triple Grignard addition and ring-closing metathesis (RCM) as key reactions. To improve cellular permeability and enhance the anti-HIV activity of this phosphonic acid, SATE phosphonodiester nucleoside prodrug 23 was prepared. The synthesized adenosine phosphonic acids analogues 17, 18, 19, 21, and 23 were subjected to antiviral screening against HIV-1. Compound 23 exhibits enhanced anti-HIV activity than its parent nucleoside phosphonic acid 18.
Nine nematicide treatments were evaluated from 1993 through 1995 in field experiments on paprika pepper (Capsicum annuum L.). Materials tested included a chitin- urea soil amendment and six chemicals: fosthiazate, carbofuran, aldicarb, oxamyl, fenamiphos, and 1,3-dichloropropene (1,3-D). Stands at harvest were increased relative to the control by chitin-urea, fosthiazate, and 1,3-D, but only fosthiazate increased market- able fruit yield relative to the control. Aldicarb reduced preharvest nematode populations relative to the control, but aldicarb did not result in a significant fruit yield increase. Chitin-urea was the only treatment to produce a net increase in nematode counts from preplant to preharvest in all three years. Although fosthiazate was promising, nematicide treatments were of limited benefit under the conditions of these studies. Chemical names used: (RS)-S-sec-butyl O-ethyl 2-oxo-1,3-thiazolidin-3- ylphosphonothioate (fosthiazate); 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate (carbofuran); 2-methyl-2- (methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime (aldicarb); methyl NN´-di- methyl-N-((methylcarbamoyl)oxy)-1-thiooxamimidate (oxamyl); ethyl 3-methyl-4- (methylthio)phenyl(1-methylethyl) phosphoramidate (fenamiphos).
Abstract A paper chromatographic study has been made of the resolution of a mixture of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, valeraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, 2-methylbutyraldehyde, and furfural 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones, and the possibel interference of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine in identification of the components, was investigated. Using pure aldehyde hydrazones (mixtures R) as a reference standard, an examination was made of the completeness of the isolation of these aldehyde hydrazones from aqueous ethanol (mixture M), by an adsorption and elution technique, by comparing the intensities of the spots of the components of both mixtures in the chromatogram.
The zinc-enamine EtZn(t-BuNCH=CHN(Et)-t-Bu) I is easily accessible via the reaction of Et 2 Zn with the α-diimine t-BuN=CHCH=N-t-Bu (t-BuDAB) and is reactive in C-C coupling reactions with aldehydes to form dimeric zinc-aldolates. The reactions of 1 with aryl aldehydes, like benzaldehyde and 2-, 3-, and 4-pyridinecarboraldehyde, afford exclusively the anti zinc-aldolates, whereas the reactions with alkyl aldehydes like propionaldehyde and 2-medylpropionaldehyde afford a mixture of syn and anti zinc-aldolates
Abstract Dehydration of 1,2-propanediol has been investigated over a range of zeolite catalysts with different pore structures and acidity. The reaction forms part of a two-step process for the conversion of glycerol to propionaldehyde. The effects of reaction temperature, concentration, space velocity, and SiO 2 /Al 2 O 3 ratio have been studied. The medium pore size, unidirectional channel zeolites ZSM-23 and Theta-1 showed high activity and selectivity to propionaldehyde (exceeding 90 wt% at 300–350 °C). Selectivity to the intermolecular dehydration product 2-ethyl-4-methyl-1,3-dioxolane was high at lower temperatures for all the zeolites, but decreased to a low value at higher temperatures and lower GHSV. The results are discussed in relation to the reaction mechanism and zeolite structures. Significant deactivation was observed for higher 1,2-propanediol partial pressures, which was partially mitigated by the addition of steam.
Electrophilicity is one of the most common features of skin contact sensitizers and is necessary for protein haptenation. The Keap1 (Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1)/Nrf2 -signaling pathway is dedicated to the detection of electrophilic stress in cells leading to the upregulation of genes involved in protection or neutralization of chemical reactive species. Signals provided by chemical stress could play an important role in dendritic cell activation and the aim of this work was to test whether contact sensitizers were specific activators of the Keap1/Nrf2 pathway. CD34-derived dendritic cells (CD34-DC) and the THP-1 myeloid cell line were treated by a panel of sensitizers (Ni, 1-chloro 2,4-dinitrobenzene, cinnamaldehyde, 7-hydroxycitronellal, 1,4-dihydroquinone, a-methyl-trans-cinnamaldehyde, 2-4-tert-(butylbenzyl)propionaldehyde or Lilial, and 1,4-phenylenediamine), irritants (sodium dodecyl sulfate, benzalkonium chloride), and a nonsensitizer molecule (chlorobenzene). Three well-known Nrf2 activators (tert-butylhydroquinone, lipoic acid, sulforaphane) were also tested. Expression of hmox1 and nqo1 was measured using real-time PCR and cellular accumulation of Nrf2 was assessed by Western blot. Our results showed an increased expression at early time points of hmox1 and nqo1 mRNAs in response to sensitizers but not to irritants. Accumulation of the Nrf2 protein was also observed only with chemical sensitizers. A significant inhibition of the expression of hmox1 and nqo1 mRNAs and CD86 expression was found in 1-chloro 2,4-dinitrobenzenetreated THP-1 cells preincubated with N-acetyl cysteine, a glutathione precursor. Altogether, these data suggested that the Keap1/ Nrf2-signaling pathway was activated by electrophilic molecules including sensitizers in dendritic cells and in the THP-1 cell line. Monitoring of this pathway may provide new biomarkers (e.g., Nrf2, hmox1) for the detection of the sensitization potential of chemicals.
The crystal structures of both isoforms of the aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase from pea (PsAMADH) have been solved recently [Tylichova´et al. (2010) J Mol Biol 396, 870-882]. The characterization of the PsAMADH2 proteins, altered here by site-directed mutagenesis, suggests that the D110 and D113 residues at the entrance to the substrate channel are required for high-affinity binding of x-aminoaldehydes to PsAMADH2 and for enzyme activity, whereas N162, near catalytic C294, contributes mainly to the enzyme's catalytic rate. Inside the substrate cavity, W170 and Y163, and, to a certain extent, L166 and M167 probably preserve the optimal overall geometry of the substrate channel that allows for the appropriate orientation of the substrate. Unconserved W288 appears to affect the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate amino group through control of the substrate channel diameter without affecting the reaction rate. Therefore, W288 may be a key determinant of the differences in substrate specificity found among plant AMADH isoforms when they interact with naturally occurring substrates such as 3-aminopropionaldehyde and 4-aminobutyraldehyde.
Polyamine breakdown has attracted increasing attention in recent years because of its association with programmed cell death processes under normal physiological conditions and during stress responses [1] . This oxidative pathway is mediated by amine oxidases, and produces various x-aminoaldehydes, such as 3-aminopropionaldehyde (APAL) and 4-aminobutyraldehyde (ABAL) [2] . The free polyamine-derived aminoaldehydes, especially APAL, are reactive and cytotoxic when present at high concentrations [3] . Their oxidation by the NAD(P) + -dependent aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase (AMADH) results in the formation of nontoxic metabolites, such as b-alanine and c-aminobutyric acid [4] .
Among several synthetic methods for the construction of 1, 6 notable streamlined efforts have recently been made. In 2003, Cossy and coworkers developed a concise and elegant synthetic pathway consisting of a longest linear sequence of 9-steps, starting from 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, that utilized the dual use of enantioselective allyltitanation in conjunction with cross metathesis (CM). 6a In 2010, Das and coworkers devised a comparable pathway with an LLS of 10-steps using Sharpless kinetic resolution and olefin cross-metathesis. 6g In 2010, She and coworkers 6h developed an efficient route employing a one-pot, double allylboration comprised of a pathway with a 7-step LLS using an Ipc 2 BH-derived borylsubstituted allylborane, derived in two steps from propargyl bromide, 7 3-butenal, derived in two steps from glyoxal, and a ketal-protected aldehyde. 8 Despite significant attributes of these syntheses, 6 the development of simple, efficient, scalable strategies that are library amenable for installation of key diversity elements in a divergent manner, is notably absent in the literature. In this regard, multi-reaction one-pot protocols have emerged as powerful synthetic strategies to achieve total/intermediate/analog synthesis, due to the ability to form multiple bonds and stereocenters, while invoking step, atom, 9, green and pot economy, 10 thus saving time and resources. Herein, we disclose an efficient, modular approach for the total synthesis of both naturally occurring antifungal compounds 1 and 2, highlighting the utility of two consecutive phosphate tether-mediated one-pot, sequential protocols, namely a one-pot, sequential, RCM/CM/chemo-selective hydrogenation protocol, 11 followed by a one-pot, sequential reductive allylic transposition/tether removal method and final CM with overall minimal purification. A critical feature of this strategy is modular installation of the western and eastern 5,6-dihydro-α-pyrone subunits via two facile CM reactions, thus opening future opportunities in library development.
Propylene glycol (PG) has been used to increase energy supply and as glycogen precursor in ruminants. It is metabolized by ruminal microbiota and reduced to n-propanol or lactate, being initially converted into propionaldehyde by dehydration processes. PG supply increases the concentration of propionate in the rumen, indirectly through lactate formation; then, it can be converted to glucose in the liver [7] . PG fermentation in the rumen is also characterized by inhibiting methane production, resulting in lower energy loss [8] .
Caustic towers of ethylene plants are usually located upstream of the last stage of the cracked gas compressor. Cracked gas is contaminated with acid gases (e.g., H 2 S and CO 2 ) as well as ''low oxygenates'' (e.g., formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde). H 2 S (originating from sulfur containing species in the feedstock) and CO 2 (originating from coking/decoking reactions in the furnace) can poison catalysts and degrade the quality of the final product. Such contaminants are thus removed by caustic scrubbing, which consists in circulating a weak sodium hydroxide solution (*1 wt%) in one part of the column and a strong sodium hydroxide solution (5-10 wt%) in the other part of the column.
The partial oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde on a TiO 2 supported VO x catalyst in the presence of water vapor was investigated at temperatures from 120 to 280 °C. Depending on the kind of aldehyde and reaction temperature, the selective oxidation to the appropriate carboxylic acid and an oxidative splitting to lower carboxylic acids took place. Acetaldehyde was oxidized to acetic acid with selectivities up to 82 % at ∼ 200 °C whereas propionic acid was formed only with selectivities of about 20 % at ∼ 140 °C in the oxidation of propionaldehyde. The oxidative cleavage of propionaldehyde led to the formation of more acetic acid than formic acid, which was in agreement with the higher formation of CO x compared to that in the acetaldehyde oxidation. The presence of water and the increasing concentration of oxygen in the feed was found to enhance the selectivity towards the formation of C 1 to C 3 carboxylic acids by inhibiting the total oxidation of aldehydes and carboxylic acids.
Abstract Carbonyls emitted from essential oils can affect the air quality when they are used in indoors, especially under poor ventilation conditions. Lavender, lemon, rose, rosemary, and tea tree oils were selected as typical and popular essential oils to investigate in terms of composition, thermal characteristics and fifteen carbonyl constituents. Based on thermogravimetric (TG) analysis, the activation energy was 7.6–8.3 kcal mol−1, the reaction order was in the range of 0.6–0.7 and the frequency factor was 360–2838 min−1. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, and propionaldehyde were the dominant carbonyl compounds, and their concentrations were 0.034–0.170 ppm. The emission factors of carbonyl compounds were 2.10–3.70 mg g−1, and acetone, propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and formaldehyde accounted for a high portion of the emission factor of carbonyl compounds in essential oil exhaust. Some unhealthy carbonyl species such as formaldehyde and valeraldehyde, were measured at low-temperature during the vaporization of essential oils, indicating a potential effect on indoor air quality and human health.
The dominant position among oxidoreduction processes in peroxisomes is ascribed to catalase, a number of aerobic oxidases, and Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase. The peroxidase reaction of catalase requires substrates for hydrogen donation, other than H2O2, e.g. alcohols, aldehydes, formic acid. The peroxisomes contain an alternative system of beta-oxidation of higher carboxylic acids which in some types of plant cells is functionally very closely associated with the glyoxylate cycle. Regarding the role of peroxisomes in the metabolism of carboxylic acids, a very important finding has taken place, namely that besides acyl-CoA synthetase which is specific for long chains, the peroxisomes contain still another enzyme which allows the synthesis of CoA esters of fatty acids with very long chains. It is assumed that the entry of acyl-CoA esters or fatty acids into the perxisomes is performed by means of pores in membranes or acyl-carnitine transferases. Peroxisomes oxidize a very wide scale of substrates and contain several types of acyl-CoA oxidases: palmitoyl-CoA oxidase, pristanoyl-CoA oxidase, trihydroxy-coprostanoyl-CoA oxidase. The second and third reactions of peroxisomal beta-oxidation are catalyzed by the so-called three-functional enzyme, the activities of which are identical to those of 2-enoyl-CoA hydratase, beta-hydroxyacyl-CoA dihydrogenase and enoyl-CoA isomerase. The peroxisomes sufficiently oxidize dicarboxylic acids with a higher number of carbons beginning with the adipic acid. The peroxisomal system of beta-oxidation is utilized in metabolism of prostaglandins, pristanic acid-being the product of phytanic acid alpha-oxidation, and cholesterol. Several enzymatic activities needed for the synthesis of cholesterol partially take place in peroxisomes. The peroxisomes represent a decisive compartment for the initial phases of synthesis of plasmalogens. They contain the following enzymes: NAD(+)-glycerol-P-dehydrogenase, dihydroxyacetone-3-P-acyl-transferase, alkyl-dihydroxyacetone-P synthetase and acyl/alkyl-dihydroxyacetone-P reductase. The metabolism of amino acids takes place under the effect of peroxisomal enzymes--oxidase of diamino acids, D-aspartate oxidase, oxidase of L-pipecolic acid and alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase. Only a few published sources consider it obvious that liver peroxisomes participate in degradation of spermine and spermidine. Polyamine oxidase oxidizes spermine resulting in the origin of spermidine and 3-aminopropionaldehyde, and spermidine is oxidized to putrescine and 3-aminopropionaldehyde. Peroxisomes in many phylogenetically lower animal species enable the break down of purine bases to urea and glyoxylic acid. In phylogenetically higher primates and in man, the activities of urate oxidase in peroxisomes are absent. (Fig. 14, Ref. 166).
Soybean cyst nematode (Heterodera glycines', SCN) causes the greatest yield losses of all diseases on soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] in Iowa. Growing SCNresistant varieties in rotation with non-host crops and SCN-susceptible varieties is the current management recommendation for SCN in Iowa. Previous research has shown that SCN population densities are positively correlated with soil pH. The correlation may reduce the efficacy of the current SCN management recommendation in northern and central Iowa, which is located in the Des Moines lobe area, a calcareous soil area with high pH soil. The hypothesis for this research is that additional management strategies, such as the use of a nematicide (aldicarb), may need to be considered added to the current SCN management recommendations in Iowa. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of nematicide in combination with SCN-resistant soybean varieties on grain yield and SCN population densities in fields with different soil pH. Main plots were two planting dates (early versus late May). The sub-plots were four rates of aldicarb [2methyl-2(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime], applied in-furrow (0.0, 0.8, 1.7 and 2.5 kg a.i. ha"1), and the sub-subplots were ten glyphosate-resistant soybean varieties with different reactions to SCN. The experiment was conducted at two northern locations, one central, and one southern location in Iowa from 2004 to 2005. Soil samples were collected from each plot at planting and at harvest to determine the initial (Pi) and final (Pf) population densities of SCN. Overall, early planting date improved yield. This improvement may be a combination of increased biomass accumulation and diapause of SCN eggs early in the spring. Grain yield and SCN population densities were not influenced by aldicarb. Differences in yield were observed among varieties. However, all
Geochemical and ecological properties of remediated soil and gas exhausted from a low-temperature thermal desorption (LTTD) process were analyzed to assess the environmental impact of LTTD treatment. Soil characteristics were examined with regard to the chemical (EC, CEC, and organic matter) and the ecological (dehydrogenase activity, germination rate of Brassica juncea, and growth of Eisenia andrei) properties. The exhaust gases were analyzed based on the Air Quality Act in Korea as well as volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and mixed odor. Level of organic Organic matter of the soil treated by LTTD process was slightly decreased compared to that of the original soil because the heating temperature () and retention time (less than 15 minutes) were neither high nor long enough for the oxidation of organic matter. The LTTD process results in reducing TPH of the contaminated soil from mg/kg to mg/kg while preserving soil properties. Analysis results of the exhaust gases from the LTTD process satisfied discharge standard of Air Quality Law in Korea. Concentration of VOCs including acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde and valeraldehyde in circulation gas volatilized from contaminated soil were effectively reduced in the regenerative thermal oxidizer and all satisfied the legal standards. Showing ecologically improved properties of contaminated soil after LTTD process and environmentally tolerable impact of the exhaust gas, LTTD treatment of TPH-contaminated soil is an environmentally acceptable technology.
Applications of 4 systemic compounds, Azodrin® (3-hydroxy- N -methyl- cis -crotonamide dimethyl phosphate), Bidrin® (3-hydroxy- N, N -dimethyl- cis -crotonamide dimethyl phosphate), American Cyanamid CL-47031 (cyclic ethylene (diethoxyphosphinyl) dithioimidocarbonate), and Union Carbide UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcalbamoyl) oxime) to leaves 01 roots of cotton seedlings were effective against adult female spider mites from organophosphate-susceptible strains of the strawberry spider mite, Tetranychus atlanticus McGregor; desert spider mite, T. desertorum Banks; tumid spider mite, T. tumidus Banks; two-spotted spider mite, T. urticae Koch; and carmine spider mite, T. cinnabarinus (Boisduval). Azodrin and UC-21149 were effective against an organophosphate-resistant strain of T. cinnabarinus . Also Azodrin and UC-21149 applied by both methods had no effect on the rate of development of T. cinnabarinus , but both compounds reduced its longevity and fecundity.
Abstract We investigated the dehydration of several biomass-derived polyols in sub- and supercritical water, in particular m -erythritol, 1,2-propanediol and 1,3-propandiol. The resulting main products were 1,4-anhydroerythritol and propionaldehyde. The additives tested for their catalytic performance were among others zinc, nickel, copper, magnesium and sodium sulfate as well as sulfuric acid. A positive catalytic effect of bivalent transition metal salts was found. Initial educt and ZnSO 4 concentration variations were carried out in order to determine the reaction orders. Further, activation energies and activation volumes were measured for zinc catalysed dehydrations of the above-mentioned polyols. Finally, a possible explanation for the reaction enhancing or inhibiting effect of different salts is given and discussed.
High costs of production and relatively short serum half-life of mammalian cell-derived recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo) necessitate finding and developing superior hosts/technologies for more efficient production of longer-acting erythropoietic agents. With these aims, we provide the first report on reductive alkylation of low-cost P.pastoris-expressed rHuEpo (PPEpo) with PEG-aldehyde. The PCR-amplified cDNA of native rHuEpo was cloned into the pPICZαA vector and transformed into the yeast Pichia pastoris. The best expressing transformant was selected and employed for secreted-expression of PPEpo using the standard protocols. Purified PPEpo was N-terminally PEGylated with 20-kDa mPEG-propionaldehyde in a low pH (5) condition. The in vitro and in vivo biological activities of purified mono-PEGylated PPEpo was evaluated by the UT-7 cells proliferation assay and normocythaemic mice assay, respectively. Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined following intravenous administration of Epo proteins in rabbits. While PPEpo showed a higher in vitro bioactivity compared to rHuEpo, no in vivo efficiency was determined for PPEpo. However, the in vivo activity of PEG-PPEpo conjugate was comparable to that of rHuEpo. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that the terminal half-life and mean residence time of PEG-PPEpo were increased approximately 4-fold and 6.5-fold respectively, compared with those of PPEpo. The results indicate that N-terminal PEGylation of Pichia-expressed Epo could be considered as a promising approach for generating cost-effective and long-acting erythropoiesis-stimulating agents.
Syntheses of [ 13 C] and [ 14 C]-labelled versions of angiotensin II receptor antagonist GR138950X, labelled in the imidazole carboxamide residue, are described. These involved preparation of an iodoimidazole substrate by a novel iododecarboxylation procedure, followed by cyanation with a mixture of carbon-labelled potassium cyanide and copper (I) iodide in DMF at high temperature. The preparation of a mass-labelled (M+5) version of GR138950X is also described. This involved the synthesis of an [ 13 C 3 , 15 N 2 ]-labelled imidazole from a 1,2,3-tricarbonyl compound, [ 13 C 3 ]propionaldehyde and [ 15 N]ammonia. The labelled imidazole was further elaborated into multiply-labelled GR138950X.
Acrolein is a highly toxic α,β-unsaturated aldehyde that is widely used as a biocide, a cross-linking agent, and an intermediate in the chemical industry, among other applications. In this study we investigated the reductive transformation of acrolein by elemental iron and evaluated the feasibility of using iron to detoxify acrolein. At acidic and neutral pH, acrolein was transformed by iron through reduction of the CC double bond to propionaldehyde. The reduction appeared to involve the chemisorption of acrolein to the iron surface followed by reduction of adsorbed acrolein. Both the adsorption and reduction rate constants decreased with increasing pH. Between pH 7.0 and 7.4, the acrolein adsorption rate constant decreased precipitously, resulting in a sharp decline in its removal rate. At higher pH, acrolein disappeared rapidly in control without iron, presumably due to reversible, base-catalyzed hydration. At equilibrium, approximately 93% of acrolein was hydrated, corresponding to an equilibrium const...
The pathway of propane-1,2-diol metabolism by a species of Flavobacterium able to grow on the diol as the sole source of carbon was influenced by the degree of aeration of the growth medium. Under strongly aerobic conditions the diol was exclusively catabolised to lactaldehyde by an initial diol oxidase, subsequently metabolised to pyruvate and then oxidised to CO2 by the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Under microaerophilic conditions some propane-1,2-diol was catabolised by the oxidase-initiated pathway, but some diol was alternatively catabolised by an inducible diol dehydrase to propionaldehyde and subsequently reduced to n-propanol as an end product of metabolism.
Abstract Photochemically initiated reactions of aliphatic aldehydes, namely acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde, with methyl trifluoroacrylate afforded γ-ketoesters of the type R-CO-CF 2 CHF-COOCH 3 in the liquid phase. In the gas phase reaction further products were formed by addition of the aldehyde fragments to the olefinic bond of the methyl trifluoroacrylate.
Abstract Adsorption isotherms of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde on Davison silica gel were determined gravimetrically at three temperatures. The isoteric heat of adsorption initially increased at low loading and then decreased monotonically with an increase in loading. The equilibrium adsorption data were successfully correlated by Polanyi's potential theory. The equilibrium data were also correlated with the Langmuir, BET, Freundlich, and the Hines et al. models. The Freundlich and the Hines et al. models provided the best fit to the data, while the BET equation was found to be applicable only for a relative pressure range of 0.05 to 0.2. The monolayer surface coverages of silica gel by all of the aldehydes estimated by the Langmuir equation were found to be consistently higher than those calculated from the BET equation, except for acetaldehyde at 306.5 K.
Candida boidinii grows well on spermidine as sole nitrogen source, but poorly on spermine. Cells grown on spermidine, cadaverine, putrescine and 1,3-diaminopropane contained a polyamine oxidase which attacks spermine and spermidine at the secondary amino groups, forming putrescine and a product thought to be 3-aminopropionaldehyde. The enzyme was synthesized before growth began when C. boidinii that had been grown in medium containing glucose + ammonium was transferred to medium in which spermidine replaced ammonium. Other enzymes increasing in specific activity during this adaptation were catalase, benzylamine oxidase and N AD-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase. The polyamine oxidase was purified to 50% homogeneity, but was too unstable to obtain completely pure. It had a pH optimum of 10.0, and could be stabilized by addition of inert protein. It oxidized spermine, spermidine, N ::: 1- acetylspermidine, N-n-butylpropylamine, di-n-butylamine and di-n-hexylamine. It did not oxidize di-n-propylamine, diethylamine or N ::: 1,N ::: 8-diacetylspermidine. Apparent Km values were determined for the active substrates. The enzyme was potently inhibited by quinacrine and by divalent cations. The stoicheiometry of the enzyme reaction was established using di-n-butylamine as substrate. The enzyme has a molecular weight in the range 80000 to 110000. Putrescine (the oxidation product of spermidine) was not oxidized by cell-free extracts, but evidence of aminotransferase activity was found. The oxidation/transamination product of putrescine, 4-aminobutyraldehyde (1-pyrroline), was oxidized by extracts and a scheme is presented by which spermidine could be catabolized. Polyamine oxidase was shown to co-sediment with NAD-dependent glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase and catalase in sucrose gradients after mechanical breakage of spheroplasts, and is thus a peroxisomal enzyme. Polyamine oxidase was present in some other yeasts when grown on spermidine, C. nagoyaensis, Hansenula polymorpha and Trichosporon melibiosaceum, but absent from C. steatolytica, Pichia pastoris and Sporopachydermia cereana. These latter yeasts probably contained an enzyme resembling benzylamine/putrescine oxidase which attacks the primary amino groups of spermidine.
The invention relates to a process for the production of2-hydroxy-4-methylmercaptobutyric acid (MHA) by electrochemical carboxylation of 3-methylmercapto-propionaldehyde in an undivided electrolytic cell containing a sacrificial anode, in an aprotic solvent in the presence of a supporting electrolyte. Preferred anode/cathode combinations are Mg/Mg and Mg/carbon. MHA is obtainable in a high yield.
Aldol condensation of 3-substituted propionaldehydes with the lithium enolate of ethyl or benzyl (2-oxoazetidin-1-yl)acetate yielded derivatives of proclavaminic acid. The proportion of the threo diastereoisomer in the aldol product could be increased by thermodynamically controlled equilibration with 1,5-diazabicyclo[4.3.0]non-5-ene. In the case of benzyl 5-azido-3-hydroxy-2-(2-oxoazetidin-1-yl)valerate the diastereoisomers were separated and the threo diastereoisomer was resolved by enzymatic hydrolysis of the ester by subtilisin Carlsberg [EC 3.4.21.14]. Catalytic reduction of the unhyorolysed threo enantiomer yielded (2S, 3R)-5-amino-3-hydroxy-2-(2-oxoazetidin-1-yl)valerate which had spectroscopic properties identical with those of natural proclavaminic acid and which was a substrate for clavaminic acid synthase. Two crystalline, derivatives of (2S, 3R)-proclavaminic acid were prepared for X-ray analysis.
The new tetradentate L7BQ ligand (L7BQ = 1,4-di(quinoline-8-yl)-1,4-diazepane) has been synthesized and shown to support MnII and MnIII-peroxo complexes. X-ray crystallography of the [MnII(L7BQ)(OTf)2] complex shows a monomeric MnII center with the L7BQ ligand providing four donor nitrogen atoms in the equatorial field, with two triflate ions bound in the axial positions. When this species is treated with H2O2 and Et3N at -40 °C, a MnIII-peroxo adduct, [MnIII(O2)(L7BQ)]+ is formed. The formation of this new intermediate is supported by a variety of spectroscopic techniques, including electronic absorption, Mn K-edge X-ray absorption and electron paramagnetic resonance methods. Evaluation of extended X-ray absorption fine structure data for [MnIII(O2)(L7BQ)]+ resolved Mn-O bond distances of 1.85 Å, which are on the short end of those previously reported for crystallographically characterized MnIII-peroxo adducts. An analysis of the X-ray pre-edge region of [MnIII(O2)(L7BQ)]+ revealed a large pre-edge area of 20.8 units. Time-dependent density functional theory computations indicate that the pre-edge intensity is due to Mn 4p-3d mixing caused by geometric distortions from centrosymmetry induced by both the peroxo and L7BQ ligands. The reactivity of [MnIII(O2)(L7BQ)]+ towards aldehydes was assessed through reaction with cyclohexanecarboxaldehyde and 2-phenylpropionaldehyde. From these experiments, it was determined that [MnIII(O2)(L7BQ)]+ only reacts with aldehydes in the presence of acid. Specifically, the addition of cyclohexanecarboxylic acid to [MnIII(O2)(L7BQ)]+ converts the MnIII-peroxo adduct to a new intermediate that could be responsible for the observed aldehyde deformylation activity. These observations underscore the challenges in identifying the reactive metal species in aldehyde deformylation reactions.
Smoking topography parameters differ substantially between individual smokers and may lead to significant variation in tobacco smoke exposure and risk for tobacco-caused diseases. However, to date, little is known regarding the impact of individual puff parameters on the delivery of many harmful smoke constituents including carbonyls. To examine this, we determined the effect of altering individual puff parameters on mainstream smoke carbonyl levels in machine-smoked reference cigarettes. Carbonyls including formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, propionaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone (MEK), acrolein, and acetone were determined in cigarette smoke by HPLC after derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH). Deliveries of all carbonyls were nearly two-fold greater when cigarettes were smoked according to the more intense Health Canada Intense (HCI) protocol compared to the International Organization of Standardization (ISO) method, consistent with the two-fold difference in total puff volume between methods (ISO: 280-315 mL; CI: 495-605 mL). When individual topography parameters were assessed, changes in puff volume alone had the greatest effect on carbonyl delivery as predicted with total carbonyls being strongly correlated with overall puff volume (r2: 0.52-0.99) regardless of how the differences in volume were achieved. All seven of the carbonyls examined showed a similar relationship with puff volume. Minor effects on carbonyl levels were observed from vent blocking and changing the interpuff interval, while effects of changing puff duration and peak flow rate were minimal. Overall, these results highlight the importance of considering topography, especially puff volume, when the toxicant delivery and potential exposure smokers receive are assessed. The lack of an impact of other behaviors, including puff intensity and duration independent of volume, indicate that factors such as temperature and peak flow rate may have minimal overall effects on carbonyl production and delivery.
Yeast alcohol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.1) catalyzes the interconversion of three redox pairs, ethanol/acetaldehyde, propanol/propionaldehyde and butanol/butyraldehyde by the same common mechanism, only with different magnitudes of rate constants. This general mechanism is Ordered Bi Bi in both directions, with the formation of abortive ternary complexes enzyme.NAD+.aldehyde and binary complexes enzyme.aldehyde.
The ability of added acetaldehyde to stimulate growth in ethanol-stressed Saccharomyces cerevisiae while grown on non-fermentable substrates (ethanol, glycerol) is reported. The addition of acetaldehyde to ethanol-stressed yeast grown on either ethanol or glycerol led to a significant decrease in lag time of 67 and 45 %, respectively (p = 0.000) and an increase in the specific growth rate (0.008-0.038/h and 0.060-0.074/h, respectively). The stimulatory effect of acetaldehyde could be mimicked by the addition of propionaldehyde. Results, following metabolic tracing of the added stimulants, question the previously held notion that the acetaldehyde effect in S. cerevisiae is fully redox related.
1. ::: 1. The subcellular distribution of hepatic NAD+-linked aldehyde dehydrogenase (AIDH) was studied in four inbred mouse (Mus musculus) strains: C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, BALB/cJ, and C3H/2Ibg. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. The distribution pattern of A1DH activity was 70% cytosolic, 20% mitochondrial, and 10% microsomal. Each of the inbred strains showed this same general pattern but significant differences (P < 0.01) were found in the levels of the enzymes among the strains, whether these were expressed as specific (per mg protein) or total (per g liver) activity. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. Mitochondrial and microsomal enzymes from each of the inbreds were able to catalyze the oxidation of propionaldehyde with NADP+ substituted for NAD+ at 10–20% of the rate with NAD+. In contrast, the only cytosolic enzymes that had activity with NADP+ were those from the DBA/2J strain. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. It was concluded that the distribution of AlDH in mouse liver is different from that in rat liver and that the differences in enzyme activity among the mouse strains may play some role in their behavioral responses to ethanol.
Abstract NAD-dependent 3-aminopropionaldehyde dehydrogenase was partially purified ca 18-fold from millet shoots. The purified enzyme ( M r ca 70000) catalysed the oxidation of 3-aminopropionaldehyde (3-APA) to β-alanine. The K m value was 2.7 × 10 − 5 m for 3-APA, 4.2 × 10 − 4 m for 4-aminobutylaldehyde (4-ABA), and 3.8 × 10 − 5 m for NAD (3-APA case). 3-APA and 4-ABA activity was also found in the shoots of seedlings of prosomillet, maize, oat, barley and pea.
Adenosylcobalamin-dependent diol dehydratase of Klebsiella oxytoca is apparently not stereospecific and catalyzes the conversion of both (R)- and (S)-1,2-propanediol to propionaldehyde. To explain this unusual property of the enzyme, we analyzed the crystal structures of diol dehydratase in complexes with cyanocobalamin and (R)- or (S)-1,2-propanediol. (R)- and (S)-isomers are bound in a symmetrical manner, although the hydrogen-bonding interactions between the substrate and the active-site residues are the same. From the position of the adenosyl radical in the modeled "distal" conformation, it is reasonable for the radical to abstract the pro-R and pro-S hydrogens from (R)- and (S)-isomers, respectively. The hydroxyl groups in the substrate radicals would migrates from C(2) to C(1) by a suprafacial shift, resulting in the stereochemical inversion at C(1). This causes 60 degrees clockwise and 70 degrees counterclockwise rotations of the C(1)-C(2) bond of the (R)- and (S)-isomers, respectively, if viewed from K+. A modeling study of 1,1-gem-diol intermediates indicated that new radical center C(2) becomes close to the methyl group of 5'-deoxyadenosine. Thus, the hydrogen back-abstraction (recombination) from 5'-deoxyadenosine by the product radical is structurally feasible. It was also predictable that the substitution of the migrating hydroxyl group by a hydrogen atom from 5'-deoxyadenosine takes place with the inversion of the configuration at C(2) of the substrate. Stereospecific dehydration of the 1,1-gem-diol intermediates can also be rationalized by assuming that Asp-alpha335 and Glu-alpha170 function as base catalysts in the dehydration of the (R)- and (S)-isomers, respectively. The structure-based mechanism and stereochemical courses of the reaction are proposed.
Abstract Palladium-iron bimetallic catalysts were synthesized using carbon-coated silica supports that provided high hydrogenation activity relative to monometallic palladium under condensed-phase hydrothermal conditions. The catalysts were applied to the hydrogenation of carbonyl groups in acetone, 2-pentanone, and propionaldehyde. While Fe incorporation independent of Pd-to-Fe ratio gave enhanced activity, the catalysts having more Fe than Pd gave more than a three-fold increase in hydrogenation activity relative to the Pd only counterpart. The activity enhancement appeared to be related to the influence of Fe on the Pd as Fe under the condensed-phase reaction conditions was inert. The catalysts were also tested for hydrogenation of unsaturated carbon-carbon double bond and aromatic rings in which more moderate activity enhancement was observed. Through evaluating the influence of Pd-to-Fe ratio on catalyst properties and catalytic performance for the range of molecules, it is proposed that the turnover frequency enhancement can be attributed to the formation of Pdδ− via Pd-Fe interaction.
The thiobarbituric acid (TBA) test was used to assay lipid peroxidation (11) , but with other studies were different, focused on the effects of LCA on glioma mitochondria. H 2 O 2 was chosen as the inducer of lipid peroxidation in this model and changes in UV peaks caused by reactions between TBA and biologically active α,β-unsaturated aldehydes (12) were used as indicators of reaction. The effects of LCA on UV peaks was investigated using a model of lipid peroxidation in mitochondria induced by H 2 O 2 . Changes in UV peaks corresponded to a variety of aldehydes as follows. 4-HNE (13), a major peak at 530 nm and shoulder peaks at 495 and 450 nm; trans, trans-muconaldehyde (14) , a major peak at 495 nm and shoulder peaks at 460 and 530 nm; trans, trans-2,4-nonadienal, which is a dehydration product of 4-HNE, a major peak at 532 nm and shoulder peaks at 450 and 495 nm; acrolein (15), a major peak at 495 nm and shoulder peaks at 460 and 530 nm; crotonaldehyde (16) (17) , a major peak at 532 nm and a shoulder peak at 495 nm; no peaks from propionaldehyde (18) were observed under any experimental conditions. Although MDA is not a specific indicator to detect tumors, the presence of biologically active α,β-unsaturated aldehydes (19) can be used to detect glioma, especially in mitochondria. In the present study, mitochondria were used to evaluate the correlation between LCA and observed changes in the UV spectrum at 495, 532 and 450 nm. The purpose of the study was to explore the anti-glioma mechanism of LCA on mitochondria.
1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) has a wide range of potential applications on a large commercial scale [1, 11, 20, 26] . Among all kinds of microbial production of 1,3-PD, bioconversion of glycerol to 1,3-PD has been studied extensively since 1980s due to its relatively high yield and productivity [9, 11, 15, 20, 27] . In recent years, much research has been made to improve the bioconversion process of glycerol [4-6, 8, 9, 11, 15-17, 19, 20-28] . For example, research on the quantitative description of the cell growth kinetics of multiple inhibitions by substrate and products, product formation in continuous culture has been made [22, 26, 27] . The methods of conversion of glycerol into 1,3-PD were reviewed and discussed in [11] . The 1,3-PD production directly from carbon dioxide was achieved by engineered Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 with a synthetic metabolic pathway in [8] . Wang et al. presented a nonlinear impulsive system for glycerol bioconversion to 1,3-PD in fed-batch cultures based on the dynamical system of batch cultures [19] . Yuan et al. reported the robust identification of enzymatic nonlinear dynamical systems for 1,3-PD transport mechanisms in microbial batch culture [25] . Xiu et al. investigated the optimal conditions of batch and continuous glycerol bioconversion by Klebsiella pneumoniae using the volumetric productivity of 1,3-PD as an optimization objective based on a five-dimensional nonlinear system that takes into account the growth kinetics of multiple inhibitions and the metabolic overflow of substrate consumption and product formation [20] . Xu designed a H∞ controller for bioconversion process of glycerol to 1,3-PD through the H∞ mixed sensitivity method [23] . Zhu et al. presented a μ robust technique to control the continuous bioconversion process of glycerol to 1,3-PD [28] . Sun et al. set up an eight-dimensional nonlinear system that considers enzyme-catalytic reductive pathway and transport of glycerol and 1,3-PD across cell membrane [16] . A fourteen-dimensional nonlinear dynamic system was proposed 200 to represent the continuous and batch fermentations of glycerol to 1,3-PD by Klebsiella pneumoniae, in which the enzyme-catalytic kinetics on the reductive pathway, the transport of glycerol and diffusion of 1,3-PD across cell membrane, and the inhibition of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to glycerol dehydratase (GDHt) and 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (PDOR) are all taken into consideration [17] . But the optimization for this complex bioprocess involving gene regulation and enzyme catabolism has not yet been addressed.
With the increasing concerns on environment and energy, biodiesel was regarded as a viable fuel and has attracted much attention due to its wide utilization as a fossil diesel substitution (Leung et al. 2010) . Glycerol is an inevitable byproduct generated during the biodiesel production processes, and the tremendous growth of biodiesel industry has led to a dramatic decrease in price of crude glycerol over the past few years, resulting in a research hotspot on the utilization of glycerol to produce high-valued chemicals (Cho et al. 2015; Clomburg and Gonzalez 2013; Diaz-Alvarez et al. 2011; Viana et al. 2012 ). 3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is an important building block for a series of chemicals and polymeric materials, which shows great potential applications in commodity, environmental treatment, and chemical industries (Chen et al. 2014; Honjo et al. 2015; Kim et al. 2014; Tokuyama et al. 2014) . With the development of biocatalysts, the bio-production of 3-HP becomes available under mild and environment-friendly reaction conditions (Kumar et al. 2013) . Enzymes including glycerol dehydratase (GDHt) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (AldH) are mainly involved in the biosynthesis of 3-HP, by which the glycerol is first catalyzed to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), followed by the conversion to 3-HP. As a rate-limiting enzyme for the conversion of glycerol to 3-HPA, GDHt is consisted of three subunits, i.e., a, b, and c, and exists as the form of a 2 b 2 c 2 heterohexamer. It is reported that GDHt is a vitamin B 12 -dependent enzyme ubiquitous in different microorganisms, such as Citrobacter butyricum, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Citrobacter freundii (Jiang et al. 2015 (Jiang et al. , 2016 . AldH is responsible for the catalysis of oxidation of aldehydes to carboxylic acids, and has been found mostly in the Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Ko et al. 2012 ).
Candida boidinii grows well on spermidine as sole nitrogen source, but poorly on spermine. Cells grown on spermidine, cadaverine, putrescine and 1,3-diaminopropane contained a polyamine oxidase which attacks spermine and spermidine at the secondary amino groups, forming putrescine and a product thought to be 3-aminopropionaldehyde. The enzyme was synthesized before growth began when C. boidinii that had been grown in medium containing glucose + ammonium was transferred to medium in which spermidine replaced ammonium.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is a commercially important platform chemical that can be converted to acrylic acid, malonic acid, acrylamide, 1,3-propanediol and other valuable chemicals. Biologically, 3-HP can be produced from glucose or glycerol 1 . With glucose as the carbon source, 3-HP can be synthesized via malonyl-CoA or β-alanine. With glycerol as the carbon source, 3-HP is synthesized by two enzymatic reactions, catalyzed by the coenzyme B 12 -dependent glycerol dehydratase converting glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) and the 3-HPA-specific aldehyde dehydrogenase oxidizing 3-HPA to 3-HP, respectively. Several microorganisms, including Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas denitrificans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, have been developed as hosts 2,3 . Among them, K. pneumoniae and P. denitrificans are advantageous when glycerol is used as the carbon source because they can naturally synthesize coenzyme B 12 4,5
As part of an ongoing program to develop small organic catalysts that have broad utility for asymmetric synthesis, we have recently initiated studies toward the identification of chiral amines that function as aldolase enzyme mimics. On the basis of preliminary studies, 13 we were inspired to investigate whether enantioselective aldehyde-aldehyde couplings might also be accomplished using proline catalysis, a mechanistic hypothesis based on the documented utility of this amino acid in ketone based aldol reactions. 5,6 To our delight, exposure of propionaldehyde to catalytic quantities of proline in DMF provided the desired aldol adduct with both antialdol selectivity and excellent levels of enantiocontrol (eq 2, 80% yield, 4:1 anti:syn, 99% ee). Despite the use of proline in previous aldol reactions, to our knowledge, this is the first example of a direct enantioselective aldehyde-aldehyde dimerization. 14 As revealed in Table 1 , this enantioselective aldehyde coupling is readily accomplished in a wide variety of solvents (entries 1-9, g96% ee) including low dielectric media such as benzene (entry 1, >99% ee) as well as highly polarized solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide (entry 7, >99% ee). It is important to note that byproducts arising from dehydration of the initial -hydroxy aldehyde adduct were not isolated in significant quantities (e4% yield). The superior levels of reaction efficiency observed with proline in DMF at +4°C (entry 9, 91% conversion, 3:1 anti:syn, 99% ee), prompted us to select these reaction conditions for further exploration.
The capacity of proline to catalyze asymmetric cross-aldol reactions between nonequivalent aldehydes was next examined. As highlighted in Table 2 , syringe pump addition of propionaldehyde (aldehyde donor) to a series of aldehyde acceptors in the presence of the amine catalyst effectively suppressed homodimerization of the donor aldehyde 15 while providing excellent yields of the desired cross-aldol product (Table 2 , entries 1-5, 80-88% yield). Indeed, propionaldehyde can be used as an aldol nucleophile with a broad range of aldehyde acceptorssincluding both alkyl (entries 1-3, 5, 80-88% yield, 97-99% ee) and aromatic substituted aldehydes (entry 4, 81% yield, 99% ee). Of particular note is the addition of propionaldehyde to isovaleraldehyde to provide the cross-aldol product in 88% yield and 97% ee. The principal issue in this reaction is that both the aldol donor and acceptor bear enolizable R-methylene protons; however, only a single regioisomer of the cross-aldol product is obtained (as determined by 1 H NMR analysis). Structural variation in the aldehyde donor component has also been examined. As revealed in entries 5-7, this cross-aldol reaction can tolerate a range of substituted nucleophiles (R 1 ) Me, n-Bu, Bn, 19:1 to 24:1 anti:syn, 91 to >99% ee).
It is important to note that the absolute and the relative configurations of the aldol products obtained in this survey are in complete accord with the previously proposed models for prolinecatalyzed aldol reactions. 5a In contrast to proline-mediated ketone additions, lower catalyst loadings (10 mol %) and shorter reaction times (11 to 26 h) were possible without loss in reaction efficiency. 12 Last, to illustrate the preparative utility of this new cross-aldol process, the addition of propionaldehyde to isobutyraldehyde (Table 2, entry 5) was performed on a 25 mmol scale to afford 2.65 g (82% yield) of (2S,3S)-3-hydroxy-2,4-dimethylpentanal in >99% ee and with 24:1 anti-diastereoselectivity.
Understanding of indoor air quality (IAQ) during and after spray polyurethane foam (SPF) application is essential to protect the health of both workers and building occupants. Previous efforts such as field monitoring, micro-chamber/spray booth emission studies, and fate/transport modeling have been conducted to understand the chemical exposure of SPF and guide risk mitigation strategies. However, each type of research has its limitation and can only reveal partial information on the relationship between SPF and IAQ. A comprehensive study is truly needed to integrate the experimental design and analytical testing methods in the field/chamber studies with the mathematical tools employed in the modeling studies. This study aims to bridge this gap and provide a more comprehensive understanding on the impact of SPF to IAQ. The field sampling plan of this research aims to evaluate the airborne concentrations of methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI), formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, tris(1-chlor-2-propyl)phosphate (TCPP), trans-1-chloro-3,3,3-trifluoropropene (SolsticeTM), and airborne particles. Modifications to existing MDI sampling and analytical methods were made so that level of quantification was improved. In addition, key fate and transport modeling input parameters such as air changes per hour and airborne particle size distribution were measured. More importantly, TCPP accumulation onto materials was evaluated, which is important to study the fate and transport of semi-volatile organic compounds. The IAQ results showed that after spray application was completed in the entire building, airborne concentrations decreased for all chemicals monitored. However, it is our recommendation that during SPF application, no one should return to the application site without proper personal protection equipment as long as there are active spray activities in the building. The comparison between this field study and a recent chamber study proved surface sorption and particle deposition is an important factor in determining the fate of airborne TCPP. The study also suggests the need for further evaluation by employing mathematical models, proving the data generated in this work as informative to industry and the broader scientific community.
Publisher Summary This chapter introduces a method for the enzymatic determination of acetaldehyde with alcohol dehydrogenase from yeast. The method is based on the principle that alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) catalyzes the reaction as it is described in this chapter. At pH 6.5, the equilibrium of the reaction lies so far to the right that acetaldehyde reacts virtually quantitatively. Reagents include: Dipotassium hydrogen phosphate, K 2 HPO 4 ; Reduced diphosphopyridine nucleotide, DPNH; Sodium hydrogen carbonate, A. R., 1% (w/v); Perchloric acid, A. R., sp. gr. 1.67; ca. 70% (w/w); and Alcohol dehydrogenase, ADH. The ADH should have a specific activity of at least 180 units/mg. It should not be contaminated with more than 0.02% of any of the glycolytic enzymes (relative to the specific activity of the ADH). Apart from acetaldehyde, yeast ADH reacts with the following aldehydes, though at considerably slower rates: glycolaldehyde, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, valeraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and glyceraldehyde. The presence of these aldehydes in the sample leads to non-constant end-points with the acetaldehyde reaction. In such cases, the optical density E 2 is extrapolated to zero time.
Abstract Ambient measurements of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs, air toxics) collected in the United States from 1990 to 2005 were analyzed for diurnal, seasonal, and/or annual variability and trends. Visual and statistical analyses were used to identify and quantify temporal variations in air toxics at national and regional levels. Sufficient data were available to analyze diurnal variability for 14 air toxics, seasonal variability for 24 air toxics, and annual trends for 26 air toxics. Four diurnal variation patterns were identified and labeled invariant, nighttime peak, morning peak, and daytime peak. Three distinct seasonal patterns were identified and labeled invariant, cool, and warm. Multiple air toxics showed consistent decreasing trends over three trend periods, 1990–2005, 1995–2005, and 2000–2005. Trends appeared to be relatively consistent within chemically similar pollutant groups. Hydrocarbons such as benzene, 1,3-butadiene, styrene, xylene, and toluene decreased by approximately 5% or more per year at more than half of all monitoring sites. Concentrations of carbonyl compounds such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde were equally likely to have increased or decreased at monitoring sites. Chlorinated volatile organic compounds (VOCs) such as tetrachloroethylene, dichloromethane, and methyl chloroform decreased at more than half of all monitoring sites, but decreases among these species were much more variable than among the hydrocarbons. Lead particles decreased in concentration at most monitoring sites, but trends in other metals were not consistent over time.
Abstract An experimental investigation has been made of the effect of mass on the intensity of symmetry-forbidden, vibrationally-induced electronic transitions. The effect of deuterium substitution on the absolute intensity ( f -value) of the n → π* transition in acetone, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde was determined. The intensity change with isotopic substitution was found to be roughly proportional to the change in frequency of the perturbing vibration, as implied by the H erzberg—Teller theory. The molecules investigated and the experimental f -values ( f × 10 4 ) are: (CH 3 ) 2 CO, 4·14; (CD 3 ) 2 CO, 3·64; CH 3 CHO, 3·63; CH 3 CDO, 3·18; CD 3 CDO, 2·96; C 2 H 5 CHO, 4·28; and C 2 H 5 CDO, 3·86. The effect of deuterium substitution on the appearance of the absorption envelopes is also discussed.
In order to understand the carbonyl emission characteristics of methanol-diesel,a detection method for carbonyl emission was designed.Through gas capture,derivative reaction,resultant washing or extraction and HPLC analysis,formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,acrolein,propionaldehyde,acetone and similar substances were separated.The influences of detection wavelength,sampling flow rate and penetration phenomena on sampling efficiency and analysis precision were analyzed.The results show that the efficiency of absorption tubes can be higher than 94% at the 2 L/min sample flow rate and 360 nm chromatography wavelength,
Abstract The heterogeneous catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) of styrene and nitrobenzene over Pd-based catalyst using methanol as hydrogen donor was investigated in a fixed-bed reactor. With the increase of the molar ratio of water to methanol from 0 to 1, the conversions of styrene and nitrobenzene are increased from 26.3% and 7.1% to 100% and 31.9%, respectively, and the selectivity of aniline is increased from 22.0 to 94.5 mol%. The presence of water improves the hydrogen transfer from methanol to styrene or nitrobenzene through the quick reaction of water with formaldehyde, formed from the dehydrogenation of methanol, into formic acid, which is an excellent hydrogen donor for the CTH of unsaturated organics. In the presence of water, methanol is a better hydrogen donor than isopropanol, n-propanol and ethanol, because water cannot easily react with acetone, propionaldehyde, and acetaldehyde formed from isopropanol, n-propanol, and ethanol, respectively. Additionally, the hydrogen atom utilization of the methanol donor in the presence of water is higher than the other donors, hydrogen atom in a part of water can also be utilized for the reduction of unsaturated organics.
Coexisting populations of house fly, Musca domestica L.; little house fly, Faunia canicularis (L.); and F. femoralis Stein, in 3 poultry ranches in southern California, 2 of which relied heavily on chemical control, were tested by topical application for resistance to 2 organochlorine, 10 organophosphorus, and 1 carbamate insecticide. Simultaneously, “susceptible” populations from areas which had experienced minimal use of insecticides, especially organophosphates, were used in establishing base-line levels of susceptibility. No large interspecific differences were found in the base-line data and, thus, no evidence of pronounced natural tolerance toward any of the test compounds. However, populations that had experienced considerable chemical control showed significant interspecific differences both in the degree and the spectrum of developed resistance. ::: ::: In each of the 3 ranches sampled for resistance, M. domestica was the most resistant to most of the compounds, followed by F. canicularis , then by F. femoralis . Tests on Ophyra leucostoma Wiedemann from 1 ranch revealed only incipient resistance to DDT and fielding and none to oregano phosphates or carbonates. The highest levels of resistance observed in M. domestica (at LD.95) were: DDT >1000 times, dieldrin >1000 times, coumaphos >909 times, Ciodrin® ( alpha -methylbenzyl 3-hydroxycrotonate dimethyl phosphate) 182 times, malathion 102 times, diazinon 66.5 limes, ronnel 26.3 times, naled 11.8 times, fenthion 10.2 times, dimethioate 4.6 times, dichlorvos 4.2 times. and Temik® (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)-propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) 6.2 times; in F. canicularis DDT 1009 times, dieldrin 400 times. coumaphos >174 times, Ciodrin 81.9 times, malathion 5931 times, diazinon 6.8 times. ronnel 4.5 limes, and Temik 6.3 times; in F. femoralis , DDT 25.9 times, dieldrin 233.5 times, and malathion 55.8 times. ::: ::: In view of the similarities in the base line data for each insecticide, the observed differences in the general level of resistance in coexisting populations of the 3 species may be attributed to unequal selection pressure dependent on the biological and ethological characteristics of the species. furthermore, interspecific variations in the spectrum of resistance which occur consistently in coexisting populations suggest the presence of qualitative differences in the physiological potential of each species for development of resistance to certain insecticides.
Asymmetric electroreduction of ketone and aldehyde derivatives was examined for two electrochemical reduction systems using alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) as an electrocatalyst. The reaction system A is concerned with reduction of substrates catalyzed by ADH coupled with regeneration of cofactors by another enzyme with assistance of methyl viologen as an electron mediator, and the reaction system B is concerned with the use of ADH as the sole enzyme which catalyzes both reduction of substrates and regeneration of cofactors. In the latter case, a redox couple of phenethyl alcohol/acetophenone is used as an electron mediator to induce the reaction. The electrolysis using the system A allowed asymmetric reduction of acetophenone, propiophenone, phenoxy-2-propanone, pyruvic acid, and 2-phenylpropionaldehyde to the corresponding optically active alcohols with the enantiomer excesses (ee) close to 100% and the current efficiencies larger than 92%, and the turnover number of the cofactor higher than 50 was obtained...
Acetogenic bacteria can grow by the oxidation of various substrates coupled to the reduction of CO2 in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. Here, we show that growth of the acetogen Acetobacterium woodii on 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) as the sole carbon and energy source is independent of acetogenesis. Enzymatic measurements and metabolite analysis revealed that 1,2-PD is dehydrated to propionaldehyde, which is further oxidized to propionyl coenzyme A (propionyl-CoA) with concomitant reduction of NAD. NADH is reoxidized by reducing propionaldehyde to propanol. The potential gene cluster coding for the responsible enzymes includes genes coding for shell proteins of bacterial microcompartments. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of microcompartments as well as storage granules in cells grown on 1,2-PD. Gene clusters coding for the 1,2-PD pathway can be found in other acetogens as well, but the distribution shows no relation to the phylogeny of the organisms.
Initially, all major factors that affect the rate of the AldH-catalyzed reaction (enzyme concentration, substrate concentration, temperature and pH) were investigated. Optimal activity was observed between pH values of 7.5 and 9.5 in the temperature range of 25 to 50 oC. Kinetic parameters, such as Km (2.92 µmol L-1) and Vmax (1.33 10-2 µmol min-1) demonstrate a strong enzyme-substrate affinity. The sensors were based on screen-printed electrodes modified with the Meldola Blue-Reinecke salt (MBRS) combination. Operational conditions (NAD+ and substrate contents, enzyme loading and response time) were optimized. Also, two enzyme immobilization procedures were tested: entrapment in poly(vinyl alcohol) bearing styrylpyridinium groups (PVA-SbQ) and crosslinking with glutaraldehyde. Chronoamperometry was employed to observe the biosensor responses during enzymatic hydrolysis of propionaldehyde and also to construct inhibition curves with maneb and zineb fungicides. Best results were found with the following conditions: [NAD+] = 0.25 mmol L-1; [propionaldehyde] = 80 µmol L-1; enzyme loading = 0.8 U per electrode; response time = 10 min, and inhibition time = 10 min. Current intensities around 103 ± 13 nA with the sensors and good stability was obtained for both immobilization procedures. Detection limits, calculated using 10% inhibition were 31.5 µg L-1 and 35 µg L-1 for maneb and zineb, respectively. Results obtained with other MBRS-modified electrodes consisting of mono and bi-enzymic sensors were compared. The ability to catalyze NADH oxidation by MB was also highlighted.
The effects of temperature,flow rate of N2,concentration of O2 on the formation of 8 volatile carbonyl compounds from pyrolysis of glycerol and 1,2-propylene glycol were studied with orthogonal experiments to investigate the influence of the humectants on sensory quality and toxicity of cigarette smoke.The results showed that:1)The flow rate of N2 was a main factor affecting the formation of formaldehyde,and the temperature was a primary factor affecting that of the other carbonyl compounds except for acrolein and crotonaldehyde from pyrolysis of 1,2-propylene glycol;2)The yields of formaldehyde,acrolein,and crotonaldehyde from glycerol were higher than those from 1,2-propylene glycol significantly;while at 800℃,the yields of acetone,propionaldehyde and methyl ethyl ketone from 1,2-propylene glycol were much higher;3)The difference of yields of formaldehyde,acetic aldehyde,acrolein,propionaldehyde and acetone from glycerol and 1,2-propylene glycol might be caused by the difference of energy of C-O and C-C bonds in the two humectant molecules;4)The propylene glycol as a humectant for cigarette was preferable to glycerin in terms of sensory quality and toxicity of cigarette smoke.
A method of GC/MS with double derivation for simultaneous detection of aldehydes and carboxylic acids in the ozonated secondary effluent from a WWTP was established by using O-2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzylhydroxylamine (PFBHA) and bis(trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide (BSTFA) as derivatives. An analysis was performed with electron bombardment source in selected ion monitoring mode. The results show that formaldehyde,acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde have a good linear relationship within the concentration range from 5 μg/L to 2 mg/L and glyoxal and pyruvic acid from 5 μg/L to 1 mg/L. The average recoveries of the 5 analytes are above 74%,and the relative standard deviations (RSD) are under 14%. It is found that ozonation of the secondary effluent could increase the levels of the above chemicals markedly while a small amount of them already exist before ozonation.
Potassium tris(triphenylphosphine) ruthenium hydride complexed with diethyl ether and naphthalene was an effective homogeneous catalyst in the hydrogenation, under mild conditions (85/sup 0/-90/sup 0/C and 620 kPa hydrogen), of acetone to isopropanol, propanol to n-propanol, acrolein to allyl alcohol (and propionaldehyde), activated carboxylic acid esters, e.g., methyl trifluoroacetate and dimethyl oxalate, to corresponding alcohols, and acetonitrile to ethylamine. In most reactions, the selectivity for the hydrogenated products was above 90 per cent.
Abstract Adsorption isotherms for acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde on Davison molecular sieve 13X were determined gravimetrically at three temperatures. The isoteric heat of adsorption of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde decreased initially with the increase in loading, then increased up to a certain point after which it decreased again. For butyraldehyde the heat of adsorption initially increased and then decreased with increased loading. The equilibrium adsorption data reduce to a single characteristic curve when correlated according to Polanyi's potential theory. Recently proposed isotherm equations for heterogeneous surfaces by Sircar and Hines et al. were used to correlate the isotherm data. The BET equation gave a good correlation of the data for a relative pressure range of 0.05 ≤ P/P, ≤ 0.25. The monolayer surface coverage and surface area were calculated by the Langmuir and the BET equations. The Langmuir equation consistently provided a larger estimate of the surface area than di...
Summary The electrochemical oxidation of the mercury(II)-propene complex in acid, aqueous solution at a platinum anode at room temperature is reported. It has been shown that at potentials more positive than those normally required for oxygen evolution, the complex may be oxidised to formic and acetic acids at high current densities and high current efficiencies. Some propionaldehyde and propionic acid are also produced. Mercury(II) is a product of the electrode reaction and since it may be readily recomplexed by bubbling propene through the electrolysis solution, its role is essentially that of a catalyst, and the process may be run continuously.
The relative performance figure of merits was investigated for the two most common analytical methods employed for carbonyl compounds (CC), for example, between high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-UV detector (with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) derivatization) and thermal desorption (TD)-gas chromatography (GC)-mass spectrometry (MS) (without derivatization). To this end, the suitability of each method is assessed by computing the relative recovery (RR) between the gas- and liquid-phase standards containing a suite of CC such as formaldehyde (FA), acetaldehyde (AA), propionaldehyde (PA), butyraldehyde (BA), isovaleraldehyde (IA), and valeraldehyde (VA) along with benzene (B) as a recovery reference for the GC method. The results confirm that a TD-GC-MS is advantageous to attain the maximum recovery for the heavier CCs (i.e., with molecular weights (MW) above BA-MW ≥ 74). On the other hand, the HPLC-UV is favorable for the lighter CCs (like FA and AA) with the least bias. Such compound-specific responses for each platform are validated by relative ordering of CCs as a function of response factor (RF), method detection limit (MDL), and recovery pattern. It is thus desirable to understand the advantages and limitations of each method to attain the CC data with the least experimental bias.
The osmoprotectant 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) occurs in Gramineae and Compositae, but its synthesis has been studied only in the latter. The DMSP synthesis pathway was therefore investigated in the salt marsh grass Spartina alterniflora Loisel. Leaf tissue metabolized supplied [ 35 S]methionine (Met) to S -methyl-l-Met (SMM), 3-dimethylsulfoniopropylamine (DMSP-amine), and DMSP. The 35 S-labeling kinetics of SMM and DMSP-amine indicated that they were intermediates and, consistent with this, the dimethylsulfonium moiety of SMM was shown by stable isotope labeling to be incorporated as a unit into DMSP. The identity of DMSP-amine, a novel natural product, was confirmed by both chemical and mass-spectral methods. S. alterniflora readily converted supplied [ 35 S]SMM to DMSP-amine and DMSP, and also readily converted supplied [ 35 S]DMSP-amine to DMSP; grasses that lack DMSP did neither. A small amount of label was detected in 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde (DMSP-ald) when [ 35 S]SMM or [ 35 S]DMSP-amine was given. These results are consistent with the operation of the pathway Met → SMM → DMSP-amine → DMSP-ald → DMSP, which differs from that found in Compositae by the presence of a free DMSP-amine intermediate. This dissimilarity suggests that DMSP synthesis evolved independently in Gramineae and Compositae.
This work reports the possibility to acquire high-resolution (1)H NMR spectra with a fist-sized NMR magnet directly installed under the fume hood. The small NMR sensor based on permanent magnets was used to monitor the trimerization of propionaldehyde catalyzed by indium trichloride in real time by continuously circulating the reaction mixture through the magnet bore in a closed loop with the help of a peristaltic pump. Thanks to the chemical selectivity of NMR spectroscopy the progress of the reaction can be monitored on-line by determining the concentrations of both reactant and product from the area under their respective lines in the NMR spectra as a function of time. This in situ measurement demonstrates that NMR probes can be used in chemistry laboratories, e.g. for reaction optimization, or installed at specific points of interest along industrial process lines. Therefore, it will open the door for the implementation of feedback control based on spectroscopic NMR data.
Aldicarb [2-methyl-2(methyl thio) propionaldehyde-O-methyl carbamoyl oxime], which forms the active ingredient of a systemic oximic carbamate insecticide, at 2 ppm level did not affect the in vitro growth and respiration of Azotobacter chroococcum Beij, while concentrations at 5 ppm and 10 ppm levels were inhibitory. The insecticide treatment at 10 ppm level suppressed the assimilation of (14C) - glucose in the whole cells and in the cellular constitutents viz., cold - TCA soluble, hot TCA soluble fractions and insoluble residue. However, the 14C - incorporation in the alcohol soluble and alcohol-ether soluble fractions was enhanced indicating that aldicarb considerably altered the glucose metabolism of the organism.
The synthesis of dipyrazolo[1,5-a:4',3'-c]pyridines is described. Easily obtainable 5-alkynylpyrazole-4-carbaldehydes, p-toluenesulfonyl hydrazide, and an aldehyde or ketone containing an α-hydrogen atom were reacted in a silver triflate catalyzed multicomponent reaction affording new tricyclic compounds with a dipyrazolo[1,5-a:4',3'-c]pyridine core. Detailed NMR spectroscopic investigations (1H, 13C and 15N) were undertaken with all obtained compounds. Introduction Condensed pyrazole scaffolds are important substructures of compounds with biological activity and can be found in some well-known drug molecules, such as, for example, Sildenafil (a pyrazolo[4,3-d]pyrimidine) [1,2], Allopurinol (a pyrazolo[3,4d]pyrimidin-4-one) [3], Zaleplon (a pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine) [4], and Zolazepam (a pyrazolo[3,4-e][1,4]diazepine derivative, used in veterinary medicine) [5]. Particularly pyrazolopyrimidines are a very frequently accessed class of compounds [6] with the particular importance of the pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine core, which can closely mimic the purine system of adenosine and, thus, has been incorporated in various compounds impairing protein kinases and ATPases [7-9]. Moreover, a large variety of additional fused pyrazoles exhibit interesting biological activities, such as, pyrazolo[1,5-a]quinolones [10], pyrazolo[4,3-c]quinolones [11], pyrazolo[5,1-a]isoquinolines [12], and thieno[2,3-c]pyrazoles [13]. In view of these facts as well as due to our continuing interest in the exploration of useful but unused chemical space, which has become a paradigm of Beilstein J. Org. Chem. 2012, 8, 2223–2229. 2224 Scheme 1: Intermediate reactions of pyrazole-4-carbaldehyde 1a. contemporary medicinal chemistry [14], we have devoted some effort to the construction of novel condensed heterocyclic systems containing pyrazole substructures. Apart from a series of publications dealing with the construction of pyrazole analogues of xanthones and related systems [15-20] we recently described the synthesis of pyrano[4,3-c]pyrazol-4(1H)ones and -4(2H)-ones [21], 1,5-dihydroresp. 2,5-dihydro4 H p y r a z o l o [ 4 , 3 c ] p y r i d i n 4 o n e s [ 2 0 ] , a n d pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridines [22]. In continuation of these studies we herein present the synthesis and detailed NMR spectroscopic characterization of the new heterocyclic system dipyrazolo[1,5-a:4',3'-c]pyridine. The access to the latter was achieved by a multicomponent reaction (MCR) starting from 5-alkynylpyrazole-4-carbaldehydes. Such MCRs, although being present since the early days of organic chemistry, nowadays attract an increasing interest because of their unmatched synthetic efficiency, which permits the construction of complex molecules in an elegant and sufficient manner [23-26]. Results and Discussion Chemistry The starting compounds for the construction of the title compounds are the 5-alkynylpyrazole-4-carbaldehydes 1. Their synthesis from easily accessible 2-pyrazolin-5-ones through Vilsmeier formylation (with concomitant transformation of the oxygen into a chlorine substituent), followed by Sonogashira cross-coupling reaction of the obtained 5-chloropyrazole-4carbaldehydes with appropriate alkynes, has been described by us in a former publication [21]. Compounds 1 containing an alkyne function and a nucleophilic substituent in the ortho position of the pyrazole system are valuable precursors for the construction of corresponding annulated systems. In order to employ this arrangement of functionalities for the latter purpose, we adapted the approach of Wu and co-workers, who described the synthesis of H-pyrazolo[5,1-a]isoquinolines by a one-pot tandem reaction of 2-alkynylbenzaldehydes, sulfonohydrazide, and ketones or aldehydes [27]. In our case, application of pyrazolecarbaldehydes 1 should enable access to the desired dipyrazolo[1,5-a:4',3'-c]pyridines 5. In order to test the reaction conditions, firstly each step of the multicomponent reaction was carried out separately. According to the strategy, pyrazole-4-carbaldehyde 1a was primarily condensed with p-toluenesulfonyl hydrazide affording hydrazide 2a in 97% yield (Scheme 1). Secondly, two steps of the applied strategy were performed at once: condensation of 1a with p-toluenesulfonyl hydrazide and subsequent 6-endo-dig cyclization [28] of intermediate 2a in the presence of silver triflate produced p-toluenesulfonylazamide 3a in 91% yield (Scheme 1). The reaction of intermediate 3a with CH-acidic aldehydes or ketones in the presence of base would lead to various dipyrazolo[1,5-a:4',3'-c]pyridines 5. Thus, after these results, we decided to explore the one-pot tandem reaction with various 5-alkynylpyrazole-4-carbaldehydes 1, p-toluenesulfonyl hydrazide and butyraldehyde (4a). As alkynyl functions, phenylethynyl (1a,b), 3-thienylethynyl (1c,d) and hex-1-ynyl (1e,f) were employed; silver triflate was used as the catalyst and K3PO4 as a base, needed for the formation of the second pyrazole ring. In this way, the dipyrazolo[1,5-a:4',3'-c]pyridines 5a–f were achieved in yields of 44–83% (Table 1, entries 1–6). Replacement of butyraldehyde by propionaldehyde (4b) or 3-phenylpropanal (4c) afforded the corresponding tricyclic products 5g, 5h and 5i in 59–73% yield, respectively (Table 1, entries 7–9). Lastly, application of the cyclic ketones cyclopentanone (4d), cyclohexanone (4e) and 2-methylcyclohexanone (4f) as carbonyl components resulted in the formation of tetracycles 5j–l in acceptable yields (Table 1, entries 10–12). NMR spectroscopic investigations The NMR spectroscopic data of all compounds described in this study are given in Supporting Information File 1. Unequivocal assignment of resonances was carried out by the combined application of various standard NMR spectroscopic techniques, such as 1H coupled 13C NMR spectra, APT, HMQC, gs-HSQC, gs-HMBC, COSY, TOCSY, NOESY and NOE-difference spectroscopy [29]. In some cases experiments with selective excitation of certain 1H resonances were performed, such as longBeilstein J. Org. Chem. 2012, 8, 2223–2229. 2225 Table 1: Multicomponent reaction of various 5-alkynyl-1-phenyl-1H-pyrazole-4-carbaldehydes 1 with p-toluenesulfonyl hydrazide and aldehydes or ketones 4. Entry Compound 1 Compound 4 Product 5 Yield, %
The polymerization of di-(β-methacrylyloxypropionaldehyde)-pentaerythritolacetal (Dβ-MPP) and the copolymerizations of DβMPP with styrene (St) and acrylonitrile (AN) have been carried out at 60°C, using benzoyl peroxide as an initiator. They have then been discussed kinetically from the point of view of cyclopolymerization. The results can be summarized as follows:1) The relation among the rate of polymerization, Rp, the initiator concentration, (I), and the monomer concentration, (M), can be expressed by the following equations;& R_p/(I)^1/2=A(I)^1/2+B& R_p/(M)=C(M)+D where A, B, C, and D are constant.2) The ratio of the rate constant of the unimolecular cyclization reaction to that of the bimolecular propagation reaction of the uncyclized radical, kc⁄kp, was 22.0 mol/l.3) The copolymerization of DβMPP proceeded primarily by means of cyclocopolymerization, and the ratio of the cyclization rate to the vinyl propagation also decreased with an increase in the comonomer fraction in the copolymer.4) The follo...
A link between the generation of areca nut-related N-nitrosamines in the saliva, the induction of genotoxic damage in the oral mucosa, as judged by an increase in micronucleated exfoliated cells (MEC), and a low incidence of oral cancer was studied in 2 population groups characterized by their habit of chewing quids without tobacco: Guamanians, who chew areca nuts (Areca catechu) with or without the addition of betel leaf (Piper betle); Taiwanese, who use areca nut, betel leaf or inference and slaked lime. The levels of N-nitrosoguvacoline (NG) in the saliva of chewers of fresh green areca nuts were very high (70.8 ng/ml) as compared to those reported for individuals using the more complex Indian betel quids (0.91 ng/ml or 5.6 ng/ml). None of the other areca nut-related nitrosamines (N-nitrosoguvacine (NGC), 3-(methylnitrosamino)propionitrile (MNPN) and 3-(methylnitrosamino)propionaldehyde (MNPA)) were detected in the saliva of Taiwanese betel quid chewers. The addition of slaked lime to the areca nut enhances the formation of NG during a chewing session. The frequency of MEC did not increase in the oral mucosa of areca nut chewers who do not use slaked lime, but showed a small but significant elevation in individuals using lime-containing quids. The elevation of MEC in Taiwanese, who are at low risk for oral cancer, is relatively small as compared to that found in chewers of Indian betel quids (pan), who show a highly elevated oral cancer risk. The results seem to suggest that NG may play only a minor role, if any, in the etiology of oral cancer among betel quid chewers.
1. ::: ::: By means of the MINDO/3 method with variation of all independent degrees of freedom, the reactants and transition states have been calculated for different paths of molecular decomposition of β-hydroxypropionaldehyde. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: It has been shown that the retroaldol decomposition should proceed through a twostage mechanism with the formation of vinyl alcohol as an intermediate. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Dehydration with the formation of acrolein is the thermodynamically most favorable direction. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: A comparison of the calculated activation energies for dehydration of β-hydroxypropionaldehyde and ethanol shows that the transition state of the first reaction is stabilized as a result of conjugation of the carbonyl group with the reaction center.
Optically active 4,5-dimethyl-1,3-dioxacyclopentane derivatives can be easily obtained by condensing levo-2,3-butanediol with aldehydes or ketones in the presence of small amounts of strong acids at ordinary temperatures. Condensations were effected with formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, 2-ethylbutyraldehyde, 2-ethylhexaldehyde, benzaldehyde, furfural, acrolein, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl amyl ketone, diethyl ketone, acetophenone, cyclohexanone, acetoin, and diacetyl. The expected products were obtained, two compounds being formed from diacetyl since one or both carbonyl groups may react. Two compounds were obtained from formaldehyde also; in addition to the expected product (levo-4,5-dimethyl-1,3-dioxacyclopentane), 15 to 20% of levo-6,7-dimethyl-1,3,5-trioxacycloheptane was obtained.
[reaction: see text] The facile stereoselective syntheses of endo-8-hydroxybicyclo[3.3.1]nonan-2-one and endo-7-hydroxybicyclo[3.2.1]octan-2-one, featuring an alpha-amino acid catalyzed intramolecular aldolization of sigma-symmetric substrates, are described. A high enantioselectivity and a high catalytic efficiency have been exhibited by (4R,2S)-tetrabutylammonium 4-TBDPSoxy-prolinate in the aldolization of 3-(4-oxocyclohexyl)propionaldehyde to give highly enantiomerically enriched (1S,5R,8R)-8-hydroxybicyclo[3.3.1]nonan-2-one.
Isobutyraldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde have been found to react with benzamide in the presence of napthalenesulfonic acid to give an enamide, two dimeric enamides and a probably polymeric mixture, respectively. The same products were also obtained from the corresponding alkylidenebisbenzamides (I) under acidic conditions.
Acetogenic bacteria can grow by the oxidation of various substrates coupled to the reduction of CO 2 in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. Here, we show that growth of the acetogen Acetobacterium woodii on 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) as the sole carbon and energy source is independent of acetogenesis. Enzymatic measurements and metabolite analysis revealed that 1,2-PD is dehydrated to propionaldehyde, which is further oxidized to propionyl coenzyme A (propionyl-CoA) with concomitant reduction of NAD. NADH is reoxidized by reducing propionaldehyde to propanol. The potential gene cluster coding for the responsible enzymes includes genes coding for shell proteins of bacterial microcompartments. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of microcompartments as well as storage granules in cells grown on 1,2-PD. Gene clusters coding for the 1,2-PD pathway can be found in other acetogens as well, but the distribution shows no relation to the phylogeny of the organisms.
The relative performance figure of merits was investigated for the two most common analytical methods employed for carbonyl compounds (CC), for example, between high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-UV detector (with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) derivatization) and thermal desorption (TD)-gas chromatography (GC)-mass spectrometry (MS) (without derivatization). To this end, the suitability of each method is assessed by computing the relative recovery (RR) between the gas-and liquid-phase standards containing a suite of CC such as formaldehyde (FA), acetaldehyde (AA), propionaldehyde (PA), butyraldehyde (BA), isovaleraldehyde (IA), and valeraldehyde (VA) along with benzene (B) as a recovery reference for the GC method. The results confirm that a TD-GC-MS is advantageous to attain the maximum recovery for the heavier CCs (i.e., with molecular weights (MW) above BA−MW ≥ 74). On the other hand, the HPLC-UV is favorable for the lighter CCs (like FA and AA) with the least bias. Such compound-specific responses for each platform are validated by relative ordering of CCs as a function of response factor (RF), method detection limit (MDL), and recovery pattern. It is thus desirable to understand the advantages and limitations of each method to attain the CC data with the least experimental bias.
In an effort to characterize the basic methodological approaches available in the CC analysis, we investigated the experimental compatibilities and differences between HPLC and GC methods. To this end, a series of calibration experiments were conducted by both systems using identical standards containing 5 CCs (acetaldehyde (AA), propionaldehyde (PA), butyraldehyde (BA), isovaleraldehyde (IV), and valeraldehyde (VA)) prepared in both gas and liquid phases. The experimental results were then evaluated with respect to the sensitivities or reproducibilities across different carbonyls. In the course of this comparative study, preconcentration of CCs by each system was treated by their basic tools such as cartridge derivatization (HPLC-UV) and sorbent tube trapping (GC). Based on this comparative study, we explore the fundamental properties of each experimental method for CC and discuss their advantages and disadvantages.
The nitrogen formation efficiencies, defined as the number of nitrogen molecules formed for every reductant molecule consumed were determined for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in the reduction of NO2 under lean conditions over anatase TiO2. The efficiency increased with increasing NO2/reductant in the feed, reaching 0.61 ± 0.05 for NO2/acetaldehyde between 1.5 and 3.0 and 0.85 ± 0.08 for NO2/propionaldehyde between 3.8 and 5.7. Simultaneously, the CO/CO2 ratio as well as the small concentration of N2O in the product stream increased. The results suggested that at higher NO2/reductant ratios, the reaction between the reductant and adsorbed NO2 accounted for a large majority of the reaction. The results were consistent with the IR results, which showed that surface nitro groups reacted readily with acetaldehyde. The implications of these results on the NO2 reduction mechanism were discussed.
Ketoprofen was synthesized from 2-(3-benzylphenyl)propionaldehyde by phase transfer catalytic oxida-tion with KMnO4 in presence of domiphen bromide using benzene as organic phase and NaOH solution as aqueous phasein 69% yield and purity of 99.5%.
Novel formaldehyde-selective amperometric biosensors were developed based on NAD(+)- and glutathione-dependent formaldehyde dehydrogenase isolated from a gene-engineered strain of the methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha. Electron transfer between the immobilized enzyme and a platinized graphite electrode was established using a number of different low-molecular free-diffusing redox mediators or positively charged cathodic electrodeposition paints modified with Os-bis-N,N-(2,2'-bipyridil)-chloride ([Os(bpy)(2)Cl]) complexes. Among five tested Os-containing redox polymers of different chemical structure and properties, complexes of osmium-modified poly(4-vinylpyridine) with molecular mass of about 60 kDa containing diaminopropyl groups were selected. The positively charged cathodic paint exhibited the best electron-transfer characteristics. Moreover, the polymer layers simultaneously served as a matrix for keeping the negatively charged low-molecular cofactors, glutathione and NAD(+), in the bioactive layer. Additionally, covering the enzyme/polymer layer with a negatively charged Nafion membrane significantly decreased cofactors leakage and simultaneously enhanced the sensor' stability. The developed sensors revealed a high selectivity to formaldehyde (FA) and a low cross-sensitivity to other substances (such as, e.g. butyraldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, methylglyoxal). The maximum current value was 34.2+/-0.72 microA/mm(2) (3.05 mm diameter electrode) and the apparent Michaelis-Menten constant (K(M)(app)) derived from the FA calibration curves was 120+/-5mM with a linear detection range for FA up to 20mM. The best observed sensitivity for reagentless sensor was 1.8 nA microM(-1) (358 Am(-2)M(-1)). The developed sensors had a good operational and storage stability. The laboratory prototype of the sensor was applied for FA testing in some real samples of pharmaceutical (formidron), disinfectant (descoton forte) and industrial product (formalin). A good correlation was revealed between the concentration values measured using the developed FdDH-based sensor, an enzymatic method and standard chemical methods of FA determination.
The reaction dynamics of the Ni+ mediated decarbonylation of propionaldehyde was assessed using the single photon initiated decomposition rearrangement reaction (SPIDRR) technique. The exothermic production of Ni+CO was temporally monitored and the associated rate constants, k(E), were extracted as a function of activating photon energy. In addition, the reaction potential energy surface was calculated at the UCCSD(T)/def2-TZVP//PBEPBE/cc-pVDZ level of theory to provide an atomistic description of the reaction profile. The decarbonylation of propionaldehyde can be understood as proceeding through parallel competitive reaction pathways that are initiated by Ni+ insertion into either the C–C or C–H bond of the propionaldehyde carbonyl carbon. Both paths lead to the elimination of neutral ethane and are governed by submerged barriers. The lower energy sequence is a consecutive C–C/C–H addition process with a submerged barrier of 14 350 ± 600 cm–1. The higher energy sequence is a consecutive C–H/C–C addition ...
1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase from Klebsiella pneumoniae was purified by DEAE sepharose fast flow ion-exchange chromatography and Blue Sepharose CL-6B affinity chromatography under aerobic conditions.A 35.86-fold purification was obtained with the recovery of 5.17% activity.The optimum temperature and pH of the enzyme activity were 57 ℃ and 9.5 of pH value.At 30 ℃ and at range of pH 8.0～10.0,1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase was stable.At 45 ℃ and pH 9.5 the Km for 1,3-propanediol and NAD+ were 15.8 mmol·L-1 and 0.2 mmol·L-1,respectively.The enzyme oxidized other alcohols such as pentanol,propanol,ethylene glycol and 1,4-butanediol,besides physiological substrate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde.The enzyme was significantly activated by Mn2+.Reducing agents were able to enhence the activity of 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase.
Abstract In this study, the isolated strain, Citrobacter freundii AD970, was genetically modified to improve production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD). The strain was modified through overexpression of 1,3-PD oxidoreductase (PDOR from Shimwellia blattae ), catalyzing the final step of glycerol-to-1,3-PD conversion. The aim of such approach was to decrease accumulation of toxic 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) and to increase 1,3-PD synthesis. To this end, a genetic construct suitable for the modification of the strain was developed. Our results showed that PDOR was successfully overexpressed in the novel expression system. Flask cultivations in a glycerol-based medium demonstrated that the modified strain produced nearly two-fold higher concentrations of 1,3-PD (8.6 vs. 4.75 g/L). During bioreactor fed-batch cultivations in a glycerol-based medium, accumulation of 3-HPA was successfully decreased, leading to enhanced 1,3-PD synthesis (35.6 vs. 25.5 g/L), at higher yield (0.49 vs. 0.44 mol/mol at 48 h) and productivity (12.41 vs. 8.06 g 1,3-PD /g DCW and 0.32 vs. 0.23 g 1,3-PD /(L*h)). Considering the final volume of the fed-batch cultures, the V + I strain synthesized 20 g more of 1,3-PD (49.9 g vs. 29.9 g). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on genetic engineering of a wild-type Citrobacter strain to modulate the 1,3-PD synthesis pathway.
1. ::: ::: The chloromethyl methyl sulfoxide complex of Pd catalyzes the hydrogenation of the C=C bond of allyl alcohol (AA) and 3-cyclohexenol, and also their rearrangement respectively to propionaldehyde and cyclohexanone. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The chloromethyl methyl sulfoxide complex of Rh accelerates the hydrogenation of AA and also its rearrangement, either with the involvement of hydrogen or in its absence. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The Rh complex catalyzes the reduction of propionaldehyde, but it is poisoned by acrolein. In contrast, the Pd complex accelerates the hydrogenation of acrolein, but is inert toward propionaldehyde.
The formation of products following the hydroxyl radical initiated photo-oxidations of n-and isopropyl acetates has been studied. Mixtures of synthetic air containing a few ppm of nitrous acid, nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide and one of the propyl acetates were irradiated with sunlamps in a Teflon bag smog chamber. The decay of reactants and the formation of products was monitored by chemiluminescent analysis or by gas chromatography. The major primary products from the photo-oxidation of n-propyl acetate are acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde while from isopropyl acetate they are acetone and methyl nitrate. It was not possible to analyse for formaldehyde, an expected primary product in these systems. The nature and distribution of products indicate that a significant fraction of primary products arise from decomposition reactions of the alkoxy-type radicals generated following the initial attack of hydroxyl radicals on the esters. The derived reaction stoichiometries (molecules of NO oxidised per molecule of ester reacted) are also consistent with the proposed mechanisms.
To investigate the role of the glucoside moiety in the biological activity of VP-16 (etoposide; 4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxin-ethylidene-beta-D-glucoside) and VM-26 (teniposide; 4'-demethyl-epipodophyllotoxin-thenylidene-beta-D-glucoside), a number of acetal and ketal derivatives of 4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxin (DMEP)-beta-D-galactoside were synthesized. The compounds synthesized included acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, 2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde and acetone derivatives. In contrast to the glucose derivatives, where the acetal ring is trans to the pyranose ring, in galactose derivatives it is located in the cis position. The activities of the above compounds have been measured in two different biological assays, based on cross resistance towards mutants exhibiting specific resistance to VP-16/VM-26-like drugs and DNA-strand breaks as measured by the alkaline elution technique. All of the above compounds showed specific cross resistance to VpmR mutants (mutants resistant to VP-16 and VM-26) and caused a dose-dependent enhancement in DNA-strand breakage, providing evidence that they possessed the same kind of biological activity as VP-16 and VM-26. The relative activities of the DMEP-galactose derivatives have been compared with the corresponding DMEP-glucoside compounds. These studies reveal that, for the acetal and ketal derivatives with small R groups (acetaldehyde and acetone derivatives), the activities in the two series are comparable. However, for derivatives with larger, more hydrophobic R groups (2-thiophene or phenylacetaldehyde), the glucoside derivatives showed about 8-10-fold higher activity in comparison with the corresponding galactoside compounds.
For determining the eight volatile carbonyl compounds(formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone,acrolein, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, 2-butanone, and butyraldehyde) in cigarette filter, a liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry(LC-ESI-MS/MS) method was developed.The cigarette filters were extracted by shaking with acetonitrile aqueous solution(1:1, V/V), then the extract derivatively reacted with 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazine. The derivatives were analyzed by LC-ESI-MS/MS in negative ion mode. Four types of cigarette filter(i.e. cellulose acetate filter, activated carbon filter,polypropylene fiber filter, and paper filter) samples were selected for the optimization and characterization of analytical method, and their filtration efficiencies to the eight carbonyl compounds were also investigated. The results showed that: 1) The developed method featured simple pretreatment and high sensitivity, and the detection limit for the eight carbonyl compounds ranged from 0.0044 to 0.0430 μg/cig. 2) The recoveries of standard addition of the eight carbonyl compounds were from 92.8% to 118.4%. 3) The precisions of intra-day and inter-day were all less than 10% for whole or part of cigarette filters. 4) The filters in the order of filtration efficiency to the eight carbonyl compounds were activated carbon filtercellulose acetate filterpaper filterpolypropylene fiber filter. The filtration efficiencies of the said four filters to the total content of the eight carbonyl compounds were all less than 5%, though their filtration efficiencies to formaldehyde and crotonaldehyde were higher.
1. This paper deals with the study on the forms of the vitamin B12 in the cells and the supernatant of Lactobacillus leichmannii incubated with cobalamin exogenously supplied. The ratio of DNA to RNA in vitamin B12-starved cells, harvested from a culture on a medium containing deoxyguanosine instead of vitamin B12, was significantly lower than that in normal cells. Incubation of these cells in a medium containing cyanocobalamin or hydroxocobalamin for 5 hours at 37° brought about a remarkable increase of acid-soluble deoxyribosyl compounds, followed by DNA synthesis without an increase of RNA content as well as the bacterial growth.2. In this case the vitamin B12-active substance detectable in the cells incubated with hydroxocobalamin was identical with that derived from cyanocobalamin, though hydroxocobalamin showed a grear effect than cyanocobalamin on the syntheses of acid-soluble deoxyribosyl compounds and DNA under the experimental conditions. The vitamin B12-active substance present in the cells was extracted with hot 80% ethanol and separated from a contaminating yellow substance by DEAF-cellulose column chromatography. The vitamin B12 contained in the effluent fraction gave a single spot identical with DBCC on paper electrophoresis performed at pH 2.7 and 3.5. Its visible absorption spectrum and the changes by illumination and by cyanide treatment were similar to those of 5, 6-dimethylbenzimidazoylcobamide coenzyme (DBCC). Furthermore; the coenzyme activity of this substance was essentially identical with that of DBCC in the propane diol-propionaldehyde intramolecular oxidation-reduction system of Abeles and Lee when the amounts were calculated on the basis of the absorbancy at 525mμ.3. The results that DBCC was the sole vitamin B12 in the cells of L. leichmannii in which the formation of deoxyribosyl compounds took place, suggest that the coenzyme is the active form participating in the biosynthesis of deoxyribosyl compounds in the bacteria associated with the finding of Blakley and Barker (9) that DBCC was an only active vitamin B12 stimulating the reduction of ribotide to deoxyribotide in their enzyme system obtained from the bacteria.DBCC added exogenously, however, showed almost the same effect with hydroxocobalamin. The reason may be attributed to the splitting of the deoxyadenosyl ligand from the coenzyme to be taken up into the bacterial cells.4. The vitamin B12-active substances in the supernatant derived from hydroxocobalamin were separated by DEAE-cellulose chromatography to an effluent fraction D-1 and a retained fraction D-2. The former behaved analogously to DBCC in paper electrophoresis and in absorption spectrophotometry. The latter, eluted with 0.1 M acetate buffer (pH 4.7), showed the analogous spectroscopic behavior to DBCC as well as D-1, but less cationic character in paper electrophoresis at several pH levels. Both D-1 and D-2 exhibited the coenzyme activity in Abeles-Lee's system, though somewhat smaller than that of DBCC. It remains unsolved whether the activities of these fractions were substantially small or lowered by the contaminating impurities, such as hydroxocobalamin. D-1 seems to be DBCC from its properties. The study on the structre of D-2 is in progress.
The addition of the acetals of saturated aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and isobutyraldehyde) to 2-trimethylsilyloxy-4-methyl-1,3-pentadiene in the presence of aprotic acids (ZnCl/sub 2/, ZnBr/sub 2/, FeCl/sub 3/, SnCl/sub 4/, BF/sub 3/ /times/ OEt/sub 2/) takes place at positions 1, 2 of the diene system with the formation of /beta/-alkoxyalkyl vinyl ketones. The most effective catalysts of this reaction were stannic chloride and zinc bromide. The alkyl derivatives of divinyl ketones are formed when the obtained /beta/-alkoxyalkyl vinyl ketones are heated with p-toluenesulfonic acid.
Two pathways for biosynthesis of ethylene in higher plants have been postulated (10). One is associated with the breakdown of peroxidized linolenic acid and the other involves the degradation of methionine. Although the formation of ethyilene from peroxidized linolenate has been demonstrated in model systems catalyzed by Cu24, oxygen and ascorbic acid (10) and by an apple extract in the presence of oxygen and ascorbic acid (4), there is no direct evidence that it occurs in plant tissues. The conversion of methionine to etlhylene in model systems (8,19) and in plant tissues (2,9) has been demonstrated. In the FMN-light mediated model system (19), it has been established that methionine is converted to ethylene via methional (,a-methylthiopropionaldehyde) as an intermediate. Enzymic conversion of methionine analogs to ethylene catalvzed by peroxidase has been elucidated recently (5, 6, 11, 12, 15, 17); a-keto-y-methylthiobutyric acid and methional, but not methionine, are the active substrates. A chemical mechanism accounting for suich enzymic formation of ethylene has been described (15-18). On tlle basis of this information, Yalng (16) has proposed the following scheme for the biosynthesis of ethylene in plants: methionine -> a-keto-y-methylthiobutyric acid -+ methional -) ethylene. In order to test the proposed pathways, radioactive linolenic acid and the appropriate radioactive methionine analogs were fed to apple tissue. None of these suggested precursors of ethylene was converted to ethylene as effectively as was methionine.
Abstract Lactic acid bacteria belonging to the genus Lactobacillus are known to convert glycerol into 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) during anaerobic glycerol fermentation. Wine quality can be gravely compromised by the accumulation of 3-HPA, due to its spontaneous conversion to acrolein under wine making conditions. Acrolein is not only a dangerous substance for the living cell, but has been implicated in the development of unpleasant bitterness in beverages. This study evaluates the effect of individual environmental parameters on 3-HPA production by Lactobacillus reuteri DSMZ 20016, which only proved possible under conditions that allow accumulation well below the threshold concentration affecting cell viability. 3-HPA production was optimal at pH 6 and in the presence of 300 mM glycerol. Production increased with an increase in cell concentration up to an OD 600 of 50, whereas higher cell concentrations inhibited accumulation. Data presented in this study suggest that 3-HPA plays a role in regulating its own production through quorum sensing. Glycerol dehydratase possessing bacterial strains isolated from South African red wine, L. pentosus and L. brevis , tested positive for 3-HPA accumulation. 3-HPA is normally intracellularly reduced to 1,3-propanediol. This is the first study demonstrating the ability of wine lactobacilli to accumulate 3-HPA in the fermentation media. Recommendations are made on preventing the formation of acrolein and its precursor 3-HPA in wine.
The Ti/SnO2+Sb2O4/PbO2 electrode was prepared.The structure phase and valent state were characterized by means of XRD and XPS.The 2,2-dimethylolpropionic acid was synthesized on the Ti/SnO2+Sb2O4/PbO2 anode by direct electro-oxidation of 2,2-dimethylolpropionaldehyde.The product and crude material were analyzed by HPLC,the effects of the concentration of 2,2-dimethylolpropionaldehyde,pH,potential and reaction temperature were studied.The results showed that the optimum conditions were anode potential 1.8 V,pH=1,reaction temperature 15℃ and 2,2-dimethylolpropionaldehyde concentration 0.10mol/L.Under the optimum conditions,the selectivity of 36%,the current efficiency of 28% and the conversion of 58% were reached.The reported method provides a new route for the synthesis of 2,2-dimethylol propionic acid.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde is a precursor to acrolein, which can be used as an intermediate for making acrylic acid and a variety of other useful industrial chemicals. Conversion of glycerol, a renewable resource, to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde was attempted via action of glycerol dehydrase isolated from Lactobacillus sp. strain NRRL B-1720. This method, however, was unsatisfactory because enzyme activity was lost within 60 to 90 min after the reaction initiation. Fermentation of glycerol by whole cells of Klebsiella pneumoniae NRRL B-199 in the presence of optimal semicarbazide hydrochloride proved more effective. Using this technique, glycerol solutions of 30 g/liter yielded 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde solutions of 13.1 g/liter. Thus, a conversion efficiency equal to 55% of the theoretical maximum was realized.
Lactobacillus reuteri is a natural inhabitant of selected animal and human gastrointestinal tract (GIT). Certain strains have the capacity to transform glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), further excreted to form reuterin, a potent antimicrobial system. Reuterin-producing strains may be applied as a natural antimicrobial in feed to prevent pathogen colonization of animals, such as in poultry, and replace added antimicrobials. To date, only seven L. reuteri strains isolated from poultry have been characterized which limits phylogenetic studies and host-microbes interactions characterization. This study aimed to isolate L. reuteri strains from poultry GIT and to characterize their reuterin production and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) profiles using phenotypic and genetic methods. Seventy reuterin-producing strains were isolated from poultry crop, faeces and caeca and twenty-five selected for further characterization. Draft genomes were generated for the new 25 isolates and integrated in a phylogenetic tree of 40 strains from different hosts. Phylogenetic analysis based on gene content as well as on core genomes showed grouping of the selected 25 L. reuteri poultry isolates within the poultry/human lineage VI. Strains harbouring pdu-cob-cbi-hem genes (23/25) produced between 156 mM ± 11 and 330 mM ± 14 3-HPA, from 600 mM of glycerol, in the conditions of the test. All 25 poultry strains were sensitive to cefotaxime (MIC between 0.016 and 1 μg/mL) and penicillin (MIC between 0.02 and 4 μg/mL). Akin to the reference strains DSM20016 and SD2112, the novel isolates were resistant to penicillin, possibly associated with identified point mutations in ponA, pbpX, pbpF and pbpB. All strains resistant to erythromycin (4/27) carried the ermB gene, and it was only present in poultry strains. All strains resistant to tetracycline (5/27) harbored tetW gene. This study confirms the evolutionary history of poultry/human lineage VI and identifies pdu-cob-cbi-hem as a frequent trait but not always present in this lineage. L. reuteri poultry strains producing high 3-HPA yield may have potential to prevent enteropathogen colonization of poultry.
The simultaneous analysis of the odorous compounds designated by law in Korea and Japan was examined with the thermal desorber gas chromatography-mass spectrometry using one column. The approximate concentrations of trimethyl amine, acetaldehyde, methyl mercaptan and dimethyl sulfide were estimated. Styrene, dimethyl disulfide, propionaldehyde, n-butyl aldehyde, i-butyl aldehyde, n-valeraldehyde, i-valeraldehyde, ethyl acetate, toluene, xylene, methyl i-butyl ketone and i-butanol were detected at concentrations of the detection limits of their threshold values. As a typical example of simultaneous analysis of the odorous compounds, the volatile organic compounds emitted from compost procedure of food waste were concentrated and analyzed with thermal desorber/GC/MSD, and major malodorous compounds were estimated from the concentrations and threshold values of the detected components. From the result of analysis, 34 compounds were confirmed and among them, trimethyl amine, i-valeraldehyde, methyl mercaptan, methyl allyl sulfide, dimethyl sulfide, acetaldehyde, ethanol, n-butyaldehyde were expected to attribute to the odor in order of strength.
The activities of aldehyde dehydrogenases using benzaldehyde and propionaldehyde as substrates and NADP and NAD as coenzymes were determined in normal liver, hepatocyte nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas from male Wistar rats. Hepatocyte nodules were produced by intermittent exposure of rats to 0.05% 2-acetylaminofluorene or by initiation with diethylnitrosamine followed by selection using 2 weeks of dietary exposure to 0.02% 2-acetylaminofluorene and partial hepatectomy. The activities of propionaldehyde:NAD and benzaldehyde:NADP aldehyde dehydrogenases were increased in hepatocyte nodules of all types as well as in most hepatocellular carcinomas. The most prominent elevation of enzyme activity was found in the cytosol of persistent hepatocyte nodules (35-60 times) and some hepatocellular carcinomas (92 times) using benzaldehyde and NADP. The benzaldehyde:NADP aldehyde dehydrogenase activity varied considerably between different nodules suggesting the existence of a subpopulation of hepatocyte nodules with very high enzymatic activities. The activity of propionaldehyde:NAD aldehyde dehydrogenase activity as well as of gamma-glutamyltransferase did not show substantial internodular variations. The activity of benzaldehyde:NADP aldehyde dehydrogenase in individual carcinomas investigated in these experiments varied extensively. The data did not support the idea that all hepatomas had been developed from pre-neoplastic nodules with very high activity of this enzyme.
Hundreds of bacterial species use microcompartments (MCPs) to optimize metabolic pathways that have toxic or volatile intermediates. MCPs consist of a protein shell encapsulating specific metabolic enzymes. In Salmonella, an MCP is used for 1,2-propanediol utilization (Pdu MCP). The shell of this MCP is composed of eight different types of polypeptides, but their specific functions are uncertain. Here, we individually deleted the eight genes encoding the shell proteins of the Pdu MCP. The effects of each mutation on 1,2-PD degradation and MCP structure were determined by electron microscopy and growth studies. Deletion of the pduBB′, pduJ, or pduN gene severely impaired MCP formation, and the observed defects were consistent with roles as facet, edge, or vertex protein, respectively. Metabolite measurements showed that pduA, pduBB′, pduJ, or pduN deletion mutants accumulated propionaldehyde to toxic levels during 1,2-PD catabolism, indicating that the integrity of the shell was disrupted. Deletion of the pduK, pduT, or pduU gene did not substantially affect MCP structure or propionaldehyde accumulation, suggesting they are nonessential to MCP formation. However, the pduU or pduT deletion mutants grew more slowly than the wild type on 1,2-PD at saturating B12, indicating that they are needed for maximal activity of the 1,2-PD degradative enzymes encased within the MCP shell. Considering recent crystallography studies, this suggests that PduT and PduU may mediate the transport of enzyme substrates/cofactors across the MCP shell. Interestingly, a pduK deletion caused MCP aggregation, suggesting a role in the spatial organization of MCP within the cytoplasm or perhaps in segregation at cell division.
There is growing interest in biodiesel and this results in the accumulation of glycerol. The exploitation and application of glycerol has attracted more and more attention. In the current study, glycerol was biotransformed to produce 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde by genetic engineering bacteria. It is known that 3-hydroxypopionaldehyde has been widely used as an important intermediate for chemicals, effective antimicrobial agent, and fix agent for tissues. A pair of primers was designed on the basis of the sequence of both NH2-terminus and the amino acid sequence of glycerol dehydratase reported by NCBI, and a fragment about 1.6 kb was obtained by PCR amplification using the total genome DNA of Lactobacillus reuteri as template, then the fragment was cloned to the pMD18-T vector and sequenced. Two specific primers were designed according to the obtained sequence, and a fragment with length of 1674 bp was amplified using PCR with these two specific primers. Consequently, the resulting products were digested with EcoR I and Hind III and ligated using T4 DNA ligase to the pET28b vector digested with the same enzymes. The recombinant plasmid, named pET28b-dhaB, was transformed into E. coli BL21. The positive clones were induced with IPTG and the expression products were further analyzed by SDS-PAGE, indicating that protein with a molecule weight of around 65 kD was obtained. Furthermore, the glycerol dehydratase activity was evaluated and compared with the wild type strain as well.
Persistent use of the insecticide D-cyphenothrin has resulted in heavy environmental contamination and public concern. However, microbial degradation of D-cyphenothrin has never been investigated and the mechanism remains unknown. During this study, for the first time, an efficient D-cyphenothrin-degrading bacterial strain Staphylococcus succinus HLJ-10 was identified. Response surface methodology was successfully employed by using Box-Behnken design to optimize the culture conditions. At optimized conditions, over 90% degradation of D-cyphenothrin (50 mg·L-1) was achieved in a mineral salt medium within 7 d. Kinetics analysis revealed that its half-life was reduced by 61.2 d, in comparison with the uninoculated control. Eight intermediate metabolites were detected in the biodegradation pathway of D-cyphenothrin including cis-D-cyphenothrin, trans-D-cyphenothrin, 3-phenoxybenzaldehyde, α-hydroxy-3-phenoxy-benzeneacetonitrile, trans-2,2-dimethyl-3-propenyl-cyclopropanol, 2,2-dimethyl-3-propenyl-cyclopropionic acid, trans-2,2-dimethyl-3-propenyl-cyclopropionaldehyde, and 1,2-benzenedicarboxylic acid, dipropyl ester. This is the first report about the degradation of D-cyphenothrin through cleavage of carboxylester linkage and diaryl bond. In addition to degradation of D-cyphenothrin, strain HLJ-10 effectively degraded a wide range of synthetic pyrethroids including permethrin, tetramethrin, bifenthrin, allethrin, and chlorempenthrin, which are also widely used insecticides with environmental contamination problems. Bioaugmentation of D-cyphenothrin-contaminated soils with strain HLJ-10 substantially enhanced its degradation and over 72% of D-phenothrin was removed from soils within 40 d. These findings unveil the biochemical basis of a highly efficient D-cyphenothrin-degrading bacterial isolate and provide potent agents for eliminating environmental residues of pyrethroids.
A method for measuring main carbonyl compounds in a main stream smoke of a cigarette through ultra high performance convergence chromatography is a method for measuring butyraldehyde, 2-butanone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, acetaldehyde and formaldehyde in the main stream smoke. The method is characterized in that a filter leaf processed with a derivatization reagent is used to gather the main carbonyl compounds in the main stream smoke of the cigarette, the analyzing and measuring method is used to obtain the contents of the eight carbonyl compounds in the main stream smoke through ultra high performance convergence chromatography (UPC2). When the method provided by the invention is used to detect the contents of the main carbonyl compounds in the main stream smoke of the cigarette rapidly and effectively, the pretreatment is simple, the average relative standard deviation is less than 7%, and the average recovery rate of various indexes is between 75%-94%. The method has the advantages of rapidness, accuracy, high flexibility and good repeatability.
An exposure assessment was conducted to investigate the potential for harmful concentrations of airborne short chain aldehydes emitted from recently stored wood pellets. Wood pellets can emit a number of airborne aldehydes include acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, valeraldehyde, and hexanal. Exposure limits have been set for these compounds since they can result in significant irritation of the upper respiratory system at elevated concentrations. Formaldehyde is a recognized human carcinogen and acetaldehyde is an animal carcinogen. Thus, air sampling was performed in a wood pellet warehouse at a pellet mill, two residential homes with bulk wood pellet storage bins, and in controlled laboratory experiments to evaluate the risk to occupants. Using NIOSH method 2539, sampling was conducted in five locations in the warehouse from April-June 2016 when it contained varying quantities of bagged pellets as well as two homes with ten ton bulk storage bins. The aldehyde concentrations were found to increase with the amount of stored pellets. Airborne concentrations of formaldehyde were as high as 0.45 ppm in the warehouse exceeding the NIOSH REL-C, and ACGIH TLV-C occupational exposure limits (OELs). The concentrations of aldehydes measured in the residential bins were also elevated indicating emissions may raise indoor air quality concerns for occupants. While individual exposures are of concern the combined irritant effect of all the aldehydes is a further raise the concerns for building occupants. To minimize exposure and the risk of adverse health effects to a building's occupants in storage areas with large quantities of pellets, adequate ventilation must be designed into storage areas.
In this work we investigated the possibility of using combined beet and wheat coproducts as substrates to formulate a growth medium for L. reuteri DSM17938. This lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strain is of particular interest for its probiotic properties which are used in infant nutrition [7] . Furthermore, L. reuteri is capable of naturally converting glycerol into three molecules of industrial interest, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO), and 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), which are used as building blocks for the production of superabsorbent polymers and diverse composite materials. In this work, considering the growing interest of this molecule as a building block of particular industrial interest, we will focus on 3-HP as the target molecule [8] .
The bioconversion of glycerol to 3-HP by L. reuteri occurs in two steps: glycerol is first dehydrated to 3-HPA by a co-enzyme B12-dependent glycerol dehydratase. The synthesized 3-HPA can then either be excreted, reduced to 1,3-PDO via the NADH 2 -dependent 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase, or transformed to 3-HP via an oxidative pathway involving a NAD + -dependent propionaldehyde dehydrogenase, a phosphotransacetylase and a propionate kinase [9] . L. reuteri is not able to use glycerol as a carbon source for growth, which limits the coproducts formed during the bioconversion of glycerol by resting cells. The use of resting cells in a restricted medium containing only glycerol is thus interesting as it facilitates the downstream processing [10, 11] .
The gas-phase dehydration reaction of glycerol has been carried out under different conditions in the presence of metal oxides and heteropolyacids (HPAs) supported on metal oxides in autoclaves under high pressures and at high temperatures. It was reported that in the gas-phase reactions dehydration of glycerol was more successful and resulted in high yields of acrolein. Synthesis of valuable heterocyclic compounds has been successfully performed from degradation and dehydration products of glycerol, such as acetaldehyde and acrolein, in the presence of ammonia gas. Several examples of gas-phase reactions involving a heterogeneous catalyst (silica/alumina or zeolite) can be found in the literature. 19 Among these catalysts, zeolites and their different modified versions have attracted considerable attention in the synthesis of pyridines. Not only zeolites but also their metal supported derivatives have been used for enhancing the catalyst activity so that pyridine and 3-methylpyridine yields reached up to 80%. Metal ions doped zeolites have been studied and a mixture of mainly pyridine and 3-methylpyridine was obtained with a yield of 74%. The condensation reaction of different aldehydes, such as acrolein, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and crotonaldehyde, or their mixture with an ammonium salt in the liquid phase, has also been investigated in the synthesis of pyridine derivatives and produced 3-methylpyridine more selectively than pyridine, with moderate yields in general. 20−25 Polymerization of glycerol and acrolein has been the most important problem in these reactions and caused lower yields. In addition, the high costs of the catalysts and their harmful effect to health and the environment as well as complicated purification processes are the main disadvantages of these methods.
Lactobacillus reuteri is a natural inhabitant of selected animal and human gastrointestinal tract (GIT). Certain strains have the capacity to transform glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), further excreted to form reuterin, a potent antimicrobial system. Reuterin-producing strains may be applied as a natural antimicrobial in feed to prevent pathogen colonization of animals, such as in poultry, and replace added antimicrobials. To date, only seven L. reuteri strains isolated from poultry have been characterized which limits phylogenetic studies and host-microbes interactions characterization. This study aimed to isolate L. reuteri strains from poultry GIT and to characterize their reuterin production and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) profiles using phenotypic and genetic methods. Seventy reuterin-producing strains were isolated from poultry crop, faeces and caeca and twenty-five selected for further characterization. Draft genomes were generated for the new 25 isolates and integrated in a phylogenetic tree of 40 strains from different hosts. Phylogenetic analysis based on gene content as well as on core genomes showed grouping of the selected 25 L.
Genomes of poultry and human L. reuteri isolates (lineages II and VI) have been shown to harbour the pdu-cbi-cob-hem operon, as a lineage specific trait [5] . This operon contains genes for glycerol and propanediol utilization (pdu) and for cobalamin biosynthesis (cbi-cob), hem genes and some accessory genes. Cobalamin is a cofactor for glycerol/diol dehydratase PduCDE (EC 4.2.1.30). PduCDE catalyzes the conversion of 1,2-propanediol to propanal, which can be further metabolized by other enzymes of the pdu operon to propanol or propionate [6] . Glycerol, a second substrate of PduCDE, is transformed to the intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde which can be further metabolized to 1,3-propanediol or 3-hydroxypropionate [7] . 3-HPA produced from glycerol is released from the cell forming the dynamic multicompound reuterin system, with broad antimicrobial spectrum and consisting of 3-HPA, its hydrate and dimer and acrolein [8, 9] . Acrolein, a highly reactive toxicant, was recently shown to be the main component for the antimicrobial activity of reuterin [10, 11] .
A number of aldehyde arylhydrazones have been oxidised with lead tetra-acetate. In many cases diacylhydrazines, RCO·NH·NAcAr, can be isolated in good yield. With benzaldehyde phenylhydrazone, provided that precautions are taken to avoid autoxidation, α-phenylazobenzyl acetate can be isolated in up to 27% yield. Evidence has been obtained that this compound is not the main precursor of the diacyl derivative PhCO·NH·NAcPh or of further oxidation products, but that these arise via the nitrilimine PhC[graphic omitted]Ph; this 1,3-dipolar compound has been trapped with acrylonitrile, to form 1,3-diphenylpyrazole-5-carbonitrile together with a small quantity of the isomeric 4-carbonitrile. Analogous nitrilimines have been similarly trapped during the oxidation of the p-nitrophenylhydrazones of benzaldehyde, propionaldehyde, benzoin, and benzil. Oxidations with lead tetrabenzoate, and with lead tetra-acetate in methanol, have also been carried out; they lead to azo-dibenzoates and azo-dimethyl ethers, respectively, and benzaldehyde phenylhydrazone also forms an azo-benzoate.The acylhydrazones PhCH:N·NH·COR (R = Ph or NPh2) undergo oxidative cyclisation with lead tetra-acetate to give high yields of the corresponding oxadiazoles. Likewise, the phenyl- and p-nitrophenyl-hydrazones of o-nitrobenzaldehyde are cyclised to 3-arylazoanthranil 1-oxides. Nitrilimines, by implication, mediate in each case.
Main objectives of this study were to measure carbonyl compounds simultaneously in indoor and outdoor atmosphere of Guangzhou city,to assess the pollution situation of carbonyls-and to search for the sources of carbonyls.Carbonyls were collected by drawing air through a cartridge impregnated with acidifed 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine(DNPH).13 kinds of carbonyls(Formaldehyde,Acetaldehyde,Acrolein.Acetone.Propionaldehyde,Crotonaldehyde,Methacrolein,2-Butanone,Butyraldehyde,Benzaldehyde,Valeraldehyde,m-Tolualdehyde and Hexaldehyde) were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography(HPLC).Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were found to be the most abundant carbonyl species,accounting for 30%~67% of total carbonyls.Average concentrations of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were 53.47 μg/m3 and 17.81 μg/m3 for summer indoor environment,15.00 μg/m3 and 10.97 μg/m3 for summer outdoor environment,37.97 μg/m3 and 11.49 μg/m3 for winter indoor environment,and 10.44 μg/m3 and 8.15 μg/m3 for winter outdoor environment,respectively.Average concentrations of carbonyls showed obvious variation rules that the concentrations in summer were commonly higher than those in winter,and that indoor concentrations of most of the carbonyls were higher than the outdoors.The ratios of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde,and the ratios of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were measured,implying urban anthropogenic sources of them.
The hydroxybenzene spectrophotometric method and the acetylacetone spectrophotometry for determining formaldehyde content in air were compared.The results show that because there are acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in air,determination of formaldehyde content in air with the hydroxybenzene spectrophotometric method is easily interfered,It is difficult to draw the curve to form a linear relationship.Through capacity verification of determining formaldehyde content in air,the acetylacetone spectrophotometry is proved to be very suitable for determination of formaldehyde content in air.
The methylation of various aldehydes, such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and phenylacetaldehyde over titanium oxidesupported vanadium oxide was studied under atmospheric pressure and temperatures of 250–400°C. The catalyst properties of titanium oxide can be enhanced only by addition of a fairly small amount of vanadium. High-temperature treatment transforms titanium oxide, the support, from anatase to rutile, which causes the catalysts to lose their catalytic properties. The reactivity of these can be ranked in the following order: acetaldehyde > propionaldehyde > phenylacetaldehyde. The steric effect of the substituted groups in propionaldehyde or phenylacetaldehyde may prevent self-condensation to form oligomers and to give a high selectivity of alkylated products.
Abstract yqh D oxidoreductase was determined to be an NADP-dependent dehydrogenase, and was more active toward 3-HPA when compared to 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase. To further improve enzyme activity towards 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), error-prone PCR was implemented to mutant yqh D gene. Two mutants, D99QN147H and Q202A with increased catalytic and affinity efficiency, were obtained after one round of error-prone polymerase chain reaction. And the catalytic efficiency of the mutant D99QN147H was up to 4-fold greater than the wild enzyme (0.0375 min −1 mM −1 vs. 0.0078 min −1 mM −1 ). The recombined strain containing pET28 yqh D D99QN147H yielded 28 g L −1 of 1,3-propanediol in the fed-batch LB cultures (1 L volume) with an initial 3-HPA concentration of 40 g L −1 , which was higher than the 21 and 17 g L −1 of 1,3-propanediol from the mutant Q202A and the wild-type, respectively. Except for propionaldehyde, the optimal mutant D99QN147H also exhibited higher activity on a range of substituted aldehydes than the wild-type.
A 4-day field observation was conducted at Liede sewage treatment plant in Guangzhou, using PFPH/GC/MS method to analyse the composition and the concentration of volatile carbonyl compounds, and investigate the source emission characteristics of the pollutants. The results were as follows: 18 carbonyl species were detected, which including 15 malodorous volatile carbonyls with a concentration range from 0.39 microg x m(-3) to 19.92 microg x m(-3) at six processing units. Mean value of the total malodorous volatile carbonyls was (68.66 +/- 10.05) microg x m(-3). Normalization data process was used to research the source emission profile for malodorous volatile carbonyls, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, 2-butanone, butyraldehyde and hexaldehyde were found to be molecular markers of the source emission with their percentage of total carbonyls up to 78.91%. Hexaldehyde was the most abundant carbonyl species with an average concentration of 11.71 microg x m(-3). Using a calculation model of area source emission, it estimated that the total annual emissions of the municipal sewage treatment plant was 2 302.33 kg(-1), and the contribution ratio of each processing unit was in an order of biochemical reaction basin, concentration basin, grade A aeration, ascending pump room, grit basin, dewatering house. The malodorous emission of sewage treatment plant is affected by many complex factors, so there's some uncertainty on the estimate.
Abstract Nanoparticles (2–10 nm) of palladium have been deposited on single wall carbon nanotubes (SWNT) by spontaneous reduction from Pd(OAc) 2 or from oxime carbapalladacycle. These catalysts exhibit higher catalytic activity than palladium over activated carbon (Pd/C) for the Heck reaction of styrene and iodobenzene and for the Suzuki coupling of phenylboronic and iodobenzene. This fact has been attributed as reflecting the dramatic influence of the size particle on the activity of the palladium catalyst for C C bond forming reactions as compared to other reaction types less demanding from the point of view of the particle size. Thus, in contrast to the Heck and Suzuki reactions, Pd/C is more active than palladium nanoparticles deposited on SWNT for the catalytic oxidation by molecular oxygen of cinnamyl alcohol to cinnamaldehyde and for the hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde to 3-phenylpropionaldehyde.
BackgroundLactobacillus reuteri metabolizes glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) and further to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO), the latter step catalysed by a propanediol dehydrogenase (PDH). The last step in this pathway regenerates NAD+ and enables therefore the energetically more favourable production of acetate over ethanol during growth on glucose.ResultsA search throughout the genome of L. reuteri DSM 20016 revealed two putative PDHs encoded by ORFs lr_0030 and lr_1734. ORF lr_1734 is situated in the pdu operon encoding the glycerol conversion machinery and therefore likely involved in 1,3-PDO formation. ORF lr_0030 has not been associated with PDH-activity so far. To elucidate the role of these two PDHs, gene deletion mutant strains were constructed. Growth behaviour on glucose was comparable between the wild type and both mutant strains. However, on glucose + glycerol, the exponential growth rate of Δlr_0030 was lower compared to the wild type and the lr_1734 mutant. Furthermore, glycerol addition resulted in decreased ethanol production in the wild type and Δlr_1734, but not in Δlr_0030. PDH activity measurements using 3-HPA as a substrate revealed lower activity of Δlr_0030 extracts from exponential growing cells compared to wild type and Δlr_1734 extracts.During biotechnological 3-HPA production using non-growing cells, the ratio 3-HPA to 1,3-PDO was approximately 7 in the wild type and Δlr_0030, whereas this ratio was 12.5 in the mutant Δlr_1734.ConclusionThe enzyme encoded by lr_0030 plays a pivotal role in 3-HPA conversion in exponential growing L. reuteri cells. The enzyme encoded by lr_1734 is active during 3-HPA production by non-growing cells and this enzyme is a useful target to enhance 3-HPA production and minimize formation of the by-product 1,3-PDO.
Abstract An account is given of some observations of the low temperature oxidations of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in the gas phase with particular reference to the region in which the rates are oxygen dependent; these observations have formed the basis of a previous publication in which mechanistic features of the oxidations were examined by methods of numerical analysis. In addition, some unusual observations made during the oxidation of acetaldehyde in a potassium chloride coated vessel at temperatures between 120° and 140°C are reported. With this surface the rate is enhanced relative to that in a Pyrex vessel, and under certain conditions pressure pulses closely resembling those due to cool flames are observed even at temperatures as low as 120°C.
Enantiomerically enriched phenylalanine- and leucine aldehyde analogues have been prepared by lipase catalyzed desymmetrization or kinetic resolution of 1,3-propanediol derivatives as key steps. Observations of unusual enantioselectivity were made, and most notably, Candida antarctica lipase B showed an opposite enantiopreference from other lipases, which was exploited in the synthesis. A thorough evaluation of chemoenzymatic routes to both enantiomers of the target α-chiral 3-oxy-propionaldehydes resulted in simple, inexpensive, and efficient procedures that provide the products in up to 92% enantiomeric excess and 55% total yield in five steps from easily accessible starting materials.
Low-temperature efficient hydrogenation of C═O bonds in various compounds, which is one of the most important processes for producing fuels and chemicals, is of fundamental interest but remains a significant challenge. The primary problem is a lack of heterogeneous catalyst systems that are highly active at ambient or low temperatures. This paper describes an efficient strategy for designing a low-temperature hydrogenation catalyst. Ru nanoparticles supported on reduced graphene oxide (Ru/RGO) show remarkable efficiency for hydrogenation of levulinic acid into γ-valerolactone at temperatures as low as −10 °C. The catalyst is also highly active toward low-temperature hydrogenation of C═O bonds in other carbonyl compounds into C–OH bonds, such as furfural, propionaldehyde, 2-pentanone, hydroxyacetone, acetone, acetophenone, cyclohexanone, and benzophenone. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and in situ Fourier transform infrared demonstrate that the electron transfer between Ru0 and RGO leads to the formation...
The first catalytic enantioselective hetero-Diels-Alder reaction between Brassard's diene and aldehydes has been achieved through hydrogen-bonding activation using TADDOL derivatives as catalysts to afford the corresponding delta-lactone derivatives in moderate-to-good yields and with high enantioselectivities (up to 91 % ee). The reactions can be carried out either under solvent-free conditions or in toluene. On the basis of the absolute configurations of the products and the hydrogen-bonding interaction pattern between TADDOL (alpha,alpha,alpha',alpha'-tetraaryl-1,3-dioxolan-4,5-dimethanol) and the carbonyl group disclosed by X-ray diffraction analysis, a possible mechanism for the catalytic reaction has been proposed. To demonstrate the usefulness of the methodology, a natural product, (S)-(+)-dihydrokawain, has also been prepared in 50 % isolated yield and with 69 % enantioselectivity in one step starting from 3-phenylpropionaldehyde by using this methodology. Therefore, this catalytic system is one of the most direct approaches to the construction of delta-lactone units, which will make the methodology very attractive for the synthesis of a variety of biologically important compounds and natural products.
Volatile compounds associated with the progressive degradation of ground muscle tissue of canary rockfish (Sebastes pinniger) stored on ice were determined by combined gas–liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. Compounds positively identified included dimethyl sulfide, n-propyl alcohol, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, ethyl alcohol, 2- and 3-pentanone, diacetyl, hexanal, 1-pentene-3-ol, 3-methyl-1-butanol, acetoin, trimethylamine, and dimethylamine. The following compounds were tentatively identified: propenal, octenal or octadienal, butyraldehyde, 3-methyl butanal, 2-butanone, and methyl vinyl ketone.
We have investigated the effects of several water-soluble organic solvents which also have a high solubility for alkanes, on the structure and phase behavior of multilamellar vesicles of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC-MLV). Of these solvents, we selected five organic solvents; such as, acetonitrile, acetone, propionaldehyde, ethanol, and tetrahydrofuran. The main transition temperature of DPPC-MLV decreased with an increase in acetonitrile concentration from 0% to 6.0%(v/v) acetonitrile, and increased above 6.0%(v/v). X-ray diffraction data indicated that a phase transition from L beta', to L beta I phase (interdigitated gel phase) in DPPC-MLV, occurred at 5.0%(v/v) and DPPC-MLV were completely in the L beta I phase above 6.0%(v/v) acetonitrile at 20 degrees C. Results of the excimer method (Yamazaki, M. et al. (1992) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1106, 94-98) supported the above results; the ratio of excimer to monomer fluorescence intensity (E/M) of pyrene-PC in DPPC-MLV rapidly decreased at 5.1%(v/v) and E/M became very low above 6.0%(v/v) acetonitrile. By the excimer method, we have found that other organic solvents; such as, acetone, propionaldehyde, and tetrahydrofuran, induced a phase transition from L beta', to L beta I phase in DPPC-MLV. Threshold concentrations of acetone, ethanol, propionaldehyde, and tetrahydrofuran for this phase transition at 20 degrees C were 9.4%(v/v), 5.5%(w/v), 3.5%(w/v), and 3.7%(w/v), respectively. Substitution of H2O by D2O (deuterium oxide) increased the threshold concentrations of all the organic solvents. A mechanism of these phase transitions and the effect of the substitution of H2O by D2O is proposed and discussed; a concept of the chi parameter, which is an interaction energy parameter between the surface segments of DPPC-MLV and solvents, may explain these phenomena reasonably.
AIMS ::: Clostridium butyricum E5 wild-type and mutant E5-MD were cultivated in chemostat culture on glycerol in order to compare the properties of two key enzymes of glycerol catabolism, i.e. propanediol and glycerol dehydrogenase. ::: ::: ::: METHODS AND RESULTS ::: These two enzymes, which belong to the dha regulon, were separated by gel filtration. Both dehydrogenase activities displayed similar properties, such as pH optimum values, specificity towards physiological substrates and dependence on Mn2+. Both strains accumulate glycerol at high levels. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The mutant D strain contained a propanediol dehydrogenase activity which had a low affinity for its physiological substrate, leading to the conclusion that this strain would seem more resistant to the toxic effect of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde than the wild-type. ::: ::: ::: SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY ::: These properties make Cl. butyricum mutant D strain the best candidate so far to be used as a biotechnological agent for the bioconversion of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol.
Abstract Several elementary reactions of formyl radical of combustion importance were studied using pulsed laser photolysis coupled to transient UV–Vis absorption spectroscopy: HCO → H + CO (1), HCO + HCO → products (2), and HCO + CH 3 → products (3). One-pass UV absorption, multi-pass UV absorption as well as cavity ring-down spectroscopy in the red spectral region were used to monitor temporal profiles of HCO radical. Reaction (1) was studied over the buffer gas (He) pressure range 0.8–100 bar and the temperature range 498–769 K. Reactions (2a) , (2b) , (2c) , (3a) , (3b) as well as the UV absorption spectrum of HCO, were studied at 298 and 588 K, and the buffer gas (He) pressure of 1 bar. Pulsed laser photolysis (308, 320, and 193 nm) of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acetone was used to prepare mixtures of free radicals. The second-order rate constant of reaction (1) obtained from the data at 1 bar is: k 1 (He) = (0.8 ± 0.4) × 10 −10 exp(−(66.0 ± 3.4) kJ mol −1 / RT ) cm 3 molecule −1 s −1 . The HCO dissociation rate constants measured in this work are lower than those reported in the previous direct work. The difference is a factor of 2.2 at the highest temperature of the experiments and a factor of 3.5 at the low end. The experimental data indicate pressure dependence of the rate constant of dissociation of formyl radical 1, which was attributed to the early pressure fall-off expected based on the theory of isolated resonances. The UV absorption spectrum of HCO was revised. The maximum absorption cross-section of HCO is (7.3 ± 1.2) × 10 −18 cm 2 molecule −1 at 230 nm (temperature independent within the experimental error). The measured rate constants for reactions (2a) , (2b) , (2c) , (3a) , (3b) are: k 2 = (3.6 ± 0.8) × 10 −11 cm 3 molecule −1 s −1 (298 K); k 3 = (9.3 ± 2.3) × 10 −11 cm 3 molecule −1 s −1 (298 and 588 K).
The mixed-valent dimanganese(III/IV) complex MnIIIMnIV(2-OHsalpn)2+, 1, is cleanly reduced in acetonitrile by aliphatic tertiary amines to give the dimanganese(III) product MnIII2(2-OHsalpn)2, 2. Thorough characterization of the organic reaction products shows that tributylamine is converted to dibutylformamide and propionaldehyde. Kinetic studies and radical trapping experiments suggest that this occurs via initial single-electron transfer from the amine to 1 coupled with C-H alpha proton transfer from the oxidized amine. EPR spectroscopy and base inhibition studies indicate that coordination of the amine to 1 is a critical step prior to the electron transfer step. Rate data and its dependence on the amine indicate that the ability of the amine to reduce 1 is correlated to its basicity rather than to its reduction potential. Weakly basic amines were unable to reduce 1 irrespective of their reduction potential. This was inferred to indicate that proton transfer from the amine radical cation is also important in the reduction of 1 by tertiary amines. Comparison of the activation energy with reaction thermodynamics indicates that proton transfer and electron transfer must be concerted to explain the rapidity of the reaction. The fate of the amine radical is dependent on the presence of oxygen, and labeling studies show that oxygen in the organic products arises from dioxygen, although incorporation from trace water was also observed. These data indicate that inhibition of the hydrolytic quenching of the amine radical in an aprotic solvent results in a different fate for the amine radical when compared to amine oxidation reactions in aqueous solution. The proposed mechanism gives new insight into the ability of amines with high reduction potential to reduce metal ions of lower potential. In particular, these data are consistent with the ability of small amines and certain amine-containing buffers to inhibit manganese-dependent oxygen evolution in photosynthesis, which arises in some cases as a result of manganese reduction and its concomitant loss from the PS II reaction center.
Understanding the kinetics of large molecular weight aldehydes is essential in the context of both conventional and alternative fuels. For example, they are key intermediates formed during the low-temperature oxidation of hydrocarbons as well as during the high-temperature oxidation of oxygenated fuels such as alcohols. In this study, an experimental and kinetic modeling investigation of n-butanal (n-butyraldehyde) and iso-butanal (iso-butyraldehyde or 2-methylpropanal) oxidation kinetics was performed. Experiments were performed in a jet stirred reactor and in counterflow flames over a wide range of equivalence ratios, temperatures, and pressures. The jet stirred reactor was utilized to observe the evolution of stable intermediates and products for the oxidation of n- and iso-butanal at elevated pressures and low to intermediate temperatures. The counterflow configuration was utilized for the determination of laminar flame speeds. A detailed chemical kinetic interpretative model was developed and validated consisting of 244 species and 1198 reactions derived from a previous study of the oxidation of propanal (propionaldehyde). Extensive reaction pathway and sensitivity analysis was performed to provide detailed insight into the mechanisms governing low-, intermediate-, and high-temperature reactivity. The simulation results using the present model are in good agreement with the experimental laminar flame speeds and well within a factor of two of the speciation data obtained in the jet stirred reactor.
The reductive condensations of glycine with various aliphatic straight-chain aldehydes, such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde, give the corresponding N,N-dialkyl derivatives. The N-monoalkyl derivative has not been obtained in any case. In another type of reactions, those with aliphatic branched-chain aldehydes, such as isobutyraldehyde and isovaleraldehyde, considerable N-monoalkylation takes place besides the dialkylation. The oxidations of N,N-dialkylglycine to the corresponding N-oxides have been successfully performed using an aqueous mixture of hydrogen peroxide and acetic acid except in the case of N,N-diisobutylglycine. Similar reductive condensations of sarcosine with various aliphatic aldehydes, such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n- and iso-butyraldehyde, and isovaleraldehyde, gave the corresponding N-alkylsarcosines. N-Isobutyl and N-isoamyl sarcosine were also obtained by the methylation of the corresponding N-monoalkylglycine. The N-oxides of N-alkylsarcosine were syn...
Abstract The quantities of acetaldehyde and ethanol produced by single-strain cultures of Lactobacillus brevis, L. casei, L. lactis , and L. plantarum were determined by a gas-liquid chromatographic technique after incubation at both their optimum growth temperature and at 8C. Significant differences in the production of these compounds were noted both between species and between strains within a species. Growth and production of these compounds were very slow at 8C. All organisms were capable of reducing added acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde to the corresponding alcohol. In addition, L. brevis strains reduced added butanone to 2-butanol. A strain of L. brevis produced n-propanol as a normal metabolite when grown in milk cultures.
This work uses a portable mass spectrometer (MS) for lab-based water quality monitoring of organic compounds, which are present in highly toxic nuclear waste ponds. This is due to a number of effects that such species have on storage of radioactive waste. The MS system that was used for the tests consists of a quadrupole mass spectrometer (QMS) housed in a mobile vacuum system with dual sample inlet options. The QMS uses a triple filter analyser for high performance and sensitivity to ppb levels in water. Mass spectra were obtained using a membrane sample inlet for the following organic substances: acetone, acetophenone, cyclohexanone, isophorone, 1-pentanol, 1-heptanol, propionaldehyde, ethyl acetate, ethyl propionate and odourless kerosene. Calibration curves were obtained for selected mass fragments for each of the compounds tested and showed excellent linearity (R2 ≥ 0.9835 in all cases). Spectra were also obtained for compound mixtures for acetone, cyclohexanone, acetophenone and isophorone as well as for 1-pentanol and 1-heptanol. All the tested substances were successfully detected with their spectral peaks clearly distinguished. Rise and fall membrane response times are given for specific compounds including their limits of detection (LOD), which are within the current demands of the nuclear industry.
Propionaldehyde calix[4]resorcinarene derivatives were synthesized by alkylation of propionaldehyde calix[4]resorcinarene which was obtained from resorcin and propionaldehyde.Their structures were characterized by ~1H NMR and IR.
Aliphatic aldehydes can be detected and determined by reaction with propionaldehyde (3-phenyl-2-quinoxalinyl) hydrazone in ethanolic solution. The red color is produced within 20 min at 40°, then faded gradually. Detectable responses are obtained with aliphatic aldehydes but not with aromatic aldehydes, glucose, and ketones. With acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and iso-butyraldehyde, absorbance of the reaction mixture measured at 465 nm is directly proportional to the concentration. Acetaldehyde can be determined in the concentration range of 5×10-5 to 1×10-3M and other aldehydes in the range of 1×10-4 to 1×10-3M.
Extraction methods using solid-phase extraction (SPE) cartridges are generally preferred over traditional liquid-liquid extraction methods when they are available. Solid-phase extraction methods require less preparative work, thus increasing sample through-put. A SPE method using a graphite carbon sorbent was developed to extract low concentrations (1-40 μg/L) of the polar pesticide, aldicarb [2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime], and its oxidative metabolites, aldicarb sulfoxide [2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinayl)propionaldehyde-O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime] and aldicarb sulfone [2-methyl-2-(methylsulfonyl) propionaldehyde-O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime] from water samples. The analytes were removed from a 150-mL water sample by the SPE cartridge and eluted with 2 mL of methanol. Recoveries from water for all three compounds exceeded 90% with coefficients of variation ranging from 3 to 9%. An extraction method was also developed to extract aldicarb and its metabolites from soil using water as the extractant. The analytes are then recovered from the water using the same SPE method referred to above. Recoveries from soil for all three compounds ranged from 80 to 95%. Our SPE method also worked well (recoveries >95%) for two other carbamates, methomyl [S-methyl N-[(methylcarbamoyl)oxy]thioacetimidate] and oxamyl [N',N'-dimethyl-N-[(methylcarbamoyl)oxy]-1-thiooxamimidate] tested and should work with other polar compounds once they are in the aqueous phase.
Background: Lactobacillus reuteri metabolizes glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) and further to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO), the latter step catalysed by a propanediol dehydrogenase (PDH). The last step in this pathway regenerates NAD + and enables therefore the energetically more favourable production of acetate over ethanol during growth on glucose. Results: A search throughout the genome of L. reuteri DSM 20016 revealed two putative PDHs encoded by ORFs lr_0030 and lr_1734. ORF lr_1734 is situated in the pdu operon encoding the glycerol conversion machinery and therefore likely involved in 1,3-PDO formation. ORF lr_0030 has not been associated with PDH-activity so far. To elucidate the role of these two PDHs, gene deletion mutant strains were constructed. Growth behaviour on glucose was comparable between the wild type and both mutant strains. However, on glucose + glycerol, the exponential growth rate of Δlr_0030 was lower compared to the wild type and the lr_1734 mutant. Furthermore, glycerol addition resulted in decreased ethanol production in the wild type and Δlr_1734, but not in Δlr_0030. PDH activity measurements using 3-HPA as a substrate revealed lower activity of Δlr_0030 extracts from exponential growing cells compared to wild type and Δlr_1734 extracts. During biotechnological 3-HPA production using non-growing cells, the ratio 3-HPA to 1,3-PDO was approximately 7 in the wild type and Δlr_0030, whereas this ratio was 12.5 in the mutant Δlr_1734. Conclusion: The enzyme encoded by lr_0030 plays a pivotal role in 3-HPA conversion in exponential growing L. reuteri cells. The enzyme encoded by lr_1734 is active during 3-HPA production by non-growing cells and this enzyme is a useful target to enhance 3-HPA production and minimize formation of the by-product 1,3-PDO.
Most L. reuteri strains produce and excrete reuterin, an antimicrobial compound consisting of hydrated, nonhydrated, and dimeric forms of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde or 3-HPA [10, 11] . Remarkably, the capability to produce reuterin seems to be absent in most L. reuteri rodent isolates [12] . Reuterin is active against a large range of microorganisms and is assumed to give L. reuteri a competitive advantage in its ecological niches as e.g. the mammalian GI-tract. Furthermore, 3-HPA produced by the food grade LAB L. reuteri is of industrial interest as it has potential use as food preservative, sanitizing agent, and as precursor for the production of chemicals like acrylic acid and polymers [13, 14] . The reuterin form 3-HPA is produced from glycerol in a vitamin B 12 -mediated reaction catalysed by a glycerol dehydratase [15] . Synthesis of 3-HPA is a complex multi-protein biological process and takes place in microcompartments that presumably form a barrier to protect the cytosol against 3-HPA [16, 17] . Biotechnological production of 3-HPA is best-done in a two-stage process, in which biomass is produced in the first stage and glycerol is converted to 3-HPA in the second stage using concentrated cells from stage one. This method results in rapid glycerol conversion and 3-HPA concentrations of up to 235 mM out of 400 mM glycerol [18] . However, apart from 3-HPA, the by-product 1,3-propanediol (1, accumulates in the medium, resulting in lower yields and more complicated purification of 3-HPA.
Although there are a few published experiments regarding the kinetics and energy barrier of the radical dissociation CH 3 -CH 2 CO f CH 3 CH 2 + CO, they date back approximately 30 years. In the earliest study, Kerr and Lloyd produced the propionyl radical by means of photolysis of azoethane in the presence of propionaldehyde. From their measurements of rate constants, they concluded that the barrier to propionyl decomposition is 14.6 kcal/mol. 9, 10 Watkins and Thompson performed similar experiments with azoethane and CO and found a barrier of 14.7 kcal/mol. 8 More recently, two experimental studies 2, 3 evaluated nonstatistical behavior in the dynamics of the propionyl radical dissociation and involved calculations that used a different value, 17 kcal/mol, for the dissociation barrier. This number was used based on a dissociation energy of 13 kcal/ mol and the 4.8 kcal/mol activation energy 8 for the reverse addition reaction and is similar to the experimentally determined value for the CH 3 CO f CH 3 + CO barrier. 15 In response to the interest in the dynamics of propionyl radical decomposition, there have been theoretical predictions of the energy barrier to dissociation. These calculations agree most closely with the early experimental values of Kerr and Lloyd and of Watkins and Thompson. Calculations by Martinez-Nunez and Vazquez-Rodriguez predict a zero-point-corrected barrier of 14.9 kcal/mol at CBS-QB3 level. 6 Méreau et al. calculated a 15.6 kcal/mol barrier at 298 K by an ab initio G2(MP2) method and 15.8 kcal/mol by a DFT (B3LYP) method. 5 Our experiments provide a method to determine this barrier directly by photodissociating propionyl chloride at 248.5 nm. Given the photon energy of 114.9 kcal/mol and a C-Cl bond energy of approximately 83.1 kcal/mol, 12 a portion of the nascent propionyl radicals may not have sufficient internal energy to overcome the dissociation barrier. In this paper, we report the detection of both stable propionyl radicals and the secondary dissociation products CH 3 CH 2 + CO of the unstable radicals and make a rough determination of the barrier to dissociation.
A modified and efficient Knoevenagel condensation procedure was developed to synthesize the title compounds using β-alanine and acetic acid as catalysts, showing good to excellent yields. We used lawsone with suitable aliphatic aldehydes including isobutyraldehyde, 3-methylbutyraldehyde, 2-ethylbutyraldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde, 2-phenyl-propionaldehyde, among others. These compounds were submitted to cytotoxic screening against three tumor cell lines presenting good to excellent cytotoxic profiles.
The synthesis of 3-alkenyl-2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinones has been a topic of permanent interest in Brazil and abroad. 1, 2 These compounds share structural features with natural lapachol (1), the most abundant quinone found in the core wood of various Bignoniaceae. Lapachol has a long tradition of use as a precursor of modified quinones, particularly for derivatives aimed at trials and screening of their multipurpose biological profiles. 3 Hooker, in 1936, 4 published a systematic synthetic procedure for a series of 3-alkenyl-2-hydroxy-1,4-naphtho quinones using lawsone (2) with suitable aliphatic aldehydes with hydrochloric acid as catalyst. Hooker used propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, valeraldehyde, heptanaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde and hydrocynamaldehyde (3a-f), obtaining the corresponding products in low to modest yields (23-48%, Table 1 ). In this work, Hooker also pointed that he was unable to obtain the condensation product from isobutyraldehyde, and from acetaldehyde he notes that a rapid consumption of the formed product was observed. 4 Fifty years later, in 1986, Bock et al. 5 published an update of this methodology (see Table 1 ).
Using (R)-(+)-citronelal (3 h) in Hooker's conditions, a cyclization to furnish only tetracyclic product 5 was observed (Scheme 1). 5 However, changing the catalytic conditions to basic triethylamine in more polar solvents as acetonitrile or dimethylformamide (DMF), the corresponding hydroxy-naphthoquinone (3h) was obtained with 20 and 28% yield, respectively. 5 These findings in the cyclization of lawsone with (R)-(+)-citronelal were also previously published by Ferreira et al. 6 in 1982. In the synthesis of tetracyclic vesparione in 1987, Kopanski et al. 7 developed a modified Knoevenagel procedure to obtain the deoxy-derivative of vesparione (6, Scheme 2) with 32% yield. The procedure involved a previously explored oxidative cyclization step using 2,3-dichloro-5,6-dicyano-1,4-benzoquinone (DDQ) in both acidic or basic media. 8, 9 The high yield of 2-cyclopentylidenemethyl-3-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone (4m, 94%) was obtained by the use of β-alanine/acetic acid in benzene under reflux, using only two equivalent excess of aldehyde, compared with five equivalent or higher used by Hooker. 4 Dehydropyranonaphthoquinones (6) could also be obtained using modified Knoevenagel procedure by one-pot condensation-cycloaddition using α,β-unsaturated aldehydes in the presence of ethylenediamine diacetate in moderate to good yields. 10 Anufriev et al., 11 in 1993, using a modified Hooker's methodology with methylamine hydrochloride in ethanol under reflux synthesized 3-alkenyl-2,5,8-trihydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinones (8) besides 3,3'-methylenebisnaphthazarine (9) from naphthopurpurin (7, Table 2 ). Using few aliphatic aldehydes (propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and valeraldehyde), they observed mixtures of 8 and 9 and using acetaldehyde or paraformaldehyde just dimers were formed. Using a similar approach in the selection of catalysts, Glazunov et al., 12 in 2006, used methylamine hydrochloride and p-TsOH in refluxing benzene, obtaining modest yields of 2-hydroxy-3-alkenyl-1,4-naphthoquinones by the use of propanal (48%, conversion yield), 2-ethyl-butyraldehyde (44%) and using naphthopurpurine (7) with propanal (16%). Using Bock's basic methodology, 5 Nagabhushana et al., 13 in 2001, studied the reaction conditions for the condensation products between caproaldehyde and lawsone with triethylamine as catalyst and also under some other different conditions. Using the optimized conditions they obtained a best result yield of 43% for the desired 2-hydroxy 3-(1'-hexenyl)-1,4-naphthoquinone. 13 As a part of a continuous interest of our laboratory in obtaining a range of 2-hydroxy-3-alkenyl-1,4-naphthoquinones (4) from suitable aliphatic aldehydes and lawsone (2) under simple Knoevenagel conditions, we chose to perform a preliminary systematic study of experimental conditions to improve product yields, but also to find a general method to synthesize those interesting compounds.
An effective and rapid method, use of a 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH)-treated Cambridge filter and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with diode-array detection (DAD), has been used for determination of low-molecular-mass carbonyl compounds in cigarette smoke. Different chromatographic mobile phases were investigated and the optimized mobile phase was a gradient prepared from water–acetonitrile–tetrahydrofuran (THF)–iso-propanol, 59:30:10:1 (v/v) (mixture A) and acetonitrile–water, 65:35 (v/v) (mixture B). Under the optimized chromatographic conditions, the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, 2-butanone, and iso-butyraldehyde were separated completely in an 18 min chromatographic run. The concentration of acid, which has large effect on carbonyl-DNPH derivatization, was investigated by adding different volumes of perchloric acid. The DNPH-treated Cambridge filter was convenient and effective compared with conventional methods used to collect and derivatize the carbonyl compounds present in cigarette smoke. Validation of the method showed it to be effective, precise, accurate, and linear over the range of concentrations of analyzed.
Abstract Measurements of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone and propionaldehyde concentrations were made at two rural sites in central Ontario. One site (at Egbert, Ont.) is located ≈60 km northwest of Toronto, while the other site (at Dorset, Ont.) is ≈150 km northeast of the Egbert site. Measurements were made using a modified version of a derivatization technique in which sample air is pumped through Teflon tubes packed with silica gel that is coated with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH). The product hydrazones were separated and quantified using HPLC. Quantitative determinations of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and acetone were made for 49 and 47 samples at the Dorset and Egbert sites, respectively, between 25 July and 30 August 1988. The average concentrations determined at the Dorset site for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and acetone were 1.6, 0.46 and 1.8 ppb, respectively, and for the Egbert site the corresponding averages were 1.8, 0.57 and 1.6 ppb. A set of 10 samples from the Egbert site were analysed for propionaldehyde yielding an average concentration of 0.03 ppb. The formaldehyde measurements were compared with measurements made at the same time using Tunable Diode Laser Absorption Spectroscopy. The observed concentrations reported here are compared with previously reported measurements of these species and interpreted in terms of atmospheric variables (e.g. meteorology, concentrations of precursor hydrocarbons) influencing their concentrations.
Abstract The metabolic series approach has successfully linked internal dosimetries of metabolically related compounds reducing cost and time for chemical risk assessments. Here, we developed a physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model in rats and humans for the propyl metabolic series including propyl acetate, 1-propanol, propionaldehyde, and propionic acid. Manufacturers use these compounds as organic solvents and intermediates during chemical synthesis. Public exposures can occur through using consumer products containing propyl compounds like cosmetics, aerosol sprays, or foods, and occupational exposures can occur at manufacturing facilities. To develop the PBPK model, we measured in vitro metabolism of propyl acetate in blood and liver S9 fractions. We measured concentrations of propyl compounds in blood following intravenous (iv) infusion of 13C-propanol or 13C-propionic acid and closed chamber inhalation exposures to propyl acetate or propanol in rats. Using these studies and other published data, we modified an existing PBPK model for the butyl metabolic series to simulate time course concentrations of propyl compounds in rats and humans. Consistent with measured in vitro and in vivo data, the optimized propyl series model predicts rapid clearance of propyl acetate, higher concentrations of propanol in blood from propyl acetate inhalation compared to propanol inhalation in rats but not in humans, and low concentrations of propionic acid in blood from exposures to propyl acetate or propanol. Regulators can use this model as a tool for propyl compound risk assessment by linking internal dosimetries under various exposure scenarios.
Effects of mordenite as a support material for TiO2 on photodegradation rates of gaseous propionaldehyde, acetone, and propane were investigated using TiO2 (50 wt%)-loaded mordenite as a photocatalyst in reference to unsupported TiO2. The supported photocatalyst allowed adsorption of all the substrates several times greater than the unsupported photocatalyst, resulting in higher photooxidation rates for them. Detailed analysis suggests that the enhancement of the decomposition rate caused by the use of mordenite support is more remarkable for lower amounts of adsorption of the substrates on the support. The concentration of oxygen was found to have little influence on the photodegradation rates, suggesting that the rate of degradation of the organic substrates was not decided by photogenerated electron transfer processes but by the consumption of photogenerated holes by adsorbed organic substrates.
The adsorption of acrolein and propionaldehyde on the polar, Cu + -terminated Cu 2 O(100) surface was investigated using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and thermal desorption spectroscopy (TDS). The major reaction products observed for both aldehydes were nonselective oxidation products (CO, CO 2 , and H 2 O). Propene and acrolein were also detected as minor reaction products during propionaldehyde thermal desorption. Additionally, propene and propionaldehyde were detected as minor products during the reaction of acrolein with preadsorbed hydrogen. The coincident desorption of the propionaldehyde, acrolein, and propene from either acrolein and preadsorbed hydrogen or propionaldehyde adsorption suggests that a common surface intermediate is involved in these minor side reactions
Objective:To investigate the optimal reaction condition of modifying TCS by methoxy PEG-propionaldehyde,the separation of reaction mixture,the biological activities and anaphylaxis reac- tion of mono-PEG-TCS.Methods:The influence of various conditions on the components of PEG-TCS was analyzed by SDS-PAGE.The mono-PEG-TCS was purified by ion exchange and molecular size exclu- sion chromatography.The biological activity in vivo of PEG-TCS was detected by abortifaeient activity test.Using TCS and PEG-TCS as antigen,sensitizing and attacking of allergic reaction on guinea pigs were conducted.Results:The mass ratio of PEG to TCS and the pH environment played key roles in the chemical modification of TCS by PEG.The modification was completed within 24-48 hours.The optimal reaction of this PEG-TCS formation was conditioned as of 1:6 mass ratio of TCS to PEG at pH6.0,the re- action balance in 48 hours,and the catalyst concentration of 40 retool.L-t.The SDS-PAGE analysis dem- onstrated that the purity of mono-PEG-TCS was more than 95% ,and the size exclusion HPLC appeared one peak only.The PEG-TCS complex significantly enhanced abortifacient activity,and reduced the sys- temic anaphylaxis in guinea pigs.Conclusion:The biological activities of the PEG-TCS produced by this optimal reaction remain better and anapbylaxis was desensitized.
During the fermentative production of 1,3-propanediol under high substrate concentrations, accumulation of intracellular 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde will cause premature cessation of cell growth and glycerol consumption. Discovery of oxidoreductases that can convert 3- hydroxypropionaldehyde to 1,3-propanediol using NADPH as cofactor could serve as a solution to this problem. In this paper, the yqhD gene from Klebsiella pneumoniae DSM2026, which was found encoding an aldehyde reductase (KpAR), was cloned and characterized. KpAR showed broad substrate specificity under physiological direction, whereas no catalytic activity was detected in the oxidation direction, and both NADPH and NADH can be utilized as cofactors. The cofactor binding mechanism was then investigated employing homology modeling and molecular dynamics simulations. Hydrogen-bond analysis showed that the hydrogen-bond interactions between KpAR and NADPH are much stronger than that for NADH. Free-energy decomposition dedicated that residues Gly37 to Val41 contribute most to the cofactor preference through polar interactions. In conclusion, this work provides a novel aldehyde reductase that has potential applications in the development of novel genetically engineered strains in the 1,3-propanediol industry, and gives a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in cofactor binding.
The present work reports the first selective catalytic hydrogenation of bifunctional compounds containing a carbonyl and sulphur moieties, using hydrogen transfer from alcohols and a basic catalyst. The reaction was performed in batch at 371 K at atmospheric pressure with 3-mercaptopropionaldehyde, thiophene-2-carboxaldehyde, 5-bromothiophene-2-carboxaldehyde and 4-methylthiobenzaldehyde. The only product of reaction was the alcohol, formed with yields >80%, except with 3-mercaptopropionaldehyde which did not give the alcohol but rather afforded unidentified heavy products. 5-Bromothiophenemethanol was obtained with 100% yield in 3 h. The reaction obeys a mechanism of competitive adsorption of the reactants, and the reaction rates are higher than those reported for supported rhodium catalysts.
The separation efficiency of certain substances, such as acetone and isopropanol in a trickle-bed bioreactor, depends strongly on the oxygen concentration. The results obtained can be described by a mathematical model based on the diffusion of oxygen into the biofilm (diffusion regime of the catalyst). The non-stationary operation of the reactor - interruption of the oxygen stream and strong fluctuation in the exhaust gas stream - showed that other components, such as propionaldehyde and n-propanol, could be eliminated for a certain time without oxygen. Propionic acid is formed. Finally a technical biofilter is compared with a trickle-bed bioreactor. 4 refs., 5 figs., 1 tab.
Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) are recognized as advanced sorbents for the effective removal and recovery of various hazardous pollutants in liquid and gaseous environments. In this research, the potential applicability of two Zr-based MOFs (UiO-66 (U6) and its amine counterpart UiO-66-NH2 (U6N)) was investigated relative to activated carbon (AC, tested as a reference adsorbent) for the purification of industrial organic solvents (e.g., methanol) from six different carbonyl impurities (CCs (C1 to C5): formaldehyde (FA, CH2O), acetaldehyde (AA, CH3CHO), propionaldehyde (PA, C3H6O), butyraldehyde (BA, C4H8O), isovaleraldehyde (IA, C5H10O), and valeraldehyde (VA, C5H10O)). In the sorptive removal of these CCs (both individually and in binary mixtures with FA), U6N showed higher efficacy in capturing all the target CCs than U6 and AC. The adsorption selectivity of U6N toward single CC compounds was in the order of: PA (165.1 mg g-1) > BA (158.9 mg g-1) > IA (154 mg g-1) > AA (136 mg g-1) > VA (131.5 mg g-1) ...
A series of CuMgCeO{sub x} catalysts have been prepared by coprecipitating the corresponding metal nitrates with a mixed solution of potassium carbonate and potassium hydroxide. The bulk composition of the catalyst has been measured by atomic absorption (AA) analysis and the Cu dispersion has been determined by N{sub 2}O titration at 90 {degrees}C. CeO{sub x} does not contribute to the measured copper dispersion in K-CuO{sub 0.5}Mg{sub 5}CeO{sub x} samples and the high dispersion value indeed reflects the presence of Cu metal small crystallites. Kinetic studies of methanol and propionaldehyde coupling reactions on K-Cu/MgO/CeO{sub 2} and MgO/CeO{sub 2} catalysts indicate that Cu enhances the rates of alcohol dehydrogenation. High-pressure isobutanol synthesis from CO/H{sub 2} has been studied on CuO{sub 0.5}Mg{sub 5}O{sub x} catalysts at 593 K and 4.5 MPa. CuO{sub 0.5}Mg{sub 5}O{sub x} catalysts show high hydrocarbon and low isobutanol selectivities compared to K-CuO{sub 0.5}Mg{sub 5}CeO{sub x}, suggesting the presence of residual acidity in CuO{sub 0.5}Mg{sub 5}O{sub x}.
Field trials from 1963 to 1966 showed that UC 21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) applied at planting in furrows at the rate of 16 ounces of active ingredient per acre was the most effective granular systemic insecticide for the control of the green peach aphid, Myzus persicae (Sulzer); the potato aphid, Macrosiphum euphorbiae (Thomas); and the buckthorn aphid, Aphis nasturtii Kaltenbach, on potatoes. One spray of dimethoate in mid-August was necessary for effective control of aphids in disuIfoton- and phorate-treated plots in 1963 when aphid populations were building up but not in 1966 when populations were stationary. Three sprays of oxydemetonmethyl the first at 0.24, the second at 0.48, and the third at 0.72 oz, or 3 sprays at 0.48 oz active ingredient per acre were the most effective of the insecticidal spray treatments.
Using an in vitro assay system for measuring 7-methylguanine formation in DNA, it was demonstrated that N-nitroso(2-oxopropyl)propylamine (NOPPA) is converted into a methylating agent by a microsomal, cytochrome P-450 dependent mixed function oxidase from rat liver. Formation of propionaldehyde, but not formaldehyde, in this assay system, indicated that a single alpha-oxidation reaction on the propyl side chain of NOPPA leads to the formation of a methylating agent. A mechanism for this reaction is proposed.
Utilities of hybrid photocatalyst consisting of TiO2 and an adsorbent such as activated carbon in photoinduced mineralization of organic substances of very dilute present concentrations are demonstrated for the photodecomposition of propionaldehyde in air atmosphere, and propyzamide and bromoform dissolved in water. The substrates of target were adsorbed on the adsorbent support, and then a high concentration environments of the substrate was formed around the loaded TiO2, resulting in an increase in the photodestruction rate. Evidences for the diffusion of propionaldeyde adsorbed on the mordenite support to the loaded TiO2 are presented. Merits of the use of the adsorbents as the support for TiO2 loading is discussed.
Two rat hepatic cytoplasmic isozymes of aldehyde dehydrogenase, phi, induced by phenobarbital treatment, and tau, induced by TCDD treatment, have been purified from rat hepatic cytosol by ammonium sulfate fractionation, followed by ion-exchange and affinity chromatography. The specific activities of the two isozymes at pH 9.6 with propionaldehyde as substrate and NAD as cofactor were 2850 and 5250 nmol of NADH/min/mg protein for phi and tau isozymes, respectively. Estimates of molecular weights from gel filtration chromatography gave values of 118,000 Da for phi and 106,000 Da for tau. An isoelectric point for the tau enzyme of 6.5 was determined in an electrofocusing column, and approximately 7.2 for phi by immunoelectrophoresis. Both enzymes can oxidize a wide variety of aldehyde substrates, with Km values ranging from millimolar to micromolar. Long-chain aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes using NAD as cofactor tend to be the best utilized substrates. Only the tau enzyme is able to use NADP as cofactor. The measured Km for phi at pH 7.2 for acetaldehyde was 1.97 mM and for tau, 12.1 mM. Both enzymes showed similar inhibition characteristics with sodium arsenite and disulfiram, although the phi enzyme tended to be slightly more sensitive to all inhibitors.
In field experiments American Cyanamid CL-47470 (cyclic propylene (diethoxyphosphinyl)dithioimidocarbonate), CL-47031 (cyclic ethylene (diethoxyphosphinyl) dithioimidocarbonate), and Union Carbide UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) granules applied in the furrow at planting controlled thrips ( Frankliniella sp.), cotton aphid, Aphis gossypii Glover, and serpentine leafminer, Liriomyza brassicae (Riley), for 4–6 weeks after planting. UC-21149 controlled the fleahopper, Psallus seriatus (Reuter), for about 8 weeks after planting. CL 47031 applied as a granule sidedress treatment and as a lanolin-paste stem treatment gave fair cotton fleahopper control. As a sidedress treatment material it gave season-long control of the desert spider mite, Tetranychus desertorum Banks, and the stem treatment gave control for about 2 months.
We have synthesized acetal and ketal derivatives of 4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxin-beta-D-glucoside (DMEPG) and epipodophyllotoxin-beta-D-glucoside (EPG) with a number of different aldehydes (viz. acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, 2-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, 3-thiophenecarboxaldehyde, 2-furancarboxaldehyde, benzaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde, hydrocinnamaldehyde) and acetone. The cross resistance of these compounds towards a set of Chinese hamster ovary cell mutants resistant to either podophyllotoxin (PodR mutants) or VM26 (VpmR mutants) which exhibit mutually exclusive cross-resistance patterns toward compounds that show either podophyllotoxin- or VM26-like activities have been examined. Results of our studies show that, with the exception of 2-furan derivatives, all the remaining acetals and ketals of DMEPG and EPG showed similar cross-resistance patterns towards the VpmR and the PodR mutants, as seen with VM26 and VP16-213. These results provide strong suggestive evidence that all of these derivatives (except 2-furan) possess biological activities similar to VM26 and VP16-213, and that their cellular toxicities were due to this type of activity. The VM26-like behavior of different EPG derivatives, which lack the free 4'-OH group, provide evidence that a free 4'-OH group is not essential for VM26-like activity. However, in comparison to the EPG derivatives, the corresponding DMEPG compounds showed 10- to 30-fold higher activities, indicating an enhancing effect of the free 4'-OH group on this kind of activity. Some of the newly synthesized DMEPG and EPG derivatives show higher activity in comparison to VM26 and VP16-213, and structure-activity relationship among this group of compounds is discussed.
The main products of the 185 nm photolysis of liquid methyl n-propyl ether (quantum yields in parentheses) are n-propanol (0.70), methane (0.29), sec-butyl methyl ether (0.20), methanol (0.16), propionaldehyde (0.13), 3,4-dimethoxyhexane (0.09), ethane (0.08), and ethyl n-propyl ether (0.08). The quantum yields of further 24 minor products have been measured. The quantum yield of the sum of primary photochemical processes, the main ones of which are the homolytic scissions of the C–O bonds (reactions i and ii), is close to unity.Reaction (i) is favoured over reaction (ii) by nearly a factor of five. The elimination of molecular methane (iii) is the only other process of importance. C–H and C–C bond splitting is marginal.
Abstract A facile and efficient route to (2S,3S)‐3‐amino‐2‐hydroxy‐4‐phenylbutyric acid and its derivative (4S,5S)‐4‐benzyl‐5‐hydroxymethyl oxazolidin‐2‐one is presented. N‐phthaloyl protected L‐phenylalanine 1 was treated with thionyl chloride followed by hydrogenation of the acyl chloride 2 on Pd/C, giving (S)‐2‐phthalimido‐3‐phenylpropionaldehyde 3. Aldehyde 3 reacted with Nagata's reagent to afford 3‐phthalimido‐2‐hydroxy‐4‐phenylbutyronitrile 4 as a diastereomeric mixture. After hydrolysis, protection, esterification, and reduction, 4 was transformed into the optically pure compound 7 in good yield.
Salmonella enterica uses a bacterial microcompartment (MCP) for coenzyme B(12)-dependent 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) utilization (Pdu). The Pdu MCP consists of a protein shell that encapsulates enzymes and cofactors required for metabolizing 1,2-PD as a carbon and energy source. Here we show that the PduQ protein of S. enterica is an iron-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase used for 1,2-PD catabolism. PduQ is also demonstrated to be a new component of the Pdu MCP. In addition, a series of in vivo and in vitro studies show that a primary function of PduQ is to recycle NADH to NAD(+) internally within the Pdu MCP in order to supply propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) with its required cofactor (NAD(+)). Genetic tests determined that a pduQ deletion mutant grew slower than wild-type Salmonella on 1,2-PD and that this phenotype was not complemented by a non-MCP associated Adh2 from Zymomonas that catalyzes the same reaction. This suggests that PduQ has a MCP-specific function. We also found that a pduQ deletion mutant had no growth defect in a genetic background having a second mutation that prevents MCP formation which further supports a MCP-specific role for PduQ. Moreover, studies with purified Pdu MCPs demonstrated that the PduQ enzyme can convert NADH to NAD(+) to supply the PduP reaction in vitro. Cumulatively, these studies show that the PduQ enzyme is used to recycle NADH to NAD(+) internally within the Pdu MCP. To our knowledge, this is the first report of internal recycling as a mechanism for cofactor homeostasis within a bacterial MCP.
Abstract Alcohol dehydrogenases convert aldehydes causing volatile aromas in cheese into corresponding alcohols. In this study, we cloned and recombinantly produced five novel ADHs from Lactobacillus reuteri DSM20016 in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). The resulting proteins have molecular weights between 35 and 39 kDa. The optimum pH for enzyme activity of ADH-1, ADH-2 and ADH-3 was weakly acidic (pH 5, 6 and 5, respectively), compared with pH 7 for ADH-4 and ADH-5. The optimum temperature range for ADH-1, ADH-3, ADH-4 and ADH-5 was 40 °C ―55 °C, compared with 35 °C for ADH-2. These enzymes reduced a broad range of substrates; the highest catalytic efficiency and substrate affinity for ADH-1 was observed with heptaldehyde (Kcat/Km = 39.4 s−1·mM−1, Km = 0.459 mM), while 3-methylbutanal was the best substrate for ADH-5 (Kcat/Km = 24.0 s−1·mM−1, Km = 1.35 × 10−2 mM). ADH-2, ADH-3 and ADH-4 exhibited the highest substrate affinity for valeraldehyde, propionaldehyde, and hexanal, respectively (Km = 1.19 × 10−2 mM, 2.81 × 10−2 mM, 1.35 × 10−2 mM). The enzymatic properties indicated that these enzymes effectively converted fragrant compounds during cheese ripening.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase was purified 187-fold from cytosol of rat testis by chromatographic methods and gel filtration with a yield of about 50%. The enzyme exhibits absolute requirement for exogenous sulfhydryl compounds and strong dependence on temperature. Addition of 0.4mM Ca2 or Mg2 ions results in 50% inhibition. Optimally active at pH 8.5 and 50 degrees C, aldehyde dehydrogenase displays broad substrate specificity; saturation curves with acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde are non-hyperbolic, with Hill coefficients comprised between 0.8 and 0.7. Strong substrate inhibition can be observed with both aromatic and long-chain alyphatic aldehydes. According to mathematical models, Km decreases from 246 microM for acetaldehyde to 4 microM for capronaldehyde and Ki decreases from about 4mM for butyraldehyde to 0.2 mM for capronaldehyde.
The photochemical reaction of aqueous ethanol saturated with argon and carbon monoxide has been investigated using 184.9 nm UV light. The photochemical reaction of M aqueous ethanol saturated with argon results in the formation on the acetaldehyde and 2,3-butanediol. The irradiation of the solution saturated with carbon monoxide causes the formation of carbonylation and carboxylation products such as -hydroxypropionaldehyde, formaldehyde, glyoxal, formic acid, oxalic acid and glyoxylic acid in addition to above two products. But in the case of concentrated ethanol solutions, the irradiation did not give carbonylation and carboxylation products. The initial quantum yields of the products were determined and probable mechanisms for the reaction were presented on the basis of product analysis.
Bistrifluoromethyl nitroxide abstracts aldehydic hydrogen atoms from acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, pivalaldehyde, benzaldehyde, m- and p-tolualdehyde, terephthalaldehyde, and pentafluorobenzaldehyde with great ease, to give NN-bistrifluoromethylhydroxylamine and the corresponding (bistrifluoromethylamino-oxy)carbonyl-alkane or -arene in almost quantitative yields. Basic hydrolysis of the carbonyl compounds ArCO2·N(CF3)2(Ar = Ph or C6F5) yields the corresponding arenecarboxylic acids, and attack of bistrifluoromethyl nitroxide on the phenyl compound at elevated temperature leads to nuclear substitution with the formation of (bistrifluoromethylamino-oxy)[(bistrifluoromethylamino-oxy)carbonyl]benzenes.
Fluorogenic reagents for aldehydes and ketones, viz., 4-aminosulphonyl-7-hydrazino-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole (ABD-H) and 4-(N,N-dimethylaminosulphonyl)-7-hydrazino-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole (DBD-H) and also purified 4-hydrazino-7-nitro-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole hydrazine (NBD-H.NH2NH2) were synthesised. These reagents are not fluorescent; however, their reaction products with aldehydes and ketones fluoresce at wavelengths from 548 to 580 nm with excitation from 450 to 470 nm. Both ABD-H and DBD-H exhibited similar reactivity and were more reactive than NBD-H.NH2NH2. The respective pseudo-first-order reaction rate constants for the production of the hydrazone of propionaldehyde with ABD-H, DBD-H and NBD-H.NH2NH2 were 8.9 × 10–2, 7.2 × 10–2 and 4.2 × 10–2 min–1(the reaction was carried out in 0.0025% trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile at room temperature, 22 °C). The detection limits using the manual method (i.e., measurement of fluorescence intensity) for the hydrazones of aldehydes and ketones with ABD-H, DBD-H and NBD-H.NH2NH2 were in the µM range. The substrate blank fluorescence with ABD-H was half of that with DBD-H and NBD-H.NH2NH2. The reaction products were separated and analysed by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with spectrofluorimetric detection. The detection limits for propionaldehyde were 1040, 120 and 35.0 fmol with ABD-H, DBD-H and NBD-H.NH2NH2, respectively, and those for heptan-4-one were 2690, 560 and 673 fmol, respectively. Of the three reagents, DBD-H is recommended for the sensitive detection of ketones and NBD-H.NH2NH2 for the detection of aldehydes. The detection limits for aldehydes and ketones by HPLC were in the sub-pmol to pmol range.
a ˜ ´´ b ˜˜ ˜ ´ Abstract In this work, two capillary zone electrophoresis methodologies using UV absorption detection (214 nm) and laser-induced fluorescence detection (He / Cd laser, 325 nm excitation, 520 nm emission) of selected aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acrolein) derivatized with dansylhydrazine (DNSH, 5-dimethylaminonaphthalene-1- sulfohydrazide) were proposed and validated. The aldehydes react with DNSH to form negatively charged molecules in methanolic medium. In both methodologies, nine DNSH-derivatives, including isomers of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde 21 and acrolein and two impurities were baseline separated in 20 mmol l phosphate buffer at pH 7.02, in less than 9 min. The 21 21 limits of detection for the UV and LIF methodologies ranged from 1.1-9.5 mg l and 0.29-5.3 mg l , respectively. The applicability of both methodologies to contemplate real samples was confirmed in the analysis of aldehyde-DNSH derivatives in indoor and outdoor air samples.  2002 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.
[Objective]A high performance liquid chromatography( HPLC) method was established to determine the eight volatile carbonyl compounds( formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,acetone,acrolein,propionaldehyde,crotonaldehyde,2-butanone,and butyraldehyde) in the refill liquids for electronic cigarettes. [Method] After carbonyl compounds in the refill liquids were reacted with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine( DNPH) in an acidic medium to form 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone derivatives,which were separated on DIONEX Acclaim Explosive E2 column( 250 mm × 4.6 mm,5 μm) under the gradient elution with acetonitrile and water as mobile phase,and analyzed with a ultraviolet detector.[Result]The eight volatile carbonyl compounds had good correlation coefficients( R2 more than 0. 999) in corresponding concentration ranges,the average spiked recoveries ranged from 96. 4% to 101. 1% with a relative standard deviation lower than 3. 26%,and the limit of detection is between 0. 009- 0. 035 mg /L. [Conclusion]The developed method featured simple pretreatment,high sensitivity,good accuracy and precision,and it is successfully applied for the simultaneous determination of the eight carbonyl compounds in refill liquids
1. A process for hydrogenating aldehydes comprising! hydrogenation of aldehyde in the presence of a catalyst, wherein the catalyst has a composition containing a carrier comprising alumina α-oxide, and not part of the carrier metals comprising nickel, ruthenium, and a promoter selected from the group consisting of rhenium, tungsten, molybdenum, chromium, lanthanum, tin, iron, cobalt, silver, copper, or mixtures thereof; ! wherein the nickel is in direct contact with the support, and ruthenium and the promoter at least partially coated with nickel. ! 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the outside of the metal carrier is not more than 8 wt.% Of the catalyst weight. ! 3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the catalyst contains up to 6.0 wt.% Nickel. ! 4. A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the outside of the metal carrier of said catalyst further comprise molybdenum wherein said molybdenum is an alloy with said nickel and said ruthenium and said promoter at least partially coated with said molybdenum and said nickel. ! 5. A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said aldehyde is a hydroxyaldehyde. ! 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said aldehyde is 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, and said 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde is hydrogenated to 1,3-propanediol. ! 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the catalyst has an activity sufficient to hydrogenate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde at a rate of at least 25 ml 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde / ml catalyst · h, at a temperature from 50 to 190 ° C at a pH of from 4 , 0 to 6.5 and a hydrogen pressure from 6.89 to 11.0 MPa after at least 24 hours catalyzed hydrogenation at a temperature of from 50 to 190 ° C at a pH of from 4.0 to 6.5 and a pressure of
To elucidate the scavenging systems of sugar- and lipid-derived reactive carbonyls (RCs) in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 (S. 6803), we selected proteins from S. 6803 based on amino-acid (AA) sequence similarities with proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, and characterized the properties of the GST-fusion proteins expressed. Slr0942 catalyzed the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) reaction scavenging mainly sugar-derived RCs, methylglyoxal (MG). Slr1192 is the medium-chain dehydrogenase/redutase (MDR). It catalyzed the AKR reaction scavenging several lipid-derived RCs, acrolein, propionaldehyde, and crotonaldehyde. Slr0315 is a short-chain dehydrogenase/redutase (SDR), and it catalyzed only the reduction of MG in the AKR reaction. Slr0381 catalyzed the conversion of hemithioacetal to S-lactoylglutahione (SLG) in the glyoxalase (GLX) 1 reaction. Sll1019 catalyzed the conversion of SLG to glutathione and lactate in the GLX2 reaction. GLX1 and GLX2 compose the glyoxalase system, which scavenges MG. The...
(57) Abstract: a method of synthesizing the propionaldehyde and reaction with good yield 2-chloro propionaldehyde of chlorine, to establish its use. The A portionwise falls substantially equimolar with propionaldehyde and chlorine, fed to the reaction vessel, by reacting at -30 to 30 ° C., by a simple operation, good 2-chloro propionaldehyde yield synthesis It was found to be able to. Moreover, it was possible to a chlorination reaction mixture obtained in a good extraction yield when extracting with water 2-chloro propionaldehyde-containing aqueous solution. Furthermore, it was produced with good yield condensation ring-closing reaction is allowed to 2-amino-5-methylthiazole was added thiourea 2-chloro propionaldehyde-containing aqueous solution. It was possible to solve the problem by these inventions.
The anaerobic metabolism of glycerol is a process of dismutation [1, 4] . In the oxidative pathway, glycerol is first converted to dihydroxyacetone (DHA) by an NAD + -dependent glycerol dehydrogenase, and DHA is phosphorylated by dihydroxyacetone kinase. The generated dihydroxyacetone phosphate is further oxidized in the subsequent metabolism. In the reductive pathway, glycerol is first converted to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) by glycerol dehydrase, and then 3-HPA is reduced to 1,3-PD by an NADHdependent 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (1,3-PDOR).
It is observed that 3-HPA is intracellularly accumulated in batch cultures at a high initial glycerol concentration [2, 22] . 3-HPA has been proved to be a highly toxic compound, which could cause a cessation of cell growth and glycerol consumption [2] . A straightforward approach to overcome During the fermentative production of 1,3-propanediol under high substrate concentrations, accumulation of intracellular 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde will cause premature cessation of cell growth and glycerol consumption. Discovery of oxidoreductases that can convert 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 1,3-propanediol using NADPH as cofactor could serve as a solution to this problem. In this paper, the yqhD gene from Klebsiella pneumoniae DSM2026, which was found encoding an aldehyde reductase (KpAR), was cloned and characterized. KpAR showed broad substrate specificity under physiological direction, whereas no catalytic activity was detected in the oxidation direction, and both NADPH and NADH can be utilized as cofactors. The cofactor binding mechanism was then investigated employing homology modeling and molecular dynamics simulations. Hydrogen-bond analysis showed that the hydrogen-bond interactions between KpAR and NADPH are much stronger than that for NADH. Free-energy decomposition dedicated that residues Gly37 to Val41 contribute most to the cofactor preference through polar interactions. In conclusion, this work provides a novel aldehyde reductase that has potential applications in the development of novel genetically engineered strains in the 1,3-propanediol industry, and gives a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in cofactor binding.
Results. After examining various single-electron oxidants, 10 we found that the trisphenanthroline complexes of iron(III) bearing nonnucleophilic counterions (e.g., PF 6 -, AsF 6 -, and SbF 6 -, Table 1) 11 do indeed promote the desired cyclization reaction between 3-arylpropionaldehydes and styrene (3 equiv) with excellent levels of enantiocontrol. Furthermore, the diastereoselectivity of the cyclization event appears to vary as a function of the oxidant counterion (with the largest counterion, SbF 6 -, being the most selective). A possible explanation for this trend is that the stereodetermining chairlike transition state (4) is more ordered (or later) when the intermediate carbocation is paired with a more polarizable or stabilizing counterion such as SbF 6 -.
Reuterin (b-hydroxypropionaldehyde; b-HPA) is a broad spectrum antimicrobial substance produced by some strains of Lactobacillus reuteri during anaerobic bioconversion of glycerol (Axelsson et al. 1989 ). It has a high potential as food preservative. Reuterin is soluble in water, resistant to proteolytic and lipolytic enzymes, and maintains its antimicrobial activity at low pH and high NaCl concentration (Rasch et al. 2007 ) and at refrigeration temperatures (Arqués et al. 2008) . All these properties are attractive features for its application in some dairy products. Direct addition of purified reuterin to control food-borne pathogens such as Salmonella spp., Escherichia coli O157:H7 and Listeria monocytogenes has been investigated in milk and dairy products (Arqués et al. 2008; El-Ziney and Debevere 1998) .
Salmonella enterica uses a bacterial microcompartment (MCP) for coenzyme B 12 -dependent 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) utilization (Pdu). The Pdu MCP consists of a protein shell that encapsulates enzymes and cofactors required for metabolizing 1,2-PD as a carbon and energy source. Here we show that the PduQ protein of S. enterica is an iron-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase used for 1,2-PD catabolism. PduQ is also demonstrated to be a new component of the Pdu MCP. In addition, a series of in vivo and in vitro studies show that a primary function of PduQ is to recycle NADH to NAD + internally within the Pdu MCP in order to supply propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) with its required cofactor (NAD + ). Genetic tests determined that a pduQ deletion mutant grew slower than wild-type Salmonella on 1,2-PD and that this phenotype was not complemented by a non-MCP associated Adh2 from Zymomonas that catalyzes the same reaction. This suggests that PduQ has a MCP-specific function. We also found that a pduQ deletion mutant had no growth defect in a genetic background having a second mutation that prevents MCP formation which further supports a MCP-specific role for PduQ. Moreover, studies with purified Pdu MCPs demonstrated that the PduQ enzyme can convert NADH to NAD + to supply the PduP reaction in vitro. Cumulatively, these studies show that the PduQ enzyme is used to recycle NADH to NAD + internally within the Pdu MCP. To our knowledge, this is the first report of internal recycling as a mechanism for cofactor homeostasis within a bacterial MCP.
Salmonella enterica produces a MCP for coenzyme B 12 -dependent 1,2-PD utilization (Pdu MCP) [12] . 1,2-PD is a major product of the anaerobic degradation of common plant sugars rhamnose and fucose and is thought to be an important carbon and energy source in anoxic environments [24] . The Pdu MCP consists of a protein shell that encapsulates enzymes and cofactors used for metabolizing 1,2-PD [25] . Twenty-four genes for 1,2-PD utilization (pdu) are found in a contiguous cluster (pocR, pduF and pduABB'CDEGHJKLMNOPQSTUVWX) [12, 26, 27] . The pdu locus encodes enzymes for 1,2-PD degradation (PduCDELPQW) [12, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31] , the conversion of cobinamide and cobalamin to coenzyme B 12 (PduOSX) [32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37] , the reactivation of diol dehydratase (PduGH) [38, 39] , eight proteins that likely form the shell of Pdu MCP (PduABB'JKNTU) [12, 25, 40, 41, 42] and one structural protein (PduM) that might also be a shell component [43] . The pathway of 1,2-PD degradation begins with the conversion of 1,2-PD to propionaldehyde by coenzyme B 12 dependent diol dehydratase (PduCDE) [26, 28] (Fig. 1 ). Propionaldehyde is then converted to propionate by coenzyme A (CoA)-dependent propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) [29] , phospho-transacylase (PduL) [30] and propionate kinase (PduW) [31] , or to 1-propanol probably by a putative propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduQ) [12] . The proposed function of the Pdu MCP is to sequester propionaldehyde produced by diol dehydratase (PduCDE) and channel it to propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) in order to minimize toxicity and DNA damage [6, 7, 12, 41] . Current models for the Pdu MCP propose that its protein shell selectively retains propionaldehyde while allowing the entrance of required enzyme substrates and cofactors as well as the egress of metabolic products [3, 44, 45] . Metabolite movement into and out of the Pdu MCP is proposed to occur through centrally located pores in the BMC-domain proteins (PduABB'JKTU) that comprise the bulk of its shell [44, 45, 46, 47] . Based on studies with several different systems, it has been shown that the pores in different BMC domain proteins vary in size and chemical properties suggesting that different shell proteins have pores that act as conduits for particular metabolites [44, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51] .
Our prior studies showed that the PduP propionaldehyde dehydrogenase, which catalyzes the conversion of propionaldehyde+NAD + +HS-CoARpropionyl-CoA+NADH, is encapsulated within the Pdu MCP [29] . The substrate for PduP (propionaldehyde) is generated internally within the MCP, but how this enzyme is supplied with NAD + and HS-CoA is unknown. In this study, we identify the PduQ enzyme is an iron-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase used for 1,2-PD degradation by Salmonella. We also show that PduQ is a new component of the Pdu MCP that plays an important role in regenerating NAD + from NADH internally within the MCP, although results suggest other mechanisms such as specific pores may also be used. The findings presented here are the first to show the importance of internal recycling for cofactor homeostasis within a bacterial MCP.
To elucidate the scavenging systems of sugar-and lipid-derived reactive carbonyls (RCs) in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 (S. 6803), we selected proteins from S. 6803 based on amino-acid (AA) sequence similarities with proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, and characterized the properties of the GST-fusion proteins expressed. Slr0942 catalyzed the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) reaction scavenging mainly sugar-derived RCs, methylglyoxal (MG). Slr1192 is the medium-chain dehydrogenase/redutase (MDR). It catalyzed the AKR reaction scavenging several lipid-derived RCs, acrolein, propionaldehyde, and crotonaldehyde. Slr0315 is a short-chain dehydrogenase/redutase (SDR), and it catalyzed only the reduction of MG in the AKR reaction. Slr0381 catalyzed the conversion of hemithioacetal to S-lactoylglutahione (SLG) in the glyoxalase (GLX) 1 reaction. Sll1019 catalyzed the conversion of SLG to glutathione and lactate in the GLX2 reaction. GLX1 and GLX2 compose the glyoxalase system, which scavenges MG. These enzymes contribute to scavenging sugar-and lipid-derived RCs as scavenging systems.
The invention discloses a preparation method of 1-(4-chlorphenyl)-2-cyclopropyl-1-acetone. The preparation method comprises the steps that: (1) cyclopropyl methyl ketone, dimethyl sulfate, dimethyl sulfide and sodium hydroxide take epoxidation reaction to obtain 2-cyclopropyl-2-methyl ethylene oxide; (2) the 2-cyclopropyl-2-methyl ethylene oxide is catalyzed and re-ranged by anhydrous zinc chloride at the room temperature to obtain 2-cyclopropyl propionaldehyde; (3) the 2-cyclopropyl propionaldehyde is oxidized by 50 percent oxydol at the room temperature to obtain 2-cyclopropyl monoprop; (4) the 2-cyclopropyl monoprop and thionyl chloride take reaction to obtain 2-cyclopropyl propionyl chloride; (5) the 2-cyclopropyl propionyl chloride takes reaction with chlorobenzene and anhydrous aluminum trichloride to obtain the 1-(4-chlorphenyl)-2-cyclopropyl-1-acetone with the content being 98.0 percent to 98.7 percent, and the total yield is 80.0 percent to 83.1 percent. The preparation method has the advantages that the steps are simple, raw materials are cheap and are easy to obtain, easy-self-ignition compounds are not used, organic solvents are not used in the steps (2) and (3), three wastes are few, and the preparation method is suitable for industrialization.
A consortium of organisms, endemic in wheat-based thin stillage (W-TS), obtained from a commercial ethanol production converts glycerol to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) and lactic acid to acetic acid. We sought to improve conditions for 1,3-PD and acetic acid production to be used in future studies of industrial isolation of these compounds from two-stage fermentation. Occasionally, stillage fermentation proceeded slowly, but an inoculum of Lactobacillus panis PM1B augmented both fermentation rate and extent. Fermentation rate and product yield were enhanced by adjusting pH to 5 daily and adding glucose and glycerol (molar ratio 0.1:1), freeze-dried W-TS, and vitamins (B2, B3, and B12). 1,3-PD and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) did not inhibit 1,3-PD production during fermentation. Moreover, agitation did not improve fermentation rate or extent. Corn sugar was a suitable substitute for glucose. Fermentation was performed at both 20 and 150 L with 1,3-PD production of 2% (w/v, 20 g/L) being routinely achieved...
The copper complex of a polyoxime, {[CH2]1·6[C(NOH)C(NOH)]0·8[C(O)]0·2} catalyzes the ‘Michael’type addition reaction of acrolein and an alcohol yielding exclusively β-alkoxypropionaldehyde, polymerizes acrylonitrile under H2 at 40–90 atm and reversibly takes up molecular oxygen and carbon monoxide even in methanol or water after being treated with hydrazine hydrate.
An investigation has been made of cool flame and second-stage ignition phenomena produced during the oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. A flow system was used and the flames were stabilized in a vertical-tube reactor by suitable adjustment of the mixture composition. With the tube temperature initially set at 200°C, and low rates of oxygen flow relative to that of acetaldehyde, a single cool flame (pale blue, temperature approx. 425°C) was obtained; increase of the oxygen-flow rate caused this to move downward and a second-stage flame (deeper blue, temperature approx. 690°C) to appear. A further increase in the oxygen concentration led to a third flame (yellow). The composition profiles of the flames were examined mainly by mass spectrometry and the temperature profiles by means of a thermocouple, with a view to determining the processes responsible for the flames. As the cool flame was approached, peracetic acid was formed, and then, in theluminous zone, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, formaldehyde, methanol, and methane were noted. Immediately before the second stage, the concentration of methanol fell, whereas that of the formaldehyde increased. Branching caused by peracetic acid was probably responsible for the formation of the cool flame, and the oxidation of formaldehyde controlled the production of the second stage. The third flame was probably the decomposition flame of acetylene which was formed in the second stage, and which is a likely product of the oxygen-catalyzed pyrolysis of methane.
Ensuring quality of PEGylating reagents is essential for the successful development and manufacturing of PEGylated biopharmaceuticals. However, little is known about how to maintain and verify the quality of PEG raw materials for PEGylated protein manufacturing. In this study, monomethoxy polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde (mPEG-aldehyde) was subjected to conditions that mimic accelerated stability conditions. Separation of trace-level degradation products in the presence of mPEG-aldehyde was achieved by derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH), followed by reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection (RP-HPLC-UV) at 355nm. Structural characterization by atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry (APCI-MS) identified formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, acrolein, benzaldehyde, and tolualdehyde as major degradation products or process-related impurities. The presence of formaldehyde and acrolein was confirmed by (1)H NMR in the forced degraded mPEG-aldehyde samples without derivatization of mPEG-aldehyde. Findings from this study imply that reactive impurities could form as a result of inappropriate mPEG-aldehyde handling or storage. Further, a rapid screening method based on reversed phase HPLC was shown to be an effective screening assay used for routine screening of mPEG-aldehyde to ensure consistent PEGylated protein product quality.
The displacement of NADH from cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) from sheep liver was studied by using NAD+, 1,10-phenanthroline, ADP-ribose, deamino-NAD+ and pyridine-3-aldehyde-adenine dinucleotide as displacing agents, by following the decrease in fluorescence as a function of time. The data obtained could be fitted by assuming two first-order processes were occurring, a faster process with an apparent rate constant of 0.85 +/- 0.20 s-1 and a relative amplitude of 60 +/- 10% and a slower process with an apparent rate constant of 0.20 +/- 0.05 s-1 and a relative amplitude of 40 +/- 10% (except for pyridine-3-aldehyde-adenine dinucleotide, where the apparent rate constant for the slow process was 0.05 s-1). The displacement rates did not change significantly when the pH was varied from 6.0 to 9.0. Kinetic data are also reported for the dependence of the rate of binding of NADH to the enzyme on the total concentration of NADH. Detailed arguments are presented based on the isolation and purification procedures, the equilibrium coenzyme-binding studies and the kinetic data, which lead to the following model for the release of NADH from the enzyme: (formula: see article). The parameters that best fit the data are: k + 1 = 0.2 s-1; k - 1 = 0.05 s-1; k + 2 = 0.8 s-1 and k - 2 = 5 X 10(5)litre-mol-1-s-1. The slow phase of the NADH release is similar to the steady-state turnover number for substrates such as acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde and appears to contribute significantly to the limitation of the steady-state rate.
The mechanism of formation and stereoregularity of poly(cyanoethyl)oxymethylene have been studied. The polymerization was carried out at −78°C with use of aluminum compounds [Al(C2H5)3, Al(C2H5)2Cl, Al(C2H5)Cl2, and AlCl3] and complex catalysts [Al(C2H5)3–TiCl4, Al(C2H5)3–TiCl3, and Al(C2H5)2Cl–TiCl3] as initiators. The stereoregularity of poly(cyanoethyl)oxymethylene was estimated from the optical density ratio, D1258/D1270, in the infrared absorption spectrum. Polymer yields were observed to depend upon the aluminum compound used as initiators, while the stereoregularity of the polymer was nearly independent of the particular aluminum compound used. As the catalyst ratio of titanium chloride to aluminum compound increased, the polymer yield was found to increase to a maximum and then to decrease with further increase of the ratio. It is supposed that titanium chlorides themselves increase the acid strength of aluminum compounds through chlorination, resulting in the change of the polymer yield. The highest stereoregularity of poly(cyanoethyl)oxymethylene was attained by increasing the molar ratio of titanium trichloride to aluminum and by treating β-cyanopropionaldehyde (CPA) with titanium trichloride prior to the polymerization. Complex formation of the nitrile group of CPA with titanium is considered responsible for the increase in stereoregularity. A propagation mechanism is also proposed.
Abstract The vapor-phase catalytic reactions of n -propanol over a supported chromia catalyst were studied in a glass fixed-bed reactor. An Alundum catalyst support whose dehydrating activity had been suppressed by NaOH additions was found to be the most suitable support of several which were examined. By isolating and identifying chemical intermediates and by reaction of several intermediates individually, the chemical sequence was shown to involve dehydrogenation to propionaldehyde followed by parallel condensations of the propionaldehyde either to its aldol or to n -propyl propionate. Both of these intermediates subsequently lead to the formation of diethyl ketone with a maximum yield of 47%. Reaction losses up to 35% of the n -propanol feed could not be eliminated and were attributed to repeated aldol condensations of the various aldehydes present.
Abstract The reactions of hydroxyl radicals with methyl t -butyl ether (MTBE) were studied using gamma radiolysis. Aqueous solutions of 100 ppm MTBE were saturated with 4:1 N 2 O/O 2 gas mixture prior to irradiation. Under these conditions hydroxyl radical is the predominant reactive species generated during gamma radiolysis. Complete degradation of MTBE is achieved within ∼30 min of irradiation at a dose rate of 0.21 kGy/min. The major volatile organic compounds (VOCs) produced are t -butyl formate (TBF), t -butyl alcohol (TBA), acetone, and methyl acetate. Under the reaction conditions, TBF does not yield TBA, but rather acetone as the primary reaction product. The formation of TBA by hydrolysis of TBF and a hemiacetal formed during the initial oxidative processes of MTBE appear to be minor reaction pathways. Although 2-methyl-2-methoxyl-propionaldehyde (MMP) has been proposed as a reaction product, we were unable to confirm its existence and we therefore, propose a reaction pathway, which does not involve MMP, as the predominant path leading to the formation of methyl acetate. The overall yields of VOCs are low with maximum individual yields between 4% and 13%. Upon extended treatment with gamma radiolysis the VOCs can be completely degraded. These studies contribute to a better fundamental understanding of the reactions of hydroxyl radicals with MTBE, and the resulting oxidation products, TBF and TBA.
The invention discloses a Cu-Zn catalyst which is mainly composed of the following components: by weight, 32-43.4 parts of copper oxide, 56-67.5 parts of zinc oxide, 0.1-0.25 part of aluminium oxide, 0.01-0.05 part of ferric oxide, and 0.01-0.02 part of silicon dioxide. The invention also discloses a preparation method and an application of the Cu-Zn catalyst. The Cu-Zn catalyst provided by the invention is used in propionaldehyde hydrogenation reaction for the preparation of normal propyl alcohol, and has good water tolerance. Before propionaldehyde participates in the reaction, dehydration treatment is not required. Production capacity is high and hydrogenation selectivity is good.
The chromic acid oxidation of propionaldehyde in the presence of picoIinic acid proceeds much faster than that of propionaldehyde alone. It is shown that picolinic acid is an effective catalyst. The rate law governing this catalysis is rate=k[HCrO4−][PA]-[CH3CH2CHO][H+]2/(a+b[H+]+c[H+]2). A mechanism consistent with the rate law was proposed: picolinic acid reacts with chromic acid to form a cyclic intermediate complex C1, C1 further reacts with a molecule of hydrated aldehyde to give a termolecular complex C2 and a hydrogen ion, C2 then undergoes oxidative decomposition in the next step to give products.
Protein engineering to expand the substrate spectrum of native enzymes opens new possibilities for bioproduction of valuable chemicals from non-natural pathways. No natural microorganism can directly use sugars to produce 1,3-propanediol (PDO). Here, we present a de novo route for the biosynthesis of PDO from sugar, which may overcome the mentioned limitations by expanding the homoserine synthesis pathway. The accomplishment of pathway from homoserine to PDO is achieved by protein engineering of glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) and pyruvate decarboxylase to sequentially convert homoserine to 4-hydroxy-2-ketobutyrate and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde. The latter is finally converted to PDO by using a native alcohol dehydrogenase. In this work, we report on experimental accomplishment of this non-natural pathway, especially by protein engineering of GDH for the key step of converting homoserine to 4-hydroxy-2-ketobutyrate. These results show the feasibility and significance of protein engineering for de novo pathway design and overproduction of desired industrial products.
The present invention is directed to the field of chemical industry, relates to D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid trace element chelates method, the method using a mixed gas of hydrogen cyanide Angle with the legal system methylthio propionaldehyde starting material, to give 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutanenitrile obtained alkaline hydrolysis with an inorganic system D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid, D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthio D butyrate regenerated chelated salt and trace metal elements, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid chelates of trace elements. The method less process step, cheap raw materials, intermediate stable, low total cost; obtained D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid yield chelates of trace elements, high purity bulk density; effective mixing as animal feed additive and feed to supplement the diet of trace elements and amino acids, to improve production performance and immune animals, and also used as a pharmaceutical agent.
Abstract SBA-3 mesoporous molecular sieves doped with transition metal ions (Fe, V, Nb and Ta) have been applied for selective oxidation of propene towards propylene oxide in the presence of N 2 O as an oxidant. The kind and amount of applied modifiers significantly affected the catalytic activity. V/SBA-3 was found to be the most active among the catalyst under study. In spite of relatively high selectivity towards propylene oxide (reaching up to 23%), the main oxidation product was still propionaldehyde. Surprisingly, CO x was not formed over V, Nb and Ta modified SBA-3 catalysts. Additional modification of V containing samples (V/SBA-3) with iron complexes resulted in the further increase in the catalysts activity for epoxidation reaction. A PO selectivity of about 20% could be achieved at a propylene conversion of 17% over mixed Fe/V/SBA-3 catalytic system.
The aims of this study is to compare the growth and glucose metabolism of three Lactobacillus reuteri strains (i.e. DSM 20016, DSM 17938, and ATCC 53608) which are lactic acid bacteria of interest used for diverse applications such as probiotics implying the production of biomass, or for the production of valuable chemicals (3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, 1,3-propanediol). However, the physiological diversity inside the species, even for basic metabolisms, like its capacity of acidification or glucose metabolism, has not been studied yet. In the present work, the growth and metabolism of three strains representative of the species diversity have been studied in batch mode. The strains were compared through characterization of growth kinetics and evaluation of acidification kinetics, substrate consumption and product formation. The results showed significant differences between the three strains which may be explained, at least in part, by variations in the distribution of carbon source between two glycolytic pathways during the bacterial growth: the phosphoketolase or heterolactic pathway (PKP) and the Embden-Meyerhof pathway (EMP). It was also shown that, in the context of obtaining a large amount of biomass, DSM 20016 and DSM 17938 strains were the most effective in terms of growth kinetics. The DSM 17938 strain, which shows the more significant metabolic shift from EMP to PKP when the pH decreases, is more effective for lactate production.
NADP+-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase from the cytosolic fraction of the alkane-degradating ‘Acetobacter rancens’ CCM 1774 was purified 112-fold (specific activity of 112 nkat mg−1 protein). After polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the purified enzyme only one band was visible. The relative molecular weight was estimated to be 82,000 by both gel filtration and disc gel electrophoresis. The substrate specifity of the purified enzyme within the straight chain aliphatic aldehyde series is confined to acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. Butyraldehyde and formaldehyde are considerably less converted. NADP+ alone served as electron acceptor. Mg2+ stimulated the reaction velocity in a strong manner by ‘non-competitive’ activation. The estimation of kinetic parameters and inhibition experiments of the irreversible oxidation of ethanal indicate a random kinetic mechanism at optimal aldehyde concentrations and saturating NADP+ concentrations at optimal pH 8.5 which, however, trends to become ordered with decreasing pH values. Properties described exclude the participation of the enzyme in degradation of n-alkanes. One physiological function of this constitutive aldehyde dehydrogenase may be the intracellular detoxification of short chain aldehydes by conversion to corresponding fatty acids.
Abstract An efficient diastereoselective approach to access (4R)-hydroxy-(2S)-substituted methyl ketones pyrroles skeleton 4a-s has been developed through Mannich process involving N,O-acetal 6 and ketones and propionaldehyde in excellent yield with high diastereoselectivity (dr up to 99:1). In addition, the utility of this convenient Mannich process is demonstrated by the diastereoselective synthesis of Tuv fragment (2) and its analogue (18) of tubulysin V (1e).
Abstract Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) specific activity was measured in crude homogenates, post-mitochondrial supernatants, cytosolic and microsomal fractions of trout liver, using a number of endogenous and xenobiotic aldehydes and both NAD+ and NADP+ as co-factors. All the activity found in the crude homogenate could be accounted for by the sum of the cytosolic and microsomal activities. Highest activities were found with the medium chain length substrates hexanal and nonanal in all fractions. The α,β-unsaturated aldehydes, (E,E)-2,4-nonadienal-1-al, and trans, trans-2,4-decadienal, were also good substrates for both fractions, while the hydroxylated α,β unsaturated trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal was a good substrate only for the microsomal fraction. Short chain and aromatic xenobiotic substrates were metabolized at much lower rates, and only the microsomal fraction was effective against acetaldehyde, acrolein, and benzaldehyde. Neither fraction metabolized 2,5-dihydroxy benzaldehyde. NAD+ was the preferred co-factor for most substrates. Apparent affinity (Km) for hexanal and nonanal in the cytosolic fraction were comparable to that found in rats, but the theoretical maximal velocity (Vmax) for these substrates, and the specific activities for the other substrates, were much lower than found in mammals. The biochemical results suggest that trout are well adapted to detoxify products of endogenous lipid peroxidation, but are poorly adapted to detoxify xenobiotic aldehydes. In another study with carcinogen-fed fish, ALDH distribution was evaluated histochemically in cryostat sections. In control trout, ALDH was uniformly distributed without an apparent zonal pattern. However, in hepatic tumors, ALDH was apparently induced with hexanal, nonanal, and propionaldehyde giving the strongest reaction products; other substrates also reacted, but with much lower sensitivity.
This work reports the analysis of selected aldehydes in air samples using capillary electrophoresis (CE). The method is based on the reaction of aldehydes with 4-hydrazinobenzoic acid (HBA) to give the corresponding hydrazones with maximum absorbance at 290 nm. Under optimized CE conditions, the HBA derivatives of four carbonyls (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acrolein) were completely separated from one another, in less than 6 min, using a pH 9.3 tetraborate buffer at 0.040 mol L(-1) concentration as background electrolyte. A few method validation parameters were determined revealing good migration time repeatability (< 1.5% CV) and area repeatability (< 2% CV), excellent linearity (50-300 microg/L, r > 0.996) and adequate sensitivity for environmental applications. The limits of detection with respect to each single aldehyde were in the range of 2.7-8.8 ng L(-1). The methodology was applied to the determination of aldehydes indoors. Samples were collected in HBA impregnated octadecylsilica cartridges, at different times during the day. The most abundant carbonyls in the samples were acetaldehyde followed by formaldehyde, with estimated peak concentrations of 4.3 and 2.9 ppbv, respectively.
The increasing abundance of glycerol, its renewability, and attractive pricing make it an appealing platform chemical. Glycerol can be utilized in various ways of biological transformation to industrially valuable products. There are some important derivatives among these such as 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde ((3-HPA) commercial name: reuterin), dihydroxyacetone (DHA), and 1,3-propanediol (PDO). PDO has the largest potential need. Several bacteria are able to ferment glycerol to PDO under anaerobic conditions. A new recombinant technology was worked out with the leadership of DuPont and Genecor in the last decade, in which a recombinant Escherichia coli converts glucose directly to PDO. Microbiological production of a molecule has always lower yield than an enzymatic method and usually produces a lot of by-products that can be avoided using enzymatic bioconversion. For years we have been working on a new enzymatic process in order to produce PDO and DHA simultaneously from glycerol. For this enzymatic way three key enzymes are needed: Glycerol-dehydratase (GDHt), 1,3-propanediol-oxydoreductase (PDOR), glycerol-dehydrogenase (GDH). These enzymes must be produced by microbial fermentation. We would like to present the results of developing the fermentation media in economic aspect. Our pleriminary results (not publicated) indicated that the 2xYT medium is perfect for our Clostridium strain. However in economic aspect the concentrations of yeast extract and bactotryptone are too high to scale-up this fermentation procedure. The first purpose of this study was to optimize the fermentation media. Optimized media concentrations are yeast extract, 6 g∙l-1 and bactotryptone, 2 g∙l-1 (instead of 10 and 16 g∙l-1 respectively). The other aim of our work was to develop immobilized enzymes suitable for glycerol to propanediol bioconversion and develop a method to measure the immobilized enzymes activity. We tried a covalent method applying chitosan matrix activated with glutaraldehyde. Chitosan – a natural polyaminosaccharide obtained from chitin – was chosen as support material to bind the three key enzymes from the crude enzyme solution. We could detect that PDOR and GDH enzyme bind to chitosan beads. Immobilized enzymes activity was higher than of the soluble enzymes.
: Male Wistar rats were dosed with N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) in drinking water at four concentration levels (0, 0.1, 0.5 or 1.0 g/l) for 2 or 7 weeks. Upon evaluation of the effects in the liver increased values were found for the following parameters: liver/body weight-ratio, GSH content, ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and UDPglucuronosyltransferase activities. The GSH content, deethylase activity and, transiently, the glucuronidation activity were slightly increased also in the kidneys. Oxidative N-demethylation of DMF by hepatic microsomes in vitro was not enhanced by oral treatment. No DMF-dependent formaldehyde liberation in vitro could be detected under conditions where formaldehyde liberation from N,N-dimethylnitrosamine could be demonstrated. However, the endogenous rate of formaldehyde generation by liver microsomes isolated from DMF-treated rats was enhanced with the highest oral dose of DMF. The daily intake of DMF lowered the activities of both formaldehyde and propionaldehyde dehydrogenases in the liver soluble fraction. No inhibition of these dehydrogenases was shown in vitro by DMF (≤10 mM) or by its main urinary metabolite N-methylformamide (≤10 mM). The observed impairment of aldehyde oxidation in liver and kidneys of the rat after the DMF intake could explain the mechanism behind the alcohol intolerance observed in man after DMF-exposure.
Abstract The effects of methanol, ethanol, propanol, and allyl alcohol and their corresponding aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acrolein) on the cell growth, viability, adhesion to the flask surface, and morphologic appearance of a clone of mouse C1300 neuroblastoma were studied in culture. The aldehydes were more toxic than their corresponding alcohols. The cytotoxicity of the alcohols increased as the number of carbons in the compound increased, whereas toxicity of the aldehydes increased with decreasing chain length. The cytotoxicity of the aldehydes and alcohols increased with increasing concentration and with increasing time of exposure. Both the carbonyl group and the carbon-carbon double bond are necessary for the marked cytotoxicity of acrolein since both propionaldehyde, having only the carbonyl group, and allyl alcohol, having only the carbon-carbon double bond, were less toxic.
Abstract In this study, an effort was made to apply gas chromatography (GC) with a flame ionization detector (FID) to the determination of gaseous carbonyls (without derivatization) at sub ppb level. A GC system interfaced with a multi-function thermal desorber system (TD) was hence tested for the collection and analysis of gaseous carbonyls. During this study, the calibration properties of five carbonyl compounds – acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde – were evaluated by varying the operation conditions of the TD system (i.e., sample transfer approaches and sorbent types of cold trap). The results were generally discernible between compounds (light and heavy carbonyls) and/or between selected concentration levels. Most interestingly, the GC detection properties of the lighter aldehydes (acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde) varied significantly, as they were sensitively affected by the types of cold trap combination. However, the heavier aldehydes – butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde – maintained highly constant trends for GC calibration. According to this study, a GC-based quantification of aldehydes can be completed by an optimized setup of TD system.
Alarcon (1) concluded that acrolein is formed during the enzymic oxidation of spermine and spermidine by plasma amine oxidase, probably by the spontaneous decomposition of the intermediate products, the unstable aminoaldehydes. Kimes and Morris (8) described a procedure for the isolation of mono-oxidized and di-oxidized spermine in relatively pure form during spermine oxidation by plasma amine oxidase: (#-elimination yielded acrolein and aldol condensation formed larger oligoamines. Holtta (7) investigated the oxidation of spermidine to putrescine and 3-aminopropionaldehyde and of spermine to spermidine and 3-aminopropionaldehyde by polyamine oxidase from rat liver. Smith et al. (13) reported that the polyamine oxidase from Gramineae (Hordeum, Avena, Zea) oxidizes the polyamines spermidine and spermine at the secondary amino groups to give cyclic products derived from aldehydes: the product of spermine oxidation occurs as diazabicyclononane, while the product of spermidine oxidation is I-pyrroline; 1,3-diaminopropane and hydrogen peroxide are formed in the case of both substrates. The oxidation of putrescine (12) by pea seedling amine oxidase yields 1-477
Regarding the synthesis of sacubitril 1 on an industrial scale, Novartis International AG (Basel, Switzerland) holds various patents covering different synthetic routes. Their earlier patents comprise chiral pool approaches, similar to the cascades established by Ksander [9] and Hook [10] , for formation of the two chiral centers present in the API 1. However, researchers at the Swiss pharmaceutical company have recently developed a novel organocatalytic strategy for installation of the stereocenters [11] . The first option described in the patent involves the reaction of Michael acceptor 10 with propionaldehyde employing a proline-derived organocatalyst, which is high-yielding but unsatisfactory in terms of diastereoselectivity (Scheme 2, a). Formation of the desired diastereomer 12 could be improved by the use of nucleophile 11 in combination with methacrolein and a thiourea-derived catalyst (Scheme 2, b). However, in view of the potential application of organocatalysis for the synthesis of sacubitril 1 on a large scale, diastereoselectivity still needs to be improved to meet the requirements of the pharmaceutical industry.
So far, there are many studies on the microbial fermentation of 1,3-PD. The metabolic pathway, by which glycerol is transferred to 1,3-PD, exists in many microorganisms such as Klebsiella pheumoniae, Clostridium butyricum, Lactobacillus reuteri and Citrobacter freundii. Comparing with, other strains, C. butyricum obviously possess more potential for high substrate tolerance, less by-products and other advantages [1] . In addition, in most microorganisms, glycerol is metabolized via a reductive branch which leads to 1,3-PD formation under anaerobic conditions. In this branch, glycerol is converted to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA)by glycerol dehydratase (GDHt). Afterwards, 3-HPA is reduced to 1,3-PD by NADH-dependent 1,3-PD dehydrogenase. GDHt can dominate the decomposition of glycerol, whose role is very vital in this reductive branch. GDHt is coenzyme B12-dependent in most bacteria, while in C. butyricum, GDHt is B 12 -independent. So, the costly coenzyme B 12 is avoided, which reduces the production cost of 1,3-PD vastly. More important, C. butyricumas one of the most important probioticsis very helpful for human beings.
Abstract The generation of harmful by-products during photocatalytic oxidation (PCO) of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) is a bottleneck problem for the application of PCO technology in indoor environment. Toluene is a typical VOC found in indoor air. In this work, the by-products at ppb level were studied during PCO decomposition of toluene in a plate-type reactor and identified using PTR-MS (proton transfer reaction-mass spectrometry) and GC–MS (gas chromatography–mass spectroscopy). The results indicated that benzaldehyde, methanol, acetaldehyde, acetone/propionaldehyde, formic acid/ethanol and acetic acid were the main by-products in the gas phase. By adjusting the concentration of water vapor, some compounds adsorbed on the TiO 2 surface were ascertained, which resulted in the deactivation of TiO 2 . They were benzoic acid, benzene, acrylaldehyde, butyraldehyde and pentanal. Some of these by-products have not been reported in the literature. Possible photocatalytic oxidation pathways of toluene were proposed. A health-related index (HRI) was introduced to assess the risk level to human health of these ppb-level by-products. It concludes that although some undesired by-products (even carcinogenic) are generated during PCO decomposition of toluene, it seems that these by-products do not have negative effects to human health because of their low concentrations.
Summary Rhodium/triarylphosphine complexes catalyze the low pressure ydroformylation of vinyl esters to α- and β-carbocypropionaldehydes. In contrast with hydrocarbon α-olefins, the branched aldehydes predominate, and the regioselectivity of the reaction is virtually unaffected by carbon monoxide partial pressure. Substrate steric effects and solvent effects are significant on both the reaction rates and linear/branched aldehyde selectivities. Rhodium-promoted hydrogenolysis of vinyl esters to ethylene and carboxylic acid is a major side reaction of this process. The results are rationalized in terms of the ability of the vinyl esters to form chelates.
Additive effects of formaldehyde, propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde on the deposition of tin in acidic solution of tin(II) sulfate have been investigated. The effects of these additives on cathodic polarization and a.c. impedance was measured by galvanostatic or potentiostatic methods, respectively. The reduction products of the aldehyde during the deposition and the diffusion coefficient of Sn(II) in various solutions were also determined.
Abstract Deuterium isotopic step tracing combined with in situ infrared (IR) spectroscopy was utilized to study and model the hydrogenation steps in ethylene hydroformylation on 4 wt% Rh/SiO 2 at 483–573 K and 0.1 MPa. The difference in residence times between H 2 and D 2 , as well as propionaldehyde and deuterated propionaldehyde to the step switch from H 2 to D 2 and D 2 to H 2 during ethylene hydroformylation reflects the presence of an isotope effect for H 2 /D 2 chemisorption and propionaldehyde formation. Compartment modeling of H 2 /D 2 responses and qualitative comparison of propionaldehyde and deuterated propionaldehyde responses unravel the presence of a normal equilibrium isotope effect for H 2 /D 2 chemisorption and a normal kinetic isotope effect for hydrogenation/deuteration of adsorbed acyl species. In situ IR coupled with deuterium transient responses shows that the reverse spillover of deuterium from Si-OD participates in the deuteration of adsorbed acyl species, suggesting that the site for deuteration of the adsorbed acyl species is located near the Rh and SiO 2 interface. Significant difference in the deuterated ethane and propionaldehyde responses suggests the different nature of either adsorbed hydrogen/deuterium or the active site for hydrogenation/deuteration of adsorbed ethyl and acyl species.
The addition of ethanethiol to ethyl (ethylthio)propynoate I (R = C2H5) afforded ethyl α,β-bis(ethylthio)acrylate III (R = C2H5). ::: ::: ::: ::: Reduction of I gave γ-(ethylthio)allyl alcohol IX, which was converted into β-(ethylthio)propionaldehyde X by acid. ::: ::: ::: ::: The Diels-Alder addition of 1,3-butadiene to I (R = C2H5) gave rise to ethyl 2-ethylthio-3,6-dihydrobenzoate XII. ::: ::: ::: ::: Interaction of I (R = C2H5) with phenylhydrazine afforded a mixture of the ethyl ester of the phenylosazone of mesoxalaldehyde acid XVII and ethyl 3-(ethylthio)indole-2-carboxylate XVIII.
This paper reports the use of density functional theory(DFT) for exploring the thermodynamic and kinetic properties of bond dissociation reaction and transition state reaction and the subsequent prediction of pyrolysis pathways.Major products such as formaldehyde,acetaldehyde and acrolein were observed during the dehydration reaction of glycerol.The activation energy of dehydration reaction was in the range of 53.64 kcal/mol to 64.98 kcal/mol.The pyrolysis mechanism of glycerol was applied for 1,2-propanediol and 1,3-propanediol,and it was deduced that the major products were propionaldehyde,acetone and acetaldehyde for 1,2-propanediol pyrolysis and formaldehyde,acetaldehyde and acrolein for 1,3-propanediol pyrolysis.The activation energy of propanediol was in the range of 50 kcal/mol to 60 kcal/mol.These experimental data were in a close agreement with previously reported results of theoretical derivation.
The free radical branched-chain mechanism of the thermal oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde has been reconsidered by means of numerical analysis using a computer. It has been shown that ( a ) the concentrations of RCO and RCO 3 radicals (R = CH 3 or C 2 H 5 ) rise extremely rapidly to quasi-stationary values, that of RCO 3 being very much greater than that of RCO, ( b ) the primary initiation process becomes relatively unimportant kinetically after the initial stages of the oxidation, ( c ) branching is due to the interaction of peracid and aldehyde (a second order process with an overall activation energy of 14·5 kcal mole −1 ), and ( d ) the dependence of the maximum oxidation rate on oxygen concentration at low pressures of oxygen is probably due to decomposition of some of the RCO radicals.
2(and 4)-Methoxy-5-phenylpyrimidine and some p-substituted derivatives are rearranged by heating in triethylamine to give the corresponding N-methyl-2(or 4)-oxopyrimidines. The log k1 values for rearrangement of the 2-methoxypyrimidines show a rectilinear relationship to the known σ values for p-substituted phenyl groups, save when such values are highly negative. 4-Methoxy-5-phenylpyrimidine and its p-nitro-derivative rearrange more rapidly than their respective 2-methoxy-isomers; in addition, each gives a mixture of N-1 and N-3 methylated products in which the latter predominates. These facts are consistent with the recently proposed intermolecular and ionic nature of such rearrangements. Some of the intermediate 2-hydroxy-5-phenylpyrimidines and their N-methyl derivatives are made by a novel modification of the principal pyrimidine synthesis, namely condensation of urea or N-methylurea with 3-imino-2-phenylpropionaldehyde or a derivative. 1H N.m.r. and u.v. spectra are used to follow rearrangements and to confirm structures.
A new analytical method was developed for determining 14 aldehydes and ketones of environmental interest in ambient air. The method uses 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH)-coated silica cartridges for sampling, acetonitrile for preconcentration, and micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography for separation and quantitation. With hydrodynamic sampling of 8.5 cm cartridge for 30 s, applied voltage of 25 kV, detection at 360 nm, and separation in a 60 cm long, 50 μm id fused silica column at ambient temperature (25° ± 1°C) within an electrophoretic buffer (20 mM borate/50 mM sodium dodecyl sulfate at pH 9.2 in 20% [v/v] methanol), baseline separation was obtained for DNPH derivatives of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, butanone, crotonaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde/butyraldehyde, 2-pentenaldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, valeraldehyde, benzaldehyde, and hexaldehyde. Detection limits [signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio = 2] ranged from 0.10 to 0.77 mg/L, the working range was 0.3-86 mg/L, and the precision as indicated by the relative standard deviation ranged from 2.3 to 6.6% (n = 3). With 1 h sampling at 0.25 L/min and a 1000-fold enrichment, most carbonyl compounds in ambient air can be determined with detection limits ranging from 0.008 to 0.1 mg/m 3 and a working range of 0.04-11 μg/m 3 . The developed method was successfully applied to the determination of carbonyl compounds in a chemical laboratory and at street level.
Various ketones, such as deoxybenzoin, propiophenone, phenylacetone, benzylacetone, cyclohexanone and 2-methylcyclohexanone, and aldehyde such as 3-phenylpropionaldehyde were smoothly converted to the corresponding vinyl sulfides in good yields by the treatments with thiols in the presence of TiCl4.
Some guinea pig tissue homogenates have shown the ability to catabolize, in vitro, imidazoloacetaldehyde (ImAAL) and gamma-aminobutyraldehyde (GABAL) via NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH, EC 1.2.1.3). The liver, kidney, small intestine and gastric mucosa are the richest sources of ALDH activity towards ImAAL. The liver, kidney, small intestine and pancreas also show ALDH activity with GABAL as a substrate. All tissues tested have shown low Km and high Km ALDH activity with propionaldehyde as substrate. The guinea pig liver ALDH which is able to oxidize ImAAL and GABAL is located exclusively in the cytoplasm.
A flat-flame burner suitable for the production of flat cool flames of hydrocarbons is described. One- and two-stage flames have been obtained. An electrically heated matrix is employed to preheat the unburned gas. Cool flames have been obtained from n -butane, n -pentane, n -heptane, various primary reference fuels, and di- t -butyl peroxide. Additive effects on two-stage n -heptane/air/oxygen flames were investigated. Lead alkyls, iron carbonyl, N -methylaniline, methyl iodide, dimethyl sulfide, isoamyl nitrite, di- t -butyl peroxide, diethyl ether, stannic chloride, propionaldehyde nitromethane, diethylamine, and triethylamine were employed as additives. In general, pro-knocks advanced the second-stage flame; and antiknocks retarded it. Exceptions were di- t -butyl peroxide and N -methylaniline. Di- t -butyl peroxide retarded the second-stage flame. N -methylaniline had no effect on either stage. Lead antagonism and lead-extender effects were observed using TEL and dimethyl sulfide, and TEL and acetic acid. Although iron carbonyl showed sulfur antagonism, it did not show an extender effect with acetic acid.
The invention relates to a method and a device for continuously producing D,L-methionine from a hydrocyanic acid mixed gas. The device comprises a hydrocyanic acid synthesis tower, an acid tower, multi-stage serial tank reactors, static mixing reactors and a hydrolysis reactor. The method for continuously producing D,L-methionin comprises the steps of preparing a mixed hydrocyanic acid gas I and a mixed hydrocyanic acid gas II in the hydrocyanic acid synthesis tower and the acid tower, preparing 2-hydroxyl-4-methylmercapto-butyronitrile in the multi-stage serial tank reactors, preparing 5-(2-methylmercapto-ethyl)-hydantoin in the static mixing reactors, and hydrolyzing in the hydrolysis reactor to obtain the D,L-methionine, and further comprises the steps of treating residues, separating products and the like in a combustion furnace, a stripping tower and the like. By the device and the method, a hydrocyanic acid mixing gas and unpurified methylmercapto-propionaldehyde can be easily utilized, and industrial large-scale continuous production can be achieved; the method and the device are low in production cost, has efficient and environment-friendly effects, and is applicable to industrial popularization and application.
In a preliminary study, levels of activity of enzymes involved in anaerobic glycerol catabolism by Enterobacter agglomerans grown in batch cultures regulated in a pH range of 6.5-8.0 were monitored. That study showed that activities of key enzymes of the downstream metabolism of glycerol--glyceradehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAP-DH), lactate dehydrogenase and pyruvate formate lyase--were strongly dependent on the culture pH. To investigate the influence of pH on the physiology of the strain, E. agglomerans was grown anaerobically in a continuous culture supplied with glycerol as the sole carbon source and regulated at pH 8. A complete biochemical analysis was performed and was compared with that previously described for the continuous culture regulated at pH 7. A limitation of the glycolytic flux at the level of GAP-DH was demonstrated at high dilution rate, resulting in an overflow metabolism through the 1,3-propanediol formation pathway. Increasing the specific rate of glycerol consumption also resulted in enhanced lactate production due to limitation by the pyruvate decarboxylation step. Finally, changing the culture pH significantly modified the enzymatic profile of E. agglomerans, and it enabled the stability of the culture to be increased by preventing the accumulation in the fermentation broth of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, an inhibitory metabolite, when the glycerol supply was suddenly increased.
Thiourea reacts with acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in acidic media to give condensates in solid state. The nature of these condensates has been investigated with the help of mass and IR spectrometric techniques and a closed chain structures proposed for them.
Ethanol is metabolized to acetaldehyde mainly by the alcohol dehydrogenase pathway and, to a lesser extent, through microsomal oxidation (CYP2E1) and the catalase-H(2)O(2) system. Acetaldehyde, which is responsible for some of the deleterious effects of ethanol, is further oxidized to acetic acid by aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs), of which mitochondrial ALDH2 is the most efficient. The aim of this study was to evaluate zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a model for ethanol metabolism by cloning, expressing, and characterizing the zebrafish ALDH2. The zebrafish ALDH2 cDNA was cloned and found to be 1892 bp in length and encoding a protein of 516 amino acids (M(r) = 56,562), approximately 75% identical to mammalian ALDH2 proteins. Recombinant zebrafish ALDH2 protein was expressed using the baculovirus expression system and purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography. We found that zebrafish ALDH2 is catalytically active and efficiently oxidizes acetaldehyde (K(m) = 11.5 microM) and propionaldehyde (K(m) = 6.1 microM). Similar kinetic properties were observed with the recombinant human ALDH2 protein, which was expressed and purified using comparable experimental conditions. Western blot analysis revealed that ALDH2 is highly expressed in the heart, skeletal muscle, and brain with moderate expression in liver, eye, and swim bladder of the zebrafish. These results are the first reported on the cloning, expression, and characterization of a zebrafish ALDH, and indicate that zebrafish is a suitable model for studying ethanol metabolism and, therefore, toxicity.
A sensitive, precise and accurate method for simultaneous quantitation of lidocaine and its deethylated metabolites by gas chromatography-mass fragmentography has been developed. Propyl derivatives of the deethylated metabolites are formed directly in either plasma or urine by treatment with propionaldehyde and sodium cyanoborohydride. The propyl derivatives and unchanged lidocaine are extracted, separated by gas chromatography and quantitated by mass fragmentography using mepivacaine as the internal standard. Quantitation of these compounds to levels as low as 50 ng/ml body fluid has been achieved with coefficients of variation less than 10%.
Infra-red spectra between 4000 and 1300 cm–1 have been obtained for propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, pivalaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isopropyl ketone and methyl tert. butyl ketone (pinacolone) adsorbed on discs pressed from silica powder. In all cases the spectra show a strong band at about 3400 cm–1, characteristic of a hydrogen-bonded interaction between the hydroxyl groups of the silica surface and the carbonyl oxygen atoms, plus bands due to adsorbed molecules. The intensity of all the absorption bands of the ketones falls smoothly towards zero as the vapour phase pressure is reduced from 10 to 10–5 torr, indicating reversible physical adsorption of a single type. Weak absorption in the νCC region which occurs for adsorbed ketones may be caused by a small degree of enolization in the adsorbed state. ::: The adsorption of aldehydes is also mainly reversible at room temperature. However, particularly with isobutyraldehyde, residual νCH absorption bands of adsorbed species are found on evacuation to low pressures. These are consistent with the occurrence of either hydration or polymerization on the surface. Raising the temperature to 120°C normally leads to desorption of the aldehyde. However, with propionaldehyde, new carbonyl bands are found at 120°C which may be interpreted in terms of the presence of both 2-methyl-2-pentene-1-al and the aldol intermediate, propionaldol, on the surface. Acetaldehyde has been shown previously to give the analogous product crotonaldehyde on adsorption on silica at similar temperatures.
Nonviral vectors should undergo “virus-like” changes compatible with the steps of gene delivery. Poly(ethylene) glycol (PEG) shielding of DNA/polycation polyplexes protects from nonspecific interactions with the extracellular environment. pH-triggered removal of the shield within the endosome may be advantageous. Polycation and PEG were linked via acylhydrazides or pyridylhydrazines. The pyridylhydrazone prepared from polylysine and propionaldehyde–PEG showed the greatest acid-dependent hydrolysis; at pH 5, 37°C for 10 min, 90% hydrolyzed, while at pH 7.4 the half-life was 1.5 h. Particle size and ζ potential measurements of the polyplexes showed complete deshielding within 1 h at pH 5, while at pH 7.4 the shield remained at 4 h, 37°C. For gene transfection a targeting conjugate was also included in the polyplex, transferrin as ligand for K562 and Neuro2A cells and epidermal growth factor for HUH-7 and Renca-EGFR cells. Marker gene expression showed that the reversibly shielded polyplexes exhibited up to 2 log orders of magnitude higher gene expression in vitro and 1 log magnitude higher gene expression in an in vivo mouse model, compared to the stably shielded control polyplexes. Engineering of polyplexes with more dynamic domains is an encouraging new direction in nonviral vector design.
β-Cyanopropionaldehyde dimethyl acetal was brominated in the presence of calcium carbonate to give α-bromo-β-cyanopropionaldehyde dimethyl acetal. This was then dehydro-brominated with 10% alcoholic potash at −5 to 0°C, β-cyanoacrolein dimethyl acetal was thus obtained in a high yield. Free aldehyde of a light green liquid was given by the hydrolysis of the acetal. A similar procedure using α-chloro-β-cyanopropionaldehyde dimethyl acetal was also examined. On the other hand, β-cyanoacrolein was prepared by the direct dehydro-genation of β-cyanopropionaldehyde with selenium dioxide.
Abstract The effect of reaction temperature on the gas-phase photocatalytic epoxidation of propylene was systematically studied over V–Ti/MCM-41 photocatalyst at different temperatures (298–393 K). Temperature significantly influences the product distribution of photo-epoxidation. Raising temperature is favorable towards the formation of propionaldehyde (PA) due to inhibition of PA transformation to propionic acid (C 2 H 5 COOH), the intermediate product of acetaldehyde (AA). Results indicated that the reaction temperature has a dual-action to the reaction rate: (1) improving the desorption of reaction products, which provides more active sites for reaction and (2) reducing the adsorption of propylene on the photocatalyst, which declines the reaction efficiency.
-It has been reported that some aldehyde compounds have formed simple sII clathrate hydrates without help-gas molecules, showing a self-forming effect. However, the structure of aldehyde hydrates is quite unstable due to the “gem-diol reaction”. According to the previous studies, the aldehyde hydrate slowly decomposes at atmospheric condition with the conversion of aldehyde to gem-diol. We investigated binary aldehyde (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and isobutyraldehyde)+methane clathrate hydrate with spectroscopic and thermodynamic analyses. Similar to the simple aldehyde hydrate, the binary hydrates also formed a sII hydrate. During the hydrate formation process, we found that most of the aldehydes converted to gem-diols and were then incorporated into the large cages of the sII hydrate. Depending on the equilibrium constant of the gem-diol reaction caused by the molecular structures of the three aldehydes, different phase equilibrium curves of aldehyde+methane hydrates were obtained.
α-Aminobutyronitrile-14C was isolated from cultures of Rhizoctonia solani that had been administered H14CN. A pathway for H14CN utilization by this fungus involving the condensation of ammonia, HCN, and propionaldehyde to α-aminobutyronitrile is proposed. Enzymatic evidence shows that α-aminobutyronitrile is hydrolyzed to α-aminobutyric acid.
Diversity of the (opto)electronic devices in which the derivatives of triphenylamine are used requires thorough knowledge of the structure–properties relationship of this class of organic semiconductors. Diphenylethenyl- or methylphenylethenyl-substituted triphenylamines were prepared by condensation of methoxy-substituted triphenylamines with 2,2-diphenylacetaldehyde or 2-phenylpropionaldehyde, respectively. Diphenylethenyl-substituted triphenylamines form molecular glasses with glass transition temperatures up to 50 °C. Increasing the number of phenylethenyl substituents resulted in suppression of intramolecular motions of the triphenylamine core, thereby significantly (up to 48%) enhancing fluorescence quantum yield of the derivatives in solutions. The enhancement was more pronounced for diphenylethenyl-substituted triphenylamines. The ionization potentials of the synthesized materials do not depend on the number and the structure of substituents and are ca. 5.3 eV. Hole drift mobility of the glassy la...
Abstract Since fast pyrolysis derived bio-oils are not a simple hydrocarbon mixture, but rather contain a variety of oxygenated compounds including acids and aldehydes, upgrading is required in order to use bio-oils as transportation fuels. Esterification is one of the attractive routes to convert acids contained in bio-oil to more desirable esters. Although organic acid esterification is a simple reaction, no work has been reported as to whether the presence of other reactive oxygenated compounds such as aldehydes affect the reaction. In this study of bio-oil model compounds, the impact of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde on acetic acid esterification was investigated on organic–inorganic mesoporous silica functionalized with propylsulfonic acid groups. No impact of these two aldehydes on acetic acid consumption was seen at 100 °C, regardless of the concentration of ethanol used. However, at 70 °C and 50 °C, the conversion of acetic acid was observed to be lowered during the reaction in the presence of the aldehydes. When either of the aldehydes were present, the acetic acid conversion was about 6% and 28% lower than that in its absence at 70 °C and 50 °C, respectively. It appears that the more significant aldehyde impact on acetic acid conversion seen at the lower reaction temperatures was due to the esterification rate being slow relative to the rapid competitive acetalization rate of the aldehydes with ethanol.
NAD-dependent succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.24) has been purified to homogeneity from human brain via ion-exchange chromatography and affinity chromatography employing Blue Sepharose and 5'-AMP Sepharose. Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase was never previously purified to homogeneity from any species; this preparation therefore allows the determination of its molecular weight, subunit molecular weight, subunit composition, isoelectric points, and substrate specificity for the first time. The enzyme is a tetramer of Mr230,000 to 245,000 and consists of weight-nonidentical subunits (Mr 61,000 and 63,000). On isoelectric focusing the enzyme separates into five bands with the following isoelectric points: 6.3, 6.6, 6.8, 6.95, and 7.15. Its substrates include glutaric semialdehyde, nitrobenzaldehyde, and short chain aliphatic aldehydes in addition to succinic semialdehyde which is the best substrate. The Km values for succinic semialdehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde are 1,875, and 580 microM, respectively. The enzyme is inactive with 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde and indole-3-acetaldehyde as substrates. Its subcellular localization is in the mitochondrial fraction. Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase is sensitive to inhibition by disulfiram (a drug used therapeutically to produce alcohol aversion) resembling, in this respect, aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3). It does not, however, interact with the antibody developed in the rabbit vs aldehyde dehydrogenase, suggesting that the two enzymes are structurally distinct.
3 Our recent studies suggest that the rate of proline enamine formation is enhanced in the presence of protic additives, without affecting product enantioselectivity, in the aminoxylation and R-amination of propionaldehyde (Scheme 1). 3g We report here that addition of organic bases in the R-amination of aliphatic aldehydes results in an intriguing reversal of product enantioselectivity as well as changes in the kinetic profile. The mechanistic implications of these findings are discussed in the context of contending models for the enantiodifferentiating step in enamine catalysis. Figure 1 compares reaction rate as a function of fraction conversion in the R-amination of propionaldehyde with DEAD (Scheme 1) using fully solubilized proline 4 as catalyst in both the absence and presence of catalytic amounts of the organic base DBU. The kinetic profile is altered from the sigmoidal shape characteristic of this reaction to reveal initially positive order kinetics followed by a zero-order regime. Strikingly, the presence of DBU induces a reversal of product enantioselectivity from 85% (R) to 46% (S). A similar reversal of enantioselectivity was observed with other tertiary amines, correlating roughly with pK a as shown in Figure  2 . Interestingly, phosphazene bases of even higher pK a gave product ee values similar to those of DBU (P 1 -t Bu, 58% ee; P 2 -t Bu, 56% ee; BEMP, 57% ee). The strongest (and bulkiest) base tested, P 4 -t Bu, gave none of the reaction product 3a. Table 1 shows that this reversal of enantioselectivity holds for a range of aliphatic aldehydes (compare entries 7-12 to 1-6). The reaction product was stable to racemization when [DBU] did not exceed [4], although racemization is observed when DBU is mixed with the product in the absence of proline.
Ethanol is metabolized to acetaldehyde mainly by the alcohol dehydrogenase pathway and, to a lesser extent, through microsomal oxidation (CYP2E1) and the catalase-H 2 O 2 system. Acetaldehyde, which is responsible for some of the deleterious effects of ethanol, is further oxidized to acetic acid by aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs), of which mitochondrial ALDH2 is the most efficient. The aim of this study was to evaluate zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a model for ethanol metabolism by cloning, expressing, and characterizing the zebrafish ALDH2. The zebrafish ALDH2 cDNA was cloned and found to be 1892 bp in length and encoding a protein of 516 amino acids (M r ‫؍‬ 56,562), approximately 75% identical to mammalian ALDH2 proteins. Recombinant zebrafish ALDH2 protein was expressed using the baculovirus expression system and purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography. We found that zebrafish ALDH2 is catalytically active and efficiently oxidizes acetaldehyde (K m ‫؍‬ 11.5 M) and propionaldehyde (K m ‫؍‬ 6.1 M). Similar kinetic properties were observed with the recombinant human ALDH2 protein, which was expressed and purified using comparable experimental conditions. Western blot analysis revealed that ALDH2 is highly expressed in the heart, skeletal muscle, and brain with moderate expression in liver, eye, and swim bladder of the zebrafish. These results are the first reported on the cloning, expression, and characterization of a zebrafish ALDH, and indicate that zebrafish is a suitable model for studying ethanol metabolism and, therefore, toxicity.
Enormous research efforts have been made in the past on mechanistic understanding of HDO of whole bio-oil 2, 3 and various oxygenated compounds of bio-oil such as phenol, anisole, guaiacol, 9-13 aliphatic aldehydes like heptanal, [14] [15] [16] aromatic aldehydes like furfural, 17, 18 benzaldehyde, 2-phenylpropionaldehyde, cinnamaldehyde, 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, and 4-isopropylbenzaldehyde, 16 and various ketones such as 6-undecanone, 2-dodecanone, 2,4-dimethyl-3-petnanone, 2,2,4,4-tetramethyl-3-pentanone, 14 cyclopentanone, 19 and methyl isobutyl ketone. 20 However, limited information is available in open literatures on HDO of aliphatic alcohols. 14, [21] [22] [23] [24] The HDO of 1-heptanol was first reported over commercial sulphided NiMo/γ-Al 2 O 3 and CoMo/γ-Al 2 O 3 catalysts in both flow (at 523 K and 15 bars of H 2 ) and batch (at 523 K and 75 bars of H 2 or N 2 ) reactor using m-xylene or ndodecane as solvent. 21, 22 The work was further extended in a flow reactor using two different H 2 S concentration in the feed. 23 Heptane and heptenes together with small quantity of diheptyl ether were observed as products. [21] [22] [23] Donnis et al. reported HDO of 3-heptanol in a microscale reactor over commercial sulfided NiMo catalyst at 453 and 483 K and 50 bars of H 2 using n-octane as solvent. 13 Very recently, Peng et al. reported HDO of aqueous 1-and 2-propanol in a batch reactor in presence of 3 wt.% Pt/Al 2 O 3 at 473 K and 40 bars of H 2 . 23 Propane, ethane, CO 2 , and acetone (in case of 2-propanol only) were observed as products. The HDO of 2-propanol was also carried out in a fixed-bed reactor under vapor phase at different temperatures (393-523 K) using hydrogen as carrier gas.
A preliminary study on diurnal variation of carbonyl compound concentrations at roadside air of urban Guangzhou was performed in summer 2001. Total 13 carbonyl compounds were identified and quantified. Formaldehyde was observed to have the highest average concentration, 17.89 μg·m~(-3), followed by acetaldehyde and benzaldehyde, which had the average concentrations of 15.13 and 7.22 μg·m~(-3) respectively. There were much higher carbonyl concentrations in daytime than those in nighttime other than acetone and bezaldehyde. The low ratios of formaldehyde/acetaldehyde (1.20) and acetaldehyde/propionaldehyde (3.52) showed that the anthropogenic emissions were dominant sources of the ambient carbonyl compounds in Guangzhou. Vehicular maintenance, oil quality and high proportion of diesel-run vehicles may be top factors to cause higher concentrations of carbonyl pollutants in Guangzhou. Compared with the data from other studies on urban areas worldwide, the pollution by carbonyl compounds in Guangzhou should not be overlooked.
Degradation of palustrin to (−)-dihydropalustramic acid ((2R,6S,1′S)-[6-(1′-hydroxypropyl)-2-piperidyl]acetic acid), and the structure of palustrin and palustridin ::: ::: ::: ::: The structure of the macrocyclic alkaloid palustrin is shown to be 1a. Its piperidine unit can be obtained as (−)-dihydropalustramic acid (6a) by the following sequence of degradation reactions (Scheme 1): catalytic hydrogenation of 1a followed by methylation and Hofmann degradation provides the allyl base 4. the regioselectivity of the Hofmann elimination is explained by intramolecular proton abstraction at C(3) by C(18)-O−. Catalytic reduction of 4 and subsequent acidic hydrolysis yielded 6a and N, N-dimethylputrescine (N,N-dimethyl-1,4-butanediamine; 7). Loss of the N-alkyl group in the formation of 6a occurs during the catalytic hydrogenation step. This interpretation is supported by the results of model experiments. The position of the double bond in 1a is deduced from the IR. spectrum of the bromo-δ-lactone 19 prepared by treatment of 1a with N-bromosuccinimide at pH 4 (Scheme 3). Some of our previously published results on the degradation of dihydropalustrin (2a) are obviously at variance with the newly proposed structure for palustrin (1a). They can easily be explained by assuming a partial hydrogenolysis of the C(17)-N(1) bond during the preparation of dihydropalustrin from palustrin. Periodate cleavage of dihydropalustramic acid methyl ester (6b) liberates propionaldehyde, which can be trapped by working at pH 7.5 (Scheme 2); at lower pH values it condenses rapidly with the simultaneously generated 3,4,5,6-tetrahydropyridine derivative 15. The structure of the condensation product is proposed to be 16 on the basis of the isolation of its hydrogenation product, an isomeric dihydropalustramic acid (17).
Acrolein is generated endogenously during lipid peroxidation and inflammation and is an environmental pollutant. Protein adducts of acrolein are detected in atherosclerotic plaques and neurons of patients with Alzheimer's disease. To understand vascular effects of acrolein exposure, we studied acrolein vasoreactivity in perfused rodent mesenteric bed. Acrolein induced endothelium-dependent vasodilatation that was more robust and more sensitive than dilation induced by 4-hydroxy-trans-2-nonenal, trans-2-hexenal, or propionaldehyde. Acrolein-induced vasodilatation was mediated by K+-sensitive components, e.g., it was abolished in 0 [K+]o buffer or in 3 mM tetrabutylammonium, inhibited 75% in 50 μM ouabain, and inhibited 64% in 20 mM K+ buffer. Moreover, combined treatment with the Ca2+-activated K+ channel inhibitors 1-[(2-chlorophenyl)diphenylmethyl]-1H-pyrazole (TRAM-34, 100 nM) and apamin (5 μM) significantly reduced vasodilatation without altering sensitivity to acrolein. However, acrolein-induced % dilation was unaffected by l-NAME or indomethacin pretreatment indicating mechanistic independence of NO and prostaglandins. Moreover, acrolein induced vasodilatation in cirazoline-precontracted mesenteric bed of eNOS-null mice confirming eNOS independence. Pretreatment with 6-(2-propargyloxyphenyl) hexanoic acid (PPOH 50 μM), an epoxygenase inhibitor, or the superoxide dismutase mimetic Tempol (100 μM) significantly attenuated acrolein-induced vasodilatation. Collectively, these data indicate that acrolein stimulates mesenteric bed vasodilatation due to endothelium-derived signal(s) that is K+-, ouabain-, PPOH-, and Tempol-sensitive, and thus, a likely endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF). These data indicate that low level acrolein exposure associated with vascular oxidative stress or inflammation stimulates vasodilatation via EDHF release in medium-sized arteries — a novel function.
Abstract Seasonal and diurnal variations of carbonyl compounds were investigated at two sampling sites (Liwan and Wushan) in the ambient air of Guangzhou, China. Air samples were collected during 2005 from January to November, and carbonyl compounds were analyzed with HPLC. The results show that carbonyls exhibit distinct seasonal variation. The total concentrations of 21 carbonyls detected ranged from 2.64 to 103.6 μg m − 3 at Liwan and from 5.46 to 89.9 μg m − 3 at Wushan, respectively. The average total concentrations of carbonyls at both Liwan and Wushan decreased in order of summer>spring>autumn>winter. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and acetone were the most abundant carbonyl compounds, which accounted for more than 60% of the total concentrations of carbonyls. The mean concentration ratios of summer/winter were all > 1.0 for the total concentrations and the individual carbonyl compound. The diurnal variation of carbonyls was not distinct in this study. The average concentration ratios of formaldehyde/acetaldehyde (C 1 /C 2 ) varied from 0.71 to 1.32 and 0.65 to 1.14 at Liwan and Wushan, respectively, and the average concentration ratios of acetaldehyde/propionaldehyde (C 2 /C 3 ) varied from 5.42 to 7.70 and 5.02 to 13.9 in Liwan and Wushan, respectively. Regarding photochemical reactivity of carbonyls and the ozone production, acetaldehyde, butyraldehyde, formaldehyde, and valeraldehyde account for 75–90% to the total propene-equivalent concentrations, while formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, valeraldehyde, butyraldehyde, and propionaldehyde contribute 89–96% to the total ozone formation potentials (ranging from 105 to 274 μg m – 3 ). The ozone formation potentials in summer were higher by 1–2 times than those in the other seasons.
The influence of Aphidius smithi Sharma & Subba Rao alone or in combination with applications of the systemic insecticide Union Carbide UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) ox-ime (Temik®) on populations of the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris), was studied on 3 plant-growth cycles of ‘Buffalo’ alfalfa seedlings in 3 small greenhouses. were suppressed throughout all 3 growth cycles. This When only parasites were used the populations of aphids during the 1st growth cycle were high but lower than those in the controls; by the end of the 2nd cycle they were reduced 80%. During the 3rd cycle the aphid population remained at less than 5% When only UC-21149 was applied (0.56, 1.12, and 2.24 kg/hectare) populations of aphids were low during the 1st growth cycle, but during the 2nd and 3rd cycles they increased greatly. This increase correlated with the reduction in the concentration of the sulfoxide metabolite of UC-21149 in the plants. When UC-21149 and parasites were used in combination, the populations of aphids method of control was the most effective and allowed the best alfalfa growth. At the doses used UC-21149 had no apparent effect on the activity of the parasites. Thus, the aphidiids were able to parasitize a higher percentage of the initial density. of the reduced populations of aphids than when no insecticide was applied.
Volatile carbonyls are possible sources of carcinogenicity in liquor and beer. So the analytical method of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, acetone and 2 -butanone in liquor and beer of 4 samples have been established by Purge and Trap -Gas Chromatography. Results showed that this method achieved excellent reproducibility and the relative standard deviations were generally below 5.39 %. Detection limit of this method was 1.27 ng/mL-6.55 ng/mL. The recoveries were in the range from 91.90 % to 98.24 %.
This article describes the equilibrium cyclotrimerization of β-methoxypropionaldehyde (MPA), 4,7-dioxaoctanal (DOA), and n-octanal (OA) initiated by boron trifluoride etherate in toluene at a temperature range of −10 to 25°C. The enthalpy and entropy changes corresponding to the conversion of 1 mole of the monomers to 1/3 mole of their cyclic trimers in toluene solution, at the initial monomer concentration of 1 mole/liter, were evaluated as follows: ΔHss = −5.9 ± 0.3 kcal/mole and ΔSss = −19.1 ± 1.3 cal/mole deg for the MPA system; ΔHss = −7.4 ± 0.4 kcal/mole and ΔSss = −24.1 ± 1.7 cal/mole deg for the DOA system; ΔHss = −6.1 ± 0.4 kcal/mole and ΔSss = −21.2 ± 1.5 cal/mole deg for the OA system. The comparison of these values with those in their polymerization indicates that the cyclotrimerization of aldehydes is thermodynamically of greater advantage than their polymerization. The effects of long and polar substituents are discussed from the view-point of the intermolecular interactions by the polar groups in monomers and their cyclic trimers.
The crystalline polymers having a polyacetalic chemical structure, as obtained by us by polymerization at low temperature of aldehydes in the presence of stereospecific catalysts formed by metalloorganic compounds, show an isotactic structure. The chain conformations of different isotactic polyaldehydes are discussed, and in particular the crystalline structures of polyacetaldehyde, of poly-n-butyraldehyde and of polypropionaldehyde are described. The polymeric chains of these polyaldehydes have a fourfold helix conformation with a repetition period of 4.8 A., and the packing of the macromolecules corresponds to that of the tetragonal I41/a space group. Around each fourfold screw axis present in the unit cell, isomorphous anticlined macromolecules can statistically vicariate.
The displacement of NADH from the aldehyde dehydrogenase X NADH complex by NAD+ was followed at pH 7.0, and the data were fitted by a non-linear least-squares iterative procedure. At pH 7.0 the decay constants for the dissociation of NADH from aldehyde dehydrogenase X NADH complexes (1.62 +/- 0.09 s-1 and 0.25 +/- 0.004 s-1) were similar to the values previously determined by MacGibbon, Buckley & Blackwell [(1977) Biochem. J. 165, 455-462] at pH 7.6, and apparent differences between these values and those reported by Dickinson [(1985) Biochem. J. 225, 159-165] are resolved. Experiments at low concentrations of propionaldehyde show that isomerization of a binary E X NADH complex is part of the normal catalytic mechanism of the enzyme. Evidence is presented that the active-site concentration of aldehyde dehydrogenase is halved when enzyme is pre-diluted to low concentrations before addition of NAD+ and substrate. The consequences of this for the reported values of kcat. are discussed. A general mechanism for the aldehyde dehydrogenase-catalysed oxidation of propionaldehyde which accounts for the published kinetic data, at concentrations of aldehyde which bind only at the active site, is presented.
Treatment of 2-phenyl-3-(2, 4, 6-cycloheptatrien-1-yl) propionaldehyde ethylene acetal (III) with stannic chloride in benzene followed by dehydrogenation with sulfur afforded 2-phenylazulene (V) and 1-(2-hydroxyethyloxy)-2-phenylazulene (VI). Benz[a]azulene (XV) was obtained along with anthracene (XVI) when 2-(2, 4, 6-cycloheptatrien-1-yl)-benzaldehyde (XII) or its ethylene acetal (XI) was treated with stannic chloride in benzene or with hydrogen bromide in acetic acid.
Anionic polymerization of β-cyanopropionaldehyde was studied with use of benzophenone-monosodium, -disodium, and -dilithium complexes as initiators. The resulting poly(cyanoethyl)oxymethylene was compared with that obtained by cationic and coordinated initiators previously reported. Polymer of higher stereoregularity but lower molecular weight was formed in the present system. The marked influence of the initiator concentration on the polymer yield and stereoregularity is explained on the basis of the difference in the degree of association of the alcoholate ion pair, i.e., the associated ion pair may form stereoregular polymer and the nonassociated or less-associated ion pair may form a large amount of amorphous atactic polymer. The initiation with benzophenone-dialkali metal complex was found to be bond-formation type. Chain transfer with active hydrogen of β-cyanopropionaldehyde frequently occurs.
Abstract It is shown that it is possible to produce 1,2-propanediol (a high demand commodity chemical) in high yields via the vapor-phase catalytic hydrogenation of biomass-derived lactic acid. This catalytic process provides an environment-friendly route for the production of 1,2-propanediol from renewable resources. Reaction kinetics measurements were conducted for the vapor-phase hydrogenation of lactic acid over silica-supported copper at total pressures between 0.10 and 0.72 MPa and temperatures between 413 and 493 K. Lactic acid is hydrogenated over Cu/SiO 2 under these reaction conditions to predominately 1,2-propanediol, with formation of smaller amounts of 2-hydroxy propionaldehyde, propionic acid, and propyl alcohols. Deactivation of the Cu/SiO 2 catalyst does not appear to be significant under these reaction conditions. The production of 1,2-propandiol is favored at higher hydrogen partial pressures. At 473 K and a hydrogen partial pressure of 0.72 MPa, complete conversion of lactic acid was observed, with 88 mol% of the lactic acid converted to 1,2-propanediol. A reaction scheme for lactic acid conversion is proposed involving the dissociative adsorption of lactic acid to form an adsorbed α-hydroxy acyl species that undergoes successive hydrogenation steps to form adsorbed 2-hydroxy propionaldehyde species and then adsorbed α-hydroxy alkoxy species. These alkoxy species react with surface hydrogen to form 1,2-propanediol. The formation of 2-hydroxy propionaldehyde appears to be in equilibrium with 1,2-propanediol at the reaction conditions of the present study.
Hydroformylation is the reaction of an unsaturated compound (or a saturated compound which may generate an unsaturated compound) with carbon monoxide and hydrogen to yield an aldehyde. The reaction was discovered by O. Roelen in the laboratories of Ruhrchemie AG, Oberhausen-Holten in 1938 [21–23] when he tried to recycle olefins to the Fischer-Tropsch synthesis reactor. As reaction products he isolated oxygen-containing compounds which proved to be aldehydes and ketones. Roelen started extensive investigations with ethylene and obtained propionaldehyde and diethylketone as main products.
Oxidative polymers which had been isolated from autoxidized ethyl linolenate were oxidatively decomposed in a closed system at room temperature. The decomposition products were collected in appropriate traps and separated into various fractions on the basis of their volatility and solubility. The aldehydes and ketones thus obtained were converted into 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones, chromatographed on silica gel, and the isolated 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones identified by standard procedures. Methyl ethyl ketone, propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and alpha-pentenal were positively identified, and evidence for the presence of crotonaldehyde and an unknown five-carbon-carbonyl compound was obtained.
Vinyl acetate is subject to microbial degradation in the environment and by pure cultures. It was hydrolyzed by samples of soil, sludge, and sewage at rates of up to 6.38 and 1 mmol/h per g (dry weight) under aerobic and anaerobic conditions, respectively. Four yeasts and thirteen bacteria that feed aerobically on vinyl acetate were isolated. The pathway of vinyl acetate degradation was studied in bacterium V2. Vinyl acetate was degraded to acetate as follows: vinyl acetate + NAD(P)+----2 acetate + NAD(P)H + H+. The acetate was then converted to acetyl coenzyme A and oxidized through the tricarboxylic acid cycle and the glyoxylate bypass. The key enzyme of the pathway is vinyl acetate esterase, which hydrolyzed the ester to acetate and vinyl alcohol. The latter isomerized spontaneously to acetaldehyde and was then converted to acetate. The acetaldehyde was disproportionated into ethanol and acetate. The enzymes involved in the metabolism of vinyl acetate were studied in extracts. Vinyl acetate esterase (Km = 6.13 mM) was also active with indoxyl acetate (Km = 0.98 mM), providing the basis for a convenient spectrophotometric test. Substrates of aldehyde dehydrogenase were formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde. The enzyme was equally active with NAD+ or NADP+. Alcohol dehydrogenase was active with ethanol (Km = 0.24 mM), 1-propanol (Km = 0.34 mM), and 1-butanol (Km = 0.16 mM) and was linked to NAD+. The molecular sizes of aldehyde dehydrogenase and alcohol dehydrogenase were 145 and 215 kilodaltons, respectively.
Formyl transfer to Grignard reagents with N-formylpiperidine: 3-phenylpropionaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 3-phenylpropionaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: acylation; ::: Grignard and related reactions; ::: tetrahydrofuran; ::: tetrahydrofuran, purification
Chlorinated acetaldehydes have been the focus of research due to their role as reactive intermediates and their possible occurrence in chlorinated drinking water. This study investigated the in vitro substrate specificity of cytosolic and mitochondrial rat liver aldehyde dehydrogenase toward these compounds. Monochloroacetaldehyde was found to be extensively metabolized by these enzymes, to an even greater extent than the standard substrate propionaldehyde. Dichloroacetaldehyde was metabolized to a much lesser extent, and chloral hydrate is not metabolized by this enzyme family. The Km (mM) and Vmax (Vmax for propionaldehyde set to 100) values with the low Km cytosolic enzyme were monochloroacetaldehyde 0.046 and 582, and dichloroacetaldehyde 0.13 and 54.9, and those with the high Km cytosolic enzyme were dichloroacetaldehyde 0.35 and 23.4. The values with the low Km mitochondrial enzyme were monochloroacetaldehyde 0.057 and 462 and dichloroacetaldehyde 0.038 and 12.9, and those with the high Km mitochondrial enzyme were monocloroacetaldehyde 0.024 and 55.5 and dichloroacetaldehyde 0.29 and 3.44. These data suggest that aldehyde dehydrogenase plays a significant role in the metabolism of monochloroacetaldehyde and, to some extent, dichloroacetaldehyde. Some evidence also suggested that alcohol dehydrogenase plays a significant role in the metabolism of dichloroacetaldehyde and chloral hydrate.
The invention discloses a preparation method of 2-methyl-4-(2,6,6-trimethyl-1-cyclohexene-1-yl)-2-buten-1-aldehyde. The preparation method comprises the following steps: (1) under the action of an inorganic base, carrying out a hydroxyaldehyde condensation reaction of 2,6,6-trimethyl-1-cyclohexene-1-ylacetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in an organic solvent, and after the reaction is completed, postprocessing to obtain a condensation intermediate; and (2) carrying out a dehydration reaction of the condensation intermediate obtained in the step (1) under the action of an acid, and after the reaction is completed, postprocessing to obtain 2-methyl-4-(2,6,6-trimethyl-1-cyclohexene-1-yl)-2-buten-1-aldehyde. 2,6,6-trimethyl-1-cyclohexene-1-ylacetaldehyde and propionaldehyde instead of beta-ionone are used as starting materials for reaction, the production cost is reduced, and the operation steps are simplified.
2-Methyl-2-(methylsulphinyl)propionaldehyde O-methylcarbamoyloxime (aldicarb sulphoxide), aldoxycarb, oxamyl and methomyl were incubated at 10°C in soil samples taken from layers above and below shallow ground-water tables at four locations in the Netherlands. Soil samples from above the water table were incubated under moist and aerobic conditions. The anaerobic conditions below the water table were simulated by incubating the soil samples under 0.5-1 cm of ground water, and a nitrogen atmosphere. During incubation, the pH and redox potentials were measured. Less than 5% of the oxamyl and methomyl remained after one day in four water-saturated, anaerobic subsoils. The half-lives of aldicarb sulphoxide and aldoxycarb ranged from 5.1 to 131 days in the four anaerobic subsoils. Conversion rates in the aerobic soil layers above the water table were from 8 to more than 100 times lower than in the water-saturated layers in the same soil profile. Half-lives in the aerobic soils ranged from 26 days for oxamyl in loamy fine sand (pH 8.0), to 1100 days for aldoxycarb in fine sand (pH 5.0). When soil from below the water table was incubated aerobically, the conversion rates of oxamyl and aldoxycarb were drastically reduced. The opposite was found when an originally aerobic soil was incubated anaerobically. Autoclaving the incubation systems retarded the conversions.
Abstract The oxidation of propionaldehyde, methane, methyl formate and di-t-butylperoxide catalysed by hydrogen bromide have been investigated in a static system. With propionaldehyde in a boric acid coated vessel at 123°C, the maximum rate of pressure change (ϱmax.) was proportional to [C2H5CHO] [HBr] [O2]0 [C2H5COOOH]0. The main identified products were perpropionic acid and its aldehyde addition compounds, and the reaction had an overall activation energy of ∼13 kcal/mole. A reaction scheme is proposed involving bromine atoms and propionyl and peroxypropionyl radicals as chain carriers, with branching occurring hetero-geneously via peracid molecules. Various termination reactions are considered with a view to deriving the experimental kinetic relationships. The other compounds oxidized were all sources of methyl radicals and their oxidations were studied either in a boric acid coated vessel (for methane at 385°C and for di-t-butylperoxide at 180°C) or in an acid-washed Pyrex vessel (for methyl formate at 335°C). Methane gave irreproducible pressure/time curves, but hydrogen bromide was steadily consumed. Formic acid was the major product and no formaldehyde or peroxides were found. With methyl formate the dependence of ϱmax. on initial reactant pressures was identical to that for propionaldehyde. Bromine and methane were the main products, with smaller amounts of formaldehyde and hydrogen peroxide. Di-t-butylperoxide liberated methane in equivalent quantities to catalyst consumed; acetone and t-butanol were other major products. Unexpected products were t-butylhydroperoxide and t-butylbromide. Reaction schemes are suggested for these three oxidations, but the results are too complex for detailed analysis to be attempted.
Abstract Antiquitin is an evolutionarily conserved protein believed to play a role in the regulation of cellular turgor. Based on sequence analysis, this protein is classified as a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily. All previous studies on antiquitin have been confined to the nucleotide level, and the protein has never been purified and characterized. In the present investigation, the antiquitin protein was purified for the first time. An acetaldehyde-oxidizing protein was isolated from the liver of black seabream (Mylio macrocephalus) by chromatographies on α-cyanocinnamate Sepharose and Affi-gel Blue agarose, followed by ammonium sulfate precipitation. The purified protein was identified as antiquitin by the first 18 N-terminal amino acid residues which showed 83.3% identity with the deduced sequence of human antiquitin. Electrophoretic mobility studies indicated that black seabream antiquitin is a tetramer with a subunit molecular mass of 57.5 kDa. Kinetic analysis of the purified protein indicated that it catalyzes the oxidation of acetaldehyde with Km and Vmax values of 2.0 mM and 1.3 U/mg, respectively. The longer aliphatic propionaldehyde and the aromatic benzaldehyde are also substrates of the purified enzyme. The enzyme is highly specific towards NAD+ as the coenzyme and is totally inactive towards NADP+. Maximal enzymatic activity was found at about pH 9–10.
Abstract The infrared and ultraviolet absorption spectra of the precursor to the lachrymator trans -(+)- S -propenyl- l -cysteine sulfoxide in onion are presented. This amino acid is converted to pyruvic acid by the l -cysteine sulfoxide lyase of a particulate fraction of onion and by the l -cysteine C-S lyase of Albizzia lophanta. The kinetic constants for this reaction and the fact that this substrate is the preponderant l -cysteine sulfoxide derivative in onion demonstrate that it is the principal endogenous substrate for the onion l -cysteine sulfoxide C-S lyase. Evidence is given for the presence in enzyme reaction mixtures of elemental sulfur previously postulated as a product of the enzyme reaction but not of propionaldehyde or 2-methyl-2-pentenal previously found in the vapor above such reaction mixtures. It is concluded that the reaction products comprise a complex mixture of substances derived from the primary sulfur-containing enzymatic product, 1-propenyl sulfenic acid.
A novel enzyme responsible for the oxidation of spermidine and spermine has been found in rat liver. Spermidine is shown to be degraded to putrescine and 3-aminopropionaldehyde, and spermine to be cleaved to spermidine and 3-aminopropionaldehyde. A single enzyme catalyzing both reactions and designated as polyamine oxidase has been purified 4000-fold to electrophoretic homogeneity. Polyamine oxidase appears to be a flavoprotein, containing flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) as a prosthetic group. Hydrogen peroxide is evolved in the reaction and no other electron acceptors except molecular oxygen have been found. The molecular weight of the enzyme was approximately 60 000 and the sedimentation coefficient 4.5 S. The enzyme appears to be a single polypeptide chain since no evidence for structural subunits was obtained. Polyamine oxidase was sensitive to sulfhydryl and carbonyl group reagents. The optimum pH value for the oxidation of polyamines was close to 10. The reaction velocities were enhanced by various aldehydes, especially certain aromatic aldehydes. Polyamine oxidase appears to be localized in peroxisomes of liver cells, although the existence of an isoenzyme in the cytosolic fraction was not definitively ruled out. No marked changes were observed in the activity of polyamine oxidase in rat liver after partial hepatectomy, carbon tetrachloride poisoning, and after treatment with growth hormone or thioacetamide, conditions which are known to alter profoundly the metabolism and accumulation of polyamines.
Two strategies were pursued for the synthesis of 2-benzazepin-1-ones 16 and 17 with an N/O-acetal or enamide in 3-position. Establishment of the propionaldehyde substructure first and subsequently the amide moiety via a four step sequence failed to provide amides 11. However the Pd-catalyzed Heck reaction of 2-iodobenzamides 13 with allyl alcohol and subsequent reaction of the products 14/15 with acid led to 2-benzazepin-1-ones in a two-step sequence. Depending on the size of the N-substituent the 3-methoxy derivative 16a or the dihydro-2-benzazepine 17b was formed.
The displacement of NADH from the aldehyde dehydrogenase NADH complex by NAD+ was followed at pH 7.0, and the data were fitted by a non-linear least-squares iterative procedure. At pH 7.0 the decay constants for the dissociation of NADH from aldehyde dehydrogenase NADH complexes (1.62 +0.09 s-' and 0.25 + 0.004 s-1) were similar to the values previously determined by MacGibbon, Buckley & Blackwell [(1977) Biochem. J. 165, 455-462] at pH 7.6, and apparent differences between these values and those reported by Dickinson [(1985) Biochem. J. 225, 159-165] are resolved. Experiments at low concentrations of propionaldehyde show that isomerization of a binary *E-NADH complex is part of the normal catalytic mechanism of the enzyme. Evidence is presented that the active-site concentration of aldehyde dehydrogenase is halved when enzyme is pre-diluted to low concentrations before addition of NAD+ and substrate. The consequences of this for the reported values of keat. are discussed. A general mechanism for the aldehyde dehydrogenase-catalysed oxidation of propionaldehyde which accounts for the published kinetic data, at concentrations of aldehyde which bind only at the active site, is presented.
VOCs form an important group of atmospheric pollutants emitted in GS mainly due evaporation of the gasoline and gasoline-oxygenated fuels blends during fuel supply activities, tanks filling and vapors leakage from storage tanks and vehicle fuel tanks, besides vehicles combustion. 10, 11, 16 Previous studies 17, 18 have shown that although the exhaust pipe emissions from combustion are currently much cleaner, due to the development of new technologies and advanced after-treatment systems, the use of oxygenated fuels blends with gasoline makes evaporative emissions an important source of methanol, ethanol, aldehydes and other VOCs, as a result of the increased vapor pressure of these mixtures when compared to pure gasoline. FA and AA emissions to the atmosphere in Brazilian GS are also intensified by the use of oxygenated fuels, such as HEA and gasohol, 19 since ethanol reacts with hydroxyl radicals (OH) forming the corresponding hydroxyalkyl radicals, which then react with the oxygen producing aldehydes. 20 Furthermore, some studies 21, 22 have shown that the addition of biodiesel in the traditional diesel in Brazil to obtain less polluting fuels has also caused an increase in aldehydes emissions into the atmosphere. These compounds also play a major role in atmospheric chemistry, as they result from the first photooxidation of hydrocarbons, for configuring the main source of free radicals, as well as being precursors of ozone and organic aerosol, mainly in urban areas. 23 Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde are the two most abundant aldehydes in the atmosphere and are considered as primary and/or secondary pollutants. There is also a fraction of aldehydes (about 10%) consisting of propionaldehyde, propanone, acrolein, benzaldehyde and others. 23 The processes of aldehydes formation in the atmosphere through photochemical reactions involving the decomposition of hydrocarbons and other organic compounds contribute with 45 to 95% in relation to primary emissions, such as vehicle exhaust emissions, biomass burning, biofuels, fossil fuels and industrial processes. 23 Regarding combustion processes, ethanol powered vehicles emit about 90% AA and 10% FA, while in diesel powered vehicles the emission is 70% FA and 30% AA. On the other hand, the use of diesel/biodiesel and gasoline/anhydrous ethanol blends can increase these levels. 16, 24 Sampling of FA and AA in the air of occupational environments and outdoor areas is generally performed by using active techniques where air is sucked into a sampling device with the aid of a vacuum pump, requiring batteries or a power line, in addition to air flow meters. An alternative and viable air sampling technique for atmospheric monitoring, including occupational environments, is the passive sampling based on physical processes such as diffusion and permeation, without involving the active movement of air through the sampler. The driving force of mass transport is the concentration difference from the external to the internal environments according to Fick's first law. The passive samplers used are small, lightweight, low cost, non-noisy, not depending on electricity and periodic calibrations, and results of the measurements show high accuracy and precision. 1, 25 Some studies have been conducted aiming to determine the FA and AA concentrations in the atmosphere [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] and to evaluate the potential risks to human health in urban areas. [32] [33] [34] A study 19 carried out in the Metropolitan Area of São Paulo, in southeastern Brazil, over four seasons in 2012 and 2013, had measured FA and AA concentrations using 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH)-silica cartridges with the aid of a vacuum pump and analyzed with highperformance liquid chromatography (HPLC), according to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) method TO-11A (Active Sampling Methodology). 35 The minimum and maximum atmospheric levels found were 5.8 and 35.3 μg m −3 for FA and 5.7 and 27.4 μg m −3 for AA, demonstrating that although there was an increase in the number of flex-fuel vehicles using gasoline and/or HEA in this area, there was no significant increase in the atmospheric concentrations of aldehydes when compared to previous studies, 36 due to technological advances in vehicle emissions control.
This is the case m the Ames test for mutagenicity of alkene oxides. Thus, it has been reported that 2,3-epoxypropionaldehyde, 2,3-epoxypropanol, styrene oxide, 1,2-epoxybutane, 1,2,3,4-dmpoxybutane, and 1,2,7,8-dmpoxyoctane [11] as well as chloroethylene oxide [10] are mutagenic. While c~s-and trans-4-acetylaminostilbene~fl-oxide [6] as well as carbamazeplne-10,11-oxlde, cyporheptadine-10,11-oxide, and cyclobenzaprine-10,11-oxide are not mutagenic [7] .
The first described bacterial microcompartment was the carbon-fixing carboxysome in cyanobacteria (Drews and Niklowitz, 1956) . It enables the cell to accumulate carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) in the vicinity of Rubisco, which enhances the carboxylation rate. The carboxysome is an essential part of the cyanobacterial carbon concentrating mechanism (CCM). There are two types of carboxysomes, the alpha and beta carboxysome, and the structure and function of both types have been well-studied (Kerfeld and Melnicki, 2016) . Loss of structural proteins results in carboxysome-less mutants that are unable to grow under ambient CO 2 conditions (Berry et al., 2005; Ogawa et al., 1994; Woodger et al., 2005) . Two other microcompartmentalized pathways, namely, propanediol and ethanolamine utilization, have also been experimentally explored in bacteria (Chen et al., 1994; Stojiljkovic et al., 1995) . The role of the propanediol utilization (Pdu) microcompartment in Salmonella enterica is the degradation of 1,2-propanediol, a product of anaerobic sugar breakdown, without the release of the degradation intermediate propionaldehyde. Propionaldehyde is toxic and, once in the cytosol, causes damage to DNA (Sampson and Bobik, 2008) . A similar role was suggested for the ethanolamine utilization (Eut) microcompartment in the detoxification of acetaldehyde produced during ethonalamine catabolism (Moore and Escalante-Semerena, 2016) . Microcompartments are also known in eukaryotes, including: metabolic compartments in liver (Fujiwara and Itoh, 2014 ) and muscle cells (Saks et al., 2008) , and the pyrenoid in chloroplasts of green algae (Gibbs, 1962) .
Kona coffee cherries were demucilaged by either mechanical, enzymic or chemical methods, by the action of bacterial pure cultures, or by natural fermentation. Thirteen volatile components were detected by gas chromatography in all samples of green coffee tested, and these included methanethiol, acetaldehyde, dimethyl sulphide, propionaldehyde, acetone, isobutyraldehyde, butyraldehyde, ethanol, and isovaleraldehyde. Probably, methanol and/or methyl ethyl ketone also were present among the volatile components detected. ::: ::: ::: ::: The relative concentrations of several volatile components did not vary appreciably among the different lots of coffee demucilaged experimentally. However, acetaldehyde concentration increased as the duration of natural fermentation was prolonged, being markedly higher in grossly over-fermented (spoiled) coffee beans. ::: ::: ::: ::: All samples of coffee demucilaged experimentally had similar cup-testing quality (Kona grade No. 1), indicating that none of the demucilaging methods enhanced or diminished coffee flavour or aroma. Over-fermented beans, however, were poor in cup-testing quality.
There is a growing interest in the use of collagen matrices for tissue engineering. To prevent rapid degradation and to improve their mechanical properties, collagen matrices have been modified using different crosslinking agents. Among the different agents used, water soluble carbodiimides (such as N′-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N-ethylcarbodiimide, EDC) in combination with N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) are attractive systems, because no additional chemical entities are incorporated in the matrix. EDC/NHS crosslinking leads to amide bond formation between activated carboxyl groups and amine groups. Recently, we proposed that in addition to amide bond formation, ester links are also formed between activated carboxyl groups and hydroxyl groups. This was based on observations we made after development of a new method to quantify concentrations of carboxyl groups of collagen materials before and after crosslinking. The current study is directed to the influence of ester bond crosslinks formed after crosslinking of collagen with EDC/NHS on its physical–chemical and biomechanical properties. Reconstituted dermal bovine collagen patches (RDBC) were used as model material and were crosslinked with EDC/NHS. In one RDBC group, collagen amine groups were blocked with propionaldehyde prior to crosslinking, while in the other group unprocessed RDBC was crosslinked without additional matrix modifications. It was shown that after activation of collagen carboxyl groups with EDC and NHS, amide crosslinks as well as ester crosslinks with collagen hydroxyl groups were formed. It was furthermore demonstrated that the ester crosslinks of EDC/NHS-crosslinked RDBC could be removed by mild hydrolysis affording collagen matrices with improved mechanical properties. © 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biomed Mater Res, 2008
Abstract Aliphatic aldehydes undergo an electrocatalytic oxidation at a platinum-palladium (Pt-Pd) alloy coated glassy carbon electrode. The alloy modification offers a highly sensitive and stable, constant (+0.35 V) potential detection of simple aldehydes. The drastically enhanced catalytic response of the alloy deposit, compared to the single component metals, is attributed to synergistic effect associated with changes in the adsorption features of the surface. The influence of the alloy deposition conditions upon the amperometric response is assessed. Scanning electron microscopy, energy dispersive X-ray analysis and elemental distribution mapping offer useful insights into the microstructure and composition of the alloy deposit. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were detected in flow-injection analysis at levels as low as 0.9, 6.4 and 6.5 ng (30, 160 and 120 pmol), respectively. Such operation offers lower operating potentials and detection limits compared to the recently developed mixed-valent ruthenium coated detector for aldehydes [2].
Abstract Mononuclear compounds [Ni(BQCNMe2)(H2O)2](ClO4)2 1 and [Ni(BQCNH2)(H2O)2](ClO4)2 2 of N,N′-dimethyl-N,N′-di(quinolin-8-yl)cyclohexane-1,2-diamine (BQCNMe2) and N,N′-di(quinolin-8-yl)cyclohexane-1,2-diamine (BQCNH2) were synthesised and characterized by elemental analysis, IR/UV-Vis spectroscopy, cyclic voltammetry (CV)/differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) and X-ray powder pattern. [Ni(BQCNMe2)(en)](ClO4)2 3 and [Ni(BQCNMe2)(phen)](ClO4)2 4 were prepared by reacting 1 with ethylenediamine (en) and 1,10-phenanthroline (phen) respectively while [Ni(BQCNH2)(en)](ClO4)2 5 and [Ni(BQCNH2)(phen)](ClO4)2 6 were obtained from the reaction of 2. Compounds [Ni(BQENMe2)(en)](ClO4)2 7 and [Ni(BQENH2)(en)](ClO4)2.CH3CN 8 (BQENMe2 is N,N′-dimethyl-N,N′-bis(8-quinolyl)ethane-1,2-diamine) and BQENH2 is N,N′-bis(8-quinolyl)ethane-1,2-diamine) were synthesised similarly. Compounds 6 and 8 were characterized by single crystal X-ray diffractometry and their structural features are presented. The reactivity of 2 with H2O2/base was investigated. A new peak at 570 nm in the UV-Vis spectrum corresponding to 2a was obtained which on addition of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (2-PPA) decays giving pseudo-first order rate constant of 9.2 × 10−3 s−1 and acetophenone as a major product. The catalytic hydroxylation of cumene and ethylbenzene by 1 and 2 in the presence of meta-chloroperbenzoic acid (m-CPBA) was investigated.
The optimization of the oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde to methyl propionate using a supported palladium catalyst in methanol under heavy-metal-free and pressurized-oxygen conditions, which we recently reported in a previous paper, were carried out together with a study of the reaction route, the nature of the catalytic active sites, and the effect of the support. In our previous paper, we reported significantly improved activity for oxidative esterification using commercially available 5%Pd/Al2O3 at 1.5 MPa of O2 gas and 333 K and emphasized that the doping of 5%Pd/Al2O3 with lead was not needed for the reaction system, but we could not improve the activity that was reported when using 5%Pd/γ-Al2O3 doped with 5% Pb (a 93.2% conversion of propionaldehyde, 76.8% selectivity for methyl propionate and a 71.6% yield of methyl propionate) at 0.3 MPa of O2 gas and 353 K, as reported by another laboratory. In the present study, however, we exceeded those values and obtained a 98.3% conversion of propionaldehyde, 75.3% selectivity for methyl propionate and a 74.0% yield of methyl propionate using 5%Pd/γ-Al2O3 undoped with Pb at 1.5 MPa of O2 gas and 333 K. It should be noted that, in the preparation of the present 5%Pd/γ-Al2O3, Pd was doped onto Al2O3 that had been previously treated with aqueous NaOH. Another active alumina support,η-Al2O3, prepared from boehmite, afforded activity that was substantially lower than that of γ-Al2O3 and depended on the calcination temperature of boehmite to η-Al2O3. When using various concentrations of CH3OH in the aqueous reaction solution, the oxidative esterification proceeded through the formation of propionic acid. To determine why the Al2O3 support afforded better activity than the active carbon support, Pd/Al2O3 and Pd/C catalysts were examined by XAFS (X-ray absorption fine structure). XAFS revealed that Pd on Al2O3 shows a better redox nature than Pd on C, which resulted in activity on Pd/Al2O3 that was better than that on Pd/C.
The rhombohedral-like CuFeO2 crystals are synthesized via a facile hydrothermal route by using propionaldehyde as a reducing agent. The obtained CuFeO2 crystals show promising efficiency in the inactivation of bacteriophage Qβ.
The lithium enolate (1) of benzyl β-phenyldimethylsilylbutanoate reacts with β-phenyldimethylsilylpropionaldehyde (2) to give, with high diastereoselectivity, the aldol product (3), which is converted into the β-lactam (7), a known precursor of thienamycin.
In this work, Lactobacillus reuteri has been metabolically engineered for improving 1, 3-propanediol (1, 3-PD) production by the expression of an Escherichia coli alcohol dehydrogenase, yqhD, that is known to efficiently convert the precursor 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 1, 3-PD. The engineered strain exhibited significantly altered formation rates for the product and other metabolites during the fermentation. An increase in the 1, 3-PD specific productivity of 34% and molar yield by 13% was achieved in the clone, relative to the native strain. A concomitant decrease in the levels of toxic intermediate, 3-HPA, was observed, with the specific productivity levels being 25% lesser than that of the native strain. Interestingly, the recombinant strain exhibited elevated rates of lactate and ethanol formation as well as reduced rate of acetate production, compared to the native strain. The preferential utilization of NADPH by YqhD with a possible decrease in the native 1, 3-PD oxidoreductase (NADH-dependent) activity, could have resulted in the diversion of surplus NADH towards increased lactate and ethanol productivities.
Department of Agricultural Chemistry, Faculty of Agriculture, Niigata University It is possible to extract flavor component from rice cake by hot water. The water extracts of flavor from rice cake contained hydrogen sulfide, ammonia, carbon dioxide and some carbonyl compounds. The components responsible for the flavor were not a single compound but consisted of these compounds, such as hydrogen sulfide, ammonia, carbon dioxide and some carbonyl compounds. An aqueous solution of the mixture containing these compounds developed organoleptically the typical flavor of rice cake. As carbonyl compounds, acetaldehyde, isobutylaldehyde and propionaldehyde were isolated and identified. Two other carbonyl compounds were assumed to be 3-methylbutylaldehyde and n-capronaldehyde. Contents of phenylhydrazones of carbonyl compounds were determined by Chromscan: acetaldehyde 38.3%, isobutylaldehyde 24.1%, propionaldehyde 7.2%, a compound (tentatively assigned as 3-methylbutylaldehyde) 14.1%, a compound (tentatively assigned as n-capronaldehyde) 5.0%.
The contents of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, methyl acrolein, 2-butanone, butyraldehyde, benzaldehyde, valeraldehyde, hexanal in mainstream smoke of 32 cigarette samples were determined by way of derivation with 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2, 4-DNPH) and analysis with LC-MS/MS. The recoveries of aldehydes and ketones were in the range of 91.6% to 100.3% with the relative standard deviations of 3.28% to 7.86% and the limits of detection of 0.1 to 0.5 ng/mL. The major volatile aldehydes and ketones in mainstream smoke of samples were acetaldehyde and acetone, while the contents of benzaldehyde and hexanal were lower. The contents of volatile aldehydes and ketones in domestic Virginia cigarette smoke were higher than those in imported cigarettes, while those in blended cigarette smoke were contrary. Higher tar delivery always means higher volatile aldehydes and ketones contents regardless of cigarette type.
Abstract 3-Aryl quinolines are readily synthesized by a novel Friedlander-type reaction with 3-oxo-2,3-diaryl-propionaldehydes and 2-amino arylaldehydes. A preliminary mechanism of this novel one pot, two-step synthesis has been explored with the proofs of isolation of the enaminone intermediate and the eliminated benzoic acid in this reaction.
The kinetics and mechanism of the reactions of Cl atoms and OH radicals with CH3CH2CHO were investigated at room temperature using two complementary techniques: flash photolysis/UV absorption and continuous photolysis/FTIR smog chamber. Reaction with Cl atoms proceeds predominantly by abstraction of the aldehydic hydrogen atom to form acyl radicals. FTIR measurements indicated that the acyl forming channel accounts for (88 +/- 5)%, while UV measurements indicated that the acyl forming channel accounts for (88 +/- 3)%. Relative rate methods were used to measure: k(Cl + CH3CH2CHO) = (1.20 +/- 0.23) x 10(-10); k(OH + CH3CH2CHO) = (1.82 +/- 0.23) x 10(-11); and k(Cl + CH3CH2C(O)Cl) = (1.64 +/- 0.22) x 10(-12) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1). The UV spectrum of CH3CH2C(O)O2, rate constant for self-reaction, and rate constant for cross-reaction with CH3CH2O2 were determined: sigma(207 nm) = (6.71 +/- 0.19) x 10(-18) cm2 molecule(-1), k(CH3CH2C(O)O2 + CH3CH2C(O)O2) = (1.68 +/- 0.08) x 10(-11), and k(CH3CH2C(O)O2 + CH3CH2O2) = (1.20 +/- 0.06) x 10(-11) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1), where quoted uncertainties only represent 2sigma statistical errors. The infrared spectrum of C2H5C(O)O2NO2 was recorded, and products of the Cl-initiated oxidation of CH3CH2CHO in the presence of O2 with, and without, NO(x) were identified. Results are discussed with respect to the atmospheric chemistry of propionaldehyde.
Both (R)-2-aminopropanol and (S)-2-aminopropanol are substrates for ethanolamine ammonia-lyase, reacting to yield propionaldehyde and ammonia via a common enzyme-bound intermediate. (S)-Propanolamine shows a lower Km and a higher Vmax than the R enantiomer, indicating that the former is a substantially better substrate than the latter. From the isotope effects and other considerations, it appears that the rate-limiting step for (S)-propanolamine is the same as that for ethanolamine, namely, the transfer of hydrogen from the cofactor to the product. In contrast, isotope effects seen with (R)-propanolamine indicate that there are two rate-limiting steps, both located in the segment of the reaction mechanism which is unique to the R enantiomer. One of these is the transfer of hydrogen from the substrate to the cofactor. The other is a subsequent step whose rate is similar to that of the first hydrogen transfer step but which does not involve the rupture of a carbon-hydrogen bond. It is speculated that this second rate-limiting step may have to do with the migration of the amino group.
Further investigation on an anionic polymerization of β-cyanopropionaldehyde was made with use of polystyryl—disodium, naphthalene—sodium, and tetraphenylethylenedisodium complexes as initiators. Styrene—β-cyanopropionaldehyde block copolymer was separated from the gross polymer obtained by the polymerization of β-cyanopropionaldehyde with polystyryl—sodium. The polymerization initiated by naphthalene—sodium and tetraphenylethylene—disodium complexes resulted in the formation of an aldol condensation-type product having a low molecular weight. It was found that initiators of weaker basicity may start the carbonyl polymerization, whereas those of stronger basicity cause the aldol condensation of β-cyanopropionaldehyde through the withdrawal of proton from the monomer.
[72507-50-7] C9H20O2Si (MW 188.38) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C9H20O2Si/c1-7-8(10)9(2,3)11-12(4,5)6/h7H2,1-6H3 ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = BLYRAXGLJVABLF-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (lithium enolate used in the synthesis of syn-β-hydroxy acids, aldehydes, and ketones) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: bp 71–75 °C/15 mmHg. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Methods: prepared in four steps from propionaldehyde in 14–33% overall yield;2 in three steps from Acetone Cyanohydrin in 40% overall yield;3 and in two steps from 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-2-butanone in 55% overall yield.4 ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: use in a fume hood.
Abstract An efficient method to prepare 3-substituted propionaldehyde derivatives using a Suzuki–Miyaura coupling is reported. The reaction has been demonstrated on a range of substrates including several where the Heck reaction with allyl alcohol failed to give the desired aldehyde product.
Abstract In situ infrared (IR) spectroscopy coupled with dynamic and steady-state isotopic transient kinetic analysis permits observation of the transient response (i.e., dynamics) of IR-observable adsorbates as well as gaseous reactants and products. This technique was used to examine the reaction pathway, reactivity of adsorbates, and nature of sites for the CO/H2/C2H4 reaction on Mn Rh/SiO2. Dynamic infrared study reveals that Rh0 sites which chemisorb linear CO actively catalyze CO insertion, a key step for the formation of propionaldehyde from the CO/H2/C2H4 reaction. Tilted CO on Mn Rh/SiO2 is not active for the reaction, demonstrating a lack of connection in reactivity between the low wavenumber CO on metal surfaces and in metal complexes. Steady-state isotopic transient IR studies by pulse injection of D2 and13CO produce transient responses which carry mechanistic information for elucidation of catalysis of the CO/H2/C2H4 reaction. The broad response of D-containing propionaldehyde reveals that multiple pathways for hydrogenation take place simultaneously with a wide distribution of the reactivity of adsorbed deuterium or hydrogen; the sharp response of C2H513CHO unravels the narrow distribution of reactivity of adsorbed CO for CO insertion.
Cyclopropylamines inactivate cytochrome P450 enzymes which catalyze their oxidative N-dealkylation. A key intermediate in both processes is postulated to be a highly reactive aminium cation radical formed by single electron transfer (SET) oxidation of the nitrogen center, but direct evidence for this has remained elusive. To address this deficiency and identify the fate of the cyclopropyl group lost upon N-dealkylation, we have investigated the oxidation of N-cyclopropyl-N-methylaniline (3) by horseradish peroxidase, a well-known SET enzyme. For comparison, similar studies were carried out in parallel with N-isopropyl-N-methylaniline (9) and N,N-dimethylaniline (8). Under standard peroxidatic conditions (HRP, H(2)O(2), air), HRP oxidizes 8 completely to N-methylaniline (4) plus formaldehyde within 15-30 min, whereas 9 is oxidized more slowly (<10% in 60 min) to produce only N-isopropylaniline (10) and formaldehyde (acetone and 4 are not formed). In contrast to results with 9, oxidation of 3 is complete in <60 min and affords 4 (20% yield) plus traces of aniline. By using [1'-(14)C]-3, [1'-(13)C]-3, and [2',3'-(13)C]-3 as substrates, radiochemical and NMR analyses of incubation mixtures revealed that the complete oxidation of 3 by HRP yields 4 (0.2 mol), beta-hydroxypropionic acid (17, 0.2 mol), and N-methylquinolinium (16, 0.8 mol). In buffer purged with pure O(2), the complete oxidation of 3 yields 4 (0.7 mol), 17 (0.7 mol), and 16 (0.3 mol), while under anaerobic conditions, 16 is formed quantitatively from 3. These results indicate that the aminium ion formed by SET oxidation of 3 undergoes cyclopropyl ring fragmentation exclusively to generate a distonic cation radical (14+*) which then partitions between unimolecular cyclization (leading, after further oxidation, to 16) and bimolecular reaction with dissolved oxygen (leading to 4 and 17 in a 1:1 ratio). Neither beta-hydroxypropionaldehyde, acrolein, nor cyclopropanone hydrate are formed as SET metabolites of 3. The synthetic and analytical methods developed in the course of these studies should facilitate the application of cyclopropylamine-containing probes to reactions catalyzed by cytochrome P450 enzymes.
Aldehydes in the vapor phase of cigarette smoke are of considerable interest in terms of tissue irritation, ciliatoxicity, and other effects. This study deals with the handling by the canine respiratory tract of formaldehyde, acrolein, and propionaldehyde, which are present in the gas phase in relatively high concentrations. Specific aims included measurement of retention of each compound by the entire respiratory tract and by upper and lower portions under varying conditions of ventilatory rate, tidal volume, and concentration inhaled. Uptake of formaldehyde was always close to 100% regardless of any other factor. The total-tract retention of propionaldehyde and acrolein was much lower and of similar magnitude. In terms of regional uptake, retention of propionaldehyde was greater than that of acrolein in the lower tract and less than that of acrolein in the upper tract.
A multi-channel surface acoustic wave (SAW) detection system which is employed to detect various organic molecules in a static system was prepared using 315 MHz one-port quartz resonators and a home-made computer interface for signal acquisition and data process. The oscillating frequency of the quartz crystal decreases on adsorption of organic molecules on the coating materials. The principal component analysis (PCA) method with SAS software was applied to select the appropriate coating materials onto the SAW crystals for organic vapors, e.g. hexane, 1-hexene, 1-hexyne, 1-propanol, propionaldehyde, propionic acid, and 1-propylamine. A dataset for a multi-channel sensor with 19 SAW crystals for 7 analyses was collected after comparing the correlation between the 19 coating materials and the first six principal component (PC) factor. Furthermore, linear discriminate analysis (LDA) with SPSS software and a profile discrimination map were also applied and discussed for the discrimination of these organic vapors. These organic molecules could be clearly distinguished by the six-channel SAW static sensor. The effect of concentration for various organic vapors was investigated and discussed.
Aldehyde dehydrogenases are isolated as dimers or tetramers but have essentially identical structures. The homotetramer (ALDH1 or ALDH2) is a dimer of dimers (A−B + C−D). In the tetrameric enzyme, Ser500 from subunit “D” interacts with Arg84, a conserved residue, from subunit “A”. In the dimeric ALDH3 form, the interaction cannot exist. It has been proposed that the formation of the tetramer is prevented by the presence of a C-terminal tail in ALDH3 that is not present in ALDH1 or 2. To understand the forces that maintain the tetramer, deletion of the tail in ALDH3, addition of different tails in ALDH1, and mutations of different residues located in the dimer−dimer interface were made. Gel filtration of the recombinantly expressed enzymes demonstrated that no change in their oligomerization occurred. Urea denaturation showed a diminution to the stability of the ALDH1 mutants. The Km for propionaldehyde was similar to that of the wild-type enzyme, but the Km for NAD was altered. A double mutant of D80G and...
The proclivity of α-branched N-2′-benzyl-3′-phenylpropionyl derivatives of (S)-4-benzyl-5,5-dimethyl-, (S)-4-phenyl-5,5-dimethyl-, (S)-4-isopropyl-5,5-dimethyl-, (S)-4-benzyl- and (S)-4-benzyl-5,5-diphenyl-oxazolidin-2-ones to generate directly 2-benzyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde upon hydride reduction with DIBAL is investigated. The (S)-4-benzyl-5,5-dimethyl-derivative proved optimal for inhibition of endocyclic nucleophilic attack, giving 2-benzyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde in good yield upon reduction. Application of this methodology for the asymmetric synthesis of chiral aldehydes via diastereoselective enolate alkylation of a range of (S)-N-acyl-4-benzyl-5,5-dimethyloxazolidin-2-ones to afford an array of α-substituted-N-acyl-5,5-dimethyloxazolidin-2-ones (85–94% de) and subsequent reduction with DIBAL afforded directly non-racemic α-substituted aldehydes without loss of stereochemical integrity (87–94% ee). The extension of this protocol for the asymmetric synthesis of β-substituted aldehydes is demonstrated, via the diastereoselective conjugate addition of a range of organocuprates to (S)-N-acyl-4-phenyl-5,5-dimethyloxazolidin-2-ones which proceeds with high diastereoselectivity (generally >95% de). Reduction of the conjugate addition products with DIBAL gives non-racemic β-substituted aldehydes in high yields and in high ee (generally >95% ee). This methodology is exemplified by the asymmetric synthesis of (R)-3-isopropenylhept-6-enal, which has previously been used in the synthesis of (3Z,6R)-3-methyl-6-isopropenyl-3,9-decadien-1-yl acetate, a component of the sex pheromones of the California red scale.
First example of X-ray diffraction analysis of the crystal structure of calix[4]pyrogallolarene is reported. The compound was prepared by acid-catalyzed condensation of pyrogallol with propionaldehyde in a water-alcohol medium, and it gave rise to a system of “host-guest” type. Calixarene molecules in a cone conformation are packed in molecular layers; therewith each “host” molecule contains an ethanol molecule in the cavity. Hydroxy groups, ethanol and water molecules form a hydrophilic layer between two layers; as a result arises an endless bilayer structure.
A chemoselective hydrazine (N−N) cleavage methodology that preserves the integrity of alkenes was developed based on a mild acid-promoted fragmentation of tetrasubstituted 1-(trimethylsilylmethyl)-1-benzylhydrazines. This strategy was applied to a concise asymmetric synthesis of (−)-methyl palustramate (4), which featured a convergent stereo- and regioselective sequential three-component aza[4+2]cycloaddition/allylboration/retro-sulfinyl-ene rearrangement between diene 1f, dienophile 2b, and propionaldehyde to afford cis-2-carboxy-6-hydroxyalkylpiperidine 25. The acid-promoted hydrazinolysis of 25 cleanly afforded key intermediate 31, and the latter led to target 4 in four steps after a series of functional group transformations.
Pseudomonas sp. strain KIE171 was able to grow with isopropylamine or l-alaninol [S-(+)-2-amino-1-propanol] as the sole carbon source, but not with d-alaninol. To investigate the hypothesis that l-alaninol is an intermediate in the degradation of isopropylamine, two mini-Tn5 mutants unable to utilize both isopropylamine and l-alaninol were isolated. Whereas mutant KIE171-BI transformed isopropylamine to l-alaninol, mutant KIE171-BII failed to do so. The two genes containing a transposon insertion were cloned, and the DNA regions flanking the insertions were sequenced. Two clusters, one comprising eight ipu (isopropylamine utilization) genes (ipuABCDEFGH) and the other encompassing two genes (ipuI and orf259), were identified. Comparisons of sequences of the deduced Ipu proteins and those in the database suggested that isopropylamine is transported into the cytoplasm by a putative permease, IpuG. The next step, the formation of γ-glutamyl-isopropylamide from isopropylamine, ATP, and l-glutamate, was shown to be catalyzed by IpuC, a γ-glutamylamide synthetase. γ-Glutamyl-isopropylamide is then subjected to stereospecific monooxygenation by the hypothetical four-component system IpuABDE, thereby yielding γ-glutamyl-l-alaninol [γ(l-glutamyl)-l-hydroxy-isopropylamide]. Enzymatic hydrolysis by a hydrolase, IpuF, was shown to finally liberate l-alaninol and to regenerate l-glutamate. No gene(s) encoding an enzyme for the next step in the degradation of isopropylamine was found in the ipu clusters. Presumably, l-alaninol is oxidized by an alcohol dehydrogenase to yield l-2-aminopropionaldehyde or it is deaminated by an ammonia lyase to propionaldehyde. Genetic evidence indicated that the aldehyde formed is then further oxidized by the hypothetical aldehyde dehydrogenases IpuI and IpuH to either l-alanine or propionic acid, compounds which can be processed by reactions of the intermediary metabolism.
Abstract A set of racemic cyclic and linear ketones, as well as 2-phenylpropionaldehyde, were tested as substrates in the enzymatic Baeyer–Villiger oxidation catalyzed by two Baeyer–Villiger monooxygenases: phenylacetone monooxygenase (PAMO) and 4-hydroxyacetophenone monooxygenase (HAPMO). Excellent enantioselectivites ( E > 200) can be obtained in the kinetic resolution processes depending on the substrate structure and the reaction conditions. The parameters affecting the biocatalytic properties of these enzymes were also studied, in order to establish a deeper understanding of these novel biocatalysts.
Abstract A short and high yielding enantioselective synthesis of (−)-bestatin, a naturally occurring aminopeptidase inhibitor, is described via l -proline-catalyzed asymmetric α-amination of 3-phenylpropionaldehyde as the key reaction. The methodology also involves a Pd-catalyzed intramolecular cyclization of an allylic acetate giving a trans -oxazoline in a highly diastereoselective manner (dr > 14:1).
The present invention, (a) the glycerol from an aqueous solution of glycerol in the presence of an acidic catalyst process for dehydration to acrolein; purified aqueous flux from (b) step (a), the at least 15% by weight with respect to acrolein obtained in step (d) (c); obtaining a flux acrolein containing water; (c) step process to produce a reaction between acrolein flux and methyl mercaptan obtained in (b) in the presence of a catalyst comprising the step of optionally purifying the product at least relates to a method of manufacturing a methylmercapto-propionaldehyde (MMP). The method of the present invention, step (c) or (d) the product obtained in the reaction in step (e) with hydrocyanic acid or sodium cyanide, followed by for to produce methionine or methionine hydroxy analog it may also subsequent conversion including, methionine or methionine hydroxy analogue can then be optionally purified. As a raw material in the process of the present invention, use of additional methyl mercaptan and / or hydrocyanic acid derived from biomass, MMP composed of organic carbon of 100% from renewable resources, enables the acquisition of methionine or methionine hydroxy analog to.
Three allylic type alcohols were rearranged in sulfuric acid (l, 10 and 50$) at 25 and 100C and their products identified. Specifically, 2-phenyl-lpropen-3-ol, 2-methyl-l-phenyl-l-propen-3-ol and 2methyl-3-phenyl-l-propen-3-ol were studied. 2-Phenyl-l-propen-3-ol was found to rearrange to 2-phenylpropionaldehyde while 2 -methyl -1 -phenyl l-propen-3-ol formed 2-methyl-2-phenylpropanal, isobutyrophenone and 2-methyl-3-phenyl-l-propen-3-ol. The final rearrangement of the 2-methyl-3-phenyl-lpropen-3-ol allylic alcohol produced 2-methyl-2-phenylpropanal* Isobutyrophenone, 2-methyl-l-phenyll-propen-3-ol and 2-(2-phenylisopropyl)-4-phenyl-5methyl-1 ,3-dioxane . TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE I . INTRODUCTION A. Definition of Allylic Alcohols 1 B. Preparation of Allylic Alcohols 1 C. Rearrangement of Allylic Alcohols 3 D. Pinacol Pinacolone Rearrangement 4 E. Oxotropic Rearrangements 7 F. Current Investigation 11 II . EXPERIMENTAL A. General Information 18 B. Synthesis and Characterization of Alcohols 22 C. Rearrangements 25 III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION A. 2-Phenyl-l-Propen-3-ol , 33 B. 2-Methyl-l-Phenyl-l-Propen-3-ol 35 C. 2-Methyl-3-Phenyl-l-Propen-3-ol 38
The optimization of the oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde to methyl propionate using a supported palladium catalyst in methanol under heavy-metal-free and pressurized-oxygen conditions, which we recently reported in a previous paper, were carried out together with a study of the reaction route, the nature of the catalytic active sites, and the effect of the support. In our previous paper, we reported significantly improved activity for oxidative esterification using commercially available 5%Pd/Al 2 O 3 at 1.5 MPa of O 2 gas and 333 K and emphasized that the doping of 5%Pd/Al 2 O 3 with lead was not needed for the reaction system, but we could not improve the activity that was reported when using 5%Pd/-Al 2 O 3 doped with 5% Pb (a 93.2% conversion of propionaldehyde, 76.8% selectivity for methyl propionate and a 71.6% yield of methyl propionate) at 0.3 MPa of O 2 gas and 353 K, as reported by another laboratory. In the present study, however, we exceeded those values and obtained a 98.3% conversion of propionaldehyde, 75.3% selectivity for methyl propionate and a 74.0% yield of methyl propionate using 5%Pd/-Al 2 O 3 undoped with Pb at 1.5 MPa of O 2 gas and 333 K. It should be noted that, in the preparation of the present 5%Pd/-Al 2 O 3 , Pd was doped onto Al 2 O 3 that had been previously treated with aqueous NaOH. Another active alumina support,-Al 2 O 3 , prepared from boehmite, afforded activity that was substantially lower than that of -Al 2 O 3 and depended on the calcination temperature of boehmite to -Al 2 O 3 . When using various concentrations of CH 3 OH in the aqueous reaction solution, the oxidative esterification proceeded through the formation of propionic acid. To determine why the Al 2 O 3 support afforded better activity than the active carbon support, Pd/Al 2 O 3 and Pd/C catalysts were examined by XAFS (X-ray absorption fine structure). XAFS revealed that Pd on Al 2 O 3 shows a better redox nature than Pd on C, which resulted in activity on Pd/Al 2 O 3 that was better than that on Pd/C.
A combination of noble metals and heavy metals is sometimes used as a catalyst. With these combined systems, two effects are tentatively expected: the first is the preparation of a new catalytic site, and the second is the enhancement of activity that reduces the amount of the noble metal. For the first effect, the combination of noble metal and a heavy metal is undoubtedly needed. However, for the second effect, the combination may not always be needed, because the combination of a noble catalyst together with the reactor or with various reaction conditions, may compensate the activity of the combined catalysts. Since green chemistry demands a clean process when using a heavy-metal-free catalyst, we recently focused on the second effect. The first example from our group was the oxidative dehydrogenation of lactic acid to pyruvic acid in an aqueous phase. It was first reported that Pd/C doped with Pb and Te for the reaction was one of the best catalysts under atmospheric pressure (Tsujino et al., 1992; Hayashi et al., 1993 Hayashi et al., , 1994 . However, the use of pressurized oxygen resulted in great activity for a reaction using heavy-metal-free Pd/C, indicating that doping by a heavy metal is unnecessary for the reaction (Sugiyama et al., 2009 (Sugiyama et al., , 2010 . A subsequent example was the liquid-phase oxidation of propylene glycol in the presence of NaOH to pyruvic acid. At first, it had been reported that Pd/C showed activity for the production of pyruvic acid through hydroxyl acetone, while Pd/C doped with heavy metals has shown activity for the production of pyruvic acid through lactic acid under atmospheric pressure (Tsujino et al., 1992) . However, a recent study under pressurized oxygen revealed that the catalytic activity is not dependent on doping with heavy metals, but is instead dependent on the molar ratio of the NaOH that is added to the reaction solution against propylene glycol, again indicating that the doping of Pd/C with heavy metals is unnecessary under pressurized oxygen (Sugiyama et al., 2013) . A third example was the direct oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde to methyl propionate using Pd/Al 2 O 3 in a methanol solution. For the present study, Diao et al. (2009) (Sugiyama et al., 2011) .
Methyl propionate (MP) is an important intermediate for the production of methyl methacrylate (MMA) (Figure 1 ) (Albanesi and Moggi, 1983; Jackson, 2002; So, 2010) , which is used as a main raw ingredient for the production of acrylic resin. However, in our previous paper on the direct oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde (PA) to MP using Pd/Al 2 O 3 in a liquid phase under pressurized oxygen, we did not present the reaction data that exceeded that using Pd/Al 2 O 3 doped with Pb. That paper also did not provide information on the nature of Pd together with the reaction route. Therefore, in the present study, the direct oxidative esterification of PA to MP using Pd/Al 2 O 3 in a liquid phase under pressurized oxygen was examined in detail.
In this work, Lactobacillus reuteri has been metabolically engineered for improving 1, 3-propanediol (1, 3-PD) production by the expression of an Escherichia coli alcohol dehydrogenase, yqhD, that is known to efficiently convert the precursor 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 1, 3-PD. The engineered strain exhibited significantly altered formation rates for the product and other metabolites during the fermentation. An increase in the 1, 3-PD specific productivity of 34% and molar yield by 13% was achieved in the clone, relative to the native strain. A concomitant decrease in the levels of toxic intermediate, 3-HPA, was observed, with the specific productivity levels being 25% lesser than that of the native strain. Interestingly, the recombinant strain exhibited elevated rates of lactate and ethanol formation as well as reduced rate of acetate production, compared to the native strain. The preferential utilization of NADPH by YqhD with a possible decrease in the native 1, 3-PD oxidoreductase (NADHdependent) activity, could have resulted in the diversion of surplus NADH towards increased lactate and ethanol productivities.
Lactobacillus reuteri converts glycerol to 1, 3-PD in a two-step anaerobic process (Figure 1 ). In the first step, a cobalamin-dependent glycerol dehydratase catalyzes the conversion of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). In the second step, 3-HPA is reduced to 1, 3-PD by a NADH-dependent oxidoreductase (Talarico et al. 1990 ). 1, 3-PD productivity of around 10-30 g/l has been achieved so far in native L. reuteri (Baeza-Jimenez et al. 2011; Tobajas et al. 2009 ).
In this work, we have expressed an E. coli alcohol dehydrogenase, yqhD, in L. reuteri, to increase 1, 3-PD productivity by improved conversion of 3-HPA. Further, the impact of the heterologously expressed yqhD on cell growth, 1, 3-PD production and byproduct formation has been analyzed. Figure 1 Pathways of glucose and glycerol metabolism in L. reuteri. Abbreviations: G6P glucose-6-phosphate, 6PG 6-phosphogluconate, R5P ribulose-5-phosphate, X5P xylulose-5-phosphate, AcP acetyl phosphate, AcCoA acetyl-CoA, F6P fructose-6-phosphate, FBP, fructose-1, 6bisphosphate, DHAP dihydroxyacetone phosphate, GAP glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate, Pyr pyruvate, G3P glycerol-3-phosphate, 3-HPA 3hydroxypropionaldehyde, GDHt glycerol dehydratase, 1, 3-PDOR 1, 3-propanediol oxidoreductase in L. reuteri, YqhD E. coli alcohol dehydrogenase.
Bacterial microcompartments (BMCs) are natural proteinaceous cell organelles that encapsulate functionally relevant enzymes to execute designated steps of biological pathways [1] [2] [3] [4] . BMCs serve as a vesicular scaffold for the co-localization and physical separation of pathway enzymes from the rest of the cytosolic contents. The benefits and the biological significances of BMCs are often inferred from the functions of the encapsulated cargos. The most well studied BMCs include carboxysomes that participate in CO 2 fixations in phototrophic and some chemoautotrophic bacteria [5] [6] [7] and metabolosomes, such as Pdu and Eut BMCs that harbor the 1,2-propanediol and ethanolamine degradation pathways in Salmonella enterica 8, 9 . Carboxysome plays a major role in the CO 2 -concentrating mechanism (CCM) through its selectively permeable protein shell to enhance the lumen concentration of CO 2 , which is produced by the encapsulated carbonic anhydrase (CA) and further serves as the substrate of the co-localized ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) 10, 11 . The local environment with elevated CO 2 level accelerates the overall rate of CO 2 fixation by benefitting bacterial RuBisCOs, which generally have higher k cat and K m values than plant enzymes 12 . In addition to providing kinetic advantages, the protein shells of metabolosome-type of BMCs are considered as the major barrier to limit the free diffusion of cytotoxic pathway intermediates, such as propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde, to the cytosol and therefore ensure the fitness of cells.
Pseudomonas sp. strain KIE171 was able to grow with isopropylamine or L-alaninol [S-(؉)-2-amino-1propanol] as the sole carbon source, but not with D-alaninol. To investigate the hypothesis that L-alaninol is an intermediate in the degradation of isopropylamine, two mini-Tn5 mutants unable to utilize both isopropylamine and L-alaninol were isolated. Whereas mutant KIE171-BI transformed isopropylamine to L-alaninol, mutant KIE171-BII failed to do so. The two genes containing a transposon insertion were cloned, and the DNA regions flanking the insertions were sequenced. Two clusters, one comprising eight ipu (isopropylamine utilization) genes (ipuABCDEFGH) and the other encompassing two genes (ipuI and orf259), were identified. Comparisons of sequences of the deduced Ipu proteins and those in the database suggested that isopropylamine is transported into the cytoplasm by a putative permease, IpuG. The next step, the formation of ␥-glutamyl-isopropylamide from isopropylamine, ATP, and L-glutamate, was shown to be catalyzed by IpuC, a ␥-glutamylamide synthetase. ␥-Glutamyl-isopropylamide is then subjected to stereospecific monooxygenation by the hypothetical four-component system IpuABDE, thereby yielding ␥-glutamyl-L-alaninol [␥(L-glutamyl)-L-hydroxy-isopropylamide]. Enzymatic hydrolysis by a hydrolase, IpuF, was shown to finally liberate L-alaninol and to regenerate L-glutamate. No gene(s) encoding an enzyme for the next step in the degradation of isopropylamine was found in the ipu clusters. Presumably, L-alaninol is oxidized by an alcohol dehydrogenase to yield L-2-aminopropionaldehyde or it is deaminated by an ammonia lyase to propionaldehyde. Genetic evidence indicated that the aldehyde formed is then further oxidized by the hypothetical aldehyde dehydrogenases IpuI and IpuH to either L-alanine or propionic acid, compounds which can be processed by reactions of the intermediary metabolism.
A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method with refractive-index detection has been developed for simultaneous analysis of glycerol, dihydroxyacetone (DHA), 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), and 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD), four key substances in the metabolic pathway for production of 1,3-PD from glycerol by microorganism fermentation. The compounds were separated on a 300 mm × 7.8 mm ion-exclusion column with a 65:35 (v/v) mixture of deionized water and acetonitrile, containing 0.0005 M H2SO4, as mobile phase. The flow rate was 0.5 mL min−1. Under these conditions the retention times of 3-HPA, DHA, glycerol, and 1,3-PD were 6.87, 14.63, 16.37, and 18.50 min, respectively. Relative standard deviations and average recoveries were between 0.42 and 0.63% and between 96.7 and 103.1%, respectively; detection limits were between 0.017 and 0.038 g L−1. The method enabled separation of these compounds.
The reaction of radicals derived from the thermal decomposition of di‐t‐butyl peroxide with propionaldehyde in the gas phase has been studied. The gaseous products were carbon monoxide, methane, ethane, propane, butane, and ethylene. A mechanism to account for the induced chain decomposition and product formation involving H atom abstraction by radicals and radical decomposition, combination and disproportionation is given. The energetics of H atom abstraction by methyl and ethyl were similar and lead to an activation energy of about 7.5 kcal/mole and a steric factor of about 10—3. These values are in good agreement with those found for H atom abstraction from acetaldehyde. Evidence is presented that H atom abstraction takes place with the carbonyl attached H for both acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde.
The hydrogenation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde(3-HPA) to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) on Ni/Al_2O_3 catalyst was studied in a fixed-bed reactor. Under the conditions of 70(°C), 5.0 MPa, LHSV 6.0 h~(-1) and the molar ratio of H_2 to 3-HPA 7.0, the conversion of 3-HPA and the selectivity of 1,3-PDO could be 100% and greater than 99%, respectively.
Using a silanized basic anion exchange resin as a catalyst, 2,2 dimethylolpropionaldehyde was advantageously obtained through the aldol reaction of formaldehyde and propanal in a fixed bed reactor. Then taking hydrogen peroxide as an oxidant, 2,2 dimethylolpropionic acid was effectively prepared with a solid acid catalyst. The experimental results were explained and discussed theoretically.
Allylamine was shown to inhibit flavin-linked monoamine oxidase in a pseudoirreversible manner. The enzyme was irreversibly inhibited with incorporation of radioactivity from [14C]allylamine. Inhibition and incorporation of radioactivity were time-dependent, and the radioactivity and inhibition persisted during dialysis and gel filtration. Enzymatic turnover of allylamine preceded the inactivation step. Reaction of the allylamine-inactivated enzyme with benzylamine resulted in the formation of 3-benzylaminopropionaldehyde. Simultaneously with inactivation, the ultraviolet spectrum of the holoenzyme changed to one indicative of the reduced form of the coenzyme. In the presence of a substrate, benzylamine, the ultraviolet spectrum of the enzyme reverted to normal, the radioactivity was removed, and activity was restored. A mechanism for the inactivation and reactivation by benzylamine is presented.
Seven water-soluble ruthenium complexes (RuCl2L2)2 1, RuHClL3 2, RuH(OAc)L3 3, RuH2L4 4, RuHIL3 5, RuCl2(CO)2L2 6 and [Ru(OAc)(CO)2L]2 7 (LP(C6H4–mSO3Na)3·3H2O) have been tested in the catalytic hydrogenation of propionaldehyde. Their catalytic performances have been compared to those of their organosoluble analogues (1′–7′, LPPh3). The non-carbonylated complexes 1–5 exhibit comparable rates of propionaldehyde hydrogenation in water at 100 °C, as determined by their first-order rate constants. In contrast, the rates observed with 1′–4′ are different from one another and extremely solvent dependent. With 1, the reaction is first order in aldehyde, catast and hydrogen pressure, as is found for the organosoluble complex RuH(CO)Cl(PPh3)3. Starting with 1–4, various equilibria have been observed which lead to the same complex RuH2L3(H2O). These equilibria suggest that the real catalyst precursor in water is RuH2L3. Whatever the precursor (1–5) used, addition of alkaline, alkaline-earth and ammonium salt dramatically increases the activity without any loss of selectivity. The rate equation is drastically modified in the presence of salt. It has been established that the salt acts by both its cation and its anion. For a given anion, the rate increases in the order: NR4+ (REt, n-Bu)<Na+<Li+<K+<Mg2+ <Ca2+. For a given cation, the rate increases in the order: SiF62− <NO3− <Cl− <Br− <I−. In the presence of NaI, the coordination spheres of 2–4 are modified in water and lead to the same complex RuHIL3 5. The role of the cation has been verified by adding to the catalytic solution a specific sodium cryptand, which resulted in a dramatic drop in activity. A mechanism has been proposed which takes into account the kinetic equation as well as the various observations which were made on the different catalyst precursors.
1. ::: ::: The catalytic activity of tricalcium phosphate in the vapor-phase hydration of propylene oxide to propylene glycol was studied. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Calcium phosphate is a stable and selective catalyst for this reaction. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The effect of temperature, contact time, and water excess on the glycol yield was studied. Considerable amounts of glycol were formed under the optimal conditions and the glycol yield reached 50–57% at 232°, for example similar results were obtained in the hydration of ethylene oxide. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: The high specificity of the phosphate catalyst in the hydration of propylene oxide is in accord with the fact that it hardly catalyzes the isomerization of oxide to allyl alcohol and propionaldehyde. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 5. ::: ::: The reaction mechanism is discussed.
The invention relates to a method for refining epoxypropane and is mainly used for solving the problems of high cost of an extraction agent and poor quality of a product caused by introduction of an outside-of-system medium existing in the prior art. The method for refining epoxypropane disclosed by the invention comprises the following steps of: by virtue of an extraction agent, extracting the crude epoxypropane solution obtained by reacting hydrogen peroxide ethylbenzene with propylene and containing epoxypropane, water, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, methanol, acetone and C3-C7 hydrocarbon impurities and distilling. The problem is well solved by the technical scheme that ethylbenzene is adopted as the extraction agent; the method can be used in the industrial production of refining epoxypropane.
In determining the structure of a number of unsaturated compounds by ozonization, considerable difficulty has been experienced in separating small amounts of low molecular weight carbonyl compounds. The most satisfactory method of isolation is through the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrnzones, as these are readily formed and are insoluble in water, but in many cases separation of the derivatives by fractional crystallization is unsatisfactory. ::: ::: Separations of a number of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones by chromatographic adsorption have been reported by Strain, by Lucae, Prater and Morris, and by Buchman, Schlatter, and Reims, but only a few of the aliphatic derivatives have been investigated. In the present work, the adsorption of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine and the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, and methyl ethyl ketone was studied on columns of silicic acid-Super Cel.
The present invention relates to removing aldehyde compound adsorbent, and more particularly to a porous solid phase carrier, the main active component of platinum (Pt), palladium (Pd), silver (Ag) and rhodium (Rh) metal and the auxiliary, such as the compounds such as the active ingredient of KI, KIO 3, NH 4 I, and NH 4 IO 3 is supported at the same time at a predetermined component ratio, and improves the absorption performance, and suction holding force than the prior art, in particular formaldehyde, such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde excellent effect when applied to an aldehyde compound of the lower relates to an adsorbent for removing an aldehyde compound can serve as material in various fields ranging from the industrial pollution from the room air purification. Solid carriers, the main active ingredient, a secondary active ingredient, an aldehyde compound, an adsorbent
Fibroblast growth factor 21(FGF-21) is a member of FGF family.Recently,it is discovered as a non-insulin-dependent cytokine to regulate blood glucose and a potential drug candidate for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.However,the stability of FGF-21 is poor and its half-life in vivo is short,which severely affect its application in clinical practice.In order to solve this problem,the N-terminus of mFGF-21 was PEGylated in a site-specific manner by methoxy poly-ethylene glycol(mPEG) propionaldehydes with an average molecular mass of 20 ku for improving its biological properties including increasing half-life in vivo,and decreasing immunogenicity.The effects of pH,reaction time,protein concentrations and mass ratio between the reactants on the PEGylation of mFGF-21 were analyzed.PEG-mFGF-21 was isolated by Capto Q anion exchange chromatography or Superdex 75 gel filtration chromatography.As a result,the optimal reaction method for mFGF-21 PEGylation and purification processes of PEG-mFGF-21 were established.Then we study the physical and chemical properties,immunogenicity,in vivo half-life,in vitro biological activity and in vivo hypoglycemic effects of PEG-mFGF-21.We found that the temperature stability and anti-protease ability of mFGF-21 were significantly improved after PEGylation.The indirect ELISA results for detection of serum antibody levels against mFGF-21 and the target protein concentration showed that PEGlyation of mFGF-21 significantly reduced its immunogenicity and increased its half-life in vivo.The glucose uptake assay results in HepG2 cells demonstrated that the in vitro activity of PEG-mFGF-21 did not decline.However,with the increment of stimulating time,the glucose uptake in cells treated with PEG-mFGF-21 significantly increased than mFGF-21.The experimental results of short-term blood glucose regulation in type 2 diabetic animals showed that the hypoglycemic speed of mFGF-21 was faster than PEG-mFGF-21,but it lasted shorter.The long-term blood glucose regulation experimental results showed that PEG-mFGF-21 had better hypoglycemic effect than mFGF-21.Surprisingly,blood glucose of PEG-mFGF-21-treated mice remained at low level for several days after the drug was withdrawn.In conclusion,under the premise of remaining its biological activity in vitro,PEGylation of mFGF-21 can improve its physical stability and anti-protease ability,decrease its immunogenicity and increase its in vivo half-life.It can also prolong the hypoglycemic effect of mFGF-21 in diabetic animals.This study provides an important technology platform for drug development of FGF-21.
Abstract The relative high temperature ignition behavior of selected C3 oxygenated hydrocarbons, propanal (propionaldehyde, PAL or CH 3 CH 2 CHO), acetone (propanone or AC), isopropanol (iPOH), and ethyl formate (EF), is studied behind reflected shock waves. An ignition delay time correlation for methyl acetate (MA) from a previous study is also employed in the comparison. This study reveals the influence of different functional groups on the oxidation of the hydrocarbons. Isomer effects are also revealed for the ketone, acetone, and the aldehyde, propanal, with propanal portraying shorter ignition delay times than acetone. In the same manner, using the correlation for methyl acetate, the ester isomers, methyl acetate and ethyl formate, are compared. In this case, ethyl formate shows shorter ignition delay times than methyl acetate. Generally, methyl acetate, isopropanol (iPOH) and acetone (AC) portray comparable ignition behavior. This is thought to be owing to the fact that they are characterized by non-terminally bonded oxygen atoms. They all have terminal methyl groups, though the number of oxygen atoms and the types of carbon–oxygen bonds differ in these three fuels. Propanal and ethyl formate have similar ignition delays that are shorter than those of the other three fuels, due to their ability to form reactive ethyl radicals. The measured ignition delay times are compared to simulated delay times using existing mechanisms for acetone, isopropanol and small alkyl esters. Whereas there is reasonable agreement at high pressures between experiments and modeling results for the small alkyl esters, methyl acetate and ethyl formate, there are deviations for acetone and isopropanol. However, the mechanisms for the latter molecules perform better at lower pressures. The ignition data in this study could be useful for further optimization of the existing models. Furthermore, a chemical kinetic mechanism for propanal oxidation is proposed and good agreement between the proposed model and experiment is observed. However, further validation against a wider set of combustion experiments is recommended. This study contributes towards better understanding of the relative oxidation behavior of C3 oxygenated hydrocarbons which are relevant in combustion processes as fuel components, important intermediate species and, in lower concentrations, as exhaust products.
A biosynthetic pathway for the production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) from glycerol was estab- lished in recombinant Klebsiella pneumoniae by introducing the aldehyde dehydrogenase gene from Escherichia coli. The activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase, which oxidized 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 3-HP, was detected and 3-HP was produced by the recombinant strains. Three different oxygen supply strategies, associated with measuring the oxidoreduction potential (ORP) during the fermentation under these conditions, were adopted for higher production of 3-HP by the recombinant cells. About 0.8 g/l 3-HP and more 1,3-propanediol production by the recombinant Klebsiella pneumoniae were obtained under completely aerobic conditions. Under micro-aerobic conditions, 3-HP production could be increased to 2.2 g/l and 1,3-propanediol production was almost the same as in the original strain. Under the anaerobic conditions, 1,3-propanediol was the main product and about 1.3 g/l 3-HP was produced. Finally, 3-HP produc- tion of the recombinant strain was increased to 2.8 g/l under micro-aerobic condition with a further two-stage ORP controlled strategy.
In this study, the removal capacity of deionized water was investigated against five gaseous carbonyl compounds (i.e., acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, valeraldehyde, and isovaleraldehyde) by means of the gas stripping method. To determine the trapping behavior of these odorants by water, gaseous working standards prepared at three different concentration levels (i.e., for acetaldehyde around 300, 500, and 1,000 ppb) were forced through pure water contained in an impinger at room temperature. The removal efficiency of the target compounds was inspected in terms of two major variables: (1) concentration levels of gaseous standard and (2) impinger water volume (20, 50, 100, and 150 mL). Although the extent of removal was affected fairly sensitively by changes in water volume, this was not the case for standard concentration level changes. Considering the efficiency of sorption media, gas stripping with aqueous solution can be employed as an effective tool for the removal of carbonyl odorants.
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a promising industrial species, however the lack of genetic engineering tools restricts its applications. Here we developed a lambda (λ) Red recombinase system and antisense RNA technology in K. pneumoniae to reshape glycerol metabolism pathways. We deleted the lactate dehydrogenase gene ldh through RecA-dependent recombination to block lactic acid synthesis. Next, the 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase gene dhaT was replaced by an aldehyde dehydrogenase gene (aldH from E. coli) to repress 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) synthesis and simultaneously convert 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). Specially, we developed a Red recombinase system in K. pneumoniae, by which the enzymes related to glycerol metabolism were mutated by transformed oligos. One positive strain produced 6.39 g L−1 3-HP and 32.6 g L−1 1,3-PDO at 36 h without using any antibiotics and inducers. Sequencing results showed that the mutation occurred mainly in byproduct pathways. Finally, antisense RNA technique was applied to block the synthesis of lactic acid and acetic acid. We found that the increase of 3-HP was approximately proportional to the decrease of lactic acid and acetic acid, indicating their competition for glycerol carbon flux. Overall these results and approaches developed in this study provide basis for basic research and microbial production of 3-HP, 1,3-PDO and 2,3-butanediol in K. pneumoniae.
[21860-46-8] C10H10O3S (MW 210.27) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C10H10O3S/c1-9(11)7-8-14(12,13)10-5-3-2-4-6-10/h2-8H,1H3 ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = ZRUYZFZASADROY-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (methyl vinyl ketone equivalent which does not undergo polymerization; dienophile) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: needles, mp 61–62 °C. ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: insol water; sparingly sol pentane, hexane; sol most other organic solvents. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Methods: from Methyl Vinyl Ketone and Thiophenol in chloroform followed by treatment with N-Chlorosuccinimide and base-catalyzed dehydrochlorination to give the 4-phenylthiobut-3-en-2-one,2 oxidation of which with m-Chloroperbenzoic Acid in ether gives a mixture of geometric isomers of the sulfone.3 Sodium Benzenesulfinate and (E)-4-Chloro-3-buten-2-one in methanol give the (E) isomer only.4 Other preparations are from acetylaldehyde dimethyl acetal5 and phenylsulfonylmethyl p-tolyl sulfoxide and propionaldehyde.6 ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: recrystallization from ether/pentane.3, 4 ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: no special precautions are required although storage at 4 °C or lower will prolong its shelf-life. It is also recommended to protect from light as isomerization to the (Z) isomer takes place.
Salmonella enterica grows on 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) in a coenzyme B12-dependent fashion. Prior studies showed that a bacterial microcompartment (MCP) is involved in this process and that an MCP-minus mutant undergoes a 20-h period of growth arrest during 1,2-PD degradation. It was previously proposed that growth arrest resulted from propionaldehyde toxicity, but no direct evidence was presented. Here, high-pressure liquid chromatography analyses of culture medium were used to show that the major products of aerobic 1,2-PD degradation are propionaldehyde, propionate, and 1-propanol. A MCP-minus mutant accumulated a level of propionaldehyde 10-fold higher than that of the wild type (1.6 mM compared to 15.7 mM), associating this compound with growth arrest. The addition of propionaldehyde to cultures of S. enterica caused growth arrest from 8 to 20 mM, but not at 4 mM, providing direct evidence for propionaldehyde toxicity. Studies also indicated that propionaldehyde was toxic due to the inhibition of respiratory processes, and the growth arrest ended when propionaldehyde was depleted primarily by conversion to propionate and 1-propanol and secondarily due to volatility. The Ames test was used to show that propionaldehyde is a mutagen and that mutation frequencies are increased in MCP-minus mutants during 1,2-PD degradation. We propose that a primary function of the MCPs involved in 1,2-PD degradation is the mitigation of toxicity and DNA damage by propionaldehyde.
(E)-(2S)-2-Amino-4-methylthio-3-butenoic acid (1; “dehydro-L-methionine”) was prepared through reaction stages 2-7 using β-acetamido-β, β-di(ethoxycarbonyl)propionaldehyde as starting material.
The levels of ozone formation potentialfor four oxygenated hydrocarbons, namely formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein and propionaldehyde, were estimated using photochemical ozone creation potential indices. During the transformation period for the enforcement of gasohol cleaner fuels in Bangkok from 2008 to 2013, the average OFPs of formaldehyde were the foremost levels (480.54/509.16; pre-/post-enforcement; µg.m -3 ), followed by acetaldehyde OFPs (302.82/289.03), propionaldehyde OFPs (48.86/43.53) and acrolein OFPs (30.38/33.20) subsequently. The Mann-Whitney U-test was conducted to determine the significance of gasohol on the quantities of the four carbonyl OFPs and atmospheric ozone. The results suggested that the maximum ozone concentrations (135.53/160.42;µg.m -3 ) for Bangkok and its vicinity areas were significantly increased after the compliance of gasohol fuels, whereas the OFP levels of four carbonyl compounds were statistically insignificant (p< 0.05, 2-tailed).
The stability of hydroxynitrile lyase from Hevea brasiliensis has been studied in organic solvents. In dry solvents, the enzyme had half-lives in the range 1400-2500 hours. The enzyme half-life was one order of magnitude lower if the medium was water saturated. The substrates, aldehyde and hydrogen cyanide, were found to promote enzyme deactivation. The deactivation increased with substrate concentration, but was reduced in hydrophilic solvent. At high substrate concentration (2M) in tert-butyl methyl ether, the enzyme half-life was 1.7h when incubated with hydrogen cyanide while it was 1.0h with 3-phenylpropionaldehyde. The addition of polyethylenimine, 125 mg per g of enzyme preparation, increased the enzyme half-life to 110h when incubated with hydrogen cyanide and to 3.2h with 3-phenylpropanaldehyde in tert-butyl methyl ether. Albumin and poly(ethylene glycol) gave similar stabilization effect.
Abstract New aromatic enamines were synthesized by condensation of the commercially available phenoxazine and N -phenyl-1-naphtylamine with 2,2-diphenylacetaldehyde or 2-phenylpropionaldehyde. The materials were examined by various techniques including differential scanning calorimetry, UV and fluorescence spectrometry, electron photoemission and time of flight techniques. The electron photoemission spectra of the layers of the amorphous materials showed the ionization potentials of 5.42–5.61 eV. Hole drift mobilities in the layers of 33–50% solid solutions of the derivatives in bisphenol Z polycarbonate range from 10 −5 to 3.4 × 10 −4 cm 2 /V s at high electric fields.
Among the diverse groups of 3-HP-producing bacteria, Klebsiella pneumoniae is a competitive host mainly because of its powerful capacity to metabolize glycerol. One convincing evidence comes from a recent report showing that nearly 50 g/L of 1,3-PDO was achieved by scale-up fermentation [10] . Since 3-HP and 1,3-PDO are parallel metabolites derived from glycerol, 3-HP could be abundantly produced. In K. pneumoniae, glycerol flux is spilt into two branches: oxidation and reduction [19] . In oxidation pathway, glycerol dehydrogenase converts glycerol to dihydroxyacetone (DHA) (the activator of dha regulon), which is then converted to hydroxypyruvate phosphate by dihydroxyacetone kinase, and enters glycolytic pathway to provide energy for cell growth. In reductive pathway, glycerol dehydratase (GDHt, encoded by dhaB) catalyzes glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), which is subsequently converted into 1,3-PDO and 3-HP by 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (PDOR) and ALDH, respectively [4, 7, 8, 17] .
In this study, the removal capacity of deionized water was investigated against five gaseous carbonyl compounds (i.e., acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, valeraldehyde, and isovaleraldehyde) by means of the gas stripping method. To determine the trapping behavior of these odorants by water, gaseous working standards prepared at three different concentration levels (i.e., for acetaldehyde around 300, 500, and 1,000 ppb) were forced through pure water contained in an impinger at room temperature. The removal efficiency of the target compounds was inspected in terms of two major variables: (1) concentration levels of gaseous standard and (2) impinger water volume (20, 50, 100, and 150 mL). Although the extent of removal was affected fairly sensitively by changes in water volume, this was not the case for standard concentration level changes. Considering the efficiency of sorption media, gas stripping with aqueous solution can be employed as an effective tool for the removal of carbonyl odorants.
Abstract The in vitro study of kinetics of the incorporation of labelled amino acids into protein of normal and neoplastic tissues has demonstrated that l - erythro -α,β-dihydroxybutyraldehyde ( l - erythro -DHBA), at concentrations which do not appreciably affect cell respiration, inhibits in a preferential way protein synthesis in tumours. In the presence of 5 mM l - erythro -DHBA, the leucine incorporation into protein of a large number of tumours is completely inhibited during the 2 nd hr of incubation. Under the same experimental conditions, the amino acid incor poration rate into protein of various normal tissues decreases as compared to controls, but it is never blocked. A relationship between the rate of protein synthesis and the sensitivity to the aldehyde has been observed in normal tissues but not in tumours. The tumours are affected by the drug independently of their histogenetic origin. l - erythro -DHBA is not the only substance which acts preferentially on tumours. The comparative study of the effect of various 3 - and 4 -carbon aliphatic aldehydes on the in vitro leucine incorporation into protein of rat liver and Yoshida ascites hepatoma has demonstrated that α-hydroxybutyraldehyde, β-hydroxybutyraldehyde, α,β-dihydroxybutyraldehyde and its structural isomers are more active on the hepatoma than on the liver, while propionaldehyde, lactaldehyde, glyceraldehyde, n -butyraldehyde, iso -butyraldehyde, crotonaldehyde, and α-methylglyceraldehyde are more active on the liver than on the hepatoma. A complete inhibition of protein synthesis during the 2 nd hr of incubation has been observed in the rat liver in the presence of 5 mM iso -butyraldehyde. On the whole, this data leads one to conclude that the branching of the carbon chain in the C 4 -aldehydes increases their selective toxicity for the liver, whereas the hydroxylation of the straight chain in the above-mentioned aldehydes gives rise to substances with a preferential action against tumours.
The volatile oil in dalbergia odorifera was extracted by microwave assisted extraction of sample with cyclohexane as extractant.By using the orthogonal experimental designing,the technological conditions for extraction of volatile oil from dalbergia odorifera were determined as follows:①m(Dalbergia odorifera)-V (cyclohexane) ratio:20 to 250(g:mL);②time of microwave extraction:10 min;③power of extraction:600 W;④temperature of extraction:60℃.The yield of volatile oil found under the optimum conditions was 1.98%. Tweenty one compounds were found and identified by GC-MS.The main compounds and their contents were found as follows:2-amino-phenol(27.43%),nerolidol(24.83%),(E)-2-caren-4-ol(24.65%),2-(5-methyl-furan)-propionaldehyde (7.38%) and 1,1-dimethyl-2-(2-methyl-2-propenyl)-cyclopropane(4.67%).
A study was made of liquid-phase oxidation of propionaldehyde with oxygen in the presence of a Co(CH/sub 3/COO)/sub 2/.4H/sub 2/O catalyst. It was established that the stage of radical formation involves the following: complex formation of aldehyde with a catalyst; interaction of this complex with per acid and breakdown of the complexes formed. It was shown that the formation of propionic acid takes place mainly as a result of direct oxidation of aldehyde. 5 references, 1 figure.
The present invention relates to a microorganism genetically modified for the biological production of 1,3-propanediol from sucrose, comprising 4-hydroxy-2-hydroxylase by an enzyme having 2-keto acid decarboxylase activity. Two-step metabolism for the production of 1,3-propanediol, comprising a first step of decarboxylating ketobutyrate and a second step of reducing the resulting 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde by an enzyme having hydroxyaldehyde reductase activity It relates to a microorganism comprising a pathway and a gene that enables the microorganism to utilize sucrose as the sole carbon source. The present invention is also a novel method for the biological preparation of 1,3-propanediol by fermentation comprising culturing the genetically modified microorganism, the culture comprising a sucrose source. And recovering the produced 1,3-propanediol in a suitable medium. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the sucrose source is obtained from plant biomass.
Abstract The gas chromatographic (GC) determination of trace amounts of β-methylmercaptopropionaldehyde (methional) in the free form using a flame photometric detector (FPD) was investigated. The GC conditions were as follows: stationary phase, 6% DEGS; support, Chromosorb W HP (80–100 mesh); glass column, 2 m X 3 mm I.D., column temperature (programming), holding for 1 min at 100°C, heating the column oven at a rate of 10°C/min from 100 to 190°C, maintaining this temperature for 20 min and then cooling to the initial temperature; carrier gas, nitrogen, flow-rate, 60 ml/min; flow-rates of hydrogen and air for the FPD, each 40 ml/min. The minimum detectable amounts for the methional were ca . 0.3 ng; the repeatabilities of retention times and peak areas (measured as intergrator counts) at 1-ng level of the compound were less than ca . 1.5% and ca . 15%. The percentage recovery in the concentration method by bubbling the nitrogen carrier gas (0.2 1/min, at 28°C) through the standard solution of methional (at 1 ng per μl ethanol) from 10 to 0.5 ml was ca . 72%; however, the percentage recovery of the standard solution (at 10 ng/μl ethanol) after 10 l of the laboratory air had been passed through the impinger containing the standard solution at a rate of 0.5 l/min was 97.5%. The method was applied to the determination of methional in air over waste water from a corn starch factory.
Abstract The role and nature of active species in the catalytic reaction of propylene over MoO 3 · SiO 2 catalysts were established in the absence and presence of oxygen, i.e., under depletive and heterogeneous conditions. At T = 400 °C, under depletive conditions and in the absence of water, only disproportionation occurs (maximum at 10 wt% MoO 3 ); this activity is ascribed to bis-molybdenyl-type species. In the presence of water, heterogeneous oxidation over samples containing over 10 wt% MoO 3 leads to acrolein, acetaldehyde, CO and CO 2 , as well as minor amounts of propionaldehyde, acetone, and acetic acid. Acrolein, acetaldehyde, and part of CO x appear to be primary reaction products. At higher conversion levels, CO x is also formed via oxidation of intermediates. Catalytic results are accounted for by the presence of superficial polymolybdates which display polyfunctional characteristics, thus explaining formation of acrolein and acetaldehyde. Whiskers of MoO 3 are also present on the solid but contribute little to catalytic activity.
B–P mixed oxide was the active and selective catalyst for partial oxidation of propane. The selectivity and the yield of the partial oxidation products (propionaldehyde, acetone, acetaldehyde, propylene, etc.) were 50% and 27%, respectively, under the reaction conditions; T=806 K, P(C3H8)=20 kPa, P(O2)=30 kPa,and W/F=0.67 g h 1−1.
Abstract The equilibrium between propionaldehyde + propane-1,1-diol + 2,4,6-triethyl-1,3,5-trioxane has been characterized, for the first time, in aqueous solution using NMR techniques. The diffusion coefficients and the molar percentages at different temperatures have been also reported.
Individual aldehyde (and acetone) emissions were measured from the exhaust gas of a premixed multicylinder spark ignition engine fueled with Indolene and blends of Indolene and either methanol or ethanol. Use of the alcohol blends increased the total aldehyde emission level. Acetone was the only specie measured with the DNPH method that showed a marked increase when the engine was operated in the lean misfire region. The C3 aldehydes were successfully separated and quantified. It was found that acrolein emissions did not increase when the blends were used; in fact, a slight decrease was observed. Propionaldehyde exhibited a decrease when the methanol blends were used. Samples taken in the exhaust manifold, upstream of an oxidizing catalyst, and downstream of the catalyst, indicated that aldehydes and acetone are partially destroyed in the exhaust system and virtually completely destroyed by the catalyst.
Abstract Pure (1S,2S)-1-Butyl- and (1S,2S)-1-isobutyl-2-benzyloxy-propylamine have been synthesized in 5 steps and 62% overall yield from (S)-ethyl lactate. It was found that BuLi and i-BuMgBr add readily and diastereoselectively (d.e.> 96%) to α-benzyloxypropionaldehyde dimethylhydrazone and that hydrogenolysis proceeds in high yield and without epimerization.
Abstract 3-Hexulose phosphate synthase catalyzes the aldol reactions between D-ribulose 5-phosphate 1 and a rather wide range of aldehydes. The stereoselectivity of the reaction was investigated with propionaldehyde 3 as substrate. The sense of chirality at carbon atom 5 is definite, but two isomers at carbon atom 6 are formed during formation of the new CC bond.
Alkylation has been successfully performed using propionaldehyde on four batches of T1 thermostable lipase (M1, M2, M3 and M4) with different degrees of modification (27% to 55%) to represent the different levels of hydrophobicity. Based on the crystal structure, T1 possessed 11 lysine residues, of which four of the lysine residues, Lys84, 102, 138 and 251 have scores between 53.7% and 95.8% exposure ratio, were totally exposed. Another four residues, Lys185, 329, 344 and 345 have a ratio between 20% and 50% (moderately exposed) and three of the lysine residues, Lys28, 207 and 229 are buried. The hydrolytic activity of the modified enzymes dropped drastically by 10 to 40-fold upon chemical modification, despite both the native and modified form showed distinctive α-helical bands at 208 and 222 nm by Far Ultra-Violet Circular Dichroism (CD) spectropolarimetry. As cooperative unfolding transitions were observed, the modified lipases were distinguished from the native state, which the former possessed a Tm in lower temperature range, 60-64 oC whilst the latter at 68 oC. Consequently, this has led us to the hypothesis of formation of a molten globule (MG)-like structure. Subsequent analysis of both native and modified lipases by Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Time of Flight Mass Spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) study was carried out to ascertain the modifications and the location of these modifications. Four lysine residues, Lys28, 84, 207 and 329 were clearly identified from the native spectrum. As expected, Lys84 and Lys102 were clearly modified. Surprisingly, Lys185 which has a very low exposure ratio (27.5%) was also identified to be one of the modified residues. To further support the hypothesis of the formation of a molten globule, intrinsic and extrinsic fluorescence were performed. A decrease of fluorescence intensity was observed for modified lipase M1, which was modified using 0.5% of propionaldehyde. However, subsequent addition of propionaldehyde enhanced the fluorescence intensity of M2, M3 and M4, which indicated an inversion of placement for tryptophans to a more hydrophobic environment. As for extrinsic fluorescence, the alkylated lipases showed a clear enhancement of fluorescence intensity as compared to the native lipase due to the exposure of the hydrophobic interior of the enzymes.
Abstract The derivatizing reagent 2,4,6-trichlorophenylhydrazine (TCPH) was applied for the first time to the determination of atmospheric aldehydes and ketones using gas chromatography (GC) with electron-capture detection. TCPH is volatile enough to be used with GC without the problems of thermal decomposition or complex procedures associated with other derivatives such as 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine. Small cartridges packed with octadecyl silica impregnated with TCPH had collection efficiencies greater than 99% for all carbonyls tested, except for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde which had collection efficiencies of 80 and 94%, respectively. TCPH requires only 6 min at 100°C for complete reaction with low-molecular-mass carbonyls in the absence of an acid catalyst. Detection limits were determined by the blank and were 0.1 ppb (v / v) for formaldehyde in a 10-1 sample and much lower (typically 0.02–0.03 ppb, v / v) for many other carbonyls. As with other cartridge methods, a negative interference from ozone at 300 ppb (v / v) was found for the reagent and positive interferences were found for several other carbonyls. These interferences were eliminated through the use of sodium thiosulfate as an ozone scavenger.
An aqueous emulsion of an organo-hydrogensiloxane contains as stabilizer from 0,1 to 10% by weight of a water-soluble aldehyde containing at least 2 C atoms, e.g. acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, acrolein, crotonaldehyde, propionaldehyde, glyoxal, succinaldehyde, malealdehyde, chloral, aldol, glyoxyllic acid, levulinaldehyde, phthalaldehyde, phthalaldehyde acid, benzaldehyde, tolualdehyes, chlorobenzaldehydes, furfural, trioxane or paraldehyde. The siloxanes used may be homopolymers or copolymers thereof or mixtures with conventional or alkoxylated siloxanes. The emulsions may also contain conventional emulsifying agents and acid catalysts, e.g. acetic acid. In a typical example (1) a liquid dimethylsiloxane, a liquid trimethylsilyoxy endblocked methyl-hydrogen-siloxane, a liquid methylsiloxane resin, polyethyleneglycol-trimethylnonyl-ether and water were mixed in a high speed mixer to yield an emulsion which, after the addition thereto of acetic acid and acetaldehyde, did not liberate any hydrogen upon storage. Uses: For waterproofing textiles, leather and paper. Specifications 645,768, 680,265, 766,864, 792,845 and U.S.A. Specification 2,803,613 are referred to.
Propionaldehyde and sodium perchlorate have a marked effect not only on kinetics of copolymerization of propylene oxide and tetrahydrofuran (THF) initiated by BF3, and also on molecular weight characteristics of the copolymer obtained. The ability of polar compounds to solvate BF3 complexes and growing centres slows down all the reactions in which they take part. For example, the rate of isomerization of propylene oxide and the formation of a cyclic tetramer decreases, while the concentration of the latter during the process passes through the maximum. This is explained by the existence of chain transfer to a cyclic tetrameter with ring opening.
A novel rearrangement of the ω-phenylalkanals phenylacetaldehyde, 3-phenylpropionaldehyde and 4-phenylbutyraldehyde towards phenyl alkyl ketones is reported. The liquid-phase isomerizations are catalyzed by cesium oxide or binary cesium-lanthanum oxide supported on the mesoporous aluminosilicate molecular sieves MCM-41 and HMS and on amorphous supports like silica-alumina and γ-alumina. Beside the title reaction the aldol condensation is observed as a side-reaction. A mechanism is proposed in which the aromatic ring is involved in the rearrangement process. Factors governing the activities and product selectivities are presented.
Although methionine has been established as a precursor of ethylene (Baur and Yang, 1969a, 1969b; Burg and Clagett, 1967; Lieberman et al. 1966; Mapson et al. 1970), whether it is the major precursor in vivo or whether there are other precursors is still an open question. Several potential precursors of ethylene, such as ethanol, ethane, propionic acid and fumaric acid (which may directly or indirectly yield ethylene through dehydration, dehydrogenation or decarboxylation), and some representative intermediates of recognized metabolic pathways (including glycolysis, the Krebs cycle and the pentose phosphate cycle) were found to be inactive as ethylene precursors (Jansen, 1965). Other precursors of ethylene which have been suggested include β-alanine (Stinson and Spencer, 1969), ethionine (Shimokawa and Kasai, 1967), β-hydroxy-propionic acid (Varner, 1961), propionaldehyde (Lieberman and Kunishi, 1967) and linolenic acid (Lieberman and Mapson, 1964). We have shown that neither propionaldehyde nor linolenic acid was incorporated into ethylene by apple tissue (Baur and Yang, 1969a, 1969b). This paper presents evidence showing that β-alanine, β-hydroxypropionic and ethionine also do not serve as precursors of ethylene. Additional evidence which supports the view that methionine is the biological precursor of ethylene will be presented.
Stopped-flow experiments in which sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) was rapidly mixed with NAD(+) and aldehyde showed a burst of NADH formation, followed by a slower steady-state turnover. The kinetic data obtained when the relative concentrations and orders of mixing of NAD(+) and propionaldehyde with the enzyme were varied were fitted to the following mechanism: [Formula: see text] where the release of NADH is slow. By monitoring the quenching of protein fluorescence on the binding of NAD(+), estimates of 2x10(5) litre.mol(-1).s(-1) and 2s(-1) were obtained for k(+1) and k(-1) respectively. Although k(+3) could be determined from the dependence of the burst rate constant on the concentration of propionaldehyde to be 11s(-1), k(+2) and k(-2) could not be determined uniquely, but could be related by the equation: (k(-2)+k(+3))/k(+2) =50x10(-6)mol.litre(-1). No significant isotope effect was observed when [1-(2)H]propionaldehyde was used as substrate. The burst rate constant was pH-dependent, with the greatest rate constants occurring at high pH. Similar data were obtained by using acetaldehyde, where for this substrate (k(-2)+k(+3))/k(+2)=2.3x10 (-3)mol.litre(-1) and k(+3) is 23s(-1). When [1,2,2,2-(2)H]acetaldehyde was used, no isotope effect was observed on k(+3), but there was a significant effect on k(+2) and k(-2). A burst of NADH production has also been observed with furfuraldehyde, trans-4-(NN-dimethylamino)cinnamaldehyde, formaldehyde, benzaldehyde, 4-(imidazol-2-ylazo)benzaldehyde, p-methoxybenzaldehyde and p-methylbenzaldehyde as substrates, but not with p-nitrobenzaldehyde.
Abstract Biodiesel is emerging as a renewable fuel, hence becoming a promising alternative to fossil fuels. Biodiesel can form blends with diesel in any ratio, and thus could replace partially, or even totally, diesel fuel in diesel engines what would bring a number of environmental, economical and social advantages. Although a number of studies are available on regulated substances, there is a gap of studies on unregulated substances, such as carbonyl compounds, emitted during the combustion of biodiesel, biodiesel–diesel and/or ethanol–biodiesel–diesel blends. CC is a class of hazardous pollutants known to be participating in photochemical smog formation. In this work a comparison was carried out between the two most widely used CC collection methods: C18 cartridges coated with an acid solution of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH) and impinger bottles filled in 2,4-DNPH solution. Sampling optimization was performed using a 22 factorial design tool. Samples were collected from the exhaust emissions of a diesel engine with biodiesel and operated by a steady-state dynamometer. In the central body of factorial design, the average of the sum of CC concentrations collected using impingers was 33.2 ppmV but it was only 6.5 ppmV for C18 cartridges. In addition, the relative standard deviation (RSD) was 4% for impingers and 37% for C18 cartridges. Clearly, the impinger system is able to collect CC more efficiently, with lower error than the C18 cartridge system. Furthermore, propionaldehyde was nearly not sampled by C18 system at all. For these reasons, the impinger system was chosen in our study. The optimized sampling conditions applied throughout this study were: two serially connected impingers each containing 10 mL of 2,4-DNPH solution at a flow rate of 0.2 L min−1 during 5 min. A profile study of the C1–C4 vapor-phase carbonyl compound emissions was obtained from exhaust of pure diesel (B0), pure biodiesel (B100) and biodiesel–diesel mixtures (B2, B5, B10, B20, B50, B75). The ΣCC of the emission concentrations were 20.5 ppmV for B0 and 15.7 ppmV for B100. When considering fuel blends, the measured ΣCC were 21.4 ppmV, 22.5 ppmV, 20.4 ppmV, 14.2 ppmV, 11.4 ppmV and 14.7 ppmV, respectively, for B2, B5, B10, B20, B50 and B75. Among the target CC, both formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were the major contributors to the observed total CC levels. Except for acrolein and formaldehyde, all CC showed a clear trend of reduction in the emissions from B2 to B100 (40% reduction, on average). Both individual and total CC emission factors (pg g−1 of fuel burnt) were calculated for all tested biodiesel–diesel blends. The lowest total CC emission factor (2271 pg g−1) was found when B50 was used; the individual emission factors determined (pg g−1) were: 539.7 (formaldehyde), 1411 (acetaldehyde), 30.83 (acrolein), and 310.7 (propionaldehyde).
The formation of 4-hydroxy-2,5-dimethyl-3(2H)-furanone (HDMF) and 2(or 5)-ethyl-4-hydroxy-5(or 2)-methyl-3(2H)-furanone (EHMF) from pentose sugars was studied in Maillard model systems. The amts. generated at 90 DegC for 1 h were detd. by isotope diln. assay (IDA). The internal stds. used for IDA, i.e., [13C2]HDMF and [2H3]EHMF, were prepd. in good overall yields in 3 steps: addn. of labeled acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde to tert-butyloxycarbonyl (BOC)-protected and lithiated 3-butyn-2-ol; oxidn. of the BOC-protected diol with permanganate to 1,2-dione; and finally cyclization to the target mols. after removal of the protective groups under acidic conditions. Quant. data confirmed previous findings that HDMF and EHMF are preferentially formed in the presence of glycine and L-alanine, resp. The yields obtained were 2.6-5.1 mg of HDMF and 6.8-10 mg of EHMF per mmol pentose. Formation of both furanones was favored in phosphate-buffered solns. at pH 7 compared to pH 5, particularly in the presence of an excess of amino acid. These data are well in agreement with the previously proposed formation mechanism of HDMF and EHMF via Strecker-assisted chain elongation of the pentose moiety. However, both furanones were also produced to a lesser extent by sugar fragmentation-condensation reactions. [on SciFinder (R)]
Abstract The synthesis of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde from CO hydrogenation over NaMnNi catalysts has been studied. Coprecipitated NaMnNi catalysts exhibited high activities for the synthesis of acetaldehyde from CO hydrogenation and the synthesis' of propionaldehyde from addition of ethylene to CO hydrogenation. In contrast, NaMnNi/SiO 2 catalysts prepared from coimpregnation showed mainly methanation and ethylene hydrogenation activities. The selectivities to acetaldehyde in CO hydrogenation were found to parallel the selectivities to propionaldehyde in ethylene addition. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopic studies revealed that reduction of the coprecipitated NaMnNi catalyst at 350°C led to the migration of Na ions onto the surface of the catalyst resulting in the suppression of hydrogen chemisorption on the catalyst.
On the superconductor YBa2Cu3O7−x between 150 and 300°C, allyl alcohol is isomerized to propionaldehyde (70%) and hydrogenated to 1-propanol (30%) in hydrogen.
Abstract Aprocedure is described for the synthesis of radioactive 3-methylthiopropionate, a recently isolated metabolite of mammalian methionine metabolism. The method is a two-step synthesis whereby correspondingly labeled methionine is degraded by ninhydrin to 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde and then specifically oxidized to 3-methylthiopropionate without oxidation of the sulfur atom by the yeast enzyme, aldehyde dehydrogenase. Radiochemical purity of the isolated product was established by paper, thin-layer, and gas-liquid chromatography. This procedure is economical and readily applicable to the synthesis of other alkylthio fatty acids for the study of S -methylcysteine and ethionine metabolism and probably for the synthesis of radioactive intermediates of branched chain amino acids.
In this study, the sorptive loss patterns for volatile organic compounds were evaluated by gaseous standards containing 13 compounds (benzene, toluene, styrene, p-xylene, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone, isobutyl alcohol, butyl acetate, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde). The gaseous standards, prepared initially at two contrasting concentration levels (40 and 4000 ppb) in a polyester aluminum bag, were measured after two consecutive transfers into empty bags. It indicates that the percent loss patterns, if assessed for all 13 target compounds, are affected most sensitively by the initial concentration levels of samples to yield 2.62 ± 2.22% (at 40 ppb) and 9.57 ± 6.74% (at 4000 ppb). Moreover, the sorptive loss patterns at high concentration samples (4000 ppb) tend to increase in relation with increasing molecular weight of target compounds, although such pattern disappears in low concentration samples (40 ppb). The observed loss patterns, if evaluated in relation to some key parameters like concentration or compound type, suggest the possibility that the sorptive loss of target compounds in storage media can occur in a predictable manner.
Biodiesel is emerging as a renewable fuel, hence becoming a promising alternative to fossil fuels. Biodiesel can form blends with diesel in any ratio, and thus could replace partially, or even totally, diesel fuel in diesel engines what would bring a number of environmental, economical and social advantages. Although a number of studies are available on regulated substances, there is a gap of studies on unregulated substances, such as carbonyl compounds, emitted during the combustion of biodiesel, biodieseldiesel and/or ethanol-biodiesel-diesel blends. CC is a class of hazardous pollutants known to be participating in photochemical smog formation. In this work a comparison was carried out between the two most widely used CC collection methods: C18 cartridges coated with an acid solution of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH) and impinger bottles filled in 2,4-DNPH solution. Sampling optimization was performed using a 2 2 factorial design tool. Samples were collected from the exhaust emissions of a diesel engine with biodiesel and operated by a steady-state dynamometer. In the central body of factorial design, the average of the sum of CC concentrations collected using impingers was 33.2 ppmV but it was only 6.5 ppmV for C18 cartridges. In addition, the relative standard deviation (RSD) was 4% for impingers and 37% for C18 cartridges. Clearly, the impinger system is able to collect CC more efficiently, with lower error than the C18 cartridge system. Furthermore, propionaldehyde was nearly not sampled by C18 system at all. For these reasons, the impinger system was chosen in our study. The optimized sampling conditions applied throughout this study were: two serially connected impingers each containing 10 mL of 2,4-DNPH solution at a flow rate of 0.2 L min À1 during 5 min. A profile study of the C1-C4 vapor-phase carbonyl compound emissions was obtained from exhaust of pure diesel (B0), pure biodiesel (B100) and biodieseldiesel mixtures (B2, B5, B10, B20, B50, B75). The SCC of the emission concentrations were 20.5 ppmV for B0 and 15.7 ppmV for B100. When considering fuel blends, the measured SCC were 21.4 ppmV, 22.5 ppmV, 20.4 ppmV, 14.2 ppmV, 11.4 ppmV and 14.7 ppmV, respectively, for B2, B5, B10, B20, B50 and B75. Among the target CC, both formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were the major contributors to the observed total CC levels. Except for acrolein and formaldehyde, all CC showed a clear trend of reduction in the emissions from B2 to B100 (40% reduction, on average). Both individual and total CC emission factors (pg g À1 of fuel burnt) were calculated for all tested biodiesel-diesel 
The ability of lactobacilli to efficiently utilise both of the glycolytic pathways facilitates the degradation of a wider range of carbohydrates present in a given niche, but is also information relevant for their industrial exploitation. For example, Lactobacillus reuteri is a commensal, facultatively hetero-fermentative species able to use both the Embden-Meyerhof pathway (EMP) and the phosphoketolase pathway (PKP) to ferment carbohydrates, exemplified by Lb. reuteri ATCC 55730 [19] . However, examination of the genome sequences of other heterofermentative lactobacilli has also revealed genes corresponding to both glycolytic pathways [10, 14] . A number of genes for enzymes involved in both glycolytic cycles were identified in the genome of Lb. reuteri ATCC 55730; however, no recognisable Lactobacillus-like pfkA gene could be annotated. Metabolic flux analysis identified PKP as the main glycolytic pathway with EMP acting as a shunt [19] . Of the two glycolytic pathways, PKP yields less energy production overall. However, it seems that the EMP functions to provide a net gain in ATP in conjunction with the main energy production by the PKP. It is believed that the use of PKP as the main glycolytic pathway is an adaptation of Lb. reuteri and other heterofermentative lactobacilli to an environment rich in carbohydrates [19] . Since Lb. reuteri can be used as a cell factory to produce industrially exploitable metabolic intermediates or end products such as 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde for nylons and plastics, the ability to culture lactobacilli such as Lb. reuteri efficiently and cost-effectively will undoubtedly be informed by knowledge of its metabolism [20] .
In order to investigate the effects of trace elements on different metabolic pathways, the thermoacidophilic Crenarchaeon Sulfolobus acidocaldarius (DSM 639) has been cultivated on various carbon substrates in the presence and absence of molybdate. When grown on glucose (but neither on glutamate nor casein hydrolysate) as sole carbon source, the lack of molybdate results in serious growth inhibition. By analysing cytosolic fractions of glucose adapted cells for molybdenum containing compounds, an aldehyde oxidoreductase was detected that is present in the cytosol to at least 0.4% of the soluble protein. With Cl2Ind (2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol) as artificial electron acceptor, the enzyme exhibits oxidizing activity towards glyceraldehyde, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate, isobutyraldehyde, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. At its pH-optimum (6.7), close to the intracellular pH of Sulfolobus, the glyceraldehyde-oxidizing activity is predominant. The protein has an apparent molecular mass of 177 kDa and consists of three subunits of 80.5 kDa (α), 32 kDa (β) and 19.5 kDa (γ). It contains close to one Mo, four Fe, four acid-labile sulphides and four phosphates per protein molecule. Methanol extraction revealed the existence of 1 FAD per molecule and 1 molybdopterin per molecule, which was identified as molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide on the basis of perchloric acid cleavage and thin layer chromatography. EPR-spectra of the aerobically prepared enzyme exhibit the so-called ‘desulpho-inhibited’-signal, known from chemically modified forms of molybdenum containing proteins. Anaerobically prepared samples show both, the signals arising from the active molybdenum-cofactor as well as from the two [2Fe-2S]-clusters. According to metal-, cofactor-, and subunit-composition, the enzyme resembles the members of the xanthine oxidase family. Nevertheless, the melting point and long-term thermostability of the protein are outstanding and perfectly in tune with the growth temperature of S. acidocaldarius (80 °C). ::: ::: ::: ::: The findings suggest the enzyme to function as a glyceraldehyde oxidoreductase in the course of the nonphosphorylated Entner-Doudoroff pathway and thereby may attribute a new physiological role to this class of enzyme.
The reaction mechanism of glycerol hydrogenolysis to 1,2-propanediol over a spinel CuCr2 O4 catalyst was investigated by using DFT calculations. Theoretical models were developed from the results of experimental characterization. Adsorption configurations and energetics of the reactant, intermediates, final product, and transition states were calculated on Cu(1 1 1) and CuCr2 O4 (1 0 0). Based on our DFT results, we found that the formation of acetol is preferred to that of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde thermodynamically and kinetically on both surfaces. For glycerol hydrogenolysis to 1,2-propanediol, the CuCr2 O4 surface is less exothermic but more kinetically favorable than the Cu surface. The low activation barrier during the reaction on the CuCr2 O4 surface is attributed to the unique surface structure; the cubic spinel structure provides a stable adsorption site on which reactants are allowed to be dehydrated and hydrogenated easily with the characteristic adsorption configuration. The role of the Cu and Cr atoms in a CuCr2 O4 surface were revealed. The results of reaction tests supported our theoretical calculations.
The kinetics and pressure dependence of the decomposition of the propionyl radical have been studied, by generation the radicals from the selective photolysis of azoethane in the presence of propionaldehyde, between 30 and 80°C. The following high- and low-pressure limiting rate constants for the radical decomposition have been obtained by a Hinshelwood-Lindemann treatment: log10k∞= 13.32–14,700/2.3RT(sec–1) and log10k0= 15.64–10,500/2.3RT(mole–1 cm3 sec–1). The number of effective oscillators (Slater's theory) in the activated radical is 14 and the half-rate pressure (P½) is 110 mm at 42°C. The heat of formation of the propionyl radical is calculated to be ΔH°f(C2H5CO)=–11.0±2 kcal mole–1 and bond dissociation energies in propionaldehyde and methyl ethyl ketone are deduced.
This paper presents the results of basic investigations on reactions and process engineering in the biological purification of exhaust air in a trickle-bed reactor. The biocatalysts used were pollutant-specific bacterial monocultures, which were immobilized on various carriers. By using different pollutants (e.g. acetone, propionaldehyde, naphthalene and toluence, crude gas concentrations: 5–35 ppm), the effect of the water solubility of the gaseous substances on separation efficiency was studied. Furthermore, a combination of monocultures was used for degradation of a mixture of pollutants. The results show that, with suitable combinations of bacteria, pollutants and carriers, conversions of more than 80% at a space velocity of about 1000-1 can be achieved by this method.
Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) are involved in the detoxification of aldehydes generated as byproducts of lipid peroxidation. In this work, it was determined that, among the three most studied human ALDH isoforms, ALDH2 showed the highest catalytic efficiency for oxidation of acrolein, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE), and malondialdehyde. ALDH1A1 also exhibited significant activity with these substrates, whereas ALDH3A1 only showed activity with 4-HNE. ALDH2 was also the most sensitive isoform to irreversible inactivation by these compounds. Remarkably, ALDH3A1 was insensitive to these aldehydes even at concentrations as high as 20 mM. Formation of adducts of ALDH1A1 and ALDH2 with acrolein increased their Kd values for NAD+ by 2- and 3-fold, respectively. NADH exerted a higher protection than propionaldehyde to the inactivation by acrolein, and this protection was additive. These results suggested that both binding sites, those for aldehyde and NAD+ in ALDH2, are targets for the inactivation by lipid peroxi...
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is an important platform chemical for the biobased chemical industry. Lactobacillus reuteri produces 3-HP from glycerol via 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) through a CoA-dependent propanediol utilization (Pdu) pathway. This study was performed to verify and evaluate the pathway comprising propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP), phosphotransacylase (PduL), and propionate kinase (PduW) for formation of 3-HP from 3-HPA. The pathway was confirmed using recombinant Escherichia coli co-expressing PduP, PduL and PduW of L. reuteri DSM 20016 and mutants lacking expression of either enzyme. Growing and resting cells of the recombinant strain produced 3-HP with a yield of 0.3mol/mol and 1mol/mol, respectively, from 3-HPA. 3-HP was the sole product with resting cells, while growing cells produced 1,3-propanediol as co-product. 3-HP production from glycerol was achieved with a yield of 0.68mol/mol by feeding recombinant E. coli with 3-HPA produced by L. reuteri and recovered using bisulfite-functionalized resin.
2-Aminopyridine, sesamol and 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzaldehyde condense to form a Mannicb base 3b which reacts with tetronic acid to yield lactone 4c. Cyclization of 4c yields the benzopyran lactone 1b; this inhibits growth of tumors in NCI in vitro tests. Alkaline hydrolysis of acetylated and methylated intermediate lactones, e.g. 4e, in the presence of acetone leads to the formation of novel lactones, e.g., of type 6, which incorporate the acetone nucleus. Compound 6 is of interest since it inhibits tumor growth in vitro and has been selected by NCI for ongoing in vivo testing with human cancers. Heating 3b with mixtures of propionaldehyde and secondary amines such as morpholine leads to 3-methylbenzopyrans containing the amine nucleus, e.g. 7b. Unlike 3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl compounds, e.g. 7a, phenolic analogs of type 7b do not inhibit growth of tumors in vitro.
Abstract The technique of colorimetric sensor array (CSA) is proved to be a novel and helpful method to detect and determine the quality of food and beverages with simple, inexpensive, rapid and sensitive advantages. The limit of this technique is considered to be the sensor design. In this study, density functional theory (DFT) at B3LYP/LANL2DZ level was employed to investigate the ability of CSA sensor to bind volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The results showed that silver porphyrin (AgP) is sensitive to trimethylamine (L1), followed by propanol (L2) and N 2 , whereas O 2 and propane (L3), ethyl acetate (L4), butanone (L5), and propionaldehyde (L6) cannot be easily detected by AgP. The analysis of charge distribution indicated that the nature of AgP reacted with VOCs is the electron transfer from Ag atom to porphyrin plane. This theoretical study may be a useful guide for the design of CSA sensor to detect and determine a special analyte.
With the purpose of creating an active prolonged-release pharmaceutical substance, modification of the recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor G-CSF (filgrastim) with polyethylene glycol (PEG, molecular mass 21.5 kDa) has been performed. The method for the preparation of the filgrastim PEG derivative intended to develop and scale-up the technological manufacturing process is described. Protein modification with PEG was performed by selective covalent attachment of the α-methyl-PEG-propionaldehyde molecule to the α-amino group of the N-terminal of the methionine amino acid residue of the recombinant G-CSF. The selected reaction conditions provide no less than 85% product yield of the total protein, a high protein concentration in the reaction mixture (more than 9 mg/mL) and allow us to reduce PEG consumption on the protein terminal α-amino group basis. RP HPLC and MALDI mass spectrometry data demonstrate that the preparation is modified by PEG at the N-terminal residue and contains no more than 10% of products with the higher degree of modification.
Aldehydes are major secondary products of the atmospheric oxidation of most of the volatile organic compounds (Carlier et at, 1986). Their night-time reactivity with NOg could lead to the production of related peroxyacylnitrate (Cantrell et al, 1986). However, the kinetic database for the reactions NOs + RCHO is still inconsistent and the need of absolute measurement has been pointed out (Wayne et at, 1991). On the other hand, the night-time chemistry of the peroxyacyl radicals could be of importance in the night-time production of OH radicals (Canosa-Ma? et al, 1996). Simulation chamber experiments were conducted together with numerical simulation to investigate the full mechanism of the degradation of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde.
Process for the production of ammonium salt of 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid by reaction of 3- methylthiopropionaldehyde with hydrogen cyanide to form 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyronitrile and subsequent hydrolysis, wherein the catalytic hydrolysis of the nitrile salt ammonium 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid is performed in one process step with two moles or excess of water per mole of 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyronitrile and wherein the catalyst is a titanium-containing solid and temperature is between 60 ° C and 190 ° C.
Diamine oxidase was purified sixty-fold from millet shoots. The partially purified enzyme of 150 kDa oxidized 1, 3-diaminopropane (1, 3-DAP) to 3-aminopropionaldehyde. The Km values were 9.1×10−5M for 1, 3-DAP and 6.3×10−4M for putrescine. Extracts of shoots of prosomillet, maize and barley also contained an activity that oxidized 1, 3-DAP.
The optimum analytical method of aldehydes, ozone by-products, was established by reverse phase liquid chromatography. Six aldehydes including formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, propionaldehyde, butylaldehyde and benzaldehyde, and one ketone including acetone were selected as aldehyde test samples through preliminary experiments. Such analytical conditions as the pH of citrate buffer solution, reaction temperature, reaction time, and concentration of DNPH, the component and composition of desorption solvent were optimized. As the result, pH 3.0 of citrate buffer solution, 40 of reaction temperature, 15 minutes of reaction time, and 0.012% of DNPH concentration were chosen as optimum conditions. Aldehydes-DNPH derivatives in water were concentrated on Sep-Pak cartridge and followed by elution of their derivatives fraction with THF/ACN(70/30) mixture, and showed recoveries of the range from 87 to 107%. Separation condition on Nova-Pak column with low pressure gradient elution from ACN/MeOH/water(30/10/60) of an initial condition to 80% ACN of a final condition was found to give a good resolution within 20 minutes of run time. 86% to 103% of recovery for aldehydes using this method was similar to that for aldehyde using EPA Method 554 which is ranged from 84% to 103%.
The insertion reaction mechanism of CBr2 with CH3CHO has been studied by using the B3LYP/6-31G(d) method. The geometries of reactions, transition state and products were completely optimized. All the energy of the species was obtained at the CCSD(T)/6-31G(d) level. All the transition state is verified by the vibrational analysis and the internal reaction coordinate (IRC) calculations. The results show that the propionaldehyde (HP1) is the main product of CH2 insertion with CH3CHO. The calculated results indicated that all the major pathways of the reaction were obtained on the singlet potential energy surface. The singlet CBr2 not only can insert the Cα-H [reaction I(1)]) but also can react with Cβ-H [reaction II(1)]. The statistical thermodynamics and Eyring transition state theory with Wigner correction are used to study the thermodynamic and kinetic characters of I(1) and II(1) in temperature range from 100 to 2200 K. The results show that the appropriate reaction temperature rang is 250 to 1750 K and 250 to 1600 K at 1.0 atm for I(1) and II(1) respectively. The rate constant and equilibrium constant are distinct in the range from 250 to 1000 K so that I(1) more easily occurs, while the reactions are not selected in the temperature range of 1000–1600 K.
Abstract Acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde have both been previously shown to possess sympathomimetic activity and to affect the cardiovascular system. The objectives of the present investigation were to study the dose-effect relationships of the two aldehydes on the cardiovascular system of the anesthetized rat and to establish the mechanism of the pressor and depressor effects of the compounds. Low iv doses of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde produced a consistent dose-related rise in blood pressure. These responses were slightly reduced by adrenalectomy and more strongly antagonized by pretreatment with reserpine or phentolamine. This indicates that the pressor effects of these compounds are primarily due to vasoconstriction mediated by norepinephrine released from sympathetic nerve endings in vascular smooth muscle. Higher doses of the two aldehydes produced a sharp fall in blood pressure and a severe bradycardia. Atropine reduced the hypotensive and cardioinhibitory effects of the aldehydes, suggesting that these actions are mediated by the vagus nerve. This was confirmed by experiments in vagotomized rats. After vagotomy, high doses of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde produced an increase in blood pressure and a positive chronotropic response. The results of this study indicate that acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde exert two opposing actions on the cardiovascular system: (1) a sympathomimetic effect which predominates at doses below 20 mg/kg resulting in a rise in blood pressure; and (2) stimulation of higher centers resulting in bradycardia and hypotension with higher doses.
Two types of CO-Rh species formed on the Rh-Y zeolite, Rh{sub 6}(CO){sub 16} and Rh{sup I}(CO){sub 2} were exposed to various atmospheres containing reaction components of ethylene hydroformylation. During exposure of Rh{sub 6}(CO){sub 16}/Y to C{sub 2}H{sub 4} + H{sub 2}, Rh{sub 6}(CO){sub 16} was decomposed and some CO molecules were converted into propionaldehyde. In the case of Rh{sup I}(CO){sub 2}/Y, only a very small decrease in IR bands due to Rh{sup I}(CO){sub 2} was observed, while the formation of propionaldehyde was not appreciable. The sample once exposed to C{sub 2}H{sub 4} + H{sub 2}, however, became active for ethylene hydroformylation. During exposure of Rh{sub 6}(CO){sub 16}/Y to a reaction mixture for ethylene hydroformylation, neither changes in the IR bands due to Rh{sub 6}(CO){sub 16} modification nor formation of propionaldehyde was observed. In the case of Rh{sup I}(CO){sub 2}/Y, almost no changes were observed in the bands due to Rh{sup I}(CO){sub 2}. However, a small amount of propionaldehyde was formed during the exposure, while the formation was not important compared with that on the Rh{sup I}(CO){sub 2}/Y once exposed to C{sub 2}H{sub 4} + H{sub 2}. The change in color of RH{sup I}(CO){sub 2}/Y from light yellow to gray wasmore » observed during the exposure to C{sub 2}H{sub 4} + H{sub 2} or C{sub 2}H{sub 4} + CO + H{sub 2}. The catalytic activity Rh-Y for ethylene hydroformylation was considerably enhanced by pretreatment of the fresh Rh-Y with H{sub 2}. The predominant rhodium species on the sample exposed to H{sub 2} at 393 K were found to be metallic rhodium by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy.« less
Aliphatic alcohols and the corresponding aldehydes inhibit the oxidation of glucose-U-C14 to C14O2, total respiratory carbon dioxide formation, and oxygen consumption by potassium-stimulated rat brain cortex slices. The inhibitory effects of alcohols increase with the increase of the length of carbon chain, which is similar to the inhibitory effects of alcohols on the metabolism of liver slices. Forty millimolar pentanol and ethanol inhibit C14O2 formation by 92% and 17% respectively. However, aliphatic alcohols at a fraction of the concentrations used with brain slices severely suppress C14O2 formation, total CO2 formation, and incorporation of acetate-1-C14 and glucose-U-C14 into hepatic lipids and proteins.At low concentrations aldehyde inhibition increases rapidly with the concentration, which is in direct contrast to ethanol or propanol whose inhibitory effects change slightly. Three millimolar propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and valeraldehyde are approximately 6 times more inhibitory to C14O2 format...
Under hydroformylation conditions, using supported rhodium as catalyst, 2-nitrostyrene is directly converted into skatole in ca. 70% yield, by a reaction involving formation of 2-(o-nitrophenyl)propionaldehyde by homogeneous catalysis, reduction of the nitro-group by heterogeneous catalysis, then ring closure and thermal dehydration.
An objectives of this study is to investigate indoor concentrations of 22 odorous compounds, which are regulated by the domestic act, emitted from pig buildings through on-site visit per month from July, 2011 to June, 2012. Of 22 odorous compounds, the highest concentration was found in ammonia with ppm unit, followed by hydrogen sulfide, methyl ethyl ketone, propionic acid and butylic acid with ppb unit of approximate hundred level. The other odorous compounds were detected below ppb unit of approximate ten level. A remarkable finding is that there is no pig building which showed the airborne levels of five aldehyde-based odorous compounds (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, n-valeraldehyde and i-valeraldehyde). In general, indoor concentrations of odorous compounds in pig buildings were higher in scraper type than slurry type based on pig manure collection system and higher in enclosed type than winch-curtain type based on ventilation mode, respectively. In temporal distribution of odorous compounds, their concentrations in summer season (June to August) when ventilation rate in pig building decreased relatively were generally higher than those in winter season (December to February) when ventilation rate in pig building is relatively high. The seasons of spring (March to May) and autumn (September to November) showed middle levels of odorous compounds between summer and winter.
Additional investigation was made on the polymerization of β-cyanopropionaldehyde at −78°C. with triethylaluminum and triethylaluminum—titanium tetrachloride complexes as initiators. The complexes give a higher polymer yield than triethylaluminum alone. The yield—Ti/Al plot also has a maximum at a Ti/Al mole ratio of about 0.2 at constant Al(C2H5)3 concentration. The rate of polymerization seems to be increased in the following order: toluene < methylene chloride < tetrahydrofuran. This order is reversed with regard to the content of DMF-insoluble fraction mentioned below. The polymer obtained consists of two fractions: one is soluble in dimethylformamide (DMF) and the other is not. The former consists of an amorphous polymer and the latter of crystalline polymer. It was found that the infrared absorption bands at 790, 1258, and 1375 cm.-1 were characteristic of crystalline polymer and were assigned to crystalline bands. Those at 1270 and 1345 cm.-1 are characteristic of amorphous bands. The crystalline bands and COC bands show very intense infrared dichroism, whereas the nitrile band does not. The crystal data obtained from the analysis of the x-ray diffraction pattern, including the fiber repeat distance of 4.95 A. and other unit cell dimensions in a triclinic system, were compared with those reported for various aldehyde polymers. The unit cell dimension a′ or the maximum interplanar distance is somewhat smaller, suggesting that the molecules are more tightly packed than poly(n-butyraldehyde), in which the side chain has the same carbon number as that of poly-(cyanoethyl)oxymethylene. Internal rotation angles and a radius of helix were calculated for an isotactic fourfold helical model of the polymer. Some other characterizations of the polymer were also made.
A new dye-linked alcohol dehydrogenase (vanillyl alcohol dehydrogenase) was purified to homogeneity from cells of Rhodopseudomonas acidophila strain M402 grown aerobically on vanillyl alcohol. The reaction product from vanillyl alcohol was identified as vanillin as judged by its melting point, elemental analysis and IR, mass and NMR spectra. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be approximately 72,000 as determined by gel filtration and the isoelectric point was pH 6.01.The most characteristic feature of this enzyme is its wide substrate specificity range. The enzyme catalyzes the dehydrogenation of various aromatic and aliphatic alcohols and aldehydes with phenazine methosulfate as electron acceptor. The active substrates of this enzyme are as follows: Vanillyl alcohol, benzyl alcohol, cinnamyl alcohol, 2-phenylethanol, 2-phenoxyethanol, aliphatic alcohols of C2 to G8, trans-cinnamaldehyde, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde. The highest activities were obtained with vanillyl ...
In humans, the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily consists of 19 isoenzymes which mostly catalyze the NAD(P)+-dependent oxidation of aldehydes. Many of these isoenzymes have overlapping substrate specificities and therefore their potential physiological functions may overlap. Thus the development of new isoenyzme-selective probes would be able to better delineate the function of a single isoenyzme and its individual contribution to the metabolism of a particular substrate. This specific study was designed to find a novel modulator of ALDH2, a mitochondrial ALDH isoenzyme most well-known for its role in acetaldehyde oxidation. 53 compounds were initially identified to modulate the activity of ALDH2 by a high-throughput esterase screen from a library of 63,000 compounds. Of these initial 53 compounds, 12 were found to also modulate the oxidation of propionaldehyde by ALDH2. Single concentration measurements at 10 μM compound were performed using ALDH1A1, ALDH1A2, ALDH1A3, ALDH2, ALDH1B1, ALDH3A1, ALDH4A1, and/or ALDH5A1 to determine the selectivity of these 12 compounds towards ALDH2. Four of the twelve compounds shared an aromatic lactone structure and were found to be potent inhibitors of the ALDH1/2 isoenzymes, but have no inhibitory effect on ALDH3A1, ALDH4A1 or ALDH5A1. Two of the aromatic lactones show selectivity within the ALDH1/2 class, and one appears to be selective for ALDH2 compared to all other isoenzymes tested.
The kinetic properties of highly purified preparations of sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase (preparations that had been shown to be free from contamination with the corresponding mitochondrial enzyme) were investigated with both propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde as substrates. At low aldehyde concentrations, double-reciprocal plots with aldehyde as the variable substrate are linear, and the mechanism appears to be ordered, with NAD+ as the first substrate to bind. Stopped-flow experiments following absorbance and fluorescence changes show bursts of NADH production in the pre-steady state, but the observed course of reaction depends on the pre-mixing conditions. Pre-mixing enzyme with NAD+ activates the enzyme in the pre-steady state and we suggest that the reaction mechanism may involve isomeric enzyme--NAD+ complexes. High concentrations of aldehyde in steady-state experiments produce significant activation (about 3-fold) at high concentrations of NAD+, but inhibition at low concentrations of NAD+. Such behaviour may be explained by postulating the participation of an abortive complex in product release. Stopped-flow measurements at high aldehyde concentrations indicate that the mechanism of reaction under these conditions is complex.
Erythronolide A (1) is a characteristic example. One of the formally simplest possibilities for the elaboration of these polypropionate-derived sequences involves the aldol type of condensation between a growing aldehyde chain and some operational equivalent of a propionaldehyde unit. It is, therefore, not surprizing that much effort has been expended over the last several years in the development of methods which would result in better and better control of the stereochemistry of the aldol condensation.
There can be no doubt that organic chemistry has greatly benefited from this massive effort. It is not just synthetic methodology which has been advanced: The role of chelation to a metal center and the conformation of these chelated arrays are now better understood to be major determinants of the stereochemical result of an aldol type of condensation. More and more ingenious ways of controlling transition state conformations, so as to produce one or another diastereoisomer, have further resulted from the rational design of propionaldehyde enolate equivalents, ranging from anions of propionic acid derivatives to those of butene.' Interesting as all this work has been, there is still no general method predictably applicable to the construction of any given alternating sequence of methyls and hydroxyls, especially when the sequences include tertiary2 as well as secondary alcohols.
In humans, the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily consists of 19 isoenzymes which mostly catalyze the NAD(P) + -dependent oxidation of aldehydes. Many of these isoenzymes have overlapping substrate specificities and therefore their potential physiological functions may overlap. Thus the development of new isoenyzme-selective probes would be able to better delineate the function of a single isoenyzme and its individual contribution to the metabolism of a particular substrate. This specific study was designed to find a novel modulator of ALDH2, a mitochondrial ALDH isoenzyme most well-known for its role in acetaldehyde oxidation. 53 compounds were initially identified to modulate the activity of ALDH2 by a high-throughput esterase screen from a library of 63,000 compounds. Of these initial 53 compounds, 12 were found to also modulate the oxidation of propionaldehyde by ALDH2. Single concentration measurements at 10 μM compound were performed using ALDH1A1, ALDH1A2, ALDH1A3, ALDH2, ALDH1B1, ALDH3A1, ALDH4A1, and/or ALDH5A1 to determine the selectivity of these 12 compounds towards ALDH2. Four of the twelve compounds shared an aromatic lactone structure and were found to be potent inhibitors of the ALDH1/2 isoenzymes, but have no inhibitory effect on ALDH3A1, ALDH4A1 or ALDH5A1. Two of the aromatic lactones show selectivity within the ALDH1/2 class, and one appears to be selective for ALDH2 compared to all other isoenzymes tested.
The aromatic lactones identified by this screen are potent (2P4 K i ≈ 35 nM for ALDH2) inhibitors of the ALDH1/2 isoenzymes. These compounds, upon further development, could be used to better determine the functions of each isoenzyme. These compounds also have therapeutic potential as inhibitors of the ALDH1/2 family of enzymes have medicinal applications as modulators of dopamine metabolism, antidipsotropic drugs, and as chemotherapy sensitizers. However, a strictly ALDH2-selective compound remains elusive as separating the inhibition of ALDH2 from the inhibition of ALDH1A1 has been difficult. Additionally, the effect of many currently used ALDH1A1 and ALDH2 inhibitors (for instance, disulfiram, daidzin or DEAB) on the related but lesser-studied ALDH1A2, ALDH1A3, and ALDH1B1 has not been fully examined. Two of the lactones reported here, 2P4 and 2BS4, appear to inhibit ALDH2 without inhibiting ALDH1A1 achieving the separation in inhibition rarely seen in previous compounds. Future studies will include determining the dose-dependent effects of these four compounds on the various isoenzymes and determining the binding site of these compounds through x-ray crystallography to further the development of these aromatic lactones as ALDH1/2 inhibitors, with the hope that slight structural modifications will yield an ALDH1A1-selective or ALDH2-selective inhibitor. A) Primary screen results for the 53 lead compounds. The esterase activity of ALDH2 with 10 μM compound present was compared to the activity of ALDH2 in the absence of compound (-control). Selection criteria was either >130% activity or <65% activity. The positive control was 100 μM daidzin. B) Effect of the 53 lead compounds on the dehydrogenase activity of ALDH2. The oxidation of propionaldehyde by ALDH2 with 10 μM compound present was compared to the activity of ALDH2 in the absence of compound. Value is an average of 2 trials. Value is the average of at least three independent trials (n≥3) with standard error, except for the measurement of ALDH1B1 activity with 2P4 (n=2).
The kinetic properties of highly purified preparations of sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase (preparations that had been shown to be free from contamination with the corresponding mitochondrial enzyme) were investigated with both propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde as substrates. At low aldehyde concentrations, double-reciprocal plots with aldehyde as the variable substrate are linear, and the mechanism appears to be ordered, with NAD+ as the first substrate to bind. Stopped-flow experiments following absorbance and fluorescence changes show bursts of NADH production in the pre-steady state, but the observed course of reaction depends on the pre-mixing conditions. Pre-mixing enzyme with NAD+ activates the enzyme in the pre-steady state and we suggest that the reaction mechanism may involve isomeric enzyme-NAD+ complexes. High concentrations of aldehyde in steady-state experiments produce significant activation (about 3-fold) at high concentrations of NAD+, but inhibition at low concentrations of NAD+. Such behaviour may be explained by postulating the participation of an abortive complex in product release. Stopped-flow measurements at high aldehyde concentrations indicate that the mechanism of reaction under these conditions is complex.
Very little is known about the quality and quantity of toxicants yielded by the narghile, a subject of increasing importance as this method of tobacco smoking has become popular all over the world. This study is concerned with the identification and quantification of volatile aldehydes in the gas and particle phases of mainstream narghile smoke generated using a popular type of flavored ma'ssel tobacco mixture. These compounds were analyzed based on a modified version of the Environmental Protection Agency compendium method TO-11A. Using a standardized smoking machine protocol consisting of 171 puffs, 2.6s puff duration and 17s inter puff interval, the average yields of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, propionaldehyde and methacrolein were 630, 2520, 892, 403, and 106 microg/smoking session, respectively. The results showed that none of the aldehydes identified in this study are found in the particulate phase of the smoke, except for formaldehyde for which the partitioning coefficient was estimated as Kp = 3.3 x 10(-8) microg/m3. Given previously reported lung absorption fractions of circa 90% for volatile aldehydes, the yields measured in this study are sufficient to induce various diseases depending on the extent of exposure, and on the breathing patterns of the smokers.
Abstract Surfactants are classified on the basis of the nature of the hydrophilic groups. Surfactant micelle represents a tiny template or nanoreactor which is generally used for preparing nano-structured materials of desired sizes and shapes with required functionalities. In this present investigation chromic acid oxidation of 1.3-propanediol (1.3-PDO) to 3-hydroxy propionaldehyde (3-HPA) was carried out by using four representative promoters: picolinic acid (PA), 2.3-pyridine dicarboxylic acid (2.3 diPA), 2.2′-bipyridine (bipy) and 1.10-phenanthroline (phen) in presence and absence of surfactants sodium dodecylsulphate (SDS), N-cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC) and Triton-X-100 (TX-100). Reactions were performed under pseudo-first-order condition: [1.3-PDO]T ≫ [Cr(VI)]T in aqueous media at 30 °C temperature. Different combinations were performed to select the suitable combination of promoter and micellar catalyst for this oxidation. Based on the kinetic results, combination of TX-100 and phen was found to be the most suitable one for this oxidation. The mechanisms of both unpromoted and promoted reaction paths were proposed. The product was confirmed by 2.4-DNP test followed by FTIR spectroscopy of the hydrazone derivative.
Abstract Temperature dependent molar absorptivities are reported for acetone, 2-butanone, 2-pentanone, 3-pentanone, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n -butyraldehyde in aqueous solution. Molar absorptivities are given at eight temperatures in the range 6.5–69.5°C for wavelengths greater than 200 nm, a spectral resolution of 2.0 nm, and a spacing of 2.5 nm. For both ketones and aldehydes a shift to shorter wavelengths of approximately 10 nm is observed in the aqueous phase absorption spectrum relative to that found in the gas phase. For the ketones, there is an increase in the total intensity of the spectrum of approximately 5% over the range of temperatures studied. For the aldehydes a much larger change in the intensity of the absorption spectrum is observed, due to the temperature dependence of the hydration reaction RCHO + H 2 O ⇄ RCH(OH) 2 ; K hyd = [RCH(OH) 2 /[RCHO]. The change in the spectral intensity with temperature is used to determine thermodynamic parameters for the hydration reaction, giving the following results (at 25°C): acetaldehyde, K hyd = 1.13 ± 0.06, Δ H = −19.7±0.6kJ/mol, Δ S = −65.0±2.5J/mol-K; propionaldehyde, K hyd =1.02±0.06, ΔH=-20.8±0.8kJ/mol, Δ S =-69.6±3.1J/mol-K; n -butyraldehyde, K hyd =0.50±0.05, ΔH=-27.0±2.2kJ/mol, Δ S = −96.5± 8.2 J/mol-K. The implications of these results for aqueous phase atmospheric chemistry are discussed.
Vector-dependent gene overexpression typically relies on an efficient operon and sufficient RNA polymerases (RNAPs). The lac (lactose) operon is a paradigm of transcription control, and cyclic AMP receptor protein (CRP) is a global regulator capable of recruiting RNAPs. However, the gap between lac operon and CRP has not been well bridged. In this work, CRP was fused to lac repressor protein (lacI) to form an artificial transcription factor (ATF) with the expectation that when LacI acted on the lacO-positioned upstream of gene of interest, the LacI-tethered CRP would trap RNAPs and thus improve the expression of PuuC, an aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyzing 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) in Klebsiella pneumoniae. As expected, SDS-PAGE and HPLC showed enhanced PuuC expression and 3-HP production, respectively, compared to the control strain without expressing chimeric protein LacI-CRP. Moreover, quantitative real-time PCR demonstrated increased transcription levels of both PuuC and RNAP coding genes. In shake-flask cultivation, the recombinant K. pneumoniae strain coexpressing LacI-CRP and PuuC produced 1.67-fold of 3-HP relative to the stain only overexpressing PuuC. In bioreactor cultivation, the strain coexpressing LacI-CRP and PuuC produced 35.1 g/L 3-HP, whereas the strain without expressing LacI-CRP generated only 9.8 g/L 3-HP. Overall, these results indicated that as an ATF, LacI-CRP significantly boosted PuuC expression and 3-HP production. We envision that LacI-CRP as a plug-and-play part can be used for regulating gene expression.
The dehydrogenation of 2-ethyl-l-hexanol to 2-ethylhexanal by hydrogen exchange with aliphatic aldehydes has been studied over MgO. As hydrogen acceptors acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde were used. Reaction with propionaldehyde was found to be an effective synthetic route for 2-ethylhexanal preparation, whereas during reactions with acetaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde a gradual catalyst deactivation vs. time-on-stream was observed.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo(4,5-b)pyridine (PhIP) is the most abundant food-derived heterocyclic aromatic amine in well-cooked meats and may contribute to the recognized carcinogenicity of processed meats. In this study, a panel of human gut microbes was tested for their ability to convert PhIP to a conjugate PhIP-M1. Eubacterium hallii was newly identified to catalyse the conversion of PhIP to PhIP-M1 with high efficiency. The reaction was shown to involve the metabolism of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde as a key pathway. The proficiency of E. hallii in transforming PhIP in the presence of a complex intestinal microbiota was confirmed using batch fermentations inoculated with effluents from a continuous intestinal fermentation model mimicking human proximal and distal colon microbiota. In batch fermentations inoculated with proximal colon microbiota, PhIP-M1 transformation corresponded to an up to 300-fold increase of E. hallii. In contrast, PhIP transformation of distal colon microbiota was low but increased by 120-fold after supplementation with E. hallii. These findings indicate for the first time the relevance of the abundant commensal strict anaerobe E. hallii in the transformation of a dietary carcinogen that could contribute to its detoxification in the human colon.
The present invention a potassium ion (K +, Potassium ion) concentration relates to the detection method and detection kit, and more specifically, potassium or a potassium ion (K +, Potassium) a sample of potassium measured composition and turbidity forming agent to shoot containing to be measured relates to Stadium tetraphenylborate powder (powder Sodium tetraphenylborate) calcium ion (K +, Potassium) a method of detecting the concentration and the detection kit used. The invention in the reagents to be used in the potassium ion concentration is detected, it provides alcohol (alcohol), distilled water (demineralized water), an aldehyde (aldehyde), potassium measured composition mixing a chelating compound. In another aspect, the present invention alcohol (alcohol), distilled water (demineralized water), an aldehyde (aldehyde), potassium measured composition and the turbidity formed mixture including chelate compounds Jane Shaw Stadium tetraphenyl potassium ion concentration configured including borate (Sodium Tetraphenylborate) It provides a detection kit. In addition, the alcohol of the measurement of potassium composition used to a monohydric alcohol, a divalent alcohol mixture, at least one or both of the primary alcohol or secondary alcohol, Aldehydes are formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, bupil aldehyde such as an aliphatic saturated aldehyde, acrolein, chroman hetero cyclic aldehydes, such as money, aldehydes such as aliphatic unsaturated aldehydes, benzaldehyde, sinnim aldehyde and aromatic aldehyde or furfural of one or using a mixture of two or more, and Chelate compounds chelating agent ethylene glycol tetra acetic acid (EGTA), ethylenediamine, auxin, o- phenanthroline, Bali Norma who, bolre Oh, my God, furanoid 2 (Fura 2), kworin to, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA ), diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA), Prussian blue (Prussian blue), citric acid, peptide, amino acid, aminopolycarboxylic, including single-chain amino acids, glucoside ninsan, glucoheptonic acid, Olga well-established sports carbonate, pamidronate and provides, such as a bisphosphonate, inorganic polyphosphate, such as the potassium, which is characterized by the use of the compounds in combination with metal ions ion concentration detection kit. In addition, through the process, the turbidity forming agent shoot Stadium tetraphenylborate process, compared to the sample of the turbidity formed absorption intensity or colorimetric table to form a turbidity put (Sodium Tetraphenylborate) for mixing a mixture of the potassium measuring the composition of the sample It provides a method for measuring the potassium ion concentration.
An experimental systemic insecticide, Union Carbide UC-21149 (2-methyl-2- (methylthio) propionaldehyde O- (mcthylcarbamoyl) oxime), was compared with Di-Syston® ( 0,0 -dicthyl 5-[2- (ethylthio) ethyl] phosphorodithioate), and phorate in granular formulations applied at planting as in-furrow treatments for control of early-season cotton insects. Additional tests were conducted with UC-21149 as seed treatment or sidedress applied at various stages of cotton plant growth for control of the boll weevil, Anthonomus grandis Boheman. ::: ::: In the in-furrow treatments at planting, Di-Syston and phoratc adversely affected stands of cotton; but UC-21149 did not. UC-21149 was as effective as Di-Syston and phorate against a thrips complex [flower thrips, Frankliniella tritici (Fitch) ; F. exiguia Hood; tobacco thrips, F. fusca (Hinds); and grain thrips, Limothrips cerelium (Haliday)]; the cotton aphid, Aphis gossypii Glover; and an artificially induced infestation of the carmine spider mite, Tetranychus cinnabarinus (Boisduval). Mortality of overwintered boll weevils was significantly greater with UC-21149 and phorate than with Di-Syston. UC-21149 applied as a seed treatment reduced stands and was ineffective against the cotton aphid. Sidedress treatments produced significant mortality of boll weevil larvae developing within the squares and bolls, and of adults feeding on terminal growth. It also controlled the cotton aphid and carmine spider mite. However, UC-21149 was ineffective against the bollworm, Heliothis zea (Boddie), and cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni (Hubner). Bollworms increased in 1 test, apparently owing to a lack of beneficial insects. Phytotoxicity was observed at the high rates shortly after treatment, but it did not appear to persist on subsequent plant growth.
Abstract The purpose of this study was to identify possible relationships between biochemical—Catalase, Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and Propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PDH)—and histochemical—Neutral Red Retention time (NRR)—parameters of mussels ( Mytilus galloprovincialis ) and chemical (Hg, Pb, Cd, Zn, Cr, DDTs and PCBs) contaminants from the most polluted area of the Venice Lagoon which lies around Porto Marghera (industrial pollution) and the city of Venice (domestic pollution). Sampling of mussels was undertaken at the beginning of March 1995 and repeated in March 1996, just before spawning, when tissue concentrations of chemical pollutants reach their annual maxima. The results of the organic contaminant analysis showed generally good agreement between sites for the two sampling periods, with values broadly 10% lower during 1996 as compared to 1995. Metal contaminant concentrations in tissues revealed greater variability than organic compounds. Distribution pattern of biological parameters were more complex and variable. The apparent lack of significant positive correlations between antioxidant enzyme activities and pollutant body burdens as well as the low values of NRR are consistent with the present debate on the use of these biological indices as markers of contaminant-mediated stress for molluscs.
Publisher Summary Ethanol was found to react with ozone at lower temperatures than with oxygen and also with lower activation energy. This is in agreement with the stronger oxidizing ability of ozone compared to oxygen. In situ laser Raman spectroscopic studies showed the existence of adsorbed ethoxide species on the catalyst surface under reaction conditions; however, at a much lower concentration than when oxygen alone was used as the oxidant. Ozone was generally found to be effective at enhancing the conversion of VOCs, especially at low temperatures. The kinetics of complete oxidation of benzene by ozone on MnO 2 was investigated. It was concluded that the rate determining step for benzene oxidation by ozone was ozone decomposition. The oxidation of lower aliphatic alcohols by ozone over silica and alumina has been studied. It was also found that the main products of the oxidation reactions were acetaldehyde and carbon dioxide from ethanol, propionaldehyde and carbon dioxide from n -propanol, and acetone from isopropanol. Alumina and silica supported MnO 2 catalysts were prepared by incipient wetness impregnation of supports, using manganese acetate, as the precursor and were calcined in air at 773 K for 3 h prior to use. The crystal phases of MnO 2 in the catalysts were identified, using X-ray diffraction (XRD), and their surface areas were determined by N 2 physisorption, using the Brunauer, Emmett, and Teller (BET) method.
Five new strains of lactobacilli isolated from goatling’s stomach were identified by molecular–biological approaches. Profiles of fermentable saccharides, Gram staining, and cell morphology were also determined. They were identified as Lactobacillus reuteri (strains KO4b, KO4m, KO5) and as Lactobacillus plantarum (strains KG1z, KG4). In DNA samples of all newly isolated L. reuteri strains as well as in L. reuteri E (Lreu E; originated from lamb), the part of gldC gene, coding large subunit of glycerol dehydratase, that is necessary for 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA; reuterin) production, was amplified using two designed primer sets. However, the 3-HPA production was revealed only in the strain Lreu E. It produced five- or ten-fold lower amount of 3-HPA in comparison with probiotic L. reuteri ATCC 55730 in aerobic or anaerobic conditions, respectively. Moreover, Lreu E completely lost its production ability after ca. five passages in MRS medium. The co-incubation of Lreu E, but not other L. reuteri isolates, with Escherichia coli re-induced 3-HPA production. In the case of L. reuteri ATCC 55730, the 3-HPA production increased more than four times after co-incubation with E. coli.
The reactions of methylene radicals with acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde have been studied over the temperature range 48–118 °C and over a range of pressures of aldehyde and carbon dioxide. From acetaldehyde, the main products were carbon monoxide, methane, ethane, and acetone, with small amounts of ethylene at low pressures of acetaldehyde. With carbon dioxide present, small amounts of propylene oxide were formed, but propionaldehyde was not observed. The main products from the reaction with propionaldehyde were carbon monoxide, methane, ethane, and ethylene, with small amounts of methyl ethyl ketone, butene oxide, and isobutyraldehyde. The relation of the results to the relative rates and mode of attack of methylene on the various bonds is discussed.
Abstract The effect of β-naphthoflavone (β-NF) on several catalytic activities of cytochrome P450 (CYP) and phase II enzymes putatively controlled by [Ah]-receptor activation in the liver, heart and kidney of gilthead seabream, was investigated. In the liver, β-NF treatment [intraperitoneal injection (i.p.) 50 mg/kg] resulted in an increase of CYP content, immunoreactive CYP 1A and methoxyresorufin-O-demethylase (MEROD), pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase (PROD) and ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activities. However, β-NF had no effect on any of the hepatic phase II enzymes examined (benzaldehyde dehydrogenase, propionaldehyde dehydrogenase, glutathione S-transferase, UDP-glucuronyl-transferase, DT-diaphorase). Single i.p. injection of 10 mg/kg β-NF showed a maximal induction of CYP 1A-like protein and EROD activity after 3–7 days. CYP 1A and EROD returned to control levels 18-days post-treatment. β-NF injection also caused a rapid increase of a single band size of mRNA recognized by a CYP 1A1 cDNA fragment from sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax). Expression of mRNA preceded the increase of EROD activity and declined rapidly by 96 h. Dose–response experiments demonstrated that EROD was significantly enhanced in liver by a single injection of 0.3 mg/kg β-NF and was the most sensitive measurement for CYP 1A-like induction. β-NF treatments also increased the expression of CYP 1A-like protein, mRNA and EROD, but not MEROD and PROD activities in heart and kidney.
We have reported that normal rat urinary bladder possesses significant amounts of an aldehyde dehydrogenase (class 3 ALDH) expressed during hepatocarcinogenesis, but not detectable in normal liver. Changes in expression of both liver and bladder ALDH during N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl) nitrosamine (BBN)-induced bladder carcinogenesis were studied. The ALDH phenotype was determined at intervals over 42 weeks by histochemical analysis, total ALDH activity assays and gel electrophoresis using propionaldehyde and NAD (P-NAD) which characterizes class 1 and 2 ALDH, or benzaldehyde and NADP (B-NADP) to determine class 3 ALDH. By total activity assays and gel electrophoresis, there was a significant decrease in bladder class 3 ALDH activity during weeks 5-15. Histochemical analysis clearly demonstrates changes in ALDH early in neoplastic development. Intense staining with B-NADP in regions of hyperplasia was first detectable at week 10. Staining in hyperplastic regions was accompanied by a significant decrease in ADLH in neighboring, apparently normal urothelium. As the urothelium became more abnormal, class 3 ALDH activity increased. By week 25, the bladder class 3 ALDH activity of BBN-treated animals was 2 times greater than the control group class 3 ALDH activity. Histochemically, all papillomas and carcinomas examined possessed class 3 ALDH. However, staining was heterogeneous within the lesions. Bladder neoplasm class 3 ALDH specific activity was greater than control group class 3 ALDH activity in 70% of papillomas and carcinomas. These results suggest events may be occurring in bladder similar to those in liver which alter expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase during carcinogenesis.
Resting rat pulmonary alveolar macrophages exposed to acrolein were stimulated to synthesize and release thromboxane B2 and prostaglandin E2 in a dose-dependent manner. Zymosan-activated pulmonary alveolar macrophages released approximately twice as much prostaglandin E2 as thromboxane B2, whereas acrolein-activated pulmonary alveolar macrophages released 4-5 times less prostaglandin E2 than thromboxane B2. In the zymosan-stimulated pulmonary alveolar macrophages, acrolein also induced a reversal in the relative amounts of prostaglandin E2 and thromboxane B2 synthesized and released into the culture medium. This reversal was achieved by a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin E2 synthesis. Although phagocytosis was also inhibited in a dose-dependent manner, the reduction in prostaglandin E2 appeared to be partially independent of particle ingestion since thromboxane B2 synthesis was not affected by low doses of acrolein. In fact, high doses induced a slight enhancement in thromboxane B2 synthesis. These results suggest that acrolein selectively inhibited the enzyme, prostaglandin endoperoxide E isomerase, necessary for the conversion of the endoperoxide to prostaglandin E2. Sulfhydryl reagents such as N-ethylmaleimide and 5,5'-dithiobis (2-nitrobenzoic acid) mimicked acrolein's effects, and reduced glutathione afforded protection against the effects of acrolein. These results indicated the possible involvement of acrolein's sulfhydryl reactivity in the inhibition of the isomerase enzyme. Propionaldehyde had no effect on macrophage arachidonic acid metabolism whereas crotonaldehyde mimicked the effects of acrolein. Pulmonary macrophages were unable to reverse the acrolein effects on arachidonate metabolite synthesis after 6 h in an acrolein-free environment. These data indicated the necessity of the unsaturated carbon bond for the acrolein effects on arachidonic acid metabolism and the relative irreversibility of acrolein's reaction with the macrophage.
The reactivity of phenol under noncatalytic conditions with propionaldehyde, acetone, and propionic acid were determined in the presence of water at supercritical conditions and in the absence of water at 673 K. The reaction of phenol with propionaldehyde gave alkylphenols in supercritical water. The yield of the alkylphenol products and ratio of para isomers to ortho ones increased with increasing water density. Over the range of reaction conditions studied, acetone showed no reactivity with phenol regardless of whether water was present or not. The reaction of propionic acid with phenol yielded the corresponding ester in the absence of water.
[153725-01-0] C9H15BO3 (MW 182.02) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C9H15BO3/c1-8(2)9(3,4)13-10(12-8)6-5-7-11/h5-7H,1-4H3/b6-5+ ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = YVBIZZFCPNAJIA-AATRIKPKSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (diene or dienophile used in cycloaddition reactions; electrophile in 1,2-addition reactions) ::: ::: ::: ::: Alternate Name: (E)-3-boronoacrolein pinacolate. ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: bp 110–120 °C/10 mmHg.1 ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: toluene, DCM, THF, Et2O, CHCl3, MeOH. ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: colorless liquid; not commercially available. ::: ::: ::: ::: Analysis of Reagent Purity: IR (film): 1685, 1615 cm−1; 1H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl3):δ 1.31 (s, 12H), 6.70 (d, J = 18.1, 1H), 6.80 (dd, J1 = 18.1, J/2 = 7.4, 1H), 9.61 (d, J = 7.4, 1H); 13C NMR (75.5 MHz, CDCl3): δ 24.8, 84.4, 141.7, 147.0, 195.02; MS, m/e 81 (50), 95 (27), 109 (83), 125 (81), 140 (52), 167 (100), 183 (57); exact mass calcd for C9H15O3B 182.1115, found 182.1109.1 ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Methods: generally prepared from propionaldehyde diethyl acetal. See references for details.1-6 ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: purified by reduced pressure bulb-to-bulb distillation (oven temperature at 110–120 °C, 10 mmHg).1 ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: this compound is not very stable to atmospheric conditions; therefore, it should be kept under an inert atmosphere, preferably at reduced temperature. Treatment of this boronic ester with aqueous base should be avoided as it is sensitive to aqueous protodeboronation.
A rapid and simple method for the determination of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde in surfactants by derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) has been developed. Samples are prepared in small vials containing a solution of DNPH and acetonitrile. This procedure allows direct injection of an aliquot of the sample into a liquid chromatograph (LC) for analysis. Separation and quantitation of the derivatives can be performed using reverse-phase liquid chromatography. Detection limits for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde are 0.1, 0.1, and 0.5 micrograms/g, respectively, for a 1 g sample of the surfactant. The technique has been applied to other ethoxylated and propoxylated polymeric materials with equal success.
Abstract The C-15/C-27 segment of venturicidine contains a 1,3,5,n- anti -methylated alkyl chain, which resembles syndiotactic polypropylene and should therefore favor an extended conformation. A synthetic scheme is presented, by which such structures are generated in a cycle of four steps per three stereogenic centers. This allowed the synthesis of the above mentioned venturicidine fragment in 15 steps from propionaldehyde.
Unimolecular dissociation of formyl radical, HCO → H + CO (1), was studied using pulsed laser photolysis coupled to transient UV−vis absorption spectroscopy. One-pass UV absorption, multipass UV absorption, and cavity ring down spectroscopy in the red spectral region were used to monitor temporal profiles of the HCO radical. A heatable high-pressure flow reactor of a new design was employed. Reaction 1 was studied over a buffer gas (He) pressure range 0.8−100 bar and a temperature range 498−769 K. Formyl radicals were prepared by pulsed photolysis of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde (308 nm, XeCl excimer laser, 320 nm, doubled dye laser). In addition to formyl radicals monitored at 230 and 613.8 nm, methyl radicals were monitored via absorption at 216.5 nm. The initial concentrations of free radicals were varied between 7 × 1010 and 8 × 1013 molecules cm-3. The obtained second-order rate constant at 1 bar is k1(He) = (0.8 ± 0.4) × 10-10 exp(−66.0 ± 3.4 kJ mol-1/RT) cm3 molecule-1 s-1 (498−769 K). The low-...
Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) was measured in primary cultures of hepatocytes obtained with collagenase perfusion from livers of Long-Evans rats. After seven days in culture, basal ALDH activity, protein content and DNA content are significantly decreased. Exposure of the cultures to phenobarbital (PB, 3 mM in the media) does not prevent the decrease of DNA content, although it keeps protein at relatively higher levels. The activity of ALDH is not only preserved, but also significantly enhanced, when propionaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde, benzaldehyde and D-glucuronolactone are used as substrates and NAD as the coenzyme. A relative increase of activity is also noted when ALDH is measured with benzaldehyde and NADP. Treatment of Long-Evans animals with PB (1 mg/ml, in drinking water for 2 weeks) leads to similar relative increases of the ALDH activity. In absolute values, however, enzyme activities found after in vivo treatment with PB are higher, compared to those obtained after in vitro exposure. These results show that ALDH activity can be greatly enhanced by PB in primary hepatocyte cultures, free from any indirect endogenous influences.
Recombinant human granulocyte colony stimulating factor (rhG-CSF) and its PEGylated product "mono-PEG20-GCSF" have already been widely used for treatment of all kinds of neutropenia. However, the high required dosage of mono-PEG20-GCSF made it relatively expensive in clinical use. We postulated that an N-terminal site-specific PEGylated rhG-CSF with higher PEG Mw (PEG30 kDa) might be able to achieve longer circulation half-life while retaining its bioactivity, allowing the reduction of dosage for clinical use. rhG-CSF was PEGylated at the N-terminus by 5 kDa, 10 kDa, 20 kDa and 30 kDa methoxy-poly(ethylene glycol)-propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD), and the four PEGylates were compared with respect to reaction, separation, characterization and also in vivo/in vitro activity, results showed that the mPEG-ALD of higher Mw demonstrated better N-terminal site-specific selectivity, separation purity and yield. The production cost and in vitro activity of mono-PEG30-GCSF and mono-PEG20-GCSF were almost the same, while mono-PEG30-GCSF showed longer in vivo circulation half-life and 60% higher drug bioavailability than mono-PEG20-GCSF. Consequently, mono-PEG30-GCSF shall be administered at a lower dosage than mono-PEG20-GCSF while retaining the same therapeutic efficacy.
The ring-opening reactions of methyloxirane on various zeolites and zeotypes (HZSM-5, CuZSM-5, HY, AlMCM-41, SiMCM-41, and BMCM-41) were investigated at 363 K either in a pulse reactor or in a circulation system, in the presence of hydrogen or nitrogen. The acidic molecular sieves were found to be active in isomerization (the products are propionaldehyde and acetone) and dimerization (the products are dioxolane and dioxane derivatives) reactions. Deoxygenation was of minor importance in hydrogen or nitrogen atmosphere. The major product formation pathway was dimerization on every catalytically active material. This transformation route was favored by the confined environment.
Abstract Quantities of acetaldehyde, ethanol, and diacetyl produced in milk by single-strain cultures of Pediococcus cerevisiae were determined. The cultures produced only small amounts of these compounds, even on extended incubation. Other volatile compounds were not detected in milk cultures of these organisms. P. cerevisiae strains were capable of reducing acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde but not acetone or butanone to the corresponding alcohols. Organisms were isolated from a series of Cheddar cheeses and identified as pediococci. These isolated organisms produced only small amounts of diacetyl.
Bioassay of parts of cotton plants that had been sidedressed with 2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime (Union Carbide UC-21149) showed that the greatest amount of toxicant accumulated in older leaves and the least in debracted squares (floral buds). One sidedress application of 4 lb toxicant per acre or 2 sidedress applications of 2 lb per acre effectively controlled Anthonomus grandis Boheman, in field cages; however, 2 applications were more effective. When the same total amounts of UC-21149 were applied as multiple and single sidedressings, the multiple applications resulted in greatest uptake in new plant growth. Both deep placement in the soil close to the cotton plant and irrigation increased the uptake of sidedressed UC-21149, but placement did not affect uptake when the soil was irrigated. Foliar applications of a cottonseed oil feeding stimulant increased the effectiveness of a sidedressing of UC-21149 ::: ::: After soil applications, the S35-labeled sulfoxide of UC-21149 [2 methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime] was the major toxic component of squares. After stem applications 8.6–24.2% of the radiolabeled compound was recovered in the plant above the point of treatment.
Publisher Summary ::: Aldehydes and ketones resemble each other in containing the carbonyl group CO; in aldehydes, this is combined with either two hydrogen atoms, in formaldehyde, or with one alkyl group and a hydrogen atom, in the higher members of the series; in ketones, it is combined with two alkyl groups. Methods of preparation of the aldehydes and ketones are common. They can be prepared by the oxidation of alcohols, dry distillation of the calcium, barium, or other heavy metal salts of monobasic fatty acids or of a mixture of salts of two different acids, or the direct addition of water to acetylenic hydrocarbons in the presence of a mercury salt as catalyst. This chapter discusses specific preparation methods of aldehydes and ketones. Typical reactions of aldehydes, such as oxidation, color reactions, condensation (explained on the basis of Cannizzaro reaction), addition reactions, Grignard syntheses, Reformatsky reaction, as well as Wittig reaction are presented in detail. It then profiles individual compounds, such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, trichloroacetaldehyde, and several other derivatives of aldehydes, along with their preparation methods and typical reactions. The same approach has been adopted for ketones wherein individual compounds, such as acetone, chloroacetone, hexachloroacetone, nitroacetone, isopropylidenepropylimine, and many others have been covered.
We wish to report evidence that the covalent bond in coenzyme B_(12) between the cobalt atom and the methylene group (C-5′) of the nucleoside moiety is cleaved during enzymatic conversion of 1,2-propanediol to propionaldehyde. Acquisition of a third hydrogen satisfies the valence at C-5′ created by the cobalt-C-5′ bond cleavage; C-5′ is thus converted to a methyl group. The experimental result to support this assertion is the observation that mixtures of 1,2-propanediol, propanediol dehydrase and deoxyinosylcobalamin liberate 5′-deoxyinosine to solution.
When the rate of protonation of the radical anion formed in the uptake of the first electron decreases with increasing pH, the two-electron reduction wave of cinnamaldehyde decreases to a one-electron wave, followed at –1.5 V by another one-electron wave which corresponds to the radical anion reduction. With increasing alkali metal concentration a new wave iM is formed between these two waves which corresponds to the reduction of a product of a reaction of metal cations with cinnamaldehyde radical anion. In this interaction the reactivity increases in the sequence : Li+, Na+ < K+ < Rb+ < Cs+≪N(CH3)4≪N(C2H5)4. The wave of 3-phenylpropionaldehyde formed in the first two-electron uptake is observed at –1.7 V and its height is limited by the rate of dehydration.
A complete list of all steady-state kinetic constants for the yeast alcohol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.1) catalyzed oxidation of ethanol, propan-1-ol and butan-1-ol, and for the reduction of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde was collected in the pH range 6-10, and an appropriate pH profile for each constant was constructed. A common minimal mechanism with all these substrates has been postulated and pKa values and the pH independent limiting values have been assigned for the rate constants.
α-Nitrosostyrene (1) undergoes [4 + 2] cycloaddition reactions with cyclohexa-1,3-dienes (2) to give, in good yield, tetrahydro-4H-1,2-benzoxazines (3). In the case of 1,4-dimethoxycyclohexa-1,3-diene the regioisomeric adduct (4) is isolated. Hydrolysis of the adducts (3b–f) gives the ketone (5; R = H). This undergoes Beckmann rearrangement when heated in trifluoroacetic acid to give the dione (9). Pyrolysis of the oxazines (3b, c) and and (5; R = H) affords 3-(6-phenyl-3-pyridiyl)propionaldehyde (10) as the only product.
Exposure to carbonyl compounds may cause adverse health effects. The present study examined whether working in a garage and smoking can significantly affect personal “daily” exposure to a number of important carbonyl compounds. The study was carried out on 37 subjects including 22 garage workers (9 smokers and 13 nonsmokers) and 15 nongarage workers or so-called controls (4 smokers and 11 nonsmokers). Daily exposure was estimated using 48-hour integrated measurement of breathing-zone concentrations. The measurement involved the use of a passive carbonyl sampler and high performance liquid chromatography/fluorescence analysis technique. Each subject was measured for up to three measurement sessions. A wide range of breathing-zone concentrations (unit: microgram per cubic meter) was observed for each of the following carbonyls: formaldehyde (14.1–80.1); acetaldehyde (8.41–80.3); acetone (0.65–1096); acrolein (<0.14–3.71); propionaldehyde (1.08–14.6); crotonaldehyde (<0.13–2.80); benzaldehyde (1.79–9.91); an...
Very little is known about the quality and quantity of toxicants yielded by the narghile, a subject of increasing importance as this method of tobacco smoking has become popular all over the world. This study is concerned with the identification and quantification of volatile aldehydes in the gas and particle phases of mainstream narghile smoke generated using a popular type of flavored ma'ssel tobacco mixture. These compounds were analyzed based on a modified version of the Environmental Protection Agency compendium method TO-11A. Using a standardized smoking machine protocol consisting of 171 puffs, 2.6 s puff duration and 17 s inter puff interval, the average yields of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, propionaldehyde and methacrolein were 630, 2520, 892, 403, and 106 lg/smoking session, respectively.
The induction of aneuploidy in cultured Chinese hamster cells by propionaldehyde (PA) and chloral hydrate (CH) has been studied. Chinese hamster embryonic diploid (CHED) cells were grown as a monolayer in cover glasses. Treatments were performed with doses of 5 x 10(-4), 1 x 10(-3) and 2 x 10(-3)% of PA for 3 h and doses of 1 x 10(-3), 2 x 10(-3) and 3 x 10(-3)% of CH for 1.5 h. Treatments with 2 x 10(-3)% of acetaldehyde (AA) for the same PA and CH treatments were used as positive controls. Untreated cultures were used as negative controls. PA induced chromosomal aberrations with the three doses employed although in a lesser degree than the positive control. CH induced chromosomal damage only with the two higher doses. No correlation was found between the amount of chromosomal damage induced and the doses of PA or CH employed. Both compounds increased the frequency of aneuploid cells in relation to untreated controls but not in relation to the positive control. However, neither PA nor CH significantly increased the frequencies of polyploid cells. These results indicate that aldehydes and chlorine-replaced aldehydes are strong inducers of aneuploidy despite some differences between PA or CH and AA regarding cytotoxicity and polyploidy induction.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is a commercially valuable platform compound. Klebsiella pneumoniae has been concerned as an appropriate host for 3-HP production because of its robust capacity to metabolize glycerol. Glycerol conversion to 3-HP in K. pneumoniae comprises two successive reactions: glycerol dehydratase catalyzes glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA); aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyzes 3-HPA to 3-HP. Previous studies focusing on inducible expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase have shown defects of high cost of inducer and low catalytic activity due to inclusion body. Here we show a different strategy that a native promoter in the host K. pneumoniae was used to drive the heterologous expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase gene ald4 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The 3-HP yield of the recombinant reached a peak of 4.23 g/L at log phase, but it decreased during later period of fermentation. Except the validation of high activity of ald4, particularly, the 3-HP formation was uncovered to be closely coupled with cell division, and the lacking of NAD and ATP at latter fermentation phase became the bottleneck for cell growth and 3-HP accumulation. Furthermore, 3-HP is postulated to be converted to 3-HPA via feedback inhibition or other metabolite via unknown mechanism. Since glycerol dissimilation is a common mechanism in a variety of bacteria, the expression strategy using native promoter and implications may provide significant insight into the metabolic engineering for 3-HP production.
The present invention polyoxyalkylene cross-linked with an alkyl chain organopolysiloxane polymer and added to at least an acidic substance of one kind selected from the liquid flow path the group consisting of an organic acid, phosphoric acid and phosphate to the formed mixture, the pH is then to be 5-8 was added to a basic neutralizing agent, and then a cosmetic containing a pasty composition, and the composition can be obtained by heating and / or removing volatile components by vacuum. The paste phase composition is less than or equal to the amount of propionaldehyde generated when applying a same amount of water in the composition heated at 60 ℃ 24 sigan aldehyde 100ppm paste composition. Organopolysiloxane polymer
SUMMARY ::: ::: A high-vacuum distillation method, with liquid-nitrogen trapping, was used to separate the volatile components present in pure-culture fermentations of cucumbers. The pure cultures used were Lactobacillus plantarum, L. brevis, Pediococcus cerevisiae, and Leuconostoc mesenteroides. The vapors were subjected to gas-liquid chromatography and the components identified by comparison of retention times with those of known compounds. Differences in the vapor chromatograms were obtained both between the different species of lactic acid bacteria and with strains of the same species. Comparison of the chromatograms with the organoleptic evaluation of the different pickle samples indicated that the flavor of pickles is due to a blend of volatile components rather than the presence or absence of a single component. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, ethyl alcohol, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde were isolated and identified.
Products of the oxidation of cis-polyisoprene boiling lower than water have been resolved and identified. They are: acetaldehyde, methyl formate, propionaldehyde, acetone, methanol, sylvan, methacrolein, ethanol, butanone, and butenone, Possible mechanisms for their origin are discussed.
Mutants of Clostridium butyricum E5 exhibiting resistance to allyl alcohol which produced the same quantities of 1,3-propanediol as the wild-type strain but more acetate than butyrate were isolated. The acetate-butyrate formation plays a major function in the regulation of the internal redox balance. Allyl alcohol resistance can be attributed not to the loss of 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase but to a shift in the reductive properties of the enzyme. The data support the view that cellular regulation is modified to avoid intracellular accumulation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde.
α-Selenoalkyl Grignard reagents 2 are chiral. On reaction with the magnesium chelate 3a of α-benzyloxypropionaldehyde they show significant degrees of kinetic resolution, especially when the reactions are run in CH2Cl2. Under these conditions, racemic 2 was resolved by reaction with 0.59 equivalents of 3a at temperatures below –20°C. The remaining 2 had an enantiomer enrichment of 80–86% e.e. (as found by trapping). Hence, 2 has a considerably higher configurational stability than its lithium counterpart 1.
3-(Methylnitrosamino)propionaldehyde (MNPA) is a carcinogenic nitrosamine formed by nitrosation of arecoline, a major alkaloid in areca nut which is a constituent of betel quid. While DNA adducts of its analogue, 3-(methylnitrosamino)propionitrile, have been characterized, little is known about the structures of DNA adducts by MNPA. In this paper, we report that the acrolein-derived 1,N2-propanoguanine adducts are formed upon incubating deoxyguanosine or DNA with 3-(N-carbethoxy-N-nitrosamino)propionaldehyde, a stable carbamate precursor of the metabolically activated MNPA. The identities of these adducts were confirmed by HPLC co-migration, by their NMR and UV spectra, and by chemical properties as compared with those of the synthetic standards. Analogous results were obtained from the reaction of the carbamate with calf thymus DNA. Upon acid or enzyme hydrolysis of the carbamate-modified DNA, acrolein-guanine adducts were detected, and the levels were quantitated. Again, the identities of the adducts were verified by co-chromatography with the standards, by UV spectroscopy, or by the ring-opening with NaOH/NaBH4. Consistent with its ability to modify DNA, the carbamate was found to be mutagenic in Salmonella tester strains. These results show that acrolein is a likely metabolite from the activation of MNPA and that the formation of 1,N2-propanoguanine adducts may contribute to the mutagenicity of the carbamate of MNPA.
Aldehyde biosensors were constructed by cross-linking formaldehyde dehydrogenase (FDH) or aldehyde dehydrogenase (ADH) and bovine serum albumin on the surface of a redox Os-polymer-coated electrode. The prepared aldehyde biosensors responded rapidly (within 30 s) to aldehydes without the addition of a soluble mediator, because the inner redox Os-polymer film effectively mediated the electron transfer from NADH generated enzymatically into the outer enzyme film to a glassy carbon electrode. An FDH/Os-polymer electrode responded linearly over the concentration range of 2 x 10(-6)-5 x 10(-4) M for formaldehyde, while an ADH/Os-polymer electrode, though responding similarly to long chain aldehydes, such as propionaldehyde and butylaldehyde, responded linearly over the concentration range of 4 x 10(-6)-2 x 10(-4) M for acetaldehyde.
Abstract : A study of the surface properties of LMH-2 has been initiated in order to identify the source of incompatibility between monomethyl hydrazine and the LMH-2. Argon and nitrogen adsorption isotherms have been used to calculate the surface areas and pore volume distributions. Organic vapors and water have been adsorbed on these powders to observe any reactivity or catalytic activity of the surface. The crystalline powder catalyzed the condensation of propionaldehyde and reacted rapidly with water, but the amorphous powders failed to undergo similar reactions. Most of the adsorption experiments proceeded extremely slowly because of long time intervals needed for pressure equilibration. The presence of pores in the LMH-2 does not appear to be responsible for the slow adsorption. The slow adsorption may be caused by a lack of adsorption sites, or the reactions may have relatively high activation energies. No effective surface treatment has been uncovered, but the adsorption experiments have revealed that the crystalline powders have strong basic groups residing at the surface. There is an indication that acid sites may be present also. (Author)
Protection groups were introduced during biomass pretreatment to stabilize lignin's α,γ-diol group during its extraction and prevent its condensation. Acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde stabilized the α,γ-diol without any aromatic ring alkylation, which significantly increased final product selectivity. The subsequent hydrogenolysis catalyzed by Pd/C generated lignin monomers at near-theoretical yields based on Klason lignin (48 % from birch, 20 % from spruce, 70 % from high-syringyl transgenic poplar), and with high selectivity to a single 4-n-propanolsyringol product (80 %) in the case of the poplar. Unlike direct hydrogenation of native wood, hydrogenolysis of protected lignin with Ni/C also led to high selectivity to this single product (78 %), paving the way to high-selectivity lignin upgrading with base metal catalysts. The use of extracted lignin facilitated valorization of polysaccharides, leading to high yields of all three major biomass polymers to a single major product.
According to the situation of propionaldehyde, propylalcohol and propionic acid in domestic markets, this paper discusses the technical and economic feasibility of producing these products by use of crude acetylene, ethylene and synthetic gas produced by oil-jet coproduction using waste heat of gas rotary flame acetylene furnace. Moreover, the proposal of producing propionaldehyde, propyl alcohol and propionic acid by use of the gas rotary flame acetylene unit in Chongqing Institute of Chemical Technology is proposed.
Abstract The high-yielding synthesis of a wide variety of 1,3-dioxanes via the Prins reaction under mild conditions has been demonstrated using Bronsted-acidic imidazolium ionic liquid [bmim(SO3H)][OTf] or bmimOTf. The use of ionic liquid makes this synthesis simple, convenient, cost-effective, and environmentally friendly. Furthermore, bmimOTf was conveniently separated from the products and can be easily recycled for the Prins reaction with excellent yields. This method works well with a variety of aliphatic aldehydes including formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and cyclohexanecarboxaldehyde. [Supplementary materials are available for this article. Go to the publisher's online edition of Synthetic Communications® for the following free supplemental resource(s): Full experimental and spectral details.]
Abstract In this work, we use quantum chemistry (DFT-UBH&HLYP/6-311G(d,p)) coupled to kinetic calculations to obtain a detailed view of the mechanism of the Cl + aldehyde reactions when the size of the aldehyde increases. A series of linear and ramified aliphatic aldehydes: CH 3 C(O)H, CH 3 CH 2 C(O)H, CH 3 CH 2 CH 2 C(O)H, CH 3 CH 2 CH 2 CH 2 C(O)H, (CH 3 ) 2 CHC(O)H and (CH 3 ) 3 CC(O)H has been considered. For all these aldehydes, we have compared the various capture possibilities of H atoms by Cl atoms, from the alkyl chain and from the aldehydic group. In agreement with experimental data, our calculations show that acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde + Cl reactions almost exclusively proceed via abstraction of the aldehydic hydrogen atom. For larger aldehydes, this abstraction is no longer predominant, in agreement with recent experimental studies on n -butanaldehyde and n -pentanaldehyde. In this work, it has been shown that, aside from the aldehydic group, two factors may influence the reactivity of each site of the alkyl chain, the position of the carbon atom (from which the H atom will be abstracted) with respect to the C O group, and the nature of this carbon atom: primary (–CH 3 ), secondary (>CH 2 ) or tertiary (>CH−). The carbonyl influence extends to carbon atoms in β position for secondary sites and more for primary sites. For the tertiary carbon site in isobutyraldehyde, its reactivity is larger than the secondary ones, even if it is in α position.
Metabolism of N-nitroso-2-oxopropylpropylamine (NOPPA) with either a microsomal preparation or the soluble enzyme fraction from rat liver yielded N-nitroso-2-hydroxypropylpropylamine (NHPPA). We have also identified and quantified propionaldehyde, n-propanol and isopropanol following incubation of NOPPA with the microsomal fraction.
Canine liver aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH) (aldehyde:NAD oxidoreductase; EC 1.2.1.3) are analogous to enzymes identified in human and other mammalian liver tissue in regard to subcellular localization, affinity for substrates, inhibition by disulfiram, and effects of magnesium ions on enzyme activity. Aldehyde dehydrogenase activity is distributed in the mitochondrial, microsomal, and cytosolic fractions of the cell. Four isoenzymes designated ALDH IA, IB, IIA, and IIB have been isolated from canine liver via ammonium sulfate fractionation, ion-exchange chromatography, and affinity chromatography. Based on cell fractionation followed by enzyme isolation, ALDH IA and IB appear to be extramitochondrial whereas ALDH IIA and IIB appear to be mitochondrial in origin. ALDH IA has a high Km for acetaldehyde (3 mM) and propionaldehyde (4 mM). ALDH IB and IIA have Km values for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in the range of 4-60 microM. ALDH IIB has the lowest Km of the four isoenzymes for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde (1-3 microM). All four isoenzymes have Km values for NAD in the range of 4-70 microM. ALDH IB and IIA are sensitive to inhibition by disulfiram whereas ALDH IA and IIB are resistant. Magnesium ions inhibit ALDH IA, IB, and IIA whereas ALDH IIB activity is stimulated approximately 2-fold. Magnesium ions do not affect molecular weight estimates of the isoenzymes as determined by gel filtration chromatography.
Electronic (e-)cigarettes have emerged in recent years as putative alternative to conventional tobacco cigarettes. These products do not contain typical carcinogens that are present in tobacco smoke, due to the lack of combustion. However, besides nicotine, hazards can also arise from other constituents of liquids, such as solvents, flavors, additives and contaminants. In this study, we have analyzed 28 liquids of seven manufacturers purchased in Germany. We confirm the presence of a wide range of flavors to enhance palatability. Although glycerol and propylene glycol were detected in all samples, these solvents had been replaced by ethylene glycol as dominant compound in five products. Ethylene glycol is associated with markedly enhanced toxicological hazards when compared to conventionally used glycerol and propylene glycol. Additional additives, such as coumarin and acetamide, that raise concerns for human health were detected in certain samples. Ten out of 28 products had been declared "free-of-nicotine" by the manufacturer. Among these ten, seven liquids were identified containing nicotine in the range of 0.1-15 µg/ml. This suggests that "carry over" of ingredients may occur during the production of cartridges. We have further analyzed the formation of carbonylic compounds in one widely distributed nicotine-free brand. Significant amounts of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were only found at 150 °C by headspace GC-MS analysis. In addition, an enhanced formation of aldehydes was found in defined puff fractions, using an adopted machine smoking protocol. However, this effect was delayed and only observed during the last third of the smoking procedure. In the emissions of these fractions, which represent up to 40 % of total vapor volume, similar levels of formaldehyde were detected when compared to conventional tobacco cigarettes. By contrast, carbonylic compounds were hardly detectable in earlier collected fractions. Our data demonstrate the necessity of standardized machine smoking protocols to reliably address putative risks of e-cigarettes for consumers.
The byproducts and reaction pathway of gas phase photocatalytic oxidation (PCO) of butyraldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde over aerogel TiO2 under weak black light were studied by means of liquid nitrogen trapping, water extraction, mass spectrometry and carbon balance. Aldehydes were photocatalytically oxidized to corresponding acids, shorter carbon-chain aldehydes, carbon dioxide and water. The so-generated acids were further oxidized to shorter carbon-chain aldehydes, carbon dioxide, and water. Other side reactions were suppressed. The reaction pathway we found can be explained in a straightforward manner with active O* as well as hydroxyl group as the major oxidants.
The use of water-based foams for removal of gaseous pollutants from air has been investigated. Hydrogen sulfide, formaldehyde, and acetaldehyde can effectively be absorbed in foam containing substances that react chemically with the gaseous pollutant. The influence of the foam characteristics on the absorption of gas has been studied for a single continuously flowing liquid film. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde were used as model compounds. It was found that the chemical structure of the foaming agent did not influence the rate of gas absorption. To achieve efficient absorption of slightly soluble gases, it was necessary to use a high renewal rate of the liquid film. The presence of a liquid-crystalline phase in the film increased the solubility of hydrophobic gas molecules. 27 references.
: ::: Reuterin is an antimicrobial compound that consists of hydrated, non-hydrated, and dimeric forms of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). It is produced and excreted by the food grade lactic acid bacterium Lactobacillus reuteri and it is thought to play a pivotal role in the persistence and activity of this bacterium in the gastro-intestinal tract and food fermentation. Reuterin can be produced out of glycerol in relatively large amounts, is active against prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, and is resistant to proteases and lipases. Therefore reuterin has a high potential as a broad spectrum food preservative. However, before reuterin can be applied as a preservative, additional functionality and toxicology studies have to be performed.
Abstract Photocatalytic oxidation of airborne contaminants appears to be a promising process for remediation of air polluted by Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs). In the present work, the photocatalytic oxidation of gaseous 1-propanol has been investigated by using an annular photoreactor. The annular photocatalytic reactor was modelled by a cascade of heightened elementary continuously stirred tank reactors. The influence of several kinetic parameters such as pollutant concentration, incident light irradiance, contact time and humidity content has been studied. The photocatalytic degradation by-products of 1-propanol has been identified in the gas-phase by GC/MS. Propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde were found to be the main gaseous intermediates. Propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde have been taken into account in a “ two-site model ” to evaluate the possible competition of adsorption between 1-propanol and its by-products of degradation. A mechanistic pathway is then proposed for the photocatalytic degradation of 1-propanol.
Abstract In this work, Al-SBA-15 samples with different Si/Al ratios were synthesized; Al was incorporated in the mesoporous SBA-15 structure either using the direct synthesis method, with tri-block copolymer P123 as surfactant, or by the post-synthesis method. The porous solids were characterized using different techniques, such as: XRD, pore size distribution, 27 Al MAS NMR, and XPS. Acidic properties were estimated by adsorption and titration microcalorimetry, respectively. Ammonia and pyridine were used as probe molecules in the first case, while aniline in n-decane was used in the second one. FT-IR of pyridine adsorption and XPS of ammonia adsorption completed the characterization of acid properties. The increase of acidity with the incorporation of aluminum was evidenced; lower Si/Al ratios led to higher acidity of the sample. Microcalorimetry was also used to test the adsorption properties of these mesoporous materials toward pollutants such as methyl ethyl ketone, propionaldehyde and acetonitrile (in gas phase) and nicotine (in aqueous phase). The ketone was better retained in comparison to the other two molecules. Regarding nicotine, its adsorption was strongly influenced by the aluminum content in the solids; the higher the quantity of aluminum, the lower the adsorption of nicotine.
Properties of the phenobarbital induced cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) have been studied in rat liver. 7-12-Fold higher levels were seen in the cytoplasmic activities after phenobarbital treatment in reactor compared to non-reactor animals with high concentrations of acetaldehyde (18 mM) and propionaldehyde (9 mM). No difference was found with 0.12 mM acetaldehyde, 2 mM glycolaldehyde, 6 mM formaldehyde or 0.5 mM betaine aldehyde. The reactor group also had slightly higher activity in the mitochondrial fraction with the high acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde concentrations. In the microsomal fraction, the activities showed no differences at any substrate concentration. An induced aldehyde dehydrogenase was purified 70-fold by chromatographic techniques. It had different molecular and enzymic properties than the main high-Km enzyme normally present in rat liver cytoplasm. The pI of the induced enzyme was about 7.0 as measured by isoelectric focusing. It was active with several aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes but not with formaldehyde, glycolaldehyde or D-glyceraldehyde. The Km-values for propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde were in the millimolar range. Millimolar concentrations of aromatic aldehydes caused a strong substrate inhibition. The enzyme was inhibited by submicromolar concentrations of disulfiram. Estrone, deoxycorticosterone, progesterone and diethylstilbestrol also affected the enzyme activity.
Abstract 3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is a commercially valuable platform compound. Klebsiella pneumoniae has been concerned as an appropriate host for 3-HP production because of its robust capacity to metabolize glycerol. Glycerol conversion to 3-HP in K. pneumoniae comprises two successive reactions: glycerol dehydratase catalyzes glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA); aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyzes 3-HPA to 3-HP. Previous studies focusing on inducible expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase have shown defects of high cost of inducer and low catalytic activity due to inclusion body. Here we show a different strategy that a native promoter in the host K. pneumoniae was used to drive the heterologous expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase gene ald4 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The 3-HP yield of the recombinant reached a peak of 4.23 g/L at log phase, but it decreased during later period of fermentation. Except the validation of high activity of ald4, particularly, the 3-HP formation was uncovered to be closely coupled with cell division, and the lacking of NAD and ATP at latter fermentation phase became the bottleneck for cell growth and 3-HP accumulation. Furthermore, 3-HP is postulated to be converted to 3-HPA via feedback inhibition or other metabolite via unknown mechanism. Since glycerol dissimilation is a common mechanism in a variety of bacteria, the expression strategy using native promoter and implications may provide significant insight into the metabolic engineering for 3-HP production.
3-HP biosynthesis from glycerol generally undergoes two steps: first, glycerol dehydratase catalyzes glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) [5, 6] ; second, aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyzes 3-HPA to 3-HP. Klebsiella pneumoniae has been recognized as a promising host for its powerful ability to utilize glycerol [21] . In K. pneumoniae and many other bacteria, glycerol dissimilation is the central carbon metabolism under anaerobic or microaerobic conditions when glycerol is sole carbon and energy sources. Four enzymes, termed dha regulon, govern glycerol dissimilation, including glycerol reduction by glycerol dehydratase and 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase, along with glycerol oxidation by glycerol dehydrogenase and dihydroxyacetone (DHA) phosphate kinase [6, 11] . By coupling with glycerol oxidation, glycerol reduction confers NAD ? regeneration and cell growth [4] .
Materials FDH (5.27 U mg -1 of solid from Pseudomonas sp.) was obtained from Toyobo, and ADH (1.4 U mg -1 of solid from baker yeast) and bovine serum albumin (BSA) from Sigma. Aldehyde biosensors were constructed by cross-linking formaldehyde dehydrogenase (FDH) or aldehyde dehydrogenase (ADH) and bovine serum albumin on the surface of a redox Os-polymer-coated electrode. The prepared aldehyde biosensors responded rapidly (within 30 s) to aldehydes without the addition of a soluble mediator, because the inner redox Os-polymer film effectively mediated the electron transfer from NADH generated enzymatically into the outer enzyme film to a glassy carbon electrode. An FDH/Os-polymer electrode responded linearly over the concentration range of 2 × 10 -6 -5 × 10 -4 M for formaldehyde, while an ADH/Os-polymer electrode, though responding similarly to long chain aldehydes, such as propionaldehyde and butylaldehyde, responded linearly over the concentration range of 4 × 10 -6 -2 × 10 -4 M for acetaldehyde.
Abstract: Protection groups were introduced during biomass pretreatment to stabilizel ignins a,g-diol group during its extraction and prevent its condensation. Acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde stabilized the a,g-diol without any aromatic ring alkylation, whichs ignificantly increased final product selectivity.T he subsequent hydrogenolysis catalyzedb yP d/C generated lignin monomers at near-theoretical yields based on Klason lignin (48 %from birch,20% from spruce,70% from high-syringyl transgenic poplar), and with high selectivity to asingle 4-n-propanolsyringol product (80 %) in the case of the poplar.U nlike direct hydrogenation of native wood, hydrogenolysis of protected lignin with Ni/C also led to high selectivity to this single product (78 %), paving the way to highselectivity lignin upgrading with base metal catalysts.T he use of extracted lignin facilitated valorization of polysaccharides, leading to high yields of all three major biomass polymers to asingle major product.
Magnetic isotope effects (MIE) on the diastereoselectivity of the triplet [2+2]-photocycloaddition of benzaldehyde with 2,3-dihydrofuran are described for four substrate combinations. The MIE results from H/D exchange at the reactive carbons of either the aldehyde or the alkene, respectively, but also from deuteration of the aromatic positions of benzaldehyde. Weaker isotope effects on the diastereoselectivity were detected for the reaction of α-deuterated propionaldehyde.
alpha,beta-Unsaturated aldehydes were investigated in vitro for their ability to inhibit superoxide anion radical (O2-.) production in stimulated human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN). The aldehydes investigated were (i) trans-4-hydroxynonenal and malonaldehyde (MDA), two toxic lipid peroxidation products; (ii) acrolein and crotonaldehyde, two air pollutants derived from fossil fuel combustion; (iii) trans,trans-muconaldehyde, a putative hematotoxic benzene metabolite. Preincubation of PMN with reactive aldehydes followed by stimulation with the oxygen burst initiator phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of O2-. production. The concentration at which 50% inhibition (IC50) was observed was 21 microM for acrolein, 23 microM for trans,trans-muconaldehyde, 27 microM for trans-4-hydroxynonenal and 330 microM for crotonaldehyde. A similar inhibitory effect by these aldehydes was observed in digitonin- and concanavalin A-stimulated PMN. MDA inhibited O2-. production in PMA-stimulated PMN by 100% at 10(-2) M but gave no inhibition at 10(-3) M. The standard aldehyde propionaldehyde did not inhibit O2-. production at 10(-3)-10(-6) M. Preincubation of PMN with acrolein in the presence of cysteine completely protected against the inhibitory effect of this reactive aldehyde. The results indicate that the ability of toxic aldehydes to inhibit O2-. production in stimulated PMN correlates directly with their alkylation potential which is a function of the electrophilicity of the beta carbon.
SUMMARY 1. Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase catalyzes the reversible oxidative phosphorylation of acetaldehyde to acetyl phosphate. Inorganic phosphate and DPN participate in the reaction. 2. The oxidation of the aldehyde also occurs in the absence of phosphate or arsenate. 3. The dehydrogenase also catalyzes the oxidative phosphorylation of propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde. BIBLIOGRAPHY 1. Warburg, O., and Christian, W., Biochem. Z., 303, 40 (1939). 2. Cori, G. T., Slein, M. W., and Cori, C. F., J. Biol. Chem., 173, 605 (1948). 3. Harting, J., Pederation Proc., 10, 195 (1951). 4. Kunitz, M., and McDonald, M. R., J. Gen. Physiol., 29, 393 (1946). 5. Rafter, G. W., and Krebs, E. G., Arch. Biochem., 29, 233 (1950). 6. Stadtman, E. R., and Lipmann, F., J. Biol. Chem., 186, 549 (1950). 7. Lipmann, F., and Tuttle, L. C., J. Biol. Chem., 169, 21 (1945). 8. Fiske, C. H., and Subbarow, Y., J. Biol. Chem., 66, 375 (1925). 9. Lowry, 0. H., and Lopez, 3. A., J. Biol. Chem., 162, 421 (1946). 10. Stadtman, E. R., and Barker, H. A., J. Biol. Chew, 184, 769 (1950). 11. Krebs, E. G., and Rafter, G. W., Federation Proc., 11, 243 (1952). 12. Velick, S. F., Hayes, J. E., Jr., and Harting, J., J. BioZ. Chem., 203,527 (1953). 13. Cori, C. F., Velick, S. F., and Cori, G. T., Biochim. et biophys. acta, 4, 160 (1950).
Bacterial microcompartments (MCPs) are a widespread family of proteinaceous organelles that consist of metabolic enzymes encapsulated within a protein shell. For MCPs to function specific enzymes must be encapsulated. We recently reported that a short N-terminal targeting sequence of propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) is necessary and sufficient for the packaging of enzymes into a MCP that functions in 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) utilization (Pdu) by Salmonella enterica. Here we show that encapsulation is mediated by binding of the PduP targeting sequence to a short C-terminal helix of the PduA shell protein. In vitro studies indicated binding between PduP and PduA (and PduJ) but not other MCP shell proteins. Alanine scanning mutagenesis determined that the key residues involved in binding are E7, I10, and L14 of PduP and H81, V84, and L88 of PduA. In vivo targeting studies indicated that the binding between the N terminus of PduP and the C terminus of PduA is critical for encapsulation of PduP within the Pdu MCP. Structural models suggest that the N terminus of PduP and C terminus of PduA both form helical structures that bind one another via the key residues identified by mutagenesis. Cumulatively, these results show that the N-terminal targeting sequence of PduP promotes its encapsulation by binding to MCP shell proteins. This is a unique report determining the mechanism by which a MCP targeting sequence functions. We propose that specific interactions between the termini of shell proteins and lumen enzymes have general importance for guiding the assembly and the higher level organization of bacterial MCPs.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) can be produced in microorganisms as a versatile platform chemical. However, owing to the toxicity of the intermediate product 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), the minimization of 3-HPA accumulation is critical for enhancing the productivity of 3-HP. In this study, we identified a novel aldehyde dehydrogenase, GabD4 from Cupriavidus necator, and found that it possessed the highest enzyme activity toward 3-HPA reported to date. To augment the activity of GabD4, several variants were obtained by site-directed and saturation mutagenesis based on homology modeling. Escherichia coli transformed with the mutant GabD4_E209Q/E269Q showed the highest enzyme activity, which was 1.4-fold higher than that of wild type GabD4, and produced up to 71.9 g L−1 of 3-HP with a productivity of 1.8 g L−1 h−1. To the best of our knowledge, these are the highest 3-HP titer and productivity values among those reported in the literature. Additionally, our study demonstrates that GabD4 can be a key enzyme for the development of industrial 3-HP-producing microbial strains, and provides further insight into the mechanism of aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2015;112: 356–364. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses an assay method for the determination of cobamide derivatives in pieomole quantities by means of glycerol dehydrase from Aerobacter aerogenes . Glycerol dehydrase from Aerobacter aerogenes catalyzes the conversion of glycerol into β-hydroxypropionaldehyde in the presence of coenzyme B 12 . Under the action of the coenzyme, the apoenzyme is inactivated simultaneously, both in the presence and the absence of substrate, in a definite stoichiometric relationship of both reacting compounds. The inactivation is associated with the decomposition of coenzyme B 12 with the formation of hydroxocobalamin that later combines with apoenzyme giving a stable complex. The enzymatically inactive complex is also formed directly by treatment of the apoenzyme with hydroxocobalamin as well as cyanocobalamin. The error of a single assay amounts to about 10%. The most accurate results are obtained with amounts of corrinoid inactivating about 50% of the apoenzyme. The assay is applicable to crude systems provided that no other enzymes are present which convert the substrate or product of the reaction.
Physiological and regulatory mechanisms that allow the alkane-oxidizing bacterium Pseudomonas butanovora to consume C2 to C8 alkane substrates via butane monooxygenase (BMO) were examined. Striking differences were observed in response to even- versus odd-chain-length alkanes. Propionate, the downstream product of propane oxidation and of the oxidation of other odd-chain-length alkanes following beta-oxidation, was a potent repressor of BMO expression. The transcriptional activity of the BMO promoter was reduced with as little as 10 microM propionate, even in the presence of appropriate inducers. Propionate accumulated stoichiometrically when 1-propanol and propionaldehyde were added to butane- and ethane-grown cells, indicating that propionate catabolism was inactive during growth on even-chain-length alkanes. In contrast, propionate consumption was induced (about 80 nmol propionate consumed.min(-1).mg protein(-1)) following growth on the odd-chain-length alkanes, propane and pentane. The induction of propionate consumption could be brought on by the addition of propionate or pentanoate to the growth medium. In a reporter strain of P. butanovora in which the BMO promoter controls beta-galactosidase expression, only even-chain-length alcohols (C2 to C8) induced beta-galactosidase following growth on acetate or butyrate. In contrast, both even- and odd-chain-length alcohols (C3 to C7) were able to induce beta-galactosidase following the induction of propionate consumption by propionate or pentanoate.
The utility of diphenylphosphonoacetamides [(PhO)2P(O)CH2CONRR′] as Horner–Wadsworth–Emmons reagents was examined with five different patterns of substitution upon the amide nitrogen atom (2a: R, R′ = CH2Ph; 2b: R = CH2Ph, R′ = H; 2c: R = Me, R′ = OMe; 2d: R, R′ = Ph; 2e: R, R′ = (CH2)4). The reaction of 2a was found to be Z-selective for aromatic aldehydes with selectivities up to 95:5. Reagent 2b led to reasonable selectivity for both benzaldehyde (85:15) and 3-phenylpropionaldehyde (87:13), while 2c was somewhat effective for only the latter alkyl aldehyde (83:17). Compounds 2d and 2e exhibited slightly lower selectivities compared with 2a. © 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Heteroatom Chem 15:515–523, 2004; Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com). DOI 10.1002/hc.20054
1. ::: ::: It has been shown that the reaction of mercurated acetaldehyde with carboxylic acid chlorides results in the formation of the corresponding vinyl esters. In a similar way, bromotris(p-nitrophenyl)methane yieds the corresponding vinyl ether. In these reactions transfer of reaction center along the system of conjugated Hg-C and C=O bonds occurs. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: It has been shown that the reaction of mercurated acetaldehyde with bromotriphenylmethane results in the formation of 3,3,3-triphenylpropionaldehyde, i.e. C-alkylation occurs, without transfer of reaction center. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The previously undescribed vinyl esters of trichloroacetic, phenylacetic, triphenylacetic, phthalimidoacetic, p-nitrobenzoic acids have been prepared. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: The synthesis and ozonization of 4,4,4-triphenyl-1-butene have been described.
Purified Torpedo nobiliana electric organ acetylcholine receptor (AChR) was reconstituted into membranes containing natural phospholipids supplemented with cholesterol (25% w/w). The reconstituted system facilitates the study of the effects of drugs on the regulation of the AChR channel complex under both resting and carbachol (carb)-stimulated conditions. Neostigmine (Neo) was the only carbamate to induce activation of [3-H]-phencyclidine ([3-H]-PCP) binding to the channel sites, acting as a weak agonist. The activation of [3-H]-PCP binding is dependent upon the nature of the reconstituted systems, with carb/Neo activation ratios of 8, 3, and 1 for the intact purified AChR vesicles fraction (PVF), the PVF reconstituted in phospholipid/cholesterol (CRPVF), and the PVF reconstituted in phospholipid (RPVF), respectively. The carbamates Neo, physostigmine (Physo), and pyridostigmine (Pyrido) inhibited carb-activated [3-H]-PCP binding with Ki values of 10, 20, and 1,600 microM, respectively. The inhibition was mixed competitive-noncompetitive in nature. The characteristic response of CRPVF to carb-stimulated [22-Na] influx was inhibited by the three carbamates, with IC-50 values of 6, 50, and 1,000 microM for Neo, Physo, and Pyrido, respectively. The quaternary ammonium organophosphate ecothiophate (Eco) inhibited carb-stimulated [22-Na] influx with potency similar to that of Neo. Preincubation of AChR preparation with the carbamates and ecothiophate caused a reduction in the binding of [125-I]-alpha-bungarotoxin ([125-I]-alpha-BGT) with the following decreasing order of potency: Neo less than Physo less than Eco less than Pyrido. Calcium has a direct modulatory role on the time-course inhibition of [125-I]-alpha-BGT binding by these drugs. While we observed a high potency of Neo and Physo in inhibiting [125-I]-alpha-BGT binding, it was undetectable for the carbamate insecticide 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde-O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime (aldicarb). These data suggest that the potent anticholinesterase carbamate agents interact differently with the AChR and its ionic channel. Their interactions with the nicotinic AChR channel system can be described as (a) weakly agonist, (b) directly acting on the open conformation of the channel, and (c) blocking the AChR-binding sites.
Abstract This study deals with the valorisation of medicinal and aromatic plants of the Tunisian flora, in order to find new bioactive natural products. The essential oil constituents from the flowers of Allium roseum var. odoratissimum, a North African endemic species growing in the south-east of Tunisia, were extracted by hydrodistillation and analysed by GC–MS. The most important compounds were sulphurous compounds (2,4-dimethylthiophene, 2-propenyl methyl disulfide, 1-propenyl methyl disulfide, dimethyl trisulfide, and 3-methyl-thiopropionaldehyde or methional). After an exhaustive literature review dealing with other varieties of the same species, it seems that the variety odoratissimum is the only taxon characterized by trisulfide and methional contents. Methional is of particular importance because it is found at high concentration (17%). The antibacterial activity of seven extracts was evaluated by the diffusion method and by determining the inhibition zone. All extracts exhibited an antibacterial activity at different levels against strains reported as the causal agents of food-borne diseases. Results suggest the potential use of the plant as condiment and preservative in the food industry.
Abstract Racemic compounds containing two or more ring moieties are thought to be of optimal size for complexation and resolution on β-cyclodextrin (β-CD) bonded-phase liquid chromatographic columns. There are few reports on the separation of racemates containing one or no rings. Here, seventeen single-ring-containing racemates are resolved via β-CD complexation: (±)-1-phenyl- ethyl propionate; (±)-α-methylbenzyl acetate, (±)-2-chloro-2-phenylacetic acid, (±)-ethyl- 3-phenylglycidate, d , l -3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-α-propylacetamide; (±)-2-methoxy-α-methylbenzyl alcohol, d , l -2-phenylpropionaldehyde, d , l -α-amino-3-thiopheneacetic acid, (±)-mandelic acid, (±)-mandelic acid methyl ester, (±)-O-acetylmandelic acid, (±)-ephedrine; d , l -phenyl- alanineamide, d , l -tyrosine, d , l -tyrosine methyl ester, 3-hydroxy- d , l -kynurenine and N -(3,5- dinitrobenzoyl)- d , l -leucine. These compounds can be separated on β-CD media, and have certain common structural properties that enhance chiral recognition. The factors that permit the resolution of single-ring-containing racemates on β-CD columns are discussed.
Human aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) family may contribute to metabolism of hydrocarbons, biogenic amines, retinoids, steroids, and lipid peroxidation. We previously reported kinetic properties of human cytosolic ALDH1 and mitochondrial ALDH2 towards oxidation of the straight-chain and branched-chain aliphatic aldehydes with various chain lengths [S.J. Yin, M.F. Wang, C.L. Han, S.L. Wang, Substrate binding pocket structure of human aldehyde dehydrogenases: a substrate specificity approach, Adv. Exp. Med. Biol. 372 (1995) 9-16]. We present here substrate specificities for aromatic and heterocyclic aldehydes with purified human liver ALDH1 and ALDH2, and also with yeast mitochondrial ALDH2 for comparison. Kinetic assay for human ALDHs was performed in 50mM HEPES, pH 7.5 and 25 degrees C, containing 0.5mM NAD(+), 1.7% (v/v) acetonitrile (as a solvent carrier for aldehydes) and varied concentrations of substrate, and for yeast ALDH2 the assay was determined in the same reaction mixture except containing 3mM NAD(+) and addition of 200 mM KCl. With respect to phenylacetaldehyde, 2-phenylpropionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, p-nitrobenzaldehyde, cinnamaldehyde, 2-furaldehyde and indole-3-acetaldehyde, human liver ALDH1 exhibited K(M) ranging from 0.25 to 4.8 microM, V(max) of 0.34-2.4U/mg, and catalytic efficiency, V(max)/K(M), 0.070-3.9U/(mg microM); human ALDH2 exhibited K(M) ranging from less than 0.15-0.74 microM, V(max) of 0.039-0.51 U/mg, and V(max)/K(M), 0.15-1.0U/(mg microM). Human ALDH1 and ALDH2 exhibited substate inhibition constants (K(i)) for phenylacetaldehyde, 95 and 430 microM, respectively. Yeast ALDH2 exhibited K(M) for straight-chain aliphatic aldehydes (C1-C10), 2.3-210 microM, and substrate inhibition constants (C2-C10), 79-2900 microM, with a trend of being smaller K(M) and K(i) for longer chain lengths; and K(M) for cinnamaldehyde, benzaldehyde, and 2-furaldehyde, 5.0, 79, and 1000 microM, respectively. Therefore human ALDH1/ALDH2 and yeast ALDH2 can contribute to detoxification or metabolism of various exogenous/endogenous aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes. The systematic changes in kinetic parameters for oxidation of structurally related aldehydes may reflect subtle functional topographic distinctions of substrate pocket for human and yeast ALDHs.
Abstract As part of our studies directed toward the use of organotitanium chemistry in organic synthesis1,2 we wish to report that stable hexa-coordinate octahedral complexes3 of methyltitaniumtrichloride (1) are diastereoand enantioselective methylating reagents. The reaction of tetramethylethylene diamine3 (TMEDA), glyme3 tetrahydrofuran3 or (−)-sparteine with the equivalent amount of 1 in CH2Cl2 yields compounds 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively. These were allowed to react in situ with 2-phenylpropionaldehyde at −50 °C in CH2Cl2 for two hours.
Abstract 1. (1.) Propionaldehyde, a substrate capable of activating electron transfer and oxidative phosphorylation, stimulated the concentrative uptake (entrance and accumulation) of l -[ 14 C]leucine by starved Saccharomyces ellipsoideus . Under adequate experimental conditions the ratio of l -[ 14 C]leucine uptake to oxygen uptake was higher with propionaldehyde than with d -glucose or endogenous substrates as energy sources. 2. (2) With d -glucose as energy source, antimycin significantly inhibited l -[ 14 C]leucine entrance and accumulation but the inhibition was less than that of respiration. With propionaldehyde as the energy source, cycloheximide did not affect l -[ 14 C]leucine uptake despite the almost complete inhibition of amino acid incorporation into the cell protein. 3. (3) Preincubation of starved yeast with l -glucose or propionaldehyde before l -[ 14 C]leucine addition significantly increased the amino acid entrance values. The effect of energization on amino acid entrance increased with the time the yeast was preincubated with the oxidizable substrates. Energization of a S. ellipsoideus rho − mutant with d -glucose, caused less l -[ 14 C]leucine entrance than with the wild type yeast. 4. (4) Addition of 2,4-dinitrophenol to the d -glucose or propionaldehyde-energized S. ellipsoideus brought about a significant inhibition of l -[ 14 C]leucine entrance, but the d -glucose-energized yeast was much less sensitive to the uncoupler than its propionaldehyde-energized counterpart. 2,4-Dinitrophenol also inhibited l -[ 14 C]leucine entrance in the d -glucose-energized rho − mutant, to the same extent as with the d -glucose-energized wild type yeast. Preincubation of yeast with 2,4-dinitrophenol prevented to about the same extent the energization of l -[ 14 C]leucine transport either by d -glucose or by propionaldehyde. 5. (5) The kinetics of l -[ 14 C]leucine transport as a function of amino acid concentration indicate the existence of two apparently distinct transport systems, namely, one with high affinity and low transport activity (System A) and the other with low affinity and high transport activity (System B). The kinetic parameters K T and V characterizing these systems were dependent on the energization state of the yeast cells since K TA (starved) K TA (energized); K TB (starved) > K TB (energized), while V (starved) V (energized), (for both systems). Systems A and B could be further differentiated by the effect of pH and temperature. 6. (6) Ammonium ions significantly inhibited l -[ 14 C]leucine entrance in d -glucose energized yeast when added simultaneously with d -glucose, but stimulated the very early entrance when added after energization had occurred. With the glucose-energized rho − mutant, ammonium ions increased l -[ 14 C]leucine entrance irrespective of the time addition. 7. (7) Preincubation of yeast with cyclic AMP caused an increased rate of l -[ 14 C]leucine entrance. The effect (a) was related to the nucleotide concentration, and (b) was higher with 1.0 mM than with 0.1 mM l -[ 14 C]leucine. This difference indicates that l -[ 14 C]leucine transport System B was the more responsive to cyclic AMP.
Diethyl ketone, methyl ethyl ketone and dipropyl ketone may be formed, albeit in modest yields, by the ruthenium catalyzed hydroacylation of ethylene and propylene with propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde and butyraldehyde, respectively. The major side reactions consist of aldehyde Cannizzaro and Tishchenko-type transformations as well as aldolizations. Preliminary mechanistic studies have revealed the promoting influence of water in the formation of Ru-carboxylates, RuH(OCOC2H5)L3, from propionaldehyde and H2RuL4.
Abstract Isotopic transient tracer techniques have been employed to study heterogeneous hydroformylation on Rh/SiO2 and Mn–Rh/SiO2. Pulse injection of D2 and 13 CO allowed tracing of the deuterium and CO incorporation pathway into the aldehyde product. The d1- and d2-propionaldehyde responses showed a double-peak, or two-hump, response to the D2 pulse, while C 2 H 5 13 CHO showed a single-hump response to the 13 CO pulse. Analysis of the product responses to the D2 pulse in CO/H2/C2H4 and CO/H2/C2H4/C2H5CHO suggests that the first hump of the d1- and d2-propionaldehyde responses was due to rapid H/D exchange with adsorbed propionaldehyde via enol intermediates. The decay of the second hump was due to reaction of adsorbed acyl with spillover hydrogen/deuterium. The C 2 H 5 13 CHO response was due to CO insertion followed by acyl hydrogenation. Compartment modeling of the product responses from the 13 CO and D2 pulse inputs allowed determination of residence times of adsorbed intermediates, surface coverages of adsorbed intermediates, and the elementary rate constants for acyl hydrogenation and CO insertion. Elementary rate constants for acyl hydrogenation determined from this study were consistent with the value calculated by transition state theory (TST). The addition of Mn promoter to Rh/SiO2 increased coverages of ∗ CO , ∗ C 2 H 5 , and ∗ C 2 H 5 CO and shifted the rate-limiting step for propionaldehyde formation. Acyl hydrogenation is the rate-limiting step on Rh/SiO2 while CO insertion and acyl hydrogenation are both kinetically significant on Mn–Rh/SiO2.
The asymmetric aza-Michael/Michael cascade reaction of 2-(tosylamino)phenyl substituted α,β-unsaturated ketones with arylpropionaldehydes is optimized using a catalyst combination of O-Tms-diphenylprolinol and o-nitrobenzoic acid.
Conformational preferences of ketyls, hydroxyalkyl radicals, and hydroxyalkyl carbanions derived from propionaldehyde and cyclohexanone have been studied with ab initio molecular orbital calculations. Each species is significantly pyramidalized toward a tetrahedral geometry, and there is staggering about the single bonds to the pyramidal center. For the 1-hydroxypropyl radical, there is little conformational preference about the C 1 -C 2 bond
Physiological and regulatory mechanisms that allow the alkane-oxidizing bacterium Pseudomonas butanovora to consume C 2 to C 8 alkane substrates via butane monooxygenase (BMO) were examined. Striking differences were observed in response to even-versus odd-chain-length alkanes. Propionate, the downstream product of propane oxidation and of the oxidation of other odd-chain-length alkanes following ␤-oxidation, was a potent repressor of BMO expression. The transcriptional activity of the BMO promoter was reduced with as little as 10 M propionate, even in the presence of appropriate inducers. Propionate accumulated stoichiometrically when 1-propanol and propionaldehyde were added to butane-and ethane-grown cells, indicating that propionate catabolism was inactive during growth on even-chain-length alkanes. In contrast, propionate consumption was induced (about 80 nmol propionate consumed · min ؊1 · mg protein ؊1 ) following growth on the odd-chain-length alkanes, propane and pentane. The induction of propionate consumption could be brought on by the addition of propionate or pentanoate to the growth medium. In a reporter strain of P. butanovora in which the BMO promoter controls ␤-galactosidase expression, only even-chain-length alcohols (C 2 to C 8 ) induced ␤-galactosidase following growth on acetate or butyrate. In contrast, both even-and odd-chain-length alcohols (C 3 to C 7 ) were able to induce ␤-galactosidase following the induction of propionate consumption by propionate or pentanoate.
In this work, the use of a novel derivatization agent for the determination of aldehydes (in this particular case: formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and valeraldehyde) using micellar electrokinetic chromatography is reported. The derivatization reaction is based on the reaction of aldehydes with benzhydrazide to form the corresponding derivates with maximum absorbance at 250 nm. The experimental conditions of the derivatization reaction as well of the separation were optimized. The adducts were separated with a +22 kV voltage at a temperature of 29°C. The adducts' separation was performed in less than 14 min using as the running buffer a mixture containing 110 mmol/L of sodium dodecyl sulfate and 27 mmol/L of sodium tetraborate at pH 9.45. Samples were injected using hydrodynamic mode (50 mbar × 5 s). The calibration curves were linear up to 15.0 mg/L with r2 above 0.99. Intra and inter-day precisions were in average 3 and 4%, respectively, and recoveries were in average of 95%. Limits of detection and quantification were around 0.5 and 1.5 mg/L, respectively. The developed method was successfully applied in the analysis of low molar weight aldehydes in yogurt and vinegar samples.
Furfural is one of the main aldehyde inhibitors generated during the pretreatment of lignocellulosic biomass. Saccharomyces cerevisiae can in situ detoxify furfural to the less toxic furan methanol (FM) via the activities of multiple dehydrogenases/reductases. In this study, we report that an uncharacterized gene, YML131W, was highly induced under furfural stress conditions and that the transcription factors Yap1p, Msn2/4p, and/or Hsf1p likely controlled its upregulated expression. The induced transcription of YML131W led to higher concentrations of its encoded protein. Enzyme activity assays showed that YML131W is an aldehyde reductase that plays a role in detoxifying furfural to FM. YML131W also showed activity toward other aldehydes, suggesting that it is involved in detoxifying endogenous toxic aldehydes generated via the degradation of misfolded and damaged proteins. This detoxification role would help to maintain cell viability under furfural stress conditions. A S. cerevisiae strain overexpressing YML131W showed increased tolerance to furfural. YML131W was able to catalyze the conversion of formaldehye, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyaldehyde to their corresponding alcohols, indicating that it has potential applications in producing fuels such as butanol and isobutanol. A phylogenetic analysis grouped YML131W into the leukotriene B4 dehydrogenases (LTD) family, but its amino acid sequence substantially differed from those of other proteins in the LTD family. We identified 15 proteins from 14 yeast species that showed sequence similarities to YML131W. These other proteins likely have similar functions to that of YML131W and may have potential to confer tolerance to aldehyde inhibitors derived from the lignocellulosic biomass conversion process.
The condensation reactions of copper(II) complexes of DL and L forms of alanine, serine and threonine with aliphatic aldehydes reveal differential reactivity for the bis(amino acidato)copper(II) complexes. The reaction of [Cu(DL-ala)2](where ala = alaninato anion) with formaldehyde and ammonia, at an acidic pH of 5, yields a pentamethylenediaza group containing product, [(αR,α′S)-N3N7-(1,3,5,7-tetraazabicyclo[3.3.1]nonane)di(2-methylacetato)]copper(II)1, but at higher pH conditions (pH > 8.0), yields the known oxazolidine group containing product, diaquabis(4-methyloxazolidine-4-carboxylato)-copper(II)2. However, the reaction of [Cu(L-ala)2] with formaldehyde and ammonia at pH 8.5 is known to yield an optically active isomer of 1, viz. [(αS,α′S)-N3,N7-(1,3,5,7-tetraazabicyclo-[3.3.1]nonane)di(2-methylacetato)]copper(II)1a. Though the latter reaction also yields the oxazolidine group containing product 2 at very basic pH (> 10), the formation of 2 reveals racemization during the reaction process. Similarly, whereas the copper(II) complexes of DL-serine and DL-threonine readily undergo condensation reactions with aldehydes such as formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde and valeraldehyde, yielding oxazolidine group containing products, the corresponding L-amino acidatocopper(II) complexes do not undergo condensation under the same experimental conditions except in the case of formaldehyde, demonstrating differential reactivity of DL- and L-amino acidatocopper(II) complexes. The crystal structures of the products obtained from the reactions of [Cu(DL-ser)2](ser = serinato anion) and [Cu(DL-thr)2](thr = threoninato anion) with formaldehyde, aqua[N,N′-(2-oxapropanediyl)bis(oxazolidine-4-carboxylato)]copper(II) Sesquihydrate 3 and [N,N′-(2-oxapropanediyl)bis(5-methyloxazolidine-4-carboxylato)]copper(II) monohydrate 4, respectively, have been determined. Complex 3 crystallizes in the triclinic space group P. a= 10.802(2), b= 11.039(2), c= 13.460(3)A, α= 75.14(3), β= 69.57(3), γ= 87.53(3)° and Z= 4. Complex 4 also crystallizes in the triclinic space group P, a= 7.388(2), b= 10.017(2), c= 11.485(2)A, α= 115.27(3), β= 101.89(3), γ= 91.79(3)° and Z= 2.
When Klebsiella Pneumonias DSM 2026 were grown aerobically on a rich glycerol medium and then suspended in buffer supplemented semicarbazide and glycerol,aerobic conversion of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) could be carried out. Several factors that may influence 3-HPA accumulation and the stability of 3-HPA were studied.The 3-HPA accumulation is greatly affected by cell age, biomass, glycerol concentration, semicarbazide hydrochloride concentration, temperature as well as pH value. The optimal conditions are obtained as follows: 12 h of cell age ,2.16 g/L of inoculum, 30 g/L of glycerol , 26.8 g/L of semicarbazide hydrochloride, at 28 ℃ and 7.2 of pH value. When the strain grew in the medium under the optimal conditions for 27 h,15 .48 g/L of 3-HPA could be produced at an overall yield of 0.60 g/g,representing a 75% conversion rate.In general,3-HPA is stable under cool temperature with a large range of 6- 11 of pH value.
PURPOSE: To obtain the compd. of the subject with little residual carbonyl content by subjecting 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde in an aq. soln. to catalytic hydrogenation under specified conditions in the presence of a fixed-bed hydrogenation catalyst. CONSTITUTION: When a 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde in an aq. soln. is subjected to catalytic hydrogenation in the presence of a fixed-bed or suspension hydrogenation catalyst under conditions of 5 to 300 bar hydrogen pressure, pH 2.5 to 6.5 and 30 to 180°C, hydrogenation is carried out at 30 to 80°C (preferably 40 to 60°C) to obtain 50 to 95% (preferably 50 to 80%) HPA conversion rate and further at 100 to 180°C (preferably 110 to 150°C) to obtain substantially 100% HPA conversion rate. Thus, the objective compd. having <500 ppm residual carbonyl content is obtd. COPYRIGHT: (C)1994,JPO
Summarized the research advances in preparation of 3-methylpyridine from acrolein.Formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,propionaldehyde or acetone and acrolein can synthesize 3-methylpyridine with ammonia and catalysts.Property of catalysts and separation and purification of products have been did immense amounts of concrete research.It was suggested that the acrolein route played an important role in increasing selectivity of 3-methylpyridine and the key problem was how to solve the self-aggregation of acrolein.
3-Methylthiopropionaldehyde diethyl acetal was synthesized from the reaction of 3-methylthiopropional with ethanol and triethyl orthoformate. The effecting factors including the kinds of catalyst, the mole ratio of raw materials, the amount of catalyst and the reaction time were optimized. The structure of product was characterized by gas chromatography, infrared spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, and nuclear magnetic resonance. Additionally, the mechanism of the reaction was speculated; the odor characteristics were evaluated.
Abstract Two routes for the synthesis of (2-bromophenyl)propionaldehyde derivatives 5 and 8–10 were followed. In the first route, aldehyde 4 was homologated by a Wittig reaction and the resulting α,β-unsaturated acetal 5 was hydrogenated to give 8. According to the second route a Heck reaction of bromoiodobenzene 6 with allyl alcohol and subsequent acetalization provided the propionaldehyde acetals 8–10. After halogen/metal exchange at 5, 8, and 9, the addition to homochiral isocyanate 11 provided the enantiomerically pure benzamides 12–14. Depending on the reaction conditions dihydro- and tetrahyro-2-benzazepines 15 and 16 were prepared, which are potential building blocks for the synthesis of differently substituted homochiral 2-benzazepines.
Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH; EC 1.2.1.8) is the enzyme that catalyzes the second step in the synthesis of the osmoprotectant, glycine betaine. NAD- dependent BADH was purified from Avena sativa shoots by DEAE Sephacel, hydroxyapatite, 5 ¢ -AMP Sepharose 4B, Mono Q and TSK-GEL column chromatographies to homogeneity by the criterion of native PAGE, and the prop- erties of BADH were compared with those of aminoalde- hyde dehydrogenase purified to homogeneity from A. sativa . The molecular mass estimated by both gel filtration using TSK-GEL column and Sephacryl S-200 was 120 and 115 kDa, respectively. The enzyme is a homodimer with a subunit molecular mass of 61 kDa as shown by SDS-PAGE. The pI value of the enzyme was found to be 6.3. The purified enzyme catalyzed not only the oxidation of betaine aldehyde (BAL), but also that of aminoaldehydes, 3- aminopropionaldehyde (APAL), 4-aminobutyraldehyde (ABAL), and 4-guanidinobutyraldehyde (GBAL). The K m values for BAL, APAL, ABAL and GBAL were 5 ¥ 10 - 6 , 5.4 ¥ 10 - 7 , 2.4 ¥ 10 - 5 and 5 ¥ 10 - 5 M, respectively. APAL showed substrate inhibition at a concentration of 0.1 mM. A fragment of BADH cleaved by V8 protease shared homology with other plant BADHs.
The invention relates to controlling the water content in the production method of methacrolein. Methacrolein is used in particular methacrylic acid, methyl methacrylate, or also chemically synthesized as an intermediate product for the active ingredient, flavor components or production of a perfume. The invention relates to controlling the water content in the process for producing methacrolein from formaldehyde and propionaldehyde by the particular Mannich condensation.
A new polymeric cobalt-chelate complex was prepared from cobalt acetate and a polyoxime consisting mainly of 1,2-bis(hydroxyimino)trimethylene units. The polymeric complex in the solid state at 77–300 K, both in air and under a vacuum, gives an ESR signal with a g-value of about 2 and can initiate the polymerization of styrene and catalyze the “Michael”-type addition reaction of an alcohol to acrylaldehyde, yielding exclusively β-alkoxypropionaldehyde, after being treated with phenylthiol and sodium borohydride. The catalytic activities depend greatly on the cobalt content and are much greater than those of its monomeric analogue in composition, bis(dimethylglyoximato)cobalt. The absorption spectrum of the polymeric complex treated with the reagents is similar to that of monomeric or polymeric analogues containing monovalent cobalt atoms.
A flow injection method for the determination of formaldehyde was developed. It is based on its reaction with 3-methyl-2-benzthiazolinone hydrazone (MBTH) to yield a blue formazan anion. Typically 180 μl samples are injected into a buffered carrier stream with a frequency of 30 per hour. This sample line merges with the reagent stream containing MBTH, whereupon an azine is formed. After merging with a second stream containing an acidic solution of FeCl3 as reagent, MBTH is oxidized to an intermediate that attacks the azine yielding the formazan dye with an ɛmax at 635 nm. The method was applied to formaldehyde concentrations in the range from 0.15 mg/l to 15 mg/l. The relative standard deviation was 2.3% for 3 mg/l formaldehyde, and 5.1% for 0.3 mg/l, respectively. Strong reducing agents like nitrite interfere seriously. Out of the family of carbonyl compounds only acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde cause strong positive interference.
A novel putative aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) gene aldh1413 from Flammeovirga pacifica isolated from deep sea sediment was cloned, expressed, and characterized. The molecular weight of the ALDH1413 (479 amino acids) was estimated by SDS-PAGE to be 53 kDa. The optimum temperature and pH for ALDH1413 were 35°C and 9.0, respectively. In the presence of either NAD+ or NADP+, the enzyme could oxidize a number of aliphatic aldehydes, particularly C3-and C5-aliphatic aldehydes and aromatic aldehydes such as benzaldehyde, which indicates that the enzyme belongs to broad-specific (ALDH) superfamily. Steady-state kinetic study revealed that ALDH1413 had a K M value of 0.545 mM and a k cat value of 7.48 s−1 when propionaldehyde was used as the substrate. The Na+ could enhance ALDH1413 activity, which indicated it might be adapt to its habitat, marine environment.
An automated monitoring system for various C1 to C5 gas-phase organic carbonyls in ambient air is described. The system consists of a parallel plate diffusion scrubber (PPDS), which is coupled with a high-performance liquid chromatography–ultraviolet (HPLC–UV) system using an automated injection valve. Compared with an annular diffusion scrubber (DS) employed so far for gas-phase carbonyl monitoring, PPDS shows an improved collection efficiency for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acetone with >97% at an airflow rate of 0.5 L/min. High gas–liquid concentration ratios of PPDS and an optimised HPLC–UV system allow limits of detection (LOD) in a range of 80–500 pptv. A low liquid hold-up volume of the PPDS results in a short response time of about 10 min. Additionally, the optimised analysis time for 13 carbonyl compounds containing calibration standard enables brief measurement intervals of 25 min. The developed PPDS–HPLC system shows its reliability from urban site monitoring in Seoul, South Korea.
The creation of supramolecular hydrogels from relatively simple building blocks demonstrates the power of molecular self-assembly to make functional materials. G4-quartet hydrogels are appealing for a number of applications, including the environmental remediation of pollutants in water. We find that the guanosine analog, 5'-deoxy-5'-hydrazinoguanosine (HG 2) self-assembles into a self-standing hydrogel in the presence of stoichiometric amounts (0.25 equiv.) of KCl. The higher water solubility of HG 2 (14.5 mM), compared to that of the parent compound G 1 (2.1 mM), likely contributes to its enhanced gelation. The structural basis for this HG 2·KCl hydrogel, confirmed by PXRD, IR and CD, is the G4·K+ quartet, which forms extended 1D ion-channel assemblies that entangle to give a stable and long-lived hydrogel. We also find that adding KCl to a saturated solution of HG 2 triggers the generation of colloidal G4·K+ assemblies in situ that selectively and efficiently binds the anionic dye naphthol blue black (NBB) over a cationic dye. In addition to this non-covalent electrostatic binding of anions, the nucleophilic 5'-hydrazino group in the HG 2·KCl hydrogel HG 2 enables the efficient absorption of propionaldehyde from both the gas phase and from water solution via the formation of covalent hydrazone linkages with the gel matrix.
APT broth inoculated with Streptococcus thermophilus was dispensed into epoxy-lined aerosol cans. Twenty five volatile or non-volatile compounds likely to be present in milk were added individually to cans to attain concentrations in broth of 1, 10, 100, and 1000 ppm of each compound. Compounds used included formic, acetic, butyric, hexanoic, octanoic, and decanoic acid; formaldehyde; acetaldehyde; propionaldehyde; glyoxal; acetone; 2-butanone; diacetyl; propyl- and hexylamine; furfurol; methanol; methylsulfide; methylsulfone; methanethiol; ethanethiol; acetonitrile; chloroform; ether; and ethylenedichloride. Bacteria were enumerated at intervals during incubation at 37 C. Of the six fatty acids tested, decanoic acid was most and hexanoic acid was least inhibitory to S. thermophilus. At 1000 ppm all fatty acids tested always significantly inhibited S. thermophilus. Formaldehyde was more inhibitory to the bacterium than were acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, or glyoxal. Of the ketones tested, diacetyl was mos...
Some aldehydes are widely used as an artificial perfume. However, little has been known on the optically active aldehydes. In order to obtaine the optically active aldehydes, enamines were synthesized from racemic aldehydes and optically active amines which were derived from natural amino acids. The optically active aldehydes were recovered from the hydrolysis of the enamines under various conditions. The aldehydes employed were 3-p-cumenyl-2-methylpropionaldehyde (CPA) and 2-methyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde (MPA), which had similar structure to CPA. CPA is employed as an artificial perfume (Cyclamenaldehyde). The acids employed for the hydrolysis were hydrochloric acid or cation exchange resin.When the amine components of the enamines were (S) -3-isopropylmorpholine (1a) and (S) -3-isobutylmorpholine (1b), (+) -aldehyde was recovered. However, in the case where (S) -3-benzylmorpholine (5) was employed, (-) -aldehyde was recovered.In order to evaluate the optical purity of recovered aldehydes, the aldehydes were converted to corresponding alcohols, the optical rotation of which were compared with those values for the optically pure alcohol synthesized from the corresponding optically pure acid. The specific rotations of the optically pure MPA and CPA were determined as follows ;[(S) -MPA [α] 25435=+9.10° (c=6.21 in benzene)] [(S) -CPA [α] 25435=+13.9° (c=6.87 in benzene)] The odor of (+) -CPA was compared with that of (-) -CPA, and there was clear difference between the odors of (+) -and (-) -CPA.
Reaction of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde with the carbohydrate derived enolate (2) occurs with excellent diastereofacial selectivity on the enolate but modest facial selectivity on the aldehyde, giving aldols (4) and (5) in good yield; the major isomer (4a) was reduced to the diol (7), the structure of which has been determined by X-ray crystal structure analysis.
The temperature-dependent kinetics for the reaction of a Criegee intermediate (CH2OO) with propionaldehyde (CH3CH2CHO) was investigated using canonical variational transition state theory (CVT) in conjunction with the small curvature tunneling (SCT) method and the interpolated single point energy (ISPE) method at the CCSD(T)/AUG-cc-pVTZ//B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level of theory. A rich chemistry was depicted by the title reaction, though the contributions of all of the reaction pathways were limited to atmospheric pressure conditions. The reaction of CH2OO with CH3CH2CHO was identified to proceed via the formation of secondary ozonide (SOZ), which then underwent a sequence of unimolecular isomerization and decomposition reactions to form a variety of products. The obtained rate coefficient for the formation of SOZ at 298 K was determined to be k = 2.44 × 10-12 cm3 molecule-1 s-1. At low temperature, collisionally stabilized SOZ was found to be the more stable product. Contrarily, at high temperature, SOZ degraded to HCHO, and CH3CH2COOH was found to be the major product. The complete degradation mechanism and thermochemistry for the reaction of CH2OO with CH3CH2CHO along with their rate coefficients over the temperature range of 200-1000 K are reported.
As a graduate student under Professor R. H. Abeles, I began my journey with 5′-deoxyadenosine, studying the coenzyme B12 (adenosylcobalamin)-dependent dioldehydrase (DDH). I proved that suicide inactivation of dioldehydrase by glycolaldehyde proceeded with irreversible cleavage of adenosylcobalamin to 5′-deoxyadenosine. I further showed that suicide inactivation by [2-3H]glycolaldehyde produced 5′-deoxy[3H]adenosine, the first demonstration of hydrogen transfer to adenosyl-C5′ of adenosylcobalamin. The tritium kinetic isotope effect Tk was 15, which correlated well with the measurement Dk = 12 for transformation of [1-2H]propane-1,2-diol to [2-2H]propionaldehyde by DDH. After establishing my own research program, I returned to the glycolaldehyde inactivation of DDH, showing by EPR that suicide inactivation produced glycolaldehyde-2-yl. In retrospect, suicide inactivation involved scission of adenosylcobalamin to 5′-deoxyadenosine-5′-yl, which abstracted a hydrogen from glycolaldehyde. Captodative-stabiliz...
This indicate that propionaldehyde is the main oxidation product 4 .
The joint of smoking machine was redesigned,and 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine in acidic acetonitrile solution was used to absorb formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,acrolein,acetone,propionaldehyde,crotonaldehyde,methyl ethyl ketone and butyraldehyde in mainstream smoke,and formed 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones,which were determined by high performance of liquid chromatography using UV detector at 360nm.The lowest detection levels of method were 0.54—1.65ng·μl~(-1),and RSD were 6.22%—12.34%(n=6).Some brands of cigarretts were determined and the results were content.
1. ::: ::: β-(Dimethylphosphono)propionaldehyde was obtained by hydrolysis of 2,2,2-trimethoxy-Δ4-oxaphospholene. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Upon reaction of 2,2,2-trimethoxy-Δ4-oxaphospholene with acetic acid and acetic anhydride, opening of the phosphorane ring occurs of the P-O bond with for mation ofβ-(dimethylphosphono)propionaldehyde and its enol acetate, respectively.
The dielectric behaviour of the polar liquids like propionaldehyde, isopropyl amine and their equimolar binary mixture in nonpolar solvent benzene is studied in the microwave frequency range using the cavity perturbation technique at 6.218 GHz (J band), 9.880 GHz (X band), 16.331 GHz (P band) and 24.951 GHz (K band). Hamiltonian quantum mechanical calculations such as AM1, PM3, and MNDO optimized converged geometry operation is performed by using Argus lab chemical modelling software 2004 for both pure and binary systems of propionaldehyde and isopropyl amine. Dipole moments of the binary mixtures are calculated from the dielectric data using Higasi's method and compared with the theoretical results. Conformational analysis of the formation of a hydrogen bond between the propionaldehyde and isopropyl amine is supported by FT-IR, proton NMR spectra and molecular polarizability calculations. The average relaxation times are calculated from their respective Cole–Cole plots.
A one-pot enantioselective synthesis of cis-substituted 2,3-dihydroazulen-6(1H)-one is described. In this cascade reaction, an organocatalyzed asymmetric Michael reaction furnishes a highly optically pure nitrobutylphenol intermediate, which is converted into an annulated tropone species by sequential oxidative dearomatization, conjugate addition, electrocyclic ring opening and nitrous acid elimination in the same reaction vessel. Both aliphatic and aromatic nitroalkenes are good substrates for the one-pot reaction, and this protocol appears to be general for various phenylpropionaldehydes as well. In the case of asymmetrically substituted phenylpropionaldehydes, the regioselectivity is likely determined by both the steric and electronic properties of the substituents. This methodology is successfully applied to the synthesis of the tricyclic core structure of Cephalotaxus norditerpenes.
The ability of amino acids to form nucleophilic enamines with aldehydes and ketones has been used in the development of asymmetric α-oxidation reactions with electrophilic oxidizing agents. Singlet molecular oxygen has for the first time been asymmetrically incorporated into aldehydes and ketones, and the products were isolated as their corresponding diols in good yields and ee’s. Organocatalytic α-oxidations of cyclic ketones with iodosobenzene and N-sulfonyloxaziridine were also possible and furnished after reduction the product diols in generally low yields and in low to good ee’s. Amino acids have also been shown to catalyze the formation of carbohydrates by sequential aldol reactions. For example, proline and hydroxy proline mediate a highly selective trimerisation of α-benzyloxyacetaldehyde into allose, which was obtained in >99 % ee. Non linear effect studies of this reaction revealed the largest permanent nonlinear effect observed in a proline-catalyzed reaction to date. Moreover, polyketides were also assembled in a similar fashion by an amino acid-catalyzed one-pot reaction, and was successful for the trimerisation of propionaldehyde, however the sequential cross aldol reactions suffered from lower selectivities. This problem was overcome by the development of a two-step synthesis that enabled the formation of a range of polyketides with excellent selectivities from a variety of aldehydes. The method furnishes the polyketides via the shortest route reported and in comparable product yields to most multi-step synthesis. All polyketides were isolated as single diastereomers with >99 % ee. Based on the observed amino acid-catalysis, amino acids are thought to have taken part in the prebiotic formation of tetroses and hexoses.
The stable, isotopically labelled amino acid d, 1-113C-methionine, was prepared synthetically from 90% K13CN and 3-(methylthio-propionaldehyde. Chromatographic, infrared and mass spectrometric properties are presented which aid in the identification of this compound in body fluids and tissues.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), an important intermediary metabolite of 1,3-propanediol (PDO) production, would be toxic to the cell growth and led to the abnormal cessation of the fermentation process. In this study, the dhaD gene encoding glycerol dehydrogenase (GDH) and dhaT gene encoding 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (PDOR) were overexpressed in Klebsiella pneumoniae ACCC 10082 to decrease the 3-HPA accumulation and increase the coenzyme NADH supply. By the construction of pTD plasmid, GDH and PDOR were both overexpressed and their enzyme activities were increased by 2.6- and 3.2-fold, respectively. The enzyme activity ratio of PDOR/GDHt (glycerol dehydratase) also was increased. On the other hand, NADH production was enhanced and the ratio of NADH/NAD+ exceeded 1 after the inducement of IPTG for the constructed strain. The two factors enhanced the transformation of 3-HPA to PDO. In the batch and fed-batch fermentation by the constructed strain, the peak of 3-HPA accumulation reduced by 52.2% and 33.3%, respectively, compared with the control. The PDO concentration and yield reached 59.2 g/L and 0.48 mol/mol, respectively. Furthermore, the fed-batch fermentation process appeared easier to be regulated. This work is considered helpful for the further understanding on the PDO metabolic mechanism of K. pneumoniae and also useful for the PDO fermentation in a large-scale bioreactor.
A method for preparing an acrylic acid is provided to reduce manufacturing costs and scale of manufacturing facility by not generating acrolein and not requiring additional apparatus. A method for preparing an acrylic acid comprises the steps of: (a) dehydrating glycerol or glycerol solution to obtain a first product; (b) oxidizing the first product to obtain a second product; and (c) dehydrating the second product to obtain a third product. The first product comprises hydroxypropionaldehyde. The second product comprises hydroxypropionic acid. In the oxidation reaction of (b) step, the gas including molecular oxygen is injected.
Abstract The synthesis of (2 S :3' S :3″ S )- N -[3-(3-amino-3-carboxypropylamino)-3-carboxypropyl]-proline ( 1 ), a nicotianamine analogue with a 5-membered ring, was achieved by stepwise combination of S-proline ethyl ester ( 3 ) and (3 S )-3-ethoxycarbonyl-3-trifluroacetylaminopropionaldehyde ( 4 ) via reductive coupling Compound 1 exhibits a smaller biological effect than nicotianamine ( 2 ) on phenotypical normalization of the tomato mutant chloronerva .
Thin stillage (TS) is a waste residue that remains after bioethanol production, and its disposal reflects the high costs of bioethanol production. Thus, the development of cost-effective ways to process TS is a pending issue in bioethanol plants. The aim of this study was to evaluate the utilization of TS for the production of the valuable chemical, 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO), by Lactobacillus panis PM1. Different fermentation parameters, including temperature, pH and strains [wild-type and a recombinant strain expressing a NADPH-dependent aldehyde reductase (YqhD) gene] were tested in batch and fed-batch cultivations. The highest 1,3-PDO concentration (12.85 g/L) and yield (0.84 g/g) were achieved by batch fermentation at pH-4.5/30 °C by the YqhD recombinant strain. Furthermore, pH-controlled batch fermentation reduced the total fermentation period, resulting in the maximal 1,3-PDO concentration of 16.23 g/L and yield of 0.72 g/g in TS without an expensive nutrient or nitrogen (e.g., yeast extract, beef extract, and peptone) supplementation. The addition of two trace elements, Mg2+ and Mn2+, in TS increased 1,3-PDO yield (0.74 g/g) without 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde production, the only intermediate of 1,3-PDO biosynthetic pathway in L. panis PM1. Our results suggest that L. panis PM1 can offer a cost-effective process that utilizes the TS to produce a value-added chemical, 1,3-PDO.
Abstract The substrate specificity of S.carnosus aldolase is reported. 5,6-Dideoxyhexulose was synthesized in preperative scale from dihydroxyacetone phosphate and propionaldehyde. The product was isolated and characterized by NMR.
Abstract The selective oxidation of butan-2-one to diacetyl has been studied in the temperature range 200–380°C over a vanadium phosphorus oxide catalyst. In addition to diacetyl the principal reaction products detected were acetic acid, acetaldehyde, methyl vinyl ketone, propionaldehyde and carbon dioxide. A kinetic analysis indicated that diacetyl formation proceeds through a Mars and van Krevelen type mechanism and that there were two sources of acetaldehyde formation; the first predominating at high oxygen partial pressures involved an enol intermediate and adsorbed molecular oxygen; the second, which predominated at low oxygen partial pressures involved lattice oxygen and a diol intermediate. It is also proposed that acetoin, CH 3 COCHOHCH 3 , is a common intermediate in the formation of diacetyl and methyl vinyl ketone. High selectivities to diacetyl can be achieved by operation in anaerobic conditions.
Best catalyst was selected for hydration of acrolein from 13 kinds of acidic ion-exchange resins.Effect of temperature,space velocity,mass fra ctio n of acrolein on preparation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde based on hydration of a crolein was investigated on above selected catalyst.Reaction conditions were o ptimized by orthogonal experiments of hydration reaction.
In this study, the effect of standard phase difference in calibration of carbonyl compounds (CC) was evaluated by using their standards prepared in both gaseous and liquid phase. For this analysis, standards in both phases were prepared for 6 different CCs (formaldehyde (FA), acetaldehyde (AA), propionaldehyde (PA), butyraldehyde (BA), isovaleraldehyde (IA) and valeraldehyde (VA)) at similar concentration levels. Their gaseous standard was calibrated after derivatization with three types of DNPH cartridge, and their calibration results were compared against liquid-phase standards. Although there was a strong compatibility between 2 phases for CCs with lower molecular weights (e.g., formaldehyde and acetaldehyde), it was not the case for the heavier CCs. The results of our analysis indicate that the analytical bias of the heavier CCs can be significantly large (by more than a few tens of %). As a result, underestimation of hevier CCs can be significant, if their gaseous samples are quantified by liquid phase standard.
A mixed-valent bis(μ-oxo)dimanganese(III,IV) complex, [(dpaq)Mn(III)(O)2Mn(IV)(dpaq)](+) (1), was prepared by reacting a hydroxomanganese(III) complex, [(dpaq)Mn(III)(OH)](+), with hydrogen peroxide in the presence of triethylamine. The mixed-valent bis(μ-oxo)dimanganese(III,IV) complex (1) was well characterised by UV-vis, EPR and CSI-MS techniques. The electrophilic reactivity of 1 was investigated in the oxidation of 2,6-di-tert-butylphenol derivatives by 1, in which the relative rate afforded a good Hammett correlation with a ρ value of -1.0. The nucleophilic character of 1 was then investigated in aldehyde deformylation reactions, using 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (2-PPA) and benzaldehyde derivatives as substrates. In contrast to the case of the reaction of 1 with 2,6-di-tert-butylphenol derivatives, a positive ρ value of 0.89 was obtained in the Hammett plot, demonstrating that the bis(μ-oxo)-dimanganese(III,IV) complex is an active nucleophilic oxidant. Thus, 1 exhibited an amphoteric reactivity in both electrophilic and nucleophilic oxidative reactions.
Abstract The characteristics of carbonyl compounds emissions were investigated on a direct injection, turbocharged diesel engine fueled with pure biodiesel derived from soybean oil. The gas-phase carbonyls were collected by 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH)-coated silica cartridges from diluted exhaust and analyzed by HPLC with UV detector. A commercial standard mixture including 14 carbonyl compounds was used for quantitative analysis. The experimental results indicate that biodiesel-fueled engine almost has triple carbonyls emissions of diesel-fueled engine. The weighted carbonyls emission of 8-mode test cycle of biodiesel is 90.8 mg (kW h)−1 and that of diesel is 30.7 mg (kW h)−1. The formaldehyde is the most abundant compound of carbonyls for both biodiesel and diesel, taking part for 46.2% and 62.7% respectively. The next most significant compounds are acetaldehyde, acrolein and acetone for both fuels. The engine fueled with biodiesel emits a comparatively high content of propionaldehyde and methacrolein. Biodiesel, as an alternative fuel, has lower specific reactivity (SR) caused by carbonyls compared with diesel. When fueled with biodiesel, carbonyl compounds make more contribution to total hydrocarbon emission.
L-Arginine induced two NAD+-specific dehydrogenases acting on 4-guanidinobutyraldehyde (GBAL) in Pseudomonas putida ATCC 12633. One was identified as 4-aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase because it was induced by putrescine also and was active toward 4-aminobutyraldehyde (ABAL). The other was specific for GBAL and was identified as GBAL dehydrogenase. We purified both enzymes. The molecular weight and the subunit weight of ABAL dehydrogenase were 240, 000 and 57, 000, respectively. GBAL dehydrogenase had a molecular weight of 107, 000 and a subunit weight of 57, 000. ABAL dehydrogenase was most active toward ABAL at pH 8.0 and toward GBAL at pH 8.5 to 9.5. This enzyme dehydrogenated ABAL (100%), GBAL (130%), 5-aminovaleraldehyde (100%), valeraldehyde (66%), butyraldehyde (66%), and propionaldehyde (49%). The apparent Km values for ABAL and NAD+ were estimated to be 0.26 and 0.05 mM, respectively. GBAL dehydrogenase exhibited the optimum pH to be 9.0 and the high substrate specificity for GBAL. The apparent Km values for GBAL and NAD+ were 0.03 and 0.14 mm, respectively. This enzyme was readily inactivated in the absence of 2-mercaptoethanol, and NAD+ and 2-mercaptoethanol were required for full reactivation of the inactivated enzyme.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), an intermediary compound of glycerol metabolism in bacteria, serves as a precursor to 3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), a commercially valuable platform chemical. To achieve the effective conversion of 3-HPA to 3-HP, an aldH gene encoding an aldehyde dehydrogenase in Escherichia coli K-12 (AldH) was cloned, expressed, and characterized for its properties. The recombinant AldH exhibited broad substrate specificity for various aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes. AldH preferred NAD+ over NADP+ as a cofactor for the oxidation of most aliphatic aldehydes tested. Among the aldehydes used, the specific activity was highest (38.1 U mg−1 protein) for 3-HPA at pH 8.0 and 37 °C. The catalytic efficiency (kcat) and the specificity constant (kcat/Km) for 3-HPA in the presence of NAD+ were 28.5 s−1 and 58.6 × 103 M−1 s−1, respectively. The AldH activity was enhanced in the presence of disulfide reductants such as dithiothreitol (DTT) or 2-mercaptoethanol, while several metal ions, particularly Hg2+, Ag+, Cu2+, and Zn2+, inhibited AldH activity. This study illustrates that AldH is a potentially useful enzyme in converting 3-HPA to 3-HP.
We isolated cDNAs encoding betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH, EC 1.2.1.8) from the salt-tolerant Poaceae, Zoysia tenuifolia by polymerase chain reactions. Zoysia betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (ZBD1) is 1892bp long and codes for 507 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of ZBD1 is 88% similar to the sequence of rice BADH. Ten cDNA clones were isolated from a cDNA Library of salt-treated Z. tenuifolia by using the ZBD1 fragment as a probe. The proteins coded in some clones were more homologous to BBD2, the cytosolic BADH of barley, than to ZBD1. To investigate their enzymatic properties, ZBD1 and spinach BADH were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified. The optimal pH of ZBD1 was 9.5, which was more alkaline than that of spinach BADH. ZBD1 was less tolerant to NaCl than spinach BADH. ZBD1 showed not only BADH activity but also aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase activity. The Km values of ZBD1 for betaine aldehyde, 4-aminobutyraldehyde (AB-ald), and 3-aminopropionaldehyde (AP-ald) were 291, 49, and 4.0 microM, respectively. ZBD1 showed higher specific activities for AB-ald and AP-ald than did spinach BADH.
Abstract The experiments reported here were designed to elucidate the nature of the chemical group on tobacco mosaic virus nucleoprotein which causes the biological inactivation of the virus when it reacts with formaldehyde. The methods of chemical kinetics were used to determine the specific reaction rate constants for the inactivation of the virus by 2% formaldehyde at several pH values within the range 4.1 to 8.4 and at 30°, 35°, and 40°. The reaction rate was found to be only slightly pH dependent, indicating that the critical group does not dissociate within the pH range studied. The reaction did not vary with ionic strength. A plot of the Arrhenius equation for the velocity constants obtained at pH values of 5.3, 6.8, and 7.8 gave an energy of activation of 19,500 calories per mole, which is the approximate value found for a reaction involving a single chemical bond. The energy of activation was invariable with pH. The rate constant was dependent on formaldehyde concentration when 2% virus solutions were allowed to react with 1%, 2%, 4%, and 7% formaldehyde solutions at pH 6.6 and 30°. These results could be interpreted on the basis of the inactivation's being caused by the reaction of a single formaldehyde molecule at one site on the virus characteristic particle. Prior treatment of the virus nucleoprotein with iodine, diazotized sulfanilic acid, acetic anhydride, and propionaldehyde failed to produce any effect on the rate constants for the subsequent formaldehyde inactivation process, indicating that the sulfhydryl, phenolic hydroxy, and protein amino groups are probably not the ones which cause the inactivation when they react with formaldehyde. Since changes in pH did not appreciably affect the rate constant value between pH 4.1 and pH 8.4, certain other groups can be eliminated from consideration on the basis of their pK values. Proton donor groups with pK values less than 9 and proton acceptor groups with pK values greater than about pK 3 to 4 can be excluded. The amide groups are probably not fundamentally involved, since they are reported to react more readily in acid medium. If this is true, then the inactivation rate constant would increase with increasing acidity, which is contrary to the results of this work. It has been shown by other investigators that tryptophan in tobacco mosaic virus probably does not react with formaldehyde in the pH range employed here. On the basis of the foregoing considerations, it is probable that the groups most likely involved in the formaldehyde inactivation of tobacco mosaic virus are the beta hydroxy groups of serine and threonine, the hydroxy group of ribose, and the amino group on the pyrimidine and purine rings in the nucleic acid.
Abstract The kinetics of ethene hydroformylation with triphenylphosphine modified rhodium catalyst has been investigated. The reaction is first order in rhodium. The kinetic order for ethene is also one for most of the reaction conditions investigated, however, the combination of low phosphine and high olefin concentration leads to a saturation in ethene. The kinetic effects of CO and triphenylphosphine are also a function of their concentrations: both inhibit the reaction above a threshold value, while below the threshold a positive kinetic response can be observed. Hydrogen concentration has little effect on the rate of hydroformylation. The olefin hydrogenation selectivity is generally low and can be described as a linear function of the H 2 /CO partial pressure ratio. Hydrogenation of the product propionaldehyde cannot be detected by GC. Based on a refined Wilkinson mechanism [C.A. Tolman, J.W. Faller, Mechanistic studies of catalytic reactions using spectroscopic and kinetic techniques, in: L.H. Pignolet (Ed.), Homogeneous Catalysis with Metal Phosphine Complexes, Plenum Press, New York, 1983.], a kinetic model has been developed which fits all experimental observations and can be used to predict reaction rates and selectivities over a wide range of reaction conditions.
Abstract The highly functionalized streptovaricin-damavaricin D aromatic precursors 12 and 15 have been prepared and coupled with propionaldehyde or unsaturated aldehydes 16 and 18 via aryllithium intermediates to give 2 , 3 and 19 .
Analytical potential of terahertz (THz) spectroscopy is assessed by comparing selectivity for a set of eight environmentally important gases over THz and infrared (IR) optical frequencies. Selectivity coefficients are determined over selected spectral regions for acetaldehyde, acetonitrile, ethanol, water, methanol, ammonia, propionaldehyde, and propionitrile. These selectivity coefficients quantify the magnitude of the net analyte signal for each test compound relative to the other seven. In addition to the THz spectral range (2–125 cm–1), selectivity coefficients are determined for the following IR regions 600–1300, 1300–2000, 2600–3100, 3100–4000, and 4000–6500 cm–1. Highest selectivity is afforded over the THz frequencies for six of the eight test compounds and THz selectivity coefficients for the other two gases (water and acetonitrile) are acceptable for environmental measurements.
Glycerol can be oxidized to formaldehyde by rat liver microsomes and by cytochrome P450. The ability of other alcohols to be oxidized to formaldehyde was determined to evaluate the structural determinants of the alcohol which eventually lead to this production of formaldehyde. Monohydroxylated alcohols such as 1- or 2-propanol did not produce formaldehyde when incubated with NADPH and microsomes. Geminal diols such as 1,3-propanediol, 1,3-butanediol, or 1,4-butanediol also did not yield formaldehyde. However, vicinal diols such as 1,2-propanediol or 1,2-butanediol produced formaldehyde. With 1,2-propanediol, the residual two-carbon fragment was found to be acetaldehyde, while with 1,2-butanediol, the residual three-carbon fragment was propionaldehyde. Oxidation of 1,2-propanediol to formaldehyde plus acetaldehyde involved interaction with an oxidant derived from H2O2 plus nonheme iron, since production of the two aldehydic products was completely prevented by catalase or glutathione plus glutathione peroxidase and by chelators such as desferrioxamine or EDTA. The oxidant was not superoxide or hydroxyl radical. Product formation was fivefold lower when NADH replaced NADPH, and was inhibited by substrates, ligands, and inhibitors of cytochrome P450. A charged glycol such as alpha-glycerophosphate (but not the geminal beta-glycerophosphate) was readily oxidized to formaldehyde, suggesting that interaction of the glycol with the oxidant was occurring in solution and not in a hydrophobic environment. These results indicate that the carbon-carbon bond between 1,2-glycols can be cleaved by an oxidant derived from microsomal generated H2O2 and reduction of non-heme iron, with the subsequent production of formaldehyde plus an aldehyde with one less carbon than the initial glycol substrate.
Two low-bee-hazard methods of control, the use of granular insecticides and application of insecticides through a sprinkler irrigation system, were tested against Lygus Hesperus Knight and L. elisus Van Duzee in alfalfa grown for seed. Only dimethoate provided control of lygus bugs when applied through irrigation sprinklers. However, such applications at higher than normal dosage rates to blooming alfalfa apparently caused a low mortality to alfalfa leafcutting bees, Megachile rolundala (F.), by nectar contamination. Dimethoate applied after hay cutting and before development of seed crop blooms was non-hazardous to bees. Temik® (2-methyl-2- (methylthio)-propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime), Baygon® ( 0 -isopropoxyphenyl methylcarbamate), and NIA-I0242 (Furadan® (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate) granules provided nearly 7 weeks control of lygus bugs at 2 to 3 lb per acre in both aerial broadcast and ground side-dressed applications. Temik at 5 lb per acre gave from nearly 7 weeks to more than 3 months control of lygus bugs and also controlled pea aphids Acyrtho siphon pisum (Harris). Granular systemic insecticides were not effective until irrigation was applied, but either sprinkler or rill irrigation sufficed. Beneficial predators either were not seriously reduced or were able to recover in time to keep aphids below economic levels. Trichlorfon performance was improved by timing the second application about 10 days after the first, killing the early lygus instars winch had hatched out in the meantime, Abate®( O,O -dimethyl phosphorothioate O,O diester with 4,4'-thiodip.henol) provided 3 weeks control of lygus bugs, but was highly toxic to the alfalfa leafcutting bee and moderately toxic to the alkali bee, Nomia melanderi Cockerell.
Schiff base2-(5-Chloro-3,3-dimethyl-1,3-dihydro-indol-2-ylidene)-3-(2-hydroxyphenylimino)-propionaldehydecontaining indole ring as ligand has been synthesized. Metal complex of this ligand with divalent zinc ion was prepared. Prepared compounds were characterized basd on FTIR, 1 H and 13 C-NMR spectra, atomic absorption and chlorine determination to identify the final geometry of the complex. Experimental and computational study using Hartree-Fockmethod was carried out to confirm the most probable geometry. 
In this paper, we present a simple, rapid and highly sensitive method for the determination of LMW carbonyl compounds, such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and The aim of this research was to develop a simple procedure for a highly sensitive determination of low-molecular-weight (LMW) carbonyl compounds in drinking water and natural water. We employed a preconcentration HPLC system with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) for the determination of LMW carbonyl compounds. A C-18 reverse-phase preconcentration column was used instead of a sample loop at the sample injection valve. A 0.1 -5.0 mL portion of the derivatized sample solution was injected with a gas-tight syringe, and a 15% acetonitrile aqueous solution was pushed through the preconcentration column to remove the unreacted excess DNPH, which caused serious interference in the determination of formaldehyde. The detection limits were 1 -3 nM with a relative standard deviation of 2 -5% for 20 nM standard solutions (n = 5). The calibration curves were essentially unaffected by coexisting sea salts. Applications to commercial mineral water, tap water, river water, pond water and seawater are presented.
The shell of the S. Typhimurium Pdu MCP is composed of protein subunits PduA, B, J, K, M, N, T and U (Bobik et al., 1999 Cheng et al., 2011; Chowdhury et al., 2014; Sinha et al., 2014; Jorda et al., 2015) . PduA appears to play a central role in forming a selectively permeable pore that allows 1,2 PD entry into the MCP while restricting escape of the toxic compound propionaldehyde (Chowdhury et al., 2015) . The enzymes for the 1, 2 PD utilization pathway are PduC, D, E, L, P, Q and W (Chowdhury et al., 2014; Bobik et al., 2015) . The metabolism of 1, 2 PD requires coenzyme B 12 , and therefore, enzymes involved with coenzyme B 12 assimilation and recycling are also associated with the Pdu MCP (Johnson et al., 2001; Sampson et al., 2005; Fan et al., 2009; Chowdhury et al., 2014; Bobik et al., 2015) .
Air pollution standards and control strategies are based on ambient measurements. For many outdoor air pollutants, individuals are closer to their sources (especially traffic) and there are important indoor sources influencing the relationship between ambient and personal exposures. This paper examines the relationship between volatile organic compounds (VOCs) measured at central site monitoring stations and personal exposures in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area. Over a 1-year period, personal exposures to 34 VOCs were measured for 90 volunteers from 30 families living close to one of five central monitoring stations. Simultaneous 24-h indoor, outdoor and central site measurements were also taken. Dual packed thermal desorption tubes and C(18) DNPH-coated cartridges were used for sampling VOCs and these were analyzed by GC/MS and HPLC, respectively. A factor analysis of the personal exposure data aided in grouping compounds by the most likely source type: vehicular (BTEX, styrene and 1,3-butadiene), secondary formed or photochemical (most aldehydes), building materials and consumer products (formaldehyde and benzaldehyde), cleaning solvents (tetrachloroethene and 1,1,1-trichloroethane), volatilization from water (chloroform and trichloroethene) and deodorizers (1,4-dichlorobenzene). Mean ambient, indoor and personal concentrations were 7/7/14 microg/m(3) for benzene, 1/3/3 for 1,3-butadiene, 6/20/20 for formaldehyde and 3/9/50 for 1,4-dichlorobenzene. Geometric mean (GM) ambient concentrations of trichloroethene and carbon tetrachloride were similar to GM personal exposures. While outdoor and indoor home GM concentrations for most vehicular related compounds (benzene, MTBE, xylenes and styrene) were comparable, the GM personal exposures were twice as high. Indoor concentrations of 1,3-butadiene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, tetrachloroethane, chloroform, formaldehyde, valeraldehyde, propionaldehyde and n-butyraldehyde were comparable to personal exposures. For certain compounds, such as chloroform, aldehydes, toluene, 1,3-butadiene and 1,4-dichlorobenzene, GM personal exposures were more than two times greater than GM ambient measurements.
1. A mixture comprising a nitrile of 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid in an amount of from 86 to 97 wt.%, Water in an amount of from 2 to 14 wt. %, HCN in an amount of from 0.05 to 0.5 wt.% And having a pH value in the range from 1 to 4, as measured by pH-electrode at 23 ° C.2. A mixture according to Claim. 1, characterized in that it comprises a nitrile of 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid in an amount of from 88 to 92 wt. %, Water in an amount of 3 to 12 wt. % And / or HCN in an amount of from 0.1 to 0.3 wt. % And / or has a pH value in the range from 2 to 3.3. The process for producing a nitrile containing 2-hydroxy-4- (methylthio) butyric acid mixture according to Claim. 1 or 2, characterized in chtoa) of 3-methylmercaptopropionaldehyde is reacted with hydrogen cyanide in the presence of a base as catalyst to give the nitrile, and during this process and / or zatemb) the water content if necessary, by adding it to the value set in the range from 2 to 14 wt. %, Preferably 3 to 12 wt. %, And HCN content if necessary, by adding it to the value set in the range of 0.05 to 0.5 wt. %, Preferably 0.1 to 0.3 wt. % HCN, after chegov) pH value, if necessary by adding an acid value adjusted to within the range of 1 to 4, preferably from 2 to 3.4. A method according to claim. 3, in step a) of which 3-methylmercaptopropionaldehyde is subjected in the region of the main reaction reacted with hydrogen cyanide in the presence of a base as catalyst to give the nitrile and the residual gaseous hydrogen cyanide leaving the zone the primary reaction, was absorbed in the absorption zone, and subsequent reaction comprising a mixture of 3-methylmercaptopropionaldehyde and catalyst, as well as sps
Background ::: Metabolomics is the comprehensive study of metabolites that can demonstrate the downstream effects of gene and protein regulation, arguably representing the closest correlation with phenotypic features. Hence, metabolomics-driven approach offers an effective way to facilitate strain improvement. Previously, targeted metabolomics on the 1-butanol-producing cyanobacterial strain Synechococcus elongatus BUOHSE has revealed the reduction step from butanoyl-CoA to butanal, catalyzed by CoA-acylating propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP), as a rate-limiting step in the CoA-dependent pathway. Moreover, an increase in acetyl-CoA synthesis rate was also observed in this strain, by which the increased rate of release of CoA from butanoyl-CoA was used to enhance formation of acetyl-CoA to feed into the pathway. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: In the present study, a new strain (DC7) with an improved activity of PduP enzyme, was constructed using BUOHSE as the background strain. DC7 showed a 33% increase in 1-butanol production compared to BUOHSE. For a deeper understanding of the metabolic state of DC7, widely targeted metabolomics approach using ion-pair reversed-phase LC/MS was performed. Results showed a decreased level of butanoyl-CoA and an increased level of acetyl-CoA in DC7 compared to BUOHSE. This served as an indication that the previous bottleneck has been solved and free CoA regeneration increased upon the improvement of the PduP enzyme. In order to utilize the enhanced levels of acetyl-CoA in DC7 for 1-butanol production, overexpression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase) in DC7 was performed by inserting the gene encoding an ACCase subunit from Yarrowia lipolytica into the aldA site. The resulting strain, named DC11, was able to reach a production titer of 418.7 mg/L in 6 days, compared to DC7 that approached a similar titer in 12 days. A maximum productivity of 117 mg/L/day was achieved between days 4 and 5 in DC11. ::: ::: ::: Conclusions ::: In this study, the iterative cycle of genetic modification based on insights from metabolomics successfully resulted in the highest reported 1-butanol productivity for engineered Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942.
The use of Smiles rearrangement in Ugi-type couplings with tropolone allows very straightforward multicomponent formation of 2-(N,N-dialkylamino)-2,4,6-cycloheptatrien-1-one derivatives. The 4-component reaction of isocyanides, tropolone (2-hydroxy-2,4,6- cycloheptatrien-1-one), primary amines, and propionaldehyde in the presence of silica nanoparticles (silica NPs, ca. 42 nm) proceeds easily in methanol to form the title compounds in a new Ugi--Smiles-type reaction.
Background and Aims:rHu EPO is widely used in the treatment of anemia but its application is limited due to short half life. PEGylation ,the covalent attachment of PEG to proteins, can increase drug volume so decrease its renal clearance. Although PEGylation decreases in vitro biological activity due to less binding capacity to receptors, in vivo biological activity is prominently increases. Methods: In acidic pH conditions PEGPropionaldehyde of 20 KDa was reacted with N – terminal amino group of rHu EPO, because the PKa of this amine is less than other existing amine groups. After 15 h the reaction was stopped following Anion-exchange chromatography and size –exclusion chromatography to prepare a purified mono N –Terminally PEGylated rHuEPO. UT-7 cell lines assay was used to assess biological activity of PEGylated –EPO. Results: Results showed declined in vitro biological activity in comparison to unmodified EPO .whilein vivo activity would be increased significantly as a result of long duration of action. Stability test was performed in 4°C , the results showed more stability in PEGylated –EPO evaluated by in vitro biological activity. Conclusions:N-Terminal PEGylation of Recombinant Human Erythropoetin was performed and the product showed enhanced stability and half life as a sheilding effect of PEG moiety. Although in vitro biological activity decreased as a result of PEG conjugation to protein molecule, long maintenance of protein would compensate this limitation to a larger extent.
Chloral hydrate is widely used as a sedative and a hypnotic in pediatric medicine. It is also a byproduct of water chlorination. Chloral hydrate has been shown to be genotoxic in numerous prokaryotic and eukaryotic assay systems including human lymphocytes in vitro. One of its metabolites, trichloroacetic acid, has demonstrated hepatocarcinogenic activity in mice. Trichloroethylene and perchloroethylene, both of which are metabolized to chloral hydrate, have been shown to be carcinogenic in rats and/or mice. Because of this evidence of carcinogenicity and because of the wide-spread use of chloral hydrate, 16- or 17-day range-finding toxicity studies and separate 16- or 17-day metabolism studies were performed in F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice in preparation for further long-term rodent studies. In addition, in vitro studies of the metabolism and DNA-binding capacity of chloral hydrate and its metabolites were performed. Genetic toxicity studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, Drosophila melanogaster, and mouse bone marrow cells. For the range-finding studies, groups of eight male and eight female F344/N Nctr BR rats and B6C3F1/Nctr BR (C57BL/6N x C3H/HeN MTV-) mice were administered 0, 50, 100, 200, 400, or 800 mg chloral hydrate per kg body weight in water by gavage 5 days per week for 17 days (rats) or 16 days (mice) for a total of 12 doses. One male rat receiving 800 mg/kg died after five doses. Two 800 mg/kg female rats died after dosing ended but before study termination. One male mouse in each group except the 400 mg/kg group died before the end of the study. Two 800 mg/kg female mice also died before the end of the study. The final mean body weight of 800 mg/kg male rats and the mean body weight gains of 400 and 800 mg/kg males were significantly less than those of the vehicle controls. The mean body weight gains of all groups of dosed male mice were significantly greater than that of the vehicle control group. The only clinical finding in rats and mice attributed to chloral hydrate treatment was light sedation in the 400 mg/kg groups and heavy sedation in the 800 mg/kg groups; sedation subsided within 30 minutes or 3 hours, respectively. The liver weights of 400 mg/kg male mice and 800 mg/kg male and female mice were significantly greater than those of the vehicle control groups. No chemical-related lesions were observed in rats or mice. Male and female rats and mice were administered a single dose of 50 or 200 mg chloral hydrate per kg body weight in water by gavage, or 12 doses of 50 or 200 mg/kg over 17 days (rats) or 16 days (mice). Plasma concentrations of chloral hydrate and its metabolites were determined 15 minutes, 1, 3, 6, and 24 hours, and 2, 4, 8, and 16 days after receiving 1 or 12 doses. Maximum concentrations of chloral hydrate were observed at the initial sampling point of 15 minutes. By 1 hour, the concentrations had dropped substantially, and by 3 hours, chloral hydrate could not be detected in rats or mice. Trichloroacetic acid was the major metabolite detected in the plasma. In rats, the concentrations rose slowly, with the peaks occurring between 1 and 6 hours after treatment. In mice, the peak concentrations were found 1 hour after dosing. The concentrations then slowly decreased such that by 2 days the metabolite could no longer be detected in rats or mice. Trichloroethanol was assayed both as the free alcohol and its glucuronide. In rats, the maximum concentrations of free trichloroethanol occurred at 15 minutes, while the peak concentrations of trichloroethanol glucuronide were found at 1 hour; by 3 hours, concentrations of both metabolites approached background levels. In mice, the maximum concentrations of both metabolites occurred at 15 minutes, and by 1 to 3 hours concentrations approached background levels. The plasma concentrations of chloral hydrate and its metabolites were dose dependent in rats and mice. In mice, plasma concentrations of trichloroacetic acid were significantly higher after a single dose than after 12 doses. None of the metabolic parameters appears to account for species differences that may exist in hepatocarcinogenicity. The data from the study of metabolism and DNA adduct formation indicated that in vitro metabolism of 200 microM to 5 mM chloral hydrate by male B6C3F1 mouse liver microsomes (control microsomes) generated free radical intermediates that resulted in endogenous lipid peroxidation, forming malondialdehyde, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, and propionaldehyde. Similar concentrations of trichloroacetic acid and trichloroethanol, the primary metabolites of chloral hydrate, also generated free radicals and induced lipid peroxidation. Lipid peroxidation induced by trichloroacetic acid nearly equaled that induced by chloral hydrate, while that from trichloroethanol was three- to fourfold less. Metabolism of 200 microM to 5 mM chloral hydrate, trichloroacetic acid, and trichloroethanol by liver microsomes of B6C3F1 mice pretreated with pyrazole (pyrazole-induced microsomes) yielded lipid peroxidation products at concentrations two- to threefold greater than those from liver microsomes of untreated mice. Additionally, chloral hydrate-induced lipid peroxidation catalyzed by control and pyrazole-induced microsomes was reduced significantly by 2,4-dichloro-6-phenylphenoxyethylamine, a general cytochrome P450 inhibitor. Human lymphoblastoid transgenic cells expressing cytochrome P(450)2E1 metabolized 200 to 5,000 micrograms/mL chloral hydrate to reactants inducing mutations, whereas the parental cell line was inactive. The malondialdehyde-modified DNA adduct, 3-(2-deoxy-beta-D-erythro-pentofuranosyl)pyrimido[1,2 alpha]purin-10(3H)-one (MDA-MG-1), formed from the metabolism of 1 mM chloral hydrate, trichloroacetic acid, and trichloroethanol by control B6C3F1 mouse liver microsomes, mouse pyrazole-induced microsomes, male F344/N rat liver microsomes, and human liver microsomes in the presence and absence of calf thymus DNA was also determined. When incubated in the absence of calf thymus DNA, the amount of malondialdehyde formed from metabolism by pyrazole-induced mouse microsomes was twice that from rat or human liver microsomes. Amounts of chloral hydrate-induced and trichloroacetic acid-induced lipid peroxidation products formed from metabolism by rat and human liver microsomes were similar, and these quantities were about twice those formed from the metabolism of trichloroethanol. The quantity of MDA-MG-1 formed from the metabolism of chloral hydrate, trichloroacetic acid, and trichloroethanol by mouse, rat, and human liver microsomes exhibited a linear correlation with the quantity of malondialdehyde formed under incubation conditions in the absence of calf thymus DNA. Chloral hydrate was shown to be mutagenic in vitro and in vivo. At doses from 1,000 to 10,000 micrograms/plate, it induced mutations in S. typhimurium strain TA100, with and without S9 activation; an equivocal response was obtained in S. typhimurium strain TA98 in the absence of S9, and no mutagenicity was detected with strain TA1535 or TA1537. Chloral hydrate at doses from 1,700 to 5,000 micrograms/mL induced sister chromatid exchanges; at doses from 1,000 to 3,000 micrograms/mL, chromosomal aberrations were induced in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, with and without S9. Results of a sex-linked recessive lethal test in D. melanogaster were unclear; administration of chloral hydrate by feeding produced an inconclusive increase in recessive lethal mutations, results of the injection experiment were negative. An in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus test with chloral hydrate at doses from 125 to 500 mg/kg gave a positive dose trend. In summary, due to the absence of chloral hydrate-induced histopathologic lesions in rats and mice, no-observed-adverse-effect levels (NOAELs) were based on body weights of rats and liver weights of mice. The NOAELs for rats and mice were 200 mg/kg. Chloral hydrate was rapidly metabolized by rats and mice, with trichloroacetic acid occurring as the major metabolite. Peak concentrations of trichloroacetic acid occurred more quickly in mice. Plasma concentrations of chloral hydrate were dose dependent, but metabolic rates were unaffected by dose or sex. Chloral hydrate was mutagenic in vitro and in vivo. Metabolism of chloral hydrate and its metabolites produced free radicals that resulted in lipid peroxidation in liver microsomes of mice, rats, and humans. Induction of cytochrome P(450)2E1 by pyrazole increased the concentrations of lipid peroxidation products; inhibition of cytochrome P(450)2E1 by 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine reduced these concentrations. Metabolism of chloral hydrate and its metabolites by mouse, rat, and human liver microsomes formed malondialdehyde, and in the presence of calf thymus DNA formed the DNA adduct MDA-MG-1.
The volatile oil of Toona sinensis(A.Juss.)Roem.leaves was extracted by steam distillation and cyclohexane collection.It was analyzed by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry.Fifty-one kinds of compounds,whose relative contents were 76.313 %,were separated and identified.The main components wese caryophyllene 14.752 %,caryophyllene oxide 9.218 %,linalool 6.266 %,eudesma-4(14),11-diene 5.916 %,palmitoleic acid5.585 %,phytol 4.140 %,borneol 3.796 %,isoborneol 2.671 %,and 2-methyl-3-(4-isopropylphenyl)-propionaldehyde 2.427 %.
Abstract ::: The geometric specificity of three different alcohol dehydrogenases (alcohol:NAD+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.1) (from yeast, from horse liver, and from Leuconostoc mesenteroides) in the reduction of trans- and cis-cinnamaldehydes has been investigated. All three enzymes display a remarkable trans specificity: they react with the trans isomer 7 to 647 times faster than with its cis counterpart. Experiments with the enzymatic reduction of 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, a saturated analog of cinnamaldehyde, have revealed that whereas trans-cinnamaldehyde possesses the "right" configuration for the active centers of the alcohol dehydrogenases, the cis isomer apparently does not fit the active centers well. All three alcohol dehydrogenases studied also exhibit a marked trans specificity in the reaction with alpha-methylcinnamaldehyde. The geometric specificity of alcohol dehydrogenases can be used for the production of otherwise hard to synthesize cis isomers of unsaturated aldehydes from their readily available trans counterparts: trans-cinnamaldehyde was irradiated with ultraviolet light (which converted it to a mixture of trans and cis isomers) then treated with NADH and yeast alcohol dehydrogenase (which selectively reduces only trans aldehyde into the alcohol), and finally the mixture of cis-cinnamaldehyde and trans-cinnamyl alcohol was separated easily by preparative column chromatography.
Oxidation of cyclohexane with dioxygen in the presence of propionaldehyde and some metalloporphyrins as catalysts have been investigated. The main products of the hydrocarbon oxidation are cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone. Also, the products of propionaldehyde oxidation such as peroxypropionic acid and carbon dioxide are present. The yields and the product distribution appeared to be dependent on the character of the metal centre. These differences in the catalytic behaviour shed light on the character of the active forms of the catalyst and on the mechanism of the investigated reaction.
Methionol is a sulphur-containing aroma compound that contributes to flavors of fermented foods. In this work, a novel method for methionol production was established using 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde (MMP) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). Firstly, expression of seven ADH genes was analyzed in yeast fermentation added with MMP. Only ADH4 displayed an evident increased expression in response to MMP. ADH4 was then over-expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae S288c and Escherichia coli BL21, respectively. The recombinant yeast strain S4 produced more methionol than control strain in MMP fermentation. Furthermore, 0.55 g/L of the 42 kDa Adh4p was prepared from E. coli by induced expression and purification. A fed-batch catalysis system was finally established to produce methionol from MMP by Adh4p. In 10 h of continuous catalysis, the conversion rate of MMP maintained 80%~95% and a final yield of 0.2 g/L of methionol was achieved. This work proposed a novel method for methionol production by enzymatic catalysis with a potential application prospect in industry.
Abstract Olanzapine and its precursor desmethyl-Olanzapine were synthesized from malononitrile, propionaldehyde, 1-fluoro-2-nitrobenzene, and substituted piperazine in 4, 4, 5, and 5 steps with 35%, 32%, 26%, and 32% overall chemical yield, respectively. [ 11 C]Olanzapine was prepared from desmethyl-Olanzapine with [ 11 C]CH 3 OTf through N-[ 11 C]methylation and isolated by HPLC combined with solid-phase extraction (SPE) in 40–50% radiochemical yield based on [ 11 C]CO 2 and decay corrected to end of bombardment (EOB), with 370–740 GBq/μmol specific activity at EOB. The calculated Log P ( C Log P ) value of [ 11 C]Olanzapine is 3.39.
It is known that the consumer acceptance of fresh and dried onions is influenced mainyl by its flavour strength. Consequently, the interactive effects of eight treatments, which were combinations of four levels of elemental sulfur fertilizer (0, 357, 714 and 1071 kg/ha) and two drying methods i. e. solar energy and electrical vacuum drying on several characteristics associated with the nutritional potential, pungency, drying and rehydration efficiency of onion, were evaluated. Results revealed that sulfur fertilization, especially at 714 kg/ha, increased significantly (p ≤ 0.05) total solids, fructan, water soluble carbohydrates (WSC) and vitamin C; however slight decreases in individual sugars were recorded. Total-, background- and enzymatically formed pyruvic acid as pungency precursors, volatile sulfur content and sulfur containing amino acids (methionine, cystine and cysteine) increased significantly by sulfur application particularly at a rate of 714 kg/ha. The drying process induced significant losses in all nutritional and pungency indices, where the electrical vacuum drying was more deteriorative. Gas chromatograms of onion volatile oil indicated that sulfur fertilization resulted in a considerable increase in all volatile components particularly the major ones i. e. propanethiol (n-propyl mercaptan), propionaldehyde, di-1-propyl disulfide and methyl propenyl disulfide, which have the purest and strongest onion odour. The horizontal solar tunnel drier with a maximum temperature of 60°C proved to be favourable for drying of onion slices, as it not only led to maintenance of the volatile odour components and a good colour, but also to reduction of drying time (6 hrs) and promotion of the rehydration ratio of the dried onion slices.
The invention discloses a poly-3-hydroxy propionic acid copolymer and a production method thereof and belongs to the technical field of genetic engineering. According to the poly-3-hydroxy propionic acid copolymer and the production method thereof, a glycerol dehydratase gene and a glycerol dehydratase re-activating enzyme gene are integrated with a host strain genome by a gene integration technology, a polyhydroxy fatty acid synthase gene, a propionaldehyde dehydrogenase gene, a beta-ketoacyl coenzyme A thiolase gene, an acetoacetyl coenzyme A reductase gene and a propionyl coenzyme A synthetase gene are introduced, and a recombinant gene engineering strain has the ability of biologically synthesizing poly-3-hydracrylic acid-co-3-hydroxyvaleric acid. According to the poly-3-hydroxy propionic acid copolymer and the production method thereof, the poly-3-hydracrylic acid-co-3-hydroxyvaleric acid is obtained in a biosynthesis manner for the first time; compared with poly-3-hydracrylic acid, the obtained poly 3-hydracrylic acid-co-3-hydroxyvaleric acid has a higher melting point and lower crystallinity, has good degradability and can serve as a packaging material, a medical implant material, a drug sustained-release material and an electrochemical material.
Abstract A bienzymic sensor for the determination of dithiocarbamate fungicides was developed based on aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibition. The NADH formed by the oxidation of propionaldehyde by aldehyde dehydrogenase was reoxidised by diaphorase using hexacyanoferrate(III) as electron acceptor. The hexacyanoferrate(II) produced was electrochemically oxidised at a potential of 250 mV vs. SCE. As dithiocarbamate fungicides inhibit aldehyde dehydrogenase, a decrease of the induced current was correlated to their concentration in the working medium. Aldehyde dehydrogenase and diaphorase were used in solution or entrapped in a photocrosslinkable poly(vinyl alcohol) bearing styrylpyridinium groups. The best results were achieved using entrapped enzymes and the sensitivity of the sensor was improved by lowering the amount of enzyme and by increasing the contact time between the pesticide and the enzyme. Using entrapped enzymes, the detection of 1.48 ppb of maneb was achieved whereas the commonly used spectrophotometric method allows to detect only 400 ppb of dithiocarbamate.
Abstract An electrochemical detection method for short-chain saturated and unsaturated aliphatic aldehydes separated by liquid chromatography in moderately acidic medium is described. A triple-step waveform of the potentials applied to the polycrystalline platinum electrode, is proposed for sensitive detection of aliphatic aldehydes in flowing streams avoiding tedious pre- or post-column derivatization and/or cleanup procedures. The influences of the perchloric acid concentration and dissolved oxygen in the mobile phase, on the amperometric and chromatographic performance were evaluated and considered in terms of sensitivity and selectivity. Under the optimised experimental conditions (i.e., deoxygenated 50 mM HClO 4 ) the proposed analytical method allowed detection limits between 0.2 μM for acrolein and 2.5 μM for valeraldehyde. Regression analysis of calibration data indicates that responses for all investigated compounds are linear over about 2 orders of magnitude above the LOD, with correlation coefficients >0.990. The method was successfully applied to the determination of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acrolein in real matrices such as spiked water and red wines with good mean recoveries (81–97%).
The volatile compounds such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, diacetyl, furan, furfural and 5-methyl furfural from cellulose, cellobiose, glucose and levoglucosan pyrolysates at 250°C, 350°C and 500°G were studied by gas chromatography with a pyrolyzer without intermediate trapping. The composition of the volatiles was changed with the temperatures and the degradation stages of cellulose pyrolysis.Analytical data of the relative amounts of the volatiles show that pyrolysis of cellulose proceeds through two primary simultaneous reactions: a) the initial scission of glucosidic linkages, and b) chemical changes in anhydroglucose units of cellulose.
The in vivo inhibition of low Km mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (AlDH) activity by pargyline was not maximal until more than 30 minutes after i.p. injection. Enzyme activity returned to control levels within 36 hours of drug injection but the return of activity was slowed by cycloheximide pretreatment. Female rats and higher basal total and low Km mitochondrial AlDH activities than did males. Injection of pargyline inhibited low Km mitochondrial AlDH activity more in males than in females. Incubation of rat liver microsomes with an NADPH-generating system and pargyline produced an in vitro inhibitor of low Km mitochondrial AlDH activity. Pretreatment of rats with phenobarbital increased the AlDH inhibitor produced by incubation of their microsomes with pargyline. Injection with benzylpropargylamine, N-demethylated pargyline, also preferentially inhibited the low Km form of mitochondrial AlDH activity. Neither pargyline nor benzylpropargylamine injections affected microsomal AlDH activity. Total AlDH activity, measured with 5mM propionaldehyde, in rat liver 100,000g supernatant was not changed by administration of either drug. Supernatant activity assayed with 50 microM propionaldehyde was inhibited by both pargyline and benzylpropargylamine treatment.
Gamma-radiolysis of aqueous sodium nitrate and nitrate-1-propanol solutions has been studied as a function of concentration of reactants and absorbed dose. The three major products analyzed are nitrite, hydrogen peroxide and propionaldehyde in aerated and deoxygenated solutions. The concentration of the products formed were found to be proportional to the absorbed dose. The G-values of the different products obtained over a wide range of reactant concentrations are explained on the basis of an appropriate reaction mechanism.
In addition to hydrogen, propionaldehyde, and hexanediol, the following products are found in irradiated propanol: formaldehyde (G 1·9), acetaldehyde (0·1), methane (0·14), ethylene (0·35), ethane (2·0), propylene (0·13), and propane (0·25). By use of a modified fragmentation pattern, the mass spectrum of propanol is applied to calculating theoretical radiation chemical yields. When dissociations of neutral excited molecules are taken into account, good agreement between experiment and theory is obtained.
In order to identify genes that are critical for the ABA-dependent stress response in the resurrection plant Craterostigma plantagineum, a gene was isolated with homology to class 3 variable substrate aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH). The C. plantagineum gene Cp-ALDH constitutes a novel class of plant ALDHs. In a search for corresponding genes from Arabidopsis thaliana, Ath-ALDH3 and Ath-ALDH4 were isolated, showing 70% and 80% similarity to Cp-ALDH. Phylogenetically, the Cp- and Ath-ALDH3 and -ALDH4 proteins are closely related to aldehyde dehydrogenases from bacteria and mammalian species and are separated from known plant ALDHs and betaine-aldehyde dehydrogenases (BADH). Cp-ALDH transcript and polypeptide are up-regulated in vegetative tissues and callus in response to dehydration or ABA-treatment. Ath-ALDH3 expression was induced in response to dehydration and ABA treatment, while Ath-ALDH4 is constitutively expressed at a low level. Recombinant Cp-ALDH protein oxidizes nonanal, propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde, with Km values of 2.2 microm, 0.27 mm and 3.23 mm, respectively, in an NAD-dependent manner. Immunogold electron microscopy shows that Cp-ALDH is localized in plastids.
During the past decades, considerable research has been devoted to the discovery of new and more effective agents for clinical antitumor therapy, involving the polyamine pathway (4, (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) . This research explores the possibility of using purified bovine serum amine oxidase (BSAO), in the presence of exogenous spermine or endogenous polyamines, to induce cytotoxicity, after injection of the enzyme into the tumor (15) . BSAO (EC 1.4.3.6) is a copper-containing glycoprotein weighing 170 kDa, which oxidatively deaminates the primary amino groups of polyamines, such as spermine and spermidine. The reaction involves dioxygen and water as substrates (16) . The products are H 2 O 2 , aldehydes and ammonia (16, 17) . In the case of spermine, the monoaldehyde, the unstable dialdehyde intermediate [N,N'-bis(3-propionaldehyde)-1,4-butanediamine], and a further breakdown product, likely to be acrolein, may be formed (18, 19) . Taking into account the higher levels of polyamines in tumor tissues (9, 16) , BSAO could be delivered to tumors and used to generate cytotoxic molecules from spermine and spermidine in situ, leading to a promising new treatment for the destruction of tumors by enzymotherapy.
Air pollution standards and control strategies are based on ambient measurements. For many outdoor air pollutants, individuals are closer to their sources (especially traffic) and there are important indoor sources influencing the relationship between ambient and personal exposures. This paper examines the relationship between volatile organic compounds (VOCs) measured at central site monitoring stations and personal exposures in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area. Over a 1-year period, personal exposures to 34 VOCs were measured for 90 volunteers from 30 families living close to one of five central monitoring stations. Simultaneous 24-h indoor, outdoor and central site measurements were also taken. Dual packed thermal desorption tubes and C 18 DNPH-coated cartridges were used for sampling VOCs and these were analyzed by GC/MS and HPLC, respectively. A factor analysis of the personal exposure data aided in grouping compounds by the most likely source type: vehicular (BTEX, styrene and 1,3-butadiene), secondary formed or photochemical (most aldehydes), building materials and consumer products (formaldehyde and benzaldehyde), cleaning solvents (tetrachloroethene and 1,1,1-trichloroethane), volatilization from water (chloroform and trichloroethene) and deodorizers (1,4-dichlorobenzene). Mean ambient, indoor and personal concentrations were 7/7/14 mg/m 3 for benzene, 1/3/3 for 1,3-butadiene, 6/20/20 for formaldehyde and 3/9/50 for 1,4-dichlorobenzene. Geometric mean (GM) ambient concentrations of trichloroethene and carbon tetrachloride were similar to GM personal exposures. While outdoor and indoor home GM concentrations for most vehicular related compounds (benzene, MTBE, xylenes and styrene) were comparable, the GM personal exposures were twice as high. Indoor concentrations of 1,3-butadiene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, tetrachloroethane, chloroform, formaldehyde, valeraldehyde, propionaldehyde and n-butyraldehyde were comparable to personal exposures. For certain compounds, such as chloroform, aldehydes, toluene, 1,3-butadiene and 1,4-dichlorobenzene, GM personal exposures were more than two times greater than GM ambient measurements.
Metabolomics is the comprehensive study of metabolites that can demonstrate the downstream effects of gene and protein regulation, arguably representing the closest correlation with phenotypic features. Hence, metabolomics-driven approach offers an effective way to facilitate strain improvement. Previously, targeted metabolomics on the 1-butanol-producing cyanobacterial strain Synechococcus elongatus BUOHSE has revealed the reduction step from butanoyl-CoA to butanal, catalyzed by CoA-acylating propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP), as a rate-limiting step in the CoA-dependent pathway. Moreover, an increase in acetyl-CoA synthesis rate was also observed in this strain, by which the increased rate of release of CoA from butanoyl-CoA was used to enhance formation of acetyl-CoA to feed into the pathway.
ABSTRACT The geometric specificity of three different alcohol dehydrogenases (alcohol:NAD+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.1) (from yeast, from horse liver, and from Leuconostoc mesenteroiles) in the reduction oftrans-and cis-cinnamaldehydes has been investigated. All three enzymes display a remarkable trans specificity: they react with the trans isomer 7 to 647 times faster than with its cis counterpart. Experiments with the enzymatic reduction of 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, a saturated analog of cinnamaldehyde, have revealed that whereas tranm-cinnamaldehyde possesses the "right" configuration for the active centers ofthe alcohol dehydrogenases, the cis isomer apparently does not fit the active centers well. All three alcohol dehydrogenases studied also exhibit a marked trans specificity in the reaction with a-methylcinnamaldehyde. The geometric specificity of alcohol dehydrogenases can be used for the production of otherwise hard to synthesize cis isomers of unsaturated aldehydes from their readily available trans counterparts: trans-cinnamaldehyde was irradiated with ultraviolet light (which converted it to a mixture of trans and cis isomers) then treated with NADH and yeast alcohol dehydrogenase (which selectively reduces only trans aldehyde into the alcohol), and finally the mixture of cis-cinnamaldehyde and trans-cinnamyl alcohol was separated easily by preparative column chromatography.
Reuterin is a small antimicrobial compound that is produced as an intermediate metabolite during anaerobic fermentation of glycerol (Talarico et al. 1988) . It consists of an equilibrium mixture of monomeric, hydrated monomeric, and cyclic dimeric forms of β-hydroxypropionaldehyde (Talarico and Dobrogosz 1989) . Reuterin, produced by some strains of Lactobacillus reuteri, has shown antimicrobial activity against a range of food-borne pathogens and spoilage organisms, including Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, yeasts, moulds, and protozoa Mishra et al. 2012; Ortiz-Rivera et al. 2017) . The inhibitory effect of reuterin is related to its action on DNA synthesis (Talarico and Dobrogosz 1989) . Bioprotective effect of reuterin alone and in combination with nisin against various food-borne pathogens has been investigated in milk (Mishra et al. 2011) .
The sensorial threshold value of 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde appears to be influenced by the beer matrix. We have shown that, in typical lager beers, ethanol significantly increases aldehyde retention, leading to lower perception of the worty character. In alcohol-free beers, both the absence of ethanol and the higher level of mono- and disaccharides such as maltose intensify such off-flavours. As improving Strecker aldehyde reduction by yeast seems difficult for alcohol-free beer production without using genetically modified yeasts or adding steps in the process, another interesting approach could be to add "ethanol-mimics" to increase off-flavour thresholds, (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. Al rights reserved.
Methyl 3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethylpropionate was synthesized by direct conversion of 3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethylpropionaldehyde prepared by aldol condensation of isobuthylaldehyde and formaldehyde,to the methyl ester using chlorine and sodium hydroxide in methanol. And optimum reaction conditions, such as the amount of chlorine and sodium hydroxide, reaction temperature were established.
α-Isonitroso ketones, derivatives of tetrahydrobenzofurazan and furoxan, react with aldehydes (acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde) and morpholine to form derivatives of tetrahydropyrrolo[2,3-e]-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole 6-oxide. Treatment of the latter with hydrazine hydrate gave derivatives of 4,5-dihydro-1,2,5-oxadiazolo[3,4-f]cinnoline which are readily dehydrogenated with tetrachloro-benzoquinone to derivatives of 1,2,5-oxadiazolo[3,4-f]cinnoline. Reduction of tetrahydropyrrolo[2,3-e]-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole 6-oxides with sodium borohydride gave derivatives of N-hydroxyhexahydro-pyrrolo[2,3-e]-2,1,3-benzoxazole.
Abstract The catalytic reductive aldol coupling of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde and acrylate derivatives with rhodium-bisoxazolinyl catalysts resulted in high Felkin–Anh selectivity (β,γ- syn ) up to 98% accompanied by α,β- anti diastereoselectivity and high enantiomeric excesses up to 99%.
Reaction of [(p-MeC6H4CHMe2)2Os2Cl4] with sodium hydroxide in water gave the tri-µ-hydroxo cation [(p-MeC6H4CHMe2)2Os2(µ-OH)3]+, isolated as PF6(1a) or BPh4(1b) salts. Complex (1a) reacted with formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, or propionaldehyde to give the complexes [(p-MeC6H4CHMe2)2Os2(µ-RCO2)(µ-OH)(µ-H)][PF6][R = H (2a), Me (2b), Et (2c)], and with cinnamaldehyde, benzaldehyde, or pivaldehyde to give the complexes [(p-MeC6H4CHMe2)2Os2(µ-RCO2)(µ-OH)2][PF6][R =trans-PhCHCH (3a), Ph (3b), But(3c)]. Reaction of (1a) with carboxylic acids gave (3; R =trans-PhCHCH, Ph, Me, or H). Complex (1a) catalysed the oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde by water to the corresponding carboxylic acids; hydrogen was also produced. This reaction was slower but more selective than the previously reported ruthenium-catalysed reaction. The complexes have been characterised by microanalysis and i.r. and 1H n.m.r. spectra. A single-crystal X-ray diffraction study on complex (2a) confirmed the proposed structure.
Low-boiling compounds escaping during steam distillation of Cryptotaenia japonica Hassk were collected and examined with chromatographies and by the preparation of their derivatives.The following compounds were identified. Six paraffin hydrocarbons: n-pentane, n-hexane, n-heptane, n-octane, isooctane, n-nonane; seven carbonyl compounds: formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, acetone, 3-methyl-2-pentanone; three esters: n-propyl and isopropyl formates, n-propyl acetate; eight alcohols: methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, isopropanol, isobutanol, sec-butanol, isopentanol, n-octanol; two sulfides: dimethyl and methyl ethyl sulfides; six monoterpene hydrocarbons: α-pinene, camphene, β-pinene, sabinene, myrcene, limonene.
The reductive condensation of L-valine with propionaldehyde in the presence of silk-palladium catalyst gave a mixture consisting of corresponding IV-n-propyl and N, N-di-n-propyi derivatives. In the similar reaction with n-butyraldehyde, only N-n-butyl-L-valine was precipitated in an almost pure state owing its insolubility. The reductive methylation of N-n-propyl or N-n-butyl L-valine were effected with good results.The IV-oxides were satisfactorily synthesized by the oxidation of corresponding N-methyl-N-alkyl-L-valine with an aqueous mixture of hydrogen peroxide and acetic acid.
Glycerol can be biologically converted to 1,3-propanediol, a key raw material required for the synthesis of polytrimethylene terephthalate and other polyester fibers. In 1,3-propanediol synthesis pathway, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) was an inhibitory intermediary metabolite. The accumulation of 3-HPA in broth would cause an irreversible cessation of the fermentation process. With the object of reducing 3-HPA level in the fermentation broth, dhaT gene which encodes 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (PDOR) was cloned and over expressed in 1,3-propanediol producing bacterium Klebsiella pneumoniae TUAC01. dhaT gene was linked downstream of the ptac promoter in an expressing vector pDK6 to form plasmid pDK-dhaT. The newly formed pDK-dhaT was transformed to K. pneumoniae TUAC01. Under the inducement of IPTG, PDOR was over-expressed when the constructed strain was cultured on an LB medium or a fermentation medium. A 5 L scale-up fermentation experiment was done to test the 3-HPA accumulation in broth, with the initial substrate glycerol 30 g/L; the peak levels of 3-HPA in broth were 7.55 and 1.49 mmol/L for control host strain and the constructed strain, respectively. In 50 g/L initial glycerol experiment, the peak level of 3-HPA in broth was 12.57 and 2.02 mmol/l for the control host strain and the constructed strain, respectively. Thus the fermentation cessation caused by the toxicity of 3-HPA was alleviated in the constructed strain.
Smith and Schweizer (10) noted a cultivar by herbicide interaction for injury from herbicides early in the growing season; however, most cultivars recovered by final harvest. Smith et al. (11) reported that inbred sugarbeet populations were more susceptible to herbicide injury than commercial cultivars. Dexter and Kern (5) reported herbi­ cide by cultivar interactions using higher than recommen­ ded EPTC (~-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate) rates. Dolzhikova et al. (7) and Kovrigo and Gruzdev (8) re­ ported that multiple herbicides did not affect the yield or quality of sugarbeets. Smith and Schweizer (10) ob­ served no effect on sucrose content or purity averaged over all cultivars and herbicides. Blickenstaff et al. (2) reported that aldi~arb [2­ methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde-o-(methylcarbomyl)
Abstract Purpald (4-amino-3-hydrazino-5-mercapto-1,2,4-triazole), a chromogenic agent for the detection of aldehydes after TLC has been studied as a possible post-column derivatizing agent for improving the detectability of aldehydes after HPLC separation. In the first step of a two step reaction, Purpald forms a colorless adduct with aldehydes. Subsequent oxidation of the colorless adduct by air or other means yields a highly colored compound in the second step. The oxidized Purpald–aldehyde adduct is deep purple in color and has an absorption maximum at 550 nm. An on-line post-column electrochemical reactor has been investigated as a possible alternative to air or chemical oxidation for the analysis of aldehydes using HPLC. The method was shown to form colored adducts in bulk solution and on-line using electrochemical oxidation at nickel electrodes for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde. There was a marked increase in reaction time in bulk solution as the molecular mass of the aldehyde increased. Thus, when performing chromatography using on-line electrochemical oxidation the sensitivity of the method decreased significantly as the aldehyde molecular mass increased. Reactor design, electrode configurations, electrode potentials, and optimum reaction conditions are described.
The authors investigated the reactions of phosphoriodidites and phosphinous iodides with a number of aldehydes and ketones in presence of tertiary amines (triethylamine, pyridine, N,N-diethylaniline), and they have shown that as a result of the reactions the corresponding vinyl esters of phosphorus acids are formed. The reactions of phosphoriodidites (and phosphorodiamidous iodides) with aliphatic aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and isobutyraldehyde) go at a molar reactant ratio of 1:1 in either at room temperature and are practically complete in 5-6 h. The yields of the alkenyl phosphites (phosphorodiamidites) were 45-70%. The compositions and structures of the compounds obtained were confirmed by elemental analysis and the IR and /sup 1/H and /sup 31/P NMR spectra.
When N′-methyl-2,6-dimethylphenylhydrazine hydrochloride was condensed with propionaldehyde by azeotropic removal of water in refluxing benzene for 10–12 min, a solid mixture was obtained which contained no aromatic ring system but instead possessed features indicative of a dienone–imine structure. When this mixture, or the original combination of N′-methyl-2,6-dimethylphenylhydrazine hydrochloride and propionaldehyde, was heated in refluxing benzene for 20 h there was obtained 1,3,7-trimethylindole in 36 and 31% yield respectively. Evidence indicated that a substantial amount of 3,7-dimethylindole was also produced.The results support the view that an intermediate dienone–imine is formed as one step in the Robinson mechanism of the Fischer indole synthesis.
According to our knowledge, this is the first purification method developed, enabling isolation of a homogeneous aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase (AMADH) from etiolated pea seedlings. The procedure involved initial purification with precipitants followed by three low pressure chromatographic steps. Partially purified enzyme was further subjected to fast protein liquid chromatography on a Mono Q column and to affinity-interaction chromatography on 5'-AMP Sepharose. Purity of the final enzyme preparation was checked by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and chromatofocusing. Pea AMADH exists as a tetramer of 230 kDa in the native state, a molecular mass of one subunit was determined as 57 kDa. The enzyme was found to be an acidic protein with pI 5.4. AMADH showed a broad substrate specificity utilising various aminoaldehydes (C3-C6) as substrates. The best substrate of pea AMADH was 3-aminopropionaldehyde, the enzyme also efficiently oxidised 4-aminobutyraldehyde and omega-guanidinoanalogues of the aminoaldehydes. Pea AMADH was inhibited by SH reagents, several elementary aldehydes and metal-binding agents. Although AMADH did not oxidise betaine aldehyde at all, the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the enzyme shows a high degree of homology with those of plant betaine aldehyde dehydrogenases (BADHs) of spinach, sugar beet and amaranth. Several conserved amino acids were found in comparison with BADH from cod liver of known crystal structure.
Kinetic studies on the oxidation of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n- and iso-butyraldehyde have been made using chloramine-T as an oxidising agent in an alkaline medium. The reactions followed almost identical kinetics being first order with respect to both aldehyde and chloramine-T. The order with respect to alkali has been found to be almost equal to unity (0.8 to 0.90). Effect of an increase in the ionic strength was negligible while that of the addition of ethyl alcohol was negative. A mechanism involving the interaction of the enol anion of the aldehyde with chloramine-T best fits the kinetics data. Other possibilities have also been examined. Corresponding acids were found to be the oxidation products.
Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) have been well established in all three domains of life and were shown to play essential roles, e.g., in intermediary metabolism and detoxification. In the genome of Sulfolobus solfataricus, five paralogs of the aldehyde dehydrogenases superfamily were identified, however, so far only the non-phosphorylating glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPN) and α-ketoglutaric semialdehyde dehydrogenase (α-KGSADH) have been characterized. Detailed biochemical analyses of the remaining three ALDHs revealed the presence of two succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) isoenzymes catalyzing the NAD(P)(+)-dependent oxidation of succinic semialdehyde. Whereas SSO1629 (SSADH-I) is specific for NAD(+), SSO1842 (SSADH-II) exhibits dual cosubstrate specificity (NAD(P)(+)). Physiological significant activity for both SSO-SSADHs was only detected with succinic semialdehyde and α-ketoglutarate semialdehyde. Bioinformatic reconstructions suggest a major function of both enzymes in γ-aminobutyrate, polyamine as well as nitrogen metabolism and they might additionally also function in pentose metabolism. Phylogenetic studies indicated a close relationship of SSO-SSALDHs to GAPNs and also a convergent evolution with the SSADHs from E. coli. Furthermore, for SSO1218, methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (MSDH) activity was demonstrated. The enzyme catalyzes the NAD(+)- and CoA-dependent oxidation of methylmalonate semialdehyde, malonate semialdehyde as well as propionaldehyde (PA). For MSDH, a major function in the degradation of branched chain amino acids is proposed which is supported by the high sequence homology with characterized MSDHs from bacteria. This is the first report of MSDH as well as SSADH isoenzymes in Archaea.
A detailed study has been made of the synthesis of adipic dialdehyde starting from β-cyanopropionaldehyde. The hydrolysis of the acetal of this cyanoaldehyde gave β-formylpropionic acid acetal, to which Kolbe’s electrolytic reaction was applied. The intermediate acetal acid has been successfully isolated in the case of ethylene acetal, whereas ethyl or butyl acetal decomposed by distillation into ethoxy or butoxy-γ-butyrolactone, the structure of which has been established by analysis, infrared spectra and conversion to β-formylpropionic acid. Methyl acetal was also readily hydrolyzed to free aldehydic acid during the course of the isolation. Electrolysis of the ethylene acetal of β-formylpropionic acid in methanol gave adipic dialdehyde as its diethylene acetal.
SUMMARY ::: ::: Some organic chemical compounds were detected in milk by a simple, direct chromatographic analysis of head-space vapors. After modifying the head-space gas-sampling technique by saturating the aqueous solution with sodium sulfate and increasing the amplification of the chromatographic hydrogen flame detector electrometer, some organic compounds were detected at less than 0.1 ppm concentration in milk. Samples of fresh and stored raw milk, with and without off-flavors, were analyzed successfully. Some volatile chemical compounds developed during storage at 2°C. Off-flavors were characterized by the development of certain chromatographic peaks. Chromatograms were recorded for analyses of rancid, oxidized, sunlight-oxidized, and high-acid milks. A number of chromatographic peaks were characterized as carbonyl from their reaction with hydroxylamine. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, and 2-butanone were identified. An indication of the concentration of some of these peaks was obtained by analyzing solutions of 0.1 ppm acetaldebyde, propionaldehyde, and 2-hexanone added to water and to milk.
Whencells ofKlebsiella pneumoniae NRRL B-199(ATCC8724) were grownaerobically on a richglycerol mediumandthensuspended inbuffer supplemented withsemicarbazide andglycerol, aerobic conversion of glycerol to3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) ensued. Depending onconditions, 0.38to0.67gof3-HPAwere formed pergram ofglycerol consumed. Thismeans thatup to83.8%ofthecarboninvested asglycerol could potentially berecovered asthetarget product, 3-HPA.Production of3-HPAwas sensitive totheageofcells harvested forresuspension andwas nonexistent ifcells were cultivated on glucose instead ofglycerol asthesole carbon source.Compared with24-and72-hcells, 48-hcells produced 3-HPAatthehighest rateandwiththe greatest yield. Thecell biomass concentration present during thefermentation was neverparticularly critical tothe3-HPAyield, butinitial fermentation rates and3-HPAaccumnulation displayed a linear dependence on biomass concentration thatfadedwhenbiomass exceeded 3g/liter. Fermentation performance was a function oftemperature, andan optimuminitial specific 3-HPAproductivity occurred at32°C,although theoverall 3-HPAyield increased continuously withinthe25to37°Crangestudied. The pH optimumbasedon fermentation ratewas different fromthatbasedon overall yield; 8 versus7,respectively. Initial glycerol concentrations inthe20to50g/liter rangeoptimized initial 3-HPAproductivity andyield. Chemicaloxidation of3-hydroxyproprionaldehyde (3-HPA)leadstoacrylic acid, an industrially important polymerizable monomer currently derived frompetroleum. Astheavailability ofpetroleum declines, 3-HPAmay become attractive as aproduct tobeobtained through fermentation ofglycerol, a renewable resource.Normally, however,3-HPAisnotan endproduct ofbacterial glycerol dissimilation butan intermediate whichmustbetrapped and soforced toaccumulate bymanipulation ofthemetabolism. Pathways responsible forglycerol transport anddissimi
[4-13C]-porphobilinogen 1a, [3-13C]-porphobilinogen 1b and [11-13C]-porphobilinogen 1c are prepared from [1-13C]-3-(tetrahydropyran-2′-yloxy)-propionaldehyde 2a, methyl [4-13C]-4-nitrobutyrate 3b and [1-13C]-isocyanoacetonitrile 5c, respectively. The building blocks 2, 3 and 5 can be prepared efficiently in any isotopomeric form. Via base-catalyzed condensation of these building blocks porphobilinogen can be enriched with 13C and 15N stable isotopes at any position and combination of positions. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) play a significant role in the production of ozone in urban atmospheres. In addition, VOCs are of concern because some of them are toxic, and because the atmospheric oxidation of directly emitted VOCs can form condensable products which contribute to airborne particulate matter concentrations. In this study, a general model that relates pollutant emissions to ambient VOC concentrations is described. Model performance is evaluated both for ozone and VOCs for the August 27-29, 1987 period in the Los Angeles area using data from the Southern California Air Quality Study (SCAQS). ::: ::: Improved chemical composition profiles for major VOC emission sources are presented, and use of these profiles results in significant changes to previous emissions estimates for many individual VCs. Reconciliation of emission data with speciated ambient VOC concentration data from the Los Angeles area indicates that there is much more unburned gasoline in the atmosphere than the emission inventory suggests. ::: ::: Three photochemical airshed models are presented that predict the ambient concentrations of VOCs. The first model predicts concentrations of lumped VOC classes (e.g. lumped canes, monoalkyl benzenes). Satisfactory model performance is obtained only after the VOC emission estimates prepared by the government are scaled up to match emission rates measured in the Van Nuys tunnel. An enhanced airshed model with 53 individual VOCs represented explicitly also is described and tested. The best performance is obtained for aromatic hydrocarbons which are predicted to within ±20% by the model in most cases; concentrations of most other species are predicted to better than ±50%. Finally, a model for gas-phase toxic organic air pollutants is described and tested for species including aromatics, aldehydes, ketones, and 1,3-butadiene among others. Significant contributions to total ambient concentrations from atmospheric photochemical formation are found for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein and methyl ethyl ketone. Therefore, control programs for some toxic air pollutants must consider photochemical formation pathways in addition to direct emissions. ::: ::: The novel aspects of this study include the analysis and improvement of speciated VOC emission estimates, and the development and testing of airs hed models for lumped and individual VOCs using data from SCAQS.
Abstract The electrochemical oxidation reactions of α-, β- and γ-aminobutyric acid at a Pt electrode were investigated in aqueous solutions at pH 1 and pH 13 using steady-state current-potential measurements, cyclic voltammetry and open-circuit potential decay. The capacitance behaviour and the high Tafel slopes suggest the production of free radicals at the surface of the electrode accompanied by a second reaction involving loss of CO2 which is the rate-determining step. The adsorbed intermediate species is either hydrolysed anodically to propionaldehyde or produces the aldehyde by the formation of a carbonium ion which is subsequently hydrolysed in solution. The mechanisms are compared with those observed in our earlier investigations of the electrochemical oxidation reactions of glycine and α- and β-alanine. Formation of propionaldehyde and other aldehyde products was confirmed by polarographic measurements, and no dimerized products were detected by gas chromatography. This behaviour differs from the dimerization process typical of the radical reactions associated with the Kolbe mechanism.
Hydroxy 3 methyl 3 butenenitrile is a useful intermediate of plastics and pesticides.2 Methylpropenal was prepared in 98% yield by condensation of formaldehyde and propionaldehyde under the catalysis of diethylamine hydrochloride.The reaction was performed in two stages.At first,the reaction was carried out at pH=7,t=45 ℃;thereafter,the reaction was completed under boiling and the product was obtained by distillation.The catalyst was reused for four times without notable change of the yield.Under swift stirring,t≤5 ℃,2 methylpropenal,sodium cyanide and hydrochloric acid reacted to give 2 hydroxy 3 methyl 3 butenenitrile in 92% yield.Structure of the product was identified by 1 H NMR.
Reports from several laboratories agree that many, but not all, aliphatic nitriles undergo hepatic biotransformation in mice and rats to release free cyanide, but the mechanisms at work in these reactions remain in doubt. We have used primarily n-butyronitrile, propionitrile, and their respective alpha-carbon-hydroxylated homologs, propionaldehyde cyanohydrin and lactonitrile, to examine this question in mice. Pretreatment of mice with the hepatic microsomal enzyme inducers, pregnenolone-16 alpha-carbonitrile, troleandomycin, and isosafrole, or with the cytochrome P-450-depleting agent, cobaltous chloride, did not influence the mortality of mice given single doses of nitriles. Repeated injections of aspirin or sodium salicylate in water failed to protect mice against death by the nitriles. Dimethyl sulfoxide, however, was effective in reducing mortality after nitrile administration. Repeated injections of 4-methylpyrazole or disulfiram protected mice against death after nitriles. Most of the treatment regimens successful against the nitriles also protected against death due to the cyanohydrins. The cyanohydrins were more acutely toxic than their parent nitriles, produced death much more rapidly, and resulted in the same toxic signs, suggesting that they are intermediates in the bioactivation pathway leading to free cyanide. The cyanohydrins appeared to serve as weak substrates for yeast alcohol dehydrogenase, however, incubation of them with either yeast or horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase did not increase the rate of cyanide release over that in incubations where the enzymes were absent. The slow rate of cyanide release due to spontaneous hydrolysis interfered with the determinations of alcohol dehydrogenase activity, but it cannot account for the rapid action and high toxicity of the cyanohydrins in vivo, or for the efficacy of the treatment regimens which protected against death. It appears unlikely that prostaglandin synthetase or alcohol dehydrogenase are importantly involved in nitrile bioactivation. The same active process, however, appears to be responsible both for alpha-carbon hydroxylation and for the subsequent degradation of the resulting cyanohydrins to release free cyanide. It is far more efficient in mediating the latter reaction than the former.
Human stomach aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) isozymes were screened in random autopsy specimens from 66 North German and 33 Chinese individuals. Three ALDH isozymes were identified, which differed in their electrophoretic mobility, affinity to acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, furfural, and to NAD+ as coenzyme as well as in inhibition by disulfiram, pH optimum and heat stability. While all the German stomach specimens showed ALDH I, ALDH II, and ALDH III isozymes, these isozymes were found in 68, 88, and 99% of the Chinese samples, respectively. The electrophoretic resolution of ALDH III into different activity bands is apparently due to the artefactual formation of secondary isozymes rather than to the existence of genetic variants.
The compounds with retention times between 16 and 19 min (the major compounds) were determined to be 6-carbon cyclic ethers. The mechanism for the formation of these cyclic ethers was shown by Barrault et al. 31 Another way to generate these cyclic compounds is by the dimerization of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde proposed by Suprun et al. 32 and Oliveira et al. 33 using electrospray analysis, and presented a predominance of di-and triglycerols in the condensed phase from the conversion of glycerol with catalyst based on nioubium compounds.
Kinetic studies on the oxidation of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-and tso-butyraldehyde have been made using diloramine-T as an oxidising agent in an alkaline medium. The reactions followed almost identical kinetics being first order with respect to both aldehyde and chloramine-T. The order with respect to alkali has been found to be almost equal to unity (0.8 to 0.90). Effect of an increase in the ionic strength was negligible while that of the addition of ethyl alcohol was negative. A mechanism involving the interaction of the enol anion of the aldehyde with chloramine-T best fits the kinetics data. Other possibilities have also been examined. Corresponding acids were found to be the oxidation products.
Abstract Propionaldehyde, the three‐carbon saturated aldehyde, has been the subject of limited toxicological investigation. Other low‐molecular‐weight aldehydes such as formaldehyde, unsaturated aldehydes such as acrolein, and the two‐carbon saturated acetaldehyde have been studied much more extensively due to their more widespread use and more severe toxicity, including carcinogenicity. For propionaldehyde, the current toxicological literature cannot support an evaluation of human risk from long‐term exposure because current practice requires both an adequate subchronic study to assess noncancer endpoints and a chronic bioassay to evaluate carcinogenic potential. The biological activities of propionaldehyde and other low‐molecular‐weight aldehydes, especially acetaldehyde and formaldehyde, have been evaluated in several different systems, both in vitro and in vivo. The results of these investigations show consistent similarities in effects and potency between propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde in a range o...
Maxillary palps have been proposed as secondary olfactory organs, after the antennae, in Drosophila melanogaster. Our study tries to establish the quantitative importance of both organs as olfactory information mediators. Dose-response curves for three odorants: ethyl acetate, propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde were carried out for comparing olfaction in either complete animals or flies surgically deprived of antennae. Antennaless flies tested in our behavioral assay showed indifferent, attractant and repellent responses depending on concentration, similarly as normal flies do. However, they clearly displayed less sensitivity than normal flies. The range of concentrations they were able to perceive was correlated to antennal sensitivity approximately by a factor 1:10 for ethyl acetate and benzaldehyde, and between 1:10 and 1:100 at high concentrations of propionaldehyde. A complementary experiment was performed to test changes in olfactory behavior produced by removing maxillary palps in the presence of antennae. At high concentrations of odorant, responses to ethyl acetate and propionaldehyde experienced small changes when both palps were removed. Results are compatible with a summation model of all olfactory information reaching the brain either through antennae or palps.
Invertase was ionically bound to the poly(ethylene-vinyl alcohol) membrane surface modified with two aminoacetals with different molecular length, 2-dimethyl-aminoacetoaldehyde dimethylacetal (AAA) and 3-(N,N-dimethylamino-n-propanediamine) propionaldehyde dimethylacetal (APA). Immobilization conditions were determined with respect to enzyme concentration in solution, pH value, ionic strength in immobilization solution, and immobilization time. Various properties of immobilized invertase were evaluated, and thermal stability was found especially to be improved by immobilization. The apparent Michaelis constant, Km, was smaller for invertase bound by APA with longer molecular lengths than for invertase bound by AAA. We attempted to bind glucoamylase of Rhizopus delemarorigin in the same way. The amount and activity of immobilized glucoamylase were much less than those of invertase. 16 references.
After heating the aqueous model solution containing carbonyl compounds and amino acids, its reactivity was investigated by gas chromatography.1) At pH6.5, n-propionaldehyde easily reacted with L-arginine HCl, L-lysine HCl, L-histidine HCl, L-tryptophan and especially with L-cysteine. After heating, browning was found in each solution and volatile flavor of n-propionaldehyde was reduced. These amio acids reacted with n-capronaldehyde as well as n-propionaldehyde. The volatiles formed by the reaction between the carbonyls and L-cysteine were sulfurous flavor.2) On varying the contents of L-arginine HCl, L-lysine HCl and L-histidine HCl, about a half amount of carbonyl compound in the simple model system was made nonvolatile by addition of 5 fold amino acid in molarity to carbonyl compound. In case of the mixed model system of carbonyl compounds (1mM formaldehyde-1mM acetaldehyde-1mM n-propionaldehyde-1mM n-valeraldekyde-2.5mM n-carpronaldehype), L-lysine HCl or L-histidine HCl was most effective to make nonvolatile about a half amount of carbonyl compounds in model system. Its amino acid concentration was 20 fold in molarity to carbonyl compounds. L-cysteine made entirely nonvolatile carbonyl compounds in equal molarity to carbonyls.
Field experiments to control 8 species of insects were conducted on Irish potatoes in southeastern Virginia from 1961 to 1966. Twenty-five different compounds in several formulations, rates, and methods of application were evaluated as soil Insecticides. ::: ::: Applications of phorate, NIA 10242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate), disulfoton, Temik® (10% granular formulation of 2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) and Dasanit ( O, O -diethyl O -[ p -(methylsulfinyl) phenyl] phosphorothioate) granules in the fertilizer band (2-3 pounds actual per acre) at planting gave highly significant reductions in Colorado potato beetle, Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say), for 70-90 days. Band placement of the granules was superior to all other formulations and methods except dropping the granules directly in the seed furrow or use of insecticide-fertilizer combinations in bands. In general, the same insecticides and methods of application were most effective against potato flea beetles, Epitrix cucumeris (Harris), tobacco flea beetles, E. hirtipennis (Melsheimer), and potato leafhoppers, Empoasca fabae (Harris). Conversely, all were totally ineffective against the cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni (Hubner). ::: ::: European corn borers, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hubner), were satisfactorily controlled by only 2 soil insecticides, Dasanit and NIA 10242, both of which reduced corn borer populations to negligible proportions. Foliage infestations of the potato tuberworm, Phthorimaea operculella (Zeller), proved to be somewhat more difficult to control but these 2 chemicals along with phorate gave best results. Later in the season Dasanit was superior to NIA 10242 and phorate. ::: ::: None of the soil systemics gave satisfactory reduction of black cutworm, Agrotis ipsilon (Hufnagel), damage to the tubers when used at practical rates. Likewise, dieldrin, chlordane, and diazinon, with only 65% reduction in damage, could not be regarded as satisfactory and were significantly less effective than foliage treatments with DDT, azinphosmethyl, or carbaryl, when these were timed to coincide with peak moth flights. ::: ::: Potato insect control resulted in consistent and often striking yield increases and improved quality as reflected by much higher specific gravities.
The reaction between some aliphatic aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde) and the typical stereospecific polymerization catalyst R2AlOCR′NPh has been studied in an attempt to elucidate the initiation mechanism of the polymerization reaction. The monomer-catalyst (1/1) complexes obtained from these aldehydes and R2AlOCR′NPh possess excellent catalytic activity towards the stereospecific polymerization. The structure of the complex in solution has been determined by NMR and IR spectra and compared with the structure determined by X-ray structure analysis. The presence of pentacoordinate aluminum in the complex has been demonstrated, for the first time, by X-ray studies. ::: ::: The structure of the aromatic monoaldehyde complex has also been studied and shown to be identical with that of the aliphatic aldehyde complex mentioned above. The chemical behavior of these aldehyde complexes towards Lewis bases and Lewis acids has also been studied. The aldehyde moiety of the R2AlOCR′NPh - MeCHO complex is liberated by the action of a strong Lewis base such as trimethylamine oxide and hexamethylphosphoramide, and is easily exchanged for another kind of aldehyde. The trimethylaluminum complex, Me2AlOCPhNPh · MeCHO · AlMe3, which only leads to the formation of amorphous polyacetaldehyde in contrast to Me2AlOCPhNPh · MeCHO, has been isolated and its structure determined by IR, NMR and X-ray studies in order to establish the relationship between its structure and its chemical behavior.
The synthesis and characterization of the addition product of NADP and decanaldehyde are described. This adduct is an inhibitor of beef brain NADP-linked aldehyde reductase (Ki = 2.3 x 10(-6) M) along with the NADP adducts of butyraldehyde, phenylpropionaldehyde, and phenylacetaldehyde.
A method, based on microchip electrophoresis with electrochemical detection, has been developed for the simultaneous determination of light aliphatic aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde and hexylaldehyde) derivatized with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH). Optimal conditions for the derivatization reaction, providing recoveries of 70+/-1.8% for all analytes, were identified by application to real samples, consisting of vegetable oils enriched with known amounts of the aldehydes considered. DNPH hydrazones thus obtained in acetonitrile solution were added to the electrophoresis running medium consisting of a 15mM borate buffer (pH 9.2) added with 25mM of sodium dodecyl sulfate and 35% (v/v) of acetonitrile. Factors affecting both separation and electrochemical detection were examined and optimised, with best performance achieved by using the running medium above and applying a voltage of 2250V in both separation and electrokinetic injection. Under these optimal conditions, the target analytes could be separated and detected within 350s by applying a detection potential of -1.0V (vs. Ag/AgCl) to the glassy carbon working electrode. The recorded peaks were well separated and characterized by good repeatability (RSD=1.6-3.8%), high sensitivity and a wide linear range. Detection limits of 4.5, 6.6, 6.8, 13.1microM were obtained for acetaldehyde-DNPH, propionaldehyde-DNPH, butyraldehyde-DNPH and hexylaldehyde-DNPH derivatives, respectively.
The feasibility of employing reversible reactions to convert the separation of ethanediol (EG) and 1,2-butanediol (1, 2-BDO) azeotropic system was analyzed in our previous work. This article aims at systematically screening the feasible reactants for the reaction-assisted separation process. A screening principle was brought up and applied. Through preliminary screening, acetic acid, acrylic acid, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, propanol and butanone were obtained as potential reactants. Propionaldehyde was chosen as the proper one after fully comparing the reaction selectivity difference and conversion of EG and 1,2-BDO in reaction process, the separation efficiency in purification process as well as final EG yield. The separation efficiency was predicted based on the relative volatility of EG, 1,2-BDO and their corresponding products and was verified by distillation experiments. The stratification appeared in the reaction was found beneficial to the coupling of reaction and separation.
Abstract Glycerol can be converted to 1,3-propanediol by Klebsiella pneumoniae under anaerobic conditions. The main metabolic pathways of glycerol fermentation include oxidative and reductive pathway. In this study, a novel mathematical model is set up to describe the continuous and batch fermentations of glycerol by K. pneumoniae , in which the enzyme-catalytic kinetics on the reductive pathway, the transport of glycerol and diffusion of 1,3-propanediol across cell membrane, and the inhibition of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to glycerol dehydratase (GDHt) and 1,3-PD oxydoreductase (PDOR) are all taken into consideration. Comparisons between simulated and experimental results indicate that the model can be used to describe the continuous fermentation under steady states reasonably. Moreover, the intracellular concentrations of glycerol, 1,3-propanediol, and 3-HPA could also be predicted for continuous and batch cultivations. 3-HPA can be dramatically accumulated during the fermentation process to an uppermost value of 275.41 mmol L −1 under the continuous culture of dilute rate of 0.1 h −1 when extracellular residual glycerol concentration is changed from 0.07 to 1495.09 mmol L −1 . Furthermore, the inhibition of 3-HPA to PDOR is stronger than that to GDHt. This work is helpful for deeply understanding metabolic and genetic regulation of dha regulon of glycerol metabolism.
The asymmetric synthesis of sitophilure was carried out in 8 steps, with 42% overall yield and 97% enantiomeric excess from propionaldehyde. The synthesis relied on an approach employing an asymmetric acyl-thiazolidinethione propionate aldol reaction to establish two stereogenic centers.Key words: sitophilure, thiazolidinethione, chiral auxiliary, synthesis.
The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of propanal and diacetyl addition on the quantity of remaining double bonds of chemically cured dental resins. Propanal (propionaldehyde) or diacetyl (2,3-butanedione) was added to monomer mixtures, which were then made chemically curable. The monomer mixtures were varied with respect to content of propanal or diacetyl. Addition of propanal or diacetyl to chemically curable resins resulted in a decrease in the quantity of remaining double bonds from 19.6% to 1.9% and from 19.6% to 11.4%, respectively. A negative correlation of statistical significance was found between content of propanal and quantity of remaining double bonds, while the relationship between content of diacetyl and quantity of remaining double bonds was found not to be linear. Propanal was equally effective in reducing the quantity of remaining double bonds in chemically cured and in the light cured resins studied previously. As regards diacetyl, a more pronounced effect on quantity of remaining double bonds was noted for light cured resins as compared with chemically cured resins. The most likely common reaction mechanism of propanal and diacetyl seemed to be that of chain transfer reactions. Furthermore, analysis of the data indicated a possible additional photoinitiating function of diacetyl.
By condensation of the anilide of acetoacetic acid, propionaldehyde, and cyanothioacetamide, 6-methyl-5-phenylcarbamoyl-3-cyano-4-ethylpyridine-2(IH)thione has been obtained. In an alkaline medium, this compound is alkylated, forming the corresponding substituted 2-pyridyl sulfides. From these pyridines, substituted thienoj2,3-blpyridines have been synthesized through the Thorpe-Ziegler reaction.
(57) Abstract: Methyl mercaptopropionate methylmercapto addition obtained reaction and at that time the aldehyde hydrogen cyanide to (MMP) (HCN) propionaldehyde over cyanohydrin (MMP-CH), obtained by hydrolysis using sulfuric acid are reaction mixture isolated MHA from this case, the reaction mixture is essentially water-immiscible organic solvent, a liquid - is contacted in a liquid extraction system was converted and the solvent from the reaction mixture MHA cup extraction solution to form the MHA, by known methods in acquiring by evaporation as an extract from the extraction solution, the use of SK devices requiring the evaporation of salt-containing waste stream to the operation of the apparatus having the bets sulfate waste stream problems due ring is resolved. According to the present invention, the salt content of the reaction mixture, a liquid - in front of the liquid extraction, based on the sum of the non-organic components of the reaction mixture, about> 50 wt% (wt / wt), preferably> 55 wt by the% concentration to improve energy balance of the whole process, to avoid evaporation of the strong corrosive solution, increase the conversion rate in the hydrolysis process, and to improve the distribution coefficient of the extraction it can. Feed additive substance.
Kinetic studies were carried out on mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) isolated from sheep liver. Steady-state studies over a wide range of acetaldehyde concentrations gave a non-linear double-reciprocal plot. The dissociation of NADH from the enzyme was a biphasic process with decay constants 0.6s-1 and 0.09s-1. Pre-steady-state kinetic data with propionaldehyde as substrate could be fitted by using the same burst rate constant (12 +/- 3s-1) over a wide range of propionaldehyde concentrations. The quenching of protein fluorescence on the binding of NAD+ to the enzyme was used to estimate apparent rate constants for binding (2 X 10(4) litre.mol-1.s-1) and dissociation (4s-1). The kinetic properties of the mitochondrial enzyme, compared with those reported for the cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase from sheep liver, show significant differences, which may be important in the oxidation of aldehydes in vivo.
The rhodium supported on active carbon has been found to be active for pentan-3-one formation from C2H4, CO, and H2, as well as propionaldehyde formation. Among three Rh/active carbon catalysts prepared from different kinds of rhodium compounds (RhCl3, Rh(NO3)3, and Rh(CH3COO)3), one prepared from RhCl3 showed the highest activity for pentan-3-one formation. Comparing pentan-3-one formation with propionaldehyde formation, the effects of the following factors on the catalytic activity were observed to be different in both reactions; (i) effects of reaction temperature, (ii) effects on H2 pretreatment of catalysts, and (iii) effects of partial pressure of CO. On pentan-3-one formation, 13C2H5CO13C2H5 and C2H513COC2H5 were found to be the predominant products in the reaction of propionaldehyde-13C2H4-CO-H2 and of propionaldehyde-C2H4-13CO-H2, respectively. These results indicate that the route for pentan-3-one formation is the reaction among two molecules of C2H4 and each one molecule of CO and H2, and not the reaction between C2H4 and propionaldehyde.
Abstract Nanocrystals of MgO, CaO, and Al 2 O 3 were prepared by aerogel (AP-samples) or conventional (CP-samples) methods. High surface areas/gram were obtained, often as high as 500 m 2 /g (1) . These materials were investigated as adsorbents for typical volatile organic compounds that are representative of air pollutants. As a result of their high surface areas and their enhanced surface reactivity, nanocrystalline MgO, CaO and Al 2 O 3 have shown remarkably high capacities to chemically adsorb such organic compounds. Compared to high surface area activated carbon, the most widely used material in this application, our nanocrystalline materials have exhibited higher capacities and the ability to destructively adsorb rather than physisorb these chemicals. FT-IR investigation of acetaldehyde adsorption on AP- and CP-MgO indicates that a multilayer dissociative adsorption took place. Adsorption of other organic compounds was also investigated including acetone, propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, trimethylacetaldehyde, ammonia, dimethylamine, N-nitrosodiethylamine, and methanol, most of which were found to adsorb well on AP-MgO. In addition, long term air exposure did not have detrimental effects on the adsorption properties of AP-MgO.
Yield of tobacco was related to the amount of infection by Meloidogyne javanica during the first month after transplanting. Six nematicidal treatments significantly reduced infection during this period and subsequently increased yield. However, during the second month after transplanting, infection in plots treated with O-ethyl S,S-dipropyl phosphorodithioate (V-C 9-104) and a mixture of 80% chlorinated C hydrocarbons + 20% methyl isothioeyanate (DD + MENCS) was not significantly different from infection in untreated plots. After 3 months, root-knot indices in plots treated with V-C 9-104, DD + MENCS, O,O-diethyl O-[p-(methylsulfinyl) phenyl] phosphorothioate (B-25141), and 1,3-dichloropropene, 1,2-dichloropropane (DD) were not significantly different from those in untreated plots; reduced infection was present only in plots treated with ethylene dibromide (EDB) and 2-methyl-2 (methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime (aldicarb). At the end of harvest (4 months after transplanting), root-knot indices in all plots were essentially equal.
Production of 1,3-propanediol under aerobic aerations byKlebsiella pneumoniaewas studied,and the effects of aeration,initial glycerol mass concentration,pH and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde were investigated.When the aeration was kept at 0.25 vvm air,the yield and productivity of 1,3-propanediol were close to those under anaerobic condition.In aerobic conditions,when the initial glycerol concentration was higher than 50 g/L,3-hydroxypropionaldehyde accumulated and kept at a high concentration,and the glycerol can t be completely used.Keep the pH at 7.75 ~ 8.00 will promote the transformation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 1,3-propanediol and make the glycerol be completely utilized.
Enrichment culture techniques produced more than 1200 isolates of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) that were screened for antifungal activity against the indicator mould Aspergillus fumigatus. Approximately 10% of the LAB were active, but only 4% had medium or strong activity in an agar plate assay. The majority of isolates with strong antifungal activity were Lactobacillus coryniformis strains, but Lactobacillus plantarum and Pediococcus pentosaceus were also frequently identified. Some of the isolates lost activity during storage but most maintained their fungal inhibitory effect. Large variations in sensitivity were observed between different moulds and yeasts. Antifungal cyclic dipeptides and phenyllactic acid were detected in culture filtrates from several of the LAB isolates. Lactobacillus coryniformis subsp. coryniformis strain Si3 produced an antifungal compound that lost activity when treated with proteinases. The antifungal peptide(s) was heat stable, with a size of approx. 3kDa and had maximum activity at pH 3.0 to 4.5. Addition of ethanol to the growth medium of strain Si3 prevented a decline in observed antifungal activity during the stationary phase. Glycerol addition to agar plates with L. coryniformis strains, overlaid with soft agar suspensions of yeast cells or fungal spores, strongly enhanced the antifungal effect. This was particularly true with spoilage moulds and yeasts, e.g. Penicillium roqueforti and Pichia anomala, not normally affected by the antifungal metabolites of L. coryniformis. Chemical and genetic data suggested that reuterin (3-hydroxypropionaldehyde) was the cause of this effect. The glycerol/diol dehydratase operon of L. coryniformis was partially elucidated and found to be similar to that Lactobacillus collinoides. Bioassay-guided isolation of new metabolites from LAB revealed that Lactobacillus plantarum MiLAB 14 produces hydroxylated fatty acids with strong antifungal effects. 3-Hydroxydecanoic acid, 3-hydroxydodecanoic acid, 3-hydroxytetradecanoic acid and 3-hydroxy-5-cis-dodecenoic acid were characterized from the supernatant of MiLAB 14. The hydroxy fatty acids had total inhibitory effects in the range 10 to >100 µg ml-1 against several moulds and yeasts.
On the blending of fresh coffee and stale one, an additional effect was observed regarding the concentration of each component and fresh coffee could not improve the aroma of stale coffee. The mutual interaction of volatile components was observed in the case of blending two varieties of fresh coffees, but there was no additional effect. The addition of ethanol, milk and sucrose reduced the total concentration of volatile components in the headspace. In the addition of ethanol and milk, peaks 2(unknown), 4(n-hexane), 7(propionaldehyde) and 9(2-methylfuran) decreased but the mechanisms of the action were different. In the case of sucrose, all volatile components decreased with different decreasing percentages. Incidentally, when 1.0ml of ethanol was added to 100ml of coffee brew, the total amount of aroma decreased by 10.0% and 5.0ml of milk, 3.2%; 10.0g of sucrose, 18.4%, respectively.
A novel high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) procedure has been developed for the quantitation of acetaldehyde in 50 microliter samples of primate whole blood during ethanol metabolism. This microassay has a minimum detectable concentration of about 0.1 microM, displays an intra-assay precision under 10%, and is linear over a reasonable concentration range. Of importance is that negligible acetaldehyde is generated artifactually from ethanol during blood analysis. The assay is based on the reaction of acetaldehyde with 1,3-cyclohexanedione and ammonium ion to form a water-soluble fluorogenic adduct, which is separated by reversed phase HPLC and quantitated fluorometrically. Propionaldehyde, added as an internal standard, forms an analogous separable adduct. Blood acetaldehyde concentrations in Rhesus monkeys were between 1-2 microM 150 min after acute administration of ethanol (1.5 g/kg). Traces of endogenous components which are chromatographically identical with cyclohexanedione adducts of acetaldehyde and formaldehyde also were apparent in blood from monkeys and humans not given ethanol.
. An enzyme that oxidizes ethanol to acetaldehyde in the presence of NADP (but not NAD) and reduces acetaldehyde to ethanol in the presence of NADPH (but not NADH) is present in Leishmania donovani promastigotes. The activity is present only in the supernatant fraction obtained from sonication of the cells and high speed centrifugation. The Km and Vm values were evaluated for propanol and propionaldehyde as well as for ethanol and acetaldehyde in cells obtained from late log and 3-day stationary phase cultures. There was no significant change in Km or Vm values for any of these four substrates with culture age. Since the Km values for ethanol and propanol are much higher than for the corresponding aldehydes and higher than any physiological range of alcohol concentration likely to be encountered, this enzyme is considered to function as an aldehyde reductase.
The propionaldehyde pyrolysis was studied in the temperature range 520–560 °C and at pressures from 20 to 360 mm Hg. The reaction was followed by pressure change and by gas chromatography. The over...
Abstract Bio-production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) from glycerol was studied using Pseudomonas denitrificans as host, which aerobically synthesizes coenzyme B12, an essential cofactor of glycerol dehydratase (GDHt). P. denitrificans was transformed with the 1,3-PDO synthesis pathway composed of GDHt and 1,3-PDO oxidoreductase (PDOR), and its putative 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) dehydrogenase(s), leading to the production of 3-hydroxypropioninc acid form the intermediary 3-HPA, was identified and deleted. In addition, to improve the availability of NADH for PDOR, oxidation of NADH in the electron transport chain was disturbed by deletion of the nuo operon and/or ndh gene. Finally, acetate formation pathway was eliminated. One resulting strain could produce 68.95 mM 1,3-PDO with the yield of 0.92 mol 1,3-PDO/mol glycerol on flask scale and 440 mM with the yield of 0.89 mol 1,3-PDO/mol glycerol in a fed-batch bioreactor experiment. This study demonstrates that P. denitrificans is a promising recombinant host for the production of 1,3-PDO from glycerol.
The objective of this research was to modify the matrix surfaces to obtain both hydrophobic matrix (HM) and hydrophilic-hydrophobic matrix (HHM) for enzymatic synthesis of fructose oleic ester (FOE). The modification was performed by the attachment of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (PPA) and PPA followed by polyethyleneimine (PEI) for HM and HHM, respectively. The results from FT-IR analysis showed that the peak of stretching vibration of NH 2 bond decreased and it was followed by an increase of the peak vibration of –C=N– bond at wave number 1667 cm -1 . The peak of bending vibrations of the C=C bond also increased. It indicated that PPA was successfully attached on matrix. For HHM, an increase in the peak area of NH 2 bond indicated that PEI was also successfully attached on the matrix. The optimum conditions of lipase adsorption were obtained at buffer pH 7 containing 0.5 M NaCl (9.27 mg protein/g matrix) and without NaCl (9.23 mg protein/g matrix) for HM and HHM, respectively. For FOE synthesis, the best immobilized lipase concentration was about 8% and 6% for HM and HHM, respectively. The optimum time of esterification was 24 h and 18 h for HM and HHM, respectively, in which the yields were 75.96% and 85.29%, respectively. The immobilized lipase could be used up to 3 cycles of esterification reaction. Copyright © 2016 BCREC GROUP. All rights reserved Received: 21 st December 2015; Revised: 23 rd February 2016; Accepted: 14 th April 2016 How to Cite : Hilmanto, H., Hidayat, C., Hastuti, P. (2016). Surface Modification of Macroporous Matrix for Immobilization of Lipase for Fructose Oleic Ester Synthesis. Bulletin of Chemical Reaction Engineering & Catalysis , 11 (3): 339-345 (doi:10.9767/bcrec.11.3.573.339-345) Permalink/DOI: http://doi.org/10.9767/bcrec.11.3.573.339-345
The aldol-type reaction is an important method for lengthening or shortening carbon chains of molecules. In addition to catalyzing aldol condensation and cleavage reactions, most aldolases also catalyze exchange reactions involving the proton or protons on the carbon atom adjacent to the carbonyl group of a sub-strate. The stereospecific exchange of one proton of dihydroxyacetone phosphate, as catalyzed by fructose-l,6-bisphosphate aldolase [1--6] , was the first such reaction studied. Exchange reactions have also been demonstrated with 2-oxo-3-deoxy-6-phosphogluconate aldolase [7--9] , 2-deoxy-D-ribose-5-phosphate aldolase [ 10] , and a pyruvate-aspartate semialdehyde condensing enzyme [11] . Acetoacetate decarboxylase, which functions via a mechanism analogous to Schiff base forming aldolases, catalyzes proton exchange between acetone and solvent [12] . Transaldolase catalyzes the exchange of one proton of dihydroxyacetone only as a step in a concerted process (i.e. of Schiff base formation and aldol cleavage, or of condensation and Schiff base hydrolysis) [13, 14] . Isocitrate lyase, malate synthase, and citrate synthase, which catalyze reactions similar to aldolases, all require addition of the second substrate for catalysis of tritium exchange [15--19] . Such enzyme-catalyzed exchange reactions are normally stereospecific for one proton unless several protons happen to be equivalent. 2-Oxo-3-deoxy-6-phosphogluconate aldolase catalyzes the exchange of all three protons of pyruvate but only one of 2-oxobutyrate [7--9] . Likewise, 2-deoxy-D-ribose-5-phosphate aldolase catalyzes the exchange of the three methyl protons of acetaldehyde, but only one equivalent of tritium is incorporated into propionaldehyde [10] .
The objective of this research was to modify the matrix surfaces to obtain both hydrophobic matrix (HM) and hydrophilic-hydrophobic matrix (HHM) for enzymatic synthesis of fructose oleic ester (FOE). The modification was performed by the attachment of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (PPA) and PPA followed by polyethyleneimine (PEI) for HM and HHM, respectively. The results from FT-IR analysis showed that the peak of stretching vibration of NH2 bond decreased and it was followed by an increase of the peak vibration of -C=N-bond at wave number 1667 cm -1 . The peak of bending vibrations of the C=C bond also increased. It indicated that PPA was successfully attached on matrix. For HHM, an increase in the peak area of NH2 bond indicated that PEI was also successfully attached on the matrix. The optimum conditions of lipase adsorption were obtained at buffer pH 7 containing 0.5 M NaCl (9.27 mg protein/g matrix) and without NaCl (9.23 mg protein/g matrix) for HM and HHM, respectively. For FOE synthesis, the best immobilized lipase concentration was about 8% and 6% for HM and HHM, respectively. The optimum time of esterification was 24 h and 18 h for HM and HHM, respectively, in which the yields were 75.96% and 85.29%, respectively. The immobilized lipase could be used up to 3 cycles of esterification reaction.
The objectives of this research were to obtain a modified macroporous matrix for the immobilization of lipase to enhance the reaction to overcome the disadvantage of low solubility of fructose in oleic acid, and to obtain the optimum condition of lipase immobilization. This research was performed by modifying the surface of the matrix in order to have a hydrophobic surface by the addition of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (PPA). Another modification of the matrix was performed by the addition of glutaraldehyde, followed by the addition of polyethyleneimine (PEI), and PPA to increase the hydrophilic character that can facilitate the dissolution of the substrate fructose and oleic acid. The re-usability of the immobilized lipase was also investigated.
Bovine lens cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase exhibits Michaelis-Menten kinetics with acetaldehyde, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, p-nitrobenzaldehyde, propionaldehyde, glycolaldehyde, glyceraldehyde, phenylacetylaldehyde and succinic semialdehyde as substrates. The enzyme was also active with malondialdehyde, and exhibited an esterase activity. Steady-state kinetic analyses show that the enzyme exhibits a compulsory-ordered ternary-complex mechanism with NAD+ binding before acetaldehyde. The enzyme was inhibited by disulfiram and by p-chloromercuribenzoate, and studies with with mercaptans indicated the involvement of thiol groups in catalysis.
The reaction of chlorine with trans-cinnamaldehyde in acetic acid is strongly catalysed by hydrogen chloride. In the absence of added hydrogen chloride the chlorination is autocatalysed by the hydrogen chloride liberated during the reaction. In the presence of sufficient added alkali-metal acetate, the autocatalysis is suppressed and the uncatalysed reaction takes place. The uncatalysed reaction gives both acetoxy-chlorides and dichlorides, and the mechanism is similar to that observed with methyl trans-cinnamate and trans-cinnamic acid, except that there is also ca. 40% side-chain substitution. The hydrogen chloride catalysed reaction involves the chlorination of the small equilibrium concentration of the 1,4-adduct of trans-cinnamaldehyde and hydrogen chloride, i.e., the enol of β-chloro-β-phenylpropionaldehyde. The products of this reaction are entirely dichlorides with a preponderance of the erythro-isomer, in marked contrast to the uncatalysed reaction in which the main addition products are threo-dichloride and erythro-acetoxy-chloride.
Abstract Recent studies have suggested that mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldehyde:NAD(P)+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.2.1.3) (ALDH2) plays essential roles in pollen development in plants. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) ALDH2 is encoded by at least two ALDH2 genes, one of which (ALDH2a) was previously identified. In this study, to understand the roles of ALDH2 in rice, we isolated and characterized a cDNA clone encoding another rice ALDH2 (ALDH2b). An in vitro ALDH assay indicated that ALDH2b possesses an NAD+-linked activity for oxidation of acetaldehyde, glycolaldehyde and propionaldehyde. Northern blot and immunoblot analyses revealed that ALDH2b was constitutively present in all the organs examined, whereas ALDH2a was expressed in leaves of dark-grown seedlings and panicles. By RFLP linkage mapping, the ALDH2a and ALDH2b genes were mapped to the long arm of chromosome 2 and the short arm of chromosome 6, respectively. We suggest that the rice ALDH2a and ALDH2b genes are orthologues of maize mitochondrial ALDH genes, rf2b and rf2a, respectively.
The invention belongs to the field of chemical engineering and relates to a preparation method of cheap and environmentally friendly D, L-2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyric acid. According to the method, the Andrussow method is adopted to prepare hydrocyanic acid gas mixture, and the hydrocyanic acid gas mixture and methylthio propionaldehyde react fully to obtain 2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyronitrile system under the catalytic action of alkali; the 2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyronitrile system reacts with mineral acid, and is hydrolyzed to obtain a 2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyric acid reaction solution, the reaction solution is neutralized via alkali, methyl tertiary butyl ether is added to remove water via distillation, solid-liquid separation is performed on the residuum, the filtrate is steamed to obtain methyl tertiary butyl ether, and the residuum is high-purity 2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyric acid. The D, L-2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyric acid prepared through the method disclosed by the invention is high in purity and monomer content, the production and operation are simple, the equipment requirement is low, the production cost is low, the environmental protection is realized, and the excellent industrialized production value is achieved.
Metabolism of S35-labeled UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl)oxime) in cotton plants and its fate in soil under normal field conditions was investigated. After 2 days the compound was completely metabolized in individually treated leaves, primarily to the toxic sulfoxide derivative 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime. Once formed, the sulfoxide was relatively stable; the biological half-life was about 1 week and 14% of the applied dose was still in this form after 32 days. Studies of translocation demonstrated that there was little movement of radioactivity from treated leaves to untreated areas of the cotton plants. UC-21149 and at least 10 of its derivatives were detected in treated soil. Of these, the sulfoxide was usually the dominant product; UC-21149 was essentially depleted after 1 week. After 8 weeks, 86.3% of the applied radioactivity was lost from the treated soil, either by volatilization or by movement as a result of moisture from rainfall and irrigation.
1. A study of xenobiotic-metabolizing enzyme activity of the olfactory and respiratory epithelium in the pig was undertaken. The results indicated that porcine olfactory mucosa contains all the components of the P450 system. 2. Monooxygenase activities were much higher in olfactory than in respiratory microsomes, and the olfactory activities dependent on CYP2A were higher than those in the liver. By contrast, the olfactory monooxygenases associated with CYP2E1 were poorly or not detected, whereas CYP2G1 and a protein immunorelated to CYP1A2 were expressed in the olfactory epithelium. 3. The activities of several non oxidative enzymes (glutathione S-transferase, UDP-glucuronyl transferase, epoxide hydrolase, DT-diaphorase, benzaldehyde and propionaldehyde dehydrogenases, and various esterases) were also determined in porcine tissues and were found to be higher in the olfactory than in the respiratory mucosa, but lower or similar to those in liver. 4. An unexpected finding was a higher activity of olfactory UDP-GT compared with that of liver when 1-naphtol but not p-hydroxybiphenyl (a good substrate for a specific olfactory UDP-GT(olf) in bovine and rat) was used as substrate, suggesting a porcine specific expression of UDP-GT isoforms. 5. The results taken together indicate that the olfactory epithelium of mammals has a similar cytochrome P450 profile with the CYP2A and CYP2G1 as dominant isoforms, whereas the olfactory non-oxidative enzymes appear qualitatively and quantitatively expressed to different extents.
Abstract Exposure to carbonyls (aldehydes and ketones) can produce adverse health effects. It is known that various sources of carbonyls are often present inside residences but little is known about their indoor source strengths. In the present paper, we used a database established in the relationships of indoor, outdoor, and personal air (RIOPA) study to estimate indoor source strengths of 10 carbonyls and outdoor contributions to measured indoor concentrations of these carbonyls. We applied a mass balance model to analyze paired indoor and outdoor carbonyl concentrations simultaneously measured in 234 RIOPA homes. Among all the measured carbonyls, formaldehyde, and acetaldehyde had the strongest indoor source strengths with the estimated median values of 3.9 and 2.6 mg h−1, respectively. Hexaldehyde also had large indoor source strengths with a median of 0.56 mg h−1. Acetone had the largest variations in indoor source strengths ranging from undetected to 14 mg h−1. The medians of the estimated indoor source strengths were 0.15 mg h−1 for propionaldehyde, 0.18 mg h−1 for glyoxal, 0.17 mg h−1 for methylglyoxal, and 0.23 mg h−1 for benzaldehyde. Acrolein and crotonaldehyde had the weakest indoor source strengths with no indoor sources detected in the majority of the RIOPA homes that were selected to have only nonsmoker residents. Consistent with the indoor source strength results, our estimated outdoor contributions to indoor concentrations were low for formaldehyde. In contrast, more than 90% of the indoor concentrations for acrolein and crotonaldehyde were from outdoor sources. The outdoor contributions to indoor concentrations for acetone, propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, glyoxal, and methylglyoxal ranged from 10 to 90% across the RIOPA homes, suggesting that both indoor and outdoor sources had contributions to indoor concentrations of these compounds.
1. Aldehyde dehydrogenase subcellular distribution studies were performed in a heterogeneous stock (HS) of male and female mice (Mus musculus) with propionaldehyde (5 mM and 50 microM) and formaldehyde (1 mM) and NAD+ or NADP+. 2. The relative percents of distribution were: cytosolic 55-68%, mitochondrial 12-20%, microsomal 9-18% and lysosomal 3-15% for both propionaldehyde concentrations and NAD+. 3. Kinetic experiments using propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde with NAD+ revealed two separate enzymes, Enzyme I (low Km) and Enzyme II (high Km) in the cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions. 4. The kinetic data also indicated a spectrum of cytosolic low Km values that exhibited a bimodal distribution with one congruent to 40 microM and one congruent to 5 microM. 5. It was concluded that there was no significant difference in aldehyde-metabolizing capability between male and female HS mice, compared on a per gram of liver basis. The cytosolic low Km enzyme plays a major role in aldehyde oxidation at moderate to low aldehyde concentrations.
Abstract: The determination of major carbonyl compounds in mainstream cigarette smoke by rapid column high performance liquid chromatography was investigated. The cigarette smoke was collected using a Cambridge filter treated with acidic solution of 2, 4-dinitrophenyl-hydrazine. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, 2-butanone and butyraldehyde were extracted from the Cambridge filter with 50 mL of 2% pyridine acetonitrile solution. The carbonyl compounds in samples were separated on a ZORBAX Stable Bound rapid column (50 mm x 4. 6 mm, 1. 8 microm) in approximately seven minutes and then determined by high performance liquid chromatography with a diode array detector. The average recoveries were in the range of 89. 1% to 99. 2% and the relative standard deviations (RSDs) were generally below 6. 0%. The eight carbonyl compounds in the mainstream smoke of five brands of cigarettes were determined using this method. This method is faster, simpler and consumes less solvent. It is suitable for rapid analysis of carbonyl compounds in mainstream cigarette smoke.
Poly(3-hydroxypropionate) (P3HP) is a biodegradable and biocompatible thermoplastic. In this study, a P3HP biosynthetic pathway from glycerol was constructed in recombinant Escherichia coli. The genes for glycerol dehydratase and its reactivating factor (dhaB123 and gdrAB, from Klebsiella pneumoniae), propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (pduP, from Salmonella typhimurium), and polyhydroxyalkanoate synthase (phaC1, from Cupriavidus necator) were cloned and expressed in E. coli. After culture condition optimization, the final engineered strain accumulated 10.1 g/L P3HP (46.4% of the cell dry weight) using glycerol and glucose as cosubstrates in an aerobic fed-batch fermentation. To date, this is the highest P3HP production without addition of any expensive precursor.
The selectivity and activity of propylene oxide isomerization have been investigated over zeolite catalysts at 100°C. It has been found that the acid strength of a catalyst is a dominant factor in the selectivity and activity. The stronger the acid strength, the larger the ratio of acetone to propionaldehyde. The reaction intermediates are deduced to be a propylene oxide protonated or that adsorbed on a Lewis-acid site. It has also been found that, in the cases of HY, Silnex (SiO2), and HY treated with pyridine, the selectivity and activity correlate with the strength of the interaction between the propylene oxide and the surface hydroxyl group. Moreover, it has been clarified that the H0 value of the surface hydroxyl group observed at 3660 cm−1 on HY is −8.2–−5.6, while that found at 3540 cm−1 is +4.0–+4.8.
Abstract High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of four short-chain aliphatic aldehydes using fluorescence detection was carried out with 4-(N,N-dimethylaminosulphonyl)-7-hydrazino-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole (DBD-H). DBD-H derivatives with three aliphatic aldehydes — formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde — were synthesized and their fluorescence properties were examined. Relative fluorescence intensities of these compounds in acetonitrile were ca. ten-fold larger than those in aqueous acetonitrile. DBD-hydrazones could be separated by reversed-phase chromatography using aqueous acetonitrile as eluent and detection at 560 nm with excitation at 445 nm. Submicromolar levels of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butylaldehyde could be determined. The HPLC procedure using propionaldehyde as internal standard was applied to the measurement of acetaldehyde levels in normal human plasma before and 30 min after ingestion of ethanol.
Summary 1. The oxidation of gentisaldehyde (2,5-dihydroxybenzaldehyde) by extracts of rabbit liver has been investigated, and a nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide-specific dehydrogenase which catalyses the reaction, partially purified. 2. Gentisic acid was characterised as a product of the oxidation together with reduced nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide in equimolar amounts. 3. The enzyme was markedly inhibited by Mg 2+ , Ca 2+ , Mn 2+ , at low concentrations. 4. The dehydrogenase responsible for the oxidation of gentisaldehyde was capable of catalysing the oxidation of a number of aromatic aldehydes but not aliphatic aldehydes. It was separated from an aliphatic aldehyde dehydrogenase by fractionation with DEAE-cellulose. 5. The aliphatic aldehyde dehydrogenase was inhibited by gentisaldehyde and the aromatic aldehyde dehydrogenase was inhibited by propionaldehyde.
A series of new binuclear Ru(III) complexes of the type {[RuX3(EPh3)]2(bis- β-dk)} [X = Cl/Br; E = P/As bis- β-dk = bis(β-diketone)] have been prepared by reacting [RuCl3(PPh3)3], [RuCl3(AsPh3)3], [RuBr3(PPh3)3], [RuBr3(AsPh3)3] with bis(β-diketones) in a 2:1 molar ratio in benzene. These complexes have been characterized by physico-chemical and spectroscopic methods. The redox property of the complexes were studied by cyclic voltammetric technique. The complexes were found to be effective catalysts for the aryl–aryl coupling and oxidation of benzyl alcohol, cyclohexanol, propan-1-ol and 2-methylpropanol to benzaldehyde, cyclohexanone, propionaldehyde and 2-methylpropionaldehyde, respectively, using molecular oxygen as primary oxidant. All the complexes have been screened for their antibacterial and antifungal activities.
An amino acid composition of the pep tide antibiotic longicatenamycin was investigated. Four new amino acids, i.e., thero-β-hydroxy-L-glutamic acid, L-2-amino-5-rnethylhexanoic acid, L-2-amino-6-methylheptanoic acid, and L-2-amino-7-methyloctanoic acid, which were reported by Shoji et al., were reconfirmed by comparison with the synthetic specimens. Racemic forms of the latter three amino acids were synthesized through acetaminomalonate method. Furthermore, 5-chloro-D-tryptophan was newly isolated from the hydrolyzate of the antibiotic. This structure was assigned by NMR, MS and ORD. A steric configuration of this amino acid was certified by degradation to D-aspartic acid through ozonization. 5-Chloro-DL-tryptophan was synthesized from 3-cyanopropionaldehyde and p-chlorophenylhydrazine by Fischer’s indole synthesis.
Bovine lens cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase exhibits Michaelis-Menten kinetics with acetaldehyde, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, p-nitrobenzaldehyde, propionaldehyde, glycolaldehyde, glyceraldehyde, phenylacetylaldehyde and succinic semialdehyde as substrates. The enzyme was also active with malondialdehyde, and exhibited an esterase activity. Steady-state kinetic analyses show that the enzyme exhibits a compulsoryordered ternary-complex mechanism with NAD+ binding before acetaldehyde. The enzyme was inhibited by disulfiram and by p-chloromercuribenzoate, and studies with mercaptans indicated the involvement of thiol groups in catalysis.
Soil test results indicated adequate levels of potassium, while phosphorus was applied at sufficient levels for root yields of 67.2 Mg ha -1 (Table 1 ). The study area was prepared for planting by moldboard plowing, roller harrowing, leveling, and corrugating. The sugar beet cultivars 'American Crystal Hybrid 164' (ACH 164), 'Holly Hybrid 30' (HH 30), and 'Hilleshog Mono-Hy R2' (MH R2) were planted at 126,000 seeds ha -I with 56 cm between rows and thinned to 63,000 plants ha -1 by 20 June. ACH 164 had improved sucrose content characteristics and was recommended for early harvest, while HH 30 and MH R2 were standard cultivars for the factory district. In every year, aldicarb (2 methyl-2-[methylthio ]propionaldehyde-O-[methy1carba moyl]oxime) was applied at the rate of 11.2 kg ai ha -1. Various combin ations of the herbicides cycloate (S-ethyl cyclohexylethylcarbamothi oate), desmedipham (ethyl[3-[[(phenylamino) -(chloroacetyl)-N-(2,6-diethylphenyl)glycine), ethofumesate (±)-2-ethoxy-2,3-dihydro-3,3-dimethyl-5-benzofuranyl methanesulfonate), and/or phenmedipham (3-[(methoxycarbon yl)amino ]phenyl(3-methylphenyl) carbamate) were applied at recommended rates. In addition, plots were hand weeded to control escape weeds.
A number of reducible compounds, such as nitrates, nitrites, nitro, nitroso, azoxy compounds, aldehydes, carbon tetrachloride, oximes, and chloramine T, can be determined by reducing them with chromium(II) ion prepared in an aqueous solution in a special vessel and measuring the absorbance of the resulting chromium(III) in the solution. In this reducing process, nitrate and nitrite are reduced to hydroxylamine quantitatively in hydrochloric acid at room temperature; carbon tetrachloride, nitrobenzene, and chloramine T each consume definite amounts of chromium(II) in an acidic medium at room temperature; propionaldehyde and azoxybenzene react with the reagent only in a basic solution; dimethylglyoxime and 1-nitroso-2-naphthol react only under heating at 80 °C in an basic medium. The absorbance of the resulting chromium(III) ion in the presence of the excess chromium(II) is found to obey Beer’s law at the wavelengths of 410–425 nm over the range of 4×10−3–8×10−2 mol/l of chromium(III). This concentration ra...
A lemon flavor composed of lemon oil, water (pH 6 phosphate buffer), and ethanol, and the lemon-flavored drink were irradiated with UV light. Citral (1 and 2), which is one of the most important components expressing the typical lemon-like odor, significantly decreased with Z−E isomerization and there appeared 2-(3-methyl-2-cyclopenten-1-yl)-2-methylpropionaldehyde (6), trans-1,3,3-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-1-carboxaldehyde (7), cis-1,3,3-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-1-carboxaldehyde (8), (1,2,2-trimethyl-3-cyclopenten-1-yl)acetaldehyde (9), α-campholenealdehyde (10), photocitral A (3), epiphotocitral A (4), and photocitral B (5). New compounds of aldehyde 9, 6 and 10, were newly identified as photoreaction products of citral. Limonene, terpinolene, and nonanal decreased, while p-cymene increased after UV irradiation. Other components, such as sesquiterpene hydrocarbons, citronellal, linalool, and terpineols, were only slightly changed. These results suggested that citral is a more UV-unstable compon...
Abstract The rate coefficient for the reaction of Cl radicals with n-propanethiol has been determined at 298 K and atmospheric pressure to be: (2.37 ± 0.66) × 10−10 cm3 molecule−1 s−1. Dipropyl disulfide, sulfur dioxide, and propionaldehyde, were observed as main reaction products. The yield of formation of dipropyl disulfide was quantified. Potential energy surfaces and thermodynamic data at 298 K were calculated for the gauche and trans conformers of n-propanethiol using the CBS-QB3, M06-D3/cc-pVTZ and M06-2X/cc-pVTZ levels of theory. We concluded that the formation of the prereactive complex in which chlorine is ‘bound’ to the sulfur atom is the decisive step in the reaction paths.
ABSTRACT The odor-active compounds of Pixian Douban (PXDB) were identified by means of gas chromatography-olfactometry (GC-O) coupled with mass spectrometry (MS), and then the key odor components were figured out by odor activity values (OAVs) and aroma extract dilution analysis (AEDA) using three different methods. The 21 odor active areas were detected with flavor dilution (FD) factor ranging from 2 to 16, with 3-(methylthio) propionaldehyde, 2, 5-dimethyl pyrazine, 4-ethyl-2-methoxyphenol, and 2-ethylphenol yielding the highest FD factors. These odorants were then quantitated by application of external standard under selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode of MS, and their OAVs were calculated based on the odor thresholds. The highest OAV was obtained for 3-methylbutanal (malty, 614.89), followed by phenylacetaldehyde (honey-like, sweet, 94.34), four compounds obtained OAVs ≥10, and other eight compounds obtained OAVs between 1 and 10. All of them likely contributed to the aroma of PXDB. A reconstitution model containing 14 odorants (OAVs ≥1& FD>5) was able to mimic the aroma style of the original PXDB. In addition, the application of omission test was used to investigate the effects of the key odor compounds on the whole odor profile of PXDB, and 11 odorants detected were significantly different among the samples.
Demands for efficient, greener, economical and sustainable production of chemicals, materials and energy have led to development of industrial biotechnology as a key technology area to provide such products from bio-based raw materials from agricultural-, forestryand related industrial residues and byproducts. For the bio-based industry, it is essential to develop a number of building blocks or platform chemicals for C2-C6 chemicals and even aromatic chemicals. 3hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) and 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3HP) are potential platform chemicals for C3 chemistry and even for producing polymers. This thesis presents investigations on the biotechnological routes for the production of a C3 platform chemical, 3HPA from glycerol and its conversion to 3HP. Glycerol, was used as the raw material for production of 3HPA using resting cells of the probiotic bacteria, Lactobacillus reuteri, as the biocatalyst. The antimicrobial effect of the bacteria is attributed to the secretion of “reuterin” that is an equilibrium mixture of 3HPA with its dimer and hydrate forms. Glycerol dehydratase, a Vitamin B12-dependent enzyme, presents in L. reuteri, catalyses the dehydration of glycerol to 3HPA. Production of 3HPA at high concentration results in strong inhibition of the enzyme activity and cell viability, which in turn limits the product yield and -productivity. Different means of in situ capture of 3HPA from the reaction were studied. Complexation of 3HPA with bisulfite in a fed-batch biotransformation of glycerol and subsequent removal through binding to an anion exchange resulted in increase in the production of 3HPA to 5.33 g/g biocatalyst from 0.45 g/g in a batch process. In another approach, in situ removal of 3HPA using semicarbazide-functionalized resin in a batch process, productivity was enhanced 2 fold than that without the resin. L. reuteri metabolizes 3HPA further to 1,3-propanediol (1,3PDO) and 3HP by reductive and oxidative pathways, respectively. The oxidative pathway, comprises 3 enzymes named propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP), phosphotransacylase (PduL) and propionate kinase (PduW). Kinetic characterization and molecular modelling of the first enzyme, PduP, expressed in Escherichia coli was performed. The enzyme had a specific activity of 28.9 U/mg using propionaldehyde as substrate and 18 U/mg with 3HPA as substrate which is the highest specific activity reported up to date. All the Pdu enzymes were then expressed in E. coli in different combinations and used for bioconversion of 3HPA produced by native L. reuteri. Growing cells of the recombinant bacteria with all the three enzymes, E. coli pdu:P:L:W in a fed-batch mode gave 3HP yield of 0.5 mole/mole 3HPA with 1,3PDO as the co-product, while the resting cells gave 3HP yield of 1 mole /mole 3HPA. This showed the possibility of using of Pdu pathway of L. reuteri for production of 3HP.
Effects of ginsenosides on the activities of bovine liver mitochondrial matrix ALDH and membrane bound ALDH were observed in vitro and it was found that both matrix and membrane bound ALDH were stimulated appreciably. The maximum activity for the matrix AkDH was found at the concentration of ginsenoside mixture being ~% and that for the membrane bound ALDH was at ~$10^{-4}$%. It was also found that Km values of both ALDHS were lowered and their maximum velocity was increased. It was realized that the bovine liver mitochondrial matrix AkDH is Quite specific for the oxidation of low aliphatic aldehydes such as acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. Therefore the increase of Vmax/Km value of the matrix ALDH in the presence of ginsenosides suggest that ginsenosides might stimulate the ALDH activity thereby resulting in the quick removal of harmful acetaldehyde from the liver to protect its toxicity.
beta-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) can be oxidized to acrylic acid, an industrially important chemical used in the manufacture of synthetic plastics and other polymers. Of 19 genera and 55 strains tested, 3 Klebsiella and 2 Enterobacter strains produced 3-HPA. The most efficient strain was Klebsiella pneumoniae NRRL B-4011. Under optimum conditions (28 degrees C; 40 g of semicarbazide hydrochloride per liter, 70 g of glycerol per liter; and pH 6.0), 3.1 g of B-4011 cells per liter accumulated 22 g of 3-HPA per liter at a specific rate of 0.83 g/g per h; however, 14.5 g of cells per liter accumulated 46 g of 3-HPA per liter at a specific rate of 0.41 g/g per h.
Human risk assessment of volatile organic compounds (carbonyl group) via inhalation exposure route in gasoline station workers was studied during February 2011 in Bangkok, Thailand. The objectives were to measure carbonyl concentrations in gasoline stations and to assess health risk of workers in 4 gasoline stations located in urban and suburban areas of Bangkok. From each gasoline station, 2 workers were randomly recruited. Participants' ages ranged from 18-36 years. The average weight (mean ± SD) was 56.7 ± 8.1 kg. The average working time in urban and suburban areas was 9.3 and 10.0 h/day, respectively. Exposure assessment of gasoline workers was calculated using reasonable maximum exposure (RME) at the 95 th percentile. The inhalation intake of carcinogenic carbonyl i.e. formaldehyde and acetaldehyde in workers was in the range of 1.90 × 10 -5 to 4.11 × 10 -4 mg/kg/day. Risk characterization of cancer was in the range of 2 workers in 10 million to 2 workers in one hundred thousand. For non-carcinogenic carbonyl (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, benzaldehyde, valeradehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde), the inhalation intake of non-carcinogenic carbonyl in workers was in the range of 4.88 × 10 -3 to 1.16 µg/m 3 . To assess non-carcinogenic health effects, the Hazard Index (HI) was used. The results showed that gasoline workers may not be at risk regarding inhalation exposure of non-carcinogenic health effects because the HI was not greater than the acceptable level (HI < 1).
Objective:Pollutants such as aldehyde and ketone,among major pollutants in atmosphere environment,are strictly limited by every nation for their discharges because of their high toxicity and numerous sources.It is the base for appraising the atmosphere environmental quality that exactly determining the pollutants.So the analytical method of acetaldehyde,propionaldehyde,butyraldehyde,acetone,2-butanone and benzene in atmosphere environment has been established by Purge and Trap-Gas Chromatography.Methods:The Aldehydes Ketones and benzene in atmosphere environment was trapped by water,and detected by Purge and Trap-Gas Chromatography.Results:Results showed that this method achieved excellent reproducibility and the relative standard deviations were generally below 4.8%.Detection limit of this method was 0.85～6.55 ng.The recoveries were in the range of 96.7%～101.3%.Conclusion:The compounds can be extracted and concentrated without organic solvent being involved.The method has high sensitivity,low detection limit,accurate quantification and simple operation.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA), a potential C3-platform chemical for a biobased industry, is produced from glycerol using Lactobacillus reuteri through its glycerol dehydratase activity. However, the process is characterized by low yield and productivity due to toxic effects of 3HPA on the biocatalyst activity. In this study, a semicarbazide-functionalized resin was prepared, evaluated for adsorption and in situ recovery of 3HPA during biotransformation of glycerol. Adsorption of 3HPA onto the resin was characterized as “S-curve model”, increasing with increasing initial 3HPA concentration, and reached a maximum of 9.48 mmol/gresin at 71.54 mM 3HPA used. Desorption of 3HPA was evaluated using water and different acids, and was enhanced by acetic acid with organic modifiers. Repeated adsorption–desorption of 3HPA in batch resulted in elution of 13–66.5% of the bound 3HPA during at least three sequential cycles using water and acetic acid, respectively as eluants. Using the resin for in situ product removal led to more than 2 times higher productivity of 3HPA.
3-Carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionaldehyde has recently been proposed [Thompson et al. (1996) Chem. Res. Toxicol. 9, 1225−1229] as a potential reactive metabolite of the anti-epileptic drug felbamate. This aldehyde was found to undergo rapid elimination to generate 2-phenylpropenal and reversible cyclization to generate 4-hydroxy-5-phenyltetrahydro-1,3-oxazin-2-one at physiological pH. 2-Phenylpropenal, an α,β-unsaturated aldehyde commonly termed atropaldehyde, is a potent electrophile and undergoes rapid conjugation with glutathione. We sought to demonstrate the formation of atropaldehyde in vivo through the identification of mercapturic acids in rat and human urine after felbamate administration. In this paper, we describe the identification of both the reduced (N-acetyl-S-(2-phenylpropan-3-ol)-l-cysteine) and oxidized (N-acetyl-S-(2-phenyl-3-propanoic acid)-l-cysteine) mercapturic acids of atropaldehyde in rat and human urine. The reduced species was the more abundant in human (∼2:1) and rat (∼6:1) urine. The...
3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) is a promising versatile substance derived from the renewable feedstock glycerol. It is a product of glycerol metabolism in Lactobacillus reuteri. Because of toxic effects, the biotechnological production is poor. In this work the biocatalyst lifetime and product formation could be drastically increased. In the established two-step process already applied, cells are grown in the first step under anaerobic conditions, and in the second step the immobilised or suspended biocatalyst is used for 3HPA-production under strict anaerobic conditions. In the first step it was possible to reach a biomass concentration of 5.5g CDW/L (OD(600)≈23.4). In the second step, normally, 3HPA accumulates to a toxic concentration and the reaction stops in less than 60min because of the interaction of 3HPA with cell components. To prevent this, the toxic product is bound to the newly found scavenger carbohydrazide to form the hydrazone. For the first time it was possible to recycle the immobilised biocatalyst for at least ten cycles (overall life time>33hours) in a repeated batch biotransformation with an overall production of 67g 3HPA. The optimal pH-value was between 6.8 and 7.2 at an optimal temperature of 40-45°C. In a single batch biotransformation with suspended resting cells it was possible to produce 150g/L 3HPA as carbohydrazone at an overall productivity of 10.7gL(-1)hours(-1). In a single fed-batch biotransformation at 45°C 138g/L glycerol was converted into 108g/L 3HPA with an overall productivity of 21.6gL(-1)hours(-1). This is the highest 3HPA concentration and productivities reported so far for the microbial production of 3HPA from glycerol.
A brief review of those aspects of current photochemical research pertinent to the present study is given. The work itself is in three sections. Section I is concerned with the photochemistry of the system dimethyl maleate/dimethyl fumarate/acetone. Irradiation of this system produced the cis - and trans -2,2-dimethyl-3,4-dimethoxycarbonyloxetanes (I and II), as well as causing cis l trans isomerisation of dimethyl maleate/dimethyl fumarate. No tetramethoxycarbonylcyclobutane (III) was formed. A mechanistic study of the formation of oxetane was complicated by the simultaneous occurrence of the cis l trans isomerisation of maleate/fumarate. This was overcome by examining the photochemistry of the system at irradiation time zero, before any reaction had occurred. This procedure also eliminated other difficulties inherent in any quantitative photochemical study such as the effects of polymer film formation and of the photochemical instability of the reaction products. A method was developed to evaluate the rates of formation of the irradiation products with precision. Particular emphasis was placed on assessing the errors in these quantities. The approach was to follow the light-induced reactions by means of gas chromatography and to estimate the rates at zero irradiation time by extrapolation using a polynomial least squares fit computer programme. It was found important to allow for fluctuations in lamp-output with time and a photomonitor was constructed for this purpose. Dilute acetone solutions of pure dimethyl maleate and of pure dimethyl fumarate were irradiated. Both quartz and borosilicate glass reactors were employed thus allowing variation in proportion of incident light absorbed by each of the two components. Irradiations of dimethyl fumarate in acetone using quartz apparatus were conducted at three different initial concentrations. The significance of the data obtained was verified by carrying out a material balance check and by investigating the importance of any small amounts of dissolved oxygen remaining in solution after deoxygenation prior to irradiation. From a correlation of the observed rates of formation at irradiation time zero with the light absorption properties of the solution irradiated, substantial evidence emerged that oxetanes were formed by the action of excited maleate and of excited fumarate on ground state acetone. This is the first case reported where evidence exists that oxetanes are formed by a route other than the action of the (n,π*) excited state of the ketone on a carbon-carbon double bond. Other workers have restricted their attention to systems involving unsaturated hydrocarbons. (1) The data presented also indicate that another excited state of maleate (and probably also of fumarate) exists which was active in the cis l trans isomerisation reaction but which did not form oxetane with acetone. An attempt is made to identify the oxetane-forming state with the (n,π*) state and the state active only in cis l trans isomerisation with the (π, π*) state of the unsaturated ester. The further implications of the concentration dependence of these reactions is also considered. Oxygen perturbation methods were used to obtain information concerning the relative triplet energy levels of maleate, of fumarate and of acetone, but although singlet-»triplet absorption was observed, no information concerning the chemically significant 0,0 bands was obtained. Electron impact spectroscopic studies are currently being pursued to this end. Section II is concerned with the photochemistry of acetoxime. Irradiation of acetoxime in cyclohexene for 9 hr. yielded the adducts N-acetyl-N-methylcyclohexylamine (IV) and N-acetyl-N-methylcyclohex-2-enyl- amine (V) in 2% yield based on acetoxime consumed, together with bicyclohex-2-enyl (VI) and much polymer. This is the first occasion that oxime/olefin photoadducts have been recorded. Two possible mechanisms were investigated. The first involved the photoisomerisation of acetoxime to N-methylacetamide followed by the photo-addition of N-methylacetamide to cyclohexene to give the observed products. The second was the photochemical formation of a nitrone (VII) which photoisomerised to the oxazirane (VIII) and subsequently rearranged thermally to yield the observed amides. It was shown that neither mechanism was likely. No stable products were isolated from propionaldoxime/cyclohexene irradiation mixtures. Section III is concerned with irradiations involving aldehydes. Dimethyl maleate, methyl crotonate, cyclohexene, styrene, ethyl vinyl ketone, crotonaldehyde and benzene were irradiated with propionaldehyde. One irradiation with acetaldehyde was also conducted. Adducts were observed only from dimethyl maleate, methyl crotonate and cyclohexene (IX, X and XI). The other irradiations yielded products derived from propionaldehyde alone. Competition experiments showed that the active entity involved in these reactions was probably a nucleophilic species derived from the aldehyde. A very close correlation was found to exist between the light induced and peroxide induced reaction and this was taken as good evidence that the same acyl radical species was responsible for both reactions.
A 3-fold increase in aldehyde dehydrogenase (A1DH) was found in the cytosolic fraction of mouse liver homogenates during pregnancy. The increase in A1DH activity began at day 10 of pregnancy, peaked at parturition, and declined in a biphasic manner with half-lives of 4.15 and 47.7 days. Enzymes from control (beta A1DH), pregnant (pi A1DH) and phenobarbital-treated (phi AlDH) were partially purified and compared. All had molecular weights of approximately 60,000 daltons. Substrate specificities were similar except that phi A1DH had a lower Km for propionaldehyde than beta or pi and both pi and phi oxidized 4-carboxybenzaldehyde poorly compared to beta. Electrophoretic and thermal denaturation studies showed some similarities between beta and pi, but phi A1DH behaved quite differently. It was concluded that pregnancy caused an increase in one of the A1DHs already present in control mice, while phenobarbital treatment resulted in induction of a unique cytosolic A1DH.
Anionic copolymerization of β-cyanopropionaldehyde (CPA, M1) with dimethylketene (DMK, M2) initiated by benzophenone-dilithium complex was carried out at 0°C and −78°C. The values of monomer reactivity ratio at −78°C were determined to be r1=0.6±0.1 and r2=0.04±0.03. The structure of the resulting copolymer was investigated by means of IR and NMR analyses. The main structure of the copolymer was found to consist of sequence I formed through the alternating addition of the C = O bond of CPA with the C = C bond of DMK. The copolymer which is rich in the CPA component is believed to contain sequence II in addition to I, but the former must be extremely limited. The DMK-rich copolymer has sequence III in addition to I.
Abstract Aminopeptidase-catalyzed hydrolysis of Leu-enkephalin and Met-enkephalin is responsible for the rapid metabolism of these pentapeptides in human plasma and at various mucosal sites. The objective of this study was to circumvent this metabolic inactivation by the prodrug approach. A series of 4-imidazolidinone derivatives were prepared by condensing the enkephalins with various aldehydes and ketones and their hydrolysis kinetics were studied in aqueous solution and in the presence of enzymes. Whilst the enkephalins were rapidly hydrolyzed by a purified aminopeptidase and in both human plasma solutions and rabbit intestinal homogenates, the 4-imidazolidinone derivatives were almost totally resistant to enzymatic cleavage in these media. On the other hand, these derivatives are readily converted to the parent peptides by spontaneous hydrolysis. The rate of hydrolysis depended on the structure of the carbonyl component, being apparently increased with increasing steric effects within this component. Thus, the derivative prepared from cyclopentanone showed a half-life of hydrolysis of 3.1 h at pH 7.4 and 37°C whereas the compound made from propionaldehyde had a half-life of 149 h. It is concluded that 4-imidazolidinone formation may be a useful prodrug approach to protect the N-terminal amino acid residue of enkephalins against cleavage by aminopeptidases and to obtain transport forms with improved lipophilicity.
The reaction of a 4-chloromethyl-1,4-dihydropyridine with potassium cyanide has been investigated, and in this respect it has been found to behave analogously to other 4-chloromethyl-1,4-dihydropyridines. However, on treatment with water, a unique transformation, affording a dihydrofuran, demonstrated that the 4-chloromethyl-1,4-dihydropyridine was considerably more reactive than the other 4-chloromethyl-1,4-dihydro-pyridines which did not undergo analogous transformations. An attempt to rationalize this has been made, and a mechanism suggested for the formation of the 2,3-dihydrofuran. Evidence for the structure of the 2,3-dihydrofuran is presented. Some reactions of the compound have been investigated, including rearrangement to a fulvene derivative and degradation to 3,3-diacetylpropionaldehyde. The tautomerism of the latter compound is discussed in detail, and a synthesis described.
To systematically regulate new types of cigarettes for which their safety has yet to be verified, such as heat-not-burn (HNB) products and electronic cigarettes (E-Cigs), the identification of chemicals in the new cigarette smoke is necessary. However, this is challenging due to the large number of new cigarette types and their different vaporization approaches. To address this issue, we herein report the development of a standardized new cigarette smoke generating (SNCSG) system based on heating-temperature control, which is able to generate smoke for all types of new cigarettes. Validation of the developed system was also carried out through analysis of the carbonyl compounds (e.g., formaldehyde and acetaldehyde) in the new cigarette smoke of HNB products and E-Cigs generated by the SNCSG system under different heating temperatures. The analytical results were used to validate the SNCSG system by comparison with those of previous studies. In all new cigarette smoke samples, the formaldehyde and acetaldehyde concentrations increased dramatically upon increasing the heating temperatures, especially over the reference heating range of each HNB device (mean concentration (μg/cigarette, n = 5 (HNB and E-Cig samples)): formaldehyde = 0.373-5.841 (250-320 °C), and acetaldehyde = 0.088-27.60 (250-320 °C). In the case of the HNB samples, the concentration differences determined by the heating temperatures of the tobacco stick were statistically significant, with p-values (ANOVA) of 1.85E-10 (formaldehyde) and 1.73E-08 (acetaldehyde). In the majority of smoke samples, acrolein and propionaldehyde were detected under relatively high heating temperature conditions (>250 °C) at 0.50 ± 1.76 μg/(cigarette or 10 μL), while acetone was detected under low heating temperature conditions (<250 °C) at 0.09 ± 0.17 μg/(cigarette or 10 μL). These results indicate that the developed SNCSG system could be suitable for application in the regulation of new types of cigarettes, regardless of the cigarette type and heating approach.
1. ::: ::: The reactions of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde with poly(vinyl alcohol) in aqueous solution obey the same kinetic equations as the previously studied reaction of formaldehyde with poly(vinyl alcohol). ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The apparent activation energy for the reaction of poly(vinyl alcohol) with acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde (E=14.7 kcal/mole) is less than the activation energy for the reaction of poly(vinyl alcohol) with formaldehyde (E=17.4 kcal/mole); it was postulated that the observed difference is associated with the lower dipole moment of formaldehyde when compared with the other aldehydes, and with a lower energy for the reaction of this aldehyde with a proton.
The extraction of carbonyl samples was performed using 5 mL of acetonitrile, and chemical analyses were performed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC; Perkin Elmer Series 200 with UV detection at 365 nm). The mobile phase consisted of 55% acetonitrile in water at 30 °C, with a 30 mL volume C18 column (250 mm, 4.6 mm and 5.0 mm). Calibration was performed using a standard mixture (Supelco CARB Carbonyl Mix 1) containing formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde and benzaldehyde at concentrations between 0.1 and 4.0 mg L −1 , which yielded correlation coefficients greater than 0.99.
Development of a new pulsed-EPR method -free induction decay attenuation -is providing high-precision data for H-atom reaction rates in water, both for predictive modeling applications and for fundamental theory. Reactions of atomic hydrogen are important in the radiation-induced chemistry of aqueous solutions, contributing to corrosion problems in nuclear reactor cooling systems, production of potentially explosive H2 gas in high-level radioactive waste reservoirs, and the spread of radioactive iodine following the Chernobyl accident. Atomic Energy of Canada, Ltd. and Argonne scientists have undertaken a collaborative effort to investigate fundamental aqueous H-atom chemistry for the purpose of developing predictive models of iodine transport that will be used by the nuclear power industry to enhance plant safety. Reactions of (H)aq with many representative organic and inorganic molecules have already been investigated, including OH-, I-, lO3-, lO4-, 02, CH31, CH3CH21, methanol, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde.
The odor-active compounds of Pixian Douban (PXDB) were identified by means of gas chromatography-olfactometry (GC-O) coupled with mass spectrometry (MS), and then the key odor components were figured out by odor activity values (OAVs) and aroma extract dilution analysis (AEDA) using three different methods. The 21 odor active areas were detected with flavor dilution (FD) factor ranging from 2 to 16, with 3-(methylthio) propionaldehyde, 2, 5-dimethyl pyrazine, 4-ethyl-2-methoxyphenol, and 2-ethylphenol yielding the highest FD factors. These odorants were then quantitated by application of external standard under selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode of MS, and their OAVs were calculated based on the odor thresholds. The highest OAV was obtained for 3-methylbutanal (malty, 614.89), followed by phenylacetaldehyde (honey-like, sweet, 94.34), four compounds obtained OAVs ≥10, and other eight compounds obtained OAVs between 1 and 10. All of them likely contributed to the aroma of PXDB. A reconstitution model containing 14 odorants (OAVs ≥1& FD>5) was able to mimic the aroma style of the original PXDB. In addition, the application of omission test was used to investigate the effects of the key odor compounds on the whole odor profile of PXDB, and 11 odorants detected were significantly different among the samples.
The interest in fermented bean food products has gained considerable attention due to the product's characteristic flavors and the potential nutritional relevance associated with their consumption. The evidence of this interest is supported by a number of extensive studies reporting on the volatile compounds of fermented bean foods. Previous work revealed 25 key aroma compounds from five different Japanese soy sauces by aroma extract dilution analysis (AEDA), among them 3-(methylthio) propionaldehyde and 3-hydroxy-4,5-dimethyl-2(5H)-furanone with high flavor dilution (FD) factor were thought to play a critical role in the soy sauce products. [5] In a research of Tempeh, 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline, dimethyl trisulfide, 2-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl pyrazine, methional, and 2-methylpropanal and (E, E)-2,4-decadienal were found to be the main aroma compounds. [6] Previous work also found that in Natto, pyrazines, and sulfur-containing compounds worked as critical compositions to the characteristic aroma of Natto. [7] They also reported that the pyrazines and sulfur-containing compounds could mask the beany odor. H. Y. Chung, P. K. Fung, and J. S. Kim [8] identified 68 volatile components of commercial plain sufu extracts and found esters, alcohols, and acids were the majority classes of these compounds. Also, the research found that the key volatiles that related to differentiation of traditional and commercial Doenjang were 2-pentylfuran, 4-ethylphenol, dihydro-5-methyl-2(3H)-furanone, butanoic acid, pyrazines, esters, maltol, dimethyl disulfide, 2-and 3-methylbutanal, hexanal, 4-vinylphenol, and ethanol. [9] Most previous studies on PXDB have focused on processes and microorganism with an extremely limited number of investigations geared towards the analysis of volatile compounds. [4] Moreover, most studies on the flavor compounds in PXDB only focus on the detection of volatile flavor substances mainly by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), with the application of quantitative analysis and olfactometry technology being rarely involved. One hundred and nine volatiles were identified by simultaneous distillation-extraction (SDE) and found that esters, alcohols, aldehydes, and ketones were the main volatiles in three grade samples of PXDB. [10] Two PXDB from different factories extracted by SDE were analyzed and indicated there were some differences in the number of volatiles between the two products because of the different fermentation process. [11] Our preliminary investigations suggested that heat has actively impacted on these volatiles during the fermentation of PXDB. However, the extent to which these volatiles in the PXDB are quantitatively affected by these conditions is yet to be studied to the best of our knowledge. The 81 volatile compounds of PXDB were found by a combination of solid-phase microextraction (SPME) and GC-MS, benzaldehyde, 2-pentylfuran, 3,7-dimethyl-1,3,6-octanetriene and tetramethylpyrazine were high in relative area. [12] After that, a study identified 82 volatile compounds from the fermentation of 0 to 3 years in the PXDB and reported that high concentrations of ethyl palmitate, ethyl linoleate, ethyl oleate, 4-ethylphenol, 4-ethylguaiacol, and phenylethyl alcohol might contribute most to the overall aroma of PXDB. [13] However, in the preliminary studies, qualitative analysis was applied only by MS of databases and quantitative analysis was performed with semi quantification on the amounts of volatiles using the respective peak areas, which very likely leads to unreliable results.
In summary, the aroma-active compounds in PXDB were identified by SPME-GC-O/MS and revealed 21 aroma-active areas. The AEDA and OAVs analysis were used to analyze the key aroma components of PXDB. 3-(Methylthio) propionaldehyde, 4-ethyl-2-methoxyphenol, 2, 5-dimethyl pyrazine, and 2-ethylphenol recorded the highest FD. Among 17 odorants with FD≥5, 14 of them were found at concentrations above their odor thresholds. The highest OAV was observed for 3-methylbutanal, followed by phenylacetaldehyde. Aroma recombination and omission experiments were conducted by a trained sensory panel and further confirmed the PXDB aroma can be closely mimicked using only 11 aroma compounds in their natural concentrations. And 3-(methylthio) propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, 2, 3, 5, 6-tetramethylpyrazine, phenylacetaldehyde, 2,5-dimethylpyrazine, 2-acetylpyrrole, 2-phenylethanol, 2-ethylphenol, furfural, 4-ethyl-2-methoxyphenol, and 3-methylbutanal were distinguished as the most predominant compounds in PXDB, constituting a unique and complete PXDB flavor. This study, for the first time, described a comprehensive profile of the aroma-active compounds in PXDB, further work should be directed to the effects of PXDB non-volatiles on aroma quality and the effects of microbial action on PXDB flavor formation to elucidate the mechanism of flavor compounds and provide valuable information to the industry.
It has been reported that the C0-C4 carbons of methionine are converted to ethylene in and Cu"!-ascorbate (10) model systems. Yang (22) has shown that C-C, carbons of 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyrate and the Cr, carbons of 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde (i.e., methional) are converted to ethylene in a model peroxidase system. When methionine was fed to apple tissue, the C-C4 carbons were apparently converted to ethylene (1, 11 ). These reports demonstrate that the CrCa carbons of methionine or its related derivatives are converted to ethylene in model systems and in plant tissue. It was thus of interest to demonstrate whether or not methionine residues in protein and peptides could be converted to ethylene. Using a peroxidase system described by Yang (21), it was found that peptides containing a C-terminal methionine residue, but not an N-terminal or internal residue, produced ethylene at initial rates two to four times greater than the small but significant rate from methionine. Purified egg albumin did not produce any ethylene; however, after limited proteolysis of egg albumin, significant ethylene was formed. Of particular importance was the finding that N-acetyl-D,L-methionine produced ethylene at a rate about equal to methional.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) has attracted attention during recent years as a potential platform chemical for biobased production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3PDO), acrolein, 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3HP) and acrylic acid (Vollenweider et al., 2003; Vollenweider and Lacroix, 2004) . Dehydration of glycerol, a renewable co-product of biodiesel production, catalyzed by glycerol dehydratase using whole cells of Lactobacillus reuteri as a biocatalyst, is a promising method for production of 3HPA (Ulmer and Zeng, 2007; Vollenweider and Lacroix, 2004) . However, in spite of tolerating relatively high concentrations of the hydroxyaldehyde, the enzyme activity and viability of L. reuteri are negatively affected at 3HPA concentration higher than 30-50 mM and 60-120 mM, respectively (Cleusix et al., 2007) . Removal of 3HPA from the vicinity of the cells to increase the lifetime of the biocatalyst, and consequently the 3HPA yield and productivity, is essential.
The slow combustion of isobutyraldehyde at 290–330° in a static system, using vessels coated with vanadium pentoxide, molybdenum oxide and bismuthphosphomolybdate, has been studied. Some results have also been obtained with isobutene oxide, isobutyric acid, propionaldehyde and n-butyraldehyde. A rapid oxidation of isobutyraldehyde occurred at 320°, the initial rate with the phosphomolybdate coating depending markedly on both the aldehyde and oxygen pressures and the overall activation energy being 23 kcal/mole. High yields of methacrolein were obtained using this coating, but much lower ones with the V2O5 and MoO3 surfaces, considerable quantities of other products such as acetone being formed. Using the phosphomolybdate-coated vessel much the same analytical results were obtained with isobutene oxide (as with isobutyraldehyde) and quite a high initial yield of methacrylic acid was obtained from isobutyric acid oxidation. However, with the straight-chain aldehydes, little of the corresponding unsaturated aldehydes was formed. ::: ::: ::: ::: The oxidative dehydrogenation probably occurred on the surface and involved an allyl type intermediate. The reaction was most likely with carbonyl compounds of the structure R1R2CHC(R3)CO. With isobutyraldehyde, bismuth phosphomolybdate was an active catalyst and specific towards methacrolein formation, while MoO3 was not very active but probably quite specific and V2O5 was active but not very specific.
Using cinchona alkaloid-derived primary amine as catalyst and benzoic acid as co-catalyst, Michael-type addition reactions between enolizable carbonyl compounds and nitroalkenes have been extensively studied; however, our understanding of the mechanism is far from complete. In this paper, a theoretical study is presented for the Michael addition reaction between trans-1-nitro-2-phenylethylene and 2-methylpropionaldehyde catalyzed by 9-epi-QDA and benzoic acid. By performing DFT and ab initio calculations, we have identified a detailed mechanism. The calculations indicated that four continuous steps are involved in the overall reaction: (1) the formation of an iminium intermediate, (2) an addition reaction between the iminium and trans-1-nitro-2-phenylethylene, (3) the proton transfer process, and (4) hydrolysis and regeneration of the catalyst. The rate-determining step is the second proton transfer from the amine group to β-carbon of trans-1-nitro-2-phenylethylene, and the enantioselectivity is also controlled by this step. The calculated results provide a general model that explains the mechanism and enantioselectivity of the title reaction.
This thesis describes new nitro-chemistry in studies related to a possible synthesis of Vitamin B12 as proposed by J. W. Cornforth. Some of the Vitamin B12 intermediates possess special nuclear magnetic resonance properties when examined as their nitronate anions. Some synthetic studies of fluorinated compounds as potential substrates for glyceroldehydrase, an enzyme requiring 5' -deoxyadenosyl cobalamin (Coenzyme B12 ), are also described .. ::: ::: The Introduction discusses the chemical synthesis of corrins, together with some of the prominences of the Eschenmoser-Woodward synthesis of Vitamin B12. A brief account of the possible synthesis of Vitamin B12 proposed by Cornforth is also given. The chemistry of the related B12 coenzymes is summarised in a section on the enzymatic reactions requiring a 5' -deoxyadenosyl cobalamin as a cofactor, The current proposals for the mechanism of action of glyceroldehydrase and dioldehydrase are also compared. ::: ::: The Cornforth approach to Vitamin B12 was to utilise the reaction of an anion with a germinal bromonitro or dinitro compound in order to join precursors of ring A and ring D. Chapters I and II describe the synthesis of suitable precursors and models for these radical-anion coupling reactions, and attempts to realise an intermolecular coupling of ring A and ring D intermediates. The synthesis of 4-carboxamidodiethylmalonyl-3-methyl-3-(2', 2' -brornonitroethyljcyclo-hexanone ethylene ketal and 4-(2',2' -dinitro)n -butoxycarbonyl-3-(2' -nirroethyl )- 3-methyl ccyclohexanone are described together with attempts to use these intermediates for intramolecular coupling purposes. In chapter I, the attempted coupling of hindered geminal halogenonitroso compounds with nitronate anions is also described. ::: ::: Attempts to incorporate an intramolecular Michael addition into the synthesis, for the linking of ring A and ring D precursors are the subject of chapter III. The synthesis of amide derivatives of Hagemann's ester (4-ethoxycarbonyl-3-methyl cyclohex-2-enone ) containing a nitro-enamide residue as the 4-substituent,to examine this scheme was unsuccessful. The corresponding hydrazide analogues, for example, 3-methyl cyclohex-3-ene-1-one ethylene ketal 4-carboxylic acid 3'-nitrobutylidene hydrazide, are more readily accessible and some reactions are described. ::: ::: In chapter IV, interesting long range deshielding effects are noted in the 1H n, m. r. spectra of the nitronate anions derived from 4-alkoxycarbonyl-3- methyl-3-(2 '-nitroethyl) cyclohexanones, ring A precursors for coupling studies. The deshielding effect associated with the nitronate anion is a useful probe in conformational analysis, and shows the axial conformer of 2-substituted cyclo- hexane nitronate anions to be preferred. Also the 13C n. m, r. spectra of several nitronate anions show large solvent dependent chemical shift difference which correlate with differing electronic distibution in the anions in solvents of different protonating ability. ::: ::: Chapter V is an account of the synthesis of potential substrates and inhibitors for the enzyme glyceroldehydrase. 3,3, 3-Trifluoro-1, 2-propanediol is a substrate for the enzyme and is converted to 3,3, 3-trifluoropropionaldehyde isolable as its 2, 4-dinitrophenyl hydrazone. Attempts to synthesise authentic 3,3, 3-trifluoro- propionaldehyde and the effects of the CF3 group are also discussed. The reaction between 3,3, 3-trifluoro-1, 2-propanediol and glyceroldehydrase is readily monitored by 19F n. m. r. allowing an examination of reaction intermediates. The synthesis of several bromopropanols and some preliminary investigations as to their reactions with glyceroldehydrase are also noted.
The reaction of the lithium derivative of (+)-(S)-p-tolyl p-tolylthiomethyl sulphoxide [(+)-(S)-(1)] with benzaldehyde and phenylacetaldehyde in tetrahydrofuran at –78 °C gives, after methylation of the hydroxy-group, reduction of the sulphoxide, and hydrolysis of the resulting dithioacetal, the corresponding α-methoxy-aldehydes, (–)-(R)-2-methoxy-2-phenylacetaldehyde and (+)-(R)-2-methoxy-3-phenylpropionaldehyde, enantiomeric excess 70 and 46%, respectively. The reaction of (+)-(S)-(1) with benzaldehyde in tetrahydrofuran at room temperature in the presence of Triton B gives the new optically pure reagent (E)-(+)-(S)-1-p-tolysulphinyl-1-p-tolylthio-2-phenylethylene [(+)-(S)-(2)], which is a chiral enolonium equivalent. The addition of sodium methoxide to (+)-(S)-(2) in methanol gives, after reduction of the sulphoxide and hydrolysis of the resulting dithioacetal, (+)-(S)-2-methoxy-2-phenylacetaldehyde, enantiomeric excess 60%. The unfavourable equilibrium in addition of methoxide to (+)-(S)-(2) means that the latter is not very useful as a chiral enolonium equilvalent in reactions of this type.
Evidence has been presented suggesting that a reactive metabolite, 2-phenylpropenal (ATPAL), may be responsible for the toxicities observed during therapy with the antiepileptic drug felbamate (FBM). Formation of ATPAL from its unstable immediate precursor, 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionaldedhyde (CBMA) requires the loss of the hydrogen atom at position 2 in the propane chain, and it has been postulated that substitution of this atom with fluorine would prevent the formation of ATPAL. On the basis of this hypothesis, 2-fluoro-2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate (F-FBM) was synthesized and is presently undergoing drug development. To test this hypothesis, we compared the metabolism by human liver postmitochondrial suspensions (S9) in vitro of selected FBM and postulated F-FBM metabolites leading to formation of CBMA or 3-carbamoyl-2-fluoro-2-phenyl-propionaldehyde (F-CBMA). All S9 incubations included GSH as a trapping agent for any reactive metabolites formed. Our results indicated that, in phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, at 37 degrees C, the half-life for 4-hydroxy-5-phenyltetrahydro-1,3-oxazin-2-one (CCMF) was 2.8 and 3.6 h in the presence or absence of GSH, respectively; compared to 4-hydroxy-5-fluoro-5-phenyl-tetrahydro-1,3-oxazin-2-one (F-CCMF) which lost only 2.5% or 4.9% over 24 h under the same conditions. When incubated with S9 in the presence of the cofactor, NAD+, 2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol monocarbamate (MCF) was oxidized to CCMF which was further oxidized to 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionic acid (CPPA). 2-Fluoro-2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol monocarbamate (F-MCF) under similar conditions was stable, and no metabolites were observed. When CCMF was incubated with S9 in the presence of NAD+ cofactor, oxidation to CPPA and reduction to MCF were observed. In addition, a new atropic acid GSH adduct (ATPA-GSH) was identified by mass spectrometry. When F-CCMF was incubated under the same conditions as CCMF, both reduced and oxidized metabolites, F-MCF and 3-carbamoyl-2-fluoro-2-phenylpropionic acid (F-CPPA), respectively, were formed but at significantly lower rates, and no GSH conjugates were identified. Our results support the hypothesis that F-FBM and F-CCMF are not metabolized by S9 in vitro to the known reactive FBM metabolite, ATPAL.
A hyperthermal nozzle was utilized to study the thermal decomposition of propionaldehyde, CH3CH2CHO, over a temperature range of 1073-1600 K. Products were identified with two detection methods: matrix-isolation Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and photoionization mass spectrometry. Evidence was observed for four reactions during the breakdown of propionaldehyde: α-C-C bond scission yielding CH3CH2, CO, and H, an elimination reaction forming methylketene and H2, an isomerization pathway leading to propyne via the elimination of H2O, and a β-C-C bond scission channel forming methyl radical and (•)CH2CHO. The products identified during this experiment were CO, HCO, CH3CH2, CH3CH═C═O, H2O, CH3C≡CH, CH3, H2C═C═O, CH2CH2, CH3CH═CH2, HC≡CH, CH2CCH, H2CO, C4H2, C4H4, and CH3CHO. The first eight products result from primary or bimolecular reactions involving propionaldehyde while the remaining products occur from reactions including the initial pyrolysis products. While the pyrolysis of propionaldehyde involves reactions similar to those observed for acetaldehyde and butyraldehyde in recent studies, there are a few unique products observed which highlight the need for further study of the pyrolysis mechanism.
Abstract When 1,2-propanediol-1-3H is converted to propionaldehyde in the presence of dioldehydrase and 5,6-dimethylbenzimidazolylcobamide 5'-deoxyadenosine, 2 hydrogen atoms per mole of the coenzyme are replaced by tritium. The tritiated coenzyme so obtained transfers tritium to the product when it is added to unlabeled 1,2-propanediol and dioldehydrase. The coenzyme containing tritium at C-5' of the adenosyl moiety was prepared synthetically; when it was added to dioldehydrase and unlabeled 1,2-propanediol, all of the tritium initially present in the coenzyme was found in the propionaldehyde. From these results we concluded that the hydrogen transfer that occurs in the conversion of 1,2-propanediol to propionaldehyde involves two steps: transfer of hydrogen from C-1 to the carbon bonded to the cobalt of the coenzyme and, from this position, to C-2 of the product.
The aerobic degradation of 3-N-trimethylamino-1-propanol (homocholine) as a sole source of carbon and nitrogen has been found for a Rhodococcus sp. bacterium isolated from soil. The isolate was identified as Rhodococcus sp. strain A2 based on its phenotypic features, physiological and biochemical characteristics, and results of phylogenetic analysis. The washed cells of strain A2 completely degraded homocholine within 6 h, with concomitant formation of several metabolites. Analysis of the metabolites using capillary electrophoresis, fast atom bombardment-MS, and GC-MS showed that trimethylamine was the major metabolite, in addition to beta-alanine betaine (beta-AB) and trimethylaminopropionaldehyde. Therefore, the possible degradation pathway of homocholine in the isolated strain is through consequent oxidation of the alcohol group (-OH) to aldehyde (-CHO) and acid (-COOH). Thereafter, the cleavage of beta-AB C-N bonds yielded trimethylamine and alkyl chain.
3-Amino-2-hydroxy-propionaldehydes [H2NCH(R)CHOHCHO with R = H, i-Bu, CH2Ph] were designed as metallo-aminopeptidase inhibitors based on the metal active site chelation concept. These compounds were found to be micromolar inhibitors of aminopeptidase-M (AP-M, EC 3.4.11.2) with potencies similar to bestatin (Ki = 3.5 microM). Notably, compound 5a (R = H) is a selective inhibitor of AP-M (Ki = 7 microM) with respect to cytosolic leucine aminopeptidase (LAPc, EC 3.4.11.1) (Ki = 385 microM). However, due to their easy oligomerization, these compounds are low practical value. In contrast, the corresponding isomeric 3-amino-1-hydroxy-propan-2-one derivatives [H2NCH(R)COCH2OH with R = H, i-Bu, CH2Ph, i-Pr, CH2Biph] are well defined structures. These hydroxymethylketones also exhibit micromolar affinities on AP-M. Compound 6c (R = CH2Ph) was the most potent (Ki = 1 microM). Selectivity studies of 6a (R = H) and 6b (R=i-Bu) show a preference for AP-M. Compound 6a is moderately active on AP-M (Ki = 25 microM) and inactive on LAPc. This new class of inhibitors is proposed to bind as bidentates, analogous to hydroxamates.
1. ::: ::: A method was proposed for the synthesis of the difficultly accessible unsaturated sulfides, the 1,1-bis(alkylthio)propenes, which consists in the cleavage of thiols by bases from 2-alkylthiopropionaldehyde mercaptals. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The elimination goes exclusively by the bimolecular mechanism with the formation of 1,1-bis-(alkylthio)propenes. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The yield of the 1,1-bis(alkylthio)propenes increases with increase in the amount of base, taking part in the reaction; of the hydroxides the greatest activity is possessed by KOH. An increase in the donor strength of the substituents in the starting mercaptals hinders the elimination.
ABSTRACT The occupational health risk of petrol station workers from exposure to BTEX and carbonyl compounds via inhalation was estimated in the inner city of Bangkok. Personal sampling was performed within the workers’ breathing zone using 2,4 dinitrophenylhydrazine cartridges and charcoal glass tubes connected to a personal air pump during eight working hours at six petrol stations. BTEX and carbonyl compounds were quantitatively analyzed by GC/FID and HPLC/UV, respectively. Of all detectable BTEX and carbonyl compounds, the levels of the four most prevalent compounds (benzene, ethylbenzene, formaldehyde, and acetaldehyde) were used to assess the lifetime cancer risk and 95% confidence interval of the risk levels were found to be totally higher than acceptable criteria for benzene (1.82 × 10–4–2.50 × 10–4), formaldehyde (7.81 × 10–6–1.04 × 10–5), ethylbenzene (4.11 × 10–6–5.52 × 10–6), and acetaldehyde (1.39 × 10–6–2.45 × 10–6). Thus, petrol station workers in the inner city of Bangkok have a potentially high cancer risk through inhalation exposure. With respect to the noncarcinogenic agents, toluene, m,p-xylene, o-xylene, and propionaldehyde, all non-cancer health risk were within hazard quotients of 1 and of acceptable risk.
(57) Abstract: The present invention particularly provides an improved method for producing tetrahydrobenzo Chie pins 1,1-dioxide compound; diastereomeric mixture of tetrahydrobenzo Chie pins 1,1-dioxide compound provide a method for producing a 3-thio-2-substituted propionaldehyde compounds; single diastereomer provides a process for producing the diastereomer of the compound; 3-bromo-2 provides a method for producing a substituted propionaldehyde compounds to.
Five trials were conducted to determine the effects of chemical treatment of ground corn on in vitro dry matter disappearance (IVDMD), in vivo nutrient utilization and ruminal starch digestion. Ground corn was treated with 0, 1, 2 or 3% (wt wt−1) formaldehyde, glyoxal, masonex, propionaldehyde or tannic acid. IVDMD of ground corn was inversely related (P < 0.01) to percent formaldehyde treatment level, while glyoxal, masonex, propionaldehyde and tannic acid were relatively ineffective in reducing IVDMD. Treatment of large batches of ground corn with 0, 0.5 or 1% (wt wt−1) formaldehyde also linearly reduced IVDMD (P < 0.01). Six abomasally fistulated wethers (average weight 95 kg) were used in a replicated 3 × 3 Latin square to determine the effects of 0, 1 or 2% (wt wt−1) formaldehyde treatment of ground corn on ruminal and total tract nutrient digestion. Ruminal dry matter (DM) digestion and total tract DM, organic matter (OM) and acid detergent fiber (ADF) digestion decreased linearly (P < 0.01) with in...
p-Nitroaniline, 2-aminopyridine (1a), 4-aminopyridine (2a), 2-amino-4-methylpyrimidine (8a), 2-aminothiazole (10a), and 2-aminobenzimidazole (12a) react with aqueous formaldehyde and p-thiocresol in ethanol or methanol solution to give N-(p-tolythiomethyl) derivatives [corresponding to the general formula (4; R2= H)], usually in high yields. When the latter compounds are heated, under reflux, with an excess of sodium borohydride in ethanol or 1,2-dimethoxyethane solution, the corresponding methylamino-compounds [general formula (5; R2= H)] are obtained. By a similar two-step procedure in which aqueous formaldehyde is replaced, as appropriate, by anhydrous acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, or benzaldehyde, p-nitroaniline is converted into N-ethyl-p-nitroaniline, p-chloroaniline is converted into p-chloro-N-(n-propyl)aniline, (1a) is converted into the corresponding ethylamino- and benzylamino-compounds (1c) and (1d), respectively, and (10a) and (12a) are converted into their 2-N-(n-propyl) derivatives (10c) and (12c), respectively.
1. ::: ::: In the isomerization of carbonyl and hydroxy carbonyl compounds by reactions of intramolecular oxidation and reduction, the most electropositive hydrocarbon group becomes attached at the carbonyl and the most electro-negative group at the carbon atom adjacent to the carbonyl. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: An explanation of the reaction mechanisms on the basis of the hypothesis of the role of unstable intermediate products meets with contradictions. The chief significance is to be given to the mobility of hydrogen atoms and hydrocarbon groups under the influence of neighboring groups and the reagent; the rearrangement occurs intramolecularly. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Specific effects were found for lead and copper hydroxides in the acid transformation of α-hydroxy and α-halo aldehydes and monoses, and for mercury salts in the aldehyde-ketone rearrangement. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: The acid transformation of 2,3-dihydroxypropionaldehyde into lactic acid in presence of lead hydroxide can be represented as passing through a β-hydroxy epoxide, but the transformation of 2-chloro-3-hydroxypropionaldehyde into 3-hydroxypropionic acid-as passing through an a-hydroxy epoxide. The saccharinic rearrangement of monoses results from the mobility of hydroxy groups with passage through the stage ofα- and β-hydroxy epoxides.
We examined the production of an antimicrobial component, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), in laboratory-scale silage inoculated with Lactobacillus coryniformis strain 394, which ferments glycerol to 3-HPA. A modified colorimetric method that used an NaOH-treated blank and determined the absorption spectrum of the samples was employed to detect a 3-HPA-like component (HLC) that was assumed to be 3-HPA. Inoculation with Lb. coryniformis 394 plus glycerol in ensiling produced HLC at 10-460 ppm and contributed to inhibition of butyric fermentation and retardation of aerobic spoilage. HLC was considered to be 3-HPA from its absorption spectrum. These results suggest that the production of 3-HPA by Lb. coryniformis 394 is useful in ensiling and that the modified colorimetric method is effective to detect 3-HPA in silage.
Abstract C 18 and silica-gel cartridges coated with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH) were compared for the determination of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde levels from ambient air. Liquid chromatography (LC) was used for the analysis, and clear differences were found for acetone retention on each type of coated cartridge. Moreover, double peaks of acetaldehyde were observed in LC analysis from samples simultaneously collected in both impregnated C 18 and silica-gel cartridges. By using a KI filter during sampling to avoid ozone interference, retention and analysis were improved for some relevant carbonyl compounds in air. 2,4-DNPH silica-gel cartridges were used to determine carbonyls in ambient air from `Centro de Investigaciones Energeticas, Medioambientales y Tecnologicas' (CIEMAT), located in Madrid surroundings.
(...) A 3-yr field study (1984-1986) was conducted at the Red River Research Station in northwest Louisiana to determine the influence of two levels of early season pest control and the effects of planting date on yield. Cotton treated with Temik-TSX [2-methyl-2(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime]-[pentachloronitrobenzene plus 5-ethoxy-3-(trichloromethyl)-1, 2, 4-thiadiazole] for early season pest control yielded significantly more seed cotton per acre than the untreated cotton on most of the planting dates during the study. (...)
Abstract Molybdenum-doped iron phosphate with a M/Fe atomic ratio of 0.04 is found to be effective as a catalyst for a vapor-phase oxidative dehydrogenation of propylene glycol (1,2-propanediol) to pyruvaldehyde (2-oxopropanal, methyl glyoxal). The highest selectivity to pyruvaldehyde was obtained in the temperature range of 175–190 °C; the selectivity increased markedly as the concentration of water was increased. Under optimum reaction conditions, the initial selectivity to dehydrogenation was about 60 mol%, but the selectivity decreased a little as the conversion of propylene glycol increased; the selectivity to pyruvaldehyde was 50 mol% at the conversion of 50%. The main side-reaction was the formation of acetaldehyde and formaldehyde by CC bond fission. Propionaldehyde was also formed with the selectivity of about 10 mol%.
Carbonyl compounds (CC) play an important role in beverage aroma since they may affect flavor of wines, brandies, and beers, among others. For this reason, it is necessary to identify and quantify CC through adequate analytical techniques. This study is a proposal of both developing and optimization of a new analytical methodology that allows investigate C(1)-C(8 )CC in wines simultaneously by quantifying even those ones that are predominantly present in the adduct form hydroxylalkylsulfonic acids (HASA). The HASA dissociation is undertaken by specific alkaline media (pH 11). The developed methodology employed the LC with UV/VIS detection (lambda = 365 nm) technique under gradient elution in the way to reach both free-CC and bound-CC quantification. Results showed that binary gradient system using eluent A (MeOH/ACN/H(2)O 74.5:0.5:25% v/v/v) and eluent B (MeOH) reached the best separation condition of both lower and higher molecular mass CC. This proposed method allowed simultaneous quantification of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propanone, furfuraldehyde, butyraldehyde, benzaldehyde, hexanaldehyde, 2-ethyl-hexanaldehyde, E-pent-2-en-1-al, and cyclohexanone--all of them were found in white wine (Moscato Canelli) and red wine (Shiraz) produced in the São Francisco Valley, in the Northeastern Region of Brazil--although this optimized method may probably be suitable for quantification of propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, heptanaldehyde, octanaldehyde, benzaldehyde, and E-hex-2-en-1-al as well. We could not prove if this method is also able to determine the latter CC group since we have not found these substances present in detectable levels in our real samples considered in this study.
Initial-rate studies of aldehyde oxidation have been conducted with propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde over a wide range of substrate concentrations and covering the region where activation by high substrate concentration occurs. The studies at low aldehyde concentrations are consistent with a compulsory mechanism with NAD+ binding first. Stopped-flow studies using spectrophotometric and fluorimetric methods shows a more complex picture, however. The major transients in fluorescence are much slower than those seen by absorbance and pre-mixing enzyme with NAD+ appears to alter the course of the pre-steady state phase of the reaction. The enzyme is activated by fairly high concentrations (0.1-0.5 M) of ethanol, propanol, propan-2-ol etc. and is markedly inhibited by very low concentrations of bivalent metal ions. The basis of these effects is discussed.
The carbonyl compounds in the atmosphere belong to one of the regulatory pollutants for the malodor control designated by the Korean Ministry of Environment (KMOE). In the present study, the emission concentration levels of carbonyl compounds were measured along with a number of criteria odor pollutants from a total of 47 individual companies (June 2004 to January 2005). The results of our study showed that a number of carbonyl compounds (such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, and butyraldehyde) maintained significantly high mean concentrations of 298 to 372 ppb. In contrast, other carbonyl compounds were low enough with the mean valves of 0.54 to 19.1 ppb. It was found that except for such industries as metal production or leather processing, their emissions were generally quite significant. If the measured values were evaluated in terms of malodor intensity, butyraldehyde appeared to be the most significant contributor to the malodor release. According to the measurements made in strong source areas, it can be concluded that several carbonyl compounds (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde) are useful enough to diagnose malodor release from those source areas. It should also be addressed that a number of carbonyl compounds added newly as the result of malodor control legislation were not sensitive enough to diagnose malodor release from such sources.
Lipase from Candida rugosa was modified and the water activity (3w) ::: required by the enzyme, in order to be optimally active, was investigated. Two ::: methods of modification were used, which were reductive alkylation and ::: modification with polyethylene glycols. For the first method, three types of ::: aldehydes were studied - propionaldehyde, octyldehyde and dodecyldehyde. Two ::: PEGs were used - PEG 2000 and PEG5000, for the second method. On the effect of ::: 3w on different degree of modified-lipases, the optimum 3w for propyl-lipase ::: decreased with increasing degree of modification. As for octyl-lipase, the optimum ::: 3w also decreased with increasing degree of modification, up to 60% modification. ::: Further modification will increase the optimum 3w of the octy l-lipase. The a.v for ::: dodecyl-lipase, on the other hand, increased with increasing degree of modification. ::: A similar trend was also observed with PEG -lipases, up to a certain degree of ::: modification. It was found that the optimum a.v of the enzymes, depended on the degree of modification, hydrophobicity and also the chain-length of the modifier. ::: The relative activity increased with increasing degree of modification for all ::: modified enzymes tested except for dodecyl-lipase, where the activity decreased as ::: the degree of modification increased. On the effects of solvent on the 3w of the ::: propyl-lipase, there is no significant difference of optimum 3w requirement in the ::: solvents tested, compared to native lipase. The optimum 3w of octyl-lipase generally ::: shifted to a lower value in hydrophobic solvents, while for dodecyl-lipase, the ::: optimum 3w shifted to higher values. In all solvents tested, the optimum 3w of ::: PL2 000 are different, while PL5 000 required higher 3w, In general, the relative ::: activity of the modified enzymes are better in non -polar solvents, compared to polar ::: solvents.
The alkaline decarboxylation of 3 methyl 3 (6 methoxy 2 naphthyl)glycidic isopropyl ester to produce 2 (6 methoxy 2 naphthyl)propionaldehyde was reported.
PEGylation of IFN-alpha has been used successfully to improve the pharmacokinetic properties and efficacy of the drug. To prepare a PEGylated form of human interferon-beta-1a (IFN-beta-1a) suitable for testing in vivo, we have synthesized 20 kDa mPEG-O-2-methylpropionaldehyde and used it to modify the N-terminal alpha-amino group of the cytokine. The PEGylated protein retained approximately 50% of the activity of the unmodified protein and had significantly improved pharmacokinetic properties following intravenous administration in rats. The clearance and volume of distribution at steady state were reduced approximately 30-fold and approximately 4-fold, respectively, resulting in a significant increase in systemic exposure as determined by the area under the curve. The elimination half-life of the PEGylated protein was approximately 13-fold greater than for the unmodified protein. The unmodified and PEGylated proteins were tested for their ability to inhibit the formation of radially oriented blood vessels entering the periphery of human SK-MEL-1 melanoma tumors in athymic nude homozygous (nu/nu) mice. In a single dose comparison study, administration of 1 x 10(6) units of unmodified IFN-beta-1a resulted in a 29% reduction in vessel number, while 1 x 10(6) units of PEGylated IFN-beta-1a resulted in a 58% reduction. Both treatments resulted in statistically significant reductions in mean vessel number as compared to the vehicle (control)-treated mice, with the PEGylated IFN-beta-1a-treated mice showing a statistically significantly greater reduction in mean vessel number as compared to the unmodified IFN-beta-1a-treated mice. In a multiple versus single dose comparison study, daily administration of 1 x 10(6) units of unmodified IFN-beta-1a for 9 days resulted in a 51% reduction in vessel number, while a single dose of 1 x 10(6) units of the PEGylated protein resulted in a 66% reduction. Both treatments resulted in statistically significant reductions in mean vessel number as compared to the vehicle-treated mice, with the PEGylated IFN-beta-1a-treated mice showing a statistically significantly greater reduction in mean vessel number as compared to the unmodified IFN-beta-1a-treated mice. Therefore, the improved pharmacokinetic properties of the modified protein translated into improved efficacy. Since unmodified IFN-beta is used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis and hepatitis C virus infection, a PEGylated form of the protein such as 20 kDa mPEG-O-2-methylpropionaldehyde-modified IFN-beta-1a may serve as a useful adjunct for the treatment of these diseases. In addition, the antiangiogenic effects of PEGylated IFN-beta-1a may be harnessed for the treatment of certain cancers, either as a sole agent or in combination with other antitumor drugs.
Phenytrimethylammonium tribromide was synthesized. Our methods of the preparation and recovering gave a simple and mild process,which may fit the need of industrialization.2 bromide propionaldehyde may fit the need of industrialization.2 bromide propionaldehyde can was prepared via the recovering PTT,which is favorable to protect the environment and to improve the economic profit.
Ni/HZSM-5 catalysts with 5wt% Ni were prepared by incipient wetness impregnation method and the pH value of the impregnating solution was adjusted with nitric acid. The physico-chemical proper ties of the samples were characterized by XRD, TEM, BET, NH_3-TPD and H_2-TPR. The hydrogenatioJ reaction of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde(3-HPA) to 1,3-propanediol( 1,3-PDO) was carried out in a fixed bed reactor under the condition of n(H_2) : n(3-HPA) = 7.0,space velocity 4.5 h~(-1),50 ℃ and 5.0 MPa The results showed that when the pH value was 2.5, Ni species existed in three states : the larger particle (8 nm) and the smaller particles[ (1-2) nm] in the outer surface of HZSM-5,and a small part of N reduced difficult in the internal pore. 3-HPA conversion was higher due to the effect of Ni distributiol more dispersed;As the pH value increased to 5.6, Ni species gradually tended to exist in the form single particles(3 nm) in the outer surface of the carrier. The effective active site was less and 3-HP conversion was decreased.
In synthetic matrices, degradation of 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde, the main precursor of dimethyltrisulfide in aged beer, is influenced by the presence of anti- and prooxidants. Surprisingly, the reducing power of the beer proved not to be a key determinant of dimethyltrisulfide production during beer aging. However, other properties of anti- and prooxidants must be taken into account, such as the ability to bind 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde (sulfitic adducts) or methanethiol (copper complexation). This binding leads, respectively, to a higher or lower dimethyltrisulfide level.
A six-channel surface acoustic wave (SAW) detection system with a 315 MHz one-port quartz resonator and a homemade computer interface for signal acquisition and data processing was developed to detect various organic vapors. The oscillating frequency of the SAW quartz crystal decreased due to the adsorption of organic molecules on the coating materials. Polyethylene glycol, 18 crown 6 (18C6), Cr 3+ /cryptand-22, stearic acid, polyvinylpyrrolidene and triphenyl phosphine coated quartz crystals were used as sensors. An artificial back propagation neural (BPN) network was used to recognize various organic gases such as hexane, 1-hexene, 1-hexyne, 1-propanol, propionaldehyde, propionic acid and 1-propylamine. It showed not only the distinction of unity of organic vapors but also mixtures of gases. The learning rate and the hidden unit of a neural network system for BPN analysis were investigated. Furthermore, the concentrations of these organic vapors were computed with about 10% error by multivariate linear regression analysis (MLR). MLR analysis with a multichannel SAW sensor was applied to determine the concentration of each component in a mixture of 1-hexene, 1-hexyne and propionaldehyde.
Ab initio calculations on the gas phase reaction of ::: lithium hydride with 2-silylacetaldehyde, 2-silylpropionaldehyde, 2-trimethylsilylacetaldehyde, ::: 2-trimethylsilylpropionaldehyde and 3-trimethylsilylbutan-2-one have been ::: performed. For each of the substrates containing an SiH3 group, ::: the hydride approaches syn to the silyl substituent in the lowest-energy ::: transition structure. In contrast, for each of the substrates containing the ::: larger SiMe3 group, the more conventional Felkin–Anh transition ::: structure, in which the hydride attacks anti to this substituent, ::: is lowest in energy. These results suggest that the diastereoselectivity of ::: nucleophilic attack on a carbonyl group, adjacent to a stereogenic centre ::: to which a trimethylsilyl group is attached, is largely controlled by the ::: size of this substituent, rather than by the electronic effect of the electropositive ::: silicon it contains. Other influences on the preferred conformations of the ::: reactants and transition structures are discussed.
In this paper, the synthesis of 2-chloro-5-chloromethylpyridine by using cyclopentadienyl propionaldehyde method was studied, the synthesis conditions of the key steps were also optimized through orthogonal test.
Abstract Aqueous biphasic hydrogenation of a mixture of 2-methylvaleraldehyde, 2-ethylbutyraldehyde, hexanal, heptaldehyde, 2-phenylpropionaldehyde and hydrocinnamaldehyde, which are all met in a hydroformylated naphtha (the feedstock of gasoline production) in high yield (mol%) according to the literature, was carried out with ruthenium complex containing the water-soluble ligand TPPTS (TPPTS = P[m-C 6 H 4 SO 3 Na] 3 , trisodium salt of m-trisulfonated triphenyl phosphine). Ru/TPPTS catalytic system was generated in situ by direct addition of RuCl 3 · x H 2 O catalyst precursor to TPPTS in aqueous media; and appears to have high activity under mild conditions (80 °C, 20 bar) in the hydrogenation of the above hydroformylated naphtha model to the production of the corresponding alcohols. Thus, the aqueous biphasic hydrogenation of a hydroformylated fuel would upgrade the combustion properties of the ultimate fuel, while at the same time the whole process would be characterised as environmentally friendly. The effect of the reaction pressure, temperature and time, as well as the influence of the organic solvent, the agitation speed, the TPPTS/Ru and aldehydes/Ru molar ratios were investigated.
Abstract The EPR spectra of NH 2 -terminal-truncated P450 cytochrome 2B4 and of several active site mutants that were previously shown to be profoundly altered in catalytic properties were determined. From these spectra it was seen that the truncated P450 2B4, like the full length cytochrome, exists as the low spin ferric form, but upon mutation of threonine 302 to alanine approximately 40% of the cytochrome is present as the high spin ferric form ( g ≈ 8, 4, 2). A similar situation was observed in the double mutant E310L T302A, but not in the single mutant E301L. A rhombic high spin signal ( g ≈ 8, 4, 2) was observed when a substrate such as styrene, benzphetamine, or cyclohexane was added to the truncated cytochrome. Accompanying this change was the appearance of a signal at g = 1.98. Conversely, an axial high spin signal was observed ( g ≈ 6, 6, 2) when cyclohexanecarboxaldehyde or 3-phenylpropionaldehyde was added to the truncated P450 2B4.
The critical growth factor density required to support neural lineage generation from mouse embryonic stem cells is assessed by constructing a surface density gradient of immobilized nerve growth factor (NGF) from a plasma polymer film base. A chemical surface gradient varying from high hydroxyl group density to high aldehyde group density is prepared through diffusion-controlled plasma polymerization of two monomers (ethanol and propionaldehyde) under a moving mask. NGF density gradients are then produced by reductive amination with the aldehyde groups on the plasma polymer surface. Mouse embryoid body derived (mEB) cell differentiation on the gradient surface is evaluated by immunofluorescence staining against Nestin. mEB cell density and the percentage of Nestin-positive cells increase with increasing NGF density up to a critical value corresponding to 52.9 ng cm−2, above which cell attachment and differentiation do not increase further. This gradient-based screening approach allows the growth factor surface densities to be optimized for biomaterials intended for cell differentiation or expansion, which is highly relevant to creating efficient manufacture processes for cell therapies.
1,2-Dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) is oxidatively converted to a carcinogenic intermediate compound, chloroacetaldehyde by chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase (CAldA) during its biodegradation by many bacterial strains, including Xanthobacter autotrophicus and Ancylobacter aquaticus. In this study, a 55kDa NAD-dependent CAldA expressed by chromosomally encoded aldA gene, is reported in an indigenous Ancylobacter aquaticus UV5. A. aquaticus UV5 aldA gene was found to be 99% homologous to the plasmid (pXAU1) encoded aldA gene reported in X. autotrophicus GJ10. Pulse-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and PCR experiments revealed the absence of pXAU1 in A. aquaticus UV5 and that aldA was chromosomal encoded. A 6× His-tag fused CAldA cloned in pET15b, overexpressed and purified on Co-agarose affinity column using AKTA purification system showed Mr of 57,526. CAldA was active optimally at pH9 and 30°C. The Km and vmax for the substrate, acetaldehyde were found to be 115μM and 650mU/mg, respectively. CAldA substrate specificity was found to be low for chloroacetaldehyde, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, benzaldehyde and glutaraldehyde as compared to acetaldehyde. Computational modeling revealed a predicted structure of CAldA consisting of five β-sheets that comprise seven antiparallel β-strands and 11 mix strands. The Molecular Dynamics and Docking studies showed that acetaldehyde bind to CaldA more tightly as compared to chloroacetaldehyde.
An Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatographic(UPLC) method was developed for the separation and determination of formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,acetone,acrolein,propionaldehyde,crotonaldehyde,2-butanone,butyraldehyde in cigarette mainstream smoke.The targeted compounds in cigarette mainstream smoke were collected with a Cambridge fliter treated with acidic solution of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine,and extracted with 50 mL 2% pyridine acetonitrile.The carbonyl compounds were separated on a KinetexTM C18(150 mm×2.1 mm,2.6 μm) column,using water-acetonitrile(35 ∶65) mixed solution and water-acetonitrile-tetrahydrofuran-isopropyl alcohol(59 ∶30 ∶10 ∶1) as mobile phases by gradient elution.The eight carbonyl compounds were separated in 20 min and determined by UPLC with a diode array detector.The result indicated that the correlation coefficients(r2) of eight carbonyl compounds were not less than 0.999 97.The detection limits for the method were between 25.81 ng/cig and 67.74 ng/cig.The average recoveries were in the range of 95%-99% with relative standard deviations of 1.4%-5.8%.Compared with the YC/T 254-2008 standard method,the proposed method was faster,simpler and less consumption,and was applied in the determination of eight carbonyl compounds in twenty kinds of cigarette with satisfactory results.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde(3-HPA),an effective antimicrobial,is extensively used in food preservation and health care.Additionally,it acts as an important intermediate which provides the precursor of a series of compounds including acrolein,acrylic acid and 1,3-propanediol.In this paper,various 3-HPA preparation methods are summarized,among which biotechnological processes are discussed in detail.Finally,the focus and the strategy are also discussed for the future.
As we have briefly described elsewhere, cytochrome P-450 catalyzes the oxidative deformylation of cyclohexane carboxaldehyde to yield cyclohexene and formic acid in a reaction believed to involve a peroxyhemiacetal-like adduct formed between the substrate and molecular oxygen-derived hydrogen peroxide. This reaction is a useful model for the demethylation reactions catalyzed by the steroidogenic P-450s, aromatase, and lanosterol demethylase. In the present study, the cytochrome P-450-catalyzed formation of olefinic products from a series of xenobiotic aldehydes has been demonstrated. Isobutyraldehyde and trimethylacetaldehyde, but not propionaldehyde, are converted to the predicted olefinic products, suggesting a requirement for branching at the alpha carbon. In addition, the four C5 aldehydes of similar hydrophobicity were compared for their ability to undergo the reaction. The straight-chain valeraldehyde gave no olefinic products with five different rabbit liver microsomal P-450 isozymes. However, increasing activity was seen with the other isomers in the order of isovaleraldehyde, 2-methylbutyraldehyde, and trimethylacetaldehyde, with all of the P-450 cytochromes. The catalytic rate with trimethylacetaldehyde is highest with antibiotic-inducible P-450 form 3A6, followed by phenobarbital-inducible form 2B4 and ethanol-inducible form 2E1. Citronellal, a beta-branched aldehyde that is found in many essential oils and is widely used as an odorant and a flavorant, was found to undergo the oxidative deformylation reaction to yield 2,6-dimethyl-1,5-heptadiene, but only with P-450 2B4. The oxidative cleavage reaction with olefin formation appears to be widespread, as judged by the variety of aldehydes that serve as substrates and of P-450 cytochromes that serve as catalysts.
Refinement of the rate constans obtained from studies of the H/sub 2/+O/sub 2/ reaction at 500 C has continued. Rate constants for the reactions of H atoms and OH radicals with C/sub 2/-C/sub 5/ alkanes have been refined, and Arrhenius parameters obtained. New studies have been made of the addition of 2,2,3,3-tetramethylbutane and 2,2,3-trimethylbutane to slowly reacting mixtures of H/sub 2/+O/sub 2/ at 480 C. The mechanism of CO/sub 2/ formation in propionaldehyde oxidation, and of acetone formation in isobutyraldehyde oxidation at 440 C has been examined. Rate constants have been obtained for the initiation process and for attack of HO/sub 2/ at the various C-H bonds. The homogeneous decomposition of 2,2,3,3-tetramethylbutane (TMB) in the presence of O2 has been shown to be an excellent source of HO/sub 2/ radicals, and preliminary rate constants have been obtained for HO/sub 2/+TMB, and HO/sub 2/+C/sub 2/H/sub 6/ at 440 C. Interpretation of the N/sub 2/O+H/sub 2/ reaction continues.
The objective of this research is to elucidate the role of various chemical additives on ethanol synthesis over Rh- and Ni-based catalysts. Chemical additives used for this study will include S, P, Ag, Cu, Mn, and Na which have different electronegativeities. The effect of additives on the surface state of the catalysts, heat of adsorption of reactant molecules, reaction intermediates, reaction pathways, reaction kinetics, and product distributions is/will be investigated by a series of experimental studies of NO adsorption, reactive probing, steady state rate measurement, and transient kinetic study. CO insertion is known to be a key step to the formation of acetaldehyde and ethanol from CO hydrogenation. Reaction of ethylene with syngas is used as a probe to determine CO insertion capabilities of metal catalysts. During the sixth quarter of the project, the mechanism of CO insertion on Ni/SiO{sub 2} was investigated by in-situ infrared spectroscopy. Ni/SiO{sub 2}, a methanation catalyst, has been shown to exhibit CO insertion activity. In situ infrared studies of CO/H{sub 2} and C{sub 2}H{sub 4}/CO/H{sub 2} reactions show that the carbonylation of Ni/SiO{sub 2} to Ni(CO){sub 4} leads to an inhibition of methanation in CO hydrogenation but an enhancement of formation of propionaldehyde inmore » C{sub 2}H{sub 4}/CO/H{sub 2} reaction. The results suggest that the sites for propionaldehyde formation is different from those for methanation.« less
The crystal and molecular structure of aldicarb (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime, C/sub 7/H/sub 14/N/sub 2/O/sub 2/S) has ben determined by single-crystal x-ray diffraction techniques. It crystallizes in an orthorhombic unit cell, Pcab, with unit cell dimensions a = 10.204 (7), b = 21.155 (9), and c = 10.003 (7) A and eight molecules per cell. The structure was refined to a final crystallographic discrepancy factor of 9.3% for 532 observed reflections (absolute value F/sub 0/ > 3sigma/sub F0/). Large thermal parameters resulted from the refinement due to the close proximity to a phase transition (at 13 +- 3/sup 0/C). The low-temperature phase was found to be monoclinic, P2/sub 1//a, with a = 10.25, b = 20.99, and c = 10.07 A and ..beta.. = 91.97/sup 0/. The C-O single bond distance in the carbamate group was found to be significantly lengthened (1.414 A) relative to equivalent distances found in carboxylic acid esters. Such a lengthening would correlate well with any theory involving disruption of this bond in a reaction of this molecule with acetylcholinesterase enzyme.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate concentrations of carbonyl compounds during summer season in Seoul metropolitan area. The air samples were collected at 7 sites in this area from June 2001 to June 2003. The carbonyl compounds were analyzed by DNPH/HPLC method. The analytical method applied in this study showed good repeatability, linearity, and sensitivity. The most abundant carbonyl was formaldehyde (average 4.48 ppb), and followed by acetone, acetaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, butyraldehyde, propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde, respectively. Concentrations of carbonyl compounds in June were higher than those in August. There was not only higher solar radiation but also higher ozone concentration in June than in August. As a result of photochemical reactions, carbonyl compounds from both primary and secondary sources are likely to contribute to the formation of ozone. The contributions to photochemical ozone creation of two carbonyl compounds such as formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were estimated to be about 70%. Ratios of formaldehyde to acetaldehyde in this study ranged from 1.13 to 4.26, which are generally equivalent levels to those of other urban areas in domestic and foreign countries.
The assumption of equilibrium adsorption was applied to both batch incubation and soil column leaching experiments to estimate degradation rate constants of the pesticide aldicarb [2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde o-(methylcarbamoyl) oxim] in the liquid (μ l ) and sorbed (μ s ) phases. The estimation was based on the observed K d -μ relationship yielded in a soil amended with various umounts of activated C (AC), where K d is the adsorption coefficient, and μ is the composed degradation rate constant from both phases. The inverse dependence of aldicarb degradation on K d reveals that μ l is faster than μ s . For batch incubation experiments, the calculated μ l and μ s were 0.1228 and 0.0019 d -1 , respectively, differing by a factor of 65. In continuous-flow columns, μ l and μ s were both increased, with an estimated value of 0.2063 and 0.0055 d -1 , respectively, resulting in an accelerated overall degradation rate of aldicarb by 181% compared with the batch reactors. The results of our study indicate that, although degradation of aldicarb occurred primarily in the soil solution, it did not cease completely on the sorbed chemicals. The relative contributions of the two phases to the total degradation were therefore dependent on both the adsorption coefficient and the relative degradation rate constants for the dissolved and sorbed chemicals.
The invention relates to a method for producing (2S,4R,9S)-octahydro-1H-indole-2-carboxylic acid. The invention is characterised in that a. a compound of the formula (I) (R O)2CH-CH2-CH(OR )2, wherein R and R are equal or different and represent C1-4-alkylgroups, is converted with water in the presence of an acid catalyst; b. the 3,3-dialkoxypropionaldehydes of the formula (II) (R O)2CH-CH2-CHO thus obtained are subjected to a Henry reaction with nitromethane; c. the 4,4-dialkoxy-1-nitro-2-butanol of the formula (III) (R O)2CH-CH2-CHOH-CH2-NO2 thus obtained is dehydrated; d. the nitroolefin IV thus obtained is converted into the corresponding trans-4-(2,2-dialkoxyethyl)-5-nitro-1-cyclohexene V by means of a Diels-Alder reaction; e. the substance V thus obtained is hydrated to form corresponding trans-4-(2,2-dialkoxyethyl)-5-amino-1-cyclohexane VI; f. the compound VI is subjected to a racemic division and the (1S,2R)-1-amino-2-(2,2-dialkoxyethyl)-cyclohexane VII is obtained in the enantiomerically pure form by enzymatic racemic division; g. the compound VII obtained thereby is hydrolised to form the corresponding acetal VIII; h. the aldehyde obtained thereby is converted into the corresponding nitrile VIII and i. said nitrile is cyclised to form the (2S,4R,9S)-octahydro-1H-indole-2-carboxylic acid.
Catalytic activities of the molten metals, i. e. zinc, gallium and indium were measured by employing the dehydrogenation reactions of alcohols (ethanol, n-, isopropanol, allylalcohol, cyclohexanol, benzylalcohol) as the test reaction.Except allylalcohol which converted considerably to propionaldehyde via a side reaction, all alcohols were dehydrogenated with considerably high selectivities by the molten metal catalysts. Among the three molten metals, the molten zinc showed the highest activity for all alcohols. Further, the molten zinc showed the highest selectivity for the dehydrogenation of almost all alcohols except ethanol.From the experimental data, the first order kinetic parameter E (activation energy) and A (frequency factor) were evaluated. A single straight line log A-E relationship was found to hold not only for the data of the present work but also for the data of the preceding work (data for butanols).
Abstract Because betel quid chewing has been linked to the development of oral cancer, pathobiological effects of an aqueous areca nut extract, four areca nut alkaloids (arecoline, guvacoline, guvacine, and arecaidine), and four nitrosated derivatives [ N -nitrosoguvacoline, N -nitrosoguvacine, 3-( N -nitrosomethylamino)propionaldehyde and 3-( N -nitrosomethylamino)propionitrile] have been investigated using cultured human buccal epithelial cells. Areca nut extract in a dose-dependent manner decreases cell survival, vital dye accumulation, and membrane integrity, and it causes formation of both DNA single strand breaks and DNA protein cross-links. Depletion of cellular free low-molecular-weight thiols also occurs, albeit at quite toxic concentrations. Comparisons of the areca nut-related N -nitroso compounds and their precursor alkaloids, at concentrations up to 5 mm, indicate that 3-( N -nitrosomethylamino)propionaldehyde is the most potent on a molar basis to decrease both survival and thiol content and to cause significant formation of DNA single strand breaks. Arecoline, guvacoline, or N -nitrosoguvacoline decreases survival and cellular thiols, whereas arecaidine, guvacine, N -nitrosoguvacine, and 3-( N -nitrosomethylamino)propionitrile have only minor effects on these variables. Taken together, the present studies indicate that aqueous extract and, in particular, one N -nitroso compound related to areca nut, i.e. , 3-( N -nitrosomethylamino)propionaldehyde, are highly cytotoxic and genotoxic to cultured human buccal epithelial cells, of potential importance in the induction of tumors in betel quid chewers.
A kinetic study of oxidation of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde by peroxomonosulfate (PMS) in the presence of H+ ion has been carried out. The reaction shows first order dependence each on [PMS] and [Aldehyde]. The reaction shows inverse first order over a particular concentration range of H+ ion and beyond that first order dependence is observed with respect to [H+]. The inverse hydrogen ion dependence on kobsd may be due to the higher reactivity of SO52− than HSO5− with aldehydes. The increase in kobsd with increase in [H+] beyond certain [H+] can be explained by the formation of protonated carbonyl compounds. The Taft’s plot gives ρ* value of ≈5.0 indicating that the reaction is nucleophilic substitution at the carbonyl carbon which then rearranges to products.
On the basis of chemical modification studies, it was postulated that glutamate 268 was a component of the active site of liver aldehyde dehydrogenase [Abriola, D. P., Fields, R., MacKerell, A. D., Jr., & Pietruszko, R. (1987) Biochemistry 26, 5679-5684]. To study its role, the residue in human liver mitochondrial (class 2) aldehyde dehydrogenase was mutated to an aspartate, a glutamine, or a lysine, and the enzyme was expressed in Escherichia coli. The mutations did not affect the Km values for NAD or propionaldehyde, but grossly affected the catalytic activity of the enzymes when compared to recombinantly expressed native enzyme; the mutant enzymes had less that 0.4% of the specific activity of the recombinantly expressed native aldehyde dehydrogenase. The mutations also caused a long lag phase to occur prior to the steady state phase of the reaction. The activity of the mutant enzymes could not be restored by the addition of general bases such as sodium acetate, sodium formate, or imidazole. The Kd for NADH was essentially identical for the E268Q mutant and native enzyme. The three mutant forms of the enzyme possessed less than 0.8% of the esterolytic activity of the recombinantly expressed native enzyme. Pre-steady state analysis showed that there was no burst of NADH formation in the dehydrogenase reaction or of p-nitrophenol formation in the esterase reaction. This can be interpreted as implying that glutamate 268 may function as a general base necessary for the initial activation of the essential cysteine residue (302), rather than being involved in only the deacylation or hydride transfer step.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
For years our research group has been working on developing a new enzymatic method for the bioconversion of glycerol (a byproduct of biodiesel production) to 1,3-propanediol (PD) and 1,3-dihydroxyacetone (DHA) simultaneously. Our bioconversion method applies three key enzymes in a membrane reactor with coenzyme regeneration: glycerol-dehydratase (GDHt) that produces 3-hydroxy-propionaldehyde (HPA) from glycerol; 1,3-propanediol-oxydoreductase (PDOR) that converts HPA into PD using NADH_2, that is then reoxydized by glycerol-dehydrogenase (GDH) during glycerol-DHA conversion. From an economical point of view crude enzyme solutions of sonicated K. pneumoniae and C. butyricum cells were used. In such a crude enzyme solution it was impossible to determine the GDHt activity with the assays known from the literature, thus a new method for GDHt activity determination was developed based on the measurment of HPA (formed by GDHt) with tryptophan in acidic conditions. Furthermore Lin´s assay for PDOR was also modified, ::: and then successfully adapted to GDH as well. In both cases, NADH 2 formation should be followed photometrically, but in crude enzyme solutions a lot of NAD + NADH 2 dependent side-reactions disturb the activity determinations. In our improved method, the absorbance change should be recorded without substrate addition until the absorbance becomes stable, then adding the actual substrate the changing readings should be recorded further.
The kinetics of the oxidation of propionaldehyde by oxygen in the presence of manganese propionate catalyst, in a batch reactor are reported. Experiments are designed to yield a mathematical description of the process. Reaction rate constants are obtained from pattern search technique.
Abstract The effects of copper on carbon monoxide adsorption and carbon monoxide hydrogenation over Rh/SiO 2 have been studied. Copper decreases the activity for carbon monoxide hydrogenation and the rate of formation of methane, C 2 and C 3+ hydrocarbons. The selectivity for C 2 oxygenate formation shows a slight variation with addition of copper. Cu-Rh/SiO 2 catalyst with copper-to-rhodium ratio of 1.0 exhibits a high initial methanol selectivity which decreases with reaction time. The use of ethylene hydroformylation as a probe reaction shows that addition of copper causes little variation in carbon monoxide insertion activity; the propionaldehyde selectivity at copper-to-rhodium ratio of 0.05 is higher than that for the other catalysts studied. In situ infrared study reveals that copper blocks the formation of bridged CO. However, blockage of bridged CO site does not lead to enhancement in carbon monoxide insertion as observed with Ag-Rh/SiO 2 and sulfided Rh/SiO 2 catalysts. The lack of effect of copper promotion on carbon monoxide insertion can be attributed to a high hydrogenation activity of copper and a possible electronic interaction between copper and rhodium leading to a reduced rhodium surface that is less active for carbon monoxide insertion than the oxidized rhodium. The difference observed in the infrared spectra of adsorbed carbon monoxide at 303 K and 513 K in the presence and absence of reactants shows that carbon monoxide induces surface reconstruction at 513 K. Results of catalyst characterization at 303 K can not be extrapolated to elucidate the state of catalyst surface under reaction conditions.
The invention relates to an atorvastatin calcium compound and a new method thereof. The method comprises the steps of: taking 2-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-oxo-1-phenyl ethyl)-4-methyl-3-oxo-N-phenyl valeramide as starting material, leading the starting material to have aldolization reaction with 3-amino-propionaldehyde glycol to obtain intermediate (II); then, carrying out acidification and obtaining intermediate (III); selecting and using chiral catalyst 2-deoxidized-D-ribose 5-aldolase phosphate for catalyzing the intermediate (III) and acetaldehyde, and obtaining intermediate (V); and finally, under the action of sodium hydroxide, using the intermediate (V) and calcium acetate to generate the atorvastatin calcium compound. The new method of the atorvastatin calcium compound overcomes the defects of the prior art, has simple reaction steps, high purity of obtained product and low production cost, and can be used for industrialized production.
The regulation of the oxidative pathway, including glycolysis, involving the level of NAD + and NADH in the cell (redox balance), has been well studied and this regulation is achieved largely by the enzyme NADH-ferredoxin oxidoreductase which can produce or oxidize NADH, bidirectionally, depending on cellular conditions [11, 12] . Jungermann et al. (1973) confirmed that the NADH-ferredoxin oxidoreductase functions reversibly in C. pasteurianum [13] . Furthermore, NADH is itself a competitive inhibitor of ferredoxin-NAD + reductase activity. In turn, acetyl-CoA is an obligate activator of the NADH-ferredoxin reductase activity. The production of hydrogen gas (H2), with hydrogen protons being the final electron acceptor is facilitated by the hydrogenase enzyme [11] [12] [13] . Ferredoxin is thus re-oxidized to be available for the next cycle of pyruvate oxidation. The presence of hydrogen gas indicates that glycolysis is active. This regulation of NAD + /NADH by ferredoxin oxidoreductase allows the glycolysis enzymes to function in concert. It is believed to be due to this regulation that C. pasteurianum has been shown to maintain constant intracellular levels of NAD + and NADH during different growth phases [1, 12] . Furthermore, the properties of these enzymes seem to be perfectly adaptive to the nature of the carbon source and its electronegativity. [4, 5] . Key enzymes involving glycerol to butanol: 1, glycerol dehydrogenase; 2, dihydroxyacetone kinase; 3, glycerol dehydratase; 4, 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase; 5, pyruvate kinase; 6, pyruvateferredoxin oxidoreductase; 7, acetaldehyde dehydrogenase; 8, ethanol dehydrogenase; 9, butyraldehyde dehydrogenase; 10, butanol dehydrogenase. Abbreviation for chemical: DHAP, Dihydroxyacetone phosphate; 3-HPA, 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde; GA3P, Glyceraldehyde 3phosphate; 1,3 BPG, 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate, 3PG 3-phosphoglycerate; 2PG, 2-phosphoglycerate; PEP, Phosphoenolpyruvate. [4, 5] . Key enzymes involving glycerol to butanol: 1, glycerol dehydrogenase; 2, dihydroxyacetone kinase; 3, glycerol dehydratase; 4, 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase; 5, pyruvate kinase; 6, pyruvate-ferredoxin oxidoreductase; 7, acetaldehyde dehydrogenase; 8, ethanol dehydrogenase; 9, butyraldehyde dehydrogenase; 10, butanol dehydrogenase.
Abbreviation for chemical: DHAP, Dihydroxyacetone phosphate; 3-HPA, 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde; GA3P, Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate; 1,3 BPG, 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate, 3PG 3-phosphoglycerate; 2PG, 2-phosphoglycerate; PEP, Phosphoenolpyruvate.
The author's initial work was carried out principally by a high performance liquid chromatographic method in which the sample atmosphere was drawn through two ice-cooled absorbers in series, containing 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine in dilute hydrochloric acid, at a rate of 11/min. The resultant 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone derivatives were extracted into methylene chloride and the solution so produced chromatographed on a Spherisorb S5W (100 x 5 mm) column using two mixed solvent eluents. Derivatives of formaldehyde, acrolein, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde crotonaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and valeraldehyde could be quantitatively resolved and this procedure was ideal for short/medium-term sampling. The method, now updated to the reverse phase conditions used by Kuwater et al. [1] does, however, require that the analysis be completed in the laboratory, and does not give 'real time' information continuously over long periods during process or degradation/combustion experiments.
Since decades the limited access to petroleum oil is a major concern and substitutions for fossil fuels are needed. One promising substitute is biodiesel, which is widely produced from vegetable oils, e.g. from rape seeds, soybeans, sunflower seeds or animal fats. In the synthesis of biodiesel, oils and fats are transesterified to fatty acid methyl ester in the presence of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide. In this process, glycerol is generated as stoichiometric byproduct with a ratio of 10% (w/w) with respect to biodiesel produced. In 2009, the biodiesel production of the world reached 16 million tons (Licht, 2010) , with the lion's share produced by the European Union with 9 million tons (EBB, European Biodiesel Board 2010), followed by the United States with a production of 2.7 million tons (Licht, 2010) . Hence, 1.6 million tons of glycerol were produced as obligatory by-product. Glycerol finds applications as an ingredient of various products, such as creams, food, feed, and pharmaceuticals, but the demand for glycerol in these processes is limited. Integrated conversion of raw glycerol from the biodiesel process to value-added products is a driver towards higher cost efficiency of biodiesel production. Glycerol is a good source of carbon and energy for growth of several microorganisms and may be suitable for the biotechnological production of a number of chemicals in fermentative processes. To date several microbiological productions have been adjusted to glycerol as carbon and energy source or, if glycerol is close to the desired product, are based on glycerol as substrate anyway. For instance, the biotechnological production of 1,3-propanediol and dihydroxyacetone has predominantly been carried out from glycerol, since these processes are catalyzed in a two and one step reaction, respectively. Bacterial 1,3-propanediol production from glycerol is involving two enzymes. First glycerol is dehydrated by glycerol dehydratase to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which is subsequently converted to 1,3-propanediol by 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase. Predominantly, 1,3-propanediol production has been approved with Clostridium strains, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Escherichia coli (Zhu et al. 2002 , Biebl et al. 1998 , Forsberg, 1987 . 1,3-propanediol finds application in the production of the polyester polytrimethylene terephthalate. Strains of Gluconobacter oxydans are used for producing dihydroxyacetone (glycerone) from glycerol (Flickinger & Perlman, 1977) . Dihydroxyacetone is used as a building block in organic chemistry and as a skin tanning agent in cosmetics. Besides products that can be derived from glycerol in one or two reactions further products requiring more complex conversions have been investigated, e.g. succinic acid production
For years our research group has been working on developing a new enzymatic method for the bioconversion of glycerol (a byproduct of biodiesel production) to 1,3-propanediol (PD) and 1,3-dihydroxyacetone (DHA) simultaneously. Our bioconversion method applies three key enzymes in a membrane reactor with coenzyme regeneration: glycerol-dehydratase (GDHt) that produces 3-hydroxy-propionaldehyde (HPA) from glycerol; 1,3-propanediol-oxydoreductase (PDOR) that converts HPA into PD using NADH 2 , that is then reoxydized by glyceroldehydrogenase (GDH) during glycerol-DHA conversion. From an economical point of view crude enzyme solutions of sonicated K. pneumoniae and C. butyricum cells were used. In such a crude enzyme solution it was impossible to determine the GDHt activity with the assays known from the literature, thus a new method for GDHt activity determination was developed based on the measurment of HPA (formed by GDHt) with tryptophan in acidic conditions. Furthermore Lin's assay for PDOR was also modified, and then successfully adapted to GDH as well. In both cases, NADH 2 formation should be followed photometrically, but in crude enzyme solutions a lot of NAD + /NADH 2 dependent side-reactions disturb the activity determinations. In our improved method, the absorbance change should be recorded without substrate addition until the absorbance becomes stable, then adding the actual substrate the changing readings should be recorded further.
Our proposed process uses three immobilized key enzymes in a membrane reactor with simultaneous coenzyme regeneration ( Fig. 1) : glycerol-dehydratase (GDHt, E.C. 4.2.1.30) pro-duces 3-hydroxy-propionaldehyde (HPA) from glycerol with or without B 12 as coenzyme; 1,3-propanediol-oxydoreductase (PDOR, E.C. 1.1.1.202) converts HPA into PD using NADH 2 , which is then reoxydized by glycerol-dehydrogenase (GDH, E.C. 1.1.1.6) during glycerol-DHA conversion. As already published elsewhere [3] an enzyme fermentation method for the production of the necessary three key enzymes using Klebsiella pneumoniae was developed. The difficulties of simultaneous PD and DHA production with the enzymes of K.pneumoniae caused by the suicide inactivation and ATP depending regeneration of GDHt were also reported [4] . Since in the presence of ATP several byproducts can also be formed if crude enzyme solution is used, and GDHt regeneration also needs ATP, it is not possible to convert glycerol to 1,3-PD and DHA simultanously. To overcome this problem Clostridium butyricum was used as alternative enzyme source for its GDHt does not undergo suicide inactivation with glycerol and uses Sadenosine-methionine (SAM) instead of B 12 .
In 1991, Mukaiyama developed a catalytic system [9] that enables BV transformation to be carried out over Ni complexes in the presence of molecular oxygen and sacrificial aldehyde ( Figure  1 ). These conditions are considered an attractive alternative, since molecular oxygen is an inexpensive, environmentally friendly, and easily available oxidant [10] . This type of BV oxidation proceeds effectively in the presence of metal catalysts via free radical chain mechanism. There exists a rich literature on the application of Mukaiyama conditions to BV oxidation. Raja et al. [10] demonstrated that redox molecular sieve catalysts MAlPO-36 (M = Mn or Co) convert cyclopentanone, cyclohexanone, 2-methylcyclohexanone, and adamantan-2-one to their corresponding lactones with high efficiency in the presence of O2 and benzaldehyde as sacrificial oxidant. A number of works observed high activity of Fe-containing catalysts. Thus, Fe2O3 proved to be excellent catalyst of oxidation of cyclic ketones to lactones in the presence of benzaldehyde [11] . Interestingly, other Fe-based catalysts, such as iron powder, hydrated FeCl2, and Fe(OAc)3 were inactive in the studied reaction. Lakk-Bogath et al. [12] reported that high-valent oxoiron species were active in the oxidation of cyclohexanone derivatives with benzaldehyde as sacrificial co-reductant. Another catalytic system, Fe-Sn-O mixed oxides, performed very well in the oxidation of cyclohexanone in the presence of benzaldehyde, but its activity in the case of aliphatic ketones was poorer [13] . Iron containing cubic mesoporous MCM-48 materials, which were used as catalysts in Mukaiyama system with benzaldehyde, proved to be very active and showed excellent recyclability [14] . Recently, Cu, Fe, and Ni promoted cobalt containing mesoporous silicas were reported as catalytically active system for BV oxidation of cyclohexanone, in the presence of benzaldehyde [15] . Surprisingly, hardly any works addressed BV oxidation in the Mukaiyama system over polyoxometalates as catalysts. In the paper that was published in 1993, Hamamoto et al. [16] used a complex mixture consisting of Keggin-type polyoxometalates, with the secondary structure involving vanadium cations, for BV oxidation of cyclic and aliphatic ketones under Mukaiyama conditions, and observed that the reaction was much more efficient in the case of cyclic ketones. The authors suggested that, with aliphatic ketones as substrates, the perbenzoic acid, generated from oxygen and benzaldehyde, oxidizes benzaldehyde itself rather than the ketone, to There exists a rich literature on the application of Mukaiyama conditions to BV oxidation. Raja et al. [10] demonstrated that redox molecular sieve catalysts MAlPO-36 (M = Mn or Co) convert cyclopentanone, cyclohexanone, 2-methylcyclohexanone, and adamantan-2-one to their corresponding lactones with high efficiency in the presence of O 2 and benzaldehyde as sacrificial oxidant. A number of works observed high activity of Fe-containing catalysts. Thus, Fe 2 O 3 proved to be excellent catalyst of oxidation of cyclic ketones to lactones in the presence of benzaldehyde [11] . Interestingly, other Fe-based catalysts, such as iron powder, hydrated FeCl 2, and Fe(OAc) 3 were inactive in the studied reaction. Lakk-Bogath et al. [12] reported that high-valent oxoiron species were active in the oxidation of cyclohexanone derivatives with benzaldehyde as sacrificial co-reductant. Another catalytic system, Fe-Sn-O mixed oxides, performed very well in the oxidation of cyclohexanone in the presence of benzaldehyde, but its activity in the case of aliphatic ketones was poorer [13] . Iron containing cubic mesoporous MCM-48 materials, which were used as catalysts in Mukaiyama system with benzaldehyde, proved to be very active and showed excellent recyclability [14] . Recently, Cu, Fe, and Ni promoted cobalt containing mesoporous silicas were reported as catalytically active system for BV oxidation of cyclohexanone, in the presence of benzaldehyde [15] . Surprisingly, hardly any works addressed BV oxidation in the Mukaiyama system over polyoxometalates as catalysts. In the paper that was published in 1993, Hamamoto et al. [16] used a complex mixture consisting of Keggin-type polyoxometalates, with the secondary structure involving vanadium cations, for BV oxidation of cyclic and aliphatic ketones under Mukaiyama conditions, and observed that the reaction was much more efficient in the case of cyclic ketones. The authors suggested that, with aliphatic ketones as substrates, the perbenzoic acid, generated from oxygen and benzaldehyde, oxidizes benzaldehyde itself rather than the ketone, to form benzoic acid in preference to the Baeyer-Villiger product. Recently, we have reported on the catalytic activity of a new hybrid porphyrin-heteropolyacid material and some heteropolysalts of transition metals in the aerobic BV oxidation of cyclohexanone in the presence of sacrificial propionaldehyde [17] . Both types of heteropoly compounds showed enhanced activity in comparison with the parent heteropolyacids. Of interest are more recent attempts to use enzymes as regio-and stereo-selective catalysts for BV transformation [18] [19] [20] . However, the implementation of this strategy is still a challenge, mainly because of limited enzyme stability, and the costs of catalysts production.
Temik, the granular formulation of aldicarb [2-methyl-2(methylthio) propionaldehyde 0-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime], was placed together with sugar beet seeds during sowing along the rows, at a rate of 1.4 g/m, in a 1.5-ha experimental area within a 6-ha sugar beet field in an arid area with a long history of bird damage. Thirty-three chukar partridges, a major pest of sprouting crops, were observed foraging in the experimental area throughout the 4-week period between sowing and assessment of damage. Damage was restricted to the borders of the field, with a significant difference in level of damage between treated and control plots located along the borders; the size of damaged areas was about five times smaller in the treated plots than in the control plots. The results were interpreted as reflecting the repellent effect of aldicarb absorbed by the sprouts, and as establishment of a conditioned aversion by the chukars to sugar beet sprouts. The high toxicity of the treated sprouts was demonstrated when adult Japanese quail were fed sprouts collected from treated plots.
A continuous-flow gradientless reactor was designed in this research to facilitate the study of relatively fast gas-liquid reactions under isothermal conditions and in the absence of transport limitations. The essential component of the reactor was a multi-bladed rotor which contacted the gas-liquid interface directly. The mixing characteristics were tested, and mass transfer studies yielded rates greater than 30 times those of previously employed reactors. To demonstrate the utility of a reactor of this type, kinetic studies of the oxidation of sulfite and of propionaldehyde were conducted under kinetically controlled conditions at rates not previously attainable under such conditions.
In this work, Erythromycin A(EA)- degrading bacteria was isolated from the contaminated soil obtained from a pharmaceutical factory in China. The isolate designated as strain WX-J1 was identified as Ochrobactrum sp. by sequence analysis of its 16S rDNA gene. It can grow in a medium containing EA as the sole source of carbon and its optimal growth pH and temperature were 6.5 and 32°C, respectively. Under these conditions, when the initial Erythromycin A concentration was 100mg·L-1, 97% of Erythromycin A has been degraded. HPLC-MS analyses indicated that Erythromycin A degradation produced intermediates contained the following three substances: 3-depyranosyloxy erythromycin A, 7,12-dyhydroxy-6-deoxyerythronolide B, 6-deoxyerythronolide B and propionaldehyde. Since Erythromycin A-degrading Ochrobactrum sp. strain rapidly degraded Erythromycin A, this strain might be useful for bioremediation purposes.
β-(2-Pyridyl)-propionaldehyde-acetal has been prepared from bromoacetal and α-picolyl lithium. ::: ::: ::: ::: The preparation of this compound forms the first step in a synthesis of dl-pelletierine.
Because the high incidence of oral cancers in South-East Asia is causally linked to the common habit of betel quid chewing, the effects of an aqueous extract of areca nut, one of the main ingredients of the quid, on growth, differentiation, morphology and DNA damage were studied in cultured human buccal epithelial cells. An acute exposure (3 hr) of the cells to the extract altered their morphology and induced ridges in the plasma membrane, with indications of internalization of extract particles. Such exposure also caused formation of DNA single-strand breaks which accumulated during post-treatment culture, indicating continuous exposure to residual particles and/or the possibility of inhibited DNA repair. The extract accelerated terminal differentiation of the cells, measured as involucrin expression at relatively non-toxic levels. The extract caused similar loss of colony-forming efficiency in normal cells and in a buccal carcinoma cell line (SqCC/YI) which was defective in its ability to undergo differentiation, indicating that extract toxicity could occur independently from this response. Finally, the genotoxicity of the salivary areca-nut-specific carcinogen 3-(N-nitrosomethyl-amino)propionaldehyde, was demonstrated by the formation of DNA protein cross-links and DNA single-strand breaks in normal buccal epithelial cells. These findings in vitro suggest that betel quid carcinogenesis in the human oral cavity may involve cytopathic alterations of normal cell morphology, growth and differentiation, as well as formation of DNA damage by areca-nut-related agents extracted or formed in saliva.
Abstract 1. 1. l -[ 14 C]Leucine transport into Saccharomyces cerevisiae involves a high-affinity, low-velocity system (system 1) and a low-affinity, high-velocity system (system 2). These systems are characterized by the different values of the kinetic parameters K T and J max , and are both capable of concentrative transport. The general amino acid permease is assumed to be a part of the high-affinity system. 2. 2. The kinetics of l -[ 14 C]leucine entrance show an initial rapid phase (the ‘very early uptake’) before reaching the steady-state rate. The contribution of the very early uptake to total entrance values affects the values of K T and J max , especially when the steady-state rate is relatively slow, as with starved yeast, and then negative K T and J max values may result. The very early uptake is increased by pretreatment of starved yeast with d -glucose, this latter effect being counteracted by iodoacetate. 3. 3. After energization of starved yeast by pretreatment with d -glucose or propionaldehyde, the apparent K T,2 value greatly decreases whilst the K T,1 value decreases to a much more limited extent, or does not vary. With the energized yeast, K T,2 decreases throughout incubation whilst K T,1 variation is insignificant. Energization increases J max,1 and J max,2 several-fold and with the energized yeast at the steady-state phase, J max,2 ⩾ 4J max,1 . Variation of K T and J max values as a function of the metabolic state of yeast cells may be explained in terms of variation of rate constants k −1 , k +1 and k +2 for each transport system. 4. 4. Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, quercetin and diethylstilbestrol inhibit transport at 0.05 mM l -[ 14 C]leucine, in good agreement with a function of the plasmalemma ATPase for the operation of system 1. Dio-9, propionic and isobutyric acids, pentachlorophenol, carbonylcyanide 3-chlorophenylhydrazone and carbonylcyanide 4-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone, which affect the proton gradient and/or the membrane potential inhibit l -[ 14 C]leucine uptake at all the assayed amino acid concentrations. 5. 5. The polyene antibiotic, nystatin, which forms channels in membranes permeable to K + and H + , inhibits systems 1 and 2 activity but enniatin (also a K + ionophore) does not.
Abstract Pretreatment of Fischer-344 (F-344) rats with formaldehyde (HCHO) induces significant cross tolerance to the sensory irritation properties of Cl 2 . The purpose of this study was to determine if HCHO pretreatment would cause sensory irritation cross tolerance to other inhaled aldehydes. Male F-344 rats, weighing 190 to 210 g, were pretreated with 15 ppm HCHO, 6 hr/day for 9 days, and challenged on the 10th day with a saturated (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde), unsaturated (acrolein and crotonaldehyde), or cyclic (cyclohexanecarboxaldehyde, 3-cyclohexene-1-carboxaldehyde, and benzaldehyde) aldehyde. The sensory irritation response in these animals was quantified by measuring respiratory rate depression in a head-only inhalation chamber using plethysmographic techniques. Control animals were challenged identically without prior pretreatment. In naive (nonpretreated) animals, the concentration eliciting a 50% decrease in respiratory rate (RD50) was 23 ppm or less for unsaturated aliphatic aldehydes. For cyclic and saturated aliphatic aldehydes, the RD50 ranged from 600 to 1000 ppm and 3000 to 6800 ppm, respectively. Formaldehyde pretreatment resulted in cross tolerance only with acetaldehyde (RD50 increased 3.5-fold) and acrolein (RD50 increased 5-fold). These results indicate that the development of cross tolerance following HCHO pretreatment is not a general phenomenon. Prediction of acceptable concentrations of occupational exposure for the prevention of sensory irritation in humans has been based primarily on RD50 data for mice. Comparison of the RD50 values obtained for rats in this investigation with previously published results for mice varied by over one-half an order of magnitude, thereby disputing the usefulness of data from F-344 rats in setting threshold limit values for the prevention of sensory irritation.
The reaction of ethyl propyl ether (EnPE) with OH radicals was studied using proton-transfer-reaction mass spectrum (PTR-MS), and the rate constant was measured at 298 K and atmospheric pressure using the relative rate method: kexp(OH + EnPE) = (1.13 ± 0.09) × 10-11 cm3 molecules-1 s-1. In addition, a parallel theoretical study was performed using the traditional transition state theory (TST) with a tunnelling effect correction in combination at the M05-2X/aug-cc-pVTZ//M05-2X/6-311++G(d,p) level. According to these calculations, H-atom abstraction occurs more favourably from the methylene group adjacent to the -O- bond than from the other groups. The theoretical calculation of the total rate constant of the reaction of EnPE with OH radicals was consistent with the experimental values. The gas-phase products indicated that the major products observed were ethyl formate, ethyl propionate, and propionaldehyde. Combined with the experimental and theoretical results, the possible reaction mechanisms were propo...
Infusion of aldehyde such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde or benzaldehyde to perfused rat liver leads to an increase in hepatic ethane production. Half-maximal effect was obtained with about 20 μM acetaldehyde, a concentration range found in plasma during ethanol metabolism. Compounds which metabolically generate aldehydes such as monoamines (benzylamine, phenylethylamine) as substrates for monoamine oxidase or ethanol as substrate for alcohol dehydrogenase [A. Muller and H. Sies (1982) Biochem. J. 206, 153–156] are also able to elicit ethane release. Results obtained with inhibitors of hepatic aldehyde metabolism (pargyline or cyanamide) or of monamine oxidase (pargyline or tranylcypromine) suggest that metabolism of the aldehydes is required for ethane production. Radical scavenging by the addition of the flavonoid, cyanidanol, or by pretreatment with vitamin E (α-tocopherol) abolished ethane release, in agreement with lipid peroxidation as a source of alkane production during aldehyde metabolism.
Avoid the use of borane tetrahydrofuran complex, instead use a more convenient reducing agent such as sodium triacetoxyborohydride to, pramipexole base or its optical isomeric mixture (as defined herein), i.e. (R, S ) -2-amino-6-propyl-4,5,6,7 provides a novel method for producing tetrahydrobenthiazoles. The method of providing, in an organic solvent, (as defined herein) the starting material (S)-2,6-diamino-4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzthiazole or its optical isomeric mixture, that (R, S) -2,6- diamino-4,5,6,7 by a tetrahydrobenthiazoles reacted with propionaldehyde to give a respective enamine, without isolation, optionally, then in and situ reduction, pramipexole or its optical isomeric mixture (as defined herein), i.e. (R, S)-2-amino-6-propyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzo-thiazole, and It includes the step of obtaining an acid addition salt thereof. The present invention also provides, by recrystallization from a suitable solvent, the dihydrochloride salt of pramipexole dihydrochloride or its optical isomeric mixture (as defined herein), i.e. (R, S)-2-amino - also it provides method of purifying 6-propyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzo-thiazole dihydrochloride.
The stereoselective total synthesis of (±)-invictolide (1), a component of the queen recognition pheromone of Solenopsis invicta, is described. The TiCl 4 -mediated addition of silyl ketene thioacetal 8 to (±)-3-(benzyloxy)-2-methylpropionaldehyde afforded exclusively thioester 10, in 65% yield, which was straightforwardly converted to diol 5 (ca. 31% yield). Diol 5 was also prepared after LiAlH 4 reduction of the major aldol formed in the condensation between the lithium enolate of 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenyl propanoate and (±)-2-methylvaleraldehyde (ca. 50% overall yield). Intramolecular alkylation (t-BuOK, THF) of 6 or 7 gave a 40:60 mixture of rac-1 and its C(3) epimer. catalytic hydrogenation of unsaturated lactone 17 afforded rac-1 in 80% yield
The present study investigates the oxidation of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) by conventional ozonation and the advanced oxidation process (AOP) ozone/hydrogen peroxide under drinking water treatment conditions. The major degradation products identified were tert-butyl formate (TBF), tert-butyl alcohol (TBA), 2-methoxy-2-methyl propionaldehyde (MMP), acetone (AC), methyl acetate (MA), hydroxyisobutyraldehyde (HiBA), and formaldehyde (FA). The rate constants of the reaction of ozone and OH radicals with MTBE were found to be 0.14 and 1.9 x 10(9) M(-1) s(-1), respectively. The rate constants for the same oxidation processes were also measured for the degradation products TBF, MMP, MA, and HiBA (k(O3-TBF) = 0.78 M(-1) s(-1); k(OH-TBF) = 7.0 x 10(8) M(-1) s(-1); k(O3-MMP) = 5 M(-1) s(-1); k(OH-MMP) = 3 x 10(9) M(-1) s(-1), k(O3-MA) = 0.09 M(-1) s(-1), k(O3-HiBA) = 5 M(-1) s(-1); k(OH-HiBA) = 3 x 10(9) M(-1) s(-1)). Since all compounds reacted slowly with molecular ozone, only the degradation pathway of MTBE with OH radicals has been determined, including the formation of primary degradation products. In experiments performed with several natural waters, the efficiency of MTBE elimination and the formation of bromate as disinfection byproduct have been measured. With a bromide level of 50 microg/L, only 35-50% of MTBE could be eliminated by the AOP O3/H2O2 without exceeding the current drinking water standard of bromate (10 microg/L). The transient concentrations of MTBE and its primary degradation products were modeled using a combination of kinetic parameters (degradation product distribution and rate constants) together with the ozone and OH radical concentration and were in good agreement with the experimental results.
Abstract 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) has a great potential in the pharmaceutical-, food-, and chemical industry as a potent antimicrobial compound and chemical precursor. Until now it is not commercially available, occurring only as intermediate in production of petro-derived 1,3-propanediol. In this study, we developed a new method for 3-HPA isolation, biotechnologically produced by Lactobacillus reuteri . A composition of an Amberlite anion exchange resin and hydrogensulfite (IRA-SO 3 H) was generated to extract 3-HPA from the complex mixture of the production medium. 3-HPA was successfully recovered and concentrated in a pure form. Using this approach, IRA-SO 3 H was evaluated to bind 3-HPA throughout the bioconversion. The IRA-SO 3 H successfully bound already produced 3-HPA without decreasing L. reuteri viability. However, new 3-HPA formation was repressed. To conclude, our data showed for the first time the selective extraction of 3-HPA from the bioconversion medium and its subsequent recovery. Future work is needed to adapt this system to an in situ product removal process not interfering with the bioconversion.
Alkaline elution was employed to study DNA damage in CHO-Kl cells treated with a series of biotic and xenobiotic aldehydes. DNA cross-linking was measured in terms of the reduction in the effect of methyl methanesulphonate on the kinetics of DNA elution and was observed in cells treated with formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, methylglyoxal and malonaldehyde. Propionaldehyde, valeraldehyde, hexanal and 4-hydroxynonenal produced DNA single-strand breaks, or lesions which were converted to breaks in alkali. Both types of DNA damage occurred in cells exposed to malealdehyde. These findings support the hypothesis of a carcinogenic effect of the aldehydic products (malonaldehyde, methylglyoxal, propionaldehyde, hexanal, 4-hydroxynonenal) released in biomembranes during lipid peroxidation.
An Asymmetric isoxazole annulation proceeds from the (S)-O-methoxyphenylalaninol imine of (RS)-2-phen-ylpropionaldehyde (3). Deprotonation, quenching with 4-chloromethyl-3,5-dimethylisoxazole, and hydrolysis produced isoxazolylaldehyde (5), whose structure was confirmed by single crystal X-ray diffractometry. The absolute configuration of (-)-5 was established as (R)-by chemical correlation to the known (S)-(-)-4-methyl-4-phenyl-cyclohex-2-ene-1-one (7).
Hepatic microsomal oxygenation of aldehydes to carboxylic acids was investigated. Aldehydes (veratrum aldehyde, cinnamic aldehyde, myrtenal, cuminaldehyde, 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, perillaldehyde and 9-anthraldehyde) were incubated with hepatic microsomes of mice in the presence of an NADPH-generating system under 18O2 (97 atom%). The incorporation of oxygen-18 into carboxylic acids formed was determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Oxygen-18 was incorporated into the carboxylic acids formed from all aldehyde substrates examined. Hepatic microsomal formation of 3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid and cumic acid from veratrum aldehyde and cuminaldehyde, respectively, was inhibited by CO and SKF 525-A. These results indicate that the oxygenation of aldehydes which may be catalyzed by cytochrome P450 is a common reaction in the biotransformation of xenobiotic aldehydes.
Field studies on timing of application and effectiveness of materials against Epitremerus pyri (Nalepa) were conducted during 1966 and 1967 in southern Oregon pear orchards. The degree of fruit russet increased with the time the trees were left unsprayed. Delayed dormant or pink bud applications of endosulfan resulted in an absence of economic injury at harvest, but when treatment was delayed until Mayor later, severe fruit injury was evident. Oil used alone or oil-organophosphate combinations applied prebloom effectively suppressed rust mite densities. Other materials found effective included: Carzol® (N′- (chloro-0-tolyl) -N, N- dimethyIformamidine hydrochloride). dimethoate, carbofuran, maneb, Morestan ® (6-methyl-2,3-quinoxalinedithiol cyclic S, S -dithiocarbonate), Temik® (a 10% granular formulation of UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde 0 -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) ), and zineb.
Abstract Cell extracts, prepared from Nocardia restrictus, rapidly oxidize 3,4-dihydroxy-9,10-secoandrosta-1,3,5(10)-triene-9,17-dione with the consumption of 1 mole of oxygen per mole of substrate; no carbon dioxide is evolved. The reaction is stimulated by the presence of ferrous ions. The first product of ring fission has been identified as 4(5),9(10)-diseco-3-hydroxyandrosta-1(10),2-diene-5,9,17-trion-4-oic acid. The enzyme catalyzing the formation of this compound has been tentatively termed 3,4-dihydroxy-9,10-secoandrosta-1,3,5(10)-triene-9,17-dione 4,5-dioxygenase. The possible role of a quinone intermediate in the formation of the ring fission compound has been eliminated. Further metabolism of the ring fission compound results in the formation of 2-oxo-4-hydroxycaproic acid (isolated as its γ-lactone) and 3aα-H-4α-[3'-propionic acid]-7aβ-methylhexahydro-1,5-indanedione. Whole cells in the presence of 0.001 m arsenite cleave 2-oxo-4-hydroxycaproic acid to pyruvate and propionaldehyde. A reaction sequence has been proposed for the metabolism of 3,4-dihydroxy-9,10-secoandrosta-1,3,5(10)-triene-9,17-dione by N. restrictus.
Structurally well-defined N-heterocyclic carbene silver chlorides and bromides supported by 1-cyclohexyl-3-benzylimidazolylidene (CyBn-NHC) or 1-cyclohexyl-3-naphthalen-2-ylmethylimidazolylidene (CyNaph-NHC) were synthesized by reaction of the corresponding imidazolium halides with silver(I) oxide while cationic bis(CyBn-NHC) silver nitrate was isolated under similar conditions using imidazolium iodide in the presence of sodium nitrate. Single-crystal X-ray diffraction revealed a dimeric structure through a nonpolar weak-hydrogen-bond supported Ag–Ag bond for 1-cyclohexyl-3-benzylimidazolylidene silver halides [(CyBn-NHC)AgX]2 (X = Cl, 1; Br, 2) but a monomeric structure for N-heterocyclic carbene silver halides with the more sterically demanding 1-cyclohexyl-3-naphthalen-2-ylmethylimidazolylidene ligand (CyNaph-NHC)AgX (X = Cl, 4; Br, 5). Cationic biscarbene silver nitrate [(CyBn-NHC)2Ag]+NO3−3 assumed a cis orientation with respect to the two carbene ligands. The monomeric complexes (CyNaph-NHC)AgX 4 and 5 showed higher catalytic activity than the dimeric [(CyBn-NHC)AgX]21 and 2 as well as the cationic biscarbene silver nitrate 3 in the model three component reaction of 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, phenylacetylene and piperidine with chloride 4 performing best and giving product in almost quantitative yield within 2 h at 100 °C. An explanation for the structure–activity relationship in N-heterocyclic carbene silver halide catalyzed three component reaction is given based on a slightly modified mechanism from the one in literature.
The peculiarities of the Fischer cyclization of the 4-pyridylhydrazones of propionaldehyde and methyl ethyl ketone, the formation of 3-methyl- and 2,3-dimethyl-5-azaindoles, 4aminopyridine, 4-ethylaminopyridine, and 1-(4′-pyridyl)-3,5-diethyl-5-methylpyrazoline under these reaction conditions, and the effect of various catalysts on the direction of the process and the yields of products were examined.
The impact of glucose on glycerol metabolism, especially on 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) accumulation by resting cells of Lactobacillus reuteri has been investigated. Two systems were used in the study: MRS(-) (modified MRS - omitting glucose, acetate and Tween 80) and distilled water (H(2)O). In MRS(-), addition of glucose enhanced glycerol metabolism in resting cells of L. reuteri, consequently increasing the accumulation of 3-HPA by regulating the NAD/NADH ratio. Enhanced glycerol metabolism correlated positively with the concentration of glucose. NADH produced during glucose metabolism was preferentially reoxidized to NAD by the reduction of 3-HPA to 1,3-propanediol; an adequate supply of glycerol therefore outweighed the repression of glucose on the accumulation of 3-HPA. At a molar ratio of glucose to glycerol no greater than 0.33, accumulation of 3-HPA was favored. In non-growing medium (H(2)O), addition of glucose seemed to be counter-productive with respect to 3-HPA accumulation. Lactate had a positive impact on glycerol metabolism, presumably by altering the redox flux, resulting in enhanced 3-HPA accumulation in both MRS(-) and H(2)O systems.
Bacterial microcompartments are giant protein-based organelles that encapsulate special metabolic pathways in diverse bacteria. Structural and genetic studies indicate that metabolic substrates enter these microcompartments by passing through the central pores in hexameric assemblies of shell proteins. Limiting the escape of toxic metabolic intermediates created inside the microcompartments would confer a selective advantage for the host organism. Here, we report the first molecular dynamics (MD) simulation studies to analyze small-molecule transport across a microcompartment shell. PduA is a major shell protein in a bacterial microcompartment that metabolizes 1,2-propanediol via a toxic aldehyde intermediate, propionaldehyde. Using both metadynamics and replica-exchange umbrella sampling, we find that the pore of the PduA hexamer has a lower energy barrier for passage of the propanediol substrate compared to the toxic propionaldehyde generated within the microcompartment. The energetic effect is consistent with a lower capacity of a serine side chain, which protrudes into the pore at a point of constriction, to form hydrogen bonds with propionaldehyde relative to the more freely permeable propanediol. The results highlight the importance of molecular diffusion and transport in a new biological context.
Potential precursors to chemically reactive species derived from the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol were synthesized and tested for mutagenicity in the Ames Salmonella assay. N-Hydroxypropranolol (1), the corresponding aldonitrone, 3-(1-naphthoxy)-2-hydroxypropionaldehyde N-isopropylnitrone (2), and N-nitrosopropranolol (3) were prepared and tested. N-Hydroxypropranolol (1) was obtained by direct alkylation of 3-(1-naphthoxy)-1-bromo-2-propanol with N-isopropylhydroxylamine and isolated as its neutral oxalate or HBr salt. The aldonitrone (2) was obtained by mercuric oxide oxidation of the hydroxylamine. N-Nitrosopropranolol (3) was prepared by treating propranolol with nitrous acid. None of the compounds was mutagenic in the Ames assay with Salmonella typhimurium TA-98 and TA-100 strains, either in the absence or in the presence of the S-9 liver fraction from Arochlor 1254 treated rats. None of the compounds was significantly toxic to the bacteria, except for slight toxicity of the oxalate salt of 1.
uv or gamma irradiation of saturated fatty acids (propionic, butyric, valeric, caproic, enanthic, caprylic, pelargonic, capric, palmitic, and stearic acids). UV irradiation was carried out for 24 hr at 50 un. Concent 85% C and gamma irradiation at dose of 1.5 Mrep at 20 un. Concent 85% C. In the secondary radiation reaction, which varied according to the dose, aldehydes, such as malondialdehyde, were formed. By the thiobarbituric acid reaction, significant formation of carbonyl compounds could be detected by gamma irradiation of butyric acid with 38500 rep and palmitic acid with 28500 rep. Results of the color reaction paralleled the rise in peroxide number by the radiation-promoted auto-oxidation of the fatty acids. Irradiation in the presence of oxvgen or water enhanced the oxidation and formation of carbonyl compounds. Conversely, the reactions were depressed in a nitrogen atmosphere, and the anti-oxidant alpha -tocopherol (but not alpha tocopherol acetate) inhibited the reactions. It was estimated that gamma irridiation of butyric acid in 5% aqueous solution at a dose of 7 x 10/sup 4/ rep promoted the formation of 0.018 mole carbonyl derivatives per kg (as propionaldehyde). The corresponding amount from uv irradiation (1.6x 10/sup 7/ erg/ml) was 0.012 mole/kg. (H.H.D.)
The major products of the radiolysis of pure, liquid propanol are hydrogen, propionaldehyde, and hexane-3,4 diol. The initial yields are G(H2)= 4·4, G(EtCHO)= 2·9, and G(EtCHOH)2= 1·5, but the hydrogen and aldehyde yields decrease with increasing dose. This effect has been shown to be due to scavenging of a precursor of hydrogen by the aldehyde. Studies with solutes have shown that hydrogen has as its precursor solvated electrons and hydrogen atoms which may be scavenged and also that part of the yield of this product is due to molecular processes. Yields and rate constants of the intermediates have been determined.
Alkali-ion-modified silica-supported vanadium oxides are photocatalysts available in the field of photooxidation of light alkanes using molecular oxygen. The photooxygenated reaction was promoted over the catalyst under irradiation at steady state. Acetone formation on the photooxidation of propane was investigated over a rubidium-ion-modified silica-supported vanadium oxide that is the most effective catalyst. The kinetic analysis demonstrated that the rate-determining step is the reaction of propane on the lattice oxygen of the photoexcited VO 4 Rb species to yield the vanadium isopropoxide species. It was suggested that the photocatalytic active sites are occupied by photogenerated acetone during photoreaction at 333 K. Heating the photocatalyst bed drastically enhanced not only product yield but also the selectivity to propionaldehyde that is a minor product in the photooxidation at 333 K. The product distribution of photoassisted oxidation of propane was described by Boltzmann's distribution of stabilization energy of the intermediates: an isopropoxide-like one for the precursor of acetone and an n-propoxide-like one for the precursor of propionaldehyde.
Spermine interacted with serum polyamine oxidase (PAO) to arrest proliferation of cultured Bri8 lymphocytes. Arrest was independent of catalase activity and was not directly due to an H2O2 byproduct. Arrest was averted by 3-hydroxybenzyloxyamine, which inactivates the pyridoxal co-factor of PAO. The oxidation of spermine in the presence of different concentrations of PAO was non-linear, which implied complex intermediate events for conversion of spermine to labile di-oxidized spermine (N,N′-bis(3-propionaldehyde)-1,4-butanediamine) with, perhaps, overall generation of free radicals (O2-· and ·OH) which are damaging to cells. Exogenous free radicals were apparently neither direct participants in cytostasis, nor in the chemiluminescence demonstrable for spermine oxidation. Thiourea, an ·OH scavenger, protected against both proliferation arrest and luminescence. Many other powerful ·OH scavengers, however, were ineffective. Though reaction mixtures reduced ferricytochrome c initially, reduction was not inhibited by superoxide dismutase (SOD) which indicated that the anion O2-· had not been generated. The powerful reducing capability of di-oxidized spermine itself could have competed against any O2-· for ferricytochrome c reduction. Nevertheless, O2-· was generated during further PAO conversion and/or auto-oxidation of di-oxidized spermine. Curiously, addition of SOD to destroy presumptive O2-· variably potentiated cytotoxicity. Blockage of any anion channels in the cell plasma membrane by stilbene derivatives did not influence cytotoxicity. Thus, findings support our previous evidence that cationic di-oxidized spermine is a potent G1 inhibitor of cell proliferation. The possibility of intracellular free-radical and thiol involvement is discussed.
Azodrin® (3-hydroxy- N -methyl- cis crotonamide dimethyl phosphate) and UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) were applied to cotton plants as stem and soil treatments in small-plot and greenhouse experiments for control of Lygus Hesperus Knight. In the small-plot tests, Azodrin, applied as a stem treatment, gave effective control between 2 and 9 days after treatment, and UC-21149, applied as a sidedness, gave effective control 9-16 days after treatment. The effectiveness of UC-21149 seemed to increase after irrigation. In the green-house experiments, the periods of effective control were similar, but mortality of the test insects was somewhat higher.
An alternative clean production technology was developed for the synthesis of two triols, trimethylolpropane (2,2-di(hydroxymethyl)butan-1-ol) and trimethylolethane (2,2-di(hydroxymethyl)propan-1-ol) starting from formaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde; the technology is based on the use of solid heterogeneous catalysts in the key process steps, aldolization and aldol hydrogenation. Catalyst screening and kinetic experiments with propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde showed that the desired aldols can be obtained with a high yield and selectivity when anion exchangers with amine groups are used as heterogeneous catalysts and the reaction is carried out in aqueous environment. Suitable reaction temperatures are 50–80 °C with formaldehyde∶propion or butyraldehyde ranging from 3∶1 to 4∶1. In the second process step, the excess of formaldehyde was separated from the reaction mixture with atmospheric distillation in the presence of excess of water. Catalyst screening and kinetic experiments showed that nickel–chromium and copper–chromium are the most suitable catalysts for the aldol hydrogenation. The experiments carried out at 50–80 °C and 40–80 bar hydrogen gave 100% yields of trimethylolpropane and trimethylolethane. A process scheme for the continuous production of trimethylolpropane and trimethylolethane was proposed.
Derivation of purine and pyrimidine nucleosides has attracted much attention because of potent antitumor or antiviral activity. (Figure 1) Pyrimidine nucleosides substituted at the C-5 position constitute a class of biologically significant molecules. The well-known cancer chemotherapeutic 5-fluorouracil and antiviral agents, such as 5-iodo-2'deoxyuridine and 5-(trifluoromethyl)-2'-deoxyuridine, have been in clinical use for several years. Meanwhile, in recent years, there have been significant interests in the potential usages of the C-5-substituted pyrimidine nucleosides in synthetic oligonucleotide probes as a tether site for linking reporter groups to nucleic acids. When the modified nucleosides are incorporated into the duplex B-DNA, C-5substituents are located in the major groove, and so do not disrupt Watson-Crick base pairing. As a result, the methodologies for constructing suitable linker arms and generating bonds to C-5 are important for the synthesis of potential therapeutic agents and synthetic oligonucleotide probes. Therefore, the 5-position of pyrimidine nucleosides has been the target of extensive studies on modifications. Generally, C-C bond formation at C-5 of uracils has been achieved by the application of photolytic reaction and palladium-catalyzed coupling reactions. Although the utilization of the lithiation methodology was developed for the introduction of a carbon functionality at the C-5 or C-6 position of uridine derivatives, the ratio (C-5/C-6) of substitution is governed by the substituents on the pyrimidine base and the protecting groups on the sugar. On the other hand, Mn(OAc)3 and Ce(NH4)2(NO3)6 gave regioselective C-C bond formation at the 5-position of pyrimidine derivatives. In the new attempts for the functionalization of pyrimidine bases and because of the biological interest of the related compounds, we became interested in the introduction of alkyl group at C-5 position of pyrimidines. Kim et al. reported that the reaction of α-bromoacrylamides with carbonyl compounds in the presence of SmI2 can provide Baylis-Hillman adducts through samarium Grignard type of anionic process, solving several problems of Baylis-Hillman reaction. (Scheme 1) It has been described that the α-carbon of the acrylamide with a phenyl group is rather electron-deficient than other moieties devoid of the phenyl group due to resonance effect. Therefore, the vinyl radical can undergo further reduction to vinylsamarium reagent by SmI2. This mechanism was supported by the fact that ethyl α-bromoacrylate and 2-bromo-2cyclohexen-1-one as well as dimethyl α-bromoacrylamide did not give the corresponding desired products. We set out to address the question of whether this samarium chemistry would be applicable to the pyrimidine case. Similar to the resonance effect of the phenyl group, it was considered that the pyrimidine structure having another amide group might be able to react with electrophiles through a vinylsamarium intermediate. We focused our initial efforts on the coupling of 5iododimethyluracil with propionaldehyde under the same condition as the previously reported one. Unfortunately, when 1 equivalent of aldehyde was used, only trace amount of coupling product (2a) was observed by TLC and H NMR, while the reduction product (3) was obtained as a major product (Table 1, entry 1). However, this result encouraged us to keep finding the appropriate condition for pyrimidine substrates. Finally, it was found that the more loading of aldehyde led to both the more desired product (2a) and the less reduced one (3) (Table 1, entries 1-3). In contrast, 5-bromodimethyluracil showed less reactivity than iodo-substrate under the same condition, it can be considered as a general trend that the reactivity of α-iodoenones is higher, especially in transition metal mediated reactions, than the corresponding bromo or chloro derivatives (Table 1, entry 4). On the other hand, the use of additive such as HMPA was not successful (Table 1, entry 6). Sterically hindered aldehydes afforded the alkylated pyrimidines in only moderate chemical yields (Table 2, entry 5-6) and Figure 1 Scheme 1
We report here the unexpected finding that recombinant or hepatic microsomal NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase catalyzes the oxidative deformylation of a model xenobiotic aldehyde, 2-phenylpropionaldehyde, to the n-1 alcohol, 1-phenylethanol, in the absence of cytochrome P450. The flavoprotein and NADPH are absolute requirements, and the reaction displays a dependence on time and on NADPH and reductase concentration. Not surprisingly, the hydrophobic tail of the flavoprotein is not required for catalytic competence. The reductase domain of neuronal nitric oxide synthase is about 30% more active than P450 reductase, and neither flavoprotein catalyzes conversion of the aldehyde to the carboxylic acid, by far the predominant metabolite with P450s in a reconstituted system. Reductase-catalyzed deformylation is unaffected by metal ion chelators and oxygen radical scavengers, but is strongly inhibited by catalase, and the catalase-mediated inhibition is prevented by azide. These results, together with observed parallel increases in 1-phenylethanol and H2O2 formation as a function of NADPH concentration, are evidence that free H2O2 is rate-limiting in aldehyde deformylation by the flavoprotein reductases. This contrasts sharply with the P450-catalyzed reaction, which is brought about by iron-bound peroxide that is inaccessible to catalase.
I. The main products of fermentation of r,z-propanediol wcre fr-propanol and propionic acid, but variable amounts of acetic acid and carbon dioxide were also formed. The concentrations of an intermediate propionaldehyde increased and then decreased. z. A tentative scheme is suggested, showing that i,z-propanediol is first dehydrated to propionaldehyde, which is then reduced to ?a-propanol. The scheme also explains the formation of propionicsnd acetic acids and shows how the metabolism of I ,2-propanediol is related to that of rhamnose.
The aqueous layer was extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 × 10 mL). The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 , evaporated to dryness and purified on a silica gel column chromatography using a mixture (Hex-AcOEt 3:1 V/V) as eluent. According to GP-1: In a round-bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirring bar, tryptamine (7) (1.0 equiv., 500 mg, 3.12 mmol), propionaldehyde (1.0 equiv., 181 mg, 3.12 mmol), cyclohexylisocyanide (1.0 equiv., 341 mg, 3.12 mmol) and azidotrimethylsilane (10) (1.0 equiv., 360 mg, 3.12 mmol), in MeOH (1.0 M, 3.1 mL) were placed. The resulting mixture was stirred for 6 h under inert atmosphere (N 2 ) at room temperature. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. Then, the crude reaction was diluted with CH 2 Cl 2 (20 mL), washed with brine (10 mL) and the aqueous layer was extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 × 10 mL). The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 , evaporated to dryness and purified on a silica gel column chromatography using a mixture (Hex-AcOEt 3:1 V/V) to give the compound 11a (957 mg, 87%) as a white solid. evaporated to dryness and purified on a silica gel column chromatography using a mixture (Hex-AcOEt 3:1 V/V) to give the compound 11b (494 mg, 93%) as a white solid.
Summary.-Spermine interacted with serum polyamine oxidase (PAO) to arrest proliferation of cultured Bri8 lymphocytes. Arrest was independent of catalase activity and was not directly due to an H202 byproduct. Arrest was averted by 3-hydroxybenzyloxyamine, which inactivates the pyridoxal co-factor of PAO. The oxidation of spermine in the presence of different concentrations of PAO was nonlinear, which implied complex intermediate events for conversion of spermine to labile di-oxidized spermine (N,N'-bis(3-propionaldehyde)-1,4-butanediamine) with, perhaps, overall generation of free radicals (02-and-OH) which are damaging to cells. Exogenous free radicals were apparently neither direct participants in cytostasis, nor in the chemiluminescence demonstrable for spermine oxidation. Thiourea, an 'OH scavenger, protected against both proliferation arrest and luminescence. Many other powerful OH scavengers, however, were ineffective. Though reaction mixtures reduced ferricytochrome c initially, reduction was not inhibited by superoxide dismutase (SOD) which indicated that the anion 02-had not been generated. The powerful reducing capability of di-oxidized spermine itself could have competed against any 02-for ferricytochrome c reduction. Nevertheless, 02-was generated during further PAO conversion and/or auto-oxidation of di-oxidized spermine. Curiously, addition of SOD to destroy presumptive 02-variably potentiated cytotoxicity. Blockage of any anion channels in the cell plasma membrane by stilbene derivatives did not influence cytotoxicity. Thus, findings support our previous evidence that cationic di-oxidized spermine is a potent G1 inhibitor of cell proliferation. The possibility of intracellular free-radical and thiol involvement is discussed.
a b s t r a c t Accurate values for the Henry’s law constants are essential to describe the environmental dynamics of a solute, but substantial errors are recognized in many reported data due to practical difficulties in measuring solubility and/or vapor pressure. Despite such awareness, validation of experimental approaches has scarcely been made. An experimental approach based on thermal desorption-gas chromatography-mass spectrometery (TD-GC-MS) method was developed to concurrently allow the accurate determination of target compounds from the headspace and aqueous samples in closed equilibrated system. The analysis of six aromatics and eight non-aromatic oxygenates was then carried out in a static headspace mode. An estimation of the potential bias and mass balance (i.e., sum of mass measured individually from gas and liquid phases vs. the mass initially added to the system) demonstrates compound-specific phase dependency so that the best results are obtained by aqueous (less soluble aromatics) and headspace analysis (more soluble non-aromatics). Accordingly, we were able to point to the possible sources of biases in previous studies and provide the best estimates for the Henry’s constants (M atm−1): benzene (0.17), toluene (0.15), p-xylene (0.13), m-xylene (0.13), o-xylene (0.19), styrene (0.27); propionaldehyde (9.26), butyraldehyde (6.19), isovaleraldehyde (2.14), n-valeraldehyde (3.98), methyl ethyl ketone (10.5), methyl isobutyl ketone (3.93), n-butyl acetate (2.41), and isobutyl alcohol (22.2).
Stroma-free hemoglobin (Hb) has been modified by pyridoxylation and followed by polymerization with glutaraldehyde as a blood substitute. Nevertheless, the reaction rate of pyridoxylated Hb (PLP-Hb) with glutaraldehyde is too fast to control its molecular weight distribution. Additionally, it was reported that glutaraldehyde is cytotoxic even at low doses. To overcome these problems, another aldehyde, β-hydroxypropionaldehyde (β-HPA), was used in the study to polymerize hemoglobin (PLP-Hb). β-HPA is a natural compound (reuterin) produced by Lactobacillus reuteri. It was found that the maximum degree of PLP-Hb polymerization by reuterin (RR-PLP-Hb) was approximately 40% if the formation of high molecular (> 500 kDa) polymers should be prevented. In contrast, at the same reaction condition, the glutaraldehyde-polymerized PLP-Hb solution became gel-like, due to overpolymerization. This indicated that the rate of PLP-Hb polymerization by reuterin was significantly slower than that by glutaraldehyde. With increasing the reaction temperature, PLP-Hb concentration, or reuterin-to-PLP-Hb molar ratio, the time to reach the maximum degree of PLP-Hb polymerization by reuterin became significantly shorter. Removal of unpolymerized PLP-Hb from the RR-PLP-Hb solution can be effectively achieved by a gel-filtration column. The P50 value of the unmodified Hb solution was 14 torr, while that of the RR-PLP-Hb solution was 20 torr, an indication of lower oxygen affinity. Additionally, the oxygen-Hb dissociation curves for both test solutions had a sigmodial shape and a nearly 100% saturation at 100 torr. In the in vivo study, it was found that the animals treated with the RR-PLP-Hb solution all survived and remained healthy more than 3 months. In contrast, only one out of six rats survived for the control group treated with the unmodified Hb solution. Furthermore, it was found that the RR-PLP-Hb solution resulted in a significantly longer circulation time (≈ 12 h) than the unmodified Hb solution (≈ 1.5 h). These results suggest that the reuterin-polymerized PLP-Hb solution may be a new option in the development of blood substitutes. © 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Polyamine oxidase was found in mycelia of fungi belonging to the genera of Aspergillus, Mucor, Penicillium, Rhizopus, Cylindrocarpon, Fusarium and Gibberella when they were grown in medium containing spermine or spermidine as the sole source of nitrogen. The maximal formation of the enzymes of Penicillium chrysogenum and Aspergillus terreus was observed in early stationary phase of growth, and thereafter, the enzymes disappeared with consumption of substrate. The oxidation products of spermine and spermidine by the two enzymes were identified as putrescine, 3-aminopropionaldehyde and H2O2. Therefore, the enzymes were characterized as a type of polyamine oxidase of rat liver.
We report the first mycorrhizal fungal aldehyde dehydrogenase gene, ald1, which was isolated from the basidiomycete Tricholoma vaccinum. The gene, encoding a protein Ald1 of 502 amino acids, is up-regulated in ectomycorrhiza. Phylogenetic analyses using 53 specific fungal aldehyde dehydrogenases from all major phyla in the kingdom of fungi including Ald1 and two partial sequences of T. vaccinum were performed to get an insight in the evolution of the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. By using competitive and real-time RT-PCR, ald1 is up-regulated in response to alcohol and aldehyde-related stress. Furthermore, heterologous expression of ald1 in Escherichia coli and subsequent in vitro enzyme activity assay demonstrated the oxidation of propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde with different kinetics using either NAD+ or NADP+ as cofactors. In addition, overexpression of ald1 in T. vaccinum after Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation increased ethanol stress tolerance. These results demonstrate the ability of Ald1 to circumvent ethanol stress, a critical function in mycorrhizal habitats.
This paper presents a simple gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS) technique for the analysis of vapor phase mainstream cigarette smoke. The analysis includes two parts: (A) separation and identification of as many as possible compounds in vapor phase smoke, and (B) quantitative analysis of a selected number of analytes. For achieving these objectives, the cigarettes are smoked using a Borgwaldt RM20/CS smoking machine using Federal Trade Commission (FTC), International Organization for Standardization (ISO), or other recommended conditions. The vapor phase smoke is separated from particulate phase smoke with a standard Cambridge pad. The vapor phase is collected in a gas bag, and then a precise volume (1 or 5 mL) is injected in a GC–MS system for separation and analysis. About 90 compounds are separated and identified in vapor phase smoke. A quantitative procedure was developed for acetaldehyde, 1,3-butadiene, acrolein, propionaldehyde, acetonitrile, acetone, isoprene, propionitrile, benzene, crotonaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide (HCN), and styrene. Using appropriate standards, most of the other compounds identified in vapor phase smoke could also be quantitated. Excellent reproducibility is obtained using this technique, the results being in good agreement with previously reported work. © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Micro Sep 12: 142–152, 2000
In this study, the effect of standard phase difference in calibration of carbonyl compounds (CC) was evaluated by using their standards prepared in both gaseous and liquid phase. For this analysis, standards in both phases were prepared for 6 different CCs (formaldehyde (FA), acetaldehyde (AA), propionaldehyde (PA), butyraldehyde (BA), isovaleraldehyde (IA) and valeraldehyde (VA)) at similar concentration levels. Their gaseous standard was calibrated after derivatization with three types of DNPH cartridge, and their calibration results were compared against liquid-phase standards. Although there was a strong compatibility between 2 phases for CCs with lower molecular weights (e.g., formaldehyde and acetaldehyde), it was not the case for the heavier CCs. The results of our analysis indicate that the analytical bias of the heavier CCs can be significantly large (by more than a few tens of %). As a result, underestimation of hevier CCs can be significant, if their gaseous samples are quantified by liquid phase standard.
The chemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization arising from irradiation of aliphatic aldehydes in D2O and various other solvents is reported. The aldehydes included acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and pivalaldehyde, and the solvents were benzene, acetonitrile, cyclohexane, methylcyclohexane, perfluoromethylcyclohexane, D2O, and D2O/acetonitrile. For propionaldehyde, the variation of c.i.d.n.p. with solvent can be explained by a variation of the relative importance of α-cleavage vs. hydrogen abstraction which occur via an excited triplet state. In addition, when D2O is the solvent, the c.i.d.n.p. provides information about secondary radical reactions not observed in the other solvents. For the other aldehydes, the nature of the solvent does not seem to affect the relative importance of α-cleavage vs. hydrogen abstraction. Acetaldehyde undergoes hydrogen abstraction whereas isobutyraldehyde and pivalaldehyde undgero α-cleavage via an excited triplet state.
In order to create an active pharmaceutical substance of the drug with prolonged action the modification of recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor GCSF (filgrastim) with polyethylene glycol (PEG, M 21.5 kDa) was conducted. A method for preparation of PEG-filgrastim designed for the development and scaling-up of the technological process of production was described. Modification of proteins with PEG was performed by selective covalent attachment of the molecule alpha-methyl-PEG-propionaldehyde to the alpha-amino group of the N-terminal methionine amino acid residue of the recombinant GCSF. The conditions of the reaction, which provide the desired product yield at least 85% of the total protein, also high protein concentration in the reaction mixture (more than 9 mg/mL) and reduce consumption of PEG in terms of terminal alpha-amino group of the protein was chosen. The data of RP HPLC and MALDI-mass spectrometry showed that the produced drug modified by the N-terminal residue and contains no more than 10% of products with a high degree of modification.
The thermal decomposition of 2-butanol have been studied at temperatures of 1045-1221 K and pressures of 1.5-6 bar using the single pulse shock tube technique. Dilute concentrations of 2-butanol have been decomposed in the presence of large quantities of a radical inhibitor. The mechanism for decomposition involves direct elimination of water producing cis- and trans-2-butene, and 1-butene, and C-C bond fission producing ethylene. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and propene were also observed in much smaller yields from C-C bond fission. The respective unimolecular rate expressions are as follows: k(C(3)H(6)(OH)CH(3) → cis-CH(3)CH═CHCH(3) + H(2)O) = 10(13.1 ± 0.3) exp(-33414 ± 755 K/T) s(-1); k(C(3)H(6)(OH)CH(3) → trans-CH(3)CH═CHCH(3) + H(2)O) = 10(13.5 ± 0.3) exp(-33820 ± 755 K/T) s(-1); k(C(3)H(6)(OH)CH(3) → CH(3)CH(2)CH═CH(2) + H(2)O) = 10(13.6 ± 0.3) exp(-33002 ± 755 K/T) s(-1); k(C(3)H(6)(OH)CH(3) → C(2)H(5)(•) + (•)CH(OH)CH(3)) = 10(15.9 ± 0.3) exp(-39252 ± 755 K/T) s(-1). These rate expressions are compared with analogous reactions for primary and tertiary butanols. They form a basis for the prediction of those for related systems. Comparison with estimated values used in the simulation of butanol combustion is indicative of the uncertainties in the rate constants that are used in such models. The activation energy of 326 kJ/mol leads to a bond dissociation energy of the CH(OH)CH(3) radical (H-CH(OH)CH(3)) of 400 kJ/mol, in excellent agreement with earlier calculated results from theory and disagreement with the experimental results from iodination studies in the expected range.
The reaction of an equimolar mixture of H/sub 2/ and CO was studied over ZrO/sub 2/ at 350 to 450/sup 0/C, 35 atm total pressure, and varying residence times. The isosynthesis reaction mechanisms were studied by monitoring the incorporation of oxygenated compounds into the isosynthesis products. Propionaldehyde and (/sup 13/C)acetone, (/sup 13/C)isopropanol, and (/sup 13/C)methanol were added to the CO/H/sub 2/ reactant stream. Their effect on the isosynthesis product distributions and on the isotopic distribution of the products was monitored as a function of oxygenate feed rate. Propionaldehyde, acetone, and methanol were found to incorporate into the isosynthesis products. The isotopic distribution of the products was used to support an isosynthesis reaction scheme that involves CO insertion into a bound aldehyde or ketone as the major chain growth step and a second chain growth step that involves condensation between methoxide and a surface bound enolate. 32 references.
Background Several experimental studies have reported that the conversion of nitrite to nitric oxide (NO) may occur by a family of (hemo) proteins that exhibit ‘nitrite reductase’ activity, including globins, xanthine oxidoreductase and endothelial NO synthase. Moreover, recent studies have demonstrated aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) to be an important source of nitrite-derived NO in rat blood vessels and heart, respectively. However to date, no prior research has been undertaken to investigate the effects of ALDH inhibition on nitrite-mediated vasodilatation during normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Aim To determine the role of ALDH in nitrite-mediated vasorelaxation, a dose response curve to sodium nitrite was investigated in isolated rat thoracic arota. Briefly, the vessels were subjected to normoxic or hypoxic conditions and a dose response curve to sodium nitrite was then constructed in the presence and absence of ALDH inhibitor, cyanamide, or ALDH substrate, propionaldehyde. Results No significant difference was observed between the degree of nitrite-induced relaxation in the presence and absence of cyanamide under normoxic conditions. In contrast, hypoxia enhanced nitrite-induced relaxation, but following ALDH inhibition with cyanamide, there was a significant rightward shift of the concentration response curves to sodium nitrite. Similar results were also obtained using the ALDH substrate, propionaldehyde. Conclusion These results suggest that ALDH plays an important role in the nitrite-mediated vasorelaxation in isolated rat thoracic aorta during hypoxic conditions. Disclosure Supported by a research grant from British Heart Foundation.
The reaction of 3-(2-naphthylthio)propionaldehyde (3)and its (1-naphthylthio)isomer (7)with a variety of thiols and thio acids in the presence of sulfuric acid at room temperature afforded 1-alkylthio and acylthio-2,3-dihydro-1H-naphtho[2,1-b]thiopyrans 5 and 4-alkylthio and acylthio-3,4-dihydro-2H-naphtho[1,2-b]thiopyrans 9 in excellent yield.
Ab initio MO calculations were carried out for the conformation of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde 1 and related ketones CH3CH(C6H5)–CO–R (R = CH3 2, C2H5 3, i-C3H7 4, and t-C4H9 5) at the MP2/6-311G(d,p)//MP2/6-31G(d) level. The conformation whereby the alkyl group R is synclinal to the phenyl group (rotamer a, C6H5–C–CO–R torsion angle φ 64–93°) has been found to be the most stable. The second most favorable one has been shown to have R flanked by the benzylic methyl group and C6H5 (rotamer b: φ 282–297°). The difference in the enthalpy between a and b has been calculated to be 1.58, 2.16, 2.19, 2.08, and 4.89 kcal mol−1, respectively, for 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. The C6H5/R antiperiplanar conformation (rotamer c) has been shown to be the least stable for 1 (φ 171°) and is not at an energy minimum for 2–5. In rotamers a and b, short interatomic distances have been shown between one of the alkyl hydrogens and the phenyl group. In rotamer a, a short distance has been calculated between one of the hydrogens of the benzy...
An enantioselective route for the convergent synthesis of chiral, nonracemic 5-substituted 3-acyl-2(1H)-pyridinones is reported. Claisen rearrangement provides direct access to the α-branched 2-[4-(tert-butyldimethylsilanoxy)cyclohex-2-enyl]-3-hydroxypropionaldehyde as a key intermediate. The application of mild oxidation conditions facilitates the preparation of a series of 3,5-disubstituted 2(1H)-pyridinones.
Volatile components of Boletus edulis were extracted by using head space solid-phase micro-extraction(HS-SPME).Volatile compounds and major flavor substances were identified by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry(GC-MS),gas chromatography-olfactometry(GC-O).53 volatile compounds were identified in the experiment,among those total 29 volatile compounds and three unknown compounds contributed to the flavor of boletus edulis.The primary flavor compounds were hexanal,methylpyrazine,3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde,2,6-dimethylpyrazine,1-octen-3-ol,2-pentylfuran,2-ethyl-6-methylpyrazin,3-octen-2-one,benzeneacetaldehyde,and so on.
In addition, glycerin (a humectant used during CC and Tobacco stick manufacturing) and menthol (for mentholated products only) were also quantified. This results in a total of 59 analytes for THS2.2 regular products (60 for mentholated products) that were quantified to perform the chemical assessment of the THS2.2 aerosol. Among them, 54 are HPHCs targets for reduction compared to 3R4F when developing heat-not-burn products: carbon monoxide, benzo [a]pyrene, 1-aminonaphthalene, 2-aminonaphthalene, 3-aminobiphenyl, 4-aminobiphenyl, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, butyraldehyde, crotonaldehyde, formaldehyde, methyl ethyl ketone, propionaldehyde, acrylonitrile, 1,3-butadiene, benzene, isoprene, pyridine, quinoline, styrene, toluene, catechol, o-cresol, m-cresol, p-cresol, hydroquinone, phenol, resorcinol, NAB, NAT, NNK, NNN, ammonia, hydrogen cyanide, nitric oxide, nitrogen oxides, arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, mercury, nickel, selenium, pyrene, o-toluidine, acetamide, acrylamide, ethylene oxide, nitrobenzene, propylene oxide, vinyl chloride, benz [a] anthracene and dibenz [a,h] anthracene. As previously mentioned, this list was mainly based on analytes proposed by public health authorities and it covers a large range of potential toxicants identified in cigarette smoke. However, the scientific literature continues to describe new compounds with a potential toxicity mainly in aerosols from new products. For instance, only recently has glycidol been identified as a potential toxic compound in aerosols from electronic cigarettes (Sleiman et al., 2016) . The present list of HPHCs was based on knowledge available at the time of designing the studies and glycidol, which was not included in the FDA list (U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 2012), was not identified at the time as a potential target to be included.
ABSTRACT: The thermal decomposition of 2-butanol have been studied at temperatures of 1045−1221 K and pressures of 1.5−6 bar using the single pulse shock tube technique. Dilute concentrations of 2-butanol have been decomposed in the presence of large quantities of a radical inhibitor. The mechanism for decomposition involves direct elimination of water producing cis-and trans-2-butene, and 1-butene, and CC bond fission producing ethylene. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and propene were also observed in much smaller yields from C−C bond fission. The respective unimolecular rate expressions are as follows: k(C 3 H 6 (OH)-CH 3 → cis-CH 3 CHCHCH 3 + H 2 O) = 10(13.1 ± 0.3) exp(−33414 ± 755 K/T) s −1 ; k(C 3 H 6 (OH)CH 3 → trans-CH 3 CH CHCH 3 + H 2 O) = 10(13.5 ± 0.3) exp(−33820 ± 755 K/T) s −1 ; k(C 3 H 6 (OH)CH 3 → CH 3 CH 2 CHCH 2 + H 2 O) = 10(13.6 ± 0.3) exp(−33002 ± 755 K/T) s
Salmonella typhimurium is able to catabolize 1,2-propanediol for use as the sole carbon and energy source; the first enzyme of this pathway requires the cofactor adenosyl cobalamin (Ado-B12). Surprisingly, Salmonella can use propanediol as the sole carbon source only in the presence of oxygen but can synthesize Ado-B12 only anaerobically. To understand this situation, we have studied the pdu operon, which encodes proteins for propanediol degradation. A set of pdu mutants defective in aerobic degradation of propanediol (with exogenous vitamin B12) defines four distinct complementation groups. Mutations in two of these groups (pduC and pduD) eliminate propanediol dehydratase activity. Based on mutant phenotypes, a third complementation group (pduG) appears to encode a cobalamin adenosyl transferase activity. No function has been assigned to the pduJ complementation group. Propionaldehyde dehydrogenase activity is eliminated by mutations in any of the four identified complementation groups, suggesting that this activity may require a complex of proteins encoded by the operon. None of the mutations analyzed affects either of the first two genes of the operon (pduA and pduB), which were identified by DNA sequence analysis. Available data suggest that the pdu operon includes enough DNA for about 15 genes and that the four genetically identified genes are the only ones required for aerobic use of propanediol.
The commercial wine spirit used for this study revealed that the aldehyde content mainly comprises acetaldehyde but other aldehydes such as propionaldehyde, 2-methylbutyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, methylglyoxal, benzaldehyde and others are also present in significant amounts. A typical grape must was used to assess the influence of wine spirit in the analytical and sensorial characteristics of fortified wines. Decreasing levels of anthocyanins, as well the increase in the red colour and tanning capacity, were observed, and seem to be positively correlated with the increase of the aldehyde content present in the wine spirits used to fortify the must. Using the CIE L*a*b* system, this aldehyde content present in the spirit used seemed to be correlated with the decrease of the wines' lightness (darkening effect), the displacement of the hue angle to higher values (yellowing effect) and the increase of the chromaticity (colour saturation) of the wines. Copyright © 2005 Society of Chemical Industry
Abstract When D-1,2-propanediol is converted to propionaldehyde in the presence of dioldehydrase and dimethylbenzimidazolylcobamide coenzyme, 1 of 2 C-1 hydrogens of the substrate is stereospecifically transferred to position C-2. The hydrogen transferred is the hydrogen introduced into D-1,2-propanediol by horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase when D-lactaldehyde is reduced to D-1,2-propanediol. When L-1,2-propanediol reacts, the other C-1 hydrogen exclusively is transferred. The displacement of the secondary hydroxyl group of propanediol by hydrogen, which takes place when D- or L-1,2-propanediol is converted to propionaldehyde, occurs with inversion of configuration at C-2. These results suggest that the removal of the secondary hydroxyl group may proceed through a displacement reaction in which the hydride functions as displacing nucleophile. It was also shown that the reduction of D- and L-lactaldehyde with horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase and α-deuterated reduced diphosphopyridine nucleotide leads to D- and L-propanediol of identical configuration at C-1. Therefore, the stereochemical course of the reduction by horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase is not influenced by the configuration of the carbon adjacent to the center which is reduced.
Abstract 3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is a valuable biochemical with high potential for bioplastic manufacturing. The endogenous glycerol metabolism and by-product formation pathway in Escherichia coli were modulated to enhance 3-HP production from glycerol. Double deletion of glpK and yqhD directed the glycerol flux to 3-HP biosynthesis and reduced the formation of 1,3-propanediol. Since 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), a precursor of 3-HP, is toxic to cell growth, the gene encoding Pseudomonas aeruginosa semialdehyde dehydrogenase (PSALDH) highly active on 3-HPA was expressed in E. coli . Finally, fed-batch culture of recombinant E. coli BL21star(DE3) without glpK and yqhD , and expressing Lactobacillus brevis DhaB-DhaR, and P. aeruginosa PSALDH resulted in 57.3 g/L 3-HP concentration, 1.59 g/L-h productivity and 0.88 g/g yield. In conclusion, modulation of the glycerol metabolism in combination with enhanced activity of 3-HPA dehydrogenation improved the production of 3-HP from glycerol.
Union carbide UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) was applied as a 10% granular formulation to the soil under the canopy of 2-year-old navel orange trees at rates of 1.5, 7.5, and 40.0 g active ingredient per tree. The systemic activity against several major citrus pests was measured by laboratory bioassays and field counts. When young and mature leaves were collected at frequent intervals and test arthropods were permitted to feed on them in the laboratory for 3 days, the citrus red mite, Panonychus citri (McGregor), was the most susceptible, the California red scale, Aonidiella aurantii (Maskell), next, and. the citrus thrips, Scirtothrips citri (Moulton), least. The 2 higher doses effectively controlled field populations of the citrus red mite for 44 weeks, the spirea aphid, Aphis spiraecola Patch, for 29 weeks, and the citrus thrips for 10 weeks. Fruit collected at 100 days posttreatment contained no residues of UC-21149. The sulfoxide residues in the peel and fruit pulp from trees receiving the highest dose were 12.75 and 2.63 ppm, respectively. In the same fruit, the sulfone residues in the peel and pulp amounted to 2.24 and 0.58 ppm, respectively. No evidence of phytotoxicity was seen in any tree. This compound shows considerable promise for controlling the 3 major pests of nonbearing citrus trees.
Cell free extracts of Hansenula miso IFO 0146 contained an enzyme which catalyzed acyloin condensation of acetaldehyde and α-ketoglutarate to form 5∼hydroxy-4-ketohexanoic acid (HKH). The enzyme was specific for acetaldehyde and α-ketoglutarate. Condensation could not be demonstrated between α-ketoglutarate and other aldehydes tested (formaldehyde, propionaldehyde or butyraldehyde). No reaction occurred when boiled enzyme was used. The apparent Km values (at pH 7.5) for acetaldehyde and α-ketoglutarate are 24.4 mM and 3.2 mM, respectively. TPP and Mg2+ were not required for the reaction. The optimum pH of the reaction was 7.5∼8.5. The reaction was inhibited by EDTA, PCMB and PMS. The enzyme forming HKH was different from that forming acetoin because the latter required TPP and was repressed when cells were grown in lactate medium while the former did not require TPP and was formed independently of its substrate. The product of this condensing reaction was isolated and identified as HKH from its chemical p...
The carbamoyloxime pesticides methomyl, oxamyl and aldicarb, together with the oxidation products of aldicarb, are known to break down much more rapidly in certain anaerobic subsoils than in the aerobic topsoils from the same site. Ferrous ions have now been shown to be involved in this reaction. Oxamyl was degraded in aqueous solutions at 30°C containing 250 μg ml−1 Fe2+ with a half-life of about 10 h, independent of pH in the range of 5.65–7.66; the observed products of this reaction were N,N-dimethyl-l-cyanoformamide and methanethiol. These same products, rather than the oximino hydrolysis product observed from degradation in aerobic soils, were rapidly and quantitatively formed from oxamyl in suspensions of anaerobic reduced subsoils (Fe2+ concentration 27–41 μg ml−1 soil water), but oxamyl was rather stable in water-saturated Vredepeel subsoil (Fe2+ concentration 0.65 μg ml−1) in which the redox potential was much higher. Methomyl behaved similarly. The rates of reaction in the suspensions of anaerobic subsoils were greater than expected from the concentrations of Fe2+ in the soil water, but most of the Fe2+ present in soil was bound to the soil particles by cation exchange and this bound Fe2+ may have participated. Breakdown of aldicarb was accelerated both in solutions of Fe2+ and in the suspensions of anaerobic reduced subsoils, though the rate enhancement was less than observed with methomyl and oxamyl; 2-methyl-2-methylthiopropionitrile and 2-methyl-2-methylthiopropionaldehyde were the observed products from aldicarb in anaerobic soil but only the former was produced in Fe2+ solutions; the corresponding nitriles and aldehydes were also yielded by aldicarb sulphoxide and aldicarb sulphone in the anaerobic, reduced subsoils.
Baeyer–Villiger monooxygenases (BVMOs) are valuable enzymes for specific oxyfunctionalization chemistry. They catalyze the oxidation of ketones to esters, but are also capable of oxidizing other chemical functions, namely aldehydes and heteroatoms such as sulfur, nitrogen, selenium and boron. The oxidation specificity and enantioselectivity of a newly characterized BVMO (BVMO4) from a strain of Dietzia towards sulfide- and aldehyde substrates have been studied. BVMO4 could react with sulfides containing an aromatic group. The presence of a substituent on the aromatic group was tolerated when they were in the meta- and para position and the oxidations yielded predominantly the (R)-sulfoxides. Similarly, BVMO4 displayed a higher activity for aldehydes containing a phenyl group, but long aliphatic aldehydes, namely octanal and decanal, were also accepted as substrate by this enzyme. The major oxidation products of the aldehyde substrates were the respective carboxylic acids in contrast to formate ester that was obtained in most of the previous reports. The Baeyer–Villiger oxidation of the substrate 2-phenylpropionaldehyde was studied in further detail and the corresponding acid product was obtained with good regio- and enantioselectivity. This is a unique feature for BVMO4 and is of great interest for further exploration of an alternative biocatalytic process.
The bicyclic thiazolidinone-carbapenem analogues, 18, 19 and 37 have been prepared from thio-glycolamide 5 and 3-triphenylmethoxypropionaldehyde 7, via 2-(2-triphenylmethoxyethyl)thiazolidin-4-one 8.Elaboration of the thiazolidin-4-one 8 to the phosphorane 11, followed by detritylation, oxidation, and cyclization provided the bicyclic ester 14, which could be oxidized to the sulfoxide 15.Functionalization at the C-5 position of the thiazolidin-4-one required protection as the tetra-hydrothiazolo-1,3-oxazine 22, which upon reaction with lithium diisopropylamide, toluene-p-sulfonyl azide and acetic acid provided the azido derivative 23 in 76% yield. Reduction and acylation, followed by acid catalysed hydrolysis gave 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-5-phenylacetamidothiazolidin-4-one 28, which was oxidized to the aldehyde 29. The aldehyde functionality was masked as the α,β-unsaturated ester 31 during the process of ylide construction. Regeneration of the aldehyde moiety could then be achieved by selective ozonolysis of phosphorane 34. The phosphorane-aldehyde 35 thus formed spontaneously cyclized to the bicyclic thiazolidinone ester 36.Removal of the carboxylate protecting groups of the bicyclic thiazolidinone derivatives 14, 15 and 36 then provided the sodium salts of the carboxylic acids 18, 19 and 37, respectively.
ABSTRACT The genome of the white rot fungus Pycnoporus cinnabarinus includes a large number of genes encoding enzymes implicated in lignin degradation. Among these, three genes are predicted to encode glyoxal oxidase, an enzyme previously isolated from Phanerochaete chrysosporium. The glyoxal oxidase of P. chrysosporium is physiologically coupled to lignin-oxidizing peroxidases via generation of extracellular H 2 O 2 and utilizes an array of aldehydes and α-hydroxycarbonyls as the substrates. Two of the predicted glyoxal oxidases of P. cinnabarinus, GLOX1 ( Pci GLOX1) and GLOX2 ( Pci GLOX2), were heterologously produced in Aspergillus niger strain D15#26 ( pyrG negative) and purified using immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography, yielding 59 and 5 mg of protein for Pci GLOX1 and Pci GLOX2, respectively. Both proteins were approximately 60 kDa in size and N-glycosylated. The optimum temperature for the activity of these enzymes was 50°C, and the optimum pH was 6. The enzymes retained most of their activity after incubation at 50°C for 4 h. The highest relative activity and the highest catalytic efficiency of both enzymes occurred with glyoxylic acid as the substrate. The two P. cinnabarinus enzymes generally exhibited similar substrate preferences, but Pci GLOX2 showed a broader substrate specificity and was significantly more active on 3-phenylpropionaldehyde. ::: IMPORTANCE This study addresses the poorly understood role of how fungal peroxidases obtain an in situ supply of hydrogen peroxide to enable them to oxidize a variety of organic and inorganic compounds. This cooperative activity is intrinsic in the living organism to control the amount of toxic H 2 O 2 in its environment, thus providing a feed-on-demand scenario, and can be used biotechnologically to supply a cheap source of peroxide for the peroxidase reaction. The secretion of multiple glyoxal oxidases by filamentous fungi as part of a lignocellulolytic mechanism suggests a controlled system, especially as these enzymes utilize fungal metabolites as the substrates. Two glyoxal oxidases have been isolated and characterized to date, and the differentiation of the substrate specificity of the two enzymes produced by Pycnoporus cinnabarinus illustrates the alternative mechanisms existing in a single fungus, together with the utilization of these enzymes to prepare platform chemicals for industry.
Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) is a member of a large group of enzymes that catalyze the irreversible oxidation of aldehydes to carboxylic acids. The ALDH2 enzyme has a very low Km (<1 μM) for short aliphatic aldehydes such as acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. In human beings, this isozyme appears to play a major role in the removal of acetaldehyde generated from the oxidation of ethanol. This conclusion is based on the study of individuals with a genetically determined deficiency in ALDH2 activity. Liver or hair root extracts from these individuals show the absence of the ALDH2 activity band on starch gels or isoelectric focusing gels (also known in the literature as the ALDH I or E2 band) (Harada et al., 1980). The deficiency results from a point mutation that substitutes a lysine for glutamate at position 487 (Yoshida et al., 1984; Crabb et al., 1989). Individuals with the deficient phenotype experience alcohol-induced flushing that is secondary to high levels of circulating acetaldehyde (Harada et al., 1981; Enomoto et al., 1991b). This is commonly referred to as the Oriental alcohol flush reaction. Assays of liver extracts from individuals carrying a deficient allele have about half the aldehyde dehydrogenase activity of extracts from subjects without the deficiency (S.-J. Yin, personal communication). Thus, ALDH2 activity makes a major contribution to the total aldehyde oxidizing capacity of the liver.
The decomposition of propionaldehyde in the presence of various amounts of nitric oxide has been studied in the temperature range 520–560 °C and at propionaldehyde pressures from 30 to 300 mm Hg. The reaction is inhibited by small amounts of nitric oxide, and larger amounts give rise to strong catalysis. The order of the maximally inhibited reaction is 1.5 and the degree of inhibition decreases with an increase of propionaldehyde pressure. In the catalytic region the order of the overall reaction is 1.25 with respect to propionaldehyde, and the relative rate (the ratio of rates in the presence and absence of nitric oxide) is independent of propionaldehyde pressure. The overall rate in the catalytic region can be expressed asthe unit of concentration being mole per cc. A mechanism in which nitric oxide initiates chains by the reaction C2H5CHO + NO → C2H5CO + HNO, propagates them by C2H5NO + C2H5CHO → C2H6 + C2H5CO + NO, and terminates them by C2H5 + C2H5NO → C4H10 + NO and C2H6 + C2H4 + NO and C2H5NO + C2H...
We started our synthesis with an Evans’ asymmetric aldol reaction of chiral crotonate imide 6 and propionaldehyde (Scheme 1). The syn aldol adduct 7 was obtained in good yield with ˃95:5 diastereoselectivity. Reductive removal of the chiral auxiliary with LiBH4, followed by diol protection, provided the acetal 8 in 93% yield for 2 steps. The selective reduction of 8 was carried out with DIBAL, furnishing the alcohol 9 in 99% yield. Tosylation of the hydroxyl group under standard conditions followed by reduction of the tosylate using LiBH4 gave 10 in the range of 65-85% yield. We then submitted 10 to the dihydroxylation/oxidative cleavage of the vinyl group, which provided aldehyde 11 in 86% yield for 2 steps. Thus, the HWE olefination with the phosphonocrotonate 12 was carried out to afford the E,E diene 13 in 84% yield. Finally, 13 was treated with DDQ for the oxidative deprotection in 66% yield.
Bacterial aldolase–dehydrogenase complexes catalyze the last steps in the meta cleavage pathway of aromatic hydrocarbon degradation. The aldolase (TTHB246) and dehydrogenase (TTHB247) from Thermus thermophilus were separately expressed and purified from recombinant Escherichia coli. The aldolase forms a dimer, while the dehydrogenase is a monomer; these enzymes can form a stable tetrameric complex in vitro, consisting of two aldolase and two dehydrogenase subunits. Upon complex formation, the Km value of 4-hydroxy-2-oxopentanoate, the substrate of TTHB246, is decreased 4-fold while the Km of acetaldehyde, the substrate of TTHB247, is increased 3-fold. The kcat values of each enzyme were reduced by ∼2-fold when they were in a complex. The half-life of TTHB247 at 50 °C increased by ∼4-fold when it was in a complex with TTHB246. The acetaldehyde product from TTHB246 could be efficiently channelled directly to TTHB247, but the channeling efficiency for the larger propionaldehyde was ∼40% lower. A single A324G...
The polymers formed during the autoxidation of soybean oil at 60°C. were isolated by a solvent-extraction method, using diethyl ether and pentanehexane as solvents. The more polar polymer fraction was further oxidized by air at 30°C., and the volatile material obtained was fractionated and characterized. It contained the same carbonyl compounds as the volatile material which has previously been obtained from reverted soybean oil, namely acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-hexanal, and 2-pentenal.
The affinity chromatographic reactor (ACR) is a bioreactor which utilizes the dynamic interaction or the dynamic affinity between a free coenzyme and immobilized enzymes for the highly efficient regeneration of dissociable coenzymes. Dynamic affinity between free NAD and immobilized alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) in ACR was investigated by three different methods. ADH catalyzed both oxidation and reduction of NAD, consuming propionaldehyde and ethanol. The theoretical model under consideration elucidated a criterion for the expression of the dynamic affinity as a relationship among the affinity constants and the concentrations of a coenzyme and immobilized enzyme. This criterion was confirmed experimentally by the measurements of the retention time of NAD and the half-life period of the reactor activity after one-shot pulse injection of NAD to ACR. In the stability measurement of the immobilized enzyme, it became clear that ADH was more stable at the higher concentration in immobilization. Although the present case of coenzyme cycling by a single enzyme is very special, with limited chance for the direct application, the results obtained here provide a theoretical basis for ACR with multienzymes-which is of more general use.
Abstract The so far unelucidated pathway of formation of ethanol, one of the major end products of the fermentative metabolism of the amitochondriate protist, Giardia lamblia, was examined. Two NAD-dependent enzymatic activities, an acetaldehyde dehydrogenase (CoA-acetylating) (EC 1.2.1.10) and an alcohol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.1) were detected. These are assumed to catalyze the formation of ethanol from acetyl-CoA via acetaldehyde. The first activity, present on a 95-kDa protein, was purified. It catalyzed the reversible interconversion of acetyl-CoA to acetaldehyde and CoA-SH with NAD but not NADP as cofactor. In the direction of aldehyde formation acetyl-CoA was the preferred substrate. Propionyl-CoA and isobutyryl-CoA were reduced with lower efficiency while succinyl-CoA and benzoyl-CoA were not. In the direction of acyl-CoA formation, acetaldehyde was the preferred substrate. Propionaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde were utilized at a lower efficiency while formaldehyde, benzaldehyde, and acetone were not. The second activity, a primary alcohol dehydrogenase, was also NAD-specific and used preferentially ethanol as substrate. Sequencing data of peptides from the purified protein and Northern and Southern analysis indicated that the same polypeptide, which belongs to the bifunctional aldehyde/alcohol dehydrogenase enzyme family, carried both activities. These activities define the pathway to ethanol in G. lamblia as a two step-process: (i) acetyl-CoA + NADH ↔ acetaldehyde + CoA-SH + NAD + and (ii) acetaldehyde + NADH ↔ ethanol + NAD + . In contrast to most eukaryotes in which ethanol formation proceeds from pyruvate via acetaldehyde, the G. lamblia pathway departs from acetyl-CoA, a more distal product of extended glycolysis.
Abstract The reaction mechanism of the oxidation of l -methionine by chromium(VI) in perchloric acid has been reviewed. Secondary reaction products formed by methionine C(1)C(2) bond scission were observed, besides the major oxidation product: methionine sulphoxide. Methionine sulphoxide and methional (3-[methylthio]-propionaldehyde) were found to be produced by two parallel redox steps. Ammonia and carbon dioxide have been identified and their yields determined. Free radicals were detected during the reaction course and the yield of carbon dioxide was found to be independent of the amount of free radical scavenger. When the amino group was blocked by an acetyl group the N-acetylmethionine sulphoxide was the only oxidation product. The mechanism with the associated reaction kinetics are presented and discussed.
Abstract Propionaldehyde was photolyzed in air at 23 ± 1 °C at pressures up to 1 atm at several incident wavelengths: 334, 326, 313, 302, 280 and 254 nm. The two primary processes are The products measured were CO and C2H6, the former being a measure of the sum of both processes and the latter being a measure of molecular process (2). At all wavelengths Φ(CO) ≈ 1.0 in the low pressure limit. Primary process (2) is significant only with incident radiation at 254 and 280 nm. Its low pressure quantum yield is 0.39 at both wavelengths. At 254 nm there is no pressure quenching of C2H6, but at 280 nm most, but not all, of the C2H6 can be pressure quenched with a half-quenching pressure of 47 Torr of air. We suggest that primary process (2) comes from upper vibrational levels of the ground and excited singlet states. Primary process (1) is pressure quenched at all wavelengths. The pressure quenching follows Sterm—Volmer quenching at 326, 302, 280 and 254 nm. However, at 334 and 313 nm, the Stern—Volmer quenching curves show a marked deviation from linearity, and two states with different decomposition rates are indicated. We interpret primary process (1) as coming from upper vibrational levels of the triplet state but with the less reactive vibrational state being more readily quenched than the more reactive vibrational states to the ground vibrational level of the triplet. The half-quenching pressures increase from about 24 Torr at 334 nm to 280 Torr at 254 nm for the fast quench and from 325 Torr at 334 nm to 610 Torr at 280 nm for the slow quench. The more reactive states appear only at 334, 313 and 280 nm and always give a low pressure quantum yield of 0.60. At atmospheric pressure the average quantum yield for all six incident wavelengths for primary process (1) is 0.20 ± 0.08. This leads to atmospheric photodissociation coefficients of about 1.3 × 10−5 s and about 9.7 × 10−6 s−1 for solar zenith angles of 30° and 58.18° respectively.
N-heterocyclic carbene (NHC) catalysis has emerged as a powerful tool for synthesis.[1] Among its involvement in several cycloaddition-type reactions for the construction of lactams and lactones, abundant in biologically active molecules[2] and broadly used as synthons for complex molecules,[3] NHC catalysis via formal [3+3] or [4+2] strategies is noteworthy.[4–10] In particular, [4+2] cycloadditions have received more attention than others. In the literature, most NHC-catalyzed [4+2] hetero-Diels-Alder reactions involve an enolate intermediate.[5–10] To date, NHC-catalyzed enolate formation is achieved from functionalized aldehydes, ketenes or esters (Scheme 1, A1–5). Treatment of these precursors with dienes presents certain drawbacks. Prime among them is that all precursors are prefunctionalized, limiting substrate scope. Thus, a stable, readily available, general enolate precursor is desirable for this kind of [4+2] cycloaddition. Herein, we report that simple aliphatic aldehydes serve as enolate precursors for highly enantioselective synthesis of lactones and lactams under oxidative conditions via NHC catalysis. ::: ::: ::: ::: Scheme 1 ::: ::: Known enolate precursors. ::: ::: ::: ::: Aliphatic aldehydes are bench-stable when properly stored and readily available. Although they provide great advantages compared to known enolate precursors, to the best of our knowledge no approach has been documented using them as enolate precursors without prefunctionalization.[11] We envisioned that aliphatic aldehydes could serve as enolate precursors with an NHC catalyst and proposed that they could react with dienes to form sixmembered products as shown in Scheme 2. Interception of the aliphatic aldehyde by an NHC would give the Breslow intermediate. Consequent oxidation[12] and deprotonation of the intermediate would yield an enolate.[13] Ultimately, [4+2] cycloaddition would provide a six-membered product. In the proposed process, judicious choice of oxidant and base would be the key to the successful transformation. ::: ::: ::: ::: Scheme 2 ::: ::: Proposed Diels-Alder reactions through oxidative enolate formation. ::: ::: ::: ::: We first treated distilled butyraldehyde (1a) with tosyl-protected α,β-unsaturated ketimine 2a in the presence of 20 mol% mesityl triazolium salt C1 as the catalyst, DBU as the base, and one equivalent phenazine ([O]A) as the oxidant.[14] The reaction provides trans-lactam 3a[15] in trace amount (Table 1, entry 1). To shed light on the issue, NMR experiments were performed using 2a, the catalyst C1 and DBU, which revealed an interaction between carbene and 2a causing catalyst inactivation. ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 1 ::: ::: Reaction optimization.[a] ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: According to our previous finding that acid plays an important role in carbene catalysis,[16] we added 10 mol% acetic acid to the reaction. Gratifyingly, the conversion increased to >99% to give trans-lactam in >99% ee and 8:1 dr (Table 1, entry 2). An increase of acid loading decreases diastereoselectivity (entry 3). Diisopropyl ethyl amine as the base is not efficient (entry 4) and K2CO3 delivers lower dr in THF presumably due to poor solubility (entry 5). The oxidant [O]B, popularized by Studer for use in NHC catalysis,[17] is not effective for this transformation (entry 6). Use of [O]A as the oxidant makes purification difficult as its polarity is similar to that of the desired product. We investigated a more polar oxidant [O]C. Lower diastereoselectivity was observed when using DBU or K2CO3 as the base in THF (entries 7–8). To increase the solubility of base in the solvent, a mixed solvent system (THF/CH3CN, 1:10, v/v) proved beneficial generating trans-product in 88% isolated yield, 99% ee and 9:1 dr (entry 9).[18] Interestingly, when 0.2 eq oxidant is used, the desired product is formed in good yield, 99% ee and 17:1 dr (entry 10), which suggests that the use of catalytic oxidant is possible to give product in high conversion.[19] ::: ::: With optimized conditions in hand, the substrate scope of ketimines was evaluated. A variety of six-membered lactams could be obtained in good yields and excellent enantioselectivities (Table 2). Smaller propionaldehyde and larger pentanal deliver the corresponding lactams 3b and 3c in 97% ee and 20:1 dr, respectively. When sterically more hindered isovaleraldehyde is utilized, the desired product is generated in trace amount. In contrast, 3-cyclohexylpropanal is an effective substrate for this annulation to give product 3d in good yield, excellent enantioselectivity and high dr. With electron-withdrawing or electron-donating groups on the aromatic ring at either side of ketimine, the reactions work quite well to give products 3e–h in good to excellent yields (74–98%) and excellent ee's (>99% for all). ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 2 ::: ::: Lactam synthesis from α,β-unsaturated ketimines.[a] ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: When similar conditions are applied to the cycloaddition with chalcones, lactones are generated but with a cis relationship between stereocenters (Table 3). A variety of aliphatic aldehydes give lactones 5a–d in good yields, excellent ee's and high dr. When an electron-withdrawing group, i.e., 4-Cl- or 4'-Cl- group, is on the aromatic ring of chalcones, the reactions proceed to give the products 5e and 5f in the same efficiency. However, the reactions become slower when an electron-donating group 4-MeO- or thiophene is incorporated onto the chalcone, but still give the desired products in excellent ee's (99%) and dr (5g and 5h). Beyond chalcones as substrates, the desired product 5i can be generated smoothly when a keto ester is employed as the starting material using the oxidant [O]C instead of [O]A in the mixed solvent THF/CH3CN. Although lactones such as 5i have been generated using Bode's system,[6a] the somewhat less reactive chalcones have not been incorporated into cycloadditions by previously developed methods using NHC catalysis,[6,20] or by cinchonidine catalysis or enamine catalysis/oxidation approaches.[21] ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 3 ::: ::: Lactone sythesis from α,β-unsaturated ketones.[a] ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: The proposed mechanism for trans-lactam formation is shown in Scheme 3. Base deprotonates triazolium salt to generate free carbene. Free carbene may react with α,β-unsaturated ketimine to form an adduct by 1,2- or 1,4-addition. In the presence of acid, the adduct releases the carbene. Reaction with aliphatic aldehyde gives Breslow intermediate A followed by oxidation to generate acyl azolium B. Its deprotonation at the α-position gives enolate C. [4+2] Cycloaddition of C with α,β-unsaturated ketimine gives zwitterion D. The carbene is released from D, and the desired lactam is formed. ::: ::: ::: ::: Scheme 3 ::: ::: Proposed pathway for trans-Lactam formation. ::: ::: ::: ::: The mechanism for lactone formation is slightly different from the above pathway. After carbene generation, addition of the carbene to chalcone does not form stable adducts, suggesting that free carbene is present in the reaction. Therefore, addition of acid is not necessary for lactone synthesis. Interestingly, cis-lactone is formed in the reaction, the reasons for which are unclear at this time. The possible intervention of both the enolate (C) and enol (C') intermediates in the two cycloaddition protocols cannot be discounted. ::: ::: In conclusion, we have developed an NHC-catalyzed[22] approach to efficiently synthesize trans-lactams and cis-lactones in high yields, high enantioselectivities and good to excellent dr with simple aliphatic aldehydes. The method involves a new way to generate enolate intermediates via oxidation and deprotonation, and has obvious advantages compared to known enolate precursors. It is quite interesting that trans-lactams and cis-lactones are formed under similar conditions.[23] A study aimed at elucidating the factors responsible for the different stereochemistry between trans-lactams and cis-lactones is in progress.
Abstract The visible absorption spectra have been measured for the reaction products formed by aldehydes and ketones with p -nitrobenzenediazonium fluoborate in a phosphoric acid-2-methoxyethanol solvent medium. The absorption maxima for the reaction products of higher molecular weight aldehydes and ketones are much more intense than those formed by formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and acetone. This intensity effect has been used to analyze for propionaldehyde in mixtures also containing formaldehyde, acetaldehyde or acetone. The nature of the reaction products are considered.
Three discoveries together point the way to a potential treatment for cancer. In 1982, Poydock and colleagues found that dehydroascorbic acid has the remarkable ability to eliminate the aggressive mouse tumours, L1210, P388, Krebs sarcoma, and Ehrlich carcinoma. In 1993, Jakubowski found that cancer cells (but not normal cells) contain measurable quantities of homocysteine thiolactone. Recently, the author found that dehydroascorbic acid reacts with homocysteine thiolactone converting it to the toxic compound, 3-mercaptopropionaldehyde. Taken together, these findings suggest that rapidly-dividing tumour cells make unusually large amounts of homocysteine thiolactone and that administered dehydroascorbic acid enters the cells and converts the thiolactone to mercaptopropionaldehyde which kills the cancer cells. The effectiveness of dehydroascorbic acid might be further increased by combining it with methionine and/or methotrexate to increase the homocysteine concentration in cancer cells.
The conformation of a photoresponsive polymer bearing azo units in the main chain, poly(propionaldehyde azine) (PrAz), in tetrahydrofuran was investigated by viscosity measurements before and after trans-to-cis photoisomerization and also by the rotational isomeric state (RIS) model. Before photoisomerization (i.e., in the case of trans-pPrAz), viscosity data indicated that pPrAz took a more extended conformation than did a diene polymer analog poly(butadiene). The RIS model analysis revealed that the extended conformation of pPrAz arose mainly from the difficulty of gauche conformation around the carbon-carbon bond in the main chain. After trans-to-cis photoisomerization (i.e., in the case of pPrAz consisting of trans and cis units), viscosity data indicated that the photoisomerization led to a slight extension of the pPrAz chain. The RIS model analysis explained that the photoisomerization formed preferentially the anti-cis isomer, resulting in a larger characteristic ratio to avoid severe steric hindrance between the ethyl groups on neighboring main-chain carbon atoms.
Secretion of active molecules (e.g. bacteriocins, antibiotics, free fatty acids, hydrogen peroxide) that can control growth and/or survival of surrounding microorganisms. Bacteriocins are secreted peptides or proteins that generally kill closely related bacteria by permeabilizing their membranes or by interfering with essential enzymes (For review, see [5] ). Many of them are produced by Lactobacillus probiotic strains (lactacin B, lactacin F, nisin, etc.). Lactobacillus reuteri produces reuterin (3-hydroxypropionaldehyde), a broad-spectrum antibiotic, active against bacteria, yeast, fungi, protozoa, and viruses [7] . By lowering the local intestinal pH with lactic acid, probiotics can also modify the growth of acid-sensitive organisms [5] .
1,3-Propanediol (1,3-PD) is a compound with two hydroxyl groups and can be used to synthesize polyester, polyether and polyurethane [1] [2] [3] , etc. It is especially useful for the synthesis of polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT), which is an excellent polyester compound with many outstanding properties. 1, 3-PD is produced by chemical methods and microbial conversion. Chemical synthesis is costly, energy consuming and produces pollution, which greatly limits the application of 1, 3-PD, while microbial conversion is a more attractive approach due to the mild reaction conditions needed, simple operation, high raw material to use ratio, and high product purity. The rate limiting step is the bioconversion of glycerol to 1, 3-PD catalyzed by the enzyme 1, 3-propanediol oxidoreductase (PDOR, EC 1.1.1.202), which directly hydrogenates 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 1, 3-PD and is encoded by the dhaT gene.
Bacterial microcompartments are a class of proteinaceous organelles comprising a 12 characteristic protein shell enclosing a set of enzymes. Compartmentalization can prevent escape of 13 volatile or toxic intermediates, prevent off-pathway reactions, and create private cofactor pools. 14 Encapsulation in synthetic microcompartment organelles will enhance the function of heterologous 15 pathways, but to do so, it is critical to understand how to control diffusion in and out of the 16 microcompartment organelle. To this end, we explored how small differences in the shell protein structure 17 result in changes in the diffusion of metabolites through the shell. We found that the ethanolamine 18 utilization (Eut) protein EutM properly incorporates into the 1,2-propanediol utilization (Pdu) 19 microcompartment, altering native metabolite accumulation and the resulting growth on 1,2-propanediol 20 as the sole carbon source. Further, we identified a single pore-lining residue mutation that confers the 21 same phenotype as substitution of the full EutM protein, indicating that small molecule diffusion through 22 the shell is the cause of growth enhancement. Finally, we show that the hydropathy index and charge of 23 pore amino acids are important indicators to predict how pore mutations will affect growth on 1,2-24 propanediol, likely by controlling diffusion of one or more metabolites. This study highlights the success 25 of two strategies to engineer microcompartment control over metabolite transport: altering the existing 26 shell protein pore via mutation of the pore-lining residues, and generating chimeras using shell proteins 27 with the desired pores. 28 Keywords: Bacterial microcompartment, Protein shell assembly, Protein pore diffusion, Metabolosome, 29 Salmonella enterica, 1,2-propanediol 30 Bacterial microcompartments (MCPs) are a prokaryotic form of cellular organization consisting 31 of a protein shell used to enhance pathways by encapsulation. MCP-associated pathways include those 32 found in hosts across many bacterial phyla for metabolism of niche carbon sources, such as 1,2-33 propanediol (1,2-PD), ethanolamine, and ethanol (involving Pdu, Eut, and Etu MCPs, respectively), and 34 those found in cyanobacteria and chemoautotrophs for carbon fixation by RuBisCo in the carboxysome. 1-4 35 Additional naturally-encapsulated pathways have been recently discovered and a summary of this topic 36 may be found in a number of review articles. 5-8 Some bacterial species have several MCP systems, 37 encoding different organelles tailored to metabolize specific substrates. 9-12 For example, two well-38 characterized model systems are found in Salmonella enterica, which can produce both the Eut and Pdu 39 MCPs from two separate operons. These enable growth on ethanolamine and 1,2-PD, respectively, which 40 are both found in the human gut. The Pdu MCP encapsulates enzymes converting 1,2-PD through a 41 propionaldehyde intermediate into either 1-propanol or propionate (Figure 1a), while the Eut MCP 42 similarly converts ethanolamine through an acetaldehyde intermediate into ethanol and acetyl phosphate. 43 The benefits of encapsulating a pathway include preventing the escape or toxicity of intermediates as well 44 as cycling of cofactors. 13-17 45 The S. enterica Pdu MCP assembly is an irregular polyhedron 150-200 nm in diameter and is 46 enclosed by a shell composed of a few thousand copies of shell proteins of several types. 18 There are eight 47
The central pores of MCP shell proteins are implicated in the transport of small molecule 52 substrates and products across the shell. 22, 23 For instance, Pdu MCP shell protein PduA is abundant in the 53 shell and is suggested to be involved in the selective transport of 1,2-PD. 23 Specifically, occlusion of its 54 pore by PduA S40GSG , PduA S40L , PduA S40C , and PduA S40Q mutations lead to growth defects that are rescued 55 by high 1,2-PD concentrations, while the PduA S40A mutation increased the escape of propionaldehyde. 23 56
The genome of the white rot fungus Pycnoporus cinnabarinus includes a large number of genes encoding enzymes implicated in lignin degradation. Among these, three genes are predicted to encode glyoxal oxidase, an enzyme previously isolated from Phanerochaete chrysosporium. The glyoxal oxidase of P. chrysosporium is physiologically coupled to lignin-oxidizing peroxidases via generation of extracellular H 2 O 2 and utilizes an array of aldehydes and ␣-hydroxycarbonyls as the substrates. Two of the predicted glyoxal oxidases of P. cinnabarinus, GLOX1 (PciGLOX1) and GLOX2 (PciGLOX2), were heterologously produced in Aspergillus niger strain D15#26 (pyrG negative) and purified using immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography, yielding 59 and 5 mg of protein for PciGLOX1 and PciGLOX2, respectively. Both proteins were approximately 60 kDa in size and N-glycosylated. The optimum temperature for the activity of these enzymes was 50°C, and the optimum pH was 6. The enzymes retained most of their activity after incubation at 50°C for 4 h. The highest relative activity and the highest catalytic efficiency of both enzymes occurred with glyoxylic acid as the substrate. The two P. cinnabarinus enzymes generally exhibited similar substrate preferences, but PciGLOX2 showed a broader substrate specificity and was significantly more active on 3-phenylpropionaldehyde.
This talk presents results from the visible photon initiated, Ni + induced decarbonylation reaction of propionaldehyde. Here a rather unique energy dependent behavior of the measured rate constants was observed and attributed to a dynamic competition between parallel reaction coordinates available to the photo-excited precursor. RRKM calculations in concert with high level DFT is used to support and further experimental results.
Carbonylation synthesis of ethylene is a typical atom economy reaction,which is the synthesis method of propionaldehyde,propionic acid,and propionate.This reaction is of great significance in making the most of resources.The research progress in synthesis of propionaldehyde,propionic acid,methyl propionate and polyketide is reviewed.The development prospect is proposed as well.
Abstract 1. 1. When NAD + was reduced by glyceraldehyde in the presence of glyceraldehydephosphate dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.12), the disappearance of NAD + (measured in acid extracts) at first exceeded the appearance of NADH (measured in alkali extracts). Eventually, the two values agreed. 2. 2. The material formed in addition to NADH during the reduction of NAD + absorbed at 340 mμ to about the same extent as NADH. It was also formed with propionaldehyde as substrate, but not with acetaldehyde or glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate. 3. 3. In addition to NADH and the other compound absorbing at 340 mμ the alkali extracts contained a compound analysing as NAD + by the alcohol dehydrogenase method, but differing from NAD + in its greater resistance to boiling alkali and to NAD + nucleosidase. 4. 4. This alkali-stable NAD + was formed rapidly, its concentration greatly exceeding that of both 340-mμ absorbing compounds in the first stages of the enzyme-catalysed reaction. It was formed with all substrates tested. Its concentration did not exceed the amount of NAD + which can be found by the enzyme. 5. 5. An increased absorbancy at 260 mμ was observed during the initial stages of the reaction. 6. 6. Evidence is presented indicating that the product of the enzymic oxidation of glyceraldehyde by NAD + in the presence of phosphate is 1-phosphoglycericacid. 7. 7. NAD + was required for the oxidation of NADH by acetyl phosphate or 1,3-diphosphoglyceric acid catalysed by the enzyme. 8. 8. The structure of the alkali-stable NAD + is not known. 9. 9. The compound absorbing at 340 mμ is probably the C-4 addition compound of NAD + and 1-phosphoglyceric acid. 10. 10. On the basis of these results, a mechanism of action of glyceraldehydephosphate dehydrogenase is proposed.
The rhodium complex (–RhCl(CO)2) coordinatively bonded to the phosphine group on polystyrene coated over silica gel is an efficient catalyst for hydroformylation of olefins at 100°C at 1 atm in vapor phase. The rate expression of propionaldehyde formation was R = k[H2][C2H4][CO]−0.5.
Oxidized spermine, an iminoaldehyde (N,N'-bis (3-propionaldehyde) 1,4-diaminobutane), is a non-competitive inhibitor of fructolysis by human spermatozoa. The inhibition constant is about 0.3 mM. In experiments with [U-14C]fructose the iminoaldehyde caused a more pronounced depression of the formation of CO2 than of lactate. The iminoaldehyde was without influence on the conversion of fructose to lactate by cell-free extracts of spermatozoa, but it markedly decreased the uptake of fructose and lactate by spermatozoa. These findings strongly suggest that inhibition of the fructose metabolism of intact spermatozoa was due to interaction of the iminoaldehyde with sperm membranes and not to inhibition of any enzyme of the glycolytic pathway. Several aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes were also tested for their ability to inhibit sugar utilization of human spermatozoa: only n-hexanal exerted an inhibitory effect, the extent of which approached that of oxidized spermine.
Investigation was carried out about the aroma constituents of “KOGYOKU” apples. After ethereal extraction and fractional distillation, 23 g of neutral oil was obtained from 21.7 kg of commercial natural flavour essence. Carbonyl compounds remained mostly in aqueous phase. The yield was 0.0007% of the original fruits in weight basis.The following compounds were isolated; ethyl alcohol, n-propyl alcohol, n-butyl alcohol, isobutyl alcohol, n-amyl alcohol, (–)-2-methyl butanol, n-hexyl alcohol, hexene-3-ol, n-propyl acetate, n-butyl acetate, n-amyl acetate, n-hexyl acetate, ethyl caproate, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, n-propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, 2-hexenal, nonyl aldehyde, isovaleric acid, caproic acid, benzoic acid, and an unknown α,β-unsaturated acid.
A novel biphasic approach has been proposed for the tandem synthesis of methacrolein from ethylene via hydroformylation and subsequent aldol reaction with formaldehyde. The two catalysts used, viz. one catalyzing hydroformylation of ethylene to propionaldehyde and the other for the aldol condensation of propionaldehyde with formaldehyde are incompatible with each other. The Rh-complex (hydroformylation catalyst) deactivates the aldolisation catalyst in the initial phase of the reaction, and thus prohibits the aldol condensation reaction. In this paper, a strategy of segregation of these two incompatible catalysts in two separate phases is used, which prevents the deactivation of the aldolisation catalyst, resulting in an active and stable catalyst package for the tandem synthesis of methacrolein with high selectivity (∼95%). This catalyst package has been recycled for five times without any loss in activity or selectivity.
Classified as a distinct species in 1980, Lactobacillus reuteri strains have been used in probiotic formulations for intestinal and urogenital applications. In the former, the primary mechanism of action of L. reuteri SD2112 (ATCC 55730) has been purported to be its ability to produce the antibiotic 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), also known as reuterin. In the vagina, it has been postulated that probiotic Lactobacillus reuteri RC-14 does not require reuterin production but mediates a restoration of the normal microbiota via hydrogen peroxide, biosurfactant, lactic acid production, and immune modulation. The aim of the present study was to determine whether strain RC-14 produced reuterin. Using PCR and DNA dot blot analyses, numerous Lactobacillus species, including RC-14, were screened for the presence of the gene encoding the large subunit of glycerol dehydratase (gldC), the enzyme responsible for reuterin production. In addition, lactobacilli were grown in glycerol-based media and both high-performance liquid chromatography and a colorimetric assay were used to test for the presence of reuterin. L. reuteri RC-14 was determined to be negative for gldC sequences, as well as for the production of reuterin when cultured in the presence of glycerol. These findings support that the probiotic effects of L. reuteri RC-14, repeatedly demonstrated during numerous studies of the intestine and vagina, are independent of reuterin production.
Hydrated and anhydrous rhodium oxides, Rh/sub 2/O/sub 3/ 5H/sub 2/O and Rh/sub 2/O/sub 3/ crystallites, were used as catalysts for the hydrogenation of CO at 6 atm and in the range of 250 to 350/sup 0/C. The anhydrous oxide reduced to metallic rhodium rapidly, while the hydrated oxide was quite stable under the reaction conditions. The hydrated oxide produces a high concentration of oxygenated hydrocarbons, mostly acetaldehyde in addition to C/sub 2/ to C/sub 5/ alkenes and methane, in contrast to the unsupported metal which is a mediocre methanation catalyst. The activation energy for the formation of all of the products is 26 +- 2 kcal/mole indicating that they are likely to be produced from a common precursor intermediate, C/sub x/H/sub y/. The addition of ethylene to CO and H/sub 2/ results in the conversion of the olefin to propionaldehyde. This carbonylation reaction was not observed on the rhodium metal. The slower rates of hydrogenation on the oxide and its ability to insert CO into the C/sub t/H/sub y/ intermediates appear to be responsible for the changed product distribution in the CO/H/sub 2/ reaction. Electron spectroscopy studies indicate the presence of patches of oxide and metal both participate in themore » reaction and control the production distribution.« less
After in vitro incubation of di-n-butylnitrosamine with rat liver microsomes in the presence of the necessary cofactors butyraldehyde has been identified as a reaction product together with smaller amounts of propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde.
1. N-Hydroxyamphetamine and N-hydroxymetharnphetamine, metabolic intermediates of amphetamine and methamphetamine, showed no reactivity towards endogeneous protein, amino acids, nucleic acids and fatty acids. In contrast, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde reacted well with N-hydroxyamphetamine and slightly with N-hydroxymethamphetamine under mild conditions (pH 7.4, 37°C).2. Two products were isolated from the reaction mixture of acetaldehyde and N-hydroxyamphetamine. These were characterized as N-[(1-methyl-2-phenyl)ethyl]ethani-mine N-oxide and N-[(1-methyl-2-phenyl)ethyl]butenimine N-oxide by mass and n.m.r. spectrometries.3. N-[(1-Methyl-2-phenyl)ethyl]ethanimine N-oxide was formed by incubating methamphetamine with liver 9000 g supernatants of rats and guinea-pigs. The butenimine N-oxide derivative, however, could not be detected as a metabolite of methamphetamine in vitro.4. N-[(1-Methyl-2-phenyl)ethyl]ethanimine N-oxide was also detected as a urinary metabolite of methamphetamine in ra...
High molecular weight crystalline poly(carbomethoxyethyl)oxymethylene was prepared from β-carbomethoxypropionaldehyde with the use of organometallic compounds. The characterization, fractionation, x-ray analysis, and viscosity measurement were carried out. Degradation by hydrochloric acid gave a highly crystalline but soluble polymer of a lower molecular weight. It was interesting to note the high solubility character of the polymer in organic solvents in contrast to the poor solubility of the isomeric poly(acetoxyethyl)oxymethylene. From the relationship among the intrinsic viscosity, Huggins' constant, and the solubility parameter of solvent, the solubility parameter of the polymer was determined to be 9.3 (cal/ml)1/2.
A method is described for the indirect spectrophotometric determination of aldicarb (Temik)[2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-methylcarbamoyl oxime] at trace levels in aqueous samples. The procedure starts with nucleophilic cleavage of aldicarb on a small column packed with a strongly basic anion exchanger, also providing quantitative sorption of the resulting oximate. Subsequent addition of sulphuric acid results in the in situ formation and elution of hydroxylamine, later used to reduce quantitatively an equivalent amount of FeIII to FeII. FeII is determined spectrophotometrically via the formation of the red FeII-bathophenanthroline complex. Elution recoveries were virtually 100% with standard deviations of less than 1% for the detection of 2.5 × 10–6M aldicarb, pre-concentrating 200 ml of a 1 µg ml–1 analyte solution. Larger sample volumes permit pre-concentration factors of up to 100. Thus, 500-ml water samples were spiked to contain 25 ng ml–1(initial concentration) of either aldicarb, aldicarb sulphoxide, aldicarb sulphone or methomyl. After 25-fold pre-concentration, analyte recoveries were 95% or better using the indirect spectrophotometric determination.
In normal spinal cats in which both adrenal veins were ligated, the intravemuous injection of sympathomimetic aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldeiyde-10 to 20 mg/kg) produced a typical elevation of the blood pressure and contraction of the nictitating membrane. These responses were not abolished by hexamethonium although the action of nicotine was. ::: ::: In cats treated with reserpine to deplete them of their catecholamines, made spinal and with both adrenal veins ligated, the sympathomimetic aldehydes caused a fall in blood pressure and no contraction of the nictitating membrance. In the normal animal the sympathomimetic aldehydes appear to exert a part of their action by the release of catecholamines from tissue stores other than the adrenal medulla. The identity of the released amine has not been studied. ::: ::: The releasing action of the aldehydes appears to differ from that of compounds such as tyramine and phenylethylamin Cocaine potentiates the aldehyde sympathomimetic responses but depresses the responses to tyramine and phenylethylamine. Further, infusions of epinephrine or norepinephrine in reserpine-treated animals will restore the pressor respomuse and the action on the nictitating membrane of agents such as tyramine and phenylethylamine while the response to the aldehydes after such infusions is unchanged.
Abstract The metabolism of trans -4-hydroxy-2-hexenal ( t -4HH) was compared with that of propionaldehyde (PAL) and trans -2-hexenal ( t -2H). Kinetic experiments with hepatic cytosol as a source for aldehyde dehydrogenase(s) (ALDH) (E.C. 1.2.1.3) resulted in linear Lineweaver-Burk plots for both t -4HH and t -2H, while PAL produced biphasic plots. Values of 43 and 3 μ m were obtained for the apparent K m values for t -4HH and t -2H, respectively, with the two apparent K m s for PAL being 5 μ m and 0.8 m m . DEAE-cellulose chromatography of cytosol isolated two peaks capable of oxidizing PAL, but only one peak was able to metabolize t -4HH. Unlike cytosol, mitochondria produced biphasic Lineweaver-Burk plots for t -4HH with two estimated K m s of 52 μ m and 0.2 m m . The majority of activity for the oxidation of t -4HH, like PAL, was localized in the cytosolic fraction. This study indicates that ALDH(s) may play an important role in the detoxification of the pyrrolizidine alkaloid metabolite t -4HH, as well as other 4-hydroxyalkenals that arise from membrane lipid peroxidation.
Alkylations of aldehydes via reaction of the magnesioenamine salt of an aldehyde: 2,2-dimethyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: intermediate: N-(2-methylpropylidene)-tert-butylamine ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 2,2-dimethyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: byproduct: 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: alkylation, C-alkylation; ::: coupling; ::: Grignard and related reactions; ::: ethylmagnesium bromide, preparation of; ::: tetrahydrofuran; ::: bubbler, mercury; ::: condenser, for low-boiling liquids
1. ::: ::: A study was made of the hydrosilylation of propionaldehyde by triethylsilane in the presence of hexachloroplatinic acid. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The addition of triethylsilane proceeds both at the triple bond and at the carbonyl group with the formation of a mixture ofα-andβ-silyl acetylenic aldehydes and ethers. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The hydrosilylation of silyl-substituted aeroleins in the presence of H2PtCl6 proceeds in the 1,4 position.
A triazine ring derivatized with morpholine, an N-alkyl-N'-BOC-hydrazine (alkyl=isopropyl or benzyl) and the diethylacetal of glycinylpropionaldehyde undergoes spontaneous dimerization in good yields upon acid-catalyzed deprotection. The resulting 24-member macrocycles can be characterized by NMR spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, and single crystal X-ray diffraction. In the solid state, both homodimers adopt a taco-like conformation. Although each shows π-π stacking between the triazine rings, different patterns of hydrogen bonds emerge. The crystal structure of the isopropyl dimer shows that it includes two molecules of trifluoracetic acid per macrocycle. The trifluoroacetate anion charge balances the protonated triazines, which engage in bifurcated hydrogen bonds with the carbonyl acceptor of the distant glycine. This carbonyl also forms a hydrogen bond with the NH of the proximate glycine. The crystal structure of the benzyl derivative does not include trifluoracetic acid. Instead, two hydrogen bonds form, each between a glycine NH and the lone pair of the C=N nitrogen of the hydrazine group. In the solid state, both molecules present the alkyl side chains and morpholine groups in close proximity. A heterodimer is accessible in approximately statistical yields-along with both homodimers-by mixing the two protected monomers prior to subjecting them to deprotection.
The dissertation is divided into two parts: preparation of new types of heterocycles bearing coumarin moieties via intramolecular Wittig reactions as key steps (part I) and development of organocatalytic Michael addition reactions of cyclohexanone or propionaldehyde towards the designed Michael acceptors with coumarin moieties (part II). In part I, three kinds of designed coumarin derivatives as Michael acceptors are proposed and successfully react with a wide variety of acid chlorides, tributylphosphine, and triethylamine via intramolecular Wittig reactions to provide functional furo[3,4-c]coumarins, furo[3,2-c]coumarins, and furyl coumarins (Figure 1). In part II, investigation of organocatalytic Michael addition reactions of cyclohexanone or propionaldehyde towards the designed Michael acceptors with coumarin moieties is carried out. A new type of Michael adducts with high stereoselectivities (up to 20:1 dr, 91% ee) and good yields (up to 80% yield) can be generated starting from cyclohexanone and Michael acceptors with coumarin as the core structure. While propionaldehyde, instead of cyclohexanone, is employed in organocatalytic Michael addition reactions with Michael acceptors bearing coumarin moieties, the Michael adducts can further undergo oxidation reactions with PCC to afford a new class of functional lactone derivatives with two stereogenetic centers.
The stability mechanism of heat-sensitive materials is studied,it show that the temperature and heating-time is the important influence factor for heat-sensitive materials such as acrolein and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde,using combination column internals can increase the distillation ability to 150%,the tower top temperature decreased 4-8℃,the tower bottom temperature decreased 5-10℃,the tower pressure dropped 2-6 kPa,and then decrease the polymerization possibility of acrolein and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde.
Abstract Four major ALDH isozymes have been identified in human tissues using starch gel electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing. The isozyme bands have been termed as ALDH I, II, III and IV according to their decreasing electrophoretic migration and increasing isoelectric point. The isozymes have been partially purified via preparative isoelectric focusing. Kinetic characteristics of ALDH I and II were found to be quite similar to ALDH enzyme 2 and enzyme 1 described earlier by Greenfield and Pietruszko (Biochem Biophys Acta, 483 35–45 1977). ALDH III and IV showed a very high Km for propionaldehyde (1.0–1.5 mM at pH 9.5) and were not inhibited by disulfiram at pH 9.5. A variant phenotype of ALDH which lacked in isozyme I was detected in various tissues from Japanese individuals. Comparative kinetic properties of normal and variant enzyme are given.
The dimerization of methyl acrylate to dimethyl α-methyleneglutarate by the action of tributylphosphine in the absence of a solvent was investigated. Methyl α-methylene-Β-hydroxypentanoate was obtained with a moderate yield by the condensation of propionaldehyde with methyl acrylate catalyzed by triphenylphosphine or 1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane and initiated by high pressure. In the last of these data a three-stage stereospecific synthesis of dominicalures 1 and 2 (components of the aggregation pheromone of the grain beetle) was realized from sec-amyl acrylate and propionaldehyde or isobutyraldehyde.
Acute addition of ethanol or acetaldehyde to the isolated, perfused rat liver leads to an increase in ethane and n-pentane release. These volatile hydrocarbons are known to originate from the peroxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids. The effects are half-maximal at 0.5 mM ethanol or 20 microM acetaldehyde in the entering perfusate. Propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde are also able to elicit ethane release. Pargyline and disulfiram, inhibitors of aldehyde oxidation, inhibited the extra ethane release in all cases. The inhibitory effect of pargyline is suppressed during addition of metyrapone. The study indicates that the oxidation of acetaldehyde and not of ethanol itself is the step responsible for increased ethane formation by the perfused rat liver during ethanol infusion.
[11C]Nitromethane was prepared by modifying previously published procedures. Nitrogen oxides contaminating the [11C]nitromethane were removed by a heated sodium carbonate plug. An asymmetric nitroaldol reaction was performed using a lanthanum–lithium–(R)-binol (LLB) complex as catalyst. 1-Nitro-4-phenylbutan-2-ol was produced in a reaction between [11C]nitromethane and 3-phenyl-propionaldehyde in 16% enantiomeric excess (e.e.) and a radiochemical yield of 23%. Copyright © 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The invention discloses 3-substituted phenyl propionaldehyde thiosemicarbazone compounds, and a preparation method and application thereof. The structures of the compounds are shown as a formula I, wherein R is any one of 4-F, 4-Cl, 2-Cl, 2,4-Cl2, 4-OCH3, 2-OCH3, 3-OCH3, 4-OC2H5, 4-NO2, 2-NO2, 4-CH3, 4-isopropyl, 3-Br and 2,4-dimethoxy. The preparation method comprises the following step of performing condensation reaction on substituted phenyl propionaldehyde shown as a formula II with thiosemicarbazide in an organic solvent in the presence of an acidic compound to obtain the 3-substituted phenyl propionaldehyde thiosemicarbazone compounds. The research on inhibition activity of heliothis armigera tyrosinase by the compounds of the formula I proves that the compounds have better inhibition effect on the heliothis armigera tyrosinase and can serve as an insect tyrosinase inhibitor for preventing and controlling pests.
The nematicides Temik (2, methyl 2 (methylthio) propionaldehyde 0-(methylcarbamol) oxime), Lannate (S methyl N-((methylcarbamoyl) oxy) thioacetimidate), ethylene dibromide, and dibromochloropropane were tested for control of the cereal cyst nematode (Heterodera avenae Woll.) in field experiments with wheat in the 1968-69 season at Sea Lake, Victoria. All chemical treatments significantly reduced white cyst production, and four of the treatments increased grain yield, and reduced nematode carry-over. Temik broadcast at 11 kg a.i. per hectare provided the best nematode control and more than trebled grain yield. Lannate (13 kg a.i. per hectare) was almost as effective. Dibromochloropropane was an effective nematicide, but at 65 1 per hectare was phytotoxic.
A multi-channel piezoelectric (PZ) quartz crystal gas sensor coated with various organic adsorbents and a home-made microcomputer interface for data processing have been fabricated for the detection of various organic vapors such as methanol, formic acid, propionaldehyde, carbon disulfide and N,N-dimethyl formamide which are generally used as solvents in the polymer industry. The home-made computer interface includes a digital Altera and an Intel-8255 data processing system. The Principal Component Analysis (PCA) method was employed to analyze the frequency response signals from each channel with different coating materials and was applied to select the appropriate coating materials for these organic vapors. A dataset for the multi-channel sensor with 29 PZ quartz crystals for these organic vapors was collected. Six representative coating materials such as C60-polyphenyl acetylene (C60-PPA), polyethylene glycol, Nafion, triphenyl phosphine, cryptand-22 and polyvinyl pyrrolidone were selected after comparing the correlation between the 29 coating materials and the first four principal component (PC) factors of the PCA analysis. The 5 organic vapors can be effectively distinguished clearly by the six-channel piezoelectric crystal sensor and which can be obviously found from the PCA Scores Map. Furthermore, different organic vapors tend to have distinguishing profile discrimination maps with the six channel PZ crystal sensor. The profile discrimination maps can be applied as fingerprints for these organic molecules. The six-channel PZ crystal sensor has quite good detection limits for these organic vapors. Furthermore, the multivariate linear regression (MLR) analysis was also employed to compute the concentrations of methanol and carbon disulfide in the mixture of organic vapors.
Classified as a distinct species in 1980, Lactobacillus reuteri strains have been used in probiotic formulations for intestinal and urogenital applications. In the former, the primary mechanism of action of L. reuteri SD2112 (ATCC 55730) has been purported to be its ability to produce the antibiotic 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), also known as reuterin. In the vagina, it has been postulated that probiotic Lactobacillus reuteri RC-14 does not require reuterin production, but mediates a restoration of the normal microbiota via hydrogen peroxide, biosurfactant, lactic acid production and immune modulation. The aim of the present study was to determine if strain RC-14 produced reuterin. Using Polymerase Chain Reaction and DNA dot-blot analyses, numerous Lactobacillus species including RC-14 were screened for the presence of the gene encoding the large subunit of glycerol dehydratase (gldC), the enzyme responsible for reuterin production. In addition, lactobacilli were grown in glycerol-based media and both High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) and a colourimetric assay were employed to test for the presence of reuterin. L. reuteri RC-14 was determined to be negative for gldC sequences as well as for the production of reuterin when cultured in the presence of glycerol. These findings support that the probiotic effects of L. reuteri RC-14, repeatedly demonstrated during numerous studies of the intestines and vagina, are independent of reuterin production.
It is well established that polyamines (putrescine, spermidine and spermine) are necessary for cell growth [1, 2] . However, the addition of spermidine or spermine to culture medium containing ruminant serum inhibits cellular proliferation [3, 4] . This effect is caused by the products of oxidation of polyamines that are generated by serum amine oxidase [5] . Ruminant serum amine oxidase catalyses the oxidative deamination of spermidine and spermine to produce, respectively, an aminoaldehyde [N -(4-aminobutyl)-aminopropionaldehyde] or an aminodialdehyde [N,N -bis(3-propionaldehyde)-1,4-butanediamine], with H 2 O 2 and ammonia [6] . Acrolein (CH 2 =CHCHO) is then spontaneously formed from these two aminoaldehydes [7] . Spermine is oxidized as follows: 
A practical and cost-effective procedure has been developed for the synthesis of 7-methyl-2-naphthalenecarbonitrile, the precursor of the anticoagulant agents YM-60828 or YM-96765. This new route generates the key intermediate in only two steps from readily available 3-cyanopropionaldehyde dimethyl acetal and m-tolualdehyde, without requiring chromatographic purification. The synthesis involves condensation of the cyano derivative with the aldehyde and subsequent cyclodehydration.
Abstract The gas-phase oxidehydration (ODH) of 1,2-propanediol to propionic acid has been studied as an intermediate step in the multi-step transformation of bio-sourced glycerol into methylmethacrylate. The reaction involves the dehydration of 1,2-propanediol into propionaldehyde, which occurs in the presence of acid active sites, and a second step of oxidation of the aldehyde to the carboxylic acid. The two reactions were carried out using a cascade strategy and multifunctional catalysts, made of W-Nb-O, W-V-O and W-Mo-V-O hexagonal tungsten bronzes, the same systems which are also active and selective in the ODH of glycerol into acrylic acid. Despite the similarities of reactions involved, the ODH of 1,2-propanediol turned out to be less selective than glycerol ODH, with best yield to propanoic acid no higher than 13%, mainly because of the parallel reaction of oxidative cleavage, occurring on the reactant itself, which led to the formation of C1-C2 compounds.
Time-resolved Fourier transform infrared emission spectroscopy is employed in the photolysis of propionaldehyde (CH3CH2CHO) at 248 nm to characterize the role of the roaming pathway. High-resolution spectra of CO are analyzed to yield a single Boltzmann rotational distribution for each vibrational level (ν = 1-4) with small rotational and large vibrational energy disposals. A roaming saddle point is found containing two far separated moieties of HCO and CH3CH2 with a weak interaction between them. Quasiclassical trajectory calculations on this configuration yield the CO energy flow behavior, consistent with the findings. The rate constant along the roaming pathway is evaluated to be larger by >1-2 orders of magnitude than those along tight transition state or three-body dissociation pathways. This work implies that the roaming mechanism plays an increasingly important role in aliphatic aldehydes as the molecular size becomes larger.
Abstract Determination of ozonation by–products using five organic compounds and secondary effluents was carried out. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, furfural, methlyglyoxal, glyoxylic acid, and pyruvic acid were detected by gas chromatography of their 2,4–dinitrophenyl–hydrazones. Acetic acid, formic acid, and propionic acid were also detected. One–sixth to one–fifth of the total COD was accounted for by the TOD summations of formaldehyde, methylglyoxal, pyruvic acid and acetic acid produced by the ozonation of secondary effluents.
Microquantitative measurements of total and of low-Km aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity with millimolar and micromolar concentrations of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were carried out on the livers of male and female rats. Lyophilized cryostat sections of liver parenchyma were microdissected along the entire sinusoidal length from the terminal afferent vessels to the terminal efferent venule. ALDH activity was measured in a microbiochemical assay using the oil-well technique with luminometric determination of NADH. On the basis of single measurements, mean values of total, low-Km and high-Km ALDH activity could be calculated and the specific distribution patterns graphically demonstrated. The two substrates acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde yielded similar values of ALDH activity, the intraacinar distribution profiles of which showed characteristic sex differences. In the liver of the male rat high-Km ALDH activity has two flat peaks in the periportal and the perivenous area, while low-Km ALDH activity is almost evenly distributed throughout the acinus. In the livers of female rats, both high-Km and low-Km ALDH activity shows a continuous gradient which decreases from the periportal to the perivenous zone (pp/pv = 1.4:1). It was therefore possible to demonstrate that the maxima of alcohol dehydrogenase activity and of low-Km ALDH activity are localized in opposite parts of the liver acinus of the female rat. This heterotopy should have consequences with respect to hepatotoxicity after alcohol ingestion.
Abstract Manganese(III)-peroxo complexes are invoked as key intermediates in the enzymatic cycles of Mn-containing enzymes, and the synthesis of reactive manganese(III)-peroxo complexes with rationally designed ligand has been of great interest in the communities of bioinorganic and biomimetic chemistry. Herein, we designed a novel pentadentate aminobenzimidazole ligand and obtained its manganese(II) complex, which was successfully applied in the synthesis of a reactive manganese(III)-peroxo complex by treatment with hydrogen peroxide in the presence of triethylamine. The manganese(III)-peroxo complex was well characterized with various spectroscopic techniques, including ultraviolet–visible (UV-vis) spectrophotometry, coldspray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (CSI-TOF MS), and continuous wave electron paramagnetic resonance (CW-EPR) spectroscopy. Besides, its reactivity in aldehyde deformylation was investigated, demonstrating second-order kinetics in the reaction with 2-phenylpropionaldehyde and affording acetophenone as the sole product.
Glycerol dehydratase(GDHt) is a key rate-limiting enzyme in the process of producing 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde(3-HPA) and 1,3-propanediol(1,3-PD) by microbial fermentation.In this paper,the research in the structure and functions,catalytic mechanism and genetic engineering of GDHt were reviewed.The research progresses of GDHt were also discussed and some suggestions were given in the end.
Vacuum-UV (VUV) absorption and two-photon laser photoionization spectra of propionaldehyde vapour have been recorded at ambient temperature in the region of the 3s←n Rydberg transition and have been compared with resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization (REMPI) spectra of the jet-cooled species. The vibrational analysis of the spectra has confirmed that the (n,3s) Rydberg state has cis and gauche conformational minima and that the electronic transition has two separate origins. An energy difference of 1260 cm ::: −1 ::: has been determined between the excited-state conformers, and an increase to 1290 cm ::: −1 ::: of the three-fold barrier to internal rotation of the methyl group on excitation of the (n,3s) state has been deduced. The unusual temperature dependence of the spectra has been explained by transitions from higher thermally populated levels of the aldehyde torsional vibration of the gauche conformers.
Pyrophosphate ions activate the steady-state rate of oxidation of propionaldehyde by sheep liver cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase at alkaline pH values. The steps in the mechanism governing the release of NADH from terminal enzyme. NADH complexes have been shown to be rate-limiting at pH 7.6 [MacGibbon, Buckley & Blackwell (1977) Biochem J. 165, 455-462]. These steps are shown to be also rate-limiting at more alkaline pH values, and it is through an acceleration of these steps that pyrophosphate ions exert their activation effect.
Union Carbide UC-21149, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methyIcarbamoyl) oxime, applied as a sidedressing to 4 to 5-acre plots of cotton provided effective control of Anthonomus grandis Boheman for several weeks. Mortality of released laboratory-reared boll weevils indicated control for 2-4 weeks; the number of punctured squares and adult boll weevils, sampled with a tractor-mounted insect-collecting machine, indicated control for 3-6 weeks. Two applications of 2 lb UC-21149 per acre applied 9-10 days apart were effective for 4-5 weeks, while a single application was effective for 2-4 weeks. More bollworm, Heliothis zea (Boddic), and tobacco budworm, H. virescens (F.), and fewer beneficial insects were found in treated than in the untreated plots.
Abstract The catalytic center activity for the oxidation of glyceraldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde by glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was not observed to be appreciably affected by the degree of saturation of the enzyme with NAD+. A small increased in intrinsic rate on going from E( NAD + ) I to E( NAD + ) 4 was noted for glyceraldehyde (1.1 fold) and a small decrease in intrinsic rate for acetaldehyde (1.4 fold) and propionaldehyde (1.2 fold). These small changes, contrasted with the approx. 1·107-fold decrease in ligand affinity induced by the binding of NAD+, are consistent with the induced fit model of allosterism. The initial rate of oxidation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate by glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, in the presence of arsenate, decreased rapidly within the first few percent of the reaction. Investigation of the end product inhibition of this reaction suggests that the accumulation of 1-arseno-3-phosphoglycerate is partly responsible for the observed reduction in rate, and thus that the spontaneous hydrolysis of this mixed anhydride may not be rapid relative to the rate of catalysis.
Abstract The subcellular distribution of hepatic aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity was determined in Buffalo, Fischer 344, Long-Evans, Sprague-Dawley, Wistar and Purdue/Wistar rats. These subcellular distributions were compared to the distribution of mouse and rabbit liver ALDH. For the six rat strains, at millimolar propionaldehyde concentrations, NAD-dependent ALDH activity was associated primarily with mitochondria (51%) and microsomes (30%). At millimolar acetaldehyde concentrations, NAD-dependent ALDH was primarily mitochondrial (up to 80%). Less than 1% of total NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase was found in the cytosol. The highly inbred Purdue/ Wistar line possessed significantly less acetaldehyde-NAD ALDH activity as well as less total NADP-dependent ALDH activity than the other strains. In CD-1 mouse liver, millimolar K m NAD-dependent ALDH activity was found in mitochondria (60%), microsomes (23%) and cytosol (5%). In rabbit liver, millimolar K m NAD-dependent ALDH was also distributed among mitochondria (36%), microsomes (19%) and cytosol (28%). At micromolar substrate concentrations, mitochondria possessed the majority of rat, mouse and rabbit liver ALDH activity. In all three species, NADP-dependent ALDH activity was found predominantly in the microsomal fraction (up to 65%). The cytosol possessed little NADP-dependent ALDH in any species. We conclude that there are significant species differences in the subcellular distribution of aldehyde dehydrogenase between rat, mouse and rabbit liver. In all three species, mitochondria and microsomes possessed the majority of hepatic aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. However, the cytosol of mouse and rabbit liver also made a significant contribution to total ALDH activity. For the six rat strains examined, liver cytosol possessed little or no ALDH activity.
The diverse community of microbes present in the human gut has emerged as an important factor for cancer risk, potentially by altering exposure to chemical carcinogens. In the present study, human gut bacteria were tested for their capacity to transform the carcinogenic heterocyclic amine 2-Amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MelQx). Eubacterium hallii, Lactobacillus reuteri, and Lactobacillus rossiae were able to convert MelQx to a new microbial metabolite characterized on the basis of high-resolution mass spectrometry and NMR as 9-hydroxyl-2,7-dimethyl-7,9,10,11-tetrahydropyrimido[2',1':2,3]imidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MelQx-M1), resulting from conjugation with activated glycerol. Acrolein derived from the decomposition of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which is the product of bacterial glycerol/diol dehydratase activity, was identified as the active compound responsible for the formation of MelQx-M1. A complex human gut microbial community obtained from invitro continuous intestinal fermentation was found to also transform MelQx to MelQx-M1. MelQx-M1 had slightly reduced cytotoxic potency toward human colon epithelial cells invitro, and diminished mutagenic potential toward bacteria after metabolic activation. As bacterially derived acrolein also transformed 2 other HCAs, namely 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine and 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline, these results generalize the capacity of gut microbiota to detoxify HCAs in the gut, potentially modulating cancer risk.
Although the de novo biosynthetic mechanism of 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) in glycerol-fermenting microorganisms is still unclear, the propanediol utilization protein (PduP) of Lactobacillus species has been suggested to be a key enzyme in this regard. To verify this hypothesis, a pduP gene from Lactobacillus reuteri was cloned and expressed, and the encoded protein was characterized. Recombinant L. reuteri PduP exhibited broad substrate specificity including 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and utilized both NAD+ and NADP+ as a cofactor. Among various aldehyde substrates tested, the specific activity was highest for propionaldehyde, at pH 7.8 and 37 °C. The Km and Vmax values for propionaldehyde in the presence of NAD+ were 1.18 mM and 0.35 U mg−1, respectively. When L. reuteri pduP was overexpressed in Klebsiella pneumoniae, 3-HP production remarkably increased as compared to the wild-type strain (from 0.18 g L−1 to 0.72 g L−1) under shake-flask culture conditions, and the highest titer (1.38 g L−1 3-HP) was produced by the recombinant strain under batch fermentation conditions in a bioreactor. This is the first report stating the enzymatic properties of PduP protein and the probable role in biosynthesis of 3-HP in glycerol fermentation.
In the present study, we investigated the effects of hexamethonium, a ganglionic nicotinic receptor blocking agents and yohimbine, an alpha2-adrenergic antagonist, on reduction of ethanol absorption in presence of high acetaldehyde concentration. Hexamethonium had no effect, whereas yohimbine by itself reduced ethanol absorption, but no additional effects were observed with presence of high acetaldehyde. Propionaldehyde had an inhibitory action on intestinal 1-propanol absorption. As both yohimbine and propionaldehyde are associated with vagus nerve activation, these results indirectly support the hypothesis that a cholinergic mechanism through vagus nerve activation is responsible for the inhibition of intestinal ethanol absorption by acetaldehyde.
6-10) Earlier syntheses of compound 1 are multi-step procedures 6, 8) or require high temperature (flame-heating or heating to 400°C), 7, 9) and hence they are impractical and unsuitable for commercial exploitation. More recently, Yokoyama et al. have described the preparation of compound 1 in four steps, in which 2,7-dimethylnaphthalene was used as the starting material. 10) However, 2,7-dimethylnaphthalene is not readily available from commercial sources, and this method also involves a selective transformation of a symmetrical starting material to an asymmetrical target compound. These two problems contribute to decreased synthetic efficacy. Due to the high worldwide market value of factor Xa inhibitors, development of an effective synthetic procedure for the synthesis of the key precursor 1 remains as an important and challenging task. Herein, we present a practical and efficient synthesis of 7-methyl-2-naphthalenecarbonitrile (1) starting from two common, readily available starting materials: m-tolualdehyde (2) and 3-cyanopropionaldehyde dimethyl acetal (3).
Teague et al. have reported that condensation of a 3-cyanopropionaldehyde dialkyl acetal with a methoxy-activated aromatic aldehyde, followed by treatment with sulfuric acid, yields a substituted naphthalene product.
Several different reaction conditions were used in optimizing the reaction for multi-gram preparations, and the results are summarized in Chart 1. Sodium amide, 12) n-butyllithium, 13-15) a combination of di-n-butylboryl triflate and diisopropylamine, 16) potassium t-butoxide, 17) and a combination of proazaphosphatrane and magnesium sulfate 18) have been used as condensation reagents for acetonitrile with benzaldehyde. Our attention was drawn to the reaction in the presence of potassium t-butoxide, since it has the following advantages: (1) potassium t-butoxide is readily available from commercial sources, and (2) it does not cause evolution of gas from the reaction mixture. However, condensation of 3 with 2 in the presence of potassium t-butoxide followed by cyclization in 20% aqueous sulfuric acid gave compound 1 with an overall yield of 34% (Chart 1, Entry 2); hence, the application of potassium t-butoxide as a base resulted in a disappointingly low yield. In contrast, use of Bradsher's reagent as a cyclodehydration agent 19) gave good results. Cyclization of the crude coupling product 4 with aqueous hydrobromic acid in acetic acid afforded the target compound 1 with an overall yield of 66% (Chart 1, Entry 3). Moreover, the crystalline naphthalene derivative 1 precipitated from the resulting reaction mixture, and simple filtration allowed iso- A practical and cost-effective procedure has been developed for the synthesis of 7-methyl-2-naphthalenecarbonitrile, the precursor of the anticoagulant agents YM-60828 or YM-96765. This new route generates the key intermediate in only two steps from readily available 3-cyanopropionaldehyde dimethyl acetal and m-tolualdehyde, without requiring chromatographic purification. The synthesis involves condensation of the cyano derivative with the aldehyde and subsequent cyclodehydration.
Among the 19 known human ALDHs, mitochondrial ALDH2, and, to a lesser extent, cytosolic ALDH1A1 has been shown to play a major role in acetaldehyde oxidation and elimination (Vasiliou and Pappa, 2000) . Both enzymes, homotetramers with a 55-kDa subunit, exhibit low K m constants for acetaldehyde, namely 3.2 and 180 M for human ALDH2 and ALDH1A1, respectively (Klyosov et al., 1996) . The importance of ALDH2 in the clearance of acetaldehyde is exemplified in humans carrying the ALDH2*2 allele, which encodes a functional mutation (E487K) of ALDH2 and results in poor binding affinity to cofactor NAD ϩ and Ͼ90% loss of enzyme activity (Yoshida et al., 1984; Larson et al., 2005) . Compared with wild-type individuals, blood acetaldehyde levels climb 20-and 6-fold higher in homozygous and heterozygous individuals carrying this polymorphism, respectively, for equivalent levels of alcohol consumption (Crabb et al., 1989) . This causes the "alcohol flushing" syndrome characterized by the reddening of the face, neck, and, in some cases, the entire body due to dilation of capillaries (Eriksson, 2001) . Similar elevations in acetaldehyde have been observed in the Aldh2-null mice (Yu et al., 2009) . The second enzyme involved in acetaldehyde metabolism is ALDH1A1. In addition to its crucial role in retinoic acid biosynthesis (Duester, 2000) , cytosolic ALDH1A1 has been shown to be important in acetaldehyde metabolism and alcohol preference in rodent studies (Little and Petersen, 1983; Bond and Singh, 1990; Bond et al., 1991) . Human studies also report the association of ALDH1A1 variants with enzyme deficiency in white "flushers" (Eriksson, 2001) . Nevertheless, the contribution of ALDH1A1 to acetaldehyde metabolism seems to be less important in humans than in rodents, probably because rodent ALDH1A1 has a much lower K m for acetaldehyde (15 M) (Klyosov et al., 1996) . ALDH1B1, previously known as ALDH X and ALDH5, represents another mitochondrial ALDH isoenzyme. The human ALDH1B1 gene located on chromosome 9 spans a 5957-base pair region and is the only known ALDH gene with an intronless coding region (Hsu and Chang, 1991) . The ALDH1B1 gene is composed of two exons and one intron and has only one known transcript variant (Black et al., 2009 ). ALDH1B1 enzyme, like ALDH2 and ALDH1A1, is predicted to be a homotetramer; the subunit contains 517 amino acids with an Nterminal 19-residue mitochondrial lead signal. Based on peptide sequence alignment, human ALDH1B1 shares 65 and 75% homology with human ALDH1A1 and ALDH2, respectively. Northern blot analysis in human tissues has shown high levels of ALDH1B1 mRNA in the liver and testis and relatively low levels in other tissues (Hsu and Chang, 1991; Stewart et al., 1996) . ALDH1B1 has also been found to be expressed abundantly in mouse and bovine corneas (Stagos et al., 2010) , in which cells are constantly exposed to UVinduced lipid peroxidation. To date, little is known regarding the biochemical properties and physiological roles of ALDH1B1. A study using crude lysate from HuH7 hepatoma cells reported that mitochondrial ALDH1B1 contributed to the oxidation of short-chain aldehydes including acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, implying a role for ALDH1B1 in ethanol metabolism (Stewart et al., 1995) . In agreement with this report, two recent large population-based studies identified two ALDH1B1 variants that were associated with drinking behavior (A69V) and alcohol-induced hypersensitivity (A86V) in whites (Husemoen et al., 2008; Linneberg et al., 2010) . These findings strongly suggest that ALDH1B1 enzyme may be involved in ethanol detoxification and modifications in this enzyme may contribute to alcohol-related diseases. To expand our current knowledge on the catalytic properties of ALDH1B1, we cloned and purified human recombinant ALDH1B1. Different aldehydes, including acetaldehyde, were tested as substrates. In addition, we surveyed the expression profile of ALDH1B1 in multiple mouse and human tissues. This is the first report on the expression and biochemical characterization of human ALDH1B1 enzyme.
The assay system is based on the observation of Beauchamp and Fridovich (7) that the enzyme system xanthine-xanthine oxidase was capable of oxidizing methional (B-methylthiopropionaldehyde) with the generation of ethylene gas (C2H4) as an end product of this reaction. Ethylene generation was inhibited by OH" scavengers and dependent on 02'-and H202. They suggested that 02'-and H202 interacted via the Haber-Weiss reaction to generate the OH" with subsequent oxidation of methional. We have employed the modification of Heikkila et al. (8) substituting 2-keto-4-thiomethylbutyric acid (KMB) 1 for methional for the detection of OH' as outlined below.
Acrolein derived from the decomposition of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which is the product of bacterial glycerol/diol dehydratase activity, was identified as the active compound responsible for the formation of MelQx-M1. A complex human gut microbial community obtained from in vitro continuous intestinal fermentation was found to also transform MelQx to MelQx-M1. MelQx-M1 had slightly reduced cytotoxic potency toward human colon epithelial cells in vitro, and diminished mutagenic potential toward bacteria after metabolic activation. As bacterially derived acrolein also transformed 2 other HCAs, namely 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo [4,5-b]pyridine and 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline, these results generalize the capacity of gut microbiota to detoxify HCAs in the gut, potentially modulating cancer risk.
Fermentation of glycerol occurs rarely in rather different bacterial groups. It is oxidized via dihydroxyacetone to glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate and further via pyruvate to acetate, formate, CO2 and other products. The reducing equivalents may be transferred to an external electron acceptor or to the dehydration product of glycerol, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde. The final product, 1,3-propanediol, is highly specific for glycerol fermentation and cannot be obtained from any other anaerobic conversion.
Abstract The synthesis of C 2+ oxygenates from CO hydrogenation, ethylene addition to syngas, and methylene chloride addition to syngas has been studied over Rh/SiO 2 , Ni/SiO 2 , and coprecipitated Na-Mn-Ni catalysts. The formation of C 2+ oxygenates involves the insertion of CO into the adsorbed hydrocarbon species which can be produced from chlorinated hydrocarbons, olefins, and CO/H 2 . Rh/SiO 2 and Na-Mn-Ni are active for C 2 oxygenate synthesis in CO hydrogenation and exhibit a high CO insertion activity. Although Ni/SiO 2 is a methanation catalyst, the catalyst exhibited a good CO insertion activity for the conversion of CH 2 Cl 2 to acetaldehyde and for the conversion of C 2 H 4 to propionaldehyde.
The present invention relates to novel polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde relates to derivatives of alpha-amino-terminus of the protein-methoxy or pendant polyethylene glycol showing a selective reactivity to the amino group (α-amino group) - a propionaldehyde derivative of polyethylene glycol connected body amide or urethane connection between the main unit and propionaldehyde reactor, Of a straight line (linear) type represented by (Formula 2), methoxy polyethylene glycol-polyamide (amide) - propionaldehyde derivative, (III) methoxy polyethylene glycol represented by urethane (urethane) - propionaldehyde derivative and A propionaldehyde derivative-methoxy or pendant polyethylene glycol being selected from the group consisting of propionaldehyde derivative-pendant (pendant) type of polyethylene glycol represented by the following formula (the right formula of Scheme 13) - amide (amide). The derivatives are conventional polyethylene glycol having a propionaldehyde and different structures are combined to a new production method, the alpha amino terminus of the protein - it is indicated an improved selective reactivity to the amino group, was coupled to a medicinal protein increases the solubility of the ship copolymer and it can be useful to suppress the reduction of protein activity.
Methanol dehydrogenase (MDH) from Methylocystis sp. GB 25, which belongs to the group II of methanotrophic bacteria, is able to catalyse the oxidation of methanol to formate directly. The enzyme was purified 20-fold by a 5 step procedure to electrophoretic homogeneity. After cell disruption by French press, about 95% of MDH-activity was found in the soluble fraction. The relative molecular mass of the native enzyme has been estimated to be 122 kDa by gel filtration and 115 kDa by the method of Hedrick and Smith (1968). It seems to be composed of two identical subunits with a relative molecular mass of 62 kDa (estimated by SDS gel electrophoresis). The isoelectric point was found to be about 8.3. The amino terminal sequence shows a strong similarity to the alpha-chain of MDH from the facultative methylotrophic bacterium Methylobacterium extorquens AM1. PQQ, the probable prosthetic group of MDH, could be detected in the supernatant of the culture by using the apoenzyme of a membrane-bound glucose dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa but not absolutely in the absorption spectra of the enzyme after DEAE-chromatography. The purified MDH has an optimum activity at pH 9.0 and at 45 degrees C. MDH of Methylocystis sp. GB 25 oxidises only primary alcohols from methanol to heptanol and aldehydes from formaldehyde to propionaldehyde and the glutaraldehyde, respectively. The estimated Km-values show no dependence upon the chain length of substrates.
Abstract : Pseudomonas Pxy was shown to oxidize para- and meta-xylene to the corresponding toluic acids. The latter compounds were oxidized to 4- and 3-methylcatechols prior to the enzymatic fission of the aromatic nucleus. Pathways are proposed for the degradation of both xylene isomers. The genes specifying the enzymes responsible for xylene degradation are carried out on a transmissible plasmid. A Nocardia species oxidized ortho-xylene to 3,4-dimethyl catechol. The latter compound was further metabolized to propionaldehyde and pyruvic acid. A pathway is proposed for the biodegradation of ortho-xylene by this organism. Dibenzothiophene is oxidized by a mutant strain of Beijerinckia to cis-1, 2-dihydroxy-1,2-dihydrodibenzothiophene. Enzymes present in the parent organism oxidized this metabolite to 3-hydroxy-2-formylbenzothiophene which was resistant to further degradation. A pathway for the microbial degradation of dibenzothiophene is proposed. The same mutant strain of Beijerinckia oxidized 2,-3-, and 4-chlorobiphenyl to analogous cis-dihydrodiols. Each metabolite was isolated and characterized. The components of a commercial polychlorinated biphenyl, Aroclor 1221, were identified and quantified by gas chromatography - mass spectrometry. The only components in this mixture that were significantly oxidized by beijerinckia were biphenyl and its monochlorinated derivatives. (Author)
1. Resin for mixing with rubber, characterized in that it is obtained by reacting a phenol having a para-substituted alkyl group having from 1 to 18 carbon atoms with an aldehyde other than formaldehyde. ! 2. The resin for blending with rubber of claim 1, wherein the phenol having a para-substituted alkyl group having from 1 to 18 carbon atoms, is one or more phenol selected from the group consisting of p-t-butylphenol, p- t-amylphenol and p-t-octylphenol. ! 3. The resin for blending with rubber of claim 1, wherein the aldehyde is one or more aldehyde selected from the group consisting of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and paraldehyde. ! 4. The resin for blending with rubber of claim 1, wherein the phenol is used per mole of 1.0 to 6.0 moles of an aldehyde. ! 5. The resin for blending with rubber of claim 1 which has a softening point of 80 to 150 ° C. ! 6. The rubber-based composition containing the resin for mixing with the rubber defined in claim 1 and rubber. ! 7. The rubber-based composition of claim 6, further comprising one or more fillers selected from the group consisting of carbon black, silica, alumina, aluminum hydroxide, calcium carbonate, titanium oxide, magnesium silicate, talc, zinc oxide and magnesium.
The present invention relates to a method for simultaneous production of propionic acid and 3-hydroxy-1, 3-propanediol from glycerol using recombinant E. coli, In order to switch to; glycerol 3-hydroxy-propionic acid (3-hydroxypropionic acid) and 1,3-propanediol, 3-hydroxy-propionaldehyde (3-HPA 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde) which is the precursor of (1,3-propanediol) , Lactobacillus brevis An enzyme for converting 3-hydroxy propionaldehyde to propionic acid 3-hydroxy-transformed such that the expression switching; To the culture over the fed-batch culture to continuous supply of glycerol and glucose to the culture medium of recombinant E. coli from the glycerol, which is characterized there is provided a method for simultaneously producing a 3-hydroxy-propionic acid and 1,3-propanediol. NAD, 3- hydroxy-propionic acid, 1,3-propanediol, glycerol, glycerol having hydratase, glycerol having hydratase Li aektiba claim, Escherichia coli, Lactobacillus brevis, fed-batch cultivation, glucose
A cigarette (10) comprises a tobacco rod (12) and a carbon-on-tow filter (14) comprising a fiber tow (18) with flavored or unflavored carbon particles (20) distributed throughout the tow. The carbon particles have high activity in the range of 90 to 115%, preferably 95%. As mainstream smoke is drawn through the filter (14), gas phase smoke constituents are removed and flavor is released when the particles are flavored. Ventilation (24) is provided to limit the amount of tobacco being combusted during each puff and such ventilation is arranged at a location near the downstream end of the carbon-on-tow filter to lower mainstream smoke velocity through the filter. The filter achieves significant reductions in gas phase constituents of mainstream smoke, including 90% reductions or greater in at least one of 1, 3 butadiene, acrolein, isoprene, propionaldehyde, acrylonitrile, benzene, toluene, and 80% reductions or greater in acetaldehyde over extended shelf life of the cigarettes.
Initial-rate measurements and stopped-flow spectrophotometric experiments over a wide range of pH implicate an enzyme group of pKa approximately 6.6 affecting the aldehyde binding reactions. It is possible, though not proved, that the group involved is the cysteine residue involved in catalysis. Stopped-flow fluorescence studies show that a group of pKa greater than 8.5 facilitates hydrolysis of the NADH-containing acyl-enzyme species. The identity of this group is quite unknown. Studies with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde show that this substrate gives marked substrate inhibition at quite low (less than 20 microM) concentrations. The mechanism of catalysis seems to be the same as for propionaldehyde oxidation. It is argued that proton release occurs with both substrates on hydrolysis of the NADH-containing acyl-enzyme and not before hydride transfer, as has been previously suggested [Bennett, Buckley & Blackwell (1982) Biochemistry 21, 4407-4413].
The proclivity of alpha-branched N-2'-benzyl-3'-phenylpropionyl derivatives of (S)-4-benzyl-5,5-dimethyl-, (S)-4-phenyl-5,5-dimethyl-, (S)-4-isopropyl-5,5-dimethyl-, (S)-4-benzyl- and (S)-4-benzyl-5,5-diphenyl-oxazolidin-2-ones to generate directly 2-benzyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde upon hydride reduction with DIBAL is investigated. The (S)-4-benzyl-5,5-dimethyl-derivative proved optimal for inhibition of endocyclic nucleophilic attack, giving 2-benzyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde in good yield upon reduction. Application of this methodology for the asymmetric synthesis of chiral aldehydes via diastereoselective enolate alkylation of a range of (S)-N-acyl-4-benzyl-5,5-dimethyloxazolidin-2-ones to afford and array of alpha-substituted-N-acyl-5,5-dimethyloxazolidin- 2-ones (85-94% de) and subsequent reduction with DIBAL afforded directly non-racemic alpha-substituted aldehydes without loss of stereochemical integrity (87-94% ee). The extension of this protocol for the asymmetric synthesis of beta-substituted aldehydes is demonstrated, via the diastereoselective conjugate addition of a range of organocuprates to (S)-N-acyl-4-phenyl-5,5-dimethyloxazolidin-2-ones which proceeds with high diastereoselectivity (generally > 95% de). Reduction of the conjugate addition products with DIBAL gives non-racemic beta-substituted aldehydes in high yields and in high ee (generally > 95% ee). This methodology is exemplified by the asymmetric synthesis of (R)-3-isopropenylhept-6-enal, which has previously been used in the synthesis of (3Z,6R)-3-methyl-6-isopropenyl-3,9-decadien-1-yl acetate, a component of the sex pheromones of the California red scale.
Abstract This work presents a fast and simple quantitative method for impurity determination of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in poloxamer 188 by proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H NMR). The sample is dissolved in D2O with DCl and analyzed with a 600 MHz NMR spectrometer. Data processing, including filtering by convolution of spectra with a triangular function and integration, is performed in MATLAB. The repeated studies of one sample, including automatic gradient shimming and data processing, revealed a relative standard deviation (R.S.D.) of 2.8%. For the reproducibility, also including sample preparation, the R.S.D. was less than 10%. The predictability of a linear calibration model was estimated by the root mean square error of prediction from leave-one-out cross-validation (RMSECV). Using 64 scans, RMSECV was found to be 7.2 and 5.5 μg g−1 for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde respectively for a 4.3-min acquisition time. The limits of detection, defined as three times the noise, reached 19 and 15 μg g−1 respectively under the same experimental conditions. These limits are sufficient to quantify 80 and 100 μg g−1 of the impurities, which has been found to be the maximum allowed content in the poloxamer for some medical applications. Thus the method has the potential to replace the current liquid chromatography (LC) method for impurity determination of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in poloxamer, which is time-consuming and includes a work-up procedure involving many steps.
ABSTRACT The acetogenic bacterium Acetobacterium woodii is able to grow by the oxidation of diols, such as 1,2-propanediol, 2,3-butanediol, or ethylene glycol. Recent analyses demonstrated fundamentally different ways for oxidation of 1,2-propanediol and 2,3-butanediol. Here, we analyzed the metabolism of ethylene glycol. Our data demonstrate that ethylene glycol is dehydrated to acetaldehyde, which is then disproportionated to ethanol and acetyl coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA). The latter is further converted to acetate, and this pathway is coupled to ATP formation by substrate-level phosphorylation. Apparently, the product ethanol is in part further oxidized and the reducing equivalents are recycled by reduction of CO2 to acetate in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. Biochemical data as well as the results of protein synthesis analysis are consistent with the hypothesis that the propane diol dehydratase (PduCDE) and CoA-dependent propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) proteins, encoded by the pdu gene cluster, also catalyze ethylene glycol dehydration to acetaldehyde and its CoA-dependent oxidation to acetyl-CoA. Moreover, genes encoding bacterial microcompartments as part of the pdu gene cluster are also expressed during growth on ethylene glycol, arguing for a dual function of the Pdu microcompartment system. IMPORTANCE Acetogenic bacteria are characterized by their ability to use CO2 as a terminal electron acceptor by a specific pathway, the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, enabling in most acetogens chemolithoautotrophic growth with H2 and CO2. However, acetogens are very versatile and can use a wide variety of different substrates for growth. Here we report on the elucidation of the pathway for utilization of ethylene glycol by the model acetogen Acetobacterium woodii. This diol is degraded by dehydration to acetaldehyde followed by a disproportionation to acetate and ethanol. We present evidence that this pathway is catalyzed by the same enzyme system recently described for the utilization of 1,2-propanediol. The enzymes for ethylene glycol utilization seem to be encapsulated in protein compartments, known as bacterial microcompartments.
Substrate and coenzyme specificities of human liver and stomach aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) isozymes were compared by staining with various aldehydes including propionaldehyde, heptaldehyde, decaldehyde, 2-furaldehyde, succinic semialdehyde, and glutamic gamma-semialdehyde and with NAD+ or NADP+ on agarose isoelectric focusing gels. ALDH3 isozyme was isolated from a liver via carboxymethyl-Sephadex and blue Sepharose chromatographies and its kinetic constants for various substrates and coenzymes were determined. Consistent with the previously proposed genetic model for human ALDH3 isozymes (Yin et al., Biochem. Genet. 26:343, 1988), a single liver form and multiple stomach forms exhibited similar kinetic properties, which were strikingly distinct from those of ALDH1, ALDH2, and ALDH4 (glutamic gamma-semialdehyde dehydrogenase). A set of activity assays using various substrates, coenzymes, and an inhibitor to distinguish ALDH1, ALDH2, ALDH3, and ALDH4 is presented. As previously reported in ALDH1 and ALDH2, a higher catalytic efficiency (Vmax/Km) for oxidation of long-chain aliphatic aldehydes was found in ALDH3, suggesting that these enzymes have a hydrophobic barrel-shape substrate binding pocket. Since the Km value for acetaldehyde for liver ALDH3, 83 mM, is very much higher than those of ALDH1 and ALDH2, ALDH3 thus represents an unique class of human ALDH isozymes and it appears not to be involved in ethanol metabolism.
Abstract The effects of trichloroethylene (TCE) administration on aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) and cytochrome P450 isozymes were studied in rats and compared with those of methanol. Intragastric administration of TCE to rats at 0.05 or 0.2 ml/kg for 1 week significantly inhibited ALDH activity for aliphatic aldehydes of short chains in the mitochondrial and cytosolic fractions of rat liver, respectively, but had no effect on the activity for long chain aliphatic aldehydes. ALDH activity catalyzing the metabolism of some aromatic aldehydes was even induced by TCE. Microsomal ALDH activity was not decreased by TCE treatment. A kinetic study showed that the low- K m isozyme of ALDH for propionaldehyde in mitochondrial and cytosolic fractions was inhibited by TCE treatment. Addition of TCE, trichloroethanol or trichloroacetic acid to the in vitro assay system did not affect the activity for acetaldehyde, but chloral hydrate at 0.02 mM decreased the activity by 42 and 35% in cytosol and the 700× g supernatant, respectively. Methanol treatment, on the other hand, had no effect on any ALDH activity. Both TCE and methanol significantly induced CYP2E1 in rat liver. The combined effects of TCE on ALDH and cytochrome P450 may account for the degreasers' flush. Exposure to TCE and methanol may result in a change in the metabolism and toxicity of other chemicals.
An unidentified bacterial strain S107B1, isolated from soil by use of isopropylbenzene as a carbon source, was shown to bring about oxidation of α-methylstyrene and β-methylstyrene,One of the oxidation products produced from α-methylstyrene was identified as the new compound, (—)-cis-23-dihydroxy-1-isopropenyl-6-cyclohexene.The same strain S107B1 also oxidized β-methylstyrene and produced 3-phenylpropionaldehyde and benzoic acid.From these results, the existence of reductive step for the aerobic degradation of these aromatic hydrocarbons by this strain was made clear. The initial attack on these aromatic hydrocarbons and a cyclohexenediol compound formed from α-methylstyrene were discussed.
Soil application of DBCP (l,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane) and foliar applications of oxamyl (methyl N',N'-dimethyl-N-[(methylcarbamoyl)oxy]-l-thiooxamimidate) were compared for control of Tylenchulus semipenetrans in a grapefruit (Citrus paradisi) orchard, DBCP reduced nematode populations and increased fruit growth rate, fruit size at harvest, and yield compared to the untreated controls in the 2 years following treatments. Foliar applications of oxamyl reduced nematode populations and increased fruit growth rate slightly the first year, but not in the second. Foliar applications of oxamyl did not improve control attained by DBCP alone. Soil application of aldicarb [2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde-O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime] or DBCP to an orange (C. sinensis) orchard reduced T. semipenetrans populations in the 3 years tested and increased yield in 1 of 3 years. Aldicarb treatment reduced fruit damage caused by the citrus rust mite, Phyllocoptruta oleivora. Aldicarb, applied at 5.7 or 11.4 kg/ha, by disk incorporation or chisel injection, was equally effective in controlling nematodes, improving yields, fruit size, and external quality. In a grapefruit orchard, chisel-applied aldicarb reduced nematode populations and rust mite damage and increased yields in both years and increased fruit size in one year. The 11.4-kg/ha rate was slightly more effective than the 5.7-kg/ha rate. Aldicarb appears to be an adequate substitute for DBCP for nematode control in Texas citrus orchards and well-suited to an overall pest management system for Texas citrus.
The compound 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), together with HPA hydrate and HPA dimer, in aqueous solution forms a system with interesting chemical properties. Therefore, 3-HPA has attracted attention by the chemical industry for use as a precursor in the production of plastics, acrylic acid, and 1,3-propanediol and by the food industry, in using 3-HPA-producing Lactobacillus reuteri as a probiotic. To produce 3-HPA in high yield from glycerol, L. reuteri was used as a biotransformation system. A convenient chromatographic purification method was developed, and purified 3-HPA was analyzed using electrospray ionization mass spectrometry and (13)C NMR. Quantitative (13)C NMR revealed a concentration-dependent distribution of the three compounds forming the HPA system. At concentrations above 1.4 M, the HPA dimer was predominant. However, at concentrations relevant for biological systems, HPA hydrate was the most abundant, followed by the aldehyde form. Our results indicate that the dimeric form with expected antibiotic properties should not be the active form.
Abstract The kinetics of glycerol hydrogenolysis reaction to 1,2-propanediol was studied over a stable 18 wt%Cu supported on commercial silica gel catalyst in a batch reactor. This catalyst is extremely selective to 1,2-propanediol (up to 95%). The second largest product formed is 1,3-propanediol. The reaction kinetics was investigated over a temperature range of 453–513 K, hydrogen concentration in liquid phase of 4.52–93.8 mmol/L (by varying H 2 pressure between 2 and 8 MPa), initial glycerol concentration 20–40 v/v/% and catalyst weight 0.05–0.35 g. Glycerol hydrogenolysis reaction proceeds via a two-step dehydration–hydrogenation mechanism with different intermediates (acetol and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde) formed which sequentially lead to 1,2- and 1,3-propanediol production. In the kinetic regime studied, the overall reaction rate showed an almost zero order dependence on glycerol initial concentration and nearly first order on hydrogen concentration in liquid phase. The formation rate of 1,2-propanediol also seems to not to be affected of the initial glycerol concentration, depending (almost first order) on H 2 concentration. Furthermore, the formation rate of the 1,3-propanediol, is strongly dependent on glycerol concentration and presents variable order to H 2 from 0.94 (nearly first order) at lower pressures to zero at higher pressures. The activation energies calculated for the overall (96.8 kJ/mol) and the two parallel reaction routes (1,2-propanediol = 94.3 and 1,3-propanediol = 135.3 kJ/mol) demonstrate the selective formation of the 1,2-propanediol at lower temperatures.
The production of 1, 3-propanediol (1, 3-PD) and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) by enzyme reaction has been a hot field, and glycerol dehydratase (GDHt) is the key and rate-limiting enzyme involved in their biosynthesis. The gldABC gene encoding GDHt was cloned from Klebsiella pneumoniae, and the activity of the corresponding proteins expressed extracellularly and intracellularly was 6.8 and 3.2 U/mg, respectively, about six and three times higher than that of the wild strain. The change of amino acids for the β subunit can adjust the length of the Co-N bond and affect the homolysis rate of the Co-C bond to change GDHt activity. The expression plasmid, pET-32a-gldAC (containing no gldB which encodes the β subunit of GDHt), was constructed to build the mutagenesis library to improve the GDHt activity. The binding models of glycerol dehydratase reactivation factor (GDHtR) with ATP, CTP, or GTP were simulated by semi-flexible docking, respectively, and there was almost no difference between them. This research provided the basis for studying the quantitative structure-activity relationships between GDHtR and its ligands, as well as searching inexpensive ligands to replace ATP. These results and methods are of great use in economical and highly efficient production of 3-HPA and 1, 3-PD by the enzyme method.
The kinetics of propanol and isopropanol oxidation over silver catalyst have been studied at temperatures from 220 to 320/sup 0/C by a gradientless method. The formation of propionaldehyde from propanol, and of acetone from isopropanol, is described by the equation W/sub ald/ = k . C/sup 0/./sup 6//sub alc/, the rate of the process being six times greater for the formation of acetone. W/sub ald/ is the rate of oxidation of propanol to aldehyde and C/sub alc/ is the concentration of alcohol in the mixture. Acid is obtained by the oxidation of propanol in a zeroth-order reaction. Values have been determined for the heat of activation and ..delta..S*/sub eff/ of the processes.
[60]Fullerene is irradiated in the presence of the electron transfer sensitizer 9,10-dicyanoanthracene (DCA) under cosensitization with biphenyl. The generated radical cation C60•+ reacts with H-donors such as tert-butylmethyl ether, propionaldehyde and alcohols to give 1:1-adducts, the 1-substituted 1,2-dihydro[60]fullerenes.
Abstract Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, and propionaldehyde may be identified and determined in concentrations of parts per million by reduction to the corresponding alcohol followed by gas chromatography of the alcohols on porous polyaromatic resin beads. The method may be used for determining the position of double bonds in, e.g., vinyl and isopropylidene groups by prior ozonolysis. The method is limited in sensitivity chiefly by the levels of these lower carbonyl compounds in the atmosphere.
Two pathways exist for the formation of putrescine in rat liver. Putrescine can be produced by the action of L-ornithine decarboxylase, an inducible enzyme which can be irreversibly inhibited by the drug, alpha-difluoromethylornithine. A method for quantitating the amount of active ornithine decarboxylase protein present in the liver under various conditions by measuring the binding of [5-14C]alpha-difluoromethylornithine is described. The results indicated that, even when maximally induced, less than 0.0002% of the liver cytosol protein is ornithine decarboxylase. A second pathway for the production of putrescine occurs in the liver by means of the acetylation of spermidine to N1-acetylspermidine and its oxidation to putrescine and N-acetyl-3-aminopropionaldehyde by polyamine oxidase. This pathway is controlled by the activity of spermidine N1-acetyltransferase which is induced by hepatotoxins. Both ornithine decarboxylase and spermidine N1-acetyltransferase turn over rapidly as indicated by the loss of activity in response to cycloheximide. Following treatment with either carbon tetrachloride or thioacetamide, changes in spermidine N1-acetyltransferase activity precede those in ornithine decarboxylase and experiments with appropriate inhibitors indicate that the early enhancement of hepatic putrescine levels if brought about by the acetylase/oxidase pathway. Subsequently, enhanced ornithine decarboxylase activity maintains the putrescine levels and restores the depleted spermidine content of the liver.
Polyvinyl alcohol may be reacted with methoxyacetaldehyde, 2-methoxyethoxyacetaldehyde, 2-methoxyethoxyacetaldehyde, 2-n-propoxyethoxyacetaldehyde, tetrahydrofurfuryloxyacetaldehyde, or 3-methoxypropionaldehyde, or with mixtures of these aldehydes, to yield thermoplastic resins which are soluble in cold water below specific temperatures peculiar to each resin, and which are soluble in most organic solvents except aliphatic hydrocarbons.
Abstract A series of new arsine-dihydrido ruthenium(II) complexes, [RuH2(CO)(AsPh3)3] (1) and [RuH2(CO)(AsPh3)(L-L)], [L-L = diars (2), arphos (3), diphos (4)], has been synthesized and characterized by IR,1H NMR and elemental analysis. The catalytic activities of these complexes for the hydrogenation of propionaldehyde to yield propan-l-ol have been examined at 130°C and 30 atm hydrogen pressure, and compared with the catalytic activity of the well-known complex, [RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3] (5). [RuH2(CO)(AsPh3)3] showed lower catalytic activity than that of [RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3]. Complexes having a chelate ring have shown higher catalytic activities than that of [RuH2(CO)(AsPh3)3]. Overall, the catalytic activities were found to decrease in the order 4 > 3 > 2 > 5 > 1.
Abstract The genes encoding coenzyme B 12 -dependent glycerol dehydratase of Clostridium pasteurianum were subcloned and expressed in Escherichia coli . The native molecular mass of the enzyme is 190 000 Da. The enzyme converts glycerol, 1,2-propanediol and 1,2-ethanediol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde, respectively, but glycerol is the preferred substrate. The nucleotide sequences of the dhaBCE genes encoding the three subunits of glycerol dehydratase and of orfZ whose function is unknown were determined. The deduced products of the dhaBCE genes with calculated molecular masses of 60 813, 19 549 and 16 722 Da, respectively, revealed high similarity to amino acid sequences of subunits of coenzyme B 12 -dependent glycerol and diol dehydratases from other organisms.
The time courses of induction of liver cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenases using benzaldehyde and propionaldehyde as substrates and NADP and NAD as co-factors after i.p. and intragastric (i.g.) administration of 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF), 20-methylcholanthrene (20-MC), beta-naphthoflavone (beta-NF) and benzo[alpha]pyrene (B[alpha]P) were investigated in male Wistar rats. 2-AAF did not induce the aldehyde dehydrogenase activities with any substrate:co-factor combination. The other three inducers all induced the oxidation of the aldehydes in a reversible manner. With an i.p. route of administration (one daily dose for four consecutive days) (20-MC) was the most potent inducer giving a 240-fold increase of benzaldehyde: NADP activity on the ninth day. beta-NF elevated the activity 20-fold with peak activity at day 7, while B[alpha]P gave maximal induction on day 5 with a 60-fold increase in activity over the corresponding value for normal liver. The i.g. administration resulted in a weaker but coordinated induction of activity with peak activity on the sixth day for the different inducers. The activity ratio benzaldehyde:NADP/propionaldehyde:NAD, 0.78 in normal rats, was altered in all induced states to a level close to 4. The interpretation of our work supports the hypothesis that the inducers in this respect use the same mechanisms of induction. The differences noted can be explained by variations in the exposure of the liver to the administered dose and/or by differences in receptor affinity. The inducibility of benzaldehyde:NADP aldehyde dehydrogenase in rat liver exceeds by orders of magnitude the ability of the same inducers to increase the amount of the activity of other drug metabolizing enzymes such as glutathione S-transferase, cytochrome P450 and cytochrome b5. The reversible, drug-dependent induction characterized in normal rat liver in this work differs entirely from the persistent constitutive elevation of the same enzymes in preneoplastic liver nodules.
Molecular structure and conformational stability of E and Z geometrical isomers of propionaldehyde oxime (C(1)H3C(2)H2C(3)HNOH) have been studied by using the ab initio and DFT methods. The molecular geometries were optimized by employing the atomic basis sets 6-31G* at the HF-SCF and MP2 levels of theory in the ab initio method. The basis sets 6-31G and 6-31G* are used in the BLYP method of DFT to optimize the molecule. The optimized structural parameters of the above methods are discussed in the light of the electron diffraction results of the molecule. The variations in CN bond length, C1C2C3 and C2C3N angles of the sp and ac conformers of E isomer and of the ap conformer of Z isomer have been discussed in terms of nonbonding interactions of CH3 and NOH groups. The rotational potential energy surfaces of E and Z isomers were obtained for the C2−C3 rotational angle of propionaldehyde oxime at HF/6-31G*, MP2/6-31G*, and BLYP/6-31G* levels of theory. The global minimum occurs at φ(CCCN) = 120° and φ = 0° ...
With the onset of resistance in 1958 to the chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides, a search was started to find new materials to control the onion maggot, Hylemya antiqua (Meigen). Some organophosphates, such as diazinon, Nemacide® [ O- (2,4-dichlorophenyl) O,O- diethyl phosphorothioate], and ethion, had already been developed and they quickly replaced the faltering cyclodiene compounds. The search continued with field evaluation of newer chemicals and an account of these studies is reported for the period 1962 through 1964. The following organophosphates have proved effective: Bayer 25141 [ O,O -diethyl O-p (methylsulfinyl) phenyl phosphorothioate], Compound 4072 [2-chloro-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl) vinyl diethyl phosphate], Zinophos® ( O,O -diethyl O -2-pyrazinyl phosphorothioate), and Stauffer N-2790 [ O -ethyl- S -phenyl-ethylphosphonodithioate]. Carbamates worthy of future consideration for onion maggot control were: dimetilan; Bayer 37344 [4-(methylthio)-3,5-xylyl methylcarbamate], Baygon® (carbamic acid, methyl-, o -isoproporyphenyl ester) ; NIA 10242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate) ; and UC 21149 [2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime].
In pursuit of a wound-specific corneal adhesive, hydrogels formed by the reaction of propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, or 2-oxoethyl succinate-functionalized poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) with a peptide-based dendritic cross-linker (Lys3Cys4) were characterized. These macromers react within minutes of mixing to form transparent and elastic hydrogels with in vitro degradation times that range from hours to months based on the type of bonds formed during the cross-linking reaction, either thiazolidine or pseudoproline. The mechanical properties of these materials, determined via parallel plate rheology, were dependent on the polymer concentration, as was the hydrogel adhesive strength, which was determined by lap shear adhesive testing. In addition, these hydrogels were efficacious in closing ex vivo 4.1 mm central corneal lacerations: wounds closed with these hydrogel adhesives were able to withstand intraocular pressure values equivalent to, or in excess of, those obtained by closing the wounds with suturing.
Rat tail tendon collagen has been treated with the monoaldehydes, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde and benzaldehyde, and with the dialdehydes, glyoxal and glutaraldehyde. The treated collagen was then examined in the electron microscope using a negative stain. Alterations to the native collagen pattern were seen with formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, glyoxal and glutaraldehyde. A correlation was noted between the changes in the band pattern and the degree of cross-linking estimated from chemical and physical changes in the treated collagen and from measurements of cross-linking made by other workers. The results indicate that the use of electron microscopy and negative staining may be a valuable method of assessing the degree of cross-linking in collagen treated with aldehydes and other reagent.
Abstract 4-Acyloxy-2-substituted-3-nitro-1-butenes have been utilized as convenient precursors of the corresponding 2-nitro-3-substituted-1,3-butadienes which could be easily generated in situ by heating or by treatment with sodium acetate and trapped by suitable partners such as methyl acrylate, cyclopentadiene or ethyl vinyl ether. The expected cycloadducts are regiochemically formed by reaction with methyl acrylate, while the initially formed adducts with cyclopentadiene underwent thermal Cope or hetero-Cope rearrangements leading to the formation of nitro-substituted bicyclic compounds. The thermal rearrangement of the oxazine-N-oxides resulting through hetero Diels-Alder reaction with ethyl vinyl ether as cycloaddition partner led to the formation of 1,2-oxazole-3-propionaldehydes. The wide variety of highly functionalized carbocyclic and heterocyclic compounds generated through the use of these multi-coupling reagents provided useful synthons for the construction of simple and complex natural compounds.
A study was made of the effect of chronic administration of the hypolipidemic drug clofibrate on the activity and intracellular localization of rat liver aldehyde dehydrogenase. The enzyme was assayed using several aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes. Clofibrate treatment caused a 1.5 to 2.3-fold increase in the liver specific aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. The induced enzyme has a high Km for acetaldehyde and was found to be located in peroxisomes and microsomes. Clofibrate did not alter the enzyme activity in the cytoplasmic fraction. The total peroxisomal aldehyde dehydrogenase activity increased 3 to 4-fold under the action of clofibrate. Disruption of the purified peroxisomes by the hypotonic treatment or in the alkaline conditions resulted in the release of catalase from the broken organelles, while aldehyde dehydrogenase as well as nucleoid-bound urate oxidase and the peroxisomal membrane marker NADH:cytochrome c reductase remained in the peroxisomal 'ghosts'. At the same time, treatment by Triton X-100 led to solubilization of the membrane-bound NADH:cytochrome c reductase and aldehyde dehydrogenase from intact peroxisomes and their 'ghosts'. These results indicate that aldehyde dehydrogenase is located in the peroxisomal membrane. The peroxisomal aldehyde dehydrogenase is active with different aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes, except for formaldehyde and glyceraldehyde. The enzyme Km values lie in the millimolar range for acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde and phenylacetaldehyde and in the micromolar range for nonanal. Both NAD and NADP serve as coenzymes for the enzyme. Aldehyde dehydrogenase was inhibited by disulfiram, N-ethylmaleimide and 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic)acid. According to its basic kinetic properties peroxisomal aldehyde dehydrogenase seems to be similar to a clofibrate-induced microsomal enzyme. The functional role of both enzymes in the liver cells is discussed.
Crosslinked, cryostructured monoliths prepared from Lactobacillus reuteri cells were evaluated as potential immobilized whole-cell biocatalyst for conversion of glycerol, to potentially important chemicals for the biobased industry, i.e. 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA), 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3HP) and 1,3-propanediol (1,3PDO). Glutaraldehyde, oxidized dextran and activated polyethyleneimine/modified polyvinyl alcohol (PEI/PVA) were evaluated as crosslinkers; the latter gave highly stable preparations with maintained viability and biocatalytic activity. Scanning electron microscopy of the PEI/PVA monoliths showed high density of crosslinked cells with wide channels allowing liquid flow through. Flux analysis of the propanediol-utilization pathway, incorporating glycerol/diol dehydratase, propionaldehyde dehydrogenase, 1,3PDO oxidoreductase, phosphotransacylase, and propionate kinase, for conversion of glycerol to the three chemicals showed that the maximum specific reaction rates were -562.6, 281.4, 62.4 and 50.5mg/gCDWh for glycerol consumption, and 3HPA (extracellular), 3HP and 1,3PDO production, respectively. Under optimal conditions using monolith operated as continuous plug flow reactor, 19.7g/L 3HPA was produced as complex with carbohydrazide at a rate of 9.1g/Lh and a yield of 77mol%. Using fed-batch operation, 1,3PDO and 3HP were co-produced in equimolar amounts with a yield of 91mol%. The monoliths embedded in plastic carriers showed high mechanical stability under different modes in a miniaturized plug flow reactor.
Abstract Low-molecular-mass aldehydes present in automobile exhaust from vehicles with three different mileages were collected in a 1000-ml bottle and then determined as thiazolidine derivatives. Aldehydes were derivatized with cysteamine to the corresponding thiazolidines, which were subsequently determined using a gas chromatograph with a nitrogen-phosphorus detector. A car driven 50 000 km emitted high concentrations of formaldehyde (13.6 μg/1) and acetaldehyde (6.6 μg/l) and trace amounts of propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, butyraldehyde, pentanal and benzaldehyde. Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were also found in the exhaust from a car driven 20 000 km at levels of 4.33 and 1.32 μg/l, respectively. On the other hand, a car driven 5000 km did not emit any aldehydes.
Coleoptiles of Avena contain a soluble enzyme system, capable of oxidizing indoleacetaldehyde (lAAld) to indoleacetic acid (IAA). There is a gradient in the concentration of the enzyme along the length of the coleoptile and the first inter-node. The top 5 mm segment of each organ is relatively richer in this enzyme than the rest of the tissue. The enzyme was purified 17.7-fold by fractional precipitation with ammonium sulphate followed by gel filtration on Sephadex. Optimal pH for lAAld oxidation is ca. 4.4. Activity of the enzyme is normally oxygen obligatory. But, in the absence of oxygen, phenazine methosulphate (PMS) serves as hydrogen acceptor for aldehyde oxidation, but not some other dyes tried. Approximately one mole of oxygen was consumed for each mole of IAA formed. Formation of H2O2 could not be detected. Added H2O2 inhibited the reaction. ::: ::: ::: ::: Prolonged dialysis progressively inactivated the enzyme. Added NAD, NADP, FMN, FAD, cytochrome c, cyanoco-balamin, folic acid and ascorbic acid did not restore the lost activity. But 10−3M cysteine restored about 60 % of the lost activity. The enzyme is an acidic protein, isoelectric at pH 4.05. For lAAld, under the conditions of experimentation, a Km of 3.45 × 10−4M was calculated. Besides lAAld, indole-3-aldehyde and phenylacetaldehyde served as substrates, but not acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, salicylaldehyde, xanthine, hypoxanthine or catechol. Cyanide, dithionite and mercapto-ethanol totally inactivated the enzyme depending upon the concentration and duration of treatment. X-ray irradiation up to a dosage of 2900 r promoted the lAAld oxidizing activity of cell-free preparations made from irradiated coleoptiles. As yet, no cofactor requirements have been found for the activity. The enzyme is unlikely to be a pyridino- or a flavoprotein.
In the absence of NAD+, up to 12 SH groups on aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) reacted rapidly with p-(chloromercuri)benzoate (PCMB); a slow reaction with more than twice this number of SH groups then occurred. When PCMB was added to an assay mixture at low (less than 100 microM) concentrations of propionaldehyde, the steady-state rate of production of NADH increased with increasing PCMB concentration up to a maximum activity at a [PCMB]/[ALDH] ratio of 1.9 and then decreased as the [PCMB]/[ALDH] ratio increased further. Under some conditions, activation, or inhibition, showed hysteretic effects as the initial slope after mixing changed to a final linear steady state in a first-order manner, the rate constants for which were proportional to the concentration of free PCMB. Activating levels of PCMB had little effect on the NADH and proton burst amplitudes or rate constants and did not affect the rate of dissociation or association of NADH. However, when a 20-fold excess of PCMB concentration over enzyme concentration was premixed with the enzyme, neither a burst nor a steady-state turnover of substrate was observed. It is concluded that activation arises from the tight binding of PCMB with a single thiol group per subunit which is exposed after the binding of NAD+ to the enzyme, followed by a slow conformational change which causes activation by altering the steady-state mechanism so that NADH dissociation becomes largely rate limiting.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cordycepin sensitive mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which are permeable to 5'-deoxy-5'-methylthioadenosine (MTA), were used to study the fate of the methylthioribose carbons of this purine nucleoside. Evidence is presented for the recycling of the methylthio group and part of the ribose portion of MTA in a biosynthetic pathway which leads to the synthesis of methionine. The main pathway involves the phosphorylytic cleavage of MTA by MTA phosphorylase yielding 5-methylthioribose 1-phosphate and adenine as products. Loss of the phosphate group of 5-methylthioribose 1-phosphate, concurrent with the rearrangement of the ribose carbons, leads to the synthesis of 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyric acid. In the final step of the sequence, 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyric acid is converted to methionine via transamination. Several compounds not directly associated with the biosynthesis of methionine were also isolated. These compounds, which may arise through the degradation of intermediates in the pathway, were: 5'-methylthioinosine, a deaminated catabolite of MTA; 5-methylthioribose, a result of the phosphorylysis of 5-methylthioribose 1-phosphate, and 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde, 3-methylthiopropionic acid and 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid, all arising from the catabolism of 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyric acid.
We have previously used targeted active-site saturation mutagenesis to identify a number of transketolase single mutants that improved activity towards either glycolaldehyde (GA), or the non-natural substrate propionaldehyde (PA). Here, all attempts to recombine the singles into double mutants led to unexpected losses of specific activity towards both substrates. A typical trade-off occurred between soluble expression levels and specific activity for all single mutants, but many double mutants decreased both properties more severely suggesting a critical loss of protein stability or native folding. Statistical coupling analysis (SCA) of a large multiple sequence alignment revealed a network of nine co-evolved residues that affected all but one double mutant. Such networks maintain important functional properties such as activity, specificity, folding, stability, and solubility and may be rapidly disrupted by introducing one or more non-naturally occurring mutations. To identify variants of this network that would accept and improve upon our best D469 mutants for activity towards PA, we created a library of random single, double and triple mutants across seven of the co-evolved residues, combining our D469 variants with only naturally occurring mutations at the remaining sites. A triple mutant cluster at D469, E498 and R520 was found to behave synergistically for the specific activity towards PA. Protein expression was severely reduced by E498D and improved by R520Q, yet variants containing both mutations led to improved specific activity and enzyme expression, but with loss of solubility and the formation of inclusion bodies. D469S and R520Q combined synergistically to improve kcat 20-fold for PA, more than for any previous transketolase mutant. R520Q also doubled the specific activity of the previously identified D469T to create our most active transketolase mutant to date. Our results show that recombining active-site mutants obtained by saturation mutagenesis can rapidly destabilise critical networks of co-evolved residues, whereas beneficial single mutants can be retained and improved upon by randomly recombining them with natural variants at other positions in the network.
A complex mixture of compounds possessing an intensive aroma of onions is obtained, when propionaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde are treated with hydrogen sulfide and ammonia. Dihydrodithiazines, diethyltrithiolane, diethyl-methyl-1,3-dithiine and in small quantities diethyltetrathiane, dimethylthiophene, dipropyldisulfide, dipropenylsulfide, alkylpyridines, and the condensation products of aldehydes can be proved by the GC-MS-technic. The compositions of the synthetic onion aroma corresponds slightly with the composition of the natural onion aroma.
Salmonella enterica forms polyhedral bodies involved in coenzyme-B12-dependent 1,2-propanediol degradation. Prior studies showed that these bodies consist of a proteinaceous shell partly composed of the PduA protein, coenzyme-B12-dependent diol dehydratase, and additional unidentified proteins. In this report, we show that the PduP protein is a polyhedral-body-associated CoA-acylating aldehyde dehydrogenase important for 1,2-propanediol degradation by S. enterica. A PCR-based method was used to construct a precise nonpolar deletion of the gene pduP. The resulting pduP deletion strain grew poorly on 1,2-propanediol minimal medium and expressed 105-fold less propionaldehyde dehydrogenase activity (0.011 micromol min(-1) mg(-1)) than did wild-type S. enterica grown under similar conditions (1.15 micromol min(-1) mg(-1)). An Escherichia coli strain was constructed for high-level production of His8-PduP, which was purified by nickel-affinity chromatography and shown to have 15.2 micromol min(-1) mg(-1) propionaldehyde dehydrogenase activity. Analysis of assay mixtures by reverse-phase HPLC and mass spectrometry established that propionyl-CoA was the product of the PduP reaction. For subcellular localization, purified His8-PduP was used as antigen for the preparation of polyclonal antiserum. The antiserum obtained was shown to have high specificity for the PduP protein and was used in immunogold electron microscopy studies, which indicated that PduP was associated with the polyhedral bodies involved in 1,2-propanediol degradation. Further evidence for the localization of the PduP enzyme was obtained by showing that propionaldehyde dehydrogenase activity co-purified with the polyhedral bodies. The fact that both Ado-B12-dependent diol dehydratase and propionaldehyde dehydrogenase are associated with the polyhedral bodies is consistent with the proposal that these structures function to minimize propionaldehyde toxicity during the growth of S. enterica on 1,2-propanediol.
1,3-Dioxan photolytic destruction at 185 nm occurs with a quantum yield of about 0.3 in the liquid phase. Of the 22 products determined, the major ones are n-propylformate , formaldehyde (0.075), 1,3-diox-4-en (0.06), hydrogen (0.05), ethylene (0.04), and 3-methoxypropionaldehyde (0.04). A number of the minor products are of the general type B.some of which bear a hydroxyl function at the end of the side chain. N2O interacts with excited 1,3-dioxan, leading to the production of N2.Some experiments have been carried out in the vapour phase, the results of which indicate that considerable fragmentation of hot primary intermediates and products into low-molecular-weight products occurs. The nature of these products cannot be linked directly to the primary photolytic processes inferred from the liquid-phase studies.Certain contrasts in the photolytic behaviour of 1,3-dioxan and 1,4-dioxan are discussed.
Some ciliostatic components of cigarette smoke were studied as inhibitors of in vitro chemotaxis of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs). In comparison to their concentration in an inhibitory level of cigarette smoke, the unsaturated aldehydes acrolein and crotonaldehyde were the most potent inhibitors, whereas nicotine, cyanide, acetaldehyde, and furfural were the next strongest inhibitors. In contrast, sulfide, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and the phenols (phenol and o-, m-, and p-cresol) were relatively weak inhibitors of PMN chemotaxis. Acrolein and crotonaldehyde mimicked whole cigarette smoke in their effects on PMNs by not causing loss of PMN viability, yet their effects were prevented by the addition of cysteine. On the other hand, addition of nicotine, cyanide, acetaldehyde, and furfural to PMN suspensions resulted in a limited loss of cellular viabilities, and their effects on PMNs were not prevented by cysteine. Of the tested components, only cyanide significantly altered PMN glucose metabolism by increasing carbon flow via the glycolytic and hexose monophosphate pathways in a manner similar to that observed with whole cigarette smoke. The results of this study suggest that the unsaturated aldehydes, including acrolein and crotonaldehyde, are major contributors to the inhibitory properties of cigarette smoke. The inhibitory effects of these unsaturated aldehydes are probably due to a direct interaction of these oxidants and/or thiol-alkylating agents with PMNs, yet the glucose metabolism of these cells is unaffected. One interpretation of these data is that PMN chemotaxis is dependent upon particular cellular proteins containing one or more essential thiol group(s) but that these proteins are unrelated to glucose metabolism.
Abstract Many flowering plants accumulate the compatible osmolyte glycine betaine in response to osmotic stress, in certain cases together with its sulfonium analog 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP). Compared to glycine betaine, this DMSP accumulation appears to be an evolutionary novelty. The final step in the synthesis of glycine betaine and DMSP is oxidation of the corresponding aldehyde, betaine aldehyde or 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde (DMSPald). Leaves of amaranth ( Amaranthus hypochondriacus L.) accumulate glycine betaine but do not produce detectable amounts of DMSP. These leaves contain a betaine-aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) that catalyzes the final step in glycine betaine synthesis. Here we report that this enzyme efficiently catalyzes the oxidation of DMSPald. On the basis of V max / K m values, DMSPald is a better substrate for amaranth BADH than betaine aldehyde itself. The kinetic mechanism followed by amaranth BADH at low concentrations of DMSPald is similar to that with betaine aldehyde; as determined from initial velocity, product, dead-end, and substrate inhibition studies, it is a steady-state bi bi with ordered addition of substrates and random release of products. Like betaine aldehyde, DMSPald is inhibitory at high concentrations, at which a slower alternate route of substrate addition takes place. Our results indicate that the evolution of DMSP biosynthesis in flowering plants could have been facile in that it required no new aldehyde dehydrogenase; BADH may simply have been recruited for a novel function.
Abstract The breakthrough (BT) properties of Tenax TA sorbent were challenged by gaseous standards containing a suite of 13 volatile organic compounds (VOC): (1) aromatic hydrocarbons: benzene (B), toluene (T), p -xylene ( p -X), and styrene (S), (2) aldehydes: acetaldehyde (AA), propionaldehyde (PA), butyraldehyde (BA), isovaleraldehyde (IA), and valeraldehyde (VA), (3) ketones: methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) and methyl isobutyl ketone (MIBK), and (4) two others: isobutyl alcohol ( i -BuAl) and butyl acetate (BuAc). To this end, 1–3 L of standards (10–50 ppb) were loaded on the two sorbent tubes (ST) connected in series at 100 mL min −1 . The front ST-1 was used for calibration purposes, while the ST-2 for breakthrough (recovery criterion of p -xylene as the key datum point). Although aromatic hydrocarbons generally met such criterion, benzene was readily distinguishable with the maximum BT. The BT for the aldehydes exhibited ∼100% (AA) ≥ 85% (PA) ≥ 45% (BA) ≥ 30% (VA and IVA). There is good correlation between ST-2 recovery vs. carbon number for >C O entity (aldehydes, ester, and ketones). As such, BT is essentially concentration independent and relatively predictable across different functional groups and between the homologues. However, the BT behavior of ppb level VOCs is no longer consistent for certain species (like benzene or MEK) relative their ppm counterparts. This variation is explained by the Langmuir equation in which the 1/BTV is proportional to analyte gas-phase concentration, if the gas-phase/sorbent partition coefficient is large.
It is believed that there is a narghile's current surge in popularity in the EMR [3] despite the many efforts for controlling the tobacco epidemic. Narghile smoking has been linked to a variety of adverse health effects. Aldehyde compounds found in narghile smoke are known to be toxic, carcinogenic and hazardous [5] . By contrast to cigarette smoking, one session of narghile smoking is thought to release greater amounts of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein propionaldehyde and methacrolein [5] . Systemically, narghile smoking is associated with decreased pulmonary function leading to increased risk of chronic obstructive airway disease [6, 7] . Furthermore, there have been reports of an association with certain types of cancer including bronchogenic carcinoma [8] , oesophageal carcinoma [9] , bladder cancer [10] , and pancreatic cancer [11] .
Diol dehydrase ( d l -1,2 -propanediol hydro-lyase, EC 4.2.1.28) is an adenosylcobalamin (vitamin B 12 coenzym e)-dependent enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of 1 ,2 -propanediol, 1 ,2 -ethanediol, and glycerol to propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and ß-hydroxypropionaldehyde, respectively (see ref. [1 ] for a recent review). We have previously shown that the enzyme purified to hom ogeneity from Klebsiella pneum oniae ATCC 8724 has a m olecular weight of about 230,000 [2] , and is com posed of two different components, F (M r, 26,000) and S (A/r, 200,000), both of which are indispensable for coenzyme bind ing and catalysis [2] [3] [4] , Com ponent S consists of at least four nonidentical subunits [2] . Studies with sev eral chemical modification reagents revealed the presence of essential sulfhydryl group(s) [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] prob ably in component S [4] and a lysyl residue in com po nent F which is essential for interaction between the two components [9] . An essential arginyl residue lo cated at or in close proximity to the active site has also been identified [1 0 ]. Diol dehydrase of K. pneum oniae ATCC 8724 was originally isolated and purified as a soluble protein occurring in the cytosolic fraction of the cells [2 , 1 1 ]. However, a new purification procedure has been de veloped by M cGee and Richards [12] , based on their observation that nearly 4-fold higher total activities in the sonicate of cells than the previously reported activity could be pelleted by centrifugation at 1 0 0 , 0 0 0 x g , and that the bulk of this cell membraneassociated activity was effectively solubilized with detergents, Triton X-100 and potassium cholate. For prevention of possible proteolysis of the enzyme after extraction from the m em brane, they used buffers containing E D T A and PMSF (phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride) during the purification [1 2 ]. They reported that the enzyme purified has a subunit structure different from that of our preparation ob tained from the soluble fraction [2 ] , and suggested that the com ponent F is a proteolytic product from one of the subunits [12, 13] .
microbe's survival in new and/or competitive environments can be strongly influenced by its metabolic flexibility. To this end, bacteria frequently exchange genes encoding segments or entire metabolic pathways (1) (2) (3) . These horizontal gene transfers (HGTs) can expand a host's metabolic capacity to conditionally extract energy from new, potentially chemically resilient, substrates and increase their fitness. A particularly illustrative example of HGT-based expansion of metabolic flexibility is demonstrated by the widespread distribution of bacterial microcompartments (BMCs). BMCs function as bacterial organelles and are composed of multiple enzymes surrounded by a selectively permeable proteinaceous shell. BMC loci encode not only the structural components of the organelle, but also ancillary proteins, such as transmembrane transporters for associated metabolites, regulators, and even cytoskeletal elements, presumably used to position the organelle subcellularly. BMC loci are therefore genetic modules that encode a metabolic module, the organelle, and the ancillary proteins to integrate it into the host's metabolism. This compact organization likely facilitates the HGT, which is apparent by examining their distribution across bacterial which is converted to acetaldehyde by elimination of trimethylamine (TMA) by a choline-TMA lyase GRE (16) (Fig. 1A, green) ; 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD), which is dehydrated to propionaldehyde by a 1,2-PD dehydratase GRE (Fig. 1A , blue) (17) ; or L-fuculose-phosphate and L-rhamnulose-phosphate, which are metabolized to propionaldehyde and dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) by the concerted functions of an encapsulated fuculose-phosphate aldolase (FPA), lactaldehyde reductase (LR), and 1,2-PD dehydratase GRE (Fig. 1A , magenta and blue) (18, 19) . These substrates are common breakdown products of glycans or lipids in the intestinal mucosa, and our growing appreciation of their significance in a healthy human gut microbiome underscores the impact GRM-mediated catabolism has on human health (3, 20) . However, despite their contribution to the fitness of these gut microbes as well as the hosts' health, the GRMs are relatively poorly understood.
The production of fuels and chemicals from biomass and such "greening" the chemical industry is an important issue of today. Within this context, the microbial production of industrially relevant alcohols has been the subject of many studies in recent years. Especially methods of metabolic engineering and synthetic pathway design have been applied to enable different microorganisms to produce molecules like ethanol, n-butanol (Berezina et al. 2010) , isobutanol (Liao et al. 2010) , different propane diols (Emptage et al. 2003; Nakamura and Whited 2003; Berríos-Rivera et al. 2003) and butane diols (Yim et al. 2011; Carothers et al. 2009; Nielsen et al. 2010) , as well as aromatic alcohols like furfuryl alcohol (Heer et al. 2009 ). The final step of all these syntheses is the reduction of an aldehyde to an alcohol. One enzyme stands out in its utilization for this step: the Escherichia coli alcohol dehydrogenase YqhD (Jarboe 2010; Tang et al. 2009; Liao et al. 2010) . Accordingly, this enzyme was discovered within a project directed by DuPont for the production of 1,3-propanediol using an engineered E. coli strain (Emptage et al. 2003; Nakamura and Whited 2003) . YqhD showed to be the better candidate for the reduction of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde compared to the designated DhaT from Klebsiella pneumoniae (Wang et al. 2005; Skraly et al. 1998 ). In our case, investigations of the reductive power of E. coli revealed additional activities that can be important for the microbial production of alcohols and that are especially suited for the reduction of multifunctional aldehyde compounds with partially even higher activity than YqhD. Here, we report the identification and characterization of two such enzymes from E. coli, the zinc-dependent alcohol dehydrogenases YahK and YjgB.
We have previously used targeted active-site saturation mutagenesis to identify a number of transketolase single mutants that improved activity towards either glycolaldehyde (GA), or the non-natural substrate propionaldehyde (PA). Here, all attempts to recombine the singles into double mutants led to unexpected losses of specific activity towards both substrates. A typical trade-off occurred between soluble expression levels and specific activity for all single mutants, but many double mutants decreased both properties more severely suggesting a critical loss of protein stability or native folding. Statistical coupling analysis (SCA) of a large multiple sequence alignment revealed a network of nine co-evolved residues that affected all but one double mutant. Such networks maintain important functional properties such as activity, specificity, folding, stability, and solubility and may be rapidly disrupted by introducing one or more non-naturally occurring mutations. To identify variants of this network that would accept and improve upon our best D469 mutants for activity towards PA, we created a library of random single, double and triple mutants across seven of the co-evolved residues, combining our D469 variants with only naturally occurring mutations at the remaining sites. A triple mutant cluster at D469, E498 and R520 was found to behave synergistically for the specific activity towards PA. Protein expression was severely reduced by E498D and improved by R520Q, yet variants containing both mutations led to improved specific activity and enzyme expression, but with loss of solubility and the formation of inclusion bodies. D469S and R520Q combined synergistically to improve k cat 20-fold for PA, more than for any previous transketolase mutant. R520Q also doubled the specific activity of the previously identified D469T to create our most active transketolase mutant to date. Our results show that recombining active-site mutants obtained by saturation mutagenesis can rapidly destabilise critical networks of coevolved residues, whereas beneficial single mutants can be retained and improved upon by randomly recombining them with natural variants at other positions in the network.
Targeted saturation mutagenesis of enzyme active-site residues can be used as an efficient alternative to error-prone PCR or DNA shuffling to engineer activity, specificity and enantioselectivity (Dalby, 2003; Park et al., 2005; Reetz et al., 2005; Paramesvaran et al., 2009; Bougioukou et al., 2009) as it targets the residues that most strongly influence catalysis and substrate binding. However, random point mutations selected only for activity often lead to a trade-off with protein stability (Beadle and Shoichet, 2002;  Abbreviations: GA, glycolaldehyde; HPA, hydroxypyruvate; PA, propionaldehyde; PP, pyrophosphate-binding domain; Pyr, pyrimidine-binding domain; SCA, statistical coupling analysis; TK, transketolase; TPP, thiamine pyrophosphate.
Transketolase (TK) catalyses the enantioselective synthesis of ␣,␣ -dihydroxy ketones from donors d-xylulose-5-phosphate oř -hydroxypyruvate (HPA), and acceptors d-ribose-5-phosphate, derythrose-4-phosphate or other aldehydes (Sprenger et al., 1995) . HPA renders the reaction irreversible making it useful for industrial biocatalytic syntheses (Demuynck et al., 1991; Hobbs et al., 1993; Morris et al., 1996; Schenk et al., 1998; Turner, 2000; Shaeri et al., 2006; Ingram et al., 2007; Smith et al., 2010) . Saturation mutagenesis was previously targeted independently to 10 active-site residues in contact with cofactor or substrate, and also to the 10 least conserved second shell residues (Hibbert et al., 2007) , guided by TK structures (Littlechild et al., 1995; Nilsson et al., 1997) , and an analysis of thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP)-dependent enzyme phylogeny . Various single mutants gave improved activity towards glycolaldehyde (GA) (Hibbert et al., 2007) , or accepted propionaldehyde (PA) better with either enhanced or reversed enantioselectivity Smith et al., 2008; Hailes et al., 2010) . Several D469 mutations also accepted a range of linear aliphatic (Cazares et al., 2010) and aromatic aldehydes. Chemical denaturation, dimer interface mutations and biocatalytic process conditions that destabilise Escherichia coli TK have also been well characterised (Brocklebank et al., 1999; Martinez-Torres et al., 2007; Aucamp et al., 2008) .
Some ciliostatic components ofcigarette smoke were studied as inhibitors of in vitro chemotaxis of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs). In comparison to their concentration in an inhibitory level of cigarette smoke, the unsaturated aldehydes acrolein and crotonaldehyde were the most potent inhibitors, whereas nicotine, cyanide, acetaldehyde, and furfural were the next strongest inhibitors. In contrast, sulfide, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and the phenols (phenol and o-, m-, and p-cresol) were relatively weak inhibitors of PMN chemotaxis. Acrolein and crotonaldehyde mimicked whole cigarette smoke in their effects on PMNs by not causing loss of PMN viability, yet their effects were prevented by the addition of cysteine. On the other hand, addition of nicotine, cyanide, acetaldehyde, and furfural to PMN suspensions resulted in a limited loss of cellular viabilities, and their effects on PMNs were not prevented by cysteine. Of the tested components, only cyanide significantly altered PMN glucose metabolism by increasing carbon flow via the glycolytic and hexose monophosphate pathways in a manner similar to that observed with whole cigarette smoke. The results of this study suggest that the unsaturated aldehydes, including acrolein and crotonaldehyde, are major contributors to the inhibitory properties of cigarette smoke. The inhibitory effects of these unsaturated aldehydes are probably due to a direct interaction of these oxidants and/or thiol-alkylating agents with PMNs, yet the glucose metabolism of these cells is unaffected. One interpretation of these data is that PMN chemotaxis is dependent upon particular cellular proteins containing one or more essential thiol group(s) but that these proteins are unrelated to glucose metabolism.
!-Aminoaldehydes arise from the degradation of polyamines (such as putrescine, spermidine or spermine), which is catalyzed by amine oxidases or polyamine oxidases. The oxidation products (hydrogen peroxide and aminoaldehydes) have been implicated in programmed cell death, induction of cytotoxicity and inhibition of cell division and cause apoptosis in several cell types (Agostinelli et al., 2004) . For instance, 3-aminopropionaldehyde (APAL) is considered to be cytotoxic to mammalian cells and causes apoptotic and necrotic death of both neurons and glial cells (Li et al., 2003) . Aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases (AMADHs) oxidize various primary !-aminoaldehydes, namely APAL, 4-aminobutyraldehyde (ABAL) and 4-guanidinobutyraldehyde, to the corresponding !-amino acids -alanine, 4-aminobutyric acid and 4-guanidinobutyric acid, respectively. To date, AMADHs have been purified from microorganisms, plants and animals. For historical reasons, they are classified separately as 4-aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenases (EC 1.2.1.19) and 4-guanidinobutyraldehyde dehydrogenases (EC 1.2.1.54) in the enzyme catalogue (Prieto et al., 1987; Matsuda & Suzuki, 1984) . AMADHs contain a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) coenzyme and a reactive cysteine at the active site. According to amino-acid sequence homology, AMADHs are related to betaine aldehyde dehydrogenases (BADHs; EC 1.2.1.8), which are enzymes that mediate the conversion of betaine aldehydes to betaines (Š ebela et al., 2000) .
Abstract A relative inhalation toxicity study of members of a series of aldehydes, both in aerosol and vapor form, has been reported. The toxicities have been reported as mean fatal doses, expressed as milligram-minutes per cubic meter (mg-min/m 3 ), and the pathologic changes in the respiratory tissue have been described. The unsaturated aldehydes were more toxic to guinea pigs, mice, and rabbits than were the saturated aldehydes. An increased chain length decreased the toxicity of the aldehydes. The relative toxicities in decreasing order were found to be acrolein, crotonaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and n -butyraldehyde. n -Valeraldehyde and isovaleraldehyde were relatively nontoxic. Formaldehyde did not cause deaths during or immediately following the exposures, but exhibited later lethal effects.
Renewable alternatives to fossil fuels are of importance nowadays since the use of fossil fuels is considered to stand for the largest contribution to global warming. In recent years, a group of cyclic ethers called furans have been proposed as potential renewable fuels. To enable evaluation of the usefulness of these compounds as fuels, it is important to understand their atmospheric chemistry since emission of fuel and its reaction products to the atmosphere is inevitable. The aim of this project is to investigate the environmental impact of the saturated compound tetrahydrofuran by determining its breakdown products and their approximate lifetimes. The study is made by analyzing experimental data for the photoreaction of tetrahydrofuran with the atmospheric oxidant Cl in a N2/O2 mixture and in pure N2, respectively. The experimental data consist of sets of infrared spectra taken continuously during the reaction. Identification of products was made by comparing reference spectra of the products with the experimental spectra. Products identified in the N2/O2 experiment were butyrolactone, propyl formate, succinaldehyde, propionaldehyde, succinic anhydride, propionic acid, formic acid, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. The product studies in the N2 experiment were more speculative due to the absence of high-resolution reference spectra. However, it is likely that a major part of the products are chlorinated molecules. Further work is necessary to determine the complete product distribution and reaction mechanisms.
AbstractThe oxidation of amitriptyline (AMI) and nortriptyline (NOR), two typical tricyclic antidepressants, has been studied in ferrate(VI) (Fe(VI)) solution. The removal rate of AMI and NOR increased with increasing Fe(VI) dosage and was seen to be pH dependent in the order pH 7.0 < 10.0 < 8.0 < 9.0. UV irradiation at 254 nm was found to exert a synergistic effect on the Fe(VI) oxidation of AMI and NOR. By LC–ESI-MS/MS analysis, the main oxidation products of AMI and NOR by Fe(VI) have been identified. The exocyclic double bond is first oxidized to give the exo-epoxide, which is then hydrolyzed and finally oxidized to give dibenzosuberenone and 3-dimethylamino-propionaldehyde. The results suggest that Fe(VI) has a good ability to oxidize AMI and NOR in aqueous solution and could be an effective treatment method for the purification of waters containing these particular antidepressants.
Enamines from acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and cyclohexanone produce coloured ::: complexes with disodium-pentakis-(cyano-C)-nitrosylferrate(2) more rapidly than the ::: carbonyl components together with piperidine, so indicating enamine intermediates. - ::: The Legal complexes from acetaldehyde and acetone are protonated to the corresponding ::: Simon-Awe complexes.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) is of high industrial interest as a new platform intermediate from bioconversion of renewable materials because it can be converted into a number of large scale commodity chemicals. In this work we studied the production of 3-HPA from bioconversion of glycerol in a two-stage process. In the first stage active biomass is produced. The active biomass is then used for the production of 3-HPA in a second stage by biotransformation with the help of semicarbazide to trap 3-HPA from the culture. First we optimized the conditions for active biomass production for the biotransformation in the second step. By using a fed-batch process with proper feeding of semicarbazide and supplementary addition of active biomass we reached a final concentration of 54 g/l 3-HPA with a yield of 97 % (mol/mol). This represents the highest 3-HPA concentration and yield reported so far for the microbial production of 3-HPA from glycerol.
The treatment of 3-hydroxy-N-methylphenethylamine (5) with benzaldehyde, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, phenylpropionaldehyde, cyclohexanone, and cyclopentanone in ethanol afforded the corresponding 1-aryl- and 1-spirocyloalkano-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2-methylisoquinolines(7), (8), (9), (11), and (12), respectively. Furthermore, the above isoquinoline cyclisation was found to occur in basic media such as pyridine and triethylamine.
Abstract A novel type of coordination, involving bonding to aluminium of the alkoxy atom of an ester group, has been observed in the products formed from β-carbomethoxy-propionaldehyde and organoaluminium compounds.
The purpose of this work was to examine the carbonyl compounds in the volatile constituents of coffee, if possible to assess their contribution to coffee aroma. The work entailed mainly the collection of the carbonyl compounds and their subsequent separation, identification and quantitive estimation. The volatile constituents of coffee were stripped by nitrogen in a modified Shipton apparatus and the carbonyl compounds converted to their hydrazones. The carbonyl compounds were regenerated by a "flash-exchange" method which consisted essentially of heating a mixture of the hydrazones and ketoglutaric acid. The regenerated carbonyls were examined by gas chromatography using an argon ionisation detectors the bulk of the work was done using dinonylphthalate as liquid phase and carbowax 4500 for some confirmatory work. Both qualitative and quantitative determinations were made. Identification and quantitative estimation of the constituent carbonyl compounds was further supported by thin-layer chromatography, paper chromatography, and by visible, ultraviolet and infrared spectroscopy. A tasting panel was used to determine the effect of storage and also to test the significance of the volatile carbonyl compounds in relation to the flavour of coffee. The following carbonyl compounds were identified by gas chromatography and their quantities measured: acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, iso-butyraldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, methylethylketone, diacetyl and iso-valeraldehyde;acetaldehyde and iso-valeraldehyde were present in approximately equal amounts forming the largest proportion of the total volatile carbonyl compounds. Formaldehyde, which was not detected by gas chromatography, was identified and estimated by a chromotropic acid colorimetric method. Evidence is offered that, contrary to one published method, formaldehyde is not regenerated from it's hydrozone. The quantitative determination of diacetyle using the argon-ionisation detector requires special consideration to avoid electron capture effects. Experiments with stored samples of instant coffee showed that: The quantity of volatile carbonyl compounds decrease with increasing time of storage. Tasting panel results suggest a relationship between this decrease and the palatability of the coffee. It suggested that the quantity of volatile carbonyl compounds expressed as the weight of dry hydrozones/100g coffee could be used as an index of the age and storage treatment of the coffee. The results also show that in the staling of instant coffee there is relative increase of acetaldehyde and an increase in the ratio of propionaldehyde to acetone. Results are given for the composition of the fats extracte6 from green and roasted coffee. The roasting of the extracted fat from the green beans gave no evidence for the production of volatile carbonyl compounds. Experience gained in this work has shown the necessity for standard methods of collection and analysis. Comparison of the results from different workers is almost impossible since the variations caused by different methods seems to be greater than would be expected from different materials.
Considerable efforts have been undertaken in the domain of air quality management for the removal of hazardous volatile organic compounds, particularly carbonyl compounds (CCs). In this study, the competitive sorptive removal of six CCs (namely, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde) was assessed using selected metal-organic frameworks (MOFs: MOF-5, MOF-199, UiO-66, and UiO-66-NH2) and inexpensive commercial activated carbon as a reference sorbent. The sorption experiments were conducted using a mixture of the six CCs (formaldehyde and acetaldehyde at ∼1 Pa and propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde at ∼0.2 Pa) together with 15 Pa water and 2.6 Pa methanol in 1 bar nitrogen. For all of the carbonyl compounds other than formaldehyde, MOF-199 showed the best 10% breakthrough performance ranging from 34 L g-1 and 0.14 mol kg-1 Pa-1 for acetaldehyde to 1870 L g-1 and 7.6 mol kg-1 Pa-1 for isovaleraldehyde. Among all the sorbents tested, UiO-66-NH2 exhibited the best 10% breakthrough performance metrics towards the lightest formaldehyde which remains to be one of the most difficult targets for sorptive removal (breakthrough volume: 285 L g-1 and partition coefficient: 1.1 mol kg-1 Pa-1). Theoretical density functional theory (DFT)-based computations were also conducted to provide better insights into the adsorbate-adsorbent interactions. Accordingly, the magnitude of adsorption energy increased with an increase in the CC molar mass due to an enhancement in the synergetic interaction between C[double bond, length as m-dash]O groups (in adsorbate molecules) and the MOF active centers (open metallic centers and/or NH2 functionality) as the adsorbent. Such interactions were observed to result in strong distortion of MOF structures. In contrast, weak van der Waals attraction between the hydrocarbon "tail" of CC molecules and MOF linkers were seen to play a stabilizing role for the sorbent structure. The presence of the NH2 group in the MOF structure was suspected to play a key role in capturing lighter CCs, while such an effect was less prominent for heavier CCs. Overall, the results of this study provided a basis for the establishment of an effective strategy to enhance the sorption capacity of MOFs against diverse carbonyl species.
The present invention belongs to the technical field of organic chemical, is directed to a method of synthesizing an acyl valeronitrile 2-chloro-4-precursor imidacloprid pesticide intermediates, more particularly, it relates to a chlorine and propionaldehyde as a starting material, preparation of substituted 2-chloropropionaldehyde, and then a catalytic addition reaction with acrylonitrile, synthesized 2-chloro-4-formyl valeronitrile, in a total yield of 70% or more stable. The present invention has been carried chloro substituents, two-step addition reaction, to give 2-chloro-4-formyl valeronitrile, having a simple process, low production cost, less investment in equipment and materials readily recycled and reused, etc., suitable for industrial produce.
Intermolecular radical addition to CN bonds with acyclic stereocontrol offers excellent potential as a mild, nonbasic carbon−carbon bond construction approach to chiral amines. Here, complete details of the first radical additions to chiral N-acylhydrazones as an approach to asymmetric amine synthesis are disclosed. Novel N-acylhydrazones were designed as chiral CN radical acceptors with Lewis acid activation, restriction of conformational mobility, and commercial availability of precursors. Amination of 4-alkyl-2-oxazolidinones with O-(mesitylenesulfonyl)hydroxylamine or O-(p-nitrobenzoyl)hydroxylamine afforded N-aminooxazolidinones which were condensed with aldehydes to afford N-acylhydrazones 3−8. Three synthetic methods were developed, implementing these N-acylhydrazones in Lewis acid-promoted intermolecular radical additions to CN bonds. First, additions of various secondary and tertiary alkyl iodides to propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde hydrazones (3 and 7) under tin hydride radical chain conditions ...
A method of determining the rate of the initiation reaction in the liquid phase oxidation of propionaldehyde is described.
Abstract The enzyme previously considered as an isozyme (E4, ALDH IV) of human liver aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD+) (EC 1.2.1.3) has been purified to homogeneity by the use of ion exchange chromatography on CM-Sephadex and affinity chromatography on Blue Sepharose CL-6B and 5'-AMP Sepharose 4B and identified as glutamic gamma-semialdehyde dehydrogenase, or more precisely 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase (EC 1.5.1.12). Glutamic gamma-semialdehyde dehydrogenase was never previously purified to homogeneity from any mammalian species. The homogeneous enzyme is seen on isoelectric focusing gels as two fine bands separated by 0.12 pH units: pI = 6.89 and 6.77. In addition, the enzyme also appears as two bands in gradient gels; however, in polyacrylamide gels containing sodium dodecyl sulfate the enzyme migrates as one band, indicating that its subunits are of identical size. Because the enzyme molecule is considerably smaller (Mr approximately 142,000-170,000) than that of aldehyde dehydrogenases (EC 1.2.1.3) (Greenfield, N. J., and Pietruszko, R. (1977) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 483, 35-45; Mr approximately 220,000) and its subunit weight is different (70,600 versus approximately 54,000 for E1 and E2 isozymes), the enzyme is not an isozyme of aldehyde dehydrogenase previously described. The Michaelis constants for glutamic gamma-semialdehyde dehydrogenase with acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde are in the millimolar range. Its substrate specificity within the straight chain aliphatic aldehyde series is essentially confined to that of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde with butyraldehyde and longer chain length aldehydes being considerably less active. Other substrates include succinic, glutaric, and adipic semialdehydes in addition to glutamic gamma-semialdehyde. The reaction velocity with glutamic gamma-semialdehyde is at least an order of magnitude larger than with carboxylic acid semialdehydes. Aspartic beta-semialdehyde is not a substrate. The reaction catalyzed appears to be irreversible. Although NADP can be used, NAD is the preferred coenzyme. The enzyme also exhibits an unusual property of being subject to substrate inhibition by NAD.
Abstract n -Propanol was converted to propionic acid by Gluconobacter oxydans CCM 1783 (ATCC 621). Gluconobacter oxydans cannot grow on propanol as a sole carbon source, but is able to convert it to propionic acid. Glycerol was used as an assimilatable cosubstrate. For the purposes of optimizing the conditions for conversion, various influences were examined by oxygen consumption evaluation: the influence of propanol on growth, the effect of pH on the propanol and propionaldehyde conversion rate, and inhibition by propanol and by propionate. On the basis of these results the following procedure was proposed for conversion: fed-batch conversion at pH 6.0, propanol feeding delay after the growth phase, and propanol feeding controlled by actual oxygen concentration. In the fed-batch conversion, final concentrations of 37 g of calcium propionate per liter within 30 h and 56 g of sodium propionate per liter within 70 h were obtained. The yields obtained were near the theoretical values.
3-(Alk-2-enylamino)- and 3-(acryloylamino)-2,2-dimethylpropionaldehyde oximes underwent thermally induced 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition under mild conditions, leading to perhydroisoxazolo[4,3-c]pyridine derivatives. The features of the intramolecular oxime–olefin cycloaddition in this system and the roles of the geminal methyl groups at the 2-position and the alkenylamino nitrogen in the oxime–nitrone isomerization process are discussed based on kinetic studies.
Several aldehydes and peroxides were tested for mutagenicity using Salmonella typhimurium tester strains TA97a, TA100, TA102 and TA104, in the presence and absence of Aroclor-induced liver S9 mix from F344 rats and B6C3F i mice, in either preincubation or vapour phase protocols. Some chemicals were tested in additional Salmonella strains. Benzaldehyde, butyraldehyde, benzoyl peroxide, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, propionaldehyde and veratraldehyde were non-mutagenic. Acetaldehyde and dicumyl peroxide gave inconsistent results and furfural gave equivocal responses in TA100 and TA104. Cumene hydroperoxide, formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde were mutagenic in TA100, TA102 and TA104. trans-Cinnamaldehyde exhibited a weak mutagenic response in TA100 with mouse liver S9 only. 2,4,5.Trimethoxybenzaldehyde was mutagenic only in strain TA1538 with rat liver S9. With the exception of butanone peroxide, which was mutagenic only in TA104, all chemicals mutagenic in strains TA102 and/or TA104 were also mutagenic in TA100. The data do not, therefore, support the preferential use of strains TA102 and TA104 for screening aldehydes and peroxides for mutagenicity. For a number of these chemicals the advantages of using TA102 or TA104 was in the increased responses compared with those obtained with TA100. Two of the four peroxides were mutagenic and one of these was mutagenic only with TA104. This suggests that strains TA102 and TA104 be used if peroxides are not mutagenic in TA100 or TA97.
Anionic copolymerization of β-cyanopropionaldehyde (M1) with methyl isocyanate (MeI, M2) was studied with use of benzophenone–dilithium complex as initiator at −78°C. The values of monomer reactivity ratio were determined to be r1 = 8.3 ± 0.3 and r2 = 0.01 ± 0.01. The structure of resulting copolymer was investigated by means of NMR analysis. The MeI unit is presumed to enter the copolymer chain through its CN opening.
Abstract Seasonal and diurnal variations of carbonyl compounds were investigated in the ambient air of a mountainous city in China, from September 2014 to July 2015. The most abundant carbonyl compounds are formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and acetone, propionaldehyde and methacryladehyde (MACR), which were all measured in most samples. The average concentrations of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, propionaldehyde and MACR in the atmosphere in Changsha were broken down into each season: 6.57, 3.29, 3.66, 0.67 and 0.54 μg/m3 respectively during Spring, 14.09, 8.28, 9.02, 1.28 and 0.6 μg/m3, respectively during Summer, 9.24, 5.48, 8.62, 0.73 and 0.62 μg/m3, respectively during Autumn, and 5.88, 4.84, 7.84, 0.87 and 0.26 μg/m3 respectively during Winter. And majority of the species had higher concentration during noon, showing photochemical oxidation and human activities played an important role in diurnal variation. The highest average C1/C2 (formaldehyde/acetaldehyde) ratio was observed in summer (2.10) compared to those (1.33–2.03) in other seasons, implying the photochemical activities had a positive effect on increasing the ratio of C1/C2. In this study, the monthly concentration of formaldehyde produced from isoprene accounts for 4.8%–39.1% of formaldehyde in ambient air. Strong correlation among some carbonyl compounds means that they came from the same sources. Photochemical reaction was the main source of carbonyl compounds in summer and vehicular exhaust (gasoline and diesel engines) in winter. Changsha is not a completely urbanized city and it is rich in vegetation of broadleaf evergreen shrubs. Both atmospheric photochemical reactions and anthropogenic sources, including vehicular exhaust and industrial processes, dominate the levels of carbonyls. The ILTCR and HQ values of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde are 1.23E-04 and 1.34E-05, 2.80E-01 and 1.86E-01, respectively.
Gas-phase acidities of acrolein and methyl acrylate were measured by bracketing in a flowing afterglow/SIFT apparatus. For acrolein ΔG°acid = 369 ± 4 kcal mol−1 and for methyl acrylate ΔG°acid = 373 ± 4 kcal mol−1. These acidities are substantially lower than those of the saturated analogs propionaldehyde and methyl acetate, respectively, even though hydrogens attached to sp2-hybridized carbon are intrinsically more acidic than those attached to sp3-hybridized carbon. Resonance stabilization of the neutral form by conjugation of the CC double bond with the carbonyl group and allenic destabilization of the anionic form of the two acids can account for the relatively low acidities.
Abstract Several lactic acid bacteria were isolated from bitter tasting ciders in which glycerol was partially removed. The degradation of glycerol via glycerol dehydratase pathway was found in 22 out of 67 isolates. The confirmation of glycerol degradation by this pathway was twofold: showing their glycerol dehydratase activity and detecting the presence of the corresponding gene by a PCR method. 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDL) and 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) were the metabolic end-products of glycerol utilization, and the accumulation of the acrolein precursor 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) was also detected in most of them. The strain identification by PCR-DGGE rpoB showed that Lactobacillus collinoides was the predominant species and only 2 belonged to Lactobacillus diolivorans. Environmental conditions conducting to 3-HPA accumulation in cidermaking were studied by varying the fructose concentration, pH and incubation temperature in L. collinoides 17. This strain failed to grow with glycerol as sole carbon source and the addition of fructose enhanced both growth and glycerol degradation. Regarding end-products of glycerol metabolism, 1,3-PDL was always the main end-product in all environmental conditions assayed, the only exception being the culture with 5.55 mM fructose, where equimolar amounts of 1,3-PDL and 3-HP were found. The 3-HPA was transitorily accumulated in the culture medium under almost all culture conditions, the degradation rate being notably slower at 15 °C. However, no disappearance of 3-HPA was found at pH 3.6, a usual value in cider making. After sugar exhaustion, L. collinoides 17 oxidated lactic acid and/or mannitol to obtain energy and these oxidations were accompanied by the removal of the toxic 3-HPA increasing the 1,3-PDL, 3-HP and acetic acid contents.
Abstract The use of 2-aminooxy- N -[3-(5-dimethylamino-naphtalene-1-sulfonylamino)-propyl]-acetamide (dansylacetamidooxyamine, DNSAOA, 2 ) as a new molecular probe for trace measurement of carbonyl compounds (i.e. aldehydes and ketones) in water samples is reported. 2 can be considered as an evolution of the parent N -(5-dimethylamino-1-naphtalenesulphonamido)-3-oxopentane-1,5-dioxyamine (dansyloxyamine, DNSOA, 1 ) molecule that was initially proposed in a recent paper. An updated procedure for the synthesis of 2 leading to higher purity of such oxyamino probes and a subsequent better sensitivity of the method was described. The reactivity behaviour of 2 with solutions containing small amounts of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetone is also described: even for concentrations less than 1 μM, C1–C3 aldehydes can be fully derivatized within 10 h and only one calibration curve is needed. Longer reaction times are nevertheless required for accurate measurements of the less reactive acetone. Very low limits of detection (LODs), mainly depending on the initial purity of the probe, have been obtained: 10 nM of formaldehyde and 5 nM of the other carbonyls can be detected. The limit of quantification (LOQ) of the method is close to 25 fmol. 2 was used in measuring the carbonyl content of snow, ice and cloud-water samples. The first data concerning acetaldehyde in alpine and polar snow, and a first estimation of acetone in cloud-water droplets are reported here.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) is an important C3 chemical that can be produced from renewable glycerol by resting whole cells of Lactobacillus reuteri. However the process efficiency is limited due to substrate inhibition, product-mediated loss of enzyme activity and cell viability, and also formation of by-products. Complex formation of 3HPA with sodium bisulfite and subsequent binding to Amberlite IRA-400 was investigated as a means of in situ product recovery and for overcoming inhibition. The adsorption capacity and -isotherm of the resin were evaluated using the Langmuir model. The resin exhibited maximum capacity of 2.92mmol complex/g when equilibrated with 45mL solution containing an equilibrium mixture of 2.74mmol 3HPA-bisulfite complex and 2.01mmol free 3HPA. The dynamic binding capacity based on the breakthrough curve of 3HPA and its complex on passing a solution with 2.49mmol complex and 1.65mmol free 3HPA was 2.01mmol/g resin. The bound 3HPA was desorbed from the resin using 0.20M NaCl with a high purity as a mixture of complexed- and free 3HPA at a ratio of 0.77mol/mol. Fed-batch biotransformation of glycerol (818.85mmol) with in situ 3HPA complexation and separation on the bisulfite-functionalized resin resulted in an improved process with consumption of 481.36mmol glycerol yielding 325.54mmol 3HPA at a rate of 17.13mmol/h and a yield of 68 mol%. Also, the cell activity was maintained for at least 28h. (Less)
Catalytic deoxygenation of 1,2-propanediol has been studied as a model the for deoxygenation of polyols and other biomass-derived compounds. Deoxygenation of 1,2-propanediol (1.0 M in sulfolane) catalyzed by {[Cp*Ru(CO)2]2(μ-H)}+OTf – (0.5 mol %) at 110 °C under H2 (750 psi) in the presence of HOTf (60 mM) gives n-propanol (54 %) as the major product, indicating a high selectivity for deoxygenation of the internal OH over the terminal OH of the diol. Di-n propyl ether forms through condensation of n-propanol with itself, and propylene glycol propyl ether arises from condensation of n-propanol with the starting material diol, giving a total of up to 80 % yield for deoxygenation / hydrogenation products under these conditions. The deoxygenation of 1,2-propanediol is strongly influenced by the concentration of acid, giving faster rates and proceeding to higher conversions as the concentration of HOTf is increased. There is little or no dependence of the rate on the pressure of H2. Propionaldehyde was observed as an intermediate, being formed through acid-catalyzed dehydration of 1,2-propanediol. This aldehyde is hydrogenated to n-propanol through an ionic pathway involving protonation of the aldehyde, followed by hydride transfer from the neutral hydride, Cp*Ru(CO)2H. The proposed mechanism for the deoxygenation/hydrogenation reaction involvesmore » formation of a highly acidic dihydrogen complex, [Cp*Ru(CO)2(η2-H2)]+OTf-. Regeneration of the dihydrogen complex occurs through reaction of Cp*Ru(CO)2OTf with H2. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory is operated by Battelle for the US Department of Energy.« less
Purpose: To evaluate the cytotoxicity of pegylated nanoliposomal cisplatin on human ovarian cancer cell line A2780CP. Methods: Synthesized methoxypolyethylene glycol (mPEG) propionaldehyde was characterized by 1Hnuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H-NMR) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and used as coating agent for the preparation of liposomal nanodrug formulation by reverse phase evaporation method. The characteristics of the nanoparticles were evaluated by dynamic light scattering (DLS) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Encapsulation efficiency was determined spectrometrically at 214.42 nm by inductively coupled plasma spectroscopy (ICP-OES). The cytotoxicity of both pegylated nanoliposomal and free cisplatin were evaluated by 3- [4, 5 dimethyl-2-thiazolyl] -2, 5- diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and expressed as half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC 50 ). Results: The mean diameter and zeta potential of drug-loaded liposomal particles and empty nanoliposomes were 125 ± 2.9 nm and -16.6 mV, 108 ± 2.2 nm and -27.2 mV, respectively, while the cytotoxicity (IC50) of free cisplatin and nanodrug formulation were 93.6 ± 3.1 μg/mL and 67.8 ± 2.3 μg/mL, respectively. In vitro toxicological results indicate that the formulation exhibited approximately 1.4-fold cytotoxicity compared with the free drug. Drug encapsulation efficiency of the nanoliposomes was approximately 98 ± 1 %. Conclusion: The findings show that the cytotoxicity of pegylated nanoliposomal cisplatin is higher than that of free cisplatin in human ovarian cancer cell line A2780CP. In vivo studies are, however, required to ascertain its therapeutic potentials. Keywords: Liposome, Nanodrug, Ovarian cancer, Polyethylene glycol, Cisplatin, Drug delivery, Cytotoxicity
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) is among the top 10 target chemicals for the biobased industry (Bozell and Petersen, 2010) because of its potential role as a central component in a network of several high volume biorefinery products including 1,3-propanediol (1,3PDO), 3hydroxypropionic acid (3HP), acrylic acid, malonic acid, acrolein and acrylamide (Bauer et al., 2010; Lüthi-Peng et al., 2002a; Ulmer et al., 2002; Ulmer and Zeng, 2007; Vollenweider and Lacroix, 2004) . The need for research and technology development has been identified in order to make 3HPA a marketable product (Bozell and Petersen, 2010) . Currently, 3HPA is formed as an intermediate in two chemical processes for production of 1,3PDO from fossil based propylene and ethylene, respectively (Arntz and Wiegand, 1991; Knifton et al., 2003) .
To evaluate the cytotoxicity of pegylated nanoliposomal cisplatin on human ovarian cancer cell line A2780CP. Methods: Synthesized methoxypolyethylene glycol (mPEG) propionaldehyde was characterized by 1Hnuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H-NMR) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and used as coating agent for the preparation of liposomal nanodrug formulation by reverse phase evaporation method. The characteristics of the nanoparticles were evaluated by dynamic light scattering (DLS) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Encapsulation efficiency was determined spectrometrically at 214.42 nm by inductively coupled plasma spectroscopy (ICP-OES). The cytotoxicity of both pegylated nanoliposomal and free cisplatin were evaluated by 3-[4, 5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl] -2, 5diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and expressed as half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50). Results: The mean diameter and zeta potential of drug-loaded liposomal particles and empty nanoliposomes were respectively, while the cytotoxicity (IC50) of free cisplatin and nanodrug formulation were 93.6 ± 3.1 µg/mL and 67.8 ± 2.3 µg/mL, respectively. In vitro toxicological results indicate that the formulation exhibited approximately 1.4-fold cytotoxicity compared with the free drug. Drug encapsulation efficiency of the nanoliposomes was approximately 98 ± 1 %. Conclusion: The findings show that the cytotoxicity of pegylated nanoliposomal cisplatin is higher than that of free cisplatin in human ovarian cancer cell line A2780CP. In vivo studies are, however, required to ascertain its therapeutic potentials.
Thermal desorption spectrometry (TDS) is used to measure cross sections for reactions induced in condensed thin films of acetaldehyde by low-energy electrons at an incident energy of 15 eV. This method permits the clear identification of products formed after exposure to electrons and concomitantly enables to deduce the cross section for their formation. Electron exposure causes degradation of acetaldehyde with a cross section of (1.7 ± 0.1) x 10 -16 cm 2 . Cross sections for formation of CO, methane, and propionaldehyde were obtained as (7.4 ± 0.9) x 10 -17 cm 2 , (6.6 ± 1.2) × 10 -18 cm 2 , and (6.2 ± 1.4) × 10 -18 cm 2 . These values are in reasonable agreement with cross sections obtained previously for similar samples by other methods.
The Raman spectra of formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,propionaldehyde and n-butyraladehyde(CnH2nO,n=1,2,3,4)were obtained by portable Raman spectrometer.The molecules of the four aldehydes were calculated by density functional theory(DFT).By comparing the calculated result and the experimental result,the bands of these Raman spectra were assigned.Andthe Raman spectra of these aldehydes molecules were analyzed and compared.These aldehydes could be real-time rapidly identi-fied by Raman spectroscopy technology.
Surface density gradients of streptavidin (SAV) were created on solid surfaces and demonstrated functionality as a bioconjugation platform. The surface density of immobilized streptavidin steadily increased in one dimension from 0 to 235 ng cm(-2) over a distance of 10 mm. The density of coupled protein was controlled by its immobilization onto a polymer surface bearing a gradient of aldehyde group density, onto which SAV was covalently linked using spontaneous imine bond formation between surface aldehyde functional groups and primary amine groups on the protein. As a control, human serum albumin was immobilized in the same manner. The gradient density of aldehyde groups was created using a method of simultaneous plasma copolymerization of ethanol and propionaldehyde. Control over the surface density of aldehyde groups was achieved by manipulating the flow rates of these vapors while moving a mask across substrates during plasma discharge. Immobilized SAV was able to bind biotinylated probes, indicating that the protein retained its functionality after being immobilized. This plasma polymerization technique conveniently allows virtually any substrate to be equipped with tunable protein gradients and provides a widely applicable method for bioconjugation to study effects arising from controllable surface densities of proteins.
In this work, a theoretical study at the MP2/6-31G(d) level of the thermal decomposition retro-ene reaction of 2-methylbutyraldehyde was carried out at a pressure of 1.5 atm. and temperatures ranging from 1110 to 1190 K. The progress of the reaction has been followed by means of the Wiberg bond indices which in turn allowed the calculation of the reaction synchronicity. Transition state theory was used to calculate the theoretical rate constant at 1150 K which was compared with the previously reported experimental value at the same conditions. We found that both values show a close agreement. The obtained computational evidence allowed us to support a reaction mechanism which proceeds in two steps: the first one with the formation of ethylene and 1-propenol via a six-membered cyclic transition state and the second one involving keto-enol equilibrium of 1-propenol to propionaldehyde via a four-membered cyclic transition state. It was found that the reaction is a highly synchronous and concerted process. The results obtained for the thermolysis of 2-methylbutyraldehyde were compared with those obtained for the thermolysis of 2-pentanone. A comparison of our results with those reported for their corresponding β-hydroxy counterparts, 3-hydroxy-2-methylpropionaldehyde and 4-hydroxy-2-butanone has also been made. A study of the thermochemistry of the compounds involved in the reactions studied has been carried out at the G3 level.
The kinetics of oxidation of acetaldehyde (at 20°, 31° and 40° C.), propionaldehyde (at 15°, 25° and 35° C.) and chloral hydrate (40°, 50° and 60° C.) by ceric nitrate in nitric acid medium [(H+) ≈ 0 · 5−1 · 5 M] were studied. The reactions were followed by determining rates of ceric disappearance for variations in [Ce4+], [RCHO], [H+], μ, temperature, etc. The stoichiometry, ΔCe4+ / Δ CH3CHO ≈ 2 was established. The reactions were found to be 2nd Order—first order each with respect to [Ce4+] and [RCHO]. No complex formation between Ce4+ and aldehydes was observed. Neutral Ce (NO3)4 (H2O)2 and diol of the aldehyde were assumed the active species. The rate and thermodynamic data were calculated and discussed. The rates of oxidation were correlated with the structures of the aldehydes.
Ozonated secondary effluents (SEs) from municipal wastewater treatment plants (MWTPs) have been found to cause developmental retardation of fish embryos. This study explored the potential cause of the embryo toxicity formed in ozonated SEs by exposing Japanese medaka (Oryzias latipes) (d-rR) embryos to ozonated SE from a MWTP in Tianjin, China. The increase of ozone dose from 0.26 to 0.96 mg O-3/mg DOC0 (consumed ozone per initial DOC), which produced total aldehyde (mixture of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and glyoxal) from 41.5 to 114.7 mu g/L, resulted in an increase in the percentage of deformed larvae from 2.2% to 24.1%. Increases in larval deformity and embryo mortality were also observed in ozonated SEs from other MWTPs. The exposure experiment using the mixture aldehyde solution showed that the production of aldehydes could explain approximately 13.6% of larval deformity caused by zonation of SEs. Pilot experimental results in Tianjin and Beijing, China showed that biofiltration as a post-treatment technology was effective in removing the aldehydes as well as reducing embryo toxicity caused by zonation. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The oxo reaction of ethyl acrylate by rhodium carbonyl has been studied and compared with that by cobalt carbonyl. The reaction conditions (the temperatures, and the partial pressures of carbon monoxide and hydrogen) affect the distribution of the products (α- and β-carbethoxy-propionaldehyde) more remarkably, but in a way similar to that in the reaction by cobalt carbonyl: the proportion of β-carbethoxypropionaldehyde increases greatly with an increase in the reaction temperature, but decreases with an increase in the partial pressure of carbon monoxide or hydrogen. Judging from this similarity, it is probable that rhodium carbonyl reacts with ethyl acrylate as rhodium hydrocarbonyl to give alkyl- and acylrhodium carbonyls in the course of the reaction.
[10140-89-3] C3H4Cl2O (MW 126.97) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C3H4Cl2O/c4-1-3(5)2-6/h2-3H,1H2 ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = IZRKUJREXIKAQM-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (undergoes condensation reactions, ene reactions, 1,2-additions; α-chloro nitrone precursor) ::: ::: ::: ::: Alternate Name: 2,3-dichloropropanal. ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: bp 45 °C/12 mmHg; nD20 1.4762; d20 1.3712 g cm−3. ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sol most common organic solvents such as hexane, ether, THF, methylene chloride, ethanol, etc. ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: colorless liquid; not commercially available. ::: ::: ::: ::: Analysis of Reagent Purity: NMR. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Methods: the reagent is best prepared by bubbling an equimolar amount of dry Chlorine gas into neat Acrolein at 5 °C.2 The reaction temperature thereby rises spontaneously and is kept at 40 °C until the reaction has ended. Spinning band distillation at reduced pressure (12 mmHg) affords pure 2,3-dichloropropionaldehyde as a colorless liquid in 65% yield. ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: as the reagent is prone to polymerization it should be used as prepared for best results. For a limited time it can be stored under nitrogen at 5 °C in tightly sealed bottles. Use in a fume hood.
The protein composition of Alteromonas sp. strain KE10 cultured at two different organic-nutrient concentrations was determined by using two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The cellular levels of three proteins, OlgA, -B, and -C, were considerably higher in cells grown in a low concentration of organic nutrient medium (LON medium; 0.2 mg of carbon per liter) than cells grown in a high concentration of organic nutrient medium (HON; 200 mg of C liter(-1)) or cells starved for organic nutrients. In the LON medium, the cellular levels of the Olg proteins were higher at the exponential growth phase than at the stationary growth phase. A sequence of the gene for OlgA revealed that the amino acid sequence had a high degree of similarity to the NAD(+)-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenases of several bacteria. OlgA, expressed in Escherichia coli, catalyzed the dehydrogenation of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde. The aldehyde dehydrogenase activity of KE10 was higher in cells growing exponentially in LON medium than in HON. OlgA may be involved in the growth under low-nutrient conditions. The physiological role of OlgA is discussed here.
Potassium iron carbonylate, KHFe(CO)4, reacted with ethyl acrylate, crotonate, 3-butenoate, styrene, and α-olefins at 40–70°C under an atmosphere of carbon monoxide. Methylmalonate was selectively obtained from the acrylate by treatment of the reaction mixture with an alcoholic iodine and hydrogen chloride solutions. Dipotassium iron carbonylate, K2Fe(CO)4, reacted with β-bromopropionate to give mainly methylmalonate. Isomerization of β-ethoxycarbonylpropionyliron carbonylate to the α-isomer occurred readily in contrast to isomerization of acylcobalt carbonyl. Both crotonate and 3-butenoate gave ethylmalonate as a major product and methylsuccinate and glutarate as minor ones. The results suggest that α-ethoxycarbonylbutyliron carbonylate is more predominant than the corresponding β- and γ-isomers in equilibrium state. This is in striking contrast to the case of acylcobalt carbonyl. Styrene yielded two isomeric aldehydes, α- and β-phenylpropionaldehydes. Ethyl caproate and enanthate were obtained from 1-pe...
Primary processes in photolysis of 1-nitropropane in gas phase are analogous to those of nitroethane and 2-nitropropane. Ethylene, propylene and methyl nitrite are the major photolysis products,while minor products are methane, methyl nitrate, ethylene oxide, ethyl nitrite, propyl nitrite, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, water, nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide. Quantum yields of formation of photoproducts ethylene and propylene at 22°C are 0.074 and 0.042; and at 56°C these are 0.039 and 0.01. A mechanism of the photolysis is suggested.
An Exendin-4 in which there is introduced a cysteine ​​(Cys) at the site no. 40 C-terminal extremity of exendin-4 is PEGylated with trimeric type of polyethylene glycol (PEG) or a derivative thereof, wherein the polyethylene glycol derivative is selected from succinimidylpropionate methoxypolyethylene glycol, N-hydroxysuccinimide methoxypolyethylene propionaldehyde methoxypolyethylene methoxypolyethylene maleimide.
Abstract In order to test whether the lipolytic activity is a common feature of aldehydes, we studied the action of different aldehydes (propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, glycolaldehyde and benzaldehyde) as well as of a ketonic compound (acetone) on lipolysis in rat adipose tissue “in vitro”. Contrarily to acetone, all the aldehydes tested increase the rate of lipolysis, this effect being more effective in tissue removed from fed than from fasted animals. Exposure of adipose tissue to aldehydes produces a marked decrease of both tissue glucose uptake and pyruvate output, whereas it stimulates lactate output. The lactate/pyruvate ratio is, consequently, strikingly increased in the medium. The mechanism of the activating effect of aldehydes on the lipolytic system in adipose tissue is discussed.
The effects of modifiers (NAD+, NADH, propionaldehyde, chloral hydrate, diethylstilboestrol and p-nitrobenzaldehyde) on the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl (PNP) pivalate (PNP trimethylacetate) catalysed by cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase are reported. In each case a different inhibition pattern is obtained to that observed when the substrate is PNP acetate; for example, propionaldehyde and chloral hydrate competitively inhibit the hydrolysis of PNP acetate, but are mixed inhibitors with PNP pivalate. The kinetic results can be rationalized in terms of different rate-determining steps: acylation of the enzyme in the case of the pivalate but acyl-enzyme hydrolysis for the acetate. This is confirmed by stopped-flow studies, in which a burst of p-nitrophenoxide is observed when the substrate is PNP acetate, but not when it is the pivalate. PNP pivalate inhibits the dehydrogenase activity of the enzyme competitively with the aldehyde substrate; this is most simply explained if the esterase and dehydrogenase reactions occur at a common enzymic site.
AIMS ::: To measure carbonyl emissions from a heated tobacco product (IQOS) in comparison with an e-cigarette (Nautilus Mini) and a commercial tobacco cigarette (Marlboro Red). ::: ::: ::: DESIGN ::: Regular and menthol variants of the heated tobacco product were tested. A tank-type atomizer was tested with a tobacco-flavoured liquid at 10 and 14 W. Aerosol and smoke were collected in impingers containing 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine. Health Canada Intense and two more intense puffing regimens were used. ::: ::: ::: SETTING ::: Analytical laboratory in Greece. ::: ::: ::: MEASUREMENTS ::: Carbonyl levels in the aerosol and smoke. ::: ::: ::: FINDINGS ::: At the Health Canada Intense regimen, heated tobacco products emitted 5.0-6.4 μg/stick formaldehyde, 144.1-176.7 μg/stick acetaldehyde, 10.4-10.8 μg/stick acrolein, 11.0-12.8 μg/stick propionaldehyde and 1.9-2.0 μg/stick crotonaldehyde. Compared with the tobacco cigarette, levels were on average 91.6% lower for formaldehyde, 84.9% lower for acetaldehyde, 90.6% lower for acrolein, 89.0% lower for propionaldehyde and 95.3% lower for crotonaldehyde. The e-cigarette emitted 0.5-1.0 μg/12 puffs formaldehyde, 0.8-1.5 μg/12 puffs acetaldehyde and 0.3-0.4 μg/12 puffs acrolein, but no propionaldehyde and crotonaldehyde. At more intense puffing regimens, formaldehyde was increased in heated tobacco products, but levels were three-fourfold lower compared with the tobacco cigarette. Based on the findings from Health Canada Intense puffing regimen, use of 20 heated tobacco sticks would result in approximately 85% to 95% reduced carbonyl exposure compared with smoking 20 tobacco cigarettes; the respective reduction in exposure from use of 5 g e-cigarette liquid would be 97% to > 99%. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The IQOS heated tobacco product emits substantially lower levels of carbonyls than a commercial tobacco cigarette (Marlboro Red) but higher levels than a Nautilus Mini e-cigarette.
Abstract The photocatalytic epoxidation of propylene by molecular oxygen is one of the best methods to produce propylene oxide (PO) from the environmental viewpoints. The key is using photo-energy to achieve high PO selectivity and yield at mild conditions. A series of photocatalysts including SiO 2 , TiO 2 , V-Ti/MCM-41, V 2 O 5 /SiO 2 , Au/TiO 2 and TS-1, were used to evaluate their performance in the photo-epoxidation. The photocatalytic epoxidation of propylene was carried out in the gas mixture of C 3 H 6 :O 2 :N 2 = 1:1:18 at atmospheric pressure. In addition to PO, other products, such as propionaldehyde, acetone, acetaldehyde, ethanol and methanol, were detected. The results indicated that the most favorable photocatalysts for photocatalytic epoxidation were silicates supported group. The highest PO formation rate of 114 μmol g cat −1 h −1 with selectivity of 47% was obtained over V-Ti/MCM-41 on stream after 4 h at 50 °C and atmospheric pressure under UVA irradiation of 0.2 mW/cm 2 . In addition, the selectivity of products was very stable on stream. A possible reaction mechanism was proposed based on the knowledge of species presented during the photocatalytic reaction.
Removal of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) by photocatalytic treatment has drawn extensive interest as an environmentally-benign technique over the last few decades. Low molecular weight aldehydes are one of the major VOCs contaminating indoor air. They are usually generated from new architectural ornaments, furniture, merchandize, and plastics, as well as from paint, glue, or other chemicals, and known to be carcinogenic, mutagenic or teratogenic. Thus far, photocatalytic decomposition of aldehydes with TiO2 has been reported by several researchers, but the decomposition characteristics of each aldehyde has not been fully investigated. Previously, we reported that the monolayer coverage of WO3 on the surface of TiO2 particle enhances the photocatalytic activity by 3-4 times in decomposing gaseous 2propanol or benzene. It was proposed that the major advantage of the WO3-modified TiO2 originates from much higher adsorption of organic compound on its surface because of the high Lewis surface acidity of WO3 covering TiO2 surface. In the present work, we studied the decomposition trends of the three volatile aldehydes, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde, with the WO3modified TiO2 photocatalyst. Unexpectedly, increase of photocatalytic activity was not observed in decomposing formaldehyde, differently from other aldehydes. We analyzed the surface of formaldehyde-adsorbed photocatalysts to investigate the unusual decomposition behavior of formaldehyde. The obtained result will also provide a new insight to understand the photocatalytic enhancement in the WO3modified TiO2. The commercial TiO2, Degussa P25, with a surface area of 50 m/g, was chosen as a standard. The 3 mol% WO3/97 mol% TiO2 (denoted to WO3/TiO2; the TiO2-based composite whose surface is covered with monolayer of WO3) was prepared by an incipient wetness method. That is, 1.00 g of P25 TiO2 was suspended in 40 mL of 14.0 M aqueous ammonia solution containing 3.87 × 10−4 mol of the tungstic acid (99%, Aldrich), and dried in a water bath at 70 C while stirring. The dried sample was then heat treated at 200 C for 2 hr in a flowing oxygen. The TEM images in Figure 1 show the pure TiO2 (Degussa p25) and WO3/TiO2 nanoparticles. The uniform lattice fringes observed over an entire particle with the size of about 25 nm indicate that the individual TiO2 nanoparticle consists of a single grain. The WO3/TiO2 nanoparticles also showed the lattice fringes similar to those observed in pure TiO2, and no WO3 cluster was found around the TiO2. This suggests that WO3 is uniformly dispersed on the surface of TiO2. The prepared WO3/TiO2 and pure TiO2 samples were used for the photocatalytic decomposition of each aldehyde in gas phase. For the measurements, an aqueous colloidal suspension containing 2.0 mg of WO3/TiO2 or TiO2 was spread on a 2.5 × 2.5 cm Pyrex glass, and subsequently dried at room temperature. Then it was located in the center of a 200 mLsized gas-tight reactor, and the whole area of the sample was irradiated by a 300 W Xe lamp. After evacuation of the reactor, 26 μmol of aldehyde and 170 μmol of water were added to obtain the partial pressures of 2 and 16 Torr, respectively. The total pressure of the reactor was then controlled to 700 Torr by addition of oxygen gas. The gas mixtures in the reactor were magnetically convected during the irradiation. The remained aldehyde and evolved CO2 during the photocatalytic reaction were monitored by a gas chromatography. The detailed description for the measurement of photocatalytic activity is given elsewhere. Figure 2 shows the photocatalytic removal of the three alkylaldehydes with the WO3/TiO2 and pure TiO2 under a UV light irradiation. The WO3/TiO2 was much more effici-
A gas chromatographic analysis method was established in the study of the conversion of acrolein to 1,3-propanediol by hydration and hydrogenation.The method can analyze 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and 1,3-propanediol accurately.The relative deviation is between 0.86%～1.89% and the relative standard deviation is between 0.81%～3.21%.Using the analysis data the conversion,yield and selectivity of the two reaction can be calculated.
Abstract In this work, a theoretical study at the MP2/6-31G(d) level of the thermal decomposition retro-ene reaction of 2-methylbutyraldehyde was carried out at a pressure of 1.5 atm. and temperatures ranging from 1110 to 1190 K. The progress of the reaction has been followed by means of the Wiberg bond indices which in turn allowed the calculation of the reaction synchronicity. Transition state theory was used to calculate the theoretical rate constant at 1150 K which was compared with the previously reported experimental value at the same conditions. We found that both values show a close agreement. The obtained computational evidence allowed us to support a reaction mechanism which proceeds in two steps: the first one with the formation of ethylene and 1-propenol via a six-membered cyclic transition state and the second one involving keto-enol equilibrium of 1-propenol to propionaldehyde via a four-membered cyclic transition state. It was found that the reaction is a highly synchronous and concerted process. The results obtained for the thermolysis of 2-methylbutyraldehyde were compared with those obtained for the thermolysis of 2-pentanone. A comparison of our results with those reported for their corresponding b-hydroxy counterparts, 3-hydroxy-2-methylpropionaldehyde and 4-hydroxy-2-butanone has also been made. A study of the thermochemistry of the compounds involved in the reactions studied has been carried out at the G3 level.
six-membered cyclic transition state [4] . It has been proposed that the reaction mechanism proceeds in two steps, the first of which generates ethylene and 1-propenol via a six-membered cyclic transition state. At a later stage of molecular decomposition reaction, 1-propenol is stabilized by conversion to propionaldehyde.
In this work, we have focused on studying heterolytic decomposition reactions as a continuation of the series of experimental and computational studies on retro-ene reactions that have been carried out throughout our research trajectory, e.g., the thermal decomposition of: bhydroxyalkenes [8] [9] [10] , b-hydroxyketones [11, 12] , esters [13] , b-hydroxyesters [14, 15] and b-hydroxynitriles [16] . In this occasion, we wanted to study the thermal decomposition of an aldehyde and a ketone for determining the effect of hydroxyl group on the thermal decomposition reaction, when it is present or absent in the molecular structure of the reactant. We have selected 2-methylbutyraldehyde and 2-pentanone, which have experimental kinetic constants reported [3, 5] , comparing also the results with those for 3-hydroxy-2-methylpropionaldehyde and 4-hydroxy-2-butanone, which were theoretically studied by Castillo and Boyd [17] and Henao et al. [11] , respectively. The molecular structures of the four compounds are represented in Fig. 1 .
Previously, we reported that the monolayer coverage of WO 3 on the surface of TiO 2 particle enhances the photocatalytic activity by 3-4 times in decomposing gaseous 2-propanol or benzene. 16, 17 It was proposed that the major advantage of the WO 3 -modified TiO 2 originates from much higher adsorption of organic compound on its surface because of the high Lewis surface acidity of WO 3 covering TiO 2 surface. In the present work, we studied the decomposition trends of the three volatile aldehydes, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde, with the WO 3 -modified TiO 2 photocatalyst. Unexpectedly, increase of photocatalytic activity was not observed in decomposing formaldehyde, differently from other aldehydes. We analyzed the surface of formaldehyde-adsorbed photocatalysts to investigate the unusual decomposition behavior of formaldehyde. The obtained result will also provide a new insight to understand the photocatalytic enhancement in the WO 3 -modified TiO 2 .
Techniques to control metal particle size in a supported catalyst have been investigated. The mean particle size of nickel increases with an increase in the concentration of metal in the catalyst, varying from 2.2 to 25.8% in weight. The effects of metal particle size on reaction selectivity are explained in terms of the fraction of metal atoms located at the corners and edges in the metal crystallites. During the reaction of propionaldehyde with hydrogen on the catalyst, hydrogenation may occur on the metal atoms located at the corners or edges of the crystallites, while the decomposition of the aldehyde may take place on the metal atoms located on the plane surface of the crystallites.
Abstract (2S,3S,4R)-4-Amino-3-hydroxy-2-methylpentanoic acid, a novel amino acid constituent of bleomycin, has been synthesized stereoselectively through aldol condensation of (R)-2-aminopropionaldehyde derivatives and E-vinyloxyboranes.
This study reports gas chromatography (GC) combined with Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy to investigate the elution profiles of individual oxime isomers undergoing characteristic interconversion (dynamic chromatography) in GC. The use of a light-pipe FTIR interface enables on-line acquisition of FTIR spectra, which in turn render unambiguous identification of the individual molecules. Here, acetaldehyde oxime and propionaldehyde oxime were chosen for comparison of elution behaviour under varying temperature and carrier flow velocities. The choice of selective responses (wavenumber selectivity), which were relatively stronger for each isomer, enabled display and retracing of the individual isomer over the chromatographic time scale and thus provided characteristic single isomer profiles. Chemometric data analysis using the multivariate curve resolution technique further confirmed this isomer elution profile. Simulation of the spectrum for each isomer allowed comparison with instrument-generated FTIR spectra to confirm the elution order of E and Z isomers. The effect of changing chromatographic parameters (temperature, flow) on interconversion rates and/or extents were studied and the corresponding change in FTIR spectrum intensity was noted. The GC–FID data acquired concurrently with GC–FTIR analyses ratified isomerisation chromatographic profiles.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase was measured in primary cultures of hepatocytes obtained with a two-step collagenase perfusion either from human hepatic tissue or from livers of Fisher rats. Basal enzyme activity declines gradually as a function of time in culture, but remains at all times higher when measured with propionaldehyde and NAD (P/NAD) than with benzaldehyde and NADP (B/NADP). Treatment of the cultures with 2 microM of 3-methylcholanthrene for four days significantly increased the B-NADP activity of human and rat hepatocytes (tenfold and eightfold respectively). In human hepatocytes 3-methylcholanthrene increases also the P/NAD activity, but to a lesser extent (twofold), compared to the B/NADP activity. Due to the significant enhancement of B/NADP activity in cultures of human and rat hepatocytes after application of 3-methylcholanthrene, the initial difference in the basal activity levels between the P/NAD and B/NADP forms diminishes or, in the case of human hepatocytes, is even inverted. These results show for the first time that aldehyde dehydrogenase activity is increased in cultured human hepatocytes. This biochemical property is preserved in human and rat hepatocyte cultures, despite the rather quick loss of the basal aldehyde dehydrogenase activity.
(S)-3-hydroxy-2-substituted propionaldehyde dimethyl or diethyl acetals 3, which are versatile synthons in dipeptide isostere synthesis, were synthesized in 54–95% enantiomeric excess by reduction of (S,R)-acetalized acyloxazolidinones 7 with LiAlH4.
Abstract The selective oxidation of butan-2-one to diacetyl has been studied in the temperature range 200-380°C over vanadium oxide and vanadium-phosphorus oxide catalysts. In addition to diacetyl, the principal reaction products detected were acetic acid, acetaldehyde, methyl vinyl ketone, propionaldehyde and carbon dioxide. Detailed steady state and transient kinetic analysis indicate that there are three distinct reaction pathways which lead to the observed product distribution. In the first of these diacetyl and methyl vinyl ketone are formed via a common intermediate, namely acetoin: Evidence for this reaction route include the fact that acetoin was detected as a reaction intermediate in Temporal Analysis of Products (TAP) and when acetoin was fed to the reactor it was converted into diacetyl and methyl vinyl ketone. The second reaction pathway observed involved the oxidation of the enol form of methyl ethyl ketone with the formation of acetic acid and acetaldehyde This reaction predominated at high oxygenpartial pressures and represented a significant route away from diacetyl formation in these conditions. The third reaction pathway observed was the decomposition of methyl ethyl ketone to two molecules of acetaldehyde via a diol intermediate: Evidence that a second pathway was involved in the formation of acetaldehyde emerged from the fact that the molar ratio of acetaldehyde to acetic acid was always greater than unity in spite ofthe fact that acetic acid was more stable than acetaldehyde in our reaction conditions. The second pathway was confirmed when propiophenone was fed to the reactor. Cleavage of the enol form of propiophenone should lead only to the formation of benzoic acid and never benzaldehyde. In our reaction conditions benzaldehyde was in fact observed in the reaction products, confirming that a molecule bearing the aldehyde functional group could form on the carbonyl side of the substrate.
Results arising from the current study demonstrate that UV irradiation-induced photoaddition reactions of the 1,2-diketones, acenaphthenequinone, 9,10-phenanthrenequinone, and benzil, with silyl enol ethers derived from propionaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde take place to form a variety of adducts. Product formation in these cases takes place mainly via two mechanistic pathways, one initiated by single electron transfer (SET) and the other by [2 + 2]-cycloaddition. In addition, observations show that the competition between these pathways depends on the nature of the substrates. An exploration of the photoreactions of acenaphthenequinone revealed that photoinduced SET is the predominant process occurring when the dimethyl-substituted silyl enol ether serves as a reactant, while cycloaddition and other excited state reactions become competitive with SET when the mono-methyl substituted silyl enol ether is used as a substrate. In the case of 9,10-phenanthrenequinone, photoreactions take place by [4 + 2]-cycloaddition routes regardless of the nature of the silyl enol ether employed. Finally, irradiation of benzil in the presence of both silyl enol ethers leads to exclusive or predominant formation of products arising by [2 + 2]-cycloaddition and photoinduced benzoyl radical forming α-cleavage.
SUMMARY A simple method is reported that allows the phenotypic differentiation of Lactobacillusreuteri strains among other Lactobacillus . The detection of the enzyme 1,3-propane-diol:NAD oxidoreductase in non-denaturing PAGE, a constitutive enzyme of Lb. reuteri involved in the production of 1,3-propanediol, is used. Other member of the genuswere reported as 1,3 propanediol producers ( Lactobacillus brevis and Lactobacillusbuchneri ), both of their enzymes showed differential properties to that of Lb. reuteri .Under the conditions used in the study, the strain Lb. reuteri CRL1100 was found toproduce 15 % more 1,3-PDL (11.5 ± 0.41 gl -1 ) in comparison with the reference strain Lb. reuteri DSM 20016 (10.0 ± 0.37 gl -1 ). Keywords Lactobacillus reuteri, 1,3-propanediol:NAD oxidoreductase, zymogram, 1,3-propa-nediol. 1 – INTRODUCTION Besides ethanol, glycerol is the main product of yeast fermentation (L AFON -L AFOUR-CADE , 1983). In spoiled wines or ciders glycerol is usually degraded causing bitter compo-nents like acrolein; generated from a chemical equilibrium with 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde,the intermediary component in the production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDL) (C
Plant ALDH10 family members are aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases (AMADHs), which oxidize ω-aminoaldehydes to the corresponding acids. They have been linked to polyamine catabolism, osmoprotection, secondary metabolism (fragrance), and carnitine biosynthesis. Plants commonly contain two AMADH isoenzymes. We previously studied the substrate specificity of two AMADH isoforms from peas (PsAMADHs). Here, two isoenzymes from tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), SlAMADHs, and three AMADHs from maize (Zea mays), ZmAMADHs, were kinetically investigated to obtain further clues to the catalytic mechanism and the substrate specificity. We also solved the high resolution crystal structures of SlAMADH1 and ZmAMADH1a because these enzymes stand out from the others regarding their activity. From the structural and kinetic analysis, we can state that five residues at positions 163, 288, 289, 444, and 454 (PsAMADHs numbering) can, directly or not, significantly modulate AMADH substrate specificity. In the SlAMADH1 structure, a PEG aldehyde derived from the precipitant forms a thiohemiacetal intermediate, never observed so far. Its absence in the SlAMADH1-E260A structure suggests that Glu-260 can activate the catalytic cysteine as a nucleophile. We show that the five AMADHs studied here are capable of oxidizing 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde to the cryo- and osmoprotectant 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionate. For the first time, we also show that 3-acetamidopropionaldehyde, the third aminoaldehyde besides 3-aminopropionaldehyde and 4-aminobutyraldehyde, is generally oxidized by AMADHs, meaning that these enzymes are unique in metabolizing and detoxifying aldehyde products of polyamine degradation to nontoxic amino acids. Finally, gene expression profiles in maize indicate that AMADHs might be important for controlling ω-aminoaldehyde levels during early stages of the seed development.
The electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide is sensitive to electrolyte polarization, which causes gradients in pH and the concentration of carbon dioxide to form near the cathode surface. It is desirable to measure the concentration of reaction-relevant species in the immediate vicinity of the cathode because the intrinsic kinetics of carbon dioxide reduction depend on the composition of the local reaction environment. Meeting this objective has proven difficult because conventional analytical methods only sample products from the bulk electrolyte. In this study, we describe the use of differential electrochemical mass spectrometry to measure the concentration of carbon dioxide and reaction products in the immediate vicinity of the cathode surface. This capability is achieved by coating the electrocatalyst directly onto the pervaporation membrane used to transfer volatile species into the mass spectrometer, thereby enabling species to be sampled directly from the electrode-electrolyte interface. This approach has been used to investigate hydrogen evolution and carbon dioxide reduction over Ag and Cu. We find that the measured CO2 reduction activity of Ag agrees well with what is measured by gas chromatography of the effluent from an H-cell operated with the same catalyst and electrolyte. A distinct advantage of our approach is that it enables observation of the depletion of carbon dioxide near the cathode surface due to reaction with hydroxyl anions evolved at the cathode surface, something that cannot be done using conventional analytical techniques. We also demonstrate that the influence of this relatively slow chemical reaction can be minimized by evaluating electrocatalytic activity during a rapid potential sweep, thereby enabling measurement of the intrinsic kinetics. For CO2 reduction over Cu, nine products can be observed simultaneously in real time. A notable finding is that the abundance of aldehydes relative to alcohols near the cathode surface is much higher than that observed in the bulk electrolyte. It is also observed that for increasingly cathodic potentials the relative abundance of ethanol increases at the expense of propionaldehyde. These findings suggest that acetaldehyde is a precursor to ethanol and propionaldehyde and that propionaldehyde is a precursor to n-propanol.
Objective:Search new polymerizing agent of bovine hemoglobin for the use of prepare suitable blood substitute.Methods:Find new polymerizing agent with the theories of kinetics and thermodynamics of polymerization reaction,compare the characteristics among polymerizing reactions and products of 2 hydroxyl propionaldehyde,glycolaldehyde and glutaraldehyde with electrophoresis and HPLC.Use computer technology to compare and simulate the structures between 2 hydroxyl propionaldehyde and glycolaldehyde polymerized products.Results:The reaction of 2 hydroxyl propionaldehyde polymerizing bovine Hb was mild,its products were stable and mostly made of lowly polymerized polyHbs,their oxygen affinity was suitable to supply oxygen to tissues.The distribution of the products’ molecular weight was much more better than glycolaldehyde polymerized products,and this supplied the possibility that the adverse effects induced by ultra polymerized and unreacted Hbs in the blood substitute made from glycolaldehyde polymerized bovine Hb could disappear when blood substitutes manufactured with 2 hydroxyl propionaldehyde were used.Conclusion:2 hydroxyl propionaldehyde is a new agent that is very suitable for the manufacture of blood substitutes.\;[
The aim of this study was to investigate the legally-designated malodorous compounds at the plant boundary areas of 5 plants expected to emit high odor intensities, as well as! complaint area at the Yeosu petrochemical industrial complex in Korea. The sampling was carried out during spring and summer of 2003 and 2006. The concentrations of ammonia, sulfur compounds (hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan, and dimethyl sulfide) and aldehydes (acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde) emitted during 2006 were higher than those emitted during 2003, and the concentrations emitted during summer were higher than those emitted during spring at the plant boundary areas. It was thought that the concentrations of odorants in the complaint area had been directly influenced by the concentrations of odorants in the plant boundary areas as they showed similar patterns of concentration variations. While the concentration of TMA during 2006 was lower than during 2003 at the all sampling sites, the concentration of styrene during 2006 was higher than during 2003 at the all sampling sites. The sites showed high concentrationsof odorous compounds at the plant boundary area of the related chemical and petrochemical refinery plants.
Pentene formation is observed during desorption of propionaldehyde from Rh–Y zeolite into a helium stream, while neither Na–Y zeolite nor H–Na–Y zeolite is effective for pentene formation.
Formaldehyde dehydrogenase was isolated and purified in an overall yield of 12% from cell-free extract of Pseudomonas putida C-83 by chromatographies on columns of DEAE-cellulose, DEAE-Sephadex A-50, and hydroxyapatite. The purified enzyme was homogeneous as judged by disc gel electrophoresis and was most active at pH 7.8 using formaldehyde as a substrate. The enzyme was also active toward acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, glyoxal, and pyruvaldehyde, though the reaction rates were low. The enzyme was NAD+-linked but did not require the external addition of glutathione, in contrast with the usual formaldehyde dehydrogenase from liver mitochondria, baker's yeast, and some bacteria. The enzyme was markedly inhibited by Ni2+, Pd2+, Hg2+, p-chloromercuribenzoate, and phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 150,000 by the gel filtration method, and analysis by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicated that the enzyme was composed of two subunit monomers. Kinetic analysis gave Km values of 67 microM for formaldehyde and 56 microM for NAD+, and suggested that the reaction proceeds by a "Ping-pong" mechanism. The enzyme catalyzed the oxidation of formaldehyde accompanied by the stoichiometric reduction of NAD+, but no reverse reaction was observed.
Incorporating variability in soil and chemical properties into root zone leaching models should provide a better representation of pollutant distribution in natural field conditions. Our objective was to determine if a more mechanistic rate-based model (Opus) would predict soil water and pesticide mass in the soil profile more accurately than a capacity-based model (GLEAMS) when spatial variability and uncertainty in parameters are considered. Predictions of spatial variations of soil water content and movement of aldicarb [2-methyl-2-(methylthio)-propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime] and metolachlor [2-chloro-N-(2-methoxy-1-methylethyl) acetamide] in the root zone were compared using 3 yr of observed data from a 3.9-ha agricultural field in southwest Georgia. Spatial variability of soil physical properties, pesticide properties, and pesticide application were described using probability distributions fitted to measured field data, after removing spatial trends that were physically meaningful. There were significant differences in mean soil water content predicted by the two models, although variations around the mean were comparable. Pesticide mass predictions were different on most post-application dates in both mean and spatial variation. The less rigorous GLEAMS predicted mean depth-averaged soil water content and pesticide mass in the 1.2-m profile at least as good as the more mechanistic Opus, although it did not simulate depth distributions of water or pesticide mass as well as Opus. GLEAMS simulated spatial variations of depth-averaged soil water content and pesticide mass in the field with reasonable accuracy while employing fewer parameters that exhibit lower spatial variability.
A methane-utilizing organism capable of growth both on methane and on more complex organic substrates as a sole source of carbon and energy, has been isolated and studied in detail. Suspensions of methane-grown cells of this organism oxidized C-1 compounds (methane, methanol, formaldehyde, formate); hydrocarbons (ethane, propane); primary alcohols (ethanol, propanol); primary aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde); alkenes (ethylene, propylene); dimethylether; and organic acids (acetate, malate, succinate, isocitrate). Suspensions of methanol-or succinate-grown cells did not oxidize methane, ethane, propane, ethylene, propylene, or dimethylether, suggesting that the enzymatic systems required for oxidation of these substrates are induced only during growth on methane. Extracts of methane-grown cells contained a particulate reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent methane monooxygenase activity. Oxidation of methanol, formaldehyde, and primary alcohols was catalyzed by a phenazine methosulfate-linked, ammonium ion-requiring methanol dehydrogenase. Oxidation of primary aldehydes was catalyzed by a phenazine methosulfate-linked, ammonium ion-independent aldehyde dehydrogenase. Formate was oxidized by a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-specific formate dehydrogenase. Extracts of methane-grown, but not succinate-grown, cells contained the key enzymes of the serine pathway, hydroxypyruvate reductase and malate lyase, indicating that the enzymes of C-1 assimilation are induced only during growth on C-1 compounds. Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was induced during growth on glucose. Extracts of methane-grown cells contained low levels of enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, including α-keto glutarate dehydrogenase, relative to the levels found during growth on succinate. Images
PURPOSE: To reduce an amount of a propenyl polyether in a hydroxy-functional polyether. CONSTITUTION: A neutral hydroxy-functional polyether, containing a propenyl polyether and water, and an acid catalyst (e.g. hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, etc.) soluble in the polyether with an aqueous PK value of less than 2.5, preferably, less than 1.5, are contacted with the use of an amount of an acid having an equivalent amount of 0.03 to 5.5 mg per kg of the hydroxy-functional polyether to convert at least a portion of the propenyl polyether to a propionaldehyde. The product is contacted with an epoxy compound (e.g. alkylene oxide etc.), represented by formula (wherein R and R' are each H, an inactive group, etc.), to scavenge the acid catalyst, and the obtained product is stripped to remove water and the propionaldehyde. COPYRIGHT: (C)1992,JPO
The following carbonyl compounds undergo one-electron reduction by the radicals ·CO2H, ·CO2–, or ·CMe2·NH2 to give species which have been characterised by their e.s.r. spectra; acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, glyoxal, biacetyl, pyruvaldehyde, ethyl pyruvate, pyruvic acid, furmaric acid, maleic acid, and diethyl maleate. The dependence of the spectra on pH reveals the occurrence of acid-base equilibria for some of the radicals, and there is also evidence that some of the radicals undergo interconversion between tautomeric forms; the behaviour of fumaric and maleic acid, and the differences between the two compounds, are particularly notable in these respects.
The action of PdCl2 on phenylhydrazones derived from 2-oxopropionaldehyde, benzoylformaldehyde or butane-2,3-dione led to dinuclear metallacycles 1 [{Pd[2-(NR4NCR3CR2O)-5-R1C6H3]Cl}2] (R1 = H, Br, NO2 or MeO; R2 = Me or Ph; R3, R4 = H or Me). Compounds 1 reacted with PPh3 to afford [PdCl{κC,κN-(C–N)}(PPh3)] 2 or [PdCl{κC-(C–N)}(PPh3)2] 3 (C–N being the metallated hydrazone) which contain one or two phosphine molecules per metal atom respectively, depending on the steric hindrance of the N-donor ligands. The structure of [Pd{2-(NHNCHCOMe)-5-O2NC6H3}Cl(PPh3)] has been determined by X-ray diffraction. The bond distances and angles are similar to those reported for related metallacycles. The distance N(1)· · ·O(1) [2.631(4) A] indicates the presence of a strong intramolecular hydrogen bond between the NH and COMe groups. The C(8)–O(1) [1.222(5) A], C(8)–C(7) [1.470(5) A], C(7)–N(2) [1.304(4) A] and N(1)–N(2) [1.342(4) A] bond lengths indicate that the complex 3 exists mainly in the keto-hydrazo form. The action of NaOMe on the PPh3 or (PPh3)2 complexes in MeOH afforded deep violet compounds which do not contain chlorine atoms. The analytical data, IR and NMR spectra showed that deprotonation of the NH group had taken place to give [Pd{2-(NNCR3CR2O)-5-R1C6H3}(PPh3)], by means of an hydrazo-keto azo-enol tautomerization.
Lactobacillus reuteri utilizes exogenously added glycerol as a hydrogen acceptor during carbohydrate fermentations, resulting in higher growth rates and cell yields than those obtained during growth on carbohydrates alone. Glycerol is first converted to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde by a coenzyme B(12)-dependent glycerol dehydratase and then reduced to 1,3-propanediol by an NAD -dependent oxidoreductase. The latter enzyme was purified and determined to have a molecular weight of 180,000; it is predicted to exist as a tetramer of identical 42,000-molecular-weight subunits.
Aldicarb, the active ingredient in the insecticide TEMIK, was introduced to the agricultural community over 25 years ago. It has been registered worldwide to control a wide variety of insect, mite, and nematode pests in agriculture. The toxicological research database supporting the registration and use of aldicarb was generated over more than 25 years and contains more than 280 animal studies on 12 species of animals, 2 clinical human trials, and over 20 human monitoring studies. This database, which includes biochemical aspects (metabolism and mode-of-action studies), acute toxicity and special short-term toxicity studies, long-term toxicity studies, and epidemiological observations in humans, serves as the starting point for the evaluation of the risks associated with the acceptance of levels of aldicarb residues in food and drinking water and for the more direct occupational exposure. This article highlights the available toxicological data and reviews worldwide regulation of aldicarb. Included in these discussions is a brief description of the toxicological end point upon which regulatory decisions have been based, namely acetylcholinesterase depression. Aldicarb, the N-methylcarbamic acid ester of 2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde oxime, was the first of a limited group of insecticidal oxime Nmethylcarbamates that have properties distinct from N-methylcarbamates which have a phenolic constituent, instead of the oxime moiety. Aldicarb is highly water-soluble (approximately 6000 ppm), nonvolatile, relatively stable under acidic conditions, and is easily degraded under alkaline conditions. These properties are important determinants of its systemic action in plants and of its problematic environmental behavior. ing acetylcholinesterase in nerve synapses and myoneural junctions. Acetylcholinesterase inhibition by these insecticides involves the formation of an enzymeinhibitor complex followed by the reaction of this inhibitor at the active site of the enzyme, which generates either a carbamoylated or phosphorylated enzyme. Phosphorylated acetylcholinesterase is relatively stable, so that inhibition is virtually irreversible after a phenomenon defined as aging has occurred. However, carbamoylated acetylcholinesterase can be readily, and spontaneously hydrolyzed to regenerate the original form of the active enzyme. Although the carbamoylated enzyme is sufficiently stable to disrupt cholinergic transmission, acetylcholinesterase activity is rapidly regenerated following subacute doses. Repeated subacute dosing with cholinergic N-methylcarbamate insecticides does not lead to cumulative intoxication, based on what is known about the insecticides' mode of action and the general physicochemical properties of the chemical class.
The electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide is sensitive to electrolyte polarization, which causes gradients in pH and the concentration of carbon dioxide to form near the cathode surface. It is desirable to measure the concentration of reaction-relevant species in the immediate vicinity of the cathode because the intrinsic kinetics of carbon dioxide reduction depend on the composition of the local reaction environment. Meeting this objective has proven difficult because conventional analytical methods only sample products from the bulk electrolyte. In this study, we describe the use of differential electrochemical mass spectrometry to measure the concentration of carbon dioxide and reaction products in the immediate vicinity of the cathode surface. This capability is achieved by coating the electrocatalyst directly onto the pervaporation membrane used to transfer volatile species into the mass spectrometer, thereby enabling species to be sampled directly from the electrode−electrolyte interface. This approach has been used to investigate hydrogen evolution and carbon dioxide reduction over Ag and Cu. We find that the measured CO 2 reduction activity of Ag agrees well with what is measured by gas chromatography of the effluent from an H-cell operated with the same catalyst and electrolyte. A distinct advantage of our approach is that it enables observation of the depletion of carbon dioxide near the cathode surface due to reaction with hydroxyl anions evolved at the cathode surface, something that cannot be done using conventional analytical techniques. We also demonstrate that the influence of this relatively slow chemical reaction can be minimized by evaluating electrocatalytic activity during a rapid potential sweep, thereby enabling measurement of the intrinsic kinetics. For CO 2 reduction over Cu, nine products can be observed simultaneously in real time. A notable finding is that the abundance of aldehydes relative to alcohols near the cathode surface is much higher than that observed in the bulk electrolyte. It is also observed that for increasingly cathodic potentials the relative abundance of ethanol increases at the expense of propionaldehyde. These findings suggest that acetaldehyde is a precursor to ethanol and propionaldehyde and that propionaldehyde is a precursor to n-propanol.
Lactobacillus reuteri utilizes exogenously added glycerol as a hydrogen acceptor during carbohydrate fermentations, resulting in higher growth rates and cell yields than those obtained during growth on carbohydrates alone. Glycerol is first converted to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde by a coenzyme B12-dependent glycerol dehydratase and then reduced to 1,3-propanediol by an NAD+-dependent oxidoreductase. The latter enzyme was purified and determined to have a molecular weight of 180,000; it is predicted to exist as a tetramer of identical 42,000-molecular-weight subunits.
The ability of phenobarbital (PB) to induce a "pleiotropic response" which includes both cytochromes P450 (CYP) as well as other drug-metabolizing enzymes was investigated in mice, rabbits, hamsters, and various inbred strains of rats. PB induced similar drug-metabolizing enzymes (CYP2B, CYP3A, and epoxide hydrolase) in rats, mice, rabbits and hamsters. PB and two structural analogues (ethylphenylhydantoin and barbital) induced a variety of drug-metabolizing enzymes (CYP2B, CYP3A, CYP2A, epoxide hydrolase) in a series of inbred strains of rats. In contrast, levels of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) (propionaldehyde, NAD+) which were expressed constitutively in all strains of rats were induced by PB in only two of the eight strains (ACI, Copenhagen). Further investigations of ALDH induction by structurally diverse compounds in Copenhagen rats demonstrated a strong correlation between the induction of ALDH and other elements of the pleiotropic response (CYP2B, CYP3A, epoxide hydrolase). These results imply that induction of ALDH (propionaldehyde, NAD+) is associated with the PB pleiotropic response in Copenhagen rats.
Toluene was reacted with propionaldehyde in the presence of aluminium chloride and the yields of the different products obtained were found to be dependent on the end temperature at which the hydrolysis was carried out. Most of the compounds identified in the reaction product were obtained in lowest yield when the hydrolysis was carried out at 87°C.
Abstract New aromatic enamines were synthesized by condensation of the commercially available N-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine, indole or 2-methylindole with 2,2-diphenylacetaldehyde or 2-phenylpropionaldehyde. Twin derivatives of the 2-methylindole-based enamine were prepared. The materials were examined by various techniques including differential scanning calorimetry, UV spectrometry, electron photoemission and time of flight techniques. The electron photoemission spectra of layers of the amorphous materials showed the ionization potentials of 5.26–5.6 eV. Hole drift mobilities in the layers range from 4.7 × 10 −6 to 10 −4 cm 2 /(V s). Some of the materials were tested as hole-transporting layers in light emitting diodes with Alq 3 as the electroluminescent/electron transport layer. The device containing indole-based enamine exhibited the best overall performance with a turn-on voltage of 3 V, maximum brightness of about 3500 cd/m 2 and luminance efficiency of 1.62 lm/W.
Oxime ethers containing a 4-phenoxyphenoxy group in the molecules were synthesized and their insect growth regulating (IGR) activities were studied. Of these new IGR’s, propionaldehyde oxime O-2-(4-phenoxyphenoxy)ethyl ether and propionaldehyde oxime O-2-(4-phenoxy-phenoxy)propyl ether were found to be most effective, having much higher activities than metho-prene against larvae of Culex pipiens pallens and Musca domestica by the immersion method and medium method, respectively. In addition, the effects of steric isomerism of these compounds were examined; their IGR activities were found to have a close relationship to the juvenile hor-mone activity by the Galleria wax test.
The reactivity of the previously reported peroxo adduct [FeIII2(μ-O2)(MeBzim-Py)4(CH3CN)2]2+ (1) (MeBzim-Py = 2-(2'-pyridyl)-N-methylbenzimidazole) towards aldehyde substrates including phenylacetaldehyde (PAA), hydrocinnamaldehyde (HCA), propionaldehyde (PA), 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (PPA), cyclohexanecarboxaldehyde (CCA), and para-substituted benzaldehydes (benzoyl chlorides) has been investigated. Complex 1 proved to be a nucleophilic oxidant in aldehyde deformylation reaction. These models, including detailed kinetic and mechanistic studies, may serve as the first biomimics of aldehyde deformylating oxygenase (ADO) enzymes.
PURPOSE: Provided is hexa-arm polyethylene glycol having high bio-compatibility and bio-affinity, which is non-toxic and non-antigenic, and is capable of forming biodegradable polymer hydrogel. CONSTITUTION: The hexa-arm polyethylene glycol(6-arm PEG) and derivatives thereof of formula (I) are based on polyethylene glycol. The 6-arm PEG compounds comprise sorbitol as a nucleus, and have a molecular weight of 1,000-100,000 daltons. Particularly, the 6-arm PEG compound is selected from the group consisting of 6-arm PEG succinic acid, 6-arm PEG glutamic acid, 6-arm PEG succimidyl succinate, 6-arm succimidyl glutarate, 6-arm PEG-nitrophenyl carbonate, 6-arm PEG-silane, 6-arm PEG-acrylate, 6-arm PEG-acetaldehyde, 6-arm PEG-hydrazide, 6-arm PEG-tresylate, 6-arm PEG-propionaldehyde, 6-arm PEG-tosylate, 6-arm PEG-maleimide, 6-arm PEG-orthopyridyl disulfide, 6-arm PEG-vinylsulfone, 6-arm PEG-amine, and 6-arm PEG-thiol.
Preparations of formyl-1,4-benzoquinone, 1,4-benzoquinonylacetaldehyde, 3-(1,4-benzoquinonyl) propionaldehyde, 2-(1,4-benzoquinonyl)-2-methylpropionaldehyde, and 2-methyl-2-(1,4-naphthoquinon-2-yl) propionaldehyde are described. Irradiation of solutions of these quinones in benzene with visible light leads to the isolation of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid from formyl-1,4-benzoquinone, and to the formation of 5-hydroxycoumaran-2-one and 3,4-dihydro-6-hydroxycoumarin from the next two quinones, respectively; the last two quinones in the series lose the elements of formaldehyde, and give 5-hydroxy-3-methylbenzofuran and 5-hydroxy-3-methylnaphtho-[1,2-b]furan, respectively. None of the irradiations proceeded cleanly.
A two-step process for synthesizing 2H-1-benzopyrans from phenols and β-halopropionaldehyde acetals is detailed.
Genotype analysis of the aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH)-2 gene was performed using an improved simplified method, and effects of the genotype on the metabolism of a variety of aldehydes in different fractions of human liver cells were investigated. The effects of sex, aging, smoking, drinking alcohol, liver function, and various drugs on ALDH activity were also analyzed. Of the 39 subjects, eight were heterozygotes of the wild (ALDH2*1) and mutant (ALDH2*2) alleles, and the others were homozygotes of the wild allele. ALDH activity toward acetaldehyde in liver mitochondria from subjects with a mutant allele was less than 10% of that with two alleles of wild-type, and the activities toward formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n -butyraldehyde, capronaldehyde, and heptaldehyde were also significantly lower in the ALDH2\*1/\*2 rather than ALDH2\*1/\*1 group. However, the metabolism of octylaldehyde, decylaldehyde, retinaldehyde, benzaldehyde, 3-hydroxybenzaldehyde, and 2,5-dihydroxybenzaldehyde was similar in the two genotypes. Changes in activity in the cytosolic fraction were similar to those in mitochondria. There was no significant difference in ALDH activity in microsomes between the two groups. Total activities of ALDH toward acetaldehyde and other short-chain aliphatic aldehydes in supernatant fractions of homogenized liver were affected in a manner similar to that in mitochondria. Our results suggest that the single nucleotide polymorphisms of the ALDH2 gene only alter the metabolism of aldehydes with a short aliphatic chain. Furthermore, sex, drinking alcohol, and smoking had little effect on ALDH activity, although the activity in elderly individuals tended to be lower albeit statistically insignificant.
The invention relates to a reactive distillation column for the conversion of produced from crude acrolein and raw methyl mercaptan methylmercaptopropionaldehyde to 2-hydroxy-4-methylmercaptobutyric acid and / or methionine, and their use in a process for the preparation of 2-hydroxy-4-methylmercaptobutyric acid and / or methionine ,
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED: To provide a method for purifying acrolein contained in the gaseous mixture of the acrolein, water, an acid and non-condensing substances, especially enabling the direct use of the acrolein for the synthesis of β- methylthiopropionaldehyde, maximizing the purification yield and minimizing the risk in the deterioration of the acrolein, and enabling to avoid the staining of devices to be used. SOLUTION: In the first stage, an acrolein-containing charged gas flow produced e.g. from the gaseous oxidation of propylene into acrolein is fractionated into a gaseous effluent and a liquid flow in a cooling column. Therein, the temperature of the liquid flow in the bottom of the column in controlled so as to be lower than or equal to the condensation temperature of the charged gas flow, and so as not to generate a temperature difference of >20°C. In the second stage, the gaseous effluent is condensed at a lower temperature than 20°C to give a liquid distillate and the purified gaseous distillate. COPYRIGHT: (C)1997,JPO
Biosynthesis of 1,3-propanediol(1,3-PD) from glycerol needs NADH as a coenzyme to provide H+.Deficiency of NADH causes the accumulation of intermediate metabolite 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and inhibits the activity of glycerol dehydratase,which has the further negative effect on biosynthesis of 1,3-propanediol and cell growth.To resolve this problem,two recombinant plasmids,pEtac-dhaB-tac-yqhD harboring the genes encoding glycerol dehydratase(DHAB) and 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase isoenzyme(YQHD) from Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli,and pUC-tac-dhaT harboring the genes encoding 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase,were constructed and coexpressed by polycistronic expression and coexistence of incompatible plasmids transformed into E.coli JM109(pEtac-dhaB-tac-yqhD/pUC-tac-dhaT).A stable two-plasmid expression system was obtained,and it could convert glycerol to 1,3-PD by using both NADH and NADPH,so as to eliminate the accumulation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and raise the yield of 1,3-PD.The fermentation results demonstrated that the yield of 1,3-PD of recombinant strain E.coli JM109 was increased by 28.6 %.Fig 6,Tab 1,Ref 17
The crystal structures of propionaldehyde complex (RS,SR)-(η5-C5H5)Re(NO)(PPh3)(η2-OCHCH2CH3)]+ PF6− (1b+ PF6s−; monoclinic, P21/c (No. 14), a = 10.166 (1) A, b = 18.316(1) A, c = 14.872(2) A, β = 100.51(1)°, Z = 4) and butyraldehyde complex (RS,SR)-[(η5-C5H5)Re(NO)(PPh3)(η2-OCHCH2CH2CH3)]+ PF6− (1c+PF6−; monoclinic, P21/a (No. 14), a = 14.851(1) A, b = 18.623(3) A, c = 10.026(2) A, β = 102.95(1)°, Z = 4) have been determined at 22°C and −125°C, respectively. These exhibit CO bond lengths (1.35(1), 1.338(5) A) that are intermediate between those of propionaldehyde (1.209(4) A) and 1-propanol (1.41 A). Other geometric features are analyzed. Reaction of [(η5-C5H5)Re(NO)(PPh3)(ClCH2Cl)]+ BF4− and pivalaldehyde gives [(η5-C5H5)Re(NO)(PPh3)(η2-OCHC(CH3)3)]+BF4− (81%), the spectroscopic properties of which establish a π CO binding mode.
Background and Aims: This study was designed to synthesize, purify and study invivo effect of PEG-GCSF. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor; GCSF is a growth factor which regulates the proliferation of neutrophilic granulocytes in order to treat cancer therapy-induced neutropenia. G-CSF shows short serum half-life, which necessitates multiple injections.In order to overcome this shortcoming, site-specific PEGylation of G-CSF was performed and invivo biological activity of protein was studied. Methods: Different molar ratio of GCSF and polyethylene glycol(PEG)-propionaldehyde 20kd in different PH and temperatures in the presence of sodium cyanoborohydride were reacted. Product of the reaction ( monoPEG-GCSF) was characterized by Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gelelectrophoresis (SDSPAGE) and size exclusion chromatography and then purified by ion exchange high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Invivo biological activity of product was evaluated by injecting the final product, standard PEG-GCSF and GCSF to male rats and measuring their white blood cells (WBC) and absolute neutrophil count (ANCs). Results: The results show that in >1molar ratio of PEG and GCSF, acidic PH and low temperatures the yield of reaction was >70%. Synthesis of PEG-GCSF could be confirmed by size exclusion HPLC and SDS-PAGE (staining with comasie blue and Iodine method). Ion exchange HPLC could separate monoPEG-GCSF from unreacted GCSF and PEG and purify the product. The profiles of increasing of WBCs and ANCs were similar for our product and standard PEG-GCSF;and both were higher than GCSF. Conclusions: The technique was able to produce monoPEG-GCSF with high yields and invivo biological activity of the product was comparable to standard drug.
Solid base Na2CO3/γ-Al2O3 and NaOH/γ-Al2O3 were prepared and applied in the synthesis of trimethylolethane from propionaldehyde and formaldehyde by two step reactions.When the weak solid base Na2CO3/γ-Al2O3 catalyst amount was 1g,37% formaldehyde 60mL and 20mL 98% propionaldehyde were used as atarting materials,aldol condensation temperature was 35℃,reaction for 3h.After that,Na2CO3/γ-Al2O3 was separeted from the obtained mixture,1g NaOH/γ-Al2O3 was put into as Cannizzero reaction catalyst reaction for 3h at 70℃,the yield of trimethylolethane was high up to 86.2%.
Acrolein, a metabolite of the anticancer agent cyclophosphamide, is teratogenic to rats after intraamniotic administration. It is not known whether acrolein or a metabolite of acrolein is responsible for the teratogenicity of this compound. We assessed the teratogenicity and embryolethality of acrolein and five structurally related compounds: acrylic acid, allyl alcohol, glycidol, glyceraldehyde, and propionaldehyde by intraamniotic injections in Sprague-Dawley rats on day 13 of gestation. All compounds tested were significantly embryolethal with at least one concentration of the drug. Acrolein was the most embryolethal of the drugs, causing a significant increase in resorptions with as little as 0.1 micrograms/fetus; the other drugs were embryolethal at doses 100-10,000 times that of acrolein. Acrolein was also the most teratogenic of the drugs tested; a dose as low as 5 micrograms/fetus caused a significant increase in the incidence of fetal malformations. Of the other compounds tested, only glycidol at a dose of 1,000 micrograms/fetus induced a significant number of malformed fetuses compared to control. These results suggest that it is acrolein itself that is responsible for its teratogenicity.
2-Butylsulfanyl-2-alkenals react with alcohols at room temperature in the presence of acid catalysts to give 45–90% of the corresponding acetals. Acetals derived from 2-butylsulfanylpropenal readily undergo hydrolysis at the vinylsulfanyl group (20°C, catalysis by HCl or TsOH) with formation of 2-oxopropionaldehyde O,O- or O,S-acetals in 70–90% yield. Unlike 2-butylsulfanyl-2-propenal O,O-dialkyl acetals, the initial aldehydes and 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones derived therefrom are stable to hydrolysis under analogous conditions: the vinyl sulfide moiety remains unchanged even under considerably more severe conditions (100°C, 3 h; HCl, H2SO4, CF3SO2OH, or TiCl4).
Orthoamides. LIV. Contributions to the Chemistry of Azavinylogous Orthoformic Acid Amide Derivatives ::: ::: ::: ::: The azavinylogous aminalester 3 reacts with primary amines to give amidines 5 and 6. In the reaction of 3 with aniline the azavinylogous amidine 7 is produced additionally to the amidine 5c. Ethylendiamine is formylated at both aminogroups, the bis-amidine 8 thus formed is transformed to the salts 9a,b. Benzoxazole and benzimidazole can be prepared from 3 and o-aminophenol and o-phenylenediamine, resp. carboxylic acid amides, urea, thiourea, aromatic acid hydrazides 17 and the sulfonylhydrazide 19 are formylated by 3 at nitrogen to give N-acylated formamidines 14, 16, 18, 20. ::: ::: ::: ::: From 3 and aliphatic acid hydrazides 17 and alkylhydrazines, resp., can be obtained 1,2,4-triazole 21 and 1-alkyl-1,2,4-triazoles 22a,b, resp. N,N-dimethylcyanacetamide (32) reacts with 3 and the orthoamide 4a, resp., to give a mixture of the formylated compound 34 and the amidine 33. The reaction conditions are of low influence on the ratio in which 33 and 34 are formed. The orthoamide 4b and 32 react to afford a mixture of the amidine 35 and the enamine 36. Hydrogensulfide acts on 3 giving N,N-dimethylthioformamide (37). From 3 and 1-alkynes 41 can be prepared the amidines 42. Hydrolysis of 42b affords phenylpropiolaldehyde (43). The alkylation of the aminalester 3 gives rise to the formation of vinylogous amidiniumsalts 1c and 1d, resp., additionally is formed the amide acetal 2a. The salt 1dcan also be prepared from 3 and borontrifluoride-ether. Iodide reacts with N,N-dimethylformamide acetals 12a,b in an unclear, complicated manner giving orthoesters 53, N,N-dimethylformamide, alkyliodides, alcohols, ammoniumiodides 46 and carbondioxide. The action of halogens on 3 affords the salts 1a,b,c,e,f depending on the chosen stoichiometric ratio. Aromatic aldehydes are suited for trapping azavinylogous carbenes formed on thermolysis of 3 — 1,3-oxazoles 69 are the reaction products. From 3 and propionaldehyde the amidine 65 can be obtained with low yield. Carbondisulfide transforms 3 to the azavinylogous salt 66. The preparation of the azavinylogous orthoamide 4ais described. The thermolysis of 3 and 4a, resp., gives rise to the formation of the triaminopyrimidine 67. Treatment of 1a with lithiumdiisopropylamide affords the triaminopyrazine 68, which can also be obtained by thermolysis of 3 in the presence of sodium hydride. Azavinylogous carbenes are thought to be the intermediates.
The oxidation of pent-2-ene in the temperature range 250–450°C over a freshly prepared vanadium pentoxide catalyst produces acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, ethylene, propylene, trans -2,3-epoxypentane, acetone, and carbon dioxide. Use of the catalyst for approximately 5 hr causes a marked and sudden change in the pattern of product formation. The oxidation becomes more rapid but much less selective, at least 14 extra products being formed. The oxidation of pent-1-ene under similar conditions proceeds largely via isomerization to pent-2-ene and oxidation of the latter. On a “new” catalyst, the products are probably formed by interaction of adsorbed pentene with O 2− . An overall mechanism results in which the catalyst itself is reduced by the adsorbed pentene and re-oxidized by gaseous oxygen. V 5+ is therefore the active oxidant. On an “old” catalyst, however, gaseous molecular oxygen attacks the adsorbed pentene directly and the oxidation acquires free-radical chain character with resultant loss of selectivity. It is therefore possible to reconcile the apparently contradictory “oxidation-reduction” and “hydroperoxylation” mechanisms for the oxidation of unsaturated hydrocarbons over vanadium pentoxide.
Aliphatic aldehydes were found during the combustion of materials. Tobacco smoke contains aldehydes. Fire fighters were exposed to aldehydes when they conducted firefighting. Aldehydes in ambient air come mainly from the incomplete combustion of hydrocarbons and from photochemical reaction. Most aldehydes in ambient air are formaldehyde and acetaldehyde. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and benzaldehyde were found in the atmosphere in Los Angeles. Burning Chinese incense for worshipping deities is a Chinese daily routine. It was suspected to be a factor causing nasopharynegeal cancer. Epidemiological studies correlated it with the high risk of childhood brain tumor and the high risk of childhood leukemia. Ames test identified the mutagenic effect of the smoke from burning Chinese incense. The smoke had bee proved to contain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and aromatic aldehydes. Suspicion about formaldehyde and other alphatic aldehydes was evoked, when a survey of indoor air pollution was conducted in Taipei city. This study determined the presence of aliphatic aldehydes in the smoke from burning Chinese incense under a controlled atmosphere. 12 refs., 5 figs., 2 tabs.
An easy preparation method was developed for 3-hydroxymethylene-2-thioxopyrrolidine (TPC), an antimicrobial degradation product of radish pungent principle. The key intermediate, 4- methoxy-3-butenyl-isothiocyanate (MBI), which was prepared from 3-cyanopropionaldehyde dimethyl acetal in 3 reaction steps, was easily converted to TPC in acidic (pH 3.0–4.0) aqueous media. In methanol or ethanol with a few drops of acetic acid, MBI afforded corresponding 3-(α,α-dialkoxy)methyl-2-thioxopyrrolidines as the major products.
The most common mechanism of glycerol fermentation involves a reductive pathway and an oxidative pathway (Liu et al., 2010) . In the reductive pathway, a vitamin B 12-dependent glycerol dehydratase catalyses glycerol conversion to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, and this compound is further reduced to PDO by 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase. Besides this common vitamin B12-dependent pathway, Raynaud and colleagues (2003) have described a vitamin B12-independent glycerol dehydratase in Clostridium butyricum. In the oxidative pathway, glycerol is dehydrogenated to dihydroxyacetone by a NAD + -linked glycerol dehydrogenase, which is then converted to dihydroxyacetone phosphate by an ATP-dependent dihydroxyacetone kinase. Dihydroxyacetone phosphate is an intermediate of the glycolysis that can be further converted to acetate and to other products, depending on the type of bacterium.
Genotype analysis of the aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH)-2 gene was performed using an improved simplified method, and effects of the genotype on the metabolism of a variety of aldehydes in different fractions of human liver cells were investigated. The effects of sex, aging, smoking, drinking alcohol, liver function, and various drugs on ALDH activity were also analyzed. Of the 39 subjects, eight were heterozygotes of the wild (ALDH2*1) and mutant (ALDH2*2) alleles, and the others were homozygotes of the wild allele. ALDH activity toward acetaldehyde in liver mitochondria from subjects with a mutant allele was less than 10% of that with two alleles of wild-type, and the activities toward formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, capronaldehyde, and heptaldehyde were also significantly lower in the ALDH2*1/*2 rather than ALDH2*1/*1 group. However, the metabolism of octylaldehyde, decylaldehyde, retinaldehyde, benzaldehyde, 3-hydroxybenzaldehyde, and 2,5-dihydroxybenzaldehyde was similar in the two genotypes. Changes in activity in the cytosolic fraction were similar to those in mitochondria. There was no significant difference in ALDH activity in microsomes between the two groups. Total activities of ALDH toward acetaldehyde and other shortchain aliphatic aldehydes in supernatant fractions of homogenized liver were affected in a manner similar to that in mitochondria. Our results suggest that the single nucleotide polymorphisms of the ALDH2 gene only alter the metabolism of aldehydes with a short aliphatic chain. Furthermore, sex, drinking alcohol, and smoking had little effect on ALDH activity, although the activity in elderly individuals tended to be lower albeit statistically insignificant.
Electronic cigarettes (ECs) are becoming increasingly popular, with millions of users both in the US and in Europe (Pearson et al., 2012; Regan et al., 2013; Vardavas et al., 2014) and are often used as a replacement for combustible cigarette usage (Barbeau et al., 2013) . Aldehydes including formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and acrolein are known to form during heating of mixtures of glycerol (GLY) and propylene glycol (PG) (Flora et al., 2015; Lauterbach and Spencer, 2015; Ohta et al., 2011; Paschke et al., 2014; Uchiyama et al., 2013) , the most common solvent formulation for EC liquids. These aldehydes are of concern since formaldehyde is classified by the International Agency for Research of Cancer (IARC) as a human carcinogen (Group 1) and acetaldehyde is classified as possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B) (IARC, 2012) . Acrolein causes irritation of the nasal cavity and damages the lining of the lung (USEPA, 2003) . Glycerol has been shown to produce these three aldehydes due to thermal decomposition (pyrolysis) in temperature-dependent amounts (Paine et al., 2007) , with small amounts of acrolein being formed in some ionic environments at 350 C, and all three aldehydes being formed at 600 C. The pathway for this pyrolysis is shown in Fig. 1 , and it involves a freeradical dehydration of glycerol to form 3-hydroxyl-1-propen-1-ol, which tautomerizes to 3-hydroxylpropionaldehyde. This then loses another water in a free-radical mechanism to form acrolein. At higher temperatures 3-hydroxylpropionaldehyde can convert to formaldehyde and acetaldehyde, by way of a retro-aldol reaction, which easily cleaves the C2eC3 bond at >400 C.
It should be noted that PG can also decompose thermally, to propionaldehyde (Dai et al., 2004) , however, in order to better compare to the previous studies mentioned above, which only reported formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and acrolein production, and to focus more on device dependence of their formation, we did not analyze for propionaldehyde in this study. Such analysis, as well as dependence on EC liquid solvent composition, is planned for future studies.
The high levels of aldehyde formation seen in Device 1 could be due, in part, to the formulation or viscosity of the test liquid used in this study. The composition of the liquid may have an impact on the rate at which liquid is transferred to the coil and also the formation of aldehydes. The purpose of this study was to compare different devices and power levels using a simple PG and GLY liquid formulation. Similar e-liquids are widely used both by consumers and by previous researchers. Repeating the analysis using different liquids formulations was beyond the scope of this study. However, it would be of interest for future studies to compare the results of the formulation used here with nicotine solutions using only PG, or various PG, GLY and water mixtures, including liquids that contain popular flavor compounds. There are some caveats to studying this: mixtures with a different composition or components may change the boiling point of the e-liquid and may impact the yield of EC devices, and flavor compounds themselves may have wide variance in propensity for thermal decomposition. Another interesting and important consideration for future studies would be direct measurement of the temperature of the coil during activation to better understand what coil temperatures lead to decomposition, but this was technologically beyond the scope of this study. Finally, we only measured the levels of three aldehydes, and there could be other toxic substances produced, including propionaldehyde (Dai et al., 2004) and free-radicals, which have been detected previously at low levels in EC emissions (Goel et al., 2015; Sussan et al., 2015) . Since these thermal decomposition processes (pyrolysis) have been shown to involved formation of free-radical species during dehydration steps of PG and GLY on the pathway to aldehydes (Dai et al., 2004; Paine et al., 2007) , it is possible that these free-radicals would be detected at levels commensurate with the amounts of aldehydes being produced. However, this also was technologically beyond the scope of this study. One also needs to consider that, in terms of actual risks from aldehyde toxicity to the user, it is very possible that when significant thermal decomposition of an EC liquid is occurring, commonly called the dry-puff phenomenon (Farsalinos et al., 2015) , the aerosol produced may be quite noxious, and cause the user to discontinue use until the dry-puff issue is resolved. More quantitative analysis of actual aldehyde production under human usage conditions should be done in the future, since it is possible that a user would avoid inhalation of EC aerosols under significant thermal decomposition conditions. Also, the aldehydes present in EC aerosol have been shown by others to be a mixture of the free aldehydes along with hydrate, acetal and hemiacetal forms. The health effect due to the inhalation of this mixture of complexed aldehydes relative to free aldehydes is currently unknown and warrants further study It is also possible that these hydrates, acetals and hemiacetals convert back to free aldehydes in vivo through hydrolysis, which is in principle possible under the aqueous and slightly basic conditions of the lungs (Funderburk et al., 1978) , however to our knowledge this has not been studied under physiological conditions.
Increasing demand and the rising cost of fossil fuels, as well as a concern for global climate change have shifted global efforts to utilize renewable resources for the production of a 'greener' energy replacement [1] . One major obstacle facing the development of biodiesel is the high volume of crude glycerol (10% v/v) generated from transesterification process. Generally speaking, there is a lack of microorganisms which can produce sufficient amounts of glycerol degrading enzymes to efficiently convert crude glycerol to value-added bio-products. The new isolate of bacteria permits screening, isolation and over expression of enzyme to help overcome these challenges. Several microorganisms have been found to produce a variety of enzymes for the biodegradation of glycerol [2] . Primarily, glycerol dehydrogenase (GDH) is an important cellbound (intracellular) enzyme of bacteria that can convert glycerol to dihydroxyacetone (DHA) and other products under aerobic condition [1, 3, 4] . Klebsiella pneumoniae has well developed metabolic pathways for glycerol metabolism. In aerobic condition, K. pneumoniae utilizes glycerol through complex oxidative and reductive pathways ( Figure  1 ) [5] . In the oxidative pathway glycerol is dehydrogenated by an NAD + -dependent glycerol dehydrogenase to dihydroxyacetone (DHA) by generating reducing equivalent NADH 2 . Afterwards, DHA is then further metabolized to various products viz., 2,3-BD, ethanol, acetic acid through pyruvate [6, 7] . The reducing equivalent NADH generated from oxidative pathway by GDH directly influenced on the production of 1,3-PDO under aerobic condition of glycerol metabolism [2, 6] . However, in the parallel reductive branch, glycerol is 1 st dehydrated to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) by glycerol dehydratase, and it is then reduced to 1,3-PDO by NADH-linked 1,3-PDO dehydrogenase, thereby regenerating NAD + [4, 6, 7] . In K. pneumoniae, the generation of NAD + from the reductive pathway is utilized by the 1 st enzyme GDH of the oxidative pathway [2] . Acetoin and 2,3-BD are two significant biorefinery platform chemicals. As an important physiological metabolic product acetoin can be produced by fermentation of sugar and other carbon sources [8, 9] . Acetoin is widely used in food, flavour, cosmetics, and chemical synthesis [10] . The 2,3-butanediol, a reduced form of acetoin, is widely used as an antifreeze agent, lubricant, liquid fuel or fuel additive and a precursor of many synthetic materials including polymers and resins [11] . It can also be used for the manufacturing of printing ink, perfumes and fumigants, polymer, pharmaceutical carrier, moistening and softening agents, and reagent in different asymmetric chemical synthesis [12] . The 2,3-BD is a physiological metabolic product of the acetoin metabolic pathway in bacteria, and can be transformed to each other by 2,3-butanediol dehydrogenase in cells [10] . There are three key enzymes comprising catabolic α-acetolactate synthase, α-acetolactate decarboxylase, and 2,3-butanediol dehydrogenase, also called acetoin/ diacetyl reductase are liable for the 2,3-BD biosynthesis [13, 14] .
Abstract Rice weevil pheromone sitophilure ((4R,5S)-5-hydroxy-4-methyl-3-heptanone) and its three diastereomers were synthesized in three steps, starting from 3-(trimethylsilyloxy)-1,3-pentadiene and propionaldehyde. Other optically active α-methyl β-hydroxy ketones can also be synthesized by the reported procedure.
1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) is an important material for chemical industry, therefore, there is much interest in the production of 1,3-PD. The gene dhaT encoding 1, 3-propanediol dehydrogenase ( PDOR) of Citrobacter freundii was amplified by PCR. Sequence analysis of the similarity at the nucleotide and amino acid level between the gene encoding C. freundii PDOR and that of C. freundii ( U09771 ) were 78% and 90% , respectively. The recombinant plasmid pSE-dhaT was constructed by inserting dhaT gene into expression vector pSE380 and then transformed E. coli JM109. The recombinant strain was induced by IPTG to express dhaT. Further more the recombinant enzyme was purifed from recombinant E. coli by Ni-nitrilotriacetate affinity chromatography followed by Sephacral S-300 gel filtration. A single obvious protein about 42kDa could be obtained by the sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of recombinant enzyme. The purified enzyme was used to determined enzyme property on the substrate of propionaldehyde and 1, 3-PD. The optimal temperature and optimal pH of the purified enzyme were 37℃, 8.0 for reduction and 25℃, 10. 5 for oxidation, respectively; and the kinetic property of PDOR about Km and V max were 10. 05mmol/L, 37. 27μmol/min/mg for propionaldehyde and 1. 28mmol/L, 25. 55μmol/min/mg for 1,3-PD, respectively; The deduced dhaT gene product (388 amino acids) showed a specific reduction activity of 49. 50U/mg and oxidation activity of 79. 92U/ mg. There also have a putative iron-binding motif ( G-XX-H-X-X-A-H-X-X-G-X-X-X-X-X-P-H-G) as a fingerprint pattern in the recombinant enzyme, the motif is fully conserved among these 1, 3-propanediol dehydrogenase. It is beneficial to the researches of high producing 1, 3-propanediol by gene engineering strain.
Abstract Ethanolamine ammonia-lyase, an enzyme catalyzing the adenosylcobalamin-dependent deamination of ethanolamine, also catalyzes the conversion of l-2-aminopropanol to propionaldehyde and ammonia. In this reaction, tritium is transferred from enzyme·[5'-3H]adenosylcobalamin to the C-1 position of l-2-aminopropanol, as well as to the α carbon of the product aldehyde. The labeling pattern is consistent with the mechanism of hydrogen transfer deduced with other substrates. Tritium transfer also occurs between enzyme·[5'-3H]adenosylcobalamin and propionaldehyde in the presence of NH4+. Unlike the deamination of ethanolamine, the conversion of 2-aminopropanol to propionaldehyde and NH4+ is reversible, since tritiated 2-aminopropanol was isolated from reaction mixtures originally containing only propionaldehyde, ammonia, and enzyme·[5'-3H]adenosyl cobalamin. The partitioning of tritium derived from enzyme·[5'-3H]-adenosylcobalamin between l-2-aminopropanol and propionaldehyde was determined in reactions begun with l-2-aminopropanol as well as in reactions begun with propionaldehyde and ammonia. In the first case, the ratio [3H]propanolamine to [3H]propionaldehyde is 1.8:1; in the second case, the ratio is 0.3:1. This difference in the partitioning of tritium from the tritiated enzyme complex is consistent with the notion that there are at least two intermediates in the catalytic process, each exchanging tritium with coenzyme, which interconvert slowly with respect to the rate of tritium exchange.
The adsorption and hydrogenation of acrolein on the Ag(111) surface has been investigated by high resolution synchrotron XPS, NEXAFS, and temperature programmed reaction. The molecule adsorbs intact at all coverages and its adsorption geometry is critically important in determining chemoselectivity toward the formation of allyl alcohol, the desired but thermodynamically disfavored product. In the absence of hydrogen adatoms (H(a)), acrolein lies almost parallel to the metal surface; high coverages force the C=C bond to tilt markedly, likely rendering it less vulnerable toward reaction with hydrogen adatoms. Reaction with coadsorbed H(a) yields allyl alcohol, propionaldehyde, and propanol, consistent with the behavior of practical dispersed Ag catalysts operated at atmospheric pressure: formation of all three hydrogenation products is surface reaction rate limited. Overall chemoselectivity is strongly influenced by secondary reactions of allyl alcohol. At low H(a) coverages, the C=C bond in the newly formed allyl alcohol molecule is strongly tilted with respect to the surface, rendering it immune to attack by H(a) and leading to desorption of the unsaturated alcohol. In contrast with this, at high H(a) coverages, the C=C bond in allyl alcohol lies almost parallel to the surface, undergoes hydrogenation by H(a), and the saturated alcohol (propanol) desorbs.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), a versatile and valuable platform chemical, has diverse industrial applications; but its biological production from glycerol is often limited by the capability of the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) to convert an intermediary compound, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), to 3-HP. In this study, we report a new ALDH, PuuC, from Klebsiella pneumoniae DSM 2026, that efficiently converts 3-HPA to 3-HP. The identified gene puuC was cloned, expressed in Escherichia coli, purified, and characterized for its properties. The recombinant enzyme with a molecular weight of 53.8 kDa exhibited broad substrate specificity for various aliphatic aldehydes, especially C2–C5 aldehydes. NAD+ was the preferred coenzyme for the oxidation of most aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes tested. The optimum pH and temperature for PuuC activity were pH 8.0 and 45°C. The K m values for 3-HPA and NAD+ were 0.48 and 0.09 mM, respectively. The activity of PuuC was enhanced in the presence of reducing agents such as 2-mercaptoethanol or dithiothreitol, while several metal ions, particularly Hg2+, Ag+, and Cu2+ inhibited its activity. The predicted structure of PuuC indicated the presence of K191 and E194 in close proximity to the glycine motif, suggesting that PuuC belongs to class 2 ALDHs.
Abstract The catalytic performance of lanthanum based catalysts: LaNiO3 and La2O3 were evaluated in the gas-phase transformation of glycerol. The reaction was investigated in the temperature range of 300–700 °C. At 400 and 500 °C, the production of compounds in liquid phase is favored while at high temperature gases such as carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and hydrogen are mainly formed. The basic catalysts used in this study favor the production of hydroxyacetone. Additionally 1,2 propanediol, methanol and ethylene glycol were formed in significant amount. The perovskite LaNiO3 and La2O3 show no significant deactivation during 10 h at 400 °C, the selectivity to hydroxyacetone only slightly decreased with time on stream most probably due to the formation of heavy products. The catalysts were characterized before and after reaction (XRD, TGA, CO2-TPD) showing that LaNiO3 was partially reduced into LaNiO2.5 during reaction at 400 °C. It is suggested that strong basic sites of La2O3 compared to LaNiO3 are particularly active to produce methanol through glyceraldehyde but also acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetone.
The effect of added formaldehyde on the oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde between 119 and 188°C has been studied using a static system. Formaldehyde retards the oxidation, and at 188°C the rate after 25 % consumption of CH3CHO(ρ0.25) is linearly related to the reciprocal of the initial concentration of CH2O(Fi). However, at 119°C ρ0.25 decreases to a minimum and then increases as Fi is increased. The change in formaldehyde concentration during retarded oxidations showed that CH3CHO and CH2O are both removed mainly by reaction with peracetyl radicals, CH3CO3+ CH3CHO→CH3CO3H + CH3CO (3), CH3CO3+ HCHO→CH3CO3H + HCO (7)k7/k3 being about 2.4 at 119 and 188°C. Only about one in seven of the formyl radicals give carbon monoxide at 119°C.The kinetic and analytical data are explained on the basis of the mechanism given in Part 1 with the addition of reaction (7). It is suggested that some performic acid is formed at 119°C and causes extra branching by reaction with acetaldehyde.
Abstract Kinetic studies of propylene oxidation and isopropanol conversion were undertaken using new catalytic systems, namely, conjugated polymer-supported heteropolyacid catalysts. Unsubstituted and dimethoxy-substituted aromatic poly(azomethines) (PPI and PMOPI) were used as matrices to which selected heteropolyanions (HPAs) were introduced via acid–base-type doping which consists of protonation of imine nitrogen. PPI was synthesized via polycondensation of 1,4-phenylenediamine with terephthaldehyde, whereas PMOPI was prepared via the reaction of 1,4-phenylenediamine with 2,5-dimethoxyterephthaldehyde. Protonation of PPI and PMOPI with heteropolyacids—H 3 PW 12 O 40 and H 3 PMo 12 O 40 —was carried out in the acetonitrile solutions. The protonation level was controlled by changing the starting molar ratio of HPA : polymer in the reaction medium. Both poly(azomethines) in their base forms and protonated poly(azomethines) were characterized using X-ray diffraction and various spectroscopic methods (FTIR, Raman, XPS). Thermal stability and BET surface area were also studied. X-Ray diffraction patterns show that HPA introduced into the polymer matrices is molecularly dispersed and does not form a separate phase. FTIR studies prove that the structural identity of individual heteropolyanions is preserved on introduction into the polymer matrices. However, Raman studies prove that protonation leads to changes in polymer chain conformation. In the oxidation of propylene the PPI(HPA) y and PMOPI(HPA) y catalysts give hexadiene as the main reaction product. Introduction of HPA into the polymer matrices changes the selectivity of the acid since the reaction carried out in the presence of crystalline H 3 PMo 12 O 40 results in acrolein as the main product. For all catalysts studied, only products of nondestructive oxidation can be detected (hexadiene, acrolein, propionaldehyde, acetone, benzene).
Abstract The vapour phase epoxidation of propene with nitrous oxide ( N 2 O ) was experimentally investigated in a fixed bed reactor using a CsO x / FeO y / SiO 2 catalyst over a broad range of residence times. The influence of feed composition on the conversion and product distribution was determined for the reactants propene, propylene oxide (PO), propionaldehyde (PA), and N 2 O . The experimental results were used to derive a formal kinetic model to describe the reactions in a network deduced in the first part of this publication [Thommes, T., Zurcher, S., Wix, A., Reitzmann, A., Kraushaar-Czarnetzki, B., 2007. Catalytic vapour phase epoxidation of propene with nitrous oxide as an oxidant: I. Reaction network and product distribution. Applied Catalysis A 318, 160–169]. Self-inhibition of the propene conversion was observed, and an inhibition of the PO conversion through PO isomerisation products. The N 2 O concentration has almost no effect on the conversion of propene and PO, but the PA conversion is accelerated significantly through N 2 O . Propene related and N 2 O related PO selectivities display opposed dependencies from reactant concentration. The modelling results indicate that coke is predominantly formed from oxygenated products. It is the key issue for future developments to prevent the fast consecutive conversion of PO.
The use of the inexpensive NaClO_2-HClO ClO_2 scavenger systemallows a mild and highly selective oxidation of aldehydes to the correspondingcarboxylic acids,e.g.,of 2-(4-isobutylphenyl)propionaldehyde to ibuprofen invery high yields,without chlorinated side-products.
The heterogeneously catalysed gas phase hydroformylation of ethylene to propionaldehyde was studied over solid RhCl(PPh3)3 and RhCl(CO)(PPh3)2. At 3 bar and 185 °C, an active phase formed from RhCl(PPh3)3 which was different from RhCl(CO)(PPh3)2 under the reaction conditions studied. The selectivity of RhCl(PPh3)3 to propanal was much better than that of supported Rh-metal. Thus, solid metal-complexes operated in gas phase reactions clearly hold promise as a new class of heterogeneous catalysts.
A new type of waste gas treatment was previously proposed in the packed column containing the immobilized activated sludge gel beads of 5 mm in diameter together with the hollow plastic balls of 10 mm in the optimal diameter with their optimal volume ratio of 1 to 2 to avoid compaction of the gel beads. The same type of biofilter is employed and analyzed for removal of acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde as a model of toxic and malodorant pollutants under a wide range of the inlet aldehyde concentrations. The same spherical gel beads as prepared previously by the PVA-boric acid method are stable and durable during storage as well as use in the removal operation. The biofilter gives a very low pressure drop to the waste gas stream through the packed bed. The acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde removal in the column decreases with an increase in the inlet aldehyde concentration. The kinetics data on the gel beads suspended in an air-tight batch reactor reveal that the Michaelis-Menten type rate equation is applicable to both respiration and pollutant biodegradation by the gel beads with negligible mass transfer effect. A model for removal of a single pollutant is developed assuming that the Henry's law constant determines the dissolved pollutant concentration in the gel bead, the pollutant is biodegraded according to the above rate equation and the contact efficiency of gel beads with waste gas has the same value of 0.24 as determined previously. The observed removals agree well with those calculated from the design equation developed. As a result the observed decrease in removal of aldehyde with its inlet concentration is due to the fact that the biodegradation rate itself approaches asymptotically the maximum one with the aldehyde concentration.
A condensation reaction between malvidin 3-glucoside (mv3gl) and catechin (cat) mediated by acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde was conducted in model solutions at two pH values (at 1.5 and 3.2). Acetaldehyde led to the formation of mv3gl-8-ethyl-8-cat (m/z at 809) widely reported in the literature, whereas propionaldehyde led to the formation of mv3gl-8-propyl-8-cat (m/z at 823) and its structural characterization is elucidated herein for the first time by 1D and 2D NMR. The formation of these alkyl-linked pigments is favoured at lower pH value as the alkyl linkage requires the formation of an aldehyde carbocation for a further condensation.
The photooxidation of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde in the presence of nitrogen oxides produces the same products and biological effects as do hydrocarbon photooxidations. Despite the greater consumption of formaldehyde, propionaldehyde is generally the most reactive in terms of higher product yields, eye irritation, and plant damage. Product yields from the photooxidation of formaldehyde-nitrogen oxide tends to be the most sensitive to variation in the ratio of reactants. As a result the oxidant yields from the reactions in the formaldehyde-nitrogen oxide system exceed those of the other systems at higher aldehyde-nitrogen oxide ratios. The photochemical reactivities of the three aldehydes in terms of product yields, eye irritation, and plant damage overlap those of the olefinic and aromatic hydrocarbons. The reduction of formaldehyde and higher molecular weight aldehydes should be accomplished along with reduction of hydrocarbons in emission control strategies for photochemically reactive substances. 32 references, 12 figures, 5 tables.
In order to obtain a more stable PEGylated interferon alpha-2b, and prolong its half life, interferon alpha-2b (IFN alpha-2b) was modified with monomethoxy polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD) 20000. It was found that the optimized reaction condition for the maximum bioactivity and highest PEGylation degree of the mono PEGylated interferon alpha-2b was as follows: in 20 mmol/L, pH 6.5, citric acid and sodium dihydrogen phosphate buffer, the concentration of IFN alpha-2b was 4 mg/mL, and the molar ratio of PEG/IFN alpha-2b was 8:1, and the reaction time was 20 h at 4 degrees C. Under the optimized reaction condition, the mono PEGylation degree reached to 55%. Ion exchange chromatography was used to separate and purify mono PEGylated interferon alpha-2b from the reaction mixture. The purity of mono PEGylated interferon alpha-2b was higher than 97% characterized by HPLC. The bioactivity of the mono PEGylated interferon alpha-2b was 13.4% of the native IFN alpha-2b, while its half life in SD rat is much longer than the native IFN alpha-2b. The mono PEGylated interferon alpha-2b is also stable in aqueous.
An enzyme which catalyses dehydrogenation of gamma-aminobutyraldehyde (ABAL) to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) was purified to homogeneity from rat brain tissues by using DEAE-cellulose and affinity chromatography on 5′-AMP-Sepharose, phosphocellulose and Blue Agarose, followed by gel filtration. Such an enzyme was first purified from mammalian brain tissues, and was identified as an isoenzyme of aldehyde dehydrogenase. It has an Mr of 210,000 determined by polyacrylamide-gradient-gel electrophoresis, and appeared to be composed of subunits of Mr 50,000. The close similarity of substrate specificity toward acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and glycolaldehyde between the enzyme and other aldehyde dehydrogenases previously reported was observed. But substrate specificity of the enzyme toward ABAL was higher than those of aldehyde dehydrogenases from human liver (E1 and E2), and was lower than those of ABAL dehydrogenases from human liver (E3), Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas species. The Mr and relative amino acid composition of the enzyme are also similar to those of E1 and E2. The existence of this enzyme in mammalian brain seems to be related to a glutamate decarboxylase-independent pathway (alternative pathway) for GABA synthesis from putrescine.
A spectrophotometric procedure, based on the alkaline 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazone method by A.S. Henick et al., has been studied.According to Henick method, saturated and allenic carbonyl compounds can be generally determined using the spectrophotometric calibration curves of n-hexaldehyde and crotonaldehyde. However, this procedure has been proved to fail in determining diacetyl, acetophenone and benzaldehyde. Wave lengths of maximum absorption and molar extinction coefficients of alkaline 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazone of these carbonyl compounds largely differ from each other and also from another aliphatic carbonyl compounds. The calibration curves of the each carbonyl compounds must be obtained, respectively.Analytical procedure is as follows: To 5ml of the benzen solution of the sample, add 2.5ml of a 0.05wt% solution of 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazine in benzene and 2ml of a solution of trichloroacetic acid in benzen (36g/l), and heat the mixture in a stopped test tube at 60°C for 30 minutes.Cool the mixture to room temperature and add 5ml of a 3∼4wt% ethanolic solution of potassium hydroxide, then measure the color intensity of the solution by means of spectrophotometer, within 10 minutes.Observed molar extinction coefficients (10-4l/mol, cm) at the wave length of maximum absorption are as follows:diacetyl: 4.14 (500mμ), acetophenone: 1.66 (455mμ), benzaldehyde: 3.27 (460mμ), cyclopentanone: 2.25 (430mμ), propionaldehyde: 1.98 (430mμ), methylethylketone: 2.07 (430mμ).Determination of the carbonyl compounds in autoxidized dicyclopentadiene has been described.
The reaction of propionaldehyde, formaldehyde and ammonia was carried out over modified H-ZSM-5 catalysts. Typically over H-ZSM-5 (Si/Al = 150), at 400°C, the yield of 3,5-lutidine was 63.1 wt.-% at 66.2% conversion of propionaldehyde. The cation effect was observed in the increase of collidines in the product. Our studies have established that useful substituted pyridines can be synthesized from C1–C4 aldehydes and alcohols in the presence of ammonia via dehydrocyclization and dehydrogenation.
Polyamines are present in all living cells and regulate a wide range of biological processes. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the polyamine oxidase Fms1p converts spermine to spermidine and 3-aminopropionaldehyde, which is necessary for the synthesis of pantothenic acid and hypusination. This paper shows that S. cerevisiae FMS1 gene orthologs are present in all major representatives of the Saccharomycotina subdivision, but their copy numbers are different. In the Komagataella phaffii ( Pichia pastoris ) yeast, two polyamine oxidase genes ( KpFMS1 and KpFMS2 ) were identified, and the regulation of their promoters activity was studied.
The alkylation of disodiopentane-2,4-dione with halogeno-acetals was found to be dependent on the leaving halide. Chloroacetaldehyde dimethyl, diethyl, and ethylene acetals failed to yield any alkylation products whereas bromo-acetaldehyde dimethyl, diethyl, and ethylene acetals did afford γ-alkylation products. β-Bromopropionaldehyde diethyl acetal and β-chloropropionaldehyde ethylene acetal alkylated disodiopentane-2,4-dione. Copper chelates of the alkylation products were prepared.
Abstract Ozone oxidation is commonly used to remove taste and odor (T&O) from drinking water. However, this technique is only moderately effective, and is complicated by the formation of aldehyde by-products. In this study, we investigated the efficiency of ozonation with which aluminum oxide catalysts (γ-AlOOH [HAO], γ-Al2O3 [RAO], and α-Al2O3 [AAO]) removed three representative odorous substances (2-methylisoborneol [MIB], 2,4,6-trichloroanisole [TCA], and 2-isopropyl-3-methoxypyrazine [IPMP]) from water and reduced the yields of aldehydes. Application of ozonation alone led to incomplete mineralization of odorous substances and generation of large amounts of aldehydes. In comparison, catalyzed ozonation by the three aluminum oxides substantially increased the removal efficiencies of T&O and reduced the production of aldehydes, albeit to different degrees. In all forms of ozonation, the main aldehyde products were formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, glyoxal, and methylglyoxal. ...
Alcohol dehydrogenation and condensation reactions are involved in chain growth pathways on Cu/MgCeOxpromoted with potassium. These pathways lead to the formation of isobutanol with high selectivity via reactions of higher alcohols with methanol-derived C1species in reaction steps also relevant to higher alcohol synthesis from CO/H2mixtures at higher pressures on K–Cu/MgCeOxcatalysts. Ethanol reactions on K–CuyMg5CeOxshow that both Cu and basic sites participate in alcohol dehydrogenation and aldol condensation steps leading to n-butyraldehyde and acetone. Chain growth occurs by condensation reactions involving a metal-base bifunctional aldol-type coupling of alcohols. Reactions of12C2H5OH–13C2H4O mixtures show that direct condensation reactions of ethanol can occur without requiring the intermediate formation of gas phase acetaldehyde. Reactions of C2H5OH/D2mixtures show that Cu sites increase the rate of aldol condensation by introducing recombinative desorption sites that remove hydrogen atoms formed in C–H activation steps leading to the unsaturated aldol-type species required for chain growth. Reactions of acetaldehyde and13C-labeled methanol lead predominantly to 1-13C-propionaldehyde and 2-13C-isobutyraldehyde, both of which lead to isobutanol during CO/H2reactions. Mixtures of propionaldehyde and13C-labeled methanol lead to singly-labeled isobutyraldehyde. Chain growth to C2+alcohols occurs via addition of a methanol-derived C1species to adsorbed oxygen-containing intermediates. The gradual appearance of13C in the unlabeled reactant within these mixtures shows that aldol coupling reactions are reversible. Reverse aldol condensation reactions after intramolecular hydride transfer lead to the formation of acetone from ethanol. Isobutyraldehyde is a preferred end-product of aldol-type chain growth reactions of alcohols because it lacks the two α-hydrogens required for subsequent chain growth.
The reaction of methyl 2,3,4,6-tetra-O-acetyl-1-O-trimethylsilyl-beta- and -alpha-D-glucopyranuronate severally with the dimethyl or diethyl acetals of formaldehyde, bromoacetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, 3-benzyloxypropionaldehyde, 5-carboxypentanal, and 2-bromohexanal in the presence of catalytic amounts of trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate at -78 degrees gave the corresponding (1-alkoxyalkyl) alpha- and beta-glycosides (acetal-glucopyranosiduronates) with retention of configuration at C-1 in yields of 41-91%. Instead of the dialkyl acetals, the corresponding aldehydes and alkyl trimethylsilyl ether can be used. Deacetylation gave the corresponding methyl (acetal-beta- and -alpha-D-glucopyranosid)uronates in good yield. De-esterification of methyl [(1R)-1-methoxybutyl beta-D-glucopyranosid]uronate with esterase gave the acetal-beta-D-glucopyranosiduronic acid which was an excellent substrate for beta-D-glucuronidase.
Summary: Purpose: Previously we proposed and provided evidence for the metabolic pathway of felbamate (FBM), which leads to the reactive metabolite, 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionaldehyde. This aldehyde carbamate was suggested to be the reactive intermediate in the oxidation of 2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol monocarbamate to the major human metabolite 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionic acid. In addition, the aldehyde carbamate was found to undergo spontaneous elimination to 2-phenylpropenal, commonly known as atropaldehyde. Moreover, atropaldehyde was proposed to play a role in the development of toxicity during FBM therapy. Evidence for atropaldehyde formation in vivo was reported with the identification of modified N-acetyl-cysteine conjugates of atropaldehyde in both human and rat urine after FBM administration. Identification of the atropaldehyde-derived mercapturic acids in urine after FBM administration is consistent with the hypothesis that atropaldehyde is formed in vivo and that it reacts with thiol nucleophiles. Based on the hypothesis that the potential for toxicity will correlate to the amount of atropaldehyde formed, we sought to develop an analytic method that would quantify the amount of relevant metabolites excreted in patient urine. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods: We summarize the results of an LC/MS method used to quantify FBM, 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionic acid and two atropaldehyde-derived mercapturic acids in the patient population. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results: Analysis was performed on 31 patients undergoing FBM therapy. The absolute quantities of FBM and three metabolites were measured. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusions: This method demonstrated sufficient precision for the identification of patients exhibiting “abnormal” levels of atropaldehyde conjugates and may hold potential for patient monitoring.
The present invention discloses a method for producing 2- Yaron Campholenic propionaldehyde. Said 2-alkenyl group Yaron brain propionaldehyde producing means adding a kettle campholenic aldehyde, n-propionaldehyde, methanol or ethanol, a catalyst proline or proline derivatives, a certain reaction temperature, direct reaction, neutralized and washed with water, after purification, can give 2- Yaron brain alkenyl malonic aldehyde product. The present invention provides the synthetic process, using techniques pot reaction, a catalyst with a proline replacing the traditional strong base catalyst, reducing by-products caused by the traditional process, thereby improving the product yield and quality, reduce environmental pollution, reaching only reduces production costs, but also reduces the effect of environmental costs.
In order to investigate the influences of the physical parameters of the paper-base in paper-making process reconstituted tobacco on its pyrolysis behavior,the formation of pyrolyzed gas phase products of 4 paper-bases with different physical parameters were investigated by flash pyrolysis-Fourier transform infrared spectrometer(FPy-FTIR).Moreover,the evolution of 8 carbonyl compounds(including formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,acetone,acrolein,propionaldehyde,crotonaldehyde,butanone and butyraldehyde) were analyzed by flash pyrolysis-high performance liquid chromatography(FPy-HPLC).The results showed that: 1) The pyrolyzed gas phase products mainly included water,carbon dioxide,carbon monoxide,methanol,carbonyl compounds,alkynes(mainly acetylene),alkenes(ethylene) and alkanes(methane) compounds.The increase of permeability of paper-base was beneficial to the formation of gas phase products.2) The changes of permeability,grammage and ratio of tobacco pulp to wood pulp did not affect the formation of methane,while the increase of permeability would produce less carbon monoxide but more carbon dioxide.3) The increase of wood pulp proportion was the main reason for carbonyl compounds and ethylene reducing.4) Aacetaldehyde was the major carbonyl compound formed from the flash pyrolysis,followed by acetone and propionaldehyde.
In anaerobic batch cultures of Lactobacillus reuteri, glucose/glycerol cofermentation resulted in production of reuterin (β-hydroxypropionaldehyde) and 1,3 propanediol at the expense of ethanol and lactate. In anaerobic chemostat cultures of L. reuteri, glucose/glycerol cofermentation resulted in an increased ethanol production and a decreased lactate production. Moreover, reuterin and 1,3 propanediol were produced in significant amounts. These results demonstrate that growing L. reuteri cells have the ability to produce reuterin. © Rapid Science Ltd. 1998
Candida rugosa lipase was modified via reductive alkylation to increase its hydrophobicity to work better in organic solvents. The free amino group of lysines was alkylated using propionaldehyde with different degrees of modification obtained (49 and 86%). Far-ultraviolet circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy of the lipase in aqueous solvent showed that such chemical modifications at the enzyme surface caused a loss in secondary and tertiary structure that is attributed to the enzyme unfolding. Using molecular modeling, we propose that in an aqueous environment the loss in protein structure of the modified lipase is owing to disruption of stabilizing salt bridges, particularly of surface lysines. Indeed, molecular modeling and simulation of a salt bridge formed by Lys-75 to Asp-79, in a nonpolar environment, suggests the adoption of a more flexible alkylated lysine that may explain higher lipase activity in organic solvents on alkylation.
A series of ab initio calculations have been carried out, using the 4-21G basis set. Ethane and propane were first studied to obtain reference points. The effect of adding an electronegative atom (fluorine, or carbonyl oxygen) onto the framework was then studied as a function of the torsional angle about the single bond. Some pronounced trends in structural changes were observed, and these can in part be correlated with hyperconjugative effects. For example, fluoroethane has bond lengths which are shorter than those in ethane itself, by 0.024 Ain the CC bond, and 0.003 Ain the α CH bonds. These changes are essentially torsionally independent. On the other hand, in propionaldehyde, the CC bond length of the methyl group and the CH bond lengths of the hydrogens attached to the alpha carbon vary as a function of the torsion angle. If the methyl CC bond in the carbonyl plane is taken as a reference, the bond stretches .016 Awhen the torsion angle is increased to 90°, an α CH bond similarly stretches up to .007 A. Many of these geometric changes are large, well beyond the experimental errors in modern measurements.
Dinuclear platina-β-diketones [Pt2{(COR)2H}2(μ-Cl)2] (R = Me (1a), Et (1b)) react with phosphines (PPh3, Ph2P(CH2)nPPh2, n = 1−3) and triphenylarsine to form acylplatinum(II) complexes as well as acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, respectively. Reaction of 1 with 4 equiv of PPh3 and AsPh3 leads to trans-[PtCl(COR)L2] (L = PPh3 (4), AsPh3 (5); R = Me (a), Et (b)). Reaction of 1a with PPh3 in a 1:2 molar ratio results in formation of carbonyl(methyl)platinum complexes [PtCl(Me)(CO)(PPh3)] (11). Cationic A-frame complexes [Pt2(COR)2(μ-Cl)(μ-dppm)2]Cl (R = Me (6a), Et (6b)) were formed in reactions of 1 with 2 equiv of Ph2PCH2PPh2 (dppm). Treatment of 1a with Ph2P(CH2)2PPh2 (dppe) and Ph2P(CH2)3PPh2 (dppp) yields complexes [PtCl(COMe){Ph2P(CH2)nPPh2}] (n = 2 (7), 3 (8)). However, at low temperatures (−30 °C) reactions of 1a with dppe and dppp afford mononuclear cationic platina-β-diketones [Pt{(COMe)2H}(Ph2P(CH2)nPPh2)]Cl (n = 2 (9a), 3 (10)). The reaction of [Pt2{(COMe)2H}2(μ-Cl)2] (1a) with pyridine (py) or ...
Abstract Treatment of chiral enamine 3 , derived from (S)-proline allyl ester ( 1 ) and 2-phenylpropionaldehyde ( 2 ), with tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)-palladium provided (R)-(-)-2-methyl-2-phenyl-4-pentenylaldehyde ( 5 ) with high enantiomeric excess. The mechanism for this asymmetric induction is discussed.
Postmortem cooling aging can affect flavor components of meat.In order to explore the effect of cooling aging process on volatile flavor components in yak meat,the Longissimus dorsi muscle from yak in Sunan county was used to determine volatile flavor components by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry(GC-MS).Compared with yak meat without aging treatment,the sulfur compounds(meat flavor) in yak meat with aging treatment exhibited an increase of 24%,especially for 2-acetyl thiazole(meat flavor) and methylthiopropionaldehyde(broth flavor).Both kinds of compounds in yak meat with cooling aging treatment exhibited an increase of 100% and 78%,respectively.Meanwhile,the content of carbonyl compounds exhibited an increase of 311%,including an increase of 331% for 3-hydroxyl-2-butanone(milky aftertaste).The relative content of 3-hydroxyl-2-butanone in yak meat with aging treatment was up to 20.54%.This volatile compound exhibited the highest relative content and the highest level of increase in yak meat with aging treatment.However,phenols,terpenes and sesquiterpenes derived from herbage exhibited a decrease of 34%,which included a reduction of 70% for 4-methyl phenol(pastoral flavor),and a decline of 40% for β-caryophyllene.Therefore,postmortem aging process is beneficial to the improvement of flavor components in yak meat and the reduction of negative impact on the flavor of yak meat due to some special components in herbage.
Synthesis of the Polymer with Polar Side Groups. II. Synthesis and Dielectric Properties of the β-Cyanopropionaldehyde Acetal of Poly(vinyl alcohol)
'The catalytic reductive condensations of neutral amino acids, such as glycine, L-alanine, L-valine, L-leucine, L-phenylalanine, and L-tyrosine, with formaldehyde using Raney nickel catalyst have been investigated. The N, N-dimethyl derivative was obtained in each case except in the case of L-phenylalanine. However, in the case of L-phenylalanine, considerable N-monomethy]ation took place besides the N-dirnethylation. The similar reactions of glycine with various aliphatic aldehydes, such as propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and isovaleraldehyde, give the corresponding N-monoalkyl derivatives. These results shoW the bulkiness of the substituent of aldehydes inhibits the condensation reaction of the N-monoalkyl glycine initially formed and the aldehyde. In the previous papers, the catalytic reductive-N, N-dimethylations of various neutral amino acids,i) and acidicamino acids2) using silk-palladium catalyst were investigated. The similar reductive alkylation of glycine with various aliphatic aldehyde was also studied.3) In the present study, the reductive condensation of various neutral amino acids with aqueous formaldehyde using Raney nickel catalyst have been investigated. In the case of silk-palladium catalyst, the results obtained apparent!y indicate that the corresponding N, N-dialkyl derivatives were obtained as the a!kylation products when aliphatic straight chain aldehydes were employed in these reactions. The N-monoalkyl derivatives initially formed seem to be more reactive to the carbonyl residue of the aldehydes and readily react with an excess of aldehydes to give the corresponding N,N-dialkyl derivatives. On the other hand, in the case of the reductive alkylation of glycine with aliphatic branched chain aldehydes, such as isobutyraldehyde and isovaleraldehyde, considerable monoalkylation took place besides the dialkylation. However, when an excess of the :aldehyde was used, the N,N-dialkyl derivative was obtained in a nearly quantitative yield. These results show the bulkiness of the substituent of aliphatic branched chain aldehydes considerably inhibits the condensation reaction of the N-monoalkyl glycine initial!y formed and the aldehyde. In the course of the reaction, the silk-palladium catalyst showed no reductivity in responce to excess of any aldehyde.
This study describes a reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) method for the analysis of several carbonyl compounds in air samples. The air samples were collected using a passive sampling method and cartridges based on florisil impregnated with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH). After derivatization the carbonyl compounds were analyzed by liquid chromatography technique coupled with UV detection. The developed RP-HPLC method was used to analyze eight carbonyl compounds in air samples collected from the indoor environment of a faculty building located in Cluj-Napoca. The analyses results indicated the presence of three carbonyl compounds: propionaldehyde (2.65-3.14 µg/m 3 ), acetaldehyde (10.45-26.91 µg/m 3 ), and acetone (44.96-89.88 µg/m 3 ).
1 The optically pure products nitroalkanes (R)-10b and (S)-10b and isomenthone [(2R,5R)-12b] were obtained as described previously. 2-Methyl-3-phenylpropionaldehyde 3b: was synthesized via hydrogenation to the corresponding saturated alcohol followed by oxidation to aldehyde. A mixture of α-methyl-trans-cinnamaldehyde 3a (2.0 g, 13.7 mmol) and Pd/C (10 %, 100 mg) in ethanol (100 mL) was stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere for 24 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through a Celite ® plug and concentrated under vacuum to give 2-methyl-3-phenylpropanol, which was used for the next step without further purification. 2-Methyl-3-phenylpropanol (0.4 g, 2.66 mmol) was added to a mixture of DessMartin reagent (1.7g, 4.00 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (50 mL) at 0 °C and stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 °C, quenched with 1M NaOH (50 mL) and extracted with DCM (100 mL). The organic phase was washed with water (3 x 25 mL), dried (MgSO 4 ) and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography (hexane:ethyl acetate, 95:5) to give 3b (0.20 g, 51 % from 2-methyl-3-phenylpropanol).
Candida rugosa lipase was modified via reductive alkylation to increase its hydrophobicity to work better in organic solvents. The free amino group of lysines was alkylated using propionaldehyde with different degrees of modification obtained (49 and 86%). Farultraviolet circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy of the lipase in aqueous solvent showed that such chemical modifications at the enzyme surface caused a loss in secondary and tertiary structure that is attributed to the enzyme unfolding. Using molecular modeling, we propose that in an aqueous environment the loss in protein structure of the modified lipase is owing to disruption of stabilizing salt bridges, particularly of surface lysines. Indeed, molecular modeling and simulation of a salt bridge formed by Lys-75 to Asp-79, in a nonpolar environment, suggests the adoption of a more flexible alkylated lysine that may explain higher lipase activity in organic solvents on alkylation.
K. pneumoniae posseses an extremely active metabolism under microaerophilic conditions, being able to grow fermentatively using glycerol as the sole carbon source in a dissimilatory pathway (Huang et al., 2002) . The central enzyme of glycerol metabolism is 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase (1,3-PD-DH), which is encoded by the dhaT gene and is involved in the reductive pathway of anaerobic glycerol dissimilation, which is essential for the use of glycerol as a carbon source in the absence of an exogenous electron acceptor (Biebl et al., 1998; Johnson & Lin, 1987) . The dhaT gene encodes a polypeptide of 387 amino acids with a calculated MW of 41 544 Da and a theoretical isoelectric point of 5.9. This enzyme is part of the dha regulon that encodes two parallel pathways. Through the oxidative pathway, glycerol is dehydrogenated by an NAD + -linked enzyme, glycerol dehydrogenase type I (glyDH-I), to dihydroxyacetone (DHA), which is then phosphorylated by an ATP-dependent kinase to dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP; Cheng et al., 2006; Huang et al., 2002) . Through the parallel reductive pathway, glycerol is dehydrated by a B 12 -dependent enzyme to form 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which is then reduced to 1, by the NADH-linked oxidoreductase 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase (Cheng et al., 2004; O'Brien et al., 2004) . The physiological reason for 1,3-PD formation could be the regeneration of NAD + needed by the DHA branch of the pathway controlled by the dha regulon (Yuanyuan et al., 2004) .
Abstract Chiral N -acylhydrazones derived from various aldehydes and N -amino-4-benzyl-2-oxazolidinone have previously been shown to be effective for acyclic stereocontrol of intermolecular radical and allylsilane additions. Treatment of the propionaldehyde hydrazone with tributyltin hydride in the presence of boron trifluoride etherate led to rapid chemoselective reduction of the imine bond in high yield. Preparation of similar hydrazones from ketones led to E / Z isomer mixtures, usually in ratios of 4:1 or greater. Geometry of the CN bond was assigned by steric compression shifts in 13 C NMR spectra. Reduction with tributyltin hydride and boron trifluoride etherate afforded diastereomer mixtures in ratios very similar to the original E / Z isomer ratios. The chiral auxiliary blocked the opposite face of the CN bond relative to a related process using a chelated Lewis acid. A stereocontrol model involving monodentate interaction of the N -acylhydrazone and boron trifluoride is consistent with the observed stereochemical outcome.
The research presented herein is concerned with the exploration of tandem processes initiated by the conjugate reduction of Michael acceptors, encompassing the asymmetric reductive Dieckmann reaction and the two-carbon homologation of aldehydes by two complementary methodologies. Chapter 1 introduces the area of transition metal catalysed tandem reductive processes as a tool for carbon-carbon bond formation. An extensive discussion of this methodology is included and recent advances in the area are highlighted. Chapter 2 discusses the initial study into the asymmetric reductive Dieckmann condensation. 3,3’-Disubstituted 4-oxopyrrolidines were synthesised in up to 93% ee using both molybdenum and copper catalysis. Chapter 3 describes the novel molybdenum-catalysed two-carbon homologation of aldehydes by the reduction of alkylidene Meldrum’s acid derivatives. No over reduction to the corresponding alcohol is observed, as the aldehyde functionality remains protected until hydrolysis. Chapter 4 discusses the mild, expeditious amine promoted reduction of cyclic malonates to β-substituted propionaldehydes. The synthetic utility of the methodology is demonstrated by the synthesis of γ-substituted propylamines in a one-pot hydrosilylation/reductive amination process. Chapter 5 describes the synthesis and characterisation for the compounds discussed in chapters 2, 3 and 4.
The human aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) play a major role in detoxifying highly reactive aldehydes into carboxylic acids. Deregulation of ALDHs has implications in a number of cancers. They play an important role as a cancer stem cell (CSC) marker due to high activity found in CSCs, while high expression is also known to lead to resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs. Although the exact roles of ALDHs are not fully understood, emerging information indicates several isoforms from the ALDH1 family, ALDH3A1 and ALDH7A1, play key roles in several cancer types. To probe the role of ALDH functional activity, we here report on the perturbation of ALDH expression and function using diethylbenzaldehyde (DEAB) analogues. The H1299 lung cancer cell line has negligible amount of ALDH activity, and ALDH-expressing variants were used to study the novel DEAB analogues. H1299 wild-type cells (WT) and cells expressing RFP were used as controls. Expression of the proteins was confirmed by Western blots and ALDH enzymatic activity assay. We used cell culture, colorimetric MTT assay, aldefluor assay and in vitro treatment with DEAB analogues. ALDH-expressing lysates were used to obtain biochemical inhibition data of the DEAB analogues using propionaldehyde as substrate with NAD+ as a co-factor. DEAB has been shown to covalently bind to ALDH7A1, and computational modeling was employed to understand how chemical modifications to DEAB affected the binding mode. Selected ALDH-affinic probe compounds were tested in a panel of colon, lung and prostate cancer cell lines including docetaxel-resistant variant and patient samples to investigate if DEAB analogues had an effect on cell viability as single agents or in combination with docetaxel. In conclusion, the novel DEAB analogues aid us to understand ALDH functional activity and provide a platform for discovering more selective ALDH inhibitors Citation Format: Ali Ibrahim, Maria Sadiq, Daniela Presa, Ioannis Ntafoulis, Ahmad Alkawi, Fiona Frame, Norman J. Maitland, Zoe Cournia, Paul M. Loadman, Jan Moreb, Klaus Pors. Synthesis and biologic evaluation of diethylbenzaldehyde analogues to probe functional activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase activity in cancer [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2018; 2018 Apr 14-18; Chicago, IL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2018;78(13 Suppl):Abstract nr 1662.
Tetranychus urticae Koch rapidly absorbed and metabolized aldicarb. Aldicarb sulfoxide or 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime, the major organosoluble metabolite, comprised 55.1 and 47.4%, respectively, of the organosoluble radioactive material after exposure intervals of 6 and 24 h. Absorption and metabolism of aldicarb sulfoxide-14C by twospotted spider mites proceeded at a slower rate than that of aldicarb. Major identified organosoluble metabolites of aldicarb sulfoxide after 24 h were aldicarb oxime sulfoxide or 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl) propionaldehyde oxime (16.7%) and aldicarb oxime sulfone or 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfonyl) propionaldehyde oxime (18.2%).
The reagents 19 hydrazide and 14 hydrazine were examined to function as reactive matrices for matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) to detect gaseous aldehydes. Among them, two hydrazide (2-hydroxybenzohydrazide and 3-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid hydrazide) and two hydrazine reagents [2-hydrazinoquinoline and 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH)] were found to react efficiently with carbonyl groups of gaseous aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde); these are the main factors for sick building syndrome and operate as reactive matrices for MALDI-MS. Results from accurate mass measurements by JMS-S3000 Spiral-TOF suggested that protonated ion peaks corresponding to [M + H]+ from the resulting derivatives were observed in all cases with the gaseous aldehydes in an incubation, time-dependent manner. The two hydrazide and two hydrazine reagents all possessed absorbances at 337 nm (wavelength of MALDI nitrogen laser), with, significant electrical conductivity of the matrix crystal and functional groups, such as hydroxy group and amino group, being important for desorption/ionization efficiency in MALDI-MS. To our knowledge, this is the first report that gaseous molecules could be derivatized and detected directly in a single step by MALDI-MS using novel reactive matrices that were derivatizing agents with the ability to enhance desorption/ionization efficiency. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
We developed polyether modified silicones as a nonionic w/o type emulsifier for dimethylpolisiloxane. However, the silicone emulsion prepared with the polyether silicone gave an unpleasant odor after a few days, making it difficult to apply to cosmetics. We found that the smell is caused by a very smal amount of propionaldehyde and that the mechanism forming the propionaldehyde is as follows.In the process of producing polyether modified silicone, the terminal allyl group of polyether which is used as a starting material is partially isomerized to iso-propenyl group in the presence of the platinum catalyst. Isopropenyl group does not react with the hydrogen siloxane and remains as an impurity in the polyether modified silicone produced by the main reaction. Then, it is gradually hydrolyzed to produce produce propionaldehyde and polyethyleneglycol with the passage of time. And the hydrolysis of the isopropenyl group is accelerated by acid.We developed refined and cosmetically applicable silicones by treating polyether modified silicones containing the iso-propenyl impurities with a dilute hydrochloric acid to give rise to propionaldehyde, followed by elimination of it.
The isomerization of propylene oxide was carried out over silica-magnesia catalysts and metal oxides at 260–270°C using a pulse reactor. The main products of the reaction were propionaldehyde, acetone, allyl alcohol, 1-propanol, and acrolein. Propionaldehyde and acetone are produced on acidic and basic sites respectively. Allyl alcohol is formed over acid-base bifunctional catalysts. 1-Propanol and acrolein are mainly produced through hydrogen-transfer reactions between allyl alcohol and propionaldehyde and propylene oxide. As regards these reactions, acid-base bifunctional catalysts are favorable and the reaction rate depends on the electron-donating power of the hydrogen acceptor and the basic strength of the catalyst. The acid sites on silica-magnesia catalysts are attributed to the forsterite produced by the reaction of magnesium oxide and silica gel, and the basic sites, to the magnesium oxide remaining. The metal oxides, such as magnesium and calcium oxides, are considered to have very weak acid sites.
The kinetics of the early stages of the condensation of acetaldehyde with formaldehyde to form β-hydroxypropionaldehyde and bishydroxymethylacetaldehyde (precursors to pentaerythritol) have been investigated in aqueous alkaline solutions at 5–20°. The rate of monohydroxymethylation of acetaldehyde is expressed as v=k1k2[CH3CHO][CH2O]·[base]/(k–1+k2[CH2O]). β-Hydroxypropionaldehyde, the product of monohydroxymethylation of acetaldehyde, is prepared in good yield from acetaldehyde and formaldehyde. The rate of hydroxymethylation of β-hydroxypropionaldehyde fits the rate equation analogous to that for the monohydroxymethylation of acetaldehyde. The results show that the rate of hydroxymethylation for one hydrogen atom of β-hydroxypropionaldehyde is four times that of monohydroxymethylation of acetaldehyde. The apparent energy and entropy of activation are 22·1 kcal. mole–1 and 14 e.u. for hydroxymethylation of acetaldehyde and 22·9 kcal. mole–1 and 17 e.u. for hydroxymethylation of β-hydroxypropionaldehyde. A probable mechanism involving an attack of conjugate base of acetaldehyde on free formaldehyde is suggested and discussed.
Soong-Neung is a Korean traditional beverage served after meals and is made from cooked and roasted rice produced on the bottom of the container during the rice cooking process. The volatiles from the extract of cooked and roasted rice were separated into pyrazine and carbonyl fractions and qualitatively investigated. The pyrazine fraction was characterized by gas chromatography and combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and five pyrazines were positively identified. Pyrazine compounds identified are 2-methylpyrazine, 2,3-dimethylpyrazine, 2,5-dimethylpyrazine, 2-ethyl-5-methylpyrazine and 2-ethyl-3-methylpyrazine. Carbonyls were converted to their 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones and identified by gas chromatography, combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and thin layer chromatography. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, iso-butyraldehyde and iso-valeraldehyde were positively identified in the carbonyl compounds. The aroma of the fractions indentified as 2,3-dimethylpyrazine and 2,5-dimethylpyrazine had a nut-like or roasted cereal-like flavor, which is one of the characteristic flavors of Soong-Neung.
Cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase may be modified by reaction with p-nitrophenyl dimethylcarbamate to give a stable E-X-CO-NMe2 species that is an analogue of the usual labile acyl-enzyme involved in the enzyme's reactions. [X is derived from an enzymic nucleophilic group.] This species still contains the tightly bound NADH that is present in the native enzyme. When further NADH binds to E-X-CO-NMe2 its fluorescence is enhanced over 4 times more than when it binds to unmodified enzyme; this fluorescence is completely unaffected by high propionaldehyde concentration and only slightly affected by p-nitrobenzaldehyde. The modified species has 1.0 NADH binding site in the absence of Mg2+ and 1.67 sites in its presence. The rate of dissociation of E-X-CO-NMe2.NADH is biphasic (k 3.4 and 1.8 min-1) and is considerably lower than that of E.NADH; the presence of Mg2+ slows the process even more (k 0.47 and 0.37 min-1). The implications of these studies towards a greater understanding of the nature of aldehyde dehydrogenase-catalysed reactions are discussed.
VERNON, R. S., G. J. R. JUDD, J. H. BORDEN, H. D. PIERCE, JR., and A. C. OEHLSCHLAGER. 1981. Attraction of Hylemya antiqua (Meigen) (Diptera: Anthomyiidae) in the field to host-produced oviposition stimulants and their nonhost analogues. Can. J. Zool. 59: 872-881. Because of low, natural population levels, laboratory-reared Hylemya antiqua were employed in evaluating chemical attractants in the field. Of 13 chemicals (held in paraffin oil for slow release) tested in buried, partially enclosed water traps, dipropyl disulfide, propanethiol, dipropyl sulfide, propenyl propyl sulfide, 2-butyl propyl sulfide, dibutyl disulfide, and methyl butyl disulfide were attractive to H. antiqua. Males were approximately three times more responsive to these compounds than females. Females were twice as responsive to cut onions as males, and the rate of attraction increased for both sexes as the cut onions aged, and released more volatiles. Four combined onion-produced aldehydes (propionaldehyde, 2-methyl butanal, 2-methylpentanal, and trans-2-methyl-2-pentanal) were attractive to females but not to males. An aldehyde mixture plus a mixture of onion-produced thiopropyl-containing compounds was additive in attractiveness to males and females.
Abstract Betel quid chewing is known to cause cheek cancer in a wide area covering Africa to Asia. Areca nut contained in the betel quid is believed to give rise to carcinogenic N -nitrosamines. In the present study, the roles of human cytochromes P450 (P450 or CYP) in the mutagenic activation of betel quid-specific N -nitrosamines such as 3-( N -nitrosomethylamino)propionitrile (NMPN), 3-( N -nitrosomethylamino)propionaldehyde (NMPA) and N -nitrosoguvacoline (NG) were examined by using genetically engineered Salmonella typhimurium YG7108 expressing each form of human P450 together with NADPH-P450 reductase, which had been established in our laboratory. Among typical P450s (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, CYP2A6, CYP2A13, CYP2D6 or CYP3A4) examined, CYP2A6 was the most efficient activator of NMPN, followed by CYP1A1 and CYP1B1. The mutagenic activation of NMPN by CYP2A6 was seen at the substrate concentrations of μM levels (∼100 μM). The activation of NMPA was catalyzed predominantly by CYP2A13 and to lesser extents by CYP2A6, CYP1A1, CYP1A2 and CYP1B1. The activation of NMPA by CYP2A13 was detectable at the substrate concentrations of μM levels (∼1 μM). NG was activated by CYP2A13 and CYP2A6, the genotoxicity of NG being much lower than that of NMPA or NMPN. Based on these data, we conclude that human CYP2A subfamily members play important roles in the mutagenic activation of essentially all betel quid-related N -nitrosamines tested in the present study.
An investigation is described of the slow combustion of [2- 14 C] and [4- 14 C] 2-methylbut-2-enes. The reaction products have been separated and the position occupied by the carbon-14 in the labelled products has been determined by degradation. The results strongly suggest that acetone and acetaldehyde, the principal early non-peroxidic products, arise by the simple breakdown of a cyclic peroxide formed by addition of oxygen to the olefin at the double bond, and that rearrangements of a biradical also produced during such addition yield the minor products (methylethyl ketone, propionaldehyde, iso propyl alcohol and tert-butyl alcohol). The formation of methyl ketone involves hydroperoxylation of the olefin, and m ethyl alcohol arises from the further oxidation of acetaldehyde. It is likely that two modes of initial attack of the olefin by oxygen, addition at the double bond and hydrogen abstraction leading to hydroperoxylation, both occur concurrently. With 2-methyl - but-2-ene, which has no x -methylene group, the former reaction is the more important.
3-Fluro-1,2-propanediol has been found to be a substrate for propanediol dehydrase and has very similar binding and catalytic constants compared to the natural substrate. The only isolable products of the reaction are acrolein and inorganic fluoride; with 3-fluoro-3,3-dideuterio-1,2-propanediol as substrate, only 3,3-dideuterioacrolein is obtained. These results indicate that the primary product of the reaction is 3-fluoropropionaldehyde which spontaneously loses hydrogen fluoride to yield acrolein. The similar kinetic parameters for the fluorinated as compared to the normal substrate suggest that significant charge does not develop on the fluorinated or, by implication, the natural substrate during any rate-limiting steps of the reaction. These results support a radical, as contrasted to an ionic pathway for reactions involving adenosylcobalamin and diol dehydrase.
In this paper, upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) was used to remove malodor of wastewater containing high concentration organosulfur compounds in methionine chemosynthesis industry .The experimental results showed that UASB could effectively remove 3-(Methylthio) propionaldehyde which was main malodor component of wastewater. Even the concentration of 3-(Methylthio) propionaldehyde of influents reached 8000mg/L ,the removal rate of 3-(Methylthio) propionaldehyde was 100% after treated by two series of UASB, and the malodor of wastewater disappeared as well.
The synthesis of trimethylolethane using formaldehyde and propionaldehyde as material and a mixed solution of calcium hydroxide and a little triethylamine as catalyst is studied.The effects of the amount of calcium hydroxide,triethylamine,the ratio of reactants,reaction temperature and time are investigated.The optimum conditions are:the molar ratio of formaldehyde to propionaldehyde is 4.0∶1.0;calcium hydroxide to propionaldehyde is 1.2∶1.0;triethylamine to total material(formaldehyde and propionaldehyde) is 0.045∶1.0;temperature of condensation reaction is 25℃;condensation reaction time is 1.0 hour;temperature of Cannizzaro reaction is 35℃;Cannizzaro reaction time is 3.0 hours.The yield of trimethylolethane is 90.4%(based on propionaldehyde).Triethylamine can be recovered for reuse.
This paper reports a method for determination of low molecular weight aldehydes in polluted air by GC-FID using a GDX-401 packed column (3 mm x 3 m). The advantages of this method are simple, rapid, accurate and sensitive. The method requires only 8 minutes for the whole analysis. In the concentration range of 1.7-442.4 mg/m3 for formaldehyde and 0.5-680 mg/m3 for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde the calibration curves are linear. The minimun detectable amounts are 3.5 ng, 1 ng and 1 ng, and the average recoveries (n=5) are 89.4%, 89.6%, 88.1% for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde respectively. The quantitative determination is performed by external standard calibration method. The results of sample analysis are satisfactory.
The tremendous growth of biodiesel manufacturing industries has resulted in a large production of available glycerol. Therefore, development of biotechnological processes to convert this by-product into high-added value chemicals has become economically viable and needed to use this surplus. Moreover, this strategy could lead to the substitution of petroleum-sourced molecules. 3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is a platform chemical from which several specialty products can be synthesized. This top-value added molecule is currently produced by chemical methods, but its biotechnological production is not well established and need to be enhanced to meet the increasing expectations of the market. Lactobacillus reuteri, also known for its probiotic properties, can be used for the synthesis of valuable chemicals such as 1.3 propanediol (1.3 PDO), 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) or 3-HP, for example from glycerol or glucose. To our knowledge, the characterization of L. reuteri growth has not been studied in detail. The present study focuses first on the characterization of the growth and physiological state of L. reuteri. To this aim, the growth and acidification kinetics of three strains of L. reuteri (DSM 20016, DSM 17938 and ATCC 53608) were studied and compared. In parallel, the physiological state of growing bacteria was evaluated through determination of cell cultivability and enzymatic activity by plate counting and flow cytometry. The evolution of the growth medium composition was determined by HPLC. Furthermore, the ability of the three strains to convert glycerol to 3-HP was assessed. Results showed glycerol consumption concomitant to the production of 3-HP and several products of the biosynthesis pathway (1.3 PDO, 3-HPA). They confirm the ability of L. reuteri to convert glycerol in 3-HP and showed significant differences between the three strains both in terms of growth and production. A major loss in cultivability together with a decrease in enzymatic activity were observed. Because of low conversion yield, further work will be performed to understand the metabolic determinants of this bioconversion and to explain the observed mechanisms of inhibition.
The intramolecular hydroesterification of allyl alcohol with carbon monoxide to give γ-butyrolactone occurred in the presence of cobalt carbonyl under the pressure of carbon monoxide containing a small amount of hydrogen; propionaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde were produced as by-products. The selectivity toward γ-butyrolactone increased with the use of acetonitrile or its derivatives as the solvent. The addition of pyridine, in the absence of these solvents, was effective only in increasing the reaction rate, not in increasing the selectivity toward γ-butyrolactone. On the other hand, in the presence of acetonitrile as a solvent, the selectivity toward γ-butyrolactone increased together with the reaction rate when a catalytic amount of an organic base such as pyridine was added. The higher the reaction temperature, the higher the pressure necessary to attain a maximum selectivity toward γ-butyrolactone; the best yield of γ-butyrolactone was ca. 60%. The effect of the partial pressures of hydrogen and carbo...
Microwave spectra of propionaldehyde oxime and its deuterated derivatives (CH3CH2CH=NOD) were observed in the frequency region from 10 to 35 GHz. Several a-type R-branch transitions were identified and the following rotational constants(MHz) in the vibrationally ground state were determined to be: A=19400±400, B=2278.16±0.03, and C=2204.09±0.03 for the normal species, and A=19000±400, B=2194.31±0.02, and C=2128.40±0.02 for the deuterated species. The spectrum analyzed in this work has been concluded from the rotational constants to be due to a ac,E-conformer.
The contribution of the aldehyde composition of wine spirit to the colorimetric changes in red Port wine was studied in model solutions by HPLC-diode array detection (DAD) and liquid chromatography (LC)/mass spectrometry (MS). The reaction between anthocyanins, catechin and the several aldehydes was tested with dimers B4 and B2-3'-O-gallate, two of most abundant procyanidins dimers present in young Port wines. Both dimers reacted with oenin (malvidin-3-glycoside, mv3gl) mediated by several aldehydes (such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, formaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and benzaldehyde) leading to the formation of the respective alkyl/aryl linked adducts. The structures of mv3gl-alkyl/aryl-dimer (B4 and B2-3'-O-gallate) and mv3gl-alkyl/aryl-cat ((-)-epicatechin and (-)-epicatechin-gallate) were assigned by LC/ESI-MS.
The present invention relates to a method for producing clean D, L- methionine (methionine), was prepared potassium cyanide (potassium cyanide) absorbs Hydrocyanic acid (hydrocyanic acid) in the crystal mother liquid containing potassium carbonate in the absorbing solution, the potassium cyanide solution of 3-methylthio-propionaldehyde (3-methylthio-propionaldehyde), ammonium bicarbonate (ammonium bicarbonate) solution of 5- (methylthio β- acetate) to 3 to 15 minutes of reaction at 50 to 150 ℃ hydantoin (5 - (β-methylthioethyl) hydantoin) obtaining a solution, and the 5- (β- methyl thioethyl) to raise the temperature of the hydantoin mixture to 140 to 220 ℃ proceeds for 2 to 15 minutes again saponification reaction, the saponification is complete, proceed after the extraction and use the temperature lowered to from 0 to 40 ℃, an organic solvent and water (water phase) after the neutralization and crystallization with CO Was filtered to produce D, and then to rise to 110 to 160 ℃ the temperature of L- methionine crystal mother liquid to remove the CO The process of the present invention is a clean production process is continuous and does not have waste water and waste gas occurs by default.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde accumulation may cause the cessation of 1,3-propanediol sustained production with glycerol by Klebsiella pneumoniae . The impeller tip speed shift from higher to lower speed at glycerol excess or the pulsed glycerol feeding could lead to an abrupt increase of the 3hydroxypropionaldehyde concentration (up to 10 mmol/l) in 10 min. The intracellular consequence of the 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde accumulation has not yet been elucidated. The rapid accumulation of 3hydroxypropionaldehyde relying on the impeller tip speed shift was employed to investigate the influences of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to the activities of nine key enzymes related to glycerol metabolism, CO 2 and O 2 levels in off-gas, cell growth and 1,3-propanediol synthesis. Compared with that at 1.19 mmol/l 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde in broth, the residual enzymatic activities of the nine key enzymes ranged from 9.44 to 74.68% in the cultures at 7.5 mmol/l 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde in broth. The inhibitions of cell growth and the 1,3-propanediol synthesis were unnoticeable at the low level of 3hydroxypropionaldehyde. By contrast, the CO 2 and O 2 levels changes in off-gas response to the 3hydroxypropionaldehyde accumulation were less than 15 min. These results suggest that 3hydroxypropionaldehyde inhibited the growth and metabolism of K. pneumoniae in a more complicated manner.
2,4-Dinitrophenyhydrazine solution was used to trap the carbonyl compounds in tobacco smoke by improved trapping method.Dinitrophenylhydrazone derivatives in the trapped solutions were qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and mass spectrum(MS). HPLC method was established and optimized as follows: Zorbax Eclipse XDB C8 150 mm×4.6 mm (5μm) as separation column, acetonitrile/water as mobile phase, gradient elution, (25 °C) as separation temperature, UV detection at 365 nm. The linear range, recovery, repeatability and low detect limit about the HPLC method were investigated, and results meet the requirement. The carbonyl compounds, including formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, butanone crotonaldehyde and butylaldehyde were quantitatively determinated in several kinds of cigarette, and an unknown compound in the trapped solution was collected and identified as a carbonyl compound with 5 carbons.
Tobacco use is associated with heart and respiratory diseases and also with a number of types of cancer. Tobacco smoke contains more than 6000 chemicals and among the most abundant ones are the aldehydes. Aldehydes have been previously shown in in vitro studies to induce intracellular oxidative stress and activation of stress signaling pathways, which are associated with cardiovascular diseases such as atherosclerosis. Also, aldehydes form one of the toxicant groups recommended for future tobacco product regulation due to its harmful effects. However, the in vitro effect of low-level aldehyde exposure has not been established. In this study, we determined the gene expression effects of aldehydes commonly found in tobacco smoke by exposing in vitro human umbilical vein epithelial cells (HUVECs) to these aldehydes. The most relevant aldehydes were used: formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde and butyraldehyde. Sub-cytotoxic exposure levels of the different aldehydes were tested regarding cell proliferation, gene expression changes, oxidative stress responses, and DNA damage. Genes associated with cardiovascular disease development such as DEPP, ARID5B, DKK1, EGR1 and IER3 were found to be dysregulated. Gene expression responses were not related to the measurement of oxidative stress or DNA damage using a comet assay. These findings suggest that exposure to the low-level aldehydes from tobacco smoke needs to be controlled due to its effect on genes associated with cardiovascular disease.
These questions are relevant to the biochemistry of today as well as for considerations of their role in the origin of life (OoL). We have recently been informed about the nature of the organic chemical payload aboard comet 67P [17] but these were mainly very primitive structures including many nitrogen bearing species but no sulfur (or selenium) containing species, and four organic compounds methylisocyanate, acetone, propionaldehyde and acetamide, but no amino acids. In time we will get information about a number of planets within the solar system as well as innumerable exoplanets. Although there may be some surprises, it would seem that, based on current data, "universally" is a valid adverb to use. If this is the case, the answer must require us to find out what are the factors pertaining to proteins that restrict the uptake of whatever monomers that organic chemistry can offer under what are, at the outset anyway, harsh conditions. Finally, a most pertinent question mentioned in the Abstract and already present on an earlier list [16] of questions: why only 20 and not 64 amino acid types. This question is addressed in this paper. chemical library of 50 compounds (among the vast array of 10 60 possible chemical candidates most of which we will never encounter) it is necessary to resort to quantitative measurements that reflect the likelihood of any given compound ever being made. There are two (complementary) approaches to this, one based on mathematical descriptors of molecular structure (chemoinformatics) and the other based on quantum chemistry. Both approaches are applied here. Note that in the present work, molecular complexity based on structure alone is used, earlier usage of "synthesizability" metrics [7, 8] is not relevant in this context since we are interested in spontaneous production of the various molecular species, not their synthesis involving elaborate procedures and cycles of purification at the lab bench. In order to investigate these questions a panel of 58 compounds including the 20 canonical amino acids was subjected to a rigorous statistical audit of their structural and quantum chemical properties. The choice of candidate compounds for this study was dictated by known facts concerning the appearance of amino acids, their precursors and analogues in the Murchison meteorite [18] and in the classical Miller experiment [1] [2] [3] . The panel of compounds selected here are those listed in S1-S5 Tables and identified by name in S6 Table. In the work described herein these sets are referred to as mrchsn for Murchisonand mllr for Miller and Miller-Urey respectively. (For compounds numbered 1-30 see: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ Non-proteinogenic_aminos_acids). It should be mentioned that many experiments have been carried out since the original Miller experiments under different conditions, but to all intents and purposes, the same chemicals are produced [5, 6, [19] [20] [21] . The chemicals considered in this work were initially divided into two groups, L-amino-acids that are members of the "canonical set" (12 of the 20) (S2 Table) and other amino-acid-like compounds (S1 Table) referred to as "candidates". It is important to stress that most of these candidates are not amino acids. They cannot be incorporated into peptides, since they lack one or other or both of the defining chemical functional groups for forming a peptide bond. There are some exceptions to this which are discussed below.
These compounds possess peculiarities which make them attractive in the context of this work: (i) they are unexpectedly strong base catalysts, as indicated by their performance in model Michael additions; 7 (ii) they are halide-free and stable for months on the shelf; (iii) they are prepared through a simple green method based on the methylation of an alkyl phosphine with nontoxic dimethyl carbonate (DMC/MeO-CO 2 Me), 8 followed by a hydrolysis reaction in the case of 1b; (iv) they can be used straight out from the reaction vessel since they are obtained in a high purity with no byproduct. In addition, a promoting effect by the phosphonium cation was foreseen, as hypothesized previously. This paper reports an unprecedented application of methylcarbonate and bicarbonate salts 1a and 1b. Both CILs, particularly 1b, exhibit an excellent activity as catalysts for the Henry reaction. The condensation of aldehydes with nitroalkanes takes place under very mild solventless conditions: for example, at 25°C, the addition of nitroethane to 3-phenylpropionaldehyde catalyzed by 1a or 1b is complete in
ABSTRACT This article reviews the work over the past few years on the photolysis of propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, n-pentanal, n-hexanal, and n-heptanal in the 280–330 nm region, obtained by combining laser photolysis with cavity ring-down spectroscopy. Absorption cross-sections of these aldehydes were measured. The HCO radical was observed as a photodissociation product. The HCO quantum yield was determined as a function of photolysis wavelength, aldehyde pressure, and nitrogen buffer-gas pressure. A scheme to group aldehydes according to similarity in photochemistry was proposed.
The stereoselective synthesis of a C5-C20 and a C21-C34 subunit of the aplyronine family of polyketide marine macrolides has been achieved. These subunits contain all 15 stereocenters of the core structure. Six of the 15 stereocenters were introduced through enantioselective and diastereoselective additions of chiral allenylindium reagents to alpha-methyl-beta-oxygenated propionaldehydes. The products of these additions were further transformed by reactions involving the terminal alkynyl substituent produced in the addition reactions. Unlike previous applications of this methodology, the present synthesis employs Pd(0)-catalyzed transmetalations of chiral allenylpalladium intermediates to generate the chiral allenylindium reagents in situ.
Ethylene formation from the thioethers, beta-methylthiopropionaldehyde (methional) and 2-keto-4-thiomethylbutyric acid by phagocytosing polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) was found to be largely dependent on myeloperoxidase (MPO). Conversion was less than 10% of normal when MPO-deficient PMNs were employed; formation by normal PMNs was inhibited by the peroxidase inhibitors, azide, and cyanide, and a model system consisting of MPO, H2O2, chloride (or bromide) and EDTA was found which shared many of the properties of the predominant PMN system. MPO-independent mechanisms of ethylene formation were also identified. Ethylene formation from methional by phagocytosing eosinophils and by H2O2 in the presence or absence of catalase was stimulated by azide. The presence of MPO-independent, azide-stimulable systems in the PMN preparations was suggested by the azide stimulation of ethylene formation from methional when MPO-deficient leukocytes were employed. Ethylene formation by dye-sensitized photooxidation was also demonstrated and evidence obtained for the involvement of singlet oxygen (1O2). These findings are discussed in relation to the participation of H2O2, hydroxyl radicals, the superoxide anion and 1O2 in the formation of ethylene by PMNs and by the MPO model system.
Abstract Deuterium isotopic pulse tracing has been combined with in situ infrared spectroscopy to study heterogeneous ethylene hydroformylation and hydrogenation on a 4 wt% Mn–Rh/SiO 2 catalyst at 513 K and 0.1 MPa. Deuterium pulses into steady-state CO/H 2 /C 2 H 4 flow produced H 2 , HD, D 2 , C 2 H 6− x D x , and C 2 H 6− x D x CO transient responses. The reaction parameters, including intermediate surface coverages and rate coefficients, were determined from the transient responses coupled with compartment models that describe adsorbed intermediates in the pathway for incorporation of D 2 into propionaldehyde. This pathway is shown below: The pathway involves (i) deuterium adsorption, (ii) partial deuteration of adsorbed ethylene to form adsorbed ethyl, (iii) deuteration of adsorbed ethyl to form ethane, (iv) CO insertion into adsorbed ethyl to form adsorbed acyl, (v) deuteration of adsorbed acyl via metal-chemisorbed deuterium to form propionaldehyde, and (vi) deuteration of adsorbed acyl via spillover deuterium to form propionaldehyde. The steady-state rate of hydrogen desorption, which is essential for determination of the reaction parameters, was estimated by use of the HD transient response assuming that the rate of HD production equals the rate of D 2 production and equals the rate of H 2 production at the point where the surface coverages of H and D are approximately equal. Evaluation of rate coefficients indicates that hydrogenation of adsorbed ethyl is intrinsically faster than CO insertion into ethyl, leading to the high selectivity toward ethane over propionaldehyde as product. The propionaldehyde compartment models were able to account for two modes of acyl hydrogenation: (i) from *H on the metal surface and (ii) from spillover *H, or Si–OH. Hydrogenation via metal-adsorbed hydrogen is favored over hydrogenation via spillover hydrogen. Comparison of the rate coefficients for CO insertion and acyl hydrogenation indicates that both steps are kinetically significant, which is consistent with conclusions of previous studies that utilized the Langmuir–Hinshelwood–Hougen–Watson and pseudo-steady-state analysis approaches.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the 2-Methylmalonyl-CoA Mutase from Propionibacterium shermanii in depth. The bacteria are grown, harvested, and extracted. Methylmalonyl-CoA-2- 14 C is converted by enzymatic isomerization to succinyl-CoA-3- 14 C. The reaction involves not transcarboxylation, rather a movement of the carboxylthioester group from the 2 to the 3 position of the propionic acid moiety. These results do not indicate whether the transfer occurred intermolecularly or intramolecularly. In the mutase reaction, it is likely that the B 12 coenzyme accepts hydrogen from a carbon adjacent to the methyl carbon of methyl-malonyl-CoA thus, permitting a partial bonding of the CoA group to the adjacent or the number 2 carbon. Using mass spectrometric techniques and 18 O-labeled substrates, it was demonstrated that an oxygen atom is transferred from C-2 to C-1 in the conversion of propane-l, 2-diol to propionaldehyde. Although no metal requirement is noted for methylmalonyl-CoA mutase, the dioldehydrase, another B 12 dependent enzyme, is stimulated by K + and NH 4+ ions. Reaction rates with the purified mutase reported here showed no stimulation of K + ions and NH 4 + ions up to a final concentration of 0.33 M.
The Escherichia coli NADPH-dependent aldehyde reductase YqhD has contributed to a variety of metabolic engineering projects for production of biorenewable fuels and chemicals. As a scavenger of toxic aldehydes produced by lipid peroxidation, YqhD has reductase activity for a broad range of short-chain aldehydes, including butyraldehyde, glyceraldehyde, malondialdehyde, isobutyraldehyde, methylglyoxal, propanealdehyde, acrolein, furfural, glyoxal, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, glycolaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and acetol. This reductase activity has proven useful for the production of biorenewable fuels and chemicals, such as isobutanol and 1,3- and 1,2-propanediol; additional capability exists for production of 1-butanol, 1-propanol, and allyl alcohol. A drawback of this reductase activity is the diversion of valuable NADPH away from biosynthesis. This YqhD-mediated NADPH depletion provides sufficient burden to contribute to growth inhibition by furfural and 5-hydroxymethyl furfural, inhibitory contaminants of biomass hydrolysate. The structure of YqhD has been characterized, with identification of a Zn atom in the active site. Directed engineering efforts have improved utilization of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and NADPH. Most recently, two independent projects have demonstrated regulation of yqhD by YqhC, where YqhC appears to function as an aldehyde sensor.
Abstract Dose-effect relationships for iv formaldehyde and acrolein indicate that the cardiovascular actions of these aldehydes are qualitatively similar to acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. Pressor responses appear to result from the release of catecholamines from sympathetic nerve endings and from the adrenal medulla. Concentrations of formaldehyde and acrolein required to produce significant pressor activity were found to be significantly lower than for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. The relative pressor potency for formaldehyde and acrolein was 10 and 100 times that of acetaldehyde, respectively. Higher doses of both formaldehyde and acrolein resulted in depressor responses which could be abolished by vagotomy. Thus, it appears that these aldehydes also exert a cardioinhibitory effect which is mediated by the vagus nerve. Inhalation studies with acrolein revealed that this aldehyde has significant cardiovascular activity at concentrations below those which might be encountered in cigarette smoke. The predominant effect of inhaled acrolein at these doses was a significant increase in blood pressure and heart rate. It would appear that the aldehydes, especially acrolein, may be more significantly involved in the cardiovascular response to cigarette smoke than was previously recognized.
The reaction mechanism for selective oxidation of propylamine on oxygen-covered gold has been studied by the density functional theory (DFT) and generalized gradient approximation (GGA) with slab model. Our calculation results indicated that the adsorption energy of propylamine decreases with the increasing oxygen coverage, that is −0.38, −0.20 and −0.10 eV on clean, 2/9 monolayer (ML) and 2/3 monolayer (ML) oxygen, respectively. The adsorption energies of the intermediates also have the trend of the gradual lower. The present work also indicated that the final product distribution depends on the oxygen coverage: propylamine undergoes N-H bond and C-H bond cleavage to produce propionitrile and water at low-oxygen-coverage (θo = 2/9 ML), and to yield propionitrile, propionaldehyde and water at high-oxygen-coverage (θo = 2/3 ML). The energy barrier of the first step of propyamine oxidation (CH3CH2CH2NH2 → CH3CH2CH2NH) is 0.16 eV (θo = 2/9 ML) and 0.38 eV (θo = 2/3 ML). On the second step, the barrier energy is 0.16 (θo = 2/9 ML) and 0.25 (θo = 2/3 ML) eV of CH3CH2CH2NH → CH3CH2CH2N, next both C-H breakage and the barrier energy is 0.20 eV (CH3CH2CH2N → CH3CH2CHN) and 0.25 eV (CH3CH2CHN → CH3CH2CN) on low oxygen coverage, and 0.15 eV (CH3CH2CH2N → CH3CH2CHN) and 0.26 eV(CH3CH2CHN → CH3CH2CN) on the high oxygen coverage. The additional reaction step of CH3CH2CHN → CH3CH2CHO occurs on the high oxygen coverage, and the associated barrier is 0.41 eV. The calculation results show that the oxidation of propylamine can occur at room temperature due to the lower energy barrier. Furthermore, it was found that the energy barrier for the possible reaction steps at the low oxygen coverage is generally smaller than that on high oxygen coverage, which agrees with the experimental results.
Conclusions1.A technological scheme has been proposed for separation of the mixture of products obtained in oxo synthesis of propionaldehyde, by a method of fractionation without preliminary distillation with water.2.Columns I and IV of the technological scheme have been designed and preliminary recommendations have been given for columns II and III.
This paper presents the study of two dimensionally stable anodes (DSA®) of nominal composition Ti/Ru0.3Ti0.7O2, one obtained commercially and the other prepared in the laboratory. The materials were studied by ex situ (scanning electron microscopy (SEM)) and by in situ techniques (cyclic voltammetry, determination of the morphology factor (φmorph) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS)). The results obtained indicate that both electrodes present similar morphology and voltammetric profiles, with the main difference between the two materials studied being the internal electrode area, with the commercial electrode being demonstrated to possess the greater. The EIS study demonstrates that the differences in the equivalent circuit fitting parameters can be related to the different surface characteristics of the electrodes. However, the abnormal dependence of the solution ohmic resistance on the potential demonstrates that the model should be refined to be adequately applied to commercial electrodes. A study of the activity for organic oxidation was also performed, with the aim of verifying the effect of chain length on the rate of oxidation of different aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and n-butyraldehyde). It can be observed that the rate of carboxylic formation can be related to the working electrode potential during electrolysis, with higher potentials (commercial electrode) seeming to favour the more rapid formation of the carboxylic acid.
Hydroformylation reactions in supercritical carbon dioxide can provide an environmentally conscious method of producing aldehydes for fine-chemical and pharmaceutical products. Asymmetric ligands, such as (R)-BINAP, can be used to provide an enantioselective product. When these reactions are performed in environmentally benign solvents, such as supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO2), additional environmental benefits are derived, such as ease of recycling of the solvent and unconverted reactants and elimination of the need for organic solvents. Rhodium-based catalysts have been prepared through the solid-phase reaction of catalyst precursors in supercritical carbon dioxide and evaluated for the hydroformylation of styrene to produce 2-phenylpropionaldehyde. Triphenylphosphine and (R)-BINAP were tested as ligands, and their effects on the reaction were examined. The catalyst, formed in situ in supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO2), was found to promote the hydroformylation of styrene with enantiomeric selecti...
The influence of additions of propionaldehyde (0.001–0.1 mole/liter) on the kinetics of a homogeneous polymerization of vinyl chloride in solution at temperatures of 25, 30, and 35°C was investigated. The additions cause an increase of the polymerization rate and an anomalous dependence of the polymerization degrees on the quantity of the transfer agent. The phenomena in question are discussed from the point of view of the capability of propionaldehyde to reactivate the less active types of radicals. Besides the reactivation of primary and monomer radicals, a reactivation of polymer radicals is also considered.
Abstract Hydrogen transfer initiated dehydration (HTID) of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO), in ionic liquids, catalysed by a fluorinated Cp*IrCl2(NHC) (Cp* = pentamethylcyclopentadienyl; NHC = carbene ligand) complex, allows selective production of propionaldehyde in high yields, under air. Isolation of the product is facilitated by the use of an ionic liquid as the solvent, enabling the reaction to be performed under reduced pressure. The Ir(III) catalyst in ionic liquid was proven to be highly recyclable. Removal of H and F atoms bound to the ortho-C atoms of the benzyl arm of the carbene ligand inhibits the catalytic activity of complexes Cp*IrCl2(NHC), suggesting a crucial role played by the ortho-C-X grouping in HTID. The reaction of 1,3-PDO solutions in ionic liquids mimics that of the product of extraction of aqueous glycerol fermentation broths: the successful synthesis and isolation of a value-added chemical proves that valorisation of glycerol waste can be achieved. The combination of Cp*IrX2(NHC) – catalysed HTID of 1,3-PDO in ionic liquids with bio-catalysis has then, ultimately, the potential to allow the transformation of waste glycerol into valuable chemicals that can be simply isolated.
An extracellular polyamine oxidase produced by Penicillium sp. No. PO-1 was completely purified using the chromatofocusing method with a very high yield (93%) of the activity. The enzyme was composed of two identical subunits (Mr 64 000) and contained FAD. The optimal pH for activity was approx. 4.0. The enzyme oxidized spermidine and spermine. Km and Vmax values for spermidine were respectively 8.2 microM and 16.4 mumol H2O2/mg protein per min. Corresponding values for spermine were 5.3 microM and 13.3 mumol H2O2/mg protein per min. The enzyme attacked the secondary amino group of spermidine and spermine, and produced putrescine, 3-aminopropionaldehyde and H2O2. The enzyme activity was completely inhibited by phenylhydrazine. However, sulfhydryl reagents showed no effect on the activity. It is expected that the enzyme will be useful in determining the amount of polyamine in body fluids.
"Spanish style" Moroccan green table olives were screened for potent odorants by gas chromatography-olfactometry/aroma extraction dilution analysis of a representative Likens-Nickerson extract. (2)-3-Hexenal [flavor dilution factor (FID) = 256], (EE)-2,4-decadienal (FID = 128), and (EZ)-2,4-decadienal (FD = 64) were revealed to confer green and coriander/paraffin oil odors to both fruit and oil extracts, whereas guaiacol (FD = 128) imparted a bad olive, phenolic note. Methional (3-methylthiopropionaldehyde, FD = 128) and several terpenes (FID less than or equal to 64) such as a-farnesene, trans-nerolidol, nerol acetate, limonene, alpha-, beta-, and gamma-terpineol, linalool, and beta-myrcene were detected in the fruit extract, although they were not reported as olive oil constituents.
The Inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) route is one of the two main transduction cascades that mediate olfactory reception in Drosophila melanogaster. The activity of IP3 kinase1 reduces the levels of this substrate by phosphorylation into inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakiphosphate (IP4). We show here that the gene is expressed in olfactory sensory organs as well as in the rest of the head. To evaluate in vivo the olfactory functional effects of up-regulating IP3K1, individuals with directed genetic changes at the reception level only were generated using the UAS/Gal4 method. In this report, we described the consequences in olfactory perception of overexpressing the IP3Kinase1 gene at eight different olfactory receptor-neuron subsets. Six out of the eight studied Gal-4/UAS-IP3K1 hybrids displayed abnormal behavioral responses to ethyl acetate, acetone, ethanol or propionaldehyde. Specific behavioral defects corresponded to the particular neuronal olfactory profile. These data confirm the role of the IP3kinase1 gene, and consequently the IP3 transduction cascade, in mediating olfactory information at the reception level.
Calyculins are a class of highly cytotoxic metabolites originally isolated from the marine sponge Discodermia calyx. To date, a total of twelve different calyculins (A–J) and calyculinamides (A, B and F) have been described, the most abundant (in D. calyx) being calyculins A and C. Herein, we demonstrate a concise route to access the C1–C12 tetraene fragment of calyculin C using transition-metal-catalyzed coupling reactions (Suzuki–Miyaura, Stille, Negishi and Heck) for the key connections. The synthesis starts from propionaldehyde and proceeds in 10 steps with 7.5% overall yield. We also describe an efficient route for the preparation of (Z)-3-iodobut-2-enenitrile in four steps and 68% yield.
L-Methionine decarboxylase from the male fern Dryopteris filix-mas has been purified 256-fold from acetone powder extracts to very near homogeneity. The enzyme is membrane-associated and requires detergent for solubilization during the initial extraction. The enzyme is a homodimer of subunit M{sub r} 57,000 and shows a pH optimum at {approximately} 5.0 with 20 mM (2S)-methionine as substrate. A wide range of straight- and branched-chain (2S)-alkylamino acids are substrates for the enzyme. The values for the rate of decarboxylation, V{sub max}, and for the apparent Michaelis constant, K{sub m}, however, vary with structure and with the chirality at C-3. The pH dependence of V and V/K has been examined for three substrates: (2S)-methionine, valine, and leucine. The occurrence of the abortive reaction was confirmed by showing that ({sup 35}S)methionine is converted to labeled 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde while (4{prime}-{sup 3}H)PLP is converted to labeled pyridoxamine 5{prime}-phosphate (PMP). The decarboxylation of (2S)-methionine gave 3(methylthio)-1-aminopropane. Preparation of the N-camphanamide derivative of the amine allowed the C-1 methylene protons to be distinguished by {sup 1}H NMR spectroscopy. Synthetic samples of the camphanamide were prepared in which each of the C-1 methylene protons was replaced by deuterium. When tritiated pyridoxal phosphate was incubated with the enzyme, tritiated pyridoxaminemore » phosphate was formed. These results are used to construct possible mechanistic schemes for both reactions, decarboxylation and transamination. The position and possible identities of active-site proton donors are discussed.« less
A molecularly imprinted polymer selective for: (a) an analyte of Hoffmann selected from the group consisting of methyl ethyl ketone, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, butyraldehyde, crotonaldehyde, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, catechol, hydroquinone, m-cresol, p- cresol, o-cresol, phenol, resorcinol, ammonia, hydrogen cyanide, nitric oxide, carbon monoxide, acrylonitrile, 1,3-butadiene, benzene, isoprene, toluene, styrene, pyridine, arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, mercury , nickel, selenium, or their precursors; or (b) an organoleptic compound found in nature in one or more species Nicotiana.
Irradiation of phenazine in acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde solution gave an N-acylated 5,10-dihydrophenazine. Acridine similarly gave 9-acyl-9,10-dihydroacridine, and 10-methylacridinium salt gave 9-acyl-10-methyl-9,10-dihydroacridine. In methanol N-acylated dihydro-phenazines reacted with N-bromosuccinimide to give phenazine and methyl car boxy lates in quantitative yield.
Abstract The Escherichia coli NADPH-dependent aldehyde reductase YqhD has contributed to a variety of metabolic engineering projects for production of biorenewable fuels and chemicals. As a scavenger of toxic aldehydes produced by lipid peroxidation, YqhD has reductase activity for a broad range of short-chain aldehydes, including butyraldehyde, glyceraldehyde, malondialdehyde, isobutyraldehyde, methylglyoxal, propanealdehyde, acrolein, furfural, glyoxal, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, glycolaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and acetol. This reductase activity has proven useful for the production of biorenewable fuels and chemicals, such as isobutanol and 1,3-and 1,2-propanediol; additional capability exists for production of 1-butanol, 1-propanol, and allyl alcohol. A drawback of this reductase activity is the diversion of valuable NADPH away from biosynthesis. This YqhD-mediated NADPH depletion provides sufficient burden to contribute to growth inhibition by furfural and 5-hydroxymethyl furfural, inhibitory contaminants of biomass hydrolysate. The structure of YqhD has been characterized, with identification of a Zn atom in the active site. Directed engineering efforts have improved utilization of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and NADPH. Most recently, two independent projects have demonstrated regulation of yqhD by YqhC, where YqhC appears to function as an aldehyde sensor.
This unusual change in diastereoselectivity upon increase in the ring size of the catalyst caused us to investigate these reactions computationally. The enamine of propionaldehyde, N-PMP-protected R-imino methyl glyoxylate, and the transition structures leading to the four possible stereoisomeric products for both proline and pipecolic acid were calculated at the HF level of theory with the 6-31G(d) basis set. 7 We have previously used density functional theory to study related organocatalytic reactions. 8 However, HF/6-31G(d) was used over B3LYP/6-31G(d) in this study for rapidly computing the stereoselectivity.
Abstract Calyculins are a class of highly cytotoxic metabolites originally isolated from the marine sponge Discodermia calyx. To date, a total of twelve different calyculins (A-J) and calyculinamides (A, B and F) have been described, the most abundant (in D. calyx) being calyculins A and C. Herein, we demonstrate a concise route to access the C1-C12 tetraene fragment of calyculin C using transition-metal-catalyzed coupling reactions (Suzuki-Miyaura, Stille, Negishi and Heck) for the key connections. The synthesis starts from propionaldehyde and proceeds in 10 steps with 7.5% overall yield. We also describe an efficient route for the preparation of (Z)-3-iodobut-2-enenitrile in four steps and 68% yield.
Summary The stale flavor of dried whole milk has been shown to exist in two forms which can be separated by CCl 4 -vapor distillation and Girard's-T extraction. One is nonvolatile under the conditions employed but can be extracted from the milk fat with Girard's-T reagent; the other is volatile and is not recovered from the Girard's-T extract after hydrolysis of the resulting hydrazones. The Girard's-T extractible component is recovered more completely from the fat when lower concentrations of Girard's-T reagent are used, a behavior similar to aldehydes. It can be separated by paper or column chromatography into a stationary and a mobile component which contains the flavor. The R f value of the mobile component is similar to that of the reaction product of heptaldehyde. It is readily decomposed by alkali or 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine in 4 m HCl. On treatment with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine, at least four carbonyl compounds were obtained as decomposition products and tentatively identified by paper chromatography as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, and either 2-butanone or 2-pentanone. The CCl 4 -vapor distillates were found to contain at least seven carbonyl compounds, five of which have been identified as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, and 2-penatone. The remaining two compounds possess the spectra and chromatographic characteristics of a saturated monocarbonyl compound and either an unsaturated dicarbonyl or hydroxycarbonyl compound. The stale-flavor component of this fraction appears to behave like a dicarbonyl compound with Girard's-T reagent.
Significant changes in aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity occur during chemically induced rat hepatocarcinogenesis. We have developed a procedure for the histochemical localization of hepatic ALDH which has proven extremely useful as an additional probe for studying changes in this enzyme during hepatocarcinogenesis. Frozen sections of fresh tissue were stained for ALDH using either propionaldehyde-NAD to detect normal liver ALDH or benzaldehyde-NADP to detect tumor ALDH. Histochemically, normal liver ALDH activity is strongly centrilobular with only slight periportal activity and produces a characteristic staining pattern. During hepatocarcinogenesis, ALDH staining patterns in grossly normal liver range from normal-appearing to patterns of distinct, intense focal hepatocyte staining with propionaldehyde-NAD and/or benzaldehyde-NADP. ALDH-positive foci are found both in normal regions of tumor-bearing livers and prior to the appearance of gross neoplasms. Neoplastic nodules and carcinomas possess a wide variety of ALDH staining patterns between and within lesions. Neoplasms with elevated ALDH activity with propionaldehyde-NAD and/or benzaldehyde-NADP, as well as with no detectable ALDH, have been observed. Changes in ALDH can be identified histochemically at a time in hepatocarcinogenesis when other analytical methods cannot detect significant changes. Moreover, considerable heterogeneity in expression of tumor ALDH is demonstrable by histochemistry.
There are many sources of indoor air pollution in any residence, including combustion sources of tobacco smoke, cooking, engines, heating equipment, and fireplace. Indoor air quality is very important especially for the elderly who spend most of the day indoors, but there are limited studies on warrens of Bangkok, Thailand. This study evaluated volatile organic compounds (VOCs)—benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene (BTEX)—and carbonyl compounds (CCs) in elderly residences of five warrens in an urban area in Bangkok. All active indoor and outdoor air samples during a 24-h period were applied to charcoal tubes for BTEX analyses using GC/FID and 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) cartridge for CC analyses by HPLC/UV. The median indoor VOC concentrations of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and valeraldehyde were 13.29, 128.51, 5.37, 16.16, 11.41, 4.81, 0.76, and 0.21 μg/m3, respectively. Total indoor VOC concentration (BTEX + CCs) of these warrens ranged from 142.32 to 272.31 μg/m3, which was higher than the outdoor VOC level. Indoor formaldehyde concentration was shown significantly higher than outdoor concentration (p 1). The VOC concentrations were related to health status, specific symptoms of colds, skin irritation, and non-specific symptoms of dizziness and headache. The VOC concentrations were affected by elderly behaviors of indoor smoking (p < 0.01), mosquito repellent/insecticide spraying (p < 0.05), indoor environments of air conditioning (p < 0.001), and exhaust fan (p < 0.001). In conclusion, the elderly in urban warrens had health risk from indoor air quality, which was related to their behaviors. Good ventilation and health promotion should be recommended.
1,3-propanediol (PD) which is obtained by hydration of hydroxy propionaldehyde (HPA) 3- acrolein by hydrogenation and then the catalyst. The 4-oxa-1,7-heptane-diol (CD) is produced as a byproduct that reduces the yield. According to the invention, in order to increase the yield of 1,3-propanediol, an acid at 10 to 300 ℃ the OD from the separated aqueous solution by distillation during the treatment after the reaction mixture containing the PD and the OD of the solid catalyst, in particular, a process using an acid zeolite, and the reaction mixture, the solid catalyst is removed after the reaction mixture containing the PD and the OD is reduced to the process steps:
The capillary gas chromatography of the C2-C5 lower aliphatic aldehydes (e.g.,acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n- and i-butyraldehydes, n- and i-valeraldehydes) which, in the free form in air, have unpleasant odors and low threshold odor values, has been studied using cold-trap preconcentration with liquid oxygen. The capillary column outlet was connected to enable simultaneous detection by FID, ECD, FPD AND FTD (SID).
Abstract The industrial synthesis of acrolein is mainly performed by propylene oxidation over bismuth-iron-molybdate catalysts. Among cleaner alternatives to produce acrolein, oxidative coupling of methanol and ethanol represents a promising way. In this work, the reaction has been performed in two separate reactors (for oxidation and aldolization) to study the role of the acid/base properties but also the competition of aldehydes adsorption over environmentally friendly spinel catalysts with various Al/Mg ratios. The acid/base properties of catalysts were investigated by NH3 and SO2 adsorption microcalorimetry. Further adsorption microcalorimetry studies were performed with methanol, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde to investigate the bounding properties of the reactants. The acid/base properties were correlated with acrolein yield and selectivity under oxidizing conditions. Co-adsorption of aldehydes was also investigated allowing justification of the absence of crotonaldehyde formation.
A novel headspace gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (HS GC-MS) method was developed for analysis of volatile compounds in onion (Allium cepa L. var. cepa, 'Recas'). MS was operated using full scan mode and selective ion monitoring (SIM) mode in order to quantify some specific compounds with increased sensitivity relative to full scan mode. The limits of detection and quantitation ranged from 0.01 to 0.10 μg/g and from 0.02 to 3.83 μg/g fresh weight, respectively, for studied compounds. The procedure allowed the identification of eighteen compounds and quantitation of nine compounds in the volatile fraction of onion, belonging mainly to di-, and trisulfides and aldehydes. These methods were applied to evaluate how high-pressure (HP) as a processing technology affects onion volatile compounds, responsible in part of the onion biological activity. Onion samples were treated at T1: 200 MPa/25°C/5 min, T2: 400 MPa/25°C/5 min and T3: 600 MPa/25°C/5 min (treatments). In addition, the difference among diced, freeze-dried and pulverized onions (groups) was studied, in order to select the process more adequate for better preserving volatile compounds. The results obtained in full scan mode showed that both main factors (group and treatment) had a significant effect (P<0.001). There were also significant differences between groups and treatments for all compounds, being the main effect of group more marked by HS GC-MS using selective ion monitoring (SIM) mode. For 2-methyl 2-pentenal, dimethyl trisulfide, and methyl propyl trisulfide it has been observed an increase in freeze-dried and pulverized onion samples compared with diced samples regardless the HP treatment. However, freeze-drying and pulverization processes affected the stability of propionaldehyde, 1-propanethiol, hexanal, dipropyl disulfide, and dipropyl trisulfide, diminishing their content regardless the HP treatment. HP at 200 and 400 MPa/25°C/5 min were the least detrimental treatments to the total fraction of volatile compounds, not affecting or even increasing the levels of some volatile compounds.
Abstract Recombinant human deoxyribonuclease I (rhDNase) is the mucolytic agent most widely used for the treatment of respiratory disease in cystic fibrosis. However, rhDNase is rapidly cleared from the lungs which implies a high dosing frequency and limited patient adherence. The aim of this study was to produce a long-acting PEGylated derivative of rhDNase presenting a preserved enzymatic activity. Site-specific PEGylation on the N-terminal (N-ter) leucine residue of rhDNase was achieved by reductive alkylation at acidic pH using linear 20 kDa, linear 30 kDa or two-arm 40 kDa polyethylene glycol (PEG) propionaldehydes. Yields of mono-PEGylated products ranged between 45% and 61%. Conjugation to PEG fully preserved the secondary structure and the in vitro enzymatic activity of the native protein. These properties offer interesting perspectives for in vivo inhalation studies of the PEGylated enzyme.
Abstract An improved asymmetric synthesis of the guanidine-containing amino acid (2 S ,3 R )-capreomycidine has been achieved in seven steps and 28% overall yield. The key synthetic step involved a Mannich-type reaction between a chiral glycine aluminum enolate and the benzyl-imine of 3- tert -butyldimethylsiloxy-propionaldehyde.
Exposure of dehulled, dormant red rice (Oryza sativa) seeds to dormancy-breaking treatments (10 mm sodium nitrite, 20 mm propionic acid, 30 mm methyl propionate, 40 mm propionaldehyde, or 70 mmn-propanol) induced tissue pH acidification during chemical contact at least 12 h before visible germination. During chemical contact, the onset of embryo acidification occurred before or coincident with the chemical contact interval necessary for subsequent germination. Upon seed transfer to H(2)O following chemical contact, embryo pH also decreased coincident with visible germination. During this period, the percentage of germination and embryo pH were closely linked irrespective of the dormancy-breaking compound used. Therefore, tissue acidification during the breaking of seed dormancy and the germination process may be analogous to similar tissue pH changes associated with the termination of developmental arrest in other multicellular systems, such as brine shrimp cysts and nematode larvae.
Reconstitution of hemoproteins with artificial heme analogues is an attractive strategy for modifying protein functions. In this chapter, two different reconstituted hemoproteins, cytochrome P450cam and myoglobin, are demonstrated. First, the role of the two heme–propionate side chains in cytochrome P450cam is discussed in the context of reconstituted P450cam with a one-legged heme, where one of the propionate side chains is replaced with a methyl group. The reconstituted cytochrome P450cam with the 7-methyl-7-despropionate heme indicates that the 7-propionate side chain plays an important role in the control of the process of expelling water molecules from the heme pocket out to the bulk solvent upon binding of a substrate molecule. Second, reconstituted myoglobins with artificial cofactors are reported models of cytochrome P450. Although native myoglobin does not have P450 activity, a reconstituted myoglobin with a flavin-attached heme and manganese porphycene, a constitutional isomer of porphyrin, have been found to promote the deformylation of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde and hydroxylation of inert alkanes, respectively. These results indicate that such reconstitutions of hemoproteins can provide important insights into understanding the structure/function relationships of hemoproteins and the generation of new biocatalysts.
We have developed the conversion of glycerol into thermoplastic poly(3-hydroxypropionate) [poly(3HP)]. For this, the genes for glycerol dehydratase (dhaB1) of Clostridium butyricum, propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (pduP) of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2, and polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) synthase (phaC1) of Ralstonia eutropha were expressed in recombinant Escherichia coli. Poly(3HP) was accumulated up to 11.98% (wt/wt [cell dry weight]) in a two-step, fed-batch fermentation. The present study shows an interesting application to engineer a poly(3HP) synthesis pathway in bacteria.
Abstract Gasification of glucose in near- and supercritical water was investigated at temperature and pressure ranges from 400 to 600 °C and 20 to 42.5 MPa with a reaction time of 1 h. Hydrothermal gasification of glucose was performed in the absence and presence of catalyst (K 2 CO 3 ) in a batch reactor. The influences of temperature and pressure in the supercritical regimes of water, catalyst were examined in relation to the yield and composition of the gases and aqueous products. The product gases were analyzed by gas chromatography, and the aqueous products were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography. The gases produced were carbon dioxide, methane, hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and C 2 –C 4 hydrocarbons and there was significant production of aqueous products and residue. The aqueous products composed of oxygenated compounds, including carboxylic acids (glycolic acid, formic acid, acetic acid), furfurals (furfural, 5-hydroxymethyl furfural, 5-methyl furfural), phenols (phenol, methyl phenols, hydroxy phenols, methoxy phenols), aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, propionaldehyde), ketones (3-methyl-2-cyclo-pentene-1-one, 2-cyclo-pentene-1-one) and their alkylated derivatives. Carbon gasification efficiencies were improved by addition of K 2 CO 3 into the reacting system. Carbon gasification efficiency reached maximum (94%) at 600 °C and 20 MPa. The yield of hydrogen among gaseous products increased with increasing temperature and decreasing pressure.
Arabidopsis thaliana belongs to those plants that do not naturally accumulate glycine betaine (GB), although its genome contains two genes, ALDH10A8 and ALDH10A9 that code for betaine aldehyde dehydrogenases (BADHs). BADHs were initially known to catalyze the last step of the biosynthesis of GB in plants. But they can also oxidize metabolism-derived aminoaldehydes to their corresponding amino acids in some cases. This study was carried out to investigate the functional properties of Arabidopsis BADH genes. Here, we have shown that ALDH10A8 and ALDH10A9 proteins are targeted to leucoplasts and peroxisomes, respectively. The expression patterns of ALDH10A8 and ALDH10A9 genes have been analysed under abiotic stress conditions. Both genes are expressed in the plant and weakly induced by ABA, salt, chilling (4°C), methyl viologen and dehydration. The role of the ALDH10A8 gene was analysed using T-DNA insertion mutants. There was no phenotypic difference between wild-type and mutant plants in the absence of stress. But ALDH10A8 seedlings and 4-week-old plants were more sensitive to dehydration and salt stress than wild-type plants. The recombinant ALDH10A9 enzyme was shown to oxidize betaine aldehyde, 4-aminobutyraldehyde and 3-aminopropionaldehyde to their corresponding carboxylic acids. We hypothesize that ALDH10A8 or ALDH10A9 may serve as detoxification enzymes controlling the level of aminoaldehydes, which are produced in cellular metabolism under stress conditions.
A simple procedure is described whereby the complete stepwise degradation of 2-deoxy-D-ribose was achieved. Yields as high as 90% or better of the available carbon was obtained. The 2-deoxy pentose was reduced (KBH4) to the corresponding polyol and the latter oxidatively cleaved with periodate. Formic acid (C4) was converted to CO2 quantitatively by oxidation with HgO. Formaldehyde and β-hydroxypropionaldehyde were oxidized with bromine. Formic acid (C5) thus formed was converted to CO2 in quantitative yields and the hydroxy acid decarboxylated with permanganate; thusly C3 was obtained. The acetic acid (from C1 and C2) was extracted with ether and subsequently degraded by the Schmidt–Phares procedure. The procedure was further used to degrade some 2-deoxy hexoses.
Hydration equilibrium constants for acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n- and iso-butyraldehyde, and chloral in H/sub 2/O and D/sub 2/O were measured in the temperature range 25--90 deg C. The equilibrium constant for formaldehyde was determined in H/sub 2/O over the same temperature range. The effects of added electrolytes on the activity coefficients of the hydrates and free aldehydes were also investigated. (auth)
Abstract Efficient methods for the direct chlorination or bromination of aliphatic aldehydes to their corresponding α,α-dihalo aldehydes in high yield and purity are unknown. Many approaches have suffered from one or more of the following, formation of byproducts, aldol condensations incomplete conversions and losses through tedious workup procedures. Early investigations have shown that the vapor phase chlorination of aliphatic ketones has produced good yields of 2-chloro ketones,(1) while the vapor phase chlorination of aliphatic aldehydes has resulted in the formation of acid chlorides.(2) One of the first successful acid catalyzed chlorinations of propionaldehyde was reported by Dick(3) who obtained 50–60% yields of 2,2-dichloropropionaldehyde accompanied by aldol condensations and polyhalogenated trioxanes. The reaction was carried out in standardized aqueous mineral acid solutions and the product was isolated by means of a laborious azeotropic distillation. The use of sulfuryl chloride in the presen...
A vertical tube reactor flow technique has been used to examine two-stage ignition phenomena produced during the oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. With acetaldehyde, the effect of the addition of ethylene and of methyl chloride has been investigated. The flames were sampled for analysis by means of a mass spectrometer and by gas chromatography. The formation of the appropriate peracid is thought to be responsible for the generation of the cool flame, and with both acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, branching by the oxidation of formaldehyde (which is formed in relatively large amounts in the propionaldehyde system) controls the formation of the second-stage flame. Addition of ethylene to the acetaldehyde produced little effect on the cool flame, but reduced the temperature of the second stage (from about 690°C to about 580°C). In the second stage the yield of methane increased and the rates of consumption of both methanol and formaldehyde decreased relative to those observed in the absence of the additive. The propionaldehyde flame system was similar to that of acetaldehyde, although in addition to the products carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, formaldehyde, methanol and methane, the following were also produced: ethylene, acetaldehyde, ethane, ethanol, propane and propylene. The ethylene was in relatively large yield. In contrast to the acetaldehyde system, the propionaldehyde system showed little levelling off in the rate of consumption of reactants between the flames. Temperature and composition profiles of the flames are presented, and probable reaction mechanisms are discussed.
Bioconversion of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol is already known for several bacterial strains, e.g., Lactobacillus brevis and Lactobacillus buchnerii (44, 46) , Bacillus welchii (23), Citrobacter freundii and Klebsiella pneumoniae (32, 40, 47) , Clostridium acetobutylicum (14), Clostridium pasteurianum (35), and Clostridium butyricum (3, 21, 43). Anaerobic metabolic pathways of glycerol catabolism have, until now, only been completely characterized in the genera Klebsiella (11, 12, 13, 36) and Citrobacter (7, 8, 9, 45) . According to the experiments done in these microorganisms, glycerol is metabolized in two simultaneous pathways. In the first, an NAD ϩ -dependent glycerol dehydrogenase catalyzes the oxidation of glycerol to dihydroxyacetone (DHA), which is then phosphorylated to dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) via a DHA kinase. A triosephosphate isomerase catalyzes the transformation of DHAP to glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate, which enters the glycolytic pathway. According to several authors (31, 41), the glycerol dehydrogenase of K. pneumoniae is inactivated by oxygen, explaining why, under aerobic conditions, another glycerol catabolic pathway is used. In parallel, a second pathway involving a coenzyme B 12 -dependent glycerol dehydratase catalyzes the transformation of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which is reduced to 1,3-propanediol via an NAD ϩ -dependent 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase. This second metabolic pathway maintains the redox balance of the cell and is necessary while the microorganism is using glycerol as a carbon and energy source.
We have developed the conversion of glycerol into thermoplastic poly(3-hydroxypropionate) [poly(3HP)]. For this, the genes for glycerol dehydratase (dhaB1) of Clostridium butyricum, propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (pduP) of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2, and polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) synthase (phaC1) of Ralstonia eutropha were expressed in recombinant Escherichia coli. Poly(3HP) was accumulated up to 11.98% (wt/wt [cell dry weight]) in a two-step, fed-batch fermentation. The present study shows an interesting application to engineer a poly(3HP) synthesis pathway in bacteria.
The purpose of this study was to determine the different classes and yields of oxidation intermediates, compared ozone (O 3 ), ultraviolet (UV) irradiation and the combined O 3 -UV advanced oxidation process, as well as investigated on the effects of irradiation time, UV intensity, O 3 dosage on the removal of fulvic acid (FA), which is regarded as the main disinfection by-products (DBPs) precursor. Based on that, the knowledge gap of DBPs generated was made up. The results showed that by UV irradiation and O 3 oxidation, FA broke down into smaller molecules which were more hydrophilic, namely formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, glyoxal, methylglyoxal, formic, fumaric, benzoic, protocatechuic and 3-hydroxybenzoic acids. Meanwhile, unsaturated conjugated double bonds in the structure of FA were destroyed, which lead to UV 254 decrease. Due to the synergistic effect of O 3 -UV, dissolved organic carbon and UV 254 significantly decreased and remained stable after the reaction of 10 min, indicating that O 3 -UV system had a stronger potential of mineralization and lower selectivity. Besides, the kinds and concentration levels of the intermediates were obviously reduced with increase in light intensity. Furthermore, in O 3 -UV system with high O 3 dosage, fumaric and benzoic acid concentration gradually decreased, which were relatively inert to O 3 . Due to the fact that the high concentration level of •OH radical that could mineralize some organics which could not be mineralized by O 3 .
Two new chiral phosphine ligands,1,4;3,6 dianhydro 2,5 O dideoxy 2,5 bis (diphenyl phosphinoxy) L iditol;1,4;3,6 dianhydro 2,5 O dideoxy 2,5 bis(diphenyl phosphinsulphur) L iditol,have been prepared from D mannitol in four steps.Palladium catalytic systems formed with these ligands in situ were used as asymmetric homogeneous catalysts for hydroformylation of styrene,giving( S ) 2 phenyl propionaldehyde in 21.9%and 11.2%e.e.value respectively.
The contribution of nearby vehicle traffic to indoor airborne volatile organic compound levels and to personal exposures was examined to determine the importance of this source. Indoor and outdoor levels of selected VOCs, aldehydes, ketones, and ethanol were measured at 10 homes in Toronto, on sidewalks near the traffic source, indoors and in the backyards or balconies of apartments (outdoors). Concurrently, air exchange rates were measured at each home with a perfluorocarbon tracer method. All the residences were within 1 km of urban intersections with traffic counts of more than 20,000 vehicles per day. Average concentrations of hexane, 1,3-butadiene, toluene, benzene and propionaldehyde decreased in the order: street level > indoor > outdoor. These compounds occur in vehicle emissions, and the contribution of outdoor to indoor concentrations ranged from 24 to 88 % suggesting that traffic emissions contributed to indoor pollutant level through the process of air exchange. For other compounds different trends were observed. Indoors concentrations were greater than outdoors for ethylacetate, tetrachlorethane, pinene, limonene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, naphthalene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and ethanol, for example. These compounds are common in consumer products, and the contribution of outdoor to indoor concentrations ranged from 2 to 44%. The differences in street and backyardmore » (outdoor) concentrations for some compounds were large due to the presence of nearby vehicles at street level sampling sites, indicating that the impact of traffic on human exposures (pedestrians on sidewalks and occupants of vehicles) is potentially large, compared to the impact of general background urban air pollutants.« less
With DNPH derivative method,high performance liquid chromatography(HPLC)technology and in-cylinder gas sampling system modified from a gasoline direct injection injector in a Ricardo Hydra 4-stroke single cylinder gasoline engine,the in-cylinder gas sampling experiments were conducted to study the aldehydes concentration histories during the low-temperature oxidation process of high-octane fuels(methanol and gasoline).Experimental results show that a certain of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde,and a small amount of propionaldehyde,butyraldehyde and isovaleraldehyde are existed in the incylinder hot residual gas when fueled with methanol and gasoline.During the compression process,formaldehyde and acetaldehyde show a decreasing and then increasing trend,and this indicates that these substances are consumed through low-temperature reactions to promote the oxidation of fuel and then produced during the main oxidation process of fuel.Under the same operation condition,formaldehyde concentration in the residual gas of methanol is higher than that of gasoline because of different reaction mechanism.This may be one of the reasons that the ignition timing is earlier in compression combustion of methanol than gasoline.
Gas phase aldehydes produced from heating rosin core solder and liquid rosin flux to temperatures commonly used in soldering were trapped on sampling tubes containing XAD-2 resin coated with the derivatizing agent 2-hydroxymethylpiperidine. Analysis of the resulting oxazolidine derivatives was performed using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). The observed aldehyde derivatives included formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, isobutyraldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, valeraldehyde, furfural, hexanal, cyclohexane carboxaldehyde and other unidentified compounds likely to be aldehyde isomers. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and benzaldehyde were detected in blank samples. By comparison with an internal standard, a sample produced by drawing air with contaminants derived by heating rosin core solder through a sampling tube contained levels of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde much greater than seen in sampling tube blanks. Benzaldehyde was not shown to be present at a significantly g...
The resistant hepatocyte model was used to study expression of tumor-associated aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity during the course of rat hepatocarcinogenesis. The hepatic ALDH phenotype was determined at intervals over 280 days by histochemical analysis, total ALDH activity assays and gel electrophoresis, using propionaldehyde and NAD (P/NAD) to characterize normal liver ALDH activity or benzaldehyde and NADP (B/NADP) to determine tumor-associated ALDH activity. By total activity assays and gel electrophoresis, no significant changes in ALDH activity occurred until day 70. However, histochemical analysis clearly demonstrated changes in ALDH activity early in neoplastic development. Intense focal hepatocyte staining with P/NAD and/or B/NADP was first detectable at day 28. The number of P/NAD-positive foci increased until day 35 then declined until day 70. The number of B/NADP-positive foci also increased until day 35, but then remained relatively constant for the remainder of the experiment. GGT activity of serial sections indicated that early ALDH-positive lesions represent a small subpopulation (9%) of all GGT-positive foci. However, by day 168 a significant portion (80%) of persistent GGT-positive neoplastic nodules were also B/NADP-positive histochemically. In addition, virtually all hepatocellular carcinomas (96%) generated by this protocol possessed significantly elevated levels of tumor-associated ALDH by histochemical analysis, total ALDH activity and gel electrophoresis. These results indicate that early appearing ALDH-positive lesions may define one early subpopulation of all initiated cells that have a high probability of progressing to the ultimate neoplasm.
We describe rapid and low-cost system for monitoring bad smells in the living environment. This system consists of a conventional gas detector tube and an optical scanner. It was found that methyl mercaptan, hydrogen sulfide and propionaldehyde with the concentrations down to 29 ppb, 19 ppb and 46 ppb respectively were detectable. The sensitivity increased about 10 times larger than that of the conventional detector tube utilizing the accumulation effect. Moreover, we are currently developing a portable system using a one-dimensional CCD image sensor. The distribution of bad smell will be monitored using multiple portable sensors in the near future.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) is considered as a potent antimicrobial substance. Exploration of its application as a food preservative or as a therapeutic auxiliary agent has been documented in the literature. In the present work, factors that may impact on 3-HPA accumulation by Lactobacillus reuteri and on the stability of 3-HPA were investigated. Three media - H(2)O, milk and MRS broth - were chosen as test systems. Data indicated that 3-HPA accumulation in resting cells of L. reuteri in a two-step fermentation is greatly affected by temperature, pH, cell age and biomass as well as components in the test system. Within 2 h of incubation, 170 mM 3-HPA could be produced with a cell dry weight of 30 g/l, representing 85% of the glycerol supplied (200 mM) in H(2)O. The presence of glycerol during cell growth increased the productivity of 3-HPA by resting cells. In general, 3-HPA is much more stable in H(2)O than in milk and MRS. Factors that enhanced accumulation of 3-HPA did not simply show the same positive impact on the stability of 3-HPA. Thus, for defined applications, factors affecting production and stability of 3-HPA should be evaluated separately.
Abstract The equations derived in the previous three parts are experimentally verified using propionaldehyde as a model compound. The kinetic parameters of the process are found. As the consistency of the experimental results with the predicted relationships is quite good it seems to be justified to conclude that the overall process of the open-circuit reduction of the oxygen coverage on Pt by organic substances follows the reaction mechanism suggested and is well described by the general kinetic equations derived.
Fermentative utilization of glycerol, a more reduced carbohydrate than aldoses and ketoses, requires the disposal of the two extra hydrogen atoms. This is accomplished by sacrificing an equal quantity of glycerol via an auxiliary pathway initiated by glycerol dehydratase. The product, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, is then reduced by 1,3-propanediol NAD+:oxidoreductase (1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase; EC 1.1.1.202), resulting in the regeneration of NAD+ from NADH. The pathway for the assimilation of glycerol is initiated by an NAD-linked dehydrogenase. In Klebsiella pneumoniae the two pathways are encoded by the dha regulon which is inducible only anaerobically. In this study 1,3-propanediol:NAD+ oxidoreductase was purified from cells grown anaerobically on glycerol. The enzyme was immunochemically distinct from the NAD-linked glycerol dehydrogenase and was an octamer or hexamer of a polypeptide of 45,000 +/- 3,000 daltons. When tested as a dehydrogenase, only 1,3-propanediol served as a substrate; no activity was detected with ethanol, 1-propanol, 1,2-propanediol, glycerol, or 1,4-butanediol. The enzyme was inhibited by chelators of divalent cations. An enzyme preparation inhibited by alpha,alpha'-dipyridyl was reactivated by the addition of Fe2+ or Mn2+ after removal of the chelator by gel filtration. As for glycerol dehydrogenase, 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase is apparently inactivated by oxidation during aerobic metabolism, under which condition the enzyme becomes superfluous.
With development of technology now day, the valorisation of glycerol is one of the ::: solutions to solve problem of excess amount of glycerol produced in biodiesel ::: industry. In order to contribute to the development of glycerol research, aqueous ::: phase reforming (APR) is used to valorise the glycerol. The main objectives of this ::: project is to study the potential value added chemicals can be produce from aqueous ::: phase reforming of glycerol using Ni/ɣ-Al2O3 catalyst promoted or bimetallic couple ::: with Group II metals (Ca/Mg). For this study, thirteen catalysts will be synthesised ::: using incipient wetness impregnation method (IWI). 10wt% of nickel loading was ::: deposited on gamma alumina support. The effect of different metal loading of ::: calcium and magnesium (0.5%, 3.0%, 5.0% and 7.0%) on the physiochemical ::: properties of catalyst has been investigated. Then the synthesised catalysts will ::: undergo several characterization techniques such XRD, BET analysis, SEM, ::: FESEM and TPR to distinguish its characteristics. Result from XRD shows that the ::: addition of calcium and magnesium increased the intensity of the catalyst. From ::: BET analysis, it was found that the addition of metals like nickel, calcium and ::: magnesium decreased the surface area, pore volume and size. From the images that ::: have been captured from SEM and FESEM, the particles were visible well dispersed ::: on the support. For TPR, the reduction temperature of 10% Ni is 660°C. The ::: catalytic activity gamma alumina supported nickel; calcium and magnesium were ::: evaluated in an autoclave reactor at 230°C, 10 bar 450 rpm. The results obtained ::: from the reactor were good enough. The addition of 3% alkaline metals into the ::: support seems to be optimum amount of metals in order to have good APR reaction. ::: The value added chemicals that have been produced that useful to industry are 1, 3- ::: propanediol, propionaldehyde, propylene glycol, propanol, ethanol and ethylene ::: glycol.
1. ::: ::: 2,2-Dimethyl-β-hydroxypropionaldehyde and 2,2-dimethyl-β-hydroxybutyraldehyde react with CH3NO2 to form the corresponding condensation products 1-nitro-3,3-dimethylbutane-2,4-diol and 1-nitro-3,3 -dimethylpentane-2,4-diol. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Acetylation of these diols with ketene gave 1-nitro-3,3-dimethyl-4-acetoxy-1-butene from 1-nitro-3,3-dimethylbutane-2.4-diol and 1-nitro-3,3-dimethyl-4-acetoxy-1-pentene and 1-nitro-3,3-dimethyl-2,4-diacetoxypentane from 1-nitro-3,3-dimethylpentane-2,4-diol.
Choline oxidase was purified from the cells of Arthrobacter globiformis by fractionations with acetone and ammonium sulfate, and column chromatographies on DEAE-cellulose and on Sephadex G-200. The purified enzyme preparation appeared homogeneous on disc gel electrophoresis. The enzyme was a fiavoprotein having a molecular weight of approx. 83, 000 (gel filtration) or approx. 71, 000 (sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis) and an isoelectric point (pI) around pH 4.5. Identification of the reaction products showed that the enzyme catalyzed the following reactions: choline+O2→betaine aldehyde+H2O2, betaine aldehyde+O2+H2O→betaine+H2O2. The enzyme was highly specific for choline and betaine aldehyde (relative reaction velocities: choline, 100%; betaine aldehyde, 46%; N, N-dimethylaminoethanol, 5.2%; triethanolamine, 2.6%; diethanolamine, 0.8%; monoethanolamine, N-methylaminoethanol, methanol, ethanol, propanol, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde, 0%), Its Km values were 1.2mM for choline and 8.7mM for betaine aldehyde. The optimum pH for the enzymic reaction was around pH 7.5.
This paper presents results of experiments on the influence of O2 and substrate (pollutant) concentration on the overall reaction rate of a trickle-bed reactor used for biological waste gas purification. The biocatalyst was a pollutant-specific bacterial monoculture fixed on porous glass carriers. The conversion of acetone and propionaldehyde, as model pollutants that are easily soluble in water, was measured. Under constant hydrodynamic conditions (gas and liquid flow rates) the inlet pollutant concentration was varied. The O2 partial pressure in the model gas was increased to investigate the influence of O2 supply on pollutant conversion. At higher pollutant concentrations (>117 mg acetone.m-3 gas and > 150 mg propionaldehyde.m-3 gas) higher concentrations of dissolved O2 led to a significant rise in the maximum degradation capacity of the reactor. This maximum reaction rate was independent of the pollutant mass flow. It seems that the diffusion of O2 in the biofilm is rate-determining. The reaction rate at lower inlet concentrations was not affected by the improved O2 supply. Here the external mass transfer through the liquid film limits the reaction rate and the maximum separation efficiency of about 80% at a residence time of 1.2s (space velocity 3000h-1) is achieved.
Abstract A recommended method has been developed and published by CORESTA, applicable to the quantification of selected carbonyl compounds (acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, methyl ethyl ketone, crotonaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde) in cigarette mainstream smoke. The method involved smoke collection in impinger traps, derivatisation of carbonyls with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH), separation of carbonyl hydrazones by reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography and detection by ultra violet or diode array. At the start of the process it was determined that most laboratories participating in the CORESTA Special Analytes Sub-Group (SASG) used a similar method involving such derivatisation and so this was chosen as the basis of the recommended method. Initial joint experiments, specific experiments by single laboratories and ongoing discussions addressed some methodological aspects that needed to be considered before moving to a recommended method. As a first step, a joint experiment by 17 laboratories was carried out in 2009-2010 that investigated three features of the methodology on two reference cigarettes (3R4F and CM6) considered most important by SASG members. These were the volume of the impinger solution (25 or 35 mL); the type of mineral acid (perchloric or phosphoric) used to initiate the derivatisation and the time of derivatisation (5 or 30 min) before terminating the reaction with TrizmaTM base. Overall, it was concluded that these studied parameters in the methodology seemed to have little effect on the overall yield data, compared to the underlying variability among laboratories. The 25 mL impinger solutions appeared to give somewhat higher yields, although not with statistically significant differences, than those obtained when using 35 mL solutions. Some laboratories volunteered to carry out other investigations, for example, to confirm the identity of both the Eand Z-isomeric acetaldehyde hydrazone peaks within the chromatogram of smoke carbonyls and to investigate methodology factors influencing the hydrazoneisomerisation. The CORESTA recommended method (CRM) was produced through a final collaborative experiment involving 15 laboratories from 11 countries using 7 linear and 8 rotary smoking machines. Some notes are included in the CRM to inform other laboratories that might wish to adopt the method, concerning the main features that need to be well controlled to provide data as robust as possible and to provide similar repeatability and reproducibility data. Statistical evaluations were made according to ISO 5725 recommendations and are included. As expected from previous work on other smoke components, the levels of reproducibility of carbonyl yields among laboratories are much greater than the levels found for “tar”, nicotine and carbon monoxide and given in the equivalent ISO standards. When expressing the reproducibility (R) value as a percentage of the mean yield among-laboratories and across all of the studied products, values ranged from 67-125% for formaldehyde; from 24-55% for acetaldehyde; from 41-108% for acetone; from 45-73% for acrolein; 31-75% for propionaldehyde; from 63-140% for crotonaldehyde; from 62-90% for 2-butanone and from 42-58% for butyraldehyde. The lowest “tar” yielding product gave the most variable data. These levels are generally in line with those determined for selected volatiles.
Among its several embodiments, the present invention provides an improved process for the preparation of tetrahydrobenzothiepine-1,1-dioxide compounds; the provision of a process for preparing a diastereomeric mixture of tetrahydrobenzothiepine-1,1-dioxide compounds from a single diastereomer of such compounds; the provision of a process for the preparation of 3-bromo-2-substituted propionaldehyde compounds; and the provision of a process for the preparation of 3-thio-2-substituted propionaldehyde compounds.
The invention discloses a preparation method of a recombinant bacterium which synthesizes a 3-hydroxypropionic acid and 3-hydroxybutyric acid copolymer by virtue of glucose. The method can comprise the following steps: introducing coding gene of glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, coding gene of glycerol 3-phosphate phosphatase, coding gene of glycerol dehydratase 1, coding gene of glycerol dehydratase 2, coding gene of glycerol dehydratase 3, coding gene of glycerol dehydratase activase A, coding gene of glycerol dehydratase activase B, coding gene of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde dehydrogenase, coding gene of PHA polymerase, coding gene of 3-hydroxypropionyl coenzyme A ligase, coding gene of beta-ketothiolase and coding gene of NADPH-dependent acetoacetyl coenzyme A reductase into a recipient bacterium, so as to obtain a recombinant bacterium A. Experiments prove that the engineering bacterium disclosed by the invention can be further used for producing a 3-hydroxypropionic acid and 3-hydroxybutyric acid copolymer by taking glucose as a carbon source through metabolic pathway control and regulation.
alpha, beta-Unsaturated aldehydes are reactive and cytotoxic compounds which occur in the environment and are also formed in vivo. Many of these aldehydes have been reported to inhibit hepatic cytochrome P-450. Our laboratory has shown that trans,trans-muconaldehyde (a possible metabolite of benzene) as well as acrolein and crotonaldehyde, when added to hepatic microsomes, decreased cytochrome P-450 (measured spectrophotometrically). Additional studies showed that several alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehydes also inhibited hepatic microsomal NADPH-cytochrome c reductase. Acrolein, crotonaldehyde and trans,trans-muconaldehyde all decreased NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity in vitro. Concentrations of 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 mM acrolein decreased activity to 60, 26 and 11% of control respectively. Similar concentrations of trans,trans-muconaldehyde inhibited NADPH-cytochrome c reductase. Crotonaldehyde was a less effective inhibitor of this enzyme. Propionaldehyde, a saturated aldehyde, had no effect on NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity. Time course experiments with acrolein over a period of 5-45 min suggest that the loss of NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity is non-linear. The addition of reduced glutathione protected against the inhibition of reductase activity by acrolein. Formation of these aldehydes and their subsequent inhibition of these enzymes may have important consequences in xenobiotic metabolism.
The present invention relates to microRNAs for identifying exposure to lower aliphatic saturated aldehydes and an identification method using the same. More specifically, the present invention selects one kind of microRNA which is overexpressed until expression level becomes 1.5 times or more due to exposure to the lower aliphatic saturated aldehydes and one kind of microRNA which is lessexpressed until expression level becomes 0.66 times or less and uses two kinds of the microRNAs as biomarkers in order to monitor and judge risk of the lower aliphatic saturated aldehydes and as a tool for investigating mechanism of toxic activities caused by the lower aliphatic saturated aldehydes. [Reference numerals] (AA,KK) MicroRNA expression (Fold Change);(BB,LL) Microarray;(CC,MM) Real time RT-PCR;(DD,NN) Propionaldehyde;(EE,OO) Butylaldehyde;(FF,PP) Valeraldehyde;(GG,QQ) Hexanal;(HH,RR) Heptanal;(II,SS) Octanal;(JJ,TT) Nonanal
A number of previously undescribed propylidenearylamine dimers have been synthesized by the interaction of propionaldehyde with a series of para-substituted anilines(R=H, CH3, OCH3, F, Cl, Br, I) and withα-naphthylamine. The structure of the bis-propylidenearylamines has been established by a study of their IR and UV spectra. It has been shown that all the bis-propylidenearylamines, except for bis(propylidene-p-fluoroaniline), have the structure of 2-ethyl-3-methyl-4-arylamino-1, 2, 3, 4-tetrahydroquinolines. The dipole moments of the bis(propylidene-p-R-anilines) have been determined. Comparison of the values obtained with the calculated values indicates that the most favorable molecular conformation of the bispropylidenearylamines is a tetrahydroquinoline half-chain with quasi-equatorial positions for the 4-NHAr and NH groups and an equatorial 3-CH3 group. In contrast to the bis-ethylideneanilines, we did not succeed in finding other stable conformers for the bis-propylidene derivatives. It has been established that bis (propylidene-p-fluoroaniline) has the 1, 3-bis (p-fluorophenylamino)-2-ethyl-1-hexene structure.
Experimental 2-Triphenylmethyl-1,3-propanediol (0.24 g, 5.0 mmol), propionaldehyde (20 mmol) and p-toluenesulfonic acid (0.1 g) were stirred in dichloromethane (20 ml) for a week. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was dissolved in ether (20 ml) after which the solution was washed with water and 5% sodium bicarbonate (20 ml). The organic phase was dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was evaporated and the product was recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 1.0 g (yield 60%) of colorless crystals.
Particularly interesting is 1,3-PDO, a versatile organic chemical used for the production of polyesters, polyethers and polyurethanes. This product is highly specific for glycerol fermentation and cannot be obtained from any other anaerobic conversion (Homann et al., 1990) . The metabolic pathways involved in glycerol degradation have been reviewed (da Silva et al., 2009; Saxena et al., 2009) . In Klebsiella, Citrobacter, Clostridium and Enterobacter, in the absence of an external oxidant, glycerol is fermented by a dismutation process involving two parallel pathways. The production of 1,3-PDO occurs in the reductive pathway that is carried out in two enzymatic steps. The first enzyme coenzyme B12-dependent glycerol dehydratase (EC 4.2.1.30) removes a water molecule from glycerol to form 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which is then reduced to 1,3-propanediol by the NADH 2 -dependent enzyme 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase (1,3-propanediol-oxydoreductase, EC 1.1.1.202). An exception is C. butyricum, which possesses a vitamin-B12 independent glycerol dehydratase (Saint-Amans et al., 2001 ). In the oxidative pathway glycerol is transformed in pyruvate which is subsequently converted to various fermentation products depending on the microorganism and culture conditions. Such products include lactate, acetate, ethanol, butyrate, succinate (Choi, 2008) , 2,3-butanediol (Saxena et al., 2009) , and butanol (Biebl, 2001) . Glycerol can also be assimilated by K. pneumoniae via glycerol 3-phosphate (G3P) to pyruvate under aerobic conditions (Choi, 2008; da Silva et al., 2009) .
Key Words: aldicarb; (Temik ™ ); 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde-O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime; aldicarb sulfoxide; 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl)propionaldehyde-O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime; channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus); acetylcholinesterase inhibition; carbamate insecticide; aldicarb sulfoxidation; cytochrome P450; flavin-containing monooxygenase; toxicokinetics.
A recommended method has been developed and published by CORESTA, applicable to the quantification of selected carbonyl compounds (acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, methyl ethyl ketone, crotonaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde) in cigarette mainstream smoke. The method involved smoke collection in impinger traps, derivatisation of carbonyls with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH), separation of carbonyl hydrazones by reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography and detection by ultra violet or diode array. At the start of the process it was determined that most laboratories participating in the CORESTA Special Analytes Sub-Group (SASG) used a similar method involving such derivatisation and so this was chosen as the basis of the recommended method. Initial joint experiments, specific experiments by single laboratories and ongoing discussions addressed some methodological aspects that needed to be considered before moving to a recommended method. As a first step, a joint experiment by 17 laboratories was carried out in 2009-2010 that investigated three features of the methodology on two reference cigarettes (3R4F and CM6) considered most important by SASG members. These were the volume of the impinger solution (25 or 35 mL); the type of mineral acid (perchloric or phosphoric) used to initiate the derivatisation and the time of derivatisation (5 or 30 min) before terminating the reaction with Trizma TM base. Overall, it was concluded that these studied parameters in the methodology seemed to have little effect on the overall yield data, compared to the underlying variability among laboratories. The 25 mL impinger solutions appeared to give somewhat higher yields, although not with statistically significant differences, than those obtained when using 35 mL solutions. Some laboratories volunteered to carry out other investigations, for example, to confirm the identity of both the Eand Z-isomeric acetaldehyde hydrazone peaks within the chromatogram of smoke carbonyls and to investigate methodology factors influencing the hydrazone isomerisation. The CORESTA recommended method (CRM) was produced through a final collaborative experiment involving 15 laboratories from 11 countries using 7 linear and 8 rotary smoking machines. Some notes are included in the CRM to inform other laboratories that might wish to adopt the method, concerning the main features that need to be well controlled to provide data as robust as possible and to provide similar repeatability and reproducibility data. Statistical evaluations were made according to ISO 5725 recommendations and are included. As expected from previous work on other smoke components, the levels of reproducibility of carbonyl yields among laboratories are much greater than the levels found for "tar", nicotine and carbon monoxide and given in the equivalent ISO standards. When expressing the reproducibility (R) value as a percentage of the mean yield among-laboratories and across all of the studied products, values ranged from 67-125% for formaldehyde; from 24-55% for acetaldehyde; from 41-108% for acetone; from 45-73% for acrolein; 31-75% for propionaldehyde; from 63-140% for crotonaldehyde; from 62-90% for 2-butanone and from 42-58% for butyraldehyde. The lowest "tar" yielding product gave the most variable data. These levels are generally in line with those determined for selected volatiles. [Beitr. Tabakforsch. Int. 25 (2012) 
Acrolein is the simplest unsaturated aldehyde and exhibits high reactivity due to the presence of a C=C double bond conjugated with the carbonyl group. The acrolein has been used as herbicide in irrigation systems and as antimicrobial in liquid fuels, process lines, and in water recirculation systems and is a crucial intermediary in the industrial production of a wide range of compounds such as methionine, acrylic acid, acrylic acid esters, polymers, propanol, propionaldehyde, allyl alcohol, 1,3-propanediol, acrolein acetals, alkoxy-propionaldehydes, and pyridine bases [4] .
The dicarbonyl compound methylglyoxal (MG) potentiated the cell inactivating effect of cis-dichlorodiammine-platinum (II) (cis-DDP) when cultured human NHIK 3025 cells were treated with both drugs in simultaneous combination. While a 2 h treatment with cis-DDP alone resulted in a surviving fraction of 0.024 +/- 0.008, the simultaneous presence of 0.5 mM MG, a non-cytotoxic concentration, reduced the fraction of cells surviving treatment to 0.0009 +/- 0.0001. Although the cell inactivating effect of cis-DDP was potentiated, the amount of cell-associated platinum was not affected by MG. Glyoxal, another dicarbonyl compound, did not affect cis-DDP-induced cytotoxicity in any manner, nor did the aliphatic aldehydes acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. Cell inactivation induced by MG alone at concentrations above 0.5 mM could be prevented by the simultaneous presence of cysteine or glutathione, indicating that cellular sulfhydryls may be involved in the expression of MG-induced cytotoxicity. Furthermore, MG-induced cell inactivation was increased by a dose-modifying factor of 2.6 when NHIK 3025 cells were first pretreated with buthionine sulfoximine, a glutathione synthesis inhibiting compound. We propose that MG reacts with cellular sulfhydryls which may also be involved in the mediation of cis-DDP cytotoxicity. Reactions between cellular sulfhydryls and MG therefore increase the cytotoxicity of cis-DDP by allowing more platinum to react with cellular targets, not by increasing the amount of platinum entering cells.
The relative rate technique has been used to measure the hydroxyl radical (OH) reaction rate constant of +2-butanol (2BU, CH3CH2CH(OH)CH3) and 2-pentanol (2PE, CH3CH2CH2CH(OH)CH3). 2BU and 2PE react with OH yielding bimolecular rate constants of (8.1±2.0)×10−12 cm3molecule−1s−1 and (11.9±3.0)×10−12 cm3molecule−1s−1, respectively, at 297±3 K and 1 atmosphere total pressure. Both 2BU and 2PE OH rate constants reported here are in agreement with previously reported values [1–4]. In order to more clearly define these alcohols' atmospheric reaction mechanisms, an investigation into the OH+alcohol reaction products was also conducted. The OH+2BU reaction products and yields observed were: methyl ethyl ketone (MEK, (60±2)%, CH3CH2C((DOUBLEBOND)O)CH3) and acetaldehyde ((29±4)% HC((DOUBLEBOND)O)CH3). The OH+2PE reaction products and yields observed were: 2-pentanone (2PO, (41±4)%, CH3C((DOUBLEBOND)O)CH2CH2CH3), propionaldehyde ((14±2)% HC((DOUBLEBOND)O)CH2CH3), and acetaldehyde ((40±4)%, HC((DOUBLEBOND)O)CH3). The alcohols' reaction mechanisms are discussed in light of current understanding of oxygenated hydrocarbon atmospheric chemistry. Labeled (18O) 2BU/OH reactions were conducted to investigate 2BU's atmospheric transformation mechanism details. The findings reported here can be related to other structurally similar alcohols and may impact regulatory tools such as ground level ozone-forming potential calculations (incremental reactivity) [5]. © 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 30: 745–752, 1998
1. ::: (1) Substrates capable of activating mitochondrial electron transfer and oxidative phosphorylation, namely, pyruvate, acetate, propionaldehyde and butanol, stimulated the concentrative uptake (transport and accumulation) of l-[14C]leucine by Saccharomyces cerevisiae (wild type strain 207, starved cells). Under adequate experimental conditions, the l-[14C]leucine uptake versus the oxygen uptake ratio was almost the same with either pyruvate, acetate or d-glucose as energy sources. Substrate oxidation also increased l-[14C]leucine incorporation into the cell protein. ::: ::: 2. ::: (2) With S. cerevisiae D261 and D247-2 and propionaldehyde as an energy source, or with strain 207 and glucose as energy source, 2,4-dinitrophenol (50 μM) inhibited l-[14C]leucine uptake, the inhibition being accompanied by stimulation of respiration. With S. cerevisiae 207 and propionaldehyde as energy source, 2,4-dinitrophenol inhibited both respiration and l-[14C]leucine uptake, but with respiration being less affected than uptake. Displacement of accumulated l-[14C] leucine was also inhibited by 2,4-dinitrophenol. ::: ::: 3. ::: (3) In the presence of glucose, and for relatively brief incubation periods, anaerobically grown cells of S. cerevisiae 207 and of a ϱ− “petite” mutant of this strain incorporated l-[14C]leucine with less efficiency than the original wild type strain 207, grown aerobically. With d-glucose as energy source, 2,4-dinitrophenol and iodoacetate inhibited alike l-[14C]leucine uptake by the respiration competent cells. ::: ::: 4. ::: (4) It is postulated that in respiration-competent yeasts, the mitochondrion contributes to l-[14C]leucine uptake by supplying high-energy compounds required for amino acid transport and accumulation. Conversely, the promitochondrion in the anaerobically grown yeast, or the modified mitochondrion in the respiratory deficient mutant, competes for high energy compounds generated by glycolysis in the cytosol.
The potential utility of Debus–Radziszewski imidazole synthesis in the fabrication of crosslinked chitosan was studied. Three-component crosslinking was achieved by using glyoxal and propionaldehyde to connect amine groups of chitosan via imidazolium crosslinking. A water-insoluble (at pH range of 2–10) chitosan was obtained at room temperature with a degree of substitution of 0.45 and aerogel was obtained after freeze-drying. The ability of the imidazolium-crosslinked chitosan (ICC) aerogel to absorb an anionic dye, Direct Yellow 27, from a model water was then studied. Based on the Langmuir isotherm, at a pH of 4, an adsorption maximum of 2340 mg g−1 (3.5 mmol g−1) was obtained. In addition, due to the permanent cationic charge of imidazolium group, ICC exhibited excellent adsorption capacity, even under alkaline conditions. Methylglyoxal and benzaldehyde were also used to obtain other types of ICC, demonstrating the versatility of Debus–Radziszewski imidazole synthesis for fabrication of modified chitosan.
Crotonaldehyde in cigarette smoke can be concluded to induce airway ::: damage in humans. This is one conclusion derived from the existing data ::: found in the literature and reported here in the discussion on adverse ::: health effects and possible addictive effects due to the exposure of ::: crotonaldehyde, butyraldehyde, hexanal and malonaldehyde in cigarette ::: smoke. A previous RIVM report focused on acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, ::: acrolein and propionaldehyde. Due to limited available data, it is not ::: clear whether butyraldehyde, hexanal, and malonaldehyde in cigarette ::: smoke induce similar damage. The exposure due to inhalation of the ::: above-mentioned aldehydes in combination with each other or with other ::: aldehydes remains a point of concern. In addition, it is not known ::: whether sugars and glycerol additives in tobacco affect the concentration ::: of aldehydes in cigarette smoke. For a proper risk assessment, further ::: research on combined exposure and the contribution of added ingredients ::: to the aldehyde concentration in cigarette smoke is ::: necessary.
Systemic insecticides were evaluated for effect on insect control, plant stand, early fruiting, and yield of cotton in 1966 and 1967. Granular formulations of disulfoton, phorate, Allied Chemical GC-6506 (dimethyl p -(methylthio) phenyl phosphate), Hercules 13462 ( O,O -dimethyl phosphorodithioate S -ester with N -(1-mercaptoethyl) succinimide), Niagara NIA-10242 (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate), and Union Carbide UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) applied with the seed at planting gave good initial control of tobacco thrips, Frankliniella fusca (Hinds); UC-21149 gave the best residual control. Seed treated with Azodrin® (3-hydroxy- N -methyl- cis -crotonamide dimethyl phosphate), disulfoton, methomyl, Hercules 13462, and NIA-10242 gave fair to good initial control of thrips. Populations of other insect species did not become a problem. The treatments reduced stands in some tests but not in others. The control of thrips that was achieved with the systemic insecticides resulted in earlier fruiting of plants in 3 of the 6 tests, but yields increased as a result in only 1 test.
The carbonyl compounds in the atmosphere belong to one of the regulatory pollutants for the malodor control designated by the Korean Ministry of Environment(KMOE). In the present study, the emission concentration levels of carbonyl compounds were measured along with a number of criteria odor pollutants from a total of 47 individual companies(June 2004 to January 2005). The results of our study showed that a number of carbonyl compounds(such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, and butyraldehyde) maintained significantly high mean concentrations of 298 to 372 ppb. In contrast, other carbonyl compounds were low enough with the mean valves of 0.54 to 19.1 ppb. It was found that except for such industries as metal production or leather processing, their emissions were generally quite significant. If the measured values were evaluated in terms of malodor intensity, butyraldehyde appeared to be the most significant contributor to the malodor release. According to the measurements made in strong source areas, it can be concluded that several carbonyl compounds(acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde) are useful enough to diagnose malodor release from those source areas. It should also be addressed that a number of carbonyl compounds added newly as the result of malodor control legislation were not sensitive enough to diagnose malodor release from such sources.
Aldehyde oxidoreductase of Eubacterium acidaminophilum was purified to homogeneity under strict anaerobic conditions using a four-step procedure. The purified enzyme was present as a monomer with an apparent molecular mass of 67 kDa and contained 6.0 ± 0.1 iron, 1.1 ± 0.2 tungsten, about 0.6 mol pterin cofactor and zinc, but no molybdenum. The enzyme activity was induced if a molar excess of electron donors, such as serine and/or formate, were supplied in the growth medium compared to readily available electron acceptors such as glycine betaine. Many aldehydes served as good substrates, thus enzyme activity obtained with acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde and benzaldehyde differed by a factor of less than two. Kinetic parameters were determined for all substrates tested. Oligonucleotides deduced from the N-terminal amino acid sequence were used to isolate the encoding aorA gene and adjacent DNA regions. The deduced amino acid sequence of the aldehyde oxidoreductase exhibited high similarities to other tungsten-containing aldehyde oxidoreductases from archaea. Transcription of the aorA gene was monocistronic and started from a σ54-dependent promoter. Upstream of aorA, the gene aorR is localized whose product is similar to σ54-dependent transcriptional activator proteins and, thus, AorR is probably involved in the regulation of aorA expression.
We describe a rapid and low-cost system for monitoring bad smells in the living environment. This system consists of a conventional gas detector tube and an A4-size optical scanner. It was found that methyl mercaptan, hydrogen sulfide and propionaldehyde with the concentrations down to 29 ppb, 19 ppb and 46 ppb, respectively, were detectable. The sensitivity increased by 10 times as large as that of the conventional detector tube utilizing the accumulation effect. Moreover, we have developed a portable sensor using a one-dimensional CCD image sensor. The distribution of bad smell inside the wind tunnel was monitored using multiple portable sensors. The change of the plume shape was clearly observed using the bad-smell sensor network.
The train is an important vehicle in China, but its air quality has important impacts on passengers’ health. In this work, pollution from carbonyl compounds was measured in the air of six trains. The objectives of this work were to investigate carbonyl compound levels in selected air from trains, identify their emission sources, and assess the intake of carbonyl compounds for passengers. The methods for sampling and analyzing 10 carbonyl compounds such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, butyraldehyde, benzaldehyde, cyclohexanone, and valeraldehyde in indoor air were proposed with the sampling efficiency, recovery, and detection limit being 92%–100%, 91%–104%, and 0.26–0.82 ng/m3, respectively. It was indicated that the total concentrations of carbonyl compounds were 0.159–0.2828 mg/m3 with the average concentration of 0.2330 mg/m3. The average concentrations of form aldehyde, acetaldehyde and acetone were 0.0922, 0.0499, and 0.0580 mg/m3, accounting for 42.6%, 21.4%, and 24.9% of the total concentrations of carbonyl compounds, respectively. The carbonyl compounds probably came from woodwork and cigarette smoking. The intake of carbonyl compounds for the passengers was approximately 0.043–0.076 mg/h. The carbonyl compounds in train air could be harmful to human health.
Abstract The influence of a stereocenter already present in the molecule on the selectivity displayed by almond oxynitrilase has been addressed, considering the substituted aldehydes (±)-2-phenylpropionaldehyde 1 and (±)-3-phenylbutyraldehyde 2 as model substrates. Only when the stereocenter was adjacent to the aldehyde group (as in 1 ) a strong influence on the selectivity of this enzyme was observed, resulting in the formation of the four possible cyanohydrins although in different ratio. On the other hand, the cyanohydrins obtained from 2 had the expected 2 R configuration.
For use as a 3- (4-tert-butylphenyl) -2-floral flavor composition alternatives methylpropanal, the primary composition perfuming ingredient composition, which comprises 5 to 25 wt% of perfuming first component (2,5-dimethyl-2,3-dihydro -1H- inden-2-yl) methanol 0.2 to 10 wt% of the second component perfuming dimethyl-5-indanyl propionaldehyde compounds; and one or more secondary perfuming ingredient, perfuming ingredients comprising the secondary 3-methyl-5-phenyl-pentyl aldehyde, decyl aldehyde, octyl aldehyde, cumin aldehyde, cuminic alcohol, carvone, 2-isobutyl-tetrahydro-4-methyl -4 (2H) - cis-7-chromanol or at least one of the menthol.
The optimal process conditions for producing seafood flavor essence from mussel hydrolysate by Maillard reaction were studied and the developed product was subjected to sensory evaluation and GC-MS analysis.The results showed that the optimal model system for preparing seafood flavor essence included 0.5% alanine/proline mixture at a ratio of 2:3,8% glucose/xylose mixture at a ratio of 1:3,pH 6.2,and reaction at 100 ℃ for 25 min.By GC-MS analysis,29 volatile compounds were identified as carboxylic acids,pyrazine,esters,aldehydes,ketones,alcohols and sulfur compounds.Among these compounds,benzothiazole,3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde,pyrazine and other compounds contributed to seafood flavor essence.
To identify potential new clinical uses and routes of administration for human interferon-beta-1a (IFN-beta-1a), we have developed an expression and purification procedure for the preparation of highly purified rat interferon-beta (IFN-beta) suitable for testing in rat models of human disease. An expression vector containing the rat IFN-beta signal sequence and structural gene was constructed and transfected into Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. The protein was purified from CHO cell conditioned medium and purified to > 99.5% purity using standard chromatographic techniques. Analytical characterization indicated that the protein was a heavily glycosylated monomeric protein, with two of the four predicted N-glycosylation sites occupied. Analysis of the attached oligosaccharides showed them to be a complex mixture of bi-antennary, tri-antennary, and tetra-antennary structures with a predominance of sialylated tri-antennary and tetra-antennary structures. Peptide mapping, N-terminal sequencing, and mass spectrometry confirmed the identity and integrity of the purified protein. The purified protein had a specific activity of 2.1x10(8)U/mg when assayed on rat RATEC cells, which is similar in magnitude to the potencies observed for murine IFN-beta and human IFN-beta-1a assayed on murine and human cells, respectively. We also prepared an N-terminally PEGylated form of rat IFN-beta in which a 20 kDa methoxy polyethylene glycol (PEG)-propionaldehyde was attached to the N-terminal alpha-amino group of Ile-1. The PEGylated protein, which retained essentially full in vitro antiviral activity, had improved pharmacokinetic parameters in rats as compared to the unmodified protein. Both the unmodified and PEGylated forms of rat IFN-beta will be useful for testing in rat models of human disease.
The thermal decomposition of gaseous propionaldehyde on the surface of platinum has been investigated in order to compare it with the homogeneous unimolecular decomposition. Unlike the decomposition of acetone and of ether, the reaction proceeds catalytically on the surface of the platinum. The course of the reaction, however, is somewhat different from that of the homogeneous decomposition. The heat of activation of the catalytic reaction is 96,500 calories, nearly double that of the homogeneous reaction. This would seem to indicate that only adsorbed molecules react, and that most of the molecules which collide with the filament are reflected from its surface without coming into thermal equilibrium with it.
In the catalytic hydrogenation of β-(2-pyridyl)-propionaldehyde acetal (I) in a solution of pure acetic acid with a platinum catalyst according to Adams the following substances may be formed as addition compounds with acetic acid: the δ-coniceine of Loffler (III) and the β-(2-piperidyl)-propionaldehyde acetal or the acetal of dl-pelletierine (II). ::: ::: ::: ::: The latter compound is obtained almost exclusively when a very concentrated solution of I in acetic acid is subjected to catalytic reduction. The acetal of dl-pelletierine is a stable colourless liquid. Upon hydrolysis of this acetal a liquid with a strong reducing action is obtained which is rapidly converted into a reddish resin, corresponding to the behaviour of dl-pelletierine as described in the literature.
A systematic study has been made of the kinetics of the rearrangements of protonated dialkyl ketones, aldehydes and α-deuterated aldehydes. The rearrangements can be divided into four groups, the relative rates of which, at 25°, are approximately 107: 102: 102: 1, viz. (i) of α-dibranched aldehydes to α-mono-branched ketones, (ii) of α-monobranched aldehydes to di-n-alkyl ketones, (iii) of α-dibranched ketones, (iv) of α-monobranched ketones. ::: ::: ::: ::: Whereas the first three groups of reactions proceed by a two-step process (1,2-alkyl and/or hydrogen shifts via an α-hydroxyalkyl carbonium ion), the interconversion of α-monobranched ketones takes place by a four-step process via tertiary α-hydroxyalkyl carbonium ions and a protonated α-dibranched aldehyde. ::: ::: ::: ::: The intramolecular exchange of α-D and carbonyl-H in deuterated isobutyraldehyde and propionaldehyde is about ten times slower than the rearrangements under (i) and (ii), respectively. This is due to the lower stability of the intermediate α-hydroxyalkyl carbonium ions in the former two reactions; intrinsically, hydrogen shifts are faster than alkyl shifts. Other things being equal, the ethyl shift is about four times faster than the methyl shift. ::: ::: ::: ::: Protonated aldehydes are about 9 kcal.mole−1 less stable than the isomeric protonated ketones, which is mainly due to the difference in stability of the unprotonated parent compounds. Contrary to recently published results (ref. 13), the difference in pKa between aliphatic aldehydes and ketones is indicated to be only ∼ 1 unit.
In this study, the analytical bias involved in the application of the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH)-coated cartridge sampling method was investigated for the analysis of five atmospheric carbonyl species (i.e., acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde). In order to evaluate the potential bias of the sampling technique, a series of the laboratory experiments were conducted to cover a wide range of volumes (1-20 L) and concentration levels (approximately 100-2000 ppb in case of acetaldehyde). The results of these experiments were then evaluated in terms of the recovery rate (RR) for each carbonyl species. The detection properties of these carbonyls were clearly distinguished between light and heavy species in terms of RR and its relative standard error (R.S.E.). It also indicates that the studied analytical approach can yield the most reliable pattern for light carbonyls, especially acetaldehyde. When these experimental results were tested further by a two-factor analysis of variance (ANOVA), the analysis based on the cartridge sampling method is affected more sensitively by the concentration levels of samples rather than the sampling volume.
Laminar flames of three C3H6O isomers (propylene oxide, propionaldehyde and acetone), representative of cyclic ether, aldehyde and ketone species important as intermediates in oxygenated fuel combustion, have been studied experimentally and computationally. Most of these flames exhibited a non-linear dependency of flame speed upon stretch rate and two complementary independent techniques were adopted to provide the most reliable burning velocity data. Significant differences in burning velocity were noted for the three isomers: propylene oxide + air mixtures burned fastest, then propionaldehyde + air, with acetone + air flames being the slowest; the latter also required stronger ignition sources. Numerical modelling of these flames was based on the Konnov mechanism, enhanced with reactions specific to these oxygenated fuels. The chemical kinetics mechanism predicted flame velocities in qualitative rather than quantitative agreement with the measurements. Sensitivity analysis suggested that the calculated flame speeds had only a weak dependency upon parent fuel-specific reactions rates; however, consideration of possible break-up routes of the primary fuels has allowed identification of intermediate compounds, the chemistry of which requires a better definition.
A high performance liquid chromatography method with pre-column derivatization was developed for the simultaneous determination of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, n-valeraldehyde and p-tolualdehyde in water-based coatings. After ultrasonic extraction with water, the samples were derivatized with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH) in acetonitrile under acidic condition, then filtrated by 0.45 microm organic syringe filters for the determination. Systematic investigation was carried out on the dependence of the derivatization conditions such as the acidity regulator, pH value, reaction temperature, reaction time and other factors. The optimized conditions were as follows: the dilute hydrochloric acid solution as acidity regulator, the pH of the buffer solution of 3, the reaction temperature of 60 degrees C, and the reaction time of 30 min. Under the conditions, a linear relation was achieved in the range of 0.08-2.0 mg/L for the peak area to concentration of the six aldehydes. The detection limits were 0.05-2.50 mg/kg. The recoveries of standard addition at the spiked levels of 2.0, 4.0, 6.0 mg/kg were 87.0%-112.8% with the relative standard deviations (RSDs, n = 6) of 1.12%-9.54%. The results showed that this method has a wide linear range, good precision and accuracy, and it is suitable for the simultaneous determination of the six aldehydes in water-based coatings.
The addition reaction of propionaldehyde to hexafluoro-2-butyne (1) under γ-ray irradiation gave trans-6,6,6-trifluoro-4-trifluoromethyl-4-hexen-3-one (2) and 4,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)octa-3,6-dione (3). The latter compound was treated with sulfuric acid to give 2,5-diethyl-3,4-bis(trifluoromethyl)furan (4a). Several reactions, such as bromination, dehydrobromination and oxidation, were carried out to prepare derivatives of 4a.
Human class 1 aldehyde dehydrogenase (hALDH-1) can oxidize aldophosphamide, a key aldehyde intermediate in the activation pathway of cyclophosphamide and other oxazaphosphorine (OAP) anti-cancer alkylating agents. Overexpression of class 1 ALDH (ALDH-1) has been observed in cells selected for survival in the presence of OAPs. We used transfection to induce de novo expression of human ALDH-1 in V79/SD1 Chinese hamster cells to clearly quantitate the role of hALDH-1 expression in OAP resistance. Messenger RNA levels correlated well with hALDH-1 protein levels and enzyme activities (1.5-13.6 milliunits/mg with propionaldehyde/NAD+ substrate, compared to < 1 milliunit/mg in controls) in individual clonal transfectant lines, and slot blot analysis confirmed the presence of the transfected cDNA. Expressed ALDH activity was closely correlated (r = 0.99) with resistance to mafosfamide, up to 21-fold relative to controls. Transfectants were cross-resistant to other OAPs but not to phosphoramide mustard, ifosfamide mustard, melphalan, or acrolein. Resistance was completely reversed by pretreatment with 25 microM diethylaminobenzaldehyde, a potent ALDH inhibitor. Alkaline elution studies showed that expression of ALDH-1 reduced the number of DNA cross-links commensurate with mafosfamide resistance, and this reduction in cross-links was fully reversed by the inhibitor. Thus, overexpression of human class 1 ALDH alone is sufficient to confer OAP-specific drug resistance.
The preparation of 3-phenylpropionaldehyde from cinnamaldehyde by selectively catalytical hydrogenation in the presence of Ni/SiO2 catalyst prepared from Ni(NO3)2·6H2O was studied.The effects of the type and Granularity of support,Ni loading,the amount of catalyst,reaction temperature and reaction pressure on synthesis of 3-Phenylpropionaldehyde were investigated.The optimum reaction conditions are as followed: amount of 10%Ni/SiO2 catalyst(60—80 mesh) is 15% of Cinnamaldehy,reaction pressure is 2.0 MPa,reaction temperature is 368 K and reaction time is 120~150 min.Under the selected reaction conditions,the conversion of cinnamaldehyde and selectivity of 3-Phenylpropionaldehyde were 99.3%~99.7% and 93.8%~94.9%,respectively.Moreover,the Catalyst activity of 10%Ni/SiO2 Catalyst used five-time was not deactivity.
In this study, we investigated the PEG attachment site of mono-PEGylated Endostar, a modified recombinant human endostatin approved in China for lung cancer. N-terminal site-directed mono-PEGylation of Endostar was accomplished using mPEG-propionaldehyde derivatives (Mw=20 kDa) under slightly acidic pH conditions (pH 5.5). One-step cation exchange chromatography was used to purify the mono-PEGylated Endostar. Following tryptic digestion, the peptide fragment containing PEG was separated by SDS-PAGE. Barium iodide staining and Western blotting were used to detect the PEG moiety and the N-terminus of Endostar, respectively. The peptide fragment stained by barium iodide showed a positive response to anti-(His) 6 mAb, demonstrating that PEG was located at the N-terminus of Endostar. LC/MS was applied to verify the occurrence of mono-PEGylation at the N-terminus of Endostar.
The catabolism of propane by "Nocardia paraffinicum" (Rhodococcus rhodochrous) has been shown to involve CO(2) fixation after its oxidation to propionic acid. "N. paraffinicum" failed to grow on either propane or 1-propanol in the absence of CO(2). The rate of propane utilization was directly related to the initial CO(2) concentration, and Warburg respirometry suggested that CO(2) was required for the catabolism of 1-propanol, propionaldehyde, and propionate but not for 2-propanol. These data also suggested that the predominant pathway for the utilization of propane by "N. paraffinicum" was through 1-propanol. The use of [2-C]propane and CO(2) confirmed the catabolism of propane and the fixation of CO(2). Through the use of these isotopes and the pyruvate carboxylase inhibitor sodium arsenite, the labeled 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine derivative of pyruvate was trapped and isolated via thin-layer chromatography. The trapping of [C]pyruvate in this manner was considered to be indicative of the presence of the methylmalonyl coenzyme A pathway for CO(2) fixation.
Thesis (PhD(Agric)) – Stellenbosch University, 2014.%%%%ENGLISH ABSTRACT: This study focussed on the effect of oxygen on the chemical and sensory evolution of Sauvignon blanc ::: wine under controlled oxidation conditions. The sensorial interactive effects between Sauvignon blanc ::: varietal aroma compounds and compounds that typically arise during oxidation of white wines were also ::: investigated. ::: In the first research chapter the sensorial interactive effects of Sauvignon blanc impact compounds with ::: aldehydes typically originating from oxidation of white wines were investigated. Four compounds, 3‐ ::: mercaptohexan‐1‐ol (3MH), 3‐isobutyl‐2‐methoxypyrazine (IBMP), 3‐(methylthio)‐propionaldehyde ::: (methional) and phenylacetaldehyde were added together in a model wine medium at varying ::: concentrations. The concentrations chosen were according to those reported in literature to occur in ::: Sauvignon blanc wines. The sensory effects of these compounds were profiled using a trained sensory ::: panel. Compounds were first profiled individually and results showed that the change in comcpound ::: concentration not only led to a change in intensity ratings but also in some cases a change in the ::: descriptor. ::: All four compounds in the same sample showed complicated interactive effects. Data were statistically ::: analysed using relatively novel techniques such as statistical networks that allowed deeper insights into ::: the interactions involved. Various observations were made such as the contribution of 3MH to the ::: ‘green’ character of the wine, the potent suppressing abilities of methional on 3MH and IBMP and the ::: additive effect of methional and IBMP contributing to the ‘cooked’ character of the sample. In the second research chapter the effect of repetitive oxidation on a fresh and fruity style Sauvignon ::: blanc wine was investigated. Results showed the progress and evolution of aromatic and non‐aromatic ::: compounds during an oxidative aging period. A large range of chemical analyses were conducted ::: together with extensive sensory profiling. Results showed a decrease in volatile thiols responsible for ::: the fruity nuances and an increase in oxidation‐related compounds, such as acetaldehyde, during the ::: course of the oxidation. Sensory profiling showed the evolution of the wine aroma during oxidation. The ::: wine evolved from a fresh and fruity wine to slight oxidation and then developed extreme oxidative ::: characteristics. The Control samples (no oxygen added) developed a ‘cooked’ character which could ::: indicate the formation of reductive compounds in these wines. Conversely, the wines that received a ::: single dose of oxygen did not develop this flavour and were perceived to be more fresh and fruity than ::: the Control samples. The evolution of the wine colour was also monitored using a spectrophotometer as ::: well as a sensory panel and results suggest that the colour of the wine evolved before the disappearance ::: of the pleasant aroma. The advantages and disadvantages of oxygen exposure to this type of wine style ::: are discussed as well as the…
Polyethylene glycol) (PEG) propionaldehyde is an important polymer derivative used in protein modification; it is usually synthesized by the Williamson reaction of 3-chloropropionaldehyde diethyl acetal (CPADA) with PEG alkoxide followed by hydrolysis to deprotect the aldehyde group. However, the side reaction of the Williamson reaction has been a severe drawback leading to a low-aldehyde-content product. In this study, we established a kinetic model to depict the competition of the Williamson reaction and its side reaction. Based on a kinetic analysis, experiments were performed to systemically investigate the influence of the process parameters on the yield of PEG aldehyde, including the reaction solvents, reaction temperature, and molar equivalents of CPADA. The best reaction solvent was determined to be dioxane because the conversion of methoxy pol(ethylene glycol) in dioxane was higher than that in other solvents and because dioxane has low toxicity and is easily handled. The reaction temperature was set as the refluxing point of dioxane to effectively convert PEG into its alkoxide. The equivalents of CPADA were optimized to be 15 to obtain a quantitative yield of mPEG propionaldehyde and avoid wasting the reagent. The quantitative yield of mPEG propionaldehyde was achieved under these optimum conditions. 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Appl Polym Sci 111: 1638-1643, 2009
AbstractAcetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, glyceraldehyde-3-P and 4-dimethylaminocinnamaldehyde form Schiff bases in Tris.HC1 buffers; the rates of formation and dissociation of Schiff bases, and equilibrium constants for their formation are very similar for the first three aldehydes. The steady-state kinetic constants for the yeast alcohol dehydrogenase-catalyzed reaction, propan-l-ol + NAD+ = propionaldehyde + NADH + H+, have been determined in several Tris.HCl buffers of increasing concentration at pH 8.1. In the forward direction, oxidation of alcohol, most kinetic constants are increased by increasing concentrations of Tris. In the reverse direction, reduction of aldehyde, substrate, NADH, Tris and Schiff base were equilibrated before enzyme reaction was started. It was found that Schiff base, rather than Tris, binds to free enzyme competitively with respect to NADH. Tris and Schiff base do not influence the binding of aldehyde to enzyme in any way.
Photocatalytic degradation of gaseous propionaldehyde over TiO2-loaded adsorbent films was investigated after adsorption equilibrium was obtained using silica, alumina, activated carbon, and several kinds of zeolites as adsorbents. Irradiation of one-tenth of the TiO2-loaded adsorbent film caused complete mineralization of the adsorbed substrate in the entire film, although the rates obtained in that case were much lower than one-tenth of the rates obtained with the total area irradiation, indicating a considerable contribution of supply of the adsorbed substrate from the nonirradiated part of the film to the irradiated part. The apparent diffusion coefficient Dapp of adsorbed substrate was evaluated by applying the time course of CO2 evolution obtained in the area-selective photodecomposition reaction to a one-dimensional diffusion model. The Dapp values estimated for various kinds of TiO2-loaded adsorbent supports explain well the differences in the photodecomposition rates obtained at these photocataly...
A spark ignition engine was used to study the impact of fuel composition on exhaust emissions of organic acids, alcohols and carbonyl compounds. Two specific fuel matrices were used: the first containing eight hydrocarbons and the second also four oxygenated compounds. Exhaust organic acids are generally enhanced by fuel aromatics and oxygenated compounds. Exhaust alcohols are enhanced by fuel oxygenated compounds, but also by some hydrocarbons in the case of methanol. Exhaust formaldehyde is mainly produced from fuel methanol, acetaldehyde from fuel ethanol and propionaldehyde from straight chain hydrocarbons. Exhaust acroleine comes from fuel 1-hexene, acetone from 2propanol, n-hexane, n-octane, isooctane and MTBE. Exhaust crotonaldehyde comes from fuel 1-hexene, cyclohexane, n-hexane and n-octane, methacroleine from fuel isooctane, and benzaldehyde from fuel aromatics. Light pollutants (C 1 -C 2 ) are most likely formed from intermediate species, which are quite independent of the fuel composition. Several models correlating the exhaust concentration of these pollutants with the fuel composition are presented.
NADP-linked aldehyde reductase (AR; EC 1.1.1.2), partially purified from epimastigotes of Trypanosoma cruzi, was able to reduce a number of aldehydes and to oxidize several alcohols; propionaldehyde and n-propanol were the best substrates, at optimal pH values of 7 to 8, and 9 to 9.5, respectively. The AR was inhibited p-chloromercuribenzoate and iodoacetamide, but not by 1,10-phenanthroline or barbital. Digitonin treatment of whole epimastigotes, and distribution and latency in subcellular fractions, indicated that the AR is cytosolic. Like other ARs, the T. cruzi enzyme might be involved in detoxication processes, instead of coenzyme re-oxidation.
Abstract The effect of solvent in the homogeneous oxidation of propionaldehyde has been investigated. It was observed that the induction period of the reaction depends on the donor number of the solvent. Changes in the structure of the catalyst during the course of the reaction as revealed spectrophotometrically are discussed, the species which appear are identified and a mechanism for their transformation is proposed.
Carbonyl pollutants of diesel engine fueled with biodiesel and biodiesel/diesel blend were measured by solvent extraction and HPLC technology. The effects of biodiesel blending ratio and diesel engine conditions on 13 kinds of carbonyl pollutants were studied. According to the chemical reaction kinetic analysis of diesel and biodiesel, the effects of , , , , and EGR ratio on formaldehyde concentration were investigated. In addition, measures of reducing formaldehyde were simulated and analyzed. Carbonyl pollutants of diesel engine fueled with BD0, BD50, and BD100 are mainly aldehyde and ketone compounds with 1-3 carbon atoms, such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, and propionaldehyde. The formaldehyde content is the highest, higher than 80% of the total carbonyl pollutants for BD100. Within the entire engine load, the total carbonyl pollutants concentration for BD0 is the higher than BD50 and BD100. The chemical reaction kinetic analysis shows that the formaldehyde concentration peak is reduced with the increase of , , and EGR ratio and increased with the increase of . The formaldehyde concentration in the premixed flame of diesel can be reduced by air pretreatment effectively, especially the addition of hydrogen, while air pretreatment shows less effect on reducing formaldehyde concentration of biodiesel. 
Human class 1 aldehyde dehydrogenase (hALDH-1) can oxidize aldophosphamide, a key aldehyde intermediate in the activation pathway of cyclophosphamide and other oxazaphosphorine (OAP) anti-cancer alkylating agents. Overexpression of class 1 ALDH (ALDH-1) has been observed in cells selected for survival in the presence of OAPs. We used transfection to induce de novo expression of human ALDH-1 in V79/SD1 Chinese hamster cells to clearly quantitate the role of hALDH-1 expression in OAP resistance. Messenger RNA levels correlated well with hALDH-1 protein levels and enzyme activities (1.5-13.6 milliunits/mg with propionaldehyde/NAD ؉ substrate, compared to < 1 milliunit/mg in controls) in individual clonal transfectant lines, and slot blot analysis confirmed the presence of the transfected cDNA. Expressed ALDH activity was closely correlated (r ‫؍‬ 0.99) with resistance to mafosfamide, up to 21-fold relative to controls. Transfectants were cross-resistant to other OAPs but not to phosphoramide mustard, ifosfamide mustard, melphalan, or acrolein. Resistance was completely reversed by pretreatment with 25 M diethylaminobenzaldehyde, a potent ALDH inhibitor. Alkaline elution studies showed that expression of ALDH-1 reduced the number of DNA cross-links commensurate with mafosfamide resistance, and this reduction in cross-links was fully reversed by the inhibitor. Thus, overexpression of human class 1 ALDH alone is sufficient to confer OAP-specific drug resistance.
To manufacture pegfilgrastim, a 20 kDa monomethoxypolyethylene glycol (mPEG) molecule is covalently bound to the N-terminal methionyl residue of filgrastim using 20 kDa monomethoxy polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde (mPEG-PAL) as critical intermediate [9] . Recombinant human G-CSF (Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor; rhG-CSF; INN filgrastim), a 175 amino acid long non-glycosylated polypeptide, expressed in E. coli was one of the first biopharmaceuticals to be commercialized (Neupogen; Amgen Inc.). Its additional N-terminal Met residue is not found in the native endogenous human protein. The structure of filgrastim consists of four α-helices arranged in an up-up, down-down conuration with a long loop connecting helices one and two and another loop between helices three and four. It contains two disulfide bonds (C37-C43 and C65-C75) and a single free cysteine residue (C18) [13] . G-CSF is a hematopoietic growth factor and cytokine that stimulates the production of neutrophils and affects neutrophil progenitor proliferation, differentiation, and cell functional activation [14] . Its recombinant form, filgrastim is used primarily to reduce incidence and duration of severe neutropenia and its associated complications in cancer patients that have received a chemotherapy regimen [15] . Pegylation increases the size of filgrastim so that it becomes too large for renal clearance and the clearance of the molecule is also dominated by a self-regulating mechanism, based on receptor mediated clearance. Due to its long half-life, pegfilgrastim requires only once-per-cycle administration for the management of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, thus resulting in significant ease for patients.
The potent immunosuppressor pironetin 1 (1) was isolated independently by two research groups from Streptomyces sp. NK-10958 and from the fermentation broths of Streptomyces prunicolor PA-48153 ( Figure 1 ). Pironetin shows plant growth regulatory activity as well as immunosuppressive and antitumor activities. 2, 3 The mode of action of pironetin is different from those established for the immunosuppressants cyclosporin A (CsA) and FK506, which inhibit T cell activation. 4 Pironetin showed suppressive effects on the responses of T and B lymphocytes to mitogens. Our first approach to fragment C5-C11 started with the aldol reaction between the (Z)-boron enolate of N-propionyl oxazolidinone (R)-9 with propionaldehyde to give aldol adduct 10 in 82% yield and >99:1 diastereoselectivity (Scheme 2). Treatment of 10 with SO 3 -pyr in a mixture of DMSO/CH 2 Cl 2 gave β-ketoimide 7 in 96% yield.
A microfluidic lab-on-chip derivatisation technique has been optimized to achieve a rapid, automated and sensitive determination of ambient gaseous formaldehyde when used in combination with GC-MS. The method used a Pyrex micro-reactor comprising three inlets and one outlet, gas and fluid splitting and combining channels, mixing junctions, and a 2.0 m long, 620 μm internal diameter reaction micro-channel. The micro-reactor integrated three functions, that of: (1) mixer and reactor, (2) heater, and (3) preconcentrator. The flow rates of the gas sample and derivatisation solution and the temperature of the micro-reactor were optimized to achieve a near real-time measurement with a rapid and high efficiency derivatisation step following gas sampling. The enhanced phase contact area-to-volume ratio and the high heat transfer rate in the micro-reactor resulted in a fast and high efficiency derivatisation reaction. Calibration showed good linearity in the range of 26 to 331 ppb with correlation coefficients R2 = 0.988 and 0.997 for PFPH and PFBHA derivatives. For low gas phase formaldehyde mixing ratios (<26 ppb) the derivatisation solution could be repeatedly recycled through the chip enabling pre-concentration of the derivative – hydrazone. The calibration curves for this recycling approach also showed good linearity from 4.0 to 26 ppb with method detection limits (MDLs) of 2.1 ppb and 1.1 ppb for PFPH and PFBHA derivatives. The feasibility of the technique was assessed using measurements of laboratory ambient air, with formaldehyde the predominant carbonyl compound at a 12.5 ppb level. The proof of principle experiments demonstrated the potential of the approach for on-line measurements of other carbonyls including acetaldehyde, acetone and propionaldehyde.
In recent years, catalytic properties of gold have played a major role in the chemistry of environmentally safe substances. In this study, propionic acid was synthesized using electrochemical oxidation on a gold plate electrode in potassium hydroxide. Five hours of electrochemical reaction at a constant voltage was carried out using the chronocuolom- etry method. Propionaldehyde was oxidized electrochemically to propionic acid as verified by the characterization data from high performance liquid chromatography and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The proposed mechanism of the reaction showed the importance of the OH - species in the synthesis reaction.
There has been evidence for a causal relationship between homocysteine and Alzheimer's disease for several years but the mechanism is unclear. In vivo, some homocysteine is converted to the thiolactone. This report describes a novel reaction between homocysteine thiolactone and dehydroascorbic acid in which the homocysteine thiolactone is converted to 3-mercaptopropionaldehyde. This product is shown to react with proteins causing their precipitation (probably by cross-linking). The two reactions are extremely facile and appear to be physiologically compatible suggesting a mechanism by which homocysteine may promote the deposition of proteins in nerve cells as amyloid plaques and fibrillary tangles.
[119711-55-6] C15H31NSi (MW 253.56) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C15H31NSi/c1-5-17(6-2,7-3)14(4)13-16-15-11-9-8-10-12-15/h13-15H,5-12H2,1-4H3 ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = DWZBXMFEWTUGRV-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (reagent used for the selective formation of (E)-α-methyl-α,β-unsaturated aldehydes1) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: bp 84–86 °C/0.1 mmHg. ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sol THF, sol ether. ::: ::: ::: ::: Analysis of Reagent Purity: 1H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl3) δ 7.65 (d, J = 6.7, 1H); 2.87 (tt, J = 10.6 and 4.1 Hz, 1H); 2.03 (pentet, J = 7.0 Hz, 1H); 1.82–1.20 (m, 10H); 1.16 (d, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H); 0.96 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 9H); 0.60 (q, J = 7.9 Hz, 6H).1 ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Method: prepared from propionaldehyde N-cyclohexylimine1, 2 by treatment with Lithium Diisopropylamide in THF at −78 °C for 30 min followed by the addition of Chlorotriethylsilane and gradually warming to 0 °C over a 3–4 h period.2, 3 ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: by fractional distillation.1 ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: use in a well-ventilated fume hood.
Abstract The conversion of methylmalonate semialdehyde to propionyl coenzyme A has been investigated with enzyme preparations made from Pseudomonas aeruginosa grown on valine. A protein fraction has been obtained which catalyzes the oxidation of methylmalonate semialdehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde with NAD as the electron acceptor. The product of methylmalonate semialdehyde oxidation in the presence of CoA is heat stable, reacts with hydroxylamine to form propionohydroxamate, is eluted from a chromatographic column of Dowex 1 in the same position as propionyl-CoA, and therefore, appears to be propionyl-CoA. The product of propionaldehyde oxidation in the presence of CoA also has been characterized as propionyl-CoA since it is heat stable and reacts with hydroxylamine to form propionohydroxamate. Oxidation of methylmalonate semialdehyde and propionaldehyde is accompanied by the formation of equal amounts of NADH and an active acyl compound, the latter estimated as the hydroxamate. When CoA is omitted from the reaction mixture, high levels of mercaptoethanol will restore enzyme activity, but catalytic activity is altered. In the presence of CoA, the pH activity curve for the oxidation of methylmalonate semialdehyde is much broader and the specific activity of the enzyme is higher than when CoA is absent. Omission of CoA from reaction mixtures has little effect on the pH activity curve for the oxidation of propionaldehyde however. Other enzymes concerned with propionyl-CoA metabolism which have been identified in extracts of P. aeruginosa are phosphotransacetylase, propionyl-CoA carboxylase, and lactyl-CoA dehydrase.
The present invention discloses a method for preparing 7-ethyl camptothecin, camptothecin, propionaldehyde, glacial acetic acid, FeSO 4 · 7H 2 O and water and the mixture was cooled to 0 deg.] C was added concentrated sulfuric acid, and hydrogen peroxide was added, the reaction at 0-5 ℃ 0.5-5 hours, the reaction product was poured into ice water, allowed to stand to precipitate a yellow solid, a 7-ethyl camptothecin . The reaction of the present invention under mild conditions, high product purity, simple operation, high yield, and without purified by column chromatography.
Not only bacteria but also fungal pathogens, particularly Candida species, can lead to biofilm infections on biomedical devices. By covalent grafting of the antifungal drug caspofungin, which targets the fungal cell wall, onto solid biomaterials, a surface layer can be created that might be able to provide long-term protection against fungal biofilm formation. Plasma polymerization of propionaldehyde (propanal) was used to deposit a thin (∼20 nm) interfacial bonding layer bearing aldehyde surface groups that can react with amine groups of caspofungin to form covalent interfacial bonds for immobilization. Surface analyses by x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry confirmed the intended grafting and uniformity of the coatings, and durability upon extended washing. Testing for fungal cell attachment and ensuing biofilm formation showed that caspofungin retained activity when covalently bound onto surfaces, disrupting colonizing Candida cells. Mammalian cytotoxicit...
Smog chamber/GC techniques were used to investigate the atmospheric degradation of two unsaturated alcohols, 1-penten-3-ol and (Z)-2-penten-1-ol, by oxidation with chlorine atoms at atmospheric pressure of N(2) or air, as a function of temperature. The rate coefficients at 298 K were (units in cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1)): (2.35 ± 0.31) × 10(-10) and (3.00 ± 0.49) × 10(-10) for 1-penten-3-ol and (Z)-2-penten-1-ol, respectively. The identified and quantified gas-phase products (with molar yields in brackets) were carbonyl compounds such as chloroacetaldehyde (33 ± 1%), propionaldehyde (39 ± 1%), acetaldehyde (8 ± 3%) and 1-penten-3-one (2%) from 1-penten-3-ol; and chlorobutyraldehyde (19 ± 1%), propionaldehyde (27 ± 1%), acetaldehyde (18 ± 2%) and (Z)-2-pentenal (36 ± 1%) from (Z)-2-penten-1-ol. A parallel theoretical study at the QCISD(T)6-311G**//MP2/6-311G** level was carried out to facilitate understanding of the reaction mechanism. Both the theoretical and experimental studies indicated that addition of Cl to the double bond of the unsaturated alcohol is the dominant reaction pathway, although the H-abstraction channel cannot be excluded. The atmospheric lifetimes of those unsaturated alcohols were calculated and the results are discussed.
Hop S-methylcysteine sulfoxide has previously been postulated as the precursor of dimethyl trisulfide (DMTS) in beers. The present data point to 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde, the Strecker aldehyde issued from methionine, as another potential precursor in aged beers. Spiking either fresh beer or wort before boiling leads in all cases to higher levels of DMTS after storage. Moreover, special malts with a high level of 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde also favor polysulfide synthesis. A higher pH should increase this onion-like off-flavor, whereas a low pH is unfortunately known to enhance the cardboard flavor of aged beers. 3-Methylthiopropanol, issued from yeast reducing activity, can be considered as an additional DMTS source during aging. Keywords: Dimethyl trisulfide; beer aging; methional; special malts
Ethylene hydroformylation over Rh-Y zeolite has been studied kinetically. The rate of formation of propionaldehyde is approximately proportional to the partial pressure of ethylene and decreases as the partial pressure of carbon monoxide increases. The rate is proportional to the square root of the partial pressure of hydrogen. In the case of ethylene hydroformylation with deuterium almost no appreciable isotope effect on the rate was observed. On the basis of these results a reaction mechanism is proposed via the formation of a propionyl intermediate by the reaction between an ethyl intermediate and adsorbed carbon monoxide. The propionyl-intermediate-formation step is proposed to be rate determining for ethylene hydroformylation over the Rh-Y zeolite.
PART I: ::: 3-Chloro-1, 2 -propanediol, 3 -bromo-1, 2-propanediol, and 3-iodo-1, 2-propanediol have been found to bind to dioldehydrase. Dissociation constants are approximately equal in each case. Binding occurs in a manner similar to that of the normal substrate, 1, 2-propanediol. All three compounds behave as competitive inhibitors while 3-chloro-1, 2-propanediol and 3-brom-1, 2-propanediol inactivate the holoenzyme as well. This inactivation process is irreversible and may involve the alkylation of sulfhydryl residues of dioldehydrase. Of the above compounds, only 3-chloro-1, 2-propanediol is converted to product; possibly β-chloropropionaldehyde is formed. ::: ::: PART II: ::: 2, 3-Epoxypropanol (glycidol) has been found to bind to dioldehydrase. Its calculated dissociation constant is 8.8 X 10^(-4) M. It binds to dioldehydrase even though it has but one hydroxyl group. 2, 3-Epoxypropanol behaves as a competitive inhibitor. This compound also inactivates the holoenzyme. Unlike the compounds studied in Part I, it also inactivates the apoenzyme, although at a slower rate. Since epoxides are known to alkylate sulfhydryl groups, the above result suggests the presence of exposed sulfhydryl residues.
Abstract This paper reports unequivocally the structures of the main components in “butyraldehyde-aniline” and “heptaldehyde-aniline” which are commercial vulcanization accelerators and “propionaldehyde-aniline” which is not commercial. All three components are dihydropyridines.
1. ::: ::: A study was made of the reactions of the dipotassium salt of trinitropropionaldehyde with formaldehyde and a primary amine, those examined being benzylamine, 2-aminoethanol, glycine ethyl ester, aniline, ammonia, hydrazine, ethylenediamine, and urea. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The reactions with benzylamine, 2-aminoethanol, and glycine ethyl ester led to the formation of the corresponding nitropyrrole derivatives: 1-benzyl-3,4-dinitropyrrole, 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-3,4-dinitropyrrole [3,4-dinitropyrrole-1-ethanol], and ethyl 3,4-dinitropyrrole-1-acetate. In the case of ammonia, hydrazine, ethylenediamine, and urea the reaction did not go in the desired direction. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: In the reaction with aniline two individual substances C16H13N3O2 and C13H11N3O2 were obtained; their structures were not determined. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: It was shown that simple homologs of formaldehyde can be used in the reaction, namely acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde.
The three genes pduCDE encoding the diol dehydratase of Lactobacillus collinoides, have been cloned for overexpression in the pQE30 vector. Although the three subunits of the protein were highly induced, no activity was detected in cell extracts. The enzyme was therefore purified to near homogeneity by ammonium sulfate precipitation and gel filtration chromatography. In fractions showing diol dehydratase activity, three main bands were present after SDS/PAGE with molecular masses of 63, 28 and 22 kDa, respectively. They were identified by mass spectrometry to correspond to the large, medium and small subunits of the dehydratase encoded by the pduC, pduD and pduE genes, respectively. The molecular mass of the native complex was estimated to 207 kDa in accordance with the calculated molecular masses deduced from the pduC, D, E genes (61, 24.7 and 19,1 kDa, respectively) and a α2β2γ2 composition. The Km for the three main substrates were 1.6 mm for 1,2-propanediol, 5.5 mm for 1,2-ethanediol and 8.3 mm for glycerol. The enzyme required the adenosylcobalamin coenzyme for catalytic activity and the Km for the cofactor was 8 µm. Inactivation of the enzyme was observed by both glycerol and cyanocobalamin. The optimal reaction conditions of the enzyme were pH 8.75 and 37 °C. Activity was inhibited by sodium and calcium ions and to a lesser extent by magnesium. A fourth band at 59 kDa copurified with the diol dehydratase and was identified as the propionaldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme, another protein involved in the 1,2-propanediol metabolism pathway.
Carbonyls such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and acrolein have been detected in e-cigarette vapors, with one study (albeit at a higher than the typical voltage) reporting formaldehyde-releasing agents in quantities sufficient to increase the risk of cancer by 5–15 fold when compared with long-term smoking. This study examines the Voke® Inhaler for traces of carbonyls and aims to quantify any that are detected in its aerosol. Three batches of five Voke® devices each were charged with formulation and allowed to rest for 0, 1, and 24 hr respectively, before being sampled. Aerosol from each device was extracted using a linear smoking machine and collected by dissolution into DNPH derivatization solution. Samples of the extract solution were analyzed for carbonyls using UHPLC. Results were reported as µg/8 puffs. Samples were analyzed for the presence of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, butan-2-one, and butyraldehyde. At the given LOD, no carbonyls were detected ...
The vapor-phase cyclization of acetophenone, propionaldehyde, ::: formaldehyde and ammonia was carried out over HZSM-5, Hβ and HY ::: zeolites at 400 °C and 0.5 h−1 weight hour space ::: velocity to synthesize 5-methyl-2-phenylpyridine. The cyclization activity ::: follows the order: HY > Hβ > HZSM-5. The influence of catalyst ::: modification with a metal ion, temperature, feed molar ratio, weight hour ::: space velocity, and activity with time on stream parameters were studied. ::: The maximum yield of 5-methyl-2-phenylpyridine was obtained over 3 wt% CoHY ::: zeolite at 400 °C.
The density characteristics of aldehydes in Kumi electronic Industrial Complex are measured in the summer and autumn in this study. Considering the characteristics of Kumi, five representative monitoring sites in Kumi are selected. According to fair Korean odor method, samples are collected and analyzed from July 26th, 2005 to October, 10th. Investigation objects include formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, iso-valeraldehyde, n-valeraldehyde. 40 samples in summer and 45 samples in autumn are measured and analyzed, respectively. The results show that the mean concentrations in residential area and industrial area are both obey the below sequence: acetaldehyde＞formaldehyde＞propionaldehyde＞butyraldehyde＞iso-valeraldehyde＞n-valeraldehyde. For acetaldehyde, its monitored concentration in industrial areas and residential areas close to industrial areas is higher than other areas. However, for formaldehyde, its concentration in the residential area 3 in tends to be higher than that in industrial areas. Based on seasons, concentrations in summer with long sunshine duration are higher than those in autumn. It can be seen that the density distribution of aldehyde in Kumi industrial complexes is closely related with the widely use of alcohol-type additives for automobiles and alcohol-type fuels. Meanwhile, most of the researches on aldehyde concentrate on capital areas or petrochemical industrial areas, taking the chance of odor prevention and control law implementing, the management scheme and reduction strategies on aldehyde ought to be carried out, which are also suitable to the enterprise characteristics in other industrial areas of this study.
Abstract Palladium–bismuth films supported on glassy carbon substrates were prepared by cathodic electrodeposition of palladium ad subsequent adsorption of bismuth species on the electrode surface. A mechanism regarding the irreversible adorption process of bismuth species on the palladium surface, was described. The resulting active film was characterized, and in particular, the electrooxidation of some aliphatic aldehydes was investigated in moderately alkaline solutions. The bismuth adlayer increases the overall rate of the oxidative processes through a combination of a third body mechanism and a true catalyst. The oxidation currents of propionaldehyde, evaluated in cyclic voltammetry increased linearly on increasing analyte concentration up to 8 mM. Under chronoamperometric conditions at the constant applied potential of −0.2 V versus SCE, the resulting calibration plot for propionaldehyde analysis was linear over the range of 1.5–8 mM with a correlation coefficient better than 0.97. Throughout the XPS investigation Pd 3d and Bi 4f detailed regions an average chemical composition of the surface composite film of Pd 96±2 Bi 4±2 was evaluated.
Two approaches are proposed for the synthesis of propan-1-ol from propylene oxide : Using nickel diphosphate as a catalyst, it is possible to isomerize propylene oxide to allyl alcohol and propionaldehyde, with n-selectivity values ranging up to 99%, the isomerisate can be hydrogenated to propan-1-ol without isolating individual compounds. In the presence of cobalt/α-aluminum oxide as catalyst, one may successfully use a one-step regioselective hydrogenation process of propylene oxide to propan-1-ol
The oxidation of n-propanol and n-butanol to their corresponding aldehydes was monitored by the pervaporation technique. Mass transfer phenomenon that occurs in the pervaporation process was confirmed by the results of inverse gas chromatography. Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS), a hydrophobic polymer widely employed as a membrane in pervaporation technique, was evaluated as a stationary phase in this study. The retention times of the different molecules probes (n-propanol, n-butanol, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde), molecules involved as reactants and products in the oxidation reaction, gave an insight into the extent of the interactions between each of these molecules and the stationary phase. The infinite dilution conditions allowed to measure the infinite dilution activity coefficient, gamma(infinity), and the specific retention volume, V(g)(0), and to estimate the Flory-Huggins parameter interactions, chi(12)(infinity). The magnitudes of these parameters threw some light on the permselectivity of the membranes in the pervaporation operation.
The fluorescences of biacetyl, acetone, ethyl methyl ketone, and acetaldehyde have been photographed. The main portions, at least, seem to be identical. A like similarity in the fluorescences of diethyl ketone and propionaldehyde suggests that diketones formed during the photolyses of these carbonyl compounds are the fluorescing substances.
During last decade, human fungal diseases gained importance as few pathogens cause life-threatening infections and Candida albicans is one among them. The recent antifungal resistance exhibited by C.albicans and other related fungi demand new drugs. Since natural products are potent source of antimicrobial compounds, an attempt was made using two terpenoids, viz., 1-2, 4, 5- Tri Methoxy Phenyl -1'- Methoxy Propionaldehyde (TMPMP) and 1-2, 4, 5- Tri Methoxy Acetophenone (TMAP), extracted from traditional Indian medicinal plant, Acorus calamus for its antifungal efficacy. The present study demonstrates the efficacy of these two terpenoids by exploring their effect on the virulence factors of the chosen organism. Results reveal the major virulence factors, namely, acidic, alkaline and neutral proteases, secreted aspartyl protease, lipase, phospholipase, elastase and keratinase activities have been completely reduced in the presence of TMPMP and TMAP compared to control. The reduction in virulence factors was on par with standard antifungal drug Fluconazole.
Abstract p -Tetratolylporphyrins with different metal centres such as Cr 3+ , Mn 3+ , Fe 3+ , Co 2+ , Ni 2+ , Cu 2+ and Zn 2+ have been used as catalysts for epoxidation of propylene in the presence of propionaldehyde and dioxygen. It has been found that the induction time as well as the distribution of the main reaction products, i.e. peroxy acid, epoxide and carbon dioxide, vary with the metalloporphyrin applied. These differences in the catalytic behaviour shed light on the character of the active forms of the catalysts and on the mechanism of the investigated reaction.
Poly(3-hydroxypropionate) (P3HP) is the strongest family member of microbial polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA) synthesized by bacteria grown on 1,3-propandiol or glycerol. In this study synthesis pathways of P3HP and its copolymer P3HB3HP of 3-hydroxybutyrate (3HB) and 3-hydroxypropionate (3HP) were assembled respectively to allow their synthesis from glucose, a more abundant carbon source. Recombinant Escherichia coli was constructed harboring the P3HP synthetic pathway consisting of heterologous genes encoding glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gpd1), glycerol-3-P phosphatase (gpp2) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae that catalyzes formation of glycerol from glucose, and genes coding glycerol dehydratase (dhaB123) with its reactivating factors (gdrAB) from Klebsiella pneumoniae that transfer glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, as well as gene encoding propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (pdup) from Salmonella typhimurium which converts 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 3-hydroxypropionyl-CoA, together with the gene of PHA synthase (phaC) from Ralstonia eutropha which polymerizes 3-hydroxypropionyl-CoA into P3HP. When phaA and phaB from Ralstonia eutropha respectively encoding β-ketothiolase and acetoacetate reductase, were introduced into the above P3HP producing recombinant E. coli, copolymers poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxypropionate) (P3HB3HP) were synthesized from glucose as a sole carbon source. The above E. coli recombinants grown on glucose LB medium successfully produced 5g/L cell dry weight containing 18% P3HP and 42% P(3HB-co-84mol% 3HP), respectively, in 48h shake flask studies.
The bovine gastrointestinal tract (GIT) is the main reservoir for enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) responsible for food-borne infections. Therefore, it is crucial to develop strategies, such as EHEC suppression by antagonistic microorganisms, to reduce EHEC survival in the GIT of cattle and to limit shedding and food contamination. Most human-derived Lactobacillus reuteri strains produce hydroxypropionaldehyde (HPA), an antimicrobial compound, during anaerobic reduction of glycerol. The capacity of L. reuteri LB1-7, a strain isolated from raw bovine milk, to produce HPA and its antimicrobial activity against an O157:H7 EHEC strain (FCH6) were evaluated in bovine rumen fluid (RF) under strict anaerobiosis. EHEC was totally suppressed when incubated in RF inoculated with L. reuteri LB1-7 and supplemented with 80 mM glycerol (RF-Glyc80). The addition of LB1-7 or glycerol alone did not modify EHEC survival in RF. Glycerol was converted to HPA (up to 14 mM) by LB1-7 during incubation in RF-Glyc80, and HPA production appeared to be responsible for EHEC suppression. The bactericidal activity of L. reuteri LB1-7, the concentration of glycerol required and the level of HPA produced depended on physiological and ecological environments. In vitro experiments also showed that EHEC inoculated in rumen fluid and exposed to L. reuteri and glycerol had a very limited growth in rectal contents. However, L. reuteri exerted an antimicrobial activity against the rumen endogenous microbiota and perturbed feedstuff degradation in the presence of glycerol. The potential administration of L. reuteri and glycerol in view of application to finishing beef cattle at the time of slaughter is discussed. Further in vivo studies will be important to confirm the efficiency of L. reuteri and glycerol supplementation against EHEC shedding in ruminants.
Abstract The effects of series of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes on hepatic glutathione, cytochrome P450, and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity were compared with time. Male F-344 rats were dosed with muconaldehyde (36 μmol/kg), acrolein (89 μmol/kg), crotonaldehyde (450 μmol/kg), or the saturated aldehyde propionaldehyde (89 μmol/kg) and terminated 0.5, 4, or 24 hr later. Acrolein or muconaldehyde reduced glutathione to 51 and 75% of controls, respectively, at 4 hr; glutathione returned to control values at 24 hr. Only at 24 hr, acrolein, muconaldehyde, or crotonaldehyde decreased cytochrome P450 to 61, 71, and 67% of control values, respectively; ethylmorphine N-demethylation was decreased to a greater extent, i.e., to 35, 60, and 23% of controls. The reductase activity was unchanged at any time following the treatment with reactive aldehydes which were not hepatotoxic (as shown by glucose 6-phosphatase activity, histological changes, or serum enzymes). Propionaldehyde changed none of these activities. Acrolein (44.5 μmol/kg) given 4 hr prior to phenobarbital (50 mg/kg) for two consecutive days decreased the phenobarbital induction of cytochrome P450 to 45% of phenobarbital alone. This treatment also decreased the 2α, 2β, 6β, 16α, and 16β hydroxylation of testosterone as well as androstenedione formation showing effects on individual cytochrome P450 isozymes. NADPH-cytochrome c reductase induction was not decreased by this treatment, thus indicating that in vivo these changes are due to a mechanism other than generalized inhibition of protein synthesis.
The kinetics of the aldehydic hydrogen abstraction by difluoroamino-radicals have been studied between 100 and 175 °C for propionaldehyde and between 80 and 150 °C for n- and iso-butyraldehyde. The following Arrhenius parameters were found: [graphic omitted] The kinetics and pressure-dependence of the decompositions of the resulting acyl radicals have been studied. The limiting high-pressure rate constants for the acyl radical decompositions have been obtained by extrapolation. [graphic omitted] The Arrhenius parameters for the acyl radical attacks on difluoroamine and for the acyl radical formations have been calculated from themodynamic data.
The large, non-classical magnitudes of the isotope effects for reactions of Q with these substrates 2 According to this hypothesis, the value of k sat for reaction of CH 3 CH 2 CHO with H peroxo is expected to be larger than that of all other substrates examined, but was slightly smaller than that for CH 3 CHO. This result does not necessarily negate the conclusion that a trend between reaction rate and C-H bond strength exists because propionaldehyde is expected to react at its methyl group in addition to its aldehydic position, for which the C-H bond strengths are compared. Reactivity at multiple sites having different C-H bond strengths partially invalidates the comparison for this substrate.
The bovine gastrointestinal tract (GIT) is the main reservoir for enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) responsible for food-borne infections. Therefore, it is crucial to develop strategies, such as EHEC suppression by antagonistic microorganisms, to reduce EHEC survival in the GIT of cattle and to limit shedding and food contamination. Most humanderived Lactobacillus reuteri strains produce hydroxypropionaldehyde (HPA), an antimicrobial compound, during anaerobic reduction of glycerol. The capacity of L. reuteri LB1-7, a strain isolated from raw bovine milk, to produce HPA and its antimicrobial activity against an O157:H7 EHEC strain (FCH6) were evaluated in bovine rumen fluid (RF) under strict anaerobiosis. EHEC was totally suppressed when incubated in RF inoculated with L. reuteri LB1-7 and supplemented with 80 mM glycerol (RF-Glyc80). The addition of LB1-7 or glycerol alone did not modify EHEC survival in RF. Glycerol was converted to HPA (up to 14 mM) by LB1-7 during incubation in RF-Glyc80, and HPA production appeared to be responsible for EHEC suppression. The bactericidal activity of L. reuteri LB1-7, the concentration of glycerol required and the level of HPA produced depended on physiological and ecological environments. In vitro experiments also showed that EHEC inoculated in rumen fluid and exposed to L. reuteri and glycerol had a very limited growth in rectal contents. However, L. reuteri exerted an antimicrobial activity against the rumen endogenous microbiota and perturbed feedstuff degradation in the presence of glycerol. The potential administration of L. reuteri and glycerol in view of application to finishing beef cattle at the time of slaughter is discussed. Further in vivo studies will be important to confirm the efficiency of L. reuteri and glycerol supplementation against EHEC shedding in ruminants.
Lactobacillus reuteri is used commercially as a probiotic microorganism and possesses antimicrobial properties against intestinal pathogens. It is well documented that specific L. reuteri can produce antimicrobial factors, such as hydroxypropionaldehyde (HPA) (also named reuterin), reutericyclin, reutericin, lactate or Mucus Adhesion-Promoting (MAP) protein [5, 6] . HPA has been proven effective against bacteria, fungi and protozoa survival [7, 8] . It has been postulated that HPA inhibits the activity of bacterial ribonucleotide reductase, a key enzyme catalysing the first step in DNA synthesis, which would explain the broad-spectrum activity of HPA [7, 9] .
In studies in the Zambesi Valley, Zimbabwe, carbon dioxide alone dispensed at 2·5 to 15 litres/min, or acetone alone dispensed at 0·3 to 300 g·h, increased by up to six times the catches of Glossina morsitans morsitans Westw, and G. pallidipes Aust. from stationary biconical traps, stationary electrocuting traps used with and without a visual target, and a mobile party of hand-net catchers. Catches were increased further when the chemicals were dispensed together. Carbon dioxide at 2·5 litres/min plus acetone at 15 g/h was about half as effective as ox odour for enhancing the catches from an electrocuting trap plus target; the efficacy of carbon dioxide at 15 litres/min plus acetone at 300 g/h was not significantly different from that of ox odour. Several short-chain ketones, and also formaldehyde and propionaldehyde, were attractive. Several long-chain ketones, and also heptaldehyde and caproic acid, were repellent. Carbon dioxide was attractive for Tabanidae, Stomoxyinae and non-biting Muscidae. Acetic acid was repellent for Stomoxyinae and non-biting Muscidae.
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 degrades 1,2-propanediol by a pathway that requires coenzyme B12, adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl) (29). Several lines of evidence indicate the importance of this process to the Salmonella lifestyle. 1,2-Propanediol is produced by the fermentation of the common plant sugars rhamnose and fucose (31, 34). Fucose is also found in the glycoconjugates of intestinal cells, where it is involved in host-parasite interactions (12). In vivo expression technology has indicated that 1,2-propanediol utilization (pdu) genes may be important for growth in host tissues, and competitive index studies with mice have shown that pdu mutations confer a virulence defect (14, 25). The pdu genes are contiguous and coregulated with the cobalamin (cob) (B12) biosynthetic genes, indicating that propanediol catabolism is the primary reason for de novo B12 synthesis in S. enterica (2, 8, 37, 41). If one includes the cob genes, S. enterica maintains 40 to 50 genes primarily for the transformation of propanediol. Moreover, nearly all natural isolates of Salmonella tested synthesized B12 de novo and degraded propanediol (30). Some of these aspects of Salmonella biology have been reviewed recently (40). ::: ::: The pathway of 1,2-propanediol degradation has been investigated (34, 54). It initiates with the conversion of 1,2-propanediol to propionaldehyde by an AdoCbl-dependent diol dehydratase (1). Subsequently, propionaldehyde is catabolized to propionic acid and propanol, presumably by coenzyme A (CoA)-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase, phosphotransacylase, propionate kinase, and alcohol dehydrogenase. This pathway provides a source of ATP, an electron sink, and carbon compounds that can be diverted to central metabolism via known pathways (27, 56). In addition, S. enterica can carry out the anaerobic respiration of 1,2-propanediol with tetrathionate as terminal electron acceptor (9). However, 1,2-propanediol respiration is not supported by the more common anaerobic electron acceptors, nitrate, fumarate, trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), or dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) (9). ::: ::: The genes required for 1,2-propanediol degradation cluster at the pdu locus on centisome 44 of the S. enterica chromosome (29). This locus includes the pocR and pduF genes, as well as the genes of the adjacent and divergently transcribed pdu operon (10, 13). The pocR and pduF genes encode a positive transcriptional regulatory protein and a 1,2-propanediol diffusion facilitator, respectively (10, 13, 37). The pdu operon is estimated to include about 20 genes (9). Those identified thus far are pduABCDEGHJ (10, 13, 58). The pduA and pduB genes encode a close and a distant relative of carboxysome shell proteins (13). The pduCDE genes encode an AdoCbl-dependent diol dehydratase, and the pduG gene encodes a putative cobalamin adenosyltransferase (10, 58). The pduHJ genes were identified by genetic tests, but neither their DNA sequence nor their specific function is known (58). The DNA sequences of the pocR, pduF, and pduABCDE genes and a portion of the pduG genes were determined, and analyses of these sequences indicated that the pdu locus was acquired by a horizontal gene transfer (10, 13, 41). The regulation of the pdu operon has also been investigated. It is coinduced with the adjacent cob operon in response to 1,2-propanediol, and its induction is influenced by cyclic AMP levels, the redox state of the cell, iron, magnesium, pH, and perhaps the growth phase (2, 8, 25, 37–39). In addition, recent electron microscopy (EM) studies have shown that S. enterica forms polyhedral bodies similar in size and appearance to carboxysomes during anaerobic growth on 1,2-propanediol (46). However, neither the composition of these polyhedra nor their role in 1,2-propanediol degradation has been investigated. ::: ::: Here the completed DNA sequence of the pdu operon and its analysis are presented. In addition, results establish that polyhedral bodies are involved in AdoCbl-dependent 1,2-propanediol degradation. The first evidence for the association of a coenzyme B12-dependent enzyme with a polyhedral organelle is presented, and we propose that these organelles consist of AdoCbl-dependent diol dehydratase (and perhaps other proteins) encased within a protein shell that is related to the shell of carboxysomes. The specific function of these unusual organelles is not determined, but some possibilities are discussed.
1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (DhaT) of Klebsiella pneumoniae converts 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) during microbial production of 1,3-PD from glycerol. In this study, DhaT from newly isolated K. pneumoniae J2B was cloned, expressed, purified, and studied for its kinetic properties. It showed, on its physiological substrate 3-HPA, higher activity than similar aldehydes such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde. The turnover numbers (k cat , 1/s) were estimated as 59.4 for the forward reaction (3-HPA to 1,3-PD at pH 7.0) and 10.0 for the reverse reaction (1,3-PD to 3-HPA at pH 9.0). The Michaelis constants (K m , mM) were 0.77 (for 3-HPA) and 0.03 (for NADH) for the forward reaction (at pH 7.0), and 7.44 (for 1,3-PD) and 0.23 (for NAD+) for the reverse reaction (at pH 9.0). Between these forward and reverse reactions, the optimum temperature and pH were significantly different (37°C and 7.0 vs. 55°C and 9.0, respectively). These results indicate that, under physiological conditions, DhaT mostly catalyzes the forward reaction. The enzyme was seriously inhibited by heavy metal ions such as Ag+ and Hg2+. DhaT was highly unstable when incubated with its own substrate 3-HPA, indicating the necessity of enhancing its stability for improved 1,3-PD production from glycerol.
The reported occurrence of synergistic false-positive coliform reactions on M-Endo MF medium was investigated. The objectives of the study were (i) to isolate populations of bacteria which produced such false-positive reactions, (ii) to determine whether false-positive sheen reactions are a result of synergistic interaction, and (iii) to determine the metabolic intermediates involved in false-positive sheen production. Samples of river water were subjected to coliform analysis by the membrane filter technique with M-Endo MF medium. Suspect sheen-forming colonies were analyzed to determine purity and identity of cultures. Mixed cultures were separated, and individual isolates were examined for sheen production. The isolates not producing a sheen were recombined and tested further for sheen production. Those mixtures reproducing the sheen were characterized biochemically and tested to determine the metabolic intermediates involved. Chromatographic analysis of the metabolites showed that individual isolates produced an assortment of neutral organic compounds including 2-butanone, 2,3-butanedione, formaldehyde, and butyraldehyde, whereas acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde was produced only by the mixed cultures. Tests showed that both propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde could react to produce a sheen on M-Endo medium. The conclusion was reached that synergistic false-positive coliform reactions do indeed occur on M-Endo MF medium.
The release of NADH from the enzyme.NADH complexes was rate limiting at 37 degrees, for the oxidation of propionaldehyde by sheep liver cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase. Marked substrate activation was observed at this temperature as was activation by p-(chloromercuri)benzoate. Activation of enzymic activity may be of importance in vivo.
ALDH3A1 (aldehyde dehydrogenase 3A1) is expressed at high concentrations in the mammalian cornea and it is believed that it protects this vital tissue and the rest of the eye against UV-light-induced damage. The precise biological function(s) and cellular distribution of ALDH3A1 in the corneal tissue remain to be elucidated. Among the hypotheses proposed for ALDH3A1 function in cornea is detoxification of aldehydes formed during UV-induced lipid peroxidation. To investigate in detail the biochemical properties and distribution of this protein in the human cornea, we expressed human ALDH3A1 in Sf9 insect cells using a baculovirus vector and raised monoclonal antibodies against ALDH3A1. Recombinant ALDH3A1 protein was purified to homogeneity with a single-step affinity chromatography method using 5'-AMP-Sepharose 4B. Human ALDH3A1 demonstrated high substrate specificity for medium-chain (6 carbons and more) saturated and unsaturated aldehydes, including 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, which are generated by the peroxidation of cellular lipids. Short-chain aliphatic aldehydes, such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and malondialdehyde, were found to be very poor substrates for human ALDH3A1. In addition, ALDH3A1 metabolized glyceraldehyde poorly and did not metabolize glucose 6-phosphate, 6-phosphoglucono-delta-lactone and 6-phosphogluconate at all, suggesting that this enzyme is not involved in either glycolysis or the pentose phosphate pathway. Immunohistochemistry in human corneas, using the monoclonal antibodies described herein, revealed ALDH3A1 expression in epithelial cells and stromal keratocytes, but not in endothelial cells. Overall, these cumulative findings support the metabolic function of ALDH3A1 as a part of a corneal cellular defence mechanism against oxidative damage caused by aldehydic products of lipid peroxidation. Both recombinant human ALDH3A1 and the highly specific monoclonal antibodies described in the present paper may prove to be useful in probing biological functions of this protein in ocular tissue.
Microorganisms that are capable of (S)-enantioselective transamination of chiral amines were isolated from soil samples by selective enrichment using (S)-alpha-methyl-benzylamine ((S)-alpha-MBA) as a sole nitrogen source. Among them, Klebsiella pneumoniae JS2F, Bacillus thuringiensis JS64, and Vibrio fluvialis JS17 showed good omega-transaminase (omega-TA) activities and the properties of the omega-TAs were investigated. The induction level of the enzyme was strongly dependent on the nitrogen source for the strains, except for V. fluvialis JS17. All the omega-TAs showed high enantioselectivity (E>50) toward (S)-alpha-MBA and broad amino donor specificities for arylic and aliphatic chiral amines. Besides pyruvate, aldehydes such as propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde showed good amino acceptor reactivities. All the omega-TAs showed substrate inhibition by (S)-alpha-MBA above 200 mm. Moreover, substrate inhibition by pyruvate above 10 mm was observed for omega-TA from V. fluvialis JS17. In the case of product inhibition, acetophenone showed much greater inhibitions than L-alanine for all omega-TAs. Comparison of the enzyme properties indicates that omega-transaminase from V. fluvialis JS17 is the best one for both kinetic resolution and asymmetric synthesis to produce enantiomerically pure chiral amines. Kinetic resolution of sec-butylamine (20 mM) was done under reduced pressure (150 Torr) to selectively remove an inhibitory product (2-butanone) using the enzyme from V. fluvialis JS17. Enantiomeric excess of (R)-sec-butylamine reached 94.7% after 12 h of reaction.
Abstract Sterically hindered Mn(III) and Fe(III) complexes of tetrakis (2, 6-dichlorophenylporphyrin) (TDCPP) and tetrakis (2, 4, 6-trimethylphenylporphyrin) (TMP) have been applied as catalysts for epoxidation of propylene by molecular oxygen in the presence of propionaldehyde as reducing agent as well as with lithium hypochlorite as oxygen source. The differences in the catalytic behaviour of the investigated porphyrins when compared with simple metalloporphyrins are demonstrated and discussed.
The invention belongs to the technical field of organic chemical industry, and relates to a synthetic method of a precursor of an imidacloprid pesticide intermediate 2-chloro-4-formyl valeronitrile. According to the synthetic method, propionaldehyde and chlorine gas are taken as initial raw materials, 2-chloride propyl aldehyde is prepared via substitution, and catalytic addition with acrylonitrile is carried out so as to obtain 2-chloro-4-formyl valeronitrile via synthesis, and total yield is stabilized to be higher than 70%. According to the synthetic method, chlorine substitution and addition two-step reaction is adopted, 2-chloro-4-formyl valeronitrile is prepared, the synthetic method is simple in technological process, low in production cost, and low in equipment investment, and is suitable for industrialized production, and raw material recovery is convenient to realize.
The objective of this study was to assess the catalytic activities of manganese oxide (MnO, MnO₂, Mn₂O₃, and Mn₃O₄) catalysts for odors (acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde) removal. We used a fixed bed reactor as the experimental apparatus and the catalytic performance were carried out over the temperature range of 200~470℃. The properties and performance of catalysts were characterized by the X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET). The catalytic activities of manganese oxide catalysts for acetaldehyde combustion were in the order of MnO＜MnO₂＜Mn₂O₃＜Mn₃O₄, and it is similar to that of propionaldehyde combustion. We also confirmed that the reactions have well followed the kinetic model of Power-Rate Law and the reaction order (n) is 1 for both of the acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde combustion. In addition, the reaction activation energy of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde combustion over Mn₃O₄ were found to be 72.42 kJ㏖?¹ for 487~503 K and 51.14 kJ㏖?¹ for 473~533 K, respectively.
Abstract The conformational profiles for rotation around the CC(O) bond α and the energy minimum conformations are calculated for propionaldehyde 1 , chloroacetaldehyde 2 , and 2-chloropropionaldehyde 3 at MP2/6-31G(d)//HF/6-31G(d). The energy level of the LUMO is calculated as a function of α for 1 , 2 , and 3 and discussed in relationship to the Felkin-Anh model.
Abstract Methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase (MSDH) belongs to the CoA-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase subfamily. It catalyzes the NAD-dependent oxidation of methylmalonate semialdehyde (MMSA) to propionyl-CoA via the acylation and deacylation steps. MSDH is the only member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily that catalyzes a β-decarboxylation process in the deacylation step. Recently, we demonstrated that the β-decarboxylation is rate-limiting and occurs before CoA attack on the thiopropionyl enzyme intermediate. Thus, this prevented determination of the transthioesterification kinetic parameters. Here, we have addressed two key aspects of the mechanism as follows: 1) the molecular basis for recognition of the carboxylate of MMSA; and 2) how CoA binding modulates its reactivity. We substituted two invariant arginines, Arg-124 and Arg-301, by Leu. The second-order rate constant for the acylation step for both mutants was decreased by at least 50-fold, indicating that both arginines are essential for efficient MMSA binding through interactions with the carboxylate group. To gain insight into the transthioesterification, we substituted MMSA with propionaldehyde, as both substrates lead to the same thiopropionyl enzyme intermediate. This allowed us to show the following: 1) the pKapp of CoA decreases by ∼3 units upon binding to MSDH in the deacylation step; and 2) the catalytic efficiency of the transthioesterification is increased by at least 104-fold relative to a chemical model. Moreover, we observed binding of CoA to the acylation complex, supporting a CoA-binding site distinct from that of NAD(H).
Abstract The cyclic voltammetric behaviour of propionaldehyde (PA) and hexanaldehyde (HA), in 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium bis(trifluoromethyl-sulfonyl) imide ([BMIM][NTF2]), 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hydrogen sulphate ([BMIM][HSO4]) and 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hydroxide ([BMIM][OH]) was investigated at a platinum microelectrode. A clear oxidation process for both aldehydes was recorded only in [BMIM][OH]. On the basis of these evidences, an electrochemical microprobe (EMP), incorporating [BMIM][OH] as electrolyte, was assembled for sensing these aldehydes in gaseous phases. The EMP exposed in the headspace of the liquid aldehydes displayed voltammetric and amperometric responses, which depended on the aldehyde vapour pressures and, consequently, on the temperature employed. The usefulness of the [BMIM][OH] coated EMP for practical applications was assessed in the detection of HA vapour released from squalene (i.e., a lipid simulant matrix) samples spiked with known amounts of the aldehyde. Calibration plots were constructed at 40 °C, 50 °C and 60 °C, using both voltammetry and chronoamperometry. In both cases, good linearity between current and HA concentration in squalene was obtained over the range 3–300 ppm, with correlation coefficients higher than 0.991. Reproducibility, evaluated from at least three replicates, was within 5%. Detection limits, evaluated for a signal-to-noise ratio of 3, were in any case lower than 1.7 ppm. These analytical performances are suitable for monitoring VAs coming from lipid oxidation processes in food. An application concerning the determination of VAs in headspace of sunflower oil during an induced oxidative test to establish its thermal stability was also performed.
Abstract Combined FT-IR/mass spectrometry was used to study the dynamic behavior of hydrogen/deuterium adsorbates in response to D 2 and C 2 D 4 pulses during ethylene hydroformylation on Mn–Rh/SiO 2 at 513 K and 0.1 MPa. Variation of exposure time of the catalyst to the D 2 and C 2 D 4 pulses revealed that readsorption did not play a significant role in the product responses; long exposure time allows more deuterium to enter the slower pathway of d 1 - and d 2 -propionaldehyde. The two-unequal-hump HD response from both the D 2 and C 2 D 4 pulses indicates the presence of an isotope effect on hydrogen/deuterium adsorption. The rapid responses of the deuterated ethylene and ethane can be described by the Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism and indicate that their intermediates have small θ (surface coverage) and τ (residence time) which cannot be resolved by the time resolution of their transient responses. The d 1 - and d 2 -propionaldehyde products show a two-hump response, which can be explained by the different deuterium incorporation pathways into the propionaldehyde. The first hump is due to hydrogen/deuterium exchange on adsorbed acyl and acyl hydrogenation. The second hump is due to H/D exchange on the adsorbed alkyl species, which then undergoes CO insertion and acyl hydrogenation. The second hump decay is partly due to the reaction with Si–OD as indicated by the parallel decay of d 1 - and d 2 -propionaldehyde and Si–OD.
Abstract The total aldehyde reducing capacity of various tissues, including liver, lung, brain, heart and testes, was determined with propionaldehyde or m -nitrobenzaldehyde as substrate. With each of these substrates, measurements of aldehyde reducing capacity were conducted with NADPH as well as NADH as the cofactors in the absence or presence of pyrazole. The capacity of heart, lung, brain and testes tissues to reduce m -nitrobenzaldehyde was 2- to 10-fold greater than the capacity to reduce propionaldehyde with either NADH or NADPH. However, aldehyde reductase activity in liver tissue was greater with propionaldehyde than with m -nitrobenzaldehyde as substrate. Propionaldehyde reducing capacity of various tissues was inhibited by pyrazole 98–100 per cent with NADH as cofactor, and 25–60 per cent with NADPH as cofactor, depending upon the tissue examined. On the other hand, pyrazole inhibited m -nitrobenzaldehyde reduction only 12–70 per cent with NADH as cofactor, and little inhibition was observed with NADPH as co-substrate. Separation and isolation of two aldehyde reductase fractions from rat liver, which were distinct from alcohol: NAD oxidoreductase (EC 1.1.1.1), was achieved. These fractions differed in substrate and cofactor specificities and in their sensitivity to inhibition by pyrazole and pentobarbital. Similar separations of aldehyde reducing activities were performed with bovine brain tissues, and two distinct enzyme fractions were isolated and compared with the fractions isolated from liver.
Lactobacillus reuteri metabolises glycerol efficiently to form 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) and 1,3-propanediol (1,3PDO) by the same mechanism as that for 1,2-propanediol (1,2PDO) conversion to propionic acid and propanol via its propanediol utilization (pdu) pathway. Pdu enzymes are encoded by the pdu-operon, which also contain genes encoding the shell proteins of the microcompartment housing the metabolic pathway. In this work the selectivity and kinetics of the reactions catalysed by L. reuteri DSM20016 Pdu enzymes glycerol dehydratase (GDH), 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (PduQ) and coenzyme-A acylating propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP), produced recombinantly, was investigated against corresponding substrates of different chain lengths. Glycerol dehydratase exhibited activity against C2-C4 polyols, with the highest activity against glycerol and 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PDO). A double mutant of the pduC gene of GDH (PduC-S302A/Q337A) was constructed that displayed lowered activity against glycerol and 1,2PDO but extended the substrate range upto C6-diol. The best substrate for both PduQ and PduP was 3-hydroxypropanal (3HPA), although PduP exhibited nearly 10-fold higher specific activity. The enzymes also showed some activity against C3-C10 aliphatic aldehydes, with PduP having higher relative activity. Subsequently, transformation of polyols using whole cells of L. reuteri containing the wild type- and mutated GDH, respectively, confirmed the reduced activity of the mutant against glycerol and 1,2PDO, but its activity against longer substrates was negligible. In contrast, recombinant Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) cells harboring the GDH variant converted diols with up to C6 carbon chain length to their respective aldehydes, suggesting that the protein shell of the microcompartment in L. reuteri posed a barrier to the passage of longer chain substrate.
The photolytic decarbonylation of 2-14C-3-phenylpropionaldehyde gave isotopically unrearranged β-l4C-ethylbenzene, indicating that under the experimental conditions employed, there was no detectable amount of 1,2-phenyl shift in the reaction.
A new method is established for the quantitative analysis of the aromatic toxic organic pollutants in the wastewater discharged by phenol-acetone unit,such as cumene,2-phenyl-1-phenylethanol,2-phenyl-2-propanol,phenol,acetophenone,2-phenylpropionaldehyde.Liquid-liquid extraction used to pretreatment the wastewater using dichloromethane as the extraction.Extraction phase was measured by gas chromatography which using DB-WAX-type column and FID detector by programmed temperature.The sample size was 1 μL.The results showed that all the compounds were full separated under the analysis conditions.The sensitive,detection limits and recovery met the analysis requirements.
The complexes MHCl(CO)(AsPh3)3 (1: M=Ru and2: M=Os) readily react with Ph2PCH2CH2AsPh2 (Arphos) to yield MHCl(CO) (AsPh3) (Arphos) (3: M=Ru and4: M=Os) and with acetic acid to produce MCl(CO) (OCOMe) (AsPh3)2 (5: M=Ru and6: M=Os); the new compounds were characterized by elemental analysis, i.r. and1H n.m.r. spectroscopy. Complexes (1−6) are efficient catalyst precursors for the homogeneous hydrogenation of the C=O bond of propionaldehyde under moderate reaction conditions; some relations between structures and catalytic activities are described, as well as comparisons with analogous systems containing phosphine ligands.
In this study, the catalytic activity of Mn-Phthalocyanine (Mn-PC) for VOCs (acetadehyde, propionaldehyde and toluene) combustion was determined. The reaction was carried out in a fixed bed reactor at the temperature range of . We investigated the physicochemical properties of Mn-PC before and after the pretreatment (air, , 1 hr, 60 cc/min) by TGA (Thermogravimetric Analyzer), BET (Brunauer Emmett Teller), EA (Elemental Analyzer), XRD (X-ray Diffractometer) and SEM (Scanning Electronic Microscope). By TGA analysis, 88 wt.% mass loss of Mn-PC was found at . The BET surface area of Mn-PC increased after the pretreatment. The decomposition and combustion of organic components in Mn-PC were observed by EA analysis. We also confirmed that Mn-PC had transformed into a new manganese oxide phase () after the pretreatment by XRD analysis. By SEM analysis, many of the micropores generated during the pretreatment were found. The catalytic activity of Mn-PC with the pretreatment for propionaldehyde combustion was higher than that of and fresh Mn-PC. It showed the catalytic activity of Mn-PC with the pretreatment for VOCs combustion by the order of toluene
Abstract Separation factors for pervaporation of organic/water mixtures through zeolite membranes are shown to correlate with the fugacities of the feed components, and this correlation allows qualitative predictions of separation performance. For more than a 500-fold range of fugacities, organic/water separation factors for 5 wt.% organic feeds increased with organic feed fugacity for pervaporation through a hydrophobic Ge-ZSM-5 zeolite membrane at 303 and 333 K. The C 1 –C 4 organics were carboxylic acids, alcohols, ketones, esters, propionaldehyde, and diethyl ether. The fluxes and separation factors also depended on organic heats of adsorption and size, but to a lesser extent than on fugacity. Competitive adsorption coverages, and therefore the driving forces for transport, appear to depend on the organic/water feed fugacity ratios. Separation factors for hydrophobic and hydrophilic zeolite membranes in the literature also correlated with feed fugacities. Separation factors for the hydrophobic membranes had trends with fugacity similar to those for the Ge-ZSM-5 membrane, but separation factors for the hydrophilic membrane increased as the water/organic feed fugacity ratio increased. Furthermore, fugacity ratios correctly predicted a selectivity inversion for 1-butanol/acetic acid separations from 1-butanol/acetic acid/water mixtures using the Ge-ZSM-5 zeolite membrane.
Field and greenhouse experiments evaluated interactions of soil-applied insecticides and imazaquin and imazethapyr on growth and development of cotton. Imazaquin and imazethapyr were applied PPI at 0 to 6 and 0 to 16 g ae ha7l, respectively, in the greenhouse (plus a no-insecticide control), and 0 to 72 g ha-1 in the field in combination with aldicarb, disulfoton, and phorate (without a no-insecticide control) applied in the seed furrow. Cotton shoot fresh weight in the greenhouse experiment decreased linearly as herbicide rates in- creased. Greater reductions in shoot fresh weight were noted with imazaquin than with imazethapyr. Compared with no insecticide, the methylcarbamate insecticide aldicarb and the organophosphate insecticides disulfoton and phorate did not affect cotton response to either herbicide. In the field, cotton injury increased while stand, yield, and maturity decreased as herbicide rates increased. Delayed maturity was due to a lower percent- age of bolls produced on sympodia from main stem nodes four to nine. Imazaquin caused greater injury, greater reductions in stand, greater delays in maturity, and lower yields than did imazethapyr. Earlier maturity was noted with aldicarb-treated cotton. Compared with aldicarb, disulfoton and phorate did not alter cotton response to imazaquin or imazethapyr. Nomenclature: Aldicarb, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcar- bamoyl)oxime; disulfoton, O,O-diethyl S-(2- (ethylthio)ethyl) phosphorodithioate; imazaquin, 2-(4,5- dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-lH-imidazol-2- yl)-3-quinolinecarboxylic acid; imazethapyr, (?)-2-(4,5- dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-lH-imidazol-2- yl)-5-ethyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid; phorate, O,O-diethyl S-(2-(ethylthio)-methyl phosphorodithioate; cotton, Gos- sypium hirsutum (L.) 'Deltapine 90', 'Stoneville Coker 304', 'Stoneville KC 380', and 'Stoneville McNair 235'. Additional index words: Pesticide interactions, maturity, plant mapping, fiber quality, aldicarb, disulfoton, phorate.
Reactions of 2-alkoxypropenals with α-hydroxyamino oximes in neutral medium involve the aldehyde group of the former to afford both acyclic and cyclic azomethine oxides: N-(2-hydroxyiminoalkyl)-N-(2-alkoxy-2-propenylidene)amine oxides and 1-hydroxy-2,5-dihydroimidazole 3-oxides. The state of tautomeric equilibrium between the cyclic and acyclic products depends on the solvent nature and temperature. The reaction in acidic aqueous medium is accompanied by hydrolysis of the vinyl ether moiety in 2-alkoxy-propenals with formation of 2-oxopropionaldehyde which reacts with α-hydroxyamino oxime at the hydroxy-amino group to give substituted pyrazine 1,4-dioxides. The reaction of 2-alkoxypropenals with 1,2-bis-(hydroxyamino)cyclohexane leads to formation of 2-(1-alkoxyvinyl)-1,3-dihydroxyperhydrobenzimidazoles. The structure of the products was proved by IR, UV, and 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy and X-ray analysis.
And a filter element for a multi-segment filter comprising a release-flavor cigarette is located downstream of the tobacco rod, and the adsorbent bed and the adsorbent bed. In a preferred embodiment, the adsorbent also includes a support and a flavor, high surface area activated carbon. As mainstream smoke is drawn through the upstream portion of the filter, gas phase smoke constituents are removed and flavor is released from the adsorbent bed. After that the mainstream smoke flavor - when passing through the emission filter segments, the additional flavor is released into the mainstream smoke. Ventilation is provided to limit the amount of tobacco combusted during each puff and is arranged to reduce the velocity of the smoke to pass through the adsorbent bed from the adsorbent bed and spaced apart downstream. Preferably the carbon bed is complete when the filled and comprises carbon of at least 160 to 180㎎ if the carbon of at least 90 to 120㎎, filling more than 85%, in combination with other features at the 1, 3 butadiene, acrolein, isoprene, propionaldehyde, and acrylonitrile, benzene, toluene, styrene provided the flavor property cigarette which can achieve 90% or more, and acetaldehyde, and decreases by more than 80% of the hydrogen cyanide to, significant reduction in the gas phase smoke constituents of mainstream smoke .
The bioconversion of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) by Klebsiella pneumoniae (K. pneumoniae) can be characterized by an intricate metabolic network of interactions among biochemical fluxes, metabolic compounds, key enzymes and genetic regulation. Since there are some uncertain factors in the fermentation, especially the transport mechanisms of 1,3-PD across cell membrane, the metabolic network contains multiple possible metabolic systems. Considering the genetic regulation of dha regulon and inhibition of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to the growth of cells, we establish a 14-dimensional nonlinear hybrid dynamical system aiming to determine the most possible metabolic system and the corresponding optimal parameter. The existence, uniqueness and continuity of solutions are discussed. Taking the robustness index of the intracellular substances together as a performance index, a system identification model is proposed, in which 1,395 continuous variables and 90 discrete variables are involved. The identification problem is decomposed into two subproblems and a parallel particle swarm optimization procedure is constructed to solve them. Numerical results show that it is most possible that 1,3-PD passes the cell membrane by active transport coupled with passive diffusion.
A Pd-promoted Re/SiO2 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation and compared to monometallic Pd/SiO2 and Re/SiO2. All samples were characterized by electron microscopy, H2 and CO chemisorption, H2 temperature-programmed reduction, and in-situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy at the Re LIII and Pd K-edges. The samples were also tested in the reduction of propionic acid to 1-propanol and propionaldehyde at 433 K in 0.1-0.2 MPa H2. Whereas monometallic Pd was inactive for carboxylic acid reduction, monometallic Re catalyzed aldehyde formation, but only after high-temperature pre-reduction that produced metallic Re. When Pd was present with Re in a bimetallic catalyst, Pd facilitated the reduction of Re in H2 to ~4+ oxidation state at modest temperatures, producing an active catalyst for the conversion of propionic acid to 1-propanol. Under the conditions of this study, the orders of reaction in propionic acid and H2 were approximately zero and one, respectively. Transient kinetic analysis of the carboxyl...
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to a method for producing 2-hydroxy-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile, wherein 3-(methylmercapto)-propionaldehyde is reacted with hydrogen cyanide in presence of a base as catalyst into nitrile in a main reaction zone, and residual gaseous hydrogen cyanide quantities that exit main reaction zone are absorbed in an absorption- and post-reaction zone containing a mixture of 3-(methylmercapto)-propionaldehyde and catalyst, as well as optionally 2-hydroxy-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile and subjected to further conversion with 3-(methylmercapto)-propionaldehyde with subsequent removal of product, containing 2-hydroxy-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile, where in output product molar ratio between hydrogen cyanide and unreacted 3-(methylmercapto)-propionaldehyde is greater than 1. EFFECT: method enables to obtain storage-stable during storage cyanohydrin and increases output of end product. 24 cl, 1 dwg, 2 ex
Attenuated total reflection Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) has been used to study cross-linking in hard gelatin capsules induced by exposure to formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde. These aldehydes are known to cause cross-linking between the amino acid chains of gelatin. Using FTIR spectroscopy, it is possible to analyze the cross-linking mechanisms by studying changes in the vibrational bands of the gelatin spectrum. The FTIR spectrum changes over time when the capsules are left in an aldehyde-rich environment. Analysis of the spectra shows that the early observed spectral changes conform to reaction intermediates proposed in previous work based on nuclear magnetic resonance experiments, specifically, the formation of amine methyl alcohol of arginine and lysine residues. Further spectral changes appear to be mostly from unreacted aldehydes absorbed to the gelatin, although a minor shift of the amide II peak is attributed to cross-link formation.
Aldol condensations are one of the most important methods to form carbon-carbon bonds in organic chemistry and biochemistry. The kinetics of formation of the 2-methyl-2-pentenal in acid-catalyzed aldol condensation reaction of propionaldehyde were studied at ambient temperature and 175℃ in pure water and a mixture consisting of 80 vol% γ-valerolactone (GVL) and 20 vol% water using aqueous HCl and on various solid acid zeolites. The rate orders and rate constants were determined, showing that GVL as a co-solvent enhances the reaction rate via solvation of the aldol-condensation reaction transition state. In addition, the mechanism of propionaldehyde pathway was discussed. Propionaldehyde conversions and selectivities to 2-methyl-2-pentenal varied on the different zeolites tested (BEA, Y, MOR, MFI, FER) at 175℃ using both water and 80/20 GVL/H2O as solvents.
Chitosan has been chemically modified by treating with two different aldehydes viz acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde to form Schiff's bases. Schiff bases of chitosan with acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were named as polymer-l and polymer-II, respectively. FTIR confirmed the reaction carried out on chitosan. Chemically-modified chitosan and plain chitosan were compared for the film forming capacity, swelling property and water permeability rate. Further, the films were incorporated with antiasthmatic drug, salbutamol sulphate by mixing with polymer solution during casting. Drug loading and permeation characteristics were compared for plain chitosan and chemically modified chitosan. Films produced were transparent, smooth and flexible without plasticization. Water permeability for chitosan was 1.13X10-4 g.cm2/day. It was found to be 8.10x10-4 and 5.18x10-4 g.cm2/day for polymer-I and polymer-II, respectively. Percentage entrapment of salbutamol sulphate in the membranes of plain chitosan, polymer-I and polymer-II was 1.22, 1.83 and 1.40 mg/cm2, respectively. The time taken for permeation of 50 % of drug (T50) through excised rat skin was 118, 62 and 88 min for chitosan, polymer-l and polymer-ll, respectively.
Many new solvents were investigated for the copolymerization of CO with ethylene to prepare polyketones with small reactor experiments.The backbone and the end groups of the polyketones prepared in different solvents were analyzed with high resolution 1H NMR and 13C NMR techniques.The experimental results showed that,besides in methanol,in acetone,propionaldehyde,N,N dimethylformamide,N,N dimethylacetamide,glacial acetic acid,dimethylsulfoxide,palladium(Ⅱ) bisphosphine catalyst also had high reactivity,especially in glacial acetic acid,the copolymerization could be performed without anions of strong acid.The experimental results also showed that suitable solvent should have suitable stability on central metal palladium(Ⅱ) besides acting as diluent.End groups analysis showed that the copolymerization was initiated by insertion of ethylene into Pd H bond in non alcohol solvents,was mainly initiated by insertion of CO into Pd OR bond in alcohol solvents.
This paper presents a new database of carbonyl emission factors for commonly used cookstoves in China. The emission factors, reported both on a fuel-mass basis (mg/kg) and on a defined cooking-task basis (mg/task), were determined using a carbon balance approach for 22 types of fuel/stove combinations. These include various stoves (e.g., traditional, improved, brick, and metal, with and without flue) using different species of crop residues and wood, kerosene, and several types of coals and gases. The results show that all the tested cookstoves produced formaldehyde and acetaldehyde and that the vast majority of the biomass stoves produced additional carbonyl compounds such as acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, 2-butanone, isobutyraldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, valeraldehyde, hexaldehyde, benzaldehyde, o-tolualdehyde, m,p-tolualdehyde, and 2,4-dimethylbenzaldehyde. Carbonyls other than formaldehyde and acetaldehyde, however, were rarely generated by burning coal, coal gas, and...
The oxidation mechanism of aldehydes with permanganate was studied in acidic and alkaline media on acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, pivalaldehyde (2,2′-dimethylpropanal) and chloral substrates. On addition of water to acetaldehyde dissolved in organic solvents the rate increased, and therefore it may be stated that the hydrate form is more reactive than the aldehyde form. Acid-catalysed nucleophilic addition of permanganate is suggested. In alkaline medium a mechanism based on electron abstraction from the alkoxy anion of the hydrate is proposed. Deprotonation constants of hydrate could be calculated. © 1997 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The reported occurrence of synergistic false-positive coliform reactions on MEndo MF medium was investigated. The objectives of the study were (i) to isolate populations of bacteria which produced such false-positive reactions, (ii) to determine whether false-positive sheen reactions are a result of synergistic interaction, and (iii) to determine the metabolic intermediates involved in false-positive sheen production. Samples of river water were subjected to coliform analysis by the membrane filter technique with M-Endo MF medium. Suspect sheen-forming colonies were analyzed to determine purity and identity of cultures. Mixed cultures were separated, and individual isolates were examined for sheen production. The isolates not producing a sheen were recombined and tested further for sheen production. Those mixtures reproducing the sheen were characterized biochemically and tested to determine the metabolic intermediates involved. Chromatographic analysis of the metabolites showed that individual isolates produced an assortment of neutral organic compounds including 2-butanone, 2,3-butanedione, formaldehyde, and butyraldehyde, whereas acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde was produced only by the mixed cultures. Tests showed that both propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde could react to produce a sheen on M-Endo medium. The conclusion was reached that synergistic false-positive coliform reactions do indeed occur on M-Endo MF medium.
ALDH3A1 (aldehyde dehydrogenase 3A1) is expressed at high concentrations in the mammalian cornea and it is believed that it protects this vital tissue and the rest of the eye against UVlight-induced damage. The precise biological function(s) and cellular distribution of ALDH3A1 in the corneal tissue remain to be elucidated. Among the hypotheses proposed for ALDH3A1 function in cornea is detoxification of aldehydes formed during UV-induced lipid peroxidation. To investigate in detail the biochemical properties and distribution of this protein in the human cornea, we expressed human ALDH3A1 in Sf9 insect cells using a baculovirus vector and raised monoclonal antibodies against ALDH3A1. Recombinant ALDH3A1 protein was purified to homogeneity with a single-step affinity chromatography method using 5 -AMP-Sepharose 4B. Human ALDH3A1 demonstrated high substrate specificity for medium-chain (6 carbons and more) saturated and unsaturated aldehydes, including 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, which are generated by the peroxidation of cellular lipids. Short-chain aliphatic aldehydes, such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and malondialdehyde, were found to be very poor substrates for human ALDH3A1. In addition, ALDH3A1 metabolized glyceraldehyde poorly and did not metabolize glucose 6-phosphate, 6-phosphoglucono-δ-lactone and 6-phosphogluconate at all, suggesting that this enzyme is not involved in either glycolysis or the pentose phosphate pathway. Immunohistochemistry in human corneas, using the monoclonal antibodies described herein, revealed ALDH3A1 expression in epithelial cells and stromal keratocytes, but not in endothelial cells. Overall, these cumulative findings support the metabolic function of ALDH3A1 as a part of a corneal cellular defence mechanism against oxidative damage caused by aldehydic products of lipid peroxidation. Both recombinant human ALDH3A1 and the highly specific monoclonal antibodies described in the present paper may prove to be useful in probing biological functions of this protein in ocular tissue.
Methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase (MSDH) belongs to the CoA-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase subfamily. It catalyzes the NAD-dependent oxidation of methylmalonate semialdehyde (MMSA) to propionyl-CoA via the acylation and deacylation steps. MSDH is the only member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily that catalyzes a ␤-decarboxylation process in the deacylation step. Recently, we demonstrated that the ␤-decarboxylation is rate-limiting and occurs before CoA attack on the thiopropionyl enzyme intermediate. Thus, this prevented determination of the transthioesterification kinetic parameters. Here, we have addressed two key aspects of the mechanism as follows: 1) the molecular basis for recognition of the carboxylate of MMSA; and 2) how CoA binding modulates its reactivity. We substituted two invariant arginines, Arg-124 and Arg-301, by Leu. The second-order rate constant for the acylation step for both mutants was decreased by at least 50-fold, indicating that both arginines are essential for efficient MMSA binding through interactions with the carboxylate group. To gain insight into the transthioesterification, we substituted MMSA with propionaldehyde, as both substrates lead to the same thiopropionyl enzyme intermediate. This allowed us to show the following: 1) the pK app of CoA decreases by ϳ3 units upon binding to MSDH in the deacylation step; and 2) the catalytic efficiency of the transthioesterification is increased by at least 10 4 -fold relative to a chemical model. Moreover, we observed binding of CoA to the acylation complex, supporting a CoA-binding site distinct from that of NAD(H).
Lactobacillus reuteri metabolises glycerol efficiently to form 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) and 1,3-propanediol (1,3PDO) by the same mechanism as that for 1,2-propanediol (1,2PDO) conversion to propionic acid and propanol via its propanediol utilization (pdu) pathway. Pdu enzymes are encoded by the pdu-operon, which also contain genes encoding the shell proteins of the microcompartment housing the metabolic pathway. In this work the selectivity and kinetics of the reactions catalysed by L. reuteri DSM20016 Pdu enzymes glycerol dehydratase (GDH), 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (PduQ) and coenzyme-A acylating propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP), produced recombinantly, was investigated against corresponding substrates of different chain lengths. Glycerol dehydratase exhibited activity against C2-C4 polyols, with the highest activity against glycerol and 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PDO). A double mutant of the pduC gene of GDH (PduC-S302A/Q337A) was constructed that displayed lowered activity against glycerol and 1,2PDO but extended the substrate range upto C6-diol. The best substrate for both PduQ and PduP was 3-hydroxypropanal (3HPA), although PduP exhibited nearly 10-fold higher specific activity. The enzymes also showed some activity against C3-C10 aliphatic aldehydes, with PduP having higher relative activity. Subsequently, transformation of polyols using whole cells of L. reuteri containing the wild type-and mutated GDH, respectively, confirmed the reduced activity of the mutant against glycerol and 1,2PDO, but its activity against longer substrates was negligible. In contrast, recombinant Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) cells harboring the GDH variant converted diols with up to C6 carbon chain length to their respective aldehydes, suggesting that the protein shell of the microcompartment in L. reuteri posed a barrier to the passage of longer chain substrate.
With the expansion of global biodiesel production, the major byproduct glycerol has attracted great interest as an important platform for the biobased chemical industry [1] [2] [3] . A large number of studies have thus focused on valorisation of glycerol to produce not only the chemicals that are currently produced from fossil feedstocks but even those that are not currently available in the market, e.g. 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) and 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] . Also, utilization of different microorganisms able to metabolise glycerol to 1,3-propanediol such as K. pneumoniae, C. butyricum, and Lactobacillus species, or their enzymes in heterologous hosts, have shown promising results from an industrial viewpoint, due to high conversion rates and product yields [11] [12] [13] .
Lactobacillus reuteri is a probiotic organism that possesses the metabolic pathway called the propanediol utilization (Pdu) pathway that catalyzes dehydration of glycerol to 3-HPA using glycerol dehydratase (PduCDE), and further branches to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) through 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (PduQ), and to 3-HP via a series of reactions catalyzed by coenzyme-A acylating propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP), phosphotransacylase (PduL) and propionate kinase (PduW) [14, 15] . The same pathway is utilized by L. reuteri to convert 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PDO) to propionic acid and propanol [16] . The enzymes of the pdu pathway are encoded by a pdu operon that also codes for the structural proteins making up the microcompartment housing the pathway [17] .
Bioinformatics studies have indicated that about 17% of bacterial specicies use proteinaceous microcompartments (MCPs, typically 100-150 nm in diameter) as simple organelles to localize metabolic pathways that have toxic or volatile intermediates [18] [19] [20] . Bobik and coworkers initially showed that Salmonella conditionally forms Pdu-microcompartment that can sequester propionaldehyde to prevent cytotoxicity during growth in the presence of 1,2-PDO [21] . The protein shells of Pdu MCPs are thought to be composed of 9 different bacterial microcompartment domain proteins, i.e. PduA, PduB, PduB', PduK, PduJ, PduM, PduN, PduU and PduT, for which a striking feature is that they have central pores that mediate the transport of substrates, products and enzyme cofactors between the cell cytoplasm and interior of the Pdu MCPs [22] . The current view is that most MCP domain proteins are hexagonal in shape and tile edge to edge to form extended protein sheets, which then interact with the pentameric vertex proteins to develop intricate architecture [23] .
Glycerol dehydratase (GDH) is considered to play an essential role in the transformation of glycerol/1,2-PDO by producing both an electron acceptor and a metabolic intermediate. The dehydratase enzyme requires cobalamin (Vitamin B12) as a cofactor whose biosynthesis is encoded by the gene sets cbi, cob and hem, located close to the pdu operon [24] . Genetic characterization of L. reuteri show the regulatory control of the pdu-cbi-hem-cob cluster is based on its induction by 1,2-propanediol or glycerol [24] . The operon and its mechanism have also been reported in other lactobacilli and microorganisms including Salmonella enterica, Clostridium carboxidivorans, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Enterococcus malodoratus [12, 16, 21, 25, 26] . Basically, NADH produced during glucose metabolism is preferentially reoxidized to NAD + by the reduction of 3-HPA to 1,3-PDO (when glycerol is the co-substrate) or propionaldehyde to n-propanol (1,2-PDO as co-substrate). An adequate supply of glycerol/1,2-PDO can thus outweigh the repression of glucose on the central metabolism. In the absence of glucose, glycerol/1,2-PDO are metabolised by L. reuteri without being used for growth, and the cofactor cycling is achieved by processing of the aldehyde intermediate via the two branches of the pdu pathway described above. This constitutes a unique naturally occurring system for co-production of an organic acid and an alcohol, as shown in case of the production of 3-HP and 1,3-PDO from glycerol [14] .
and CO chemisorption, H2 temperature-programmed reduction, and in-situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy at the Re LIII and Pd K-edges. The samples were also tested in the reduction of propionic acid to 1-propanol and propionaldehyde at 433 K in 0.1-0.2 MPa H2. Whereas monometallic Pd was inactive for carboxylic acid reduction, monometallic Re catalyzed aldehyde formation, but only after high-temperature pre-reduction that produced metallic Re. When Pd was present with Re in a bimetallic catalyst, Pd facilitated the reduction of Re in H2 to ~4+ oxidation state at modest temperatures, producing an active catalyst for the conversion of propionic acid to 1-propanol. Under the conditions of this study, the orders of reaction in propionic acid and H2 were approximately zero and one, respectively. Transient kinetic analysis of the carboxylic acid reduction to alcohols revealed that at least 50% of the Re in the bimetallic catalyst participated in the catalytic reaction. The Pd is proposed to enhance the catalytic activity of the bimetallic catalyst by spilling over hydrogen that can partially reduce Re and react with surface intermediates.
Abstract Short-term intragastric administration of selected polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (100 mg/kg daily for 4 days) to male Wistar rats resulted in marked changes in liver cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. Non-carcinogenic anthracene, phenanthrene and chrysene produced a 2.5–3-fold increase in the activity assayed with propionaldehyde as substrate and NAD as coenzyme. Weakly carcinogenic 1,2-benzanthracene enhanced aldehyde dehydrogenase activity 9-fold and the potent carcinogens 3,4-benzpyrene and 3-methylcholanthrene 30-fold. With benzaldehyde as substrate and NADP as coenzyme the differences between the groups were even more pronounced. Somewhat similar but less manifest effects on aldehyde dehydrogenase activity were detected also in the liver microsomes and in the postmitochondrial fractions of the small intestinal mucosa. On the basis of their ability to induce aldehyde dehydrogenase activity the compounds could be divided into three groups. This classification was found to correlate well with the carcinogenic potency of the compounds. It appeared that the exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, especially the carcinogenic ones, was followed by synthesis of a new aldehyde dehydrogenase form. This new form was differentiated from the normally existing cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase by its ability to oxidize benzaldehyde in the presence of NADP.
Effects of three 10% granular systemic insecticides, disulfoton, carbofuran, and Temik® (UC-21149) (2-methyl-2-(methyIthio)propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl)oxime), were evaluated for control of the aphids Eulachnus agilis (Kaltenbach) and Cinara Pinea (Mordvilko) on Scotch pine. Temik and disulfoton were applied in circular and broadcast applications, while carbofuran was applied only as a circular application. In the broadcast application, the granular materials were applied at 56.0, 112.0, and 224,0 kg/hectare, and in the circular application at 22.3, 44.5, and 66.9 g/cm of trunk diameter. The aphid population was sampled weekly from the end of May to December 1966. Temik gave complete control from the 1st sampling date throughout the season. The performances of disulfoton and carbofuran were not equal to that of Temik.
Abstract A new functional group, the hydroxy group, was inserted into a Betti base by reaction with salicylaldehyde, and the naphthoxazine derivatives thus obtained were converted by ring-closure reactions with formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde or phosgene to the corresponding naphth[1′2′:5,6][1,3]oxazino[3,2- c ][1,3]benzoxazine derivatives. Further, the conformational analysis of these polycyclic compounds by NMR spectroscopy and an accompanying molecular modelling are reported; especially, both quantitative anisotropic ring current effects of the aromatic moieties in these compounds and steric substituent effects were employed to determine the stereochemistry of the naphthoxazinobenzoxazine derivatives.
Abstract The activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) was measured in primary and metastatic human colonic adenocarcinomas. The enzyme was determined with either propionaldehyde and NAD (P-NAD) or with benzaldehyde and NADP (B-NADP). Primary colonic adenocarcinomas had levels of P-NAD activity similar to those of the adjacent normal mucosa, but relatively higher B-NADP activity. Also the metastatic colonic adenocarcinomas of the liver had lower P-NAD and higher B-NADP activity than the normal hepatic parenchyma. The level of ALDH was in general lower in the normal colonic mucosa, when compared to the liver. Histochemical staining of cryostat tissue sections revealed that the enzyme is exclusively confined to the epithelial cells of the glandular ducts of the colonic mucosa. This may explain, along with the significant anaplastic changes of the mucosa, the variation of ALDH activity detected in the homogenates of the primary and metastatic adenocarcinomas. However, the ratio of B-NADP activity in the adenocarcinomas versus the adjacent normal tissues was constantly and significantly high.
A large and potentially hazardous decrease in aldehyde autoignition temperature (AIT) occurs with increased pressure. The AIT-pressure curve determined in a 5 L stainless steel sphere was similar for propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde in air, falling from about 185°C at atmospheric pressure to 90°C at 140 psia. Reduction of oxygen concentration had little effect on propionaldehyde AIT. At 100°C and 140 psia, autoignitions accompanied by at least a doubling of pressure were observed above 4% oxygen. In the presence of a few grams of free liquid, propionaldehyde vapor ignited in air at initial conditions significantly below the AIT. The mechanism appears to involve rapid Fe-catalyzed exothermic liquid-phase oxidation leading to autoignition of the adjacent heated gas layer. An acetaldehyde vapor-air mixture in the presence of free liquid and rust exploded at room temperature when air pressure was increased to 95 psia; this result is discussed with reference to a cylinder overpressurization that occurred while making up an ostensibly sub-LFL calibration mixture with compressed air. Propionaldehyde's limiting oxygen concentration (LOC) was investigated in the near-autoignition region using the same 5L apparatus; the findings are discussed with reference to an overpressurization incident in an air-liquid partial oxidation reactor. The general results are used to illustrate the application of LOC in partial oxidation processes subject to autoignition and to discuss elements of the current ASTM draft test method for LOC, which does not address test difficulties associated with condensable and/or reactive gas systems.
Hyperhomocysteinemia causes connective tissue pathology. Several theories on the mechanism of homocysteine toxicity in connective tissue are reviewed briefly. A possible new mechanism was revealed recently in the discovery of a reaction in which homocysteine thiolactone is converted to mercaptopropionaldehyde. The reaction is the Strecker degradation of amino acids in which ninhydrin is replaced by the structurally similar dehydroascorbic acid. The reaction may occur in vivo and may be pathogenic to connective tissue in four ways: (1) the reaction may deplete ascorbic acid that is required for collagen synthesis, (2) the mercaptoaldehyde product may interfere with collagen synthesis, (3) the mercaptoaldehyde may cause abnormal cross-linking of collagen molecules, and (4) the mercaptoaldehyde may attach to collagen molecules rendering them antigenic and triggering an autoimmune response.
1. ::: ::: The presence of an electronegative group conjugated with the furan nucleus in anα-side chain in a furan compound prevents its addition toα,β-unsaturated aldehydes and ketones in an acid medium, either by reaction at theα- or theβ-position of the furan ring. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: 4-(2-Furyl)-2-butanone, in which the carbonyl group is not conjugated with the furan nucleus adds in an acid medium to acrolein, crotonaldehyde, and mesityl oxide with formation, respectively, of 5-(3-oxobutyl)-2-furanpropionaldehyde,β-methyl-5-(3-oxobutyl)-2-furanpropionaldehyde, and 4,4-dimethyl-4-[5-(3-oxobutyl)-2-furyl]-2-butanone.
Immonium salts of enamines of racemic α-substituted carbonyl compounds with optically active acids gave, on hydrolysis with water, the corresponding optically active carbonyl compounds. Several reaction conditions were examined and a plausible reaction mechanism, an asymmetric transformation, was proposed. Rates of racemization for the (+)-α-pheiiylpropionaldehyde were also determined.
Abstract Lactobacillus coryniformis CECT 5711, a strain isolated from a goat's milk cheese, displayed a broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity; as a consequence, its ability to produce the antagonistic compounds associated to lactic acid bacteria, including bacteriocins, hydrogen peroxide, lactic acid, acetic acid, and reuterin (3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, 3-HPA) was investigated. Production of bacteriocins or hydrogen peroxide by this strain could not be detected. However, in addition to lactic acid and acetic acid, it produced reuterin and cobalamin, a cofactor required for conversion of glycerol to 3-HPA through a glycerol dehydratase. The gene encoding a glycerol dehydratase subunit was detected by PCR and the corresponding amplicon was sequenced. This strain showed a high survival after exposition to conditions simulating those existing in the gastrointestinal tract as well as a notable ability to adhere to intestinal cells, which suggests that its reuterin-producing ability may be used for the host benefit. In addition, the strain showed a strong β-galactosidase activity. Production of biogenic amines and degradation of mucin could not be detected.
The carbon-bonded gas-phase Meisenheimer complex of 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) and the nitromethyl carbanion CH(2)NO(2)(-) (m/z 60) is generated for the first time by chemical ionization using nitromethane as the reagent gas. Collision-induced dissociation (CID) of the Meisenheimer complex furnishes deprotonated TNT, a result of the higher gas-phase acidity of TNT than nitromethane. The formation of Meisenheimer complexes with CH(2)NO(2)(-) in the gas phase is selective to highly electron-deficient compounds such as dinitrobenzene and trinitrobenzene and does not occur with organic molecules with lower electron-affinity such as methanol, methylamine, propionaldehyde, acetone, ethyl acetate, chloroform, toluene, m-methoxytoluene, and even nitrobenzene and p-fluoronitrobenzene. As such, the reaction allows selective detection of TNT in mixtures. Meisenheimer complexes between CH(2)NO(2)(-) and the three dinitrobenzene isomers display distinctive fragmentations. The oxygen-bonded sigma-complex of TNT with the deprotonated hemiacetal anion CH(3)OCH(2)O(-) (m/z 61), represents a different type of Meisenheimer complex. It displays characteristic fragmentation involving loss of HNO(2) upon CID. The combination of a selective ion/molecule reaction (Meisenheimer complex formation) followed by a characteristic CID process provides a second novel and highly selective approach to the detection of TNT and closely related compounds in mixtures. The assay is readily implemented using neutral loss scans in a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer. Gas-phase reactions of denitrosylated TNT with benzaldehyde produce the corresponding dihydrofuran in an aldol condensation, a result that parallels the corresponding condensed-phase reaction.
The thermal decomposition of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n -butyraldehyde and iso-butyraldehyde, as investigated by the static method, is essentially homogeneous, inhibitable by propylene, isobutene and small amounts of nitric oxide, and generally catalyzed at high inhibitor concentrations. The kinetic order of the uninhibited decomposition exhibits little obvious regularity, but that of the maximally inhibited reaction is approximately 1.5 for all three inhibitors. Kates of the uninhibited decomposition do not follow the sequence in the homologous series, and there is no systematic variation in the extent of inhibition from one aldehyde to another. For each aldehyde, the minimum rates for the three inhibitors in general are not identical, nevertheless exhibit a correspondence probably close enough to eliminate chance coincidence. The kinetic and analytical results of the uninhibited decomposition can be approximately described by a Kice-Herzfeld-type mechanism, with the kinetics in each case largely determined by the stability of radicals and their reactions in chain propagation and termination. The question whether the maximally inhibited reaction is a molecular reaction or a chain reaction is surveyed. Although the results cannot be completely accounted for by a molecular reaction alone, a chain mechanism for propylene inhibition involving allyl radicals likewise has only limited success. For nitric-oxide inhibition, it is not certain how far the results are affected by the occurrence of the subsequent catalyzed reaction. No definite conclusion can thus be reached about the nature of the maximally inhibited reaction.
Basic acute toxicity, primary irritancy, and genetic toxicity studies were conducted with 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde (3-MTP). The acute rat peroral LD50 (with 95% confidence limits) for 3-MTP as a 25% (v/v) dilution in corn oil was 1.00 (0.59-1.70) ml/kg (males) and 1.68 (0.95-2.99) ml/kg (females); most deaths occurred 1.5 to 4 h postdosing. By 24-h occluded contact with undiluted 3-MTP, the rabbit acute percutaneous LD50 was 0.71 (0.43-1.15) ml/kg (males) and 0.79 (0.49-1.30) ml/kg (females): times to death ranged from 2 h to 2 d after the start of dosing. Exposure of rats to a statically generated saturated atmosphere killed all 5 males with a 40 min exposure and all 5 females with a 24 min exposure. In contrast, a 4-h exposure of rats to a dynamically generated saturated vapor atmosphere of 3-MTP did not produce any mortalities or signs of toxicity. A 4-hr occluded contact with 0.5 ml undiluted 3-MTP caused moderate to severe erythema and severe edema resolving by 7 to 17 d. Five/6 animals had necrosis apparent on removal of the occlusive dressing and persisting 10 to 17 d. On the rabbit eye, 0.1 ml undiluted 3-MTP produced moderate to severe corneal injury with iritis and moderate conjunctival inflammation which persisted 21 d in 3/6 animals; 0.01 ml caused moderate diffuse corneal injury and moderate conjunctival inflammation with healing by 7 d. 3-MTP did not produce mutagenic activity either in the absence or presence of metabolic activation with a Salmonella typhimurium reverse mutation assay using strains TA98, TA100, TA1535, TA1537 and TA1538. In a mouse lymphoma cell (L5178Y/tk +/-) assay, 3-MTP produced concentration-related increases in mutant colonies, both in the absence and presence of metabolic activation. Increases were mainly in the sigma (chromosomal damaging) colonies. In a mouse bone marrow micronucleus study, with vapor exposures to 37.4, 88.5 and 155.6 ppm for 1 h/d for 2 consecutive d, there were exposure concentration-related increases in micronucleated erythrocytes which were statically significant for male mice.
The present invention discloses a 2-methyl-4- (2,6,6-trimethyl-1-cyclohexen-1-yl) -2-buten-1-aldehyde, comprising the steps of : (1), 2,6,6-trimethyl-1-cyclohexen-1-yl acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde aldol action of an inorganic base in an organic solvent in the condensation reaction, the reaction is complete after treatment condensed intermediate obtained; (1) obtained in (2) condensation of an intermediate step in the dehydration reaction under the action of an acid, after completion of the reaction workup to give the 2-methyl-4- (2,6,6- trimethyl-1-cyclohexen-1-yl) -2-buten-1-al. In the present invention, 2,6,6-trimethyl-1-cyclohexen-1-yl acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde in place of β- ionone reacted as a starting material, reduce production costs, simplify the steps.
The invention discloses a method and equipment for separating propionaldehyde-water-acetic acid mixed liquid by combining azeotropic distillation and extraction distillation by saliferous mixed extracting agent. The steps are as follows: (1) performing azeotropic distillation to propionaldehyde-water-acetic acid mixed liquid, and obtaining about 98 percent of propionaldehyde at the top of an extracting and rectifying tower; (2) extracting and separating the about 98 percent of propionaldehyde by the mixed solvent of saliferous sulfolane and glycerin, obtaining over 99.8 percent of propionaldehyde at the top of the extracting and rectifying tower, and flowing out the saliferous mixed extracting agent from a tower kettle; (3) processing the saliferous mixed extracting agent by a regeneration tower and respectively obtaining 98 percent of propionaldehyde, aqueous solution containing acid and distillate containing the extracting solvent at the top of the regeneration tower; (4) returning 98 percent of propionaldehyde into a material tank of an azeotrope tower for circulation use; and (5) dewatering the aqueous solution containing acid, returning the distillate containing the extracting solvent to a mixed solvent storage tank and circularly using the saliferous mixed extracting agent. The invention has simpler process steps, high product purity, circular utilization of the mixed extracting solvent, no waste liquid emission in the production process and low energy consumption.
1. Species of Pseudomonas capable of degrading arylsulphonates and detergents of the alkylbenzenesulphonate type were isolated from sewage and river water. 2. Benzenesulphinate, benzenesulphonate and toluene-p-sulphonate were rapidly degraded by these organisms with the release of the sulphonate group as sulphite; detergent homologues with a chain length up to 16 carbon atoms (4-n-hexadecyl-benzenesulphonate) also released sulphite. Sulphite oxidation to sulphate in the medium can occur non-enzymically. 3. Growth on benzenesulphonate and toluene-p-sulphonate elicited a catechol 2,3-oxygenase, which effected a ;meta' cleavage of the ring. The metabolic route for benzenesulphonate was determined as: benzenesulphonate-->catechol-->2-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde-->formate and 4-hydroxy-2-oxovalerate-->acetaldehyde and pyruvate; the enzymes catalysing these steps were all inducible. 4. Toluene-p-sulphonate was degraded via 2-hydroxy-5-methylmuconic semialdehyde to formate and 4-hydroxy-2-oxohexanoate and the latter was cleaved to propionaldehyde and pyruvate. Propionaldehyde and propionate were oxidized rapidly by toluene-p-sulphonate-grown cells but slowly by fumarate-grown organisms. 5. The specificity of the catechol 2,3-oxygenase induced by the arylsulphonates, towards catechol and the methylcatechols, varied during the purification and suggested that 3-methylcatechol was probably oxidized by a separate enzyme. Detergents of the alkylbenzenesulphonate type also induced a catechol 2,3-oxygenase in these bacteria. 6. A few isolates, after growth on benzenesulphonate, opened the ring of catechol by an ;ortho' route to form cis-cis-muconate. The enzymes to degrade this intermediate to beta-oxoadipate were also present in induced cells.
Abstract Aldehyde:NAD oxidoreductase (EC 1.2.1.3), purified to homogeneity from horse liver, possesses, in addition to its dehydrogenase activity, the ability to hydrolyze p-nitrophenyl esters at a rate equal to approximately one-third that of the oxidation-reduction reaction. That this esterase activity is most probably an active site phenomenon is suggested by the competitive inhibition of nitrophenyl acetate hydrolysis by high concentrations of propionaldehyde, a substrate for the dehydrogenase reaction. The coenzyme for the dehydrogenase reaction, NAD, also exerts a modifying influence on the esterase activity, producing a 2-fold enhancement of rate of nitrophenyl ester hydrolysis. NADH exerts the same 2-fold stimulation of the esterase reaction. By comparing the concentrations of substrate and coenzyme needed to affect the esterase reaction with the calculated dissociation constants determined from initial velocity studies, it has been possible to suggest an ordered binding of substrates in the dehydrogenase reaction. The mechanism postulates that NAD binds preferentially to free enzyme to form an enzyme-NAD binary complex, followed by the binding of aldehyde to give a ternary complex. Binding of aldehyde to free enzyme occurs only at extremely high concentrations of aldehyde, and, thus, is not significant under normal assay conditions nor at physiological aldehyde concentrations. In view of the preferred order of the dehydrogenase reaction, the dependence of the Vmax of the reaction upon the choice of aldehyde substrate suggested that either the formation, interconversion, or breakdown of the ternary complex (or complexes) is most probably rate limiting. The kinetic importance of the interconversion of ternary complexes was eliminated by determining that no deuterium isotope was obtained when 1-deutero-propionaldehyde was used as a substrate. A Taft plot of the Vmax and substrate for the dehydrogenase reaction gave a positive p* value, indicating that the ratelimiting step is favored by enhancement of the partially positive nature of the carbonyl carbon. In accordance with the data and by analogy with glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, it is suggested that either the formation or the breakdown of a covalent intermediate through nucleophilic attack on the carbonyl carbon of the substrate is most probably the rate-limiting step in the dehydrogenase reaction scheme.
The preparation of aminopterin analogs via 6-halomethylpteridine intermediates either were unsuccessful or gave low yields of pteridines by reaction of 2,4,5,6-tetraaminopyrimidine (1) with 2,3-dibromopropionaldehyde (2), 1,1,3-trichloroacetone (11), and 1,1,3-tribromoacetone (12), respectively. Similarly, the preparation of a 6-formylpteridine was unsuccessful by the alkylation of 1 with bromomalonaldehyde and by the addition of the 5-acetyl derivative of 1 to 2-bromopropenal (17). In contrast, the oxidation of 2,4-diaminopteridine-6-methanol (23) with N,N′-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide gave the corresponding 6-formylpteridine 20. ::: ::: ::: ::: In related work, a mechanism for the Waller reaction was suggested by the identification of some of the products resulting from the reaction of 2-bromopropenal with p-aminobenzoyl derivatives.
The stoicheiometries and kinetics of the silver(II) oxidation of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and pivaldehyde have been investigated at 8.0, 14.0, and 22.0 °C in aqueous perchloric acid media (1.00 ⩽[HClO4]⩽ 4.00M; µ 4.0M). The kinetics were monitored by a stopped flow technique. The reactions occur with the stoicheiometry H2O + 2AgII+ RCHO → 2AgI+ 2H++ RCOOH. The rate-determining step is first order in each reactant, and involves both Ag2+ and AgOH+ species. No direct evidence for complex formation between the reactants was obtained. The results are discussed with reference to enolization and hydration equilibria of the substrates. gem-Diol forms of the aldehydes are suggested as the active species.
Dodecylbenzensulfonic acid ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2-Allyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethy-1,3,2-dioxaborolane ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3-Phenylpropionaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: imines; ::: allylboronation; ::: phenylhexenamine; ::: allylmetals; ::: homoallylic primary amines; ::: crotylboronates; ::: ammonia; ::: additives; ::: waste disposal
Abstract When dl-1,2-propanediol-1-3H is converted to propionaldehyde in the presence of dioldehydrase and cobamide coenzyme, tritium is transferred to the coenzyme. The tritiated coenzyme so obtained transfers tritium to the reaction product when reacted with dl-1,2-propanediol and apoenzyme. The coenzyme is tritiated exclusively at the C-5' position of the adenosyl moiety. The location of tritium was established by chemical degradation and further confirmed by showing that chemically synthesized cobamide coenzyme, containing tritium at the C-5' position, transferred tritium to the product when added to enzyme and unlabeled substrate. The conversion of dl-1,2-propanediol-1-3H to propionaldehyde proceeds with inter- and intramolecular tritium transfer. Approximately 1% of the tritiated substrate reacts by intramolecular transfer, i.e. the hydrogen abstracted from C-1 of a substrate molecule is found in the α position of the aldehyde derived from that molecule. A partial reaction occurs, as evidenced by tritium exchange between tritiated coenzyme and propionaldehyde or acetaldehyde under conditions in which no net reaction occurs. The results obtained have led to the following tentative reaction sequence. Hydrogen is abstracted from C-1 of dl-1,2-propanediol and transferred to the coenzyme, where it becomes equivalent with at least one, but probably both, hydrogens of the C-5' position. This results in the formation of a reduced form of the coenzyme and a molecule derived through the oxidation of the substrate. In a subsequent step the hydrated form of propionaldehyde is formed by a transfer of hydrogen from the reduced coenzyme to the intermediate derived from the substrate.
Carbonyl compounds were isolated from barley and from different malts without application of heat; the carbonyl compounds were precipitated with 2,4-dinitro-phenylhydrazine; separations and identifications of the hydrazones were, as far as' possible, achieved by chromatographic methods. In barley and green malt no carbonyl compounds could be detected by flushing suspensions with CO2, whereas from malts acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and isovaleraldehyde were found, with trace amounts of acetone and three unidentified compounds. The total amounts present, and the proportion between the individual components, varied with the heat treatment to which the malt had been exposed. In ethereal extracts, the presence of a larger number of carbonyl compounds was demonstrated both in the barley and in the different malts investigated.
Controlled condensation of propionaldehyde with Li- or Si-enolates, generated from sec-amyl propionate, readily afforded a mixture of diasteromeric 2-methyl-3-hydroxypentanoic acid 3-pentyl esters, which were easily separated by chromatography. The erythro-isomer is the racemic form of the major component (“sitophilate”) of the aggregational pheromone of the grain weevil, a harmful granary pest. Beilis-Hillman condensation of propionaldehyde with sec-amyl acrylate under high pressure and subsequent hydrocuprination or hydrozirconation of the intermediate adduct afforded the (±)-sitophilate in an overall yield of >35%.
3-Methylbutanal, 2-methylbutanal and 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde are described in the literature as preponderantly responsible for the worty taste of alcohol-free beers. Even in a cold contact process, such aldehydes are reduced through fermentation. The chemical removal of aldehydes by amino acids or proteins does not exceed 20% of the initial concentration, although such mechanisms appear much more effective at 28 degrees C. The role of Saccharomyces cerevisiae brewer's yeast, in the reduction of wort aldehydes, is confirmed here. Only viable yeasts allow a significant decrease in carbonyl level. Unfortunately, residual concentrations are higher for Strecker aldehydes among which 3-methylthiopropionaldehyde is characterized by a very low flavour threshold. Effects of yeast strain, pitching rate and inhibitors have been assessed. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
A catalytic asymmetric version of the exo-selective [C+NC+CC] reaction is reported. This multicomponent reaction utilizes a readily prepared achiral glycyl sultam as the "NC" component and commercially available catalyst components. The method can be applied to a variety of aldehydes ("C" component) and activated alkenes ("CC" component) to provide substituted pyrrolidines in good yields and high enantioselectivities. Of particular note is the ability to employ labile enolizable aldehydes (e.g., acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde) in this reaction.
Abstract Methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase, an inducible enzyme from Pseudomonas aeruginosa which catalyzes the oxidation of methylmalonate semialdehyde to propionyl coenzyme A, was purified to the extent that a preparation was obtained which was homogenous by the criterion of disc gel electrophoresis. The molecular weight of the native enzyme was estimated to be 132,000 by gel filtration. Methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase dissociated into subunits in urea or sodium dodecyl sulfate solutions. The molecular weight of the subunit was estimated at between 58,000 and 69,000 by the techniques of gel electrophoresis and gel filtration in sodium dodecyl sulfate, respectively, which means that the native enzyme is composed of at least two subunits. The purified enzyme catalyzed the reduction of NAD with methylmalonate semialdehyde and propionaldehyde. In the presence of CoA, propionyl-CoA was a product of methylmalonate semialdehyde oxidation. The enzyme was active when mercaptoethanol replaced CoA and an active propionyl derivative was formed then as well. The stoichiometry between NADH and propionyl-CoA was 1:1. 3-Hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase and 3-hydroxyisobutyrate-1-14C were used to generate methylmalonate semialdehyde-1-14C, and radioactive carbon dioxide was produced when methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase was present in the reaction mixture. The Michaelis constants for methylmalonate semialdehyde, NAD, CoA, mercaptoethanol, and propionaldehyde were determined. The proposal is made that the physiological role of methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase in cell metabolism is to catalyze the oxidation of methylmalonate semialdehyde to propionyl-CoA in the catabolism of valine.
1. Microsomal and cytosolic drug-metabolizing enzyme activities of respiratory mucosa of male and female monkeys have been determined and compared to those of monkey liver. The results demonstrated that cytochrome P-450, NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase and some monooxygenase activities, especially ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase activity, were present in respiratory epithelium, although at lower levels than in liver. 2. Activities of non-oxidative enzymes--namely, epoxide hydrolase, UDP-glucuronyltransferase, glutathione S-transferase, DT-diaphorase, carbonyl reductase, benzaldehyde and propionaldehyde dehydrogenases--were also detected in respiratory tissue, some at higher levels than in liver. 3. The enzymic activities found in monkey nasal mucosa are not very similar to those in corresponding human tissue where, for example, UDP-glucuronyltransferase activity is not detectable. This indicates that monkey is not necessarily the best animal model for studies of the human upper respiratory tract.
Lactic acid bacterial strains belonging to the genus Lactobacillus have been implicated in accumulating 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) during anaerobic glycerol fermentation. In aqueous solution 3-HPA undergoes reversible dimerization and hydration, resulting in an equilibrium state between different derivatives. Wine quality is compromised by the presence of 3-HPA due to spontaneous conversion into acrolein under wine making conditions. Acrolein is highly toxic and has been implicated in the development of bitterness in wine. Interconversion between 3-HPA derivatives and acrolein is a complex and highly dynamic process driven by hydration and dehydration reactions. Acrolein is furthermore highly reactive and its steadystate concentration in complex systems very low. As a result analytical detection and quantification in solution is problematic. This paper reviews the biochemical and environmental conditions leading to accumulation of its precursor, 3-HPA. Recent advances in analytical detection are summarized and the roles played by natural chemical derivatives are highlighted.
Aerobacter aerogenes converts propanediol to propionaldehyde, and ethylene glycol to acetaldehyde.' Dioldehydrase, the enzyme that catalyzes this reaction, has been purified 200-fold and a requirement for any one of three cobamide coenzymes and for a monovalent metal ion has been established.2 The present work seeks to extend the limited information3 now available on the mechanism of action of cobamide coenzymes.
Abe et al. [14] investigated the effect of a sulfur atom on the stereoselective formation of oxetanes in Paternò-Büchi reaction of aromatic aldehydes with silyl O,S-ketene acetals to give trans-3-siloxyoxetanes and found that this was ca. 70/30 to 90/10. The trans-selectivity is explained by the sulfur atom effect in the silyl O,S-ketene acetal which controls the approach direction of the electrophilic oxygen of triplet n,π* aldehyde to the nucleophilic alkene. A fast ISC process of the triplet 1-alkylthio-1-siloxy-2-oxatetramethylene 1,4-diradical in competition with the bond rotation was proposed [14] . Griesbeck et al. [15] observed substantial 2 H-magnetic isotope effects on the diastereoselectivity of triplet photocycloaddition reactions. Weaker isotope effects on the diastereoselectivity were detected for the reaction of α-deuterated propionaldehyde [15] .
Acetaldehyde readily condenses with its monalkyl hydrazones with the formation of 1-alkyl-5-methyl-2-pyrazolines. A number of pure 2pyrazolines have been synthesized in this way with yields of 40–60%. In the condensation of propionaldehyde with its isopropyl hydrazone, because of the occurrence of rearrangements and the nonstereospecificity of the process, a mixture of structural and stereoisomeric 2-pyrazolines is formed. The promising condensation of aldehydes with monalkyl hydrazones of other aldehydes and ketones is accompanied by “transhydrazonation,” which limits the preparative possibilities of this reaction.
Abstract The use of novel hydrazones as stereo directors with a view to develop a highly enantioselective, anti -diastereoselective aldol addition procedure has been investigated. A number of proline-derived hydrazones were produced and their effectiveness in directing simple alkylation of aza-enolates investigated. The most promising of these hydrazones were then used in the aldol reaction. The substituent on the oxygen of the proline had a profound effect on both the magnitude and the sense of asymmetric induction. The optimum hydrazone for the formal aldol reaction between pentanone and propionaldehyde gave a diastereoselectivity of 37% in favour of the anti -isomer while both isomers had an ee of 83–84%.
A narrow substrate range is a major limitation in exploiting enzymes more widely as catalysts in synthetic organic chemistry. For enzymes using two substrates, the simultaneous optimization of both substrate specificities, is also required for the rapid expansion of accepted substrates. Transketolase catalyses the reversible transfer of a C2-ketol unit from a donor substrate to an aldehyde acceptor and suffers the limitation of narrow substrate scope for widely industrial applications. Herein, transketolase from E. coli was engineered to simultaneously accept both pyruvate as a novel donor substrate, and unnatural acceptor aldehydes, including propanal, pentanal, hexanal and 3-formylbenzoic acid. Twenty single-mutant variants were firstly designed and characterized experimentally. Beneficial mutations were then recombined to construct a small but smart library. Screening of this library identified the best variant with a 9.2-fold improvement in the yield towards pyruvate and propionaldehyde, relative to WT. Pentanal and hexanal were used as acceptors to determine stereoselectivities of the reactions, which were found to be higher than 98% ee for the S configuration. Three variants were identified to be active for the reaction between pyruvate and 3-formylbenzoic acid. The best variant was able to convert 47% of substrate into product within 24 h, whereas no conversion was observed for WT. Docking experiments suggested a cooperation between the mutations responsible for donor and acceptor acceptances, that would promote the activity towards both the acceptor and donor. The variants obtained have the potential to be used for developing catalytic pathways to a diverse range of high-value products.
2-Alkyl derivatives are obtained by the action of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde on the 1-aminoanthraquinone vat. The analogous reactions involving benzaldehyde, furfural, cinnamaldehyde, and glyoxal, and the possibility of nuclear methylation of the substituted 1-aminoanthraquinones were studied.
PURPOSE: To produce various kinds of unsatd. ethers in a high yield by using the diacetal obtd. from aldehydes and alcohol as a raw material and reacting the diacetal in the presence of a catalyst consisting of an acid and amine. CONSTITUTION: The diacetal of formula I (R 1 is a 1 to 6C residue; R 2 is H, a 1 to 2C residue; R 3 is a 1 to 6C residue) like propionaldehyde-diethyl acetal is reacted in the presence of the catalyst consisting of the acid, such as p- toluenesufonic acid, and amine, such as di-2-ethyl hexyl amine, to obtain the ether of formula II like ethyl-1-propinylether to obtain. More particularly the acid of the catalyst is recommended to be used at 0.00015 to 0.008 mol for each 1 mol of the diacetal. The acid and the amine are preferably used at a molar ratio of 1:0.7 to 1:3.5. The reaction is preferably executed at a temp. higher than the b.p. of the formed product. The process is advantageous as the process is less costly and is capable of producing various kinds of the unsatd. ethers. COPYRIGHT: (C)1992,JPO
Smog chamber/FTIR techniques were used to determine rate constants of k(Cl+n-butanol) = (2.21 +/- 0.38) x 10(-10) and k(OH+n-butanol) = (8.86 +/- 0.85) x 10(-12) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1) in 700 Torr of N(2)/O(2) diluent at 296 +/- 2K. The sole primary product identified from the Cl atom initiated oxidation of n-butanol in the absence of NO was butyraldehyde (38 +/- 2%, molar yield). The primary products of the Cl atom initiated oxidation of n-butanol in the presence of NO were (molar yield) butyraldehyde (38 +/- 2%), propionaldehyde (23 +/- 3%), acetaldehyde (12 +/- 4%), and formaldehyde (33 +/- 3%). The substantially lower yields of propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and formaldehyde as primary products in experiments conducted in the absence of NO suggests that chemical activation is important in the atmospheric chemistry of CH(3)CH(2)CH(O)CH(2)OH and CH(3)CH(O)CH(2)CH(2)OH alkoxy radicals. The primary products of the OH radical initiated oxidation of n-butanol in the presence of NO were (molar yields) butyraldehyde (44 +/- 4%), propionaldehyde (19 +/- 2%), and acetaldehyde (12 +/- 3%). In all cases, the product yields were independent of oxygen concentration over the partial pressure range of 10-600 Torr. The yields of propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and formaldehyde quoted above were not corrected for secondary formation via oxidation of higher aldehydes and should be treated as upper limits. The reactions of Cl atoms and OH radicals with n-butanol proceed 38 +/- 2 and 44 +/- 4%, respectively, via attack on the alpha-position to give an alpha-hydroxy alkyl radical which reacts with O(2) to give butyraldehyde. The results are discussed with respect to the atmospheric chemistry of n-butanol.
The Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons condensation of some alpha-phosphono lactones has been examined for conditions that impact product stereochemistry. The temperature employed to quench the reaction was found to be a major factor. For example, after the diethyl phosphonate derivative of gamma-butyrolactone was treated with potassium hexamethyldisilazane, 18-crown-6, and propionaldehyde at -78 degrees C in THF, an aliquot transferred to a flask at approximately 30 degrees C gave almost exclusively the Z-olefin product, while one allowed to warm to room temperature over several hours greatly favored the E-olefin.
Nitrogen and sulfur co-doped carbon dots (NSCDs) synthesized through one-pot microwave-assisted pyrolysis of tartaric acid and thioacetamide have been used as a fluorescent probe for the sensitive and selective detection of clinically important organic aldehyde cinnamaldehyde. The as-prepared NSCDs displayed blue fluorescence (∼12% quantum yield), excellent aqueous solubility along with pH and excitation wavelength dependent emission behavior. In comparison to other aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, valeraldehyde, hexanal, crotonaldehyde and benzaldehyde) the fluorescence intensity of NSCDs was significantly quenched in the presence of cinnamaldehyde and the reduced intensity was linearly proportional to the concentration of cinnamaldehyde in the range of 0–15 mM with a detection limit of 99.0 μM. The fluorescence quenching of NSCDs was mainly attributed to the photo-excited electron transfer between NSCDs and aldehydes which was confirmed by measuring the life-time through time-resolved luminescence spectroscopy, energy levels of NSCDs through cyclic voltammetry (CV) and energy levels of aldehydes by density functional theory (DFT) based analyses. MTT assay of the NSCDs also proved their good biocompatibility and low toxicity towards human fibroblast cells thereby validating their suitability as a biologically relevant fluorescent probe for sensing cinnamaldehyde.
The hydroformylation of butenes in nitrobenzene or nitroethane gives C5-aldehydes in an excellent yield in the presence of tetrarhodium dodecarbonyl, but in only a poor yield in the presence of dicobalt octacarbonyl. Under hydroformylation conditions, nitrobenzene is hydrogenated to aniline above 150°C with rhodium carbonyl and at 125°C with cobalt carbonyl. The hydroformylation of nitroalkenes with rhodium carbonyl is described. 4-Nitrostyrene gives isomeric (4-nitrophenyl)-propionaldehydes in a 96% yield. 3-Nitropropene-1 gives C4-nitroaldehydes, mostly 2-methyl-3-nitropropionaldehyde, in a 96% yield. However, no reaction of nitroethylene occurred below 140°C.
Desulfovibrio gigas NCIMB 9332 cells grown in ethanol-containing medium with 0.1 microM tungstate contained a benzylviologen-linked aldehyde oxidoreductase. The enzyme was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity and found to be a homodimer with a subunit M(r) of 62,000. It contained 0.68 +/- 0.08 W, 4.8 Fe, and 3.2 +/- 0.2 labile S per subunit. After acid iodine oxidation of the purified enzyme, a fluorescence spectrum typical for form A of molybdopterin was obtained. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and benzaldehyde were excellent substrates, with apparent Km values of 12.5, 10.8, and 20 microM, respectively. The natural electron acceptor is not yet known; benzylviologen was used as an artificial electron acceptor (apparent Km, 0.55 mM). The enzyme was activated by potassium ions and strongly inhibited by cyanide, arsenite, and iodoacetate. In the as-isolated enzyme, electron paramagnetic resonance studies readily detected W(V) as a complex signal with g values in the range of 1.84 to 1.97. The dithionite-reduced enzyme exhibited a broad signal at low temperature with g = 2.04 and 1.92; this is indicative of a [4Fe-4S]1+ cluster interacting with a second paramagnet, possibly the S = 1 system of W(IV). Until now W-containing aldehyde oxidoreductases had only been found in two Clostridium strains and two hyperthermophilic archaea. The D. gigas enzyme is the first example of such an enzyme in a gram-negative bacterium.
Abstract Thermal desorption spectra of thin films of acetaldehyde and hexamethyldisiloxane were recorded before and after exposure to electrons with an energy of 15 eV to monitor the formation of the products CO, propionaldehyde, and methane. While the identification of the products in previous work reported in literature has relied on a comparison with desorption temperatures of pure multilayer films, it is proposed here to compare with reference samples containing specific amounts of the anticipated product. It is shown that this approach is more accurate because the desorption temperatures can be modified considerably by a molecular matrix or by coadsorbates. Also trapping of the products within a molecular film can occur and lead to a delayed desorption as exemplified by the production of methane in thin films of hexamethyldisiloxane.
1,3-Propanediol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.202) was purified to homogeneity from Citrobacter freundii grown anaerobically on glycerol in continuous culture. The enzyme is an octamer of a polypeptide of 43,400 Da. When tested as a dehydrogenase, the enzyme was most active with substrates containing two primary alcohol groups separated by one or two carbon atoms. In the physiological direction, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde was the preferred substrate. The apparent Km values of the enzyme for 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and NADH were 140 and 33 microM, respectively. The enzyme was inhibited by chelators of divalent cations but could be reactivated by the addition of Fe2+. The dhaT gene, encoding the 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase, was cloned, and its nucleotide sequence (1,164 bp) was determined. The deduced dhaT gene product (387 amino acids, 41,324 Da) showed a high level of similarity to a novel family (type III) of alcohol dehydrogenases. The dhaT gene was overexpressed in Escherichia coli 274-fold by using the T7 RNA polymerase/promoter system.
Abstract This contribution focuses on the hydrogenation and hydrodeoxygenation of aldehydes (benzaldehyde, 2-phenylpropionaldehyde, 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, cinnamaldehyde, 4-isopropylbenzaldehyde, heptanal) on supported palladium catalysts, namely zeolites and active carbon. The effects of the substrate structure, solvent, type of support and its acidity, reaction temperature and pressure on activity and selectivity of Pd catalysts were investigated in detail. Catalytic hydrodeoxygenation of aldehydes was carried out in a liquid phase in an autoclave in the temperature range from 30 to 130 °C and at pressure ranging from 1 to 6 MPa. Hydrogenation reactions performed in non-polar hexane proceeded with a significantly higher rate than in a polar methanol. The presence of isopropyl substituent in 4-isopropylbenzaldehyde increased both the reaction rate as well as the selectivity to hydrodeoxygenation. Hydrodeoxygenation of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde, 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, cinnamaldehyde, and heptanal did not proceed, the main products were dialkylethers, which evidences the importance of the direct attachment of C O group to the benzene ring. The presence of hydrogenation—hydrogenolytic mechanism as well as the direct hydrogenolysis of C O bond in the transformation of benzaldehyde was verified.
The use of pressurized oxygen greatly enhanced catalytic activity for oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde to methyl propionate with methanol using heavy-metal-free Pd/C and Pd/Al2O3. For example, the conversion of propionaldehyde, the selectivity to methyl propionate, and the yield of the propionate using 5 % Pd/Al2O3 were 99.9, 62.7, and 62.6 %, respectively, at 1.5 MPa of oxygen gas and 333 K. This result demonstrated that Pb doping of Pd catalysts was not needed to achieve comparable activity, which runs contrary to previous reports, in which it had been suggested that loading of Pd catalysts using a heavy metal such as Pb was needed for the great activity such as 93.2, 76.8, and 71.6 % of the conversion of propionaldehyde, the selectivity to methyl propionate, and the yield of the propionate, respectively, at 0.3 MPa of oxygen gas and 353 K using 5 % Pd/Al2O3 doped with 5 % Pb.
The effects of series of alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehydes on hepatic glutathione, cytochrome P450, and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity were compared with time. Male F-344 rats were dosed with muconaldehyde (36 mumol/kg), acrolein (89 mumol/kg), crotonaldehyde (450 mumol/kg), or the saturated aldehyde propionaldehyde (89 mumol/kg) and terminated 0.5, 4, or 24 hr later. Acrolein or muconaldehyde reduced glutathione to 51 and 75% of controls, respectively, at 4 hr; glutathione returned to control values at 24 hr. Only at 24 hr, acrolein, muconaldehyde, or crotonaldehyde decreased cytochrome P450 to 61, 71, and 67% of control values, respectively; ethylmorphine N-demethylation was decreased to a greater extent, i.e., to 35, 60, and 23% of controls. The reductase activity was unchanged at any time following the treatment with reactive aldehydes which were not hepatotoxic (as shown by glucose 6-phosphatase activity, histological changes, or serum enzymes). Propionaldehyde changed none of these activities. Acrolein (44.5 mumol/kg) given 4 hr prior to phenobarbital (50 mg/kg) for two consecutive days decreased the phenobarbital induction of cytochrome P450 to 45% of phenobarbital alone. This treatment also decreased the 2 alpha, 2 beta, 6 beta, 16 alpha, and 16 beta hydroxylation of testosterone as well as androstenedione formation showing effects on individual cytochrome P450 isozymes. NADPH-cytochrome c reductase induction was not decreased by this treatment, thus indicating that in vivo these changes are due to a mechanism other than generalized inhibition of protein synthesis.
Beneficial mutations were then recombined to construct a small but smart library. Screening of this library identified the best variant with a 9.2-fold improvement in the yield towards pyruvate and propionaldehyde, relative to WT. Pentanal and hexanal were used as acceptors to determine stereoselectivities of the reactions, which were found to be higher than 98% ee for the S configuration. Three variants were identified to be active for the reaction between pyruvate and 3-formylbenzoic acid. The best variant was able to convert 47% of substrate into product within 24 h, whereas no conversion was observed for WT.
In this study, we engineered E. coli TK variants that simultaneously accept both novel donor pyruvate 2d and unnatural aliphatic and aromatic acceptor aldehydes, including propanal 5a, pentanal 5b, hexanal 5c and 3-formylbenzoic acid . Single variants capable of accepting pyruvate 2d were firstly obtained using a structure-guided strategy and previous knowledge. A small but smart library was then constructed by combining the single mutants showing improved activity towards pyruvate 2d and glycolaldehyde 1 or propionaldehyde 5a. After screening this library, we successfully obtained the TK variants that could catalyse the reactions between sodium pyruvate 2d and propionaldehyde 5a, or 3-FBA 7, with significantly improved efficiency compared to WT. The potential mechanisms for the enhanced activity was then evaluated using molecular docking simulations.
In this study, we attempted to engineer the transketolase from E. coli to accept both the unnatural acceptor substrates propanal 5a, pentanal 5b, hexanal 5c or 3-FBA 7 and a novel donor substrate, sodium pyruvate 2d and its analogue keto-butyric acid 2e, thus decreasing the polarity of both substrates. Twenty single-mutant variants were firstly designed based on structural alignment with PDC, and previous knowledge of variants in E. coli and G. stearothermophilus. The catalytic efficiency was then measured for these single-mutant variants experimentally. Beneficial mutations were then recombined using a previously obtained stable variant as the template, to construct a small but smart library. Library screening was carried out towards two reactions separately: 1) sodium pyruvate 2d and propionaldehyde 5a; 2) sodium pyruvate 2d and 3-FBA 7. The best variant 4M/H100L/D469E/R520Q showed a 9.2-fold improvement in the catalytic yield towards sodium pyruvate 2d and propionaldehyde 5a compared to WT. Pentanal and hexanal were also used as acceptors in the reactions with pyruvate 2d or keto-butyric acid 2e to determine stereoselectivities, which were found to be higher than 98% ee for the S configuration. Also, three unprecedented variants were identified to be active towards the reaction between sodium pyruvate 2d and 3-FBA 7. The best variant 4M/H100L/D469T was able to convert 47% of substrate into product within 24 h, whereas no conversion was observed for WT. Docking was applied to illustrate the cooperation between mutations responsible for donor acceptance and the mutation responsible for acceptor acceptance to promote the activity towards both the acceptor and donor, and this provides a guide for the future work about simultaneously engineering two substrate specificity. The hits obtained in this study have the potential to be used for developing catalytic pathways to a diverse range of products such as the phenylacetylcarbinols, an important pharmaceutical intermediate in the synthesis of drugs including spisulosine and phenylpropanolamine. This study also suggested that, in order to engineer enzymes for simultaneously accepting two novel substrates, a useful strategy is to identify the variants improving the single substrate acceptance first and then combine them together.
Pd catalysts doped by heavy metals are known to be among the most important catalysts for a variety of catalytic reactions. Lindlar catalyst (Pb/Pd/CaCO3) and Pb/Pd/SiO2 for the selective hydrogenation of acetylene to olefins 1) , 2) and Te/Pd/C for diacetoxylation of 1,3-butadiene 3) are classic examples. Recently, Pd doped with a heavy metal, such as Te/Pd catalysts supported on various oxides and active carbon for the production of α,β-unsaturated carboxylic acid 4) , has attracted attention, particularly for industrial application. Although Pd catalysts doped by heavy metals such as Pb and Te are used widely in industry, green chemistry demands a clean process using a heavy-metal-free catalyst. In a previous study, a heavy-metal-free catalytic process for the production of pyruvic acid from the oxidative dehydrogenation of lactic acid in an aqueous phase has been developed. Pd/C doped with Pb or Te is reportedly an active catalyst for the reaction at pH 8, adjusted by aqueous NaOH, while no catalytic activity was observed using Pd/C under atmospheric pressure 5)～7) . This has been further supported by previous results obtained from the catalytic oxidation of D-Gluconic acid using Pt/C doped and undoped with Pb 8) . However, recent reports state that the use of pressurized O2 resulted in great activity for the reaction of sodium lactate to sodium pyruvate using heavy-metal-free Pd/C, indicating that loading by heavy metals is not needed for the catalytic reaction 9), 10) . This result indicated that heavy metals are not required for the preparation of other related catalysts, which is important for green chemistry and suggests the potential use of heavy-metal-free Pd catalysts for other catalytic reactions. The direct oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde (PA) to methyl propionate (MP) in the liquid phase attracted attention in the present study (Scheme 1). Methyl propionate is an important intermediate for the production of methyl methacrylate (MMA) 11)～13) (Scheme 1), which is used as a main raw ingredient for the production of acrylic resin. Earlier studies have established that the oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde to methyl propionate in the liquid phase occurs readily using Pd/Al2O3 doped with Pb in the presence of Mg(OH)2 and NaOH in aqueous methanol at 353 K with 0.3 MPa of O2 gas in a solution with pH of 6-8 14) . In the present study, Pd/C and Pd/Al2O3 without heavy-metal doping were used for the direct oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde to methyl propionate in the liquid phase under , Haruki TANAKA 2) , Keizo NAKAGAWA 1) , Ken-Ichiro SOTOWA 1) , Yuuki KATOU 3) , Takanori MORI 3) , Toshiya YASUKAWA 3) , and Wataru NINOMIYA The use of pressurized oxygen greatly enhanced catalytic activity for oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde to methyl propionate with methanol using heavy-metal-free Pd/C and Pd/Al2O3. For example, the conversion of propionaldehyde, the selectivity to methyl propionate, and the yield of the propionate using 5 % Pd/Al2O3 were 99.9, 62.7, and 62.6 %, respectively, at 1.5 MPa of oxygen gas and 333 K. This result demonstrated that Pb doping of Pd catalysts was not needed to achieve comparable activity, which runs contrary to previous reports, in which it had been suggested that loading of Pd catalysts using a heavy metal such as Pb was needed for the great activity such as 93.2, 76.8, and 71.6 % of the conversion of propionaldehyde, the selectivity to methyl propionate, and the yield of the propionate, respectively, at 0.3 MPa of oxygen gas and 353 K using 5 % Pd/Al2O3 doped with 5 % Pb.
A previous report indicated that the loading of Pd/ Al2O3 with a heavy metal was required for the effective reaction of oxidative esterification of propionaldehyde 14) . However the results of the present study suggest that the use of pressurized O2 enhances the yield of methyl propionate using heavy-metal-free Pd/ Al2O3, as anticipated in our previous report, in which the potential use of heavy-metal-free Pd catalyst for various catalytic reactions was suggested 10) .
Reductive S-S bond cleavage of a disulfide precursor obtained from a pyridine-catalyzed Peterson-type reaction starting from camphorpyrazole , thionyl chloride and 2-methyl-2-(methyldithio)propionaldehyde yields 2,2'-bis(camphorpyrazol-1-yl)-2-methylpropane-2-thiol (HSiprbpm3cam, ); the first zinc complexes bearing this ligand exhibit kappa3 coordination of the ligand.
Using paraformaldehyde and propionaldehyde as starting material,ammonia as condensation catalyst,NaOH as Cannizzaro reaction cataslyst,trimethylolethane is synthesized by two steps reaction.The effects of different kind of catalysts including ammonia,diethylamine and triethylamine,the amount of ammonia,the reaction temperature and time are investigated.The optimum conditions are 15 g paraformaldehyde,11 mL propionaldehyde(98%),40 mL deionized-distilled water,the pH value of the reaction solution is adjusted to 8.4 by adding ammonia,temperature of condensation reaction is 55 ℃,condensation reaction time is 3.0 hour.After the condensation reaction,5 mL 50% NaOH solution is injected,the temperature of Cannizzaro reaction is 70 ℃,Cannizzaro reaction time is 1.5 hours.Under these conditions,the yield of trimethylolethane is 95.2%.
Furo[3,2-c]-(1a), -[2,3-c]- (1b) and -[3,2-b]pyridine (1c) were reacted with isopropyl chloroformate and trimethyl phosphite to give dimethyl 5-isopropoxycarbonyl-4,5-dihydrofuro[3,2-c]pyridine-4-phosphonate (2a), dimethyl 6-isopropoxycarbonyl-6,7-dihydrofuro[2,3-c]pyridine-7-phosphonate (2b) and dimethyl 4-isopropoxycarbonyl-4,7-dihydrofuro[3,2-b]pyridine-7-phosphonate (2c) as unstable syrups. Reaction of 2b and 2c with n-butyllithium and then with benzaldehyde, p-methoxybenzaldehyde, p-cyanobenzalde-hyde or propionaldehyde afforded the normal Wittig reaction products 5b-H, 5b-OMe, 5b-CN, 5b-Et, 5c-H, 5c-H, 5c-OMe and 5c-CN, except for 2b with propionaldehyde. While, the same reactions of compound 2a and the reaction of 2b with propionaldehyde afforded the unexpected products, 5-isopropoxycar-bonylfuro[3,2-c]pyridinio-4-aryl-(or ethyl)methoxides 3a-H, 3a-OMe, 3a-CN and 3a-Et, 4-(1′-aryl(or ethyl)-1′-hydroxymethyl)furo[3,2-c]pyridines 4a-H, 4a-OMe, 4a-CN and 4a-Et accompanying formation of the normal products. Treatment of the normal Wittig reaction products with lithium diisopropylamide and then with acetone gave the derivatives alkylated at the 2-or the benzylic positions.
Three approaches to the enantioselective synthesis of 3-amino-4-substituted-2-azetidinones by condensation of a-amino ester enolates with imines are deacriw (i) application of chiral ester derivatives of NJVdiethylglycine; (ii) application of chiral N-(a-methylbenzy1)imines; and (iii) application of chiral imines derived from (2R)2,3-0-isopropylideneglyceraldehyde. Zinc and aluminum enolata of (-)-menthyl- and (-)horny1 NJVdiethylglycine esters react with simple imines to selectively afford tram-3-(diethylamino)-2-azetidinones, but with a low chiral induction (ee 0-35%). However, reactions of the metal (Li, Zn, Al) ester enolates of (2,2,5,5-tetramethyl-laza-2,5-disilacyclopent-l-yl)acetic acid ethyl ester (IC) with N-(a-methylbenzy1)imines yield N-protected 3amino-2-azetidinones in excellent yields and with very high diastereo- and enantioselectivities. The best results are obtained for the zinc-mediated reactions. For example, tram-(3R,4S)-l(R)-(a-methylbenzyl)-&(2,2,5,5tetramethyl-l-aza-2,5-disilacyclopentyl)-4[N-(R)-(a-methylbenzyl)imino]-2-azetidinone (44, a fully protected key intermediate (having the unnatural C-3 configuration) for the synthesis of known monobactam and bicyclic 8-ladam antibiotics, was synthesized in 91% yield with an ee of 91%. Application of chiral imines derived from acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde enable, depending on the solvent, the selective high yielding synthesis (de 60-99%; ee >95%) of any one of the four stereoisomers of 3-amino-4-alkyl-2-azetidinones, which are key intermediates for the synthesis of Aztreonam and related antibiotics. In EbO, a weakly polar solvent, the trans isomers are formed, whereas the use of a polar THF/HMPA solvent mixture results in formation of the cis isomers. Reaction of the zinc enolate of IC with the N-(4methoxyphenyl)imine derivative 21 of (2R)-2,3-0-isopropylidene glyceraldehyde affords trans-(3R,4S)-3-amin0-4[ (l’S)-1’,2’-O-isopropylideneethy1]-2-azetidinone (loa) in excellent yield (de 86%; ee >98%), whereas reaction of the lithium enolate of IC with the N-(trimethylsiiyl)imine derivative 21 affords the cis-(3S,4S) isomer 1Od (key intermediate for the synthesis of Carumonam) in good yield (de >90%; >90%). A rationale for the observed stereoselectivities in terms of highly ordered transition states is presented.
The development of a practical and highly convergent synthesis of an alpha(v)beta3 antagonist is described. The two key fragments present in this compound, a tetrahydropyrido[2,3-b]azepine ring system and a chiral 3-aryl-5-oxopentanoic acid, were constructed independently and then coupled at a late stage using a Wittig reaction. The pyridoazepine moiety was prepared from N-Boc 6-chloro-2-aminopyridine via directed ortho-metalation/alkylation followed by in situ cyclization. A Suzuki reaction was then used to attach the propionaldehyde side-chain required for Wittig coupling. The coupling partner was prepared from asymmetric methanolysis of a 3-substituted glutaric anhydride followed by elaboration of the acid moiety to the requisite beta-keto phosphorane. Using this route, kilogram quantities of the desired drug candidate were prepared.
Provided is a method for producing methionine, the method including a step for bringing 2-amino-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile and water into contact with each other in the presence of an oxide catalyst containing cerium. 2-Amino-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile produced by bringing 2-hydroxy-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile and ammonia water into contact with each other, or 2-amino-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile produced by bringing 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, hydrocyanic acid, and ammonia water into contact with each other, can be used as the 2-amino-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile.
In field experiments Temik®, a 10% granular formulation of UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) applied in the furrow when the cottonseed was planted, controlled thrips. Frallkliniella spp., for 5-6 weeks and the cotton flea-hopper, Psallus serialus (Reuter), for about 9 weeks after planting. Used as a sidedressing, Temik gave control of the overwintered boll weevil, Anthonomus grandis is Boheman, that was comparable to that of 2 foliar applications of azinphosmethyl and seasonal control of the cotton fleahopper. Although populations of Heliothis spp. remained light and below damaging levels. more eggs and larvae were found in the terminals, and more injured squares and bolls were found on cotton plants side-dressed with Temik than were found on untreated plants or on plants treated with azinphosmethyl. Also 1 application of Azodrin® (3-hydroxy- N -methyl. cis -cro: tonamide dimethyl phosphate) to the stems of cotton plants at 0.5 Ib per acre gave seasonal control of the cotton fleahopper.
Desulfovibrio gigas aldehyde oxidoreductase (DgAOR) is a mononuclear molybdenum-containing enzyme from the xanthine oxidase (XO) family, a group of enzymes capable of catalyzing the oxidative hydroxylation of aldehydes and heterocyclic compounds. The kinetic studies reported in this work showed that DgAOR catalyzes the oxidative hydroxylation of aromatic aldehydes, but not heterocyclic compounds. NMR spectroscopy studies using (13)C-labeled benzaldehyde confirmed that DgAOR catalyzes the conversion of aldehydes to the respective carboxylic acids. Steady-state kinetics in solution showed that high concentrations of the aromatic aldehydes produce substrate inhibition and in the case of 3-phenyl propionaldehyde a suicide substrate behavior. Hydroxyl-substituted aromatic aldehydes present none of these behaviors but the kinetic parameters are largely affected by the position of the OH group. High-resolution crystallographic structures obtained from single crystals of active-DgAOR soaked with benzaldehyde showed that the side chains of Phe425 and Tyr535 are important for the stabilization of the substrate in the active site. On the other hand, the X-ray data of DgAOR soaked with trans-cinnamaldehyde showed a cinnamic acid molecule in the substrate channel. The X-ray data of DgAOR soaked with 3-phenyl propionaldehyde showed clearly how high substrate concentrations inactivate the enzyme by binding covalently at the surface of the enzyme and blocking the substrate channel. The different reactivity of DgAOR versus aldehyde oxidase and XO towards aromatic aldehydes and N-heterocyclic compounds is explained on the basis of the present kinetic and structural data.
A malodorous chemical, 2-ethyl-5,5′-dimethyl-1,3-dioxane (2EDD) created a drinking water taste and odor episode in Pennsylvania (USA) during 1992. The odor episode occurred as the result of a reaction between propionaldehyde and neopentyl glycol in the waste tank of a resin manufacturer. Samples of this waste water were extracted and analyzed. An in situ aqueous preparation of 2EDD was completed to demonstrate that 2EDD could have formed under the conditions found in the waste water. The stability (fate) of 2EDD was studied at different aqueous pHs (pH3, 5, 7, and 9). Some hydrolysis of 2EDD was found at pHs
A simple and rapid extraction procedure was developed for determining aldehydes in rainwater samples. This extraction technique involved the use of micro-solid-phase extraction in which the sorbent was held within a polypropylene membrane envelope, followed by high-performance liquid chromatographic analysis. Aldehydes such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and valeraldehyde were used as model compounds. Extraction conditions were optimized. The method linearity ranged between 0.5 and 50 μgl(-1) with the correlation coefficient of 0.987-0.999. The relative standard deviations (RSDs) of the method ranged from 7 to 12%. Method detection limits were in the range of 0.07-0.15 μgl(-1), which is lower than those previously reported for solid-phase microextraction combined with gas chromatography-mass spectrometric techniques. The proposed extraction technique was used for determination of aldehydes in rainwater samples to demonstrate the applicability of the method.
It was found that the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde was accelerated by adding not only potassium permanganate-sulfuric acid but also an acetaldehyde-ammonia solution. By utilizing this fact the following procedure is proposed to the spectrophotometric determination of methanol.To oxidize 1 ml of the test solution containing 115 μg of methanol, add 0.1 ml of 0.4 mg/ml acetaldehydeammonia solution, 0.1 ml of 0.5 M sulfuric acid, and 0.1 ml of 0.012 g/ml potassium permanganate solution. Swirl the mixture, and keep it at room temperature for 10 minutes. Add 0.1 ml of 0.03 g/ml sodium sulfite solution to reduce the excess permanganate. Swirl the mixture, and add 0.2 ml of 0.02 g/ml aqueous chromotropic acid solution. Add slowly 4 ml of 75 v/v% sulfuric acid. Heat the mixture in a water bath at 8085°C for 10 minutes with occasional swirling. Upon cooling to room temperature, measure the absorbance at 575 nm against the reagent blank obtained by the same procedure as described above. The calibration curve follows Beer's law in the range 115 μg/ml of methanol. The molar extinction coefficient is 7.2 × 103. The ratio of the oxidized amount of methanol to formaldehyde is 48%.Oxidation of methanol is accelerated by using propionaldehyde instead of acetaldehyde-ammonia. However it emits an offensive odor, which is the only defect of propionaldehyde.
Abstract The effects of cephem antibiotics and their related compounds on aldehyde dehydrogenase obtained from rat liver mitochondria were studied. A pH of 8.8 and reaction temperature 24° were the conditions for measurement of enzyme activity. The apparent Michaelis constant K m values for NAD, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were 3.8 × 10 −5 M, 4.0 × 10 −5 M and 2.5 × 10 −5 M, respectively. Cefamandole, cefoperazone and cefmetazole, having a 1-methyl-5-thiotetrazol group at position 3 of the cephem ring, caused a relatively potent inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase. Cefmetazole and cefoperazone also showed a significant inhibition on highly purified yeast aldehyde dehydrogenase; the extent of inhibition on yeast enzyme was almost the same as that on rat mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase. The decrease in enzyme activity effected by 1-methyl-1H-tetrazol-5-thiol (MTT) was greater than those of 1H-tetrazol (TZ), 1H-tetrazol-5-thiol and 1-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)-1H-tetrazol-5-thiol, but was, of course, less than that of disulfiram. Cefamandole, cefmetazole and MTT showed competitive inhibition with NAD, while TZ was uncompetitive inhibitor with respect to both NAD and acetaldehyde. Enzyme inhibition caused by disulfiram, cefmetazole and MIT increased timedependently and the addition of 2-mercaptoethanol into the medium effectively and completely restored enzyme inhibition. These results suggest that thiol group at position 5 of 1H-tetrazol ring is responsible for the type of inhibition with NAD, and methyl group at position 1 of 1H-tetrazol ring is important to exhibit a potent inhibition on aldehyde dehydrogenase.
Abstract With the use of biodiesel in clear growth, it is important to quantify any potential emission benefits or liabilities of this fuel. Several researches are available concerning the regulated emissions of biodiesel/diesel blends, but there is a lack of information about non-regulated emissions. In a previous paper [Correa, S.M., Arbilla, G., 2006. Emissoes de formaldeido e acetaldeido de misturas biodiesel/diesel. Periodico Tche Quimica, 3, 54–68], the emissions of aromatic hydrocarbons were reported. In this work, seven carbonyl emissions (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and benzaldehyde) were evaluated by a heavy-duty diesel engine fueled with pure diesel (D) and biodiesel blends (v/v) of 2% (B2), 5% (B5), 10% (B10), and 20% (B20). The tests were conducted using a six cylinder heavy-duty engine, typical of the Brazilian fleet of urban buses, in a steady-state condition under 1000, 1500, and 2000 rpm. The exhaust gases were diluted nearly 20 times and the carbonyls were sampled with SiO2–C18 cartridges, impregnated with acid solution of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine. The chemical analyses were performed by high performance liquid chromatography using UV detection. Using average values for the three modes of operation (1000, 1500, and 2000 rpm) benzaldehyde showed a reduction on the emission (−3.4% for B2, −5.3% for B5, −5.7% for B10, and −6.9% for B20) and all other carbonyls showed a significative increase: 2.6, 7.3, 17.6, and 35.5% for formaldehyde; 1.4, 2.5, 5.4, and 15.8% for acetaldehyde; 2.1, 5.4, 11.1, and 22.0% for acrolein+acetone; 0.8, 2.7, 4.6, and 10.0% for propionaldehyde; 3.3, 7.8, 16.0, and 26.0% for butyraldehyde.
Lithiation of 2-methylfuro[2,3-b]- 1a, -[2,3-c]- 1c and -[3,2-c]pyridine 1d with lithium diisopropylamide at −75° and subsequent treatment with deuterium chloride in deuterium oxide afforded 2-monodeuteriomethyl compounds 2a, 2c and 2d, while 2-methylfuro[3,2-b]pyridine 1b gave a mixture of 1b, 2b, 2-methyl-3-deuteriofuro[3,2-b]pyridine 2′b and 2-(1-proynyl)pyridin-3-ol 5. The same reaction of 1a at −40° gave 3-(1,2-propadienyl)pyridin-2-ol 3 and 3-(2-propynyl)pyridin-2-ol 4. Reaction of the lithio intermediates from 1a, 1c and 1d with benzaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetone afforded the corresponding alcohol derivatives 6a, 6c, 6d, 7a, 7c, 7d, 8a, 8c and 8d in excellent yield; while the reaction of lithio intermediate from 1b gave the expected alcohols 6b and 8b in lower yields accompanied by formation of 3-alkylated compounds 9, 11, 12 and compound 5. While reaction of the intermediates from 1a, 1b and 1d with N,N-dimethylacetamide yielded the 2-acetonyl compounds 13a, 13b and 13d in good yield, the same reaction of 1c did not give any acetylated product but recovery of the starting compound almost quantitatively.
The kinetics of catalytic oxidation of n-propanol on V2O5 and V2O5 modified with BeO, MgO, CaO and SrO has been investigated. A high selectivity of the oxidation to propionaldehyde was observed. The activation energies of the reaction and of the exchange of oxygen in these catalysts with molecular oxygen and CO2 were found to change in parallel.
3-Dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) is an osmoprotectant accumulated by certain flowering plants and algae. In Wollastonia biflora (L.) DC. (Compositae) the first intermediate in DMSP biosynthesis has been shown to be S-methylmethionine (SMM) (A.D. Hanson, J. Rivoal, L. Paquet, D.A. Gage [1994] Plant Physiol 105: 103-110). Other possible intermediates were investigated by radiolabeling methods using W. biflora leaf discs. In pulse-chase experiments with [35S]SMM, 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde (DMSP-ald) acquired label rapidly and lost it during the chase period. Conversely, 3-dimethylsulfoniopropylamine (DMSP-amine), 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionamide (DMSP-amide), and 4-dimethylsulfonio-2-hydroxybutyrate (DMSHB) labeled slowly and continuously during both pulse and chase. When unlabeled compounds were supplied along with [35S]SMM, DMSP-ald promoted [35S]DMSP-ald accumulation but DMSHB, DMSP-amide, and DMSP-amine had no such trapping effect. These data indicate that DMSP-ald is an intermediate in DMSP biosynthesis and that the other three compounds are not. Consistent with this, [35S]DMSHB was not metabolized to DMSP. Although [14C]DMSP-amine and [14C]DMSP-amide were converted slowly to DMSP, similar or higher conversion rates were found in plants that do not naturally accumulate DMSP, indicating that nonspecific reactions were responsible. These nonaccumulating species did not form [35S]DMSP-ald from [35S]SMM, implying that DMSP-ald is specific to DMSP biosynthesis. W. biflora leaf discs catabolized supplied sulfonium compounds to dimethylsulfide at differing rates, in the order DMSP-ald >> DMSP-amine > SMM > DMSP-amide > DMSHB > DMSP.
A narrow substrate range is a major limitation in exploiting enzymes more widely as catalysts in synthetic organic chemistry. For enzymes using two substrates, the simultaneous optimization of both substrate specificities is also required for the rapid expansion of accepted substrates. Transketolase catalyses the reversible transfer of a C2 -ketol unit from a donor substrate to an aldehyde acceptor and suffers the limitation of narrow substrate scope for industrial applications. Herein, transketolase from E. coli was engineered to accept both pyruvate as a novel donor substrate, and unnatural acceptor aldehydes, including propanal, pentanal, hexanal and 3-formylbenzoic acid. Twenty single-mutant variants were first designed and characterized experimentally. Beneficial mutations were then recombined to construct a small library. Screening of this library identified the best variant with a 9.2-fold improvement in the yield towards pyruvate and propionaldehyde, relative to wild type (WT). Pentanal and hexanal were used as acceptors to determine stereoselectivities of the reactions, which were found to be higher than 98% enantiomeric excess (ee) for the S configuration. Three variants were identified to be active for the reaction between pyruvate and 3-formylbenzoic acid. The best variant was able to convert 47% of substrate into product within 24 h, whereas no conversion was observed for WT. Docking experiments suggested a cooperation between the mutations responsible for donor and acceptor recognition, which would promote the activity towards both the acceptor and donor. The variants obtained have the potential to be used for developing catalytic pathways to a diverse range of high-value products.
The gas-phase oxidation of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and the butyraldehydes, in an unpacked and a packed vessel between 45 and 120°C, has been studied using a static system with a very small dead volume. Contrary to earlier reports, below 70–80°C with very high aldehyde/oxygen ratios the final pressure decreases were not greater than, but agreed very closely with, the overall stoichiometry RCHO + O2→RCO3H. The variation of pressure with time agreed with that deduced from the usual autocatalytic chain mechanism 2 and confirmed, in particular, that the initiation process is first order with respect to both aldehyde and oxygen, that the addition of oxygen to CH3CO radicals is second order and that the branching process is first order with respect to both peracid and aldehyde. The variation of the second order rate coefficients with temperature and surface/volume ratio indicated that both initiation and branching are heterogeneous. However, the addition process is homogeneous, the rate coefficient being about 1.2 × 107 dm3 mol–1 s–1 between 62.5 and 83.5°C.Analyses of the minor products (CO, CO2, H2O, CH4, C2H6, CH2O, CH3OH, CH3COCH3, CH3COCOCH3) of the acetaldehyde oxidation and of the peracetic acid/acetaldehyde interaction after the oxygen was used up has given information on the chemical nature of the elementary steps occurring in initiation and branching.
Abstract The branching fraction of H-abstraction in the elementary reactions of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde with OH at 290 K was determined directly using a fast-flow reactor coupled to a molecular beam sampling mass spectrometry apparatus. The primary-product H 2 O yield of the title reactions was quantified relative to that of the isobutane+OH reaction, and found to be 89±6 and 100±10% for the reactions of acetaldehyde+OH and propionaldehyde+OH, respectively. Furthermore, an upper limit of 3% could be determined for the yield of formic acid in the hypothetical addition/elimination reaction pathway. We conclude that the reaction of OH radicals with aldehydes proceeds predominantly, if not exclusively, via H-abstraction, forming H 2 O and RCO.
The reductive alkylation of p-aminophenol with n-butyraldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, propionaldehyde, and benzaldehyde has been described. Derivatives of p-aminophenol monoand dialkylated in the amino group have been obtained.
Abstract Adsorption isotherms of acetone, propionaldehyde, methylisobutylketone and sucrose from aqueous solutions onto granular activated carbon have been determined. Multi-solute data have been compared with the theoretical prediction obtained from ideal adsorbed solution model. The agreement between calculated and observed results is satisfactory. Only the system sucrosemethylisobutylketone shows significant deviation between experimental and predicted values. Therefore the model can be successfully utilized in design of activated carbon units.
5 Modeling the reaction behavior of glycerol in suband supercritical water The intention of this work was to develop a reaction model to describe the reaction dynamics of glycerol in suband supercritical water (T > 374 °C, p > 221 bar). The model aimed at improving the understanding of the competition of ionic and radical reactions in this solvent. The model is based on the results of 66 experiments performed in a tube reactor. The reactions were carried out at variable temperature (622 748 K), pressure (250, 350 and 450 bar), reaction time (32 60 sec.), and initial glycerol concentration (1 3 vol. %). The product samples consisted of a liquid and a gaseous phase. A special methodology for the analysis of each phase had to be worked out. The liquid products were analyzed by headspaceGC-FID and UV-VIS spectroscopy, the gaseous products by GC-WLD-FID. In subcritical water (622.4 °K, 450 bar), mainly the formation of acetaldehyde, acrolein, and formaldehyde could be observed, whereas the formation of gaseous products was negligible. Due to the occurence of a small number of products only, a high dielectric constant (e = 17) as well as the high values for the ionic product of water (Kw = 10-11,2 mol2/l2), it was strongly justified to assume a certain ionic reaction mechanism. In supercritical water, on the other hand, the formation of oxidation and reduction products as a result of reactions with hydroxyl and hydrogen radicals was observed. The following main products were detected as part of the liquid phase: acetaldehyde, acrolein, formaldehyde, methanol, allyl alcohol, propionaldehyde, ethanol, and finally acetone. Within the gaseous phase large amounts of carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen could be measured. The model calculations of the reactant and product dynamics were executed by the Chemkin II code on the basis of defined ionic and radical reaction steps. A plug flow behavior under isothermal and isobaric conditions was assumed for the calculations. Due to the lack of wellknown reactions in high-temperature water, both the chemistry and the kinetic parameters, especially for the ionic reactions, were often highly speculative. Radical reaction steps were based on the classical steps of pyrolysis, whereas the ionic reactions mainly considered bimolecular and monomolecular elimination as well as aldolcondensation and acetalization. The concentration of protons and hydroxyl ions was controlled by the self-dissociation of water. The dynamics of reactants and products was optimized stepwise for a pressure of 450 bar. By the results of flow and sensitivity calculations, a specific variation of the approximated kinetic parameters became possible. These calculations gave an additional hint as to the missing key reactions. In consideration of concerted reaction steps the number of key reactions was substantially reduced and the optimization prozess simplified. Oxygen-containing substances were stabilized by a hydrogen bonding correction. At the end of the optimization process the reaction model consisted of 95 substances, 340 radical and 43 ionic reactions. But only 36 radical and 12 ionic reactions were detected as sensitive key reactions. Experimental and calculated data differed at lower pressures (250 and 350 bar) as a result of the cage effect. Accordingly reactions were accelerated with decreasing pressure and a transition from the diffusion controlled reaction to the kinetically controlled reaction was possible.
Abstract The volatiles developed from dehydrated onion during rehydration with water or 1 g/ l cysteine solution were trapped on a porous polymer, Tenax-GC, and analyzed by an on-column entrainment gas chromatography procedure. Rehydration temperatures of 22 and 40°C, and four “sampling-trapping” times were investigated. Samples rehydrated with cysteine solution generally gave less total volatiles when the sampling-trapping period was 15, 30 and 60 min and more after 2 hours than water rehydrated samples. Propionaldehyde, 1-propanol and 1-propanethiol contents were always higher in samples rehydrated with water. The plausible reactions responsible for the observed effect of cysteine are discussed.
Abstract Hybrid nanoparticles based on lactide and poly(ethylene glycol) were composed of a copolymer, poly(2-amino,1,3-propanediol carbonic ester-co-lactide) [P(LA-co-CA)], and a graft copolymer, poly(2-amino,1,3-propanediol carbonic ester-co- l -lactide)-g-methoxy-poly(ethylene glycol) [P(LA-co-CA)-mPEG]. The hybrid nanoparticles were prepared using emulsion solvent diffusion method. The copolymer of poly(2-benzyloxy amide,1,3-propanediol carbonic ester-co-lactide) was prepared using ring-opening polymerization with diethylzinc (ZnEt 2 ) as a catalyst, and then took off benzyl oxygen group to obtain P(LA-co-CA). P(LA-co-CA)-mPEG by grafting methoxy-PEG-propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD) on P(LA-co-CA). With docetaxel as a model drug, the morphology of nanoparticles was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and the size and size distribution were determined by dynamic light scattering (DLS). The size of DTX-loaded particle was approximately 110 nm. The size scale prevents them from uptake by the reticulo-endothelial system and accumulation at the target site through the enhanced permeability and retention effect. In MTT assay, the results showed that the polymers are non-cytotoxic. The study points to the potential application of the composite nanoparticles in biomedical applications, including tissue engineering and controlled drug delivery.
Abstract From studies involving 31 cataracts classified by the CCRG system and eight normal human lenses, it has been found that the adult human lens contains an enzyme system capable of oxidizing 1–2 μmol of glyceraldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, formaldehyde, and malonaldialdehyde per hour to their carboxylic acid form. Roughly 30 μmol G-3-P can be oxidized per hour. Statistically, the level of the oxidase system in nuclear cataracts and deeply pigmented lenses was found to be the same as for normal lenses. The deficiency of an enzyme responsible for the oxidation of highly reactive aldehydes thus seems unlikely to be involved in nuclear cataract formation and the browning of the lens. Evidence that the observed oxidase activity occurs via two separate enzymes: aldehyde dehydrogenase and glyceraldehyde-3-P dehydrogenase was achieved by studying the response of enzyme to substrate and activators (dithiothreitol and arsenate) and by final separation of enzyme activities. Differences in pH optima and heat treatment response further distinguished one enzyme from the other.
Effects of modification of Pd/SiO2 on the catalytic activity for ethene hydroformylation have been studied on catalysts with a high Pd dispersion [76%, denoted by Pd(H)/SiO2] and with a low Pd dispersion [13%, Pd(L)/SiO2]. In the case of modification with Rh(CH3CO2)3, the rate of propionaldehyde formation increased with an increase in the amount of Rh(CH3CO2)3, introduced. The activity on Pd(H)/SiO2 modified with Rh(CH3CO2)3 at Rh/Pd = 1.0 was found to be very high, and corresponded to about four times that on unmodifed Pd(H)/SiO2 or to more than 50 times that on Rh/SiO2 containing the equivalent amount of Rh alone. By modification with Rh(CH3CO2)3, the activity for ethane formation was observed to be lower than that on the corresponding unmodified Pd/SiO2 catalyst, resulting in the enhancement of selectivity to propionaldehyde. However, the effects of the modification of Pd/SiO2 by RhCI3 on catalytic behaviour were found to be complicated compared with those modified by Rh(CH3CO2)3. With respect to the activity for propionaldehyde formation, the maximum appeared at ca. Rh/Pd = 0.1 for Pd(H)/SiO2, and at ca. Rh/Pd = 0.5 for Pd(L)/SiO2. The catalytic activity on Pd(H)/SiO2, which was modified with RhCl3 at Rh/Pd = 1.0, was found to be comparable to that on Pd(L)/SiO2 with the modification at Rh/Pd = 1.0. In addition, the activities on such modifed catalyst were comparable to that on the catalyst prepared by the deposition of RhCI3 and PdCI2 from a solution containing both. The variation observed in the modification effects was interpreted by the difference between the solubility of Pd particles in the solutions containing RhCl3 or Rh(CH3CO2)3, where the former was much higher than the latter. X-Ray diffraction (XRD) results showed remarkable decreases in the size of large Pd particles during the modification of the catalysts with a solution containing HCI. The remarkable increase in the activity for propionaldehyde formation observed for Pd(H)/SiO2 modified with Rh(CH3CO2)3, is probably due to the formation of a Rh–Pd bimetallic structure at the surfaces of metal particles.
An effective process was developed to separate 2,3-butanediol (2,3-BD) from fermentation broth (FB) by reactive-extraction. Propionaldehyde (PRA) was used as reactant and reaction product 2-ethyl-4,5-dimethyl-1,3-dioxolane (EDD) acted as extractant. HCl was selected as catalyst. Appropriate conditions were obtained by experiment as follows: 10 °C, C HCl =0.2mol·L−1, two-stage cross-current extraction, reactant volume ratio (V PRA : V FB ) for first stage and second stage is 0.10 and 0.05, respectively. The yield rate of 2,3-butanediol for the whole process can reach 90% w/w, and 2,3-butanediol in the final product can be more than 99% w/w. The novel process required less solution and especially had advantages in treating dilute fermentation broth. Furthermore, equilibrium and kinetic study were investigated on the reaction of propionaldehyde and 2,3-butanediol to provide basic data for process development. The results reveal that reaction enthalpy and activation energy of the reaction were −21.84±2.38 KJ·mol−1 and 51.97±2.84 KJ·mol−1, respectively. Kinetics was well described by pseudo-homogeneous model.
The present invention discloses a method for preparing a chiral cyclic phosphoric acid, which method comprises the steps of: a isobutyraldehyde, aromatic aldehydes to chiral 3-aryl-3-hydroxy conditions under catalytic chiral catalyst -2 , 2-methylpropanal; B chiral 3-aryl-3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl propionaldehyde reduced to give the chiral 1-aryl-2,2-dimethyl-1,3 - propanediol; c. of methylene chloride under conditions to react with phosphorus oxychloride to give the chiral aryl-2-chloro-5,5-dimethyl-2-oxo-1,3,2-phosphorus dioxane phosphorus oxychloride; D hydrolysis, acidification to generate a chiral cyclic phosphoric acid under basic conditions. High optical purity of the target product obtained with this process, simple operation, low cost, high yield, less pollution, is the art of organic synthesis.
PEGylation is a technology commonly used to enhance the bioavailability of therapeutic proteins in patients. Reductive alkylation of a protein amino terminal alpha amine in the presence of a polyethylene glycol (PEG) chain derivatized with propionaldehyde and a reducing agent, typically sodium cyanoborohydride, is one of the technologies available to achieve quantitative and site specific PEGylation. While cyanoborohydride has proven to be a robust and efficient reagent for this type of reaction, it generates aqueous cyanide as a reaction by-product (and its corollary, the very volatile hydrogen cyanide). We report here the screening of reducing agents such as dimethylamine borane, trimethylamine borane, triethylamine borane, tert-butylamine borane, morpholine borane, pyridine borane, 2-picoline borane, and 5-ethyl-2-methyl-pyridine borane as alternatives to cyanoborohydride for the PEGylation of recombinant human IL-10. The results of our study show that pyridine borane and 2-picoline borane promote rhIL-10 PEGylation at levels comparable to those observed with cyanoborohydride.
The effects of metal nanoparticle size on the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of propanoic acid (PAc) over Pd/SiO2 catalysts was investigated. Strong electrostatic adsorption (SEA) was used to prepare catalysts with Pd nanoparticles ranging between 1.9 to 12.4 nm. The particle sizes were determined by chemisorption (O2–H2 titration) and scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM). The HDO was carried out in a continuous gas-phase reactor at 200 °C and 1 atm at differential conversion. The reaction followed decarbonylation and hydrogenation pathways to yield ethane (C2H6) and propionaldehyde (EtCHO), respectively. While the catalytic TOF remained constant between 3.0–12.4 nm, it decreased by a factor of 2–3 with decreasing particle size down to 1.9 nm. The reaction rate is therefore considered to be largely structure-insensitive over the range studied. The selectivity toward EtCHO increased as the particle size increased, indicating hydrogenation is favored on single crystal Pd(111) and Pd(100) planes versus corners and edges. For decarbonylation to produce C2H6, reaction rate orders with respect to PAc (~0.5) and H2 (~0), and the apparent activation energy (~12 kcal per mole), were found to be the same for both 2.0 and 12.4 nm particle sizes. In contrast, the reaction rate order with respect to PAc (~1.0) and H2 (~0.3) was different for hydrogenation to produce EtCHO. These differences are explained by a change in the rate-determining step for the HDO of propanoic acid.
The limiting step for biosynthesis of 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) in Klebsiella pneumoniae is the conversion of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 3-HP. This reaction is catalyzed by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) with NAD+ as a cofactor. Although NAD+-dependent ALDH overexpression facilitates 3-HP biosynthesis, ALDH activity decreases and 3-HP stops accumulation when NAD+ is exhausted. Here, we show that an NAD+-independent aldehyde oxidase (AOX) from Pseudomonas sp. AIU 362 holds promise for cofactor-balanced 3-HP production in K. pneumoniae. The AOX coding gene, alod, was heterologously expressed in E. coli and K. pneumoniae, and their respective crude cell extracts showed 38.1 U/mg and 16.6 U/mg activities toward propionaldehyde. The recombinant K. pneumoniae expressing alod showed 13.7 U/mg activity toward 3-HPA; K m and V max were 6.7 mM and 42 μM/min/mg, respectively. In shake-flask cultures, the recombinant K. pneumoniae strain produced 0.89 g 3-HP/l, twice that of the control. Moreover, it produced 3 g 3-HP/l during 24 h fed-batch cultivation in a 5 l bioreactor. The results indicate that AOX can efficiently convert 3-HPA into 3-HP.
In order to simultaneously determine the aromatic composition and odor characteristics of Xihu Longjing tea by as chromatography(GC)-mass spectrometer(MS) and GC-olfactometry,volatile aromatic components were extracted from Xihu Longjing tea infusion in-tube extraction and direct thermal desorption(ITEX).It was confirmed that the compounds responsible for the characteristic aroma of Xihu Longjing tea were dimethyl sulfide,2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde,3-ethyl-2,5-dimethylpyrazine,linalool,α-terpineol,geraniol and cis-jasmone.
The phosphorescence of the triplet excited state (3Pt 2 * ) of a binuclear platinum(II) complex, Pt2(P2O5H2) 4 4− , is quenched by acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde with second-order rate constants of 5×105 and 2×105 M−1 s−1, respectively, in methanol at room temperature. Flash photolysis experiments establish that the reaction of3Pt 2 * with RCHO occurs by hydrogen atom transfer,3Pt 2 * +RCHO→Pt2H+RCO. The experiments also indicate that the Pt2H intermediate reduces aldehydes to alcohols.
Stereoselective reduction of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde catalyzed by alcohol dehydrogenase was investigated. Because of the water insolubility of the substrate and the target product (2-phenyl-1propanol) organic solvent was used. The process was intensied by the cofactor (NADH) regeneration in the same media, using ethanol/acetaldehyde reaction as hydrogen carrier system. The aim of the study was to realize the enzymatic process and in situ cofactor regeneration, simultaneously. Laboratory experiments in shake flasks system were carried out to determine the optimal reaction conditions. Gas chromatography was used to follow the conversion and the enantioselectivity of this reaction. Dierent organic solvents were tested and isopropyl ether was found the most suitable. In water|isopropyl ether solvent system (’r(VW/VO) = 37/63), optically pure (min. 95 %) (S)-2phenyl-1-propanol was produced with 25 % yield after 2 h of reaction time.
1 ::: The adenosylcobalamin-dependent ethanolamine ammonia-lyase from Clostridium sp. deaminates (2S)-2-aminopropanol to propionaldehyde about three times faster than it does (2R)-2-aminopropanol. ::: ::: 2 ::: (2S)-2-Amino(1-2H2)propanol and (1S, 2S)-2-amino(1-2H1)propanol are deaminated by the enzyme with a large kinetic deuterium isotope effect (kH/k2H∼ 6), whereas (1R, 2S)-2-amino(1-2H1)-propanol behaves like the unlabelled substrate. ::: ::: 3 ::: (2R)-2-Amino(1-2H2)propanol reacts about 1.7 times more slowly than unlabelled (2R)-2-aminopropanol or (1R, 2R)-2-amino(1-2H1)propanol. ::: ::: 4 ::: From the above results it follows that the enantiomeric 2-amino(1-2H2)propanols react at the same rate, irrespective of their absolute configuration and the lyase reaction involves the 1-Hsi atom in both enantiomers. ::: ::: 5 ::: (2S)-2-Amino[U-14C, 2-3H, 3-3H]propanol was prepared by a combination of enzymic and chemical reactions and the distribution of tritium between C-2 and C-3 was determined by its degradation to acetic acid. This doubly labelled substrate was converted on ethanolamine ammonia-lyase into (2R)-[U-14C, 2-3H, 3-3H]propionaldehyde. ::: ::: 6 ::: On the other hand, the (2S) configuration was proved for all three samples of [2-3H]propionaldehyde recovered from incubations of [5′-3H]adenosylcobalamin with ethanolamine ammonia-lyase irrespective of whether the (2S) or (2R) enantiomer of 2-aminopropanol or propionaldehyde itself (in the presence of ammonium ions) were used as substrates. ::: ::: 7 ::: Incubations with enzyme plus [5′-3H]adenosylcobalamin also yielded tritiated 2-amino-propanols. These were in turn incubated with horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase and diaphorase in deuterium oxide, which lead to exchange of the 1-HRe atom with deuterium. Retention of the tritium in the samples provided evidence for the (1S) configuration. By co-crystallization as the 4-methyl-oxazolidone derivative the (2S) configuration of the tritiated 2-aminopropanol samples was also proved. ::: ::: 8 ::: These results show that ethanolamine ammonia-lyase deaminates (2S)-2-aminopropanol with retention, whereas (2R)-2-aminopropanol reacts with inversion of configuration. Tritium from [5′-3H]adenosylcobalamin is transferred in all cases to the 2-pro-S position of propionaldehyde and to the 1-pro-S position of 2-aminopropanol. In the case of (2R)-2-aminopropanol, tritium transfer is accompanied by inversion at the asymmetric centre. All these results, together with the previously reported racemization during the conversion of 2-aminoethanol, can be explained by a simple mechanistic scheme.
Water-soluble aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde) ::: and non-water-soluble aldehydes (butyraldehyde and ::: phenylacetaldehyde) were easily detected by an efficient ::: fluorescent method with 5-aminofluorescein as probe. Under ::: optimal detection conditions, 5-aminofluorescein could selectively ::: respond to aldehydes with high sensitivity in comparison ::: with other carbonyl compounds like ketones and acids. ::: Thus, the proposed method was used to monitor microbial ::: oxidation and succeeded in trapping transiently-produced ::: aldehydes during biotransformation of primary alcohols by ::: Gluconobacter oxydans.
Acrylic acid isderived presently frompetroleum andisan important monomerintheindustrial manufacture ofplastics andother polymers. Analternate source ofacrylic acidisin thebacterial fermentation ofglycerol to3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) andthesubsequent oxidation of3-HPAto acrylic acid. Glycerol isarenewable resource foundasa by-product ofethanolic fermentation ofglucose orasa by-product ofvegetable andanimal fatprocessing. Abeles et al.(1)investigated themetabolic pathwayofglycerol fermentation inAerobacter aerogenes ATCC 8724. Usinganaerobic growth conditions, theydemonstrated that 3-HPAis theintermediate intheconversion ofglycerol to1,3-propanediol. Inthepresence ofsemicarbazide hydrochloride, 3-HPAaccumulated inthefermentation broth. Slininger et al.(3)alsoobserved theaccumulation of3-HPAfrom glycerol byKlebsiella oxytoca NRRL B-199(synonymous withATCC8724andpreviously classified asA.aerogenes, K.pneumoniae, andEnterobacter aerogenes), butunder aerobic conditions. Theydetermined that55%ofthetheoretical maximumconcentration of3-HPAcould berealized byfermentation ofglycerol (30g/liter) whenthesemicarbazidehydrochloride concentration wasoptimized at28.6 g/liter. Further studies determined that, byadjusting fermentation conditions, 83.8% oftheglycerol canbeconverted to 3-HPA(2). Inthepresent study, we screened bacterial strains for their ability toproduce 3-HPA, compared strains positive for 3-HPAproduction, determined theeffect ofcell production culture ageon3-HPAproduction, andestimated optimum conditions for3-HPAproduction forthemostefficient strain identified. MATERIALSAND METHODS Generaoforganisms tested for3-HPAproduction. The generatested, withnumberofspecies, wereasfollows: Acetobacter, 1;Agrobacterium, 2;Alcaligenes, 1;Arthrobacter, 2;Bacillus, 4;Brevibacterium, 1;Caulobacter, 1; Cellulomonas, 1;Corynebacterium, 1;Enterobacter, 4;Flavobacterium, 1;Gluconobacter, 3;Klebsiella, 4;Micrococcus,5;Mycobacterium, 1;Neisseria, 1;Proteus, 1;Protoaminobacter, 1;Pseudomonas, 20. Microorganisms, media, andculture sequence. Allbacterial strains wereobtained fromtheAgricultural Research ServiceCulture Collection, Peoria, Ill.
Klebsiella pneumoniae can naturally synthesize 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD), and 2,3-butanediol (2,3-BD) from glycerol. However, biosynthesis of these industrially important chemicals is constrained by troublesome byproducts. To clarify the influences of byproducts on 3-HP production, in this study, a total of eight byproduct-producing enzyme genes including pmd, poxB, frdB, fumC, dhaT, ilvH, adhP, and pflB were individually deleted from the K. pneumoniae genome. The resultant eight mutants presented different levels of metabolites. In 24-h shake-flask cultivation, the adhP- and pflB-deletion mutants produced 0.41 and 0.44 g/L 3-HP, respectively. Notably, the adhP and pflB double deletion mutant K. pneumoniaeΔadhPΔpflB produced 1.58 g/L 3-HP in 24-h shake-flask cultivation. When K. pneumoniaeΔadhPΔpflB was harnessed as a host strain to overexpress PuuC, a native aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) catalyzing 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 3-HP, the resulting recombinant strain K. pneumoniaeΔadhPΔpflB(pTAC-puuC) (pTAC-puuC is PuuC expression vector) generated 66.91 g/L 3-HP with a cumulative yield of 70.84% on glycerol in 60-h bioreactor cultivation. Additionally, this strain showed 2.3-, 5.1-, and 0.67-fold decrease in the concentrations of 1,3-PD, 2,3-BD, and acetic acid compared with the reference strain K. pneumoniae(pTAC-puuC). These results indicated that the byproducts exerted differential impacts on the production of 3-HP, 1,3-PD, and 2,3-BD. Although combinatorial elimination of byproduct pathways could reprogram glycerol flux, the enzyme 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (DhaT) that catalyzes 3-HPA to 1,3-PD and the enzymes ALDHs, especially, PuuC are most pivotal for 3-HP production. This study provides a deep understanding of how byproducts affect the production of 3-HP, 1,3-PD, and 2,3-BD in K. pneumoniae.
Solvent effects in homogeneous catalysis are known to affect catalytic activity. Whilst these effects are often described using qualitative features, such as Kamlet-Taft parameters, experimental tools able to quantify and reveal in more depth such effects have remained unexplored. In this work, NMR diffusion and T1 relaxation measurements have been carried out to probe solvent effects in the homogeneous catalytic reduction of propionaldehyde to 1-propanol in the presence of aluminium isopropoxide catalyst. Using data on diffusion coefficients it was possible to estimate trends in aggregation of different solvents. The results show that solvents with a high hydrogen bonding accepting ability, such as ethers, tend to form larger aggregates, which slow down the molecular dynamics of aldehyde molecules, as also suggested by T1 measurements, and preventing their access to the catalytic sites, which results in the observed decrease of catalytic activity. Conversely, weakly interacting solvents, such as alkanes, do not lead to the formation of such aggregates, hence allowing easy access of the aldehyde molecules to the catalytic sites, resulting in higher catalytic activity. The work reported here is a clear example on how combining traditional catalyst screening in homogeneous catalysis with NMR diffusion and relaxation time measurements can lead to new physico-chemical insights into such systems by providing data able to quantify aggregation phenomena and molecular dynamics.
This study examined effects of Fenton oxidation on trace level pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) commonly occurring in wastewater. The tested PPCPs included acetaminophen, atenolol, atrazine, carbamazepine, metoprolol, dilantin, DEET, diclofenac, pentoxifylline, oxybenzone, caffeine, fluoxetine, gemfibrozil, ibuprofen, iopromide, naproxen, propranolol, sulfamethoxazole, bisphenol-A and trimethoprim. Transformations of effluent organic matter (EfOM) caused by Fenton oxidation were also quantified. All tested PPCPs, except atrazine and iopromide, were completely removed by Fenton treatment carried out using a 20mg/L Fe (II) concentration and a 2.5 H(2)O(2)/Fe (II) molar ratio. Up to 30% on the total carbon concentration was removed during Fenton treatment which was accompanied by the oxidation of EfOM molecules and formation of oxidation products such as oxalic, formic and acetic acids and, less prominently, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and glycolaldehyde. The absorbance of EfOM treated with Fenton reagent at varying Fe (II) concentration and contact time underwent a consistent decrease. The relative decrease of EfOM absorbance was strongly and unambiguously correlated with the removal of all tested PPCPs.
Chabazite (CHA) molecular sieves, which are industrial catalysts for the selective reduction of nitrogen oxides and the conversion of methanol into olefins, are also ideal materials in catalysis research because their crystalline frameworks contain one unique tetrahedral site. The presence of a single lattice site allows for more accurate descriptions of experimental data using theoretical models and consequently for precise structure–function relationships of active sites incorporated into framework positions. A direct hydrothermal synthesis route to prepare pure-silica chabazite molecular sieves substituted with framework Sn atoms (Sn-CHA) was developed, which is required to predominantly incorporate Sn within the crystalline lattice. Quantitative titration with Lewis bases (NH3, CD3CN, and pyridine) demonstrates that framework Sn atoms behave as Lewis acid sites which catalyze intermolecular propionaldehyde reduction and ethanol oxidation as well as glucose–fructose isomerization. Aqueous-phase glucose...
Previously we have proposed and provided evidence for a metabolic scheme leading to 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionaldehyde from the antiepileptic drug felbamate. This aldehyde was found to undergo reversible cyclization to form the more stable cyclic carbamate 4-hydroxy-5-phenyl-tetrahydro-1,3-oxazin-2-one or undergo elimination to form 2-phenylpropenal. The cyclic carbamate bears structural similarity to 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide and there is an intriguing parallelism between the pathway from the cyclic carbamate to 2-phenylpropenal and the known pathway from 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide to acrolein. The similarity of these transformations led us to consider 5-phenyl-1,3-oxazinane-2,4-dione, which could arise from an oxidation of the cyclic carbamate, as a potential metabolite of felbamate. As the formation of this dione species may have both potential pharmacologic and toxicologic implications for felbamate therapy, we wished to study its reactivity. We have developed a synthesis of 5-phenyl-1, 3-oxazinane-2,4-dione and evaluated its reactivity in vitro. This dione was found to undergo base-catalyzed decomposition to three products, one of which is the major human metabolite of felbamate, 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionic acid. Furthermore, we have found evidence for the presence of the dione in human urine after felbamate treatment through the identification of its major in vitro decomposition product, 2-phenylacrylamide 11.
Oxygenated diesel fuel blends have a potential to reduce the emission of particulate matter (PM) and to be an alternative to diesel fuel. This paper describes the emission characteristics of a three compounds oxygenated diesel fuel blend (BE-diesel), on a Cummins-4B diesel engine. BE-diesel is a new form of oxygenated diesel fuel blends consisted of ethanol, methyl soyate and petroleum diesel fuel. The blend ratio used in this study was 5:20:75 (ethanol: methyl soyate: diesel fuel) by volume. The results from the operation of diesel engine with BE-diesel showed a significant reduction in PM emissions and 2%-14% increase of NOx emissions. The change of CO emission was not conclusive and depended on operating conditions. Total hydrocarbon (THC) from BE-diesel was lower than that from diesel fuel under most tested conditions. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetone in the exhaust were measured, and the results indicated that use of BE-diesel led to a slight increase of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetone emissions. A small amount of ethanol was also detected in the exhaust from burning BE-diesel. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We studied the spatial distributions of and the diurnal variations in four low molecular weight (LMW) carbonyl compounds, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and glyoxal, in coastal seawater. The samples were taken from the coastal areas of Hiroshima Bay, the Iyo Nada, and the Bungo Channel, western Japan. The formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and glyoxal concentrations were higher in the northern part of Hiroshima Bay than at offshore sampling points in the Iyo Nada and the Bungo Channel. These three compounds were found at much higher concentrations in the surface water than in deeper water layers in Hiroshima Bay. It is noteworthy that propionaldehyde was not detected in any of the seawater samples, the concentrations present being lower than the detection limit (1 nanomole per liter (nM)) of the high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) system we used. Photochemical and biological experiments were performed in the laboratory to help understand the characteristic distributions and fates of the LMW carbonyl compounds. The primary process controlling their fate in the coastal environment appears to be their biological consumption. The direct photo degradation of propionaldehyde, initiated by ultraviolet (UV) absorption, was observed, although formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were not degraded by UV irradiation. Our results suggest that the degradation of the LMW carbonyl compounds by photochemically formed hydroxyl radicals is relatively insignificant in the study area. Atmospheric deposition is a possible source of soluble carbonyl compounds in coastal surface seawater, but it may not influence the carbonyl concentrations in offshore waters.
The synthesis of bidentate monoanionic C−N derivatives of 2-oxopropionaldehyde phenylhydrazones, compounds 3, [Pd(2-{NHNCHC(O)Me}-3-RC6H3)Cl(PPh3)] is described. The structure of 3b (R = Me) was determined by X-ray diffraction. The bond distances and angles are similar to those reported for related metallacycles. The distance N(2)···O(1) (2.583(7) A) shows the existence of a strong intramolecular hydrogen bond between the NH and COCH3 groups. The C(9)−O(1) (1.224(9) A), C(8)−C(9) (1.46(1) A), C(8)−N(1) (1.307(8) A), and N1−N2 (1.325(7) A) bond lengths indicate that 3b exists mainly in the keto−hydrazo form. The action of NaMeO on 3 in MeOH afforded deep violet compounds which did not contain chlorine atoms. The analytical data, the infrared spectra, and the NMR studies, including 1H−1H COSY and NOESY experiments, showed that deprotonation of the N−H bond took place to give 4, [Pd(2-{NN−CHC(O)Me}-3-RC6H3)(PPh3)] by means of an unexpected hydrazo−azo tautomerization. The structure of 4c (R = Et) was determi...
The effect of the length and the type of the carbon chain of aliphatic aldehydes on their electrooxidation in sulphuric acid media on a bright Pt electrode was investigated. 0.01 M solutions of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde and isobutyraldehyde in 0.5 M sulphuric acid were studied under conditions of triangular potential sweep control. Acetone and ethyl methyl ketone were comparatively electrooxidized. It is concluded that the mechanism of acetaldehyde electrooxidation proposed earlier by the authors can be extended over the homologous series of the aliphatic aldehydes.
1. Pseudomonas sp. N.C.I.B. 8858 grew well on d- and l-1-aminopropan-2-ol and on aminoacetone. 2. Cell-free extracts possessed high activities of inducibly formed l-1-aminopropan-2-ol-NAD(+) oxidoreductase, amino alcohol-ATP phosphotransferase, dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate phospho-lyase and aldehyde-NAD(+) oxidoreductase, but no 1-aminopropan-2-ol racemase or d-1-aminopropan-2-ol-NAD(+) oxidoreductase. 3. The amino alcohol kinase (activated by ADP) was non-stereospecific towards 1-aminopropan-2-ol and was one-third as active with ethanolamine. The phospho-lyase was active with l- and d-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate, but ethanolamine O-phosphate was only one-tenth as active as its higher homologues. The purified aldehyde dehydrogenase was active with propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde and also with methylglyoxal. The previously observed 2-oxo aldehyde dehydrogenase activity was considered to be due to the broadly specific aldehyde dehydrogenase. 4. Mutants of Pseudomonas sp. N.C.I.B. 8858 deficient in 1-aminopropan-2-ol kinase, 1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate phospho-lyase, aldehyde dehydrogenase or an enzyme involved in propionate metabolism were incapable of growth on aminoacetone or 1-aminopropan-2-ol as carbon source, although all except the kinase- or phospho-lyasedeficient mutants could use these compounds and ethanolamine as nitrogen sources. The aldehyde dehydrogenase-deficient mutants produced copious amounts of propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde during growth on the corresponding amino alcohols. 5. The path of aminoacetone metabolism in Pseudomonas sp. N.C.I.B. 8858 was concluded to involve l-1-aminopropan-2-ol, the O-phosphate ester of this compound, propionaldehyde and propionate as obligatory intermediates. d-1-Aminopropan-2-ol was metabolized by the same route as the l-isomer, gratuitously inducing formation of the stereospecific l-1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase. 6. Extracts of the pseudomonad grown with ethanolamine as the nitrogen source were devoid of 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase, the kinase and the phospho-lyase, but exhibited cobamide coenzyme-dependent deaminase activity. Mutants deficient in kinase or phospho-lyase (deaminating) grew well on ethanolamine as the nitrogen source. Ethanolamine deaminase was inactive with, but inhibited by, 1-aminopropan-2-ol.
Summary The effect of adsorbed sulfur on the ethylene hydroformylation reaction was studied on Rh/SiO2, Ni/SiO2, and Ru/SiO2 catalysts using in situ infrared spectroscopy under Fischer-Tropsch synthesis conditions of 240 °C and 10 atm. Adsorbed sulfur inhibits the Fischer-Tropsch synthesis, but slightly enhances the ethylene hydroformylation on Rh/SiO2 and Ni/SiO2. The adsorbed sulfur blocks the bridge-CO sites and enhances the formation of propionaldehyde. In the case of Ru/SiO2, the adsorbed sulfur inhibits the Fischer-Tropsch synthesis and permits hydroformylation to adsorbed propionaldehyde; however, the desorption of propionaldehyde is inhibited by sulfur.
1. NAD(+)-dependent succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase was purified to apparent homogeneity from rat brain and highly purified from human brain. 2. Molecular exclusion chromatography of the purified enzymes on Sephadex G-150 and G-200 revealed M(r) values of 203,000 and 191,000 for rat and human, respectively. 3. Electrophoresis on sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gels revealed a single subunit of M(r) 54,000 for rat and 58,000 for human. Isoelectric focusing of the purified rat enzyme yielded a pI of 6.1. 4. For both proteins, Km values for short-chain aldehydes acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde ranged from 0.33 to 2.5 mM; Km values for succinic semialdehyde were in the 2-4 microM range. 5. The subunit structure of both enzymes was investigated in brain extracts and purified preparations by immunoblotting, using a polyclonal rabbit antiserum against the purified rat brain enzyme. 6. For rat and human extracts, single bands were detected at M(r) 54,000 and 58,000, comparable to findings in the purified preparations. Immunoblotting analyses in other species (guinea pig, hamster, mouse and rabbit) revealed single subunits of M(r) 54,000-56,500.
Abstract The health risk of toxic aldehydes has attracted substantial attention. Among these aldehydes, 4-hydroxy-2-trans-hexenal (4-HHE) and 4-hydroxy-2-trans-nonenal (4-HNE) are two of the most toxic. In addition, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and oxygenated aromatic hydrocarbons (OPAHs) have also been widely investigated because of their carcinogenicity. Changes in these contaminants were investigated in three flavouring oil gravies during consecutive storage at different storage temperatures. The concentrations of all the contaminants increased with storage time and higher temperature. The enrichment rates of 4-HHE and 4-HNE in the gravies stored at 37 °C were approximately 2.5 times that of those stored at 4 °C. The concentration of total PAHs at 25 °C increased from 1.72 to 3.17 μg/kg to 22.44–36.20 μg/kg. Similarly, the concentration of total PAHs showed the largest increase at 37 °C. Acid values and peroxide values, which were within the regulatory limits in China after storage, were also determined using titrimetry. In addition, two other toxic aldehydes, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, were found in the gravies. These results might help control the concentration of 4-HHE, 4-HNE, PAHs and oxygenated PAHs (OPAHs) in foods rich in oil.
The toxicity of extracellular spermine, determined in the presence of fetal calf serum, was studied using three cell lines: FM3A, L1210, and NIH3T3 cells. Amine oxidase in fetal calf serum produces aminodialdehyde generating acrolein spontaneously, H(2)O(2), and ammonia from spermine. Spermine toxicity was prevented by aldehyde dehydrogenase, but not by catalase. Similar concentrations of spermine and acrolein were needed to produce toxicity. Other aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde) and hydrogen peroxide were less toxic than acrolein. Spermidine and 3-aminopropanal, which produces acrolein, also exhibited severe cytotoxicity. The degree of cytotoxicity of spermine, spermidine, and 3-aminopropanal was nearly parallel with the amount of acrolein produced from each compound. Thus, it was deduced that acrolein is a major toxic compound produced from polyamines (spermine and spermidine) by amine oxidase.
Gaseous CF(3)(+) interchanges F(+) for O with simple carbonyl compounds. CF(3)(+) reacts with propionaldehyde in the gas phase to produce (CH(3))(2)CF(+) via two competing pathways. Starting with 1-(13)C-propionaldehyde, the major pathway (80%) produces (CH(3))(2)CF(+) with the carbon label in one of the methyl groups. The minor pathway (20%) produces (CH(3))(2)CF(+) with the carbon label in the central position. The relative proportions of these two pathways are measured by (19)F NMR analysis of the neutral CH(3)CF=CH(2) produced by deprotonation of (CH(3))(2)CF(+) at <10(-)(3) Torr in an electron bombardment flow (EBFlow) reactor. Formation of alkene in which carbon is directly bonded to fluorine means that (in the minor product, at least) an F(+) for O transposition occurs via adduct formation followed by 1,3-atom transfer and then isomerization of CH(3)CH(2)CHF(+) to the more stable (CH(3))(2)CF(+). Use of CF(4) as a chemical ionization (CI) reagent gas leads to CF(3)(+) adduct ions for a variety of ketones, in addition to isoelectronic transposition of F(+) for O. Metastable ion decompositions of the adduct ions yield the metathesis products. Decompositions of fluorocycloalkyl cations formed in this manner give evidence for the same kinds of rearrangements as take place in CH(3)CH(2)CHF(+). Density functional calculations confirm that F(+) for O metathesis takes place via addition of CF(3)(+) to the carbonyl oxygen followed by transposition via a four-member cyclic transition state. A computational survey of the effects of different substituents in a series of aldehydes and acyclic ketones reveals no systematic variation of the energy of the transition state as a function of thermochemistry, but the Hammond postulate does appear to be obeyed in terms of progress along the reaction coordinate. Bond lengths corresponding to the central barrier correlate with overall thermochemistry of the F(+) for O interchange, but in a sense opposite to what might have been expected: the transition state becomes more product-like as the metathesis becomes increasingly exothermic. This reversal of the naive interpretation of the Hammond postulate is accounted for by the relative positions of the potential energy wells that precede and follow the central barrier.
A recently developed method for quantitative NMR analysis of metabolites can be used for simultaneous identication and quantication of structures in oligomeric mixtures by repetition of a pulse sequence between the rst 1 H excitation pulse and the acquisition point. 15 Errors due to different relaxation times are eliminated by extrapolation to a zero-relaxation time (HSQC 0 ) for a series of spectra, acquired with different repetition times. The most accurate of these methods is known as gradientselective HSQC 0 , which provides more accurate quantitative results by reducing the T1 noise which can affect the peak intensities at low concentrations. 16 The T1 noise, which generally has higher intensity compared to the normal thermal noise, is a ridge of noise around the large peaks in parallel to the F1 axis and is specic to 2D NMR spectra. Table S3 of the ESI †) (e) propionaldehyde-stabilized lignin (sample SP6 in Table S3 of the ESI †) (f) mild dilute acid-catalyzed lignin (sample SA8 in Table S3 of the ESI †) (g) organosolv (non-stabilized) lignin (sample SU10 in Table S3 of the ESI †). The "signal used for integration" refers to the groups that include more than one peak but due to technical reasons only one of them is used for integration (see Sections S3.2.5 and S3.2.7 of the ESI †).
ABSTRACT: Chabazite (CHA) molecular sieves, which are industrial catalysts for the selective reduction of nitrogen oxides and the conversion of methanol into olefins, are also ideal materials in catalysis research because their crystalline frameworks contain one unique tetrahedral-site. The presence of a single lattice site allows for more accurate descriptions of experimental data using theoretical models, and consequently for more precise structure-function relationships of active sites incorporated into framework positions. A direct hydrothermal synthesis route to prepare pure-silica chabazite molecular sieves substituted with framework Sn atoms (Sn-CHA) is developed, which is required to predominantly incorporate Sn within the crystalline lattice. Quantitative titration with Lewis bases (NH3, CD3CN, pyridine) demonstrates that framework Sn atoms behave as Lewis acid sites, which catalyze intermolecular propionaldehyde reduction and ethanol oxidation, as well as glucose-fructose isomerization. Aqueous-phase glucose isomerization turnover rates on Sn-CHA are four orders-of-magnitude lower than on Sn-Beta zeolites, but similar to those on amorphous Sn-silicates. Further analysis of Sn-CHA by dynamic nuclear polarization enhanced solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (DNP NMR) spectroscopy enables measurement of 119 Sn NMR chemical shift anisotropy (CSA) of Sn sites. Comparison of experimentally determined CSA parameters to those computed on cluster models using density functional theory supports the presence of closed sites (Sn-(OSi)4) and defect sites ((HO)-Sn-(OSi)3) adjacent to a framework Si vacancy), which respectively become hydrated hydrolyzed-open sites and defect sites when Sn-CHA is exposed to ambient conditions or aqueous solution. Kinetic and spectroscopic data show that large substrates (e.g., glucose) are converted only on Sn sites located within disordered mesoporous voids of Sn-CHA, which are selectively detected and quantified in IR and 15 N and 119 Sn DNP NMR spectra using pyridine titrants. This integrated experimental and theoretical approach allows precise description of the primary coordination and secondary confining environments of Sn active sites isolated in crystalline silica frameworks, and clearly establishes the role of confinement within microporous voids for aqueous-phase glucose isomerization catalysis.
The toxicity of extracellular spermine was studied using three cell lines: FM3A, L1210, and NIH3T3 cells in the presence of fetal calf serum. Amine oxidase in fetal calf serum produces aminodialdehyde generating acrolein spontaneously, H2O2, and ammonia from spermine. Spermine toxicity was prevented by aldehyde dehydrogenase, but not by catalase. Similar concentrations of spermine and acrolein were needed to produce toxicity. Other aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde) and hydrogen peroxide were less toxic than acrolein. Spermidine and 3-aminopropanal, which produces acrolein, also exhibited severe cytotoxicity. The degree of cytotoxicity of spermine, spermidine, and 3-aminopropanal was nearly parallel with the amount of acrolein produced from each compound. These results suggested that acrolein is a major toxic compound produced from polyamines (spermine and spermidine) by amine oxidase.
E-mail: hongjh@chosun.ac.krReceived January 18, 2011, Accepted February 21, 2011Steric and electronic parameters of 4'-substituents play significant roles in steering the conformation ofnucleoside analogues. In order to investigate the relationship of 4'-substituent with antiviral enhancement,novel 4'-phenyl-5'-norcarbocyclic adenosine phosphonic acid analogues were racemically synthesized via denovo acyclic stereoselective route from propionaldehyde 5. The phenyl substituted cyclopentenols 15a and 15bas key intermediates were successfully constructed via reiterative carbonyl addition of Grignard reagents andring-closing metathesis of corresponding divinyl 14. The synthesized nucleoside phosphonic acids analogues19, 20, 21, and 23 were subjected to antiviral screening against HIV-1. Key Words : Anti-HIV agent, 4'-Branched nucleoside, 5'-Norcarbocyclic nucleoside phosphonic acidIntroductionThe development of new effective antiviral agent is essen-tial for overcoming viral diseases, such as acquired immuno-deficiency syndrome (AIDS) caused by human immuno-deficiency virus (HIV). Recently, several branched nucleo-sides
Abstract Oxidative C C bond cleavage between carbonyl carbon and vicinal carbon of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde to give acetophenone using 1 atm molecular oxygen as oxidant was catalyzed by Ce(IV), V(IV) and Bronsted acids. Among the examined catalysts, sulfuric acid exhibited the highest activity and gave the product in 99% yield.
In rice (Oryza sativa), the presence of a dominant Badh2 allele encoding betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH2) inhibits the synthesis of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), a potent flavor component in rice fragrance. By contrast, its two recessive alleles, badh2-E2 and badh2-E7, induce 2AP formation. Badh2 was found to be transcribed in all tissues tested except for roots, and the transcript was detected at higher abundance in young, healthy leaves than in other tissues. Multiple Badh2 transcript lengths were detected, and the complete, full-length Badh2 transcript was much less abundant than partial Badh2 transcripts. 2AP levels were significantly reduced in cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-driven transgenic lines expressing the complete, but not the partial, Badh2 coding sequences. In accordance, the intact, full-length BADH2 protein (503 residues) appeared exclusively in nonfragrant transgenic lines and rice varieties. These results indicate that the full-length BADH2 protein encoded by Badh2 renders rice nonfragrant by inhibiting 2AP biosynthesis. The BADH2 enzyme was predicted to contain three domains: NAD binding, substrate binding, and oligomerization domains. BADH2 was distributed throughout the cytoplasm, where it is predicted to catalyze the oxidization of betaine aldehyde, 4-aminobutyraldehyde (AB-ald), and 3-aminopropionaldehyde. The presence of null badh2 alleles resulted in AB-ald accumulation and enhanced 2AP biosynthesis. In summary, these data support the hypothesis that BADH2 inhibits 2AP biosynthesis by exhausting AB-ald, a presumed 2AP precursor.
The reaction between C3H8 and N2O over steam-activated FeMFI zeolites leads to high yields towards propene (24%) and propionaldehyde (6%) at 773–798 K.
In this article, we demonstrate the Passerini three-component reaction as a simple, effective method for the synthesis of polymers with double functional end groups, which are key precursors for the preparation of ABC miktoarm terpolymers. Thus, via the one-step Passerini reaction of monomethoxy poly(ethylene glycol)–propionaldehyde (PEG-CHO) with 2-bromo-2-methylpropionic acid and propargyl isocyanoacetamide, the PEG chain end was simultaneously functionalized with one atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP) initiating site and one alkynyl group. The resulting PEG(-alkynyl)-Br was then used for the synthesis of three types of miktoarm ABC terpolymers via two approaches. First, we conducted ATRP of N-isopropylacrylamide (NIPAM), then click reaction with azido-terminated polystyrene (PS-N3) or poly(tert-butyl acrylate) (PtBA-N3) and obtained two ABC miktoarm terpolymers PEG(-b-PNIPAM)-b-PS and PEG(-b-PNIPAM)-b-PtBA. Alternatively, we conducted single electron transfer living radical polymerization of tBA and click reaction with PS-N3 simultaneously to give PEG(-b-PtBA)-b-PS. All the polymer precursors and miktoarm terpolymers have been characterized by 1H NMR, Fourier transform infrared, gel permeation chromatography, demonstrating that both approaches provided well-defined ABC miktoarm terpolymers. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem, 2013
Volatile cleavage products of autoxidizing methyl linolenate have chromatographically separated and the aldehydes have been isolated as 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and α-pentenal have been identified. A six-carbon atom dialdehyde has been isolated as its hydrazone and is postulated to be hexene-3-dial-1,6.
The reaction of (2E,6E)-bis(chloromethylidene)thiomorpholin-4-amine and -selenomorpholin-4-amine with propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, or 4-pyridinecarbaldehyde in benzene in the presence of catalytic amounts of formic acid gave the corresponding hydrazones, the N-(organylmethylidene)-(2E,6E)bis-(chloromethylidene)thiomorpholin-4-amines and -selenomorpholin-4-amines, as trans isomers. The structure of the hydrazones was confirmed by 1H and 13C NMR, as well as 2D 1H–1H NOESY experiments.
Ethyl acrylate and methacrylate break down by competing primary A1, C2, and B2 scissions (A1 predominating); methyl acrylate, methacrylate, and crotonate show competing C2 and B2 scissions. In addition, ethyl and methyl acrylate yield ethanol and methanol respectively, presumably together with labile methyleneketen by a minor competing B1 scission. Acrylic, methacrylic, and crotonic acid undergo competing C2 and C1 scissions, together with a minor dehydration to acid anhydride: the novel C1 scissions produce acetaldehyde, acetone, and propionaldehyde respectively, via the corresponding enol. Acraldehyde, methacraldehyde, and crotonaldehyde undergo C1 scission, the resulting olefin undergoing some secondary breakdown. All pyrolyses were at ca. 540–500° in the vapour-phase.
Abstract Si-(OH)-Al groups of amorphous aluminosilicate have been known to play important roles in acid-catalyzed reactions. However, there is a lack of theoretical understanding on the catalytic function of the acid sites and reaction mechanisms on the amorphous aluminosilicate surface. In this study, the preferred glycerol dehydration mechanism on Si-(OH)-Al sites was investigated via density functional theory calculation, and compared to experimental results. An amorphous aluminosilicate surface was constructed based on the β-cristobalite crystal structure, and adsorption and activation energies were calculated for each elementary step in the glycerol dehydration at Si-(OH)-Al sites. It was found that when the primary OH group of glycerol is adsorbed on Bronsted proton (Si-(OH)-Al sites), the adsorption strength is too strong to convert to acetol. On the other hand, the secondary OH group of glycerol is adsorbed with a relatively moderate strength at the acid site, which then leads to favorable production of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). Consequently, the 3-HPA is readily dehydrated into acrolein and water due to its reactive properties. Therefore, glycerol seemed to be preferentially converted into acrolein on amorphous aluminosilicate during dehydration. In order to verify the preferential formation of acrolein, catalytic activity test was experimentally conducted. The amorphous aluminosilicate catalyst exhibited remarkable selectivity for acrolein (46.5%), which supported our theoretical approach. In addition, the adsorbed and polymerized glycerol on the used catalyst surface was identified via 13 C NMR. This suggests that when glycerol is too strongly adsorbed, it can be transformed into coke during dehydration. Combining our theoretical and experimental observations, it was concluded that strongly adsorbed glycerol gives rise to not only a lower level of conversion but also coke deposition on the amorphous aluminosilicate surface. Comparative investigation of aluminosilicate and H-ZSM-5 zeolite gave new light on that the adsorption structure, adsorption energy, and reaction mechanism are altered by silanol groups on the aluminosilicate surface, although the active site (Si-(OH)-Al) of aluminosilicate is similar to that of H-ZSM-5 zeolite.
1-[4-(3-Acetyl-2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)-2,6-cyclohexanedionyl]-O-eth yl propionaldehyde oxime (for short ATMP) is a novel porphyrogenic agent causing hepatic protoporphyria in the mouse. Mice given a single dose of the drug showed 24 h later a 70% inhibition of liver ferrochelatase and marked accumulation of protoporphyrin. These changes were not seen in similarly treated rats, guinea pigs, hamsters or chick embryos. A green pigment was isolated from the liver of mice treated with ATMP and identified by its electronic absorption spectrum and chromatographic properties on HPLC as N-methyl protoporphyrin. The ATMP pigment markedly inhibited the enzyme ferrochelatase in vitro, thus supporting its identification as N-methyl protoporphyrin. Two inhibitors of liver cytochrome P450, compound SKF 525-A and piperonyl butoxide, when given before ATMP, afforded protection against ATMP-induced porphyria and production of N-methyl protoporphyrin, suggesting a role of cytochrome P450 in the induction of the metabolic disorder. The most likely interpretation for these findings is therefore that ATMP is metabolized in the mouse to a reactive species, which in turn alkylates the haem moiety of liver cytochrome P450, thus producing N-methyl protoporphyrin. This inhibits ferrochelatase and, as a secondary response, protoporphyrin accumulates. This pathway of metabolism to the postulated reactive metabolite presumably does not occur to a significant extent in the other species examined and hence is the likely basis for the species difference in protoporphyria.
Recombinant Klebsiella pneumoniae over-expressing 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) dehydrogenase can produce 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), an important platform chemical, from glycerol. However, K. pneumoniae co-produces 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) due to the presence of 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductases, which decreases the titer and yield of 3-HP. Previously, two major oxidoreductases, dhaT and yqhD, were removed from K. pneumoniae; however the mutant still produced a significant amount of 1,3-PDO, indicating the probable existence of other oxidoreductase(s). Genome analysis of K. pneumoniae revealed the presence of five putative oxidoreductases having high amino acid similarities to both DhaT (primary 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase) and YqhD (aldehyde dehydrogenase). Among them, adhE was highly expressed in the absence of DhaT and YqhD. Additionally, an alkyl hydroperoxide oxidoreductase (ahpF), albeit dissimilar to both DhaT and YqhD, was highly expressed in the absence of DhaT and YqhD. To examine the role of adhE and ahpF in 1,3-PDO production, mutant strains devoid of dhaT, yqhD, ahpF and/or adhE genes were developed. However, these mutants neither reduced the production of 1,3-PDO nor improved the production of 3-HP when engineered to over-express an aldehyde dehydrogenase (KGSADH). These results indicate that, apart from DhaT, YqhD, AhpF and AdhE, K. pneumoniae has other, unknown oxidoreductases that are involved in 1,3-PDO production. It is concluded that complete elimination of 1,3-PDO during 3-HP production from glycerol by K. pneumoniae is highly challenging.
The aldol reactions of propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde have been explored in supercritical CO2, scCO2, using an automated continuous flow reactor. The reaction was found to proceed over a variety of heterogeneous acidic and basic catalysts and with increased selectivity compared to using neat reactants.
Five carbonyl compounds were found in the vapour of cooked rice, of which acetaldehyde, and n-caproaldehyde were identified from their retention times in gas chromatography and by their infrared spectra. Propionaldehyde or acetone, methylethylketone, and n-valeraldehyde were tentatively identified. The mechanisms of the formation of these carbonyl compounds were discussed from the view-point of Strecker degradation and lipid oxidation.When stored rice (40°C, two months) was cooked, the stale flavor (komai-shu) was clearly detected by sensory test. Direct gas chromatographic analysis of head space vapors over cooked rice showed three main peaks which corresponded to propionaldehyde or acetone, n-valeraldehyde and n-caproaldehyde. On the other hand, the content of linoleic and linolenic acids of the rice decreased during storage at 40°C. This means that the unsaturated fatty acids autoxidized during storage and gave rise to carbonyl compounds responsible for the stale flavor of cooked rice.
Abstract A novel route for the stereoselective total synthesis of ( R )-rugulactone 1 has been developed, starting from substituted epoxide 4 and 3-phenylpropionaldehyde 5 employing Julia-Kocienski olefination as a key step to construct E -configured α,β-unsaturated keto-group. The overall yield of the synthesized rugulactone is 19.94% and is better than the reported methods.
In the actual environmental and economic context, there is an increased interest in the microbial production at a large industrial scale of the bifunctional weak carboxylic acid 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). Among its various applications, this compound could be used as building block mainly for the synthesis of bio-based polymers. Moreover, in recent years, the tremendous growth of biodiesel manufacturing industries resulted in a large production of inexpensive and abundant available glycerol as by-product that could be used as substrate. ::: In the present work, the bioconversion of glycerol into 3-HP by Lactobacillus reuteri was studied. Product and its metabolic intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) are suspected to exhibit inhibitory or toxic effects on the producing microorganisms, thus leading to low productivity and dilute product stream. This entails high costs for isolation and purification of the product. A potential strategy to relieve the inhibitory stress, to increase the performance of the microbial cells and to recover the molecule of interest is to implement an “In Situ Product Recovery” (ISPR), by which upstream bioconversion is combined to downstream extraction and recovery.
1. A process for preparing a chiral compound comprising: (1) use of a chiral compound of formula (I), wherein Y is an optionally substituted aryl moiety, preferably an optionally substituted phenyl moiety, more preferably phenyl unsubstituted, (2) reacting a compound of formula (I) with HN -NH-CHO in a solvent to afford a compound of formula (II) .2. A method according to claim 1, wherein in step (1) a compound of formula (I) is prepared by reaction of propionaldehyde in a solvent with a compound of formula (i), preferably with nitrosobenzene in the presence of a catalyst system, preferably comprising at least one organic catalyst more preferably proline (Pro), more preferably D-Pro, said catalyst system optionally further comprises a promoter, preferably a urea derivative, more preferably 1- (2-dimethylaminoethyl) -3-fenilmochevinu.3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the reaction of propionaldehyde with a compound of formula (i) is carried out at a temperature ranging from -15 to + 5 ° C, preferably from -12 to + 3 ° C, more preferably -10 to 0 ° C preferably in dichloromethane (DCM) as rastvoritelya.4. A method according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the reaction of propionaldehyde with a compound of formula (i) is carried out in the presence of a catalytic amount of acid, preferably acetic acid or propionic kisloty.5. A method according to claim 1, wherein in step (2), the compound of formula (I) is reacted with HN-NH-CHO in the presence of molecular sieves, preferably having pore diameter, determined according to DIN standard 66131, in the range from 0.3 to 0.5 nm (3 to 5 A) .6. The process of claim
Carbonyl compounds were measured in Wanqingsha, Guangzhou. The measurements were based on the rapid reaction of carbonyl compounds with 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH), and their derivatives were detected by HPLC. 12 carbonyls were detected in samples. Acetone was the most abundant carbonyl, followed by formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. Con-centrations of these four carbonyls were 22.07, 9.99, 7.80 and 1.20 μg·m-3, respectively. Concentrations of carbonyl in daytime were higher than that at night. Concentrations rations of formaldehyde/acetaldehyde and acetaldehyde/propionaldehyde showed that an-thropogenic sources were the main sources. Pearson correlations for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyralde-hyde showed they had similar sources. Wanqingsha was in the downwind of Guangzhou, the pollutants in urban atmosphere can transport to Wanqingsha.
Abstract The vapour phase epoxidation of propene with nitrous oxide (N2O) was experimentally investigated in a fixed bed reactor using a CsOx/FeOy/SiO2 catalyst in a broad range of residence times. A complex reaction network was derived from the trends of product selectivities as function of the conversion. For the determination of the reaction paths, not only propene but also its oxidation products, propylene oxide (PO) and propionaldehyde (PA), were used as reactants. The selectivity to PO was found to be limited due to fast side reactions, like PO isomerisation reactions and, in particular, the formation of higher molecular weight products (HMP) mainly present as carbonaceous deposits (coke) on the catalyst. The amount of HMP and coke was quantified through several methods and both were identified as the major byproducts. Although PO is formed with more than 60% selectivity among the directly identified vapour phase products, the maximum selectivity is only about 30% when taking the HMP into account.
1. Growth of Erwinia carotovora N.C.P.P.B. 1280 on media containing 1-aminopropan-2-ol compounds or ethanolamine as the sole N source resulted in the excretion of propionaldehyde or acetaldehyde respectively. The inclusion of (NH(4))(2)SO(4) in media prevented aldehyde formation. 2. Growth, microrespirometric and enzymic evidence implicated amino alcohol O-phosphates as aldehyde precursors. An inducibly formed ATP-amino alcohol phosphotransferase was partially purified and found to be markedly stimulated by ADP, unaffected by NH(4) (+) ions and more active with ethanolamine than with 1-aminopropan-2-ol compounds. Amino alcohol O-phosphates were deaminated by an inducible phospho-lyase to give the corresponding aldehydes. This enzyme, separated from the kinase during purification, was more active with ethanolamine O-phosphate than with 1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphates. Activity of the phospho-lyase was unaffected by a number of possible effectors, including NH(4) (+) ions, but its formation was repressed by the addition of (NH(4))(2)SO(4) to growth media. 3. E. carotovora was unable to grow with ethanolamine or 1-aminopropan-2-ol compounds as sources of C, the production of aldehydes during utilization as N sources being attributable to the inability of the microbe to synthesize aldehyde dehydrogenase. 4. Of seven additional strains of Erwinia examined similar results were obtained only with Erwinia ananas (N.C.P.P.B. 441) and Erwinia milletiae (N.C.P.P.B. 955).
populations of arthropod predators, certain groups of hymenopterous insects, and Heliothis spp. including the bollworm, Heliothis zea (Boddie), and the tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens (F.), were sampled in experiments following in-furrow applications of disulfoton and Temik®, a 10% formulation of UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime); sidedress soil applications of phorate, American Cyanamid CL-47031 (cyclic ethylene (diethoxyphosphinyl)dithioimidocarbonate), and Temik; stem applications of Azodrin® (3-hydroxy-N-methyl-cis-crotonamide dimethyl phosphate) and CL-47031; and foliar applications of toxaphene plus DDT. Results indicated that populations of certain predators, particularly those belonging to the order Hemiptera, may be reduced by applications of systemic insecticides. Spiders (order Araneida and certain groups of hymenopterous insects (families Braconidae and lchneumonidae) Were less affected. In 2 experiments, the number of eggs and larvae of Heliothis spp. increased as the population of predators decreased. These results demonstrated the importance of natural populations of predators in regulating populations of Heliothis spp.
We describe an integrated method for solid-phase protein PEGylation and the purification of mono-PEGylated protein thus synthesized. Lysozyme was used as model protein in this study. Methoxy-polyethyleneglycol propionaldehyde (or m-PEG propionaldehyde) was first immobilized on a stack of microporous hydrophobic interaction membranes housed in a module. The membrane-bound m-PEG propionaldehyde was then contacted with lysozyme solution, which also contained sodium cyanoborohydride as a reducing agent. The PEGylated lysozyme thus synthesized remained attached to the membrane, whereas unreacted protein could easily be removed from the module. PEGylated protein was then eluted from the membrane in a partially purified form using salt-free buffer. Two separate steps were thus integrated into a single process: protein PEGylation, followed by purification of mono-PEGylated protein. This solid-phase method is likely to be suitable for PEGylating any protein because it is based on the immobilization of the activate...
Fifteen heavy-duty diesel vehicles were tested on chassis dynamometer by using typical heavy duty driving cycle and fuel economy cycle. The air from the exhaust was sampled by 2,4-dinitrophenyhydrazine cartridge and 23 carbonyl compounds were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography. The average emission factor of carbonyls was 97.2 mg/km, higher than that of light-duty diesel vehicles and gasoline-powered vehicles. Formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone and propionaldehyde were the species with the highest emission factors. Main influencing factors for carbonyl emissions were vehicle type, average speed and regulated emission standard, and the impact of vehicle loading was not evident in this study. National emission of carbonyls from diesel vehicles exhaust was calculated for China, 2011, based on both vehicle miles traveled and fuel consumption. Carbonyl emission of diesel vehicle was estimated to be 45.8 Gg, and was comparable to gasoline-powered vehicles (58.4 Gg). The emissions of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and acetone were 12.6, 6.9, 3.8 Gg, respectively. The ozone formation potential of carbonyls from diesel vehicles exhaust was 537 mg O3/km, higher than 497 mg O3/km of none-methane hydrocarbons emitted from diesel vehicles.
Aldose reductase (EC 1.1.1.21) and aldehyde reductase II (L-hexonate dehydrogenase, EC 1.1.1.2) have been purified to homogeneity from human erythrocytes by using ion-exchange chromatography, chromatofocusing, affinity chromatography, and Sephadex gel filtration. Both enzymes are monomeric, Mr 32,500, by the criteria of the Sephadex gel filtration and polyacrylamide slab gel electrophoresis under denaturing conditions. The isoelectric pH's for aldose reductase and aldehyde reductase II were determined to be 5.47 and 5.06, respectively. Substrate specificity studies showed that aldose reductase, besides catalyzing the reduction of various aldehydes such as propionaldehyde, pyridine-3-aldehyde and glyceraldehyde, utilizes aldo-sugars such as glucose and galactose. Aldehyde reductase II, however, did not use aldo-sugars as substrate. Aldose reductase activity is expressed with either NADH or NADPH as cofactors, whereas aldehyde reductase II can utilize only NADPH. The pH optima for aldose reductase and aldehyde reductase II are 6.2 and 7.0, respectively. Both enzymes are susceptible to the inhibition by p-hydroxymercuribenzoate and N-ethylmaleimide. They are also inhibited to varying degrees by aldose reductase inhibitors such as sorbinil, alrestatin, quercetrin, tetramethylene glutaric acid, and sodium phenobarbital. The presence of 0.4 M lithium sulfate in the assay mixture is essential for the full expression of aldose reductase activity whereas it completely inhibits aldehyde reductase II. Amino acid compositions and immunological studies further show that erythrocyte aldose reductase is similar to human and bovine lens aldose reductase, and that aldehyde reductase II is similar to human liver and brain aldehyde reductase II.
Analytical conditions for the analysis of 15 carbonyl-DNPH derivatives were optimized and compared by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and rapid resolution liquid chromatography (RRLC). Binary, ternary and quaternary mixtures of acetonitrile, isopropanol, methanol, tetrahydrofuran and water were evaluated under RRLC conditions employing a Zorbax Eclipse Plus C18 (50 mm x 4.6 mm x 1.8 microm) column and a Zorbax Eclipse Plus C18 (50 mm x 2.1 mm x 1.8 microm) column. The optimized conditions obtained employing the two RRLC columns were compared with those obtained using a Supelcosil C18 (250 mm x 4.6 mm x 5 microm; Supelco) that is designed for HPLC separation of DNPH derivatives. Chromatograms run with a Zorbax Eclipse Plus C18 (50 mm x 2.1 mm x 1.8 microm) column and a mobile phase composed of isopropanol, methanol, tetrahydrofuran and water led to the best separation conditions considering reduced analysis time (approximately 6 min per run), solvent consumption rate (approximately 2 mL per run) and resolution of propanone, acrolein and propionaldehyde hydrazones. Quantification limits and linear ranges were adequate for direct application of EPA TO-11 conditions in all sets of RRLC and HPLC conditions. The analytical method was applied in the determination of carbonyl compounds (CCs) in Niterói City, RJ, Brazil in samples that were collected during periods of 2h. Formaldehyde (8.22-9.78 ppbv) predominated in all periods followed by acetaldehyde (1.77-3.99ppbv) and propanone (1.89-3.26 ppbv). Heavy CCs such as butyraldehyde and benzaldehyde were also detected in most samples. Total CCs varied along the studied day. The obtained results showed that RRLC can be applied to CCs determination without any change in the conditions of sample preparation of the Method EPA TO-11.
Propylene oxide is recovered from a substantially propylene-free, crude propylene oxide product obtained by catalytic oxidation of propylene with an organic hydroperoxide. The crude product is distilled to remove acetaldehyde as an overhead product. A bottoms product is then distilled to separate propylene oxide as an overhead product from propionaldehyde and other higher boiling materials.
Heat-treated cells of a methanol yeast, showing high alcohol oxidase activity, were used for the production of aldehydes, i.e., acrolein, aeetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, from the corresponding alcohols, allyl alcohol, ethanol and 1-propanol, respectively. As high a level as 7.5% aeetaldehyde was obtained, in the reaction mixture, from 8.0% ethanol as a substrate. The acrolein concentration reached 3% after 2-hr reaction, from 5% allyl alcohol as a substrate. The difference in molar yields of these aldehydes is discussed on the basis of inactivation of alcohol oxidase by reaction products.
A multiscale computational study was performed with the aim of tracing the source of stereoselectivity and disclosing the role of water in the stereoselective step of propionaldehyde aldol self-condensation catalyzed by proline amide in water, a reaction that serves as a model for aqueous organocatalytic aldol condensations. Solvent mixing and hydration behavior were assessed by classical molecular dynamics simulations, which show that the reaction between propanal and the corresponding enamine takes place in a fully hydrated environment. First-principles molecular dynamics simulations were used to study the free-energy profile of four possible reaction paths, each of which yields a different stereoisomer, and high-level static first-principles calculations were employed to characterize the transition states for microsolvated species. The first solvation shell of the oxygen atom of the electrophilic aldehyde at the transition states contains two water molecules, each of which donates one hydrogen bond to the nascent alkoxide and thereby largely stabilizes its excess electron density. The stereoselectivity originates in an extra hydrogen bond donated by the amido group of proline amide in two reaction paths.
Steric and electronic parameters of 4'-substituents play significant roles in steering the conformation of nucleoside analogues. In order to investigate the relationship of 4'-substituent with antiviral enhancement, novel 4'-phenyl-5'-norcarbocyclic adenosine phosphonic acid analogues were racemically synthesized via de novo acyclic stereoselective route from propionaldehyde 5. The phenyl substituted cyclopentenols 15a and 15b as key intermediates were successfully constructed via reiterative carbonyl addition of Grignard reagents and ring-closing metathesis of corresponding divinyl 14. The synthesized nucleoside phosphonic acids analogues 19, 20, 21, and 23 were subjected to antiviral screening against HIV-1.
As shown in Scheme 1, the target compounds were prepared from protected propionaldehyde, 5, which was readily synthesized from 1,3-propanediol using known procedure. 9 The aldehyde functional group of 5 was subjected to carbonyl addition reaction by phenylmagnesium bromide to give the secondary alcohol 6, which was subjected to oxidation condition using Corey-Kim's oxidation procedure 10 to provide corresponding ketone derivative 7. The ketone functional group of 7 was again subjected to addition reaction by vinylmagnesium bromide to give tertiary hydroxyl analogue 8.
In rice (Oryza sativa), the presence of a dominant Badh2 allele encoding betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH2) inhibits the synthesis of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), a potent flavor component in rice fragrance. By contrast, its two recessive alleles, badh2-E2 and badh2-E7, induce 2AP formation. Badh2 was found to be transcribed in all tissues tested except for roots, and the transcript was detected at higher abundance in young, healthy leaves than in other tissues. Multiple Badh2 transcript lengths were detected, and the complete, full-length Badh2 transcript was much less abundant than partial Badh2 transcripts. 2AP levels were significantly reduced in cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-driven transgenic lines expressing the complete, but not the partial, Badh2 coding sequences. In accordance, the intact, full-length BADH2 protein (503 residues) appeared exclusively in nonfragrant transgenic lines and rice varieties. These results indicate that the full-length BADH2 protein encoded by Badh2 renders rice nonfragrant by inhibiting 2AP biosynthesis. The BADH2 enzyme was predicted to contain three domains: NAD binding, substrate binding, and oligomerization domains. BADH2 was distributed throughout the cytoplasm, where it is predicted to catalyze the oxidization of betaine aldehyde, 4-aminobutyraldehyde (ABald), and 3-aminopropionaldehyde. The presence of null badh2 alleles resulted in AB-ald accumulation and enhanced 2AP biosynthesis. In summary, these data support the hypothesis that BADH2 inhibits 2AP biosynthesis by exhausting AB-ald, a presumed 2AP precursor.
A method was developed to analyze volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in food, beverages and cosmetic samples. VOCs were isolated from a standard solution or samples using a purge-and-trap (PT) system and identified and quantified by a gas chromatograph with Photo Ionization Detector (GC–PID). The experimental conditions were optimized and the performance of the system was evaluated. Linear calibration curves were obtained with correlation coefficients of at least 0.9981. RSDs were less than 6%. Detection limits, calculated for 5 ml sample volume, ranged from 0.3056 ng ml-1 for toluene to 7.1373 ng ml-1 for propionaldehyde. The method was successfully applied to the quantitative analysis of food and cosmetic samples. Propionialdehyde and butyraldehyde were not found in food samples. Benzene and toluene were not detected in wine samples. Acetone was detected in all samples, except two samples. The method is reliable and is used for routine monitoring in food, beverages and cosmetic.
The two-step conversion of carbon dioxide to propionic acid and propionaldehyde has been studied in the presence of novel catalysts, cobalt and rhodium nanoparticles supported on MIL-53(Al) microporous metal–organic framework. The first step is hydrogenation of carbon dioxide with formation of synthesis gas over cobalt-containing catalyst Co/MIL-53(Al) (500°C, 1 atm), and the second step is continuous (without separation) Rh/MIL-53 (Al)-catalyzed hydroformylation of ethylene with the synthesis gas formed in the first step.
Glycerol dehydrase is an enzyme that catalyzes dehydration of glycerol into beta-propionaldehyde. It requires 5'-deoxyadenosylcobalamin, one of the forms of vitamin B12, as a coenzyme. The enzyme is inactivated in vitro by all forms of vitamin B12 stoichiometrically. The objective of this study was to determine vitamin B12 content by utilizing the inactivation of the enzyme by vitamin B12. After various examinations, an excellent standard curve was obtained up to 1 pmol vitamin B12 using 14 mU of the enzyme per tube. Glycerol dehydrase does not respond to vitamin B12 if it is bound to haptocorrin, a vitamin B12-binding protein. This necessitates a procedure for extraction of vitamin B12 from samples before assay. The enzyme was less inactivated by 5'-deoxyadenosylcobalamin than any other form of vitamin B12. However, this did not matter because all forms of vitamin B12 were converted into cyanocobalamin during the extraction procedure cited above, which was performed in a buffer containing potassium cyanide.
Based on the production and market situation of propionaldehyde at home and abroad, this paper discusses, from both technical and economic angles, the feasibility of producing propionaldehyde from refinery by-product-dry gas. It is pointed out that the production of propionaldehyde from dry gas is reliable in technology and feasible in economy. This paper suggests that relevant refineries could construct such propionaldehyde plants with capability of about 20kt/a using native technology
Evidence documenting the requirement for a functional DNA polymerase I when Salmonella typhimurium LT2 uses ethanolamine (EA), 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PDL), or propionate (PRP) as the sole carbon and energy source is presented. Providing rat polymerase beta in trans demonstrated that the growth phenotypes observed were due exclusively to the lack of DNA polymerase I functions. The location of the mutation (a MudI1734 insertion) that rendered cells unable to grow on EA, 1,2-PDL, or PRP was determined by DNA sequencing to be within the polA gene. polA mutants of this bacterium may be unable to repair the damage caused by reactive aldehydes generated during the catabolism of EA, 1,2-PDL, or PRP. Consistent with this hypothesis, the inhibitory effects of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde on the growth of this polA mutant were demonstrated. A derivative of the polA mutant unable to synthesize glutathione (GSH) was markedly more sensitive to acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde than was the polA mutant proficient in GSH synthesis. This finding was in agreement with the recently proposed role of GSH as a mechanism for quenching reactive aldehydes generated during the catabolism of these compounds (M. R. Rondon, R. Kazmierczack, and J. C. Escalante-Semerena, J. Bacteriol. 177:5434-5439, 1995).
In this article - which we dedicate to the lifework1 of Professor Teruaki Mukaiyama - a new general 5,6-dihydro-2H-1,3-oxazine synthesis is described. 3-Hydroxy-2,2-dimethylpropionaldehyde is condensed with a second oxo component and ammonia to the title compound in several examples. In the case of citronellal diastereoselectivity is observed.
Two kinds of methylglyoxal reductases were purified to apparent homogeneity from Aspergillus niger and designated MGR I and MGR II. Both enzymes consisted of a single polypeptide chain with a relative molecular mass of 36,000 (MGR I) and 38,000 (MGR II). NADPH was specifically required for the activities of both enzymes and Km values for NADPH were 54 microM (MGR I) and 6.8 microM (MGR II). MGR I was specific to 2-oxoaldehydes [glyoxal, methylglyoxal (Km = 15.4 mM) and phenylglyoxal], whereas MGR II was active on both 2-oxoaldehydes [glyoxal (Km = 10 mM), methylglyoxal (Km = 1.43 mM), phenylglyoxal (Km = 4.35 mM) and 4,5-dioxovalerate] and some aldehydes (propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde). Optimal pH values for MGR I and MGR II activities were 9.0 and 6.5 respectively. Both enzymes were inactivated by a brief incubation with 2-oxoaldehydes (glyoxal, methylglyoxal and phenylglyoxal) in the absence of NADPH. MGR I activity was competitively inhibited by NADP+ and the Ki value for NADP+ was calculated to be 0.49 mM. On the other hand, the inhibition of MGR II activity by NADP+ was of mixed type, the Ki value for NADP+ being 45 microM. MGR I was different from MGR II in amino acid composition.
The invention aims at the chemical industry field, and relates to a preparation method of a medicinal D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid metal chelate. The method comprises the following steps: carrying out a reaction of a hydrocyanic acid mixed gas prepared through an Andrussow process and methylthiopropionaldehyde as initial raw materials to obtain a 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyronityile system, hydrating the 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyronityile system to obtain D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyramide, and hydrolyzing to obtain D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyrate; and chelating D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyrate with a trace metal element salt to obtain the D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyrate. The method has the advantages of mild technological conditions, few side reactions, low production cost and simple purifying operation, and the obtained D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyrate has a high purity and a large bulk density, and can be used as an animal feed additive or a medicinal reagent.
Abstract Reactions of 2,3-diaminopyridine with 3-(4′-nitrophenyl)-3-oxo-propionaldehyde and 3-ethoxyvinylidene-2,4-pentanedione in ethanol result in either products of condensation 1:1 (1, 3) or 1:2 (2). All Schiff bases were studied by spectroscopic methods. In the crystalline state and in a chloroform solution all the products exist in an enaminone form. The structure of 3-acetyl-4-[N-(2′-aminopyridinyl)-3-amino]-3-buten-2-one (2) was determined by single crystal X-ray method. Crystals are monoclinic, space group P21/n (14), a=7.5780(2), b=8.0310(2), c=17.9590(6) A, β=97.175(1)° with Z=4. X-ray investigations indicate that the condensation takes place in the amino group at 3-position of pyridine ring.
2,2-Dimethyl-3-(3-methylphenyl)-propan-1-ol was synthesized using NiB/SiO2 amorphous alloy as catalyst and 2,2-dimethyl-3-(3-methylphenyl)propionaldehyde as starting materials through hydrogenation.According to the experiment,NiB/SiO2 has a very high catalytic activity and selectivity,which made the reaction conditions very moderation.The optimum conditions were as follows: reaction temperature 110℃,reaction pressure 3.0 MPa,m(catlyst)∶m(2,2-dimethyl-3-(3-methylphenyl)propionaldehyde)=0.03∶1.00,and reaction time 7.5 h.Under above conditions,the yield of 2,2-dimethyl-3-(3-methylphenyl)-propan-1-ol was above 99%,the weight percent was above 98% by rectification.
Ni/SiO2, a methanation catalyst, has been shown to exhibit CO insertion activity. In situ infrared studies of CO/H2 and C2H4/CO/H2 reactions on Ni/SiO2 show that carbonylation of Ni/SiO2 to Ni(CO)4 leads to an inhibition of methanation in CO hydrogenation but an enhancement of formation of propionaldehyde in the C2H4/CO/H2 reaction.
Eubacterium hallii is considered an important microbe in regard to intestinal metabolic balance due to its ability to utilize glucose and the fermentation intermediates acetate and lactate, to form butyrate and hydrogen. Recently, we observed that E. hallii is capable of metabolizing glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA, reuterin) with reported antimicrobial properties. The key enzyme for glycerol to 3-HPA conversion is the cobalamin-dependent glycerol/diol dehydratase PduCDE which also utilizes 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) to form propionate. Therefore our primary goal was to investigate glycerol to 3-HPA metabolism and 1,2-PD utilization by E. hallii along with its ability to produce cobalamin. We also investigated the relative abundance of E. hallii in stool of adults using 16S rRNA and pduCDE based gene screening to determine the contribution of E. hallii to intestinal propionate formation. We found that E. hallii utilizes glycerol to produce up to 9 mM 3-HPA but did not further metabolize 3-HPA to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD). Utilization of 1,2-PD in the presence and absence of glucose led to the formation of propanal, propanol and propionate. E. hallii formed cobalamin and was detected in stool of 74% of adults using 16S rRNA gene as marker gene (n = 325). Relative abundance of the E. hallii 16S rRNA gene ranged from 0 to 0.59% with a mean relative abundance of 0.044%. E. hallii PduCDE was detected in 63 to 81% of the metagenomes depending on which subunit was investigated beside other taxons such as Ruminococcus obeum, Ruminococcus gnavus, Flavonifractor prautii, Intestinimonas butyriciproducens, and Veillonella spp. In conclusion, we identified E. hallii as a common gut microbe with the ability to convert glycerol to 3-HPA, a step that requires the production of cobalamin, and to utilize 1,2-PD to form propionate. Our results along with its ability to use a broad range of substrates point at E. hallii as a key species within the intestinal trophic chain with the potential to highly impact the metabolic balance as well as the gut microbiota/host homeostasis by the formation of different short chain fatty acids.
The thermal and photochemical reactions of simple oxiranes are reviewed. Molecular unrestricted Hartree-Fock calculations with geometry optimization have been carried out on eight triplet C3H6O isomers considered to be possible intermediates in the 0(3P) + propylene and in the Hg 6(3P1) sensitization of methyloxirane. The computed thermodynamic stabilities reveal that four of these species are available in the former while all eight are accessible in the latter reaction. The isomer CH(CH3)-CH2O (MO1) is more stable than OCH(CH3)- CH2 (MO2) giving a satisfactory explanation for the observation that propionaldehyde is the major carbonyl product in the O (3P) + propylene reaction. The energy surfaces E(θ1,θ2) for MO1 and MO2, and the energy hy-persurfaces E(θ1,θ2,θ3) for CH(CH3)-O-CH2 (MO3), acetone and propionaldehyde were generated and the surfaces analyzed for the location and relative energies of the critical points (minima, saddle points and maxima). The overall stereochemical finding was that MO1,MO2, and MO3 possess rather flexible structures. For acetone and propionaldehyde, the barriers to inversion at the carbonyl group are 2.7 and 4.2 kcal/mol, respectively.
The reactivities of vanadium oxide epitaxial thin films were studied using temperature-programmed desorption (TPD). The vanadia films were grown on rutile TiO2(110) using oxygen-plasma-assisted molecular beam epitaxy and were shown to exhibit the (1 × 1) rutile structure using reflection high-energy electron diffraction, low-energy electron diffraction, and scanning tunneling microscopy. Meanwhile X-ray and ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy showed that monolayer films contained V5+, while V4+ predominated in the bulk of multilayer films. Two reaction channels, at 400 K and above 500 K, were detected for submonolayer vanadia coverages for 1-propanol oxidation to propionaldehyde. The reaction channel at 400 K persisted through multilayer films and thus was attributed to the dehydrogenation of intermediates attached to V surface cations; meanwhile, the sensitivity of 500 K reaction channel to vanadium oxidation states as well as a comparison of the branching ratio between these two reaction channels sug...
A simple method was established for the rapid determination of low molecular carbonyl compounds by the combination of atmospheric pressure chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry (APCI-MS/MS) and data mining. The ionization was carried out in positive mode, and six low molecular carbonyl compounds of acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, butanone, and butyraldehyde were analyzed by both full scan mode and daughter scan mode. To overcome the quantitative difficulties from isomer of acetone/propionaldehyde and butanone/butyraldehyde, the quantitation procedure was performed with the characteristic ion of [CH3O]
Sulfolobus solfataricus P2 is able to metabolize n-propanol as the sole carbon source. An average n-propanol consumption rate of 9.7 and 3.3 mg/L/hr was detected using GC-MS analysis from S. solfataricus cultures grown in 0.40 and 0.16% w/v n-propanol, respectively. The detection of propionaldehyde, the key intermediate of n-propanol degradation, produced at a rate of 1.3 and 1.0 mg/L/hr in 0.40 and 0.16% w/v n-propanol cultures, further validated the ability of S. solfataricus to utilize n-propanol. The translational and transcriptional responses of S. solfataricus grown on n-propanol versus glucose were also investigated using quantitative RT-PCR and iTRAQ approaches. Approximately 257 proteins with > or =2 MS/MS spectra were identified and quantified via iTRAQ. The global quantitative proteome overview obtained showed significant up-regulation of acetyl-CoA synthetases, propionyl-CoA carboxylase, and methylmalonyl-CoA mutase enzymes. This led to the proposition that the propionyl-CoA formed from n-propanol degradation is catabolised into the citrate cycle (central metabolism) via succinyl-CoA intermediates. In contrast, evidence obtained from these analysis approaches and in vivo stable isotope labeling experiments, suggests that S. solfataricus is only capable of converting isopropyl alcohol to acetone (and vice versa) but lacks the ability to further metabolize these compounds.
The reaction of nitrogen atoms, produced by an electric discharge, with acetaldehyde has been studied in a flow system, a mass spectrometer being used to follow the course of the reaction. Sampling was carried out through a small hole in a gold diaphragm. The main stable products were HCN, H$\_2$ and CO; a small amount of glyoxal was also formed. In addition appreciable amounts of a substance yielding ions of m/e = 43 were obtained. Arguments are presented for identifying this with the radical CH$\_2$CHO. Small amounts of a product giving ions of m/e = 86 were also produced. The nature of this material is discussed. No evidence was obtained for any hydrogen abstraction by nitrogen atoms. Experiments were also carried out with CH$\_3$CDO to clarify certain aspects of the proposed reaction mechanism. A few experimental results obtained with propionaldehyde can be understood in similar terms. The rate constant of the reaction N + CH$\_3$CHO $\rightarrow$ HCN + H$_2$ + HCO was deduced to be 1.20 $\pm$ 0.15 x 10$^{10}$ mole$^{-1}$ cm$^3$ s$^{-1}$ at 296 $^\circ$K.
Novel 4'-ethyl-5'-norcarbocyclic adenosine phosphonic acid analogues were synthesized from propionaldehyde 5 through a de novo acyclic synthetic route using reiterative Grignard additions and ring-closing metathesis (RCM) as key reactions. The synthesized nucleoside phosphonic acids analogues 17, 18, 19, and 21 were subjected to antiviral screening against human immunodeficiency virus.
Mutual binary solubilities were measured for 29 aldehydes ranging from C 3 to C 12 . Of this total, 7 were unsaturated aldehydes such as acrolein and crotonaldehyde, 5 were cyclic aldehydes such as benzaldehyde and 2-furaldehyde, and the remaining 17 were alkanecarbaldehydes. The solubility of aldehyde in water decreased very rapidly with increases in molecular weight; the solubility of water in aldehyde decreased less rapidly with molecular weight. No major differences were noted between the solubilities of unsaturated aldehydes such as acrolein and saturated aldehydes such as propionaldehyde. In some cases, the solubility increased with increases in temperature; in others, the solubility decreased with increases in temperature
Aldicarb [2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime] (Temik) is a broad-spectrum pesticide registered for use on a wide variety of agricultural crops. A single application, in the case of potatoes at the time of seed planting, protects the crop for the entire season against a variety of insects, mites, and nematodes. Upon weathering, aldicarb is oxidized to aldicarb sulfoxide and aldicarb sulfone (Kuhr and Dorough 1976). When field-grown potatoes were exposed to in-furrow treatment with aldicarb, the expected sulfoxidation products were found but no parent compound was extracted from any portion of the plants (Andrawes et al. 1971). The tolerance in the United States for residues of aldicarb and its metabolites in potatoes is i ppm (Code of Federal Regulations 1983). As part of the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) ongoing pesticide residue surveillance program, the FDA Buffalo District conducted a survey of potatoes grown in New York State in 1982 to determine carbamate insecticide use and residue content after harvest. The residue of particular interest was aldicarb. This insecticide is systemic, its metabolites are stable, and its application to potatoes is recommended for a variety of insect pests. Due to the contamination of groundwater with aldicarb on Long Island, the manufacturer requested from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) an amendment to its product label banning the use of aldicarb in Suffolk County, NY. This was granted (Zaki et al. 1982). MATERIALS AND METHODS Fifty samples, representing potatoes grown in four areas of New York State, were collected. Interviews with growers were obtained for nearly all samples. With the exception of potatoes grown on Long Island, all growers indicated that granular aldicarb had been applied at rates between 13 and 20 lb/acre at planting. No further applications of aldicarb were made.
In this study, a series of GC calibration experiments were conducted to examine the feasibility of the thermal desorption approach for the quantification of five carbonyl compounds (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde) in conjunction with two internal standard compounds. The gaseous working standards of carbonyls were calibrated with the aid of thermal desorption as a function of standard concentration and of loading volume. The detection properties were then compared against two types of external calibration data sets derived by fixed standard volume and fixed standard concentration approach. According to this comparison, the fixed standard volume-based calibration of carbonyls should be more sensitive and reliable than its fixed standard concentration counterpart. Moreover, the use of internal standard can improve the analytical reliability of aromatics and some carbonyls to a considerable extent. Our preliminary test on real samples, however, indicates that the performance of internal calibration, when tested using samples of varying dilution ranges, can be moderately different from that derivable from standard gases. It thus suggests that the reliability of calibration approaches should be examined carefully with the considerations on the interactive relationships between the compound-specific properties and the operation conditions of the instrumental setups.
Abstract Hydrogen peroxide, superoxide radical, and hydroxyl radical were all formed during the autoxidation of four cytotoxic agents, namely, 6-hydroxydopamine, 6-aminodopamine, 6,7-dihydroxytryptamine, and dialuric acid. Ascorbic acid and 5-hydroxydopamine, two autoxidizable agents of biological interest but without similar cytotoxic actions, were used as negative controls. The results tend to implicate O2- and ·OH, as well as H2O2, in the molecular mechanisms for cytotoxicity. Production of H2O2 was measured with an oxygen electrode. Accumulation of H2O2 was apparent from the return to solution of approximately one-half of the consumed oxygen after the addition of catalase. Superoxide radicals were detected by reduction of cytochrome c, with inhibition by superoxide dismutase. Although O2- radicals were observed previously by other means during the autoxidation of 6-hydroxydopamine, there was no clear effect in the cytochrome c system. This may have been due, in part, to a previously described scavenging of O2- by 6-hydroxydopamine itself. Hydroxyl radicals were detected by reaction with β-methylthiopropionaldehyde to form ethylene. Catalase or superoxide dismutase inhibited ethylene production. These results point to a reaction between H2O2 and O2- (Haber-Weiss reaction) as a major source of the ·OH radicals. Ethylene production was inhibited by known ·OH trappers, such as benzoate and ethanol, and by a variety of other agents. Catechol and the catecholamines, dopamine and norepinephrine, were very potent inhibitors of ethylene production. The effectiveness of these agents may have been due to a combined action of blocking ·OH formation as well as accelerating its removal. Superoxide dismutase had a biphasic effect in the 6-hydroxydopamine system, inhibitory at early times but causing increased accumulation of ethylene at later times. An explanation for this latter phenomenon may be based on a reaction between O2- and ·OH, as described by other investigators.
Popular Abstract in English Microbes are present everywhere in the environment and have quite an intimate relationship with humans. Much of our perception about microbes is as disease causing agents but on the other hand it is also the microbes that present cure for the disease. Besides using microbes for traditional applications, for example for providing antibiotics, production of fermented foods, etc., humans are increasingly taking advantage of the ”good” microbes as probiotics for improving health, wastewater treatment, mining of metals, cleaning the environment, and for producing bioenergy, chemicals and materials. The micro-sized organisms contain a complex network of metabolic pathways involving a large number of chemical reactions catalysed by enzymes for utilizing different substances in the environment and converting them to a variety of products. Lactic acid bacteria comprise an important group of microbes that humans have used for thousands of years to conserve and enhance the nutritional value of sensitive foods. Lactobacillus species are a major part of this group. Some Lactobacillus species are used for the production of yoghurt, cheese, sauerkraut, pickles, beer, wine, cider several fermented foods, as well as animal feeds, such as silage. Lactobacillus reuteri is a major component of the bacteria present in guts of mammals and birds. It has been shown that several different strains of L. reuteri have a positive effect on health, including various types of gastrointestinal disorders and oral health. In the late 1980s, it was discovered that L. reuteri produced a novel broad-spectrum antibiotic substance by fermentation of glycerol, which was named as "reuterin” after Gerhard Reuter. Reuterin can inhibit the growth of some harmful Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, along with yeasts, fungi and protozoa. Reuterin is a mixture of three components, made of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) and its derivatives. This thesis is about 3HPA as a molecule of interest for the chemical industry based on renewable resources. Today, as we become increasingly aware of our dependence on fossil resources to fulfill our needs, and the environmental problems associated with the use of these non-renewable resources, there is a growing interest in the use of renewable resources as raw materials and environment-friendly methods for the production of chemicals, materials and energy. 3HPA is currently not a commercial product. If it could be economically produced from glycerol using the bacteria it can potentially be used as a building block or ”platform” for several other chemicals with 3 carbon atoms (C3), e.g. 1,3-propanediol (1,3PDO), 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3HP), acrolein, etc. Glycerol, commonly known as glycerine, is produced as a side product of hydrolysis of fats, production of ethanol and biodiesel. Over the past decade or more, biodiesel is being produced from several plant oils such as rapeseed-, soybean- and palm oil, and also from used oils. In this thesis, conversion of glycerol to 3HPA using L. reuteri is investigated. When the 3HPA level reaches a certain limit, it starts to affect the cell viability and activity, hence inhibiting its own production. Different strategies to complex 3HPA were studied to improve its production. L. reuteri has also the ability to convert 3HPA to 1,3PDO and 3HP via different pathways. In the thesis, the pathway for 3HP production has been introduced in standard bacteria, Escherichia coli by recombinant DNA technology and shown to be active. One of the enzymes of the pathway has further been studied. The work in this thesis was done in collaboration with Perstorp AB, and was supported by Vinnova, the Swedish Governmental Agency for Innovation Systems. (Less)
Single-strain milk cultures of Leuconostoc dextranicum are capable of reducing added acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butanone to the corresponding alcohols at 30 C. L. dextranicum and L. citrovorum reduced propionaldehyde to n-propanol quantitatively in 30 hr, and the reduction of this compound paralleled culture growth. Under unagitated conditions, these organisms produced large amounts of acetic acid and ethyl alcohol. The yield of acetic acid increased when cultures were agitated during growth. This increase in acetic acid production was accompanied by a 20- to 70-fold decrease in ethyl alcohol. The addition of acetaldehyde to the fermentation caused a reduction in the final concentration of acetic acid.
Anionic polymerization of β-methoxypropionaldehyde (MPA) was carried out in tetrahydrofuran (THF) by using benzophenone–monolithium complex as an initiator. An equilibrium between polymerization and depolymerization was observed at a temperature range of −90 to −70°C. From the temperature dependence of the equilibrium monomer concentration, thermodynamic parameters for the polymerization of MPA in THF were evaluated as follows: ΔHss = −4.8 ± 0.2 kcal/mole, ΔHSS = −22.4 ± 1.3 cal/mole-deg, and (Tc)ss = −59°C. The thermodynamic change upon the conversion of liquid monomer to condensed polymer was computed from both the partial mixing energy of MPA with THF and the linear relationship between the equilibrium volume fraction of MPA monomer and that of the resulting polymer: ΔH1c = −4.7 ± 0.2 kcal/mole, ΔS1c = −19.5 ± 1.3 cal/mole-deg, and (Tc)1c = −35°C.
1. The activity of liver alcohol dehydrogenase with propan-2-ol and butan-2-ol has been confirmed. The activity with the corresponding ketones is small. Initial-rate parameters are reported for the oxidation of these secondary alcohols, and of propan-1-ol and 2-methylpropan-1-ol, and for the reduction of propionaldehyde and 2-methylpropionaldehyde. Substrate inhibition with primary alcohols is also described. 2. The requirements of the Theorell–Chance mechanism are satisfied by the data for all the primary alcohols and aldehydes, but not by the data for the secondary alcohols. A mechanism that provides for dissociation of either coenzyme or substrate from the reactive ternary complex is described, and shown to account for the initial-rate data for both primary and secondary alcohols, and for isotope-exchange results for the former. With primary alcohols, the rapid rate of reaction of the ternary complex, and its small steady-state concentration, result in conformity of initial-rate data to the requirements of the Theorell–Chance mechanisms. With secondary alcohols, the ternary complex reacts more slowly, its steady-state concentration is greater, and therefore dissociation of coenzyme from it is rate-limiting with non-saturating coenzyme concentrations. 3. Substrate inhibition with large concentrations of primary alcohols is attributed to the formation of an abortive complex of enzyme, NADH and alcohol from which NADH dissociates more slowly than from the enzyme–NADH complex. The initial-rate equation is derived for the complete mechanism, which includes a binary enzyme–alcohol complex and alternative pathways for formation of the reactive ternary complex. This mechanism would also provide, under suitable conditions, for substrate activation or substrate inhibition in a two-substrate reaction, according to the relative rates of reaction through the two pathways.
A method was developed to analyze volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in food, beverages and cosmetic samples. VOCs were isolated from a standard solution or samples using a purge-and-trap (PT) system and identified and quantified by a gas chromatograph with Photo Ionization Detector (GC-PID). The experimental conditions were optimized and the performance of the system was evaluated. Linear calibration curves were obtained with correlation coefficients of at least 0.9981. RSDs were less than 6%. Detection limits, calculated for 5 ml sample volume, ranged from 0.3056 ng ml -1 for toluene to 7.1373 ng ml -1 for propionaldehyde. The method was successfully applied to the quantitative analysis of food and cosmetic samples. Propionialdehyde and butyraldehyde were not found in food samples. Benzene and toluene were not detected in wine samples. Acetone was detected in all samples, except two samples. The method is reliable and is used for routine monitoring in food, beverages and cosmetic.
In this study, procedures for the determination of seven volatile organic compounds, including benzene, toluene, aldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, butyraldehyde and butanone, in food, beverages and cosmetic samples, using PID as detection method in PT-GC are discussed. The method is rapid and involves minimal sample treatment.
Eubacterium hallii is considered an important microbe in regard to intestinal metabolic balance due to its ability to utilize glucose and the fermentation intermediates acetate and lactate, to form butyrate and hydrogen. Recently, we observed that E. hallii is capable of metabolizing glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA, reuterin) with reported antimicrobial properties. The key enzyme for glycerol to 3-HPA conversion is the cobalamin-dependent glycerol/diol dehydratase PduCDE which also utilizes 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) to form propionate. Therefore our primary goal was to investigate glycerol to 3-HPA metabolism and 1,2-PD utilization by E. hallii along with its ability to produce cobalamin. We also investigated the relative abundance of E. hallii in stool of adults using 16S rRNA and pduCDE based gene screening to determine the contribution of E. hallii to intestinal propionate formation. We found that E. hallii utilizes glycerol to produce up to 9 mM 3-HPA but did not further metabolize 3-HPA to 1,3-propanediol. Utilization of 1,2-PD in the presence and absence of glucose led to the formation of propanal, propanol and propionate. E. hallii formed cobalamin and was detected in stool of 74% of adults using 16S rRNA gene as marker gene (n = 325). Relative abundance of the E. hallii 16S rRNA gene ranged from 0 to 0.59% with a mean relative abundance of 0.044%. E. hallii PduCDE was detected in 63 to 81% of the metagenomes depending on which subunit was investigated beside other taxons such as Ruminococcus obeum, R. gnavus, Flavonifractor plautii, Intestinimonas butyriciproducens, and Veillonella spp. In conclusion, we identified E. hallii as a common gut microbe with the ability to convert glycerol to 3-HPA, a step that requires the production of cobalamin, and to utilize 1,2-PD to form propionate. Our results along with its ability to use a broad range of substrates point at E. hallii as a key species within the intestinal trophic chain with the potential to highly impact the metabolic balance as well as the gut microbiota/host homeostasis by the formation of different short chain fatty acids.
A simple method was established for the rapid determination of low molecular carbonyl compounds by the combination of atmospheric pressure chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry (APCI-MS/MS) and data mining. The ionization was carried out in positive mode, and six low molecular carbonyl compounds of acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, butanone, and butyraldehyde were analyzed by both full scan mode and daughter scan mode. To overcome the quantitative difficulties from isomer of acetone/propionaldehyde and butanone/butyraldehyde, the quantitation procedure was performed with the characteristic ion of [CH 3 O] + under CID energy of 5 and 15 eV. Subsequently, the established method was successfully applied to analysis of six low molecular carbonyl compounds in tobacco smoke with analytical period less than four minutes. The contents of acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, butanone, and butyraldehyde for a cigarette were about 63 ± 5.8, 325 ± 82, 55 ± 9.7, 11 ± 1.4, 67 ± 5.9, and 12 ± 1.8 g/cig, respectively. The experimental results indicated that the established method had the potential application in rapid determination of low molecular carbonyl compounds.
In previous study, the commercial APCI source of Xevo6 TQ MS (Waters) was modified to introduce sample directly into the ionization region, and acrolein and crotonaldehyde were investigated by the APCI-MS/MS. However, the isomers in low molecular carbonyl compounds such as acetone/propionaldehyde and butanone/butyraldehyde were difficult to analyze by the APCI-MS/MS due to the same molecular mass. To overcome the difficulty from the isomer, the MS/MS spectra under a series of CID energies were investigated to provide more information, which was in favor of differentiation through data mining. In this study, a method was developed for the rapid determination of low molecular carbonyl compounds by APCI-MS/MS. The quantitation procedure of six low molecular carbonyl compounds was performed with the characteristic ion of [CH 3 O] + under CID energy of 5 and 15 eV. Finally, six low molecular carbonyl compounds in tobacco smoke were detected with APCI-MS/MS to test and prove the developed method.
Six low molecular carbonyl compounds of acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, butanone, and butyraldehyde in the cigarette smoke were analyzed rapidly through the combination of APCI-MS/MS and data mining. As for the isomers of carbonyl compounds, the quantification was performed by the APCI-MS/MS under two CID energies of 5 and 15 eV. A quantitation procedure was developed for low molecular carbonyl compounds with characteristic ion of [CH 3 O] + . The capability of the developed method was demonstrated through quantification of six low molecular carbonyl compounds in tobacco smoke with analytical period less than four minutes.
Novel 4'-ethyl-5'-norcarbocyclic adenosine phosphonic acid analogues were synthesized from propionaldehyde 5 through a de novo acyclic synthetic route using reiterative Grignard additions and ring-closing metathesis (RCM) as key reactions. The synthesized nucleoside phosphonic acids analogues 17, 18, 19, and 21 were subjected to antiviral screening against human immunodeficiency virus.
1. The activity of liver alcohol dehydrogenase with propan-2-ol and butan-2-ol has been confirmed. The activity with the corresponding ketones is small. Initialrate parameters are reported for the oxidation of these secondary alcohols, and of propan-l-ol and 2-methylpropan-1-ol, and for the reduction of propionaldehyde and 2-methylpropionaldehyde. Substrate inhibition with primary alcohols is also described. 2. The requirements of the Theorell-Chance mechanism are satisfied by the data for all the primary alcohols and aldehydes, but not by the data for the secondary alcohols. A mechanism that provides for dissociation of either coenzyme or substrate from the reactive ternary complex is described, and shown to account for the initial-rate data for both primary and secondary alcohols, and for isotope-exchange results for the former. With primary alcohols, the rapid rate of reaction of the ternary complex, and its small steady-state concentration, result in conformity of initial-rate data to the requirements of the TheorellChance mechanisms. With secondary alcohols, the ternary complex reacts more slowly, its steady-state concentration is greater, and therefore dissociation of coenzyme from it is rate-limiting with non-saturating coenzyme concentrations. 3. Substrate inhibition with large concentrations of primary alcohols is attributed to the formation of an abortive complex of enzyme, NADH and alcohol from which NADH dissociates more slowly than from the enzyme-NADH complex. The initial-rate equation is derived for the complete mechanism, which includes a binary enzyme-alcohol complex and alternative pathways for formation of the reactive ternary complex. This mechanism would also provide, under suitable conditions, for substrate activation or substrate inhibition in a two-substrate reaction, according to the relative rates of reaction through the two pathways.
The reactions of (thioacyloxy)silane (O-trimethylsilyl thioacetate and thiobenzoate) with some aldehydes (propionaldehyde, butylaldehyde, and benzaldehyde) gave S-(1-substituted alkyl) thioacetates (S-[1-(trimethylsilyl-oxy)propyl, and -butyl] thioacetates, and S-[α-(trimethylsilyloxy)benzyl] thioacetate), and the three corresponding thiobenzoates respectively. The reactions were catalyzed by 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene(DBU), and also by its salt with thiobenzoic acid.
The purpose of this study was to analyze the major compound in the leaf essential oil of Cinnamomum osmophloeum Kaneh. and examine its in vivo toxicity and cytokine-modulatory effects. The HS-GC/MS and quantitative HPLC analyses showed the concentrations of major compounds, cinnamaldehyde, benzaldehyde, and 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, in the leaf essential oil of Cinnamomum osmophloeum to be 16.88, 1.28, and 1.70 mg/ml, respectively. Acute and sub-acute toxicity tests identified no significant changes in body weight, liver and kidney function indices, and pathology for the mice treated with up to 1 ml/kg body weight of Cinnamomum osmophloeum leaf essential oil or up to 4 mg/kg body weight of cinnamaldehyde. A murine model was established using ovalbumin (OVA)-primed Balb/C mice treated with various concentrations of Cinnamomum osmophloeum leaf essential oil or cinnamaldehyde daily for 4 weeks. The results of tests using commercial ELISA kits indicated no significant cytokine-modulatory effects in mice treated with Cinnamomum osmophloeum leaf essential oil; however, serum concentrations of IL-2, IL-4, and IL-10 but not IFN-γ significantly increased in animals treated with 1 mg/kg body weight of cinnamaldehyde during the 4-week period. The possibility that the other constituents act as antagonists of cinnamaldehyde cannot be excluded.
Curcumin, a yellow spice and pigment isolated from the rhizome of Curcuma longa, has been traditionally and widely used as a food coloring additive.1 Recently, curcumin has attracted extensive attention in biomedical research as multiple biological activities of curcumin have been revealed including antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, biometal chelating, anti-proliferative, and anti-Aβ activities, among others.2-5 Consequently, curcumin has been tested in various disease models, such as arthritis, cancer, and Alzheimer’s disease (AD) as both a preventive and treatment agent.6-10 Since curcumin itself possesses a number of properties that limit its potential as an effective medicinal agent, e.g., poor solubility and bioavailability, extensive efforts have been made to develop more effective analogues with improved pharmacokinetic and pharmacological properties. Among the analogues developed, a difluoroboron complex of curcumin was initially developed with increased stability and inhibitory potency against HIV protease.11 Furthermore, the difluoroboron-derivatized curcumin analogues such as CRANAD-2 and BF2C have been demonstrated as novel near-infrared imaging (NIR) probes to detect Aβ plaques in AD and as chemical sensors for cyanide detection, In addition, detailed photophysical and photochemical research disclosed that the optical properties can be optimized for different purposes by phenyl ring modifications, thus indicating both therapeutic and diagnostic applications of such difluoroboron-derivatized curcumin analogues.12,13 ::: ::: Despite the broad spectrum of biological activities and potential applications for boron complexes of curcumin analogues, the synthetic methodology to produce such analogues has remained quite limited. The BF2C analogues are typically prepared by a two-step process employing A) 2,4-pentanedione and aldehydes or B) curcumin in the presence of BF3·OEt2 and Et3N (Scheme 1). But these methods generally require long reaction times and give typical low yields over the two steps. In addition, curcumin analogues with substituents on phenolic oxygens are typically synthesized by employing the Pabon reaction in another two-step process with low yields.14 Therefore, a more concise and more efficient method is needed to prepare such analogues. As part of our ongoing studies developing novel curcumin analogues as multifunctional ligands for AD treatment,15,16,17 we herein report a new and concise method that allows one-pot selective synthesis of symmetrical (s-BF2C) or unsymmetrical difluoroboron-curcumin analogues (us-BF2C) via a BF3·OEt2 promoted system. Furthermore, these BF2C analogues can be used as intermediates to deliver a wide range of symmetric and unsymmetric substituted curcumin analogues for biological screening. ::: ::: ::: ::: Scheme 1 ::: ::: Traditional Methods for preparation of BF2C. ::: ::: ::: ::: First, we selected 2,4-pentanedione and vanillin as the model system to optimize the reaction conditions. Preliminary studies revealed that reaction of vanillin with 2,4-pentanedione in DMF in the presence of excess of BF3·OEt2 (1.5 equiv) and catalytic amount of n-BuNH2 afforded only a trace amount of 2a (Table 1, entry 1). Efforts were then made to optimize the reaction conditions. As shown in Table 1, the addition of tributyl borate as dehydrating agent greatly improves the yield in this type of reaction. Of the solvents screened, toluene afforded 2a in 94% yield at 65 °C (entry 8). No significant improvement in reaction yield was observed when the reaction was carried out at 100 °C (entry 9). Notably, the difluoroboron-curcumin analogue 2a was precipitated from toluene, and the purity was determined to be > 92% by HPLC, thus making the isolation and purification process in this method quite practical and accessible. ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 1 ::: ::: Optimization of the BF3·OEt2-Promoted One-Pot Synthesis of Difluoroboron-Derivatized Curcumin (BF2C)a ::: ::: ::: ::: With the optimized reaction conditions established (Table 1, entry 8), the scope of the BF3·OEt2-mediated reaction of 2,4-pentanedione and aldehydes was then studied. As shown in Table 2, all the adehydes tested yielded s-BF2C in good to excellent yields. In general, substitutions on the phenyl ring of aryl aldehydes are well tolerated under the experimental conditions, and both electron-donating and electron-withdrawing subtituents improved the yield slightly compared to unsubstituted compound (entry 2) while with electron-donating substituents being better than electron-withdrawing substituents. Notably, the current method provided significantly improved reaction yield when compared to the reported procedure as demonstrated by the synthesis of compound 2f (Table 2, entry 6).12 Furthermore, when benzaldehyde (entry 2) was replaced with a naphthalene-2-carbaldehyde (entry 11) or pyridine-3-carbaldehyde (entry 12), the yield was significantly improved, while replacement with cinnamaldehyde (entry 13) afforded a significantly reduced reaction yield. These observations may indicate that the benzylidene moiety is essential for the complex formation. This notion is further supported by the reduced yield of cyclopropanecarboxaldehyde (entry 14, 60% yield). Since cyclopropanecarboxaldehyde also gave a reasonable yield of 60%, this may suggest that non-aromatic aldehydes could be good substrates for this reaction system. To further confirm this, we tested propionaldehyde and 3-phenyl-propionaldehyde in this reaction system. Surprisingly, no reaction was observed for both non-aromatic aldehyde substrates. The reaction of cyclopropanecarboxaldehyde may be due to the increased sp2 nature of the cyclopropane in this specific aldehyde, thus indicating that aromatic aldehyde is best suited to this reaction system. ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 2 ::: ::: Reaction of Aldehydes 1 and 2,4-Pentanedione for the Synthesis of Symmetric Difluoroboron-derivatized Curcumins 2 (s-BF2C) a ::: ::: ::: ::: The transformation of aldehyde and 2,4-pentanedione to BF2C under the BF3·OEt2-promoted reaction likely proceeds via a similar mechanism to that of reported procedure12 as is outlined in Scheme 2. The significant improvement of reaction yield in our method may be due to the fact that the product can be precipitated from the reaction mixture, thus driving the continuing consumption of the starting aldehyde and the difluoroboron-2,4-pentanedione intermediate. Further studies are needed to understand the mechanism of this method better. Multicomponent reactions are becoming increasingly important because they deliver complex and diverse chemical entities from relatively simple starting materials in a one-pot reaction.18 With the optimal reaction conditions established for the synthesis of s-BF2C, we investigated the feasibility of developing a multicomponent version of this method to achieve synthesis of us-BF2C. If successful, such a methodology will provide an efficient way to deliver unsymmteric curcumin analogues and this will consequently facilitate the drug development process of such compounds. We initially employed four aldehydes to react with vanillin to test the feasibility and the results are summarized in Table 3. Under the same conditions employed in Table 2, one pot reaction with two different aldehydes afforded us-BF2C (Table 3) in acceptable yields, albeit significantly lower than the mono-aldehyde versions. The reactions afforded the us-BF2C either as a major product (entry 1, Table 3) or with comparable yield to the s-BF2C (entries 2, 3, and 4 of Table 3, two s-BF2C products), thus suggesting that further optimization is necessary to improve the yield of us-BF2C. Notably, the 4-HO-benzaldehyde provided the best yield among the aldehydes tested, consistent with results from Table 2. However, the yield from pyridine-3-carbaldehyde was lower when compared to the results from Table 2. ::: ::: ::: ::: Scheme 2 ::: ::: Possible pathways towards symmetric s-BF2C. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 3 ::: ::: Reaction of Vanillin (1a), Aldehydes 3 and 2,4-Pentanedione for the Synthesis of Asymmetric Difluoroboron-Derivatized Curcumins 4a ::: ::: ::: ::: Finally, we employed 2a as a model compound to investigate whether the difluoroboron-complex can be deprotected to deliver curcumin efficiently. As shown in Scheme 3, the boron-complex can be deprotected in DMSO-MeOH at 100 °C to afford curcumin in 90% yield, thus confirming that this method can be employed to produce curcumin analogues with substituents on the phenolic oxygens in both symmetric and unsymmetric formats efficiently. ::: ::: ::: ::: Scheme 3 ::: ::: Deprotection of BF2 group from Difluoroboron-derivatized Curcumin ::: ::: ::: ::: In summary, we have developed a concise and efficient method to allow the one-pot synthesis of difluoroboron-derivatized curcumins (BF2C) employing a BF3·OEt2-promoted system. When mono aldehyde is employed in the reaction, the s-BF2C can be obtained in good to excellent yields. The improved yield could be due to the precipitation of the product from the solvent of toluene, thus driving the reaction to completion. When two different aldehydes were introduced into this one-pot reaction system, the reaction afforded the us-BF2C in moderate yield. Lastly, this method could also be an efficient choice for preparation of curcumin analogues. Based on the scope of this method and the commercial availability of starting materials, this method should be of high interests for both organic and pharmaceutical chemistry research.
Lactobacillus reuteri, a heterofermentative bacterium, metabolizes glycerol via a Pdu (propanediol-utilization) pathway involving dehydration to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) followed by reduction to 1,3-propandiol (1,3-PDO) with concomitant generation of an oxidized cofactor, NAD+ that is utilized to maintain cofactor balance required for glucose metabolism and even for oxidation of 3-HPA by a Pdu oxidative branch to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). The Pdu pathway is operative inside Pdu microcompartment that encapsulates different enzymes and cofactors involved in metabolizing glycerol or 1,2-propanediol, and protects the cells from the toxic effect of the aldehyde intermediate. Since L. reuteri excretes high amounts of 3-HPA outside the microcompartment, the organism is likely to have alternative alcohol dehydrogenase(s) in the cytoplasm for transformation of the aldehyde. In this study, diversity of alcohol dehydrogenases in Lactobacillus species was investigated with a focus on L. reuteri. Nine ADH enzymes were found in L. reuteri DSM20016, out of which 3 (PduQ, ADH6 and ADH7) belong to the group of iron-dependent enzymes that are known to transform aldehydes/ketones to alcohols. L. reuteri mutants were generated in which the three ADHs were deleted individually. The lagging growth phenotype of these deletion mutants revealed that limited NAD+/NADH recycling could be restricting their growth in the absence of ADHs. Notably, it was demonstrated that PduQ is more active in generating NAD+ during glycerol metabolism within the microcompartment by resting cells, while ADH7 functions to balance NAD+/NADH by converting 3-HPA to 1,3-PDO outside the microcompartment in the growing cells. Moreover, evaluation of ADH6 deletion mutant showed strong decrease in ethanol level, supporting the role of this bifuctional alcohol/aldehyde dehydrogenase in ethanol production. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report revealing both internal and external recycling for cofactor homeostasis during 3-HPA conversion in L. reuteri.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HPA) is an important specialty chemical which can be produced from glycerol using resting cells of Lactobacillus reuteri. This biocatalytic route, however, suffers from substrate- and product-mediated loss of enzyme activity within 2 h of biotransformation. In order to overcome the inhibitory effects of 3HPA, complex formation with sodium bisulfite was investigated, optimized and applied for in situ capture of the aldehyde during biotransformation of glycerol in a fed-batch process. As a result, the activity of the cells was maintained for at least 18 h. The 3HPA produced per gram cell dry weight was increased 5.7 times compared to the batch production process, and 2.2 times compared to fed-batch process without in situ complex formation. This approach may have potential for production and in situ removal of 3HPA after further process development.
Isoflavonoid derivatives including prunetin (4',5-dihydroxy-7-methoxyisoflavone) were shown to be potent inhibitors of human aldehyde dehydrogenases (Keung W-M and Vallee BL, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 90: 1247-1251, 1993). The inhibition reaction was reinvestigated using recombinantly expressed human aldehyde dehydrogenases. The kinetic analyses showed that prunetin inhibits competitively against both NAD and propionaldehyde with the mitochondrial and cytoplasmic enzymes. The Ki value for the mitochondrial enzyme was much lower than for the cytoplasmicenzyme. A mixed pattern of inhibition was obtaiend with the mitochondrial enzyme in the presence of Mg2+. Only one mole of prunetin binds per mole of tetrameric mitochondrial enzyme, which remains unaltered in the presence of Mg2+. Prunetin did not displace NADH from the enzyme-NADH complex. Propionaldehyde did not reverse the loss of fluorescence obtained due to enzyme-prunetin complex formation, indicating that prunetin may not be interacting at the substrate site. The esterase activity of the mitochondrial enzyme was also inhibited by prunetin in a competitive manner. The replacement of lysine 192 by glutamine resulted in a mutant with a 20% kcat and a 100-fold increase in the Km for NAI) compared with the native enzyme. However, the Ki value of prunetin against NAD was similar to that observed with the native enzyme. Prunetin, even at a very high concentration, was not an inhibitor of alcohol and malate dehydrogenase. It was concluded that prunetin may act as an allosteric inhibitor of aldehyde dehydrogenase.
Process for preparing tert-butylamine asymmetric secondary of formula I by reductive amination of aldehydes of formula II with tert-butylamine and hydrogen in liquid phase in the presence of hydrogenation catalysts, comprising the following steps: (i) providing tert-butylamine and the hydrogenation catalyst in a pressure vessel, (ii) adding hydrogen and continuously adding an aldehyde of formula II R-CHO II wherein the aldehyde of formula II is selected from the group acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, ibutiraldehido, secondary butyraldehyde, pivalaldehyde, n-pentanal, n-hexanal, 2-ethylhexanal, 2-methylpentanal, 3- methylpentanal, 4-methylpentanal, n-octanal, n-decanal, n-undecanal, n-dodecanal, 11 metildodecanal , ciclopentilaldehido, ciclohexilaldehido, cicloheptilaldehido, adamantilaldehido, phenylacetaldehyde and benzaldehyde or mixtures of these aldehydes and ratio to hydrogen and aldehyde of formula II is at least equimolar, (iii) maintaining the temperature during the addition of the aldehyde in step (ii) in the range of 50 to 150 ° C and maintaining the total pressure during the addition of the aldehyde in step (ii) in the range of 200-12000 kPa, (iv) dehydrating the hydrogenation step (iii) containing secondary tert-butylamine of formula I formed ** ** formed and the reaction water and (v) distilling fractionally below the hydrogenation dehydrated in step (iv) and wherein steps (i) to (iii) are performed in the presence of an inert solvent in the reaction conditions or none.
Pyrrolo[2,1-c][1,2,4]benzothiadiazines have been prepared from the reactions of o-amino-benzenesulfonamides with γ-cyanopropionaldehydes. Pyrrolo[1,2-a]quinazolines have been prepared from the reaction of anthranilamides with either γ-cyanopropionaldehyde or succinic anhydride. The cyclization of a 4-oxo-2-quinazolinepropionic acid has produced a pyrrolo-[1,2-a]quinazoline and the isomeric pyrrolo[2,1-b]quinazoline.
The condensation of propionaldehyde with cyanothioacetamide gives 6-amino-3,5-dicyano-4-ethylpyridine-2(1H)-thione, which was used to obtain substituted 2-alkylthiopyridines, 2-ethylthio-6- ethylaminopyridine, and pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridine.
Abstract α,β-Unsaturated aldehydes are reactive and cytotoxic compounds which occur in the environment and are also formed in vivo . Many of these aldehydes have been reported to inhibit hepatic cytochrome P-450. Our laboratory has shown that trans,trans -muconaldehyde (a possible metabolite of benzene) as well as acrolein and crotonaldehyde, when added to hepatic microsomes, decreased cytochrome P-450 (measured spectrophotometrically). Additional studies showed that several α,β unsaturated aldehydes also inhibited hepatic microsomal NADPH-cytochrome c reductase. Acrolein, crotonaldehyde and trans,trans -muconaldehyde all decreased NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity in vitro . Concentrations of 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 mM acrolein decreased activity to 60, 26 and 11% of control respectively. Similar concentrations of trans,trans -muconaldehyde inhibited NADPH-cytochrome c reductase. Crotonaldehyde was a less effective inhibitor of this enzyme. Propionaldehyde, a saturated aldehyde, had no effect on NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity. Time course experiments with acrolein over a period of 5–45 min suggest that the loss of NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity is non-linear. The addition of reduced glutathione protected against the inhibition of reductase activity by acrolein. Formation of these aldehydes and their subsequent inhibition of these enzymes may have important consequences in xenobiotic metabolism.
Abstract The reaction of methyl 2,3,4,6-tetra-O-acetyl-1-O-trimethylsilyl-β- (5) and -α- d -glucopyranuronate (6) severally with the dimethyl or diethyl acetals of formaldehyde, bromoacetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, 3-benzyloxypropionaldehyde, 5-carboxypentanal, and 2-bromohexanal in the presence of catalytic amounts of trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate at −78° gave the corresponding (1-alkoxyalkyl) α- and β-glycosides (acetal-glucopyranosiduronates) with retention of configuration at C-1 in yields of 41–91%. Instead of the dialkyl acetals, the corresponding aldehydes and alkyl trimethylsilyl ether can be used. Deacetylation gave the corresponding methyl (acetal-β- and -α- d -glucopyranosid)uronates in good yield. De-esterification of methyl [(1R)-1-methoxybutyl β- d -glucopyranosid]uronate with esterase gave the acetal-β- d -glucopyranosiduronic acid which was an excellent substrate for β- d -glucuronidase.
Transketolase (TK) (E.C. 2.2.1.1) has significant potential as a biocatalyst in the production of pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals, catalysing the irreversible and stereospecific transfer of a C2 (1,2-dihydroxyethyl) moiety from the ketol donor substrate P-hydroxypyruvate (p-HPA) to a wide range of aldehyde acceptor substrates, such as glycoaldehyde (GA). Commercial application of TK is restricted by the limited availability and expense of P- HPA as well as its limited activity towards novel substrates. This project describes efforts to generate and identify variants of E. coli TK capable of accepting novel ketol donors and/or aldehyde acceptors. Variants were prepared by saturation site directed mutagenesis (SSDM), and characterised, using novel high-throughput HPLC and TLC screens. The model P-HPA and GA reaction, as well as a range of novel acceptors, such as propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde and hydroxybenzaldehyde were examined. HPLC assays were also developed for all aldehyde substrates, for the detailed analysis of enzyme variants identified from libraries by rapid HPLC or TLC. During such analysis a variety'of buffers were tested for suitability in novel screens. Mops and Hepes were both found to be capable of substrate conversion in the absence of transketolase, hence the discovery of the first ever mimetic reaction for transketolase. Two techniques were used to identify residues to target for random mutagenesis: phylogenetic library design (10 sites determined by S. Costelloe) and structural library design (10 site library generated and screened in collaboration with E. Hibbert). HPLC and TLC analysis identified variants with improved reaction rates towards the model HPA and GA reaction (A29E, A29D, I189Y and 46IS), and also towards propionaldehyde (H26A, H26T, H26K, R358I, H461S, D469S, and D469T), but failed to definitively identify a mutant capable of activity towards benzaldehyde.
Abstract Selective hydroformylation of styrene to iso-aldehyde, 2-phenylpropionaldehyde in higher than 90% yield has been achieved catalyzed by silica-supported poly-γ-aminopropylsiloxane-ruthenium-cobalt bimetallic complex catalysts (SiNH 2 RuCo) in the presence of acetic acid. The Ru Co mole ratio, the amount of acetic acid and total pressure greatly influenced the reaction. The catalyst was stable and could be used repeatedly without any remarkable changes in activity and selectivity.
1. ::: ::: In butyl methacrylate 22 impurities have been identified from the retention volumes by gas-chromatography: acetone, 1-butene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, n-propyl alcohol, butyl alcohol and its isomers, n-butyl formate, i-butyl acetate, s-butyl propionate, n-butyl acetate, n-butyl propionate, i-butyl methacrylate, i-butyl propionate, n-butylα-hydroxy-i-quinone. Several impurities remained uninterpreted. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: A gas-chromatographic method of analyzing the impurities in butyl methacrylate has been worked out with a sensitivity of about 10−6 mole %.
More attention had been paid to PEGylation technology in the past years, due to their successful use in improving the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of many peptide and protein pharmaceuticals. To solve the pegylation problems of the glucagons-like peptide-1 and interferon α-2b, studies of this dissertation were included as follows. 1 Studies on PEGylation of glucagon-like peptide-1 Currently, methoxy polyethylene glycol succinimidyl propionic acid ester (mPEG-SPA) and methoxy polyethylene glycol succinimidyl carbonate (mPEG-SC) were generally used to modify the GLP-1. Unfortunately, mPEG-SPA and mPEG-SC were easily hydrolyzed in water solution and their half-life was very short, which caused low yield of the Mono-PEG-GLP-1. In this study, the GLP-1 was modified with mPEG-SC in ethanol. The reaction conditions were optimized for obtaining high yield of Mono-PEG-GLP-1, and the optimized reaction conditions were as follows: concentration of GLP-1 1.0 mg/mL, molar ratio of PEG to GLP-1 1:1, and reaction time 24 h at 37 ℃. Under the optimized conditions, the yield of mono-PEG-GLP-1 was up to 77%, which is significantly higher than the yields as references reported (< 50%). This method provides a new idea and technology for the PEGylation of other peptides. Considering the characteristics of the reaction system, a preliminary centrifugation under frozen temperature and a sequential purification by reverse phase chromatography were applied to separate and purify Mono-PEG-GLP-1 from reaction mixture. The purity of Mono-PEG-GLP-1 was higher than 97%. Furthermore, the PEGyalted site was N-terminal  amino detected by MALDI-TOF. Compared with GLP-1, the Mono-PEG-GLP-1 showed better stability in plasma, decreased proteolysis to trypsin, and better in vivo activity. 2 Investigation on PEGylation of interferon α-2b PEG-Intron, a commercial PEGylated interferon α-2b using mPEG-SC of 12 kDa, which was made into powder dosage due to its poor stability in water solution; and the half-life in vivo was not long enough to ensure one injection per week during clinical usage because of the low weight of mPEG-SC. To solve these problems, interferon α-2b was modified with methoxy polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD) of mocular weight 20 kDa. Based on the preliminary studies in our group, we further exploited the influence of reaction conditions on the yield of Mono-PEG-IFN α-2b. Results showed that Mono-PEG-IFN α-2b preserved the highest in vitro activity (31%) when the reaction solution pH was 6.5, while the in vitro activity of PEG-Inron was 28%. The yield of Mono-PEG-IFN α-2b and the stability of IFN α-2b were also influenced by the amount of reductant. In addition, fed-batch reaction system were also investigated and compared with bacth reaction for improving the yield of Mono-PEG-IFN α-2b, unfortunately, the yield of Mono-PEG-IFN α-2b could not be improved because there were many PEGylation sites on IFNα-2b. Therefore, in order to simplify operations and maintain the stability of Mono-PEG-IFNα-2b between different bacthes, batch reaction system was used to carry out modification of interferonα-2b.
Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH; EC 1.2.1.8) is the enzyme that catalyzes the second step in the synthesis of the osmoprotectant, glycine betaine. NAD-dependent BADH was purified from Avena sativa shoots by DEAE Sephacel, hydroxyapatite, 5'-AMP Sepharose 4B, Mono Q and TSK-GEL column chromatographies to homogeneity by the criterion of native PAGE, and the properties of BADH were compared with those of aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase purified to homogeneity from A. sativa. The molecular mass estimated by both gel filtration using TSK-GEL column and Sephacryl S-200 was 120 and 115, kDa, respectively. The enzyme is a homodimer with a subunit molecular mass of 61 kDa as shown by SDS-PAGE. The pI value of the enzyme was found to be 6.3. The purified enzyme catalyzed not only the oxidation of betaine aldehyde (BAL), but also that of aminoaldehydes, 3-aminopropionaldehyde (APAL), 4-aminobutyraldehyde (ABAL), and 4-guanidinobutyraldehyde (GBAL). The K(m) values for BAL, APAL, ABAL and GBAL were 5x10(-6), 5.4x10(-7), 2.4x10(-5) and 5x10(-5) M, respectively. APAL showed substrate inhibition at a concentration of 0.1 mM. A fragment of BADH cleaved by V8 protease shared homology with other plant BADHs.
(57) Abstract: prussic acid a (HCN) were added to the methylmercapto-propionaldehyde (MMP), this time resulting methylmercapto-propionaldehyde - cyanohydrin the (MMP-CH) from the reaction mixture obtained by hydrolyzing with sulfuric acid MHA is isolated, and an organic solvent immiscible with water at approximately the time the reaction mixture, a liquid - is contacted with a liquid extraction system to produce an extract solution having an MHA from the solvent and the reaction mixture MHA from the extraction solution it is obtained by evaporation as extract is known. Very small dimeric relates workup of the reaction product that allows production of high density product having a content of oligomers and by-products, as simple methods price favorable invention, residual concentrated by evaporation extract is 4 wt% or less of water, preferably characterized in that it is performed to have a 2% by weight of water. Animal feed supplements, such as animal feed supplement for mixture with methionine or ammonium MHA.
An enzyme which catalyzes dehydrogenation of gamma-aminobutyraldehyde has been purified to homogeneity from human liver and identified as an isozyme of aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3); two other isozymes, previously obtained in a homogeneous form, are known as E1 and E2. Affinity chromatography on NAD-agarose (N6 with 8 carbon spacer) yields homogeneous enzyme which migrates as two components on isoelectric focusing with pI = 5.3 and 5.45. These two components, separated by fast protein liquid chromatography on a Mono-P HR 5/20 column, have similar Km values for gamma-aminobutyraldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and NAD. The Km value for gamma-aminobutyraldehyde is 8.0-14.0 microM versus 760 microM for E1 and 512 microM for E2. The enzyme's molecular weight, subunit molecular weight, and amino acid composition are similar to those of the E1 and E2 isozymes. The enzyme also interacts with anti-E1 and anti-E2 antibodies; it is relatively insensitive to disulfiram inhibition and is neither activated nor inhibited by magnesium. Its absorption spectrum, where the ratio of 280/260 nm is 1.1 and a weak absorption is seen in the 340 nm range (Racker band), suggests the presence of bound coenzyme. gamma-Aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase (with Km value of 15 microM for gamma-aminobutyraldehyde) was previously partially purified from Pseudomonas fluorescens (Jakoby, W.B., and Fredericks, J. (1959) J. Biol. Chem. 234, 2145-2150) but never from a mammalian organism.
A exendin mono-modified with polyethylene glycol or its derivatives is provided to increase retention time of exendin and minimize side effects of exendin resulted by variety of modified polyethylene glycol, so that it is useful for treating disease caused by insulin oversecretion, blood glucose lowering, stomach or intestine movement inhibition and food digestion inhibition. An exendin of which 27th site is mono-modified with polyethylene glycol or its derivatives has an increased retention time, wherein the polyethylene glycol derivative is methoxy polyethylene glycol succinimidyl propionate, methoxy polyethylene glycol N-hydroxysuccinimide, methoxy polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde, double branched methoxy polyethylene glycol N-hydroxysuccinimide or tribranched polyethylene glycol derivatives represented by the formula(1) in which n is an integer from 1 to 1000, m is an integer from 10 to 1000, Z is a linker for connecting exendin to polyethyleneglycol and(CH2)s or (CH2)sNHCO(CH2)s, and S is an integer from 1 to 6.
Aldehydes are usually determined via chemical derivatization using a chromogenic and fluorogenic reagent followed by chromatographic separation and UV−visible detection. As a consequence, continuous on-line monitoring is impossible. Following our concept of reversible chemical reactions as the basis of optical sensors, we have investigated N-amino-N‘-(1-hexylheptyl)perylene-3,4:9,10-tetracarboxylbisimide for aldehyde sensing. The fluorogenic reactand has been embedded in plasticized PVC, and the resulting thin layers have been exposed to aqueous samples of aliphatic aldehydes and ketones. The reactand exhibits a pronounced increase in fluorescence upon interaction with aldehydes since the chemical reaction causes a dequenching of perylene fluorescence. Upon interaction with aqueous propionaldehyde, sensor layers typically exhibit a dynamic range from 5 to 100 mM propionaldehyde, and the limit of detection amounts to 0.08 mM. The forward and reverse response time (t95) for a decade change in activity is in...
The aim of this study was to screen for microorganism that able to utilize 3-N-trimethylamino-1-propanol (homocholine) as a sole source of carbon and nitrogen. The aerobic degradation of homocholine has been found by a gram-positive Rhodococcus sp. bacterium isolated from soil. The isolate was identified as Rhodococcus sp. strain A4 based on the phenotypic features, physiologic and biochemical characteristics, and phylogenetic analysis. The cells of the isolated strain grown on both basal-TMAP and nutrient agar medium displayed elementary branching mycelia fragmented into irregular rod and coccoid elements. Comparative 16S rDNA sequencing studies indicated that the strain A4 falls into the Rhodococcus erythropolis subclade and forms a monophyletic group with the type-strains of R. opacus, and R. wratislaviensis. Metabolites analysis by capillary electrophoresis, fast atom bombardment-mass spectrometry, and gas chromatography- mass spectrometry, showed trimethylamine (TMA) as the major metabolite beside β-alanine betaine and trimethylaminopropionaldehyde. Therefore, the possible degradation pathway of trimethylamino propanol in the isolated strain is through consequence oxidation of alcohol group (-OH) to aldehyde (-CHO) and acid (-COOH), and thereafter the cleavage of β-alanine betaine C-N bonds yielded trimethylamine and alkyl chain. Keywords—Homocholine, 3-N-trimethylamino-1-propanol, Quaternary ammonium compounds, 16S rDNA gene sequence. I. INTRODUCTION
Abstract Chlorinated propanes are important pollutants that may show persistent behaviour in the environment. The biotransformation of 1-chloropropane, 1,2-dichloropropane, 1,3-dichloropropane and 1,2,3-trichloropropane was studied using resting cell suspensions of Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b expressing soluble methane monooxygenase. The transformation followed first-order kinetics. The rate constants were in the order 1-chloropropane > 1,3-dichloropropane > 1,2-dichloropropane > 1,2,3-trichloropropane, and varied from 0.07 to 1.03 ml min−1 mg of cells−1 for 1,2,3-trichloropropane and 1-chloropropane respectively. Turnover-dependent inactivation occurred for all of the chloropropanes tested. The inactivation constants were lower for 1-chloropropane and 1,2-dichloropropane than for 1,2,3-trichloropropane and 1,3-dichloropropane. Not all the chloride was released during cometabolic transformation of the chlorinated propanes and production of monochlorinated- and dichlorinated propanols was found by gas chromatography. The reaction pathway of 1,2,3-trichloropropane conversion was studied by mass spectrometric analysis of products formed in 2H2O, which indicated that 1,2,3-trichloropropane was initially oxidized to 2,3-dichloropropionaldehyde and 1,3-dichloroacetone, depending on whether oxygen insertion occurred on the C-3 or C-2 carbon of 1,2,3,-trichloropropane, followed by reduction to the corresponding propanols. The results show that chloropropanes are susceptible to cometabolic oxidation by methanotrophs, but that the transformation kinetics is worse than with cometabolic conversion of trichloroethylene.
A process for preparing Tetrahydrobenzothiazolverbindungen selected from the group consisting of pramipexole base or its optical isomeric mixture as defined above, ie, (R, S) -2-amino-6-propyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzothiazole without use of a borane-tetrahydrofuran complex, the method comprising: the reaction of (S) -2,6-diamino-4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzothiazole or the mixture of its optical isomers as defined above, ie, (R, S) -2,6-diamino-4,5,6 , 7-tetrahydrobenzothiazole with propionaldehyde in a suitable organic solvent for the in-situ preparation of the corresponding enamine; reacting the enamine thus formed in situ, optionally without isolation, with sodium triacetoxyborohydride in the presence of a suitable organic solvent for preparing pramipexole base or the mixture as defined hereinabove their optical isomers; Quenching the reaction mixture by adding an aqueous acidic solution and Isolating the pure product as a free base or as an acid addition salt.
Bacterial microcompartments are widespread prokaryotic organelles that have important and diverse roles ranging from carbon fixation to enteric pathogenesis. Current models for microcompartment function propose that their outer protein shell is selectively permeable to small molecules, but whether a protein shell can mediate selective permeability and how this occurs are unresolved questions. Here, biochemical and physiological studies of structure-guided mutants are used to show that the hexameric PduA shell protein of the 1,2-propanediol utilization (Pdu) microcompartment forms a selectively permeable pore tailored for the influx of 1,2-propanediol (the substrate of the Pdu microcompartment) while restricting the efflux of propionaldehyde, a toxic intermediate of 1,2-propanediol catabolism. Crystal structures of various PduA mutants provide a foundation for interpreting the observed biochemical and phenotypic data in terms of molecular diffusion across the shell. Overall, these studies provide a basis for understanding a class of selectively permeable channels formed by nonmembrane proteins.
As climate change is an important environmental issue, the conventional petrochemical-based processes to produce valuable chemicals are being shifted toward eco-friendly biological-based processes. In this study, 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), an industrially important three carbon (C3) chemical, was overproduced by metabolically engineered Escherichia coli using glycerol as a sole carbon source. As the first step to construct a glycerol-dependent 3-HP biosynthetic pathway, the dhaB1234 and gdrAB genes from Klebsiella pneumoniae encoding glycerol dehydratase and glycerol reactivase, respectively, were introduced into E. coli to convert glycerol into 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). In addition, the ydcW gene from K. pneumoniae encoding γ-aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase, among five aldehyde dehydrogenases examined, was selected to further convert 3-HPA to 3-HP. Increasing the expression level of the ydcW gene enhanced 3-HP production titer and reduced 1,3-propanediol production. To enhance 3-HP production, fed-batch fermentation conditions were optimized by controlling dissolved oxygen (DO) level and employing different feeding strategies including intermittent feeding, pH-stat feeding, and continuous feeding strategies. Fed-batch culture of the final engineered E. coli strain with DO control and continuous feeding strategy produced 76.2 g/L of 3-HP with the yield and productivity of 0.457 g/g glycerol and 1.89 g/L/h, respectively. To the best of our knowledge, this is the highest 3-HP productivity achieved by any microorganism reported to date. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Volatile carbonyls and benzene are possible sources of carcinogenicity in cigarette smoke.So the analytical method of acetaldehyde,propionaldehyde,butyraldehyde,acetone,2-butanone and benzene in mainstream smoke of cigarette samples has been established by purge and trap-gas chromatography.The compounds can be extracted and concentrated without derivation with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine and organic solvent being involved.The method was with high sensitivity,low detection limit,accurate quantification,and simple operation.Results showed that this method achieved excellent reproducibility and the relative standard deviations were generally below 5.39%.Detection limits of this method was 0.85 ng/cig～6.55 ng/cig.The recoveries were in the range from 89.22% to 98.21%.
Lactobacillus reuteri, a heterofermentative bacterium, metabolizes glycerol via a Pdu (propanediol-utilization) pathway involving dehydration to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) followed by reduction to 1,3-propandiol (1,3-PDO) with concomitant generation of an oxidized cofactor, NAD + that is utilized to maintain cofactor balance required for glucose metabolism and even for oxidation of 3-HPA by a Pdu oxidative branch to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). The Pdu pathway is operative inside Pdu microcompartment that encapsulates different enzymes and cofactors involved in metabolizing glycerol or 1,2-propanediol, and protects the cells from the toxic effect of the aldehyde intermediate. Since L. reuteri excretes high amounts of 3-HPA outside the microcompartment, the organism is likely to have alternative alcohol dehydrogenase(s) in the cytoplasm for transformation of the aldehyde. In this study, diversity of alcohol dehydrogenases in Lactobacillus species was investigated with a focus on L. reuteri. Nine ADH enzymes were found in L. reuteri DSM20016, out of which 3 (PduQ, ADH6 and ADH7) belong to the group of iron-dependent enzymes that are known to transform aldehydes/ketones to alcohols. L. reuteri mutants were generated in which the three ADHs were deleted individually. The lagging growth phenotype of these deletion mutants revealed that limited NAD + /NADH recycling could be restricting their growth in the absence of ADHs. Notably, it was demonstrated that PduQ is more active in generating NAD + during glycerol metabolism within the microcompartment by resting cells, while ADH7 functions to balance NAD + /NADH by converting 3-HPA to 1,3-PDO outside the microcompartment in the growing cells. Moreover, evaluation of ADH6 deletion mutant showed strong decrease in ethanol level, supporting the role of this bifuctional alcohol/aldehyde dehydrogenase in ethanol production. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report revealing both internal and external recycling for cofactor homeostasis during 3-HPA conversion in L. reuteri.
The glycerol metabolism is initiated by vitamin B12-dependent glycerol dehydratase (PduCDF) catalysed dehydration to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), followed by a reductive and an oxidative route [12] . Reduction of 3-HPA to 1,3-PDO is catalysed by a NAD(P) + -dependent alcohol dehydrogenase (PduQ), whereas oxidation to 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is catalyzed by a set of 3 enzymes, propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP), phosphotransacylase (PduL) and propionate kinase (PduW) [12] [13] [14] . The Pdu structural proteins form microcompartments (MCP) called metabolosomes that encapsulate the components of the metabolic pathways, and are expected to protect the cells against the toxic effect of the intermediate aldehyde, while allowing enzyme substrates (e.g. glycerol), cofactors (e.g. NAD + , NADH), and products (e.g. 1,3-PDO, 3-HP) to pass [15] .
1,3-PDO is the main product of glycerol metabolism by the growing cells, providing the cofactor needed for glucose metabolism. On the other hand, the resting cells convert glycerol to an equimolar mixture of 1,3-PDO and 3-HP with maintained cofactor recycling, but significant accumulation of 3-HPA occurs at high feeding rate of glycerol [12, 16] . 3-HPA forms an equilibrium mixture with 3-HPA hydrate and dimer called as reuterin to which is attributed the probiotic role of L. reuteri [16] . Our laboratory studies have further shown that unlike 3-HPA, propionaldehyde produced from 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PDO) by L. reuteri, is not excreted outside of MCP (unpublished data). These observations suggest that L. reuteri is likely to have other routes for conversion of 3-HPA outside the MCP. Hence, understanding the role of other alcohol dehydrogenases in 3-HPA reduction becomes important.
Abstract Chlorinated propanes are important pollutants that may show persistent behaviour in the environment. The biotransformation of 1-chloropropane, 1,2-dichloropropane, 1,3-dichloropropane and 1,2,3-trichloropropane was studied using resting cell suspensions of Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b expressing soluble methane monooxygenase. The transformation followed ®rst-order kinetics. The rate constants were in the order 1-chloropropane > 1,3-dichloropropane > 1,2-dichloropropane > 1,2,3-trichloropropane, and varied from 0.07 to 1.03 ml min A1 mg of cells A1 for 1,2,3-trichloropropane and 1-chloropropane respectively. Turnoverdependent inactivation occurred for all of the chloropropanes tested. The inactivation constants were lower for 1-chloropropane and 1,2-dichloropropane than for 1,2,3-trichloropropane and 1,3-dichloropropane. Not all the chloride was released during cometabolic transformation of the chlorinated propanes and production of monochlorinated-and dichlorinated propanols was found by gas chromatography. The reaction pathway of 1,2,3-trichloropropane conversion was studied by mass spectrometric analysis of products formed in 2 H 2 O, which indicated that 1,2,3-trichloropropane was initially oxidized to 2,3-dichloropropionaldehyde and 1,3-dichloroacetone, depending on whether oxygen insertion occurred on the C-3 or C-2 carbon of 1,2,3,-trichloropropane, followed by reduction to the corresponding propanols. The results show that chloropropanes are susceptible to cometabolic oxidation by methanotrophs, but that the transformation kinetics is worse than with cometabolic conversion of trichloroethylene.
Bacterial microcompartments are widespread prokaryotic organelles that have important and diverse roles ranging from carbon fixation to enteric pathogenesis. Current models for microcompartment function propose that their outer protein shell is selectively permeable to small molecules, but whether a protein shell can mediate selective permeability and how this occurs are unresolved questions. Here, biochemical and physiological studies of structureguided mutants are used to show that the hexameric PduA shell protein of the 1,2-propanediol utilization (Pdu) microcompartment forms a selectively permeable pore tailored for the influx of 1,2-propanediol (the substrate of the Pdu microcompartment) while restricting the efflux of propionaldehyde, a toxic intermediate of 1,2-propanediol catabolism. Crystal structures of various PduA mutants provide a foundation for interpreting the observed biochemical and phenotypic data in terms of molecular diffusion across the shell. Overall, these studies provide a basis for understanding a class of selectively permeable channels formed by nonmembrane proteins.
The shells of MCPs are assembled primarily from a family of small proteins that have so-called bacterial microcompartment (BMC) domains (5). Many BMC domain proteins form flat, hexagonally shaped oligomers that tile into extended sheets that form the basis of the MCP shell (4, 19, 20) (Fig. 1) . In most cases, MCP shells are composed of four to eight different types of functionally diversified BMC domain proteins, some of which have pores proposed to mediate the selective movement of metabolites across the shell (4, 7, 8, 18) . For example, the PduA shell protein from the Pdu MCP has a small central pore (∼6 Å) that is lined with numerous hydrogen-bond donors and acceptors, leading to a suggested role in the preferential movement of 1,2-PD over the less polar propionaldehyde (a toxic intermediate) (21) . In Significance Here, we describe a type of selective channel formed by a nonmembrane protein that is used to control metabolite movement between cellular compartments. In this case, the channel controls the movement of metabolites between the bacterial cytoplasm and the lumen of a bacterial microcompartment, a primitive organelle that is bounded by a protein shell and lacks any lipid bilayer. These studies are the first to our knowledge to prove selective molecular transport through a proteinbased barrier. These findings broaden our understanding of how cells control the movement of molecules between cellular compartments, which is fundamental to biological systems. It also solves a key question about the function of bacterial microcompartments, which themselves impact many diverse and important biological processes.
Author contributions: C.C., S.C., A.P., T.O.Y., and T.A.B. designed research; C.C., S.C., A.P., M.R.S., and S.S. performed research; C.C., S.C., A.P., M.R.S., S.S., T.O.Y., and T.A.B. analyzed data; and C.C., S.C., T.O.Y., and T.A.B. wrote the paper. addition, a subgroup of BMC proteins have been crystallized in two distinct conformations where the central pore is either fully closed or opened widely (12-15 Å), suggesting that a gating mechanism might control the movement of larger molecules (such as enzymatic cofactors) across the MCP shell (22, 23). However, no physiological or biochemical studies demonstrating transport or selective movement specifically through any MCP pore have been reported. As a result, the idea that the MCP protein shell is capable of mediating selective diffusion has lacked a clear experimental basis. Furthermore, a recent alternative model for MCP function proposes that enzymes embedded in or tightly associated with the shell could move metabolites into MCPs by vectorial catalysis, in which case functional pores might not be required for metabolite movement (24). Here, we use the known structure of PduA-a canonical, hexameric BMC-type shell protein in the Pdu MCP-to design a series of mutant shell proteins having central pores with altered sizes and physicochemical properties. A combination of physiological studies on mutant bacteria, biochemical studies on isolated mutant MCPs, and crystal structure studies on the mutant shell proteins, show that the PduA pore serves as a key route for entry of the metabolic substrate (1,2-PD), and that the chemical properties of the PduA pore are tuned to limit the escape of the toxic propionaldehyde intermediate.
The pyrolysates of chloroacetaldehyde and its methyl derivatives have been investigated by pyrolysis-mass spectrometry and microwave spectroscopy. Ketene was generated by dehydrochlorination of chloroacetaldehyde. Ketene and s-trans-acrolein were produced by the elimination of methyl chloride and by dehydrochlorination from 1- and 2-chloropropionaldehyde respectively. These facts indicate that the pyrolysis mechanisms of the precursors differ according to the position of the methyl group substituted. Methyl vinyl ketone observed from 3-chloro-2-butanone suggests that the dehydrochlorination is more dominant than the elimination of methyl chloride observed in 1-chloropropionaldehyde, and that this mechanism is quite similar to that for 2-chloropropionaldehyde. Moreover, some interesting pyrolysates, such as acetaldehyde and methyl chloride, were generated from chloroacetaldehyde, vinyl chloride from 1-chloro-propionaldehyde, and methyl acetylene and propene from 3-chloro-2-butanone. As these pyrolysates, with the exception of acetaldehyde, do not include oxygen, their pyrolysis mechanisms can not be explained without the elimination of carbon monoxide.
The effect of γ-irradiation on the flavor of Onions (Senshu Yellow) associated with sprout-inhibition has been investigated. The relative amounts of propionaldehyde, n-propyl mercaptan and di-n-propyl disulfide in onions stored for 0, 5, 10, 20 and 30 days, respectively, after irradiation were estimated by measurement of peak areas of gas chromatograms. It was observed that the lachrymatory character and the pungent flavor had been decreased by γ-irradiation (remarkably at 70 and 700 Krads). In this connection, the amounts of propionaldehyde and di-n-propyl disulfide were decreased with increasing radiation dose and storage period at room temperature (20 to 25°C) and at low temperature (4°C). Moreover, it was observed that the sweetness had been decreased by γ-irradiation, but the amount of n-propyl mercaptan was increased with radiation dose and storage period. Therefore it seems that there is no correlation between the sweetness of onion and the amount of n-propyl mercaptan.
Abstract A new direct oxidative transformation of 3-aryl propionaldehydes to 3-aryl acroleins promoted by SOMO catalysis has been realized with high efficiency under mild reaction conditions.
In Klebsiella pneumoniae, aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH) convert 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) into 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). Although ALDHs can increase the production of 3-HP in K. pneumoniae, the substrate specificity of ALDH homologues from other microorganisms toward 3-HPA is less documented. Here we report that DhaS, a putative ALDH from Bacillus subtilis, shows high specificity toward 3-HPA when heterologously expressed in K. pneumoniae. Using NAD(+) as a cofactor, DhaS exhibited higher catalytic activity (2.3 U mg(-1)) and lower K m value (0.4 mmol l(-1)) toward 3-HPA than that toward other aldehydes. Under shake-flask conditions, the recombinant strain produced 2.1 g 3-HP l(-1) in 24 h, which is 3.9-fold of that in a control harboring a blank vector. Under non-optimized bioreactor conditions, the recombinant strain produced 18 g 3-HP l(-1) and 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) at 27 g l(-1) in 24 h. The overall conversion rate from glycerol to 3-HP and 1,3-PDO reached 59.4 mol mol(-1). Homology modeling of DhaS illustrates substrate specificity and NAD(+)-binding site. DhaS is thus a 3-HPA-specific enzyme useful for production of 3-HP.
Degradation kinetics of aldicarb [2‐methyl‐2‐(methylthio) propionaldehyde O‐(methyl carbamoyl) oxime] in surface and subsurface soil containing different levels of sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate (SDBS) were determined to understand complex effect of SDBS on aldicarb degradation process. The results showed that degradation curves of aldicarb in soil can be described with first order kinetics formula and the degradation rate constant, k (d− 1), in surface soil was larger than that in subsurface soil. SDBS can accelerate the degradation of aldicarb in soil and there was a good linear relationship between degradation rate constant and the logarithm of SDBS concentration. The possible reasons were that SDBS could change pH value of soil, have solubilization effect on aldicarb, and be used as carbon source of microorganisms. But SDBS had a larger promotion to the degradation of aldicarb in surface than in subsurface soil. When SDBS concentration was 1000 mg/kg of dried soil the first order degradation rate cons...
A soluble aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) was partially purified from Rhizobium japonicum bacteroids and from free-living R. japonicum 61A76. The enzyme was activated by NAD+, NADH, and dithiothreitol, and it reduced NAD(P)+. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, benzaldehyde, and succinic semialdehyde were substrates. The Km for straight-chain aldehydes decreased with increasing carbon chain length. The aldehyde dehydrogenase was inhibited by 6-cyanopurine, but not by metronidazole. These compounds inhibited acetylene reduction, but not respiration, by isolated bacteroids.
Cigarette smoke is a potent inhibitor of pulmonary T cell responses, resulting in decreased immune surveillance and an increased incidence of respiratory tract infections. The alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes in cigarette smoke (acrolein and crotonaldehyde) inhibited production of interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-10, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, interferon-gamma, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha by human T cells but did not inhibit production of IL-8. The saturated aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde) in cigarette smoke were inactive. Acrolein inhibited induction of NF-kappaB DNA binding activity after mitogenic stimulation of T cells but had no effect on induction of NFAT or AP-1. Acrolein inhibited NF-kappaB1 (p50) binding to the IL-2 promoter in a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay by >99%. Using purified recombinant p50 in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay, we demonstrated that acrolein was 2000-fold more potent than crotonaldehyde in blocking DNA binding to an NF-kappaB consensus sequence. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight and tandem mass spectrometry demonstrated that acrolein alkylated two amino acids (Cys-61 and Arg-307) in the DNA binding domain. Crotonaldehyde reacted with Cys-61, but not Arg-307, whereas the saturated aldehydes in cigarette smoke did not react with p50. These experiments demonstrate that aldehydes in cigarette smoke can regulate gene expression by direct modification of a transcription factor.
PURPOSE ::: Pathological fundus angiogenesis is a major cause of vision loss in retina diseases. Endostatin, a C-terminal fragment of collagen XVIII, is an endogenous anti-angiogenic protein. The present study aimed to investigate the in vitro and in vivo anti-angiogenic properties of two proteins: an N-terminal H1D/H3D mutant endostatin (M-ES) and a polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde (PEG) covalent M-ES (PEG-M-ES). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: M-ES and PEG-M-ES properties were characterized in vitro using a zinc ion binding assay and a stability test. Activity assays, including migration, proliferation, and tube formation assays, were performed with human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (HRMECs) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Mouse oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) and choroidal neovascularization (CNV) models were used to evaluate in vivo anti-angiogenic effects. In addition, a rabbit model was used to study the retinal pharmacokinetic profile following an intravitreal injection. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The results indicated that the H1D/H3D mutations of endostatin reduced the zinc binding capacity of M-ES and facilitated PEG covalent binding. PEG-M-ES was more stable and persisted longer in the retina compared with M-ES. The in vitro studies demonstrated that M-ES and PEG-M-ES inhibited HRMEC and HUVEC proliferation, migration, and tube formation more efficiently than ES. In vivo, a single intravitreal injection of M-ES and PEG-M-ES significantly decreased neovascularization in both the OIR and CNV animal models. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The present study demonstrated for the first time that PEG-M-ES exhibits a long-term inhibitory effect on neovascularization in vitro and in vivo. These data suggest that PEG-M-ES may represent an innovative therapeutic strategy to prevent fundus neovascularization.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the biosynthesis of the three major polyamines and their subsequent acetylation, oxidation, and conjugation. On the biosynthesis of polyamines, the formation of putrescine can cause decarboxylation of ornithine or from arginine via decarboxylation to agmatine and subsequent hydrolytic (or phosphorylic) cleavage of the guanidino moiety. The putrescine-forming reaction catalyzed by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), an enzyme with an extremely short half-life, induced by stimuli. Recent data on Physarum polycephalum indicate that an endogenous ODC inhibitor, the so-called “ODC-antizyme”, may be a polyamine-dependent protein kinase. Regulation of ODC apparently involves a kinase-phosphorylase system similar to the regulatory systems previously associated with cyclic adenosine monophosphate (c-AMP) dependent protein kinases. Detail discussion on these systems done with the help of structural diagrams and schemes. Next discussed is the biochemical reactions of the polyamines. N 1 -acetylspermidine is readily formed by the action of an ace- tyltransferase on spermidine and that N 1 -acetylspermidine is readily converted to putrescine and β-acetamidopropionaldehyde by a liver polyamine oxidase. It is argued that despite the fact that only a small portion of cellular polyamines are acetylated the major route of oxidative metabolism of the polyamines may be via the acetylated derivatives. A second type of acylated polyamine is found in the protein-bound components. In contrast to the variety of inhibitors now available for studying polyamine biosynthesis, there are a few inhibitors described that are useful for studying the reactions that utilize the polyamines, such as acetylation, oxidative cleavage, and glutaminase-catalyzed protein binding. Results from investigations in many laboratories support the hypothesis that the polyamines, which are cationic at physiological pH, are closely associated with the synthesis and function of anionic nucleic acids. The use of inhibitors of polyamine metabolism as therapeutic agents is a relatively young field of research.
Glycerol fermentation by Enterobacter agglomerans revealed that both growth and 1,3-propanediol production ceased after consumption of about 430 mM glycerol, irrespective of the initial glycerol content. This phenomenon was assigned to the production of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which was identified by proton nuclear magnetic resonance and which showed a bacteriostatic effect. The accumulation during glycerol fermentation was also observed with two other enterobacterial species, i.e., Klebsiella pneumoniae and Citrobacter freundii.
Summary ::: ::: The volatilities of propanethiol, 2,5-dimethylthiophene, methyl propyl sulphide, dimethyl disulphide, dipropyl disulphide, allyl methyl sulphide, diallyl sulphide, diallyl disulphide, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, methanol, ethanol, 1-propanol and 2-propanol in dilute water solutions were studied experimentally by gas chromatography. The volatilities of these compounds varied appreciably. They were higher for thiols, thiophenes, and monosulphides, than disulphides, aldehydes or alcohols. The results for aldehydes and alcohols confirm earlier theoretical predictions by other authors that at 25°C the volatility, in very dilute solution, increases as the carbon chain gets longer.
Abstract Horse liver aldehyde: NAD oxidoreductase (EC 1.2.1.3) has been purified to homogeneity by a procedure consisting of salt fractionation, ion exchange chromatography, and isoelectric focusing. The purified material has a turnover number of 1.85 µmoles of NADH per min per mg of protein when assayed at pH 9.0 with propionaldehyde as substrate. Values obtained for the molecular weight of the native enzyme by sucrose density centrifugation, sedimentation equilibrium, and multiple porosity disc gel electrophoresis were 220,000, 260,000, and 252,000, respectively. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicated a subunit molecular weight of 57,000, suggesting a tetrameric structure for the native enzyme. Specificity studies indicated that both aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes were oxidized. For most aldehydes tested, the Michaelis constants were between 0.1 to 1 µm when corrected for equilibrium concentrations of inactive hydrated aldehyde. Chloral, which is completely hydrated, was an inhibitor of the dehydrogenase reaction. Despite the broad aldehyde specificity, substrate analogues in which the aldehydic hydrogen of RCHO was replaced by NH2, CH3, or even OH were not found to be inhibitors.
The photooxidation of n-butyraldehyde initiated by Cl atoms was studied at room temperature and 1 atm. by using GC-FID and GC-MS. The rate constant for the reaction of n-butyraldehyde with Cl atoms which was obtained by relative method was (1.19±0.10)×10~(8) m~3·mol~(-1)·s~(-1). The major products of the reaction were propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, CO and CO_2. Being considered these major products and their formation yields, the branching ratios of Cl attacking at the —CHO, α、β and γ positions in n-butyradehyde were 44%, 25%, 20% and 11%, respectively. The mechanism of the reaction was also discussed in detail.
1. ::: ::: Quenching of chemiluminescence by molecular oxygen was detected in reactions of low-temperature oxidation of propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde, diethyl ether, hexane, and in the oxidative decomposition of di-tert-butyl peroxide. In these reactions, the luminescing particles are excited formaldehyde molecules. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: From an analysis of the dependence of the chemiluminescence intensity on the oxygen concentration, the lower limit of the lifetime of excited molecules of formaldehyde was estimated, τ > (0.7–1.3) · 10−6 sec.
Biological 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) production from glycerol is a two-step reaction catalyzed by glycerol dehydratase (GDHt) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH). Recombinant strains developed for 3-HP production often suffer from the accumulation of a toxic intermediate, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). In order to avoid 3-HPA accumulation, balancing of the two enzymatic activities, in the present study, was attempted by employment of synthetic-regulatory cassettes comprising varying-strength promoters and bicistronic ribosome-binding sites (RBSs). When tested in recombinant Escherichia coli, the cassettes could precisely and differentially control the gene expression in transcription, protein expression and enzymatic activity. Five recombinant strains showing different expressions for GDHt were developed and studied for 3-HPA accumulation and 3-HP production. It was found that 3-HPA accumulation could be completely abolished when expressing ALDH at a level approximately 8-fold higher than that of GDHt. One of the strains, SP4, produced 625mM (56.4g/L) of 3-HP in a fed-batch bioreactor, though late-period production was limited by acetate accumulation. Overall, this study demonstrated the importance of pathway balancing in 3-HP production as well as the utility of the synthetic cassette architecture for precise control of bacterial gene expression.
Reactions of (R)- and (S)-CpMo(NO)(η 3 -methally)X(X=camphorsulfonate, Cl, Br, I) with chiral α-substituted aldehydes yield homoallylic alcohols with high diastereoselectivity. Reactions of (R)- and (S)-CpMo(NO)(η 3 -methallyl)L S [L S =(LS)-(+)-10-camphorsulfonate] with D-glyceraldehyde acetonide yield the corresponding homoallylic alcohols in >98% diastereomeric excess. Reactions with racemic 2-phenyl-propionaldehyde and nonracemic 3-benzyoxy-2-methylpropanol are also considered and show that there is very high reagent control of stereochemistry in additions to the carbonyl group
Relationship between the chemical constituents of tobacco leaves and the gaseous constituents of cigarette smoke from which K value1) was computed was discussed and the following presuppositions were demonstrated to be correct. Fibrous substances in tobacco leaves are the main precursors of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, methylethylketone, diacetyl, methanol, furan, an unknown compound, No. 6 and an unknown compound, No. 16 in cigarette smoke.Sugars in tobacco leaves are the main precursors of 2-methylfuran and 2,5-dimethyl- furan in cigarette smoke.Resinous substances in tobacco leaves are the main precursors of isoprene and an unknown compound, No. 2 in cigarette smoke.
When aerobic granular sludge is applied for industrial wastewater treatment, different soluble substrates can be present. For stable granular sludge formation on volatile fatty acids (e.g. acetate), production of storage polymers under anaerobic feeding conditions has been shown to be important. This prevents direct aerobic growth on readily available chemical oxygen demand (COD), which is thought to result in unstable granule formation. Here, we investigate the impact of acetate, methanol, butanol, propanol, propionaldehyde, and valeraldehyde on granular sludge formation at 35 °C. Methanogenic archaea, growing on methanol, were present in the aerobic granular sludge system. Methanol was completely converted to methane and carbon dioxide by the methanogenic archaeum Methanomethylovorans uponensis during the 1-h anaerobic feeding period, despite the relative high dissolved oxygen concentration (3.5 mg O2 L−1) during the subsequent 2-h aeration period. Propionaldehyde and valeraldehyde were fully disproportionated anaerobically into their corresponding carboxylic acids and alcohols. The organic acids produced were converted to storage polymers, while the alcohols (produced and from influent) were absorbed onto the granular sludge matrix and converted aerobically. Our observations show that easy biodegradable substrates not converted anaerobically into storage polymers could lead to unstable granular sludge formation. However, when the easy biodegradable COD is absorbed in the granules and/or when the substrate is converted by relatively slow growing bacteria in the aerobic period, stable granulation can occur.
The chemistry of aqueous Ru^(II)(H_2O)_6(tos)_2(tos = p-toluene sulfonate)(1) with functionalized olefins has been investigated. Complexes of the type (H_2O)_5Ru^(II)(olefin)(tos)_2 are formed from 1 and monoolefins. Dienes such as diallyl ether and 1,5-hexadiene displace two aquo ligands from 1 to form chelate complexes of the type (H_2O)_4Ru^(II)(olefin)_2(tos)_2. Chelation of oxygen containing functionalities such as alcohols, ethers, and sulfonates has also been observed when the functional group is a specified distance from the olefin. Thus, 3-buten- ::: 1-o1, 3-butenyl methyl ether, and 2-propenesulfonate anion form chelate complexes Ru^(II)(H_2O)_4(η^1(O): η^2(C,C')-HOCH_2CH_2CH=CH_2)(tos)_2, Ru^(II)(H_2O)4-( η^1(O): η^2(C,C')-CH_3OCH_2CH_2CH=CH_2)(tos)_2, and Ru^(II)(H_2O)_4(η^1(O): η^2(C,C')OSO_2CH_2CH=CH_2)(tos), but allyl ethyl ether forms only the olefin complex Ru^(II)(H_2O)_5(η^2(C,C')-CH_2=CHCH_2OCH_2CH_3)(tos)_2. Carboxylic acid functionalities react irreversibly with 1 to form carboxylate complexes. 3-Pentenoic acid reacts with 1 yielding the bis(olefin)-bis(carboxylate) complex Ru(H_2O)_2(η^1(O), η^2-(C,C’)-OCOCH_2CH=CHCH_3)_2 which has been structurally characterized. ::: ::: Olefin isomerization of allylic ethers and alcohols is catalyzed by 1 under mild conditions in aqueous solution to yield the corresponding carbonyl compounds. Non-allylic olefins are also isomerized, although homoallylic alcohols ::: exhibit stability towards isomerization. An exclusive 1,3-hydrogen shift is observed in the 1-catalyzed isomerization of allyl-1,1-d_2 alcohol to propionaldehyde-1,3-d_2 and allyl-1,1-d_2 methyl ether to 1-propenyl-1,3-d_2 methyl ether. The presence of crossover products from the isomerizations of mixtures of (a) allyl-3-^(13)C alcohol and allyl-1,1-d_2 alcohol and (b) allyl-1,1-d_2 methyl ether and allyl ethyl ether demonstrates that the isomerization of both ethers and alcohols occurs via intermolecular hydrogen shifts. A modified metal hydride addition-elimination mechanism involving exclusive Markovnikov addition to the double bond directed by the oxygen functionality of the substrate has been proposed. ::: ::: The acyclic terminal olefins 3-buten-1-ol and methyl acrylate are effective chain transfer agents in the ROMP the 7-oxanorbornene derivative 5,6-exobis(methoxymethyl)-7-oxabicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene by 1, providing the first ::: example of acyclic olefin metathesis in this system. Oligomer samples with M_n as low as 2K have been prepared. End groups corresponding to the alkylidene moieties of the chain transfer agents have been identified in the ^1H and ^(13)C NMR of the oligomer mixtures. Connectivity has been established between these end groups and the polymer chain through two-dimensional ^1H NMR. Ring-opened monomer units end capped by the chain transfer agent have been identified by mass spectrometry techniques.
During the desorption of propionaldehyde from the Rh-Y zeolite into a He-CO(10%) stream, the concentration of propionaldehyde decreased with desorption time. n-Propanol formation was enhanced in the desorption of propionaldehyde into a He-H/sub 2/(10%) stream, while no appreciable enhancement was observed in the desorption into a He-H/sub 2/(10%)-CO(10%) stream. A faster decrease in the concentration of propionaldehyde was observed during the desorption into a helium stream than the desorption into the He-CO stream. In the desorption into the helium stream, formation of pentene was observed. However, no formation of pentene was observed in the desorption into a He-C/sub 2/H/sub 4/(10%) stream. In the desorption into a He-C/sub 3/H/sub 6/(10%) stream, the rate of pentene formation was lower than that in the desorption into the helium stream. These results suggest that the pentene is not formed by ethylene-propylene codimerization. The reduced RhCl/sub 3//SiO/sub 2/ catalyst which was physically mixed with the Na-Y zeolite showed comparable activity for pentene formation to that of Rh-Y zeolite in the reaction of propionaldehyde. However, neither the RhCl/sub 3//SiO/sub 2/ catalyst nor the Na-Y zeolite was effective by itself for pentene formation. The reduced RhCl/sub 3//SiO/sub 2/ and Rh-Y zeolite catalysts also showed activity for pentenemore » formation in the reaction of 2-methyl-2-pentenal which is the product of aldol condensation of propionaldehyde. On the basis of the results, two sequential reactions, aldol condensation of propionaldehyde by the zeolite support followed by decarbonylation of 2-methyl-2-pentenal by rhodium metal particles, are proposed as a reaction path for the formation of pentene over the Rh-Y zeolite.« less
In vitro metabolism of 1,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropene (PFP) was investigated in the present study. PFP was metabolized via cytochrome P450-catalyzed oxidative dehalogenation in liver microsomes and glutathione transferase (GST)-catalyzed conjugation in liver microsomes and cytosol. Two oxidation products, 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoropropionaldehyde (TPA) and 3,3,3-trifluoropyruvaldehyde (TFPA), and two GSH conjugates, S-(2,3,3,3-tetrafluoropropenyl)-GSH (TFPG) and S-(1,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropyl)-GSH (PFPG) were identified. Enzyme kinetic parameters for the formation of TFPA, TFPG, and PFPG were obtained in male and female rat, mouse, dog, and human liver microsomes and cytosol and were confirmed using freshly isolated male rat hepatocytes. For the TFPA pathway, dog microsomes exhibited much larger K(m) values than rat, mouse, and human microsomes. Sex differences in the rates of metabolism within a given species were minor and generally were less than 2-fold. Across the species, liver microsomes were the primary subcellular fraction for GSH S-conjugation and the apparent reaction rates for the formation of TFPG were much greater than those for PFPG in liver microsomes. PFPG was unstable and had a half-life of approximately 3.9 h in a phosphate buffer (pH 7.4 and 37°C). The intrinsic clearance values for the formation of TFPA were much greater than those for the formation of GSH S-conjugates, suggesting that cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation is the primary pathway for the metabolism of PFP at relatively low PFP concentrations. Because saturation of the GST-mediated reactions was not reached at the highest possible PFP concentration, GSH S-conjugation may become a much more important pathway at higher PFP concentrations (relative to the K(m) for TFPA).
Abstract The gas-phase hydrogenation of acrolein over silver was studied in a broad pressure range from ∼2 mbar to 20 bar and with various silver materials (single crystals, sputtered silver, silica-supported Ag nanoparticles) in an attempt to examine the question of the “pressure and materials gap” in catalysis. High pressures and nanoparticles favour the formation of allyl alcohol (selectivities up to 42%), whereas with the opposite conditions propionaldehyde is by far the main product. A critical minimum reaction pressure was identified: below ca. 100 mbar, no allyl alcohol was formed. In situ-XAS measurements were performed at 7.5 mbar to gain insight into the interaction of acrolein with silver samples. Despite the fact that beam-induced processes have been observed, it is concluded that at low pressures, acrolein orients parallel to the surface on Ag(111) and is present at the surface in the form of hydrogenated propionaldehyde-like species. The influence of catalyst structure and pressure on the adsorption geometry of acrolein and the possible rate-determining step in acrolein hydrogenation are discussed.
A soluble aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) was partially purified from Rhizobium japonicum bacteroids and from free-living R. japonicum 61A76. The enzyme was activated by NAD+, NADH, and dithiothreitol, and it reduced NAD(P)+. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, benzaldehyde, and succinic semialdehyde were substrates. The Km for straight-chain aldehydes decreased with increasing carbon chain length. The aldehyde dehydrogenase was inhibited by 6-cyanopurine, but not by metronidazole. These compounds inhibited acetylene reduction, but not respiration, by isolated bacteroids.
Cigarette smoke is a potent inhibitor of pulmonary T cell responses, resulting in decreased immune surveillance and an increased incidence of respiratory tract infections. The ␣,␤-unsaturated aldehydes in cigarette smoke (acrolein and crotonaldehyde) inhibited production of interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-10, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, interferon-␥, and tumor necrosis factor-␣ by human T cells but did not inhibit production of IL-8. The saturated aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde) in cigarette smoke were inactive. Acrolein inhibited induction of NF-B DNA binding activity after mitogenic stimulation of T cells but had no effect on induction of NFAT or AP-1. Acrolein inhibited NF-B1 (p50) binding to the IL-2 promoter in a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay by >99%. Using purified recombinant p50 in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay, we demonstrated that acrolein was 2000-fold more potent than crotonaldehyde in blocking DNA binding to an NF-B consensus sequence. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-offlight and tandem mass spectrometry demonstrated that acrolein alkylated two amino acids (Cys-61 and Arg-307) in the DNA binding domain. Crotonaldehyde reacted with Cys-61, but not Arg-307, whereas the saturated aldehydes in cigarette smoke did not react with p50. These experiments demonstrate that aldehydes in cigarette smoke can regulate gene expression by direct modification of a transcription factor.
We have recently identified two classes of immunosuppressive compounds in cigarette smoke. The dihydroxyphenols (hydroquinone and catechol) in the particulate phase inhibit T cell proliferation by blocking cell cycle progression in late G 1 and S phase (8 -12). In addition, the ␣,␤-unsaturated aldehydes, acrolein (CH 2 ACHCHO) and crotonaldehyde (CH 3 CHACHCHO) in the gas phase of cigarette smoke inhibit the production of several proinflammatory cytokines including IL-2, 4 tumor necrosis factor-␣, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, with an IC 50 of 3 and 6 M, respectively (13). The saturated aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde) have IC 50 values of Ͼ1500 M. The typical cigarette generates sufficient acrolein to produce more than a liter of a 3 M solution (13). The high levels of acrolein in cigarette smoke coupled with its low IC 50 suggest that acrolein is the predominant immunosuppressive compound in cigarette smoke.
The primary route of propionic acid synthesis employs the Oxo-synthesis process by hydrocarboxylation of ethylene in the presence of a nickel carbonyl catalyst or a rhodium catalyst but liquid-phase oxidation of propionaldehyde also yields propionic acid [22] .
Purpose: Pathological fundus angiogenesis is a major cause of vision loss in retina diseases. Endostatin, a C-terminal fragment of collagen XVIII, is an endogenous anti-angiogenic protein. The present study aimed to investigate the in vitro and in vivo anti-angiogenic properties of two proteins: an N-terminal H1D/H3D mutant endostatin (M-ES) and a polyethylene glycol propionaldehyde (PEG) covalent M-ES (PEG-M-ES).
Glycerol fermentation by Enterobacter agglomerans revealed that both growth and 1,3-propanediol production ceased after consumption of about 430 mM glycerol, irrespective of the initial glycerol content. This phenomenon was assigned to the production of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which was identified by proton nuclear magnetic resonance and which showed a bacteriostatic effect. The accumulation during glycerol fermentation was also observed with two other enterobacterial species, i.e., Klebsiella pneumoniae and Citrobacter freundii.
Abstract When aerobic granular sludge is applied for industrial wastewater treatment, different soluble substrates can be present. For stable granular sludge formation on volatile fatty acids (e.g. acetate), production of storage polymers under anaerobic feeding conditions has been shown to be important. This prevents direct aerobic growth on readily available chemical oxygen demand (COD), which is thought to result in unstable granule formation. Here, we investigate the impact of acetate, methanol, butanol, propanol, propionaldehyde, and valeraldehyde on granular sludge formation at 35°C. Methanogenic archaea, growing on methanol, were present in the aerobic granular sludge system. Methanol was completely converted to methane and carbon dioxide by the methanogenic archaeum Methanomethylovorans uponensis during the 1-h anaerobic feeding period, despite the relative high dissolved oxygen concentration (3.5 mg O 2 L −1 ) during the subsequent 2-h aeration period. Propionaldehyde and valeraldehyde were fully disproportionated anaerobically into their corresponding carboxylic acids and alcohols. The organic acids produced were converted to storage polymers, while the alcohols (produced and from influent) were absorbed onto the granular sludge matrix and converted aerobically. Our observations show that easy biodegradable substrates not converted anaerobically into storage polymers could lead to unstable granular sludge formation. However, when the easy biodegradable COD is absorbed in the granules and/or when the substrate is converted by relatively slow growing bacteria in the aerobic period, stable granulation can occur.
In this work, we studied the conversion and evaluated the granulation potential of a set of carbon compounds frequently encountered in industrial wastewaters, i.e. acetate, methanol, butanol, propanol, propionaldehyde and valeraldehyde. Based on the results obtained in this work and those already present in literature, the general effect on AGS of various types of carbon compounds and operational conditions is discussed.
The gas phase hydrogenation of acrolein over silver has been studied in a broad pressure range from ~2 mbar to 20 bar and with various silver materials (single crystals, sputtered silver, silica supported Ag nanoparticles) in an attempt to examine the question of "pressure and materials gap" in catalysis. High pressures as well as nanoparticles favour the formation of allyl alcohol (selectivities up to 42 %), whereas with the opposite conditions propionaldehyde is by far the main product. A critical minimum reaction pressure was identified: below ca. 100 mbar no allyl alcohol was formed. In situ-XAS measurements have been performed at 7.5 mbar in order to gain insight into the interaction of acrolein with silver samples. Despite the fact that beam-induced processes have been observed, it is concluded that at low pressures, acrolein orientates parallel to the surface on Ag (111) and is present at the surface in the form of hydrogenated propionaldehyde-like species. The influence of catalyst structure and pressure on the adsorption geometry of acrolein as well as the possible rate-determining step in acrolein hydrogenation are discussed.
Hydrogenation on silver containing materials was reported mostly in relation with alloy (mainly Pd-Ag) catalysts [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] . In these systems silver decreases activity, but improves selectivity during hydrogenation in comparison with pure Pd catalysts. We are currently studying the hydrogenation of acrolein using pure silver catalysts [ 4 , 5 ] (with regard to the previously mentioned problem). The hydrogenation of acrolein (AC), an α,β-unsaturated aldehyde, can proceed either to the saturated aldehyde, propionaldehyde (PA), or to the unsaturated alcohol, allyl alcohol (AyOH), as shown in Fig.1 . From both products, the consecutive hydrogenation to n-propanol (n-PrOH) is possible as well as side reactions like decarbonylation or oligomerisation. When using silver catalyst, the selectivity to propanol or by-products is low (in most cases below 5 %), and mainly allyl alcohol and propionaldehyde are formed. In this case, acrolein hydrogenation can be treated as a simple parallel reaction and is an ideal model system to study the effect of surface structure and reactant pressures on the intramolecular selectivity, i.e. the hydrogenation of C=C vs. C=O bond.
Aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase was purified to essentially homogeneity from putrescine-grown cells of Arthrobacter sp. TMP-1. The molecular weights of the enzyme and its subunit were 201,000 and 51,000, respectively, suggesting that the enzyme is a tetramer of identical subunits. The apparent Michaelis constants (K(m)) for 4-aminobutyraldehyde, 3-aminopropionaldehyde and 4-guanidinobutyraldehyde were approximately 65, 150, and 85 microM, respectively. Linear fatty aldehydes also tested were less active as a substrate, while the tested succinate-semialdehyde and branched fatty aldehydes were inert. The enzyme utilized both NAD(+) and NADP(+) as coenzymes. The optimum pH was 8.0. The enzyme lost 64% of its activity when held at 40 degrees C for 10 min.
Among the activities appointed by the EC research-project “Integrated water recycling and emission abatement in the textile industry” (Contract: ENV4-CT95-0064), the effectiveness of ozone for improving the biotreatability of recalcitrant effluents as well as for removing from them toxic and/or inhibitory pollutants has been evaluated at lab-scale. Real membrane concentrates (pH=7.9; TOC=190 ppm; CDO=595 ppm; BOD5=0 ppm; Conductivity=5,000 μS/cm; Microtox-EC20=34%) produced at Bulgarograsso (Italy) Wastewater Treatment Plant by nanofiltering biologically treated secondary textile effluents, have been treated with ozonated air (O3conc.=12 ppm) over 120 min. The results have indicated that during ozonation, BOD5 increases from 0 to 75 ppm, whereas COD and TOC both decrease by about 50% and 30 % respectively. As for potentially toxic and/or inhibitory pollutants such as dyes, nonionic surfactants and halogenated organics, all measured as sum parameters, removals higher than 90% were achieved as confirmed by the complete disappearance of acute toxicity in the treated streams. The only ozonation byproducts searched for and found were aldehydes whose total amount continuously increased in the first hour from 1.2 up to 11.8 ppm. Among them, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, glyoxal, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde were identified by HPLC.
Abstract In this work we combine experiments with Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations to investigate the heterogeneous dehydration of propylene glycol. The reactions were carried out with pure, liquid propylene glycol over MFI-framework zeolite catalysts or the mesoporous sulfonic-acid resin Amberlyst 36Dry. When Amberlyst 36Dry was used, propylene glycol dehydrated to form propionaldehyde with 77% selectivity. All of the propionaldehyde further reacted with propylene glycol to form a cyclic acetal. The final products consisted of 78% acetal, 13% dipropylene glycol, and the remaining 9% was composed of acetone and a cyclic ketal formed from acetone. The zeolite catalysts demonstrated significantly higher selectivity toward dipropylene glycol compared to Amberlyst 36Dry. Furthermore, the zeolite had a lower conversion to cyclic acetals, improving the selectivity toward C3 products, acetone and propionaldehyde. DFT calculations confirmed that propionaldehyde is the favorable product in both catalysts, since it can be formed either through dehydration of the secondary hydroxyl group or via dehydration of the primary hydroxyl group with a concerted pinacol rearrangement. However, in the case of zeolites, the cyclic acetals experience steric hindrance since their size is comparable to that of the zeolite pores. Thus we argue that the cyclic acetals produced over the zeolite catalyst were formed homogeneously from the C3 products which diffused out of the zeolite pores.
Photodissociation of isobutyraldehyde (C3H7CHO) at 248 nm is investigated using time-resolved Fourier-transform infrared emission spectroscopy to demonstrate the growing importance of the roaming pathway with increasing molecular size of aliphatic aldehydes. Each acquired CO rotational distribution from v = 1 to 4 is well characterized by a single Boltzmann rotational temperature from 637 to 750 K, corresponding to an average rotational energy of 5.9 ± 0.6 kJ mol−1. The roaming signature that shows a small fraction of CO rotational energy disposal accompanied by a vibrationally hot C3H8 co-fragment is supported by theoretical prediction. The energy difference between the tight transition state (TS) and the roaming saddle point (SP) is found to be −27, 4, 15, 22, and 30 kJ mol−1 for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, and 2,2-dimethyl propanal, respectively. The roaming SP is stabilized by a larger alkyl moiety. It is suggested that the roaming photodissociation rate of aldehydes increasingly exceeds those via the tight TS, resulting in the dominance of the CO + alkane products, as the size of aldehydes becomes larger. Along with formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde, in this work isobutyraldehyde is further demonstrated that this aldehyde family with special functional group is the first case in the organic compound to follow predominantly a roaming dissociation pathway, as the molecular size becomes larger.
The ability of human liver cytochrome P450s to metabolize the environmental carcinogen N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine (NDPA) was investigated. The maximum rate of NDPA depropylation in seven human liver microsomal samples was 1.15 nmol/min/mg (range 0.53-2.60). Troleandomycin, a P450 3A4/5 inhibitor, inhibited depropylation modestly (10-60%) in three of seven samples. Diethyldithiocarbamic acid, a potent 2E1 inhibitor, and a 2E1 inhibitory monoclonal antibody (mAb) inhibited the reaction in all samples (23 to almost 100%). No significant inhibition was observed with the 2C9 inhibitor sulfaphenazole or with mAbs to 3A4, 2A6 and 2D6. The 2C8/9/18/19 mAb inhibited depropylation in one sample by approximately 25% and approximately 25% of the activity in another sample could not be accounted for by the inhibitors. Denitrosation of NDPA by three of the microsomal samples exhibited low K(m) values (51-86 microM) while two of these also had high K(m) values (2.6 and 4.6 mM). Purified human P450 2B6 and 3A4 and human P450 2A6, 2C8, 2C9 and 2D6 membranes had high K(m) values relative to their maximum turnover rates and are unlikely to participate in NDPA metabolism at micromolar concentrations. Conversely, purified rabbit 2E1 exhibited K(m) and V(max) values for depropylation of 52 microM and 13.4 nmol propionaldehyde/min/nmol P450, respectively. Values for denitrosation were 66 microM and 1.44 nmol nitrite/min/nmol P450, respectively. The toxicity of NDPA in transfected human liver epithelial cells expressing 2E1 was dose dependent down to 50 microM. No toxicity was observed in control cells or those expressing 2A6. These results indicate that 2E1 is the major human liver microsomal isoform responsible for NDPA metabolism at low micromolar concentrations. We also show that purified P450s catalyze the denitrosation of NDPA at approximately 10-20% of the rate of depropylation and K(m) values for both reactions are the same for each isozyme. This is consistent with the formation of an initial intermediate common to both pathways, presumably an alpha-nitrosamino radical.
A novel, simple and automatic method based on static headspace-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry has been developed to determine 10 low-molecular mass aldehydes that can be found in beverages, coming from the treated water used in their production. These aldehydes are the most frequently found in treated water as water disinfection by-products, so they can be used as indicators of the addition of treated water to beverages. The study covered a large number of fruit juices and soft drinks. The presence of the whole array of analytes is related to the contact with treated water during beverage production, mainly by the addition of treated water as ingredient. In particular, propionaldehyde, valeraldehyde and benzaldehyde can be used as indicators of the addition of treated water in these kinds of beverages. Among the ten aldehydes, only formaldehyde and acetaldehyde are naturally present in all kinds of fruit, and their concentrations are related to stage of the ripening of the fruit.
A NAD-dependent butyraldehyde dehydrogenase (BAD) has been purified from C. acetobutylicum DSM 792 and DSM 173 1. This key enzyme of butanol production, catalyzing the conversion of butyryl-CoA to butyraldehyde, was induced shortly before the onset of butanol production and proved to be oxygen-sensitive. A one step purification procedure on reactive green 19 allowed to purify the enzyme to homogeneity. The purified protein was found to be extremely unstable and could only partially be stabilized by addition of mercaptoethanol and storage below -20{degrees}C. The enzyme subunit had a molecular mass of 39.5 kDa. In the reverse reaction (butyryl-CoA-forming) the apparent pH optimum was 9.75 and Vmax was significantly higher with butyraldehyde and propionaldehyde than with acetaldehyde. BAD could also use NADP+, but NAD+ was the preferred coenzyme for the reverse reaction. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of the C. acetobutylicurn DSM 792 protein showed high homology to glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenases (GAP), especially to the protein of C. pasteurianum. Genomic libraries of C. acetobutylicum DSM 792 were screened by hybridization using PCR-generated heterologous probes encoding the gap gene of C. pasteurianum. Sequence analysis of the positive clones revealed high homology, but no identity to the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the butyraldehydemore » dehydrogenase. Thus, BAD from C. acetobutylicum is distinctly different from other reported aldehyde dehydrogenases with butyraldehyde dehydrogenase activity.« less
Equilibrium anionic polymerization of 4,7-dioxaoctanal (DOA) and n-octanal (OA) was carried out in tetrahydrofuran in the temperature range of −90 to −68°C, and thermodynamic parameters were evaluated as follows: ΔHss = −4.0 ± 0.1 kcal/mole, ΔSss = −18.4 ± 0.5 cal/mole-deg, and Tc,ss = −56°C for the DOA system; ΔHsc = −3.4 ± 0.1 kcal/mole, ΔSsc = −15.7 ± 0.4 cal/mole-deg, and Tc,sc = −59°C for the OA system. Comparison of these values with those in the cases of β-methoxypropionaldehyde and n-valeraldehyde made it clear that the aliphatic aldehyde having a longer alkyl group polymerizes with smaller changes of enthalpy and entropy and that the polar-substituted aldehydes have higher polymerizability than the corresponding unsubstituted aliphatic aldehydes in the temperature range studied. These effects of substituents are interpreted from the viewpoint of the intermolecular interactions of polar groups in monomers and their polymers.
The distilling industry has been looking for more efficient technologies for spirit production. The pressureless starch liberation method (PLS) is an energy-saving alternative to high-pressure treatment of starch raw materials. Also, one of the promising solutions is the use of supportive enzymatic preparations during the mashing of starch raw materials. Rye and corn mashes obtained by the PLS method were treated with enzymes (pullulanase, xylanase, cellulases and cellobiase). The composition of volatile compounds in the distillates of the fermentation mashes was determined. Acetaldehyde was the dominant aliphatic carbonyl compound found in the raw distillates. Rye-based fermentation distillates contained small amounts of propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and isovaleraldehyde, which were not found in any of the corn distillates. The treatment of mashes with cellulolytic preparations caused an increase in the methanol content of the obtained distillates. All of the mashes treated with auxiliary enzymes yielded raw distillates with much higher levels of higher alcohols. The application of hydrolases of non-starch polysaccharides, or pullulanase preparations, during the mashing of the starch raw materials affects the chemical composition of the distillates. Xylanase and pullulanase can be used in the processing of rye and corn mashes for subsequent use in distilled ethanol beverage production. Copyright © 2014 The Institute of Brewing & Distilling
The levels of carbonyl compounds in Beijing ambient air and rain were measured from June 2005 to August 2005. Acetone was found to be the most predominant carbonyls followed by formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde with the mean concentrations of 22.14、19.51、17.18、3.85 μg·m -3 , respectively, which accounted for 84.7% of total carbonyl compounds in the atmosphere. The ratios of formaldehyde to acetaldehyde and acetaldehyde to propionaldehyde indicated that carbonyl compounds in Beijing air mainly originated from anthropogenic sources. The comparison of diurnal profiles in sunny and cloudy conditions demonstrated that the photooxidation of hydrocarbons might play an important role in the formation of carbonyl compounds in summer. Carbonyl concentrations in the air were greatly reduced after rain, indicating that rain is an important sink for carbonyls. Among the 11 carbonyl compounds detected in the rain samples, the most abundant carbonyls were formaldehyde, followed by acetaldehyde and acetone with concentrations of 166.3 μg·L -1 ,43.63 μg·L -1 and 34.33 μg·L -1 , respectively.
The kinetics of the NAD+-dependent oxidation of aldehydes, catalysed by aldehyde dehydrogenase purified from sheep liver mitochondria, were studied in detail. Lag phases were observed in the assays, the length of which were dependent on the enzyme concentration. The measured rates after the lag phase was over were directly proportional to the enzyme concentration. If enzyme was preincubated with NAD+, the lag phase was eliminated. Double-reciprocal plots with aldehyde as the variable substrate were non-linear, showing marked substrate activation. With NAD+ as the variable substrate, double-reciprocal plots were linear, and apparently parallel. Double-reciprocal plots with enzyme modified with disulfiram (tetraethylthiuram disulphide) or iodoacetamide, such that at pH 8.0 the activity was decreased to 50% of the control value, showed no substrate activation, and the plots were linear. At pH 7.0, the kinetic parameters Vmax. and Km NAD+- for the oxidation of acetaldehyde and butyraldehyde by the native enzyme are almost identical. Formaldehyde and propionaldehyde show the same apparent maximum rate. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is able to catalyse the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl esters. This esterase activity was stimulated by both NAD+ and NADH, the maximum rate for the NAD+ stimulated esterase reaction being roughly equal to the maximum rate for the oxidation of aldehydes. The mechanistic implications of the above behaviour are discussed.
Abstract The reaction of excited oxygen atom, O( 1 D 2 ), with propylene has been studied under helium pressure up to 150 atm. The identified oxides and their limiting fractional yields are as follows: propylene oxide 0.22, propionaldehyde 0.22, acetone 0.11, allylalcohol 0.20, acrolein 0.02 and acetaldehyde 0.06. The mechanism of primary attack of O( 1 D 2 ) on olefin is inferred on the basis of these figures.
Oxygenated compounds such as ethers and alcohols are used as gasoline additives and industrial solvents. However, despite their widespread use, the atmospheric reaction mechanisms of some of these compounds are unknown. This study examines the ·OH-initiated gas-phase removal mechanisms of ethyl-n-butyl ether (ENBE) and di-n-butyl ether (DNBE) utilizing gas chromatography–mass spectrometry techniques. The primary products and molar yields from the hydroxyl-radical–initiated photooxidation of ENBE in the presence of nitric oxide were acetaldehyde (0.173 ± 0.012), ethyl formate (0.219 ± 0.033), butyraldehyde (0.076 ± 0.004), butyl formate (0.241 ± 0.009), butyl acetate (0.032 ± 0.001), and ethyl butyrate (0.0044 ± 0.0006). From the calculated molar yields, approximately 45.5% of the reacted carbon were recovered. The primary products and molar yields from the DNBE and hydroxyl radical reaction in the presence of nitric oxide were propionaldehyde (0.379 ± 0.022), butyraldehyde (0.119 ± 0.003), butyl formate (0.410 ± 0.009), and butyl butyrate (0.019 ± 0.001). Approximately 47.7% of the reacted DNBE were recovered. The chemical mechanisms are presented to explain the formation of these products. In addition, the importance of the isomerization and nitrate/nitrite formation pathways in the reactions of large ethers are discussed. © 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 33: 328–341, 2001
Product distributions for the near thermal translational energy (less than or equal to 0.1 eV) reactions of CH/sub 3//sup +/ and CD/sub 3//sup +/ with propionaldehyde, propylene oxide, trimethylene oxide, and allyl alcohol are reported and compared to previous results for acetone. With the exception of allyl alcohol, each of the C/sub 3/H/sub 6/O isomers exhibits a reaction pathway with CD/sub 3//sup +/ leading to formation of a CD/sub 3/OCH/sub 2//sup +/ ionic product. Other ionic reaction products include C/sub 2/H/sub 5//sup +/, CH/sub 3/O/sup +/, C/sub 3/H/sub 5//sup +/, C/sub 3/H/sub 7//sup +/, CH/sub 3/CO/sup +/, C/sub 3/H/sub 5/O/sup +/, and C/sub 3/H/sub 6/O/sup +/. The results are generally consistent with CH/sub 3//sup +/ attack at the oxygen atom and formation of a short-lived intermediate adduct in approximately 80% of the reactive collisions; less important reaction channels include charge exchange, hydride transfer, and attack at sites other than oxygen.
The contents of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, methyl acrolein, 2-butanone, butyraldehyde, benzaldehyde, valeraldehyde, hexanal in mainstream smoke of 32 cigarette samples were determined by way of derivation with 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2, 4-DNPH) and analysis with LC-MS/MS. The recoveries of aldehydes and ketones were in the range of 91.6% to 100.3% with the relative standard deviations of 3.28% to 7.86% and the limits of detection of 0.1 to 0.5 ng/mL. The major volatile aldehydes and ketones in mainstream smoke of samples were acetaldehyde and acetone, while the contents of benzaldehyde and hexanal were lower. The contents of volatile aldehydes and ketones in domestic Virginia cigarette smoke were higher than those in imported cigarettes, while those in blended cigarette smoke were contrary. Higher tar delivery always means higher volatile aldehydes and ketones contents regardless of cigarette type.
Concentrations of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, propionaldehyde, i-pentanal, and butyraldehyde in residential indoor air in Hangzhou were determined. The mean concentration of the total carbonyl compounds in summer was 222.6 μg/m3, higher than that in winter (68.5 μg/m3). The concentration of a specific carbonyl in indoor air was higher than the outdoor air measurement, indicating the release of carbonyls from the indoor sources. Formaldehyde and acetone were the most abundant carbonyls detected in summer and winter, respectively. Multiple regression analysis indicated that carbonyl concentrations in residential indoor air depended on the age of decoration and furniture, as well as their concentrations in outdoor air. In addition, a primary estimation showed that the health risks of carbonyls in summer were higher than those in winter.
A porous cellulose tape impregnated with a coloring solution that includes hydroxylamine sulfate, Methyl Yellow (pH indicator; pH 2.9-4.0, red-yellow), glycerin and methanol has been developed to provide a highly sensitive means of detecting formaldehyde gas. Formaldehyde reacts with hydroxylamine sulfate to produce sulfuric acid. When a sample including formaldehyde was passed through the tape, the color of the tape changed from yellow to red. Thedegree of color change was proportional to the concentration of formaldehyde at a constant sampling time and flow rate. The degree of color change could be recorded by measuring the intensity of reflecting light (555nm). No interference was observed from carbon monoxide (100ppm), nitrogen monoxide (50ppm), nitrogen dioxide (105ppm), carbon dioxide (4.9%), hydrogen (100%), hydrogen sulfide (32ppm), or hydrogen fluoride (6ppm). The response of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde were one fortieth and three-hundredths of that of formaldehyde, respectively. Reproducibility tests showed that the relative standard deviation of relative intensity (n=10) was 3.4% for 4ppm formaldehyde. The detection limit was 0.1ppm for formaldehyde at a sampling time of 5min and a flow rate of 400ml/min.
Abstract Hydridocarbonyltris(triphenylphosphine)rhodium(I), dissolved in triphenylphosphine or in tri-p-tolylphosphine and capillary-condensed in the pores of a support material, is successfully applied in the heterogeneous gas phase hydroformylation of allyl alcohol. Very high selectivities for 4-hydroxybutyraldehyde are obtained. No sign of catalyst deactivation was observed even after 250 h of testing. The undesired side reaction of allyl alcohol to propionaldehyde is caused by the catalytic action of both the support material and the rhodium complex. By the use of silica with a low aluminium content and of phosphine-rich rhodium complexes, this problem is circumvented. The kinetics of the hydroformylation of allyl alcohol are studied; they differ from those found for propylene with SLP catalysts.
Polyclonal antibodies able to recognize protein-acetaldehyde conjugates were produced and characterized. The antibodies react with sodium cyanoborohydride-reduced Schiff9s bases between acetaldehyde and a protein, independently of the nature of the macromolecule binding the acetaldehyde moiety. Only conjugates between acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde and a protein are recognized; conjugates obtained with other aldehydes are not reactive. Results concerning the formation of acetaldehyde adducts with carrot ( Daucus carota L.) proteins are presented as well as the presence of such conjugates in ethanol-treated carrot cell cultures, a system highly sensitive to the presence of ethanol in the culture medium.
Polyethylene glycol (PEG) conjugation (PEGylation) is a method to increase the apparent size of a biomolecule and reduce its glomerular filtration rate, thereby extending the biomolecule's half-life, enhancing its in vivo efficacy through prolonged systemic drug exposure, and enabling less frequent dosing (Bailon and Won, 2009 ). PEG-conjugated (PEGylated) IFN ␤-1a (PEG-IFN ␤-1a) was developed by attaching 20-kDa methoxy-PEG-O-2-methylpropionaldehyde to the ␣-amino group of the N terminus of IFN ␤-1a (Baker et al., 2006) , with the aim of providing a less frequent dosing regimen and improved convenience for patients with MS. The N terminus of IFN ␤-1a is not critical for binding to the type 1 IFN receptor (Runkel et al., 2000) . In vitro evaluation demonstrated that PEG-IFN ␤-1a retained significant in vitro activity (approximately 50%) in antiviral and antiproliferative assays compared with the unmodified protein, whereas PEG-IFN ␤-1a in vivo efficacy was enhanced compared with IFN ␤-1a in a mouse tumor angiogenesis model (Baker et al., 2006) .
Polyclonal antibodies able to recognize protein-acetaldehyde conjugates were produced and characterized. The antibodies react with sodium cyanoborohydride-reduced Schiff's bases between acetaldehyde and a protein, independently of the nature of the macromolecule binding the acetaldehyde moiety. Only conjugates between acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde and a protein are recognized; conjugates obtained with other aldehydes are not reactive. Results conceming the formation of acetaldehyde adducts with carrot (Daucus carota L.) proteins are presented as well as the presence of such conjugates in ethanoltreated carrot cell cultures, a system highly sensitive to the presence of ethanol in the culture medium.
The report that damage to petunia has been correlated with the presence of aldehydes in the atmosphere is discussed in relation to recent laboratory findings. Laboratory investigations have shown that irradiation of formaldehyde in air will not cause plant damage to the varieties of petunia, pinto bean, and tobacco wrapper used, even when nitrogen oxide is added to the system. Irradiation of propionaldehyde in air does cause damage to these plants. Addition of nitrogen oxide to the irradiated propionaldehyde-in-air system does not markedly increase damage.
3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) forms, together with HPA-hydrate and HPA-dimer, a dynamic, multi-component system (HPA system) used in food preservation, as a precursor for many modern chemicals such as acrolein, acrylic acid, and 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO), and for polymer production. 3-HPA can be obtained both through traditional chemistry and bacterial fermentation. To date, 3-HPA has been produced from petrochemical resources as an intermediate in 1,3-PDO production. In vivo, glycerol is converted in one enzymatic step into 3-HPA. The 3-HPA-producing Lactobacillus reuteri is used as a probiotic in the health care of humans and animals. The biotechnological production of 3-HPA from renewable resources is desirable both for use of 3-HPA in foods and for the production of bulk chemicals. The main challenge will be the efficient production and recovery of pure 3-HPA.
Catalytic synthesis of isobutyraldehyde from methanol and n-propyl alcohol was achieved by using titanium oxide-supported vanadium oxide catalysts in one step. At high conversion (> 90%), isobutyraldehyde was formed in high yield (> 60%) with minor amounts of propionaldehyde, propane, and isobutane. The experimental results indicated that isobutane was formed by a propane intermediate and isobutyraldehyde was formed by a propionaldehyde intermediate in the reaction.
Abstract Interactions of C 2 H 4 /H 2 with Rh + (CO) 2 /SiO 2 and CO adsorbed on RhCl 3 /SiO 2 and Rh(NO 3 ) 3 /SiO 2 and the activity of these catalysts for ethylene hydroformylation have been studied by infrared spectroscopy. Chemisorption of CO on RhCl 3 /SiO 2 and Rh(NO 3 ) 3 /SiO 2 at 298 K results in the formation of linear CO on Rh + (or Rh +2 ) and Rh +3 sites as well as gem-dicarbonyl. Temperature-programmed decomposition studies show that thermal stability of these adsorbed CO species decreases in the following order: linear CO on Rh + of RhCl 3 /SiO 2 > Rh + (CO) 2 on Rh(NO 3 ) 3 /SiO 2 > Rh + (CO) 2 and linear CO on Rh +3 on RhCl 3 /SiO 2 . Linear CO on Rh + sites is more active than Rh + (CO) 2 , on either Rh(NO 3 ) 3 /SiO 2 or RhCl 3 /SiO 2 at 298 K toward C 2 H 4 and H 2 leading to the formation of propionaldehyde. Gem-dicarbonyl is observed as a dominant CO species adsorbed on RhCl 3 /SiO 2 while both gem-dicarbonyl and linear CO on Rh 0 sites are found on Rh(NO 3 ) 3 /SiO 2 during ethylene hydroformylation at 393 K and 1MPa. RhCl 3 /SiO 2 shows higher hydroformylation selectivity than Rh(NO 3 ) 3 /SiO 2 . RhCl 3 /SiO 2 is less susceptible to reduction by the reactant mixture than Rh(NO 3 ) 3 /SiO 2 , resulting in higher hydroformylation selectivity. Increasing the reaction temperature from 393 to 513 K results in the reduction of RhCl 3 and Rh(NO 3 ) 3 to reduced Rh crystallites. Both catalysts remain active for hydroformylation and exhibit similar hydroformylation selectivities at 513 K. However, their selectivities for hydroformylation are significantly lower than those at 393 K. The low hydroformylation selectivity is related to the reduced Rh crystallite, which is highly active for hydrogenation.
Abstract An adsorptive silica-supported titania photocatalyst TiO 2 /SiO 2 was prepared by using nanosized titania (anatase) immobilized on silica gel by the sol–gel technique with the titanium tetra isopropoxide as the main raw material and acetic acid as the acid catalyst. Meanwhile the structure and properties of the TiO 2 /SiO 2 photocatalyst were studied by means of many modern analysis techniques such as TEM, XRD, and BET. Gas–solid heterogeneous photocatalytic decomposition of four carbonyl compounds mixture at low concentration levels over ultraviolet irradiated TiO 2 /SiO 2 photocatalyst were carried out with high degradation efficiencies in a coaxial triple-cylinder-type fluidized bed photocatalytic reactor, which provided efficient continuous contact of ultraviolet photons, silica-supported titania photocatalyst, and gaseous reactants. Experimental results showed that the photocatalyst had a high adsorption performance and a good photocatalytic activity for four carbonyl compounds mixture. Some factors influencing the photocatalytic decomposition of the mixed carbonyl compounds, i.e. the gas flowrate, relative humidity, concentration of oxygen, and illumination time, were discussed in detail. It is found that the photocatalytic reaction rate of four carbonyl compounds decreased in this order: propionaldehyde, acetone, acetaldehyde and formaldehyde.
(2S,3R) Capreomycidine (‘epicapreomycidine’) are arginine derived non proteinogenic amino acids and can be found as constituents of natural products (e.g. viomycin in the case of capreomycidine and epicapreomycidine in chymostatin respectively). Epicapreomycidine is also a building block of the muraymycins, a family of nucleoside-lipopeptide antibiotics which inhibit an early step in peptidoglycan biosynthesis. For the investigation of structure-activity relationships, which might potentially lead to new antibiotics, a stereocontrolled synthesis of protected epicapreomycidinols and a total synthesis of muraymycin peptide units were established. Thus, valine capreomycidine urea, leucine and 3-hydroxyleucine urea tripeptides were synthesized starting from Garner's aldehyde in an ex-chiral-pool approach. Moreover, a biomimetic approach based on the elucidated biosynthesis of capreomycidine provided access to these amino acids in racemic form. Therefore, starting from 3-azidopropionaldehyde and protected glycine phosphonates protected didehydroornithines were synthesized, which were converted into the racemic amino acids following domino-guanidinylation-aza-michael ring-closure reaction and acidic deprotection. A separation of the isomeric mixture was not successful neither via HPLC nor acylase separation. Starting from the Pbf-protected epicapreomycidinol Fmoc- and Pbf-protected epicapreomycidine was synthesized as a building block for the solid-phase peptide synthesis. Incorporation of this amino acid into model peptides was not successful due to the lack of time. Furthermore, the Pbf-protected epicapreomycidinol was utilized as starting material in the total synthesis of chymostatin B. However, the final reduction step leading to protected chymostatin B did not succeed.
The aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) gene fromAcinetobacter sp. strain HBS-2 was cloned and characterized. The ORF of the gene was a 1467-bp sequence that encoded a 489-amino-acid protein. Strain HBS-2 carries a newALDH gene that differs from the knownALDH genes inAcinetobacter, and the product coded is a member of the NAD+-dependent ALDH family with 99% identity to several knownAcinetobacter baumannii orthologs. The determined sequence exhibited 56, 59 and 39% identity with human mitochondrial ALDH2, and ALDH fromPseudomonas aeruginosa andEscherichia coli, respectively. TheALDH gene was cloned into the pET28a(+) expression vector and expressed inE. coli BL21 cells under the control of the IPTG-inducible promoter T7. Two-thirds of the recombinant enzyme was available in soluble form, and its molecular mass was estimated at 57 kDa by SDS-PAGE. After purification on an Ni-sepharose column, the recombinant protein was found to have a specific activity of 60.6 U/mg protein. TheK m values of the enzyme were 15.18 μM for acetaldehyde, 2.12 μM for formaldehyde, and 0.49 μM for propionaldehyde. These results indicate that ALDH from strain HBS-2 preferentially reacts with propionaldehyde. However,V max of the enzyme for acetaldehyde was determined to be the highest. The recombinant enzyme exhibited novel biochemical characteristics. Its activity was significantly elevated in the presence of Mn2+. These findings are different from those reported for ALDHs from other microorganisms.
Abstract Enzymatic synthesis of fructose oleic ester (FOE) in stirred tank reactor using the immobilized lipase may cause a physical damage of support matrix, which causes a leaching of lipase from matrix. The objective of this research was to evaluate the best condition of FOE synthesis in fluidized bed reactor (FBR) using the immobilized lipase on modified hydrophobic matrix. Surface of Amberlite IRA 96 was modified with 2-phenylpropionaldehyde to obtain hydrophobic surface. Candida rugosa lipase was immobilized on the modified matrix. Subsequently, it was used for FOE synthesis in FBR system. Factors, such as reaction time, substrate flow rate, amount of water adsorbent, and substrate molar ratio were evaluated based on the conversion of oleic acid into FOE. Results from FTIR analysis showed that modified matrix had a peak at a specific wavelength ∼1674 cm -1 . It indicated that a group of imine (-C=N-) occurred after surface modification. The highest adsorption of lipase was obtained after adsorption for 45 min (13.28±0.57 mg lipase/g matrix), which was equivalent to 52.95±1.67%. The lipase activity was 73.66±5.35 U/g matrix. The best FOE synthesis condition was obtained at flow rate of 0.4 mL/min, molecular sieve of 12%, substrate molar ratio (fructose: oleic acid) 1:4 for 48 h. FOE was confirmed by TLC and FT-IR analysis, which they had Rf 0.72 and specific wave number of ∼1712 cm -1 , respectively. FOE had emulsion capacity, emulsion stability, droplet size, and HLB value of 92.83±0.46%; 85.65±0.92%; 7.86±0.93 μm; 11-16, respectively. Emulsion type of FOE was oil in water emulsion.
The efficiencies of the reaction MH/sup +/ + D/sub 2/O ..-->.. MD/sup +/ + HDO or the analogous reaction in which deuteration is reversed have been measured for the cases, M. = formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, methanol, methyl formate, propionaldehyde, dimethyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, acetone, diethyl ether, di-n-propyl ether, and pyridine. A quantitative evaluation of the model used in estimating well depths leads to the conclusion that the energies of association in such complexes are primarily electrostatic in nature, since the model, which considers only electrostatic interactions, predicts well depths in close agreement with those obtained by experiment or ab initio calculations. Use of this approximation also correctly predicts the experimentally determined well depths for the systems studied here and permits one to assign the structure (MH/sup +/ H/sub 2/O) to the most stable configurations of the proton-bound complexes in all cases except the formaldehyde-water system, where the complexes have the structure (H/sub 2/CO H/sub 3/O/sup +/); this is verified by the observation that the statistically corrected probability for isotope exchange in this system is unity. In the acetaldehyde-, methanol-, methyl formate-, propionaldehyde-, and dimethyl ether-water systems, the (M H/sub 3/O/sup +/) complexes are prediced to be energetically accessible to separated reactants and,more » in all these cases, isotope exchange is seen to occur, with a statistically corrected probability of 0.85 to 0.42, depending on the energetics of the proton transfer in the complex. For the 1,4-dioxane-, diethyl ether-, di-n-propyl ether-, and pyridine-water systems, where the model predicts that the (M H/sub 3/O/sup +/) complex is energetically inaccessible, isotope exchange is not observed. The implications of these results to the observed correlation between the heats of formation of association ions and the differences in proton affinities of the complexed molecules are discussed. 29 references.« less
: NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenases (EC 1.2.1.3) were isolated from various subcellular organelles as well as from different regions of rat brain. The mitochondrial, microsomal, and cytosolic fractions were found to contain 40%, 28%, and 12%, respectively, of the total aldehyde dehydrogenase (5.28 ± 0.44 nmol NADH/min/g tissue) found in rat brain homogenate when assayed with 70 μ.M propionaldehyde at pH 7.5. The total activity increased to 17.3 ± 2.7 nmol NADH/min/g tissue when assayed with 5 mM propionaldehyde. Under these conditions the three organelles contained 49%, 23%, and 9%, respectively, of the activity. The enzyme isolated from cytosol possessed the lowest Km. The molecular weight of the enzyme isolated from all three subcellular organelles was ∼100,000. Four activity bands were found by electrophoresis of crude homogenates, isolated mitochondria, or microsomes on cellulose acetate strips. Cytosol possessed just two of the forms. The total activity was essentially the same in homogenates obtained from cortex, subcortex, pons-medulla, or cerebellum. Further, the enzyme had the same molecular distribution and total activity in each of these four brain regions. Disulfiram was found to be an in vivo and in vitro inhibitor of the enzymes obtained from these brain regions. Mercaptoethanol, required for the stability of the enzyme, reversed the inhibition produced by disulfiram. The effect was greater for enzyme isolated from cytosol than from mitochondria. Calculations led to the prediction that aldehydes such as acetaldehyde are oxidized in cytosol.
Over the last years the demand for pre-washed, fresh-cut, and minimally-processed (MP) produce has increased. MP fresh vegetable are rapidly spoiled, whereas there is consumers' concern about chemical disinfection treatments such as with chlorine. A promising antimicrobial is reuterin, a broad-spectrum-antimicrobial compound produced by food-grade Lactobacillus reuteri from glycerol. In aqueous solution, reuterin is a dynamic system consisting of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), its hydrate, its dimer as well as acrolein, which was recently identified as the main antimicrobial component of the system. Here, we tested the use of reuterin containing similar 3-HPA levels but different acrolein concentrations for decontaminating and preserving fresh-cut lettuce. Crude reuterin (CR) was produced by biotransformation of 600 mM glycerol using L. reuteri DSM 20016T. CR preparations were further incubated for 16 h at 50°C to produce enhanced reuterin (ER) with raised concentration of acrolein. Fresh-cut iceberg lettuce (Lactuca sativa) was washed using CR (1.5-1.9 mM acrolein) and ER (7.2-21.9 mM acrolein) solutions at 4°C, or sodium hypochloride (250 mg/L) and tap water, and compared with unwashed lettuce. Washed lettuce samples were packed under modified atmosphere (2% O2, 5% CO2, and 93% N2) and stored for 13 days at 4°C. Application of ER containing 12.1, 20.9, or 21.9 mM acrolein reduced the initial viable plate counts of Enterobacteriaceae (by 2.1-2.8 log CFU/g), and yeasts and molds (by 1.3-2.0 log CFU/g) when compared with unwashed samples. In contrast, reuterin solutions containing 7.2 mM acrolein, sodium hypochlorite and tap water only showed very limited and transient, or no effects on the cell loads of lettuce after washing and during storage. Visual assessment of leaves washed with ER showed acrolein concentration-dependent discoloration noticeable already after 3 days of storage for the highest acrolein concentrations. Discoloration became severe for all ER treatments after 7 days, while the other treatments preserved the aspect of washed lettuce. Our data show the predominant role of acrolein as the main antimicrobial component of the reuterin system for food biopreservation. Reuterin preparations with enhanced acrolein concentration of 12.1 mM and higher were effective to reduce plate counts of Enterobacteriaceae and yeasts and molds washed lettuce until day 7 but induced pronounced discoloration of lettuce.
Several systemic compounds were added to the nutrient solution of hydroponically grown roses and broadcast over beds of field-grown roses. UC 21149 [2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl)oxime] was the only compound that provided control without phytotoxicity. In addition, plants treated with UC 21149 responded with a considerable increase in growth and flower production.
Abstract We have investigated the effect of supporting rhodium on several different types of graphite nanofibers (GNFs) for the ethylene hydroformylation reaction at temperatures over the range 180–300°C. The performance of these systems was compared with that of a catalyst where the same metal loading was dispersed on silica. It was found that in general, while the activity of all the catalyst systems was similar, the GNF supported rhodium catalysts exhibited a higher selectivity for the formation of propionaldehyde than the corresponding silica supported system. Furthermore, among the various rhodium/GNF catalysts, the ribbon type nanofibers appeared to give the highest selectivity to the desired product. The optimum temperature for the hydroformylation reaction was found to be 240°C, since at this condition one was able to achieve the combination of maximum activity with acceptable selectivity. Based on many experiments in which the ratio of gaseous reactants was systematically varied it was evident that high partial pressures of CO and C2H4, and a concomitant low partial pressure of H2 gave the optimum performance. It is believed that the morphological characteristics acquired by rhodium when dispersed on the GNF edges is a critical factor rather than the size of the individual crystallites.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the assay method, purification, and properties of aldehyde dehydrogenase isolated from Proteus vulgaris . The activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase is monitored by measuring the production of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate dehydrogenase (NADPH) spectrophotometrically at 340 nm with isovaleraldehyde as a substrate. Isovaleraldehyde is replaced with propionaldehyde or acetaldehyde, which are also good substrates for this enzyme. The steps involved in the purification are (1) protamine sulfate fraction, (2) acetone fraction, (3) ammonium sulfate fraction, (4) hydroxyapatite column chromatography, (5) diethylaminoethyl (DEAE)-cellulose column chromatography, and (6) crystallization. All procedures are performed at 0–4°C, unless otherwise stated. Washed cells are suspended in an appropriate amount of 20 m M potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, to give about 8 g/40 ml. The aliquots of 40 ml of the cellular suspension are treated by sonic oscillation at 20 kc for 8 min at 0– 2°C to avoid thermal inactivation. The supernatants from similar aliquots obtained by centrifugation at 15,000 g for 30 min are combined.
The formation of oxazolidines from propionaldehyde and aliphatic β-aminoalcohols is complicated by the appearance of appreciable amounts of unsaturated Schiff bases. The simple Schiff base, often the dominant species when aromatic aldehydes react with amines, could not be detected in the present aliphatic systems. We conclude that in aliphatic systems the order of stability is ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: and ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: . The gem-dimethyl group α to nitrogen stablizes the heterocyclic ring remarkably.
This study presents an analysis of metabolic fluxes of the anaerobic glycerol metabolism by Klebsiella pneumoniae for the production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD). A metabolic network was reconstructed from the partly annotated genome sequence as well as from biochemical and physiological literatures. Extracellular fluxes measured in continuous culture under steady condition were used to estimate intracellular fluxes. A comparison of changes in the branch point of 3- hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) flux distribution reveals that glycerol dehydratase (GDHt) is the rate-limiting enzyme at high glycerol concentration and 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (PDOR) is the rate-limiting enzyme at low initial glycerol concentration for the production of 1,3-PD due to an insufficient supply of reducing equivalents.
SUMMARY ::: ::: Treating encysted larvae of the potato cyst eelworm (Heterodera rostochiensis Woll.) in pots with drenches of ‘Temik’ (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde-O-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) had little effect on hatching, but there was a marked effect on the hatched larvae: they were either killed (at 5 p.p.m.) or prevented from entering roots (at 1 p.p.m.). Treatment at 1 p.p.m. (2 lb/acre (2.24 kg/ha)) nearly doubled the yield of potatoes.
OBJECTIVE ::: 3-Deoxyglucosone (3-DG) and acetaldehyde were found to be the major reactive carbonyl compounds in conventional heat-sterilized peritoneal dialysis fluids (PDFs). The aim of this study was to identify factors in the production of PDFs promoting or inhibiting the formation of acetaldehyde and 3-DG. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN ::: Single-chamber bag PDFs with different buffer systems and pH values were analyzed for acetaldehyde. 3-Deoxyglucosone was determined in double-chamber bag PDFs with different pH values, in commercially available samples, and in double-chamber products stored under defined conditions. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Acetaldehyde was found in the presence of lactate and malate, whereas in 2-hydroxybutanoate-buffered solution propionaldehyde was detected instead. Between pH 5.0 and 6.0 the acetaldehyde content in lactate-buffered solutions increased strongly. The concentration of 3-DG in the chamber containing glucose In double-chamber bags increased between pH 3.0 and 5.0 by a factor of 6. 3-Deoxyglucosone concentrations in commercially available products vary greatly, reflecting the different pH values of these products. A time- and temperature-dependent reaction leads to a reduction in 3-DG and an increase in 5-hydroxymethyl-furan-2-carbaldehyde during storage. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Acetaldehyde is produced by a reaction that requires both lactate and glucose. Thus, its formation can be prevented by a separation of the reaction partners, glucose and lactate, in a double-chamber bag. In double-chamber bags, pH greatly influences the formation of 3-DG. Minimal formation is observed in the region of pH 3.0. This finding should be taken into account for the development of new double-chamber bag PDFs.
Results for the galvanostatic oxidation of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and n-butyraldehyde in 0.5 mol dm-3 H2SO4 at Ti/Ru0.3Ti0.7O2 DSA® type electrodes, using a filter-press cell, are presented. The observed products are the respective carboxylic acids and CO2. In the case of formaldehyde the additional presence of CO32- is detected as a product. The carbon balance is observed to decrease with electrolysis time due to the partial liberation of the aldehyde in solution as a gas. The partial liberation of aldehyde gases increases with chain length and in this way the conversion of reactants to products decreases, as does the efficiency of the electro-oxidation process.
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs) are difficult to measure, analyze and assess for risk because of low ambient concentrations and varieties. Types of HAPs are Volatile organic compounds (VOCs), Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAHs) and Aldehydes. HAP emissions from vehicles are a contributor to serious adverse health effects in urban areas. In this study, hazardous air pollutant emissions from road transport vehicles by Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC) weight fraction and PAHs emission factors are estimated in 2008. The top-five-most hazardous air pollutant emissions were estimated to toluene 864.3 ton/yr, acrolein 690.6 ton/yr, acetaldehyde 554.5 ton/yr, formaldehyde 498.7 ton/yr, propionaldehyde 421.6 ton/yr in 2008. The results for a cancer and non-cancer risk assessment of HAPs emissions show that the major cancer driver is formaldehyde and the non-cancer driver is acrolein.
ABSTRACT Bacterial microcompartments (BMCs) are large (∼100-nm) protein shells that encapsulate enzymes, their substrates, and cofactors for the purposes of increasing metabolic reaction efficiency and protecting cells from toxic intermediates. The best-studied microcompartment is the carbon-fixing carboxysome that encapsulates ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and carbonic anhydrase. Other well-known BMCs include the Pdu and Eut BMCs, which metabolize 1,2-propanediol and ethanolamine, respectively, with vitamin B12-dependent diol dehydratase enzymes. Recent bioinformatic analyses identified a new prevalent type of BMC, hypothesized to utilize vitamin B12-independent glycyl radical enzymes to metabolize substrates. Here we use genetic and metabolic analyses to undertake in vivo characterization of the newly identified glycyl radical enzyme microcompartment 3 (GRM3) class of microcompartment clusters. Transcriptome sequencing analyses showed that the microcompartment gene cluster in the genome of the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus was expressed under dark anaerobic respiratory conditions in the presence of 1,2-propanediol. High-performance liquid chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses showed that enzymes coded by this cluster metabolized 1,2-propanediol into propionaldehyde, propanol, and propionate. Surprisingly, the microcompartment pathway did not protect these cells from toxic propionaldehyde under the conditions used in this study, with buildup of this intermediate contributing to arrest of cell growth. We further show that expression of microcompartment genes is regulated by a two-component system located downstream of the microcompartment cluster. IMPORTANCE BMCs are protein shells that are designed to compartmentalize enzymatic reactions that require either sequestration of a substrate or the sequestration of toxic intermediates. Due to their ability to compartmentalize reactions, BMCs have also become attractive targets for bioengineering novel enzymatic reactions. Despite these useful features, little is known about the biochemistry of newly identified classes of BMCs. In this study, we have undertaken genetic and in vivo metabolic analyses of the newly identified GRM3 gene cluster.
Abstract The mechanism of acrolein-induced lipid peroxidation is unknown. This study found that acrolein and its glutathione adduct, glutathionylpropionaldehyde, induce oxygen radical formation. These oxygen radicals may be responsible for the induction of lipid peroxidation by acrolein. The enzymes xanthine oxidase and aldehyde dehydrogenase were found to interact with glutathionylpropionaldehyde to produce O2.− and HO.. Acrolein was oxidized by xanthine oxidase to produce acroleinyl radical and O2.−. Aldehyde dehydrogenase metabolized acrolein to form O2.− but not acroleinyl radical. The fact that glutathionylpropionaldehyde is a more potent stimulator of oxygen radical formation than acrolein indicates that glutathionylpropionaldehyde is a toxic metabolite of acrolein and may be responsible for some of the in vivo toxicity of acrolein.
Abstract 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) forms, together with HPA-hydrate and
Enzymatic synthesis of fructose oleic ester (FOE) in stirred tank reactor using the immobilized lipase may cause a physical damage of support matrix, which causes a leaching of lipase from matrix. The objective of this research was to evaluate the best condition of FOE synthesis in fluidized bed reactor (FBR) using the immobilized lipase on modified hydrophobic matrix. Surface of Amberlite IRA 96 was modified with 2-phenylpropionaldehyde to obtain hydrophobic surface. Candida rugosa lipase was immobilized on the modified matrix. Subsequently, it was used for FOE synthesis in FBR system. Factors, such as reaction time, substrate flow rate, amount of water adsorbent, and substrate molar ratio were evaluated based on the conversion of oleic acid into FOE. Results from FTIR analysis showed that modified matrix had a peak at a specific wavelength ~1674 cm -1 . It indicated that a group of imine (-C=N-) occurred after surface modification. The highest adsorption of lipase was obtained after adsorption for 45 min (13.28±0.57 mg lipase/g matrix), which was equivalent to 52.95±1.67%. The lipase activity was 73.66±5.35 U/g matrix. The best FOE synthesis condition was obtained at flow rate of 0.4 mL/min, molecular sieve of 12 %, substrate molar ratio (fructose : oleic acid) 1:4 for 48 h. FOE was confirmed by TLC and FT-IR analysis, which they had Rf 0.72 and specific wave number of ~1712 cm -1 , respectively. FOE had emulsion capacity, emulsion stability, droplet size, and HLB value of 92.83±0.46 %; 85.65±0.92 %; 7.86±0.93 µm; 11-16, respectively. Emulsion type of FOE was oil in water emulsion.
The objective of this research was to evaluate the best condition of FOE synthesis in fluidized bed reactor (FBR) using the immobilized lipase. Lipase was immobilized on the matrix that was modified by the addition of 2phenylpropionaldehyde. Factors, such as reaction time, substrate molar ratio of fructose: oleic acid and the use of water adsorbent agent were evaluated.
Over the last years the demand for pre-washed, fresh-cut, and minimally-processed (MP) produce has increased. MP fresh vegetable are rapidly spoiled, whereas there is consumers' concern about chemical disinfection treatments such as with chlorine. A promising antimicrobial is reuterin, a broad-spectrum-antimicrobial compound produced by food-grade Lactobacillus reuteri from glycerol. In aqueous solution, reuterin is a dynamic system consisting of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), its hydrate, its dimer as well as acrolein, which was recently identified as the main antimicrobial component of the system. Here, we tested the use of reuterin containing similar 3-HPA levels but different acrolein concentrations for decontaminating and preserving fresh-cut lettuce. Crude reuterin (CR) was produced by biotransformation of 600 mM glycerol using L. reuteri DSM 20016T. CR preparations were further incubated for 16 h at 50 • C to produce enhanced reuterin (ER) with raised concentration of acrolein. Freshcut iceberg lettuce (Lactuca sativa) was washed using CR (1.5-1.9 mM acrolein) and ER (7.2-21.9 mM acrolein) solutions at 4 • C, or sodium hypochloride (250 mg/L) and tap water, and compared with unwashed lettuce. Washed lettuce samples were packed under modified atmosphere (2% O 2 , 5% CO 2 , and 93% N 2 ) and stored for 13 days at 4 • C. Application of ER containing 12.1, 20.9, or 21.9 mM acrolein reduced the initial viable plate counts of Enterobacteriaceae (by 2.1-2.8 log CFU/g), and yeasts and molds (by 1.3-2.0 log CFU/g) when compared with unwashed samples. In contrast, reuterin solutions containing 7.2 mM acrolein, sodium hypochlorite and tap water only showed very limited and transient, or no effects on the cell loads of lettuce after washing and during storage. Visual assessment of leaves washed with ER showed acrolein concentration-dependent discoloration noticeable already after 3 days of storage for the highest acrolein concentrations. Discoloration became severe for all ER treatments after 7 days, while the other treatments preserved the aspect of washed lettuce. Our data show the predominant role of acrolein as the main antimicrobial component of the reuterin system for food biopreservation. Reuterin preparations with enhanced acrolein concentration of 12.1 mM and higher were effective to reduce plate counts of Enterobacteriaceae and yeasts and molds washed lettuce until day 7 but induced pronounced discoloration of lettuce.
Results for the galvanostatic oxidation of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and n-butyraldehyde in 0.5 mol dm -3 H 2 SO 4 at Ti/Ru 0.3 Ti 0.7 O 2 DSA ® type electrodes, using a filter-press cell, are presented. The observed products are the respective carboxylic acids and CO 2 . In the case of formaldehyde the additional presence of CO 3 2-is detected as a product. The carbon balance is observed to decrease with electrolysis time due to the partial liberation of the aldehyde in solution as a gas. The partial liberation of aldehyde gases increases with chain length and in this way the conversion of reactants to products decreases, as does the efficiency of the electro-oxidation process.
1 This is the case for commercial formaldehyde, which is generally marketed as a 37% solution containing 8 -15% methanol as a stabiliser. 2 The study of the electrooxidation of the lower molecular mass aldehydes can be seen to be important: formaldehyde and acetaldehyde are important intermediates in fuel-cell processes and the chemical oxidation of propionaldehyde to propionic acid is the subject of patents. 3 In aqueous solutions aldehydes form a hydrate known as the "gem-diol" (RC(OH) 2 ). 4 Electrochemical studies of aldehydes by Sibille et al. 5 on Pt and Au and Fleury et al. 6 on Hg electrodes suggest that the electro-active species is the "gem-ol-olate" ion (RC(OH)O -). A mechanism suggesting the direct oxidation of aldehydes by the elevated oxidation states of Pt was presented by Ristc et al. 7 to explain the observed low oxide coverage on platinum.
Some of the chemicals other than bet-ald that are substrates of BADs and AADs include; 3-aminopropanaldehyde, 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde, c-guanidinobutyraldehyde (GGBald) and c-aminobutyraldehyde (GABald) (Trossat et al. 1997; Incharoensakdi et al. 2000; Sebela et al. 2000; Oishi and Ebina 2005) . The latter of these, GABald, is a four carbon aminoaldehyde derived from proline via putrescine oxidation that in solution exists in equilibrium with its cyclic form, D 1 -pyrroline (Struve and Christophersen 2003) , a precursor of 2AP in B. cerus (Adams and De Kimpe 2007) . GABald is the immediate precursor of c-aminobutyric acid (GABA) a four carbon amino acid that purportedly plays a role as a natural pesticide (Shelp et al. 2006 ) and has been shown to play a role in pollen tube growth and guidance (Palanivelu et al. 2003) .
Abstract The reported ability of benzodiazepines to increase human erythrocyte aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity and reverse the disulfiram-induced inhibition of ALDH was reexamined. When ALDH activity assays were carried out spectrophotometrically on a hemoglobin-free lysate of human erythrocytes with propionaldehyde as substrate, addition of diazepam (10 μmol/1) did not affect the enzyme activity. When assays were carried out on intact or hemolysed erythrocytes using high performance liquid chromatographic technique with 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde as substrate, no significant increase in erythrocyte ALDH activity was found in the presence of chlordiazepoxide, oxazepam, diazepam, or desmethyldiazepam in the concentration range 1–20 μmol/1. Rather, a significant decrease (about 50%) in activity was obtained when lysed cells were incubated with 20 μmol/1 chlordiazepoxide. Diazepam inhibited the rat liver mitochondria! low Km ALDH activity by about 50%. Disulfiram inhibited the ALDH activity almost completely in assays on human erythrocyte or rat liver mitochondrial ALDH. The ALDH activity was not regained by the subsequent addition of diazepam, nor was the effect of disulfiram reduced when diazepam was added prior to disulfiram. In an alcoholic subject who was followed during onset of disulfiram (Antabuse) therapy, the concurrent use of diazepam did not prevent a rapid decline in blood ALDH activity. The present results suggest that benzodiazepines do not increase ALDH activity in vitro, nor interfere with the inhibition of ALDH by disulfiram.
Abstract The transient response of propionaldehyde formation during ethylene hydroformylation over Rh/SiO 2 has been studied by transient isotopic methods combined with in situ infrared spectroscopy at 0.1-0.5 MPa and 503 K. The transient methods used in this study involved pulsing 13 CO into the CO feed flow and switching from CO to 13 C flow. The C 2 H 5 13 CHO response to the 13 CO step input was found to be equivalent to the integration of the (C 2 H 5 13 CHO response to the pulse input with respect to time. The pulse method allows the economical use of costly isotope to obtain the transient information that is commonly acquired from the step method. Analysis of the transient response reveals that the propionaldehyde may be formed via (i) the insertion of CO into adsorbed ethyl species to form the acyl intermediate, (ii) hydrogenation of the acyl intermediate to produce adsorbed propionaldehyde, and (iii) desorption of adsorbed propionaldehyde. Increasing the total reaction pressure (i.e., increasing all partial pressures in the same ratios) increases the rate constant for hydrogenation of the acyl intermediate which has been identified as the rate-determining step for propionaldehyde formation at 0.1 MPa. Increasing the pressure also increases the coverage, but decreases the residence time of intermediates leading to propionaldehyde. Steady-state rate mesurements show that increasing reaction pressure decreased the overall activation energy and increased both rate and selectivity for propionaldehyde. The increase in the rate constant for hydrogenation of acyl intermediate can be related to the decrease in the overall activation energy for propionaldehyde formation. Rate constant analysis of the propionaldehyde response shows that the rate constant for propionaldehyde formation exhibits a sharp single distribution.
(S)-Hydroxynitrile lyases from Hevea brasiliensis, Manihot esculenta, and Sorghum bicolor and (R)-hydroxynitrile lyase from Prunus amygdalus have been used as biocatalyst for the enantiospecific addition of hydrogen cyanide to aldehydes in organic solvents. The effects of the reaction parameters on the enzymatic reaction rate and product enantiomeric excess (e.e.) are presented. The reaction rate increased with the solvent hydrophobicity but highly hydrophobic solvents were not adapted to high hydrogen cyanide concentrations and provoked loss of activity and product e.e. In the synthesis of 3-phenylpropionaldehyde cyanohydrin catalyzed by (S)-hydroxynitrile lyases from H. brasiliensis, an e.e. value of 88 ± 1% was obtained under optimized reaction conditions. Lower enantiomeric excess values were obtained under conditions where the enzyme was inactivated: high hydrogen cyanide concentration, high solvent log P, low enzyme loading. At lower temperature (down to -5°C) the e.e. was increased for all four enzymes used. Enzymes from different sources used under identical optimized reaction conditions were found to yield cyanohydrins with very different enantiopurities. This intrinsic enantiospecificity is not an effect of spontaneous reactions independent of the enzyme. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Inc. (Less)
The accumulation pattern of the pesticide aldicarb [2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)-oxime] and of its sulfoxide and sulfone metabolites was studied in field-grown cotton, following soil treatments at various intervals from planting. Control of the tobacco whitefly (Bemisia tabaci) was determined and correlated with the concentration of aldicarb and of its metabolites in cotton leaves. The main constituent found in the leaves was aldicarb sulfoxide, which reached its maximum concentration there at about 22 days posttreatment. Late application of the insecticide (mid-July) resulted in higher concentrations toward the end of the growing season and so gave improved control of the pest. Results are presented for residues in young and mature leaves and in the seeds.
The monitoring of LO, for 6-15 days has been carried out several times in the metropolitan area of Tokyo since November 1985, and data on more than 1800 samples have been obtained. Acetaldehyde, C,-C 3 alcohols, and acetone were constantly observed in chromatograms. Acrolein, C 2 -C 3 esters, propionaldehyde, C 4 C5 ethers, and methylethylketone were occasionally detected. This system has worked satisfactorily for more than 2500 hours without any exchange of parts in the devices, and has proved to be practical and durable.
Abstract 1,3-Propanediol (1,3-PD) production is favored by high amount of glycerol which also contributes to the lethal 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) accumulation. The influences of three culture conditions including initial glycerol concentration, stirring rate, and oxidoreduction potential (ORP) regulation on 3-HPA accumulation and 1,3-PD production were investigated. 3-HPA detoxification was available at initial glycerol concentration, aeration rate and stirring rate of up to 40 g l −1 , 0.5 vvm air flow and 250 rpm, respectively. Alternatively, the stirring rate of 300 rpm was sufficient to fulfill the fermentation with initial 50 g glycerol l −1 . In addition, 3-HPA accumulation could be avoided at the initial 50 g glycerol l −1 under the regulated reducing conditions (−200 and −400 mV). However, ORP regulation was not convenient and feasible for the industrial production in that more carbon was distributed to weak organic acids. Consequently, two-stage fed-batch strategy was presented to achieve 3-HPA detoxification and maintain the expected high productivity of 1,3-PD, in which the batch culture stage was conducted at initial glycerol concentration and stirring rate of 40 g l −1 and 250 rpm, respectively, and the feeding culture stage was performed at stirring rate of 300 rpm. 74.07 g 1,3-PD l −1 was produced in 24 h with the yield and productivity of 0.62 mol mol −1 and 3.08 g l −1 h −1 .
A detailed mechanism is presented for reactions occurring during irradiation of part-per-million concentrations of propene and/or n-butane and oxides of nitrogen in air. Data from an extensive series of well-characterized smog chamber experiments carried out in our 5800-liter evacuable chamber–solar simulator facility designed for providing data suitable for quantitative model validation were used to elucidate several unknown or uncertain kinetic parameters and details of the reaction mechanism. ::: ::: ::: ::: The mechanism was then tested against the data base from the smog chamber runs. In general, most calculated concentration–time profiles agreed with experiments to within the experimental uncertainties. Fits were usually attained to within ∼±20% or better for ozone, NO, propene, and n-butane, to within ∼±30% or better for NO2, PAN, methyl ethyl ketone, 2-butyl nitrate, butyraldehyde, and (in runs not containing propene) methyl nitrate, to within ⋐±50% or better for the minor products 1-butyl nitrate and propene oxide, and to within a factor of 2 for methyl nitrate in propene-containing runs. Propionaldehyde was consistently underpredicted in all runs; it is probably a chamber contaminant. For formaldehyde and acetaldehyde, the major products in both systems, fits to within ⋐±20% were often obtained, yet for a number of experiments, significantly greater discrepancies were observed, probably as a result of experimental and/or analytical problems. ::: ::: ::: ::: The good fits to experimental data were attained only after adjusting several rate constants or rate constant ratios related to uncertainties concerning chamber effects or the chemical mechanism. The largest uncertainty concerns the necessity to include in the mechanism a significant rate of radical input from unknown sources in the smog chamber. Other areas where fundamental kinetic and mechanistic data are most needed before a predictive, detailed propene + n-butane-NOx-air smog model can be completely validated concern other chamber effects, the O3 + propene mechanism, decomposition rates of substituted alkoxy radicals, primary quantum yields for radical production as a function of wavelength for aldehyde and ketone photolyses, and the mechanisms and rates of reactions of peroxy radicals with NO and NO2.
The dehydrogenase activity of the mitochondrial isozyme (E2) of human liver aldehyde dehydrogenase was stimulated about 2-fold by the presence of low concentrations (about 120-140 microM) of Mg2+ in the assay at pH 7.0 using propionaldehyde as substrate. The stimulation was totally reversible by treatment with EDTA. Maximum stimulation was dependent on the concentration of NAD+ used in the assay; an increase in Km value of NAD+ was observed to parallel the increase in maximal velocity with increasing Mg2+ concentration, indicating that alterations in the catalytic properties of the E2 isozyme occur in the presence of Mg2+. The presteady state burst of NADH product was observed to decrease in the presence of Mg2+, suggesting that the rate-limiting step of the dehydrogenase reaction is altered by Mg2+. No evidence for Mg2+-induced alterations in the molecular weight properties of the E2 isozyme was observed using gel filtration column chromatography and fluorescence polarization techniques. In addition, no alterations in the inactivating properties of iodoacetamide or disulfiram were produced by Mg2+. These results suggest that the mechanism by which human mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (E2) is stimulated by Mg2+ is different from that of the horse enzyme, representing a significant species difference.
Abstract: An enzyme with NAD+-dependent 4-aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase activity was purified about 360-fold from rat brain extract. AMP-Sepharose chromatography was effective in separating the enzyme from other NAD+-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenases included in the extract. The Kms for the substrates NAD+ and 4-aminobutyraldehyde were 4.8 × 10−4 and 8.3 × 10−5M, respectively. The pH optimum for the enzyme was about 8.0. The ratio of activities toward 4-aminobutyraldehyde, propionaldehyde, succinate semialdehyde, and benzaldehyde was 1.00:0.17:0.24:0.09:0.03 when the activity toward 4-aminobutyraldehyde was set equal to 1.00. The enzyme activity in subcellular fractions of rat brain was localized in cytosol.
Among various titanium oxide-supported vanadium oxides (V/TiO2), V(2.5 wt%)/TiO2 showed the highest catalytic activity at 350 °C in the reaction of methanol and acetaldehyde, selectively yielding propionaldehyde and isobutyraldehyde. Total alkylated products selectivity attained 83% at 76% acetaldehyde conversion.
To qualitatively and quantitatively analyze the oral irritation caused by cigarette smoke, a set of buccal cavity simulator was designed. By taking eight carbonyl compounds(formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, 2-butanone and butyraldehyde) in cigarette smoke as research objects, the correlation of the eight carbonyl compounds in cigarette smoke with the irritation to tongue and palate in the simulated buccal cavity was analyzed through regulating the moisture content in cut tobacco via changing the equilibrious condition of cigarette, and coupling with cigarette's type. The results showed that: 1) The distribution of the eight carbonyl compounds in cigarette smoke on the tongue was comparable to that on the palate in the simulated buccal cavity. 2) The irritation to buccal cavity increased along with the increase of the carbonyl compounds in cigarette smoke as the moisture content in cut tobacco decreased. 3) The simple correlation analysis results indicated that the detected levels of acetaldehyde, acetone, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, 2-butanone and butyraldehyde significantly correlated to oral irritation under standard conditions with the correlation coefficients higher than 0.81.
Abstract Aldose reductase (EC 1.1.1.21) from Pachysolen tannophilus IFO 1007 was purified 15 fold from the crude enzyme in a yield of 0.9% by pH 5 treatment, protamine sulfate precipitate, ammonium sulfate fractionation, and G-100 gel chromatography. The purified enzyme was entirely homogeneous on disc gel electrophoresis. The optimum pH and temperature were 5–6 and 50°C, and it was stable at pH 6–8 and up to 35°C. Its activity was enhanced slightly by Na 2 SO 4 , glycylglycine, glutathione, and cysteine, and inhibited remarkably by SH inhibitors such as AgNO 3 , HgCl 2 , lead acetate and iodo-acetate. Its K m values were determined ad follows: 0.97 mM for d -glyceraldehyde, 1.7 mM for dl -glyceraldehyde, 3.5 mM for d -erythrose, 12 mM for d -xylose, 18mM for l -arabinose, 25 mM for galactose, 33 mM for valeraldehyde, 33 mM for 2-deoxy- d -glucose, 50 mM for propionaldehyde, 67 mM for d -ribose, 200 mM for d -mannose, and 280 mM for acetaldehyde. The enzyme also reduced glucose, l -sorbose, butylaldehyde, and benzaldehyde. Its molecular weight was estimated to be 40,650 by sedimentation equilibrium, 40,000 by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and 43,000 by Sephadex G-200 column chromatography.
Abstract When highly purified cobamide-dependent ribonucleotide reductase from Lactobacillus leichmannii is incubated with synthetically prepared 5, 6-dimethylbenzimidazolylcobamide 5'-deoxyadenosyl coenzyme containing tritium attached to carbon atom 5' of the deoxyadenosyl moiety (DBCC-5'-3H), tritium is transferred from DBCC-5'-3H to H2O in a reaction requiring substrate, enzyme, and dithiol reductant. At low enzyme concentrations, the amount of tritium transferred to H2O is stoichiometrically equivalent to the amount of ribonucleotide reduced; hence, substrate-dependent release of tritium from DBCC-5'-3H is a sensitive assay for cobamide-dependent ribonucleotide reductase. When enzyme is incubated with unlabeled cobamide coenzyme in H2O-3H, tritium is transferred to coenzyme as well as to the 2'-deoxyribosyl carbon of the reaction product. The amount of tritium transferred from H2O-3H to product decreases with increasing concentration of unlabeled coenzyme. Coenzyme tritiated in the reductase reaction labels propionaldehyde in the dioldehydrase reaction. The results indicate that cobamide coenzyme functions as an essential hydrogen-transferring agent in the cobamide-dependent ribonucleotide reductase reaction, and that transferred hydrogen attaches to carbon atom 5' of the coenzyme deoxyadenosyl moiety. We conclude that although hydrogen is transferred intermolecularly in the reductase reaction and intramolecularly in the dioldehydrase reaction, the mechanism of coenzyme function is the same in both reactions.
The ratio between the α- and β-carbethoxypropionaldehyde formed in the oxo reaction of ethyl acrylate is affected by various reaction conditions; the proportion of β-carbethoxypropionaldehyde increases with an increase in the reaction temperature, but decreases with an increase in the partial pressure of carbon monoxide or hydrogen. These effects can be explained on the basis of the reaction mechanism between cobalt hydrocarbonyl and ethyl acrylate (Y. Takegami et al., This Bulletin, 37, 1190 (1964)): in the first step of the reaction, ethyl acrylate reacts with cobalt hydrocarbonyl to give, selectively, α-carbethoxypropionylcobalt carbonyl (I), and then I isomerizes to β-carbethoxypropionylcobalt carbonyl (II). Accordingly, the rates of two competitive reactions, the isomerization of I to II and the reduction of I to the corresponding aldehyde, may be the factors determining the distribution of the oxo reaction products. Under the oxo reaction conditions, the isomerization of I to II seems to occur more ...
A convenient one-pot synthesis of ferrocenyl-substituted quinolines via a molecular iodine-catalyzed reaction of ferrocenylimines with enolizable aldehydes is reported. First, nucleophilic addition of the in situ generated enol to ferrocenylimine produces β-anilinopropionaldehyde, which then undergoes intramolecular Friedel–Crafts reaction to give dihydroquinoline derivative. Finally, subsequent dehydration and aerobic oxidation affords ferrocenyl quinolines.
The acetaldehyde pyrolysis has been studied over the 480–540 °C temperature range, and at pressures from 1 to 560 mm Hg. Measurements were made of the rates of production of the major product methane and of the minor products hydrogen, ethane, acetone, and propionaldehyde. The kinetic effects of adding carbon dioxide, of changing the surface:volume ratio, and of coating the vessel have been determined. The elementary processes are found to occur largely in the gas phase. The dissociation of CH3CHO into CH3 + CHO is deduced from the rates of hydrogen and ethane formation; there is significant falling off of the rate constants at lower pressures. The kinetic parameters for the reaction CH3 + CH3CHO → CH4 + CH3CO are obtained, and it is suggested that quantum-mechanical tunnelling plays a role. Acetone production has an activation energy of 12.4 kcal/mole and it is concluded that its formation involves the participation of the isopropoxy radical, the activation energies being as indicated:
Abstract The substrate stereospecificity of a dioldehydrase requiring DBC-coenzyme was investigated with d (−)- and l (+)-propanediols as the substrates. Both isomers could be converted to propionaldehyde, but the d -isomer was 1.5–2 times more reactive than the l -form. An inhibition was observed if a high concentration of the l -form or the dl -form was used; moreover, the reactivity of the d -form was depressed by the simultaneous addition of the l -form.
The lack of scientific evidence on the constituents, properties, and health effects of second-hand waterpipe smoke has fueled controversy over whether public smoking bans should include the waterpipe. The purpose of this study was to investigate and compare emissions of ultrafine particles (UFP, <100 nm), carcinogenic polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAH), volatile aldehydes, and carbon monoxide (CO) for cigarettes and narghile (shisha, hookah) waterpipes. These smoke constituents are associated with a variety of cancers, and heart and pulmonary diseases, and span the volatility range found in tobacco smoke.Sidestream cigarette and waterpipe smoke was captured and aged in a 1 m(3) Teflon-coated chamber operating at 1.5 air changes per hour (ACH). The chamber was characterized for particle mass and number surface deposition rates. UFP and CO concentrations were measured online using a fast particle spectrometer (TSI 3090 Engine Exhaust Particle Sizer), and an indoor air quality monitor. Particulate PAH and gaseous volatile aldehydes were captured on glass fiber filters and DNPH-coated SPE cartridges, respectively, and analyzed off-line using GC-MS and HPLC-MS. PAH compounds quantified were the 5- and 6-ring compounds of the EPA priority list. Measured aldehydes consisted of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, methacrolein, and propionaldehyde.We found that a single waterpipe use session emits in the sidestream smoke approximately four times the carcinogenic PAH, four times the volatile aldehydes, and 30 times the CO of a single cigarette. Accounting for exhaled mainstream smoke, and given a habitual smoker smoking rate of 2 cigarettes per hour, during a typical one-hour waterpipe use session a waterpipe smoker likely generates ambient carcinogens and toxicants equivalent to 2-10 cigarette smokers, depending on the compound in question. There is therefore good reason to include waterpipe tobacco smoking in public smoking bans.
The oxidation state and size of Pt nanoparticles attached to alkali metal titanate nanotubes (MTNTs=M2Ti3O7, M = Li+, Na+, K+, Cs+) via ion exchange (indicated by the added label '-IE') and wet impregnation (indicated by the added label '-IMP') methods varied systematically with the cation of the MTNTs. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy revealed that the binding energy of Pt was reduced to a low value when the support was changed from LiTNTs to CsTNTs, yielding a Ptδ− oxidation state. Thus, a space charge layer (SCL) was constructed at the interface between the Pt particle and MTNT support; the former carried the negative charge, and the alkali cation and proton in the hydroxyl group of the latter carried the positive charge. Due to a higher M/Ti atomic ratio in MTNTs, a higher electron density accumulated on Pt particles in Pt/MTNTs-IMP than on those in Pt/MTNTs-IE. Sub-ambient temperature temperature-programmed reduction and transmission electron microscopy revealed that because of the difference in reducibility of PtOx/MTNTs, the mean Pt particle size followed the order Pt/CsTNTs > Pt/KTNTs > Pt/NaTNTs > Pt/LiTNTs and Pt/MTNTs-IMP > Pt/MTNTs-IE. DRIFTS (diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy) showed that owing to its interaction with SCL, cinnamaldehyde adsorbed on Pt mainly through the C=C bond at the Pt–MTNT interfaces, and the small Pt particles in Pt/LiTNTs adsorbed three times more cinnamaldehyde than those in Pt/CsTNTs. Due to the competition between the adsorption of cinnamaldehyde and C=C activation, Pt/KTNT-IMP is the most active Pt/MTNT catalysts, achieving a conversion of 100% in the hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde at 2 atm and 313 K. The carbonyl stretching of adsorbed cinnamaldehyde was almost unperturbed by adsorption (at 1705 cm−1), suggesting that Ptδ− and the π electrons in the carbonyl group repel each other, so the CH=O group points upward and away from the Pt surface, preventing it from being hydrogenated and causing Pt/MTNTs to exhibit high 3-phenyl propionaldehyde selectivities of 75–80%.
A transient release of protons with an amplitude corresponding to one proton per active site has been observed for the oxidation of propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and benzaldehyde by sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase at pH 7.6 with phenol red as indicator. At saturating substrate levels, the rate constants for the proton burst are in each case the same, and for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde show the same dependence on the concentrations of the substrates, as the rate constants for the transient production of NADH reported previously [MacGibbon, A.K.H., Blackwell, L.F., & Buckley, P.D. (1977) Biochem. J. 167, 469-477]. Although, with propionaldehyde as a substrate, a full proton burst is also observed at pH 6.0, no proton burst is observed at pH 9.0. For 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, there is no burst in NADH production, but a burst in proton release is observed, showing that proton release precedes hydride transfer. No protons were released during the binding of the substrate analogues acetone and chloral hydrate nor on reaction of the enzyme with the inhibitor tetraethylthiuram disulfide (disulfiram). A model is proposed in which the rate-limiting step in the pre-steady-state phase of the reaction is a conformational change which occurs after the binding of aldehydes to the enzyme. As a result of the conformational change, the environment of a functional group on the enzyme, which initially has a pKa of about 8.5, is perturbed to give a final pKa value for the group of less than 5. Computer simulations were used to show that the model accurately reproduces all of the experimental data. The lack of observation of a second transient proton release, as required by the overall stoichiometry, argues that its release occurs in a slow step prior to NADH dissociation.
Abstract The quantitative determination of small amounts of aliphatic aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde) in biological samples is difficult by the classical methods. The dimedone derivatives of these aldehydes were prepared and proved to be stable under the conditions of gas chromatography. The thermal properties of these derivatives were studied by thermal gravimetry, differential scanning calorimetry and thermal emission analysis, and the gas chromatographic peaks were identified by mass spectrometry. An analytical method was developed for the separation and determination of the dimedone adducts of aliphatic aldehydes by gas chromatography using capillary columns.
Abstract The solvating properties of a number of carbonyl compounds have been investigated. The ligands used are acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, methylformate, formamide, N,N-dimethylformamide, acetone, chloroacetone, butanone, acetophenone, ethylacetate, acetamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide, acetanilide, chloroacetamide, trimethylacetamide, benzamide, nicotineamide, 2-nitrobenzamide, 2,6-dichlorobenzamide, urethane, urea and dimethylcarbamoylchloride. The complexes are characterized and identified by means of chemical analysis and physical measurements. Ligand-field parameters are reported for the solvates of cobalt(II) (in the solid state) and nickel(II) (both in the solid state and in nitromethane solution). A (linear) correlation between the ligand-field parameters and parameters describing certain electronic effects of the substituents R 1 and R 2 in R 1 R 2 CO molecules, has been investigated; it is shown that no correlation exists.
The N-heterocyclic carbenes of indazole, generated by deprotonation of indazolium salts, proved to be versatile starting materials for organic synthesis. They undergo ring-opening reactions to generate ketenimines which readily add thiols thus affording what are, to the best of our knowledge, the first examples of 2-anilinobenzothioimidates. Water converts the ring-opened intermediates into functionalized 2-anilinobenzamides which can be thionated with Lawesson's reagent and subsequently cyclized with formaldehyde and propionaldehyde, respectively, to give benzo[d][1,3]thiazines and quinazoline-4-thiones. The outcome of the cyclization depends upon the thiobenzamide substitution pattern.
1. ::: ::: The absolute values of the rate constants of the reactions of oxygen atoms with ethane and propionaldehyde were measured at various temperatures. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The activation energies of the reactions of oxygen atoms with ethanol and propionaldehyde were determined as 4000 and 2850 cal/mole, respectively, and the pre-exponential factors were determined as 1.05·10−11 and 1.75 ·10−12 cm3·sec−1·molecule−1, respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The basic directions of the interaction of oxygen atoms with ethanol are the reactions proceeding with the formation of acetaldehyde, on the one hand, and formaldehyde, on the other. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: The basic directions of the interaction of oxygen atoms with propionaldehyde are the formation of acid and the formation of formaldehyde, proceeding with cleavage of the C-C bond.
A method is described for the routine determination of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide, and of C1-nC4 alkoxyl groups. It was found that monomeric propylene oxide yields isopropyl iodide and propylene when decomposed by hydriodic acid, but the decomposition of propylene oxide polymers results mainly in the formation of isopropyl iodide (68%) and propionaldehyde (22%): less than 1% of propylene is formed and seven other compounds are also present. Those of the latter that were present in amounts ∼1% were identified. These results were taken into account in working out the quantitative method.
The effects of 35 or 70 mg/kg clofibrate on some peroxisomal, mitochondrial, and microsomal enzymes (markers of peroxisome proliferation) in liver, gill, and kidney of sea bass following 2 weeks i.p. treatment have been studied. Induction of lauric acid hydroxylase, UDP-glucuronyl transferase, palmitoyl-CoA oxidase, carnitine-palmitoyl-transferase, p-nitrophenylacetate hydrolase, and benzaldehyde and propionaldehyde dehydrogenase activities was not observed in any case. The clofibrate administration at the dose of 70 mg/kg induced in the liver the glutathione S-tranferase and reduced epoxide hydrolase activities. These results demonstrate that a marine fish species, such as sea bass, is refractory to peroxisome proliferation.
Oxygen-derived free radicals (ROS) have been identified to contribute significantly to ischemia–reperfusion (I/R) injury by initiating chain reactions with polyunsaturated membrane lipids (lipid peroxidation, LPO) resulting in the generation of several aldehydes and ketones. Due to their volatile nature these LPO products can be measured noninvasively in breath. We hypothesized that one of these markers, namely propionaldehyde, will be increased in lung and heart–lung transplant patients where severe oxidative stress due to I/R injury with early graft dysfunction represents one of the major postoperative complications resulting in prolonged ventilation and increased in-hospital morbidity and mortality. Expiratory air measurements for acetone, isoprene, and propionaldehyde were performed in seven patients after lung (n=5) or heart–lung (n=2) transplantation, ventilated patients (n=12), and healthy volunteers (n=17) using online ion-molecule reaction mass spectrometry. Increased concentrations of acetone (transplanted: 3812 [2347–12498]; ventilated: 1255 [276–1959]; healthy: 631 [520–784] ppbv; P<.001) and propionaldehyde (transplanted: 270 [70–424]; ventilated: 82 [41.8–142]; healthy: 1.7 [0.1–11.8] ppbv; P<.001) were found in expiratory air of transplanted and ventilated patients. Propionaldehyde resulting from spontaneous fragmentation of peroxides due to free radical-induced LPO after I/R injury in patients after lung or heart–lung transplantation can be quantified in expired breath.
Unsaturated polyacetals have been prepared by anionic copolymerization of acrolein with aldehydes, such as, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutylaldehyde, pivaldehyde, and benzaldehyde. The new copolymers have essentially an acetal structure as the result of the acrolein preference to copolymerize through the carbonyl group when alcaline cyanides are used as catalysts. The influence of temperature, nature of the aldehyde and monomer composition on the molecular size, polymerization rate, and composition and structure of the copolymer are studied. These copolymers undergo cross-linking when exposed simultaneously to oxygen and light. The variables affecting the oxidation process and the products obtained were studied.
Abstract: According to general doctrine [1] canceroselectivity of Cyclophosphamide is based on different activities of the 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (OHCP) detoxifying cellular enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase in tumor and normal cells. Aldehyde dehydrogenase converts the OHCP tautomere aldophosphamide (ALDO) to the non-cytotoxic carboxyphosphamide. Due to different activities of the detoxifying enzyme more cytotoxic phosporamide mustard (PAM) is spontaneously released from OHCP/ALDO in tumor cells. PAM unfolds its cytotoxic activity by forming intrastrand and interstrand DNA crosslinks. This hypothesis is supported by in vitro experiments which show inverse correlations of aldehyde dehydrogenase activity and sensitivity of tumor cells against activated congeners of cyclophosphamide like mafosfamide which hydrolyses within a few minutes to OHCP. In protein free rat serum ultrafiltrate however free OHCP and its coexisting tautomer ALDO are stable compounds. Its half-life in protein free rat serum ultrafiltrate (pH7, 37 o C) is more than 20 h. Contrary to protein free ultrafiltrate in whole serum ALDO is enzymatically decomposed to PAM and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (HPA) within minutes. The decomposing enzyme was identified as 3´-5´ phosphodiesterase, the Michaelis constant was determined to be 10 -3 M in human serum.
Sidestream cigarette and waterpipe smoke was captured and aged in a 1 m 3 Teflon-coated chamber operating at 1.5 air changes per hour (ACH). The chamber was characterized for particle mass and number surface deposition rates. UFP and CO concentrations were measured online using a fast particle spectrometer (TSI 3090 Engine Exhaust Particle Sizer), and an indoor air quality monitor. Particulate PAH and gaseous volatile aldehydes were captured on glass fiber filters and DNPH-coated SPE cartridges, respectively, and analyzed off-line using GC-MS and HPLC-MS. PAH compounds quantified were the 5-and 6-ring compounds of the EPA priority list. Measured aldehydes consisted of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, methacrolein, and propionaldehyde. We found that a single waterpipe use session emits in the sidestream smoke approximately four times the carcinogenic PAH, four times the volatile aldehydes, and 30 times the CO of a single cigarette. Accounting for exhaled mainstream smoke, and given a habitual smoker smoking rate of 2 cigarettes per hour, during a typical one-hour waterpipe use session a waterpipe smoker likely generates ambient carcinogens and toxicants equivalent to 2-10 cigarette smokers, depending on the compound in question. There is therefore good reason to include waterpipe tobacco smoking in public smoking bans.
The maximum rate of oxidation of propionaldehyde in aged boric-acid-coated vessels at 440°C has orders of 1.5 and 0.2 with respect to aldehyde and oxygen respectively. The rate is independent of vessel diameter and is accelerated by addition of inert gas. The main kinetic features can be accounted for by a mechanism in which the rate-determining steps are: C2H5CHO + O2= C2H5CO + HO2(1), HO2+ C2H5CHO = H2O2+ C2H5CO (4), 2HO2= H2O2+ O2(5), H2O2+ M′= 2OH + M′(7) ::: The autocatalytic nature of the reaction is attributed to reaction (7), which also accounts for the accelerating effect of inert gas. Solution of the simultaneous differential equations for –d[C2H5CHO]/dt and d[H2O2]/dt gives the value of k1= 0.076 ± 0.020 l. mole–1 sec–1, and the values of k4/k½5= 39 ± 5 (l. mole–1 sec–1)½. Using k5= 1.8 × 109 gives k4= 1.85 × 106 l. mole–1 sec–1 at 440°C.
Conditions have been established for the electrogeneration of MnIII from MnII in a sulphuric acid medium. The MnIII formed was identified and characterized by ultraviolet spectra. The stability of standard solutions of manganese(III) sulphate at various concentrations of H+, MnII and acetic acid and in the presence of the complexing agents P2O74–, Cl– and F– was studied and conditions for the potentiometric determination of thiosemicarbazide (TSC), its metal complexes, M(TSC)2SO4, and its thiosemicarbazone derivatives, propanal thiosemicarbazone (PTSC) and benzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (BTSC), have been investigated. Thiosemicarbazide in H2SO4 underwent a six-electron oxidation. The M(TSC)2SO4 complex participates in a 12-electron redox process, indicative of the number of TSC ligands present in the complex. The PTSC in an H2SO4–HOAc (20% v/v) medium underwent oxidation in two stages, namely, six-electron oxidation of TSC with the regeneration of propionaldehyde and two-electron oxidation of the aldehyde to the corresponding carboxylic acid. The benzaldehyde regenerated from BTSC did not undergo further oxidation. Above 40% HOAc, a reproducible four-electron stoichiometry was achieved thereby showing the selectivity of MnIII as an oxidizing agent. The formal redox potential of the MnIII–MnII couple with and without the complexing agents and at various concentrations of H+ was determined. Addition of complexing agents decreased the formal redox potential of the MnIII–MnII couple, thereby reducing the oxidation rate, but did not alter the over-all stoichiometry of the electron transfer process.
Abstract The slow oxidation of isobutane has been investigated in a static system at 300 °C and 330 °C in the presence of the diluents nitrogen and carbon dioxide. Product analysis by means of gas chromatography shows that the main primary products are ethylene, propylene, isobutene, acetaldehyde, propylene oxide, isobutene oxide, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, acetone, and t -butanol, with trace amounts of acrolein, methyl oxetane and methacrolein. A mechanism is proposed for the formation and distribution of products based on diffusional studies. The reaction scheme involves a deactivation step whereby vibrationally-excited butylperoxy radicals can undergo deactivation by collision with surrounding gas molecules.
Abstract The 11C labelled Grignard reagent methyl magnesium iodide was synthesized carrier and non-carrier added from [11C]methyl iodide and magnesium. This new 11C-synthon was applied in the synthesis of a [11C]-N-tert-butyl group by reaction with 2,2,3,4-tetramethyl-5-oxazolidine and in the synthesis of 11C-sec-alcohols by reaction with benzaldehyde and 3-phenylpropionaldehyde. The radiochemical yield was 18–29% (not corrected for decay) with a synthesis time of 18 min (from [11C]CH3I). In the case of 2,2,3,4-tetramethyl-5-phenyl-oxazolidine an one-pot synthesis was developed according to the Barbier method.
The effects of dilution rate and substrate feed concentration on continuous glycerol fermentation by Clostridium butyricum VPI 3266, a natural 1,3-propanediol producer, were evaluated in this work. A high and constant 1,3-propanediol yield (around 0.65 mol/mol), close to the theoretical value, was obtained irrespective of substrate feed concentration or dilution rate. Improvement of 1,3-propanediol volumetric productivity was achieved by increasing the dilution rate, at a fixed feed substrate concentration of 30, 60 or 70 g l(-1). Higher 1,3-propanediol final concentrations and volumetric productivities were also obtained when glycerol feed concentration was increased from 30 to 60 g l(-1), at D=0.05-0.3 h(-1), and from 60-70 g l(-1), at D=0.05 and 0.1 h(-1).30 g l(-1) of 1,3-propanediol and the highest reported value of productivity, 10.3 g l(-1) h(-1), was achieved at D=0.30 h(-1) and 60 g l(-1) of feed glycerol. A switch to an acetate/butyrate ratio higher than one was observed for 60 g l(-1) of feed glycerol and a dilution rate higher than 0.10 h(-1); moreover, at D=0.30 h(-1) 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde accumulation was observed for the first time in the fermentation broth of C. butyricum.
1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase (DhaT), which catalyzes the conversion of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) with the oxidation of NADH to NAD+, is a key enzyme in the production of 1,3-PD from glycerol. DhaT is known to be severely inactivated by its physiological substrate, 3-HPA, due to the reaction of 3-HPA with the thiol group of the cysteine residues. In this study, using site-directed mutagenesis, four cysteine residues in Klebsiella pneumoniae J2B DhaT were substituted to alanine, the amino acid commonly found in cysteine’s positions in other DhaT, individually and in combination. Among the total of 15 mutants developed, a double mutant (C28A_C107A) and a triple mutant (C28A_C93A_C107A) exhibited approximately 50 and 16% higher activity than the wild-type counterpart, respectively, after 1 h incubation with 10 mM 3-HPA. According to detailed kinetic studies, the double mutant had slightly better kinetic properties (V max , K cat , and K m for both 3-HPA and NADH) than wild-type DhaT. This study shows that DhaT stability against 3-HPA can be increased by cysteine-residue removal, albeit to a limited extent.
A simple, rapid, specific and reliable method for the simultaneous determination of blood levels of acetaldehyde (AcH) and ethanol (EtOH) by gas chromatography is described. Air samples equilibrated with blood were used rather than actual blood samples. A programmed temperature gas chromatograph with a hydrogen flame ionization attachment was used with a 1-mv. recorder. The operating procedures are described. Ethanol standards were prepared by diluting 1 g. of absolute ethanol to 50 ml. with distilled water. Volumetric dilutions of this solution with either distilled water or human blood provided EtOH standards of 2, 1, and 0.5 mg. per ml. Standard solutions of AcH were prepared by diluting 1 g. of AcH to 50 ml. with distilled water. Volumetric dilutions of this solution provided AcH standards of 20, 10 and 5 g. per ml. The reference standard solutions were equilibrated for 15 min. at 55 degrees C and injected periodically throughout the experiments. If endogenous EtOH was to be determined, a standard of 0.2 mg. per ml. was used and the attenuation changed to 1. The deproteinizing solutions used were 5% ZnSO4.6H2O and 0.3N Ba(OH)2. Standard and unknown samples were determined by identical procedures. Blood was obtained from rats either by direct cardiac puncture or by decapitation. No difference in levels was noted between these two methods. Degradation of AcH but not EtOH occurred in whole blood samples incubated at 37 or 55 degrees C. This was prevented by alkaline deproteinization of the samples but not by HgCl2 (1 times .0001 M). Following alkaline deproteinization, cold storage (5 degrees C) of samples was shown to be effective for 3 days in preserving initial AcH and EtOH levels. Solutions of lactic acid and pyruvic acid, equal to the normal blood concentrations of these metabolites, could not be detected. Solutions of acetone could be detected but its retention time lies half way between that of AcH and EtOH and its presence would not interfere with this method. The relative retention time of 6 volatile substances which have been encountered in human intoxication (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, methanol, isopropanol and n-propanol) were determined and no interference with AcH or EtOH determination could be demonstrated. The methods previously available for the determination of AcH are discussed and it is concluded that the gas chromatographic method described offers the rapidity, reliability and specificity that have been deficient in some older procedures.
FGF-21 is a potential candidate for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, the clinical application of wild-type human FGF-21 is challenging due to some limitations, such as its poor hypoglycemic potency and short in vivo half-life. In this paper, we have produced an FGF-21 mutant (ahmFGF-21) by exchanging the functional domain of hFGF-21 with that of mFGF-21 to improve the potency of FGF-21. Results showed that the ahmFGF-21 protein was more potent than wild-type hFGF-21 in stimulating glucose uptake in vitro and lowering blood glucose levels of diabetic animals. To decrease its immunogenicity and increase its biostability, the N-terminus of ahmFGF-21 was modified in a sitespecific manner with 20kDa mPEG-propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD). We found that the preservation time of ahmFGF-21 in vitro was significantly prolonged after PEGylation. The serum antibody levels against ahmFGF-21 in immunized rabbits with the PEGylated ahmFGF-21 were significantly reduced than those with the unmodified ahmFGF-21, and the target protein concentration in the rabbits administrated with the PEGylated ahmFGF-21 increased 9.5-fold higher than that of the unmodified ahmFGF-21. The animal experimental results showed that PEGylation of ahmFGF-21 enhanced the hypoglycemic effect in diabetic mice. These results suggest that the in vitro and in vivo hypoglycemic effects of FGF-21 are significantly enhanced by genetic modification and the metabolic pharmacology of FGF-21 in type 2 diabetic mice is improved by PEGylation at a specific site.
The human placenta contains a considerable amount of 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase (23 +/- 6 micrograms/g; n = 12), about 25% of the concentration present in liver. The enzyme is the only form in placenta that oxidizes short- and medium-chain aldehydes, which facilitates its purification from this organ. It can be purified to homogeneity by successive chromatographies on DEAE-cellulose, 5'-AMP-Sepharose and Sephacryl S-300. From 500 g of tissue, about 2.1 units of enzyme can be obtained with a 12% yield. Placental 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase is a dimer of Mr-63,000 subunits. It exhibits a pI of 6.80-6.65, and is specific for 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate, the cyclic form of glutamate gamma-semialdehyde (Km = 0.17 mM, kcat. = 870 min-1), although it also oxidizes short-chain aliphatic aldehydes such as propionaldehyde (Km = 24 mM, kcat. = 500 min-1). These properties are very close to those of the liver enzyme, indicating a strong similarity between the enzyme forms from both organs. The enzyme is highly sensitive to temperature, showing 50% inhibition after incubation for 0.8 min at 45 degrees C or after 23 min at 25 degrees C. It is irreversibly inhibited by disulfiram, and a molar ratio inhibitor: enzyme of 60:1 produced 50% inhibition after incubation for 10 min. A subcellular-distribution study indicates that the enzyme is located in two compartments: the mitochondria, with 60% of the total activity, and the cytosol, with 40% activity. The physiological role of the enzyme in placental amino acid metabolism is discussed.
Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH; EC 1.2.1.8) is an important enzyme that catalyzes the last step in the synthesis of glycine betaine, a compatible solute accumulated by many plants under various abiotic stresses. In barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), we reported previously the existence of two BADH genes (BBD1 and BBD2) and their corresponding proteins, peroxisomal BADH (BBD1) and cytosolic BADH (BBD2). To investigate their enzymatic properties, we expressed them in Escherichia coli and purified both proteins. Enzymatic analysis indicated that the affinity of BBD2 for betaine aldehyde was reasonable as other plant BADHs, but BBD1 showed extremely low affinity for betaine aldehyde with apparent K(m) of 18.9 microM and 19.9 mM, respectively. In addition, V(max)/K(m) with betaine aldehyde of BBD2 was about 2000-fold higher than that of BBD1, suggesting that BBD2 plays a main role in glycine betaine synthesis in barley plants. However, BBD1 catalyzed the oxidation of omega-aminoaldehydes such as 4-aminobutyraldehyde and 3-aminopropionaldehyde as efficiently as BBD2. We also found that both BBDs oxidized 4-N-trimethylaminobutyraldehyde and 3-N-trimethylaminopropionaldehyde.
Sulfidation of Ni/SiO2 with H2S leads to a blockage of bridge-CO sites, an upward shift in the wavenumber of linearly adsorbed CO, an inhibition of ethylene hydrogenation, and an enhancement of the formation of propionaldehyde from ethylene hydroformylation.
Electron-stimulated reactions in solid films of tetrahydrofuran (THF), condensed on Kr spacers deposited on a Pt substrate, or directly onto the substrate, were induced and monitored simultaneously with use of high-resolution electron-energy-loss spectroscopy in the ranges of vibrational and electronic excitations. The spectra of the molecular films obtained after a certain time of exposure to electrons at incident energies of 14 and 15.5 eV were analyzed and different products were identified. Besides an aldehyde, which is the main product, olefins, conjugated olefins, as well as CO were identified. Closer investigation of the reactions of propionaldehyde, as a model aldehyde, demonstrates that CO appears in THF as a secondary product (i.e., from the intermediate aldehyde). On the basis of the cross sections for the formation of an aldehyde from THF, of CO from propionaldehyde, and for the loss of propionaldehyde under electron impact, the reaction sequences were evaluated with the help of a kinetic model. This analysis suggests that some CO could also be formed directly from THF (i.e., without involvement of an intermediate aldehyde).
Summary - Lactic acid bacteria can produce a variety of substances with antibacterial activity which are described in this article. Non-peptide antibacterial substances are distinguished from bacteriocins, which have a proteinaceous active site. Among the former, reuterin produced by Lactobacillus reuteri is a broad spectrum inhibitor active against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, yeasts, molds and protozoas. It is a glycerol derivative, l3-hydroxypropionaldehyde. Bacteriocins can be produced by most lactic acid bacteria species and their spectrum of activity is generally restricted to organisms taxonomically close to the producer. The biochemical properties of bacteriocins, their structure and nature of their genetic determinants are highly variable. This literature review discusses the similarities and differences existing in this group of substances.
The general utility of reductive alkylation of amino groups of proteins with glyceraldehyde (2,3-dihydroxypropionaldehyde) in the presence of sodium cyanoborohydride, i.e. dihydroxypropylation, as an aid in generating arginine peptides of proteins by tryptic digestion has been investigated. The dihydroxypropylation of the amino groups of ribonuclease A and the streptococcal Pep M5 protein proceeds predominantly to the stage of monoalkylation. The derivatized lysine namely, epsilon-dihydroxypropyl-lysine is stable to acid hydrolysis, and is eluted slightly ahead of histidine in the amino acid analyzer. The peptide bonds of epsilon-dihydroxypropyl-lysine residues are resistant to tryptic digestion. The arginine peptides of dihydroxypropylated ribonuclease A, and dihydroxypropylated streptococcal Pep M5 protein have been isolated by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) of the tryptic digest of the derivatized proteins. The phenylthiohydantoin (PTH) derivative of epsilon-dihydroxypropyl-lysine has been prepared. It is eluted at a position intermediate to that of the PTH derivatives of proline and tryptophan in reversed-phase HPLC on DuPont Zorbax ODS columns. Thus the PTH-epsilon-dihydroxypropyl-lysine could be identified during the sequence studies of the dihydroxypropylated peptides. The presence of dihydroxypropyl groups on the epsilon-amino groups of lysine residues in the dihydroxypropylated peptides does not interfere with the Edman degradation studies. The ease of the dihydroxypropylation reaction, the resistance of the peptide bonds of epsilon-dihydroxypropyl-lysine residues to trypsin, and the identification of the PTH derivative of epsilon-dihydroxypropyl-lysine residues by reversed-phase HPLC makes the dihydroxypropylation procedure a valuable addition to the arsenal of procedures for limiting the tryptic digestion to the arginine residues of proteins and peptides.
Abstract The reaction of β-trimethylstannylethylidenetriphenylphosphorane, prepared by the action of methylenetriphenylphosphorane on iodomethyltrimethyltin, followed by deprotonation of the resulting [Ph 3 PCH 2 CH 2 SnMe 3 ] + I − with lithium diisopropylamide, with aldehydes and ketones provides a route to allylic organotin compounds, Me 3 SnCH 2 CH=CHR and Me 3 SnCH 2 CH=CRR'. Alkylation of Ph 3 =CHCH 2 SnMe 3 with iodemethane, followed by deprotonation of the resulting phosphonium salt and reaction of the latter with propionaldehyde gave Me 3 SnCH 2 C(CH 3 )=CHCH 2 CH 3 .
NADP-linked aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldehyde : NADP+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.2.1.4) was purified from Proteus vulgaris to the stage of homogeneity as judged by ultracentrifugation and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The molecular weight of the purified enzyme was estimated to be 130000 by gel filtration. The enzyme which was crystallized from ammonium sulfate solution, lost its activity. The enzyme did not require coenzyme A, and the reaction was completely dependent on ammonium ions which could be partially replaced by Rb+ or K+. The optimum pH was about 9. Broad substrate specificity was observed and Km values for propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde and isovaleraldehyde were 1.7 - 10(-5), 4 - 10(-5) and 3 - 10(-5) M, respectively. The physiological role of the enzyme in living cells is obscure, but might account for another degradative pathway of L-leucine in P. vulgaris differing from the established pathway.
A stationary source emission test method for selected aldehydes and ketones has been validated. The method employs a sampling train with impingers containing 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) to derivatize the analytes. The resulting hydrazones are recovered and analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography. Nine analytes were studied; the method was validated for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetophenone and isophorone. Acrolein, menthyl ethyl ketone, menthyl isobutyl ketone, and quinone did not meet the validation criteria. The study employed the validation techniques described in EPA method 301, which uses train spiking to determine bias, and collocated sampling trains to determine precision. The studies were carried out at a plywood veneer dryer and a polyester manufacturing plant.
The reaction of an equimolar mixture of H2 and CO was studied over ZrO2 at 350 to 450 °C, 35 atm total pressure, and varying residence times. The isosynthesis reaction mechanisms were studied by monitoring the incorporation of oxygenated compounds into the isosynthesis products. Propionaldehyde and [13C]acetone, [13C]isopropanol, and [13C]methanol were added to the COH2 reactant stream. Their effect on the isosynthesis product distributions and on the isotopic distribution of the products was monitored as a function of oxygenate feed rate. Propionaldehyde, acetone, and methanol were found to incorporate into the isosynthesis products. The isotopic distribution of the products was used to support an isosynthesis reaction scheme that involves CO insertion into a bound aldehyde or ketone as the major chain growth step and a second chain growth step that involves condensation between methoxide and a surface bound enolate.
The oxidation of methionine is an important reaction in the biological milieu. Despite a few decades of intense studies, several fundamental aspects remain to be defined. We have investigated in detail the gamma-radiolysis of free methionine in the absence and presence of molecular oxygen followed by product characterization and quantification. The primary site of attack by HO(*) radicals and H(*) atoms is the sulfur atom of methionine. We have disclosed that HO(*) radicals do not oxidize methionine to the corresponding sulfoxide in either the presence or the absence of oxygen; the oxidizing species is H(2)O(2) derived either from the radiolysis of water or from the disproportionation of the byproduct O(2)(*-). 3-Methylthiopropionaldehyde is the major product of HO(*) radical attack in the presence of molecular oxygen. Together with the direct oxidation at sulfur as the major product, the potential of H(*) atoms is also proven to be highly specific for sulfur atom attack under anoxic and aerobic conditions. The major products derived from the H(*) atoms attack are found to be alpha-aminobutyric acid or homoserine, in the absence or presence of oxygen, respectively. All together, these results help clarify the fate of methionine related to a biological environment and offer a molecular basis for envisaging other possible pathways of in vivo degradation as well as other markers.
The purpose of this study was to prepare poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG)ylated octreotide and investigate the stability against acylation by polyester polymers such as poly(lactic acid) and poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid). Octreotide was modified by reaction with monomethoxy PEG-propionaldehyde (molecular weight 5,000) in the presence of sodium cyanoborohydride. The mono-PEGylated fraction was isolated by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and characterized by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). Circular dichroism demonstrated no significant secondary structural differences between mono-PEGylated octreotide (mono-PEG-octreotide) and intact octreotide. As a test system for the stability study against acylation reaction, lactic acid (LA) solutions with various concentrations and pH values were prepared with water dilution and subsequent accelerated equilibration at 90 degrees C for 24 hours. Native octreotide was found to be acylated in all the diluted LA solutions with different concentrations (42.5%, 21.3%, and 8.5%, wt/wt) and pH values (2.25, 1.47, and 1.85, respectively). The remaining amounts of intact octreotide continuously decreased to 50% through 30 days of incubation at 37 degrees C. MALDI-TOF MS identified the octreotide to be acylated by LA units. However, acylation reaction of mono-PEG-octreotide in LA solutions was negligible, and the remaining amounts of intact one through 30 days of incubation in LA solutions were also comparable to the initial concentration. These data suggest that mono-PEG-octreotide may prevent the acylation reaction in degrading PLA microspheres and possibly serve as a new source for somatostatin microsphere formulation.
Considerable interest in calcite crystallization has prompted many studies on organic molecule adsorption. However, each study has explored only a few compounds, using different methods and conditions, so it is difficult to combine the results into a general model that describes the fundamental mechanisms. Our goal was to develop a comprehensive adsorption model from the behavior of a range of organic compounds by exploring how common functional groups interact with calcite and the effects of various side groups and hydrogen on adsorption. We used density functional theory, with semiempirical dispersion corrections (DFT-D2), to determine adsorption energy on calcite {10.4} for nonpolar (benzene, ethane, and carbon dioxide) and oxygen containing polar molecules (water, methanol, ethanol, phenol, formic acid, acetic acid, propanoic acid, benzoic acid, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, dimethyl ether, acetone, and furan). From the adsorption energies, within the transition state theo...
Denervation of the American cockroach heart leads to a simple myogenic heartbeat which is unresponsive to atropine, acetylcholine, and arecoline in concentrations up to 10−3 M, while the denervated heart responds by increasing its rate of rhythmic contraction when perfused with 5-hydroxytryptamine, d-tubocurarine, nicotine, tryptamine, DOPAmine, adrenalin, noradrenalin, and the carbamates m-isopropylphenyl-N-methyl carbamate (MIP) and 2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde-N-methyl carbamoyloxime (Temik). These responses support the contention that acetylcholine and atropine are acting on the cardiac nervous system, whereas the other compounds listed have an effect on the myocardium. ::: ::: The neurogenic classification of the cockroach heart requires re-examination. A more appropriate classification is myogenic with extensive nervous control.
Felbamate (2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate, FBM) can cause aplastic anemia and hepatotoxicity. The mechanism of FBM-induced toxicities is unknown; however, it has been proposed that 2-phenylpropenal, a reactive metabolite of FBM, is responsible. The pathway leading to this metabolite involves hydrolysis of FBM to 2-phenyl-1,3-propandiol monocarbamate (MCF), oxidation to 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionaldehyde (CBMA), and spontaneous loss of carbon dioxide and ammonia. We made a polyclonal antibody against 2-phenylpropenal bound to protein and confirmed its specificity using ELISA. We attempted to develop an animal model of FBM-induced aplastic anemia and/or hepatotoxicity, and we also used the antibody to try to detect covalent binding of 2-phenylpropenal using immunoblotting. However, none of the animals developed evidence of bone marrow or liver toxicity, and we were unable to detect covalent binding, possibly because significantly less 2-phenylpropenal is formed in rodents than in humans. As this type...
1,2-Dihydro-2-oxo-6-(2-methylpropyl)-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid was found to be a hypoglycemic agent but not to have the undesirable mechanism of action possessed by nicotinic acid. A series of 1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3-pyridinecarboxylic acids with a substituent primarily at the 6-position was prepared by hydrolysis of the corresponding nitriles. The nitriles were prepared by reaction of the sodium enolate of the appropriate 3-substituted 3-oxopropionaldehyde with cyanoacetamide. The sodium enolates were synthesized from ethyl formate and the appropriate ketone and sodium or sodium hydride. The active 1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3-pyridinecarboxylic acids, listed in order of decreasing hypoglycemic potency, had the following substituents: 6-(2,2-dimethylpropyl), 6-(2,2-dimethylbutyl), 6-(1,1-dimethylethyl), 6-(2-methylpropyl), 6-(1,1-dimethylpropyl), 1-methyl-6-(2-methylpropyl), 6-hydrogen. The inactive compounds were those with 6-methyl, 6-(1-methylethyl), 6-pentyl, 4-(2,2-dimethylpropyl), 6-(3-methylbutyl), 6-(1,1-dimethylheptyl), 6-(2,2-dimethyloctyl), 6-(1-cyclobutylmethyl), and 1-methyl-6-(2,2- dimethylpropyl) substituents. The corresponding alcohol, aldehyde, tetrazole, sodium salt, and ethyl ester of the most potent acid were also active compounds. The corresponding amide, decarboxyl compound, and 2-deoxo compound were inactive.
Soil isolates, identified as Pseudomonas sp. strain A9 and Pseudomonas sp. strain B9b (based on the phenotypic features and phylogenetic analysis) were found to degrade homocholine aerobically. Morphological char- acterization using the optical microscope under light and phase contrast conditions showed that cells of strain A9 formed short rods measuring approximately 0.5-1 9 1.5- 2.0 lm in size while those of B9b formed long rods of 0.5-1 9 2.5-3.0 lm during the early growth phase on both nutrient broth and basal-homocholine (basal-HC) media. Strain A9 was able to grow on basal-HC medium at a wide range of temperatures (4-41C) whereas strain B9b was not able to grow at either 4 or 41C. Comparative 16S rRNA sequencing studies indicated that strain A9 fell into the Pseudomonas putida subclade whereas strain B9b located in Pseudomonas fulva subclade. Washed cells of strains A9 and B9b degraded homocholine completely within 6 h with concomitant formation of several metabolites. Analysis of the metabolites by capillary electrophoresis, fast atom bombardment-mass spectrometry, and gas chromatogra- phy-mass spectrometry, showed trimethylamine (TMA) as the major metabolite beside b-alanine betaine and tri- methylaminopropionaldehyde. Therefore, the possible degradation pathway of homocholine in the isolated strains is through successive oxidation of the alcohol group (-OH) to aldehyde (-CHO) and acid (-COOH), and thereafter the cleavage of b-alanine betaine C-N bonds yielding tri- methylamine and an alkyl chain.
Abstract Al 2 O 3 and TiO 2 supports modified by impregnation with PO 4 -ions and SAPO-11 and SAPO-34 samples were synthesized and characterized by physico-chemical methods. The acidic properties of these catalysts were determined by ammonia TPD. The gas-phase dehydration of glycerol in presence of water was investigated at 280 °C. Glycerol conversion and acrolein selectivity depended on the total acidity and on the textural properties. Additionally, the formation of by-products during the dehydration of glycerol and the conversion of 1-hydroxyacetone and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde catalysts was studied. The SAPO samples showed high selectivity at low reaction times. Rapid deactivation and formation of carbonaceous deposits was observed for all tested catalysts. The properties of the deactivated catalysts were studied by TPD-NH 3 and TPO analysis.
The photochemical reaction of ethyl methyl ketone and propionaldehyde in tetrahydrofuran has been studied. Methylethyl-α-tetrahydro-furylcarbinol and ethyl-α-tetrahydrofurylcarbinol were easily obtained. In the photochemical reaction of propionaldehyde in tetrahydrofuran, di-α-tetrahydrofuryl was not produced, but it was observed to be produced in the photochemical reaction of acetone and ethyl methyl ketone in tetrahydrofuran.
The rising prices of fossil fuel, combined with increasing glycerol availability, thanks to increasing biodiesel production, have made glycerol more economically interesting to use as a starting material in various processes. This article will present and evaluate a new process developed by Biofuel-solutions for production of propionaldehyde from glycerol via acrolein. Aspen Plus® is used to simulate the process mass and thermal balances under steady state conditions. This simulation is used to perform a parametric study where a number of modifications are made to some of the process parame-ters and the change in utility use is studied for each modification. The results are used to calculate the gross production price and the annuity. It has been made clear throughout the different evaluation methods that the variation in glycerol concentration is the parameter with the largest positive impact on the process profitability. The worst results are obtained with decreased acrolein yield. None of the remaining process modifications leads to any prominent changes in neither utility use or economical deficit or surplus.
It has been shown that α-methylstyrene in the presence of H-HSZ (SiO2/Al2O3 = 40–120) and Fe-HSZ (SiO2/Al2O3 = 60) pentasils in a nitrogen atmosphere (80–120°C, 5–20 wt % catalyst) is converted into linear (4-methyl-2,4-diphenylpent-1-and-2-enes) and cyclic (1,1,3-trimethyl-3-phenylindan) dimers. The H-type high-silica (SiO2/Al2O3 = 120) and ferrosilicate zeolites in air facilitate the conversion of α-methylstyrene into acetophenone and α-phenylpropionaldehyde.
Oral administration of Temik½ (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldchyde O -(methylcarbamoyl)oxime) to rats resulted in approximately 80% of the dose being eliminated in the urine within 24 hours. An additional 4% of the dose was detected in the feces. Only a trace amount of Temik, per se, was found in the excreta, indicating a very rapid degradation of the carbamate within the animals. The following metabolites were isolated from the urine by extraction with chloroform and tentatively identified; (a) 2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldoxime; (d) 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl) propionaldoxime; (c) 2-methyl-2-(methylcarbamoyl) propionaldoxime; (d) 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl) propionitrile; (e) 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl) propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime and (g) 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfonyl) propionaldehyde O -(methylearbamoyl)-oxime. Approximately one-half of the metabolites in the urine could not be extracted into organic solvent and their identity was not determined. The methylsulfinyl derivative of Temik was excreted more slowly than the parent compound when given orally to rats.
, was achieved at D=0.30 h À1 and 60 g l À1 of feed glycerol. A switch to an acetate/butyrate ratio higher than one was observed for 60 g l À1 of feed glycerol and a dilution rate higher than 0.10 h À1 ; moreover, at D=0.30 h À1 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde accumulation was observed for the first time in the fermentation broth of C. butyricum.
1,3-propanediol is a versatile degradable intermediate compound for the synthesis of heterocycles and a monomer for the production of polymers, such as polyesters and polyurethanes. The classic route to produce this monomer is the chemical process from acrolein, a very harmful reagent. As an alternative, it has been shown that some bacteria are able to produce 1,3-propanediol from glycerol [2, 7-9, 15, 16] . The recent development of PTT, a new polyester based on 1,3-propanediol and terephtalic acid, has increased the number of studies on microbial conversion of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol [3] . Yield, final product concentration and volumetric productivity are the main issues for the feasibility of an industrial production process. A high final product concentration in the effluent turns the down-stream separation process less expensive and, at the same time, contributes to achieve a high volumetric productivity [3] . Clostridium butyricum VPI 3266 was described as probably the best natural 1,3-propanediol producer since, unlike other microorganisms, production of 1,3-propanediol by this strain is not a B 12 -vitamin dependent process, which is clearly an economical advantage for an industrial application [13] . Furthermore, production of 1,3-propanediol by this strain using a synthetic medium and low-price raw glycerol has been recently reported [4] . Glycerol is metabolised by C. butyricum following two pathways. One pathway leads to glycerol oxidation to dihydroxyacetone (DHA) by a NAD + -dependent glycerol dehydrogenase, followed by DHA phosphorilation to DHA-phosphate (DHAP) by a DHA kinase; DHAP enters the glycolytic pathway. In the other pathway glycerol is dehydrated to 3-hydroxipropionaldehyde (3-HPA) via a glycerol dehydratase; 3-HPA is then reduced to 1,3-propanediol by a 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase with NADH consumption, leading to a theoretical yield of 0.70 mol/mol in conditions of no butyrate and no H 2 formation [2, 3, 18] .
Summary -Lactic acid bacteria can produce a variety of substances with antibacterial activity which are described in this article. Non-peptide antibacterial substances are distinguished from bacteriocins, which have a proteinaceous active site. Among the former, reuterin produced by Lactobacillus reuteri is a broad spectrum inhibitor active against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, yeasts, molds and protozoas. It is a glycerol derivative, l3-hydroxypropionaldehyde.
KEYWORDS: PEGylation, octreotide, peptide acylation, microsphere, peptide stability The purpose of this study was to prepare poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG)ylated octreotide and investigate the stability against acylation by polyester polymers such as poly(lactic acid) and poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid). Octreotide was modified by reaction with monomethoxy PEGpropionaldehyde (molecular weight 5,000) in the presence of sodium cyanoborohydride. The mono-PEGylated fraction was isolated by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and characterized by matrixassisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). Circular dichroism demonstrated no significant secondary structural differences between mono-PEGylated octreotide (mono-PEGoctreotide) and intact octreotide. As a test system for the stability study against acylation reaction, lactic acid (LA) solutions with various concentrations and pH values were prepared with water dilution and subsequent accelerated equilibration at 90°C for 24 hours. Native octreotide was found to be acylated in all the diluted LA solutions with different concentrations (42.5%, 21.3%, and 8.5%, wt/wt) and pH values (2.25, 1.47, and 1.85, respectively). The remaining amounts of intact octreotide continuously decreased to 50% through 30 days of incubation at 37°C. MALDI-TOF MS identified the octreotide to be acylated by LA units. However, acylation reaction of mono-PEGoctreotide in LA solutions was negligible, and the remaining amounts of intact one through 30 days of incubation in LA solutions were also comparable to the initial concentration. These data suggest that mono-PEG-octreotide may prevent the acylation reaction in degrading PLA microspheres and possibly serve as a new source for somatostatin microsphere formulation.
Reuterin or the hydroxypropionaldehyde (HPA)-system is an antimicrobial mixture of 3-HPA mono-, di-and polymers, and HPA-hydrate. It is produced as an intermediate during the reduction of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) [6] . Several gut bacterial species are described to produce reuterin in a specialized bacterial compartment or metabolosome [7] . Among these species, L. reuteri is the one reported to most efficiently produce reuterin and excrete relatively high amounts [8] [9] [10] . Only recently, two studies demonstrated that reuterin's mode of action involves the modification of thiol groups in proteins and small molecules, which results in oxidative stress and ultimately leads to bacterial cell death [11, 12] . Moreover, the latter studies indicated that the aldehyde group in 3-HPA is the bioactive agent in reuterin.
The reactions of the 2-methyl-2-hydroxypropylperoxyl radical were investigated by ..gamma.. and pulse radiolysis of aqueous oxygenated solutions of 2-methyl-2-propanol. The products and their G values (in brackets) on ..gamma.. radiolysis of a N/sub 2/O/O/sub 2/(80/20v/v) saturated solution at 20/sup 0/C are formaldehyde (I(1.3)), acetone (II(1.6)), 2-methyl-2-hydroxypropionaldehyde (III(2.0)), 2-methyl-2,3-propanediol (IV(0.5)), an organic peroxide, very likely di(2-methyl-2-hydroxypropyl) peroxide (V(0.7)), and hydrogen perioxide (VI(2.0)). Two major decay processess for the 2-methyl-2-hydroxypropylperoxyl radical are proposed: (i) formation of O/sub 2/ and two 2-methyl-2-hydroxpropyloxyl radicals which either combine (product V), disproportionate (products III and IV) or fragment (products I and 2-hydroxypropyl-(2) radicals), and (ii) formation of VI and III. The 2-hydroxypropyl-(2) radicals add oxygen to give the corresponding peroxyl radicals which rapidly eliminate HO/sub 2/ (product II). The HO/sub 2/ radicals largely disproportionate (products VI and O/sub 2/). At pH 9.4 the rate of the formation of O/sub 2/ . (pK/sub a/(HO/sub 2/) = 4.75) is determined by the bimolecular decay of the primary peroxyl radicals. The rate constant of the latter reaction was obtained pulse conductometrically as 2k = (8+-2) X 10/sup 8/M/sup -1/s/sup -1/. Competition among the different modes of reaction is evident from the effect of deuterium substitutionand temperature on the distributionmore » of product yields.« less
Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH, EC 1.2.1.3) of the human prostate was the subject of investigation in this study. The possible physiological role of aldehyde dehydrogenase in the human prostate might be to detoxify aldehydes arising from the oxidation of the polyamines via monoamine or diamine oxidases. The specific activity of the enzyme with 1 mM propionaldehyde as substrate and 0.5 mM NAD at pH 7.4 in the control normal prostates and prostates afflicted with the disease, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), was 26.06 +/- 2.96 and 5.17 +/- 0.48 nmol/g prostate per min, respectively. When 100 microM gamma-aminobutyraldehyde was used as a substrate, the specific activity in the normal controls and prostates with benign prostatic hyperplasia was 19.80 +/- 1.33 and 2.95 +/- 2.46 nmol/g prostate per min, respectively. Upon isoelectric focusing of the extracts of the control prostates when the gels were developed for aldehyde dehydrogenase activity, there were three aldehyde dehydrogenase activity bands visible, pI 4.9 (mitochondrial), 5.4 (cytosolic) and about 6.0-6.5, on the IEF gels developed with gamma-aminobutyraldehyde as a substrate. With the extracts of prostates with benign prostatic hyperplasia the pI 4.9 band was significantly reduced, the pI 5.4 band enhanced and the approx. pI 6.0 band was not detectable on the IEF gels with propionaldehyde as a substrate. There was no detectable aldehyde dehydrogenase activity in the extract of the prostate with cancer on IEF gels nor in the activity assays with propionaldehyde or gamma-aminobutyraldehyde as substrates.
A sensor is described for the detection of propionaldehyde in the gas phase. The sensing scheme is based on the blue cataluminescence (CTL) emission that results from the catalytic oxidation of propionaldehyde on the surface of nanosized zirconium dioxide. The sensor displays high sensitivity to propionaldehyde, a response time of 3 s, and a recovery time of 8 s. Under optimized conditions, the intensity of CTL is linearly related to the concentration of propionaldehyde in the 2.5–1,300 mg·m−3 concentration range, with a limit of detection of 0.6 mg·m−3 (at an SNR of 3) and a relative standard deviation (for n = 6) of 2.2 % at a level of 80 mg·m−3 of propionaldehyde. Relatively weak interference is observed for ethanol, acetone and acetaldehyde. The method was applied to analyze environmental air samples containing propionaldehyde, and data were compared with those obtained by GC-MS. The results were in good agreement, thereby indicating the utility of the sensor for routine monitoring. A possible mechanism for the catalytic oxidation of propionaldehyde on the ZrO2 surface is discussed on the basis of the chromatograms of the reaction products.
Swine manure discharged from pigery emits various odorous compounds. The most common method to reduce such odors is adding feed additives to swine feeds. However, whether the effects of such methods are truly effective are controversial. This research contrasts the aldehyde compound emission characteristics and removal effects from a treatment group, which were given feeds added with feed additives, to a control group, which were given feeds without feed additives. Sixty swine of age 26~28 days were evenly divided into six sections within an incubator type pigsty - each section contained ten weaners. Five types of feed additives, either currently in the market or in development were supplied. Gases sampled from the headspace in the odor producing reactor were analyzed by GC. Major malodorous compounds were estimated by the concentrations and threshold values from the detected components. Since 95.3% of the odor comes from isobutyraldehyde out of six types of aldehyde compounds (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, i-valeraldehyde, n-valeraldehyde), it can be regarded as the most critical compound contributing to pigsty odor. Aldehyde compounds showed statistically significant correlation with elimination of sulfide compounds and trimethylamine
A simple and rapid gas-liquid-solid chromatographic method for the determination of trace amounts of the lower aliphatic carbonyl compounds (C2—C5) in free forms in the exhaust gases from some odour sources was developed using the cold-trapping method with liquid argon. In the main analytical column the conditions were as follows: stationary phase, 1,2,3-tris-2-cyanoethoxypropane (TCEP), 5%; support, Carbopack B (60–80 mesh); glass column, 1.5 m × 3 mm i.d.; column temperature, 70 °C; carrier gas, nitrogen, flow-rate 50 ml min–1.In the cold-trapping pre-column the conditions were as follows: stationary phase, TCEP (25%); support, Shimalite (AW, DMCS)(60–80 mesh); glass column, 31 cm × 4 mm i.d., operating temperature for trapping, –186 °C (liquid argon); operating temperature for injection of the condensed sample into the gas chromatograph, increased from –186 °C to 120 °C in 3.5 min and maintained at this temperature for 30 s. The peaks due to lower aliphatic carbonyl compounds were identified by the disappearance method using a reaction pre-column of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (0.05 g)-orthophosphoric acid (0.1 ml) on glass beads.The method has been applied to the determination of lower aliphatic carbonyl compounds in real samples (the exhaust gases from a poultry manure dryer, a metal paint dryer and a pig manure dryer). The volume of sample gas required is as low as about 0.41 and the method is sensitive [detection limit about 10 p.p.b. (parts per 109)] and rapid (for the concentration and analysis of one sample about 30 min are required). The coefficient of variation is less than 10%. Propionaldehyde, acrolein and acetone (compounds each with three carbon atoms) were completely separated within about 7 min without tailing.
Since the industrial uses of lipase is expanding, research and development on this enzyme is strategically focusing on modifying its chemical, physical and biological properties. Surface residuse of enzymes are reactive chemically and thus a potential target for chemical modification. We have carried out chemical modification via reductive alkylation on lysine residuse of T1 and Candida rugosa lipase (CRL)using propionaldehyde. Through molecular dynamics (MD) and circular dichroism (CD), intrinsic and extrinsic fluorescence studies, the altered properties of T1 lipase were examined. Reductive alkylation using propionaldehyde caused the unfolding of enzymes as observed in chemically modified Candida rugosa and T1 lipase. As the effect of reductive alkylation is not localized at the modified site, the formation of molten globule could be observed in modified T1 lipase.
The reaction of gaseous a-propylene chlorohydrin with Ca(OH)2 pellets in a fixed bed reactor was investigated at 160-250 Deg. A reaction model, which was derived on the basis of the reaction products propylene oxide, acetone, and propionaldehyde, is discussed. Reaction of the HCl formed is shown to be the rate detg. step over almost the entire temp. range investigated. A kinetic model for the variation of reaction rate with the duration of the expt. and with the amt. of converted solid reactant could be established which permits a quant. description of the exptl. results. It is also possible with this model to give a qual. explanation of the observed changes in selectivity with reaction time regarding the above mentioned products. [on SciFinder (R)]
The liquid Bacillus subtilis/microsome rec-assay method was applied to twenty chlorinated chemicals and fourteen aldehydes which may occur in chlorinated and ozonated waters. The results showed that substances could be classified into four categories: strongly DNA damaging, DNA damaging, not DNA damaging, and reverse. A new indicator, ‘rec-gram9, was introduced to evaluate quantitatively the DNA damaging potential of substances. Bromoform, chloroform, dibromo-chloromethane, dichlorobromomethane, carbontetrachloride, tetrachloroethylene, and six other chlorinated chemicals showed direct or indirect DNA damaging potential. Heptachlor, trans-chlordane, p,p9-DDT, and three other chemicals showed the reverse effect with or without S9 activation. Trichloroethylene and pentachlorophenol showed neither DNA damaging potential nor the reverse effect. Acetaldehyde, benzaldehyde, formaldehyde, glyoxal, acrolein, acetylacetone, isophorone, and 3-methyl-2-butanone showed direct or indirect DNA damaging potential. Propionaldehyde, furfurol, and two other aldehydes showed the reverse effect with or without S9 activation. Carvone and n-valeraldehyde showed neither DNA damaging potential nor the reverse effect. On the rec-gram scale, hexachlorocyclopentadiene and hexachloropentadiene showed the strongest DNA damaging potential of the test substances. Seven chlorinated chemicals and aldehydes showed DNA damaging potential although they had been shown to be not mutagenic with the Ames system.
Abstract Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde concentrations have been measured in indoor environments of various public spaces (railway station, airport, shopping center, libraries, underground parking garage, etc.) of Strasbourg area (east of France). In addition, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde propionaldehyde and hexanal concentrations have been measured in 22 private homes in the same area. In most of the sampling sites, indoor and outdoor formaldehyde and acetaldehyde concentrations were measured simultaneously. Gaseous aldehydes levels were quantified by a conventional DNHP-derivatization method followed by liquid chromatography coupled to UV detection. Outdoor formaldehyde and acetaldehyde concentrations were both in the range 1–10 μg m−3, the highest values being measured at the airport and railway station. Indoor concentrations were strongly dependant upon the sampling sites. In homes, the average concentrations were 37 μg m−3 (living rooms) and 46 μg m−3 (bedrooms) for formaldehyde, 15 μg m−3 (living rooms) and 18 μg m−3 (bedrooms) for acetaldehyde, 1.2 μg m−3 (living rooms) and 1.6 μg m−3 (bedrooms) for propionaldehyde, 9 μg m−3 (living rooms) and 10 μg m−3 (bedrooms) for hexanal. However, concentrations as high as 123, 80 and 47 μg m−3 have been found for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and hexanal respectively. In public spaces, the highest formaldehyde concentration (62 μg m−3) was found in a library and the highest concentration of acetaldehyde (26 μg m−3) in the hall of a shopping center. Additional measurements of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were made inside a car both at rest or in a fluid or heavy traffic as well as in a room where cigarettes were smoked. Our data have been discussed and compared with those of previous studies.
The heterocyclic aromatic amine (HAA) 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is converted into 7-hydroxy-5-methyl-3-phenyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydropyrido[3′,2′:4,5]imidazo[1,2-a]pyrimidin-5-ium chloride (PhIP-M1) via a chemical reaction with 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde or acrolein derived from glycerol by reuterin producing gut bacteria. Because it is unknown whether this reaction also applies to other HAAs, seven foodborne HAAs (2-amino-9H-pyrido[2,3-b]indole (AαC), 3-amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-1), 2-amino-3-methyl-3H-imidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), 2-amino-3,4-dimethyl-3H-imidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ), 2-amino-3,8-dimethyl-3H-imidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx), 9H-pyrido[3,4-b]indole (norharman), and 1-methyl-9H-pyrido[3,4-b]indole (harman)) were anaerobically incubated with Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 20016 in the presence of glycerol. The extent of conversion, as analyzed by HPLC-DAD/FLD, was dependent on both the studied HAAs and the glucose/glycerol ratio, indicating reuteri...
Chelation(SnCl4)-controlled carbonyl–ene reaction of 2-benzyloxypropionaldehyde with vinyl sulfides is shown to provide a stereodivergent route to chelation-erythro and -threo diastereoisomers of steroid (brassinolide) side chains via the nickel-catalysed coupling reaction of the vinyl sulfide products.
The purpose of this study is to explain how plasma improves the performance of selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of nitrogen oxides (NOx) with a hydrocarbon reducing agent. In the plasma-coupled SCR process, NOx reduction was performed with n-heptane as a reducing agent over Ag/γ-Al2O3 as a catalyst. We found that the plasma decomposes n-heptane into several oxygen-containing products such as acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde, which are more reactive than the parent molecule n-heptane in the SCR process. Separate sets of experiments using acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde, one by one, as a reductant in the absence of plasma, have clearly shown that the presence of these partially oxidized compounds greatly enhanced the NOx conversion. The higher the discharge voltage, the more the amounts of such partially oxidized products. The oxidative species produced by the plasma easily converted NO into NO2, but the increase of the NO2 fraction was found to decrease the NOx conversion. Consequently, it can be concluded that the main role of plasma in the SCR process is to produce partially oxidized compounds (aldehydes), having better reducing power. The catalyst-alone NOx removal efficiency with n-heptane at 250 °C was measured to be less than 8%, but it increased to 99% in the presence of acetaldehyde at the same temperature. The NOx removal efficiency with the aldehyde reducing agent was higher as the number of carbons in the aldehyde was more; for example, the NOx removal efficiencies at 200 °C with butyraldehyde, propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde were measured to be 83.5%, 58.0% and 61.5%, respectively, which were far above the value (3%) obtained with n-heptane.
Transketolase catalyses asymmetric carbon-carbon bond formation and produces 1,3-dihydroxyketones, a functionality that is found in a vast number of natural and synthetic compounds. The wild-type transketolase enzymes from several species can accept a wide range of aldehydes, but industrially exploitable levels of activity tend to be limited to natural substrates and small aliphatic aldehydes. Several single mutants of the transketolase from E. coli were found to have enhanced activity towards non-phosphorylated substrates, non-hydroxylated aldehydes, and cyclic aldehydes. However, aromatic aldehydes still suffer from poor activities and yields while the key bottlenecks have not been identified. The strategy for creating new libraries from combining single mutations can have significant impact not only on the activity but also the stability of the enzyme due to the synergy between residues. On the other hand, the combination of two sites identified within a co-evolved network has created mutants with high towards propionaldehyde and decent stability. Kinetic studies of a small transkeloase library with 3-formylbenzoic acid (3-FBA) and 4-formylbenzoic acid (4-FBA) suggested that the affinity between the enzyme and the aromatic aldehyde, as well as their proximal orientations, was the key factor governing the reaction rate. This was also supported by computational modelling of substrate binding. Site-saturation mutagenesis at S385 and R358 was performed to further improve the activity of transketolase for 3-FBA, 4-FBA and also 3-hydroxybenzaldehyde (3-HBA). The new mutants were then assessed alongside transaminase for the ability to synthesise novel aromatic amino alcohols, which would provide building blocks for chloramphenicol and its derivatives. However, none of the available transaminases appeared to accept either of the compounds. The competitive reaction between 4-FBA and 4-DOPBA, the dihydroxy ketone product of 4-FBA, in an amination reaction suggested that 4-DOPBA was unable to access into the active site of CV2025 transaminase.
This paper describes an unexpectedly broad ligand specificity of a scavenger receptor of sinusoidal liver cells that is responsible for endocytic uptake of formaldehyde-treated bovine serum albumin (f-Alb). Binding of 125I-f-Alb to the isolated cells was effectively inhibited by bovine serum albumin (BSA) modified with aliphatic aldehydes such as glycolaldehye, DL-glyceraldehyde, and propionaldehyde whereas albumin preparations modified by aromatic aldehydes such as pyridoxal, pyridoxal phosphate, salicylaldehyde, and benzaldehyde did not affect this binding process. Binding of 125I-glycolaldehyde-treated BSA to the cells exhibited a saturation kinetics with an apparent Kd = 3.3 micrograms of the ligand/ml. This binding process was inhibited by unlabeled f-Alb as well as by the antibody raised against the f-Alb receptor. Indeed, 125I-glycolaldehyde-treated BSA underwent a rapid plasma clearance (t1/2 approximately 2 min) which was markedly retarded by unlabeled f-Alb. Upon treatment by these aldehydes, other proteins such as ovalbumin, soybean trypsin inhibitor, and hemoglobin were also converted to active ligands for the f-Alb receptor, while no ligand activity was generated with gamma-globulin and RNase A. These results clearly show that the f-Alb receptor, originally described as being specific for f-Alb, exhibits a broad ligand specificity in terms of both aldehydes and proteins and, hence, should be described as a scavenger receptor for aldehyde-modified proteins.
Propionaldehyde at partial pressures of from 0.0006 to 0.04 mm was photooxidized at 3 100 A in the presence of 150 mm of oxygen. The major products were ethyl hydroperoxide and carbon monoxide. Acetaldehyde was formed at intermediate concentrations and formaldehyde, ethanol, methanol, hydrogen peroxide, and ethane were minor products. No ozone, peroxy acids, or diacyl peroxides could be detected. The results can be explained on the basis of a free-radical mechanism. Certain radical disproportionation reactions which are often postulated are unimportant because of the low partial pressures of propionaldehyde. An alternative mechanism involving direct chemical reaction of an oxygen molecule with the triplet state of the propionaldehyde may be of some significance, but cannot account for all of the products obtained. The present results indicate the importance of allcyl hydroperoxides as products in photooxidations at low partial pressures of aldehyde in the presence of large excesses of oxygen. The photooxidation of aldehydes has been the subject of several investigations in recent years (1). Little work has been done at very low concentrations of the aldehyde. It was of interest to ascertain whether the mechanism for aldehyde photooxidation xvould be the same or somewhat different at low concentrations of an aldehyde, but at high partial -. pressures of oxygen. These conditions are of especial significance in atmospheric chemistry. A problem in \vork at very low concentration (0.75 to 50 p.p.m., or 0.0006 to 0.04 mm) is the need for extended periods of irradiation to allow conversions sufficient for measurement of products. Irradiation periods as short as 10 min were occasionally used, but more typically periods of 30 to 180 min were required. It is reasonable to expect that secondary reactions occurred, particularly during the longest irradiation periods with large percentages of conversion. ESPERIMESTAL The irradiations were carried out at 23 f lo in the same thermostatted system used previously (2). 111 most of the experiments reported in this work, each of the two parallel light banbs consisted of sunliglit fluorescent lamps with an intensity maximum at 3 100 A. The Kd value (I<d = +I<,, + is the primary quantuni yield and K, the rate of light absorption) based on the initial rate of photolysis of nitrogen dioxide in nitrogen, was 0.08 f 0.02 miri-I when 28 sunlight fluorescent lamps were used. The plastic container for the reaction mixture was fabricated from FEP (fluorinated ethylene-propylene copolymer) film (2). The volume of the initial mixture usually was 50 1; 100 1 volumes were occasionally used in calibrations and special experiments. The redistilled propiolialdehyde was injected into an air stream by means of microsyringes, and the cylinder air was metered into the plastic bag. 111 some prtliminary experiments, irradiations were carried out 011 mixtures in pyrex flas1;s or in FEP containers covered by Mylar film. The propionaldehyde partial pressures used were 0.0006, 0.003, 0.02, and 0.04 inli1. The propionaldehyde was diluted to 750 (f 10) mm total pressure and 150 mm partial pressure of osygen. Analyses for acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and ethanol were made with a flame-ionizatio~i after separation of the components at 23 "C on a column packed with bis-2(2-methoxyethy1)adipate oil C-22 firebrick. Carbon monoxide was separated on a liiolecular sieve column, hydrogenated to methane, and analyzed with a flame-ionization detector (2). Peroxy-type compounds were analyzed by several variations of the potassium iodide and ferrous thiocyanate methods. Formaldehyde was determined by the chromotropic acid method (2). Hydrogen peroxide was analyzed by a modification of the titallous sulfate method (2). After each irradiation period, the container was removed from the irradiation chaniber ar~d samples were renioved for subsequent gas chromatographic or colorimetric analysis. Replicate gas chromatographic analyses were made on each sample, and were used to determine whether any loss of products occurred in the
The kinetics of oxidation of thiosemicarbazide (TSC) its zinc metal complex and hydrazones by N-chlorobenzamide (NCB) were investigated in water methanol (1 : 1, v/v) medium in the presence of perchloric acid. The hydrazones studied were benzaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone and acetophenone thiosemicarbazones. The reactions show first-order kinetics in [NCB], a fractional order dependence in [substrate] and an inverse fractional to inverse first order in [H+]. Addition of benzamide has no significant effect on the rates of oxidations. Variation in the ionic strength of the medium has little effect on the rates of reactions, but a decrease in the dielectric constant of the medium by increasing the methanol concentration in the solvent increases the rates. The rate-limiting steps were identified in all cases and the rate coefficients of these steps and the related activation parameters were also evaluated. The consistency of the deduced rate laws was checked by recalculating the rate constants as the substrate and H+ concentrations were varied.
Two RP-HPLC methods are described for the determination of the compounds in 2,2-dimethyl-3-propionaldehyde synthesis mixtures. All the other compounds, except aliphatic aldehydes, are determined by a gradient programmed method using UV/DAD and RI detectors in series. Aldehydes are determined as their 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone derivatives using a UV/DAD detector. The selection between different columns and detectors is made with a column switching technique. The eluents and column temperature are selected so, that only one HPLC instrument is needed.
3-(4-Isopropyl-phenyl)-2-methyl-acrylaldehyde (4IP2MA) was synthesized from propionaldehyde (PA) and para-isopropylbenzaldehyde (IPB) via cross aldol condensation over alkaline earth metal oxides or Al 2 O 3 -MgO mixed oxides (AM) at 120-190 °C by using a batch reactor. The catalytic activity is enhanced with the base amounts of both alkaline earth metal oxides and the mixed oxides. The reaction system is free of diffusional limitation at a stirring speed larger than 600 rpm. Increasing the catalyst weight, reaction temperature, reaction time and IPB/PA mol ratio enhances the PA conversion, whereas the 4IP2MA selectivity remains small change except for IPB/PA ratio. Favorable results occur on the PA conversion and the 4IP2MA selectivity for the reaction in nonpolar solvents of cyclohexane and benzene. Reused catalysts of MgO and AM exhibit no catalyst decay. For the formation of 4IP2MA, the reaction mechanism is proposed and the apparent activation energy is calculated.
Flavor quality is of major importance to the consumer, but the flavor characteristics of beer appear to deteriorate greatly with time, at a rate depending on the composition of the beer and its storage conditions (notably pH). Prior to identifying the influence of pH on the development of the most intense staling flavors found in aged lager beers, the corresponding key flavor compounds were determined by aroma extract dilution analysis. In addition to trans-2-nonenal, beta-damascenone seems at least as important in the flavor of aged beer. Ethyl butyrate, dimethyl trisulfide, 2-acetylpyrazine, 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, 2-methoxypyrazine, maltol, gamma-nonalactone, and ethyl cinnamate are also relevant to the sensory profile of aged beer. Upon aging, a beer having a higher pH produces less beta-damascenone, because acid-catalyzed glycoside hydrolysis is decreased. On the other hand, it produces more 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, owing to Strecker degradation of methionine. Raising the beer pH additionally causes the release of 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde from sulfitic adducts. These adducts, more stable at a lower pH, protect the aldehyde against premature oxidation to 3-(methylthio)propionic acid, thus making it available for dimethyl trisulfide formation during aging.
Enamines derived from cyclohexanone, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraidehyde and secondary amines react with pyrrole and pyrazole, affording new Michael type adducts respectively.
A clear and powerful chromatographic approach to purify polyethylene glycol derivatives at a preparative scale was reported, which was based on the polystyrene-divinylbenzene beads with ethanol/water as eluants. The validity of this method was verified with the reaction mixture of mPEG-Glu and mPEG propionaldehyde diethylacetal (ALD-PEG) as the model. The target products were one-step achieved with the purity of > 99% on the polymer resins column at gram scale. The method developed was free from such disadvantages as utility of toxic solvent and narrow application scope, which was combined with conventional approaches. The method developed provided an appealing and attractive alternative methods for purification of PEG derivatives at a preparative scale. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Collections of larvae of Hylemya brassicae (Bouche) were made in areas of Ontario where resistance had not yet developed, and where high levels of resistance were known to occur, and laboratory cultures were established. Base-line toxicity data were obtained on adults. The results indicated that the level of resistance of a homozygous resistant strain to aldrin was ×1127. No resistance was apparent with either DDT or diazinon. Cross-resistance occurred within the cyclodiene-insecticide group (dieldrin ×971.6, endrin ×35.2) and to related materials such as isobenzan (×42A) and lindane (×19.7). ::: ::: Analysis of soil samples collected in 2 areas where resistance had developed indicated that the soil contained from 1.3 to 1.4 ppm of aldrin and dieldrin and from 0.3 to 2.6 ppm of DDT. ::: ::: A possible alternative to the use of soil insecticides for maggot control would be an adult spray program. Tests conducted on adults with 9 insecticides indicated the following order of toxicity: Nia 10242 (2,2-dimethyl-2,3-dihydrobenzofuranyl-7 N-methyl carbamate) >Bayer 25141 [O, O-diethyl O-p-(methylsulfinyl)phenyl phosphorothioate] >Dursban (O, O-diethyl 0-3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridyl phosphorothioate) >parathion>Bayer 37289 (O-ethyl 0-2,4,5-trichlorophenyl ethylphosphonothioate) > U.C. 211,19 [2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde on (methylcarbamoyl) oximeazinphosmethyl>phorate>carbaryl. In studies on the influence of temperature on the toxicity to adults, DDT exhibited a pronounced negative temperature coefficient, lindane a slight negative temperature coefficient, while the remaining materials showed positive temperature coefficients. Posttreatment temperature appeared to be more critical than pretreatment temperature.
Reverse osmotic rejections of some organic acids (acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, valeric acid, succinic acid) and aldehydes (acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde) in aqueous solution have been studied using two composite membranes (NS-100 (P3500), NS-100 (P1700)) and cellulose acetate membrane. Separation of solute and permeation through the membrane were measured under the following condition : concentration of solute in most cases is in the range of 50-500 ppm. operating pressure 0.98-2.94 MPa. An analysis of data with Spiegler-Kedem's transport model was carried out to obtain membrane constants such as reflection coefficient σ, solute and hydraulic permeabilities ω and Lp.The result showed that NS-100 membrane gave the superior solute rejection and superior permeation flux. Its rejection was in the range of 40-90%. CA membrane gave the higher salt rejection, but had lower organic solute rejection and permeation flux. In the case of the concentration of solution bellow the 1000 ppm, the rejection does not depend on concentration. But beyond the 1000 ppm, the rejection decreases with the increase of concentration. For organic compounds having the same functional group, the rejection of a solute increases with the increase of molecular weight. Using NS-100 membrane, for organic solute of acids and aldehydes having the same carbon atom numbers, the rejection for acids is lower. This might be attributed to the electrostatic attraction force acting between the solute molecular and skin layer of the NS-100 membrane.
The partial oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde on a TiO 2 supported VO x catalyst in presence of water vapour was investigated in the temperature range from 120 to 280°C. The selective oxidation to the appropriate carboxylic acids depended on the kind of aldehyde and the reaction temperature. An oxidative cleavage to lower carboxylic acids and CO, was also found. Furthermore, the kinetic model for the process of oxidation of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde over the V 2 O 5 -TiO 2 catalyst was developed.
Abstract Although aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) from sheep liver cytosol has a broad specificity, it will not oxidize the aldehyde group of glyoxylic acid which is in fact an inhibitor of the enzyme. The inhibition pattern is non-linear but competitive at high propionaldehyde concentrations (2–20 mM); however, a simple non-competitive pattern is observed at low ( μ M) propionaldehyde concentrations (K i = 1.6 mM). The esterase activity was unaffected by glyoxylic acid in the absence of NAD + but a simple competitive inhibition pattern (K i = 2.5 mM) was observed with respect to 4-nitrophenyl acetate in the presence of NAD + . The data require a two-site model in which ester and aldehyde binding sites are distinct but with a second propionaldehyde molecule, and glyoxylic acid, binding at or near the ester binding site. Consistent with this model is the fact that chloral hydrate was a non-competitive inhibitor of the esterase activity in the presence of NAD + but a competitive inhibitor in its absence. The enzyme exhibited hysteretic behavior governed by the protonated form of an ionizable group with an apparent pK a of 7.55.
Methacrylic acid (MAA) and its derivatives exhibit a rich array of chemistries and have found wide use in commercial applications, especially as monomers for making various types of polymer products. The predominant manufacturing route to the two simplest methacrylates continues to be via the conversion of acetonecyanohydrin (ACH) in sulfuric acid to methacrylamide followed by either hydrolysis to MAA or esterification with methanol to give methyl methacrylate (MMA). Alternative routes have reached or are now approaching commercialization. These include processes based on either ethylene (C-2), propylene (C-3), methylacetylene (C-3), or isobutylene (C-4) feedstocks, as well as a separate ACH process which does not involve sulfuric acid. The later route, which starts with catalyzed hydration of ACH to hydroxyisobutyramide followed by esterification and dehydration steps to MMA, has an added benefit of recycling HCN as a raw material. The ethylene-based routes typically involve formaldehyde condensation on either a propionaldehyde or propionic acid intermediate. The isobutylene-based routes involve oxidation processes to reach the methacrylate backbone, often passing through methacrolein as an intermediate. The propylene-based routes typically involve isobutyric acid or isobutyraldehyde intermediates. The methylacetylene-based process appears to be the most selective overall, where a single reaction with carbon monoxide and methanol leads directly to MMA. All of the synthetic routes require various types of catalysts to promote the separate steps involved. In addition to providing more details on each of these processes, the following article also provides information on volumes, costs, health and safety for methacrylic acid and its derivatives.
Abstract The concentrations of 12 carbonyls in ambient air were measured from multiple locations of an urban area in the surroundings of a large industrial complex (August 2004 to September 2005). According to our field study, acetaldehyde (19.5 ± 10.6 ppb) and formaldehyde (19.3 ± 10.1 ppb) were found to be the two most abundant species followed by propionaldehyde (19.0 ± 23.2 ppb), acetone (15.9 ± 15.2 ppb) and butyraldehyde (13.0 ± 19.8 ppb). An examination of spatial variation patterns of carbonyls, when compared between industrial sites versus non-industrial sites, indicates that the mean values for each site type are statistically insignificant in most cases. In contrast, a comparison of temporal variation patterns indicates a fairly distinctive trend with the relative enhancement during summer (over winter) and/or daytime (over nighttime). The computation of the concentration ratios between some indicative species (e.g., formaldehyde/acetaldehyde and acetaldehyde/propionaldehyde) is unique enough to describe the pollution status of carbonyl species in the study area. Moreover, the relative contribution of several offensive odorous components (e.g., acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and butyraldehyde) is fairly strong, while their emissions are suspected to come from a substantial use of ethanol. The results of the present study thus confirm that the acquisition of ambient carbonyl concentration data is fairly useful for distinguishing the pollution status and the associated odor-related impacts.
Abstract Hydroformylation of ethylene and propylene over the Rh-Y zeolite was carried out in a continuous-flow system under atmospheric pressure. The activity of the catalyst used for the formation of propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde was observed to be constant for a period of over 1 month. Pretreatment of the catalyst with HeH2 (10%) at 127 °C considerably affected the steady-state rate (rPA) and the apparent activation energy (EPA) for the propionaldehyde formation. On the Rh-Y zeolite with a rhodium content of less than 110 × 10−6 mol/g cat (1.13 wt%), the enhancement in rPA was observed with no appreciable change in EPA. On the other hand, on the Rh-Y zeolite (No. 6) with a rhodium content of 280 × 10−6 mol/g cat (2.88 wt%), rPA was somewhat reduced by the pretreatment while EPA was considerably enhanced i.e., 40 kJ/mol on the untreated catalyst and 56 kJ/mol on the pretreated one. In the propylene hydroformylation, the pretreatment of the Rh-Y (No. 6) remarkably reduced rBA compared with rPA, but it enhanced the n-isomer selectivity (Sn-BA). The enhancement in Sn-BA is closely related to the enhancement in EPA. On the basis of the results obtained, it is concluded that (1) the active sites formed either at the entrance of the pore or the external surface can effectively catalyze both the hydroformylation of ethylene and propylene and (2) the active sites formed in the pore at a very short distance from the entrance can catalyze the hydroformylation of ethylene but not propylene.
This study investigated the odorous components in the exhaust of DI diesel engines. The complete products of combustion are H2O and CO2 and they have no odor. Therefore, other products of incomplete combustion like unburned fuel components, partially burned components, cracked products from thermal cracking and others are thought to be responsible for exhaust odor. As the THC in the exhaust is the result of incomplete combustion, it is a logical guess that THC in the exhaust would correlate with exhaust odor. This study measured THC in the exhaust, and a good correlation was found between THC and exhaust odor at different engine conditions. In the next step, GC-analysis was used to detect individual HC component, and its effect on odor formation was investigated. It is found that the low boiling point hydrocarbon components, especially CH4 in diesel exhaust has a good correlation with exhaust odor.Aldehyde is one partially burned component which has very strong odor. This study used high performance liquid chromatography to measure aldehydes, and four aldehydes : formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein and propionaldehyde are found significant in exhaust gases. Each aldehyde correlates with exhaust odor very well and formaldehyde among all aldehydes is found the most important component for irritating odor.
The existence of acid-base pairs justifies the catalytic properties of hydrotalcites for the Aldolisation. The synthesized Hydrotalcites were then characterized using XRD and TGA/DTA techniques, which confirmed that the synthesized materials are hydrotalcite like compounds. There after the synthesized Hydrotalcites were successfully applied for the typical Aldol Condensation reaction of propionaldehyde and formaldehyde to get desired product methacrolein. We tested catalytic activity of synthesized hyrotalcites and from the results it was clear that, the Mg - Al hydrotalcite catalyzed Aldol reaction propionaldehyde coversion of 57.78% and with selectivity 51.23% to methacrolein. Ni- Al hydrotalcite showed a propionaldehyde conversion of 53.46% with 35.46% selectivity. Co - Al XRD pattern of the formed material confirms that the material is not hydrotalcite like. This material also did not show any catalytic activity for the above said Aldol condensation reaction.
Only 5 to 20% of in-furrow, soil-applied aldicarb (2-methyl -2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde 0(methylcarbamoyl) oxime) is absorbed by crop plants, with up to 80% degrading in the soil. The objective of this research was to determine if aldicarb could be applied directly to potato (Sodium tuberosum L.) seedpieces at planting using in-furrow rates without a reduction of potato beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata Say) control, thus reducing the amount of aldicarb that falls between the seedpieces. Field tests were conducted for 2 yr to determine the effectiveness of two methods of soil applications of aldicarb for control of Colorado potato beetle on white potato. Aldicarb applied at planting time as in-furrow seedpiece treatments, or as in-furrow banded applications, at rates of 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 Ib a.i./acre were effective for early season reduction of Colorado potato beetle larvae. Rates of 1.0 and 2.0 Ib a.i./acre of aldicarb with either application method effectively reduced plant defoliation caused by Colorado potato beetle until early June, while the 3.0 Ib a.i./acre rate reduced plant defoliation through July
BphI, a pyruvate-specific class II aldolase found in the polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) degradation pathway, catalyzes the reversible C-C bond cleavage of (4S)-hydroxy-2-oxoacids to form pyruvate and an aldehyde. Mutations were introduced into bphI to probe the contribution of active site residues to substrate recognition and catalysis. In contrast to the wild-type enzyme that has similar specificities for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde, the L87A variant exhibited a 40-fold preference for propionaldehyde over acetaldehyde. The specificity constant of the L89A variant in the aldol addition reaction using pentaldehyde is increased ∼50-fold, making it more catalytically efficient for pentaldehyde utilization compared to the wild-type utilization of the natural substrate, acetaldehyde. Replacement of Tyr-290 with phenylalanine or serine resulted in a loss of stereochemical control as the variants were able to utilize substrates with both R and S configurations at C4 with similar kinetic parameters. Aldol cleavage and pyruvate α-proton exchange activity were undetectable in the R16A variant, supporting the role of Arg-16 in stabilizing a pyruvate enolate intermediate. The pH dependence of the enzyme is consistent with a single deprotonation by a catalytic base with pK(a) values of approximately 7. In H20A and H20S variants, pH profiles show the dependence of enzyme activity on hydroxide concentration. On the basis of these results, a catalytic mechanism is proposed.
When stored rice (40°C, two months) was cooked, the stale flavor (komai-shu) was clearly detected by sensory test. Direct gas chromatographic analysis of head space vapors over cooked rice showed three main peaks which corresponded to propionaldehyde or acetone, n-valeraldehyde and n-caproaldehyde. On the other hand, the content of linoleic and linolenic acids of the rice decreased during storage at 40°C. This means that the unsaturated fatty acids autoxidized during storage and gave rise to carbonyl compounds responsible for the stale flavor of cooked rice.
In Japan, understanding the environmental persistence of chemicals is very important for risk assessment, and ready biodegradability tests are mainly conducted according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development test guideline 301C. However, the highest test concentration specified in test guideline 301C, 100 mg/L, may cause microbial toxicity and incomplete biodegradation. The authors performed test guideline 301C tests at test concentrations of 30 mg/L for 13 substances that were readily biodegradable in ready biodegradability tests but not in test guideline 301C tests. Of the 5 substances with potential to cause microbial toxicity at 100 mg/L, the percentage of biodegradation of sodium dimethyldithiocarbamate, 4-chloro-3-cresol (CC), thymol (THY), and p-tert-butyl-α-methylbenzenepropionaldehyde measured by biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) increased in the test guideline 301C test at 30 mg/L, suggesting a reduction in toxicity effects. Furthermore, CC and THY met the criteria for ready biodegradability, which are more than 60% of biodegradation by BOD and a 10-d window. Of the 8 substances with a low potential for causing microbial toxicity at 100 mg/L, the percentage of biodegradation of only 2-(diethylamino)ethanol increased in the test guideline 301C test at 30 mg/L. Employing a lower test concentration in the standard test guideline 301C test will contribute to improvement of consistency between results of a test guideline 301C test and other ready biodegradability tests.
The hydrolysis of 4-nitrophenyl acetate catalysed by cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) from sheep liver was studied by steady-state and transient kinetic techniques. NAD+ and NADH stimulated the steady-state rate of ester hydrolysis at concentrations expected on the basis of their Michaelis constants from the dehydrogenase reaction. At higher concentrations of the coenzymes, both NAD+ and NADH inhibited the reaction competitively with respect to 4-nitrophenyl acetate, with inhibition constants of 104 and 197 micron respectively. Propionaldehyde and chloral hydrate are competitive inhibitors of the esterase reaction. A burst in the production of 4-nitrophenoxide ion was observed, with a rate constant of 12 +/- 2s-1 and a burst amplitude that was 30% of that expected on the basis of the known NADH-binding site concentration. The rate-limiting step for the esterase reaction occurs after the formation of 4-nitrophenoxide ion. Arguments are presented for the existence of distinct ester- and aldehyde-binding sites.
Hundreds of bacterial species produce proteinaceous microcompartments (MCPs) that act as simple organelles by confining the enzymes of metabolic pathways that have toxic or volatile intermediates. A fundamental unanswered question about bacterial MCPs is how enzymes are packaged within the protein shell that forms their outer surface. Here, we report that a short N-terminal peptide is necessary and sufficient for packaging enzymes into the lumen of an MCP involved in B(12)-dependent 1,2-propanediol utilization (Pdu MCP). Deletion of 10 or 14 amino acids from the N terminus of the propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) enzyme, which is normally found within the Pdu MCP, substantially impaired packaging, with minimal effects on its enzymatic activity. Fusion of the 18 N-terminal amino acids from PduP to GFP, GST, or maltose-binding protein resulted in their encapsulation within MCPs. Bioinformatic analyses revealed N-terminal extensions in two additional Pdu proteins and three proteins from two unrelated MCPs, suggesting that N-terminal peptides may be used to package proteins into diverse MCPs. The potential uses of MCP assembly principles in nature and in biotechnology are discussed.
The fermentation of glycerol by K. oxytoca involves two parallel and coupled pathways (i.e., oxidative and reductive) as shown in Fig. 1 . Through the oxidative pathway, glycerol is dehydrogenated to dihydroxyacetone (DHA) and then to dihydroxy-acetonephosphate (DHAP), being acetic, succinic and lactic acids, as well as 2,3-butanediol, ethanol, carbon dioxide and hydrogen the final products. Through the reductive pathway, a glycerol-dehydratase enzyme removes a water molecule from glycerol to obtain 3-hydroxy-propionaldehyde (3-HPA). This product is further reduced to 1,3-PD, which cannot metabolized and is subsequently released to the medium [40] . All the mentioned by-products pertaining to both pathways are potential inhibitors of 1,3-PD production [4] .
Previous Studies on MgO doped by alkali cations have shown that solid catalyst are efficient for the aldolization, because of having preferably a high concentration of surface basic hydroxyl groups. Indeed the Mg-Al hydrotalcites actuvated by calcinations at temperatures not exceeding 1073K are mixed oxides of Mg(Al)O type. They show the structure of MgO with smaller crystallographic parameters, then in periclase (MgO). The decrease of the size of the unit cell with increasing Al content can be accounted for by the smaller ionic size of Al 3+ (0.050 nm), then Mg 2+ (0.060 nm). These mixed oxides contain both basic sites identified to O 2-and OH -in amounts depending upon the calcinations temperature, i.e., is of the dehydroxylation degree of the hydrotalcite and Lewis acid sites provided by Al 3+ and Mg 2 . The existence of acid-base pairs justifies the catalytic properties of hydrotalcites for the Aldolisation. The synthesized Hydrotalcites were then characterized using XRD and TGA/DTA techniques, which confirmed that the synthesized materials are hydrotalcite like compounds. There after the synthesized Hydrotalcites were successfully applied for the typical Aldol Condensation reaction of propionaldehyde and formaldehyde to get desired product methacrolein. We tested catalytic activity of synthesized hyrotalcites and from the results it was clear that, the Mg -Al hydrotalcite catalyzed Aldol reaction propionaldehyde coversion of 57.78% and with selectivity 51.23% to methacrolein. Ni-Al hydrotalcite showed a propionaldehyde conversion of 53.46% with 35.46% selectivity. Co -Al XRD pattern of the formed material confirms that the material is not hydrotalcite like. This material also did not show any catalytic activity for the above said Aldol condensation reaction.
The initiation reaction of autoxidation of acrylaldehyde with Cobalt (III) acetylacetonate, Co(III) (acac)3, was studied. The rate of initiation reaction was measured using the "DPPH technique". Acrylaldehyde was shown to have a much smaller rate of initiation than propionaldehyde. The rate dependence on the partial pressure of oxygen for autoxidation of acrylaldehyde was discussed by comparing the kinetic data of acrylaldehyde with those of propionaldehyde. Effects of solvents on the initiation reaction were also discussed in detail.
The reaction of N1-methylcytosine with bromoacetone,α-bromopropionaldehyde, and ω-bromoacetophenone leads respectively to the 2-methyl, 3-methyl, and 2-phenyl derivatives of 6-methyl-5-oxo-5,6-dihydroimidazo[1,2-c]pyrimidine. An activatedα-hydroxyacetone derivative, and specifically tosyloxyacetone, can be used in the cyclization reaction.
Abstract The presence of a nonspecific NADPH-linked aldehyde reductase (alcohol:NADP oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.2) was observed in various areas of bovine brain in vitro. In the midbrain, hypothalamus, and pons, the rate of NADPH oxidation, with p-nitrobenzaldehyde as substrate, was approximately 4.0 nmoles per min per mg of protein; but somewhat lower values were obtained when other regions of the brain were studied. It was found that the enzyme was localized primarily in the soluble supernatant fraction of rat brain homogenates. The enzyme from bovine brain was purified approximately 120-fold and was found to catalyze the reduction of a number of aldehydes, including substituted benzaldehydes, substituted phenylacetaldehydes, and some long chain aliphatic aldehydes. Short chain aliphatic aldehydes such as acetaldehyde or propionaldehyde were not reduced by the enzyme. With p-nitrobenzaldehyde as substrate, NADPH, but not NADH, was oxidized by bovine brain aldehyde reductase. The pH optimum for the enzyme was found to be 6.75 for aldehyde reduction, whereas the rate of oxidation of p-hydroxyphenylethanol, with NADP as cosubstrate, was optimal at pH 9.7. Km values for various substrates ranged from 3.7 x 10-6 m to 1.4 x 10-4 m. Km values for various substituted benzaldehydes were correlated with the electropositive nature of the carbonyl carbon atom by the Hammet σ-ρ relationship. Oxidation of NADPH by the partially purified enzyme was inhibited approximately 50% by 0.1 mm concentrations of amytal, phenobarbital, or chlorpromazine. The enzyme activity was not altered, however, by 10 mm pyrazole.
Phenylacetone monooxygense (PAMO) from Thermobifida fusca was employed for the asymmetric oxidation of thioanisole (sulfooxidation) and of racemic 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (Baeyer-Villiger oxidation). A pH dependence of enantioselectivity was observed in both cases. Two different residues, with pK(a) values of 7.8 +/- 0.2 and 9.2 +/- 0.2, appeared to be responsible for the pH effects on PAMO enantioselectivity. The protonation of Arg337 and the FAD:C4a-hydroperoxide/FAD:C4a-peroxide equilibrium were identified as the major factors responsible for the fine-tuning of PAMO enantioselectivity in Baeyer-Villiger oxidation and sulfooxidation, respectively.
3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde,an intermediate product during the 1,3-propanediol fermentation by Klebsiella pneumoniae,can inhibite cell growth and 1,3-propanediol production,but it can be controlled by regulating the initial glycerol concentration and pH value.In the batch culture with the initial glycerol concentration of 20,30,50 and 70 g/L,(3-hydroxypropionaldehyde) concentration can reach the peak of 4.31,6.87,11.48 and 13.49 mmol/L respectively.The 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde accumulated can't be converted effectively when the initial glycerol concentration is higher than (50 g/L),which led to the fermentation ceasing.A proper pH controlling strategy (pH=7.75-8.0) can enhance the conversion of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde in the broth and decrease the toxicity of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to the cell.During a fed-batch culture with the initial glycerol concentration of 30 g/L at a pH value of 7.75,1,3-propanediol concentration reached 37.16 (g/L) in (32 h) of fermentation.Furthermore,the productivity and yield can be 1.16 g/(L·h) and 52.66% (g/g) respectively.
In this study, the amounts of odorous carbonyl compounds (OCCs) including acetaldehyde (Acet-A), propionaldehyde (Pron-A), butylaldehyde (Buty-A), iso-valeric aldehyde (Iso-Vale-A) and n-valeric aldehyde (N-Vale-A) emitted from a fishery industrial complex near the exhibition facilities of "Expo 2012 Yeosu Korea" were measured. Acet-A was found to be the most abundant OCC, and the total concentrations of the OCCs were the highest in the summer. However, due to vehicular exhaust and photochemical reactions, the concentrations of some of the OCCs presented their highest levels in the fall. A significant correlation between Acet-A and Buty-A was found at the major fishery facilities (r = 0.816, p = 1.87E-15, n = 60) and at the border areas (r = 0.809, p = 3.40E-12, n = 48) of this fishery industrial complex. The concentrations of OCCs at the border areas were not worse than those at the urban areas in other places, indicating that the concentrations of ambient OCCs at the border areas were not greatly influenced by manmade activities.
Bacillus subtilis strains are known to produce a vast array of antimicrobial compounds. However, some compounds remain to be identified. Disk assays performed in vitro with Bacillus subtilis CU12 showed a significant reduction in mycelial growth of Alternaria solani, Botrytis cinerea, Fusarium sambucinum, and Pythium sulcatum. Crude B. subtilis culture filtrates were subsequently extracted with ethyl acetate and butanol. A bioassay guided purification procedure revealed the presence of one major antifungal compound in the butanol extract. Purification of the compound was performed using a reverse-phase C18 solid phase extraction (SPE) cartridge and flash column chromatography. NMR data showed that the main antimicrobial compound was a cyclic dimer of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (HPA). This study demonstrated the antimicrobial activity of B. subtilis strain CU12 against phytopathogenic microorganisms is mediated at least in part by the production of HPA. It also suggests that this B. subtilis strain could be effective at controlling pathogens through protection of its ecological niche by antibiosis.
The invention relates to an epoxypropane purifying method. The problems of high extractant cost and bad product quality due to the introduction of a system outside medium in the prior art are mainly solved. The epoxypropane purifying method is characterized in that a crude epoxypropane solution containing epoxypropane, water, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, methanol, acetone and C5C7 hydrocarbon impurities and obtained after a reaction of cumene hydroperoxide and propylene is extracted and distilled by an extractant, wherein the extractant is isopropyl benzene. The epoxypropane purifying method well solves the problems, and can be used in the industrial production of epoxypropane purification.
There has been considerable debate and speculation about the role of weakly bound complexes in radical−molecule reactions in the gas phase, especially in atmospheric chemistry. Among the significant number of potentially important molecular aggregates in chemical reactions, water complexes are of particular interest. Beyond the well-known energy transfer role of water in complex-forming reactions, it has been shown that water may also have a catalytic effect on the kinetics of radical-molecule reactions because of reduced reaction barrier heights for the complexes. Here we report studies of the reaction of OH radicals and propionaldehyde in the presence and absence of water vapor between 300 and 60 K in Laval nozzle expansions. Water accelerates the overall reaction at low temperatures but much less pronounced than for the reaction of OH with acetaldehyde reported recently. Quantum chemical calculations help us to understand this behavior, which can be rationalized in terms of the stability of intermediat...
Overall rate of bioproduction in 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase, an enzyme that catalyse the synthesis of the precursor of aromatic high quality plastic, could be affected by preliminary product 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (HPA) where many structural properties have been summarily analysed via nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), Fourier Transformed Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC), Gas Phase Chromatography (GPC), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM). Although the chemical instrumental analysis of the 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (HPA) may not produce desired result but the data obtained could be useful for future similar analysis that are rare in bulk production. The microbial consumption of various media especially those with the highest activities has been conducted, with the initial identification of Acidovorax sp. as the best propanediol dehydrogenase production strains. CHEMICAL SYNTHESIS OF 3-HYDROXYPROPIONALDEHYDE (3-HPA) 100 mL Acrolein (90%, Aldrich) was first distilled. 10 mL was stored at 4°C for use latter. 100 ml 1.5M sulphuric acid (3N H2O) was mixed with 75 ml acrolein into a round bottom flask containing RO water 325 mL. The mixture was contained in a 50°C water bath for 3 hr before being placed on ice. Calcium carbonate (CaCO3, BDH / Merck Chemicals) in the solid form was added through neutrality, shown by universal pH indicator strips. The solution was then filtered in a scintered funnel with residues washed with RO funnel in vacuum. The solution was latter transferred to a separating funnel, washed with 3 times volumes of dichloromethane (DCM). The water layer was collected and evaporated at 50°C using a high vacuum rotary evaporator. The remaining layer was subjected to 1 H-NMR analysis along with thin-layer chromatography (TLC) using a 1:1 acetone : ethyl acetate separative solvent mixture. TLC plates was visualized by using Goofy’s Dip. A scintered funnel was then filled halfway up with silica gel (about 100 ml funnel). Synthesized material was then dissolved in equal volumes of acetone-acetate mixture. Vacuum was applied then until the material was immersed into the silica. About 20-30 mL of solvent was poured on top then. Vacuum was applied until the solvent had run through. The process was repeated for three times and each volume solvent latter was collected in separate round bottom flask. Solvent then was evaporated off using the rotary evaporator. The remaining compound was analyzed by H-NMR using D2O as solvent (Bruker, AV 400, 400 MHz).
Propionate is produced in the human large intestine by microbial fermentation and may help maintain human health. We have examined the distribution of three different pathways used by bacteria for propionate formation using genomic and metagenomic analysis of the human gut microbiota and by designing degenerate primer sets for the detection of diagnostic genes for these pathways. Degenerate primers for the acrylate pathway (detecting the lcdA gene, encoding lactoyl-CoA dehydratase) together with metagenomic mining revealed that this pathway is restricted to only a few human colonic species within the Lachnospiraceae and Negativicutes. The operation of this pathway for lactate utilisation in Coprococcus catus (Lachnospiraceae) was confirmed using stable isotope labelling. The propanediol pathway that processes deoxy sugars such as fucose and rhamnose was more abundant within the Lachnospiraceae (based on the pduP gene, which encodes propionaldehyde dehydrogenase), occurring in relatives of Ruminococcus obeum and in Roseburia inulinivorans. The dominant source of propionate from hexose sugars, however, was concluded to be the succinate pathway, as indicated by the widespread distribution of the mmdA gene that encodes methylmalonyl-CoA decarboxylase in the Bacteroidetes and in many Negativicutes. In general, the capacity to produce propionate or butyrate from hexose sugars resided in different species, although two species of Lachnospiraceae (C. catus and R. inulinivorans) are now known to be able to switch from butyrate to propionate production on different substrates. A better understanding of the microbial ecology of short-chain fatty acid formation may allow modulation of propionate formation by the human gut microbiota.
Abstract The molecular structure of gaseous ( Z )-(propionaldehyde oxime) has been determined by the joint analysis of electron diffraction data and rotational constants. The molecular structure optimization has also been performed by molecular orbital calculations. The molecular skeleton is planar, but the internal rotation around the C-C(N) bond is a large amplitude motion with a potential barrier height of V 1 = 1.5 kcal mol −1 . The geometrical molecular parameters obtained are: r g (C m C) = 1.549 ± 0.003 A, r g (CC) = 1.497 ± 0.002 A, r g (C N) = 1.295 ± 0.001 A, r g (NO) = 1.430 ± 0.002 A, ∠ CCC = 109.4 ± 0.4°, ∠ CCN = 127.5 ± 0.3° and ∠ CNO = 109.3 ± 0.3°.
Sustained oscillations have been observed in cell growth and glycerol metabolism by Klebsiella pneumoniae during long-term continuous cultivations under anaerobic conditions. However, the oscillation behavior of glucose–glycerol co-fermentation under micro-aerobic conditions has yet not been studied. In this study, the unclear mechanism of oscillation was investigated by using different substrates including glycerol, glucose, and mixtures of glycerol and glucose. A large perturbation of substrate concentration was operated to study the dynamic behavior of continuous fermentation by K. pneumoniae DSM 2026 under micro-aerobic conditions. Oscillations occurred when 80 g of glycerol l−1 was used as single carbon source or co-substrate with 35 g of glucose l−1, whereas no oscillation was observed when glucose was used alone. During the oscillation phases, parameters periodically passed maxima and minima at a relatively constant time interval, and the period of oscillation was 10–16 h. The comparison between glycerol and glucose metabolism revealed that a potential mechanism of oscillation lies in the accumulation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which is toxic to cell growth.
Propionaldehyde at partial pressures of from 0.0006 to 0.04 mm was photooxidized at 3 100 A in the presence of 150 mm of oxygen. The major products were ethyl hydroperoxide and carbon monoxide. Ace...
The reaction behavior of propylene oxide with boron trifluoride was affected remarkably by solvent. In dioxane, the isomerization to propionaldehyde proceeded smoothly and selectively, while the reaction behavior in heptane, benzene, and tetrahydrofuran was quite different from that in dioxane.
Abstract Catalytic conversion of CO 2 into chemicals and fuels is an alternative to alleviate climate change and ocean acidification. The catalytic reduction of CO 2 by H 2 can lead to the formation of various products: carbon monoxide, carboxylic acids, aldehydes, alcohols and hydrocarbons. In this paper, a comprehensive thermodynamics analysis of CO 2 hydrogenation is conducted using the Gibbs free energy minimization method. The results show that CO 2 reduction to CO needs a high temperature and H 2 /CO 2 ratio to achieve a high CO 2 conversion. However, synthesis of methanol from CO 2 needs a relatively high pressure and low temperature to minimize the reverse water–gas shift reaction. Direct CO 2 hydrogenation to formic acid or formaldehyde is thermodynamically limited. On the contrary, production of CH 4 from CO 2 hydrogenation is the thermodynamically easiest reaction with nearly 100% CH 4 yield at moderate conditions. In addition, complex reactions with more than one product are also calculated in this work. Among the considered carboxylic acids (HCOOH, CH 3 COOH and C 2 H 5 COOH), propionic acid dominates in the product stream (selectivity above 90%). The same trend can also be found in the hydrogenation of CO 2 to aldehydes and alcohols with the major product of propionaldehyde and butanol, respectively. In the process of CO 2 hydrogenation to alkenes, low temperature, high pressure, and high H 2 partial pressure favor the CO 2 conversion. C 4 H 6 is the most thermodynamically favorable among all considered alkynes under different temperatures and pressures. The thermodynamic calculations are validated with experimental results, suggesting that the Gibbs free energy minimization method is effective for thermodynamically understanding the reaction network involved in the CO 2 hydrogenation process, which is helpful for the development of high-performance catalysts.
1. ::: ::: The condensation of acetoacetic ester with trialkyl phosphites, formaldehyde or 2-furaldehyde goes with the formation of esters of 2-aceto-2-carbalkoxyethylphosphonic acids. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The reaction of acetoacetic ester with benzaldehydes, butyraldehyde or propionaldehyde and triethyl phosphite gave 2-oxo-2-ethoxy-3-alkyl(aryl)-4-carbethoxy-5-methyl-1-oxa-2-phosphol-4-enes and the esters of 1-alkyl-2-acetoethylphosphonic acid. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The formation of esters of 2,2-diacetoethylphosphonic acid and 2-acetoethylphosphonic acid is observed during condensation in the ternary system: triethyl phosphite-formaldehyde-acetylacetone.
Abstract The reaction of a precatalyst, [Cp∗Rh(bpy)(H 2 O)](OTf) 2 ( 1 ), with sodium formate provided the hydride complex, [Cp∗Rh(bpy)(H)] + ( 2 ), in situ , at pH 7.0, which was then evaluated in an aqueous, catalytic hydride transfer process with water soluble substrates that encompass 2-pentanone ( 3 ), cyclohexanone ( 4 ), acetophenone ( 5 ), propionaldehyde ( 6 ), benzaldehyde ( 7 ), and p -methoxybenzaldehyde ( 8 ). The initial rates, r i , of appearance of the reduction product alcohols at 23 °C provided a relative rate scale: 8 > 7 ≈ 6 > 5 > 4 > 3 , while the effect of concentration of substrate, precatalyst, and sodium formate on r i , using 7 as an example, implicates [Cp∗Rh(bpy)(H)] + formation as the rate-limiting step. The experimental kinetic rate expression was found to be: d [alcohol]/ dt = k cat [ 1 ][HCO 2 Na]; substrate being pseudo zero order in water. The steric effects were also analyzed and appeared to be of less importance intra both the ketone and aldehyde series, but an inter series comparison appeared to show that the aldehydes had less of a steric effect on the initial rate, i.e., 7 > 4 by a factor of 3.6, while the aldehyde series appeared to have some moderate electronic influence on rates, presumably via electron donation to increase binding to the Cp∗Rh metal ion center, in accordance with these proposed concerted binding/hydride transfer reactions. A proposed catalytic cycle will also be presented.
In ethylene hydroformylation over Pd/SiO2 catalysts with 17–85% Pd-dispersion, the turnover frequency for propionaldehyde formation increased with the Pd dispersion, particularly in the region of higher dispersion, suggesting the responsibility of atoms at the corners and at edges on the surface of Pd metal particles for this reaction.
In this study the clam, Tapes philippinarum, a filter-feeding bivalve living in soft bottoms, was used to investigate the water/sediment pollution in Venice Lagoon (Venice, Italy), a heavily urbanised and industrialised area. To this end, clams collected from indigenous populations in a clean farming area (Val Dogà) were transplanted into a relatively low contaminated site (Palude della Rosa) and in a heavily polluted area (Porto Marghera), for 5 weeks. A range of possible induced stress indices were measured, on the basis of potential toxicity mechanisms, including specific enzymatic activities [Bap hydroxylase and NADPH cytochrome c reductase, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PDH)] and general cellular responses (lysosomal latency). Moreover, chemical analyses (polychlorinated biphenyls, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, DDTs) were carried out on sediments and animal tissues at the beginning and end of the transplantation experiments. The chemical results show an active bio-accumulation activity from sediment in clams translocated to the most polluted area. Correspondingly, biological data indicate marked effects on PDH activity and latency in T. philippinarum from the same site. In contrast, no similar pattern has been observed in the other considered indices, possibly due to antagonistic effects of the complex contaminant mixture present in the environment.
Alkynes via phase transfer–catalyzed dehydrohalogenation: propiolaldehyde diethyl acetal ::: ::: ::: ::: intermediate: 2,3-dibromopropionaldehyde diethyl acetal ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: reactant: 100 g. (0.295 mole) of tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: propiolaldehyde diethyl acetal ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: reactant: tetrabutylammonium bromide ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: diphenylacetylene ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: phenylacetylene ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: p-tolylacetylene ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 3-chloropropiolaldehyde diethyl acetal ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: elimination, dehydrohalogenation; ::: elimination, miscellaneous; ::: halogenation, bromination; ::: tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate, recovery
The kcat value for the oxidation of propionaldehyde by sheep liver cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase increased 3-fold, from 0.16 s-1 at pH 7.6 to 0.49 s-1 at pH 5.2, in parallel with the increase in the rate of displacement of NADH from binary enzyme.NADH complexes. A burst in nucleotide fluorescence was observed at all pH values consistent with the rate of isomerization of binary enzyme.NADH complexes constituting the rate-limiting step in the steady state. No substrate activation by propionaldehyde was observed at pH 5.2, but the enzyme exhibited dissociation/association behavior. The inactive dissociated form of the enzyme was favored by low enzyme concentration, low pH, and low ionic strength. Propionaldehyde protected the enzyme against dissociation.
Propionic acid is used in chicken and other animal feed to prevent infection from mould [8] . It is also used for the manufacturing of cellulose-based plastic, herbicides, and perfumes. Calcium, sodium, and potassium salts of propionic acid are used as food preservatives, generally recognized as safe food additives. Presently, there has been an increasing interest in the production of propionic acid by fermentative processes [9] [10] [11] . In recent years, concerns about the uncertain supply and the eventual depletion of world petroleum reserves have fostered investigations into alternative ways to produce petrochemical derivatives. One example is the propionic acid, which is currently produced commercially by the oxidation of liquid-phase propane or propionaldehyde [4, 12, 13] . If good yields of propionic acid could be obtained by fermentation of low-cost industrial wastes or renewable sources, biological production could become economically competitive, besides reducing the contaminant industrial wastes [14] .
Propionate is produced in the human large intestine by microbial fermentation and may help maintain human health. We have examined the distribution of three different pathways used by bacteria for propionate formation using genomic and metagenomic analysis of the human gut microbiota and by designing degenerate primer sets for the detection of diagnostic genes for these pathways. Degenerate primers for the acrylate pathway (detecting the lcdA gene, encoding lactoylCoA dehydratase) together with metagenomic mining revealed that this pathway is restricted to only a few human colonic species within the Lachnospiraceae and Negativicutes. The operation of this pathway for lactate utilisation in Coprococcus catus (Lachnospiraceae) was confirmed using stable isotope labelling. The propanediol pathway that processes deoxy sugars such as fucose and rhamnose was more abundant within the Lachnospiraceae (based on the pduP gene, which encodes propionaldehyde dehydrogenase), occurring in relatives of Ruminococcus obeum and in Roseburia inulinivorans. The dominant source of propionate from hexose sugars, however, was concluded to be the succinate pathway, as indicated by the widespread distribution of the mmdA gene that encodes methylmalonyl-CoA decarboxylase in the Bacteroidetes and in many Negativicutes. In general, the capacity to produce propionate or butyrate from hexose sugars resided in different species, although two species of Lachnospiraceae (C. catus and R. inulinivorans) are now known to be able to switch from butyrate to propionate production on different substrates. A better understanding of the microbial ecology of short-chain fatty acid formation may allow modulation of propionate formation by the human gut microbiota.
BACKGROUND: Previous studies have reported associations of perinatal exposure to air toxics, including some metals and volatile organic compounds, with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). OBJECTIVES: Our goal was to further explore associations of perinatal air toxics with ASD and associated quantitative traits in high-risk multiplex families. METHODS: We included participants of a U.S. family-based study [the Autism Genetic Resource Exchange (AGRE)] who were born between 1994 and 2007 and had address information. We assessed associations between average annual concentrations at birth for each of 155 air toxics from the U.S. EPA emissions-based National-scale Air Toxics Assessment and a) ASD diagnosis (1,540 cases and 477 controls); b) a continuous measure of autism-related traits, the Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS, among 1,272 cases and controls); and c) a measure of autism severity, the Calibrated Severity Score (among 1,380 cases). In addition to the individual's air toxic level, mixed models (clustering on family) included the family mean air toxic level, birth year, and census covariates, with consideration of the false discovery rate. RESULTS: ASD diagnosis was positively associated with propionaldehyde, methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE), bromoform, 1,4-dioxane, dibenzofurans, and glycol ethers and was inversely associated with 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 4,4 0 -methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI), benzidine, and ethyl carbamate (urethane). These associations were robust to adjustment in two-pollutant models. Autism severity was associated positively with carbon disulfide and chlorobenzene, and negatively with 1,4-dichlorobenzene. There were no associations with the SRS.
It was thus very surprising to us to see the provocative claim by Houen et al. (10) that the metabolism of polyamines (spermine and spermidine) by plasma amine oxidases occurs principally at the secondary rather than primary amine centers. These workers provided data on the sequential conversion of spermine to spermidine and then to putrescine, which they claimed resulted from regiospecific oxidation at the two internal secondary amine positions of spermine, releasing 1 and then 2 eq of 3-aminopropanal (Scheme 1). Upon attempted isolation, the latter is unstable with respect to elimination to acrolein and ammonia and could only be identified qualitatively by ion-exchange chromatography (before and after borohydride reduction) and by 1 H NMR spectroscopy. A review of the literature published since the initial studies by the Tabor group reveals that the formation of spermidine and then putrescine had been consistently observed (11-13), although Bachrach and co-workers (14) interpreted this to be a consequence not of secondary amine oxidation but of spontaneous elimination of acrolein by the labile aminopropionaldehyde products of terminal deamination (Scheme 2).
The genes encoding coenzyme B 12 -dependent glycerol dehydratase of Citrobacter freundii were cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The B 12 -free enzyme was purified to homogeneity. It consists of three types of subunits whose N-terminal sequences are in accordance with those deduced from the open reading frames dhaB, dhaC, and dhaE, coding for subunits of 60,433 ( Glycerol dehydratase (EC 4.2.1.30) catalyzes the coenzyme B 12 -dependent conversion of glycerol, 1,2-propanediol, and 1,2-ethanediol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acetaldehyde, respectively (14, 23). The enzyme is involved in anaerobic glycerol utilization by Citrobacter freundii. In the absence of an external oxidant, glycerol is fermented by a dismutation process using two pathways. Through one pathway glycerol is dehydrogenated by an NAD ϩ -linked glycerol dehydrogenase to dihydroxyacetone, which is then phosphorylated and funneled to glycolysis by dihydroxyacetone kinase (12). Through the other pathway glycerol is dehydrated by glycerol dehydratase to form 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, which is reduced to the major fermentation product 1,3-propanediol by the NADH-linked 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase, thereby regenerating NAD ϩ (10). The four key enzymes of this pathway are encoded by the dha regulon, the expression of which is induced when dihydroxyacetone or glycerol is present (10, 16). Recently we have cloned and expressed the dha regulon of C. freundii in Escherichia coli (6). The genes coding for 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase, glycerol dehydrogenase, and dihydroxyacetone kinase have been identified and characterized (5, 7). Here we report on the coenzyme B 12 -dependent enzyme glycerol dehydratase.
Two isozymes of horse liver aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldehyde, NAD oxidoreductase (EC 1.2.1.3)), F1 and F2, have been purified to homogeneity using salt fractionation followed by ion exchange and gel filtration chromatography. The specific activities of the two isozymes in a pH 9.0 system with propionaldehyde as substrate were approximately 0.35 and 1.0 mumol of NADH/min/mg of protein for the F1 and F2 isozymes, respectively. The multiporosity polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis molecular weights of the F1 and F2 isozymes were approximately 230,000 and 240,000 respectively. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gave subunit molecular weight estimates of 52,000 and 53,000 for the F1 and F2 isozymes, respectively. The amino acid compositions of the two isozymes were found to be similar; the ionizable amino acid contents being consistent with the electrophoretic and chromatographic behavior of the two isozymes. Both isozymes exhibited a broad aldehyde specificity, oxidizing a wide variety of aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes and utilized NAD as coenzyme, but at approximately 300-fold higher coenzyme concentration could use NADP. The F1 isozyme exhibited a very low Km for NAD (3 muM) and a higher Km for acetaldehyde (70 muM), while the F2 isozyme was found to have a higher Km for NAD (30 muM) and a low Km for acetaldehyde (0.2 muM). The two isozymes showed similar chloral hydrate and p-chloromercuribenzoate inhibition characteristics, but the F1 isozyme was found to be several orders of magnittude more sensitive to disulfiram, a physiological inhibitor of acetaldehyde oxidation. Based on its disulfiram inhibition characteristics, it has been suggested that the F1 isozyme may be the primary enzyme for oxidizing the acetyldehyde produced during ethanol oxidation in vivo.
Abstract The molecular interaction between the polar systems of propan-1-ol and propionaldehyde for various mole fractions at different temperatures were studied by determining the frequency dependent complex dielectric permittivity by using the open-ended coaxial probe technique method in the microwave frequency range from 20 MHz to 20 GHz. The geometries are optimized at HF, B3LYP and MP2 with 6-311G and 6-311G+ basis sets. Dipole moments of the binary mixtures are calculated from the dielectric data using Higasi’s method and compared with the theoretical results. Conformational analysis of the formation of hydrogen bond between the propan-1-ol and propionaldehyde is supported by the FT-IR and molecular polarizability calculations. The average relaxation times are calculated from their respective Cole–Cole plots. The activation entropy, activation enthalpy and Kirkwood correlation ‘ g ’ factor, excess permittivity ( e E ), excess inverse relaxation time (1/ τ ) E , Bruggeman parameter ( f B ) have also been determined for propan-1-ol and propionaldehyde and the results were correlated.
SsoPox, a ~35 kDa enzyme from Sulfolobus solfataricus, can hydrolyze and inactivate a variety of organophosphate (OP)-compounds. The enzyme is a potential candidate for the development of prophylactic and therapeutic agent against OP-poisoning in humans. However, the therapeutic use of recombinant SsoPox suffers from certain limitations associated with the use of recombinant protein pharmaceuticals. Some of these limitations could be overcome by conjugating SsoPox enzyme with polyethylene glycol (PEG). In this study, we report generation and in vitro characterization of N-terminal mono-PEGylated rSsoPox(2p) (a variant of rSsoPox(wt) having enhanced OP-hydrolyzing activity). The enzyme was PEGylated with mPEG-propionaldehyde and the PEGylated protein was isolated using ion-exchange chromatography. Compared with the unmodified enzyme, mono-PEGylation of rSsoPox results in improvement in the thermostability and protease resistance of the enzyme. PEGylated rSsoPox(2p) can be developed as a candidate for the prevention / treatment of OP-poisoning.
Enzymes that catalyze the oxidation or reduction of methylglyoxal were screened for in several prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms. Methylglyoxal-reducing activity was found to be widely distributed at considerably high levels in microorganisms. Methylglyoxal-oxidizing activity was detected only in cells of Pseudomonas putida among the organisms examined. The enzyme responsible for the methylglyoxal oxidation was purified approximately 240 fold from a cell extract of P. putida. The enzyme consisted of a single polypeptide chain with a molecular weight of 42,000 and showed a pH optimum of 8.0. The enzyme was active on 2-ketoaldehydes [glyoxal, methylglyoxal (Km = 1.0 mm) and phenylglyoxal] and some aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, glycolaldehyde and propionaldehyde) in the presence of NAD (^m = 0.1mm). The bacterial methylglyoxal-oxidizing enzyme appeared similar to goat liver 2-ketoaldehyde dehydrogenase in molecular weight and structure, but was different in its substrate affinity.
In the actual environmental and economic context, there is an increased interest in the microbial production at a large industrial scale of the bifunctional weak carboxylic acids, the 2-hydroxypropionic acid (lactic acid) and its isomer the 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). Among their various applications, these compounds are primarily sought for their direct use as building blocks mainly for the synthesis of bio-based polymers. Moreover, 3-HP has enormous potential for the production of commercially valuable chemicals. Although 3-HP is currently of limited usage due to its exclusive synthesis via chemical pathways, its market is expected to significantly grow up to a volume of 20,000 tons per year in 2015 according to a report of the International Energy Agency IEA-Bioenergy (2012) with a cost of 1,100 $ per ton. Moreover, in recent years, the tremendous growth of biodiesel manufacturing industries resulted in a large production of inexpensive and abundant available glycerol as by-product that could be used as substrate. ::: Until now, only lactic acid bacteria from the Lactobacillus genus have been shown to produce 3-HP from glycerol, although at low productivity. In the present work, the bioconversion of glycerol into 3-HP by Lactobacillus reuteri was studied. Product and its metabolic intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) are suspected to exhibit inhibitory or toxic effects on the producing microorganisms, thus leading to low productivity and dilute product stream. This entails high costs for isolation and purification of the product. A potential strategy to relieve the inhibitory stress, to increase the performance of the microbial cells and to recover the molecule of interest is to implement an “In Situ Product Recovery” (ISPR), by which upstream bioconversion is combined to downstream extraction and recovery. ::: Although there are currently no ISPR technique developed in the literature for the extraction of 3-HP, some patents suggest that processes which proved to be effective for the extraction of its positional isomer 2-HP, could also be applied to 3-HP since both molecule exhibit quite similar physicochemical properties. A promising technique that drew a lot of attention lately for the extraction of 2-HP is the reactive extraction in an organic phase containing an extractant. In the present work, the extraction of 3-HP was studied using the long chain tertiary amine trioctylamine (TOA) or the quaternary ammonium salt tri-n-octylmethylammonium chloride (Aliquat 336) as extractants, and n-decanol as diluent. Comparison was made with 2-HP. ::: Results showed that the hydrophobicity and pKa differences between 3-HP and 2-HP had a significant impact on the performances of reactive extraction. Performing the extraction in a hollow fiber-membrane contactor provided a high interfacial area and allowed an important rise of the apparent distribution coefficient (KDapp). Extraction from a model binary solution of 3-HP in water was successfully performed in a membrane contactor. In addition, similar results in terms of extraction kinetic and yield were obtained when the medium was supplemented with the other molecules of the bioconversion pathway (Glycerol, 3-HPA and 1.3 propanediol), that confirmed the selectivity of the studied extraction process. These results thus demonstrate the high potential of this ISPR technique applied for the biotechnological production of 3-HP.
Abstract Coenzyme limitation is one of the most important issues for 1,3-propanediol (PDO) production. Elementary mode analysis indicated that pentose phosphate pathway and TCA cycle were the most efficient pathways for generating reducing equivalent NADPH and NADH. Under the optimal condition for PDO production, 0.542 mol NADPH/(mol glycerol), accounting for 61.7% of the total reducing equivalent would be produced, which requires the fast conversion of NADPH for PDO synthesis. Based on the above analysis, an endogenous NADPH-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase (HOR) was cloned and overexpressed for NADPH usage in Klebsiella pneumoniae ACCC10082. The activities of HOR and total 1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase (PDOR) increased 5.8-fold and 1.1-fold than that of the wild type strain. In the fed-batch fermentation, the PDO concentration and yield of the constructed strain increased 10.4% and 9.4% while the highest 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde accumulation reduced 35.1% compared with that of the wild type strain. Metabolic flux analysis suggested that the increase of PDO yield was due to the enhanced carbon flux flowed to pentose phosphate pathway which provided coenzyme for HOR utilization. This work is helpful for the further understanding of PDO metabolism in K. pneumoniae and also useful for the strain improvement of PDO production.
PURPOSE: A biomarker for identifying propionaldehyde-specific exposure and an identification method using the same are provided to monitor propionaldehyde and to determine risks using a response gene selected by a DNA microarray chip. CONSTITUTION: A DNA microarray chip for identifying propionaldehyde-specific exposure contains nucleic acid sequences of one or more genes selected among angiotensinogen (AGT) gene (Genbank accession number NM_0000299), lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPAR1) gene (Genbank accession number NM_057159), secreted and transmembrane 1 (SECTM1, Genbank accession number NM_003004), tumor necrosis factor (ligand) superfamily, member 10 (TNFSF10) gene (Genbank accession number NM_003810), and heme oxygenase 1 (HMOX1) gene (Genbank accession number NM_002133) or a complementary strand thereof. A method for identifying propionaldehyde exposure comprises the steps of: isolating RNAs from somatic cells of an experimental group and a normal control group; synthesizing cDNAs from the RNAs; labeling the cDNAs with different fluorescent materials; hybridizing the cDNAs onto a DNA microarray chip; analyzing the DNA microarray chip; and comparing the expression levels of genes of the control group and the experimental group, integrated on the DNA microarray chip.
Acetanisole (4'-methoxyacetophenone) (AC), benzaldehyde (BE), cinnamaldehyde (CI), diacetyl (DI), phenylpropionaldehyde (PH), and pyruvaldehyde (PY) were tested against growth of S. aureus WRRC B124 in brain heart infusion broth. Activity was assessed in the presence and absence of oxygen at 12, 19 and 37C, and in combination with mild (20 min at 50 or 60C) heat treatments. The carbonyl compounds limited S. aureus growth at minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of ≤ 0.5-8.0 mM. After 4 h at 37C, a 2 to 3-log 10 CFU/ml population reduction was observed with cultures containing 8.0 mM PH, PY, DI or CI. Activity was 02-tension independent, with CI (0.5 mM), DI(2.0 mM) and PY(2.0 mM) being most active. The MIC for CI was temperature independent, while PY was most effective at 19C, and PH and DI at 12C. Mild heat treatment of carbonyl-supplemented samples reduced previously observed MICs. At 60C, for example, the MICS for AC and BE, 4.0 and 8.0 mM respectively, were both reduced to ≤ 0.5 mM. The decimal reduction times for S. aureus exposed to both UV-light and 8 mM flavor compounds were 3.3 and 4.3 s for CI and DI, respectively. However, the other compounds were not as effective in the presence of UV since the decimal reduction times ranged from 7.7 to 9.0 s. The carbonyl compounds tested were effective antistaphylococcal agents and their use in combination with thermal processing may serve as a new approach to control S. aureus growth and other gram-positive foodborne pathogens.
1. ::: ::: The three-membered ring of cyclopropyl phenyl ether is stable in halogenation and acylation reactions, while the cyclopropoxy group exhibits a para-orienting effect. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The nitration of cyclopropyl phenyl ether with dilute HNO3 solution is accompanied by a cleavage of the three-membered ring, with the formation of 2,4-dinitrophenol and propionaldehyde.
Abstract 3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is an important platform chemical from which several commodity and specialty chemicals can be generated. The present investigation focuses on the construction and evaluation of a recombinant strain Escherichia coli SH254 that produces 3-HP from glycerol. The strain was developed by cloning two genes, dhaB of Klebsiella pneumoniae DSM 2026 encoding glycerol dehydratase and aldH of E. coli K-12 MG1655 encoding aldehyde dehydrogenase, respectively. In vitro assays of crude enzyme extract of glycerol dehydratase (DhaB) showed 37.0 U mg −1 protein on glycerol with coenzyme B 12 , and partially purified aldehyde dehydrogenase (AldH) exhibited 22.8 U mg −1 protein on 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) with NAD + as a cofactor. When cultivated aerobically on a glycerol medium containing yeast extract, the recombinant E. coli SH254 produced 3-HP at a maximum of 6.5 mmol l −1 (0.58 g l −1 ). The highest specific rate and yield of 3-HP production were estimated as 6.6 mmol g −1 cdw h −1 and 0.48 mol mol −1 glycerol, respectively. Although not optimized extensively, this study is encouraging for further development of a bioprocess to produce 3-HP from glycerol.
Ultrasound-assisted dispersive liquid–liquid microextraction (UDLLME) and simultaneous derivatization followed by GC-MS was developed for the analysis of four aldehydes including acetaldehyde (ACE), propionaldehyde (PRO), butyraldehyde (BUT) and valeraldehyde (VAL) in water samples. In the proposed method, the aldehydes were derivatized with O-2,3,4,5,6-(pentafluorobenzyl)hydroxylamine (PFBHA) and extracted by UDLLME in aqueous solution simultaneously; finally, the derivatives were analyzed by GC-MS. The experimental parameters were investigated and the method validations were studied. The optimal conditions were: aqueous sample of 5 mL, PFBHA of 50 μL, 1.0 mL ethanol (disperser solvent) containing 20 μL chlorobenzene (extraction solvent), ultrasound time of 2 min and centrifuging time of 3 min at 6000 rpm. The proposed method provided satisfactory precision (RSD 1.8–10.2%), wide linear range (0.8–160 μg/L), good linearity (R2 0.9983–0.9993), good relative recovery (85–105%) and low limit of detection (0.16–0.23 μg/L). The proposed method was successfully applied for the analysis of aldehydes in water samples. The experimental results showed that the proposed method was a very simple, rapid, low-cost, sensitive and efficient analytical method for the determination of trace amount of aldehydes in water samples.
The mechanism of a typical Petasis-type boronic mannich reaction (the styrylboronic acid, dibenzylamine, and α-hydroxylpropionaldehyde) has been investigated using density functional theory calculations. According to our calculations, the reaction is most likely to proceed through the following steps: 1) the nucleophilic addition of the amine to the aldehyde to form the carbinolamine; 2) the dehydration of the carbinolamine; 3) the formation of the tetra-coordinated borate intermediate; 4) the CC bond formation by the intramolecular transfer of the styryl group; 5) the hydrolysis of the resulting intermediate to give the final products. The highest point on the energy profile is the transition state for the CC bond formation (118.8 kJ·mol−1 above the reactants in ethanol). Our results can give reasonable explanations on some experimental facts observed for many Petasis-type boronic Mannich reactions.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity was measured in primary cultures of normal human hepatocytes and of the human hepatoma cell line HepG2 after application of phenobarbital (PB) or 3-methylcholanthrene (MC) for 5 days. Treatment with PB alone resulted in a significant increase in both protein and DNA content at concentrations of 2 and 3 mM. Treatment with MC at a concentration as low as 5 microM led to a significant loss of cells when it lasted more than 5 days. Concentrations of 3-5 mM of PB in the media of HepG2 cell cultures caused a 2-fold enhancement of the activity of ALDH, as measured with NAD and propionaldehyde (P/NAD) or benzaldehyde (B/NAD). On the other hand, MC-treated cultures (5 microM) showed a 20-fold increase in enzyme activity measured with NADP and benzaldehyde (B/NADP), and a 2-fold increase in B/NAD activity. Combined treatment with both PB and MC led to an effect of dynamic synergism as far as B/NAD and B/NADP activities are concerned, suggesting a metabolite of MC as the mediator for the increase of ALDH activity. Normal human hepatocytes in primary cultures responded to PB (3 mM) in a similar way as HepG2 cells as far as DNA and protein content and ALDH activity are concerned. It is concluded, that HepG2 hepatoma cells behave similar to the normal hepatocytes in terms of ALDH regulation and can be used for studies on the activity of ALDH as modified by added xenobiotics.
A protein with a mol. mass of 51,000 (ThcE) that was induced in Rhodococcus sp. N186/21 during assimilation of thiocarbamate herbicides, atrazine, ethanol, propanol, glycerol, propionaldehyde or ethanolamine was identified by two-dimensional electrophoresis. The thcE gene was cloned and sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed ThcE as a member of group III alcohol dehydrogenases. ThcE displayed strong homology with sequenced subunit fragments of the homodecameric N,N′-dimethyl-4-nitrosoaniline-dependent alcohol oxidoreductases (MNO) of Amycolatopsis methanolica and Mycobacterium gastri. N-Terminal sequence analysis of purified MNO from Rhodococcus sp. NI86/21 confirmed the identity with ThcE. When overproduced in Escherichia coli, ThcE was insoluble and no MNO activity was detected.
The in vitro inhibition of bovine pancreatic lipase by malonaldehyde, formaldehyde and propionaldehyde was investigated. Malonaldehyde, as sodium 3-oxy-prop-2-enal (MA-Na), was found to be the most inhibitory at pH values below 7. Its reaction with lipase appeared to be two part: the first was rapid and a function of the MA-Na concentration; the second part was slower and related linearly to the MA-Na concentration. Methanol-free formaldehyde was a much less effective inhibitor. Low concentrations (0.01 M) had little effect on lipse activity. Propionaldehyde produced the least inhibition. A break point in the reaction of propionaldehyde with lipase occurred with time. After the break point, the inhibition nearly parallelled that seen in the control.
Abstract Oxidation of propanol by chromic acid produces propionaldehyde under kinetic condition [propanol] T ≫ [Cr(VI)] T . This oxidation reaction is performed also in presence of micellar catalysts (anionic, cationic and neutral) and hetero-aromatic nitrogen bases promoters (picolinic acid, 2,2′-bipyridine, 1,10-phenanthroline) in aqueous media. The product is confirmed by 2,4-DNP test and 1 H NMR spectroscopy. Anionic surfactant sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS), neutral surfactant triton X-100 (TX-100) accelerated the reaction both in presence and absence of promoters whereas cationic surfactant N-cetyl pyridinium chloride (CPC) inhibited the reaction. Combination of SDS and bipy is found to be the most efficient for this oxidation.
Nitrobenzene-hydrogen peroxide,potassium persulfate-propionaldehyde and periodic acid as three new type s of chemical degradation were adopted to prepare liquid natural rubber(LNR)and compared with the conventional one,phenyl hydrazine.The effects of the amount of oxidant,reaction temperature,reaction time on the viscosity-average relative molecular mass(Mη)of LNR were investigated.The structure of LNR was discussed with IR.The results showed that the LNR with Mη =13 067 could be obtained when the amount of periodic acid was 0.3 percent,under the conditions of 30 ℃ for 6h.And the structure of product is stability.So periodic acid is the most suitable for the preparation of LNR.
The inactivation of cytochrome P450 2B4 by aldehydes in a reconstituted enzyme system requires molecular oxygen and NADPH and is not prevented by the addition of catalase, superoxide dismutase, epoxide hydrolase, glutathione, or ascorbic acid. A strong correlation between loss of enzymatic activity and bleaching of the heme chromophore was established, and the inactivation was shown to be irreversible upon dialysis. In general, saturated aldehydes are more inhibitory than those with alpha,beta-unsaturation, as indicated by the k(inact) values, and primary aldehydes are more potent inactivators than the structurally related secondary and tertiary aldehydes. Consistent with recent studies on catalytic specificity of the T302A mutant of this cytochrome [Vaz, A. D. N., Pernecky, S. J., Raner, G. M., & Coon, M. J. (1996) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 93, 4644-4648], the rate of aldehyde deformylation, as determined by formation of the alcohol with one less carbon atom, is greatly stimulated over that of the wild-type enzyme. Of particular interest, the rate of oxidation of aldehydes to carboxylic acids is decreased with the mutant, whereas the rate of inactivation via heme destruction is enhanced. Furthermore, comparative deuterium isotope effects and the relative rates of inactivation and product formation suggest that the mechanism of aldehyde inactivation of P450 2B4 involves the deformylation reaction and is unrelated to carboxylic acid formation. Finally, in the reaction of P450 2B4 with 3-phenylpropionaldehyde, the formation of a heme adduct with a molecular weight corresponding to that of native heme plus 104 mass units confirms the loss of the carbonyl group from the aldehyde prior to reaction with the chromophore. We conclude that inactivation of P450 by aldehydes occurs via homolytic cleavage of a peroxyhemiacetal intermediate to give an alkyl radical that reacts with the heme.
Abstract The kinetics, adsorbate residence times and coverages, and isotopic transient responses for propionaldehyde formation from CO/H 2 /C 2 H 4 reaction have been studied over 4 wt% Mn–Rh/SiO 2 (Mn:Rh=0.1:1) catalyst at 513 K and 0.1 MPa. Reaction rates were measured under differential conditions; adsorbate residence times and coverages, and transient responses of 13 C propionaldehyde formation were measured by a steady-state isotopic transient method coupled with in situ infrared spectroscopy. Both Langmuir–Hinselwood–Hougen–Watson (LHHW) and pseudo-steady-state-approximation (PSSA) approaches were employed to develop rate laws (i.e., kinetic models) and isotherm equations for adsorbate coverages to fit the rate and coverage data. Although the LHHW kinetic model provides a good fit of the rate data, its adsorbed acyl ( * C 2 H 5 CO) isotherm equation fails to describe the dependence of adsorbed acyl coverage on H 2 and CO partial pressures. Use of the PSSA approach without assumption of a sole rate-determining step (RDS) resulted in a rate law and an acyl isotherm equation which describe both the kinetics and adsorbate coverages behaviors with high accuracy. The PSSA analysis suggests that both CO insertion into adsorbed ethyl species and hydrogenation of adsorbed acyl species are kinetically significant steps for propionaldehyde formation. The failure of LHHW isotherm equations for fitting the coverage data is due to lack of a sole RDS. The kinetics, adsorbate residence times and coverages, and transient responses of propionaldehyde formation on Mn–Rh/SiO 2 were compared with those on Rh/SiO 2 to unravel the effect of Mn promotion on the reaction. This study demonstrates that measurement of transient responses for product formation and adsorbate residence times and coverages provides essential information for verification of kinetic models with mechanistic significance.
In the actual environmental and economic context, there is an increased interest in the microbial production at a large industrial scale of the bifunctional weak carboxylic acid, the 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). Among its various applications, this compound is primarily sought for its direct use as building block mainly for the synthesis of bio-based polymers. Moreover, 3-HP has enormous potential for the production of commercially valuable chemicals. Although 3-HP is currently of limited usage due to its exclusive synthesis via chemical pathways [1], its market is expected to significantly grow up to a volume of 20,000 tons per year in 2015 according to a report of the International Energy Agency IEA-Bioenergy (2012) with a cost of 1,100 $ per ton [2]. Moreover, in recent years, the tremendous growth of biodiesel manufacturing industries resulted in a large production of inexpensive and abundant available glycerol as by-product that could be used as substrate. Until now, only lactic acid bacteria from the Lactobacillus genus have been shown to produce 3-HP from glycerol, although at low productivity [3]. In the present work, the bioconversion of glycerol into 3-HP by Lactobacillus reuteri was studied. Product and its metabolic intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) are suspected to exhibit inhibitory or toxic effects on the producing microorganisms, thus leading to low productivity and dilute product stream. This entails high costs for isolation and purification of the product. A potential strategy to relieve the inhibitory stress, to increase the performance of the microbial cells and to recover the molecule of interest is to implement an ?In Situ Product Recovery? (ISPR), by which upstream bioconversion is combined to downstream extraction and recovery. A promising technique that drew a lot of attention lately for the extraction of hydroxypropionic acids is the reactive extraction in an organic phase containing an extractant [4]. In the present work, the in situ 3-HP recovery was studied using the long chain tertiary amine trioctylamine (TOA) and the quaternary ammonium salt tri-n-octylmethylammonium chloride (Aliquat 336) as extractants, and n-decanol as diluent. Optimisation of the 3-HP reactive extraction assisted by hollow fiber-membrane contactor was displayed. In addition, the 3-HP in situ product recovery was studied and its performances were characterized. These results thus demonstrate the high potential of this ISPR technique applied for the biotechnological production of 3-HP.
Decarboxylation of about twenty kinds of α, β and γ-amino acids in the reaction with glyoxal or ninhydrin was investigated. The decarboxylation rate of amino acids proved that steric and polar effects had important roles in the reaction. From the data of pK2 values and decarboxylation rates of amino acids, it can be con-cluded that under a similar steric environment, the decarboxylation rate depends on the anion concentration of amino acids. Besides carbon dioxide, acetaldehyde, 2-propanone and propionaldehyde were respec-tively detected from the reaction of β-alanine, β and γ-amino-n-butyric acids with glyoxal or ninhydrin. The decarboxylation mechanism of these amino acids seemed to take place through the corresponding β- or γ-keto acid. Oxygen absorption was also observed from the reaction of amino acids with dicarbonyl compounds.
. Carboxysomes house ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) and carbonic anhydrase and act to promote a higher local concentration of carbon dioxide in order to increase the efficiency of the carboxylation reaction 13 . Metabolosomes are associated with fermentative processes with substrates such as ethanolamine, choline, fucose, rhamnose or 1,2-propanediol 1 . A recent bioinformatics analysis has indicated that there are at least 23 distinct BMCs found across a range of bacteria phyla 14 . Of the metabolosomes, the best characterized is the 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) utilizing organelle (Fig. 1 ) from organisms such as Salmonella enterica 4, 15, 16 and Citrobacter freundii 17 . The genetic information for the organelle is found within the propanediol utilization (pdu) operon, which contains 23 genes that encode for not only the shell proteins of the BMC but also the enzymes associated with the transformation of 1,2-PD into propionaldehyde and its subsequent disproportionation into propionic acid and propanol 4 . This includes the adenosylcobalamin-dependent diol dehydratase 4,16 as well as enzymes linked to the reactivation of the coenzyme [18] [19] [20] . In this respect the metabolosomes house a more complex repertoire of enzymes than the carboxysomes and have a broader requirement for coenzymes and cofactors. The protein shell of the metabolosomes is proposed to protect the cytoplasm from toxic aldehyde intermediates 21 . Structural data from X-ray studies of individual shell proteins from both carboxysomes and metabolosomes have revealed that they form hexameric-shaped tiles with a central pore that piece together to form the faces of the organelle whereas pentameric tiles act as the vertices of the structure 9, 10, [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] . The Pdu BMC contains 7 shell proteins, PduA, PduB, PduB' PduJ, PduK, PduT and PduU, which generate the hexagonal tiles that represent the
In the face of a dwindling petroleum reserve, accelerating demand and stricter regulation against unmitigated emission, biodiesel has emerged as an energy source in the transport subsector with the potential to provide some measure of respite. Biodiesel, an alternative to diesel, is a free fatty acid methyl ester, derived from vegetable oil or animal fats. It is renewable, biodegradable and oxygenated. It has the potential to be universally accessible and a capacity to promote inclusive growth in sub-Saharan Africa. Extensive experimental work done on biodiesel performance and emission in diesel engine has revealed mixed results. It has been commonly reported that the use of 100% biodiesel or its blend with petroleum diesel generally leads to drops in brake thermal efficiency (BTE), increase in fuel consumption and a reduction in indicated mean effective pressure. And the reasons given for these changes has been biodiesel's lower heating value, higher viscosity and density (Xue et al., 2011) . In term of emission, the use of biodiesel or its blends has resulted in varying degree of reduction in carbon monoxide (CO), particulate matter (PM), total hydrocarbon (THC), Aromatics and sulphur oxides (SO 2 ). Increases in NO x , acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde along with reduction in formaldehyde were also reported (Shi et al., 2006) .
A general response to osmotic stress, observed in a wide range of organisms from bacteria to animals, is the synthesis and accumulation in the cytoplasm of neutral organic compounds known as compatible solutes or osmoprotectants (Yancey et al., 1982, Hanson and Hitz, 1982). These molecules prevent damage from cellular dehydration by balancing the osmotic potential of the cytoplasm with that of the environment and by stabilizing protein and membrane structures (Arakawa and Timasheff, 1985). In plants, the final, irreversible step in the biosynthetic pathway of the osmoprotectant glycine betaine is catalyzed in the chloroplasts by betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH, EC 1.2.1.8) (Weigel et al., 1986). The protein and activity levels of this enzyme increase in response to osmotic stress (Weretilnyk and Hanson, 1989, Arakawa et al., 1990, Arakawa et al., 1992, Valenzuela-Soto and Munoz-Clares, 1994). We have recently found that the amaranth BADH also catalyzes the NAD+-dependent oxidation of other small aldehydes with a positive charge, such as 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde and γ-aminobutyraldehyde (Vojtec hova et al., submitted). Therefore, this enzyme may be also involved in the synthesis of the osmoprotectants 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionate and γ-aminobutyrate.
Purpose of work ::: The regulatory role of a transcriptional regulator (PocR) in the 1,3-propanediol biosynthetic pathway of Lactobacillus panis PM1 contributes to the optimization of 1,3-propanediol production by this strain, which potentially will lead to 1,3-propanediol manufacturing efficiencies. ::: ::: Lactobacillus panis PM1 can utilize a 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) biosynthetic pathway, consisting of diol dehydratase (PduCDE) and 1,3-PDO dehydrogenase, as a NADH recycling system, to survive under various environmental conditions. In this study, we identified a key transcriptional repressor (PocR) which was annotated as a transcriptional factor of AraC family as part of the 1,3-PDO biosynthetic pathway of L. panis PM1. The over-expression of the PocR gene resulted in the significant repression (81 %) of pduC (PduCDE large subunit) transcription, and subsequently, the decreased activity of PduCDE by 22 %. As a result of the regulation of PduCDE, production of both 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde and 1,3-PDO in the PocR over-expressing strain were significantly decreased by 40 % relative to the control strain. These results clearly demonstrate the transcriptional repressor role of PocR in the 1,3-PDO biosynthetic pathway.
Disclosed is an improved process for the catalytic hydrogenation of cyanopropionaldehyde alkyl acetals (CPAA) to form the aminobutyraldehyde alkyl acetals. The basic process comprises hydrogenating the cyanopropionaldehyde alkyl acetals by contacting said cyanopropionaldehyde alkyl acetals with hydrogen in the presence of a nickel or cobalt catalyst under conditions for reducing the nitrile group to the primary amine. The improvement resides in effecting the hydrogenation of a cyanopropionitrile dialkyl acetal feedstock containing contaminating levels of cyanopropionaldehyde in the presence of a secondary alkanol or water.
Isozyme phenotypes of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) from human gastroendoscopic as well as surgical gastric biopsies were determined by starch gel electrophoresis and agarose isoelectric focusing. gamma gamma ADH isozymes were expressed predominantly in the mucosal layer of the stomach, whereas beta beta isozymes were in the muscular layer. In the 56 gastroendoscopic mucosal biopsies examined, the homozygous ADH3 1-1 phenotype was found in 75% of the samples, and the heterozygous ADH3 2-1 phenotype in 25%. Accordingly, the gene frequencies of the alleles ADH1/3 and ADH2/3 were calculated to be 0.88 and 0.12, respectively. Using a modified agarose isoelectric focusing procedure, gastric ALDH I, ALDH II, and up to five ALDH III forms could be clearly resolved. The ALDH III isozymes accounted for more than 80% of the total ALDH activities in gastric mucosa and exhibited Km values in the millimolar range for propionaldehyde at pH 9.0. Forty-five percent of the 55 gastroendoscopic biopsies studied lacked ALDH I isozyme. The complex gastric ALDH III isozyme phenotypes seen in these biopsies fall into three patterns. They can be interpreted by a genetic hypothesis, based on a dimeric molecule, in which there are two separate genes, ALDH3a and ALDH3b, with the ALDH3b locus exhibiting polymorphism. The homozygous phenotypes ALDH3b 1-1 and ALDH3b 2-2 were found to be 4 and 76%, respectively, and the heterozygous ALDH3b 2-1 phenotype 20%, of the total. Therefore, the allele frequencies for ALDH1/3b and ALDH2/3b were calculated to be 0.14 and 0.86, respectively. Several lines of biochemical evidence consistent with this genetic model are discussed.
Gas phase selective oxidation of propylene to propylene oxide (PO) or propionaldehyde (PA) in the presence of H2 and O2has been carried out with a propylene conversion in the range of 0.5-3.7% over gold deposited on titanosilicates by deposition-precipitation (DP) method; PO was obtained with a selectivity above 90% at the temperature range of 50 °C-120 °C whereas PA was obtained at temperatures higher than 200 °C with a selectivity above 70% over throughly washed catalysts with low Au loadings.
The metabolism of Clostridium butyricum DSM 5431 was studied in chemostat culture under carbon limitation using either glucose or glycerol. On glycerol, the enzymes glycerol dehydrogenase, diol dehydratase and 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) dehydrogenase constitute the branch point that partitions the carbon flux between the competing pathways, i.e. formation of either 1,3-PD or acetate and butyrate. The increasing levels of these enzyme activities with increasing dilution rates (D) explained the constant proportion of glycerol conversion into 1,3-PD. The production of acetate or butyrate constitutes another important branch point and when D increased (i) large amounts of intracellular acetyl-CoA accumulated, (ii) the carbon flux switched from butyric acid to acetic acid, (iii) the specific activity of thiolase was not affected, suggesting this enzyme may be the bottleneck for carbon flux to butyrate biosynthesis providing an explanation for the accumulation of large amounts of intracellular acetyl-CoA, and (iv) high levels of NADH were found in the cell. Oxidation of NADH by 1,3-PD dehydrogenase was linked to the production of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) by glycerol dehydratase. The fact that high intracellular concentrations of NADH were found means that diol dehydratase activity is the rate-limiting step in 1,3-PD formation, avoiding the accumulation of 3-HPA which is a very toxic compound. The specific rate of glucose catabolism (q ::: glucose = 11.1 mmol h-1 g-1) was around four times lower than the specific rate of glycerol catabolism (q ::: glucose = 57.4 mmol h-1 g-1). On glucose-grown cells, reducing equivalents which are released in the glycolytic pathway were reoxidized by the butyric pathway and the low specific formation rate of butyric acid led to an increase in the intracellular level of acetyl-CoA and NADH. Carbon flow was higher on glycerol due to the reoxidation of NADH by both butyric and PD pathways.
7-Ethyl-camptothecin was prepared from camptothecin (CPT).Thus,3 g CPT,4.5 mL propionaldehyde,2.5 g FeSO_4·7H_2O,1.8 mL H_2O_2〔w(H_2O_2)=30%〕 and 9 mL H_2SO_4〔w(H_2SO_4)=98%〕 reacted at 2～3 ℃ for 1.5 h to give the raw product in 88.0% yield and of 93.8% purity(by HPLC).
Abstract Concentration levels and seasonal variation of odorous gases at landfill site and in surrounding areas within the city of Incheon, South Korea were investigated. Sampling was conducted at 11 points (5 at landfill site and 6 in surrounding areas). The highest concentrations of odorous gases (complex odor, ammonia, acetaldehyde, and VOCs) at landfill site were found in summer, probably due to fast decomposition of waste in high temperature related with more release of ammonia. In addition, specific weather condition of dominant wind direction, humidity and higher atmospheric pressure with no or lower wind speed caused positive effect of higher aldehyde compounds and VOCs concentration. Similar to other studies, sludge-related sampling site S-2, where a couple of odor generating facilities including sludge mixing and drying treatment process are located, showed the highest concentration levels of odorous gases compared to other sites. Odor generation frequency was in the order of acetaldehyde (68.8%) > ammonia (39.4%) > propionaldehyde (21.9%), which means the main substances generating the unpleasant odor at landfill site was recognized as aldehydes and ammonia due to combined effect of sludge-related facilities and meteorological conditions. Offensive odor was not a big pollution issue in most surrounding areas which are located within a circle of 5 km radius of the landfill except high odor generation frequency of acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. Relative percentage differences (RPD) of odorous gases between day and night times at landfill site were below 10%, which indicates that the concentration differences in day and night were not severe. The relationship between concentrations of complex odor and designated offensive odor substances was analyzed statistically. At landfill site, the analysis shows that the correlation coefficient between the concentration of complex odor and ammonia was quite high (0.833), but it was much lower (0.129) in the surrounding areas due to considerably lower concentrations of these substances.
Thirteen chemicals present in tobacco smoke were assessed for their effect on viability and proliferation of mouse lymphocytes in vitro. Acetaldehyde, benzene, butyraldehyde, isoprene, styrene, and toluene produced no effect on either viability or proliferation after 3 h of exposure. Formaldehyde, catechol, acrylonitrile, propionaldehyde, and hydroquinone significantly inhibited T-lymphocyte and B-lymphocyte proliferation with IC50 values ranging from 1.19 x 10(-5) M to 8.20 x 10(-4) M after 3 h of exposure. Acrolein and crotonaldehyde not only inhibited T-cell and B-cell proliferation, but also acted on viability with IC50 values ranging from 2.06 x 10(5) M to 4.26 x 10(-5) M. Mixtures of acrolein, formaldehyde, and propionaldehyde or crotonaldehyde were tested and interactive effects at 0.5 and 1 x IC50 were observed. Two mixtures significantly inhibited T-cell proliferation when compared to the control at 0.1 x IC50 concentration. The present study shows that some chemicals known to be present in tobacco smoke exert an effect on lymphocyte viability and proliferation in vitro.
The rearrangement of propylene oxide is greatly affected by the acidity of the catalyst. ZSM-5 zeolite with easily regulated surface acidity was used to catalyze the reaction with propionaldehyde as main product. The difference in the ratio of silica to alumina resulted in significant changes in the acidity. The results show that the ratio of the amount of Lewis acid sites (LAS) to the amount of Bronsted acid sites (BAS) has a great positive influence on the catalytic performance. When the ratio of silica to alumina reaches 50, the ratio of the LAS to BAS reaches the maximum value of 18.6, the catalytic performance is excellent. The in-situ diffuse reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (DRIFTS) was employed to study the adsorption and reaction behavior of propylene oxide on the ZSM-5 catalyst. Results showed that the epoxy ring of propylene oxide first adsorbs on the Lewis acid site (Al atom with empty electron orbital) of ZSM-5 catalyst to form an intermediate with the bond between C=O and C–O which then converts to the propionaldehyde. The Lewis acid sites is of great importance for the reaction.
: Two genetically distinct substrains of the Wistar rat (RR and rr) were used to study the tissue distribution of the inducibility of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH). The RR substrain is responsive to phenobarbital (PB), as far as the induction of the hepatic ALDH activity is concerned, whereas the rr substrain is deprived of this biochemical property. Both substrains, however, respond to treatment with methylcholanthrene (MC), exhibiting a uniform increase of the ALDH activity in the liver. It is known that PB and MC induce two different isozymes of the hepatic cytosol. The effect of PB (1 g/l in drinking water, for 12 days) on the inducibility of ALDH in extrahepatic tissues was examined in the RR substrain. On the contrary, MC was given (50 mg/kg x 4, intraperitoneally) to rr animals. The activity of ALDH was found to be induced by PB in the liver and the intestinal mucosa, when measured with NAD and propionaldehyde (P/NAD) or phenylacetaldehyde (Ph/NAD). An increase of the activity was also noticed when ALDH was measured with NADP and benzaldehyde (B/NADP). In rr animals, MC induced the B/NADP activity in the liver, the intestinal mucosa, the kidneys, the lungs, the spleen, the brain, the urinary bladder and the heart. The effect of MC on various tissues was less distinct, when ALDH was measured as P/NAD or Ph/NAD activity. It is concluded, that PB and MC not only induce different types of ALDH activity, but they also reveal differences in the tissue distribution of the inducibility of ALDH.
Microbial degradation kinetics of carbon tetrachloride (CT) under reducing conditions were investigated for different cultures, fed with 1,2-propanediol, dextrose, propionaldehyde, or acetate and nitrate, in the anaerobic step of an anaerobic/aerobic operation sequence. Methanogenesis was inhibited due to the aerobic step. CT biodegradation rates followed first-order kinetics with respect to CT concentration and biomass and were not affected by the presence of growth substrate. CT degradation rates increased linearly with higher intracellular vitamin B12 content. The culture fed 1,2-propanediol had the highest vitamin B12 content, which was 3.8, 4.7, and 16 times that of the propionaldehyde-, dextrose-, and acetate-fed cultures, respectively, and its first-order degradation rate constant was 2.8, 4.5, 6.0 times that for those cultures, respectively. No CT degradation occurred with culture liquid, suggesting that intracellular factors were responsible for CT degradation. The propanediol culture was able to...
Olfactory information is transmitted to the brain using combinatorial receptor codes; consequently, a single reception element can be activated by different odorants. Several methods have been applied to describe from a functional point of view those odorants sharing olfactory reception components. A genetic approach in Drosophila melanogaster used correlation between behavioral responses to different odorants for deducing common olfactory pathway-genes. A factor analysis applied to behavioral responses to five odorants of 27 antennal enhancer-trap lines revealed three components, explaining 82.1% of the total observed variance. A first factor affects simultaneously the response to ethyl acetate, propionaldehyde, and acetone. A second factor was related to responses to ethyl acetate, ethyl alcohol, and acetone, and, finally, the third factor associates responses to acetic acid and ethyl acetate. They contribute by 35.1%, 36.9%, and 28%, respectively, to the explained variance.
The growth promoting capacity of the insecticides/nematicides, Curater (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethylbenzofuran-7-yl methylcarbamate), Temik (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde 0-(methylcarbamoyl) oxim and Mocap (0-ethyl S, S-Dipropyl phosphorodithioate) were compared.
Purification and characterization of enzymes metabolizing retinaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and octanaldehyde from four human livers and three kidneys were done to identify enzymes metabolizing retinaldehyde and their relationship to enzymes metabolizing other aldehydes. The tissue fractionation patterns from human liver and kidney were the same, indicating presence of the same enzymes in human liver and kidney. Moreover, in both organs the major NAD(+)-dependent retinaldehyde activity copurified with the propionaldehyde and octanaldehyde activities; in both organs the major NAD(+)-dependent retinaldehyde activity was associated with the E1 isozyme (coded for by aldh1 gene) of human aldehyde dehydrogenase. A small amount of NAD(+)-dependent retinaldehyde activity was associated with the E2 isozyme (product of aldh2 gene) of aldehyde dehydrogenase. Some NAD(+)-independent retinaldehyde activity in both organs was associated with aldehyde oxidase, which could be easily separated from dehydrogenases. Employing cellular retinoid-binding protein (CRBP), purified from human liver, demonstrated that E1 isozyme (but not E2 isozyme) could utilize CRBP-bound retinaldehyde as substrate, a feature thought to be specific to retinaldehyde dehydrogenases. This is the first report of CRBP-bound retinaldehyde functioning as substrate for aldehyde dehydrogenase of broad substrate specificity. Thus, it is concluded that in the human organism, retinaldehyde dehydrogenase (coded for by raldH1 gene) and broad substrate specificity E1 (a member of EC 1. 2.1.3 aldehyde dehydrogenase family) are the same enzyme. These results suggest that the E1 isozyme may be more important to alcoholism than the acetaldehyde-metabolizing enzyme, E2, because competition between acetaldehyde and retinaldehyde could result in abnormalities associated with vitamin A metabolism and alcoholism.
Using acrolein as starting material by hydration ,the processes for synthetizing 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde were introduced.
CGC-MS was used to analysis the essential oils from Ormosia henryi Prain.and 24 compounds were identified,which accounted for 96.9% of the volatile oil.The major components were 2,4-heptadienal,2,4-dimethyl,1,6,10-dodecatrien-3-ol,3,7,11-trimethyl,2-caren-4-ol-2-(5-Methyl-furan-2-yl)-propionaldehyde,trans-2-cyclohexen-1-ol and 2-methyl-5-(1-methylethenyl) etc.
The allylic anion generated from 2-(N-methylanilino)-4-phenyl-3-butenenitrile (1) reacted with iodomethane and 3-bromo-1-chloropropane in THF/HMPA to give the γ-substitution products exclusively, predominantly in the 2Z-configuration. Substitution of the N-methylanilino group with the methyl ether of L-(-)-ephedrine resulted in the generation of chiral aminonitrile 2. Lithated 2 reacted sluggishly in THF with allyl bromide and benzyl chloride in the absence of HMPA to give the γ-substitution products predominantly in the 2Z-configuration, with little diastereoselectivity.The aminonitrile (3) prepared from cinnamaldehyde, L-ephedrine , and KCN was lithiated with 2 equiv of LDA resulting in high facial selectivity in alkylations in the presence of HMPA and LiI.Lithiated (3) reacted with propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde ,and p-bromobenzaldehyde at -78°C to give the γ-addition products, predominantly the 4R-configuration.The stereochemistry of the isomers of each product was determined by chemical correlation and spectral methods including analyses of the CD spectra and X-ray diffraction.A bicyclic transition state C wherein lithium is chelated by both amino and alcoxy groups is proposed to interpret the observed stereoselectivity
Topical application of aldrin to adults of the carrot rust fly, Psila rosae (F.), from Thedford and Bradford, Ontario, and comparison of their respective LD50, values showed a resistance level of ×5600 in the Bradford strain. Spray tower tests on the Bradford strain showed that parathion, Bayer 25141 ( O,O -diethyl O-p - (methylsulfinyl) phenyl phosphorothioate), and naled were the most toxic; lindane, DDT, and pyrethrum were the least toxic; and U.C. 21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl) oxime), malathion, diazinon, and Zectran® (4-dimethylamino-3,5-xylyl methylcarbamate) were intermediate in toxicity. Regression lines and supporting data are presented for each insecticide tested.
In this work, glass tube and mist chamber sampling techniques using 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine as derivative agent for the analysis of gaseous carbonyl compounds are compared. Trapping efficiencies of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, glyoxal, crotonaldehyde, benzaldehyde, butyraldehyde and valeraldehyde are experimentally determined using a gas-phase generator. In addition to generalise our results to all atmospheric gaseous compounds and derivative agents, theoretical trapping efficiencies and enrichment factors are expressed taking into account mechanisms involved in the two kinds of traps. Theoretical and experimental results show that, as expected, the trapping efficiencies of the glass tube depend mainly on solubility of compounds. The results provide new information and better understanding of phenomena occurring in the mist chamber and the ability of this sampler to concentrate the samples. Hence, the mist chamber is the more convenient sampling method when the trapping is associated to a fast derivatisation of the compounds and the glass tube technique must be used to trap atmospheric compounds without simultaneous derivatisation.
In 2001, Bacillus anthracis spores were delivered through the United States postal system in a series of bioterrorist acts. Controls proposed for this threat included sanitization with high-energy electrons. Solid phase microextraction was used with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry for field sampling and analysis of volatile compounds apparently produced from polymeric materials such as cellulose and plastics, immediately following processing of mail at a commercial irradiation facility. Solid phase microextraction and direct sampling of air into a cryogenically cooled temperature programmable inlet were used in the laboratory for gas chromatography/mass spectrometry analysis of air in contact with irradiated mail, envelopes only (packaged identically to mail), and air inside irradiated plastic mail packaging bags (with neither mail nor envelopes). Irradiated mail or envelope systems produced hydrocarbons such as propane, butane, pentane, hexane, heptane, methylpentanes, and benzene; and oxygen-containing compounds such as acetaldehyde, acrolein, propionaldehyde, furan, 2-methylfuran, methanol, acetone, 2-butanone, and ethanol. In addition to hydrocarbons, methyl and ethyl nitrate were detected in irradiated bags that contained only air, suggesting reactive nitrogen species formed from air irradiation reacted with hydroxy-containing compounds to give nitro esters. The similarities of volatile compounds in irradiated systems containing paper to those observed by researchers studying cellulose pyrolysis suggests common depolymerization and degradation mechanisms in each case. These similarities should guide additional work to examine irradiated mail for chemical compounds not detectable by methods used here.
Whereas oxygen-free bases arise when an excess of LiAlH4 acts on lactames, the corresponding aminoaldehydes, which serve as points of departure for the possible synthesis of alkaloids by the cells, are obtained when calculated quantities of LiAlH4 are allowed to act on lactames. Through a corresponding reaction the not yet synthetically prepared 3-(α-Piperidyl)-propionaldehyde was formed from 2-oxooctahydroindolizine. Up to now the former has been assumed to be identical with the alkaloid of the pomegranate tree, pelletierine.
The concentrations of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde in water were quantitatively determined by head space-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (HS-GC/MS). Aqueous aldehydes were treated with o-(2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzyl)-hydroxylamine (PFBOA) in a sealed vial at 60°C for 60 min. Head space was then analyzed by GC/MS. In comparison with electron ionization (EI) mass spectra, negative chemical ionization (NCI) mass spectra of PFBOA derivatives gave more spectral peaks of structural origin and with simple, characteristic fragmentation patterns. HS-GC/MS is highly sensitive for aqueous aldehydes because it eliminates interference from the water sample. The concentrations of various aldehydes in tap water and commercial mineral water were determined by HS-GC/MS. The following concentration ranges were detected for the individual aldehydes; formaldehyde, not detected (N.D.)-59 µg/l; acetaldehyde, N.D.-260 µg/l; propionaldehyde, N.D.- 0.9 µg/l; and n-butyraldehyde, N.D-0.3 µg/l.
Abstract A simple flow-injection (FI) spectrofluorimetric method for the assay of total volatile aldehydes in auto exhaust gas and emission gas from thermal degradation was developed. Aldehydes, such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and n -butyraldehyde, reacted with cyclohexane-1,3-dione (CHD) to form more strongly fluorescent compounds. A two-channel flow system was assembled. Distilled water and 0.02% CHD were delivered at 0.75 ml min −1 . The optimum conditions were pH 5 (2.2 M CH 3 COONH 4 -CH 3 COOH buffer solution), reaction temperature 70 °C, reaction coil length 0.5 mm i.d. × 7 m, cooling coil length 2 m, sample size 60 μ 1, excitation and emission wavelengths, 376 nm and 452 nm. Aldehydes in sample gas (10 1) were collected by passing the gas at a flow rate of 0.5 1 min −1 through two impingers connected in series. 10 ml of methanol was used as an absorbent and diluted sample solution was injected into the carrier stream. The calibration graph was linear in the range 100–1000 ppb. The detection limit was 30 ppb and a sampling frequency of 30 h −1 was attained. Relative standard deviation for 10 standard formaldehyde solutions (500 ppb) was 1.5%. This rapid and simple FI method was applied to the determination of the total amount of aldehydes, calculated as formaldehyde, in auto exhaust gas and emission gas from the thermal degradation of polymers. The method is useful for monitoring aldehyde emissions and investigating the removal effect of aldehydes from various sources.
1,3-propanediol production with the byproduct of biodiesel production is important to increase the economic benefit of biodiesel industry. Accumulation of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde is one of the key problems in the 1,3-propanediol fermentation process, leading to the cell death and the fermentation abnormal ceasing. Different from the traditional way of reducing the accumulation of the 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, we introduced the polyhydroxybutyrate pathway into the Klebsiella pneumoniae for the first time to enhance the tolerance of K. pneumoniae to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, at the same time, to improve the 1,3-propanediol production. Plasmid pDK containing phbC, phbA, phbB gene was constructed and transformed into K. pneumoniae successfully. PHB was detected in the engineered K. pneumoniae after IPTG induction and its content enhanced with the IPTG concentration increasing. The optimized IPTG concentration was 0.5 mmol/L. The constructed K. pneumoniae could produce 1,3-propanediol normally, at the same time accumulate polyhydroxybutyrate. With the constructed strain, the fermentation proceeds normally with the initial glucose was 70 g/L which the wild type strain stopped growing and the fermentation was ceasing; 1,3-propanediol concentration and yield reached 31.3 g/L and 43.9% at 72 h. Our work is helpful for the deep understanding of 1,3-propanediol metabolic mechanism of Klebsiella pneumoniae, and also provides a new way for strain optimization of Klebsiella pneumoniae.
Acetol (hydroxyacetone) plays an important role as an intermediary in organic synthesis due to its ability to convert to a variety of products by dehydration, hydrogenation, oxidation, and polymerization [4] . Acrolein could be produced by its dehydration, while by its hydrogenation propylene glycol has been obtained. Among other compounds that can be obtained from its reactions are acetone, propionaldehyde, and furan derivates. High reactivity makes it valuable as an intermediary for esters, dioxane, α-amino ketones and α-amino alcohols. Furthermore, it is used in the food industry to give bread flavor and to induce flavor in milk compounds. In the cosmetic industry, it is used as a constituent of skin tanning agents.
3HP is one of the key building-block chemicals. In the list issued in 2004 and updated in 2010, the United States Department of Energy (DOE) recognized it as one of the 12 top building-block chemicals that can be produced from biomass, ranking it in third position among the molecules selected [1] . It contains two functional groups (a carboxyl group and a β-hydroxyl group), which makes it attractive to serve as an excellent versatile platform for the production of a variety of high added-value chemicals through chemical modification reactions [1] . The compounds that can be produced from 3HP include 1,3-propanediol, acrylic acid, acrylamide, acrylonitrile, propiolactone, malonic acid, homopolymers, and heteropolymers [2, 3] . These compounds have a broad range of applications, and can be used for the production of adhesives, polymers, plastic packaging, fibers, cleaning agents, and resins. Until now, the enzyme glycerol dehydratase, followed by conversion of the 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 3HP by the action of an aldehyde dehydrogenase (ald) enzyme ( Figure 1) . A strategy that is commonly employed is to use a microorganism that already possess the dha operon, and genetically modify it to produce 3HP. In that case, the gene encoding the 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase should be deleted or underexpressed if the co-production of 1,3-propanediol is not wanted, but special care should be taken to maintain a balance between NADH and NAD + . Regeneration of NAD + is important, as it is required for the action of the ald enzyme. NAD + can be regenerated in the electron transport chain, which requires increased aeration, but the presence of oxygen inhibits the synthesis of coenzyme B12, which is also involved in the process [12] . Moreover, as will be discussed later, oxygen also inactivates the glycerol dehydratase. Regeneration of NAD + can also take place during the conversion of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 1,3-propanediol by the action of the 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase, which consumes NADH [13] . If the 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase gene is knocked out, another pathway for NAD + should be found in order to maintain the balance between NADH and NAD + , such as lactate or acetate formation [12] . On the other hand, co-production of 3HP and 1,3-propanediol can also be desirable, as 1,3-propanediol also has significant applications and these two molecules can be separated easily, due to the presence of different functional groups on the molecules [14] .
In order to identify the acyl-enzyme forms of the sulbactam, tazobactam and clavulanate inhibited enzyme species (i.e., E-I and E-I*), we used Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (FTICR) mass spectrometry to follow the covalent modification of the enzyme at times after the addition of the inhibitors. The calculated mass of the free enzyme is 27784.481, and the experimental mass is 28784.475. Using tazobactam, the mass spectrum reveals that the enzyme is covalently modified within 5 minutes and exists in two major forms: one with the Figure S1 ). This latter complex is presumably the propionaldehyde ester (+70.06) that has been previously observed after enzyme acylation and inhibitor fragmentation with penicillin sulfones 24 . However, within 12 min of mixing BlaC with tazobactam, peaks in the mass spectrum corresponding to the free enzyme appear, and after 45 minutes, the acylated forms have completely disappeared. Full activity was recovered after 45 minutes suggesting that the enzyme was slowly hydrolyzing the acylated enzyme serine residue (S70) ( Figure S1 ). Similarly for sulbactam, we found that covalent adducts could be observed immediately upon mixing with BlaC and, as with tazobactam, two peaks corresponding to the mass of the E-inhibitor complex (Enz+233.40, predicted +233.24) as well as the aldehyde (Enz +69.57). However, these complexes were rapidly hydrolyzed and within 30 minutes, the mass spectrum revealed only the native, unmodified enzyme form ( Figure S2 ), and full activity was recovered (Figure 4) . The fact that sulbactam does not show slow-onset inhibition likely reflects the very rapid isomerization rate with sulbactam compared to tazobactam.
Within three minutes of the addition of clavulanate, three peaks are observed in the mass spectrum, none of which is the intact BlaC-clavulanate covalent adduct (Fig 3, predicted E clavulanate = 27784.481 + 199.16). The lowest molecular weight adduct is the enzymepropionaldehyde form (Fig 3, peak A ; Enz +70.22) observed with tazobactam and sulbactam. The other two forms appear at Enz+136.27 (Fig 3, peak B ) and Enz+154.40 (Fig 3, peak C) . One of these other two forms correspond to the enzyme adduct of clavulanate after decarboxylation (Enz+154.40) to generate an imine (or enamine tautomer) form of inhibitor 25-27 . The other minor component (peak B) is most likely a covalent adduct in which the imine undergoes the additional loss of a water molecule (Enz + 136.12). These latter forms are likely to be stable to hydrolysis, since no BlaC activity can be detected after incubation with clavulanate for 60 minutes (Figure 4) , and even after 12 hours (data not shown). The small amount of propionaldehyde adduct is likely to be slowly hydrolyzed by BlaC, since this same adduct is generated by all three β-lactamase inhibitors. It is likely to be continuously generated until all of the enzyme is present in the non-hydrolyzable complexes represented by Peaks B and C. Alternatively, clavulanate might uniquely lead to the covalent modification of S130, as has been proposed for clavulanate inhibition of other β-lactamases 28 .
We propose a mechanism for the inhibition of BlaC by clavulanate based on these mass spectrometry results (Fig 5) . Once the catalytic serine residue reacts with the β-lactam ring of clavulanate, causing the rupture of the β-lactam bond, the remaining ring is ruptured to generate the acyclic imine form of the enzyme-bound complex. This intermediate is rapidly decarboxylated due to the presence of the ketone adjacent to the carboxyl group that can stabilize the carbanion generated by decarboxylation. This is the form of the adduct that predominates (ca. 70%) after prolonged incubation of BlaC with clavulanate (Fig 5, compound  C) . While we show this in Figure 5 as the trans-C 3 -N 4 imine tautomer, the C2-C3 eneamine and N4-C5-imine tautomers can presumably also occur, and these would reduce the propensity for hydrolysis. Small amounts of a covalent adduct formed by the dehydration of compound A to generate compound B are observed, and this dehydration chemistry has not previously been reported. The imine of compound C can be hydrolyzed to generate the propionaldehyde ester that is also the product of the tazobactam and sulbactam reactions (Fig 5, compound A) . This propionaldehyde covalent adduct is presumably unstable and is hydrolyzed since it is also formed transiently with tazobactam and sulbactam. Only clavulanate leads to the stable inactivation of the enzyme and we therefore propose that the inactive forms of the enzyme are compounds C and B in Figure 5 .
The concentrations of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde in water were quantitatively determined by head space-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (HS-GC/MS). Aqueous aldehydes were treated with o- (2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzyl)-hydroxylamine (PFBOA) in a sealed vial at 60°C for 60 min. Head space was then analyzed by GC/MS. In comparison with electron ionization (EI) mass spectra, negative chemical ionization (NCI) mass spectra of PFBOA derivatives gave more spectral peaks of structural origin and with simple, characteristic fragmentation patterns. HS-GC/MS is highly sensitive for aqueous aldehydes because it eliminates interference from the water sample. The concentrations of various aldehydes in tap water and commercial mineral water were determined by HS-GC/MS. The following concentration ranges were detected for the individual alde 
Abstract The electrochemical adsorption and oxidation of 1-propanol and its incomplete oxidation products propionaldehyde and propionic acid on Pt film electrodes in acidic solution were studied using a combination of in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy in an attenuated total reflection configuration (ATR-FTIRS) and online differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS). The potential dependent adlayer formation and volatile (side) products were monitored simultaneously in potentiodynamic, potentiostatic and adsorbate stripping experiments under continuous, controlled electrolyte flow. Mechanistic consequences derived from these measurements are discussed. Most important, we can identify an adsorbed propionyl species, which is formed from 1-propanol and propionaldehyde and which is likely to act as precursor for CO ad formation, and adsorbed propionate. The latter is in adsorption–desorption equilibrium with propionic acid, which is formed as a little active side product rather than representing an active intermediate in the 1-propanol oxidation. Main product of 1-propanol oxidation is propionaldehyde; CO 2 is a minority product which is (almost) exclusively formed via CO ad oxidation. Contributions from a direct reaction pathway to CO 2 formation are negligible.
Aminopropionaldehyde dehydrogenase was purified to apparent homogeneity from 1,3-diaminopropane-grown cells of Arthrobacter sp. TMP-1. The native molecular mass and the subunit molecular mass of the enzyme were approximately 20,5000 and 52,000, respectively, suggesting that the enzyme is a tetramer of identical subunits. The apparent Michaelis constant (K(m)) for 1,3-diaminopropane was approximately 3 microM. The enzyme equally used both NAD(+) and NADP(+) as coenzymes. The apparent K(m) values for NAD(+) and NADP(+) were 255 microM and 108 microM, respectively. The maximum reaction rates (V(max)) for NAD(+) and NADP(+) were 102 and 83.3 micromol min(-1) mg(-1), respectively. Some tested aliphatic aldehydes and aromatic aldehydes were inert as substrates. The optimum pH was 8.0-8.5. The enzyme was sensitive to sulfhydryl group-modifying reagents.
Abstract The reactions of Ni + with propionaldehyde in the gas phase have been systematically investigated using density functional theory at the B3LYP/def2-TZVP level. The decomposition reaction mechanism has been identified. Our calculations indicated that Ni + can assist decomposition of propionaldehyde to form Ni + CO and C 2 H 6 through two types of reaction channel: C C bond activation and C H bond activation. In addition, charge decomposition analysis (CDA) was carried out to obtain a deeper understanding for orbital interaction of the initial complex. The bonding properties of the species involved were discussed by means of diverse analysis methods including electron localization function (ELF) and atoms in molecules (AIM).
We discuss the use of a laterally-fed membrane chromatography (or LFMC) device for single-step purification of mono-PEGylated lysozyme. Recent studies have shown such LFMC devices to be suitable for high-resolution, multi-component separation of proteins in the bind-and-elute mode. The device used in this study contained a stack of rectangular cation-exchange membranes having 9.25mL bed volume. PEGylation of lysozyme was carried out in batch mode using 5kDa methoxy-polyethyleneglycol propionaldehyde (or m-PEG propionaldehyde) in the presence of sodium cyanoborohydride as reducing agent. Membrane chromatographic separation was carried out at 1.62 membrane bed volumes per minute flow rate, in the bind-and-elute mode. When a salt gradient was applied, the higher PEGylated forms of lysozyme (i.e. the byproducts) eluted earlier than mono-PEGylated lysozyme (the target product), while lysozyme eluted last. Under elution conditions optimized for resolution and speed, the separation could be carried out in less than 15 membrane bed volumes. High purity and recovery of mono-PEGylated lysozyme was obtained. The resolution of separation of mono-PEGylated lysozyme obtained under the above condition was comparable to that reported in the literature for equivalent cation-exchange resin columns while the flow rate expressed in bed volumes/min was 21.7 times higher. Also, the number of theoretical plates per meter was significantly higher with the LFMC device. Therefore the LFMC based purification process discussed in this paper combined high-productivity with high-resolution.
Partial oxidation of propylene was investigated at 1 atm pressure over Rh/TiO(2) catalysts as a function of reaction temperature, metal loading and particle size using high-throughput methods. Catalysts were prepared by ablating thin sheets of pure rhodium metal using an excimer laser and by collecting the nanoparticles created on the external surfaces of TiO(2) pellets that were placed inside the ablation plume. Rh nanoparticles before the experiments were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) by collecting them on carbon film. Catalyst evaluations were performed using a high-throughput array channel microreactor system coupled to quadrupole mass spectrometry (MS) and gas chromatography (GC). The reaction conditions were 23% C(3)H(6), 20% O(2) and the balance helium in the feed, 20,000 h(-1) GHSV and a temperature range of 250-325 degrees C. The reaction products included primarily acetone (AT) and to a lesser degree propionaldehyde (PaL) as the C(3) products, together with deep oxidation products COx.
Abstract Aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) in the liver of skipjack tuna ( Katsuwonus pelamis ) was extracted from mitochondrial fractions by Triton X-100. The enzyme was purified by ammonium sulfate fractionation, Toyopearl HW-55F, DEAE-Toyopearl 650M, and 5′-AMP-Sepharose 4B column chromatography. The molecular mass of skipjack ALDH (200 kDa) was similar to those of mammals and yeast. The optimum pH was around 10.0 and the enzyme was stable at pH 9.0 and 10.5, but it gradually became unstable when the pH was lower than 7.0. The optimum temperature was around 40°C. The enzyme was stable at 30°C for 60 min, but only 10% of the original activity remained at 40°C for 60 min. The enzyme was activated by Mg 2+ and Mn 2+ , and inhibited by Li + , Ba 2+ , Cu 2+ and Fe 3+ . The K m values for skipjack ALDH were: 15.0 M for acetaldehyde, 32.1 μM for propionaldehyde, 25.9 μM for formaldehyde, 58.7 μM for octylaldehyde, 24.6 μM for benzaldehyde and 40.2 μM for 5-hydroxyindoleacetaldehyde. Skipjack ALDH showed different affinities for substrates than mammalian ALDHs: high affinity against formaldehyde, low affinity against benzaldehyde and medium affinity towards acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde.
Chemicals such as cis-platinum, formaldehyde, chromate, copper, and certain arsenic compounds have been shown to produce DNA-protein cross-links in human in vitro cell systems at high doses, such as those in the cytotoxic range. Thus far there have only been a limited number of other chemicals evaluated for their ability to produce cross-links. The purpose of the work described here was to evaluate whether select industrial chemicals can form DNA-protein cross-links in human cells in vitro. We evaluated acetaldehyde, acrolein, diepoxybutane, paraformaldehyde, 2-furaldehyde, propionaldehyde, chloroacetaldehyde, sodium arsenite, and a deodorant tablet [Mega Blue; hazardous component listed as tris(hydroxymethyl)nitromethane]. Short- and long-term cytotoxicity was evaluated and used to select appropriate doses for in vitro testing. DNA-protein cross-linking was evaluated at no fewer than three doses and two cell lysate washing temperatures (45 and 65 degrees C) in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) human Burkitt's lymphoma cells. The two washing temperatures were used to assess the heat stability of the DNA-protein cross-link, 2-Furaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde produced statistically significant increases in DNA-protein cross-links at washing temperatures of 45 degrees C, but not 65 degrees C, and at or above concentrations of 5, 17.5, and 75 mM, respectively. Acrolein, diepoxybutane, paraformaldehyde, and Mega Blue produced statistically significant increases in DNA-protein cross-links washed at 45 and 65 degrees C at or above concentrations of 0.15 mM, 12.5 mM, 0.003%, and 0.1%, respectively. Sodium arsenite and chloroacetaldehyde did not produce significantly increased DNA-protein cross-links at either temperature nor at any dose tested. Excluding paraformaldehyde and 2-furaldehyde treatments, significant increases in DNA-protein cross-links were observed only at doses that resulted in complete cell death within 4 d following dosing. This work demonstrates that DNA-protein cross-links can be formed in vitro following exposure to a variety of industrial compounds and that most cross-links are formed at cytotoxic concentrations.
This paper presents the effects of molecular structure on the catalytic behavior of bio-oil components in the steam-re-forming reactions. Methanol, ethanol, 1-propanol, butanol, 2-propanol, 1,2-propanediol, glycerol, propionaldehyde, acetone, and propionic acid were used as model compounds. Steam re-forming of the alcohols with a long carbon chain was relatively difficult and yielded large amounts of CH4 and coke deposits. An increased number of hydroxyl groups in the alcohols suppressed the generation of CH4 while promoting the production of CO and coke deposits. Furthermore, the location of the hydroxyl group also impacted both the product distribution and carbon deposition in the re-forming process. The type of functional group significantly affected steam re-forming as well. Alcohol steam re-forming tended to produce a significant amount of CH4, while aldehyde (propionaldehyde) steam re-forming produced only small amounts of CH4 and other organic byproducts. Severe coke deposition was encountered in the steam re-forming of ketone compounds such as acetone, since acetone showed a high tendency for polymerization to coke.
SUMMARY ::: ::: Gas chromatographic examination of the volatiles of cured and uncured ham showed that hexanal and valeraldehyde were present in appreciable quantities in the uncured product hut were barely detectable in the volatiles of the cured meat. The differences were less pronounced in the contents of hutyraldehyde, propionaldehyde, and acetaldehyde between cured and uncured ham volatiles, though these aldehydes tended to be more prevalent in the uncured ham. The branched-chain aldehydes (isobutyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, 2-methyl-hutyraldehyde) occurred to the same extent in both meats. Acetone was found to represent a major carhonyl constituent of the volatiles in both cured and uncured ham. The sulfur-containing fractions of the volatiles from both meats were found to comprise hydrogen sulfide and methanethiol.
The activity of the pI 5 isozyme of horse liver aldehyde dehydrogenase is markedly enhanced by some divalent metal ions (Ca, Mn, Mg), inhibited by others (Fe, Cu, Cd), totally inhibited by Hg, and not significantly affected by still others (Zn, Ni, Co). Steady-state kinetics show that with 0.5 mM Mg or Mn a 2-fold activation of the velocity measured at pH 7.5 occurs when propionaldehyde is the substrate. In the pre-steady state, the magnitude burst of NADH formulation is increased from 2 moles formed per mole of tetrameric enzyme to 4 moles formed in the presence of Mg. The stoichiometry of coenzyme (NADH, NAD, epsilon-NAD) binding is also increased from essentially 2 moles binding to 4 moles binding per mole enzyme in the presence of Mg. It appears that the enzyme exhibits half of the site reactivity in the absence of metal but has a full complement of catalytic sites in the presence.
Optical activation of 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (PPA) via enamines using L-proline derivatives as amine components was studied. S(+)-PPA was obtained when R(−)-2-methylpyrrolidine and S(−)-2-ethoxycarbonylpyrrolidine were used, while R(−)-PPA was obtained when S(−)-prolinamide, N-(L-prolyl)pyrrolidine, N-(L-prolyl)piperidine, S(+)-2-(1-pyrrolidinylmethyl)pyrrolidine, and S(+)-2-(piperidinomethyl)pyrrolidine were used. This suggests that there are two mechanisms for optical activation.
Three human post-mortem brains were dissected into seventeen areas and assayed for aldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.3) activity employing two assay systems: one at 68 microM and another at 13.6 mM propionaldehyde. The levels of activity with 68 microM propionaldehyde were significantly higher in cerebellum and putamen. The same brain areas were also examined by isoelectric focusing. By this procedure two distinct bands of aldehyde dehydrogenase activity (the cytoplasmic E1 and mitochondrial E2) could be readily visualized in cerebellum and putamen while other brain areas contained mainly the mitochondrial E2 isozyme.
The metabolism of N-butyl-N-(3-formylpropyl)nitrosamine, a presumptive intermediate metabolite of the urinary bladder carcinogen N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine, by rat liver has been examined. N-Butyl-N-(3-formylpropyl)nitrosamine was metabolized by an NADH-dependent reduction to N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine and by an NAD+-dependent oxidation to N-butyl-N-(3-carboxypropyl)nitrosamine. The reduction of N-butyl-N-(3-formylpropyl)nitrosamine was inhibited by pyrazole. The oxidation of N-butyl-N-(3-formylpropyl)nitrosamine was studied further. The rate of oxidation in total rat liver was 3 mumol/min/g liver or 21 nmol/min/mg protein and was similar to that found for the oxidation of propionaldehyde, a model substrate for isozymes of rat liver aldehyde dehydrogenase. The rate of oxidation of N-butyl-N-(3-formylpropyl)nitrosamine by isozymes in rat liver cytosol was 2-2.5 times that found for propionaldehyde. The apparent Km for the NAD+-dependent oxidation of N-butyl-N-(3-formylpropyl)nitrosamine was 20-30 microM, which is considerably lower than values reported for known substrates of aldehyde dehydrogenase. The NAD+-dependent oxidation of N-butyl-N-(3-formylpropyl)nitrosamine was inhibited 40-50% by 50 microM disulfiram, 60-70% by 100 microM disulfiram, and 50% by 0.4 mM sodium arsenite. These studies show that N-butyl-N-(3-formylpropyl)nitrosamine is very rapidly oxidized to N-butyl-N-(3-carboxypropyl)nitrosamine in rat liver by aldehyde dehydrogenase and the results may help to explain why the 3-formylpropyl intermediate has not been directly identified as a metabolite of N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine in urine or in isolated hepatocytes.
The present invention concerns a genetically modified microorganism for the production of a derivative of 4-hydroxy-2-ketobutyrate selected in the group consisting of 1,3-propanediol, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, 3-hydroxypropionate and 2,4-dihydroxybutyrate, said microorganism further comprising a gene coding for a mutant phosphoserine aminotransferase having an improved L-homoserine aminotransferase activity converting by transamination L-homoserine into 4-hydroxy-2-ketobutyrate. The invention also concerns a method for the production of derivatives of 4-hydroxy-2-ketobutyrate selected in the group consisting of 1,3-propanediol, 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, 3-hydroxypropionate and 2,4-dihydroxybutyrate by culturing said genetically modified microorganism in a culture medium and recovering the desired derivative.
Polyketides are an important class of natural products that often possess potent biological activity and intriguing chemical structures. Among the methods for constructing these ensembles, the stereoselective addition of allylmetal reagents[1] - particularly allyl boron reagents[2] - to prochiral carbonyls holds particular prominence. With Type I allylation reagents[3], this reaction not only delivers functionality that is strategically positioned for establishing appropriate oxygenation patterns, but its stereochemical predictability allows ready access to acetate, propionate, and isobutyrate synthetic equivalents. A limitation of many allylation reactions, however, is that they deliver products bearing a terminal alkene; if one desires additional substitution or functionality on the olefin, additional synthetic manipulations are often required.[4] In this regard, the vinylogous aldol reaction has proven particularly important as it delivers enoate-derived homoallylic alcohols. Unfortunately, even with the tremendous emphasis placed on the development of catalytic enantioselective vinylogous aldol reactions, an efficienct syn-selective asymmetric propionate version is still unavailable, as is a version that delivers quaternary centers.[5] In this report, we document the first examples of the enantioselective catalytic 1,2-diboration of 1,3-dienes (eq. 1, Scheme 1). As depicted in Scheme 1, the 1,2-diboration of 1,3-dienes delivers allylboron reagents (1) that are perfectly configured to participate in highly selective allylation reactions.[6,7,8] Importantly, with appropriate oxidative work-up, these reactions deliver vinylogous aldol equivalents that directly address the above-described synthesis limitations. Also of significant consequence, is that the allyl boron in the allylation product 2 may be subject to other useful bond forming reactions[9] that allow for chain-extending polyketide synthesis. ::: ::: ::: ::: Scheme 1 ::: ::: Strategy for chain-extending polyketide synthesis using 1,2-diboration of 1,3-dienes. ::: ::: ::: ::: To develop the catalytic synthesis strategy in Scheme 1, efforts were first extended toward the development of an enantioselective 1,2-diboration of terminal dienes.[10] A recent study in our laboratory found that enantioselective 1,4-diboration of trans-1,3-dienes could be accomplished with Pt(dba)3 and a chiral phosphonite ligand.[11,12] While evaluation of alternate phosphorous donors revealed ligands that furnished the desired 1,2 diboration, selectivity was suboptimal. A more reliable strategy for obtaining the 1,2-diboration product was to replace the trans diene substrate with cis 1,3-dienes. This approach furnished 1,2-diboration products (3:1 to >20:1 1,2:1,4 selectivity) across a range of substrates and generally occured with excellent enantioselection. After optimization, the ligand structures and reaction conditions depicted in Table 1 were found to be optimal. With respect to polypropionate synthesis, the diboration of cis-pentadiene is paramount and this was found to occur in excellent enantioselectivity (95:5 er) and good yield with ligand L2 (1, Table 1).[13] Aside from the phenyl substituted diene, all other cis dienes examined reacted with outstanding enantiocontrol when employing ligand L1. The diboration of 1,1-disubstituted dienes employing ligand L3 occured with uniformly high levels of stereocontrol (compounds 9–14). Notably, allylic silyl ethers do not engage in allylic borylation under the reaction conditions and tethered alkenes do not appear to perturb the reaction in a detrimental way. ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 1 ::: ::: Catalytic Enantioselective 1,2-Diboration of 1,3-Dienes[a] ::: ::: ::: ::: Significant features of the 1,2-bis(boronate) resulting from the diboration of cis-1,3-dienes are an embedded α-chiral allylboronate and a cis alkene. According to the seminal studies of Hoffmann, it was anticipated that these features would render allylation reactions highly selective.[14] In an initial experiment, commercially available cis-piperylene was subjected to catalytic diboration with Pt(dba)3 and ligand L2 in THF. The solvent was then removed in vacuo, CH2Cl2 added, and benzaldehyde introduced to the reaction mixture. Upon oxidative work-up, the allylation product was obtained in moderate isolated yield (48%), however, the stereoisomeric purity was excellent (>20:1 syn:anti, 94:6 er). Examination of the unpurified reaction mixture revealed significant amounts of bis(allylation) product presumably arising from addition of the initial adduct (15, Table 2) to a second equivalent of aldehyde. To minimize the amount of bis(allylation), the diboration was executed on a scale that delivered a two-fold excess of 1,2-bis(boronate) relative to aldehyde. This strategy provided good yields of the monoallylation product for a range of aldehyde substrates (Table 2). As might be expected, the allylation products were found to possess syn relative stereochemistry (>20:1 in all cases) and the product alkene was found to be in the trans configuration. With respect to synthetic utility, it is significant that aromatic, aliphatic, and α,β-unsaturated aldehydes all participate and the level of chirality transfer from the allylboronate is excellent. Other notable features are that α-branched aldehydes react (entry 6) as do those that bear α-oxygenation (entries 7–9). Importantly, the regioisomeric 1,4-diboration product is not only less reactive in allylation reactions, but any derived allylation product is easily removed by silica gel chromatography. A stereochemical model that correlates reactant configuration with product configuration is depicted in ts-1 (graphic, Table 2). Most likely to avoid an A(1,3) interaction with the cis substituent, the CH2B(pin) occupies an equatorial position in the chair-like transition structure. Bond reorganization then delivers the observed enantiomer of product with syn stereoselection and with a trans alkene. ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 2 ::: ::: Asymmetric Allylboration of Carbonyls[a] ::: ::: ::: ::: As exemplified by the production of compounds 9–14 (Table 1), 1,2-diboration of 1,1-disubstituted dienes occurs with excellent selectivity. Similar to the case of cis dienes, it was anticipated that the intermediate bis(boronate) esters would participate in highly selective carbonyl allylation reactions. However, with 1,1-disubstitued dienes, the overall reaction sequence would furnish products bearing all-carbon quaternary centers.[15,16] Notably, the added steric encumbrance of these allylation products appeared to diminish the rate of secondary allylation such that high yields were obtained even when equimolar amounts of diene, B2(pin)2, and aldehyde were employed (Table 3). Also worth mention is that both the diboration and the allylation reactions proceeded cleanly in toluene solvent and this allowed the entire sequence to be accomplished in a single flask without solvent swapping operations. Of particular note, either diastereomer of product could be obtained in excellent yield and enantioselectivity simply by employing the appropriate diastereomer of diene substrates. For example, whereas diboration/allylation employing neral-derived diene 38 furnished product 26 in excellent selectivity, diboration/allylation employing geranial-derived diene 37 delivered diastereomer 27 with excellent levels of stereocontrol. Similar observations were made with propionaldehyde-derived products 28 and 29. ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 3 ::: ::: Asymmetric Allylboration of Carbonyls with γ,γ-Disubstituted Allylboronates.[a] ::: ::: ::: ::: An attractive feature of the synthesis strategy described above is that the allylation product can be subjected to bond-forming reactions other than oxidation. As depicted in Scheme 2 (eq. 1), when diene 37 was subjected to diboration and then employed in allylation, oxidative work-up furnished allylic alcohol 27. Alternatively, subsequent to the allylation reaction, the intermediate allylboronate was subjected to homologation according to the Matteson protocol (eq. 2).[17] This delivered homoallylic alcohol 39, also in excellent yield and stereoselection. Lastly, it was found that the allylboronation product, when subjected to protodeboronation conditions similar to those described by Aggarwal[9d], was converted to the simple alkene product 40 (eq. 3). In this case, the protonation event occurred predominantly by an SE2′ pathway and delivered bishomoallylic alcohol 40 as the major product. Considering the range of transformations that are available to organoboronates, and the fact that the diboration/allylation sequence occurs cleanly in aprotic solvent, allylation intermediates may be directly transformed to a number of other useful building blocks. ::: ::: ::: ::: Scheme 2 ::: ::: Diboration-Allylation-Functionalization Sequence. ::: ::: ::: ::: In conclusion, we have described the catalytic enantioselective 1,2-diboration of 1,3-dienes and have found that the 1,2-bis(boronate) products can be employed in versatile stereoselective allylation reactions and deliver a range of functionalized chiral building blocks. Further studies on the use of these reactions in complex molecule synthesis are in progress and will be reported in due course.
Abstract Two mixed-strain lactic starters, A and C, selected for consistent production of normal and fruity-flavored Cheddar cheese, respectively, were cultured in 11% nonfat milk for 24 hr at 30C, and the amounts and kinds of carbonyl compounds produced by each were compared. Tentative identification of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones of the carbonyls showed the presence of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, acetone, pyruvic acid, diacetyl, glyoxal, and an alphaketo alkanal in Starter A. Starter C contained the same compounds but lacked propionaldehyde, which was replaced by formaldehyde. Striking differences were noted between A and C in the concentration of acetaldehyde, diacetyl, and pyruvic acid, the latter containing more than twice the concentration of these compounds found in Starter A. It appeared that cultures associated with high carbonyl production in milk also were responsible for fruity offflavor defects in Cheddar cheese.
The influence of environmental factors such as glycerol concentration, time of production, presence of Escherichia coli, and two different strains of Lactobacillus reuteri (ATCC 55730 and ATCC 53608) on 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) production was analyzed. Additionally, the influence of those factors on gene expression in the 3-HPA production pathway was evaluated. The genes studied were GldC, cbiP, and Lreu_1734. The results of this study showed that the principal environmental factors that influence 3-HPA production are glycerol concentration and Lactobacillus reuteri strain. As glycerol concentration increased, 3-HPA content increased. The greatest 3-HPA concentration (56.6 mM ±5.99) was achieved by L. reuteri ATCC 55730. Gene expression was also affected by environmental factors. Factor that showed the greatest influence were also strain and glycerol concentration. The genes cbiP, GldC, and Lreu_1734 had basal gene expression in glycerol absence; however, glycerol regulated its expression. Glycerol induced overexpression of cbiP and GldC genes (Strain ATCC 53608), probably to ensure its efficient utilization. On the contrary, glycerol concentration suppressed Lre_1734 expression in both analyzed strains, as a mechanism for 3-HPA accumulation. Down-regulation was observed in all the genes tested in strain ATCC 55730, probably due to feedback inhibition by 3-HPA.
Bacterial microcompartments encapsulate enzymatic pathways that generate small, volatile, aldehyde intermediates. The Rhodococcus and Mycobacterium microcompartment (RMM) operon from Mycobacterium smegmatis encodes four enzymes, including (S)-1-amino-2-propanol dehydrogenase and a likely propionaldehyde dehydrogenase. We show here that a third enzyme (and its nonmicrocompartment-associated paralog) is a moderately specific (S)-1-amino-2-propanol kinase. We determined the structure of apo-aminopropanol kinase at 1.35 Å, revealing that it has structural similarity to hexosamine kinases, choline kinases, and aminoglycoside phosphotransferases. We modeled substrate binding, and tested our model by characterizing key enzyme variants. Bioinformatics analysis established that this enzyme is widespread in Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, and Firmicutes, and is very commonly associated with a candidate phospholyase. In Rhizobia, aminopropanol kinase is generally associated with aromatic degradation pathways. In the RMM (and the parallel pathway that includes the second paralog), aminopropanol kinase likely degrades aminoacetone through a propanolamine-phosphate phospho-lyase–dependent pathway. These enzymatic activities were originally described in Pseudomonas, but the proteins responsible have not been previously identified. Bacterial microcompartments typically co-encapsulate enzymes which can regenerate required co-factors, but the RMM enzymes require four biochemically distinct co-factors with no overlap. This suggests that either the RMM shell can uniquely transport multiple co-factors in stoichiometric quantities, or that all enzymes except the phospho-lyase reside outside of the shell. In summary, aminopropanol kinase is a novel enzyme found in diverse bacteria and multiple metabolic pathways; its presence in the RMM implies that this microcompartment degrades aminoacetone, using a pathway that appears to violate some established precepts as to how microcompartments function.
Application of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) for detection of aldehydes in biological samples such as blood, yoghurt, and milk, is reported. Sample preparation is easy, and the presented method is both sensitive and selective. It is based on the widely used dinitrophenylhydrazine derivatization, followed by extraction with n-hexane and a simple reversed-phase HPLC separation. Detection is performed by atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) in negative ion mode, with detection limits in the low picogram range. Using MS/MS, acetone and propionaldehyde can clearly be distinguished, facilitating propionaldehyde quantitation even in the presence of high acetone levels. Quantitation by direct MS/MS is also feasible, well suited for high-throughput applications, although not as accurate as using HPLC/MS/MS.
The aim of this work was to investigate the correlation between the results of sensory evaluation and the chemical composition of alembic-made cachaca samples produced in Salinas, MG. In order to establish reliable correlations between markers and samples were used chemometric tools. For this study were collected 24 samples of cachaca produced by members of the Associacao dos Produtores Artesanais de Cachaca de Salinas (APACS). The parameters: quantitative descriptive analysis (QDA), alcohol content, acidity and 48 chemical compounds of cachaca were determined. Organic compounds were determined by liquid chromatography (HPLC) with diode array detection (DAD) and mass spectrometry (MS), in addition to gas chromatography (GC) with flame ionization detection (FID) and MS. Copper was determined by atomic absorption (AAS). To determine the sensory profile was selected and trained a team of 9 judges based on their discriminative power, reproducibility of the trials and consensus with the staff. To describe and to compare the sensory profiles of the cachaca samples were collected and quantified 23 sensory attributes, divided between aroma (alcohol, sugarcane bagasse, sweet, fruity, sour, citrus, sugarcane, molasses, woody, astringent and sour) and flavor (alcohol, sour, sweet, bitter, fruit, sugarcane bagasse, fermented juice, citric, tar, astringent and burning). Data were subjected to analysis of variance (ANOVA), Tukey tests, principal components analysis (PCA), Kohonen’s neural network, selection of variables using the selection of predictors ordered (OPS) and partial least squares (PLS). By PCA was observed that the flavor descriptors were determinants for describe the profile to over 80% of samples, while for flavoring only half of them have been discriminated. For the Kohonen’s neural network can be grouped samples due to the similarity of chemical composition, into eight distinct groups. Compounds present in greater intensity in some samples were crucial to discriminate them. Using OPS and PLS was possible to verify which compounds correlated directly with each one of the 23 selected sensory descriptors, and for 14 of these descriptors the correlation was referring to a r2  0,90: sugarcane bagasse, sweet, fruity, citrus, molasses, astringent and sour to aroma; and alcohol, sweet, fruit, fermented juice, citric, tar and burning, to taste. The compounds ethyl dodecanoate, propanoic acid, n-butanol, ethyl tetradecanoate, ethyl carbamate, 5-hydroxy-2-methyl-3-hexanone, hexadecane, propionaldehyde, butyl butyrate, isoamyl alcohol, acrolein, formaldehyde, hexanoic acid, ethyl acetate, n-propanol, copper, acetaldehyde, octanoic acid, volatile acid, benzaldehyde, caprylic alcohol and 2-heptanol correlated with the sensory descriptor called fermented sugarcane juice with r2 > 0.99. It was possible to find correlations between chemical composition and sensory descriptors capable of discriminating alembic-made cachacas using statistical tools.
1 ::: Cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase was shown to be free of contamination by the mitochondrial enzyme by isoelectric focusing. ::: ::: 2 ::: Both enzymes showed multiple banding in activity stains. The cytoplasmic enzyme gave two very close bands pl = 5.22 ± 0.03 whereas the mitochondrial enzyme showed seven bands, a pair at pl = 5.22 and five further bands of pl 5.48 ± 0.09, 5.56 ± 0.07, 5.56 ± 0.06, 5.70 ± 0.03 and 5.76 ± 0.02. Possible origins of the isoenzymes are discussed. ::: ::: 3 ::: Disulfiram in a fourfold excess reduced the activity of the cytoplasmic enzyme to 9% of the initial value. The residual activity represents the activity of the disulfiram-modified enzyme and is not due to mitochondrial contamination. This casts doubt on the role of an essential thiol group. ::: ::: 4 ::: The mitochondrial enzyme shows a low amplitude (22%) burst in the production of 4-nitrophenoxide ion during the hydrolysis of 4-nitrophenyl acetate at pH 7.6. The burst rate constant was 7.3 ± 1 s−1 and the steady-state rate constant was 0.2 s−1, values similar to those previously reported for the cytoplasmic enzyme. ::: ::: 5 ::: The mitochondrial enzyme shows a burst in the release of protons during the oxidation of propionaldehyde at pH 7.6. The burst rate constant was 6 s−1 and the amplitude was equal to half the formal enzyme concentration. The significance of these results for the steady-state mechanism is discussed.
Abstract Mutation to the conserved Glu399 or Lys192 caused the rate-limiting step of human liver mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) to change from deacylation to hydride transfer (Sheikh, S., Ni, L., Hurley, T. D., and Weiner, H. (1997) J. Biol. Chem.272, 18817–18822). Here we further investigated the role of these two NAD+-ribose-binding residues. The E399Q/K/H/D and K192Q mutants had lower dehydrogenase activity when compared with the native enzyme. No pre-steady state burst of NADH formation was found with the E399Q/K and K192Q enzymes when propionaldehyde was used as the substrate; furthermore, each mutant oxidized chloroacetaldehyde slower than propionaldehyde, and a primary isotope effect was observed for each mutant when [2H]acetaldehyde was used as a substrate. However, no isotope effect was observed for each mutant when α-[2H]benzaldehyde was the substrate. A pre-steady state burst of NADH formation was observed for the E399Q/K and K192Q mutants with benzaldehyde, and p-nitrobenzaldehyde was oxidized faster than benzaldehyde. Hence, when aromatic aldehydes were used as substrates, the rate-limiting step remained deacylation for all these mutants. The rate-limiting step remained deacylation for the E399H/D mutants when either aliphatic or aromatic aldehydes were used as substrates. The K192Q mutant displayed a change in substrate specificity, with aromatic aldehydes becoming better substrates than aliphatic aldehydes.
In the reductive branch, glycerol is first dehydrated to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde that is then reduced to 1,3-PD under the consumption of reducing power (NADH). If over-expression of the gene dhaB encoding glycerol dehydrase is achieved,the reducing power will be scarce and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde will be accumulated,which is disadvantage to produce 1,3-propanediol.The structure gene yqhD from E.coli encoding 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase isoenzyme[under the consumption of reducing power (NADPH)]and the gene dhaB encoding glycerol dehydrase from Klebsiella pneumoniae was amplified using PCR method.The two gene were transferred into expression vector pEtac to construct a novel recombinant Klebsiella pneumoniae (pEtac-dhaB-tac-yqhD).Over-expression of yqhD and dhaB in Klebsiella pneumoniae was achieved with pEtac-dhaB-tac-yqhD.The fermentation result on aerobic conversion showed the increase of 20% of 1,3-propanediol yield by Klebsiella pneumoniae(pEtac-dhaB-tac-yqhD) was obtained compared with Klebsiella pneumoniae.The main by-products,acetic acid and butanediol decreased estrogen receptors 30% obviously.
Within the framework of the development of the bioeconomy, there is an increasing demand towards the production of chemicals from renewable biomass resources. In this respect, interest in the sustainable production of biobased building blocks, such as the bifunctional carboxylic acid 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), is growing. The development of a biotechnological process to convert glycerol (byproduct of biodiesel industries) into the platform chemical 3-HP is a key issue. Among its various applications, 3-HP can be used for the synthesis of biobased polymers and acrylic acid. Lactobacillus reuteri is known as a natural producer of 3-HP from glycerol. However, the yield and productivity are low because of the inhibitory effects of the 3-HP and also of its metabolic intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA). The simultaneous production of 1,3-propanediol also affect the yield. ::: The first aim was to improve the performance of 3-HP production by regulating operating parameters such as pH (free or controlled at 6, 5, 4 or 3), stirring (100 or 250 rpm) and bacterial concentration. The pH control allowed maintaining the cell physiological state compared to a free-pH bioconversion as evaluated by flow cytometry. In fact, the L. reuteri viability (esterase activity assimilated to enzymatic activity) was assessed by cell staining with the fluorescent probe cFDA (carboxyfluorescein diacetate) and the bacterial membrane integrity was checked using PI (propidium iodide). No 3-HP production was observed at pH 3. Between pH 6 and 4, the production remained low probably due to inhibition phenomena, with only slight differences between the three conditions. ::: Moreover, original results about the 3-HP inhibition mechanisms were obtained thanks to flow cytometry analyses and Fourier-Transform InfraRed (FTIR) spectroscopy, the latter allowing to study the cell biochemical composition. For the first time, we demonstrated that 3-HP induces damages on the secondary structure of cell proteins (which includes enzymes) and alterations of nucleic acids. Performing a controlled glycerol fed-batch system to avoid 3-HPA accumulation was very successful and up to 12g/l of 3-HP was produced along with 10g/l of 1,3 PDO, in 50h. It was also shown that the residual 1,3 PDO could be oxidised into 3-HP using a second step, in aerobiosis, with Acetobacter aceti. ::: In situ product recovery (ISPR) was also performed to extract 3-HP along its production. The ISPR approach has been successfully applied to the production of some solvents, organic acids, aromas and fine chemicals. We used a membrane-assisted reactive extraction with long-chain tertiary and quaternary amines and decanol as diluents, a promising technique that drew a lot of attention for the extraction of hydroxypropionic acids. A challenging bottleneck that has to be addressed deals with the biocompatibility of this process, studied by flow cytometry. The quaternary amines were shown to induce the highest toxicity compared to decanol with or without tertiary amines. Our work thus underlines the interest of a smart coordination of the upstream reactions and downstream technologies.
The n-π absorption spectra of propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde and isobutyraldehyde were measured in various solvents and the effects of substituents and solvents on the n-π absorption spectra were investigated. For the former effect red shifts instead of blue shifts reported as the characteristic of n-π transitions were observed. The latter effect was studied using McRae’s equation. Hydrogen bonding between solute and solvent molecules is also considered.
Carbonyl compounds in crude Finnish sulphite and grain spirits have been isolated by precipitation as their 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones, and the unprecipitated hydrazones by adsorption on carbon and elution from the latter. The dicarbonyl compounds were identified as their bishydrazones in thin-layer chromatography. Diacethyl and 2,3-pentanedione were found present in these two grades of spirit. Aldehydes were analysed by isothermal gas chromatography on a NEGS column, after ozone oxidation o the hydrazones to the corresponding carboxylic acids. Acetaldehyde proved to be the dominating component, whereas C3-C6 aldehydes were present in smaller quantities. The amounts of acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde and isovaleraldehyde and/or 2-methylbutyraldehyde in a crude grain spirit were estimated quantitatively by the gas chromatographic method mentioned, using standard solutions of these compounds for reference. The confidence limits of the values were estimated on an electronic computer.
A combination of continuum electrostatic and density functional calculations has been employed to study the mechanism of the B12-independent glycerol dehydratase, a novel glycyl-radical enzyme involved in the microbial conversion of glycerol to 3-hydroxylpropionaldehyde. The calculations indicate that the dehydratation of glycerol by the B12-independent enzyme does not need to involve a mechanistically complicated migration of the middle hydroxyl group to one of the two terminal positions of a molecule, as previously suggested. Instead, the reaction can proceed in three elementary steps. First, a radical transfer from the catalytically active Cys433 to the ligand generates a substrate-related intermediate. Second, a hydroxyl group splits off at the middle position of the ligand and is protonated by the neighboring His164 to form a water molecule. The other active site residue Glu435 accepts a proton from one of the terminal hydroxyl groups of the ligand and a C═O double bond is created. Third, the reactio...
A new enzymatic method for the generation of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) using the acid phosphatase from Shigella flexneri (PhoN−Sf) and the cheap phosphate donor pyrophosphate (PPi) is described. The utility of this method was demonstrated in an aldolase-catalyzed condensation carried out in one pot in which DHAP was generated and coupled to propionaldehyde to give a yield of 53% of the isolated dephosphorylated end product.
A new class of polyacetals, poly(cyanoethyl)oxymethylene, was obtained by the polymerization of β-cyanopropionaldehyde at −78°C. with use of ionic initiators including boron trifluoride diethyl etherate, diethylzinc, triethylaluminum, and triethylaluminumtitanium tetrachloride complexes. The influence of temperature, initiator, and solvent upon the polymerization was studied. Infrared spectra of polymers obtained from different initiators are also illustrated. An attempt was made to fractionate the polymer by means of solvent extraction. The acetone-soluble polymer is an elastomeric material having a low solution viscosity. The acetone-insoluble, dimethylformamide-soluble polymer obtained as a white powder was found to have extremely high solution viscosity. Some amounts of insoluble fraction could be also separated. The latter two fractions were observed to have a reasonable stability.
1,3-Propanediol in aqueous solutions was reacted with propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, or isobutyraldehyde to form substituted 1,3-dioxane. When excess aldehydes were used, the substituted 1,3-dioxanes were extracted from the aqueous phase to the aldehyde phase; in this step, aldehydes were both reactant and extractant. 1,3-Propanediol was recovered from the extractant through hydrolysis of substituted 1,3-dioxanes in reactive distillation equipment. The reaction equilibrium constants of propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, and isobutyraldehyde were calculated as 1390−625, 3480−470, and 678−204, respectively, at 7−52 °C. Phase equilibrium measurements showed that the mass distribution coefficients between organic and aqueous phases for 2-ethyl-1,3-dioxane, 2-propyl-1,3-dioxane, and 2-isopropyl-1,3-dioxane were 3.96−5.40, 27.03−28.08, and 38.51−57.91, respectively, at 15−50 °C. Reactive extraction kinetics studies indicated that the acetalization reactions occurred easily at room temperature. The reactive extrac...
Synthesis of acid-sensitive epoxides such as epoxide of bishomoallyl alcohol or chromene oxide was achieved by the epoxidation of corresponding olefins with combined use of molecular oxygen and propionaldehyde diethyl acetal catalyzed by cobalt(II) complex. Various silyl enol ethers and silyl ketene acetals, acid-sensitive compounds, were also smoothly monooxygenated into the corresponding α-hydroxy carbonyl compounds.
Several porphyrinogenic xenobiotics cause mechanism-based inactivation of cytochrome P450 (P450) isozymes with concomitant formation of a mixture of four N-alkylprotoporphyrin IX (N-alkylPP) regioisomers, which have ferrochelatase inhibitory properties. To isolate the four regioisomers of N-methylprotoporphyrin IX (N-methylPP), 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl, 1-4-dihydro-2,4,6-trimethylpyridine (DDC) was administered to untreated, beta-naphthoflavone-, phenobarbital-, and glutethimide-pretreated 18-day-old chick embryos. Separation of the N-methylPP regioisomers by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) revealed no marked difference in the regioisomer pattern among the different treatments. After administration of griseofulvin, allylisopropylacetamide (AIA), or 1-[4-(3-acetyl-2,4,6-triemethylphenyl)-2,6-cyclohexanedionyl]-O-ethyl propionaldehyde oxime (ATMP) to untreated and glutethimide-pretreated 18-day-old chick embryos, an N-alkylPP was isolated after AIA administration only. This finding strengthened previous reports of the species specificity of N-alkylPP formation with griseofulvin and ATMP. A series of dihydropyridines, namely 4-ethylDDC, 4-hexylDDC, and 4-isobutylDDC were administered to untreated and glutethimide-pretreated 18-day-old chick embryos and hepatic N-alkylPPs were isolated and separated by HPLC into regioisomers. The regioisomer patterns obtained did not support a previous proposal of masked regions above both rings B and C in the heme moieties of the P450 isozymes responsible for N-alkylPP formation. However, the data support the hypothesis of a partially masked region above ring B alone. The regioisomer patterns were in agreement with results previously obtained in rats showing that the percentage of Nc and (or) ND regioisomers in the regioisomer mixture increases as the length and bulk of the 4-alkyl substituent of a DDC analogue increase. Differences in the regioselectivity of heme N-alkylation may be due to intrinsic chemical features of DDC analogues themselves or to differences in the P450 isozymes inactivated.
The addition of α- and β-2-deoxy-d-glucopyranosyl lithium reagents i and ii to prochiral aldehydes is a syn-selective process, synthetically useful only with the α-lithio reagent i (syn:anti selectivity of ∼10:1 with saturated aldehydes). This has been demonstrated by using propionaldehyde and converting the syn-isomers of both series to an easily identified acyclic meso-chain (α-series) or a C2 symmetric acyclic chain (β-series). The preparation of α- and β-d-glucopyranosyl dilithio reagents 26 and 27 is possible but a notable decrease in efficiency and facial selectivity is observed in coupling reactions with model aldehydes.
Aqueous mixtures of HEMA with glutaraldehyde or propionaldehyde polymerize by addition of catalytic amounts of amines or amino acids. The maximal reaction velocity of the transformation of HEMA/glutaraldehyde with glycine was obtained at pH 0.8. Kinetic data suggested a second-order reaction between glutaraldehyde and glycine, and solubility data suggested formation of a cross-linked polymer. A relatively high bond strength between dentin and resin composite was obtained by pre-treatment of dentin with Gluma (35% HEMA, 5% glutaraldehyde in water) adjusted to pH 1.0 with hydrochloric acid. It is proposed that on application of Gluma, amino-group-containing substances in dentin react with glutaraldehyde and start the formation of a HEMA polymer. This product may be cross-linked by an alpha,beta-unsaturated glutaraldehyde aldol condensation product and may bond to dentin by aldehyde fixation to dentin proteins. Resin composite will bond to this product by copolymerization.
The formation of Rh I (CO) 2 from Rh 6 (CO) 16 impregnated on SiO 2 and its reactivity toward C 2 H 4 /H 2 have been investigated by in situ infrared spectroscopy. Impregnation of Rh 6 (CO) 16 on partially dehydroxylatod SiO 2 results in a partially decarbonylated structure exhibiting the terminal and bridging carbonyl bands at 303 K; surface H 2 O reacts with Rh 6 (CO) 16 to form Rh I (CO) 2 at 373-423 K. The terminal carbonyls show no reactivity toward C 2 H 4 /H 2 at 303 K while they begin to react with C 2 H 4 /H 2 to produce adsorbed acyl and propionaldehyde at 323 K
Abstract Aldicarb, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime, is a systemic insecticide used extensively for early season insect control in cotton ( Gossypium hirsutum L.). The indirect effect of aldicarb on cotton due to insect control is well documented; however, much less is known regarding its direct effect on cotton growth and development. The purpose of this research was to test the hypothesis that aldicarb in the absence of insects imposes a direct effect on cotton growth and that aldicarb effectiveness on growth depends on temperature. Cotton plants (cv. Deltapine-50 and DES-119) were grown in outdoor sunlit plant growth chambers under five day/night temperatures (20/12, 25/17, 30/22, 35/27, and 40/32 °C). In one study, aldicarb at 0.56 kg ha −1 was applied to soil at sowing. In a second study, aldicarb was first applied at a rate of 0.84 kg ha −1 to soil at sowing and applied again at a rate of 2.24 kg ha −1 at the stage of flower bud initiation as a side-dressing. Aldicarb increased early season vegetative growth of cotton plants grown at 25/17, 30/22, and 35/27 °C, but not for plants grown at 20/12 and 40/32 °C. Aldicarb also promoted the early formation of cotton flower buds at the five temperature regimes and increased the number of flowers at 30/22 °C. The treated plants had more growing roots, greater root length densities in the 61–80 cm soil depth, and higher root/shoot ratios than control plants at all temperatures. Our results showed that aldicarb promoted cotton earliness by enhancing growth rates and promoting the roots to grow deeper into soil. The responses of cotton to aldicarb depended on temperature, with a greater effect occurring at near optimum temperatures for cotton growth.
Abstract: Partial oxidation of propylene was investigated at 1 atm pressure over Rh/TiO 2 catalysts as a function of reaction temperature, metal loading and particle size using high-throughput methods. Catalysts were prepared by ablating thin sheets of pure rhodium metal using an excimer laser and by collecting the nanoparticles created on the external surfaces of TiO 2 pellets that were placed inside the ablation plume. Rh nanoparticles before the experiments were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) by collecting them on carbon film. Catalyst evaluations were performed using a high-throughput array channel microreactor system coupled to quadrupole mass spectrometry (MS) and gas chromatography (GC). The reaction conditions were 23% C 3 H 6 , 20% O 2 and the balance helium in the feed, 20,000 h -1 GHSV and a temperature range of 250-325 o C. The reaction products included primarily acetone (AT) and to a lesser degree propionaldehyde (PaL) as the C 3 products, together with deep oxidation products COx.
Bacterial microcompartments encapsulate enzymatic pathways that generate small, volatile, aldehyde intermediates. The Rhodococcus and Mycobacterium microcompartment (RMM) operon from Mycobacterium smegmatis encodes four enzymes, including (S)-1-amino-2-propanol dehydrogenase and a likely propionaldehyde dehydrogenase. We show here that a third enzyme (and its nonmicrocompartment-associated paralog) is a moderately specific (S)-1-amino-2-propanol kinase. We determined the structure of apo-aminopropanol kinase at 1.35 Å, revealing that it has structural similarity to hexosamine kinases, choline kinases, and aminoglycoside phosphotransferases. We modeled substrate binding, and tested our model by characterizing key enzyme variants. Bioinformatics analysis established that this enzyme is widespread in Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, and Firmicutes, and is very commonly associated with a candidate phospholyase. In Rhizobia, aminopropanol kinase is generally associated with aromatic degradation pathways. In the RMM (and the parallel pathway that includes the second paralog), aminopropanol kinase likely degrades aminoacetone through a propanolaminephosphate phospho-lyase-dependent pathway. These enzymatic activities were originally described in Pseudomonas, but the proteins responsible have not been previously identified. Bacterial microcompartments typically co-encapsulate enzymes which can regenerate required co-factors, but the RMM enzymes require four biochemically distinct co-factors with no overlap. This suggests that either the RMM shell can uniquely transport multiple co-factors in stoichiometric quantities, or that all enzymes except the phospho-lyase reside outside of the shell. In summary, aminopropanol kinase is a novel enzyme found in diverse bacteria and multiple metabolic pathways; its presence in the RMM implies that this microcompartment degrades aminoacetone, using a pathway that appears to violate some established precepts as to how microcompartments function.
The hydrogenation of acrolein over pure and supported silver has been investigated with a focus on the influence of catalyst structure and reaction pressure (mbar to 20 bar range) on activity and selectivity. An onset of formation of allyl alcohol beyond 100 mbar reaction pressure (at 250 °C) is ascribed to a change in adsorption geometry upon increasing coverage. Smaller silver particles (in the nanometer range), the proximity of a reducible oxide component as well as high pressure lead to enhanced allyl alcohol formation; the selectivity to the other main product propionaldehyde is reduced. The silver dispersion changed depending on the reaction pressure. Moreover, the presence of oxygen, most likely as subsurface oxygen, and the presence of defects are of paramount importance for the catalytic behaviour. The considerable changes of the silver catalysts under reaction conditions and the pressure dependence call for in situ measurements to establish true structure–activity/selectivity relationships for this system.
Abstract The aim of the investigations was to synthesise photocrosslinkable hydrophobic prepolymers based on polyvinyl alcohol) for the use in enzyme entrapment. Therefore, the influence of the sequence of acetalisation of poly(vinyl alcohol) with a photocrosslinkable aldehyde 1-methyl-4-[2-(4-formylphenyl)-ethenyl]-pyridinium-methosulphate (SbQ-4) and propionaldehyde was examined to find out the reaction conditions yielding prepolymers with similar content of photocrosslinkable component but different amounts of propionaldehyde acetals. Data obtained from quantitative 13C-NMR spectroscopy and UV spectrophotometry proved that a stepwise acetalisation first with SbQ-4 leads to the desired prepolymers. In contrast, during simultaneous acetalisation competition of both aldehydes yields prepolymers with a content of photocrosslinkable group that depends on the degree of acetalisation with propionaldehyde.
The condensation of propionaldehyde, isobutyraldehyde, trimethylacetaldehyde and dibromoacetaldehyde with glycerol has been carried out in the presence of a catalyst (40% sulphuric acid) at 90 °C., and the resulting products have been shown to consist in each case of a mixture of the five- and six-membered cyclic acetals. The separation of these isomers from the acetal mixture was rendered possible by the difference in the physical properties of their benzoates. The structure of the latter was proved by saponification, methylation, hydrolysis and isolation of the resulting glycerol α- and glycerol β-methyl ethers respectively.With the isomers from dibromoacetaldehyde this method could not be used, owing to the labile character of the bromine atoms in presence of alkali. Their structures were proved by direct synthesis of the five-membered acetal benzoate from glycerol α-benzoate and dibromoacetaldehyde.The data obtained provide additional evidence of the marked influence exerted by the polar character of ...
The present invention is glycerol di-hydrazide hydratase and 3-hydroxy propionaldehyde dihydro as collagenase to a method of producing 3-hydroxypropionic acid by a transformant with a gene encoding a recombinant microorganism, and this claim, and more particularly di-glycerol And the aldehyde dehydrogenase 3-hydroxy-propionic acid, glycerol di-hydrazide hydratase, di-aldehyde dehydrogenase, vectors, microorganisms
Apart from certain amino acids none of the nitrogenous intermediates involved in the biosynthesis of mustard oil glucosides have, untl now, been determined. Results consistent with the hypothesis — amino acids aldehyde oximes mustard oil glucosides — are presented for glucotropaeolin and gluconasturtin. ::: ::: ::: ::: Administration of dl-[2-14C]phenylalanine and [1-14C]phenylacetaldehyde oxime to Tropaeolum majus L. shoots resulted in a greater incorporation of the tracer from the latter into the aglycone moiety of glucotropaeolin; incorporation of 14C from phenylacetaldehyde oxime into the aglycone was without randomization. Radioactive phenylacetaldehyde oxime was isolated from T. majus shoots which were fed dl-[2-14C]phenylalanine. ::: ::: ::: ::: The extent of conversion of 14C into the aglycone of gluconasturtin was similar when 3-phenyl[1-14C]propionaldehyde oxime and dl-2-amino-4-phenyl[2-14C]butyric acid were fed to Nasturtium officinale R. Br. There was no randomization of labelled carbon in gluconasturtin aglycone derived from 3-phenylpropionaldehyde oxime.
The present invention provides a method for aldehyde hydrogenation 3- hydroxypropoxy, 3-propanediol, in the presence of a two-component catalyst supported on molecular sieves, or a mixture of both oxides as carrier, containing Ni, 3 - hydroxy propionaldehyde aqueous solution by two-stage hydrogenation reaction is converted to 1,3-propanediol. Activity of the catalyst employed in the present invention, high selectivity, mild reaction conditions, good catalyst stability.
Abstract Smoking is a major risk factor for atherosclerotic vascular diseases, but the mechanism for its genesis is unknown. We have recently shown that the gas phase of cigarette smoke (nicotine- and tar-free cigarette smoke extract; CSE) likely to reach the systemic circulation contains stable substances which cause cytotoxicity like plasma membrane damage and cell death in cultured cells, and also that the plasma membrane damage is caused through sequential activation of protein kinase C (PKC) and NADPH oxidase (NOX) and the resulting generation of reactive oxygen species (PKC/NOX-dependent mechanism), whereas cell death is caused through PKC/NOX-dependent and -independent mechanisms. To identify these stable substances, the CSE was prepared by passing the main-stream smoke of 10 cigarettes through a Cambridge glass fiber filter, trapping of the smoke in a vessel cooled at −80 °C, and subsequent dissolution in 10 ml of water. The CSE was fractionated into nine fractions using reversed-phase HPLC, and each fraction was screened for cytotoxicity in cultured cells, using propidium iodide uptake assay for cell membrane damage and MTS [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium] reduction assay for cell viability. The cytotoxicity was positive in two of the nine fractions (Fr2 and Fr5). After extraction of the active fractions into dichloromethane, GC/MS analysis identified 2-cyclopenten-1-one (CPO) in Fr5 but none in Fr2. After derivatization of the active fractions with O-(2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzyl) hydroxylamine hydrochloride, GC/MS analysis identified acrolein, acetone and propionaldehyde in Fr2, and methyl vinyl ketone (MVK) in Fr5. After 4-h incubation, authentic acrolein and MVK induced concentration-dependent cytotoxicity with EC 50 values of 75.9 ± 8.2 and 47.0 ± 8.0 μM (mean ± SEM; n = 3), respectively, whereas acetone, propionaldehyde and CPO were without effect. However, after 24-h incubation, CPO induced concentration-dependent cytotoxicity with an EC 50 value of 264.0 ± 16.9 μM ( n = 3). The concentrations of acrolein, MVK and CPO in the CSE were 3368 ± 334, 2429 ± 123 and 392.9 ± 31.8 μM ( n = 4), respectively, which were higher than the cytotoxic concentrations. The cytotoxicity of acrolein and MVK consisted of plasma membrane damage and decreased cell viability: the plasma membrane damage was totally prevented by treatment with an inhibitor of PKC or NOX, whereas the decreased cell viability was only partially prevented by these inhibitors. The cytotoxicity of CPO consisted only of decreased cell viability, which was totally resistant to these inhibitors. These results show that acrolein and MVK are responsible for the acute cytotoxicity of the CSE through PKC/NOX-dependent and -independent mechanisms, whereas CPO is responsible for the delayed cytotoxicity of the CSE through a PKC/NOX-independent mechanism.
This chapter discusses the methods of synthesis of 3:3-diphenylpropylamines. The treatment of basic nitriles with excess sodamide leads to the replacement of the cyano group by hydrogen. The preparation of 3:3-diphenylpropylamines by this method gives excellent yield. The dehydration and reduction of basic tertiary alcohols in one step, using red phosphorus and hydriodic acid, or in two steps, using dehydration in acid medium followed by catalytic hydrogenation, also gives 3:3-diphenylpropylamines. Another method is the condensation of a tertiary aminoethylchloride with sodium or potassium diphenylmethide. The less important methods of synthesis include the reductive condensation of 2:2-diphenylpropionaldehyde and a secondary amine; the condensation of 3:3-diphenylpropylchloride with a secondary amine; and the decarboxylation of aminoacids. All known 3:3-diphenylpropylamines of type I (R = H) are devoid of pronounced analgesic activity in mice and rats. N : N ′-di iso propyl-3:3-diphenylpropylamine HCl shows antispasmodic and antinicotinic activity. Moreover, quaternization with methyl halides as a rule increases parasympatholytic activity and decreases all other activities of 3:3-diphenylpropylamines.
3-(Alk-2-enylamino)-2,2-dimethylpropionaldehyde oximes 3 underwent thermally induced 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition under mild conditions leading to isoxazolo[4,3-c]pyridine derivatives 4. The methyl groups at the 2-position and the alkenylamino nitrogen in oximes 3 should facilitate the cycloaddition due to restriction of the conformational flexibility of the reaction sites and promotion of the isomerisation to NH-nitrone intermediate, respectively.
This paper investigated the impacts of two deposition times (30 s, 60 s) and discharge powers (20 W, 50 W) on the resultant chemical and physical properties of plasma polymers (pp) formed using heptylamine (HA) or propionaldehyde (PA) monomers. Pinhole-free pp films were formed on all surfaces at deposition rates that varied according to both the time and power employed. XPS and ToF-SIMS analysis showed that power has a more of an effect than time on the chemical properties of the pp, which may be attributed to differences in monomer fragmentation and cross-linking. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) adhesion did not vary on the four different HApp surfaces, whereas a negative correlation between cell attachment and increasing plasma energy was observed on PApp surfaces. This suggests that the presence of oxygenated groups, particularly aldehyde and carboxylic groups, may have a dominant impact on MSC adhesion to these functional polymer substrates.
Using a filter-binding assay based on precipitation of pUC13 plasmid DNA bound to calf-thymus histones, we have determined the efficiency of formation of DNA-protein crosslink formation induced by several aldehyde compounds in vitro. Formaldehyde, glutaraldehyde and acrolein were the most potent, causing 1 crosslink per 2.7 kbp of DNA at 1.5, 8 and 150 microM, respectively. All other compounds tested gave 1 crosslink per plasmid molecule in the mM concentration range as follows: acetaldehyde, 115 mM; propionaldehyde, 295 mM; butyraldehyde, 360 mM; crotonaldehyde, 8.5 mM; trans-2-pentenal, 6.3 mM. Significant decreases in the efficiency of DPXL formation were observed with monofunctional aldehydes of higher carbon chain length. For example, the concentration of formaldehyde needed to give 1 crosslink per molecule was almost 10(5) times less than that of acetaldehyde. Acetaldehyde differs from formaldehyde only by one saturated carbon. The presence of an unsaturated bond between the 2-3 carbons improved the potential for crosslink formation. For example, acrolein was over 500-fold more potent than propionaldehyde. Glutaraldehyde was almost as potent as formaldehyde, indicating that the bifunctional nature of this 5-carbon saturated aldehyde may be crucial to its high efficiency of DNA-protein crosslinking.
Previously unreported 3-cyclopropyl-2-propyn-1-ol and cyclopropylpropionaldehyde were synthesized. This aldehyde yielded the first reported acetylenic fulvene, namely 6-(cyclopropylethynyl)fulvene, which is rather stable in solution in the cold.
This work is concerned with the rationalization and prediction of solvent and temperature effects in nucleophilic addition to alpha-chiral carbonyl compounds leading to facial diastereoselectivity. We study, using molecular dynamics simulations, the facial solvation of (R)-2-phenyl-propionaldehyde in n-pentane and n-octane at a number of temperatures and compare it with experimental selectivity data for the nBuLi addition leading to syn- and anti-(2R)-2-phenyl-3-heptanol, which give nonlinear Eyring plots with the presence of inversion temperatures. We have found from simulations that the facial solvation changes with temperature and alkane. Moreover, by introducing a suitable molecular chirality index we have been able to predict break temperatures (T(CI)) for the two solvents within less than 20 degrees of the inversion temperatures experimentally observed in the diastereoselective nBuLi addition. We believe this could lead to a viable approach for predicting inversion temperatures and other subtle solvent effects in a number of stereoselective reactions.
The kinetics of the photoinduced degradation and transformation of the antifouling booster biocide, Irgarol-1051, in natural coastal seawater was studied. The measured first-order rate constant for the degradation of Irgarol-1051 was 4.02+/-0.1 x 10(-4)h(-1), while the rate constant for the formation of 2-methylthio-4-tert-butylamino-6-amino-s-triazine (M1), the most dominant degradation product of Irgarol-1051, was 4.6+/-0.1 x 10(-5)h(-1). This considerably slower rate suggested that the transformation of Irgarol-1051 to M1 may not be the predominant pathway of the photodegradation process. During the photodegradation study, a new s-triazine species was observed in the degradation mixtures which, together with M1, appeared immediately upon photolysis and continued to accumulate in the degradation mixture throughout the entire study duration. This is in contrast to the behaviour of the recently identified degradation product of Irgarol-1051, 3-[4-tert-butylamino-6-methylthiol-s-triazin-2-ylamino]- propionaldehyde (M2), which was only detected in the degradation mixture after a long induction period. High-resolution tandem mass spectrometric analysis hinted that the new degradation product (M4) may possess a terminal alcohol and is likely to be an N-allylic alcohol derivative of M1. This suggests that M4 may, indeed, be a precursor of M2 via redox transformation at its N-allylic alcohol functionality.
The compounds concerned in this communication are required for the synthesis of methylated hexoses which could not possess a pyranose structure. ::: ::: ::: ::: α-Hydroxy-β-methoxypropionaldehyde had not been obtained in the monomeric form, although the dimeride was prepared by Fisher and Bear1 and proved to be a crystalline substance melting at 120 to 121 C. which on heating with pyridine suffered rearrangement into the monomethyl ether of dihydroxyacetone. Alkaline condensation of this dimeride gave rise to sugars with branched chains.
AbstractThe potential to produce acute skin irritancy and percutaneous toxicity, skin sensitization, and toxicity by short-term repeated cutaneous exposure was investigated with 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde (3-MTP; CAS number 3268-49-3), an industrial chemical. By 4 h occluded contact to clipped dorsal rabbit trunk skin, 0.5 ml 3-MTP produced mild to moderate erythema and slight to severe edema, which resolved after 7-17 days; necrosis was present on five of six rabbits. A guinea pig maximization procedure using 5%% 3-MTP for intradermal induction and undiluted 3-MTP for epicutaneous induction showed responses greater than those seen in the irritation controls on challenge with 3-MTP. The sensitization index of 22%% indicates 3-MTP to be a mild skin sensitizer. The acute percutaneous LD50 for undiluted 3-MTP by 24 h occluded contact with the rabbit was 0.71 ml/kg (males) and 0.79 ml/kg (females). A short-term repeated skin contact study, involving nine daily 6 h occluded contacts with 0, 0.05, 0.2, or 0....
Currently, liver transplantation is the only option for patients with end-stage liver disease. In Brazil, the mortality rate on the waiting list is about 25%. Multiple strategies to expand the donor pool are being pursed, however, grafts from poisoned donors are rarely used. This report documents successful liver, kidney and heart transplantations from four female donors who suffered brain death by hypoxia despite cardiopulmonary resuscitation following Aldicarb exposure ([2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O-(methylcarbamoyl)-oxime]). The success rate of 12 grafts from four donors poisoned by Aldicarb was 91% 6 months after transplantation. Poisoned patients are another pool of organ donors who at present are probably underused by transplantation services. More studies are necessary to confirm the safety for the recipients.
Abstract Conversion of ( R )-3-benzyloxy-2-methylpropionaldehyde ( 4 ) to the erythronolide B C(7)C(13) subunit 13 in 15% overall yield is described. Chelation-controlled carbonyl additions and a dioxanone-to-dihydropyran Claisen rearrangement are key steps.
Methyl mercaptan and acrolein synthetic crude methylthio substituting propionaldehyde processing system, comprising: a low vacuum distillation column, the reception on behalf of the crude methylthio propionaldehyde, heavier components discharged from the bottom and from the top of the discharge light group points; high-vacuum distillation column, heavier components receiving a low vacuum distillation column bottoms discharged from the top of the discharge-generation product methylthio propionaldehyde and heavy components discharged from the bottom; emulsifying tank, received from overhead light components exiting low vacuum distillation column bottoms and heavy components from high-vacuum distillation column discharged; and incinerator by pipeline receiving the emulsion from the emulsion tank and burned the emulsion. The use of the processing system of the present invention is handled by methyl mercaptan and acrolein synthetic crude methylthio propionaldehyde generations, by the severity of interstitial component was emulsified as emulsion way to solve the severity of each delivery quality group branch pipeline blockage problem, eliminate the environmental event occurs, improved workshop environment and local residents.
The invention relates to a tetra(methyl) acrylate monomer containing bidioxane based on dipentaerythritol. The structural formula of the monomer is shown in the specification, wherein R can be -CH3 or -H. The preparation method comprises the following steps: dissolving dipentaerythritol and 2, 2-dimethyl-3-hydroxyl propionaldehyde in a solvent; carrying out aldol reaction at a certain temperature to obtain an intermediate product; and then carrying out reaction on the residual hydroxyl and acrylic acid to obtain the tetra(methyl) acrylate monomer containing bidioxane based on dipentaerythritol. As the monomer has double hexatomic ring structures, rotation of bonds is inhibited during photopolymerization, the rigidity of molecules is increased, and the glass-transition temperature after curing is high. Meanwhile, the monomer further overcomes the defects that a common monomer with polyfunctionality is great in viscosity and great in volume shrinkage after curing besides the advantages of maintaining fast curing speed of the monomer with polyfunctionality, excellent hardness, good wear resistance and the like.
Aldicarb (2-methyl-2[methylthio]propionaldehyde 0-[methyl carbamoyl]-oxime; TEMIK®, Rhone-Poilenc’s registered trademark) effectively controls a wide variety of insects, mites, and nematodes and is used worldwide on more than 40 economically important crops. Aldicarb is a potent acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and is commercially available only in granular formulations containing 5% to 10% active ingredient. As formulated, the potential hazard of aldicarb to human health and to the environment is sinificantly reduced.
Pd/TiO2 catalysts prepared by different methods showed quite different catalytic activities in the hydrogenation of CO and other unsaturated compounds. The catalyst prepared by coprecipitation of Pd acetate and titanium tetraisopropoxide contained smaller Pd particles than those in catalysts prepared by impregnation methods. In the hydrogenation of CO, activities of the catalysts increased with increase in the Pd dispersion. The coprecipitated catalyst was much more active for this reaction than the other catalysts and showed high activity for methanol formation under normal pressure. In the hydrogenation of propionaldehyde to 1-propanol, the catalysts showed similar behavior to that in the CO/H2 reaction. However, in hydrogenation of C=C double bonds, the activity order of the catalysts was reverse. Higher activity was obtained on the impregnated catalysts with larger Pd particle size and this trend was stronger in hydrogenation of the conjugated butadiene and C=C bond in acrylaldehyde than in the hydrog...
Twenty-two new coordination compounds are reported with acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde as the ligands, viz. M(CH3CHO)6(In-Cl4)2, M(CH3CHO)6(FeCl4)2, M(C2H5CHO)6(InCl4)2 and M(C6H5CHO)6(In-Cl4)2 with M is Mg, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni and (except for acetaldehyde) Zn. ::: ::: ::: ::: In the complexes the carbonyl stretching vibration is shifted to lower frequencies compared with this vibration in the free ligands. The magnitudes of the shifts are dependent on the metal ions. Frequency-shifts of other ligand vibrations are also observed. When the shifts are dependent on the metal ions the magnitudes of the shifts follow the Irving-Williams sequence. ::: ::: ::: ::: For the acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde solvates a metal-dependent absorption band appears in the far infrared, which is attributed to the metal-ligand stretching vibration. This band was not observed in the benzaldehyde solvates. ::: ::: ::: ::: Investigation of ligand field spectra indicated the presence of octahedral species M(O)62+ in the solid compounds. Values for Dq and B for the Co(II) and Ni(II) compounds are reported. ::: ::: ::: ::: A possible relationship between the groups attached to the CO group and the values obtained for the spectrochemical parameter Dq is described.
The microwave spectrum of propionaldehyde (propanal), CH3CH2CHO, has been investigated in its eis and gauche forms by Butcher and Wilson [1] . They determined from the rotational spectrum of the first excited state of the methyl torsion the barrier to internal rotation for the eis conformer. A study of the gauche conformer was given by Pickett et al. [2] . The barrier to methyl internal rotation for this conformer is not yet determined As the eis conformer shows an interaction of the methyl torsion and C-C torsion [1] influencing the determination of the methyl barrier, we decided independently in both laboratories to study the fine structure of the ground state rotational spectrum. Usually high J transitions show a larger splitting due to internal rotation. Furthermore microwave Fourier transform (MWFT) spectroscopy reaches higher resolution. After noticing that the molecule has been investigated in both laboratories, we decided to publish the results together.
Microcompartments (MCPs) are structures utilized by bacteria to organize and sequester enzymes and the biochemical pathways they catalyze [1] [2] [3] . Various bacterial MCP systems share a general arrangement of an outer protein shell, made up of thousands of subunits, which contains encapsulated metabolic enzymes within its lumen [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] . The propanediol utilization (Pdu) MCP, found in several species of enteric bacteria, encapsulates enzymes involved in the metabolism of 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD) [10] . Twenty-one genes involved in the Pdu pathway are located on the pdu operon and are regulated by the P pdu promoter [5, [11] [12] [13] [14] . The encapsulation of the first few steps in this metabolic pathway sequesters the toxic intermediate propionaldehyde [15, 16] . It is to be noted, however, that synthesizing the thousands of proteins required for Pdu MCP formation comes at a high energy cost. Therefore, regulating the pdu operon and limiting MCP formation only to environments containing the substrate 1,2-PD is critical for cell fitness. In fact, due to this requirement for a specific metabolite to form MCPs, the Pdu MCP remained elusive to biologists for many years despite its presence in many well-studied organisms such as Salmonella enterica.
The complexes trans-PdCl2[η1-P-(Ph2P)CH(Ph)CH(Me)CH(OMe)2]2 (1) and M(H)Cl[η2-P,OH-(Ph2P)CH(Ph)CH(Me)CH(OH)OMe][η2-P,C(O)-(Ph2P)CH(Ph)CH(Me)C(O)], M = Rh (3) and Ir (4), are synthesized by reacting the phosphinoaldehyde [3-(diphenylphosphino)-3-phenyl-2-methyl]propionaldehyde [(Ph2P)2CH(Ph)CH(Me)CHO] with trans-PdCl2(PhCN)2, [RhCl(COD)]2, and [IrCl(COD)]2, respectively, in MeOH; trans-PdCl2[η1-P-(Ph2P)CH(Ph)CH(Me)CHO]2 (2) is isolated from the same reaction in CH2Cl2. One diastereomer of each of the complexes 1, 3·MeOH, and 4·MeOH was characterized by X-ray analysis. The stereochemistry of such complexes in the solid state and in solution (MeOH and CH2Cl2) is discussed. In CD2Cl2, NMR data suggest that the coordinated hemiacetal moiety of 3 (but not 4) undergoes reversible loss of MeOH; this process is associated with equilibria between various diastereomers of 3 that were investigated by 31P{1H}, 13C{1H}, 1H, 1H{31P}, and HSQC and HMBC 1H/31P{1H} and 1H/13C{1H} NMR spectroscopies. Complexes 3 and 4 revea...
The rate of oxidation of aqueous propionaldehyde by bromine has been measured potentiometrically at two temperatures. The reaction is first order in propionaldehyde and free bromine respectively and is catalysed by acetate ions. Tribromide ions are inactive.
Abstract Irradiation of a solution of propionaldehyde results in chemically induced dynamic nuclear spin polarization which is exhibited in the NMR spectrum as enhanced absorption and emission lines for several compounds. The relative intensity of these lines as well as the direction of the line due to the carbonyl hydrogen or propionaldehyde depends on the solvent. This solvent effect can be explained in terms of an effect on some of the primary photochemical steps available to propionaldehyde.
TOL plasmid in Pseudomonas putida mt-2 has a series of genes for the degradation of xylene, toluene, and their derivatives to pyruvate and acetaldehyde (or propionaldehyde). Two operons, i.e., upper operon and meta operon, play indispensable roles for the digestion of xylene derivatives: When XylR protein recognizes xylene derivatives, another controlling gene, xylS, is activated, which results in the activation of meta operon. Therefore, we have constructed a fusion gene between TOL plasmid and the firefly luciferase gene under the control of XylR and the promoter of xylS gene; i.e., by using fusions of the meta operon with promotorless luciferase expression vector from firefly, we have constructed and tested biomonitors for benzene derivatives. Bioluminescence specified by Escherichia coli (pTSN316), carrying xylR and xylS promoters, Ampr, and luc, was measured in either a benzene derivative-saturated or o-methylbenzyl alcohol-dissolved medium both in the case of cell suspension and in the case of immo...
The toxic effects of 8 carbamate insecticides have been compared in susceptible and carbaryl-resistant strains of Blattella germanica (L.). Baygon® ( o -isopropoxyphenyl methylcarbamate) and UC-10854 ( m -isopropylphenyl methylcarbamate) effectively killed cockroaches of both strains with a topical method of application. Dimetilan and Isolan® (l-isopropyl-3-methyl-5-pyrazolyl dimethyl-carbamate) were less toxic, and there was little resistance to these materials in the carbaryl-resistant cockroaches. Susceptible cockroaches were killed effectively by UC-21149 (2-methyl-2-(methylthio)propionaldehyde O -(methylcarbamoyl)oxime) and Matacil® (4-(dimethylamino)-m-lolyl methylcarbamate), but there was evidence of cross resistance to these compounds in the resistant strain. Cross resistance to MC-A-600 (benzo[b]thien-4-yl methyl carbamate) occurred in carbaryl-resistant cockroaches when a topical method of application was used. There was no apparent cross resistance to this material when a dipping technique was employed for testing. Carbaryl was ineffective in killing cockroaches of either strain by the topical method; as expected, significant levels of resistance were demonstrated in the resistant strain with a dipping technique.
The final two steps in the dmp operon-encoded meta-cleavage pathway for phenol degradation in Pseudomonas sp. strain CF600 involve conversion of 4-hydroxy-2-ketovalerate to pyruvate and acetyl coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) by the enzymes 4-hydroxy-2-ketovalerate aldolase and aldehyde dehydrogenase (acylating) [acetaldehyde:NAD+ oxidoreductase (CoA acetylating), EC 1.2.1.10]. A procedure for purifying these two enzyme activities to homogeneity is reported here. The two activities were found to copurify through five different chromatography steps and ammonium sulfate fractionation, resulting in a preparation that contained approximately equal proportions of two polypeptides with molecular masses of 35 and 40 kDa. Amino-terminal sequencing revealed that the first six amino acids of each polypeptide were those deduced from the previously determined nucleotide sequences of the corresponding dmp operon-encoded genes. The isolated complex had a native molecular mass of 148 kDa, which is consistent with the presence of two of each polypeptide per complex. In addition to generating acetyl-CoA from acetaldehyde, CoA, and NAD+, the dehydrogenase was shown to acylate propionaldehyde, which would be generated by action of the meta-cleavage pathway enzymes on the substrates 3,4-dimethylcatechol and 4-methylcatechol. 4-Hydroxy-2-ketovalerate aldolase activity was stimulated by the addition of Mn2+ and, surprisingly, NADH to assay mixtures. The possible significance of the close physical association between these two polypeptides in ensuring efficient metabolism of the short-chain aldehyde generated by this pathway is discussed.
An ESR study was carried out on the effect of the nature of the reaction vessel surface on the kinetics of the gas-phase oxidation of propionaldehyde in the region featuring a negative temperature coefficient (NTC). Treatment of the reactor surface with KC1 leads to a shift of this region toward lower temperatures in comparison with the reactor treated with boric acid. The lower rates of aldehyde conversion in the reactor treated by KC1 corresponds to higher peroxide radical concentration in the gas phase. It was concluded that the fraction of propionaldehyde is greater in the reactor treated by boric acid.
The addition of 1 equiv of KO2 and Kryptofix222 (Krypt) in CH3CN to a solution of LCu(CH3CN) [L = N,N′-bis(2,6-diisopropylphenyl)-2,6-pyridinecarboxamide] in tetrahydrofuran at −80 °C yielded [K(Krypt)][LCuO2], the enhanced stability of which enabled reexamination of its reactivity with 2-phenylpropionaldehyde (2-PPA). Mechanistic and product analysis studies revealed that [K(Krypt)][LCuO2] reacts with wet 2-PPA to form [LCuOH]−, which then deprotonates 2-PPA to yield the copper(II) enolate complex [LCu(OC═C(Me)Ph)]−. Acetophenone was observed upon workup of this complex or mixtures of KO2 and 2-PPA alone, in support of an alternative mechanism(s) to the one proposed previously involving an initial nucleophilic attack at the carbonyl group of 2-PPA.
Asymmetric electroreduction of ketone and aldehyde derivatives was examined for two electrochemical reduction systems using alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH as an electrocatalyst. The reaction system (A) allowed asymmetric reduction of acetophenone, propiophenone, phenoxy-2-propanone, pyruvic acid and 2-phenylpropionaldehyde to corresponding optically active alcohols with the enantiomer excesses (ee) close to 100% and the current efficiencies larger than 92%, and the reaction system (B) gave 100% ee for the reduction of propiophenone, phenoxy-2-propanone, and pyruvic acid.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), an important C3 chemical for a bio-based industry, is natively produced by Lactobacillus reuteri from glycerol. Conversion of glycerol occurs via the intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), followed by an ATP-producing pathway initiated by the CoA-acylating propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP). The pduP gene of L. reuteri was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli and the recombinant enzyme was purified to homogeneity for characterization of its activity and properties. Kinetic studies with propionaldehyde as substrate showed a maximum specific activity of 28.9U/mg, which is 80-fold higher than that reported previously. Maximum activity of 18U/mg was obtained at 3-HPA concentration of 7mM, above which substrate inhibition was observed. Substrate inhibition was also seen with coenzyme A at a concentration above 0.5mM and with NADP(+) above 9mM. A structure of PduP is proposed based on homology modeling. In silico docking of the co-factors coenzyme A and NAD(+), respectively, showed a common binding site consisting of amino acids Thr145, Ile275, Cys277 and Ser417, which through site-directed mutagenesis to alanine and kinetic studies, were confirmed as essential for the catalytic activity of PduP. (Less)
Abstract Ag or Cu doped manganese oxide octahedral molecular sieve (OMS-2) was prepared through the one-step reduction of KMnO 4 , Tollens’ reagent, or Fehling’ reagent with propionaldehyde. The influences of the dopants on the structure, redox ability and catalytic performance of OMS-2 were investigated. The results indicate that Ag-OMS-2 and Cu-OMS-2 exhibited relatively higher catalytic activity for o -xylene oxidation at higher (>185 °C) and lower temperatures (≤185 °C), respectively. This can be illustrated as follows. The doped Ag increased the content of surface absorbed oxygen and inhibited the adsorption of CO 2 . The doped Cu increased the content of lattice oxygen and the surface area of OMS-2, but increased its adsorption capacity toward CO 2 . In situ DRIFT study demonstrates that the oxidation of low molecular weight carboxylates (the stable intermediates in the oxidation of o -xylene) is the rate-determining step, which is closely related with the active oxygen species. The doped Ag increased the content of electrophilic oxygen (O 2 − , O − or O 2 2− ) and promoted the transformation of O 2 into nucleophilic oxygen (O 2− ), which facilitated the oxidation of benzene ring and small molecule carboxylate, respectively.
HPLC–UV and GC/MS determination of aldehydes in bio-oil were evaluated. HPLC–UV preceded by derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine allows separation and detection of bio-oil aldehydes, but the derivatization affected the bio-oil stability reducing their quantitative applicability. GC/MS determination of aldehydes was reached by derivatization with o-(2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzyl) hydroxylamine hydrochloride. Two approaches for this reaction were evaluated. The first: “in solution derivatization and head space extraction” and the second: “on fiber derivatization SPME”, the latter through an automatic procedure. Both sample treatments allows the quantification of most important aliphatic aldehydes in bio-oil, being the SPME approach more efficient. The aldehyde concentrations in bio-oil were ∼2% formaldehyde, ∼0.1% acetaldehyde and ∼0.05% propionaldehyde.
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs) are difficult to measure, analyze and assess for risk because of low ambient concentrations and varieties. Types of HAPs are Volatile organic compounds (VOCs), Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAHs) and Aldehydes. HAP emissions from vehicles are a contributor to serious adverse health effects in urban areas. In this study, hazardous air pollutant emissions from road transport vehicles by Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC) weight fraction and PAHs emission factors are estimated in 2008. The top-five-most hazardous air pollutant emissions were estimated to toluene 864.3 ton/yr, acrolein 690.6 ton/yr, acetaldehyde 554.5 ton/yr, formaldehyde 498.7 ton/yr, propionaldehyde 421.6 ton/yr in 2008. The results for a cancer and non-cancer risk assessment of HAPs emissions show that the major cancer driver is formaldehyde and the non-cancer driver is acrolein.
Methylpentanediolborane (MPBH) 1 can be prepared easily by reaction of hexyleneglycol with BH3/DMS or B2H6 generated from NaBH4 and I2. MPBH hydroborates stereo- and regioselectively highly functionalized alkynes, including propargyl bromide and propionaldehyde acetal. MPBH compares favorably with pinacolborane in terms of reactivity. The obtained vinylboronic esters are air- and chromatography-stable.
Abstract Several modifications to the synthesis of the diethyl acetal of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde-3-P (HPAP) are described. HPAP is liberated from its acetal by treatment with Dowex 50-H + at 40 °C for 4 min, and longer time or higher temperature lower yields. Breakdown of the dianion of HPAP (p K 6.7) is self-catalyzed, with the phosphate acting as a general base to remove a proton from carbon 2 and allow elimination of phosphate to give acrolein. Monoanion breakdown is at least 400-fold slower. At 25 °C the dianion breaks down with k = 0.025 min −1 , and the activation energy for the process is 24 kcal/mol. Buffers have little effect on breakdown of HPAP, except for those containing primary or secondary amines. Thus morpholine enhances breakdown by forming a Schiff's base with a positively charged nitrogen, and Tris inhibits breakdown by forming one with an uncharged nitrogen. The aldehyde group of HPAP is 60% hydrated in water.
BACKGROUND ::: Surgical smoke containing potentially carcinogenic and harmful materials is an inevitable consequence of surgical energy devices, and constitutes a substantial occupational hazard in the operating room. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of a built-in-filter trocar in eliminating hazardous surgical smoke during laparoscopic and robotic rectal surgery. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Ten patients who underwent rectal cancer resection were enrolled. Five patients underwent surgery utilizing a nonfiltered trocar, and the remaining 5 utilized a built-in-filter trocar. Gas samples were aspirated from the peritoneal cavity over 30 minutes of electrocauterization and collected in a Tedlar bag. Concentrations of surgical smoke were measured using ultraperformance liquid chromatography and gas chromatography. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Eleven hazardous chemical compounds (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene, styrene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, isovaleraldehyde, and valeraldehyde) were identified in the surgical smoke. With the built-in-filter trocar, removal rates of 69% for benzene (P=0.028), 72% for toluene (P=0.009), 67% for butyraldehyde (P=0.047), 46% for ethylbenzene (P=0.092), 44% for xylene (P=0.086), 35% for styrene (P=0.106), 39% for formaldehyde (P=0.346), and 33% for propionaldehyde (P=0.316) were achieved. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: This study confirmed the presence of harmful materials in surgical smoke. Evacuation of surgical smoke through a disposable built-in-filter trocar is a simple and effective way in reducing volatile organic compounds concentrations.
The suicide substrate activity of N-benzyl-N-cyclopropylamine (1) and N-benzyl-N-(1‘-methylcyclopropyl)amine (2) toward cytochrome P450 and other enzymes has been explained by a mechanism involving single electron transfer (SET) oxidation, followed by ring-opening of the aminium radical cation (protonated aminyl radical) and reaction with the P450 active site. Although the SET oxidation of N-cyclopropyl-N-methylaniline (3) by horseradish peroxidase leads exclusively to ring-opened (non-cyclopropyl) products, P450 oxidation of 3 leads to formation of cyclopropanone hydrate and no ring-opened products, and 3 does not inactivate P450. To help reconcile these discrepant behaviors we have determined the complete metabolic fate of 1 with P450 in vitro. 3-Hydroxypropionaldehyde (3HP), the presumptive “signature metabolite” for SET oxidation of a cyclopropylamine, was observed for the first time in 57% yield, along with cyclopropanone hydrate (34%), cyclopropylamine (9%), benzaldehyde (6%), benzyl alcohol (12%), ...
In this study, the effect of humidity change on DNPH cartridge sampling efficiency for carbonyl compounds (CCs) has been investigated. For this analysis, gaseous standard of 6 different CCs (formaldehyde (FA), acetaldehyde (AA), propionaldehyde (PA), butyraldehyde (BA), isovaleraldehyde (IA), and valeraldehyde (VA)) was calibrated after derivatization with three types of DNPH cartridge products. Their calibration results derived at RH values between 0 and 80% were then compared against liquid phase standards. If the results of our analysis are compared by the RH values between 20 and 80%, the effect of RH can be distinguished between light and heavy CCs. For lighter CCs (like FA and AA), there was no significant change. However, for the ones heavier than PA, there was fairly noticeable increase in relative recovery ratio in RH value between 20 and 80%. Such patterns are seen consistently from all three DNPH products tested for comparison. The results of our analysis suggest that proper correction for RH change may be needed for heavier CCs by the cartridge method.
Fibroblast growth factor-21 (FGF-21) is a novel metabolic regulator and has the potential to become a powerful therapy to treat diabetes mellitus. However, we found that the clinical application of wild type FGF-21 was influenced by its low intrinsic bio-stability and poor hypoglycemic potency. In this study, The N-terminus of FGF-21 analog (mFGF-21) was PEGylated in a site-specific manner by 20kD methoxy poly-ethylene glycol-propionaldehyde (mPEG-ALD). PEGylated mFGF-21 was isolated by Capto Q anion exchange chromatography. The properties of PEGylated mFGF-21 including the in vitro bio-stability and biological activity were evaluated. As well as the anti-diabetic effect of PEGylated mFGF-21 were studied in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced type 1 diabetic mice. Results demonstrated that PEGylated mFGF-21 had a similar capacity of stimulating glucose uptake in HepG2 cells with mFGF-21 and PEGylation of mFGF-21 significantly enhanced the anti-protease ability and the long acting anti-diabetic effect in type 1 diabetic mice. Furthermore, the preliminary safety of PEGylated mFGF-21 following subcutaneously injection was assessed using healthy mice by measuring the body weight, histopathology and clinical biochemical parameters, and the results showed no subacute toxicity to major organs or tissues and no significant changes in physiological and biochemical parameters in healthy mice. Taken together, under the premise of remaining the in vitro biological activity of mFGF-21, PEGylation significantly improves the long lasting hypoglycemic effect of mFGF-21 in type 1 diabetic mice. Our valuation shows that PEGylated mFGF-21 is a potential drug for the effective treatment of type 1 diabetes.
Abstract A study of the primary processes in the photolysis of gaseous I-nitropropane at 22°C and 100 ± 1°C is undertaken. 1-Nitropropane undergoes a photochemical reaction giving rise to a six-member complex which produces ethylene, the major photolysis product. This is a typical intramolecular non-radical Norrish Type I1 process and is the most important primary process (1): At higher temperatures homolytic split of C-N bond takes place according to reaction (2), another important primary process: CH,CH,CH,NO, + hv + CH,CH,CHj + NOj. The formation of propylene which is also a major product of photolysis may be the result of the third primary process: CH, CH, CH, NO, + hv + CH3CH=CH, + HONO. The major photolysis products resulting from these processes as identified by GLC and GLC-MS included ethylene, propy-lene and methyl nitrite. The minor products of photolysis were methane, methyl nitrate, ethyl nitrite, ethylene oxide, propyl nitrite, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, water, nitric oxide and nitrogen d...
Abstract The recent increased prevalence of childhood asthma and atopy has brought into question the impact of outdoor pollutants and indoor air quality. The contributory role of aldehydes to this problem and the fact that they are mainly derived from the domestic environment make them of particular interest. This study therefore measures six different aldehyde levels in Paris dwellings from potentially different sources and identifies their indoor determinants. The study was carried out in the three principal rooms of 61 flats with no previous history of complaint for olfactory nuisance or specific symptoms, two-thirds of the flats having been recently refurbished. Aldehydes were sampled in these rooms using passive samplers, and a questionnaire on potential aldehyde sources was filled out at the same time. A multiple linear regression model was used to investigate indoor aldehyde determinants. Our study revealed that propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde were of minor importance compared to formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, pentanal, and hexanal. We found that levels of these last four compounds depended on the age of wall or floor coverings (renovations less than 1 year old), smoking, and ambient parameters (carbon dioxide levels, temperature). These results could help in the assessment of indoor aldehyde emissions.
A thermodynamic study on the formation of gem-diol in an aldehyde–water mixture was carried out by NMR measurements. The equilibrium constants for the formation of gem-diol were determined at 280.3—298.4 K. From the relationship between the equilibrium constant and the temperature, ΔH and ΔS were obtained to be −20.4 kJ mol−1 and −101 J K−1 mol−1 in the case of acetaldehyde, and −22.9 kJ mol−1 and −110 J K−1 mol−1 in the case of propionaldehyde, respectively. It is difficult to isolate the gem-diol from an aldehyde–water mixture. The diamagnetic susceptibility of gem-diol was estimated by measuring the susceptibilities of the aldehyde–water mixture at various molar ratios. The diamagnetic susceptibility was determined using Gouy’s method. The diamagnetic susceptibilities of 1,1-ethanediol and 1,1-propanediol were −39.1 × 10−6 cm3 mol−1 and −51.5 × 10−6 cm3 mol−1 at 287 K, respectively.
Abstract Silica was found to promote the photooxidation of propene by molecular oxygen, yielding acetaldehyde, propylene oxide, and propionaldehyde. The yield of and selectivity to propylene oxide were improved significantly by modification of silica with 1 wt% magnesium oxide loading. The product selectivity was affected by the amount of magnesium and the preparation method. Mg K -edge XANES and phosphorescence spectra indicated that the active sites on the Mg-loaded silica for epoxidation of propene are highly dispersed and isolated magnesium oxide species. The photoactive sites on bare silica are briefly discussed.
The deposition of a thin film layer by plasma polymerization enables the surface functionalization of a wide range of substrate materials for biointerfacial interactions. Plasma polymers can surface-bind proteins specifically via covalent linkages or nonspecifically through other irreversible adsorption mechanisms; key questions are whether covalent chemisorption has indeed occurred, and whether the protein retains functionality. Here the mode of surface binding of streptavidin and the biotin binding functionality of the bound streptavidin layer are studied on plasma polymer (pp) surfaces deposited using propionaldehyde and ethanol that were plasma polymerized at different powers (P) to investigate possible mechanisms for protein binding to a range of different surface chemistries. As expected, with pp surfaces composed principally of aldehyde groups, protein conjugation appears to be specific (chemisorption) allowing the immobilization of streptavidin (SAV) molecules retaining the ability to bind biotinylated probes. To contrast with this, we present the first study of protein adsorption to ethanol pp surfaces prepared at different P. This provides an investigation into retention of the hydroxyl functionality in the pp at low P and its effect on protein adsorption. Adsorption of human serum albumin (HSA) to ethanol pp was similar to that on propionaldehyde pp except at low P (5 W) where hydroxyl group retention and hydration presumably has a role in reducing protein adsorption. Although we observed SAV adsorption to ethanol pp surfaces at all P, interestingly, the protein lost its ability to bind biotinylated probes. Thus we suggest that irreversible, nonspecific adsorption of protein on ethanol pp surfaces results in apparent protein denaturation despite the hydrophilic nature of the ethanol pp surface. We conclude by making inferences between the pp structure as measured by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and the related protein adsorption mechanisms.
Continuous and composite extractive distillation was adopted for extracting high purity propionaldehyde.The experimental apparatus of continuous and composite extractive distillation was set up.θ ring structured packing was used in the rectifying section.The conditions of experiment such as the variety of the number of column plates were studied,and the experimental results were analyzed by gas chromatography.Under the optimal conditions,the mass fraction of propionaldehyde can be increased from 90.83% in raw materials to 99.73% with the yield of 91.50%.At the same time,the separation results were simulated by Aspen Plus,and the experimental results are consistent with the simulation results.The result of this work can provide the basis for the further research and exaction distillation of refining pure propionaldehyde.
BACKGROUND ::: Klebsiella pneumoniae is a promising industrial species for bioproduction of bulk chemicals such as 1,3-propanediol, 2,3-butanediol and 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP). However, lactic acid is a troublesome by-product when optimizing for 3-HP production. Therefore, it is highly desirable to minimize lactic acid. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Here, we show that lactic acid synthesis can be largely blocked by an engineered CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) system in K. pneumoniae. EGFP was recruited as a reporter of this CRISPRi system. Fluorescence assay of this CRISPRi system showed that enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) expression level was repressed by 85-90%. To further test this CRISPRi system, guide RNAs were designed to individually or simultaneously target four lactate-producing enzyme genes. Results showed that all lactate-producing enzyme genes were significantly repressed. Notably, D-lactate dehydrogenase (ldhA) was shown to be the most influential enzyme for lactic acid formation in micro-aerobic conditions, as inhibiting ldhA alone led to lactic acid level similar to simultaneously repressing four genes. In shake flask cultivation, the strain coexpressing puuC (an aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyzing 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 3-HP) and dCas9-sgRNA inhibiting ldhA produced 1.37-fold 3-HP relative to the reference strain. Furthermore, in bioreactor cultivation, this CRISPRi strain inhibiting ldhA produced 36.7 g/L 3-HP, but only generated 1 g/L lactic acid. Clearly, this engineered CRISPRi system largely simplified downstream separation of 3-HP from its isomer lactic acid, an extreme challenge for 3-HP bioprocess. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: This study offers a deep understanding of lactic acid metabolism in diverse species, and we believe that this CRISPRi system will facilitate biomanufacturing and functional genome studies of K. pneumoniae or beyond.
The present study aims at comparing the performances of three Lactobacillus reuteri strains (DSM 20016, DSM 17938, and ATCC 53608) in producing 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) from glycerol and at exploring inhibition phenomena during this bioconversion. Differences were highlighted between the three strains in terms of 3-HP production yield, kinetics of substrate consumption, and metabolite production. With a maximal productivity in non-optimal conditions (free pH) around 2 g.L(-1).h(-1) of 3-HP and 4 g.L(-1).h(-1) of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) depending on the strain, this study confirmed the potential of L. reuteri for the biotechnological production of 3-HP. Moreover, the molar ratios of 3-HP to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) obtained for the three strains (comprised between 1.25 and 1.65) showed systematically a higher 3-HP production. From these results, the DSM 17938 strain appeared to be the most promising strain. The impact of glycerol bioconversion on the bacteria's physiological state (a decrease of around 40 % in DSM 17938 cells showing an enzymatic activity after 3 h) and survival (total loss of cultivability after 2 or 3 h depending on the strains) was revealed and discussed. The effect of each metabolite on L. reuteri DSM 17938 was further investigated, displaying a drastic inhibition caused by 3-HPA, while 3-HP induced lower impact and only at acidic pH.
C2H4 constitutes the most predominant olefin in the global market and is primarily produced via naphtha steam cracking, among various hydrocarbon feedstocks, as well as through ethane thermal cracking. Globally, 57% (Figure 2 ) of the C2H4 volume is produced via naphtha and gas oil steam cracking and 38% through ethane and LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) steam cracking. Naphtha is a liquid fraction obtained from petroleum refining processes, such as catalytic cracking and hydrocracking. Depending on its origin, it contains variable amounts of paraffins, aromatic, and olefinic compounds. The ratio of these components can indicate the process that the specific fraction can be used for the optimum results. At high temperatures (i.e., 650-750 °C), naphtha and gas oil can yield 30 and 25 wt. % of C2H4, respectively. In the case of ethane, added along with naphtha in the feed stream, yields of C2H4 can reach 80 wt. % [5] . Its eminent industrial uses cause the world demand for C2H4 to incessantly increase, as it can be used for significant applications, such as the production of intermediate chemicals, mainly in the industry of plastics. i.e., polymers (e.g., poly-ethylene), propionaldehyde-via hydroformylation, vinyl chloride-via halogenation and de-hydrohalogenation, alpha-olefins-via oligomerization, and C2H4 oxide and acetaldehyde-via oxidation [4, 6, 7] . In recent years, bio-ethanol has been extensively studied as an alternate feedstock for C2H4 production [8] . Other bio-derived compounds such as methanol and dimethyl-ether, can also be used as a feedstock for C2H4, via Methanol to Olefins (MTO) and Dimethyl-ether to Olefins (DMTO) processes [9, 10] . Bio-ethylene can also be produced via bio-synthesis from various enzymes or microorganisms [11] . C3H6 is the second most significant olefin, conventionally produced via steam cracking, as a co-product, or through fluid catalytic cracking (FCC). (Figure 3 ) C2H4 and gasoline production severely affect C3H6 production; recently, steam crackers switch to ethane feedstocks, suppressing concurrent production of C3H6, while its demand outpaces existing steam and fluid catalytic cracking capacity [12] . C3H6 is mainly used for the production of polypropylene, as well as for the synthesis of numerous platform chemicals (e.g., cumene, acrylonitrile, propylene-oxide) [13] . The importance of C3H6 in the C3 value chain addresses the need for alternative processes; using the conventional technology, C3H6 can also be produced through C4-C8 olefin cracking, or through FCC under severe conditions in order to increase produced volume [12] . On-purpose production methods that include propane dehydrogenation (PDH) [14] , olefin metathesis [15] , or methanol to olefins (MTO) [16, 17] , have recently been implemented, as well as using other unconventional feedstocks [18] , such as bio-alcohols and vegetable oils. C 3 H 6 is the second most significant olefin, conventionally produced via steam cracking, as a co-product, or through fluid catalytic cracking (FCC). (Figure 3 ) C 2 H 4 and gasoline production severely affect C 3 H 6 production; recently, steam crackers switch to ethane feedstocks, suppressing concurrent production of C 3 H 6 , while its demand outpaces existing steam and fluid catalytic cracking capacity [12] . C 3 H 6 is mainly used for the production of polypropylene, as well as for the synthesis of numerous platform chemicals (e.g., cumene, acrylonitrile, propylene-oxide) [13] . The importance of C 3 H 6 in the C 3 value chain addresses the need for alternative processes; using the conventional technology, C 3 H 6 can also be produced through C 4 -C 8 olefin cracking, or through FCC under severe conditions in order to increase produced volume [12] . On-purpose production methods that include propane dehydrogenation (PDH) [14] , olefin metathesis [15] , or methanol to olefins (MTO) [16, 17] , have recently been implemented, as well as using other unconventional feedstocks [18] , such as bio-alcohols and vegetable oils.
Some strains of Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus buchneri, and Lactobacillus reuteri and Lactobacillus sp. strain 208-A can grow on glycerol by cofermenting it with glucose or fructose (17, 20, 21) . The first two organisms (at least) can also coferment glycerol with ribose or lactate (24). All these bacteria have a coenzyme B12-dependent dehydratase that converts glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA), which is then reduced to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDL) (18, 19, 22) .
Here, we show that lactic acid synthesis can be largely blocked by an engineered CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) system in K. pneumoniae. EGFP was recruited as a reporter of this CRISPRi system. Fluorescence assay of this CRISPRi system showed that enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) expression level was repressed by 85-90%. To further test this CRISPRi system, guide RNAs were designed to individually or simultaneously target four lactate-producing enzyme genes. Results showed that all lactate-producing enzyme genes were significantly repressed. Notably, d-lactate dehydrogenase (ldhA) was shown to be the most influential enzyme for lactic acid formation in micro-aerobic conditions, as inhibiting ldhA alone led to lactic acid level similar to simultaneously repressing four genes. In shake flask cultivation, the strain coexpressing puuC (an aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyzing 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 3-HP) and dCas9-sgRNA inhibiting ldhA produced 1.37-fold 3-HP relative to the reference strain. Furthermore, in bioreactor cultivation, this CRISPRi strain inhibiting ldhA produced 36.7 g/L 3-HP, but only generated 1 g/L lactic acid. Clearly, this engineered CRISPRi system largely simplified downstream separation of 3-HP from its isomer lactic acid, an extreme challenge for 3-HP bioprocess.
Experiments were conducted to identify the emissions from the car air freshener and to identify the formation of ultra-fine particles and secondary gaseous compounds during the ozone-initiated oxidations with emitted VOCs. The identified primary constituents emitted from the car air freshener in this study were α-pinene, β-pinene, ρ-cymene and limonene. Formation of ultra-fine particles (4.4 - 160 nm) was observed when ozone was injected into the chamber containing emitted monoterpenes from the air freshener. Particle number concentrations, particle mass concentrations, and surface concentrations were measured in time dependent experiments to describe the particle formation and growth within the chamber. The irritating secondary gaseous products formed during the ozone-initiated reactions include formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, acetone, and propionaldehyde. Ozone concentration (50 and 100 ppb) and temperature (30 and 40℃) significantly affect the formation of particles and gaseous products during the ozone-initiated reactions. The results obtained in this study provided an insight on the potential exposure of particles and irritating secondary products formed during the ozone-initiated reaction to passengers in confined spaces.
Migration of the CC bond and chelate ring formation occur in the insertion reactions of allylic acetates with cationic platinum(II) hydrides; similar behaviour explains the formation of π-allylplatinum(II) complexes and propionaldehyde from reactions of allyl alcohol or diallyl ether with such cationic hydrides.
Abstract Rh(PPh 3 ) 3 Cl complex exchanged with modified montmorillonite clay at room temperature gave a (Rh(PPh 3 ) 3 ) + species, 1 , anchored in the hydration layers of the clay. Hydroformylation of allyl alcohol catalysed by 1 at 70°C and 60 atm of CO+H 2 (1:1) gave Γ-hydroxybutyraldehyde (96%) and 2-methyl-3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (4%). The kinetics of hydroformylation of allyl alcohol catalysed by 1 was studied in the concentrations range of catalyst 0.1 to 0.75 mM, allyl alcohol 0.025 to 0.25 M, CO+H 2 (1:1) pressure 5 to 30 atm and temperature between 70 to 90°C. The rates of hydroformylation of allyl alcohol catalysed by 1 showed a first order dependence with respect to catalyst, allyl alcohol (up to 0.1 M), CO and H 2 concentrations respectively. Substrate inhibition effect was observed when the substrate/catalyst mole ratio exceeds 440. The insoluble catalyst residue formed during substrate inhibition runs showed an IR stretching at 630 cm −3 which was attributed to the formation of Rh II -allylic complex. Repeated use of the separated catalyst for 60 h showed no loss in catalytic activity in hydroformylation of allyl alcohol.
Methacrolein(MAL)was synthesized by two-steps process,which includes Mannich reaction of formaldehyde,propionaldehyde and diethyl amine in the presence of acid catalyst and decomposition reaction of Mannich base.The proper reaction conditions were the molar ratio of formaldehyde to propionaldehyde to diethyl amine is 1.1∶1.0∶1.0,reaction time is 50 min,Mannich reaction temperature is (46 ℃,) decomposition temperature is(75 ℃.) Under the above conditions,conversion of propionaldehyde and yield of MAL were up to 99.8% and 91.2% respectively.The product was characterized by IR spectra.
Candida rugosa lipase was modified via reductive alkylation to increase its hydrophobicity to work better in organic solvents. The free amino group of lysines was alkylated using propionaldehyde with different degrees of modification obtained (49 and 86%). Far-ultraviolet circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy of the lipase in aqueous solvent showed that such chemical modifications at the enzyme surface caused a loss in secondary and tertiary structure that is attributed to the enzyme unfolding. Using molecular modeling, we propose that in an aqueous environment the loss in protein structure of the modified lipase is owing to disruption of stabilizing salt bridges, particularly of surface lysines. Indeed, molecular modeling and simulation of a salt bridge formed by Lys-75 to Asp-79, in a nonpolar environment, suggests the adoption of a more flexible alkylated lysine that may explain higher lipase activity in organic solvents on alkylation.
A spark ignition engine was used to study the impact of fuel composition and of the air/fuel equivalence (lambda) ratio on exhaust emissions of alcohols and aldehydes/ketones. Fuel blends contained eight hydrocarbons (n-hexane, 1-hexene, cyclohexane, n-octane, isooctane, toluene, o-xylene, and ethylbenzene (ETB)) and four oxygenated compounds (methanol, ethanol, 2-propanol, and methyl tert butyl ether (MTBE)). Exhaust methanol is principally produced from fuel methanol and MTBE but also from ethanol, 2-propanol, isooctane, and hexane. Exhaust ethanol and 2-propanol are produced only from the respective fuel compounds. Exhaust formaldehyde is mainly produced from fuel methanol, acetaldehyde from fuel ethanol, and propionaldehyde from straight-chain hydrocarbons. Exhaust acroleine comes from fuel 1-hexene, acetone from 2-propanol, n-hexane, n-octane, isooctane, and MTBE. Exhaust crotonaldehyde comes from fuel 1-hexene, cyclohexane, n-hexane, and n-octane, methacroleine from fuel isooctane, and benzaldehyde from fuel aromatics. Light pollutants (C1-C2) are most likely formed from intermediate species which are quite independent of the fuel composition. An increase in A increases the exhaust concentration of acroleine, crotonaldehyde, methacroleine, and decreases these of the three alcohols for the alcohol-blended fuels. The concentration of methanol, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and benzaldehyde is a maximum atstoichiometry. The exhaust concentration of acetaldehyde and acetone presents a complex behavior: it increases in some cases, decreases in others, or presents a maximum at stoichiometry. The concentration of four aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and benzaldehyde) is also linked with the exhaust temperature and fuel H/C ratio.
Analogues of N-[4-[[3-(2,4-diamino-1,6-dihydro-6-oxo-5-pyrimidinyl)propyl]amino]benzoyl]-L glutamic acid (5-DACTHF), in which the phenylene group is replaced by either a thienoyl or a thiazolyl group were synthesized. These compounds were prepared by reductive amination of suitably protected pyrimidinylpropionaldehyde with the aminoaroyl glutamates. These glutamates were in turn synthesized from the corresponding nitroaroyl carboxylic acids by condensation with protected glutamic acid followed by catalytic reduction. The compounds were tested as inhibitors of methotrexate uptake as a measure of binding to the reduced folate transport system, as inhibitors of glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase, as substrates for folylpolyglutamate synthetase, and as inhibitors of tumor cell growth in cell culture. The thiophene analogue was found to be equal in activity to 5-DACTHF in the MCF-7 cell growth inhibition assay while the thiazole analogue was 9-fold more active. Indeed this thiazole was over 4 times more active in the MCF-7 cell line than the clinically investigated compound 5,10-dideaza-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrofolic acid (DDATHF)
Abstract The reactions of methyloxirane were studied in a pulse microreactor over Nafion-H, K10 montmorillonite, Mg–Al L(ayered) D(ouble) H(ydroxide) and NaN 3 -loaded SiMCM-41, to cover a wide acid–base range. The first two solid substances that are acidic, produced appreciable conversion at 363 K, while the latter two that are basic, were hardly active at this temperature. At higher temperature (393 K), however, they displayed fair activity. The nearly superacidic Nafion-H was the most active and transformed the reactant in various ways: single ring opening producing exclusively propionaldehyde, cyclic dimerisation giving five- and six-membered ring compounds, di- and trimerisation producing linear oligomers all occurred. Over the less acidic K10 montmorillonite neither cyclic nor linear oligomer was observed. The NaN 3 -loaded SiMCM-41 preferred cyclic dimerisation to single ring opening, while the behaviour of the Mg–Al LDH was the opposite.
p-Hydroxyacetophenone was coupled to epoxy-activated Sepharose 6B to generate an affinity chromatographic matrix to purify aldehyde dehydrogenase. Purified beef liver mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase specifically bound to the support and could be eluted with p-hydroxyacetophenone. A post-ammonium sulfate (30-55%) fraction of bovine liver was applied to the affinity gel column and aldehyde dehydrogenase was effectively purified, although not to complete homogeneity, indicating the potential selectivity of the matrix. Both beef liver cytosolic and mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase bound to the column. A post-Cibacron blue Sepharose Cl-6B affinity-fractionated liver mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase was purified to complete homogeneity by p-hydroxyacetophenone-Sepharose, thus eliminating the need for the isoelectric focusing step often employed. p-Hydroxyacetophenone was found to be a competitive inhibitor against propionaldehyde and noncompetitive against NAD. Escherichia coli lysates of recombinantly expressed aldehyde dehydrogenase were purified from E. coli lysates with one major 25-kDa protein contaminant also binding to the column, as detected by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis. The 25-kDa contaminant was found to be chloramphenicol acetyl transferase from sequence analysis and binding studies.
The molybdenum [iron-sulfur] protein, first isolated from Desulfovibrio gigas by Moura et al. [Moura, J. J. G., Xavier, A. V., Bruschi, M., Le Gall, J., Hall, D. O., & Cammack, R. (1976) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 72, 782-789], was later shown to mediate the electronic flow from salicylaldehyde to a suitable electron acceptor, 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol (DCPIP) [Turner, N., Barata, B., Bray, R. C., Deistung, J., LeGall, J., & Moura, J. J. G. (1987) Biochem. J. 243, 755-761]. The DCPIP-dependent aldehyde oxidoreductase activity was studied in detail using a wide range of aldehydes and analogues. Steady-state kinetic analysis (KM and Vmax) was performed for acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, and salicylaldehyde in excess DCPIP concentration, and a simple Michaelis-Menten model was shown to be applicable as a first kinetic approach. Xanthine, purine, allopurinol, and N1-methylnicotinamide (NMN) could not be utilized as enzyme substrates. DCPIP and ferricyanide were shown to be capable of cycling the electronic flow, whereas other cation and anion dyes [O2 and NAD(P)+] were not active in this process. The enzyme showed an optimal pH activity profile around 7.8. This molybdenum hydroxylase was shown to be part of an electron-transfer chain comprising four different soluble proteins from D. gigas, with a total of 11 discrete redox centers, which is capable of linking the oxidation of aldehydes to the reduction of protons.
Abstract Chromium occurs in the workplace primarily in the valence forms Cr(III) and Cr(VI). Recent studies have demonstrated that sodium dichromate [Cr(VI)] induces greater oxidative stress as compared with Cr(III), as indicated by the production of reactive oxygen species by peritoneal macrophages and hepatic mitochondria and microsomes, and enhanced excretion of urinary lipid metabolites and hepatic DNA-single strand breaks (SSB) following acute oral administration of Cr(III) and Cr(VI). We have therefore examined the chronic effects of sodium dichromate dihydrate [Cr(VI); 10 mg (33.56 μmol)/kg/day] on hepatic mitochondrial and microsomal lipid peroxidation, enhanced excretion of urinary lipid metabolites including malondialdehyde (MDA), formaldehyde (FA), acetaldehyde (ACT), acetone (ACON) and propionaldehyde (PROP), and hepatic DNA damage over a period of 90 days. The maximal increases in hepatic lipid peroxidation and DNA damage were observed at approximately 45 days of treatment. Maximum increases in the urinary excretion of MDA, FA, ACT, ACON and PROP were 3.2-, 2.6-, 4.1-, 3.3- and 2.1-fold, respectively, while a 5.2-fold increase in DNA-SSB was observed. The results clearly indicate that chronic sodium dichromate administration induces oxidative stress resulting in tissue damaging effects which may contribute to the toxicity and carcinogenicity of hexavalent chromium.
Abstract Partial oxidation of linear C 1 –C 5 alkanes in single-gauze reactors has been examined in the fuel-rich regime at contact times as low as 100 μs. We show that, whereas methane and ethane produce mostly CO and ethylene, respectively, propane, butane, and pentane give high selectivity to oxygenates and olefins. Partial oxidation of propane over a single gauze gives a total selectivity to olefins of nearly 60% with a 2/1 C 3 H 6 /C 2 H 4 ratio and minimal oxygenates. Butane oxidation gives a significant amount of oxygenated products, mainly acetaldehyde and formaldehyde with a more open gauze, giving better selectivities. Pentane oxidation gives the highest oxygenate selectivities (up to 60%), the main products being acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde. We argue that this is a coupled heterogeneously initiated homogeneous reaction system, with total combustion primarily catalyzed by the Pt surface and the oxygenates and olefins formed subsequently by gas-phase reactions.
Methyl 2 thiazolamine was obtained through multistep reactions with propionaldehyde, acetic anhydride and thiourea. Propionaldehyde reacted with acetic anhydride in the presence of sodium acetate to give enol acetate which added bromine rapidly,and 2 bromo 1, 1 dimethoxypropane was obtained through alcoholysis. The yield was 41 5%. After hydrolysis,α bromopropionaldehyde was prepared. The yield was 71 4%. α Bromopropionaldehyde condensed with thiourea to give 5 methyl 2 thiazolamine. The yield was 61 2%. The yield was higher and the reaction was easy to control . This method provided a better way to get 5 methyl 2 thiazolamine and α bromopropionaldehyde and was applicable to the batch production.
Abstract The [CO 2 ] [CO] ratios in the oxidation of propionaldehyde in aged boric-acid-coated vessels have been measured at 440°C as a function of reactant consumption and mixture composition. The results indicate that reaction (15) is not the sole source of CO2, and that surface formation makes a major contribution, particularly at low values of [O 2 ] [M] . This is confirmed by variation of the surface volume ratio. The surface reaction appears to be approximately first-order in propionaldehyde, and half-order in O2, with a rate constant of 6.3 × 10−3 (litre mole−1) 1 2 sec−1. From the [CO 2 ] [CO] ratios and [CO], time profile, values of k1 = 0.081 ± 0.015 litre mole−1 sec−1, ( k 4 k 5 1 2 ) = 34 ± 3 (litre mole−1 sec−1) 1 2 and ( k 15 k 2 ) = 0.112 ± 0.010 (M = N2) are obtained. With k5 = 2 × 109 litre mole−1 sec−1, k4 = 1.52 × 106 litre mole−1 sec−1. (1) C 2 H 5 CHO + O 2 = C 2 H 5 CO + HO 2 (2) C 2 H 5 CO + M = C 2 H 5 + CO + M (4) HO 2 + C 2 H 5 CHO = C 2 H 5 CO + H 2 O 2 (5) HO 2 + HO 2 = H 2 O 2 + O 2 (15) C 2 H 5 CO + O 2 = C 2 H 4 + CO 2 + OH.
The oxidation of propionaldehyde has been investigated in a 1-L Pyrex reactor at total pressures of 50–120 torr and temperatures 553–713 K. Detection of reactants and products was principally by molecular beam mass spectrometry, although certain species could only be measured by gas-chromatographic analysis. At 553 K the yield of water was ∼83% of the propionaldehyde consumed, leading to the conclusion that OH is the principal chain carrier near the beginning of the negative temperature coefficient region. Many oxygenated organics (CH2O, CH3CHO, C2H5OH, C2H5O2H, CH3O2H) and C2H4 are formed during the oxidation process. These oxidation products are consistent with the important role of O2 addition to C2H5 radicals at 553 K followed by subsequent reactions of the C2H5O2 radical. As the temperature is increased, the product concentrations smoothly change to a much simpler distribution in which C2H4, H2O2, and CO are the dominant products.
SYNOPSIS. Eight mM acetaldehyde prevented growth of Polytomella caeca in acetate medium and differentially changed the labeling by acetate-2-14C of chromatographically separated RNA hydrolysate products. Four mM acetaldehyde also prevented growth in acetate medium unless uridine, thymidine, guanosine, uracil, thymine or quanine were present; then growth was delayed by 2 or 4 days. Orotidine, orotic acid, dihydroortic acid, cytosine, cytidine, adenosine and adenine had no effect on growth in acetate medium containing 4 mM acetaldehyde. One mM acetaldehyde promoted growth in acetate medium and also could serve as a sole carbon source. One mM propionaldehyde, but not butyraldehyde, was also an adequate carbon source. Four mM acetaldehyde, as a sole carbon source, supported growth only when uridine was present.
In a process for the hydrogenation of 4-hydroxybutyraldehyde (HBA) to 1,4-butanediol (BDO) and / or 2-methyl-3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (HMPA) to 2-methyl-1,3-propanediol (MPD), in wherein an aqueous solution of HBA and / or HMPA is contacted with hydrogen in a zone adiabatic hydrogenation by contact with a fixed bed of hydrogenation catalyst at hydrogenation conditions, the improvement which comprises (1) adjusting the pH of the the aqueous feed hydrogenation zone to a value in the range 4.5-6 and (2) maintain the temperature of the aqueous feed to the hydrogenation zone to about 50 to 70 and increasing the temperature of the reaction mixture hydrogenation in the adiabatic hydrogenation by the exothermic heat of hydrogenation to an exit temperature of about 80 to 110C.
Salmonella enterica produces a proteinaceous microcompartment for B 12 -dependent 1,2-propanediol utilization (Pdu MCP). The Pdu MCP consists of catabolic enzymes encased within a protein shell and its function is to sequester propionaldehyde, a toxic intermediate of 1,2-propanediol degradation. Here, we report that a short N-terminal region of the medium subunit (PduD) is required for packaging the coenzyme B 12 -dependent diol dehydratase (PduCDE) into the lumen of the Pdu MCP. Analysis of soluble cell extracts and purified MCPs by Western blotting showed that the PduD subunit mediated packaging of itself and other subunits of diol dehydratase (PduC and PduE) into the Pdu MCP. Deletion of 35 amino acids from the N-terminus of PduD significantly impaired the packaging of PduCDE with minimal effects on its enzyme activity. Western blotting showed that fusing the 18 N-terminal amino acids of PduD to green fluorescent protein (GFP) or glutathione S-transferase (GST) resulted in the association of these fusion proteins with the MCP. Immunoprecipitation tests indicated that the fusion proteins were encapsulated inside the MCP shell.
BackgroundPlant ALDH10 enzymes are aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases (AMADHs) that oxidize different ω-amino or trimethylammonium aldehydes, but only some of them have betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) activity and produce the osmoprotectant glycine betaine (GB). The latter enzymes possess alanine or cysteine at position 441 (numbering of the spinach enzyme, SoBADH), while those ALDH10s that cannot oxidize betaine aldehyde (BAL) have isoleucine at this position. Only the plants that contain A441- or C441-type ALDH10 isoenzymes accumulate GB in response to osmotic stress. In this work we explored the evolutionary history of the acquisition of BAL specificity by plant ALDH10s.ResultsWe performed extensive phylogenetic analyses and constructed and characterized, kinetically and structurally, four SoBADH variants that simulate the parsimonious intermediates in the evolutionary pathway from I441-type to A441- or C441-type enzymes. All mutants had a correct folding, average thermal stabilities and similar activity with aminopropionaldehyde, but whereas A441S and A441T exhibited significant activity with BAL, A441V and A441F did not. The kinetics of the mutants were consistent with their predicted structural features obtained by modeling, and confirmed the importance of position 441 for BAL specificity. The acquisition of BADH activity could have happened through any of these intermediates without detriment of the original function or protein stability. Phylogenetic studies showed that this event occurred independently several times during angiosperms evolution when an ALDH10 gene duplicate changed the critical Ile residue for Ala or Cys in two consecutive single mutations. ALDH10 isoenzymes frequently group in two clades within a plant family: one includes peroxisomal I441-type, the other peroxisomal and non-peroxisomal I441-, A441- or C441-type. Interestingly, high GB-accumulators plants have non-peroxisomal A441- or C441-type isoenzymes, while low-GB accumulators have the peroxisomal C441-type, suggesting some limitations in the peroxisomal GB synthesis.ConclusionOur findings shed light on the evolution of the synthesis of GB in plants, a metabolic trait of most ecological and physiological relevance for their tolerance to drought, hypersaline soils and cold. Together, our results are consistent with smooth evolutionary pathways for the acquisition of the BADH function from ancestral I441-type AMADHs, thus explaining the relatively high occurrence of this event.
1,3-Propanediol dehydrogenase (PDOR) is important in the biosynthesis of 1,3-propanediol. In the present study, the dhaT gene encoding PDOR was cloned from Lactobacillus brevis 6239 and expressed in Escherichia coli for the first time. Sequence analysis revealed that PDOR containing two Fe2+-binding motifs and a cofactor motif belongs to the type III alcohol dehydrogenase. The purified recombinant PDOR exhibited a single band of 42 kDa according to SDS-PAGE. Optimal temperatures and pH values of this dehydrogenase are 37 °C, 7.5 for reduction and 25 °C, 9.5 for oxidation, respectively. We found that PDOR was more stable in acid buffer than in alkaline condition, and 60 % of its relative activity still remained after a 2-h incubation at 37 °C. The activity of PDOR can be enhanced in the presence of Mn2+ or Fe2+ iron and inhibited by EDTA or PMSF by different degrees. The K m and V max of this dehydrogenase are 1.25 mM, 64.02 μM min−1 mg−1 for propionaldehyde and 2.26 mM, 35.05 μM min−1 mg−1 for 1,3-PD, respectively. Substrate specificity analysis showed that PDOR has a broad range of substrate specificities. The modeling superposition indicated that the structural differences may account for the diversity of PDORs’ properties. Thus, our PDOR is a potential candidate for facilitating the 1,3-PD biosynthesis.
Aldehydes are important compounds in a large number of samples, especially food and beverages. In this work, for the first time, cyclohexane-1,3-dione (CHD) was used as a derivatizing reagent aiming aldehyde (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and valeraldehyde) analysis by micellar electrokinetic chromatography with diode array detection (MEKC-DAD). The optimized separation of the derivates was performed using a voltage program (+20 kV, 0-15 min.; +23 kV, 15-17 min.) at a temperature of 26°C, and using as the running buffer a mixture containing 100 mmol/L of sodium dodecyl sulfate and 29 mmol/L of sodium tetraborate at pH 9.2, with maximum absorbance at 260 nm. CHD was compared with two other derivatizing agents: 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrazone (MBTH) and phenylhydrazine-4-sulfonic acid (PHSA). The CHD-aldehyde derivatives were also characterized by liquid chromatography with mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The calibration curves for all aldehydes had r2 above 0.999 and limits of detection ranged from 0.01 to 0.7 mg/L. The optimized methodology was applied in sugar cane brandy (cachaça) samples successfully. CHD showed to be an alternative derivatization reagent due to its stability, aqueous solubility, high selectivity and sensitivity, reduced impurities and simple preparation steps. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Abstract Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) oxidize endogeneous reactive aldehydes including lipid peroxidation products (propionaldehyde, malondialdehyde) and are also inducible by xenobiotics like DDT and TCDD. ALDHs are found in injured livers and cancers of contaminant-exposed flounder (Platichthys flesus L.) and showed identical characteristics as in hepatocellular carcinomas of rats by its cytosolic localisation, the preferential oxidation of aromatic compounds (benzaldehyde), dependency on NADP as coenzyme and sensitivity to the specific inhibitor disulfiram. Image analysis showed increased activity of NADP-dependent benzaldehyde dehydrogenase localised in a few cells of early eosinophilic foci and in basophilic adenomas, carcinomas and their invasively growing protrusions (satellites). Disulfiram sensitivity to differentiate between the xenobiotic-inducible isozyme and the tumor-specific isozyme in rats was highest in the early stages of carcinogenesis in the liver of fish. Moderate disulfiram inhibition was observed in non-neoplastic and extrafocal tissue. In neoplastic livers of flounder from contaminated areas (Elbe estuary), hepatocytes in early stages of carcinogenesis were best protected against accumulation of toxic aldehydes by increased activity of the specific tumor-associated isozyme.
In order to investigate the effects of pyrolytic conditions on the deliveries of eight volatile carbonyls, including formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, acrolein, propionaldehyde, crotonaldehyde,2-butanone and butyraldehyde, in cigarette smoke, a method for trapping and analyzing the volatile carbonyls in the pyrolytic products of tobacco shreds was developed based on an in-house cigarette smoking simulator. The volatile carbonyls in the pyrolysis products of Virginia and blended type cigarette filler under different pyrolytic conditions were analyzed. The results showed that: 1) The relative standard deviations of the tested eight carbonyls were all less than 10% under the same pyrolytic condition. 2) With the increase of O2 content in pyrolytic atmosphere, the deliveries of carbonyls increased except for 2-butanone and butyraldehyde. 3) With the increase of pyrolytic gas flow, the delivery of formaldehyde increased significantly, while the other carbonyls changed slightly. 4) With the raise of heating rate, the deliveries of formaldehyde and propionaldehyde increased significantly, those of acetaldehyde, acetone and acrolein increased to different extents, while those of crotonaldehyde, 2-butanone and butyraldehyde were basically not affected. 5) The deliveries of carbonyls topped at 400-500 ℃. Moreover, the formaldehyde delivery of Virginia type cigarette filler was significantly higher than that of blended type one at the same temperature.
The yqhD gene from Escherichia coli encoding 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase isoenzyme (PDORI) and the tetracycline resistant gene (tetR) from plasmid pHY300PLK were amplified by PCR. They were inserted into vector pUC18, yielding the recombinant expression vector pUC18-yqhD-tetR. The recombinant vector was then cloned into Klebsiella pneumoniae ME-308. The overexpression of PDORI in K. pneumoniae surprisingly led to higher 1,3-propanediol production. The final 1,3-propanediol concentration of recombinant K. pneumoniae reached 67.6 g/l, which was 125.33% of that of the original strain. The maximum activity of recombinant PDORI converting 3-HPA to 1,3-PD reached 110 IU/mg after induction by IPTG at 31°C during the fermentation, while it was only 11 IU/mg under the same conditions for the wild type strain. The K m values of the purified PDORI for 1,3-propanediol and NADP were 12.1 mM and 0.15 mM, respectively. Compared with the original strains, the concentration of the toxic intermediate 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde during the fermentation was also reduced by 22.4%. Both the increased production of 1,3-propanediol and the reduction of toxic intermediate confirmed the significant role of 1,3-propanediol oxidoreductase isoenzyme from E. coli in converting 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde to 1,3-propanediol for 1,3-PD production.
Endostatin can specifically inhibit endothelial proliferation and potently inhibit angiogenesis and tumor growth. N-Terminal site-specific mono-PEGylation of recombinant human endostatin (mPEG-rhES) was accomplished by using methoxy poly-ethylene glycol (mPEG) propionaldehyde with an average molecular weight of 5000 Da through a reactive terminal aldehyde group. The site-specific mPEG conjugation was conducted under optimal conditions, which were identified through a statistical L9(34) orthogonal test. In this study, we have investigated the stability and antitumor activity of mPEG-rhES. SDS−PAGE, RP-HPLC, and UV spectrophotometric analysis were used to identify the purity and stability of mPEG-rhES. When incubated with protease or placed in an extreme environment, mPEG-rhES was more stable than rhES. The unmodified and PEGylated rhES were tested for their ability to inhibit the tumor growth of mouse H22 liver cancer in male mice. In a multiple versus single doses comparison study, daily administration of...
Quantum mechanical calculations have been performed to study the stereoselectivities in the direct cross-aldol reactions of aldehydes catalyzed by simple chiral diamines. The detailed computational studies on the stereochemistry-controlling step of the subject reactions have been presented by DFT calculations at the B3LYP/6-31G* level. The poor agreement between the calculated and the observed diastereomeric ratio and enantiomeric excess values is obtained for all diamines catalysts. Further M06-2X calculations can provide a reasonable explanation for the observed syn-selectivities of the asymmetric cross-aldol reaction between propionaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.
Abstract Improved procedures for sample collection and derivatization are proposed for detecting low-molecular-weight aldehydes, which are performed directly in a bubbler containing a methanol or acetonitrile solution of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH) and an acidic catalyst. An aliquot is then injected into a liquid chromatograph. This method avoids extraction and condensation as in usual formaldehyde analysis by liquid chromatography and hence it is simple and fast. The optimum molar ratio of 2,4-DNPH to aldehydes is 23:1. The recoveries achieved for formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde and butyraldehyde all exceed 85%, with detection limits of 51, 57, 12 and 14 ppb (v/v), respectively. The 2,4-DNPH derivatives were investigated further by ultraviolet and mass spectrometry. 2,4-Dinitrophenylhydrazones are identified as the reaction product of aldehydes with an acidic solution of 2,4-DNPH. This method was used to evaluate the amounts of aldehydes emitted from an oil-fuelled boiler and a gasoline engine under different operating conditions.
The photochemical reaction of aldehydes (propionaldehyde and benzaldehyde) and furan have been studied in the liquid phase; two new compounds, oxetanes I and II have easily been produced with a high purity by this photo-reaction. In the case of 2-methylfuran and propionaldehyde (or benzaldehyde), a mixture of oxetanes III and IV (or V and VI) has also been obtained.
Background: Plant ALDH10 enzymes are aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases (AMADHs) that oxidize different ω-amino or trimethylammonium aldehydes, but only some of them have betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) activity and produce the osmoprotectant glycine betaine (GB). The latter enzymes possess alanine or cysteine at position 441 (numbering of the spinach enzyme, SoBADH), while those ALDH10s that cannot oxidize betaine aldehyde (BAL) have isoleucine at this position. Only the plants that contain A441-or C441-type ALDH10 isoenzymes accumulate GB in response to osmotic stress. In this work we explored the evolutionary history of the acquisition of BAL specificity by plant ALDH10s. Results: We performed extensive phylogenetic analyses and constructed and characterized, kinetically and structurally, four SoBADH variants that simulate the parsimonious intermediates in the evolutionary pathway from I441-type to A441-or C441-type enzymes. All mutants had a correct folding, average thermal stabilities and similar activity with aminopropionaldehyde, but whereas A441S and A441T exhibited significant activity with BAL, A441V and A441F did not. The kinetics of the mutants were consistent with their predicted structural features obtained by modeling, and confirmed the importance of position 441 for BAL specificity. The acquisition of BADH activity could have happened through any of these intermediates without detriment of the original function or protein stability. Phylogenetic studies showed that this event occurred independently several times during angiosperms evolution when an ALDH10 gene duplicate changed the critical Ile residue for Ala or Cys in two consecutive single mutations. ALDH10 isoenzymes frequently group in two clades within a plant family: one includes peroxisomal I441-type, the other peroxisomal and non-peroxisomal I441-, A441-or C441-type. Interestingly, high GB-accumulators plants have non-peroxisomal A441-or C441-type isoenzymes, while low-GB accumulators have the peroxisomal C441-type, suggesting some limitations in the peroxisomal GB synthesis.
