It is shown that preplanting treatment of seeds and foliar treatment of amaranth plants in the budding stage with amaranth-based biopreparations Amirosel, Albit, and Amir has a positive effect on accumulation of a pharmacological complex of bioflavonoids (dihydroquercetin, quercetin, and rutin) and organic silicon in young and developing leaves. This allows recommending the leaves for use for food and pharmacological purposes.
A cell-free extract from flowers of Matthiola incana catalyzes a NADPH-dependent stereospecific reduction of (+)-dihydrokaempferol to 3,4-cis-leucopelargonidin (5,7,4′-trihydroxyflavan-3,4-cis-diol). The pH-optimum of this reaction is around 6. The rate of reaction with NADH was about 50% of that found with NADPH. (+)-Dihydroquercetin and (+)-dihydromyricetin were also reduced by the enzyme preparation to the corresponding flavan-3,4-cis-diols. Correlation between the genotype of M. incana and the presence of dihydroflavonol 4-reductase is strong evidence that this enzyme is involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis.
Abstract The isolation of [5′,5′]-bisdihydroquercetin from the outer bark of Douglas-fir, as the first example of a true biflavonoid linked exclusively via the B-rings, broadens the known heterogeneity of interflavonoid- linkage modes among natural biflavonoids, and supports the concept that the constitution of phlobaphenes is primarily derived by oxidative coupling of dihydroquercetin and other co-occurring components.
Hepatotoxicity occurs as a result of adverse effects of some xenobiotics on the liver, which is often the target tissue of toxicity for environmental chemicals. Rotenone, used as a natural pesticide, is an environmental poison reported to cause organ toxicity. This study investigated the protective effect of three flavonoids, catechin, quercetin and taxifolin (2,3-Dihydroquercetin) in rotenone-induced hepatotoxicity. Male Wistar rats were administered rotenone for 10 days followed by post treatment with catechin (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg), quercetin (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg) or taxifolin (0.25, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg), respectively, for 3 days. Bioindices of oxidative stress and hepatocellular injury were measured in serum and tissue homogenate of animals. Rotenone intoxication produced liver damage in rats as reflected in alterations to activities/levels of enzymic and non-enzymic oxidative stress markers and enzymes linked with inflammation, as well as the transaminases, gamma glutamyl transpeptidase, bilirubin, and lactate dehydrogenase. Catechin, quercetin and taxifolin post treatment significantly attenuated these (p < 0.0001) rotenone-induced imbalances. Comparatively, quercetin displayed the best apparent ameliorative activity. It clearly showed superior activity to catechin. However, taxifolin appeared to show comparable activity to quercetin and better activity than catechin in some of the assays despite being administered at considerably lower doses. The results provide insight on the relative efficacy and structure-activity relationships of the selected flavonoids in ameliorating liver damage and also indicate that additional structural and metabolic factors may be involved in the structure-activity relationships of flavonoids.
An ultrasonic-microwave alternant method for extracting dihydroquercetin from larch wood was applied by using dihydroquercetin yield as an index. The extraction was conducted using 60% ethanol as solvent,the solid to liquid ratio of 1∶12,and soakage time of 3 hours. The microwave treatment time was 10 min,ultrasonic treatment time was 40 min respectively and the extraction was performed one time with the strongest power. The ultrasonic-microwave alternant extraction was performed by ultrasonic extraction for 40 min and then microwave extraction for 10min. The yield of dihydroquercetin with ultrasonic and microwave extraction were 0.034% and 0.074% respectively, while that of ultrasonic-microwave alternant extraction was 0.12% which is much higher than ultrasonic and microwave extraction alone. By scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observation , the ultrasonic-microwave alternant effect of substance dissolution from plant cell was the most obvious among the above-mentioned three methods.
An ultrasound-assisted extraction (UAE) method using ethanol was applied for extracting arabinogalactan (AG) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ) simultaneously from larch wood, as a pretreatment for pulping and papermaking. The extraction parameters were optimized by a Box-Behnken experimental design with the yields of AG and DHQ as the response values. Under optimum conditions (three extractions, each using 40% ethanol, for 50 min, 200 W ultrasound power and 1∶18 solid-liquid ratio), the yields of AG and DHQ were 183.4 and 36.76 mg/g, respectively. After UAE pretreated, the wood chips were used for Kraft pulping (KP) and high boiling solvent pulping (HBSP). The pulping yield after pretreatment was higher than that of untreated (the pulping yields of untreated HBSP and KP were 42.37% and 39.60%, and the pulping yields of HBSP and KP after UAE-pretreated were 44.23% and 41.50% respectively), as indicated by a lower kappa number (77.91 and 27.30 for untreated HBSP and KP; 77.01 and 26.83 for UAE-pretreated HBSP and KP). Furthermore, the characteristics of paper produced from pretreated wood chips were superior to those from the untreated chips: the basis weight was lower (85.67 and 82.48 g·cm(-2) for paper from untreated KP and HBSP; 79.94 and 80.25 g·cm(-2) for paper from UAE-pretreated KP and HBSP), and the tensile strengths, tearing strengths, bursting strengths, and folding strengths were higher than these of paper after UAE-pretreated, respectively.
Two flavonoids, quercetin and dihydroquercetin, and two cinnamic acid derivatives, caffeic acid and chlorogenic acid, were selected as being representatives of plant phenolic antioxidants. Tests of antioxidant activity showed the two flavonoids were more effective than the two cinnamic acid derivatives. However, in thiamin degradation tests, cinnamic acid derivatives showed a greater degradation of thiamin than did the flavonoids. The effect of caffeic acid on thiamin degradation was found to be pH dependent. The influence of phenolic compounds at pH 5.5 was extremely slight; the degradation of thiamin was considerably more rapid at pH 7 than at pH 5.5. Spectral and thin-layer chromatographic analyses demonstrated that thiamin disulfide was the major product of thiamin degradation created by phenolic oxidation compounds.
Both anthocyanins and flavonols are produced by branches of the flavonoid pathway and are derived from dihydroflavonols (dihydrokaempferol: DHK, dihydroquercetin: DHQ, and dihydromyricetin: DHM). Anthocyanins are synthesized by the sequential reaction of dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), and glucosyltransferase (UFGT). In competition with DFR at a crucial branch point, individually acting FLS can catalyze the oxidation of dihydroflavonols to flavonols [4] . FLS is characterized as a soluble 2-ODD that requires cofactors 2-oxoglutarate, ferrous MaFLS is compared with FLS sequences from Eustoma grandiflorum (EgFLS), Gentiana triflora (GtFLS), Petunia hybrida (PhFLS), Nicotiana tabacum (NtFLS), Petroselinum crispum (PcFLS), Camellia nitidissima (CnFLS), Cyclamen purpurascens (CpurFLS1), Citrus unshiu (CuFLS), Allium cepa (AcFLS-H6 and AcFLS-HRB), Arabidopsis thaliana (AtFLS1), Acacia confusa (AcFLS), and Ginkgo biloba (GbFLS). The alignment was generated using CLC sequence viewer 8.0. The FLS-specific motifs "PxxxIRxxxEQP" and "SxxTxLVP" are indicated. Black arrows indicate the ferrous iron-binding residues (His216, Asp218, and His272). Gray arrows represent the 2-oxoglutarate binding residues (Arg282 and Ser284). Black dots show the putative DHQ-binding residues (Tyr127, Phe129, Lys197, Phe288, and Ser290). Asterisks indicate the residues responsible for the proper folding of the FLS polypeptide (Gly65 and Gly256).
An ultrasound-assisted extraction (UAE) method using ethanol was applied for extracting arabinogalactan (AG) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ) simultaneously from larch wood, as a pretreatment for pulping and papermaking. The extraction parameters were optimized by a Box-Behnken experimental design with the yields of AG and DHQ as the response values. Under optimum conditions (three extractions, each using 40% ethanol, for 50 min, 200 W ultrasound power and 1:18 solid-liquid ratio), the yields of AG and DHQ were 183.4 and 36.76 mg/g, respectively. After UAE pretreated, the wood chips were used for Kraft pulping (KP) and high boiling solvent pulping (HBSP). The pulping yield after pretreatment was higher than that of untreated (the pulping yields of untreated HBSP and KP were 42.37% and 39.60%, and the pulping yields of HBSP and KP after UAE-pretreated were 44.23% and 41.50% respectively), as indicated by a lower kappa number (77.91 and 27.30 for untreated HBSP and KP; 77.01 and 26.83 for UAE-pretreated HBSP and KP). Furthermore, the characteristics of paper produced from pretreated wood chips were superior to those from the untreated chips: the basis weight was lower (85.67 and 82.48 g?cm 22 for paper from untreated KP and HBSP; 79.94 and 80.25 g?cm 22 for paper from UAE-pretreated KP and HBSP), and the tensile strengths, tearing strengths, bursting strengths, and folding strengths were higher than these of paper after UAE-pretreated, respectively.
The larch is a conifer of the Larix genus, from the Pinaceae family [1] , which is native to the cooler temperate climate of the northern hemisphere, especially in the boreal forests of Russia and Canada [2] . Larix gmelinii (syn. L. dahurica) is a species, unique to the northeastern forests of China, a temperate coniferous broad-leaved mixed forest area, accounting for the largest proportion of forest trees [3] . The chemical composition of Larix gmelinii comprises cellulose, lignins, hemicellulose (arabinogalactan), ash and extractable compounds (resins and dihydroquercetin). It is also an important source of pulp wood for papermaking.
However, arabinogalactan (AG) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ) cannot be ignored in the pulping process. A large amount of alkali is consumed and the temperature has to rise slowly, because of AG in the raw material, such as the Kraft pulping process. Because the mechanism of lignin removal relies on the degradation of hemicelluloses, the degradation of AG occurs at the heating stage under alkaline conditions [4] . If AG could be extracted before the pulping operation, this would not only reduce the amount of alkali used, but also shorten the heating time. Meanwhile, DHQ, as well as tannins and polyphenols, is also present in larch wood. The higher degree of condensation of the phenolic hydroxyl group causes difficulty in the pulping process [5] . If the compounds containing phenolic hydroxyl groups could be extracted before pulping operation, this could facilitate the bleaching process for pulping.
Chemical modification of natural biologically active compounds can expand their spectrum of activity and is a promising direction in new drug discovery [1]. Flavonoids are a large group of natural biologically active compounds, among which dihydroquercetin (DHQ) occupies a special place. It is isolated from Larix sibirica wood and exhibits powerful antioxidant, hepatoprotective, antitumor, immunomodulating, and other properties [2]. The broad spectrum of biological activity and low toxicity [2] classify DHQ as a lead compound for chemical modification in order to synthesize new hybrid polyfunctional pharmacologically active compounds. Alkaloids such as cytisine occupy a special place among numerous heterocyclic natural compounds. The pharmacological properties of cytisine, like nicotine, are typical of ganglionic toxins that excite the CNS and autonomic nervous system ganglia, reflexively strengthen breathing [3], and exhibit hypolipidemic activity [4]. Cytisine derivatives with isoflavones and coumarins were obtained earlier [5]. The reaction of DHQ and its close structural analogs with primary and secondary amines was used as an example to demonstrate [6, 7] that the Mannich reaction occurred at the 6-position of ring A and produced primarily the mono-substituted derivative if equimolar amounts of the reagents were used; the disubstituted derivative at the 6and 8-positions, with a two-fold excess of amine. The goal of the present work was to synthesize conjugates of DHQ (1) and cytisine (2) that were promising for discovering new pharmacologically active polyfunctional drugs.
We have investigated in vitro the anticoagulant (AC) activity of proanthocyanidins from the bark of birch, cedar, spruce, pine, and larch; sulfated arabinogalantan and dihydroquercetin from larch wood; extracts from birch, cedar, and spruce; microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) from aspen and fir wood and wheat straw; and methylcellulose (MC) from aspen wood. The AC properties of the investigated substances are related mostly to their antithrombin activity. The AC activity increases with the content of sulfur in MCC of wheat straw, MC of aspen wood, and arabinogalañtan of larch wood. The maximum AC activity was observed in samples of sulfated MCC from fir wood and wheat straw. Their antithrombin activity (134 +/- 8 and 96 +/- 6, respectively) is worth of carrying out model tests in vivo.
Mannich reaction of dihydroquercetin with a series of 1-aryl-6,7-dimethoxytetrahydroisoquinolines synthesized heterocyclic mono-and di-substituted conjugates of dihydroquercetin and N-hydroxymethyl isoquinoline derivatives.
Thirteen new sesquiterpenes, pulicanadiene A (1), B (2), and C (3), pulicanone (4), pulicanol (5), pulicanarals A (6), B (7), and C (8), pulicanadienals A (9) and B (10), pulicanadienol (11), and pulioplopanones A (12) and B (13), and seven known compounds, stigmasterol, ergosterol peroxide, calenduladiol, 7,4'-di-O-methyldihydrokaempferol, 5,7-dihydroxy-3,3',4'-trimethoxyflavone, dihydroquercetin 7,3'-dimethyl ether, and 6,15alpha-epoxy-1beta,4beta-dihydroxyeudesmane, were isolated from Pulicaria canariensis. Compound 4a showed cytotoxicity on the human myeloid leukemia cell line HL-60. The cytotoxicity was caused by induction of apoptosis as determined by microscopy of nuclear changes, activation of caspases, and the cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1.
This work focuses on the behavior and comparative assessment of the antioxidant activity of several well-known antioxidants using three different approaches with the same ABTS•+/potassium persulfate radical-generating system: a decolorization assay, kinetic assay, and visual-spectrophotometric titration assay. The decolorization assay is the most common approach but gives little information on antioxidant behavior. The kinetic assay can be used for an in-depth study of the specific features of a particular antioxidant and facilitates identification of the mechanism of action. The visual-spectrophotometric titration assay is complementary to the above assays and subdivided into two stages to demonstrate the contribution of the “fast” and “slow” scavenging properties to the total antioxidant activity. The trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) value ranges for several flavonoids and the endogenous antioxidants derived from these assays vary from 0.7 to 5.1, 0.5–2.8, and 0.4–3.7, respectively, while the sequence of the weakest antioxidant to the strongest is similar. The analysis of the kinetic curves for some flavonoids showed that their interaction with ABTS•+ has an atypical character. Based on the results of the kinetic and visual-spectrophotometric titration assays, fast-reacting (trolox, α-tocopherol), slow-reacting (naringenin, apigenin) and moderate-reacting antioxidant (dihydroquercetin, quercetin, rutin, morin, and glutathione) compounds were distinguished.
Dihydroquercetin (TAX) is the most abundant dihydroflavone found in onions, milk thistle, and Douglas fir bark. We investigated whether TAX could inhibit lipid accumulation in alcoholic liver steatosis in vivo and in vitro. An in vivo model was established by intragastrically treating mice with ethanol, and an in vitro model was created by treating HepG2 cells with ethanol. TAX regulated SREBP1 and ACC expression by elevating LKB1 and AMPK phosphorylation. Also, TAX upregulated SIRT1 expression, which was suppressed by ethanol intake. Decreased expression of P2X7R and NLRP3 and suppressed cleavage of caspase-1 by TAX resulted in the inhibition of IL-1β production and release. Additionally, TAX reduced lipogenesis and promoted lipid oxidation via the regulation of AMPK and ACC in ethanol-treated steatotic HepG2 cells. TAX downregulated IL-1β cleavage responses to LPS and ATP stimulation in HepG2 cells. P2X7R deficiency attenuated lipid accumulation, characterized by increased AMPK activity and decreased SREBP1 expression in ethanol-treated HepG2 cells. Our data showed that TAX exhibited the ability to inhibit lipogenesis and a hepatoprotective capacity, indicating that TAX has therapeutic potential for preventing alcoholic liver steatosis.
Two new alpha-tetralone (=3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one) derivatives, bercherniaside A and B (1 and 2, resp.), and one new flavonoid, quercetin-3-O-(2-acetyl-alpha-(L)-arabinofuranoside (3), together with ten known flavonoids compounds, eriodictyol (4), aromadendrin (5), trans-dihydroquercetin (6), cis-dihydroquercetin (7), kaempferol (8), kaempferol-3-O-alpha-(L)-arabinofuranoside (9), quercetin (10), quercetin-3-O-alpha-(L)-arabinofuranoside or avicularin (11), quercetin 3'-methyl ether, 3-O-alpha-(L)-arabinofuranoside (12), and maesopsin (13), were isolated from the bark of Berchemia floribunda. Their structures were determined by various NMR techniques and chemical studies. Compounds 3-13 were tested for their cytotoxic activity against human leukemia cells. Among them, kaempferol (8) and maesopsin (13) showed significant inhibitory activities against human leukemia cells CCRF-CEM and its multidrug-resistant sub-line, CEM/ADR5000, with IC50 values of 14.0, 5.3, 10.2, and 12.3 mu m, respectively.
Objective ::: To investigate the constituents of the roots in Osmanthus fragrans. ::: ::: ::: Methods ::: The Osmanthus fragrans roots alcohol extract solution were separated and purified by silica gel,Sephadex LH-20 and other materials, the structures were identified by physicochemical properties and spectral analysis. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: Thirteen flavonoids were isolated from the roots of Osmanthus fragrans,which identified as glabrol ( 1), dihydroquercetin( 2),2’-hydroxy-5,7,8-trimethoxyflavone( 3),lupinifolin( 4), phloretin( 5), apigenin ( 6), calycosine( 7), quercetin( 8),3’,4’,5,7-tetrahydroxy flavanone( 9),5-hydroxy-7,8,2’,6’-tetramethoxyflavone( 10),isoliquiritigenin( 11),tonkinensisol( 12),kaempferol ( 13). ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: Compounds 1 ~ 5,7,9 ~ 12 are isolated from the Osmanthus fragrans for the first time.
Oregano (Origanum vulgare L.) leaves were successively extracted with hexane, ethyl ether, ethyl acetate and ethanol. The ethanol extract was reextracted in a separatory funnel with petroleum ether, ethyl ether, ethyl acetate and butanol. The ethyl ether layer was the most effective in stabilizing lard against oxidation, with activity equal to butylated hydroxytoluene. It also showed antioxidant activity when tested on vegetable oils under storage or frying conditions. The main antioxidant factors isolated from the ethyl ether layer consisted of flavonoids. Chromatographic and spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated the presence of the flavone apigenin, the flavanone, eriodictyol and the dihydroflavonols, dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin.
EGFR is a member of receptor tyrosine kinase, and reported to be activated and/or overexpressed in variety of human cancers including UV-induced skin cancer (9) (10) . UV irradiation rapidly activates EGFR through the induction of EGFR ligands and the inactivation of cytoplasmic protein tyrosine phosphatases that maintains low basal levels of phosphorylated EGFR (11) (12) (13) . UV-activated EGFR in turn activates a number of signaling cascades, including extracellular regulated kinases (ERKs), p38 kinase and c-Taxifolin, also known as dihydroquercetin, is a flavonone commonly found in onions (18) , milk thistle (19) , French maritime bark (20) and Douglas fir bark (21) as an aglycone or glycoside form. Taxifolin has multiple biological effects, including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects and plays a role in preventing cardiovascular disease (22) (23) (24) . Recently, several studies have focused on taxifolin as a potential cancer chemopreventive agent. One study showed that aglycone form of taxifolin exerts chemopreventive effects through an antioxidant response element (ARE)-dependent mechanism in colon cancer cells (25) . The taxifolin aglycone form is also reported to induce apoptosis in prostate cancer cells (26) . Although these reports provide evidence that taxifolin might exert chemopreventive effects against several cancers, the molecular mechanisms and direct targets of taxifolin are still unclear. Herein, we report that taxifolin suppresses UVB-induced activation of signal transduction by directly inhibiting EGFR and PI3-K in JB6 P+ mouse skin epidermal cells. Moreover, taxifolin strongly suppresses tumor incidence in a solar UV (SUV)-induced skin carcinogenesis mouse model. Thus, taxifolin acts as an inhibitor of EGFR and PI3-K and is expected to have beneficial effects in the prevention of UV-induced skin carcinogenesis.
This study uses the tomato family, Solanaceae, to examine the range of anthocyanins in red flowers and the types of anthocyanins that co-occur with carotenoid pigments in these taxa. Recent phylogenetic studies indicate that red flowers have independently evolved at least 30 times in the family, and these origins are clustered within the last 10 million years of the family's roughly 50 million year history (Sä rkinen et al. 2013; Ng and Smith 2016) . Both anthocyanin and carotenoid pigments are known to contribute to the diversity of flower colouration in Solanaceae (e.g. Beale et al. 1941; Ando et al. 1999; Ohmiya 2011) , and indeed both classes of pigments have been documented in red-flowered species, with anthocyanins and the dual production of both anthocyanins and carotenoids most frequently used (Ng and Smith 2016) . Here, we examine spectral properties, anthocyanin composition and carotenoid expression in 27 species that represent 24 of the estimated 30 independent origins of red colouration in Solanaceae to address three specific questions: (i) Does floral hue vary depending on the type of pigments present, i.e. do different pigment pathways lead to different shades of red? (ii) In red-flowered species that produce anthocyanins, what is the range of anthocyanin types in terms of hydroxylation? (iii) Does the type of anthocyanin depend on the presence or absence of carotenoids? We predict that yellow -orange carotenoids may commonly combine with blue and purple (cyanidin-and delphinidin-based) anthocyanins to result in an overall red floral hue. In contrast, red pelargonidin pigments alone may be sufficient to produce a red flower. showing the production of the three major types of anthocyanin pigments (the glycosides of anthocyanidins): those derived from pelargonidin (mainly red), from cyanidin (mainly purple) and from delphinidin (mainly blue). These are distinguished by their level of hydroxylation: one B-ring hydroxyl group for pelargonidin, two for cyanidin, three for delphinidin. Arrows indicate enzymatic reactions with enzymes shown in boxes, and products and precursors outside of boxes. ANS, anthocyanidin synthase; CHI, chalcone isomerase; CHS, chalcone synthase; DFR, dihydroflavonol-4-reductase; DHK, dihydrokaempferol; DHM, dihydromyricetin; DHQ, dihydroquercetin; F3H, flavanone 3-hydroxylase; F3 ′ H, flavonoid 3 ′ -hydroxylase;
With the aging of the body, the regeneration potential is reduced as a result of both a decrease in the number of stem cells, as well as the accumulation of metabolic products, which have a damaging effect on cells. With age, there are changes in connective tissue interactions in the epithelial lining of the respiratory tract, which leads to the development of involutive processes [1]. The effect of low temperature in older animals changes the level of proliferative processes more significantly, which can distort the direction of differentiation in the epithelium of the respiratory system [3] . The results of the study indicate that the negative effect of low temperatures on the body can be reduced by using an antioxidant drug -dihydroquercetin. Abstract The analysis of treatment of 88 patients with burns of the I-II degrees (MKB-10) was carried out. Antioxidants (("Lavitol cosmetic", BAA "Lavitol-B") and hyperbaric oxygenation were applied in the complex treatment of patients of the main group (44) until the wound was completely epithelialized. The comparative assessment of results was carried out in a group of patients (44) who received traditional treatment. Аntioxidants and hyperbaric oxygenation favorably affect the course of the wound process.The terms of spontaneous epithelization of the wound and inpatient treatment in patients of the main group decreased due to stimulation of the wound process.
Rain-shelter cultivation is an effective cultural method to prevent rainfall damage during grape harvest and widely applied in the Chinese rainy regions. In this study we investigated the effect of rain-shelter cultivation on grape diseases and phenolic composition in the skins of Vitis vinifera cv. Cabernet Gernischet grape berries through the comparison with open-field cultivation at two vintages (2010 and 2011). The results showed that rain-shelter cultivation reduced the incidence of grape diseases significantly and delayed the maturation of Cabernet Gernischet fruits. With regards to most of the phenolic compounds identified in this study, their content in grape samples under rain-shelter cultivation was decreased compared to those under open-field cultivation. However, rain-shelter cultivation stimulated the accumulation of dihydroquercetin-3-O-rhamnoside in grape skins during grape maturation. These were related with micrometeorological alterations in vineyards by using plastic covering under rain-shelter cultivation. It suggests the rain-shelter cultivation makes possible the cultivation of “Cabernet Gernischet” grapes in an organic production system, for providing a decrease in the incidence of diseases and the dependence on chemical pesticides in the grape and wine industry.
Vitis vinifera has been thought to be unable to produce pelargonidin-type anthocyanins because its dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) does not efficiently reduce dihydrokaempferol. However, in this study, pelargonidin 3-O-glucoside was detected in the skins of V. vinifera ‘Pinot Noir’, ‘Cabernet Sauvignon’, and ‘Yan73’, as well as in the flesh of ‘Yan73’ by HPLC–ESI-MS/MS. Additionally, pelargonidin 3-O-(6-acetyl)-glucoside was detected in ‘Yan73’ skin and flesh for the first time. To further confirm the presence of pelargonidin-type anthocyanins in these grape cultivars, their DFRs were cloned, expressed in Escherichia coli, and purified. An enzyme-activity analysis revealed that V. vinifera DFR can reduce dihydrokaempferol to produce leucopelargonidin, although it prefers dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin as substrates. Thus, the existence of a pelargonidin-based anthocyanin-biosynthetic pathway was confirmed in V. vinifera via mass-spectrometric and enzymatic methods and redirected anthocyanin biosy...
Pine bark is a forest by-product that can be profitable as a source of polyphenols by its content in procyanidins. In this work, barks of two varieties of pine (Pinus pinaster and P. radiata) were extracted with ethanol, and partially purified to obtain a fraction named FOW, that contained mainly flavan-3-ol monomers and procyanidins oligomers. The mean degree of polymerization was 2.1 for pinaster (pOW) and 2.7 for radiata (rOW). FOWs were fractionated on C18 Sep-Pak cartridges into three fractions for each variety by different organic solvents. The phenolic compositions of the fractions were analyzed using HPLC with UV diode array detection and electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry. The compounds identified were: catechin, dihydroquercetin, phenolic acids and their glucosides, procyanidins dimers, trimers and tetramers. FOWs and their fractions were characterized in antioxidant power by DPPH and β-carotene methods. In the former assay, pOW showed major effectiveness, with an antiradical specific activity of 46 units AR/mg procyanidins, whereas for the β-carotene bleaching test rOW (78 ± 0.71%) gave the best inhibition result. Despite this fact the derived fractions, presenting similar values, have advantages because the profile of their constituents is uniform for each one, and, hence, it is easier to investigate their action for potential applications in both medical or food fields
The present invention can be sufficiently exhibited the quality improvement of sleep, and aims to provide a quality improving agent of sleep safety to the body is guaranteed. The present invention, Fraxinus plant or its extract such as ash, Siberian larch extract, dihydroquercetin, quality improving agent of sleep to dihydro kaempferol or active ingredient naringenin, and contains a quality improving agent of the sleep to provide a quality improving composition of sleep.
The ability of the flavonoid dihydroquercetin to prevent or accelerate the accumulation of reactive oxygen species and the metabolites of oxidative stress, carbonyl compounds has been studied. It has been shown on a model of oxidation of lecithin that dihydroquercetin exhibits a prooxidant effect in the alkaline region of pH, whereas at neutral and acidic pH values dihydroquercetin is an effective antioxidant. In the presence of ferrous iron ions, which catalyze the Fenton reaction, dihydroquercetin forms a complex with metal that shows the antioxidant activity in the region of high pH values. It has been found that the oxidation of lecithin in the presence of 20–200 μM ferrous iron is inhibited by dihydroquercetin to a concentration of 3.2 mM. At higher concentration of dihydroquercetin in the presence of ferrous iron, accumulation of malonic dialdehyde occurs, indicating the presence of the prooxidant activity of dihydroquercetin.
Activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) and intensity of ROS generation in the aorta were studied in male Wistar rats intraperitoneally injected with a mixture of (+) and (-) stereoisomers of catechin. ACE activity in aortal segments was evaluated by hydrolysis of hippuryl-histidine-leucine; ROS generation was measured by oxidation of dichlorodihydrofluorescein. The dynamics of ACE activity and intensity of ROS generation in the aorta after catechin administration and their dependence on the catechin dose were studied. The effects of dihydroquercetin and fucoidin on the studied parameters were analyzed. Catechin increased ACE activity; the maximum increase was achieved in 3 h after administration. Catechin dose producing a half-maximum increase in ACE activity was 0.04 μg/kg. The effects of catechin on ACE activity was attenuated by dihydroquercetin and completely abolished by fucoidin. Catechin did not enhance ROS production in the aorta, and in a dose of 0.1 μg/kg even inhibited this process. It is hypothesized that isomers of catechin produce opposite effects on ROS generation in the aorta.
The leaves of Paeonia rockii and Paeonia rocki var.purpurea were used as experimental materials.Pigments in leaves of Paeonia rockii and Paeonia rocki var.purpurea were qualitatively identified and quantitatively analyzed using HPLC-Diode array detector(DAD),UV sphotospectrometry and thin layer chromatography;1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical 2,2-diphenyl-1-(2,4,6-trin-itrophenyl)hydrazyl(DPPH)and 2,2′-azinobis-(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonate(ABTS+·)were used to evaluate the in vitro antioxidant activity of the leaves.The results showed that the color-leaf variation of Paeonia rocki var.purpurea was major caused by the combined effect of the increased accumulation of peonidin-3,5-di-O-glucoside,pelargonidin-3,5-di-O-glucoside and decreased accumulation of chlorophyll.The red-leaf of Paeonia rocki var.purpureahad higher content on chlorogenic acid,rutin,epicaetchin,dihydromyricetin,p-coumaric acid and dihydroquercetin than green-leaf of Paeonia rockii;compared with green-leaf of Paeonia rockii,the red-leaf of Paeonia rocki var.purpureaexhibitted stronger antioxidant activity,which had potential medicinal value.
The discoloration of Douglas-fir wood extractives on thin-layer chromatography (TLC) plates was observed. The compounds extracted from sapwood and heartwood of 12 individual trees were tested with a TLC assay. The compounds that became colored on the TLC plates are presumed to be the chromophore precursors of Douglas-fir wood discoloration. Dihydroquercetin (DHQ) proved to be the primary precursor. Unstained samples of sawn lumber were shown to contain DHQ, whereas samples of lumber that had become discolored did not, indicating that DHQ underwent chemical change to contribute to discoloration.
Abstract: Rain-shelter cultivation is an effective cultural method to prevent rainfall damage during grape harvest and widely applied in the Chinese rainy regions. In this study we investigated the effect of rain-shelter cultivation on grape diseases and phenolic composition in the skins of Vitis vinifera cv. Cabernet Gernischet grape berries through the comparison with open-field cultivation at two vintages (2010 and 2011). The results showed that rain-shelter cultivation reduced the incidence of grape diseases significantly and delayed the maturation of Cabernet Gernischet fruits. With regards to most of the phenolic compounds identified in this study, their content in grape samples under rain-shelter cultivation was decreased compared to those under open-field cultivation. However, rain-shelter cultivation stimulated the accumulation of dihydroquercetin-3-O-rhamnoside in grape skins during grape maturation. These were related with micrometeorological alterations in vineyards by using plastic covering under rain-shelter cultivation. It suggests the rain-shelter cultivation makes possible the cultivation of "Cabernet Gernischet" grapes in an organic production system, for providing a decrease in the incidence of diseases and the dependence on chemical pesticides in the grape and wine industry.
The distribution of phenolic compounds in young and developing leaves, stems, main and lateral roots and cotyledons of 8-week-old tea (Camellia sinensis) seedlings was investigated using HPLC-MS(2). Fourteen compounds, flavan-3-ols, chlorogenic acids, and kaempferol-O-glycosides, were identified on the basis of their retention time, absorbance spectrum, and MS fragmentation pattern. The major phenolics were (-)-epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate and (-)-epicatechin-3-O-gallate, located principally in the green parts of the seedlings. Considerable amounts of radioactivity from [ring-(14)C]phenylalanine were incorporated in (-)-epicatechin, (-)-epigallocatechin, (-)-epicatechin-3-O-gallate and (-)-epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate, by tissues of young and developing leaves and stems. Expression of genes encoding enzymes involved in flavan-3-ol biosynthesis, CHS, CHI, F3H, F3'5'H, DFR, ANS, ANR and LAR was investigated. Transcripts of all genes, except LAR, were more abundant in leaves and stems than in roots and cotyledons. No significant difference was found in the amount of transcript of LAR. These findings indicate that in tea seedlings flavan-3-ols are produced by a naringenin-chalcone-->naringenin-->dihydrokaempferol pathway. Dihydrokaempferol is a branch point in the synthesis of (-)-epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate and other flavan-3-ols which can be formed by routes beginning with either a flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase mediated conversion of the flavonol to dihydroquercetin or a flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase-catalysed conversion to dihydromyricetin with subsequent steps involving sequential reactions catalysed by dihydroflavanol 4-reductase, anthocyanidin synthase, anthocyanidin reductase and flavan-3-ol gallate synthase.
approved: 'Murray L. L. Laver Six filtrate samples (liquid state) were obtained from selected stages in a totallychlorine-free (TCF) bleach pulp mill. The solids were recovered by evaporation on rotary evaporators and by lyophilization with a freeze drier. Chemical contents (inorganic and organic chemicals) of the six filtrates were analyzed quantitatively according to TAPPI Test Methods, 1988. Results showed that the #1BS filtrate had the largest amount of inorganic and organic chemicals, which would influence the pulp mill systems the most. Thin-layer chromatography (TLC) was utilized to qualitatively analyze carbohydrates by using pre-coated cellulose plates. No free monosaccharides were detected in the six filtrates as received. The solids were then acid hydrolyzed and the monosaccharides, D-Glucose, D-Galactose, D-Mannose, D-Xylose, and L-Arabinose were detected in the hydrolyzates of the solids recovered from the filtrates of the early stages of bleaching. This showed that these samples contained both cellulose and hemicelluloses. Redacted for privacy Wood extractives were also qualitatively determined by TLC using pre-coated silica plates. The freeze-dried solids were extracted with methanol, with distilled water and with ethyl acetate. Results revealed that dihydroquercetin, quercetin and catechin existed in the filtrates from the early stages of bleaching. These catechol-type chemicals will influence the problem of metallic accumulation severely. The results of both carbohydrates and wood extractives were supported by Rf values, Rs (relative resolution) and Rx (relative retention). Pulsed Fourier Transform carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was applied to study the functional groups, particularly hydroxyl groups, of the filtrate lignin samples with a proton decoupling method. A commercial kraft softwood lignin, Aldrich lignin, was used as a reference for the TCF mill filtrate lignins. A newly emerged method of lignin acetylation with acetyl chloride enriched with carbon-13 as reagent was introduced The conventional method of using acetic anhydride to acetylate lignin was used as a reference method. NMR spectra showed that the conventional method gave more functional group information, but the method of acetyl chloride acetylation determined the hydroxyl groups with greater resolution and higher speed. The TCF filtrate lignins were different from the commercial Aldrich lignin. Some differences were also found among the TCF filtrate lignins. These may be important for the future research of lignin modeling with metal complexity.
Abstract A laccase (LC) from the basidial fungus Trametes hirsuta has been used for the first time as a catalyst in dihydroquercetin (DHQ) oxidative polymerization. The conditions selected enabled good yields of DHQ oligomers, which were then analyzed using UV–vis, FTIR, 1 Н and 13 С NMR spectroscopy. It was shown that the first stage of LC-mediated oxidation of DHQ is the removal of hydrogen from 3-OH group and formation of an alkoxy radical, which substitutes hydrogens mainly in positions C2′, C5′ and C6′. The oligomers have the number average molecular weight of 1000 g/mol and the polydispersity index of 1.4.
Abstract A speculative scheme for procyanidin (condensed tannin) biosynthesis involving multienzyme complexes is presented in which the stereochemistry at C-3 and C-4 of (+)-dihydroquercetin is maintained in (+)-catechin and its oligomeric products. This is in contrast to Haslam's speculation involving a symmetrical flav-3-en-3-ol intermediate, which requires the re-introduction of the stereochemistry at the terminal reduction steps. In the proposed scheme, the origin of the 2,3- cis stereochemistry of (−)-epicatechin from (+)-dihydroquercetin would require an epimerase, in addition to two reductases and a condensing enzyme neeeded for (+)-catechin stereochemistry.
An oviposition stimulant for the cerambycid beetle, Monochamus alternatus, from an aqueous acetone extract of inner bark of Pinus densiflora, was identified as a flavanonol glucoside, (-)-2,3-trans-dihydroquercetin-3'-O-β-D-glucopyranoside. Two dimeric proanthocyanidins, along with polymeric proanthocyanidins, were also isolated from the extract and identified as procyanidins B-1 [epicatechin-(4 β→ 8')-catechin] and B-3 [catechin-(4α→ 8')-catechin]. In the presence of a fraction of the extract, a mixture of the polymers and either B-1 or B-3 stimulated oviposition of the female beetle. However, the glucoside, B-I, B-3 and the polymers were inactive alone.
1. polysaccharide gel composition comprising at least one polysaccharide selected from the group consisting of hyaluronic acid, cellulose, chitosan, o-sulfogialuronovoy acid, dextran, dextran sulfate, chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, keratin sulfate, heparin, heparin sulfate and alginate and at least one inhibitor of polysaccharide degradation selected from the group consisting of a glycosaminoglycan, antioxidant, flavonoid, protein, fatty acids, and combinations thereof. ! 2. Composition according to claim 1, wherein said polysaccharide is crosslinked. ! 3. Composition according to claim 1, wherein said at least one polysaccharide is hyaluronic acid. ! 4. The composition of claim 1, wherein said glycosaminoglycan is selected from the group consisting of heparin, heparin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, chondroitin sulfate, o-sulfogialuronovoy acid, linamarin and amygdalin. ! 5. The composition of claim 4, wherein said glycosaminoglycan is chondroitin sulfate. ! 6. The composition of claim 5, wherein said chondroitin sulfate is present at a concentration of about 1 wt.% To about 40 wt.%. ! 7. The composition of claim 1 wherein said antioxidant is selected from the group consisting of ascorbic acid, melatonin, vitamin C, vitamin E and combinations thereof. ! 8. The composition of claim 1, wherein said flavonoid is selected from the group consisting of luteolin, apigenin, tangeritina, quercetin, kaempferol, myricetin, fizetina, isorhamnetin, pachipodola, ramnazina, gesperitina, naringenin, eriodiktiola, gomoeriodiktiola, taxifolin, dihydroquercetin, digidrokempferola , tannic acid, tannin, tannin concentrated hydrolysable tannin
The natural flavonoid quercetin is a low affinity ligand of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a transcription factor regulating the expression of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A enzymes. This study examined the ability of quercetin, isoquercitrin (quercetin-3-O-glucoside), rutin (quercetin-3-O-rutinoside) and taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) to activate AhR and to induce CYP1A1 expression in human hepatoma HepG2 cells. Gene reporter assays showed that quercetin significantly activated AhR and triggered CYP1A1 transcription after 24 h exposure. These effects were, however, much lower than those of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, a prototypical AhR ligand. Quercetin also induced a significant increase in CYP1A1 mRNA levels together with a moderate increase in the level of CYP1A1 activity. In contrast, isoquercitrin and rutin had negligible effects on AhR activity and CYP1A1 expression. Taxifolin at the highest concentration tested (50 µm) produced a mild non-significant increase in AhR activity and CYP1A1 transcription. Taxifolin also significantly increased CYP1A1 mRNA expression, but this effect was approximately 15 times weaker than that of quercetin and was not accompanied by induction of CYP1A1 activity. It is concluded that quercetin, but not its 3-O-glycosides isoquercitrin and rutin, induces AhR activation and CYP1A1 expression in HepG2 cells and that the CYP1A1-inducing activity of taxifolin has a low toxicological potential.
Commonly used preservatives for improvement of storage capacity of casings are curing mixtures, including acetic, tartaric, lactic and citric acids, their salts and phosphates, sodium salt of dehydracetic acid or sodium salt of dehydracetic acid with sodium benzoate or sodium sorbate, or with sodium propionate [4, 5] . In order to increase softness and elasticity of the casings, treatment of raw casings is carried out using a mixture of pepsin with lactic acid [6] . In order to increase antimicrobial and antioxidant protection of the casings we have offered a composition of a curing mixture containing sodium salt of dehydracetic acid or a mixture of a sodium salt of dehydracetic acid with polyvinylpyrrolidone, a salt of edible acid and dihydroquercetin [7] . We have established an efficiency of a preparation, which contains sodium salt of dehydracetic acid against all the microorganisms most frequently encountered in the meat processing industry (gram-negative bacilli of the following geni: Escherichia, Proteus, Pseudomonas, Salmonella, actinomycetes, fungi of Pénicillium, Aspergillus, Mucor geni, and Torulopsis yeasts) [8] . Antimicrobial compositions, including food acids, salts of edible acids and compounds of polyguanidine, also suppress vital activity of microorganisms due to formation of monomolecular protective polymer film on the treated surface [9, 10, 11] .
Anthocyanins are flavonoids that belong to the polyphenols group. These secondary metabolites are synthesised in plants and are essential for plant growth and development 1 . Anthocyanin is well recognised for colouring fruits and flowers in a range of hues from orange, red, to blue and violet, making them attractive to pollinators and dispersers, while also serving as an indicator of fruit quality and ripeness for consumers 1, 2 . In addition to colour pigmentation in plants, anthocyanin accumulation in leaves of plants and skin of fruits may also absorb high light energy and scavenge free radicals to offer protection against photo-oxidative effects 3 . Furthermore, there have been many studies showing the protective effect of anthocyanin against oxidative stress, inflammation, certain cancers and age-related diseases [4] [5] [6] [7] . Anthocyanin is synthesised from a branched phenylpropanoid pathway by a cascade of biosynthetic enzymes and is regulated at the transcriptional level. While copigmentation, different pH level and metal ion complex formations can moderately change the visual colours of anthocyanins, the biosynthetic genes flavonoid 3′ hydroxylase (F3′H) and flavonoid 3′, 5′-hydroxylase (F3′5′H) are responsible for the type of anthocyanin accumulated 8 . F3′H belongs to the CYP75B subfamily of the cytochrome P450-dependent monooxygenase (P450) superfamily and converts dihydrokaempferol to dihydroquercetin which is the precursor of cyanidin-based anthocyanin. F3′5′H belongs to the CYP75A subfamily of the P450 superfamily and converts dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin to dihydromyricetin, which is the precursor of delphinidin-based anthocyanin 9 . It appears that the F3′5′H enzyme has evolved from F3′H precursors several times in flowering plants 10 . Studies in a broad range of plant species have shown that the overall anthocyanin accumulation is regulated at the transcriptional level by R2R3 MYB transcription factors (TF), such as PAP1 (AtMYB75) in Arabidopsis, MYB1 and MYB10 in apple, AN2 in Petunia, VvMYB1A in grape and FaMYB10 in strawberry [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] . These MYBs often partner with a bHLH TF to form a MBW complex involved in the induction of anthocyanin production and are characterised by the conserved R2R3 DNA-binding domains as well as the conserved [A/S/G] NDV motif for anthocyanin-promoting MYB TFs in dicots, the Cterminus KPRPR[S/T]F motif and the bHLH-interacting motif [16] [17] [18] . Over-expression of PAP1 in Arabidopsis resulted in elevated transcript level of bHLH TF TT8 and Petunia bHLH TF AN1 interacts with MYB TF AN2 to regulate anthocyanin pathway 19, 20 . In the model plant Nicotiana tabacum, transient over-expression of kiwifruit AcMYB110 revealed that the endogenous bHLH TF NtAN1 is an activator of anthocyanin biosynthetic genes and is regulated by the other endogenous bHLH TF NtJAF13
Dihydroquercetin, the antioxidant added to the sheep diet either alone or in combination with organic iodine had a significant effect on the rumen enzymatic and microbiological processes, the intermediary metabolism, and the sheep’s resistance. Under the effect of dihydroquercetin in combination with the organic iodine, insignificant increases in the chyme’s pH, the advanced oxidation processes, the elevated level of ammonia, and the greater number of microorganisms in the rumen were recorded generally due to infuzoria. In case of adding dihydroquercetin alone, the chyme’s pH normalized, its oxidation lowered, the reduction processes intensified, and the microorganism number increased due to infuzoria and bacteria. Some decreases in the chyme concentrations of volatile fatty acids and ammonia were simultaneously observed. The feed additives had a significant impact on the rumen microbiota. Under the effect of dihydroquercetin in combination with the organic iodine, the numbers of lactobacilli and mesophilic aerobic and facultatively anaerobic microorganisms (MAFAnM) in the rumen content increased tenfold and fourfold, respectively, while the rumen lactose-positive strains and fungal species, including the fungi of the genus Candida, the molds, and the yeasts, decreased by 98.9 and 65.3%, respectively. In case of adding dihydroquercetin alone, the numbers of lactobacilli and MAFAnM increased 11.5-fold and 21-fold, respectively, while the lactose-positive strains decreased by 92.2%. The numbers of fungal species, including fungi, molds, and yeasts, increased 2.2-fold. Under the effect of dihydroquercetin in combination with the organic iodine, the serum globulin concentrations increased, while the levels of triglycerides and bilirubin and the ALT and AST activities lowered in the sheep blood. In case of adding dihydroquercetin alone, the increases in serum albumin concentration, together with the globulin concentrations, were recorded. Therefore, the albumin-globulin ratio comprised 0.99. The levels of triglycerides and bilirubin and the ALT and AST activities also lowered. Dihydroquercetin in combination with the organic iodine and alone lowered the white blood cell count by 22.7 and 27.1%, respectively, increased the red blood cell count by 13.9 and 16.5%, respectively, and elevated the hematocrit level, indicating the sheep’s health improvements.
The antioxidant activity of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) complexes with zinc, copper(II) and calcium was studied in vitro in blood plasma of healthy donors. The state of lipid peroxidation (LPO) in blood plasma was assessed by the content of malondialdehyde (MDA), diene (DC) and triene (TC) conjugates. The effect of DHQ and the complexes on the activity of the catalase enzyme in blood plasma was determined. It was found that DHQ complex with zinc ion reduces the MDA content in blood plasma by 14.9% compared with the control, which is twice as high as for DHQ (7.5%). The corresponding parameters of DHQ complexes with copper(II) and calcium ions were 11.2 and 3.7%, respectively. The effect of the complexes on the decrease in the DC and TC content in blood plasma compared with the control is comparable with the corresponding parameters for DHQ. The DHQ complex with zinc ion increases the catalase activity by 1.5% compared with DHQ. The complexes containing copper(II) and calcium ions increase the catalase activity no more than DHQ.
1. sweetener composition comprising at least one sweetener and at least one sweetness enhancer selected from terpenes, flavonoids, amino acids, proteins, polyols and other known natural sweeteners sekodammaranovyh glycosides and analogs of these compounds, wherein at least one sweetness enhancer present in the composition in an amount which is less than or equal to the threshold level sweetness detection of at least one sweetness amplifier, and at least one sweetener and at m re one sweetness enhancer are different veschestva.2. A composition according to claim 1, wherein at least one sweetness enhancer is present in the composition in an amount below the threshold recognition sladosti.3. A composition according to claim 1, wherein at least one sweetener selected from natural podslastiteley.4. A composition according to claim 1, wherein at least one sweetener selected from synthetic podslastiteley.5. A composition according to claim 1, wherein at least one sweetness enhancer selected from diterpenoids pine resin; phloridzin; neoastilbina; Dihydroquercetin acetate; glycine; erythritol; cinnamaldehyde; selligveina A; In selligveina; hematoxylin; rebaudioside A; rebaudioside B; rebaudioside C; rebaudioside D; rebaudioside E; dulkozida A; steviolbioside; rubuzozida; stevia; stevioside; steviol-13-O-β-D-glycoside; mogroside V; Luo Man Guo; siamenoside; siamenoside I; monatin and its salts (monatin SS, RR, RS, SR); curculin; glycyrrhizic acid and its salts; thaumatin I; thaumatin II; thaumatin III; thaumatin IV; monellin; mabinlina I; mabinlina II; brazzein; hernandultsina; Fillo
Objective ::: A flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase from tea plant was engineered to synthesize B-3',4'-dihydroxylated flavones such as eriodictyol, dihydroquercetin and quercetin. ::: ::: ::: Methods ::: Four articifical P450 constructs harboring both flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase gene from Camellia sinensis (CsF3'H) and P450 reductase gene from Arabidopsis thaliana (ATR1 or ATR2) were introduced into Escherichia coli strains TOP10, DH5α and BL21, resultantly engineering strains S1 to S12. The plasmid pYES-Dest52-CsF3'H harboring CsF3'H gene was introduced into yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae WAT11 designated as strain S13. The plasmid pES-HIS-CsF3H::AtFLS 9 AA was constructed through fusing flavanone 3-hydroxylase gene from Camellia sinensis (CsF3H) and flavonol synthase gene from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtFLS). Plasmid pES-URA-CsF3'H and pES-HIS-CsF3H::AtFLS 9 AA were then co-introduced into yeast S. cerevisiae WAT11 designated as strain S14. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: Strain S6 generated highest bioconversion efficiency at 25℃ among all E. coli strains during 24 h fernentation. Supplemented with 1000 μmol/L naringenin, dihydrokaempferol and kaempferol, the maximum amounts of eriodictyol, dihydroquercetin and quercetin produced by strain S13 were 734.32 μmol/L, 446.07 μmol/L and 594.64 μmol/L respectively. Supplemented with 5 mmol/L naringenin, the maximum amounts of eriodictyol, kaempferol, quercetin, dihydroquercetin and dihydrokaempferol produced by strain S14 were 1412.16 μmol/L, 490.25 μmol/L, 445.75 μmol/L, 66.75 μmol/L and 73.50 μmol/L during 36-48 h fermentaion respectively. ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: CsF3'H was engineered for biosynthesis of B-3',4'-dihydroxylated flavone.
Invasive plants are believed to succeed in part by secretion of allelochemicals, thus displacing competing plant species. Centaurea maculosa (spotted knapweed) provides a classic example of this process. We have previously reported that spotted knapweed roots secrete (+/-)-catechin and that (-)-catechin, but not (+)-catechin, is phytotoxic and hence may be a major contributor to C. maculosa's invasive behavior in the rhizosphere. In this communication, we explore both structure/activity relationships for flavonoid phytotoxicity and possible biosynthetic pathways for root production of (+/-)-catechin. Kaempferol and dihydroquercetin were shown to be phytotoxic, while quercetin was not. Kaempferol was converted to dihydroquercetin and (+/-)-catechin when treated with total root protein extracts from C. maculosa, but quercetin was not. This finding suggests an alteration in the standard flavonoid biosynthetic pathway in C. maculosa roots, whereby kaempferol is not a dead-end product but serves as a precursor to dihydroquercetin, which in turn leads to (+/-)-catechin production.
From the rhizome of Smilax glabra Roxb., a new flavanone was isolated and named as smitilbin (1), together with 6 known compounds, engeletin (2), astilbin (3), dihydroquercetin (4), eurryphin (5), resveratrol (6), and 5-O-caffeoylshikimic acid (7). These compounds were applied to the assay of liver nonparenchymal cells (NPC) against hepatocytes (HC) isolated from mice with an immunological liver injury. Against the NPC-caused elevation of ALT (alanine transminase) in culture supernatant from HC, the pretreatment of NPC with flavanoids (1-3) dose-dependently blocked the ALT release while 4, the aglycone of 3, did not. The chromone 5 showed a much stronger inhibition. Compound 6 also showed the activity. However, 1-7 did not show any suppression of NPC or CCl4-induced ALT release when they were used to pretreat HC. These results suggest that compounds 1-3, 5, and 6 could protect the hepatocyte damage from NPC through selectively producing the dysfunction of NPC with an essential requirement of rhamnose, and the chromone part in their structures may be critical for exhibiting the activity rather than through protecting the hepatocyte membranes.
O-Glycosyltransferase(s) extracted from apple (Malus pumila Mill) fruit skin showed activity towards a range of flavonols and anthocyanins. However, no glycosylating activity was shown towards a dihyroflavonol (dihydroquercetin), a flavanone (eriodictyol) or a flavone (luteolin). The enzyme preparation glycosylated those flavonoids normally present in apple skins (quercetin and cyanidin) and in addition several other related compounds (delphinidin, fisetin, isorhamnetin, kaempferol, myricetin and pelargonidin). This enzyme(s) specifically transferred the glycosyl moiety from sugar nucleotide donors to the 3-position of the flavonoid nucleus. Only flavonoid 3-glycosides occur naturally in apple skin. Activity with different sugar donors was in the order galactose>glucose>xylose, which reflected the ratios of cyanidin and quercetin glycosides found in apple fruit skin. There were slight differences in the relative UFGT activity with quercetin and the three different sugar donors between ‘Granny Smith’ and ‘Splendour’, and this was reflected by similar differences in the ratios of endogenous quercetin glycosides. ©1997 SCI
The central pathways for flavonoid biosynthesis are highly conserved and are well characterized at the genetic, biochemical and enzymological levels in plants like Petunia hybrida hort. ex E. Vilm. and Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. (Holton and Cornish 1995, Winkel-Shirley 2001) . Flavonoids share a common 15 carbon skeleton that is formed by the condensation and decarboxylation of phenylpropanoid derivatives and malonyl-CoA units. Flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H), which catalyzes an early step in flavonoid metabolism leading to the formation of dihydroflavonols from flavanones (Figure 1) , is classified as a soluble 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase based on its requirements for 2-oxoglutarate, molecular oxygen, ferrous iron (Fe 2+ ) and ascorbate. Flavanone 3-hydroxylase catalyzes the stereospecific hydroxylation of (2S)-naringenin and (2S)-eriodictyol to form (2R,3R)-dihydrokaempferol and (2R,3R)-dihydroquercetin, respectively (Britsch and Grisebach 1986) . These dihydroflavonols serve as intermediates for the biosynthesis of flavonols, flavan 3-ols and anthocyanidins (Holton and Cornish 1995) . In tea, the flavonoid pathway has been implicated in the synthesis of catechins (Mamati et al. 2006) . Punyasiri et al. (2004) reported high F3H activity in tea leaves and suggested that it is an important enzyme in the biosynthesis of catechins in tea, however, an analysis of the gene encoding FSH was not conducted. A detailed understanding of the gene encoding F3H and its regulation is critical for metabolic engineering and to gain insight into its role in the biosynthesis of catechins. We present the first description of the full-length cloning of tea F3H (CsF3H) and demonstrate its functionality in E. coli. Expression analysis suggested that CsF3H represents a pivotal point in the regulation of the biosynthesis of catechins in tea.
2,3 When naringenin, dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin were added to the Arabidopsis tt4 mutant [lacking the enzyme chalcone synthase (CHS) and thus all flavonoids] at root tip, mid-root or to cotyledons, they were converted to downstream products. Grafting on flavonoid-producing tissues to tt4 could also complement the mutation. 
The dynamics of changes in the mitochondrial respiratory function, changes in the parameters of carbohydrate metabolism and some parameters of oxidative stress in the brain tissue have been investigated under conditions of ischemia-reperfusion and administration of dihydroquercetin. Dihydroquercetin (65 mg/kg) was administered per os 1 h before modeling of ischemia-reperfusion. Studies were carried 1 h after reperfusion. It was found that administration of dihydroquercetin caused a corrective effect to impairments of the respiratory function of mitochondria, indicators of carbohydrate metabolism and parameters of oxidative stress induced by ischemia-reperfusion.
Objectives: To investigate the antiplatelet activity of alpha-lipoic acid (α-LA) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ). Materials and Methods: Antiplatelet activity of the α-LA and DHQ was evaluated in rich platelet plasma of rat. The platelet aggregation was induced by adenosine diphosphate (ADP) in concentration of 4 Χ 10 -5 Μ. Results: α-LA and DHQ inhibited platelet aggregation in concentration-dependent manner. The antiplatelet activity of α-LA was more pronounced than DHQ. DHQ also increased the antiplatelet activity of α-LA by 1.4 times. Conclusion: Combined simultaneous use of α-LA and DHQ possessed the high antiplatelet activity, and DHQ potentiated the activity of α-LA.
(2S)-Flavanone 3-hydroxylase from flowers of Petunia hybrida catalyses the conversion of (2S)-naringenin to (2R,3R)-dihydrokaempferol. The enzyme could be partially stabilized under anaerobic conditions in the presence of ascorbate. For purification, 2-oxoglutarate and Fe2+ had to be added to the buffers. The hydroxylase was purified about 200-fold by a six-step procedure with low recovery. The Mr of the enzyme was estimated by gel filtration to be about 74,000. The hydroxylase reaction has a pH optimum at pH 8.5 and requires as cofactors oxygen, 2-oxoglutarate, Fe2+ and ascorbate. With 2-oxo[1-14C]glutarate in the enzyme assay dihydrokaempferol and 14CO2 are formed in a molar ratio of 1:1. Catalase stimulates the reaction. The product was unequivocally identified as (+)-(2R,3R)-dihydrokaempferol. (2S)-Naringenin, but not the (2R)-enantiomer is a substrate of the hydroxylase. (2S)-Eriodictyol is converted to (2R,3R)-dihydroquercetin. In contrast, 5,7,3',4',5'-pentahydroxy-flavanone is not a substrate. Apparent Michaelis constants for (2S)-naringenin and 2-oxoglutarate were determined to be respectively 5.6 mumol X l-1 and 20 mumol X l-1 at pH 8.5. The Km for (2S)-eriodictyol is 12 mumol X l-1 at pH 8.0. Pyridine 2,4-dicarboxylate and 2,5-dicarboxylate are strong competitive inhibitors with respect to 2-oxoglutarate with Ki values of 1.2 mumol X l-1 and 40 mumol X l-1, respectively.
An aqueous ethanolic extract of the stem bark of Garcinia buchananii showed strong antioxidative activity using H2O2 scavenging, oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC), and Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) assays. Activity-guided fractionation afforded three new compounds, isomanniflavanone (1), an ent-eriodictyol-(3α→6)-dihydroquercetin-linked biflavanone, 1,5-dimethoxyajacareubin (2), and the depsidone garcinisidone-G (3), and six known compounds, (2″R,3″R)-preussianon, euxanthone, 2-isoprenyl-1,3,5,6-tetrahydroxyxanthone, jacareubin, isogarcinol, and garcinol. All compounds were described for the first time in Garcinia buchananii. The absolute configurations were determined by a combination of NMR, ECD spectroscopy, and polarimetry. These natural products showed high in vitro antioxidative power, especially isomanniflavanone, with an EC50 value of 8.5 μM (H2O2 scavenging), 3.50/4.95 mmol TE/mmol (H/L-TEAC), and 7.54/14.56 mmol TE/mmol (H/L-ORAC).
The article deals with the issues of digitization in the production of specialized products based on natural raw materials of plant and animal origin, including biologically active supplements. Taking into account agriculture and food industry digitization, an innovative technology has been developed for processing a new specialized dietary supplement for the body metabolism multifactorial support. Innovative production technology ensures high safety of biologically active components due to liposomalization. Liposomalization allows simultaneous delivery of active substances, which have different ways of body penetration and absorption, but at the same time affect one body organ. Other biologically active substances of the supplement formula boost the body's natural defenses and prevent alimentary chronic diseases. Selenium, which is part of an innovative product, combined with tocopherol and other antioxidants, has anti-inflammatory activity, blocks free radicals and thus prevents their toxic effects. The presence of natural dihydroquercetin in the dietary supplement ensures better capillary permeability, has a positive effect on the body metabolism and various pathological conditions, and reduces the risk factors of different types of diabetes by increasing the body's resistance to excess sugar effects. The innovative product quality indicators have been studied during its production and storage process. The article demonstrates the product hygiene standards, storage terms and modes, and informs about its production testing.
F3'H is one of the key enzymes, that catalyze the hydroxylation reaction of dihydrokaempferol to dihydroquercetin, in anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway. This enzyme usually involves in the formation of plant flower, seed corx and stem color. Here, a systematic analysis of sequence and evolution of F3'H genes in the plants was conducted using the in silico method. Analysis of gene structure showed that the number of exons ranged from 2 to 7 in plants. All the monocot plants shared the two-exon gene structure,and F3'H genes contained 3 or 4 exons in the eudicot and lower land plants. Protein sequence analysis indicated that a total of 13 conserved motifs were identified. Among the 13 motifs, 10 motifs shared the overlapping regions with the functional domain p450, but the remaining 3 motifs were genus or species-specific. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that there were four groups, named as Group I, Ⅲ, Ⅲ, IV, each of which was further used to detect selective pressure at individual site level. This results showed that 4, 6, 1, and 7 positively selected sites(P0.05) were identified from Group I-IV, respectively, suggesting that F3'H proteins was under purifying selection. In addition, these sites were distributed on the irregular regions of F3'H proteins. For homologous gene pairs, sliding windows was used to detect selective pressure, and the results showed that five orthologous gene pairs were under negative selection, but four paralogous gene pairs were under positive selection. These results provide an important clue for further investigation of function of F3'H genes and their corresponding critical amino acid sites in plants.
Metopium brownei is a tree that grows in coastal tropical forests along the Gulf of Mexico and in the Yucatan Peninsula. This medicinal species produces a strongly irritant exudate, and sometimes forms pure populations favored by fire. The bioactivity of the aqueous leachates, organic extracts (leaves, bark, and wood), and mixtures of urushiols and flavonoids from M. brownei were evaluated on the growth of two plants: Amaranthus hypochondriacus and Echinochloa crusgalli, and four phytopathogenic fungi: Fusarium oxysporum, Helminthosporium sp., Alternaria sp., and Pythium sp. Alkylcatechols (urushiols) were isolated from an acetone extract of the bark. Dihydroquercetin and eriodictyol were isolated from the chloroform–methanol extract of the wood. In addition, masticadienoic acid was isolated from the leaves. The aqueous leachates, organic extracts, and the mixtures of flavonoids and urushiols were inhibitory to the growth of test plants and phytopathogenic fungi. The allelochemical role of the bioactive compounds from M. brownei is discussed in relation with other results reported in some studies on Anacardiaceae family and M. brownei.
Three compounds, namely the interesting biflavanonol GB-2(naringenin 1-3, 11-8-dihydroquercetin, 1), 1-4',1-5,11-5,1-7,11-7-pentahydroxyflavanone(l-3,11-8)chromone [naringenin-(3 -8) 5,7-dihydroxychromone, 21 and stigmasterol, have been isolated from the leaves of Cratoxylum neriifolium Kurz. Compounds 1 and 2 show rotameric behavior due to the presence of a single bond between the highly substituted flavanone and flavanonol part and the flavanone and chromone part, respectively. Complete NMR spectral assignments of 1 and 2 have been done at 27 C and 90 C for the first time followed by a study of conformational behavior at room temperature by ROESY.
The metabolic damages and inflammatory diseases are closely connected with high increase of the contents of the reactive oxygen species (ROS) and lipid peroxidation products in organism. In connection with this natural antioxidants are actively used for efficient fight with oxidative stress. In current work we have estimated an antioxidative potential of rosmarinic acid (RA), which is broadly wide-spread amongst plants and possesses the useful spectrum of biological activities. It has been shown that RA noticeably exceeded known antioxidants in test on antioxidant activities in Hb-H2O2-luminol and 2,2'-azo bis (2-methylpropionamidine) dihydrochloride-luminol systems, as well as on inhibition of linoleic acid peroxidation. On antioxidant activities the investigated substances can be arranged in the following order: RA > dihydroquercetin > trolox > ascorbic acid. RA molecules are localized mainly in the lipid bilayer of polar groups, but have no significant effect on its structural and functional properties: RA does not cause significant changes in permeability of planar bilayer membranes in a dose range of 0.5 to 10 microg/ml. Spontaneous incorporating of 1 mol% of RA into the lipid bilayer is sufficient for the complete prevention of lipid peroxidation. Thus, the antioxidant activity of RA is based on its ability to inhibit the initiation stage of free radical reactions of lipid peroxidation, largely caused by the formation of ROS. In this regard RA, as a powerful and effective inhibitor of ROS and lipid peroxidation, has great potential for wide use not only in medicine but also in the food industry to preserve the quality of perishable food products.
Abstract The total content of flavonol glycosides was lowest in P. avium L., medium in P. cerasus L. and highest in P. fruticosa Pall. The hybrids between P. fruticosa × P. avium and P. cerasus × P. fruticosa showed an intermediate pattern. Quercetin glucoside and quercetin rhamnoglucoside rutin) occurred regularly in all trees investigated. Some flavonol glycosides could not be identified exactly. Young shoot segments of P. avium (F12/1) were grown for 4 weeks in vitro in continuous darkness or at a day length of 16 hours. The basal medium was supplemented with several flavonoids. Rutin and dihydroquercetin stimulated the callus growth. The tissue was unresponsive to quercetin and kaempferol. Among the factors contributing to the callus production were the light regime as well as the growth factors of the medium.
The invention discloses a dihydroquercetin monomer separation and purification method, comprising the steps of extraction, hydrolyzation, enrichment and crystallization and the like; in the method, glucoside of dihydroquercetin does not need to be separated out from ethanol extract solution which is rich in various glucosides, hydrolyzation is carried out directly, and then separation and purification are carried out, so as to greatly simplify the process, shorten the production period and reduce the production cost; and then the follow-up hydrolyzation, enrichment and crystallization processes are carried out to lead the content of the dihydroquercetin in the product to reach more than 99 percent under optimal process and parameter conditions; and the whole technology process has simple operation, stable technology and low cost and is suitable for industrial production, and has high separation efficiency and high product purity, thereby realizing high-purity separation preparation of a great quantity of the dihydroquercetin monomers.
A new quercetin glycoside named filimarin was isolated from honeysweet (Filipendula ulmaria L. Maxim.) by colun chromatography over polyamide and silica gel. Based on chemical and spectral data, the structure of filimarin is identified as quercetin-4′-O-β-D-galactopyranoside. Results of voltammetric measurements showed that filimarin possesses pronounced antioxidant activity that is comparable with that of dihydroquercetin and ascorbic acid.
A new chalcone glycoside (2) and a new tetrahydrofuranoid lignan (3), along with 12 known compounds, were isolated from the stems and leaves of Viburnum propinquum Hemsl. The structures of all isolated compounds were deduced using spectroscopic and chemical methods. Antioxidative activities of most phenolic compounds were evaluated. Compounds 1 (3,4,2',4'-tetrahydroxy-trans-chalcone), 2 (3,4,2',4'-tetrahydroxy-trans-chalcone-2'-O-beta-D-glucoside), 12 (quercetin), 13 ((+)-dihydroquercetin), and 14 (eriodictyol) showed antioxidative capacities in the DPPH and hydroxyl free-radical assays, with IC50 values of 3.80-6.12 mu g/mL, and 9.24-11.87 mu g/mL, respectively. Compounds 1, 2, 12, 13, and 14 also exhibited inhibitory activities against lipid peroxidation in rat liver homogenate, with an inhibitory rate of 10.8-39.9% at 20 mu g/mL, 38.8-57.2% at 100 mu g/mL, and 44.2-72.4% at 200 mu g/mL, respectively.
Differential spectroscopy in the ultraviolet and visible regions can be used to follow the reaction between flavonoids and other polyphenols and protainaceous compounds. ::: ::: All the protein-polyhydroxyphenol pairs tested gave difference spectra except those involving catechin, indicating that the reaction is relatively non-specific. Peptides and amino acids also interact with flavonoids in aqueous solutions at ambient temperatures. ::: ::: Interaction was independent of pH In the range 3·0–7·5 but was affected by the ions present. Sodium chloride increased spectral intensity markedly. The intensity of spectra of rutin/gelatin systems increased up to a maximum at 55–60° C. followed by a decline. The interaction was reversible up to 60° C. but above this temperature the changes were irreversible. ::: ::: Dihydroquercetin combines with the α-amylase protein chain in a stepwise manner with evidence of definite complexes of molar flavonoid: protein ratios of 2:1 6:1 and 10:1. Similar complexes are formed between rutin and gelatin. ::: ::: The rate of reaction is rapid but the rate curves also suggest rapid formation of an intermediate compound followed by slower changes into another more stable form.
Astilbin (3-0-alpha-1-rhamnosyl-(2R,3R)-dihydroquercetin), the major constituent isolated from Hymeneae martiana and some derivatives obtained by structural modification, such as taxifolin and two related compounds, were evaluated as analgesics by using both writhing test and formalin test in mice. Their anti-oedematogenic actions were also analysed against paw oedema caused by carrageenan, dextran and bradykinin in rat. The results indicated that some compounds, such as taxifolin (2) and its tetramethylated derivative (4) exhibited potent and dose-dependent antinociceptive action against acetic acid-induced abdominal constriction when administered intraperitoneally or orally. They were more potent than acetylsalicylic acid and paracetamol (acetaminophen), two standard drugs used for comparison. Compounds 2 and 4 were also more potent than these drugs in attenuating to the second phase of the formalin-induced licking. Moreover, both compounds showed significant anti-oedematogenic effect, inhibiting the paw oedema formation induced by dextran. In contrast pentaacetylated taxifolin (3) was capable of inhibiting the paw oedema induced by bradykinin.
Thirty-two phenolic compounds of low molecular weight were identified in 36 white, blanc de noir, and rose sparkling wines by using HPLC with photodiode array and mass spectrometry detection. Some of the identified compounds, such as cis- and trans-ethylcaftaric, cis- and trans-ethylcaffeic, and cis- or trans-ethyl-p-coumaric acids, 2R,3R-dihydroquercetin, 2R,3R-dihydrokaempferol 3-O-β-d-glucoside, and a lignan derivative are described for the first time in sparkling wines manufactured with grapes of red varieties. This is also the first time that cis- or trans-diethylfertaric acids have been identified in wines. When cluster analysis was applied to the data of 19 of the 32 identified compounds, the greatest differences found in the low molecular weight phenolic compounds in sparkling wines were due to the grape variety from which they were manufactured, whereas aging time did not significantly influence phenolic composition. Nine phenolic compounds, that is, trans-p-coumaric and trans-caftaric acids, tra...
Liposomes containing natural flavonoid dihydroquercetin, phospholipid lecithin, and zwitterionic amino acid glycine were used for the therapy of glacial acetic acid-induced chemical burn. No inflammatory reaction was observed in the region of wound. The area of postburn injury did not increase in time. Planimetry and histological studies showed that improved skin regeneration was accompanied by repair of hair follicles and sebaceous glands.
It was found that the flavonoid of plant origin, dihydroquercetin, being localized in lecitin nanoparticles in the presence of amino acid, reduced inflammatory reactions in the wound zone after thermal burn. Application of the liposomal complex on burn trauma stabilized the endogenous antioxidant system and minimized the area of the secondary necrosis in burn wound. Also, intensification of skin regeneration and repair of hair follicles and sebaceous glands were observed.
A phytochemical study of Ficus thonningii has led to the isolation of two previously unreported compounds, thonningiiflavanonol A and thonningiiflavanonol B together with 16 known compounds: shuterin, naringenin, syringic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, genistein, 5,7,3',4',5'-pentahydroxyflavanone, luteolin, methylparaben, aromadendrin, garbanzol, dihydroquercetin, 5,7,3'-trihydroxyflavanone, β-sitosterol, sitosterolglucoside, lupeol acetate, and taraxerol. Their structures were elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic data. The new compounds and extracts displayed potent antioxidant activity.
The new preparative separation techneque of dihydroquercetin (2, 3-trans-dihdroxy-3, 3', 4', 5, 7-pentahydroxydihydroflavonol) was investigated by liquid chromatography. Also some typical coniferous wood bark were examined for the sources of dihydroquercetin. The good sources of dihydroquercetin were Douglas-fir[Pseudotsuga menziesii] bark and pitch pine [Pinus rigida] bark. There is no dependance the produced place and species dihyroquercetin which is separated by silica-gel column chromatography was taken with white needle-like crystals. This crystals were very stable in the humidity and on the light. It also can stored very long without derivatives.
The ability of the flavonoid dihydroquercetin to prevent or accelerate the accumulation of reactive oxygen species and the metabolites of oxidative stress, carbonyl compounds has been studied. It has been shown on a model of oxidation of lecithin that dihydroquercetin exhibits a prooxidant effect in the alkaline region of pH, whereas at neutral and acidic pH values dihydroquercetin is an effective antioxidant. In the presence of ferrous iron ions, which catalyze the Fenton's reaction, dihydroquercetin forms a complex with metal that shows the antioxidant activity in the region of high pH values. It has been found that the oxidation of lecithin in the presence of 20-200 microM ferrous iron is inhibited by dihydroquercetin to a concentration of 3.2 mM. At higher concentration of dihydroquercetin in the presence of ferrous iron, the accumulation of malonic dialdehyde occurs, indicating the presence of the prooxidant activity of dihydroquercetin.
Dihydroquercetin, quercetin, (+)-catechin, and protocatechuic, vanillic, p-coumaric, caffeic, and ferulic acids have been isolated from an ethereal extract of the bark ofPinus sibirica.
The Wm locus of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] controls flower color. Dominant Wm and recessive wm allele of the locus produce purple and magenta flower, respectively. A putative full-length cDNA of flavonol synthase (FLS), gmfls1 was isolated by 5' RACE and end-to-end PCR from a cultivar Harosoy with purple flower (WmWm). Sequence analysis revealed that gmfls1 consisted of 1,208 nucleotides encoding 334 amino acids. It had 59-72% homology with FLS proteins of other plant species. Conserved dioxygenase domains A and B were found in the deduced polypeptide. Sequence comparison between Harosoy and Harosoy-wm (magenta flower mutant of Harosoy; wmwm) revealed that they differed by a single G deletion in the coding region of Harosoy-wm. The deletion changed the subsequent reading frame resulting in a truncated polypeptide consisting of 37 amino acids that lacked the dioxygenase domains A and B. Extracts of E. coli cells expressing gmfls1 of Harosoy catalyzed the formation of quercetin from dihydroquercetin, whereas cell extracts expressing gmfls1 of Harosoy-wm had no FLS activity. Genomic Southern analysis suggested the existence of three to four copies of the FLS gene in the soybean genome. CAPS analysis was performed to detect the single-base deletion. Harosoy and Clark (WmWm) exhibited longer fragments, while Harosoy-wm had shorter fragments due to the single-base deletion. The CAPS marker co-segregated with genotypes at Wm locus in a F(2) population segregating for the locus. Linkage mapping using SSR markers revealed that the Wm and gmfls1 were mapped at similar position in the molecular linkage group F. The above results strongly suggest that gmfls1 represents the Wm gene and that the single-base deletion may be responsible for magenta flower color.
From cell cultures of Haplopappus gracilis, an enzyme, catalyzing the glucosylation of cyanidin at the 3 position using uridine diphosphate-D-glucose (UDPG) as glucosyl-donor, has been isolated and purified 50-fold. The enzyme was not specific for cyanidin alone, but also glucosylated other anthocyanidins and flavonols in position 3. However, apigenin, luteolin, naringenin and dihydroquercetin were not glucosylated. The reaction has an optimum pH of approximately 8, and the apparent Km values for UDPG and cyanidin were 0.5 and 0.33 mM respectively. The enzyme reaction is strongly inhibited by cyanidin (above 0.25 mM).
Abstract Studies on the organic reagent 3:3':4':5:7-pentahydroxynavanone (dihydroquercetin) have led to the development of a colorimetric method for molybdenum in steel. By an extraction process all interfering metals are removed except tungsten. The method is applicable to the determination of molybdenum in all substances which do not contain tungsten. Known methods of separating molybdenum from tungsten will permit its use when tungsten is present.
Abstract Seventeen flavonol glycosides were identified from needles of Abies amabilis and these were based on 6 aglycone types: syringetin, isorhamnetin, kaempferol, quercetin, laricytrin and myricetin. Glycosides were 3- O -rutinosides, 3- O -glucosides, 3- O -galactosides or 3- O -rhamnosides. Also identified as needle constituents were rhamnosylvitexin and dihydroquercetin.
Abstract Anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), flavonol synthase (FLS), and flavanone 3β-hydroxylase (FHT) are involved in the biosynthesis of flavonoids in plants and are all members of the family of 2-oxoglutarate- and ferrous iron-dependent oxygenases. ANS, FLS, and FHT are closely related by sequence and catalyze oxidation of the flavonoid “C ring”; they have been shown to have overlapping substrate and product selectivities. In the initial steps of catalysis, 2-oxoglutarate and dioxygen are thought to react at the ferrous iron center producing succinate, carbon dioxide, and a reactive ferryl intermediate, the latter of which can then affect oxidation of the flavonoid substrate. Here we describe work on ANS, FLS, and FHT utilizing several different substrates carried out in 18O2/16OH2, 16O2/18OH2, and 18O2/18OH2 atmospheres. In the 18O2/16OH2 atmosphere close to complete incorporation of a single 18O label was observed in the dihydroflavonol products (e.g. (2R,3R)-trans-dihydrokaempferol) from incubations of flavanones (e.g. (2S)naringenin) with FHT, ANS, and FLS. This and other evidence supports the intermediacy of a reactive oxidizing species, the oxygen of which does not exchange with that of water. In the case of products formed by oxidation of flavonoid substrates with a C-3 hydroxyl group (e.g. (2R,3R)-trans-dihydroquercetin), the results imply that oxygen exchange can occur at a stage subsequent to initial oxidation of the C-ring, probably via an enzyme-bound C-3 ketone/3,3-gem-diol intermediate.
LBD genes are thought to encode zinc-finger TFs. Some class I family members have previously been shown to localize to the nucleus (Husbands et al., 2007; Okushima et al., 2007) . The subcellular localization for class II LBDs has not yet been confirmed. We created a fusion of LBD37 to the C terminus of green fluorescent protein (GFP) expressed under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (P35S). The P35S:GFP-LBD37 construct was transformed into wild-type plants, and transgenic lines with high GFP fluorescence were selected. When grown in N-limiting conditions, the GFP-expressing transgenic lines failed to produce anthocyanin (see Supplemental Figures 3A and 3B online), as did constitutive LBD37 OX plants. Thus, the GFP-LBD37 fusion protein is functional. GFP fluorescence was then examined in the leaves of seedlings and found to localize to nuclei of P35S:GFP-LBD37 plants (see Supplemental Figures 3C to 3G online) . These results indicate that GFP-LBD37 fusion protein was targeted to the nucleus, consistent with its predicted role as TF. , 2005). The former is the most abundant and major anthocyanin species that accumulates in PAP1 OX plants (Tohge et al., 2005) . The levels of these cyanidin derivatives in N-limited LBD37 or LBD38 OX lines were as low as in NO 3 2 -replete wild type (Figures 4A and 4B ; see Supplemental Figure 4 online), indicating that LBD OX fully phenocopies the reduction of these two metabolites that occurs in NO 3 2 -fed wild-type seedlings. By contrast, the two lbd37 T-DNA mutants showed an approximately sixfold increased level of these cyanidin glycosides in comparison to the wild type when grown in NO 3 2 -sufficient conditions ( Figures 4A and 4B ). Similarly, cyanidin glycoside A9 and A11 levels were also increased in lbd38 and lbd39 mutants, and the effect was even slightly more pronounced in an lbd38 lbd39 double mutant. Other cyanidin derivatives were not reliably detected in the samples. Figure 4H online). Together these results suggest (1) a specific effect of the LBDs on anthocyanin metabolism downstream of dihydroquercetin and (2) that LBD37 or LBD38 OX mimics the effect of N/NO 3 2 supply on cyanidin glycoside levels.
Taxifolin (dihydroquercetin, (2R,3R)-2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-3,5,7-trihydroxy-2,3-dihydrochromen-4-one) is a potent flavonoid found in onions, French maritime pine bark, and milk thistle [14] , and has been shown to ameliorate cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats due to its anti-oxidative effect and to modulate NF-κB activation [15] . In addition, cilostazol (OPC-13013, 6-[4-(1-cyclohexyl-1H-tetrazol-5-yl) butoxy]-3,4-dihydro-2-(1H)-quinolinone) increases intracellular cAMP levels by inhibiting type 3 phosphodiesterase, and recently, was reported to improve memory impairment induced by an intracerebroventricular injection of Aβ [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] in C57BL/6J mice [16] .
Results of the development of three original labdanum antioxidants based on the methyl ester of lambertianic acid, an available plant metabolite of Siberian pine Pinus sibirica R. Mayr. are presented. As a result of screening with the model of toxic CCl 4 -hepatitis induced in mice, the agents surpassing the known flavonoid dihydroquercetin in the anticytolytic and anticholestase action. It is shown that under the conditions of hemodepression caused by the introduction of cytostatic preparation cyclophosphane to rats, the compounds significantly decrease leukopenia by increasing the number of granulocytes and monocytes in blood. At the background of cyclophosphane, the derivatives of methyllambertianate exhibit higher antioxidant activity than dihydroquercetin does. The azlactone demonstrates pronounced anticholestase properties. The pharmacological properties discovered in the new derivatives of lambertianic acid allow considering them as potential correctors of chemotherapeutical preparations.
Abstract Flavonoid differences between near-isogenic lines of yellow- and brown-seeded Brassica carinata were used to identify a genetic block in seed coat and seedling leaf pigment biosynthesis. Seed coat pigment in the brown-seeded line consisted of proanthocyanidins (condensed tannins), while anthocyanin was absent. Dihydroquercetin, dihydrokaempferol, quercetin and kaempferol accumulated only in the mature seed coat of the yellow-seeded line, indicating dihydroflavonol reductase ( DFR ) as an element of genetic control in pigment biosynthesis. DFR transcripts from the developing seed coat in the yellow-seeded line were absent or less abundant at 5–30 days after pollination compared to transcript levels in the brown-seeded line. Seedling leaves of the yellow-seeded line exhibited reduced expression of DFR and contained less anthocyanin compared to the respective tissues from plants of the brown-seeded line when grown at 25/20 °C (day/night). Cooler (18/15 °C) growing temperatures affected seedling leaf pigmentation, mature seed coat colouration and DFR expression in the yellow-seeded line. Comparable brown-seeded line tissues were unaffected by these temperature changes. These results are suggestive of a temperature-sensitive regulator of DFR in the yellow-seeded line of Brassica carinata which ultimately affects the formation of pigments in the seedling leaves and in the mature seed coats.
Spatholobus suberectus Dunn (Leguminosae) is a traditional Chinese herbal medicine used to treat rheumatism, anemia, menoxenia, and other disorders. The extent to which this herbal medicine is useful to skin cells, however, has not been evaluated. Constituents of the 95% ethanol extracts of the dried vine stems of S. suberectus were therefore isolated and examined for their skin-whitening capacity. A bio-guided phytochemical investigation, involving use of the mushroom tyrosinase inhibitory system, of active fractions of the extracts resulted in the isolation of 12 constituents. The structures of these constituents, which were characterized by various spectroscopic techniques, consisted of one flavone, three isoflavones, five flavanones, two flavanonols, and one chalcone. Of these constituents 3',4',7-trihydroxyflavone (1), eriodictyol (3), plathymenin (5), dihydroquercetin (6), butin (7), neoisoliquiritigenin (8), dihydrokaempferol (9), liquiritigenin (10), and 6-methoxyeriodictyol (12) represented compounds isolated for the first time from S. suberectus. These constituents were evaluated their ability to inhibit cellular tyrosinase activity and for their melanin inhibitory activity in human epidermal melanocytes (HEMn). Butin (7) was the most efficacious of these constituents and exhibited concentration-dependent effects. Western blot analysis revealed that expression of tyrosinase and tyrosinase-related proteins 1 and 2 (TRP1 and TRP2) was decreased in butin (7)-treated HEMn cells. Additionally, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis disclosed that expression of mRNAs for tyrosinase, TRP1 and TRP2 was suppressed by butin (7). It is concluded that butin (7) is the most active of the components of S. suberectus in inhibiting pigmentation and that this inhibition is exerted through inhibition of transcription of the genes encoding tyrosinase, TRP1 and TRP2.
Genotoxic properties of dihydroquercetin were in vivo studied by the method of chromosome aberrations counting and DNA-comet assay. Dihydroquercetin administered repeatedly (5 times, 0.15 and 1.5 mg/kg) or once in doses of 15, 150, and 2000 mg/kg induced no DNA damages in mouse bone marrow, blood, liver, and rectal cells. Single administration of this preparation in doses of 1.5 and 150 mg/kg and 5-fold administration in a dose of 1.5 mg/kg had no effect on the level of chromosome aberrations in mouse bone marrow cells.
Flavanone 3-hydroxylase(F3H) is a key enzyme in the metabolic pathways of flavonoid compounds in plants. The open reading frame(ORF) of F3H gene, which included 1 107 basic group and encoded a 368 amino acids protein, was cloned from tea(Camellia sinensis) by RT-PCR. The deduced protein molecular weight was 41.46 kD and its theoretical isoelectric point was 5.61. The results of Real- time fluorescent quantitative PCR showed that CsF3H had high expression levels in the leaves, and was influenced by light condition. The gene was cloned into the expression vector PRSF for expression in prokaryotic cells. The SDSPAGE results showed that the F3H peotein was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21. The optimal inducing conditions including temperature, isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactoside(IPTG) concentration and time were studied, and were 28 ℃, 1.0 mmol/L, 5 h, respectively. The activity of the recombinant protein in vitro was tested by high performance liquid chromatography(HPLC) method. Experiment results showed that purified protein had the F3H enzyme activity and transfered naringenin(N) and eriodictyol(E) respectively to dihydrokaempfero(DHK) and dihydroquercetin(DHQ), while the recombinant protein had a much more preference for eriodictyol(E). The research provides basic data for the kinetic study and organ specificity of CsF3H protein.
Dr Chirumbolo commented on the lack of inhibitory effect of quercetin on heat stress response shown in our study [1]. We concluded that a single moderate dose of quercetin is sufficient to alter redox status but not heat stress response in mice. The effects of quercetin were observed as a result of its single-dose application. The findings do not suggest that quercetin itself should not affect the body’s ability to respond to heat-generated stressors, especially at other dosage levels and application procedures. The pharmacokinetics of quercetin after oral administration to rodents have been reported previously [2]. Plasma levels of quercetin were expected to be very low at the time of sample collection and, thus, were not addressed in our study. The orally administered quercetin likely reached effective concentrations during heat stress, as evidenced by alterations in systemic redox homeostasis of quercetin-treated mice. Thus, our results support our conclusion. We agree with Dr Chirumbolo that it would be very interesting to assess heat stress or quercetin effectiveness using plasma T-reg–derived cytokines. In addition, we know that the form of quercetin is very important to the observed responses in that the dihydrated form—dihydroquercetin, unlike quercetin alone—does not inhibit the heat shock protein response under cellular stress [3]. Many questions remain with regard to the form, the timing, and the doses of quercetin. (Supported by the Office of Naval Research Grant N0001411MP20025 and Uniformed Services University Intramural Grant R091EH).
The purpose was to study the dynamics of the change of the respiratory function of mythochondrias, in conditions of the brain ischemia-reperfusion (BIR) and introduction of bioregulatory complex (dihydroquercetin, 60 mg/kg, thiamine, 25 mg/kg, acetylcysteine, 100mg/kg, sodium succinate,100mg/kg). In studies respiratory functions of mythochondrias (V1 - velocity of endogenous respiration, V2 - velocity of substrate-dependent respiration, V3­ - velocity of the respiration afterc ADP introduction, V4 - respiratory velocity after loss of ADP, koefficient of acceptor control, V3/V2, koefficient of respiratory control (V3/V4), koefficient of phosphorilation (ADP/O) were studied. It was installed that introduction of of bioregulatory complex renders the corrective action on the respiratory functions of mythochondrias, caused by brain ischemia-reperfusion.
Quercetin (C   15   H   10   O   7 , 3,3′,4′,5,7-pentahydroxy-2-phenylchromen-4-one) is a plant-derived flavonoid known to possess anti-inflammatory properties. 1 Its use as a chemopreventive substance has recently been reviewed. 2 From a biochemical point of view, quercetin is a flavonol that is biosynthesized in plants through the phenylpropanoid pathway, starting from the amino acid phenylalanine; its closest related metabolites are naringenin and eriodictyol that lead to quercetin through a dihydroquercetin intermediate ( Figure 1 ). Quercetin can be found in several plant-derived foods and beverages, and its main dietary sources are normally diffused in the Mediterranean area, being represented by red onion, capers, pepper, and broccoli, in addition to berries and apples, which constitute a common traditional diet in southern Europe. A growing focus on diet and the use of naturally abundant compounds as supplements is occurring nowadays, because their properties have many potential health benefits with minimal side effects. Quercetin has increased in popularity because it is a highly studied, multidimensional, bioactive compound that possesses both antioxidant properties and the ability to modulate signal transduction pathways, leading to prevention and inhibition of many inflammatory reactions. Nevertheless, substantial concern about the real possibility to use food-derived quercetin in clinics has been raised because of the complexity in intestinal absorption and bioavailability of polyphenols 3, 4 and because of lack of information about their pharmacokinetics, 5 although some suggestions have recently been made. 6 This issue may actually hamper experimental settings and interpretation of results. In plants, flavonoids such as quercetin exist in several conjugated forms, although most in vitro assays take into account the aglycone purified forms of these polyphenols. Some authors have suggested a fundamental role of the food matrix in ameliorating gut absorption. 7 In humans, when digested conjugated quercetin undergoes radical transformation inside the gut because of intestinal microflora, biochemical pathways such as methylation and hydroxylation lead to the formation of other flavonoids: For example, 3′-methylation of quercetin leads to isorhamnetin and 5′-hydroxylation of quercetin leads to myricetin. 1 Phenolic glycosides that reach the colon will be hydrolyzed by the gut microflora and may also undergo further metabolism and degradation. Once absorbed, dietary phenolics can be methylated (mainly at positions 3, 3′, 4′, 7) by methyl transferases of tissues to a varying degree and will be conjugated to sulfate and/or glucuronic acid prior to excretion. Following gut biochemical modification and absorption, quercetin bioavailability in vivo reaches a nanomolar range of plasma concentration, quite far from the micromolar range effective in in vitro studies. This observation, besides the complex derivatives born from gut microflora modification, may constitute a hindering issue to ascertain the potential benefit of quercetin in human cancer chemoprevention in vivo. However, as most of absorbed quercetin is hydrolyzed in its sugar link 3 and because of the complexity of the role exerted by quercetin within the cell, as recently reported for many plant phytochemicals, some authors have suggested the possibility of hormetic and synergistic effects also in the nanomolar dose range. 1, 8 Further insights on this topic may contribute to a clearer explanation of the role of quercetin in human biology and in cancer research in the future.
Major flavan 3-ols in tea include (+)-catechin, (´)-epicatechin, (´)-epicatechin gallate, (´)-epigallocatechin (+)-gallocatechin and (´)-epigallocatechin gallate. Based on the hydroxylation position in the B-ring, catechins can be categorized in several subclasses, including 3 1 ,4 1 -dihydroxylated catechins (3 1 ,4 1 -flavan 3-ols) and 3 1 ,4 1 ,5 1 -trihydroxylated catechins (3 1 ,4 1 ,5 1 -flavan 3-ols). The ratio of dihydroxylated to trihydroxylated catechins (RDTC) in tea was used as an indicator of tea quality in the breeding programs [13] [14] [15] . The hydroxylation pattern of the B-ring of flavonoids was found to be determined by F3 1 H and flavonoid 3 1 ,5 1 -hydroxylase (F3 1 5 1 H), which catalyze the hydroxylation at the 3 1 -or the 3 1 -and 5 1 -position of flavonoids, respectively [12, [16] [17] [18] . F3 1 H and F3 1 5 1 H are classified to the subfamilies of CYP75B and CYP75A, respectively, in the superfamily of cytochrome P450-dependent monooxygenases [19] . In flavonoid biosynthesis, F3 1 H hydroxylates the B-ring of naringenin and dihydrokaempferol at the 3 1 -position to form eriodictyol and dihydroquercetin, respectively, the two important intermediates for the biosynthesis of 3 1 ,4 1 -dihydroxyl flavonoid end-products formed in plants. Even though tea F3 1 Hs were reported before [20] , the function has not been fully characterized yet. The enzymatic characterization of CsF3 1 H is essential for us to understand the role of CsF3 1 H in the flavonoid biosynthetic system (Figure 1) . Furthermore, the content of flavonoids in plant was influenced by environmental conditions such as nitrogen supply [21, 22] . Study of the expression of F3 1 H and other genes related to flavonoid under limited nitrogen condition would help the functional characterization in vivo.
FIELD: medicine. SUBSTANCE: invention refers to production of oral conditioners. A therapeutic and hygienic agent for teeth, gums and tongue treatment contains a low-abrasive polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) powder of PTFE powder particle size 0.1 to 500 micron, dihydroquercetin (Taxifolin), and a carrier applicable in the oral cavity. PTFE powder can be introduced in the agent composition as an aqueous-alcoholic suspension. The carrier can contain water, vehicles, humidifiers, surface-active substances, aromatisers, sweeteners, preservatives, abrasives (dicalcium phosphate dihydrate and/or calcium hydroxyapatite and-or fluorohydroxyapatite, and/or silicon dioxide, and/or calcium carbonate), chelating agents, colouring agents, buffer substances, and also additional active substances, e.g., fluorides-ion sources, bactericidal substances, anti-inflammatory components, dental calculus inhibitors, vitamins, vegetable extracts, essences. The agents can be presented as a tooth-paste, gel or a tooth-powder, a mouth wash or a chewing gum. EFFECT: application of the agent allows preventing dentogingival plaques, dental deposit, and eliminating stain caries. 5 cl, 1 tbl, 6 dwg
The stronger antioxidant capacity of the flavonoid quercetin (Q) compared with taxifolin (dihydroquercetin, T) has been the subject of previous experimental and theoretical studies. Theoretical work has focused on the analysis of hydrogen bond dissociation energies (BDE) of the OH phenolic groups, but consider mechanisms that only involve the transfer of one hydrogen atom. In the present work we consider other mechanisms involving a second hydrogen transfer in reactions with free radicals. The relative stability of the radicals formed after the first hydrogen transfer reaction is considered in discussing the antioxidant activity of Q and T. In terms of global and local theoretical reactivity descriptors, we propose that the radical arising from Q should be more persistent in the environment and with the capability to react with a second radical by hydrogen transfer, proton transfer and electron transfer mechanisms. These mechanisms could be responsible of the stronger antioxidant capacity of Q.
We have previously demonstrated the hepatoprotective effect of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) against concanavalin A (Con A)-induced immunological hepatic injury in mice. In this study, we investigated the immunoregulatory effects of DHQ on Con A-induced liver injury in mice. DHQ administration significantly decreased the serum levels of alanine transaminase and aspartate transaminase, effectively prevented liver damage, and increased the survival rate of Con A-treated mice. Immunohistochemistry examination revealed that supplementation with DHQ obviously reduced infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in the injured liver tissues. Furthermore, DHQ administration resulted in down-regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-4, and IL-10), the chemokine osteopontin, apoptosis factors (Fas and FasL), transcription factors that regulate Th cell differentiation (T-bet and GATA-3), perforin, granzyme B, and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). In vitro, treatment with DHQ protected HepG2 cells against TNF-α/ActD-induced apoptosis by inhibiting the activation of caspase-3, caspase-7, and caspase-8. In addition, DHQ reduced phosphorylation of NF-kB/p65, and inhibited the expressions of pro-apoptotic factors (p53 and Bax), while it up-regulated the expression of the anti-apoptotic factor Bcl-2. Our findings suggest that the immunosuppressive effects of DHQ ameliorated Con A-mediated immunological liver injury by reducing the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in liver tissues, and DHQ protected HepG2 cells against TNF-α/ActD-induced apoptosis possibly via modulation of the caspase and NF-kB pathways.
To study the antifungal constituents in the leaves of Broussonetia papyrifera(L.) Vent.,chromatographic and NMR spectroscopic techniques were used to isolate and elucidate the constituents.Ten compounds were isolated and identified as umbelliferone(1),esculetin(2),apigenin(3),luteolin(4),kaempferol(5),vitexin(6),apigenin-7-O-β-D-glucuronide(7),genkwanin(8),quercetin(9),and dihydroquercetin(10).Compounds 1-7 were isolated from this plant for the first time.
(+)-Catechin is an important antioxidant of green tea (Camelia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze). Catechin is known for its positive role in anticancerous activity, extracellular matrix degradation, cell death regulation, diabetes, and other related disorders. As a result of enormous interest in and great demand for catechin, its biosynthesis using metabolic engineering has become the subject of concentrated research with the aim of enhancing (+)-catechin production. Metabolic flux is an essential concept in the practice of metabolic engineering as it helps in the identification of the regulatory element of a biosynthetic pathway. In the present study, an attempt was made to analyze the metabolic flux of the (+)-catechin biosynthesis pathway in order to decipher the regulatory element of this pathway. Firstly, a genetically encoded fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based nanosensor (FLIP-Cat, fluorescence indicator protein for (+)-catechin) was developed for real-time monitoring of (+)-catechin flux. In vitro characterization of the purified protein of the nanosensor showed that the nanosensor was pH stable and (+)-catechin specific. Its calculated Kd was 139 µM. The nanosensor also performed real-time monitoring of (+)-catechin in bacterial cells. In the second step of this study, an entire (+)-catechin biosynthesis pathway was constructed and expressed in E. coli in two sets of plasmid constructs: pET26b-PT7-rbs-PAL-PT7-rbs-4CL-PT7-rbs-CHS-PT7-rbs-CHI and pET26b-T7-rbs-F3H-PT7-rbs- DFR-PT7-rbs-LCR. The E. coli harboring the FLIP-Cat was transformed with these plasmid constructs. The metabolic flux analysis of (+)-catechin was carried out using the FLIP-Cat. The FLIP-Cat successfully monitored the flux of catechin after adding tyrosine, 4-coumaric acid, 4-coumaroyl CoA, naringenin chalcone, naringenin, dihydroquercetin, and leucocyanidin, individually, with the bacterial cells expressing the nanosensor as well as the genes of the (+)-catechin biosynthesis pathway. Dihydroflavonol reductase (DFR) was identified as the main regulatory element of the (+)-catechin biosynthesis pathway. Information about this regulatory element of the (+)-catechin biosynthesis pathway can be used for manipulating the (+)-catechin biosynthesis pathway using a metabolic engineering approach to enhance production of (+)-catechin.
Opuntia ficus-indica, commonly known as prickly pear cactus, is commercially grown as a food and medicinal plant in Jeju Island, Korea. The crushed pads and fruits of Opuntia ficus-indica were dried in a freezedryer and ground into flour to be used for food materials. The major components of proximate compositions were part of a nitrogen free extract. The major minerals were Ca (4391.2~2086.9 mg%), K (1932.1~2608.7 mg%), and Mg (800.6~1984.8 mg%). The major amino acid was glutamic acid, comprising 16.3% of total amino acids in fruit and 25.2% in pad. Dihydroflavonols were identified as (+)-trans-dihydrokaempferol and (+)-trans-dihydroquercetin. Citric acid methyl esters extracted from fruits showed inhibitory activities against monoamine oxidase-B. The presence of trimethyl citrate has been reported in other plants, but 1,3-dimethyl citrate and 1-monomethyl citrate have not been previously reported. The results of pharmacological efficacy tests, including serum biochemical and hematological parameters, autonomic nervous system, anti-inflammatory, analgestic activity, anti-diabetic activity, antithrombotic, anticoagulant, dopamine beta-hydroxylase, monoamine oxidase activity, hyperlipidemia, the respiratory system, antigastic, and anti-ulcerative actions indicate that the fruit and pad of the Opuntia ficus-indica are rich sources of food and medicinal materials.
Incubation of rat liver microsomes with preparations of grape flavonoids, dihydroquercetin, and silibinin increased their resistance to lipid peroxidation induced by NADPH-Fe2+. This was manifested in less pronounced accumulation of lipid peroxidation products and changes in activity of microsomal enzymes induced by lipid peroxidation. In vitro antioxidant activity of grape flavonoids markedly surpassed that of dihydroquercetin and silibinin. Addition of flavonoids into fodder led to moderate, statistically significant, and similar increase in the resistance of rat liver microsomes to ex vivo induced lipid peroxidation.
DFR (EC 1.1.1.219) is an oxidoreductase which catalyzes the NADPH dependent reduction of the keto group in position 4 of dihydroflavonols to produce flavan 3,4-diols (synonym: leucoanthocyanidins), which are the immediate precursors for the formation of anthocyanidins and flavan 3-ols, the building blocks of condensed tannins [6] . DFR competes with flavonol synthase for dihydroflavonols as common substrates and therefore interferes with flavonol formation [7] . DFR thus has a strong influence on the formation of at least 3 classes of flavonoids, anthocyanin pigments, flavanols (which provide protection against herbivore, pests and pathogens), and flavonols (which act as sunscreens) [8, 9] . In addition, DFR is unique in the flavonoid pathway, because it can exhibit selectivity for the B-ring hydroxylation pattern of flavonoid substrates. While the DFRs of many plants accept dihydroflavonols possessing one (dihydrokaempferol, DHK), two (dihydroquercetin, DHQ) or three (dihydromyricetin, DHM) hydroxyl groups within the B-ring, specific DFRs have been described from a few plant species that do not convert DHK into the corresponding leucopelargonidin [10, 11] . These species do not produce pelargonidin based pigments and therefore lack an orange-red flower colouration. F3'H deficient lines for those species show a white or pale rosy flower colouration. Due to the absence of dihydroxylated precursors the formation of anthocyanins is not possible. A prominent example is petunia (Petunia hybrida) [10] where the biotechnological introduction of an nonspecific DFR from maize bypassed a gap in the pathway of anthocyanin formation within the F3'H deficient petunia line RL01 [12] , resulting in an orangered flower colouration (Figure 1 , centre). To probe this phenomenon, an artificial DHK specific DFR was created via site-directed mutagenesis of the DFR from Gerbera hybrida with an exchange of an asparagine in position 134 into leucine [10] . This gene is patented for flower colour modification via transgenic approaches.
The anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway is largely conserved among flowering plants. Flavonoid biosynthesis begins with the chalcone synthase (CHS) enzyme that utilizes a p-coumaroyl-CoA and three malonyl-CoAs to form a central flavonoid precursor tetrahydroxychalcone (naringenin chalcone), which is subsequently converted to flavanone naringenin by chalcone isomerase (CHI). Naringenin is either hydroxylated at the C-3 position within the central Cring by flavanone-3-hydroxylase (F3H) to produce dihydroflavonol, or hydroxylated at the 3' position of the B-ring by flavonoid 3' hydroxylase (F3'H). Dihydroflavonols such as dihydromyricetin, dihydrokaempferol, and dihydroquercetin are subjected to diverse B-ring modifications by the action of flavonoid hydroxylases such as F3'H and flavonoid 3', 5'-hydroxylase (F3'5'H), which primarily cause color differences among anthocyanin pigments. Consequently, the resulting dihydroflavonols serve as immediate precursors for the synthesis of flavonols and leucoanthocyanidins by flavonol synthase (FLS) and dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), respectively. Lecuoanthocyanidins are colorless but converted by anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) to colored anthocyanidins, to which a group of glycosyltransferases (GTs) then add diverse sugar moieties forming stable, water-soluble anthocyanin pigments. In addition to the hydroxylation at B-ring, the introduction of a methoxyl group also affects the color of anthocyanins.
SummaryThe late block in the biosynthetic pathway to anthocyanin production in the corolla tubes of Antirrhinum majus caused by the mutation delila (del) can be circumvented by inoculation with live Botrytis cinerea. Pelargonidin or cyanidin was synthesised depending on the eosinea—Eosinea (Eos) constitution of the host. Other blocks in anthocyanin synthesis have not been overcome in this way. B. cinerea produced tube pigmentation in homozygous pallida-recurrens (pal-rec): del flowers only where pal-rec had mutated to Pal. Inoculation of B. cinerea to the intermediately blocked acyanic homozygous incolorata (inc) : del only initiated synthesis of cyanidin synergistically after administration of the absent dihydroflavonol, dihydroquercetin. Corolla tubes of inc Eos : del/inc Eos: del, inoculated and later homogenised and filtered to remove contaminating B. cinerea, initiated synthesis in Inc Eos : del/Inc Eos : del tubes; the heat labile agent was thus transferable from the non-anthocyanin producing acyanic host to one genetically capable of response, where anthocyanin was produced. Since the evidence was against B. cinerea providing an anthocyanin precursor or an enzyme, it is suggested that an enzyme stimulator was either formed in the A. majus corolla tubes or transferred from B. cinerea as a necessary stimulator for the enzyme that enabled the elaboration of the dihydroflavonol to anthocyanin.
The effect of some flavonoids on the polar transport of auxins was investigated in hypocotyl sections of dark grown seedlings of cucumber, Cucumis sativus L., by means of 14C labelled auxins. In experiments of 4–6 h duration quercitrin, morin, dihydroquercetin, naringin, sulfuretin and ferulic acid increased the polarity of the transport of indol-3yl-acetic acid (stimulation of basipetal, inhibition of acropetal transport). Naringenin, genistein and pinobanksin, on the other hand, decreased the polarity of this transport. For NAA no increase in the polarity of the transport could be observed, but all the substances tested inhibited the basipetal transport. There was no simple correlation between the effects on the polar transport and the effects on IAA oxidase.
Abstract -Dihydroquercetin proved to be a good precursor for light-stimulated cyanidin biosynthesis in cell suspension cultures of Haplopappus gracilis . Wit
A German Riesling wine has been fractionated with the aid of countercurrent chromatography. After purification by HPLC, the structures of 101 compounds were established by mass spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy. Seventy-three of the isolated compounds exhibited a phenolic or benzylic structure. Fifty-four compounds were reported for the first time as Riesling wine constituents. New compounds identified in this work included twelve benzoic and cinnamic acid derivatives. In addition to two isomeric (E)-caffeoyl ethyl tartrates, the glucose esters of (E)-cinnamic, (E)-p-coumaric, and (E)-ferulic acid, as well as the 4-O-glucosides of (E)- and (Z)-ferulic acid, have been identified for the first time in Riesling wine. The structures of two additional phenylpropanoids were elucidated as 3-hydroxy-1-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-propan-1-one and 2,3-dihydroxy-1-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-propan-1-one. Moreover, two ethyl esters, i.e., ethyl protocatechuate and ethyl gallate, as well as the glucose ester of vanillic acid, were newly detected in Riesling wine. Novel representatives in the flavonoid group were dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin, and four dihydroflavonol glycoconjugates, i.e., the 3-O-glucosides of dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin, as well as the 3-O-xyloside and the 3'-O-glucoside of dihydroquercetin. Additionally, six novel lignans, i.e., lariciresinol 4-O-glucoside, three isolariciresinol derivatives, and two secoisolariciresinols, as well as three neolignans were isolated. Structural elucidation of the newly isolated wine constituents is reported together with the determination of their antioxidant activity.
The late block in the biosynthetic pathway to anthocyanin production in the corolla tubes of Antirrhinurn majus caused by the mutation delila (del) can be circumvented by inoculation with live Botrytis cinerea. Pelargonidin or cyanidin was synthesised depending on the eosinea-Eosinea (Eos) constitution of the host. Other blocks in anthocyanin synthesis have not been overcome in this way. B. cinerea produced tube pigmentation in homozygous pallida-recurrens (pal-rec) del flowers only where pal-rec had mutated to Pal. Inoculation of B. cinerea to the intermediately blocked acyanic homozygous incolorata (mc) del only initiated synthesis of cyanidin synergistically after administration of the absent dihydroflavonol, dihydroquercetin. Corolla tubes of inc Eos: del/inc Eos: del, inoculated and later homogenised and filtered to remove contaminating B. cinerea, initiated synthesis in Inc Eos: del/Inc Eos : del tubes; the heat labile agent was thus transferable from the non-anthocyaniri producing acyanic host to one genetically capable of response, where anthocyanin was produced.
Objective To study the anti-hypoxic components of the Herba Hyperici japonici(the whole plant of Hypericum japonicum Thunb.).Methods Compounds were isolated through various chromatography techniques.They were elucidated on the basis of physico-chemical properties and spectral methods and their anti-hypoxic activity were evaluated by PC12 cells.Results Five compounds were isolated from the Hypericum japonicum Thunb.and confirmed as 3-O-methylquercetin(1),protocatechuic acid(2),dihydronaphthol(3),dihydroquercetin(4),chlorogenic acid(5).Conclusions Among them,compounds 25 are isolated from the plant for the first time.All the compounds have some anti-hypoxic activities,wherein compound 2 exhibits very strong anti-hypoxic activity.
Changes in BP and HR were assessed after exposures increasing activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme: ionizing radiation, NO synthase inhibitor (L-NAME), and dexamethasone. Effects of dihydroquercetin and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril on activity of this enzyme, BP, and HR were also evaluated under these exposures. Wistar male rats were subjected to X-ray irradiation in a dose of 2.5 Gy. Angiotensin-converting enzyme activity in the aorta sections was determined by Hip-His-Leu hydrolysis. BP and HR were recorded using a non-invasive tail-cuff method and PowerLab 8/35 software. BP and HR were not altered with the increase in activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme after irradiation. In case of prolonged (7 days) treatment with NO synthase inhibitor and dexamethasone, the increase in enzyme activity was accompanied by elevation of BP and, in the case of NO synthase inhibitor, HR reduction. Dihydroquercetin normalized the enzyme activity and lowered BP, but not to the normal level. Enalapril normalized BP, increased by NO synthase inhibitor solution intake; at the same time, the angiotensinconverting enzyme activity decreased more than 2-fold in comparison with the normal.
The properties of the Ca2+ channel induced by a calmodulin inhibitor in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells were investigated using fluorescent indicators Indo-1 and chlortetracycline. The inhibitor of calmodulin calmidazolium (R24571) in concentrations of 1-2 microM induces a short-term Ca2+ entry and a pulse-like ATP secretion. Repeated addition of R24571 also causes a transient Ca2+ signal. Ca2+ channels induced by R24571 are permeable for Mn2+. Ca2+ entry does not depend on endoplasmic reticulum depletion by thapsigargin, ATP, or ionomycin and is suppressed by nordihydroguaretic acid (EC50 = 6.7 microM), quercetin (EC50 = 1.5 microM), dihydroquercetin (EC50 = 17 microM), arachidonic acid (AA) (EC50 = 8.6 microM), and suramin (EC50 = 0.25 +/- 0.05 MM), and weakly depends on temperature in the range of 18 - 37 degrees C. The apparent activation constant for R24571 and the Hill coefficient are 2.5 +/- 0.2 and 4 +/- 0.3 microM, respectively. The products of arachidonic acid oxidation are neither activators nor inhibitors of these channels. The inhibitory effect of nordihydroguaretic acid is indirect and is conceivably caused by the accumulation of arachidonic acid due to suppression of its lipoxygenase-catalyzed oxidation at phospholipase A2 activation. The maximal level of about 1.3 microM in the dependence of Ca2+ signal amplitude on R24571 concentration points to possible inhibition of the channel by increased Ca2+ concentration in the cytosol. The weak dependence on temperature implies that the channel is highly permeable, the chain of enzymic processes is not involved in Ca2+ entry activation, and the mutual compensation of processes with opposite contributions is possible. Using chlortetracycline fluorescence, we have shown in model experiments on calmodulin solution that Ca2+ induces cooperatively a conformational transition of calmodulin with the exposure of a hydrophobic chlortetracycline-Ca(2+)-binding site. The interaction of R24571 with the CaM-Ca2+ complex results in quenching of fluorescence to its level in water, which is interpreted as the elimination of the availability of calmodulin hydrophobic site for chlortetracycline-Ca+. Nordihydroguaretic acid, quercetin, and dihydroquercetin, but not suramin, also interact with calmodulin, but this does not result in the complete closing of its hydrophobic site. It is supposed that the activation of the Ca2+ channel occurs owing to the activation of calmodulin-dependent phospholipase A2 by R24571, which leads to the formation of a low-molecular short-lived secondary messenger, or because of the interaction of R24571 with calmodulin, which directly inhibits the channel. The termination of Ca2+ entry is probably due to the inhibition of phospholipase A2 and/or of the channel at increased concentrations of arachidonic acid and Ca2+.
A glucosyltransferase, which catalyses the glucosylation of flavonols, using uridine diphosphate D-glucose as glucose donor, has been isolated and purified about 5-10 fold from cell suspension cultures of soybean (Glycine max L., var. Mandarin). The pH optimum for this reaction was ca. 8,5 in glycine NaOH buffer, and no additional cofactors were re quired. The enzyme glucosylated the following flavo nols predominantly at the 3-position : quercetin (Km 126 jiM), kaempferol (Km 172 |^M), isorhamnetin (Km 200 (iM) and fisetin (Km 270 (xM). With querce tin as substrate, the apparent Km value for uridine diphosphate-D-glucose was 0.3 M. Glucosylation of flavonols and flavones by this preparation occurred weakly also at the 7-position. No activity was found with dihydroquercetin, naringenin, 4,2',4'-trihydroxy chalcone, daidzein or texasin. The enzyme was spe cific for flavonoid compounds, since no activity was observed towards cinnamic acids or simple phenols. However, the preparation was contaminated by a va nillic acid glucosyltransferase, from which it could be partially separated by ionexchange chromato graphy. The specific activity of the flavonol 3-O-glu cosyltransferase increased with age of the culture, reaching a maximum late in the growth cycle of the culture.
The improvement of the flower colorusing metabolic engineering requires molecular basis of genes, especially genes that involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis [9] . Several genes which encode the enzymes of anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway have been characterized including dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) gene. DFR gene encodes DFR enzyme that catalyses a key step in the late biosynthesis of anthocyanin [7, 10] . DFR enzyme activity has been described for a number of plant species. One of the most interesting characteristics concerning the known DFR enzymes is their substrate specificity. DFR proteins of many plants can accept dihydroflavonols with different hydroxylation patterns like dihydrokaempferol (DHK), dihydroquercetin (DHQ), and dihydromyricetin (DHM) as substrates [11] [12] [13] . On the other hand, DFR activities to convert one or more substrate of dihydroflavonols were said to be low in some postulated species. Although the DFR gene has been cloned and characterized in several orchids such as B. finlaysoniana [12] and C. hybrida [14] , but there is still no report about DFR gene in D. helix. This paper aimed to describe DFR gene in D. helix.
Silymarin is a crude mixture of flavonolignans obtained from the seeds of milk thistle [Silybum marianum (L.) Gaertn.]. This group of compounds results from the peroxidase-mediated condensation in the plant between the flavonoid, dihydroquercetin and coniferyl alcohol. Silymarin and silibinin (a 50:50 mixture of silybin A and silybin B) are widely known for their hepatoprotective activity and has been in clinical use for over three decades in Europe and recently in USA and Asia (9). Several studies by others and us in the last decade have demonstrated the pre-clinical efficacy of both silymarin and silibinin against various epithelial cancers including PCA (10-13), and their efficacy is currently being evaluated in cancer patients (14) . This has led us to identify and purify specific, biologically active chemical entities present in silymarin with a goal to maximize the therapeutic utility of this botanical agent. In this direction, we have isolated, purified and characterized eight pure compounds (seven flavonolignans and a flavonoid) from silymarin, namely silybin A, silybin B, isosilybin A, isosilybin B, silydianin, silychristin, isosilychristin and taxifolin (10, 15) . Distinct biological efficacy of these compounds was observed in human PCA cells on various cancer end point markers such as cell proliferation, prostate-specific antigen secretion and topoisomerase II promoter activity (10). Isosilybin B and isosilybin A, which constitute about 2-4.5% and 5-6.5% of silymarin (w/w), respectively, depending upon the source, were effective in most of the parameters studied in both androgen-dependent LNCaP and androgen-independent PC3 and DU145 cells (10). For example, the IC50 in DU145 cells for isosilybin B and isosilybin A was 20.5 and 32 µM, respectively, which was lower compared with silymarin (IC50 67.9 µM) and silibinin (IC50 55.6 µM) (10). Though it would be premature to conclude that isosilybin B and isosilybin A were the most effective among all the constituents from this one study alone, the data provided us a strong impetus to further examine the efficacy and associated mechanisms for isosilybin isomers in PCA cells.
Flavonoids are natural herbal compounds, which show biological, antioxidant, protective, antiradical, antibacterial, antiviral, antiinflammatory and vasodilating abilities. A separate group is represented by flavolignans, which are the condensed products of dihydroquercetin with lignin, show biological activity, the basic of which is hepatoprotective. One of such abilities is forming complexes with metals (e. g. iron and copper) that reduces the content of metals in a human body and reduces the generation rate of reactive oxygen species, thus protecting biologically active molecules of the body from an oxidizing process [1, 2] .
Developing testa layers of the barley proanthocyanidin-free mutants ant 13-152, anf17-148, ant 18-159, ant19-109, ant22-1508, ant25-264, ant26-485, ant27-489, ant28-484 and ant29-2110 and their mother varieties, were analysed for accumulation of proanthocyanidins and their flavonoid precursors. In vitro infection of developing barley caryopses of wild type and mutants with Fusarium poae, F. culmorum and F. graminearum revealed all mutants except ant18-159 to be more sensitive to Fusarium attack than wildtype. Mutant ant 18-159 showed extreme resistance. Histological investigations of the infection process revealed that the hyphae were unable to penetrate the testa of this mutant. The testa layer of ant 18-159 accumulates small amounts of dihydroquercetin as a result of nonsense mutations in the structural gene for dihydroflavonol reductase. Authentic dihydroquercetin and an autographic assay proves this flavonoid to be a strong inhibitor of Fusarium growth and macrospore formation. Mutant ant 17-148, which accumulates the flavone chrysoeriol as a consequence of a mutation in the step catalysed by flavanone 3-hydroxylase, demonstrates that this flavone is not an inhibitor of Fusariwn growth in vivo. Comparison of flavonoid standards and monomers and polymers from other plants reveal monomeric flavonoids generally to be potent inhibitors of Fusarium.
This paper deals with the urgent issue of the search of new drugs based on plant raw materials that have an influence on various stages of oxidation processes occurring in the human body. The aim of this paper is to determine the antioxidant activity of the bilberry extracts that are used in the medicine practice by a cathodic voltammetry method.We consider the influence of water and alcohol bilberry extracts on the process of oxygen electroreduction. From these extracts the most activity relation to the process of cathodic oxygen reduction showed alcohol (40%) bilberry extract. It was also stated that the alcohol extract of bilberry has a greater antioxidant activity than other known antioxidants such as ascorbic acid, glucose, dihydroquercetin.Thus, after consideration of a number of plant objects, we showed the possibility of applying the method of cathodic voltammetry for the determination of total antioxidant activity of plant material and identifying and highlighting the most perspective sources of biologically active substances (BAS), as well as the ability of identifying extractants that fully extract BAS from plant raw materials. The activity data of extracts of plant raw materials gives an opportunity of establishing an effective yield phytopreparation based on bilberry that has an antioxidant effect.
Results of a comparative analysis of the use of quantitative NMR spectroscopy for the quality control of pharmaceuticals and drugs are presented. Diquertin, the active principle of which is the common flavonoid dihydroquercetin (taxifolin, 3,3′,4′,5,7-pentahydroxyflavanone), was used as an example. Quantitative 1 H NMR spectroscopy can be recommended on the basis of this comparative analysis for use when it is necessary to identify all possible impurities or to confirm the absence of toxic contaminants and also for rapid analysis of samples.
547.972:678.029 E. S. Meteleva, 2 and A. V. Dushkin 2 Mechanical composites were prepared by mechanical chemical processing of a mixture of biologically active preparations of arabinogalactan (AG) and dihydroquercetin (DQ) isolated from larch wood. Their properties were studied using HPLC, 13 C NMR, and IR spectroscopy. It was found that AG and DQ did not react chemically under the studied conditions. According to x-ray phase and thermal analyses, mechanical processing destroyed the DQ crystalline structure and dispersed it into the AG matrix. The resulting mechanical composites had significantly higher (up to 38 times) solubility in water compared with starting DQ and an unprocessed AG/DQ mixture. It was shown that DQ reduces the extent of destruction of polysaccharide macromolecules during mechanical processing.
Despite the economic importance and the diffusion of grapevine cultivation worldwide, little is known about leaf chemical composition. We characterized the phenolic composition of Nebbiolo, Barbera, Pinot noir, Cabernet Sauvignon, Grenache, and Shiraz (Vitis vinifera L.) healthy leaves (separating blades and veins) during the season. Quantitative and qualitative differences were found between leaf sectors and among genotypes. In healthy grapevine leaves, anthocyanins, dihydromyricetin-rhamnoside, hexosides of dihydroquercetin, and dihydrokaempferol exclusively accumulated in veins. Astilbin was the only flavanonol detected in blades and the prevalent flavanonol in veins. Barbera distinguished for the lowest proanthocyanidin and the highest hydroxycinnamate content, and Pinot noir for the absence of acylated-anthocyanins. Nebbiolo, and Cabernet Sauvignon displayed a high concentration of epigallocatechin gallate in veins. Nebbiolo leaves showed the highest concentrations of flavanonols and the widest profi...
Peat humic acids (PHAs) were found under experimental normobaric hypoxia with hypercapnia to normalize the activities of succinateand NAD-dependent energy-production processes and to prevent disconnection of oxidative phosphorylation in mouse cerebral and hepatic mitochondria. The antihypoxic activity of PHAs was comparable with that of the reference antihypoxant dihydroquercetin in mouse brain and exceeded it in liver. The observed normalization by PHAs of oxidative phosphorylation in cerebral and hepatic mitochondria was probably related to their protective properties that prevented free-radical damage of cells and organelles under hypoxic conditions.
This paper deals with the urgent issue of the search of new drugs based on plant raw materials that have an influence on various stages of oxidation processes occurring in the human body. The aim of this paper is to determine the antioxidant activity of the bilberry extracts that are used in the medicine practice by a cathodic voltammetry method. We consider the influence of water and alcohol bilberry extracts on the process of oxygen electroreduction. From these extracts the most activity relation to the process of cathodic oxygen reduction showed alcohol (40%) bilberry extract. It was also stated that the alcohol extract of bilberry has a greater antioxidant activity than other known antioxidants such as ascorbic acid, glucose, dihydroquercetin. Thus, after consideration of a number of plant objects, we showed the possibility of applying the method of cathodic voltammetry for the determination of total antioxidant activity of plant material and identifying and highlighting the most perspective sources of biologically active substances (BAS), as well as the ability of identifying extractants that fully extract BAS from plant raw materials. The activity data of extracts of plant raw materials gives an opportunity of establishing an effective yield phytopreparation based on bilberry that has an antioxidant effect.
As a traditional Chinese medicinal herb, FPO is the dried and mature fruit of Polygonum orientale L. It has been used in China for the treatment of various liver diseases such as hepatitis, liver fibrosis, and cirrhosis [12] . Taxifolin, also known as dihydroquercetin, is one of the most abundant flavonoids in FPO and has been listed as an indicator of quality for FPO in the Chinese Pharmacopeia 2015 edition [13, 14] . Studies have found that taxifolin possesses hepatoprotective properties, which are attributed to its ability to reduce oxidative stress and to inhibit the release of inflammatory mediators [15] [16] [17] . However, whether taxifolin can be absorbed into the blood after oral administration of FPO extract remains unclear.
A methyltransferase, which catalyzes the methylation of luteolin (Km, 16 μM) using S-adenosyl-l-methionine as the methyl donor, has been purified about 38-fold from cell suspension cultures of soybean (Glycine max L., var. Mandarin). The following 3,4-dihydroxy phenolic compounds were also methylated: luteolin 7-O-glucoside (Km, 28 μm), quercetin (Km, 35 μm), eriodictyol (Km, 75 μm), 5-hydroxyferulic acid (Km, 227 μm), dihydroquercetin (Km, 435 μm), and caffeic acid (Km, 770 μm). Rutin and quercetin 3-O-glucoside were poor substrates. Methylation proceeded only in the meta position. The enzyme was unable to catalyze the methylation of p-coumaric acid, m-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, isoferulic acid, sinapic acid, apigenin, or naringenin. While the isoflavones biochanin A and daidzein did not serve as substrates, texasin (6,7-dihydroxy-3′-methoxyisoflavone) was methylated (Km, 35 μm). The methylation of caffeic acid and quercetin showed a pH optimum of 8.6–8.9. The enzyme required Mg2+ ions for maximum activity (approximately 1 mm) and could be totally inhibited by EDTA (10 mm). The Km for S-adenosyl-l-methionine was 11 μm. S-Adenosyl-l-homocysteine inhibited the methylation of luteolin by S-adenosyl-l-methionine.
Abstract With microbial production becoming the primary choice for natural product synthesis, increasing precursor and cofactor availability has become a chief hurdle for the generation of efficient production platforms. As such, we employed a stoichiometric-based model to identify combinations of gene knockouts for improving NADPH availability in Escherichia coli . Specifically, two different model objectives were used to identify possible genotypes that exhibited either improved overall NADPH production or an improved flux through an artificial reaction coupling NADPH yield to biomass. The top single, double and triple gene deletion candidates were constructed and as a case study evaluated for their ability to produce two polyphenols, leucocyanidin and (+)-catechin. Each is derived from their common precursor dihydroquercetin using two recombinant NADPH-dependent enzymes: dihydroflavonol 4-reductase and leucoanthocyanidin reductase. The best engineered strain carrying Δ pgi , Δ ppc and Δ pldA deletions accumulated up to 817 mg/L of leucocyanidin and 39 mg/L (+)-catechin in batch culture with 10 g/L glucose in modified M9 medium, a 4-fold and 2-fold increase, respectively, compared to the wild-type control.
Dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) is a key enzyme in the reduction of dihydroflavonols to leucoanthocyanidins in both anthocyanin biosynthesis and proanthocyanidin accumulation. In many plant species, it is encoded by a gene family, however, how the different copies evolve either to function in different tissues or at different times or to specialize in the use of different but related substrates needs to be further investigated, especially in monocot plants. In this study, a total of eight putative DFR-like genes were firstly cloned from Freesia hybrida. Phylogenetic analysis showed that they were classified into different branches, and FhDFR1, FhDFR2 and FhDFR3 were clustered into DFR subgroup, whereas others fell into the group with cinnamoyl-CoA reductase (CCR) proteins. Then, the functions of the three FhDFR genes were further characterized. Different spatio-temporal transcription patterns and levels were observed, indicating that the duplicated FhDFR genes might function divergently. After introducing them into Arabidopsis dfr (tt3-1) mutant plants, partial complementation of the loss of cyanidin derivative synthesis was observed, implying that FhDFRs could convert dihydroquercetin to leucocyanidin in planta. Biochemical assays also showed that FhDFR1, FhDFR2 and FhDFR3 could utilize dihydromyricetin to generate leucodelphinidin, while FhDFR2 could also catalyze the formation of leucocyanidin from dihydrocyanidin. On the contrary, neither transgenic nor biochemical analysis demonstrated that FhDFR proteins could reduce dihydrokaempferol to leucopelargonidin. These results were consistent with the freesia flower anthocyanin profiles, among which delphinidin derivatives were predominant, with minor quantities of cyanidin derivatives and undetectable pelargonidin derivatives. Thus, it can be deduced that substrate specificities of DFRs were the determinant for the categories of anthocyanins aglycons accumulated in F. hybrida. Furthermore, we also found that the divergence of the expression patterns for FhDFR genes might be controlled at transcriptional level, as the expression of FhDFR1/FhDFR2 and FhDFR3 was controlled by a potential MBW regulatory complex with different activation efficiencies. Therefore, it can be concluded that the DFR-like genes from F. hybrida have diverged during evolution to play partially overlapping roles in the flavonoid biosynthesis, and the results will contribute to the study of evolution of DFR gene families in angiosperms, especially for monocot plants.
An HPLC procedure is proposed for the determination of 12 phenolic compounds in plant tissues by reversed-phase HPLC with gradient elution and UV detection. The influence of pH, composition of the mobile phase, concentration of the organic modifier, and temperature on the separation of gallic, protocatechuic, trans-ferulic, trans-caffeic acid, rutin, quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and (_)-epicatechin for 30 min is studied. The lower limit of quantification of phenolic compounds is 1–2.5 μg/L. The procedure was applied to the determination of phenolic compounds in aqueous extracts of Hypericum perforatum; its sample was found to contain protocatechuic acid, (_)-epicatechin, and also rutin.
FIELD: nanotechnology. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to nanotechnology, namely to method of producing nanocapsules, and describes method of producing adaptogen nanocapsules. Method is characterized by fact, that quercetin or dihydroquercetin is added to suspension of xanthan gum in hexane in presence of 0.01 g of E472c surfactant, weight ratio nucleus:shell in terms of dry substance makes 1:1 or 1:3, then acetonitrile is added, while mixing at 1,000 rpm, obtained suspension is filtered and is dried at room temperature. EFFECT: method provides simplifying and accelerating the process of nanoencapsulation, while reducing accompanying loss. 1 cl, 2 dwg, 5 ex
Dihydroquercetin (DHQ) is a commercially available bioflavonoid with a wide range of pharmacological activity. The low water solubility at room temperature of the commercial drug substance limits development of DHQ-related medicines. Basic concepts of crystal engineering were used to obtain DHQ cocrystals with benzaldehyde, vanillin, cinnamaldehyde, urea, and nicotinic acid. The formation of supramolecular complexes of DHQ with the coformers was confirmed using IR spectroscopy. An estimate of the physicochemical parameters of the cocrystals established that crystal engineering was promising for obtaining new DHQ forms with improved water solubility.
Abstract Pine pollens contain an array of polyphenolic compounds. Those identified include the phenolic acids p -hydroxybenzoic, protocatechuic, gallic, vanillic, cis - and trans - p -coumaric, cis - and trans -ferulic, and 4-glucosyloxybenzoic acid; the flavanonols dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin; the flavanone naringenin; and a series of esters of p -coumaric acid which constitute the principal phenolic type present. The phenolic acids and the coumarate esters varied little with the species of pine, but the flavonoid fraction has sufficient variation to warrant further study.
12 compounds are isolated from the rhizomes of Smilax china Linn. by various column chromatographic methods,including open column and preparative HPLC. Their structures are elucidated as( 2R,3R)- dihydrokaempferol- 3- O- β- D- glucopyranoside( 1),( 2R,3R)- dihydroquercetin- 3- O- β- D- glucopyranoside( 2),astilbin( 3),isoastilbin( 4),3,5,7,3',5'- pentahydroxy-( 2R,3R)- flavanonol- 3-O- α- L- rhamnopyranoside( 5),rutin( 6),astragalin( 7),4,6- dihydroxy- 2- O-( β- D- glucopyranosyl) acetophenone( 8),methyl 2- O- β- D- glucopyranosyl- 2,4,6- trihydroxybenzoate( 9),oxyresveratrol( 10),protodioscin( 11),dioscin( 12) by spectral analysis as well as physical and chemical properties. Compounds 1,4- 5,7- 9 are obtained from S. china for the first time. In addition,based on the contrast of chemical constituents between Smilax china Linn. and Smilax glabra Roxb.,it is concluded that steroid saponins and flavonoids are the major chemical constituents of S. china,while S. glabra holds flavonoids as the major chemical constituents.
Abstract Objective Inflammation and oxidative stress are the major mechanisms implicated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced AKI. Spina Gleditsiae is a traditional Chinese anti-inflammatory medicine, from which a large number of flavonoids, such as 5-O-methyldihydroquercetin (GS1) and cilicicone B (GS2), were isolated in the present study. Here, we examined the reno-protective effects and potential underlying mechanisms of GS1 and GS2 in mice with LPS-induced AKI. Methods We analyzed renal function; the serum metabolic profile, inflammatory cytokine levels, peripheral white blood cell count, renal cell apoptosis, renal oxidant and antioxidant levels, and renal expression levels of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), TIR-domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon-β (TRIF), nuclear factor-ĸB (NF-ĸB), interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3), NOD-, LRR- and pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3, inflammasome), cleaved caspase-1, and interleukin 1 receptor type I (IL-1R1) in mice with LPS-induced AKI. Results GS1 and GS2 improved renal function and significantly reduced the levels of inflammatory cytokines and oxidative stress markers. In addition, PCA score scatter plots suggest that the GS1 and GS2 groups were clustered with the control group, indicating that these compounds contributed to the recovery of mice with AKI toward the normal condition. Moreover, GS1 and GS2 inhibited the expression of TLR4, MyD88, TRIF, p-NF-ĸB, p-IRF3, NLRP3, cleaved caspase-1, and IL-1R1. Conclusion The reno-protective effects of GS1 and GS2 are mediated via the MyD88/TRIF and NLRP3 pathways to reduce inflammation and oxidative stress through TLR4 signaling.
Dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) is a key enzyme in the reduction of dihydroflavonols to leucoanthocyanidins in both anthocyanin biosynthesis and proanthocyanidin accumulation. In many plant species, it is encoded by a gene family, however, how the different copies evolve either to function in different tissues or at different times or to specialize in the use of different but related substrates needs to be further investigated, especially in monocot plants. In this study, a total of eight putative DFR-like genes were firstly cloned from Freesia hybrida. Phylogenetic analysis showed that they were classified into different branches, and FhDFR1, FhDFR2, and FhDFR3 were clustered into DFR subgroup, whereas others fell into the group with cinnamoyl-CoA reductase (CCR) proteins. Then, the functions of the three FhDFR genes were further characterized. Different spatio-temporal transcription patterns and levels were observed, indicating that the duplicated FhDFR genes might function divergently. After introducing them into Arabidopsis dfr (tt3-1) mutant plants, partial complementation of the loss of cyanidin derivative synthesis was observed, implying that FhDFRs could convert dihydroquercetin to leucocyanidin in planta. Biochemical assays also showed that FhDFR1, FhDFR2, and FhDFR3 could utilize dihydromyricetin to generate leucodelphinidin, while FhDFR2 could also catalyze the formation of leucocyanidin from dihydrocyanidin. On the contrary, neither transgenic nor biochemical analysis demonstrated that FhDFR proteins could reduce dihydrokaempferol to leucopelargonidin. These results were consistent with the freesia flower anthocyanin profiles, among which delphinidin derivatives were predominant, with minor quantities of cyanidin derivatives and undetectable pelargonidin derivatives. Thus, it can be deduced that substrate specificities of DFRs were the determinant for the categories of anthocyanins aglycons accumulated in F. hybrida. Furthermore, we also found that the divergence of the expression patterns for FhDFR genes might be controlled at transcriptional level, as the expression of FhDFR1/FhDFR2 and FhDFR3 was controlled 
Background & objectives: Considerable efforts are being made to develop new, more effective drugs for osteoporosis, including novel forms of bisphosphonates. The present study was carried out to compare the effect of a novel agent glucosamine alendronate (GA) alone and is combination with dihydroquercetin (DHQ) against the effect of a known drug alendronate (ALN) in the senescence-accelerated OXYS rats as model of osteoporosis.
FIELD: medicine. SUBSTANCE: drug contains mixed dihydroquercetin, arabinogalactan and ascorbic acid taken in mass ratio 1: (16-18):1 respectively. The drug can be tabletted. EFFECT: drug exhibits good tolerance with no adverse and allergic reactions. 5 tbl, 2 cl
Mixed acyl dihydroquercetin derivatives were synthesized for the first time. The cytotoxicity of the acylation products of this flavonoid was determined against cultures of HeLa tumor cells and murine fibroblasts.
Spatholobus suberectus belongs to family: Leguminosae used for the management of several disorders such as rheumatism, anemia and abnormal menstruation traditionally in China (Lam et al, 2000; Li et al, 2003; Yen, 1992) . Reported study suggested that several compounds like butin, liquiritigenin, dihydroquercetin, plathymenin, eriodictyol and neoisoliquiritigenin were been isolated from stem of SS (Lee et al, 2006) . A study on stem extract of SS effectively manages cerebral ischemia by attenuating NF-κB p65 and cytokines and thereby prevents the DNA damage (Zhang et al, 2016) . Moreover studies like anti rheumatic, anti inflammatory, antioxidant and anti platelet activity of SS are reported in the literature (Zhang et al, 2016) . Thus this study evaluates the synergistic effect of Spatholobus suberectus extract when treated with heparin in pancreatitis.
Acacia catechu also known as cutch tree belongs to family Fabacea (Leguminosae) 1 . It contains many biologically active constituents like catechin, epicatechin, kaempferol, dihydrokaempferol, quercetin, dihydroquercetin 2 , catechutannic acid, tannins 3 etc. Catechin presents in Acacia catechu possess significant antioxidant and antimicrobial effect 4 . It also possesses cyclooxygenase-2 and 5-lipoxygenase enzyme inhibitory effect which are ultimately responsible for rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, alzeimer's disease and certain type of cancer 5 . Epicatechin improves the blood flow which has potential for cardiac health 6 . Low concentrations of condensed tannins suppress the growth of MCF-7 breast cancer cells, and effect was related to their activity of fatty acid synthase (FAS) inhibition 7 .
Flower color has always been of great interest from both floricultural and marketing point of views (Katsumoto et al. 2007) . Cyanidin, delphinidin and pelargonidin are major anthocyanidins considered responsible for various flower colors (Fig. 1 ). These compounds possess a different number of hydroxyl groups at their B-ring and as a result, the natural or artificial modification of the B-ring by hydroxylation could lead to changes in flower color. Flavonoid 3 0 -hydroxylase (F3 0 H) and flavonoid 3 0 5 0 hydroxylase (F3 0 5 0 H), which are P450 enzymes, catalyze hydroxylation of the anthocyanin B-ring. The main substrates for B-ring hydroxylation are naringenin and dihydrokaempferol (DHK) (Forkmann and Martens 2001) . More specifically, the enzymes coded by the F3 0 H and F3 0 5 0 H genes convert DHK to dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin intermediates, respectively. Then, dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) catalyzes the reduction of the produced intermediates to cyanidin and delphinidin based anthocyanins, respectively (Holton and Cornish 1995; Tanaka 2006; Nishihara and Nakatsuka 2010) .
A correlation was revealed between the specific activity of peroxidases and their multiple forms during the germination of soya seeds (Glycine max (L.) Merrill) in the presence of heavy metal salts. It was shown that lead and cadmium sulfates cause emergence of new forms of the enzyme with high electrophoretic mobility, which indicates that the identified enzyme forms are involved in the molecular mechanism of adaptation to oxidative stress. Addition of taxifolin (dihydroquercetin), a bioflavonoid antioxidant, to the salts of heavy metals caused decrease in the specific activity of peroxidases and favored emergence of new forms of the enzyme, which were absent in the control samples.
We report here the first identification and assay of several phenolic compounds in the dwarf Labrador tea growing in various areas of the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District, using HPLC. Nine phenolic compounds were identified, these being flavonoids, phenolcarbonic acids, catechols, and tannins: tannin, epicatechin, gallic, chlorogenic, and caffeic acids, and the flavonoids vitexin, rutin, dihydroquercetin, and luteolin-7-glycoside. Investigations of the dwarf Labrador tea may be of interest for its further study with the aim of broadening the native raw materials base for this medicinal material. The presence of tannin, gallic acid, and vitexin in significant quantities in this material suggests that dwarf Labrador tea shoots may have a wide spectrum of pharmacological activity.
Effects of different inhibitors of lipid peroxidation (LP), such as sulphur-containing oligoquinone hypoxen, natural flavonoid dihydroquercetin (DHQ), and β-ionol, on Ca2+-induced calcium release from rat liver mitochondria (RLM) were investigated during oxidation of various substrates. The hypothesis about interrelation between antioxidant properties and influence of selected substances on spontaneous calcium release from mitochondria was verified. Degree of antioxidant activity of the selected substances was estimated by the inhibition of LP induced by Fe2+/ATP complex in phospholipid emulsion or in rat liver mitochondria (RLM). According to the inhibition efficacy the investigated substances were ordered as follows: β-ionol ≫ hypoxen > DHQ. 50% inhibition of oxygen consumption during LP of phospholipid emulsion was reached in presence of 3.2 ± 0.6 μM of β-ionol, 15.0 ± 1.1 μM of hypoxen, or 19.8 ± 1.7 μM of DHQ. Among the investigated antioxidants hypoxen only decreased spontaneous release of calcium from RLM after calcium accumulation by RLM. The impact of the antioxidants onto calcium current depended on the oxidized substrate. Hypoxen effect was most expressed during the oxidation of NAD-dependent substrate. The direct relationship between the antioxidant activity of the selected antioxidants and their influence on calcium transport in RLM was not revealed. The results indicate that the choice of antiischemic preparations should not only rely on their antioxidant activities.
Flavonoid analysis and supplementation experiments with dihydroflavonols and leucocyanidin on two cyanic, two acyanic and one white/red-variegated flowering strain of Dianthus caryophyllus (carnation) showed that in the acyanic strains recessive alleles (aa) of the gene A interrupt the anthocyanin pathway between dihydroflavonols and leucoanthocyanidins. The instability in the variegated strain involves the same step and is obviously caused by the multiple allele a var . In confirmation of these results, dihydroflavonol 4-reductase activity could be demonstrated in enzyme extracts from cyanic flowers and cyanic parts of variegated flowers but not in preparations from acyanic flowers or acyanic parts. The enzyme catalyzes the stereospecific reduction of (+)dihydrokaempferol to (+)-3,4-leucopelargonidin with NADPH as cofactor. A pH optimum around 7.0 and a temperature optimum at 30° C was determined, but the reduction reaction also proceeded at low temperatures. (+)Dihydroquercetin and (+)dihydromyricetin were also reduced to the respective flavan-3,4-cis-diols by the enzyme preparations from carnation flowers, and were even better substrates than dihydrokaempferol.
Abstract Seventeen flavonoids, including seven new natural products, were isolated from a dichloromethane extract of Wyethia angustifolia . Known compounds are:8- C -prenyleriodictyol, 6- C -prenyleriodictyol, 8- C -prenylnaringenin, 6-C-prenylnaringenin, orobol 7-methyl ether, orobol 3′-methyl ether, naringenin 4′-methyl ether, orobol, eriodictyol and naringenin. The new compounds are 6- C -prenylorobol, 6- C -prenylorobol 3′-methyl ether, orobol 7,3′-dimethyl ether, 8- C -prenyldihydroisorhamnetin, 7,8-dihydrooxepinocriodictyol, 7,8-dihydrooxepinodihydroquercetin and 3′,4′-dihydrooxepino-6′-hydroxybutein. A dichloromethane extract of Wyethia heleniodes yielded eleven compounds only five of which were previously reported from the species. All these compounds appear to occur on the leaf surface.
A sensitive and selective ultra high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric (UHPLC-MS/MS) method for the determination of phlorizin and phloretin in human plasma has been firstly developed. Samples were prepared after protein precipitation and analyzed on a C18 column interfaced with a triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometer. Negative electrospray ionization was employed as the ionization source. The mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile-water (0.02% formic acid), using a gradient procedure. The analytes and internal standard dihydroquercetin were both detected by use of multiple reaction monitoring mode. The method was linear in the concentration range of 2.5-1000.0 ng/mL. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) was 2.5 ng/mL. The intra- and inter-day relative standard deviation across three validation runs over the entire concentration range was less than 9.2%. The accuracy determined at three concentrations was within ± 7.3% in terms of relative error. The total run time was 12.0 min. This assay offers advantages in terms of expediency, and suitability for the analysis of phlorizin and phloretin in various biological fluids.
DFR catalyses the last common step in the flavonoid pathway leading to anthocyanins and pro-anthocyanidins (Fig. 1) . In general, this enzyme catalyses the conversion of dihydroflavonols dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin and dihydromyrecitin to the flavan-3, 4-cis-diols leucopelargonidin, leucocyanidin and leucodelphinidin, respectively, which are the intermediate precursors for the respective anthocyanidins (Meyer et al., 1987) . Here we report on the isolation and partial structural characterisation of the azalea chs and dfr cDNA clones.
We report the first asymmetric, total synthesis of (−)-isosilybin A. A late-stage catalytic biomimetic cyclization of a highly functionalized chalcone is employed to form the characteristic benzopyranone ring. A robust and flexible approach to this chalcone provides an entry to the preparation of the entire isomeric family of silybin natural products. M ilk thistle (Silybum marianum) has been used for centuries for the treatment of liver disorders and as a hepatoprotectant. 1 The extracts of the fruit (achenes) are known as silymarin and consist of a complex mixture of flavonolignans and flavonoids including silybin A, silybin B, isosilybin A, isosilybin B, silychristin, isosilychristin, silydianin, and dihydroquercetin, also known as taxifolin. 2 Our interest in these compounds is driven by the limited efficient asymmetric approaches for their construction, 3 their promising activity against prostate cancer, 4 and our ongoing translational interest in this area. 5 The members of the silybin family share a functionalized benzopyranone core, but differ in a benzodioxane core that is differentially substituted to produce regioisomers with complementary diastereomers (Figure 1 ). 6 While gram quantities of each isomer can be isolated via arduous processes, 7 no general and flexible stereoselective routes to these molecules exist, which prohibits a detailed, molecularly driven understanding of their promising pharmacology. 8 Flavanolignans such as the silybin isomers originate from the cyclization of a chalcone to a stereodefined flavanone by chalcone isomerase (CHI) in an estimated S/R ratio of 100 000:1 (ee = 99.998%). 9 In nature, these simple flavanones are then further processed and functionalized to produce a vast array of flavonoids. 10 Given that the diversity-generating biosynthetic pathway occurs after CHI cyclization, our initial interest was to explore a general synthesis strategy that could regio-and stereoselectively produce each silybin member. In contrast to a general route following an early cyclization to the flavanone core followed by functionalization (biosynthesis), we considered that a late-stage, biomimetic cyclization could enable the stereoselective synthesis of the silybin isomers (chemical synthesis). 11 A major challenge to our approach would be the limited stereoselective methods to access complex flavanones from 2′-hydroxy chalcones in a manner similar to CHI. 3, 12 Our unified strategy to construct each member of the silybin family follows a biomimetic approach inspired by CHI, specifically the cyclization of an appropriate 2′-hydroxy chalcone substrate to forge the characteristic benzopyranone. 13 Of the two different regioisomeric pairs (silybins A, B and isosilybins A, B), we selected the isosilybins as initial targets to pursue due to their superior activity against prostate cancer. The chalcone precursor requires (1) an aldol condensation between a sterically congested 2′,4′,6′-trisubstituted acetophenone and a 1,4-benzodioxane aldehyde and (2) careful orchestration of the alcohol/ether stereocenters in the aldehyde fragment 3 (Figure 1) . Subsequent chalcone cyclization studies by Hintermann 14 toward flavanones and additional investigations by our group 15 have also provided key information about the subtle yet crucial aspects of conformational and electronic factors of the 2′,4′,6′-trisubstituted aryl ring vs typical 2′-monosubstituted substrates. 3 Reported herein is the first asymmetric, total synthesis of (−)-isosilybin A.
The present study was designed to establish and optimize a method for extracting natural bioactive compounds from Thymus serpyllum which possess antioxidant, antimicrobial, antispasmodic and stimulant properties. Ultrasound-assisted extraction (UAE) is a wellestablished method in the processing of plant material, particularly for extraction of bioactive substances such as polyphenols. The influential factors including extraction time (3, 7 and 10 min), solid:solvent ratio (1:10, 1:20 and 1:30) and particle size (0.3, 0.7 and 1.5 mm), have been studied to optimize the extraction process, while using 30% ethanol as an extraction medium and amplitude set to 65%. The yield of UAE was expressed via total phenol content and antioxidant activity of the obtained extracts. The optimum process parameters were found to be: extraction time, 3 min; solid:solvent ratio, 1:30; particle size, 0.3 mm. Under these conditions, the yield of total polyphenols was raised up to 23.03 mg/L GA and the highest antioxidant activity was recorded (10.32 mmol/mg Trolox and IC 50 of 3.00 mg/ml). Lamiaceae family represents an important component of Mediterranean shrub vegetation, especially in dry and arid environments. Thymus species grow wild in the Mediterranean environment and there are several ecotypes which are different in morphology and highly chemically polymorphic [1, 2] . The number of species within this genus is depending on taxonomical point of view and usually assumed to be larger than 200 [3] . The diversity of biological activities of these plants may be a consequence of their rich chemical diversity. Thymus serpyllum, well-known as wild thyme is perennial, herbaceous plant of genus Thymus and possesses aromatic, antiseptic, analgesic, diuretic, diaphoretic, carminative, antioxidant, spasmolytic, anti-inflammatory and stimulant properties. Also, it has been used in mouth washes and gargles and against cough and cold because of antimicrobial activities of its extracts [4] . The main components of T. serpyllum are essential oils (44.4% carvacrol, 14% o-cymene, 6.47% α-terpineol, 6.06% α-pinene and 5.25% β-caryophyllene), phenolic acids (mainly rosmarinic, caffeic and chlorogenic acid) and flavonoids (naringenin, dihydroquercetin, apigenin, eriodictyol, quercetin and rutin). These sec- ondary metabolites play important biological roles and possess pharmacological effects including antioxidant and anticarcinogenic activities, protection against coronary diseases (prevention of atherosclerosis, antiarrhythmic and antihypertensive effect), lipid lowering activity, effect on central nervous system, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory and analgesic activities [4] [5] [6] . Content of polyphenolics and their structure (the number and position of the hydroxyl groups in a molecule) significantly influence the pharmacological properties of medicinal plants. Water, methanol and ethanol are the most frequently used solvents for extraction of polyphenolics from plant material. One of the frequently applied techniques for extraction of active compounds is extraction in the Soxhlet apparatus. Due to the relatively long extraction time and to the considerable amounts of the samples and consumed solvents, this technique tends to be replaced by more modern extraction methods [7] . In this study, dry flowering aerial part of T. serpyllum (Serpylli herba) was evaluated as a source of polyphenolic compounds, which are extracted by the application of ultrasound probe instead of the traditional ways of extraction (maceration, percolation, Soxhlet). Ultrasound extraction has become a good alternative extraction method when compared to classical methods due to its high efficiency, low energy, shortening of extraction time and solvent consumption. Ultrasound assisted extraction is a well-established method in the processing of
Spine grape (Vitis davidii Foex) is an important wild grape species in South China. Recently, some researchers attempted to convert its juice to wine, but the phenolic profiles of the spine grape wines are unknown. In this study, five cultivars of spine grape from Chongyi County, China, were used to produce wines using exactly the same technology. And the phenolic profiles of these young spine grape wines were assessed by high performance liquid chromatography coupled with diode array detector and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (HPLC-DAD/ESI-MS). The results showed that anthocyanins mainly exist as the diglucoside form of anthocyanidins and malvidin-3,5-diglucoside was the most abundant anthocyanin. Similar to most vinifera wines, flavan-3-ols were the major class of phenolic compounds present in spine grape wines. Quercetin-3-rhamnoside was the main singular flavonol. In addition, syringetin-3-glucoside and dihydroquercetin-3-hexoside were the characteristic flavonols of red and white spine grape wines, respectively. With regard to phenolic acids, coutaric acid and fertaric acid are dominant phenolic acids. Within these spine grape wines, Yishan wines showed the most different features regarding practically all of the phenolic profiles.
Abstract A number of triterpenoids including α- and β-amyrin acetates, 3β-monocaprylic ester of erythrodiol, 3β-capryloxy oleanolic acid and an acetate, have been isolated from the mesocarp of Madhuca latifolia fruit. The other constituents isolated and characterized are n -hexacosanol, β- D -glucoside of β-sitosterol and free β-sitosterol. The nut-shell extract yielded β- D -glucoside of β-sitosterol, quercetin and dihydroquercetin.
Using quercetin and dihydroquercetin as examples, it has been shown that the adsorption of flavonoids increases with a decrease in the polarity of the solvent and depends on the molecular weight of the polyamide sorbent. The presence of a double bond in quercetin leads to a higher sorption activity than the dihydroquercetin.
The effects of natural polyphenols, resveratrol (RES) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ), included in phospholipid nanoparticles, have been compared with free substances of RES and DHQ in in vitro and in vivo experiments. Preincubation of healthy donor plasma low density lipoproteins (LDL) with RES or DHQ included in phospholipid nanoparticles caused a more pronounced decrease in Cu2+ induced lipid oxidation compared with the free substances, and reduced the formation of lipid peroxides products. Bioavailabilities of RES and DHQ in phospholipid formulations after oral administration in rats were increased by 1.5-2 times. In an acute hypoxia model in mice prophylactic two-week administration of RES or DHQ phospholipid formulations resulted in 25% increase in survival and 1.5-fold increase in catalase activity in brain homogenates compared to free substances. Using the model of endothelial dysfunction in rats induced by L-NAME it was shown, that RES markedly attenuated the inhibition effect of L-NAME on NO synthesis. RES in phospholipid nanoparticles had the same action at a dose 10 times lower compared to free RES. Load test with resistance (clamping of the ascending aorta for 30 sec) showed that phospholipid formulation of RES possessed more pronounced protective effect due to the stimulation of endothelial NO-synthase.
It is shown that model reactions of photosensitized oxidation of anthracene and tryptophan can be used for evaluation and comparison of antioxidant activity of various classes of compounds. Inhibition of the oxidation of substrates in the presence of the familiar antioxidants tocopherol (vitamin E), ascorbic acid (vitamin C), and mixtures of these vitamins with methionine, and in the presence of reputed antioxidants dihydroquercetin and taurine, are considered. It is concluded that all of the above compounds except for taurine have antioxidant properties; i.e., they reduce the rate constants of the photosensitized oxidation of anthracene and tryptophan. It is found that the inhibition of oxidation is associated with the interaction between antioxidants and singlet oxygen. Analysis of the kinetic dependences of the photosensitized oxidation of substrates in the presence of antioxidants reveals that a mixture of vitamins inhibits the process most efficiently, and inhibition occurs at the initial stages due to more active interaction between singlet oxygen and vitamin C
Objective To study the phenolic acids from the seed coats of Glycine max. Methods The chemical constituents in the acid water extract from the seed coats of G. max were isolated and purified by chromatographic methods, including macroporous resin, silica gel, ODS, Sephadex LH-20, Toyopearl HW-40, and MCI columns, as well as semi-preparation HPLC. The structures of the isolated compounds were elucidated based on physicochemical properties and spectroscopies, such as ESI-MS,1H-NMR, and13C-NMR. Results Eleven compounds were obtained from the acid water extract and identified as cyanidin-3-O-glucoside(1), methyl caffeate(2), 3-methoxy-4, 5-dihydroxy methyl benzoate(3), protocatechuic acid methyl ester(4), protocatechuic acid ethyl ester(5), 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy benzoic acid(6), 3-methoxy gallic acid(7), dihydroquercetin(8), protocatechuic acid(9), protocateuic acid anhydrite(10), and epicatechin(11). Conclusion Compounds 2—10 are isolated from the plants in Glycine Wild. for the first time.
Mediterranean sea squill (Drimia maritima (L.) Stearn) is used in the production of medicinal products. Current HPLC methods comprise tedious sample clean-up and have been merely focused on the analysis of cardiac glycosides, whereas a thorough characterization of D. maritima considering both the latter compound class and more hydrophilic secondary metabolites in one HPLC run has not been performed so far. Consequently, a novel HPLC-DAD-MSn method has been developed allowing the simultaneous determination of both cardiac glycosides and phenolic compounds, which is characterized by simplified sample preparation. This method was applied to characterize sea squill, revealing a complex profile of its extractive compounds derived from the two classes. Furthermore, the potential of the method reported here to quantitate the predominant compounds, i.e., dihydroquercetin derivatives and bufadienolides, was demonstrated. The occurrence of phenolic compounds, not described for sea squill so far, and of characteristic compounds specific to individual plant parts or vegetation stages was further addressed. The data revealed that classification of various vegetation phases based on quantitative evaluation of bufadienolides and dihydroquercetin derivatives applying principal component analysis (PCA) appears possible. Thus, the methodology presented here forms the basis for future routine application in quality control of raw materials and pharmaceutical preparations derived from sea squill. This will allow systematic comparison of different plant parts, vegetation stages and origins based on an extended sample set.
Onion (Allium cepa L.) is one of the world's oldest and most widely cultivated vegetables which has great economic importance, particularly in Asia and Europe (Griffiths et al. 2002) . Previous studies on the health benefits of onion reported that bulbs are rich in two main groups of chemical compounds: Salk(en)yl-L-cysteine sulfoxides and flavonoids (Crozier et al. 1997; Griffiths et al. 2002) . Flavonoids are a diverse class of polyphenolic compounds. In onion, the flavonols quercetin, isorhamnetin, and kaempferol derivatives are present; it is a subgroup of flavonoids (Bilyk et al. 1984) . They typically occur glycosylated with sugars such as glucose. The main flavonols in onion have been determined as quercetin-3,4′-di-O-β-D-glucoside (QDG) and quercetin-4′-O-β-D-glucoside (QMG), both making up to 80-85% of the total flavonoid content Rhodes and Price 1996) . Flavonoids have received considerable attention based on their many functions in plants, including protection against ultraviolet radiation, regulation of auxin transport, and modulation of flower color (Buer et al. 2010) . They also may act as signaling molecules involved in plant defense mechanisms against fungal pathogen attack or directly as plant defense agents (Bi et al. 2007; Mandal et al. 2010) . Chalcone synthase (CHS) is a key enzyme in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway and therefore is involved with the biosynthesis of dihydroquercetin where the pathway divides into the formation of the anthocyanidin cyanidin and the flavonol quercetin. Quercetin is formed by flavonol synthase (FLS) and further transformed to the glucosides by the appropriate quercetin-4′-O-glucosyl transferase and quercetin-3,4′-O-glucosyl transferase (Materska 2008; Petrussa et al. 2013) .
The biosynthetic pathway that leads to anthocyanin formation has been well established and is conserved over a wide range of plants (Fig. 1) (Schijlen et al., 2004) . In anthurium, Collette et al. (2004) cloned and characterized the expression of four genes encoding key enzymes within the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway, CHS, F3H, DFR, and ANS and demonstrated that the CHS, F3H, and ANS genes were coordinately controlled, whereas DFR was controlled by a distinct regulatory mechanism. A subsequent genetic study (Elibox and Umaharan, 2008) showed that three loci, R, O, and M determined the major spathe colors in anthurium where the R and O loci controlled whether anthocyanins were produced or not and the M locus determined the type of anthocyanins, whether cyanidin or pelargonidin derivatives. It was postulated that the R and O genes encoded transcription factors that regulated the CHS, F3H, and ANS genes and the DFR gene, respectively, while M encoded the F3#H enzyme that converts dihydrokaempferol to dihydroquercetin, a precursor for cyanidin derivatives (Elibox and Umaharan, 2008) . More recent studies have shown that CHS is regulated independently of F3H and ANS and that the R gene controlled the expression of F3H and ANS, whereas the O gene controlled the expression of DFR (Avila- Rostant et al., 2011; Gopaulchan et al., 2014) . Moreover, a partial sequence of the F3#H gene was cloned and shown to be a likely candidate for M through expression analysis (Gopaulchan et al., 2014) .
Quercetin 3'-O-sulfate is one of the main metabolites of the natural flavonoid quercetin in humans. This study was designed to prepare quercetin 3'-O-sulfate (1), isoquercitrin 4'-O-sulfate (2) and taxifolin 4'-O-sulfate (3) by the sulfation of quercetin, isoquercitrin (quercetin 3-O-glucoside) and taxifolin (2,3-dihydroquercetin) using the arylsulfate sulfotransferase from Desulfitobacterium hafniense, and to examine the effect of sulfation on selected biological properties of the flavonoids tested. We found that flavonoid sulfates 1-3 were weaker DPPH radical scavengers than the corresponding nonsulfated flavonoids, and that 1-3, unlike quercetin, did not induce the expression of either heme oxygenase-1 in RAW264.7 cells or cytochrome P450 1A1 in HepG2 cells. In both cell types, the cell uptake of compounds 1-3 was much lower than that of quercetin, but comparable to that of the glycoside isoquercitrin. Moreover, HPLC/MS metabolic profiling in HepG2 cells showed that flavonoid sulfates 1-3 were metabolized to a limited extent compared to the nonsulfated compounds. We conclude that sulfation of the tested flavonoids reduces their antiradical activity, and affects their cell uptake and biological activity in vitro.
The determination accuracy of flavonoids in larch using three kinds of spectrophotometry methods was compared on the basis of determination of dihydroquercetin in larch using HPLC.Results indicated that direct determination of flavoniods in larch exhibited more accuracy than Al(NO3)3 and AlCl3 colorimetry.The linear equation was Y = 53.2714X + 0.0153(r = 0.9999).The excellent linear was shown in the range of 0.004-0.024 mg/ml.The relative standard deviation of this determination method was 1.36% and average recovery rate was 99.9%.
A distribution of extractive substances by height on the trunk and radius of the wood of the Siberian larch (Larix sibirica Ledeb.) was investigated. The maximum flavonoid content in terms of dihydroquercetin (the main flavonoid of the larch wood) was shown to be in the butt part of the tree. In the radial direction, this parameter increased from the center to periphery of the heartwood and reached the maximum value at the sapwood boundary. The maximum content of arabinogalactan (AG) was observed in the bottom and in the top of the trunk. The distribution of the extractive substances was studied in roots of the Siberian larch for the first time.
The transition metal ions can endorse an extensive range of coordination numbers, geometries, and oxidation states in comparison with other main group elements. The great potential value of nding or creating new antioxidant classes has already encouraged researchers to study for the metal-derived antioxidants. However, the antioxidant capacity of metal complexes is still not evident. Indeed, several experimental data in the literature reveals that avonoid complexes are more effective radical scavengers than free avonoids. 6 The enhanced activity was reported for the Fe(II), Fe(III), Cu(II) and Zn(II) complexes of rutin, epicatechin and dihydroquercetin. 7, 8 On the other hand, the role of avonoids as pro-oxidant agents, especially in cancer cell lines, has been the subject of research for decades.
We have shown in the past that inducible Hsp70 is critically involved in the protection against cellular injury in pancreatic acinar cells (23, 24) . In the present study, we have studied whether Hsp70 is involved in the resistance to apoptosis of pancreatic cancer cells, a cell type resembling pancreatic duct cells rather than acinar cells. Our approach was to assess the expression of Hsp70 in pancreatic tumor cells and compare it to nontumorous pancreatic ductal cells. Based on those findings, we show induction of apoptosis after inhibition of Hsp70 in tumor cells by quercetin and no apoptosis when the inactive analogue dihydroquercetin is used. Hsp72-specific short interfering RNA (siRNA) also induced apoptosis via a selective down-regulation of the inducible form of Hsp70. These findings identify an essential role of Hsp70 in the resistance to apoptosis of pancreatic cancer cells.
It is shown through reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography that a characteristic feature of such abundant natural flavonoids as flavon-3-ols is an anomalously strong antibate dependence of their retention indices (RI) on the organic solvent concentration (C) in the eluent, dRI/dC < 0. In order to interpret this anomaly, the specific optical rotation values [α] D 20 of natural (+)-(2R,3R)-dihydroquercetin in different solvents are compared, confirming the reverse formation of hydrated flavonoids in aqueous solutions.
AbstractThe objective of the paper was to investigate the chemical composition of Inula helenium roots extracts and to evaluate the antioxidant potential conferred by the chemical constituents. GC/MS and HPLC/MS techniques were used to characterize two extracts separated from Inula helenium roots by extraction with chloroform and ethyl acetate, respectively. Volatile compounds have been identified by GC from their mass spectra and retention time values, while HPLC identification of phenolic compounds was realized by comparing their retention times, UV and MS spectra with those of standards or literature data. Measurements of antioxidant activity of Inula helenium root extracts showed a variation between them, which can be correlated with the flavonoid and total phenolic contents. Both Inula helenium root extracts contain phenolic acids (caffeic, chlorogenic, dicaffeoyl quinic, hydroxibenzoic), terpenes (alantolactone) and different flavonoids (epicatechin, catechin gallate, ferulic acid-4-O-glucoside, dihydroquercetin pentosyl rutinoside, kaempherol-7-O-dipentoside, quercetin-3-O-β-glucopyranoside). In addition, the study provides preliminary data on the anti-inflammatory activity of Inula helenium root extracts, this being evaluated using the fresh egg albumin as phlogistic agent, and aspirin as reference compound. Root extracts of I. helenium did not exert any significant anti-inflammatory effect on egg albumin-induced rat paw edema.
Abstract Stress-responsive dihydroxy flavonoids exhibit capability to inhibit the accretion of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The formation of these dihydroxy flavonols is catalyzed by flavonoid hydroxylases which are among the rate limiting enzymes of flavonoid biosynthesis pathway. Although flavonoid hydroxylases have been identified in several plant species but their role in abiotic stress is not explicitly documented. In the present study we report identification of all the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway genes of Crocus sativus and their expression profiling. We also report functional characterization of flavonoid 3′ hydroxylase (CsF3′H) and attempt to explore its physiological role in vitro and in planta. The results indicated that CsF3′H is 1608 bp long encoding 535 amino acids. Docking and enzyme kinetic studies revealed that CsF3′H catalyzes hydroxylation of naringenin and dihydrokaempferol to eriodictoyl and dihydroquercetin respectively, but exhibits higher affinity for naringenin. Further, CsF3′H showed comparatively higher expression in floral tissues particularly stigma and its expression was significantly enhanced in response to UV-B, dehydration and salinity stress indicative of its role in stress. The expression of CsF3′H was associated with concomitant accumulation of eriodictoyl and dihydroquercetin. Transient overexpression of CsF3′H in Nicotiana benthamiana leads to the accumulation of substantial amounts of eriodictoyl and dihydroquercetin. Further, it was observed that transient expression of CsF3′H conferred tolerance to UV-B and dehydration stress as was evident from higher chlorophyll and soluble sugar and lower MDA contents. Taken together, these results suggest that CsF3′H confers tolerance to UV-B and dehydration in planta through synthesis of dihydroflavonols.
An ultrasound and microwave assisted alternant extraction method (UMAE) was applied for extracting dihydroquercetin (DHQ) from Larix gmelinii wood. This investigation was conducted using 60% ethanol as solvent, 1:12 solid to liquid ratio, and 3 h soaking time. The optimum treatment time was ultrasound 40 min, microwave 20 min, respectively, and the extraction was performed once. Under the optimized conditions, satisfactory extraction yield of the target analyte was obtained. Relative to ultrasound-assisted or microwave-assisted method, the proposed approach provides higher extraction yield. The effect of DHQ of different concentrations and synthetic antioxidants on oxidative stability in soy bean oil stored for 20 days at different temperatures (25 °C and 60 °C) was compared. DHQ was more effective in restraining soy bean oil oxidation, and a dose-response relationship was observed. The antioxidant activity of DHQ was a little stronger than that of BHA and BHT. Soy bean oil supplemented with 0.08 mg/g DHQ exhibited favorable antioxidant effects and is preferable for effectively avoiding oxidation. The L. gmelinii wood samples before and after extraction were characterized by scanning electron microscopy. The results showed that the UMAE method is a simple and efficient technique for sample preparation.
Peroxidation processes in male outbred albino rats were studied 1, 2, and 3 months after 90-fold administration of dihydroquercetin in doses of 86, 860, and 3000 mg/kg and flavonoid rutin (reference preparation) in a dose of 86 mg/kg. Dihydroquercetin in a dose of 86 mg/kg was as potent as rutin in modulating the process of peroxidation. Changes in the nonenzymatic antioxidant system and activation of lipid peroxidation were not observed in the delayed period after administration of dihydroquercetin.
Abstract Reconstituted collagen fibrils obtained from neutral-salt soluble type I collagen of lathyritic rat skin are incubated at 37° with flavanoids, dihydroquercetin, rutin, naringin and mainly (+)-catechin, alone or in presence of cupric ions. The influence of these compounds on the solubility, thermal stability and cross-links of the collagen fibrils is studied. With (+)-catechin, collagen fibrils become insoluble, but their thermal stability is only slightly modified. In presence of (+)-catechin-Cu(II) complex, collagen fibrils become totally insoluble and their thermal stability increases with formation of many cross links precursors (allysine and hydroxyallysine) and reducible cross-links (hydroxylysinonorleucine and lysinonorleucine). These last compounds are also found with the other flavonoids. The formation of these compounds indicates the oxidative desamination of lysine and hydroxylysine residues of collagen molecules by flavonoid and Cu(II) mixture. This reaction has also been observed with type II collagen and with albumin and is not specific to connective tissue proteins.
Objective To investigate the chemical constituents of Diaphragma juglandis Fructus.Methods The compounds were isolated and purified by column chromatography and their structures were elucidated on the basis of physical characteristics and spectral data.Results Twelve compounds were isolated and their structures were identified as juglanin A(1),juglanin D(2),gallic acid(3),progallin A(4),protocatechuic acid(5),quercetin(6),dihydroquercetin(7),catechin(8),quercitrin(9),quercetin-3-O-(6''-galloyl)-β-D-galactopyranoside(10),β-sitosterol(11) and daucosterol(12).Conclusion Compound 1,5,6,9,10 and 12 can be isolated from Diaphragma juglandis Fructus for the first time.
The method of determination dihydroquercetin in Larch by HPLC was established in this thesis.The following HPLC conditions are the best:column:Hypersil ODS-C18(4.6 mm×200 mm,5μm);mobile phase:V(methano1):V(wate)r:V(glacial acetica acid)= 40:59:1,flow rate:1.0 mL.min-1;detection wavelength:288 nm;temperature:28℃.Dihydroquercetin separated thoroughly from other components on this condition,the linearity of Dihydroquercetin was obtained within the range of 0.02 μg.μL-1(r=0.9998),the average recovery was 100.4% with relative standard deviations of 0.96 %.
Safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L. Compositae), a dicotyledonous plant, serves as an important traditional Chinese herb. It is not only used for medicinal purposes, but also as a food supplement in various kinds of nutritional oil. Safflower has been valued historically for its abundant Flavonoids content, fatty acids, various phenolic compounds, and lignin product (Dai et al. 2013) . Flavonoids are one of the most important phenolic compounds Yaginuma et al. 2003) . Flavonoids are widely distributed class of plant producing secondary metabolites linked with a variety of metabolic functions in plants. Among secondary metabolites, the biosynthesis pathway used to produce flavonoid compounds is one of the most thoroughly elucidated metabolic pathways. In Arabidopsis, flavonoids are synthesized naturally by catalyzing p-coumaroyl-CoA and 3 malonyl-CoA molecules with the help of chalcone synthase (CHS) which is prearranged on TT4 locus. The first product in this stepwise condensation manner is naringenin chalcone, which is then undergoing isomerization via chalcone isomerase (CHI) to form naringenin (Fig. 1) . The second product (naringenin) is considered the basic intermediate of the flavonoid pathway. Following other metabolic routes during flavonoid metabolism naringenin is further converted to dihydrokaempferol with the help of flavanone 3-hydroxylase enzyme (F3H) encoded by TT6 locus. Further stepwise hydroxylation of dihydrokaempferol can lead to the formation of dihydroquercetin by flavanone 3′-hydroxylase (F3′H). The aforementioned two important intermediates can be converted to other distinct groups of flavonoids such as anthocyanins, and flavonols (Jiang et al. 2015) and phenylalanines with the help of a complex group of multienzymes including anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), flavonol synthase (FLS), dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), UDP-glucosyltransferase (UGT ) and anthocyanidin reductase (ANR) (Jiang et al. 2015; Meng et al. 2015) .
Abstract: An ultrasound and microwave assisted alternant extraction method (UMAE) was applied for extracting dihydroquercetin (DHQ) from Larix gmelinii wood. This investigation was conducted using 60% ethanol as solvent, 1:12 solid to liquid ratio, and 3 h soaking time. The optimum treatment time was ultrasound 40 min, microwave 20 min, respectively, and the extraction was performed once. Under the optimized conditions, satisfactory extraction yield of the target analyte was obtained. Relative to ultrasound-assisted or microwave-assisted method, the proposed approach provides higher extraction yield. The effect of DHQ of different concentrations and synthetic antioxidants on oxidative stability in soy bean oil stored for 20 days at different temperatures (25 °C and 60 °C) was compared. DHQ was more effective in restraining soy bean oil oxidation, and a dose-response relationship was observed. The antioxidant activity of DHQ was a little stronger than that of BHA and BHT. Soy bean oil supplemented with 0.08 mg/g DHQ exhibited favorable antioxidant effects and is preferable for effectively avoiding oxidation. The L. gmelinii wood samples before and after extraction were characterized by scanning electron microscopy. The results showed that the UMAE method is a simple and efficient technique for sample preparation.
The biosynthesis and accumulation of anthocyanins are determined by metabolic networks correlated with the expression of several genes and regulatory factors [22] . During the past decades, extensive studies have been conducted to elucidate the biosynthetic pathway of anthocyanins in plants. Progressively, it has become evident that the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway is a very well conserved network in plant species [23] . It starts with the chalcone synthase (CHS) mediated synthesis of naringenin chalcone from 4-coumaroyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA. Then, naringenin chalcone is isomerized by chalcone isomerase (CHI) to naringenin. Flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H) converts naringenin into dihydrokaempferol which can be further hydroxylated by flavonoid 3 -hydroxylase (F3 H) or flavonoid 3 ,5 -hydroxylase (F3 5 H) into two other dihydroflavonols, dihydroquercetin and dihydrotricetin, respectively. Then, the three dihydroflavonols are converted into colorless leucoanthocyanidins by dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) and subsequently to colored anthocyanidins by anthocyanidin synthase (ANS). Anthocyanidins are glycolsylated to facilitate their accumulation in cells by the enzyme flavonoid 3-O-glucosyltransferase (UFGT) and might be further acylated with aromatic acyl groups by acyltransferases [18, 22] . Although a well conserved biosynthetic pathway in plants, several studies have shown the species-specific peculiarity of anthocyanin regulation. For example, the numbers of structural genes (CHS, F3H, F3 H, CHI, DFR, ANS, UFGT, F3 5 H, etc.) vary considerably across species as do their expression levels [24] [25] [26] [27] . Also, genetic mutations, microRNAs, transcription factors such as MYB, bHLH, WD40, WRKY, NAC, etc., have been linked to the regulation of anthocyanin biosynthetic structural genes through varying complex mechanisms among plants [14, [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] [41] . Therefore, in order to pinpoint the major players associated with quantitative and qualitative variations of anthocyanins in plant, a thorough investigation is necessary.
Rayleigh light scattering (RLS) is a simple technique with a high potential of sensitive determination of small organic molecules. We have found that ppb amounts of quercetin (Qu) greatly enhance the RLS of the solution of silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) stabilized with cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) or sodium n-dodecyl sulfate (SDS). Enhancement of light scattering is observed only in the presence of an excess of AgNO3, which implies that it is a result of nanoparticle growth; another reason for the enhanced scattering is the aggregation of AgNPs by the analyte that was confirmed by dynamic light scattering technique. The conditions were chosen for the determination of Qu in aqueous solution with the detection limits of 0.01 and 0.03 μmol L−1 and linear ranges of 0.1–1.3 and 0.1–2.0 μmol L−1 for SDS- and CTAB-stabilized AgNPs, respectively; the intra-day RSDs did not exceed 7%. Unexpectedly, other bioflavonoids (rutin, dihydroquercetin, and naringenin) did not change the signal of Qu and did not interfere with its determination in 1:1 M ratio (0.5 μmol L−1 each). Other compounds (asparagin, uric acid, urea and some inorganic ions) were also tolerated in high amounts.
Grape hyacinth (Muscari spp.) is a popular ornamental plant with bulbous flowers noted for their rich blue color. Muscari species have been thought to accumulate delphinidin and cyanidin rather than pelargonidin-type anthocyanins because their dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) does not efficiently reduce dihydrokaempferol. In our study, we clone a novel DFR gene from blue flowers of Muscari. aucheri. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and anthocyanin analysis showed that the expression pattern of MaDFR had strong correlations with the accumulation of delphinidin, relatively weak correlations with cyanidin, and no correations with pelargonidin. However, in vitro enzymatic analysis revealed that the MaDFR enzyme can reduce all the three types of dihydroflavonols (dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin, and dihydromyricetin), although it most preferred dihydromyricetin as a substrate to produce leucodelphinidin, the precursor of blue-hued delphinidin. This indicated that there may be other functional genes responsible for the loss of red pelargonidin-based pigments in Muscari. To further verify the substrate-specific selection domains of MaDFR, an assay of amino acid substitutions was conducted. The activity of MaDFR was not affected whenever the N135 or E146 site was mutated. However, when both of them were mutated, the catalytic activity of MaDFR was lost completely. The results suggest that both the N135 and E146 sites are essential for the activity of MaDFR. Additionally, the heterologous expression of MaDFR in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) resulted in increasing anthocyanin accumulation, leading to a darker flower color, which suggested that MaDFR was involved in color development in flowers. In summary, MaDFR has a high preference for dihydromyricetin, and it could be a powerful candidate gene for genetic engineering for blue flower colour modification. Our results also make a valuable contribution to understanding the basis of color variation in the genus Muscari.
The present invention pertains to the field of agriculture and essentially relates to a premix to be added to the food of farm animals. The premix contains dihydroquercetin and a filler selected from the group comprising propylene glycol, glycerin, a polysorbate, in the following proportions of the components in wt. %: 10-90% of dihydroquercetin; 90-10% of filler. The invention also relates to a method for feeding farm animals, which comprises adding said premix to the food intake of a farm animal. The premix of the present invention makes it possible to increase the weight of farm animals, and has hepatic-protection properties.
The major products of methylation of dihydroquercetin (1, dhq) with diazomethane have been identified as 7-O-methyldhq (9), 7,3'-di-O-methyldhq (10), 7,4'-di-O-methyldhq (11), and 7,3',4'-tri-O-methyldhq (2). With dhq 3,7,3',4'-tetraacetate (6), dhq 3,5,3',4'-tetraacetate (5), dhq 3,3',4'-triacetate (7), dhq 7,3',4'-triacetate (8), and dhq 3-acetate (4) the same reaction affords mainly 5-O-methyldhq 3,7,3',4'-tetraacetate (15), 7-O-methyldhq 3,5,3',4'-tetraacetate (13), 7-O-methyldhq 3,3',4'-triacetate (14), 5-O-methyldhq 7,3',4'-triacetate (25), and 7-O-methyldhq 3-acetate (12), respectively. The methylation of 8 is accompanied by intermolecular acetyl migration from phenolic oxygen to the hydroxy group of the heterocyclic ring. 5-O-Methyldhq (28) is accessible by deacetylation of 25. 5,7-Di-O-methyldhq (29), four known methyl ethers, 13 new and three known methyl ether acetates of dhq, and six new isomers with 2,3-cis stereochemistry were spectroscopically identified.
Abstract Soluble enzyme preparations from flower buds of Petunia hybrida catalyzed the conversion of dihydroflavonols to flavonols. Dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin were readily converted to the respective flavonols, whereas dihydromyricetin was a poor substrate. The reaction required 2-oxoglutarate, ascorbate and Fe2+ as cofactors and had a pH optimum at about 6.5. In the presence of the dominant allele Fl, high enzyme activity for flavonol formation was found, whereas in enzyme preparations from flower buds of recessive genotypes (fl/fl) only low enzyme activity could be observed. A substantial correlation was found between enzyme activity for flavonol formation and the flavonol content of buds and flowers during development.
PURPOSE: A composition containing an extract of Opuntia ficus-indica var. Saboten Makino and a compound isolated therefrom which exhibit antioxidative action and nerve cell protecting activity is provided. The composition inhibits neurotoxicity caused by cell death and exhibits nerve cell protecting effect on animal models of brain ischemia and is thus expected to be useful for prevention and treatment of cerebral apoplexy, cerebral concussion, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, myocardial infarction and brain infarction. CONSTITUTION: A composition for protecting nerve cells contains an ethyl acetate extract of Opuntia ficus-indica and a compound isolated from therefrom as an active ingredient. The ethyl acetate extract contains campherol, dihydroquercetin or quercetin-3-methyl ether as an active ingredient and is prepared by adding 0.1 to 10L of an alcohol solvent to stems, fruits or processed fruits of Opuntia ficus-indica, followed by leaving them at room temperature for 4 to 5 days, filtering, distilling under reduced pressure and then extracting with 0.5 to 2L of ethyl acetate.
Grape hyacinth (Muscari spp.) is a popular ornamental plant with bulbous flowers noted for their rich blue color. Muscari species have been thought to accumulate delphinidin and cyanidin rather than pelargonidin-type anthocyanins because their dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) does not efficiently reduce dihydrokaempferol. In our study, we clone a novel DFR gene from blue flowers of Muscari. aucheri. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and anthocyanin analysis showed that the expression pattern of MaDFR had strong correlations with the accumulation of delphinidin, relatively weak correlations with cyanidin, and no correations with pelargonidin. However, in vitro enzymatic analysis revealed that the MaDFR enzyme can reduce all the three types of dihydroflavonols (dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin, and dihydromyricetin), although it most preferred dihydromyricetin as a substrate to produce leucodelphinidin, the precursor of blue-hued delphinidin. This indicated that there may be other functional genes responsible for the loss of red pelargonidin-based pigments in Muscari. To further verify the substrate-specific selection domains of MaDFR, an assay of amino acid substitutions was conducted. The activity of MaDFR was not affected whenever the N135 or E146 site was mutated. However, when both of them were mutated, the catalytic activity of MaDFR was lost completely. The results suggest that both the N135 and E146 sites are essential for the activity of MaDFR. Additionally, the heterologous expression of MaDFR in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) resulted in increasing anthocyanin accumulation, leading to a darker flower color, which suggested that MaDFR was involved in color development in flowers. In summary, MaDFR has a high preference for dihydromyricetin, and it could be a powerful candidate gene for genetic engineering for blue flower colour modification. Our results also make a valuable contribution to understanding the basis of color variation in the genus Muscari. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019, 20, 4743 3 of 17 3 phylogenetic tree was generated with the maximum likelihood method using MEGA 7.0. Phylogenetic analysis divided the DFR family into two groups: monocot and eduicot ( Figure 1B) . The MaDFR protein clustered in the monocot group and was most similar to the DFRs from H. orientalis, Allium cepa, Freesia hybrid, and Iris × hollandica. Interestingly, most of these species produce blue flowers. These results show that MaDFR is probably involved in the synthesis of blue pigments in grape hyacinth flowers.
Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) is a rate-limited enzyme in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins. It selectively catalyzes the reduction of three colorless dihydroflavonols (DHK, dihydroquercetin (DHQ], and dihydromyricetin (DHM]) to leucoanthocyanidins [7] . Subsequent steps are catalyzed by a series of downstream genes, yielding cultured anthocyanidins, orange Pg, reddish-purple Cy, and violet-blue Dp [8] . Depending on substrate specificity, DFR enzymes are divided into three types, which correlates with the amino acid 134. DFRs with asparagine (Asn), aspartic acid (Asp), or neither Asn nor Asp amino acid at position 134 (known as Asn-type, Asp-type, and non-Asn/Asp-type DFRs, respectively) utilize DHK, DHQ, and DHM as substrates, respectively [9] [10] [11] . This implies that different isoforms of DFR determine the content and ratios of Pg, Cy, and Dp, thus the final plants show different colors [12] . For example, Petunia and Cymbidium species lack brick-red to orange colored varieties because of the absence of Pg-type anthocyanins, as their DFRs do not use DHK as a substrate [5, 6] . Similarly, DFRs in Iris and Gentian species prefer DHM to DHK as a substrate, and DHM is converted to blue Dp derivatives more readily than to orange Pg derivatives. The substrate specificity of DFR also plays a role in molecular breeding. Upon introducing maize (Zea mays) DFR into white-flowered varieties of petunia lacking enzyme, the flowers of transgenic plants accumulate non-native Pg, resulting in a novel brick red-flowered variety [13] . To produce blue flowers in rose (Rosa spp.), the gene encoding DHQ-specific DFR was deleted, and the Iris DFR encoding gene, which has a high preference for DHM, was introduced together with the Viola flavonoid 3 , 5 -hydroxylase (F3 5 H) encoding gene [14] . Thus, it is reasonable to speculate that such substrate preferences of DFRs are relatively unconstrained among plant species, leading to the accumulation of different anthocyanins among species, thereby exhibiting a limited color range.
Soluble enzyme preparations from flower buds of Petunia hybrida catalyzed the conversion of dihydroflavonols to flavonols. Dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin were readily converted to the respective flavonols, whereas dihydromyricetin was a poor substrate. The reaction required 2-oxoglutarate, ascorbate and Fe2+ as cofactors and had a pH optimum at about 6.5. In the presence of the dominant allele FI, high enzyme activity for flavonol formation was found, whereas in enzyme preparations from flower buds of recessive genotypes (fl/fl) only low enzyme activity could be observed. A substantial correlation was found between enzyme activity for flavonol formation and the flavonol content of buds and flowers during development.
Objective To clone the coding sequence of flavonol synthase gene from Fagopyum dibotrys(FdFLS) and to analyze its sequence,prokaryotic expression,and activity.Methods The cDNA sequence of FdFLS gene was obtained by homology cloning and analyzed by bioinformatic method;The FdFLS prokaryotic expression vector pET-30b(+)-FdFLS was established and induced to express in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3),as well as the enzymatic activity of the target protein was measured.Results The full length of open reading frame(ORF) of FdFLS gene was 1 008 bp that encoded a protein of 334 amino acids;The recombinant FdFLS protein had a relative molecular mass of 40 000.It also has a catalytic activity,which could make dihydroquercetin and dihydrokaempferol into quercetin and kaempferol,respectively.Conclusion The FdFLS gene is successfully cloned and reported for the first time,which has an active expression in E.coli.
Anthocyanidin reductase (ANR), encoded by the BANYULS gene, is a newly discovered enzyme of the flavonoid pathway involved in the biosynthesis of condensed tannins. ANR functions immediately downstream of anthocyanidin synthase to convert anthocyanidins into the corresponding 2,3-cis-flavan-3-ols. We report the biochemical properties of ANRs from the model legume Medicago truncatula (MtANR) and the model crucifer Arabidopsis thaliana (AtANR). Both enzymes have high temperature optima. MtANR uses both NADPH and NADH as reductant with slight preference for NADPH over NADH. In contrast, AtANR only uses NADPH and exhibits positive cooperativity for the co-substrate. MtANR shows preference for potential anthocyanidin substrates in the order cyanidin>pelargonidin>delphinidin, with typical Michaelis-Menten kinetics for each substrate. In contrast, AtANR exhibits the reverse preference, with substrate inhibition at high concentrations of cyanidin and pelargonidin. (+)-Catechin and (+/-)-dihydroquercetin inhibit AtANR but not MtANR, whereas quercetin inhibits both enzymes. Possible catalytic reaction sequences for ANRs are discussed.
A dihydroquercetin derivative (DHQA) was prepared through aminomethylation to overcome the low water solubility and bioavailability of dihydroquercetin (DHQ). DHQA was characterized through HPLC, nuclear magnetic resonance, scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and thermogravimetric analyses. DHQA was converted into the amorphous form, but the major structure of DHQ remained unchanged. Solubilization and dissolution tests were also performed. Results showed that the solubility and dissolution rates of DHQA were approximately 16.28 and 6.31 times higher than those of DHQ, respectively. The MTT assay of DHQA showed a non-toxic effect against non-cancerous HEK-293T cells (EC50 = 820.00 μM), and potent inhibitory activity against cancerous Hela cells (EC50 = 138.17 μM). Finally, the antioxidant activity of DHQA was confirmed in vitro through DPPH and ABTS radical scavenging activity assays. DHQA displayed high antioxidant activities with low IC50 values (0.043 and 0.042 mM, respectively). Reducing Fe3+ power assay indicated that DHQA exhibited higher reducing power than DHQ and ascorbic acid.
In red wheat, reddish-brown pigments accumulate in testa of mature seeds. Half-cut wheat seeds were immersed in p-dimethylaminocinnamaldehyde (DMACA) reagent that stains flavanol structures blue. Testa of 10-40 days after flowering (DAF) in red wheat ("Norin 61" and "Satonosora") seeds were stained blue and the reagent color changed to blue with 10-25 DAF seeds. No blue staining was observed in white wheat ("Tamaizumi") seeds during maturation. "Norin 61" seed coats at 10 DAF contained dihydroquercetin, dihydromyricetin, (+)-catechin, procyanidin B3, and prodelphinidin B3, which were identified by HPLC-diode array detector and LC-MS/MS analyses. These five components began accumulating 7 DAF, reached maxima at 10 or 15 DAF, and then decreased in red wheat seeds, but were not detected in white wheat seeds. These results suggest that flavanol and proanthocyanidins are possible precursors of the reddish-brown pigments of red wheat seeds, and are converted to insoluble compounds as the seeds mature.
In this study, 41 tomato samples were investigated by means of stable isotope ratios (δ13C, δ18O and δ2H), elemental content, phenolic compounds and pesticides in order to classify them, according to growing conditions and geographical origin. Using investigated parameters, stepwise linear discriminant analysis was applied and the differences that occurred between tomato samples grown in greenhouses compared to those grown on field, and also between Romanian and abroad purchased samples were pointed out. It was shown that Ti, Ga, Te, δ2H and δ13C content were able to differentiate Romanian tomato samples from foreign samples, whereas Al, Sc, Se, Dy, Pb, δ18O, 4,4′-DDT could be used as markers for growing regime (open field vs. greenhouse). For the discrimination of different tomato varieties (six cherry samples and fourteen common sorts) grown in greenhouse, phenolic compounds of 20 samples were determined. In this regard, dihydroquercetin, caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, rutin, rosmarinic acid, quercetin and naringin were the major phenolic compounds detected in our samples. The phenolic profile showed significant differences between cherry tomato and common tomato. The contents of the chlorogenic acid and rutin were significantly higher in the cherry samples (90.27–243.00 µg/g DW and 160.60–433.99 µg/g DW respectively) as compared to common tomatoes (21.30–88.72 µg/g DW and 24.84–110.99 µg/g DW respectively). The identification of dihydroquercetin is of particular interest, as it had not been reported previously in tomato fruit.
The effect of a potent antioxidant, flavonoid dihydroquercetin on the activity of three mitochondrial enzymes in mouse skeletal muscles has been investigated. An ability of this substance to restore the activity of mitochondrial enzymes in old animals was demonstrated. The activities of citrate synthase, NADHcoenzymeQ1-oxidoreductase (complex 1) and cytochromc-oxidase (complex 4) were assessed using spectro-photometric analysis in a quadriceps muscle homogenate. It was shown that the citrate synthase activity decreased moderately and the activities of complexes 1 and 4 in skeletal muscles dropped significantly in old mice. Supplementation of drink water with dihydroquercetin for a few weeks led to an increase of citrate synthase and complex 1 activity (P < 0.1) in muscles of old animals. Activity of complex 4 returned to the level found in the tissue of young mice. Maximal activity of citrate synthase and complex 1 was found in muscles of young mice. Sensitivity of NADH-coenzymeQ1-oxidoreductase to a specific inhibitor rotenone differed in all three groups of mice. Young and old mice exhibited about 95% and 84% of the total sensitivity, respectively, while in old mice receiving dihydroquercetin the sensitivity of complex 1 to the inhibitor increased up to 98%. The biochemical alterations entailed an increase in animals’ mobility as well as an improvement of fur and skin condition. Fatty acid composition of homogenate in muscle tissue of all three groups was also investigated. A reliable decline of the amount of linoleic acid and an increase in stearic and docosanoic acid contents as well as an increase of total amount of fatty acids in muscles of old mice were found. Statistically significant changes in fatty acid composition in muscles of old mice in the control group and in old mice receiving antioxidant were not observed.
We studied the effects of dihydroquercetin (3.3.4.5.7-pentahydroxyflavanone, a new Russian patented preparation) on functional activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils from patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Flavonoids (quercetin and its derivative dihydroquercetin) dose-dependently suppressed generation of anion radicals and hypochlorous acid and production of malonic dialdehyde during oxidation of neutrophil membranes. Dihydroquercetin decreased activities of protein kinase C and myeloperoxidase in activated polymorphonuclear neutrophils and could bind transition metals (Fe2+). These properties determine the ability of dihydroquercetin to decrease in vitro functional activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils from patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
Ethanol extracts from Bergenia crassifolia (L.) Fritsch. green leaves exhibit antioxidant properties. The most significant activity has been observed for 70% ethanol extract, which is a typical acceptor of peroxy radicals. Fractionation of the active extract yielded chloroform and ethyl acetate fractions, which also showed a pronounced antioxidant action. Phenolic compounds (hydroquinone, quercetin, dihydroquercetin, rutin, gallic acid, esculetin) also exhibited significant antioxidant activity comparable with that of ionol.
Purpose ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: The purpose of this paper is to determine the antioxidant activity of natural polyphenols from larch wood by the amperometric method. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Design/methodology/approach ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Direct measurements of antioxidant activity were carried out by the amperometric method in an oxidizing mode with glassy carbon as a working electrode, set potential +1.3V and using a flow-injection system with 2.2 mM phosphoric acid as the mobile phase with a flow rate of 1.2 ml/min. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Findings ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: The reported results show the following values of antioxidant activity for the tested compounds: (−)-secoisolariciresinol – 0.199 ± 0.002 mg/L (p < 0.05); isolariciresinol – 0.196 ± 0.002 mg/L (p < 0.05); lariciresinol - 0.222 ± 0.001 mg/L (p < 0.05); O-isopropylidene derivative of (−)-secoisolariciresinol - 0.143 ± 0.002 mg/L (p < 0.05); (+)-dihydroquercetin – 0.153 ± 0.002 mg/L (p < 0.05); and quercetin – 0.521 ± 0.001 mg/L (p < 0.05). The last product was tested as the reference of a widely used current antioxidant. General tendencies of determined values of antioxidant activity for studied compounds are in good correlation with published data as determined by the t-BuOOH-initiated lipid peroxidation method. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Practical implications ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Described results show practical applicability of the amperometric method as being faster and cheaper in comparison to other methods, including oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) assay or 2,2′diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) reagent based assay. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Originality/value ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: The described results show the first-time application of the amperometric method for the evaluation of the antioxidant activity of phenolic compounds from larch wood.
One identified dihydroflavonol 4-reductases (DFR) encoding gene (named as CsDFRa herein) and five putative DFRs (named as CsDFRb1, CsDFRb2, CsDFRb3, CsDFRc and CsDFRd) in tea (Camellia sinensis) have been widely discussed in recent papers concerning multi-omics data. However, except for CsDFRa, their function and biochemical characteristics are not clear. This study aims to compare all putative CsDFRs and preliminarily evaluate their function. We investigated the sequences of genes (coding and promoter regions) and predicted structures of proteins encoded, and determined the activities of heterologously expressed CsDFRs under various conditions. The results showed that the sequences of five putative CsDFRs were quite different from CsDFRa, and had lower expression levels as well. The five putative CsDFRs could not catalyze three dihydroflavonol substrates. The functional CsDFRa had the strongest affinity with dihydroquercetin, and performed best at pH around 7 and 35°C but was not stable at lower pHs or higher temperatures. Single amino acid mutation at position 141 modified the preference of CsDFRa for dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin, and also weakened its stability. These data suggest that only CsDFRa works in the pathway for generating anthocyanidins and catechins. This study provides new insights into the function of CsDFRs and may assist to develop new strategies to manipulate the composition of tea flavonoids in the future.
The research progress on dihydroquercetin was described from 4 aspects.Firstly,dihydroquercetin has the biological activities against tumor,oxidation,virus and cardiovascular diseases.Secondly,various methods were used to test the content of dihydroquercetin,such as TLC, spectrophotography,HPLC,RP-HPLC and HPLC-MS.Thirdly,the research on extractive techniques of dihydroquercetin from Rosa davurica Pall and Larch was presented.Finally,the applications of dihydroquercetin in food,medicine and industry were introduced.Further development of dihydroquercetin will not only make great economic and social benefits,but also improve the health level of human beings.
In order to develop a simple, reliable and low cost enzymatic method for the determination of phenolic compounds we studied polyphenol oxidase activity of crude eggplant (S. melongena) extract using 13 phenolic compounds. Catechol, caffeic and chlorogenic acids, and L-DOPA have been rapidly oxidized with the formation of colored products. Monophenolic compounds have been oxidized at a much slower speed. Ferulic acid, quercetin, rutin, and dihydroquercetin have been found to inhibit polyphenol oxidase activity of crude eggplant extract. The influence of pH, temperature, crude eggplant extract amount, and 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrazone (MBTH) concentration on the oxidation of catechol, caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, and L-DOPA has been investigated spectrophotometrically. Michaelis constants values decrease by a factor of 2 to 3 in the presence of MBTH. Spectrophotometric (cuvette and microplate variants) and smartphone-assisted procedures for phenolic compounds determination have been proposed. Average saturation values (HSV color model) of the images of the microplate wells have been chosen as the analytical signal for smartphone-assisted procedure. LOD values for catechol, caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, and L-DOPA equaled 5.1, 6.3, 5.8 and 30.0 µM (cuvette procedure), 12.2, 13.2, 13.2 and 80.4 µM (microplate procedure), and 23.5, 26.4, 20.8 and 120.6 µM (smartphone procedure). All the variants have been successfully applied for fast (4-5 min) and simple TPC determination in plant derived products and L-DOPA determination in model biological fluids. The values found with smartphone procedure are in good agreement with both spectrophotometric procedures values and reference values. Using crude eggplant extract- mediated reactions combined with smartphone camera detection has allowed creating low-cost, reliable and environmentally friendly analytical method for the determination of phenolic compounds.
In order to find new structural and biologically active compounds, the constituents of the bark of Cudrania tricuspidata (Carr.) Bur. were investigated and a new 6-p-hydroxybenzyltaxifolin glucoside, named tricusposide (compound 1), together with 16 known compounds, was isolated by solvent partition, macroporous adsorption resin AB-8, silica gel, Sephadex LH-20 chromatography. Using spectroscopic methods, the structures of the compounds were elucidated as 6-p-hydroxybenzyl taxifolin-7-O-β-D-glucoside (compound 1), dihydroquerctin-7-O-β-D-glucoside (compound 2), dihydrokaempferol-3-O-β-D-glucoside (compound 3), dihydroquercetin (compound 4), peonoside (compound 5), sphaerobioside (compound 6), quercimeritrin (compound 7), genistein (compound 8), aromadendrin (compound 9), kaempferol (compound 10), genistin (compound 11), 3,4-dihydroxystyryl alcohol (compound 12), sucrose (compound 13), 1,3,5,6-tetrahydroxyxanthone (compound 14), gericudranin E (compound 15), gericudranin C (compound 16), and orobol (compound 17). Compounds 2–6, 8, 9, 12–14, and 17 were isolated from this genus for the first time. ::: ::: ::: ::: (Managing editor: Wei Wang)
Chemical investigation of the stems and leaves of RHUS SYLVESTRIS afforded a new megastigmane glycoside named rhusonoside A ( 1), along with four other known compounds: dihydroquercetin ( 2), astragalin ( 3), hyperin ( 4), and kaempferol-3- O-rutinoside ( 5). Their structures were determined by a combination of spectroscopic analysis and application of the modified Mosher’s method. The effect of compounds 1 - 5 on the function of osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells was examined by determining cell viability, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, collagen synthesis, and mineralization. Rhusonoside A ( 1) significantly increased the function of osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells. Cell viability, ALP activity, and collagen synthesis were increased dose dependently, up to 155.39 %, 171.27 %, and 134.25 %, respectively, of the basal value at 10 μM ( P < 0.05). In addition, 0.1 μM of compound 1 significantly increased mineralization of MC3T3-E1 cells to 142.78 % ( P < 0.05) of the basal value.
Chemical composition of a phenolic complex of the Siberian spruce bark (Picea obovata Ledeb.) and a structure of oligomeric phenolic compounds composing the bark were studied. The samples of the spruce bark were collected in the vicinity of Lake Baikal in September 2015. Extractive substances were recovered from the crushed bark by extraction with ethyl acetate at the boiling point of the solvent for 4 h. The resinous substances were extracted from the ethyl acetate extracts with hexane by infusion for three days. The samples of bark after extraction with ethyl acetate were dried from solvent residues, and then water-soluble substances were isolated by extraction with distilled water at 90°C for 4 h. The yields of the extractive substances extracted with ethyl acetate and water from the spruce bark on absolutely dry matter were 3.4 and 6.9%, respectively. The relative percentage content of phenolic compounds in the ethyl acetate extract of the spruce bark was 42.4%. The ethyl acetate extract of a spruce bark, pretreated with hexane, was fractionated on a silica gel column using a mixture of chloroform–acetone as the eluent with an increase in the fraction of the latter (from 0 to 100%). The content of monomeric and oligomeric, polymeric phenolic compounds in the extract was determined. Based on the data of 1Н and 13C NMR spectroscopy, it was established that the flavonoid dihydroquercetin and stilbene glycosides isorhapontin and astringin were the main monomeric phenolic extractive substances of Siberian spruce bark. It was shown that the structure of oligomeric phenolic compounds of the spruce bark includes structural fragments of stilbene glycosides, mainly monomeric blocks with the structure of isorhapontin and astringin.
Effect of nine new derivatives of dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) on the viability of cultivated normal and tumor cells, their antioxidant activity, and interconnection of the antioxidant activity with the chemical structure have been studied. Among these dihydroquercetin derivatives, the maximum antiproliferative activity on the model of rat fibroblast culture exhibited KN-2, KN-4, KN-7, and KN-8 compounds, while KN-7 and KN-8 compounds also showed maximum activity on the model of MCF-7 tumor cell culture (human breast cancer). The maximum general antioxidant activity was observed for the native dihydroquercetin and KN-8 compound. There is a strong correlation (with a correlation coefficient of 0.93) between the antiproliferative effects of dihydroquercetin derivatives on murine skin fibroblasts and MCF-7 cells (human breast cancer).
Taxifolin (3,5,7,3′,4′-pentahydroxy-flavanone or 2,3-dihydroquercetin), a type of flavonoid, is abundant in citrus fruits, grapes, olive oil, and onions [9] [10] [11] . As a common bioactive constituent of foods and herbs, taxifolin has been shown to exert a wide range of biochemical and pharmacological effects, including antitumor, anti-inflammatory, anti-diabetic, hepatoprotective, cardioprotective, and neuroprotective effects, and it contributes to the prevention of Alzheimer's disease [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] . Importantly, taxifolin exerts significant antioxidant effects that are critical in preventing the onset of apoptosis [21] . Moreover, taxifolin has also been found to inhibit oxidative enzymes and the overproduction of ROS, thus ameliorating cerebral the ischemia-reperfusion injury [22] .
One identified dihydroflavonol 4-reductases (DFR) encoding gene (named as CsDFRa herein) and five putative DFRs (named as CsDFRb1, CsDFRb2, CsDFRb3, CsDFRc and CsDFRd) in tea (Camellia sinensis) have been widely discussed in recent papers concerning multi-omics data. However, except for CsDFRa, their function and biochemical characteristics are not clear. This study aims to compare all putative CsDFRs and preliminarily evaluate their function. We investigated the sequences of genes (coding and promoter regions) and predicted structures of proteins encoded, and determined the activities of heterologously expressed CsDFRs under various conditions. The results showed that the sequences of five putative CsDFRs were quite different from CsDFRa, and had lower expression levels as well. The five putative CsDFRs could not catalyze three dihydroflavonol substrates. The functional CsDFRa had the strongest affinity with dihydroquercetin, and performed best at pH around 7 and 35˚C but was not stable at lower pHs or higher temperatures. Single amino acid mutation at position 141 modified the preference of CsDFRa for dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin, and also weakened its stability. These data suggest that only CsDFRa works in the pathway for generating anthocyanidins and catechins. This study provides new insights into the function of CsDFRs and may assist to develop new strategies to manipulate the composition of tea flavonoids in the future. OPEN ACCESS Citation: Mei X, Zhou C, Zhang W, Rothenberg DO, Wan S, Zhang L (2019) Comprehensive analysis of putative dihydroflavonol 4-reductase gene family in tea plant. PLoS ONE 14(12): e0227225. https://doi.
In order to develop a simple, reliable and low cost enzymatic method for the determination of phenolic compounds we studied polyphenol oxidase activity of crude eggplant (S. melongena) extract using 13 phenolic compounds. Catechol, caffeic and chlorogenic acids, and l-DOPA have been rapidly oxidized with the formation of colored products. Monophenolic compounds have been oxidized at a much slower speed. Ferulic acid, quercetin, rutin, and dihydroquercetin have been found to inhibit polyphenol oxidase activity of crude eggplant extract. The influence of pH, temperature, crude eggplant extract amount, and 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrazone (MBTH) concentration on the oxidation of catechol, caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, and l-DOPA has been investigated spectrophotometrically. Michaelis constants values decrease by a factor of 2 to 3 in the presence of MBTH. Spectrophotometric (cuvette and microplate variants) and smartphone-assisted procedures for phenolic compounds determination have been proposed. Average saturation values (HSV color model) of the images of the microplate wells have been chosen as the analytical signal for smartphone-assisted procedure. LOD values for catechol, caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, and l-DOPA equaled 5.1, 6.3, 5.8 and 30.0 µM (cuvette procedure), 12.2, 13.2, 13.2 and 80.4 µM (microplate procedure), and 23.5, 26.4, 20.8 and 120.6 µM (smartphone procedure). All the variants have been successfully applied for fast (4-5 min) and simple TPC determination in plant derived products and l-DOPA determination in model biological fluids. The values found with smartphone procedure are in good agreement with both spectrophotometric procedures values and reference values. Using crude eggplant extract-mediated reactions combined with smartphone camera detection has allowed creating low-cost, reliable and environmentally friendly analytical method for the determination of phenolic compounds.
Studies on hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced histamine release from human basophils indicate that H2O2 is a weak stimulus of histamine release, that the release process is Ca2+ and energy-dependent, and that histamine release is not influenced by theophylline (in keeping with previous observations with rat mast cells). Low concentrations of H2O2 appeared to augment and high concentrations to inhibit histamine release induced by anti-IgE. However, the inhibitory effect of high concentrations of H2O2 were completely abrogated by catalase, which destroys H2O2, and thus indicates that basophils retain immunologic responsivity and are not irreversibly effected by high concentrations of H2O2. Leukocyte suspensions relatively enriched in monocytes, lymphocytes, basophils, neutrophils, and neutrophils plus eosinophils were prepared by Percoll-gradient centrifugation. Anti-IgE stimulated H2O2 formation only in the fraction richest in basophils. Opsonized zymosan, on the other hand, stimulated H2O2 generation in both the basophil and monocyte fractions, indicating activation of both monocytes and basophils by this stimulus. Mixtures of basophil-containing leukocyte suspensions plus purified neutrophils and opsonized zymosan stimulated histamine release in proportion to concomitant generation of H2O2. Addition of catalase reduced histamine release under these conditions, whereas scavengers of other toxic oxygen derivatives (superoxide dismutase, alpha-tocopherol, D-mannitol) had little or no effect on histamine release. These findings suggest that neutrophil-derived H2O2 can cause basophil histamine release in mixed populations of activated leukocytes. Three naturally occurring flavonoids, quercetin, apigenin, and taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) were examined for their effect on anti-IgE-induced histamine release and H2O2 generation in basophil-containing leukocyte suspensions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Enzyme preparations from flowers of Verbena hybrida do not only catalyse hydroxylation of the B-ring of flavanones and dihydroflavonols in the 3'-position but also in the 5'-position. Enzyme activity for 3',5'-hydroxylation was found to be localized in the microsomal fraction and required NADPH as cofactor. Evidence is provided that the formation of the 3',4',5'- hydroxylated flavanone (5,7,3',4',5'-pentahydroxyflavanone) and dihydroflavonol (dihydromy- ricetin), respectively, proceeds via the corresponding 3',4'-hydroxylated compounds eriodictyol and dihydroquercetin, respectively, which are most probably formed by action of the same enzyme. Enzyme activity for 3',5'-hydroxylation was found to be strictly correlated with the prescence of 3',4',5'-hydroxylated flavonoid compounds in the flowers.
The invention discloses a use of a flavonol compound, which is the use of the flavonol compound in the preparation of antihypoxic medicines, health-care foods or foods. The flavonol compound may be dihydromyricetin, myricetin, dihydroquercetin or quercetin. In the invention, the cell activity test experiment and antihypoxic test of the dihydromyricetin, myricetin, dihydroquercetin and quercetin are performed by adopting a methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) method and H9C2 (a rat myocardial cell line). Results show that the four flavonol compounds all have obvious antihypoxic activity and can be used for preparing antihypoxic medicines, health-care products or foods.
Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), which catalyzes the reduction of dihydroflavonols to leucoanthocyanins, is a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of anthocyanidins, proanthocyanidins, and other flavonoids of importance in plant development and human nutrition. This study isolated a full length cDNA encoding DFR, designated as SmDFR (GenBank Accession No. EF600682), by screening a cDNA library from a red callus line of Saussurea medusa, which is an endangered, traditional Chinese medicinal plant with high pharmacological value. SmDFR was functionally expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) to confirm that SmDFR can readily reduce dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and dihydrokampferol (DHK), but it could not reduce dihydromyricetin (DHM). The deduced SmDFR structure shared extensive sequence similarity with previously characterized plant DFRs and phylogenetic analysis showed that it belonged to the plant DFR super-family. SmDFR also possessed flavanone 4-reductase (FNR) activity and can catalyze the conversion of eridictyol to luteoforol. Real-time PCR analysis showed that the expression level of SmDFR was higher in flowers compared with both leaves and roots. This work greatly enhances our knowledge of flavonoid biosynthesis in S. medusa and marks a major advance that could facilitate future genetic modification of S. medusa.
Dihydroquercetin, a white crystalline pentahydroxy-flavanone, occurring in large quantities in Douglas fir and Jeffrey pine barks, was found to be an effective antioxidant for lard, cottonseed oil, and butter oil. This compound imparts no taste and color to fats and oils and, like quercetin, appears to be nontoxic. It was found that 0.03% quercetin was slightly more effective than 0.03% dihydroquercetin as an inhibitor of rancidity in lard. The presence of a small amount of citric acid increased markedly the antioxidant effect of dihydroquercetin on lard. The pentaacetate, pentapropionate, and the pentabenzoate esters of dihydroquercetin showed no antioxidant activity.
Enzyme preparations from flowers of Verbena hybrida do not only catalyse hydroxylation of the B-ring of flavanones and dihydroflavonols in the 3'-position but also in the 5'-position. Enzyme activity for 3',5'-hydroxylation was found to be localized in the microsomal fraction and required NADPH as cofactor. Evidence is provided that the formation o f the 3',4\5'-hydroxylated flavanone (5,7,3',4',5'-pentahydroxyflavanone) and dihydroflavonol (dihydromyricetin), respectively, proceeds via the corresponding 3',4'-hydroxylated compounds eriodictyol and dihydroquercetin, respectively, which are most probably formed by action o f the same enzyme. Enzyme activity for 3',5'-hydroxylation was found to be strictly correlated with the prescence of 3',4',5'-hydroxylated flavonoid compounds in the flowers.
Recently, in flower extracts of M atthiola incana and Antirrhinum majus an NADPH-dependent micro somal 3'-hydroxylase activity could be dem onstrat ed catalysing hydroxylation of naringenin (1 ) (Fig. 1) and dihydrokaem pferol (4) in 3'-position to eriodictyol (2) and dihydroquercetin (5) , respective ly [1, 2] . In both plants a strict correlation between 3'-hydroxylase activity and the gene controlling the introduction of the hydroxy group in 3'-position of the B-ring o f flavonoids was found. Thus, in M. incana and A. majus the 3'-hydroxy group is clearly introduced by hydroxylation of the flavonoid skele ton and not by incorporation of caffeic acid during synthesis o f the flavonoid skeleton.
By silica gel,ODS and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography methods,nine compounds were isolated from ethanolic extracts of Broussonetia papyrifera(L.) Vent.and identified as daucosterol(1),quercetin (2), dihydroquercetin (3),butein-4-methyl ester (4),liquiritigenin(5),isoliquiritigenin(6), isolicoflavonol (7),butyrospermyl acetate (8) and (+)-marmesin(9).Among them,compounds 1～5 were isolated from the plant for the first time.
A flavonol bio-synthesizing protein and a gene encoding the same are provided to synthesize flavonol, a secondary metabolic product of a plant, thereby being usefully used for developing a novel high-value crop and being used as a genetical engineering materials of the plant. A flavonol bio-synthesizing protein includes an amino acid sequence described as SEQ ID : NO. 1. A polynucleotide codes the protein and is characterized in that it has a sequence described as SEQ ID : NO. 1. A method for producing the flavonol bio-synthesizing protein comprises a step of culturing a transformed bacteria including a recombinant vector of pET-CsFLS. A method for bio-synthesizing flvaonol comprises a step of reacting the protein in a solution including a substrate such as dihydroquercetin, dihydrokaempferol and dihydromyricetin at a temperature of 25-35 deg.C for 40-80 minutes.
Isolation of the biphenyl-linked pinoresinol–dihydroquercetin (1) from Dougla-fir bark represents the first example of a new class of compounds that are true flavonolignans.
Several plant-derived compounds of the terpenoid and phenolic types have commercial use as sweeteners. In our research program directed toward the discovery of additional sweet compounds of these chemical classes, candidate sweet plants for laboratory investigation may be selected after scrutiny of the available literature, as a result of making inquiries in the field, and/or from a limited amount of organoleptic testing. Sweet-tasting plants are extracted according to a standard protocol, and preliminary safety testing is conducted before crude extracts or pure compounds are tasted. The practicality of using Mongolian gerbil electrophysiological and behavioral assays to monitor plant extracts and pure isolates has been examined. A number of sweet-tasting, plant-derived terpenoids and phenolics have been isolated and characterized, including the bisabolane sesquiterpenoids, hernandulcin and 4β-hydroxyhernandulcin, the labdane diterpene glycoside, gaudichaudioside A, the oleanane triterpenoid glycoside, periandrin V, the cycloartane triterpene glycosides, abrusosides AE, the 3,4-seco-dammarane triterpene glycosides, pterocaryosides A and B, the semisynthetic dihydroflavonol, dihydroquercetin 3-acetate (4'-methyl ether), and the proanthocyanidin, selligueain A. Most of these new compounds are prototype "high-intensity" sweeteners that may be worthy targets for chemical synthesis or for semi-synthetic modification to produce substances with enhanced sweetness properties.
Autoimmune hepatitis represents a ubiquitous human health problem and has a poor prognosis. Dihydroquercetin (DHQ), a well-known antioxidant, significantly inhibits fulminant hepatitis through anti-oxidant and anti-inflammation mechanisms. In this study, we show that administration of DHQ ameliorated concanavalin A (ConA)-induced mouse liver injury by increasing the survival rate, reducing the serum ALT and AST level, preventing histopathological injuries and decreasing pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNA expression in hepatic tissue. As macrophages/Kupffer cells in oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory mediators play an important role in the pathogenesis of immune-mediated hepatitis, we further exposed mouse RAW264 macrophage cell lines to ConA in vitro and found that DHQ significantly inhibited mRNA expression and secretion of IFN-γ and TNF-α in cell culture supernatant. In addition, DHQ significantly enhanced heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression in a dose- and time-dependent manner via increased Nrf2 expression in cytoplasm and nuclear translocation. Furthermore, DHQ enhanced phosphorylation of three members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family, and cell treatment with MEK/ERK (PD98059), p38 (SB203580) and JNK (SP600125) inhibitors reduced DHQ-induced HO-1 expression. These results indicate that DHQ possesses hepatoprotective properties against ConA-induced liver injury, which are attributed to its ability to scavenge oxidative stress and to inhibit the release of inflammatory mediators via upregulation of HO-1 activity through the MAPK/Nrf2 signaling pathway in macrophages/Kupffer cells.
6-Piperidinomethyl-2,3-dihydroquercetin dodecatungstophosphate (C5H10NH-CH2-C15H11O7)2 · H[PW12O40] · 10H2O (I) was synthesized and studied by chemical analysis, mass spectrometry, IR and NMR spectroscopy, and thermogravimetric analysis.
Rosmarinic acid is found in many species of different families of higher plants and its chemical structure is phenol propanoid with various biological activity. In this paper, we conducted a comparative study of antioxidant (radical-scavenging) properties of rosmarinic acid in systems of 2,2'-azo-bis(2-methylpropionamidin)dihydrochloride-luminol and hemoglobin-hydrogen peroxide-lu- minol, determined its protective potential in preventing peroxidation of linoleic acid, and evaluated the effect on the permeability of planar bilayer lipid membranes. Linoleic acid peroxidation was assessed by iron-thiocyanate method. In these studies, trolox was used as a reference antioxidant, and ascorbic acid, and dihydroquercetin were taken as standards. Rosmarinic acid is significantly superior to trolox, ascorbic acid and dihydroquercetin in the tests for antioxidant activity in the systems studied, as well as in inhibition of linoleic acid peroxidation. According to their activity the investigated substances can be arranged in the following order: rosmarinic acid > dihydroquercetin trolox > ascorbic acid. Rosmarinic acid does not cause significant changes in the permeability of planar bilayer membranes in a dose range of 0.5 to 10 mkg/mL. Antioxidant activity of rosmarinic acid is due to the neutralization of reactive oxygen species and/or luminol radicals generated in model systems. The observed features of the antioxidant and membrane activity of rosmarinic acid, which may underlie the previously mentioned pharmacological effects are discussed.
Fractionation of an ethylacetate extract from leaves of Blumea balsamifera DC, led to isolation of nine flavonoids. The isolated compounds consisted of two dihydroflavonols, dihydroquercetin-4¢-methyl ether (1) and dihydroquercetin-7,4¢-dimethyl ether (2), two flavanones, 5,7,3¢,5¢-tetrahydroxyflavanone (3) and blumeatin (4), three flavonols, quercetin(5), rhamnetin (6) and tamarixetin (7), two flavones, luteolin (8) and luteolin-7-methyl ether (9). Their chemical structures were elucidated by spectroscopic methods including UV, NMR and MS analyses. Their inhibitory activities on mushroom tyrosinase using L-DOPA as substrate were evaluated. The anti-tyrosinase activities of dihydroflavonols (1 and 2) and flavonols (5-7) are stronger than arbutin, whereas flavanones (3 and 4) and flavones (8 and 9) are weaker than arbutin. The kinetic analysis showed that the dihydroflavonols (1 and 2), flavanones (3), and flavonols (5 and 6) are competitive inhibitors, whereas the flavones (8 and 9) are noncompetitive inhibitors. The inhibition constant (KI) of compounds 1-3 were determined to be 0.10, 0.08, and 0.33 mM, respectively. Some compounds (1-5 and 9) were evaluated for cytotoxicity against KB, MCF-7 and NCI-H187 cancer cell lines.Compounds 2, 4, and 9 were active against the KB cells with the IC50 values of 17.09, 47.72 and 17.83 ug/ml, respectively. Compounds 2, 3 and 5 exhibited moderate activity against the NCI-H187 cells with the IC50 values of 16.29, 29.97 and 20.59 ug/ml. Luteolin-7-methyl ether (9) showed strong cytotoxicity against human lung cancer (NCI-H187) cell lines with IC50 of 1.29 µg/ml and moderate toxicity against oral cavity cancer (KB) cell lines with IC50 of 17.83 µg/ml. ::: ::: ::: ::: Key words: Blumea Balsamifera DC, cytotoxicity, flavanoids, tyrosinase inhibitor.
The effect of alpha-tocopherol, ascorbate, rutin and dihydroquercetin on chemiluminescence (CL) accompanying the Fe2+-induced peroxidation of unsaturated fatty acids in phospholipid liposomes has been investigated. The amplitude of CL decreased and the latent period increased in the presence of alpha-tocopherol, rutin and dihydroquercetin which is typical of peroxide radical traps. Ascorbate also reduced the CL amplitude but only at small concentrations up to about 4 microM. A further increase of ascorbate concentration had a negligible effect on the amplitude. At the same time, the latent period in CL development increased with the growth of ascorbate concentration, apparently, as a result of recycling of divalent iron oxidized in the course of lipid peroxidation. The effects of rutin and dihydroquercetin on the liposomal CL in the presence of alpha-tocopherol and ascorbate in all experiments were almost the same as when these compounds were added individually. The antioxidant effects were merely summed up without any mutual enhancement or inhibition of each other's action.
Antioxidant properties and cytoprotective activity of flavonoids (rutin, dihydroquercetin, quercetin, epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), epicatechin gallate (ECG)) were studied. All these compounds inhibited both NADPH- and CCl4-dependent microsomal lipid peroxidation, and the catechins were the most effective antioxidants. The I(50) values calculated for these compounds by regression analysis were close to the I(50) value of the standard synthetic antioxidant ionol (2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol). The antiradical activity of flavonoids to O2-* was studied in a model photochemical system. Rate constants of the second order reaction obtained by competitive kinetics suggested flavonoids to be more effective scavengers of oxygen anion-radicals than ascorbic acid. By competitive replacement all flavonoids studied were shown to be chelating agents capable of producing stable complexes with transition metal ions (Fe2+, Fe3+, Cu2+). The flavonoids protected macrophages from asbestos-induced damage, and the protective effect increased in the following series: rutin < dihydroquercetin < quercetin < ECG < EGCG. The cytoprotective effect of flavonoids was in strong positive correlation with their antiradical activity to O2-*.
DFR proteins of many plants can accept dihydroflavonols with different hydroxylation patterns, i.e. dihydrokaempferol (DHK), dihydroquercetin (DHQ), and dihydromyricetin (DHM), as substrates (Heller et al., 1985; Fischer et al., 1988; Stich et al., 1992; Helariutta et al., 1993; Tanaka et al., 1995; Dellus et al., 1997) . On the other hand, DFRs of petunia and Cymbidium, which do not produce pelargonidin-derived anthocyanins, were postulated to have low activity to convert DHK to leucopelargonidin (Forkmann and Ruhnau, 1987; Johnson et al., 1999) . These data on DFR biochemistry have been acquired mainly from in vitro analyses using plant protein extracts or phytochemical analyses of mutant and/or transgenic plants. Heterologous expression of DFR proteins in Escherichia coli cells has been performed previously (De Jaeger et al., 1997) , but enzyme activities have not been reported. Only recently has DFR activity been successfully measured using an E. coli or yeast expression system (Martens et al., 2002; Peters and Constabel, 2002; Fischer et al., 2003; Shimada et al., 2004; Xie et al., 2004) . However, sufficient information on the biochemical properties of DFR isozymes is not yet available, and characterization of all the isozymes in a single species has not been performed.
Pinaceae are marked accumulators of flavonoids. According to H egnauer1 it seems that each genus went its own way in this connection. This opinion is mainly based on heartwood and bark flavonoids of a limited number of genera and species. Little is known of the leaf constituents2 except that most Pinaceae leaves contain quercetin, kaempferol and, to a lesser extent, myricetin and dihydroquercetin in bound fo rm 3. For Pseudolarix leaves Takahashi et al. 3 reported quercetin and kaempferol, present as (unidentified) glycosides. No other flavonoids have been reported for Pseudolarix amabilis, the only species in the genus.
Abstract: Several plant-derived compounds of the terpenoid and phenolic types have commercial use as sweeteners. In our research program directed toward the discovery of additional sweet compounds of these chemical classes, candidate sweet plants for laboratory investigation may be selected after scrutiny of the available literature, as a result of making inquiries in the field, and/or from a limited amount of organoleptic testing. Sweet-tasting plants are extracted according to a standard protocol, and preliminary safety testing is conducted before crude extracts or pure compounds are tasted. The practicality of using Mongolian gerbil electrophysiological and behavioral assays to monitor plant extracts and pure isolates has been examined. A number of sweet-tasting, plant-derived terpenoids and phenolics have been isolated and characterized, including the bisabolane sesquiterpenoids, hernandulcin and 4β-hydroxyhernandulcin, the labdane diterpene glycoside, gaudichaudioside A, the oleanane triterpenoid glycoside, periandrin V, the cycloartane triterpene glycosides, abrusosides A-E, the 3,4-seco-dammarane triterpene glycosides, pterocaryosides A and B, the semisynthetic dihydroflavonol, dihydroquercetin 3-acetate (4′-methyl ether), and the proanthocyanidin, selligueain A. Most of these new compounds are prototype "high-intensity" sweeteners that may be worthy targets for chemical synthesis or for semi-synthetic modification to produce substances with enhanced sweetness properties.
Flavonoids, which are one of secondary metabolites that are generally present in plants, are classified into chalcones, flavanes, flavones, flavonols, flavanols, flavanones, flavanonols, isoflavones and anthocyanidins, and over 4000 different molecules have been identified. Astilbin, which is one of dihydroflavanonol glycosides, is (-)-taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) substituted by α-L-rhamnosyl moiety at position 3 via the glycosidic linkage. It has been reported that astilbin was isolated from Engelhardtia chrysolepis (Kasai et al., 1988) , Hypericum perforatum (Tatsis et al., 2007) and other plants. Astilbin and crude extracts from E. chrysolepis including astilbin could exert the antioxidant effects (Landrault et al., 2002; Igarashi et al., 1996; Haraguchi et al., 1996) , lipoprotein lipase activity (Motoyashiki et al., 1998) , amelioration of bladder dysfunction (Levin et al., 2002) and antiinflammatory activity against the TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β and IL-10-related biological alterations (Huang et al., 2011) .
Investigating the structure and regulation of the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway in plants may thus help us to better understand and monitor flavonoid metabolism with regard to properties of the end products (Weisshaar and Jenkins, 1998) . Flavonoid biosynthesis has been studied extensively by several methods, from protein purification to screening libraries with heterologous probes (reviewed in Holton and Cornish, 1995) . The ubiquitous and nonessential nature of pigments for plant viability has made it possible to identify many flavonoid mutants, which has facilitated the genetic and molecular dissection of the pathway. To date, most of the enzymes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis have been characterized in several plant species, including maize, snapdragon, petunia (Holton and Cornish, 1995) , and Arabidopsis (Shirley et al., 1995; Bharti and Khurana, 1997) . The first three steps are catalyzed successively by chalcone synthase (CHS), chalcone isomerase (CHI), and flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H). Dihydrokaempferol can be subsequently hydroxylated by flavonoid 3 Ј -hydroxylase (F3 Ј H), giving rise to dihydroquercetin, or converted by the dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), resulting in anthocyanin-type end products (Figure 1 ).
Unraveling flavonoid metabolism in the model plant Arabidopsis may provide new and invaluable information that will improve our understanding of the regulatory network. First, the Arabidopsis genome displays less redundancy and smaller multigene families than does maize or petunia. Indeed, in Arabidopsis, all but one of the characterized flavonoid enzymes, flavonol synthase (FLS), are encoded by single-copy genes. Second, biochemical analyses have been used to characterize Arabidopsis flavonoid end products. Flavonol and anthocyanin derivatives accumulate in vegetative parts, whereas flavonols and proanthocyanidins, essentially derived from dihydroquercetin, accumulate in the endothelium Flavonoids are secondary metabolites derived from products of the phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway and the Krebs cycle. The final compounds include flavonols (colorless pigments), anthocyanins (pink and red pigments), and condensed tannins (brown pigments). The characterized enzymes are shown in boldface. The various mutants identified are noted adjacent to the step they affect, with putative regulatory loci given in parentheses. ban, banyuls; CHI, chalcone isomerase; CHS, chalcone synthase; C4H, cinnamate 4-hydroxylase; 4CL, 4-coumarate:CoA ligase; DFR, dihydroflavanol 4-reductase; F3H, flavanone 3-hydroxylase; F3ЈH, flavonoid 3Ј-hydroxylase; FLS, flavonol synthase; icx1, increased chalcone synthase expression1; LAR, leucoanthocyanidin reductase; LDOX, leucoanthocyanidin dioxygenase; PAL, phenylalanine ammonia-lyase; tt, transparent testa; ttg, transparent testa glabra.
One new monoterpene glucoside and five dihydroflavonols were isolated for the first time from the aerial parts of Pulicaria jaubertii and identified as p-menthane-2-O-β-D-glucopyranoside [1], dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) [2], 7,3'-di-O-methyltaxifolin [3], 3'-O-methyltaxifolin [4], 7-O-methyltaxifolin (padmatin) [5] and 7-O-methyl-dihydrokampferol (7-O-methylaromadenderin) [6]. The structures of these compounds were unambiguously assigned on the basis of NMR spectroscopic data ((1)H, (13)C, DEPT, HSQC, HMBC) and MS analysis. 2D-NMR methods required revision of assignments of H-6 and H-8 for dihydroflavonol compounds. Possible cytotoxic activity as well as blood pressure (BP) lowering activity were tested. The alcoholic extract showed cytotoxic activity against prostate carcinoma (PC-3), breast carcinoma (MCF-7) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG-2) human cell lines with IC50 19.1, 20.0 and 24.1 μg, respectively. The higher dose levels of the alcoholic extract significantly reduced normal BP of rats in a dose-dependent manner.
Dihydroquercetin (or taxifolin) is one of the most famous flavonoids and is abundant in Siberian larch (Larix sibirica). The oxidative polymerization of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) using bilirubin oxidase as a biocatalyst was investigated and some physicochemical properties of the products were studied. DHQ oligomers (oligoDHQ) with molecular mass of 2800 and polydispersity of 8.6 were obtained by enzymatic reaction under optimal conditions. The oligomers appeared to be soluble in dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylformamide, and methanol. UV-visible spectra of oligoDHQ in dimethylsulfoxide indicated the presence of highly conjugated bonds. The synthesized oligoDHQ was also characterized by FTIR and 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy. Comparison of NMR spectra of oligoDHQ with DHQ monomer and the parent flavonoids revealed irregular structure of a polymer formed via the enzymatic oxidation of DHQ followed by nonselective radical polymerization. As compared with the monomer, oligoDHQ demonstrated higher thermal stability and high antioxidant activity.
A chemical or enzymatic brown stain in sapwood of Douglas-fir has caused financial losses to lumber producers, particularly those producing valuable clear grades of export lumber. This work shows that the brown stain may be caused, at least in part, by an enzyme system in the sapwood. Buffered extracts of Douglas-fir sapwood showed enzyme activity when added to solutions containing o-diphenol and polyphenol compounds. No activity for monophenol substrates was detected. The enzymatic extract showed two pH optima for activity, one at pH 5.5 and one at pH 8.0, with the activity at pH 8.0 being somewhat greater. The activity was also temperature-dependent, with the highest activity at 35°. The extract showed highest activities with the compounds (—)-epicatechin, dihydroquercetin, and 4-methylcatechol.
Api-api leaves A. marina has a variety of active compounds that have been confirmed to too wordy be used as antibacterial agents, where harvesting of mangrove leaves is carried out at the location of Betoyoguci Gresik and differentiated by age, this age differentiation is based on morphological characteristics because it has color differences significant. Where age is one of the factors that affect the level of active compounds found in leaves. Extraction results of mangrove api-api gave different yield levels in each age level. The order of yields from the largest to the smallest is the old leaves 3%, fall 2.86% and young leaves 2.04%. Whereas based on phytochemical test the best extracts were obtained, namely old leaves, fall leaves and young leaves, FT-IR results with 10 detected absorption files which indicate the presence of functional group characteristics that can be used as an illustration of the presence of antibacterial compounds. In the LC-MS test with identification of several molecular weights which indicated a signal derivative of flavonoid compounds in the form of dihydroquercetin, quercetin-3-O-β-D-xylopyranoside, quercetin-3-O-β-D-galactopyranoside, isohametin-7-O-pentoside and routine, and derivatives of detected alkaloid compounds in the form of berberine and papaverine.
Abstract The practice of traditional medicine, especially herbal medicine, is still prevalent across the African continent. Yet, their in-depth pharmacological and chemical exploitation by the scientific community remain a necessity. The aim of the present study was to investigate into the phenolic components, antioxidant, and enzyme-inhibitory activities of three solvent extracts (ethyl acetate, methanol, and water) of the stem bark of four African plant species (Senna siamea, Distemonanthus benthamianus, Harrisonia abyssinica, and Pycnanthus angolensis). It was found that D. benthamianus followed by P. angolensis, displayed the highest DPPH and ABTS scavenging, ferric and cupric reducing, and total antioxidant capacity in the phosphomolybdenum assay. A similar result was observed for AChE, BChE, and tyrosinase inhibition. The two plants also showed comparable α-amylase inhibitory effect. On the other hand, H. abyssinica showed high metal chelating and α-glucosidase inhibition. Among the solvents used, the methanol extract seemed to be the most bioactive. In addition, TPC was highest in D. benthamianus (135.33–192.29 mg GAE/g) while P. angolensis was richest in TFC (7.68–12.48 mg RE/g). A range of bioactive compounds were identified in the extracts, with variations observed among the plants. Senna siamea stem bark showed the presence of nine compounds; where flavonoids (e.g. naringenin, kaempferol, dihydroquercetin) were recorded. Genistein (m/z 271.06), procyanidin B (m/z 577.13) and C (m/z 865.19) isomers were common in stem barks extracts of D. benthamianus and P. Angolensis. To conclude, D. benthamianus and P. angolensis can be considered as potential pharmaceutical agents or functional food components that could reduce the risks of oxidative stress-related disorders.
The content of water in substances and preparations based on biologically active materials determines to a considerable extent their biopharmaceutical properties and stability. A new method has been developed for separate quantitative determination of water in various bound forms in biologically active substances isolated from raw plant materials. Dihydroquercetin is used as an example to demonstrate that the proposed method is capable of determining water fractions with various degrees of binding in a sample. Water contained in substances and preparations of biologically active compounds determines to a considerable extent the level of their biological activity and stability. Not only the total water content but also its distribution among fractions with various bond strengths to the active compound is important. Various methods and modes of drying influence the distribution and determine the quality of the resulting product.
The chemical components of the Blumea balsanifera were separated and purified by column chromatography,their structures were identified as Luteolin(1),Luteolin -7-methyl-ether(2),Rhamnetin(3),5,4′-dihydroxy-7-methoxyf lavone(4),5,4′-dihydroxy-3,3′,7-trimethoxy flavanone(5),Eriodictyol(6),Dihydroquercetin -4′-methyllether(7)by spectroscopic methods. The compound(4)and compound(5)were obtained from this plant for the first time.
Seven xanthones and two flavonoids were isolated from the roots of Polygala caudata and identified using thin-layer chromatography, melting points and spectroscopic methods as euxanthone (1,7-dihydroxyxanthone), gentisein (1,3,7-trihydroxyxanthone), wubangziside A (euxanthone-7-O-β-D-apiofuranosyl-(1–6)-β-D-glucopyranoside), wubangziside B (euxanthone-7-O-β-D-glucopyranside), 1,3-dihydroxy-2-methoxyxanthone, lancerin (1,3,7-trihydroxyxanthone-4-C-β-D-glucopyranoside) and neolancerin (1,3,7-trihydroxyxanthone-2-C-β-D-glycopyranoside), and dihydroquercetin and quercetin.
Objective To explore plant source compounds of Tenodera sinensis Saussure egg and find its original harvest place.Methods Spectroscopic methods were used through this experiment.Results Five compounds indetified as 7-oxo-15-hydroxydehydroabietic acid(1),quercetin(2),dihydroquercetin(3),kaempferol(4),gallic acid(5)were isolated from Tenodera sinensis Saussure egg.All these compounds were isolated from this species for the first time.Conclusion This raw medical material was possibly harvested from some kind of plant of Pinaceae.
Keywords: Anorectal neurosis; Acupuncture; Shuigou point; Foot motor sensory area Reference Abstract The use of biological polymers for the treatment of burn injuries to the skin is widely studied in preclinical and clinical trials. We conducted studies of the effect of gelatin modification with dihydroquercetin and arabinogalactan on its physical and biological properties, important for ensuring optimal conditions for bio printing and growth of cell cultures. The results obtained indicate the potential of a mixture of dihydroquercetin and arabinogalactan (Ag) as gelatin-modifying agents.
Evidence from in vitro and in vivo studies indicates that rutin, the main flavonoid in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), may have high value for medicine and health. This paper reports the finding of a flavonol synthase (FLS) gene, cloned and characterized from F. tataricum and designated FtFLS1, that is involved in rutin biosynthesis. The FtFLS1 gene was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), and the recombinant soluble FtFLS1 protein had a relative molecular mass of 40 kDa. The purified recombinant protein showed, with dihydroquercetin as substrate, total and specific activities of 36.55 × 10 −3 IU and 18.94 × 10 −3 IU/mg, respectively, whereas the total and specific activities were 10.19 × 10 −3 IU and 5.28 × 10 −3 IU/mg, respectively, with dihydrokaempferol. RT-PCR revealed that during F. tataricum florescence there was an organ-specific expression pattern by the FtFLS1 gene, with similar trends in flavonoid content. These observations suggest that FtFLS1 in F. tataricum encodes a functional protein, which might play a key role in rutin biosynthesis.
Formation of free radicals in mitochondria plays a key role in the development of apoptosis, which includes formation of superoxide by the respiratory chain, formation of radicals by cytochrome c-cardiolipin complex in the presence of hydrogen peroxide or lipids, and chain lipid peroxidation resulting in cytochrome c release from mitochondria and initiation of the apoptotic cascade. In this work the effect of taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) and some other antioxidants on these three radical-producing reactions was studied. Peroxidase activity of the complex of cytochrome c with dioleyl cardiolipin estimated by chemiluminescence with luminol decreased by 50% with quercetin, taxifolin, rutin, Trolox, and ionol at concentrations 0.7, 0.7, 0.8, 3, and 10 microM, respectively. The lipid radical production detected by coumarin C-525-activated chemiluminescence decreased under the action of rutin and taxifolin in a dose-dependent manner, so that a 50% inhibition of chemiluminescence was observed at the antioxidant concentrations of 3.7 and 10 microM, respectively. Thus, these two radical-producing reactions responsible for apoptosis onset are inhibited by antioxidants at rather low concentrations. Experiments performed on liver slices and mash showed that taxifolin, quercetin, naringenin, and Trolox have low inhibitory effect on the lucigenin-dependent chemiluminescence in the tissue only at concentrations higher than 100 microM.
We investigated the chemical constituents of the leaves of Psidum littorale, which include 16 flavonoids, including seven flavonols, six flavonoid glycosides and three flavonones. The compounds were isolated by silica gel column chromatography. Their structures were elucidated on the basis of spectral analysis and by comparison with published data. Seven flavonols were kaempferol (1), isorhamnetin (2), myricetin- 3,7,3’-trimethyl ether(3), laricitrin (4), quercetin (5), myricetin (6) and quercein-3,4’-dimethyl ether (7), six flavonoid glycosides were guaijaverin (8), hyperoside (9), 5,4’-dyhydroxy-3,7,5’-methoxyflavone-3’-O-β-D- glucoside (10), laricitrin-3-O-xyloside (11), myricetin-3-O-α-L-rhamnopyranoside (12) and myricetin-3-O-β-D- xyloside (13). Three flavonones were 4’-O-methyldihydroquercetin (14), dihydroapigenin (15) and ampelopsin 4’-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (16). Compound 10 is a new chemical, compounds 2-4, 7, 10-16 were first isolated from this plant. (1)H NMR and (13)C NMR data of compound 11 were not reported in literature.
Abstract A range of phenolic compounds was oxidized using the enzyme polyphenoloxidase (E.C. 1.14.18.1). Mixtures of phenolics and mixtures of phenolics with amino acids and peptides were also oxidised. The oxidised products exhibited red, yellow, blue, green and orange colours but many of them turned to brown or black as further reactions occurred. The colours were measured in terms of Hunter l ,a,b coordinates and the stability of the colours to heat, pH and sulphur dioxide was measured. The majority of colours had insufficient stability or tinctorial power to be considered for use as food colourants. The exceptions were the orange products formed on oxidation of catechin and the yellow products from dihydroquercetin.
Six compounds were isolated from the Meconopsis integrifolia(Maxim.)Franch.Through spectral methods,they were identified as protopine(1),oleracein E(2),luteolin(3),dihydroquercetin(4),apigenin(5) and tricin(6).Among them,compounds 2-6 were isolated from this plant for the first time.
Flavonolignans are plant polyphenols with a chemical structure consisting of a flavonoid and a lignan (phenylpropanoid) moiety. They are found in some species of the families Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Poaceae, and others [1] . The best known and most studied flavonolignan is silybin [2] , which together with silychristin and silydianin ( Fig. 1 ) are major components of silymarin, a standardized extract from the fruits of Silybum marianum (milk thistle; Asteraceae). These flavonolignans originate biosynthetically from the flavanonol taxifolin (2,3-dihydroquercetin) and coniferyl alcohol. Their oxidation at the flavonoid moiety yields the corresponding 2,3-dehydroflavonolignans ( Fig. 1) , formally derived from the flavonol quercetin. Due to the low stereoselectivity of the biosynthetic processes, silybin, silychristin and also their 2,3-dehydro derivatives naturally occur as pairs of transconfigured diastereomers/enantiomers, denoted A and B [3] .
The purpose of work to study the content of anthocyanins and other biologically active substances in residues of fruits of Sanberri from receivingjuice and mash. It is established that residues contained over 70% solids, more than 60% of dietary fiber, to 55.4 mg/% of ascorbic acid and up to 90.0 mg/% of anthocyanins. Furthermore, they possessed high antioxidant activity (156.8-399.4 mg/% dihydroquercetin equivalent) that allowed to recommend them as raw materials for receiving natural food colorants. The concentrated food dye from Sanberri's residue (50-51% soluble solids) had intensive color varying from dark-violet (at acidity of 1.0%) to claret-red (at acidity of 3.0%), possessed high antioxidant activity (1308.2-2223.5 mg/%) and contained a large amount of anthocyanins (666-976 mg/%).
Rhododendron dauricum L. has been used as a traditional Chinese medicine to treat cough and asthma and relieve phlegm and bronchitis. In this study, a reliable method based on high-performance liquid chromatography with diode array detection and quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry was established to systematically identify and quantify the components in this herb for the first time. A total of 33 compounds were identified, including 24 flavonoids, six phenolic acids, two coumarins and one terpene. Among them, poriolin (17), farrerol-7-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (20), and syzalterin (30) were isolated from this plant for the first time, and quercetin-3-β-d-(6-p-hydroxy benzoyl) galactoside (19), quercetin-3-β-d-(6-p-coumaroyl) galactoside (21), and myrciacetin (23) were identified from this genus for the first time. Fragmentation pathways of flavonoids also have been investigated by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Moreover, seven bioactive constituents, namely, gallic acid (1), scopoletin (6), dihydroquercetin (7), quercetin (22), kaempferol (25), 8-desmethyl farrerol (27), and farrerol (28), were simultaneously quantified. The developed method has been validated and applied to analyze ten samples of R. dauricum from Hebei Province successfully. The contents of the seven compounds have been detected and compared.
The possible antiviral activity of preparations with antioxidant and/or antihypoxant properties was studied on two in vitro models of influenza infection: (i) in cultures of chorio-allantoic membranes of chicken embryos and (ii) in MDCK cells. Preparations under study were hypoxene, reduced glutathione, dihydroquercetin, trolox, coenzyme Q10, and the enzymatic preparation of superoxide-dismutase (recsod). Preparations possessing combined antioxidant/antihypoxic and detoxicating properties (reduced glutathione and hypoxene) produced a significant antiviral effect and enhanced the antiviral effect of rimantadine. The antiviral effect of these preparations was manifested by a decrease in the production of viral particles and, to a more pronounced degree, by the inhibition of cytopathogenic action of virus on cultured cells, which was revealed in the tests for the activity of respiratory enzymes. In contrast to the compounds containing thio or sulfo groups, the antioxidants of "direct action" (free radical scavengers) - coenzyme Q 10, trolox, quercetin and the enzymatic preparation recsod did not show any pronounced protective effect and in some cases even enhanced the production of viral particles and decreased the antiviral action of rimantadine.
The difference in colour intensity between flowers of sporogenic revertants of the white flowering lines W17 and W28 is caused by an incompletely dominant gene Inl. This gene is not linked to the anthocyanin gene Anl. In the dominant state Inl causes a 50% decrease in colour intensity of selfcoloured red flowers.Chromatographic analysis of anthocyanins of plants homozygous recessive or dominant for Inl showed that the same anthocyanins are produced in both genotypes (cyanidin-3-glucoside and cyanidin-3-diglucoside). Anthocyanin synthesis starts at the same stage of development of the flower in both genotypes. When the bud reaches a length of approximately 45 mm, however, anthocyanin synthesis in the Inl Inl line slows down.No influence of the gene Inl on the concentration of dihydroquercetin-7-glucoside in buds and flowers could be observed, which indicates that the influence of Inl on flower colour development is restricted to the last part of the biosynthesis of anthocyanins, i.e. the conversion of dihydroflavonols into anthocyanins.In addition to Inl having a decreasing effect on flower colour intensity, evidence is produced that the gene Inl also influences the reversion frequency of unstable alleles of the gene Anl.
TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) induces apoptosis in many transformed cells but not in normal cells, hence TRAIL has recently emerged as a novel anti-cancer agent. Adult T-cell Leukemia/Lymphoma (ATLL) is a neoplasm of T-lymphocyte origin etiologically associated with HTLV-I, and is known to be resistant to standard anti-cancer therapies. In a previous study, we showed that although most ATLL cells express TRAIL-death receptors DR4 and/or DR5, they are resistant to TRAIL. To overcome this resistance, we tried to find natural materials that increase the sensitivity to TRAIL in the present study. Here, we report for the first time that dihydroflavonol from a plant increases TRAIL sensitivity by enhancing death receptor expression. ::: ::: Materials and methods : We used a TRAIL-resistant ATLL cell line, KOB, for screening, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from normal healthy donors. The cell surface expression of DR4, DR5, and decoy-receptors DcR1 and DcR2 was examined using flow cytometry (FCM). Cell viability was assessed by MTS assay after incubation with various combinations of natural extracts and TRAIL for 48 hours. Apoptosis was evaluated by Annexin V binding and propidium iodide (PI) staining. We also analyzed caspase−8, − 9 and −3 activation and pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins by Western blot. ::: ::: Results and Discussion : We screened more than 500 natural products. Among them, the most striking synergism with TRAIL was observed in a dihydroflavonol that was extracted from the Blumea Balsamifera , a family of chrysanthemum from Thailand. It was a methyldihydroquercetin (molecular weight, 318), and we named it BB-1. The viability of KOB cells treated with either TRAIL or BB-1 was 98% and 97%, respectively, and decreased to 60% with concurrent treatment. Interestingly, sequential treatment, pre-treatment with BB-1 followed by TRAIL, further augmented the synergism, and the viability decreased to 38%. Using Annexin V and PI, we confirmed that these are the results of apoptosis. Although it has been reported that anti-apoptotic proteins FLIP, Bcl-2, Bcl-xL and XIAP play key roles in TRAIL resistance, we did not find any change in these factors in the BB-1-treated cells. Instead, we found that BB-1 increased DR5 expression. Subsequent activation of caspase−8, −9 and −3 was observed in a time-dependent manner in the sequentially treated cells, but not in cells treated with BB-1 or TRAIL alone. More importantly, BB1 did not induce DR5 expression or enhance TRAIL sensitivity in PBMCs. Thus, BB-1 augmented TRAIL-induced apoptosis by up-regulating DR5 expression without any cytotoxic activity on normal PBMCs. These results suggest that combined treatment with BB-1 and TRAIL can be a new strategy for cancer immunotherapy against TRAIL-resistant cells.
In order to understand the chemical comstituents of Siraitia grosvenorii(Swingle) C. Jeffrey, nine compounds were isolated from the leaves of S. grosvenorii by using solvent fractionation and chromatographic technology. On the basis of spectral data, they were identified as: kaempferol-3,7-di-O-α-L-rahmnoside(1), kaempferol-3-O-α-L-rahmnoside(2), ferulic acid(3), 4′-O-methyldihydroquercetin(4), emodin(5), aloe-emodin(6), quercetin(7), kaempferol(8), kaempferol-7-O-α-L-rahmnoside(9). Among them, compounds 3 – 6 were isolated from the leaves of S. grosvenorii for the fi rst time.
Natural oils are commonly used in topical pharmaceutical formulations as emulsifiers, stabilizers or solubility enhancers. They are presented as safe and inert components, mainly used for formulation purposes. It is confirmed that natural oils can affect the skin penetration of various substances. Fatty acids are mainly responsible for this effect. Current understanding lacks reliable scientific data on penetration of natural oils into the skin and their skin penetration enhancement potential. In the current study, fatty acid content analysis was used to determine the principal fatty acids in soybean, olive, avocado, sea-buckthorn pulp, raspberry seed and coconut oils. Time of flight secondary ion mass spectrometry bioimaging was used to determine the distribution of these fatty acids in human skin ex vivo after application of the oils. Skin penetration enhancement ratios were determined for a perspective antioxidant compound dihydroquercetin. The results demonstrated skin penetration of fatty acids from all oils tested. Only soybean and olive oils significantly increased the skin distribution of dihydroquercetin and can be used as skin penetration enhancers. However, no correlation can be determined between the fatty acids’ composition and skin penetration enhancement using currently available methodological approaches. This indicates that potential chemical penetration enhancement should be evaluated during formulation of topically applied products containing natural oils.
BackgroundCommercially available poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima) varieties prevalently accumulate cyanidin derivatives and show intense red coloration. Orange-red bract color is less common. We investigated four cultivars displaying four different red hues with respect to selected enzymes and genes of the anthocyanin pathway, putatively determining the color hue.ResultsRed hues correlated with anthocyanin composition and concentration and showed common dark red coloration in cultivars ‘Christmas Beauty’ and ‘Christmas Feeling’ where cyanidin derivatives were prevalent. In contrast, orange-red bract color is based on the prevalent presence of pelargonidin derivatives that comprised 85% of the total anthocyanin content in cv. ‘Premium Red’ and 96% in cv. ‘Harvest Orange’ (synonym: ‘Orange Spice’). cDNA clones of flavonoid 3′-hydroxylase (F3′H) and dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) were isolated from the four varieties, and functional activity and substrate specificity of the corresponding recombinant enzymes were studied. Kinetic studies demonstrated that poinsettia DFRs prefer dihydromyricetin and dihydroquercetin over dihydrokaempferol, and thus, favor the formation of cyanidin over pelargonidin. Whereas the F3′H cDNA clones of cultivars ‘Christmas Beauty’, ‘Christmas Feeling’, and ‘Premium Red’ encoded functionally active enzymes, the F3′H cDNA clone of cv. ‘Harvest Orange’ contained an insertion of 28 bases, which is partly a duplication of 20 bases found close to the insertion site. This causes a frameshift mutation with a premature stop codon after nucleotide 132 and, therefore, a non-functional enzyme. Heterozygosity of the F3′H was demonstrated in this cultivar, but only the mutated allele was expressed in the bracts. No correlation between F3′H-expression and the color hue could be observed in the four species.ConclusionsRare orange-red poinsettia hues caused by pelargonidin based anthocyanins can be achieved by different mechanisms. F3′H is a critical step in the establishment of orange red poinsettia color. Although poinsettia DFR shows a low substrate specificity for dihydrokaempferol, sufficient precursor for pelargonidin formation is available in planta, in the absence of F3’H activity.
The compositions of phenolic compounds in 10 cultivars of two mulberry species (Morus atropurpurea Roxb. and Morus alba Linn.) grown in four regions of China were analysed using HPLC-TOF-MS. Results showed that a total of 27 phenolic compounds were identified in these mulberry cultivars. The Taiwan cultivar from the Jiangsu region showed the highest concentration of hydroxycinnamic acids, quercetin derivatives, and anthocyanins. Multivariate statistical analysis revealed that six mulberry cultivars grown in the region of Jiangsu, Ningxia, and Guangdong were differentiated regarding their species feature and regional characteristics. Cyanidin rhamnosylglucoside, 4-caffeoylquinic acid, dihydroquercetin, and quercetin were further screened out to be the key compounds for the differentiation of these cultivars. The correlation between the regional climate feature (including rainfall, humidity, and temperature) and the accumulation of phenolic compounds in these mulberry cultivars was established.
Hot methanol extracts of Spanish peanuts were found to possess antioxidant activity. Thin layer (TLC) and paper chromatography of the methanolic peanut extracts yielded 6 fluorescent bands of which one exhibited potent antioxidant activity. Further separation by TLC showed this band to be a complex mixture of 3 components that were tested for antioxidant activity. One component demonstrated all of the antioxidant activity associated with the parent band. Analysis of this antioxidant by paper chromatography and TLC, chromatographic spray reagents and spectral analysis demonstrated that the compound was dihydroquercetin.
Abstract: Natural oils are commonly used in topical pharmaceutical formulations as emulsifiers, stabilizers or solubility enhancers. They are presented as safe and inert components, mainly used for formulation purposes. It is confirmed that natural oils can affect the skin penetration of various substances. Fatty acids are mainly responsible for this effect. Current understanding lacks reliable scientific data on penetration of natural oils into the skin and their skin penetration enhancement potential. In the current study, fatty acid content analysis was used to determine the principal fatty acids in soybean, olive, avocado, sea-buckthorn pulp, raspberry seed and coconut oils. Time of flight secondary ion mass spectrometry bioimaging was used to determine the distribution of these fatty acids in human skin ex vivo after application of the oils. Skin penetration enhancement ratios were determined for a perspective antioxidant compound dihydroquercetin. The results demonstrated skin penetration of fatty acids from all oils tested. Only soybean and olive oils significantly increased the skin distribution of dihydroquercetin and can be used as skin penetration enhancers. However, no correlation can be determined between the fatty acids' composition and skin penetration enhancement using currently available methodological approaches. This indicates that potential chemical penetration enhancement should be evaluated during formulation of topically applied products containing natural oils.
The overall objective of this study was to evaluate the skin penetration effects of natural oils and their performance as skin penetration enhancers for dihydroquercetin (DHQ). DHQ is a promising compound for treating environment-associated skin conditions. Scientific data shows that DHQ can act as anti-inflammatory [21, 22] , hypopigmenting [23] , anti-tumour [24] , mitigating oxidative DNA damage [25] and preventing UV-induced skin carcinogenesis [26] agent. In vivo trials with experimental animals showed positive DHQ effects in treating chemically induced atopic dermatitis-like lesions [27] and chemically induced burns [28, 29] . Based on relatively low molecular mass (<600 Da), adequate water/octanol partitioning coefficient in the range of 1-3 and good solubility in oils DHQ can be used for topical drug delivery but low solubility in water (<0.1%) might be a drawback for reaching adequate concentrations in the skin [30] . Currently there is no relevant scientific data on skin penetration properties of DHQ and finding an efficient way for adequate DHQ delivery into the skin is essential for its topical delivery.
Background: Commercially available poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima) varieties prevalently accumulate cyanidin derivatives and show intense red coloration. Orange-red bract color is less common. We investigated four cultivars displaying four different red hues with respect to selected enzymes and genes of the anthocyanin pathway, putatively determining the color hue. Results: Red hues correlated with anthocyanin composition and concentration and showed common dark red coloration in cultivars 'Christmas Beauty' and 'Christmas Feeling' where cyanidin derivatives were prevalent. In contrast, orange-red bract color is based on the prevalent presence of pelargonidin derivatives that comprised 85% of the total anthocyanin content in cv. 'Premium Red' and 96% in cv. 'Harvest Orange' (synonym: 'Orange Spice'). cDNA clones of flavonoid 3′-hydroxylase (F3′H) and dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) were isolated from the four varieties, and functional activity and substrate specificity of the corresponding recombinant enzymes were studied. Kinetic studies demonstrated that poinsettia DFRs prefer dihydromyricetin and dihydroquercetin over dihydrokaempferol, and thus, favor the formation of cyanidin over pelargonidin. Whereas the F3′H cDNA clones of cultivars 'Christmas Beauty', 'Christmas Feeling', and 'Premium Red' encoded functionally active enzymes, the F3′H cDNA clone of cv. 'Harvest Orange' contained an insertion of 28 bases, which is partly a duplication of 20 bases found close to the insertion site. This causes a frameshift mutation with a premature stop codon after nucleotide 132 and, therefore, a non-functional enzyme. Heterozygosity of the F3′H was demonstrated in this cultivar, but only the mutated allele was expressed in the bracts. No correlation between F3′H-expression and the color hue could be observed in the four species.
The role of dietary flavonoids in cancer prevention has also been widely discussed. Compelling data from laboratory studies and human clinical trials indicate that flavonoids play an important role in cancer prevention and treatment [18] [19] [20] . A substantial number of studies have demonstrated that flavonoids are able to potentiate the anti-tumor activity of other agents on multiple types of cancer [21] [22] [23] [24] . Taxifolin (Taxi), also known as dihydroquercetin, has a strong anti-oxidant effect and possesses activities similar to quercetin, which enhances apoptosis induced by a variety of anti-cancer agents in both cell and animal models [25] [26] [27] [28] . However, the combined use of Taxi with other anticancer agents has not been reported.
The present invention relates to a whitening cosmetic composition containing Dihydroqercetin showing an excellent effect of suppressing to, tyrosinase activity and melanin synthesis on the cosmetic composition for whitening, as an active ingredient. Dihydroquercetin, whitening, cosmetic
The existence of an enzymatic activity catalyzing the NADPH-dependent reduction of (+)-dihydroquercetin to (+)-2,3-trans-3,4-cis-leucocyanidin in crude extracts of wild type Zea mays is described. Expression of this dihydroquercetin reductase (DQR) activity depends on the genotype of mutants for anthocyanin biosynthesis. Protein translated in vitro from the RNA product of a full-length A1 cDNA clone exhibits DQR activity; therefore, the A1 locus is the structural gene for DQR of maize.
Abstract Pinus pinaster extract is a polyphenol-rich food supplement containing diverse types of flavonoids. The latter are known to have strong antiradical activity and thus different beneficial effects on human health. A 2 3 experimental design was performed to study the effect of temperature, contact time and liquid–solid ratio on the ethanol extraction efficiency. High values of phenol yields (17.0 ± 0.00 eq. g gallic acid/l) and antiradical activity (85.6 ± 3.94 DPPH inhibition percentage) were detected at 50 °C (values varied between 25 and 50 °C), at 90 min (between 30 and 90 min) and at a 5:1 liquid–solid ratio (between 5:1 and 10:1). A subsequent HPLC analysis allowed identification of the phenols occurring in the extracts. Previously, an aqueous extract ( A ), and another one soluble in both water and ethyl acetate ( OW ), were obtained after fractionation and subjection to thiolysis. The main monophenols detected were catechin > epicatechin in the A fraction and dihydroquercetin > catechin > epicatechin in the OW one. In the former fraction, the average degree of polymerization ( DPn ¯ ) of procyanidins was 7.0, while only oligomer phenols with DPn ¯ = 3 . 0 were found in the OW fraction.
Determination of dihydroquercetin in extracts of medicinal plants by a high-performance liquid chromatography is presented. The method is simple, quick, highly reproducible and can be widely applied in phytopharmacology.
Abstract Invasive field weeds, such as Euphorbia sp., represent main threat for crop productivity. The present work was conducted to evaluate the phytotoxicity of Euphorbia helioscopia on wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) and pea ( Pisum sativum L . ). The influence of aqueous extract from shoot of E. helioscopia , at different rates (1.0%, 2.5%, 5.0%, and 10.0%; w/v), on germination and early seedling growth of wheat and pea as well as some of the synchronized physiological aspects was investigated. E. helioscopia aqueous extract severely affected the germination in a concentration dependent manner. Plumule and radicle length, as well as their fresh and dry masses were markedly reduced. Moreover, amylase activity and total soluble sugars were significantly reduced in response to treatment with aqueous Euphorbia extract, in both test plants, whereas, proteolytic activity showed marked improvement. The linear regression analysis revealed the presence of positive linear correlation between germination rate and amylase activity. The stress markers such as proline, phenolics and flavonoids were markedly accumulated upon treatment with E. helioscopia extract. The increment in the level of total phenolics was concomitant with an improvement in phenylalanine ammonia lyase and peroxidase activities. High performance liquid chromatography analysis of E. helioscopia extract revealed the presence of two cinnamic acid derivatives (caffeic and p -coumaric acids), two benzoic acid derivatives (vanillic and syringic acids) and a flavanonol (Dihydroquercetin). To our knowledge, this is the first study to investigate the physiological implications underlying the phytotoxicity of E. helioscopia .
Objective To study the effects of effective parts of Radix Paeoniae Rubra to KK /upj- Ay mice spontaneous hyperglycemic and the chemical constituents. Methods Enrichment of the effective parts of Radix Paeoniae Rubra by Sephadex LH-20,use KK / upj-Ay spontaneous hyperglycemia mice to do animal experiments,set low,medium and high three dose groups,rosiglitazone for positive control,C57BL /6J mice as blank control,in order to observe the effects of effective parts on fasting blood glucose levels in mice. And compounds were isolated by various column chromatography and their structurt were elucidated by spectroscopic analysis. Results After 3 weeks,fasting blood- glucose of the mice in middle dose drug were less than that of the model group,with significant differences between the two groups( P 0. 01); Nine compounds were obtained from this part: Paeoniflorin( Ⅰ),Oxypaeoniflora( Ⅱ),Benzoic acid( Ⅲ),Gallic acid( Ⅳ),Ethyl Gallic( Ⅴ),1,2,3,4,6- pentagalloyl- β- glucose( Ⅵ),Naringenin( Ⅶ),Dihydroquercetin( Ⅷ). Conclusion The hypoglycemic effect of the effective parts of peony root may owe to it's improve on insulin resistance,compounds Ⅷ are obtained from the genus for the first time.
Abstract Investigation of the aerial parts of Artemisia glutinosa afforded herniarin, the flavonoids naringenin, dihydroquercetin-7,3′-dimethylether, 5,3′,4′-trihydroxy-7-methoxyflavanone, palmatin, rhamnetin and three acetophenone derivatives: 2,4-diacetylanisole, dehydroespeletone and the new compound glutinosol.
Dihydroquercetin was effectively extracted from larch by adsorbing. The key factors including the extraction temperature, extraction time, the ratio between water and material, and the amount of polyamide are all studied. By using single factor and orthogonal test, the optimal conditions were identified: extraction temperature 90℃, extraction time 1h, the ratio of liquid to solid 18∶1, and the amount of polyamide for 23% of material. Under the optimal condition, the extraction yield of dihydroquercetin from larch can reach 0.814%.
BackgroundNew approaches for the prevention of colon cancer perseveres an essential necessity. Though, resistance to existing chemo-preventive drugs is moderately predominant in colon carcinogenesis. Taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) is a flavononol, have shown virile biological activities against few cancers. The current study was designed to investigate and equate antitumor activity of Taxifolin (TAX) in colorectal cancer cell lines and in HCT116 xenograft model in a comprehensive approach.MethodsTwo human colorectal cancer cell lines HCT116 and HT29, were used. 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyl tetrazoliumbromide (MMT) protocol was performed to elucidate the impact of TAX and β- catenin inhibitor (FH535) on the viability of HCT116 and HT29 cell lines. Apoptosis /cell cycle assay was performed. Data interpretation was done with a FACScan (Becton Dickinson, NJ). About 1 × 104 cells per sample were harvested. Histograms of DNA were analyzed with ModiFitLT software (verity Software House, ME, USA). Western blotting and RT-PCR were performed for protein and gene expression respectively in in vitro and in vivo.ResultsWe found that TAX induced cytotoxicity in colorectal cells in a dose-dependent manner and time dependent approach. Further, our data validated that administration of TAX to human colorectal cancer HCT116 and HT29 cells resulted in cell growth arrest, variation in molecules controlling cell cycle operative in the G2 phase of the cell cycle and apoptosis in a concentration dependent approach. Further our results concluded that TAX administration decreases expression of β-catenin gene, AKT gene and Survivin gene and protein expression in in vitro and in vivo.ConclusionOur findings proposed that targeting β-catenin gene may encourage the alterations of cell cycle and cell cycle regulators. Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway possibly takes part in the genesis and progression of colorectal cancer cells through regulating cell cycle and the expression of cell cycle regulators.
The chemical constituents of the roots of Zizyphus jujuba Mill. var. spinosa were investigated with a combination of Sephadex LH-20 column, centrifugal partition chromatography and RP-18 low pressure liquid chromatography. We isolated seven flavonoids-quercetin (1), (+)-dihydroquercetin (2), (+)-dihydrokaempferol (7), quercetin-3-0-β-glucoside (8), 2-hydroxynaringenin (11), rutin (12), and quercetin 3-0-(2G-β-D-xylopyranosylrutinoside) (13); four catechins-(-)-gallocatechin (3), (-)-epigallocatechin (4), (-)-catechin (5), and (-)-epicatechin (6); and two phenolic carboxylic acids-p-hydroxybenzoic acid (9) and protocatechuic acid (10) from the water soluble fraction of the ethanolic extract NMR date of 13 were assigned by 2D NMR techniques.
Abstract Malbec is a wine grape variety of great phenolic potential characterized for its high levels of anthocyanins and dihydroflavonols. To evaluate the possible implication of dihydroflavonols in the expression of red wine color through reactions of copigmentation or condensation, assays were carried out in wine model systems with different malvidin-3- O -glucoside:dihydroquercetin-3- O -glucoside molar ratios. The addition of increasing levels of dihydroquercetin-3- O -glucoside to a constant malvidin-3- O -glucoside concentration resulted in a hyperchromic effect associated with a darkening of the anthocyanin solutions, greater quantity of color and visual saturation, perceptible to the human eye. Copigmentation and thermodynamic measurements showed that dihydroquercetin-3- O -glucoside can act as an anthocyanin copigment, similar to other usual wine components like flavanols or phenolic acids, although apparently less efficient than flavonols. The high levels of dihydroflavonols existing in Malbec wines in relation to other non-anthocyanin phenolics should make this family of compounds particularly important to explain the color expression in Malbec young red wines.
Abstract The activities of two enzymes, chalcone synthase (CS) and UDPGal:flavonoid-3-o-glycosyltransferase (UFGalT), and their relationships with anthocyanin synthesis in apple peel, were studied in 3 years of experiments. UFGalT activity was positively correlated with anthocyanin accumulation during fruit maturation in both ‘Delicious’ and ‘Ralls’ apples. Ethephon treatment at 110 days after full blossom (DAFB) increased UFGalT activity and also promoted anthocyanin formation. However, relatively high UFGalT activity was detected in control fruit at 90 DAFB although there was no anthocyanin in fruit peel. Also, when ethephon was applied at 70 DAFB, it induced high UFGalT activity and increased flavonoid accumulation without inducing anthocyanin formation at 90 DAFB. CS activity and flavonoid content were relatively high and constant from fruitlet to maturation stage. Fruit bagging suppressed accumulation of flavonoids and anthocyanins, but when the bags were removed at 110 DAFB, flavonoids and anthocyanins significantly increased by 130 DAFB. The data indicate that CS do not play a regulatory role in anthocyanin synthesis in apples exposed to light. UFGalT activity was correlated with anthocyanin synthesis during fruit maturation but it is not the only regulatory enzyme in this process since this enzyme was also active at 90 DAFB when no anthocyanin was present. We conclude that UFGalT probably catalyzes both quercetin glycoside and anthocyanin formations, and anthocyanin formation probably depends on cyanidin presence rather than on UFGalT activity. The controlling point in regulating anthocyanin synthesis is likely to be located at the steps from dihydroquercetin to the formation of cyanidin.
The composition and content of flavonoids glycosides and aglycones in the leaves of Rhododendron adamsii , Rh. parvifolium , Rh. impeditum , and the closely related species of the subsection Rhodorastra ( Rh. dauricum , Rh. ledebourii , Rh. sichotense , Rh. mucronulatum ) from populations of the Altai, Yakutia, Tuva, the Amur region and Primorsky Krai, Buryatia, China were studied by HPLC. The aglycones content in hydrolysates of the majority of the species is about 1%, and quercetin and dihydroquercetin prevail in aglycones composition. In Rh. adamsii and Rh. parvifolium aglycones are found predominantly in the free state, and in the species of the subsection Rhodorastra – in a bound one. Values of paired affinity of the investigated species on composition of phenolic compounds of extracts and hydrolysates vary from 30 to 90%, maximums are in pairs Rh. sichotense - Rh. dauricum , Rh. adamsii - Rh. ledebourii . As a result of the analysis of affinity of flavonoids composition of the species relation with D. Chamberlain’s anatomo-morphological classification is not exposed. Significant value of affinity Rh. adamsii and Rh. parvifolium is revealed. The minimum value of group affinity on flavonoids composition of extracts and hydrolysates of Rh. impeditum casts doubt on his position equally with Rh. parvifolium in the subsection Lapponica .
Leaves of Crataegus sinaica Boiss, contain the new C-glycosyl flavone , together with the hitherto unknown, dihydroflavonol 3-O-xyloside, (2R:3R)-dihydroquercetin-. The known compounds (+)-catechin, (-)-epicatechin, vicenin-II, , and were also characterized. Structures were established by conventional methods of analysis and confirmed by , and ESI-MS.
Blue Angelonia × angustifolia flowers can show spontaneous mutations resulting in white/blue and white flower colourations. In such a white line, a loss of dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) activity was observed whereas chalcone synthase and flavanone 3-hydroxylase activity remained unchanged. Thus, cloning and characterization of a DFR of Angelonia flowers was carried out for the first time. Two full length DFR cDNA clones, Ang.DFR1 and Ang.DFR2, were obtained from a diploid chimeral white/blue Angelonia × angustifolia which demonstrated a 99% identity in their translated amino acid sequence. In comparison to Ang.DFR2, Ang.DFR1 was shown to contain an extra proline in a proline-rich region at the N-terminus along with two exchanges at the amino acids 12 and 26 in the translated amino acid sequence. The recombinant Ang.DFR2 obtained by heterologous expression in yeast was functionally active catalyzing the NADPH dependent reduction of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and dihydromyricetin (DHM) to leucocyanidin and leucomyricetin, respectively. Dihydrokaempferol (DHK) in contrast was not accepted as a substrate despite the presence of asparagine in a position assumed to determine DHK acceptance. We show that substrate acceptance testing of DFRs provides biased results for DHM conversion if products are extracted with ethyl acetate. Recombinant Ang.DFR1 was inactive and functional activity could only be restored via exchanges of the amino acids in position 12 and 26 as well as the deletion of the extra proline. E. coli transformation of the pGEX-6P-1 vector harbouring the Ang.DFR2 and heterologous expression in E. coli resulted in functionally active enzymes before and after GST tag removal. Both the GST fusion protein and purified DFR minus the GST tag could be stored at −80°C for several months without loss of enzyme activity and demonstrated identical substrate specificity as the recombinant enzyme obtained from heterologous expression in yeast.
Background: New approaches for the prevention of colon cancer perseveres an essential necessity. Though, resistance to existing chemo-preventive drugs is moderately predominant in colon carcinogenesis. Taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) is a flavononol, have shown virile biological activities against few cancers. The current study was designed to investigate and equate antitumor activity of Taxifolin (TAX) in colorectal cancer cell lines and in HCT116 xenograft model in a comprehensive approach. Methods: Two human colorectal cancer cell lines HCT116 and HT29, were used. 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyl tetrazoliumbromide (MMT) protocol was performed to elucidate the impact of TAX and β-catenin inhibitor (FH535) on the viability of HCT116 and HT29 cell lines. Apoptosis /cell cycle assay was performed. Data interpretation was done with a FACScan (Becton Dickinson, NJ). About 1 × 10 4 cells per sample were harvested. Histograms of DNA were analyzed with ModiFitLT software (verity Software House, ME, USA). Western blotting and RT-PCR were performed for protein and gene expression respectively in in vitro and in vivo.
Blue Angelonia 6 angustifolia flowers can show spontaneous mutations resulting in white/blue and white flower colourations. In such a white line, a loss of dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) activity was observed whereas chalcone synthase and flavanone 3-hydroxylase activity remained unchanged. Thus, cloning and characterization of a DFR of Angelonia flowers was carried out for the first time. Two full length DFR cDNA clones, Ang.DFR1 and Ang.DFR2, were obtained from a diploid chimeral white/blue Angelonia 6angustifolia which demonstrated a 99% identity in their translated amino acid sequence. In comparison to Ang.DFR2, Ang.DFR1 was shown to contain an extra proline in a proline-rich region at the N-terminus along with two exchanges at the amino acids 12 and 26 in the translated amino acid sequence. The recombinant Ang.DFR2 obtained by heterologous expression in yeast was functionally active catalyzing the NADPH dependent reduction of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and dihydromyricetin (DHM) to leucocyanidin and leucomyricetin, respectively. Dihydrokaempferol (DHK) in contrast was not accepted as a substrate despite the presence of asparagine in a position assumed to determine DHK acceptance. We show that substrate acceptance testing of DFRs provides biased results for DHM conversion if products are extracted with ethyl acetate. Recombinant Ang.DFR1 was inactive and functional activity could only be restored via exchanges of the amino acids in position 12 and 26 as well as the deletion of the extra proline. E. coli transformation of the pGEX-6P-1 vector harbouring the Ang.DFR2 and heterologous expression in E. coli resulted in functionally active enzymes before and after GST tag removal. Both the GST fusion protein and purified DFR minus the GST tag could be stored at 280uC for several months without loss of enzyme activity and demonstrated identical substrate specificity as the recombinant enzyme obtained from heterologous expression in yeast.
The establishment of flower colour can also be influenced by the substrate specificity of the enzymes, particularly by DFR [25, 26] . DFR is an oxidoreductase (EC 1.1.1.219) catalyzing the NADPH dependent stereospecific reduction of (+)-(2R,3R)-dihydroflavonols to the respective (2R,3S,4S)-flavan-2,3-trans-3,4-cis-diols (leucoanthocyanidins), as well as the reverse reaction in the presence of NADP + [27, 28] . DFR is the first of the so-called 'late' enzymes of the flavonoid pathway which shows a major impact on the formation of anthocyanins, flavan 3-ols and flavonols. As a rule, DFRs accept dihydroflavonols independently from their hydroxylation pattern in the B-ring. Dihydrokaempferol (DHK, one hydroxyl group), dihydroquercetin (DHQ, two hydroxyl groups) and dihydromyricetin (DHM, 3 hydroxyl groups) are thus converted into leucopelargonidin, leucocyanidin and leucomyricetin, respectively. This provides bright-red pelargonidin, darkred/pink cyanidin and blue/violet delphinidin possessing one, two and three hydroxyl groups, respectively in the B-ring (Figure 2 ). The DFR of some plants, however, show substrate specificity by accepting only dihydroflavonols showing at least two hydroxyl groups in the B-ring for example DFR from Petunia x hybrida, Nicotiana tabacum and Cymbidium hybrida [16, 29] .
The antioxidant [AO] properties of the ethylacetate extract of Larix sibirica bark and the flavonoids quercetin and dihydroquercetin found in it were studied using a model radical-chain oxidation of propan-2-ol in the kinetic regime. The quantitative characteristics of their AO activity were determined as effective rate constants fkln. It was found that dihydroquercetin had the highest AO activity among the studied natural compounds.
We studied the efficiency of dihydroquercetin on the model of chronic nonbacterial inflammation of the prostatic gland in rats. It was found that administration of dihydroquercetin was followed by a significant decrease in the area of the connective tissue in the prostatic gland to initial levels, which attested to antifibrotic properties of this oxidant. Additionally, the substance prevented the development of atrophy of acinus epithelium. After administration of reference drug Prostamol Uno, only moderate antifibrotic effects were observed.
Abstract—The phenolic compound purpurogallin (PPG) is found in oak nutgalls and is a red pigment with a benzotropolone ring structure. PPG shows pronounced cytoprotective and anti-inflammatory activities. PPG might be effective in preventing and treating diverse systemic inflammatory diseases, affecting functional activities of various cell metabolic and signaling pathways that are associated with inflammation. A study was made to compare the antioxidant (free radical) properties for PPG, dihydroquercetin (DHQ), ascorbic acid, and trolox using two test systems, hemoglobin (Hb)–H2O2–luminol (LM) and 2,2'-azobis(2-methylpropionamidine) dihydrochloride (AAPH)–LM. PPG was additionally tested for its effect on the permeability of flat lipid bilayer membranes (LBMs). Moderate antioxidant activity was observed for PPG in the Hb–H2O2–LM system; its neutralizing potential towards hydroxyl and superoxide anions was comparable with that of ascorbic acid. The compounds were ranked according to the efficiency of their antioxidant activity in the system: DHQ > trolox > ascorbic acid > PPG. Interestingly, when the AAPH–LM system was used to test antioxidant activity, PPG did not show neutralizing activity towards peroxyl radicals formed in the system. PPG did not significantly change the permeability of flat LBMs in a dose range of 1.5–30 μM, suggesting lack of a primary membrane effect. Putative mechanisms and characteristics of cytoprotective, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory activities of PPG are discussed.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effects which dihydroquercetin (DHQ) has on the natural healing process of suberization and wound periderm initiation in cut seed potatoes. Dihydroquercetin is a phenolic compound extracted from the bark of Douglas Fir,Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco.
Ultrasound was used for the extraction of larch arabinogalactan from Larix gmelinii. The optimal conditions for ultrasound extraction were determined by response surface methodology. Specifically, the Box-Behnken design was employed to evaluate the effects of three independent variables: ultrasound time, temperature, and liquid-solid ratio. The highest arabinogalactan yield (11.18%) was obtained under the optimal extraction condition (extraction temperature 41.5°C, extraction time 24.3 min, and liquid-solid ratio 40 mL/g). In addition, the antioxidant activity of arabinogalactan that was extracted from dihydroquercetin extraction residues exhibited a moderate and concentration-dependent hydroxyl radical-scavenging capacity, ferric-reducing power, and reducing power. The wood material was characterized before and after processing by scanning electron microscopy and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy.
Antioxidant and cytotoxic activities of Achillea millefolium were investigated in this study. The cytotoxic effect of methanol and chloroform extracts of A. millefolium against four human cancer cell lines: breast (MCF-7), leukemia (THP-1), prostate (PC-3) and ovarian (OVCAR-5) was evaluated using Sulpharhodamine B (SRB) assay. The antioxidant activity of the extracts was determined using two assay systems: 2, 2-dipheny-1-picryl hydrazyl (DPPH) and 2, 2’-azinobis-(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS) assays and that of chemical constituents was evaluated using DPPH assay. All the extracts exhibited broad spectrum cytotoxicity against all the four investigated cancer cell lines with chloroform extract of aerial part of A. millefolium (AMRC) showing growth inhibition of 99%, 98% and 99% against THP, MCF-7 and OVCAR-5 cell lines at 50 µg/mL concentration. All the six extracts and isolated constituents were screened for antioxidant activity and exhibited dose dependent antioxidant activity. AMRC, quercetin and dihydroquercetin showed the best results with IC50 of 2.5, 2.2 and 2.26 µg/mL respectively.
Dihydroquercetin (3,5,7,3' A'-pentahydroxytlavanone) is a major constituent of the alcohol soluble materials in the wood of Larch species and the wood and bark of Douglas-fir. A sensitive analytical method is needed to enable rapid assessment of amounts of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) when processing commercial materials and for studies of biochemical aspects of DHQ formation. Ability to analyse very small wood SaD1ples is a most important criterion from a biochemical standpoint. Most quantitative estimates of the amount of DHQ in wood have employed the method of BARTON AND .GARDNER1.!. This method suffers from limitations in that it is spet:ific for 3-hydroxyflavanones not only DHQ, has a relatively low sensitivity, and is
Objectives: In this study, we have evaluated the influence of antioxidant complex (AOC) (dihydroquercetin and lipoic acid) on pool of nonadhesive leukocytes and leukocytes with low and high adhesion in chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) of lower limbs in rats. Materials and Methods: Model of CVI of lower limbs was created by blood flow restriction in caudal vena cava. AOC was administered at 100 mg/kg b.w./day for 14 days p.o. The venous pressure in vena cava and adhesion of leukocytes were estimated on the 14 th day of the experiment. Results: On the 14 th day, the venous pressure in groups of animals (experimental and control) was in 2.7-2.9-fold higher. In the control group, the significant increase of leukocytes pool with high adhesion was detected. Intragastric administration of AOC reduced the number of leukocytes with high adhesion and increased the number of nonadhesive leukocytes and leukocytes with a low adhesion. Conclusions: Model of CVI of lower limb is accompanied by increased venous pressure and raised adhesion activity of leukocytes. Administration of AOC for 14 days reduces the adhesive activity of leukocytes.
Dihydroquercetin (DHQ) is a flavonoid in the Chinese traditional herbal medicine Ramulus Euonymi, which has anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anticancer bioactivity. In the present study, we investigated the protective effects of DHQ on acetaminophen (APAP)-induced liver injury in a mouse model for the first time. The mice received an intraperitoneal dose of APAP for model establishment. After 1 h, they were treated with DHQ at various concentrations. After 48 h of treatment, the mice were sacrificed to determine serum ALT and AST levels and the liver index, examine histopathological changes in the liver through H&E and TUNEL staining, and evaluate TNF-α and IL-6 levels using an ELISA. We also evaluated TNF-α, IL-6, Nrf2 and SOD2 mRNA expression by RT-PCR and Bcl-2, Bax and Pro-caspase-3 expression by Western blot. DHQ treatment significantly attenuated serum ALT and AST levels as well as rescued hepatomegaly. It also down-regulated TNF-α and IL-6, increased Nrf2 and SOD2 mRNA expression, down-regulated Bax, overexpressed Bcl-2 and Pro-caspase-3. Our datas suggest that DHQ treatment can effectively attenuate APAP-induced liver injury by down-regulating inflammatory factors, improving antioxidant capacity and inhibiting hepatocyte apoptosis. DHQ could be a beneficial hepatoprotective agent for the prevention and amelioration of APAP-induced acute liver injury.
Flavonoid synthesis is modulated by developmental and environmental signals that control the amounts and localization of the diverse flavonoids found in plants. Flavonoids are implicated in regulating a number of physiological processes including UV protection, fertilization, auxin transport, plant architecture, gravitropism and pathogenic and symbiotic interactions with other organisms. Recently we showed that flavonoids can move long distances in plants, which may facilitate these molecules reaching positions in the plant where these processes are regulated. The localised application of selective flavonoids to tt4 mutants such as naringenin, dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin showed that they were taken up at the root tip, mid-root or cotyledons and travelled long distances via cell-to-cell movement to distal tissues and converted to quercetin and kaempferol. In contrast, kaempferol and quercetin do not move long distances. They were taken up only at the root tip and did not move from this position. Here we show the movement of endogenous flavonoids by using reciprocal grafting experiments between tt4 and wild-type seedlings. These results demonstrated that to understand the distribution of flavonoids in Arabidopsis, it is necessary to know where the flavonoid biosynthetic enzymes are made and to understand the mechanisms by which certain flavonoids move from their site of synthesis.
pH- and thermo-sensitive hydrogels based on chitosan cross-linked with terephthaloyl diazide were synthesized. A new formulation of the polysaccharide modified with taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) was obtained by nucleophylic addition reaction resulting in the formation of urea and urethane bonds with a 1,4-phenylenediamine spacer. Sustained release of the effective agent (flavonoid) upon action of trypsin, which is one of the enzymes of the gastrointestinal tract, was observed.
The kinetic chemiluminescence method was applied to determine rate constants (ks) for the reaction of the peroxyl radical from diphenylmethane, ROO˙, with a number of flavonoids, catechol derivatives as well as two ‘standard’ phenolic antioxidants at 50 °C in chlorobenzene. It was found that the kinetics of the interaction of ROO˙ with the majority of flavonoids and catechols is complicated by a slow process which could be optimally simulated by a mono-molecular transformation of the respective semiquinone radicals. The rate constants for this transformation (k17), indirectly derived from the kinetics of chemiluminescence are listed in parentheses. The following rate constants k5(in dm–3 mol–1 s–1) and k16(in s–1) have been obtained: quercetin, 2.1 × 107(2.0); dihydroquercetin, 1.9 × 107(0.92); luteolin, 2.2 × 107(0.8); catechin, 6.6 × 106(7.5); fisetin, 1.2 × 107(1.1); naringenin, 3.4 × 103(0.2); kaempferol, 1.0 × 106(0.8); caffeic acid, 1.5 × 107(1.9); 3,5-di-tert-butylcatechol, 1.9 × 107(0.65); nordihydroguaiaretic acid, 1.0 × 107(∼ 0); α-tocopherol, 8.5 × 106(0); 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol (BHT), 3.6 × 104(0).
The ability of a water-soluble inclusion complex (KN-14-CD) of an aminomethylated dihydroquercetin derivative (KN-14) in β-cyclodextrin (CD) to inhibit ozone-induced oxidation of fibrinogen was evaluated. KN-14-CD prevented ozone-induced oxidation of fibrinogen and preserved its ability to form clots after the addition of thrombin. The ability of KN-14-CD to prevent oxidative modification of fibrinogen was more pronounced than that of native dihydroquercetin (taxifolin).
The biological properties of dihydroquercetin (DHO) modified by including it into the ring of beta-cyclodextrin (beta-CD) to give it more water-soluble properties have been investigated. It was shown that the peroral administration of the DHQ/beta-CD complex provides a long increase of DHQ concentration in rat blood (up to 7.5 h), and, unlike pure DHQ, the complex does not accumulate in the liver. As DHQ is released from the complex, it penetrates into liposome membranes, changing their thermodynamic characteristics. DHQ decreases the specific heat absorption, enthalpies, and temperature maximum of lipid melting and increases the transition half-width. This property is used to estimate the stability of the DHQ/beta-CD complex. It was shown that complex DHQ/beta-CD is not stable, and DHQ molecules slowly leave the complex in water environment. Seven and a half hours after the peroral injection of drugs, DHQ was found in the blood plasma of rats to which water-soluble complex DHQ/betaCD was injected and in the liver of rats to which free DHQ was injected. Thus, DHQ/betaCD not only is a more water-soluble complex but also it slowly releases DHQ, supporting long a low concentration of the free form of DHQ and providing the penetration of DHQ into the blood stream. After several weeks of feeding old mice with antioxidants, the activity of mitochondrial enzymes was restored to the level observed in young animals.
Ultrasound was used for the extraction of larch arabinogalactan from Larix gmelinii. The optimal conditions for ultrasound extraction were determined by response surface methodology. Specifically, the Box-Behnken design was employed to evaluate the effects of three independent variables: ultrasound time, temperature, and liquid-solid ratio. The highest arabinogalactan yield (11.18%) was obtained under the optimal extraction condition (extraction temperature 41.5 ∘ C, extraction time 24.3 min, and liquidsolid ratio 40 mL/g). In addition, the antioxidant activity of arabinogalactan that was extracted from dihydroquercetin extraction residues exhibited a moderate and concentration-dependent hydroxyl radical-scavenging capacity, ferric-reducing power, and reducing power. The wood material was characterized before and after processing by scanning electron microscopy and Fouriertransform infrared spectroscopy.
Larix gmelinii is a medium-sized, deciduous coniferous tree primarily distributed in Greater and Lesser Khingan of China, north Sakhalin, and east Siberia [1] . Its rigidness, straight grain, and stability have made L. gmelinii a widely used wood for furniture and buildings. As a result, large quantities of logging slashes (stumps, branches, roots), bucking residues, and processing residues (sawdust, crushed veneer, wood core, shavings) are produced every year as side products. The extensive environmental impact has created a focus on the comprehensive use of the L. gmelinii resource. It has been reported that it contains valuable bioflavonoids such as dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) [2] and polymeric procyanidins [3] . These bioactive components in L. gmelinii residues could be extracted for an economical utilization. In the conventional process of dihydroquercetin production, ethanol has been used as the extraction solvent, and large amounts of remainder residues have been produced and discarded [4] [5] [6] .
The preliminary experiments undertaken in the present study have shown that the extract residues in the production of dihydroquercetin contain large amounts of arabinogalactan. As discussed above, arabinogalactan has a remarkable range of applications, and discarding it would be a waste of valuable plant resources. Hence, it is important to optimize the extraction process for arabinogalactan separation from the dihydroquercetin extract residues.
The objective here is to develop an effective and environmentally friendly UAE approach for the extraction of the arabinogalactan from the extract residues in the production of dihydroquercetin. The arabinogalactan yield was optimized using response surface methodology. The microstructures of L. gmelinii samples before and after the extraction were characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). Finally, the antioxidant activities of the extracted arabinogalactan were evaluated by its hydroxyl radical-scavenging capacity, its ferric-reducing antioxidant power, and its reducing power.
Here, we apply phylogenetic and functional methods to examine the history of protein evolution and the prevalence of epistatic interactions during an evolutionary transition in Article ß The Author 2012. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com an ecologically important morphological trait, flower color. Our previous studies documented the genetic basis for the evolution of red flowers from a blue ancestral state in the Andean genus Iochroma (Solanaceae) via changes in the anthocyanin pathway, part of the larger flavonoid biosynthetic pathway. In Iochroma, as well as in many other flowering plant clades, blue flowers produce blue delphinidin-derived anthocyanin pigments, whereas red flowers produce red pelargonidin-derived anthocyanins ( fig. 1) . From an analysis of reciprocal backcrosses between a blue species (Iochroma cyaneum) and a red species (I. gesnerioides), we demonstrated that the flower color difference was due to three genetic changes in the anthocyanin pathway: the downregulation of flavonoid-3' hydroxylase (F3'h), the deletional inactivation of flavonoid 3'5' hydroxylase (F3'5'h), and changes in the coding sequence of dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (Dfr) (fig. 1 ). These coding sequence differences at Dfr have clear functional consequences as the Dfr copies from the two species have markedly different substrate specificities (Smith and Rausher 2011) . The copy from the red-flowered I. gesnerioides has significantly greater activity on dihydrokaempferol (DHK), the precursor of red pelargonidin pigments, and weak activity on the blue and purple pigment precursors, dihydromyricetin (DHM) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ). Conversely, the copy from the blue-flowered I. cyaneum has greatest activity on DHM and DHQ and significantly lower activity on DHK.
A full-length cDNA clone encoding barley dihydroflavonol-4-reductase was isolated from a kernel-specific cDNA library by screening with the cDNA of the structural gene (A1) for this enzyme from maize. Subsequently, the gene corresponding to the barley dihydroflavonol-4-reductase cDNA was cloned and sequenced. The gene contains three introns at the same positions as in the Zea mays gene, corresponding to the positions of the first three of the five introns present in the genes of Petunia hybrida and Antirrhinum majus. In vitro transcription and translation of the Hordeum vulgare cDNA clone yielded a protein which converts dihydroquercetin into 2,3-trans-3,4-cis-leucocyanidin with NADPH as cofactor. The protein has a deduced amino acid sequence of 354 residues and a molecular weight of 38,400 daltons. Dihydroflavonol reductases of barley, maize, petunia and snapdragon are highly polymorphic in the NH2- and C-terminal parts of the polypeptide chain while a central region of 324 residues contains 51% identical amino acids. This identity increases to 81% when only the barley and maize enzymes are compared. Recessive mutants in the Ant18 gene tested so far lack dihydroflavonol-4-reductase activity and accumulate small amounts of dihydroquercetin but have retained activity for at least two other enzymes in the flavonoid pathway. In testa-pericarp tissue of mutants ant18-159, ant18-162 and ant18-164, wild-type levels of steady state mRNA for dihydroflavonol reductase have been measured, while mRNA for this enzyme is not transcribed in mutant ant18-161. These data are consistent with the proposal that the Ant18 locus carries the structural gene for dihydroflavonol-4-reductase of barley.
Pigments of Prunus persicaf.atropurpurealeaves were qualitatively and quantitatively identified by UV photo-spectrometer and HPLC-DAD.The results demonstrated that P.persicaf.atropurpurea leaves contained cyanidin-3-galactoside,cyanidin,quercetin,rutin,chlorophyll,carotenoids,myricetin,chlorogenic acid,catechin,epicatechin,luteolin,dihydromyricetin,dihydroquercetin,andρ-coumaric acid.The red color of P.persicaf.atropurpurealeaves was caused by the accumulation of cyanidin and cyanidin-3-galactoside,the content of the two compounds were determined to be 122.30 mg·kg-1 and507.60mg·kg-1,relative content of the two accounted for 1.81% of total pigment.Chlorophyll carotenoids,quecetin and rutin played roles as co-pigments.
AbstractIn view of the pharmacological interest in flavonoids, the superoxide radical scavenging capacity of pet-ether, chloroform, and methanol extracts and flavonoids of Blumea balsamifera. DC leaves on nonenzymatically (phenazine methosulfate/NADH) generated superoxide radicals were evaluated. The methanol extract (93.91 ± 1.37%) exhibited higher radical scavenging activity than the chloroform extract (84.58 ± 1.51%). The pet-ether extract was inactive toward nonenzymatically generated superoxide radicals. The superoxide radical scavenging capacity of flavonoids (100 µM) as determined was decreased in the order quercetin > luteolin > 5,7,3′,5′-tetrahydroxyflavanone > blumeatin > rhamnetin > tamarixetin > luteolin-7-methyl ether > dihydroquercetin-4′-methyl ether > dihydroquercetin-4′,7-dimethyl ether. It was concluded that flavonoids with a free hydroxyl group were more active than methylated compounds and that the flavonoid content of extracts contributed to their superoxide radical scavenging activity.
The effect of phenolic antioxidants (dihydroquercetin, p-tyrosol, dibornol) on the morphology, functions, and redox processes in the reproductive cells of male rats was studied on the model of experimental pathospermia. All antioxidants reduced the percentage of degenerative forms of spermatozoa. Dibornol was most effective. Dihydroquercetin and p-tyrosol did not increase the total number of spermatozoa and the percentage of their mobile forms. These indicators were improved only by dibornol. After administration of all test drugs, the antioxidant potential of spermatozoa increased and did not significantly differ from the baseline values.
The content of main flavonoids from Rhododendron adamsii R. leaves and stems was determined quantitatively using HPLC. It was found that myricetin and quercetin dominated the identified compounds (myricetin, quercetin, dihydroquercetin, rutin) in leaves; dihydroquercetin, in stems (1.1, 1.0, and 2.5 mass% of raw material, respectively). Dihydroquercetin and rutin were found for the first time in R. adamsii.
Abstract Phenolic extractives have been isolated from Douglas-fir sapwood and heartwood and identified by NMR and mass spectroscopy. Pinocembrin, [5,5′]-bisdihydroquercetin and two lignans, pinoresinol and 2,3-dihydro-2-(4′- O -β-glucopyranosyl-3′-methoxyphenyl)-3-hydroxymethyl-5-(3-hydroxypropyl)-7-methoxy-benzofuran are reported for the first time in these tissues. The chemical structures of these phenolic extractives show that heartwood formation is characterized by both primary (biosynthetic) and secondary reactions. Secondary reactions include hydrolysis of phenol glucosides and oxidative polymerization. © 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved
Productive efficiency of technology of polysaccharide and lignin manufacturing from wood raw materials can be significantly improved by integration of purification stages of low molecular weight wood components widely used in applied chemistry into the technological cycle. In this connection, phenols including lignans and flavonoids, which have a practical application potential, are of a special interest. In the present work the results of a study of the content of (–)-secoisolariciresinol, dihydroquercetin and related polyphenols in different morphological parts and anatomical structures of larch wood from the Siberia are analyzed. Analysis of the content of the listed products by reversed-phase HPLC provides the selection of optimal raw material for organizing the manufacture of the listed compounds with predictable efficiency. Increased content of (–)-secoisolariciresinol (up to 3—4%) observed in wood of the trunk knot areas of larch from Khakassia evidences the prospects of raw material processing in this region for production of (–)-secoisolariciresinol from the wastes of larch wood refinery.
converted to the (2S)-flavanone naringenin by chalcone isomerase (CHI). From this central intermediate naringenin, diverse classes of flavonoids are generated through several side branches. Flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H) catalyzes the conversion of (2S)-flavanones (e.g., naringenin and eriodictyol) to dihydroflavonols (e.g., dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin). Flavonol synthase (FLS) and dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) compete for the dihydroflavanols to produce flavonol aglycones (e.g., kaempferol and quercetin) and leucoanthocyanidins, respectively. Once the flavonol aglycones are biosynthesized, the glycosylation of flavonols is catalyzed by glucosyltransferase (GT) and rhamnosyltransferase (RT), which are active in the cytosol and render hydrophobic flavonols more soluble and less toxic to facilitate their transport and storage [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] . Leucoanthocyanidins are converted to anthocyanidins (e.g., pelargonidin and cyanidin) by anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) and further glycosylated by UDP-glucose:flavonoid 3-O-glucosyltransferase (UFGT), resulting in anthocyanins. Flavonoid 3 -hydroxylase (F3 H) catalyzes 3 -hydroxylation of the flavonoid B-ring, which imparts diversity to flavonoid molecules (Figure 1 ).
The flavonoid biosynthesis pathway was thoroughly investigated, and most of the enzymes involved were identified in several plant species [10] [11] [12] [13] . Phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL) catalyzes the deamination of phenylalanine to yield cinnamic acid, which is the first committed step in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. The flavonoid biosynthesis pathway is initiated by the activity of chalcone synthase (CHS), an important regulatory point that affects the metabolic flux of flavonoids, which condenses one molecule of 4-coumaroyl CoA generated through the phenylpropanoid pathway with three molecules of malonyl-CoA, resulting in chalcone formation. Chalcone is further which condenses one molecule of 4-coumaroyl CoA generated through the phenylpropanoid pathway with three molecules of malonyl-CoA, resulting in chalcone formation. Chalcone is further converted to the (2S)-flavanone naringenin by chalcone isomerase (CHI). From this central intermediate naringenin, diverse classes of flavonoids are generated through several side branches. Flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H) catalyzes the conversion of (2S)-flavanones (e.g., naringenin and eriodictyol) to dihydroflavonols (e.g., dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin). Flavonol synthase (FLS) and dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) compete for the dihydroflavanols to produce flavonol aglycones (e.g., kaempferol and quercetin) and leucoanthocyanidins, respectively. Once the flavonol aglycones are biosynthesized, the glycosylation of flavonols is catalyzed by glucosyltransferase (GT) and rhamnosyltransferase (RT), which are active in the cytosol and render hydrophobic flavonols more soluble and less toxic to facilitate their transport and storage [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] . Leucoanthocyanidins are converted to anthocyanidins (e.g., pelargonidin and cyanidin) by anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) and further glycosylated by UDP-glucose:flavonoid 3-O-glucosyltransferase (UFGT), resulting in anthocyanins. Flavonoid 3ʹ-hydroxylase (F3ʹH) catalyzes 3ʹ-hydroxylation of the flavonoid B-ring, which imparts diversity to flavonoid molecules ( Figure 1 ). The competition between FLS and DFR for dihydroflavonols creates a critical branch point separating the flavonol and anthocyanin biosynthetic pathways. Several studies used antisense down-regulation or the overexpression of FLS and DFR to characterize these genes and their roles in regulating flower color [20] [21] [22] . Antisense FLS in the flowers of Eustoma grandiflorum Grise, Petunia hybrida, and Mimulus lewisii caused a decrease in flavonol contents and an increase in anthocyanin levels, resulting in flowers with enhanced coloration. Conversely, antisense DFR in tobacco led to an increase in flavonol contents and a decrease in anthocyanin contents, resulting in white flowers [23] . When FLS genes from Rosa rugosa, Prunus persica, or Petunia hybrida were expressed in tobacco, the resulting flowers contained increased levels of flavonol and decreased levels of anthocyanin, while transgenic tobacco expressing DFR genes from Rosa rugosa or Petunia hybrida showed the opposite phenotypes [24] . These inverse correlations between flavonol and anthocyanin production are commonly observed. Several transcription factor families, including R2R3-MYB, basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH), WD40, are involved in the transcriptional control of phenylpropanoid and flavonoid biosynthesis genes [25] [26] [27] [28] . Among these, certain R2R3-MYB and The competition between FLS and DFR for dihydroflavonols creates a critical branch point separating the flavonol and anthocyanin biosynthetic pathways. Several studies used antisense down-regulation or the overexpression of FLS and DFR to characterize these genes and their roles in regulating flower color [20] [21] [22] . Antisense FLS in the flowers of Eustoma grandiflorum Grise, Petunia hybrida, and Mimulus lewisii caused a decrease in flavonol contents and an increase in anthocyanin levels, resulting in flowers with enhanced coloration. Conversely, antisense DFR in tobacco led to an increase in flavonol contents and a decrease in anthocyanin contents, resulting in white flowers [23] . When FLS genes from Rosa rugosa, Prunus persica, or Petunia hybrida were expressed in tobacco, the resulting flowers contained increased levels of flavonol and decreased levels of anthocyanin, while transgenic tobacco expressing DFR genes from Rosa rugosa or Petunia hybrida showed the opposite phenotypes [24] . These inverse correlations between flavonol and anthocyanin production are commonly observed. Several transcription factor families, including R2R3-MYB, basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH), WD40, are involved in the transcriptional control of phenylpropanoid and flavonoid biosynthesis genes [25] [26] [27] [28] . Among these, certain R2R3-MYB and bHLH transcription factors are involved in regulating FLS or DFR expression. The heterologous expression of the Arabidopsis thaliana gene MYB12 in tobacco enhanced the expression of FLS and resulted in the accumulation of flavonols, demonstrating that AtMYB12 positively regulates FLS [29] . In Zea mays, ZmFLS1 is directly up-regulated by the collaborative activity of the R2R3-MYB transcription factor C1 and bHLH transcription factor R [30] , while in Malus × domestica, MYB10 positively regulates DFR expression and therefore anthocyanin accumulation [31] . However, the mechanism explaining the inverse correlation between flavonol and anthocyanin biosynthesis has not yet been clarified.
Several FLS genes were identified from dicot and monocot plants, and their enzymatic properties and/or functionalities were characterized in planta [42] [43] [44] [45] [46] [47] [48] [49] [50] . Among these, AtFLS1, CitFLS, GbFLS, and OsFLS are bifunctional enzymes exhibiting both F3H and FLS activity [42, 44, 46, 50] . Recently, two FLS genes (AcFLS-HRB and AcFLS-H6) were identified in two different colored onion (Allium cepa) cultivars, the yellow onion 'Hwangryongball' ('HRB') and 'H6 , a double haploid line of red onion, respectively [49] . Enzymatic characterizations of the two AcFLS genes revealed that the preferred substrate of both enzymes is dihydroquercetin (DHQ) over dihydrokaempferol (DHK) and that AcFLS-HRB exhibits higher catalytic efficiency than AcFLS-H6. Here, we carried out an in vivo feeding assay via bacterial expression of AcFLS-HRB and found that AcFLS-HRB is a bifunctional enzyme with both F3H and FLS activity. We verified its functions in planta through phenotypic, molecular, and biochemical analysis of transgenic tobacco expressing AcFLS-HRB. Transgenic tobacco produced lighter-pink flowers containing higher flavonol levels and lower anthocyanin levels than the wild-type. In accordance with these phenotypes, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis genes and several flavonoid biosynthetic genes were down-regulated in transgenic petals. We also observed changes in root growth in the transgenic tobacco plants, with longer primary roots and root hairs than the wild-type, which was consistent with the accumulation patterns of quercetins in the roots. These findings indicate that increased quercetin levels promote root growth in tobacco.
Objective To study the chemical constituents of Smilax china.Methods The compounds were isolated by silica gel,Sephadex LH-20,ODS chromatography,and semi-preparative HPLC.Their structures were elucidated on the basis of MS and NMR spectroscopic analyses.Results Seven flavonoids and four stilbenes were isolated and identified as dihydrokaempferol-5-O-β-D-glucoside(Ⅰ),engeletin (Ⅱ),isoengeletin(Ⅲ),dihydroquercetin-3-O-glycoside(Ⅳ),3,5,7,3',5'-pentahydroxy-flavanonol (Ⅴ),astilbin(Ⅵ),quercetin-3'-Oglycoside(Ⅶ),piceid(Ⅷ),scirpusin A(Ⅸ),resveratrol(Ⅹ),and oxyresveratrol(Ⅺ).Conclusion CompoundsⅣ—Ⅸare isolated from this plant for the first time,among which the ~(13)C-NMR data of compoundⅨis reported firstly.
The health benefits of natural products have long been recognized. Consumption of dietary compounds such as supplements provides an alternative source of natural products to those obtained from the diet. There is a growing concern regarding the possible side effects of using different food supplements simultaneously, since their possible interactions are less known. For the first time, we have tested genotoxic and antigenotoxic effects of Biochaga, in combination with dihydroquercetin. No genotoxic effect on whole blood cells was observed within individual treatment of Biochaga (250 μg/mL, 500 μg/mL and 1000 μg/mL) and dihydroquercetin (100 μg/mL, 250 μg/mL and 500 μg/mL), nor in combination. Afterwards, antigenotoxic potency of both supplements against hydrogen peroxide- (H2O2-) induced DNA damage to whole blood cells (WBC) was assessed, using the comet assay. Biochaga and dihydroquercetin displayed a strong potential to attenuate H2O2-induced damage on DNA in cells at all tested concentrations, with a statistical significance (), whereas Biochaga at the dose of 500 μg/mL in combination with dihydroquercetin 500 μg/mL was most prominent. Biochaga in combination with dihydroquercetin is able to protect genomic material from oxidative damage induced by hydrogen peroxide in vitro.
The structures of zinc (2), copper(II) (3), and calcium (4) complexes with trans-2R,3R-dihydroquercetin (1) have been elucidated by IR, 2D NMR, mass spectrometry DART techniques, term gravimetric analysis using data from elemental and microscopic energy dispersive X-ray analyses. The redox properties of complexes 2–4 were studied by cyclic voltammetry
Berries have been used as valuable sources of polyphenols for human health; however, injudicious uses of berries are widespread without regard to the specific metabolite constituent of each berry. We classified 6 different edible berries (honeyberry, blueberry, mandarin melonberry, mulberry, chokeberry, and Korean black raspberry) based on their metabolite distributions in biosynthetic pathways by non-targeted metabolite profiling and bioactive correlation analysis. Principal component analysis revealed a distinct clustering pattern of metabolites for each berry. Metabolic pathway analysis revealed different biosynthetic routes of secondary metabolites in each berry. Mandarin melonberry contains a relatively higher proportion of genistein, genistein glycoside, and genistein-derived isoflavonoids and prenylflavonoids than the other berries. Various anthocyanin glycosides, synthesized from dihydroquercetin and cyanidin, were more abundant in chokeberry and honeyberry, whereas high levels of flavonoid-and anthocyanins-rutinoside forms were observed in Korean black raspberry. The levels of anthocyanins derived from dihydromyricetin were high in blueberry. The highest anti-oxidant activity was observed in chokeberry and Korean black raspberry, which is positively related to the proportional concentration of flavonoids, phenolics, and anthocyanins. The lowest sugar contents were observed in Korean black raspberry, highest acidity in honeyberry, and lowest acidity in mandarin melonberry, which were specific characteristics among the berries. Taken together, biosynthetic pathway and physicochemical characteristics analyses revealed that the different synthesized routes of flavonoids and anthocyanins and associated bio-activities may be distinct features in each berry and explain their phenotypic diversity at the molecular level.
The study acylation reactions of dihydroquercetin apart from scientific interest has practical value. As a result of the reactions will form new organic compounds which may possess potential antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and cytotoxic activity [1]. Within this research studying of processes of acylation of a dihydroquercetin with use of benzoyl chloride and definition of chemical structure of new medicinal substances, as homogeneous samples of high degree of purity was the important and interesting point. One of the promising methods of studying the structure of drug substances is the method of IR spectroscopy. The method gives the chance to make an objective assessment of authenticity that allows to use actively it in the pharmaceutical analysis of many unknown connections [2-4]. It predetermined conduct of the compulsory registration of IR spectra for the original dihydroquercetin and synthesized on its basis of new substances with benzoyl chloride.
This experiment was to study the constituents of the roots of Viburnum setigerum through various column chromatographic techniques. Thirteen compounds were obtained and their structures were identified using chemical and spectroscopic methods as (7αH, 8'αH)-4, 4', 8α-trihydroxy-3, 3', 9-trimethoxy-7, 9'-epoxylignan (1), (7αH, 8'αH)-4, 4', 8α, 9-tetrahydroxy-3, 3'-dimethoxy-7, 9'-epoxylignan (2), alashinol G (3), alashinol F (4), (-)-secoisolariciresinol (5), (7R, 7'R, 8R, 8'S)-3, 3'-dimethoxy-7, 7'-epoxylignane -4, 4', 9, 9'-tetraol (6), (7αH, 8αH, 8'βH)-4, 4', 7'α, 9-tetrahydroxy-3, 3'-dimethoxy-7, 9'-epoxylignan (7), loganin (8), dihydroquercetin (9), protocatechuic acid (10), 4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-benzoic acid (11), adoxoside (12), and catechin (13). Compound 1 was a new compound. Compounds 3-7 and 11 were reported from the genus Viburnum for the first time. All compounds were separated from this plant for the first time.
Thymus pannonicus All., T. glabrescens Willd., T. pulegioides L., T. praecox Opiz and Thymus serpyllum L., indigenous collective species in the Hungarian flora, were involved in our studies. Content and composition of essential oils and polyphenolic fractions were examined in grown populations, originating from different wild habitats, at the Experimental Station of the Corvinus University of Budapest, in 2009-2010. Essential oil analyses were performed by GC after hydrodistillation. HPLC-DAD and on-line mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) method was used for the measurements of polyphenols. Almost all grown populations of Thymus pannonicus, T. glabrescens and T. serpyllum met the requirements (min. 3 ml/100 g essential oil) of the Pharmacopoeia Hungarica concerning dried flowering parts. According to the GC analysis, it can be concluded that taxa belonging to T. praecox possess sesquiterpene dominated chemotypes with main components of germacrene-D, β-caryophyllene, β-bisabolol, β-cadinene, germacrone and elemol, while Thymus pannonicus, T. glabrescens and Thymus pulegioides populations contain mainly monoterpenes in the essentail oils such as thymol, carvacrol, geraniol, p-cymene, γ-terpinene and thymol methyl ether. The chemotype pattern of the examined Thymus serpyllum population was unique because its essential oil was dominated by 1,8-cineol. The polyphenolic pattern in the same samples of the Thymus species involved was also characterized. The dominant compound was rosmarinic acid, which ranged between 83.49 µg g-1 and 1.436 mg g-1. Other phenolic acids (ferulic acid, caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid and p-coumaric acid) were present in every examined Thymus species, as well as flavanones: naringenin, eriodictyol and dihydroquercetin; flavones: apigenin and apigenin-7-glucoside, flavonols: quercetin and rutin. The polyphenolic composition was found to be a useful additional chemotaxonomic tool for classification purposes and for evaluating the drug quality. Promising taxa of high essential oil and polyphenol accumulating ability and quite constant essential oil pattern have been selected for further breeding and cultivation.
Recently, the first successful correlation between a gene in M atthioia incana regulating introduction of the 3'-hydroxyl group of anthocyanins and enzy m atic 3'-hydroxylation was reported [1] . A N A D PHdependent microsomal 3'-hydroxylase was detected which catalysed hydroxylation o f naringenin (1) to eriodictyol (2) and of dihydrokaem pferol (3) to dihydroquercetin (4) , respectively ( Fig. 1) . F urth er more, a soluble enzyme was described which cata lysed hydroxylation o f flavanones in the 3-position to dihydroflavonols [1] . The gene controlling 3-hydroxylation of flavanones in M. incana has, however, not yet been identified. A correlation between geno type and 3-hydroxylase activity could therefore not be established in this plant.
Taxifolin (2R,3R-dihydroquercetin) is a dihydroflavonol, a bioactive component that is a part of the Siberian larch, Larix sibirica Ledeb., native to Russia. Taxifolin can be found in other conifers such as the Chinese yew, Taxus chinensis var. mairei (Lemee et Levl) Cheng et L.K. Fu, but also in the conifers from the Mediterranean area [3] . There is evidence that taxifolin protects bmMSCs from ⋅OH-induced damage [4] and inhibits free radical formation at key stages of apoptosis in cellular mitochondria [5] . It was reported that taxifolin displayed anticancer and neuroprotective properties [6] [7] [8] .
Our work is one of the first experimental approaches on Chaga collected in Siberia and dihydroquercetin extracted from Siberian larch. This contribution is aimed, on the one hand, at evaluating the antigenotoxic effects of Chaga, as well dihydroquercetin extracts against H 2 O 2 -induced DNA damage on whole blood cells (WBC) in vitro, and on the other hand, to test its possible synergistic effects against oxidative DNA damage. To address our objectives, the protective potential of analyzed compounds was estimated by using the comet assay, a well-established, highly sensitive method for examining DNA damage within cells.
Current study shows antigenotoxic properties of Biochaga, as well as dihydroquercetin on human peripheral blood cells against oxidative effect of H 2 O 2 in DNA through an interventional level. Also, for the first time, it was shown that Biochaga in combination with dihydroquercetin is able to protect genomic material from oxidative damage. Mechanisms underlying the antigenotoxic effects of investigated supplements should be further evaluated in in vivo studies.
A new glycoside, glutacoside (1), along with 2 glycosides (2), (3) and 4 flavonoids (4-7) was isolated from the root of G. usitata. The HDAC inhibitory and antioxidant activities of the isolated compounds were evaluated. Eriodictyol (4), dihydroquercetin (5), fustin (6) , and fisetin (7) acted as good HDAC inhibitors and antioxidants. Molecular docking data showed that the phenolic group and the carbonyl group played major roles in HDAC-inhibitor binding through the zinc ion-coordination and the hydrogen bonds. The results demonstrated that G. usitata can be utilized as the excellent source of bioactive compounds. 6.3 ± 0.5 5
Taxifolin (Fig. 1 ) is a characteristic plant flavonoid, which naturally occurs in onion (8) , citrus fruits, and milk thistle. Taxifolin, isolated from the barks of Cedrus brevifolia, Cedrus brevifolia (Hooker fil.), Laric siberica (ledeb.) and Texus chinensis, has long been used in the treatment of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disorders (9) . Taxifolin, also known as dihydroquercetin, exhibits strong antioxidant abilities Taxifolin, also known as dihydroquercetin, exhibits strong antioxidant ability (10) . The properties of taxifolin are similar to quercetin, which has been demonstrated to induce apoptosis in cell and animal models (10, 11) .
The natural flavanoid dihydroquercetin was for the first time regioselectively phosphorylated using phosphoramidites. The resulting compounds were isolated in a homogeneous state as phosphorothioates. The structure of the compounds was confirmed by 1H, 13C, and 31P NMR spectroscopy.
Abstract Astilbin (dihydroquercetin 3-rhamnoside) and engeletin (dihydrokaempferol 3-rhamnoside) were isolated for the first time from grapes. Details of their identification include nonderivatized 1 H NMR spectra. These flavanonol glycosides were concentrated in the skins of white grapes, and were also present in white wines as shown by HPLC. Amounts and relative amounts differed by cultivar. They may be involved in certain discoloration problems during wine processing.
Dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR; EC1.1.1.219) catalyzes a key step late in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins, condensed tannins (proanthocyanidins), and other flavonoids important to plant survival and human nutrition. Two DFR cDNA clones (MtDFR1 and MtDFR2) were isolated from the model legume Medicago truncatula cv Jemalong. Both clones were functionally expressed in Escherichia coli, confirming that both encode active DFR proteins that readily reduce taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) to leucocyanidin. M. truncatula leaf anthocyanins were shown to be cyanidin-glucoside derivatives, and the seed coat proanthocyanidins are known catechin and epicatechin derivatives, all biosynthesized from leucocyanidin. Despite high amino acid similarity (79% identical), the recombinant DFR proteins exhibited differing pH and temperature profiles and differing relative substrate preferences. Although no pelargonidin derivatives were identified in M. truncatula, MtDFR1 readily reduced dihydrokaempferol, consistent with the presence of an asparagine residue at a location known to determine substrate specificity in other DFRs, whereas MtDFR2 contained an aspartate residue at the same site and was only marginally active on dihydrokaempferol. Both recombinant DFR proteins very efficiently reduced 5-deoxydihydroflavonol substrates fustin and dihydrorobinetin, substances not previously reported as constituents of M. truncatula. Transcript accumulation for both genes was highest in young seeds and flowers, consistent with accumulation of condensed tannins and leucoanthocyanidins in these tissues. MtDFR1 transcript levels in developing leaves closely paralleled leaf anthocyanin accumulation. Overexpression of MtDFR1 in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) resulted in visible increases in anthocyanin accumulation in flowers, whereas MtDFR2 did not. The data reveal unexpected properties and differences in two DFR proteins from a single species.
SummaryA barley (cv Triumph) cDNA library was screened with a cDNA probe encoding flavanone-3-hydroxylase of Antirrhinum majus. A full-length clone coding for a protein of 377 amino acids (42 kDa), with an overall homology of 71% and a central domain homology of 85% to the Antirrhinum protein, was isolated. This novel barley cDNA and two previously isolated cDNAs encoding chalcone synthase and dihydroquercetin reductase, respectively, were used to study the transcription of the corresponding genes in testa pericarp tissue from ant 13 mutants of barley. No or very low levels of transcripts are found in mutants ant 13–152, ant 13–351, and ant 13–353. It is concluded that the gene Ant 13 encodes a transcription factor operating in the flavonoid biosynthesis of barley. Transcription of the gene for the flavanone-3-hydroxylase (subunit) was also studied in an ant 17 mutant of barley. Mutant ant 17–352 transcribes the gene at normal or elevated levels. The mutant is blocked in the synthesis of dihydroquercetin and accumulates derivatives of eriodictyol, the precursor of dihydroquercetin. The combined observations suggest that Ant 17 is the structural gene for a barley flavanone-3-hydroxylase subunit, and that the mutant allele is a mutation in the structural domain of the gene.
A methanol extract of mulberry cake prepared from mulberry fruits (Morus spp.) was shown to have strong scavenging activities against DPPH, superoxide and hydroxyl radicals. Eleven phenolic compounds were isolated from the mulberry cake by a combination of Diaion HP-20, silica gel (or polyamide), Sephadex LH-20 column chromatographies, preparative HPLC and TLC. Their chemical structures were characterized as procatechuic acid (PCA), caffeic acid (CA), cyanidin 3-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (CyG) and cyanidin 3-O-β- D-rutinoside (CyR), rutin (RT), isoquercitrin (IQT), astragalin (AG), quercetin (QT), morin (MR), dihydroquercetin (DHQ), and 4-prenylmoracin (PM) by spectral analysis and the published data. Most of the phenolic constituents were effective scavengers of DPPH, superoxide and hydroxyl radicals, and especially caffeic acid and 4-prenylmoracin showed potent superoxide and hydroxyl radical scavenging activity, in which their activities were higher than that of the well-known antioxidant, BHT (p＜0.05). Dehydroquercetin and quercetin also exhibited strong superoxide and hydroxyl radical scavenging activities. These results suggest that mulberry cake containing antioxidant phenolic compounds may be useful as natural antioxidants in functional foods and cosmetics.
Abstract In previous studies (Schwartz et al., 1982) we showed that the naturally occurring plant flavonoid quercetin can inhibit both the in vitro generation and effector function of alloantigen specific xytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL). In the present studies, several additional flavonoids of different chemical classes were tested similarly to determine whether structure-function relationships exist. We have found that some other flavonoids, e.g. apigenin, fisetin, hesperetin and chalcone also can inhibit both CTL generation and effector function, with the effective concentration varying with the specific flavonoid tested. On the other hand, flavonoids such as rutin, naringin and catechin were inactive in both systems. Taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) differed from all the other flavonoids in that it was a relatively active inhibitor of CTL generation, but was essentially unable to inhibit CTL effector function. The presence of a double bond at position C-2-3 in the flavone and flavonol aglycones, a keto group at C-4, B ring hydroxylation and /or a free hydroxyl group at C-3 may be associated with activity. We also show that the effects of some, but not all, of the flavonoids active in our systems can be blocked by Cu 2+ ions. Therefore, chelation of divalent cations such as Cu 2+ cannot explain the function of all flavonoids in these systems.
Dihydroquercetin was extracted from larch by water.The influence of three conditions on extraction yield was investigated.The optimum extracting condition was obtained through the orthogonal experiment,and the result was as follow:extraction temperature was 90℃,solid-liquid ratio was 1 ∶12(g/mL),extraction time was 40min,extraction three times.Three kinds of purification methods including alcohol precipitation,macroporous resin and polyamide absorption were used to purify dihydroquercetin.A comparative study showed that all three methods have certain purification effect.Polyamide absorption was the best,while alcohol precipitation combined with macroporous resin absorption is a new method for purification of dihydromyricetin.
Silymarin, an extract of Silybum marianum, has been identified as a candidate in amyloid-β assembly inhibition. Silymarin has been reported to reduce amyloid-β plaque pathology in Alzheimer's disease model mice [48] . However, no improvement in cognitive and cerebrovascular function was reported in subsequent experimental studies, potentially as silymarin is a mixture of several compounds, meaning its essential effector component remains obscure. Recently, taxifolin has been found to be the active component of silymarin, preventing amyloid-β aggregation in vitro [60] . Taxifolin, also known as a dihydroquercetin, is a catechol-type flavonoid with strong anti-oxidant and anti-glycation activities [19, 26] . We therefore hypothesized taxifolin would more effectively ameliorate cerebrovascular dysfunction due to CAA, rather than the senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease, as only a small amount of its metabolites have been detected in the rat brain parenchyma after administration, suggesting low permeability across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) [76] . Here, we investigated whether taxifolin would modify the burden of CAA. Vascular amyloid-β accumulation is mainly composed of amyloid-β , while senile plaques are characterized by amyloid-β accumulation. The pathogenicity of amyloid-β in CAA has been established in many previous experiments [49, 50, 53] . The purpose of this study was therefore to examine the potential protective effects of taxifolin on amyloid-β 1-40 metabolism and cerebrovascular dysfunction in CAA model mice. This experimental approach may provide a rationale for subsequent clinical trials examining the efficacy of taxifolin in patients with CAA.
The antioxidant properties of the carotenoid lycopene were compared in three different model oxidative systems. In egg yolk liposomes, in the presence of 2.5 mM FeSO4 and 200 mM ascorbate, lycopene, alpha-tocopherol, and beta-carotene inhibited the accumulation of lipid peroxidation products reacting with 2-thiobarbituric acid (TBARS) in a dose-dependent mode, with the concentration of half-inhibition being 80, 30 and 130 mM, respectively. In the liposomes subjected to illumination with a He-Ne laser (632.8 nm) at a dose of 10.5 J/cm2, in the presence of 32.5 micrograms/ml hematoporphyrin derivatives (Fotogem, NIOPIC, Russia) TBARS accumulated, and this effect was inhibited by lycopene, alpha-tocopherol, and dihydroquercetin with approximately equal efficiencies (the half-inhibition concentrations were 10(-5) mM). In both systems studied, sodium azide at a concentration of 10 mM inhibited the TBARS accumulation by no more than 20%. Apparently, the inhibitory action of not only alpha-tocopherol, but also beta-carotene and lycopene was the result of their antiradical action, rather than quenching of the singlet oxygen in an aqueous medium. The introduction of lycopene, as well as beta-carotene in liposomes subjected to Fe(2+)-induced lipid peroxidation decreased the chemiluminescence (CL) intensity at the stage of CL slow flash, with no essential influence on the lag period. These data suggest that the effect of lycopene on lipid peroxidation was the result of its interaction with free radicals rather than chelating ferrous ions. The antiradical activity of lycopene was also confirmed by the method of luminol photochemiluminescence (PCL). Lycopene increased the PCL lag period (L) and decreased the PCL amplitude (A), which implies its antiradical and SOD-like activity in this system.
Objective To study the chemical constituents of flavonoids in the pine needles of Cedrus deodara.Methods Flavonoids were isolated and purified from ethyl acetate extract of the pine needles by chromatography on silica gel and Sephadex LH-20.Their structures were identified on the basis of spectroscopic analysis and chemical evidence.Results Five flavonoids were isolated and identified as 3′,5′-dimethoxymyricetin-3-O-(6″-O-acetyl)-α-D-glucopyranoside(1),myricetin(2),2R,3R-dihydromyricetin(3),quercetin(4),and 2R,3R-dihydroquercetin(5).Conclusion Compound 1 is a new compound named as cedrusone A.Compounds 2—5 are isolated from the pine needles in the plants of Cedrus Trew for the first time.
Aseries of new 3-monoacylated dihydroquercetin derivatives were synthesized and possessed antioxidant and cytotoxic activity with respect to HeLa tumor cells.
Abstract Background Dihydroquercetin (DHQ) is an antifibrotic agent. However, whether DHQ can prevent renal fibrosis remains unknown. Purpose : This study aimed to investigate the effects of DHQ on tubulointerstitial fibrosis and its underlying mechanisms in unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) mice in vivo and NRK-49F cells in vitro. Methods In vivo, UUO mice received vehicle or DHQ treatment. In vitro, NRK-49F cells were pretreated with DHQ and exposed to transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). Changes in fibroblast activation, collagen synthesis, oxidative stress, and related signaling pathways were assessed by immunohistochemical staining and Western blot analysis, real-time reverse transcription-PCR, and fluorescence microscopy. Results UUO induced tubular atrophy, inflammation, fibroblast differentiation into myofibroblast, and collagen deposition, whereas DHQ ameliorated these effects. UUO also resulted in decreased levels of nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), catalase, and heme oxygenase-1, but increased H2O2 and malondialdehyde levels. DHQ treatment corrected these changes. In vitro, the intracellular Nrf2 level of NRK-49F exposed to TGF-β1 decreased. However, DHQ rescued intracellular Nrf2 level and promoted nuclear translocation of Nrf2. DHQ scavenged TGF-β1-induced accumulation of reactive oxygen species, inhibited TGF-β1-induced Smad3 phosphorylation, and prevented TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation and collagen synthesis in NRK-49F. Nrf2 knockdown could suppress the DHQ-mediated inhibitory effects on oxidative stress, Smad3 phosphorylation, fibroblast activation, and collagen deposition. Furthermore, DHQ ameliorated established renal fibrosis in UUO mice. Conclusions DHQ posed remarkable preventive and therapeutic effects on UUO-induced renal fibrosis and suppressed fibroblast activation by reducing oxidative stress and Smad3 phosphorylation via Nrf2 signaling. This study provided a mechanistic basis for the clinical application of DHQ in renal fibrosis treatment.
Abstract Two new flavonoid glycosides, naringenin 7-galactosyl(1 → 4)glucoside and dihydroquercetin 5- galactoside, have been characterized from stem tissue of Dillenia pentagyna . Rhamnetin 3-glucoside was also isolated.
Petunia (Petunia × hybrida Vilm., Solanaceae) is a model plant for studying the biosynthesis of the anthocyanin pigment. Almost all of the structural genes, as well as the regulatory genes along the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway, have been isolated (Wiering and de Vlaming 1984, Winkel-Shirley 2001) . As shown in Figure 1 , the cyanidinand delphinidin-series anthocyanins are synthesized by dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) using dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin, respectively, as substrates (Forkmann and Rahnau 1987) . The cyanidin-series anthocyanins are responsible for red to salmon (cyanidin) or rose to pink (peonidin) flower colors. Of the delphinidin-series anthocyanins, petunidin and malvidin derivatives are responsible for blue to burgundy colors. Petunia cultivars accumulating delphinidin itself in the flower are not available in the commercial market, since higher accumulation of delphinidin in the flower associates with an inferior floral trait; markedly crumpled corollalimb of dull color (Ando et al. 2004) .
Flavonoid-3′,5′-hydroxylase (F3′5′H) is a cytochrome P450 enzyme that converts dihydrokaempferol or dihydroquercetin into dihydromyricetin (Holton et al. 1993) . F3′5′H is particularly important in breeding petunias, because it determines the major floral anthocyanin, either cyanidin-or delphinidin-series anthocyanin (Fig. 1) . In petunias, two independent loci govern the activity of F3′5′H: Hf1 and Hf2. Hf2 is expressed only in the corolla-limb. Hf1 is expressed in both the corolla-limb and tube, and has a greater effect on flower color than Hf2. Accordingly phenotypes caused by Hf2 are not detectable with the presence of dominant Hf1. In other words, Hf2 is hypostatic to Hf1 (Cornu and Maizonnier 1983 , Wiering and de Vlaming 1984 , Holton and Cornish 1995 . The Hf1 and Hf2 genes of petunias have been isolated (Holton et al. 1993 , Kikuchi et al. 1993 .
In tomato, many steps in the flavonoid pathway and the corresponding metabolites and enzymes have been identified [13] . The flavonoid pathway starts with the conversion of phenylalanine to 4-coumaroyl-CoA by phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL), Cinnamate-4-Hydroxylase (C4H), and 4-coumaroyl:CoA-ligase (4CL). 4-coumaroyl-CoA can be converted into the first class of flavonoids, the chalcones, by the enzyme chalcone synthase (CHS). After modification of the chalcones by chalcone isomerase (CHI) the flavanones are formed, which in turn give rise to dihydroflavonols by flavanone 3b hydroxylase (F3H). At the level of the dihydroflavonols, the pathway branches into the two groups of end products. Flavonol synthase (FLS) synthesizes flavonols from dihydroflavonols, and dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), and glycosyltransferases (GT) lead to the synthesis of anthocyanins. However, not only FLS and DFR are important for the branching into anthocyanins and flavonols. Anthocyanins found in tomato are derived from dihydromyricetin only, while it is suggested that the FLS has a strong preference for dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin [14] . Hence, the branching of the pathway is regulated by the enzymes that function within the class of dihydroflavonols: flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H) and flavonoid 3'5'-hydroxylase (F3'5'H); and by the expression of DFR and FLS (see Figure 1A ).
Influence of the widely used food additive lecithin on the effectiveness of the inhibiting effect of the natural antioxidants (quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and α-tocopherol) has been studied in dependence on the rate of free radicals generation in the model oxidation reactions. It has been found that during the initiated and autoxidation of methyl oleat, lecithin decreased the antioxidant effectiveness of flavonoids. The effect value increased with the lecithin concentration increase. Under similar conditions while oxidation inhibiting by α-tocopherol and lecithin mixtures, the latter did not influence the tocopherol antioxidant effectiveness (additivity) or led to the increase of the inhibition effectiveness (synergism).
Flavonoids are synthesized in response to developmental and environmental signals and perform many functions in plants. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) roots grown in complete darkness do not accumulate flavonoids since the expression of genes encoding enzymes of flavonoid biosynthesis is light dependent. Yet, flavonoids accumulate in root tips of plants with light-grown shoots and light-shielded roots, consistent with shoot-to-root flavonoid movement. Using fluorescence microscopy, a selective flavonoid stain, and localized aglycone application to transparent testa mutants, we showed that flavonoids accumulated in tissues distal to the application site, indicating uptake and movement systems. This was confirmed by time-course fluorescence experiments and high-performance liquid chromatography. Flavonoid applications to root tips resulted in basipetal movement in epidermal layers, with subsequent fluorescence detected 1 cm from application sites after 1 h. Flavonoid application to midroot or cotyledons showed movement of flavonoids toward the root tip mainly in vascular tissue. Naringenin, dihydrokaempferol, and dihydroquercetin were taken up at the root tip, midroot, or cotyledons and traveled long distances via cell-to-cell movement to distal tissues, followed by conversion to quercetin and kaempferol. In contrast, kaempferol and quercetin were only taken up at the root tip. Using ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter and H+-ATPase inhibitors suggested that a multidrug resistance-associated protein ABCC transporter facilitated flavonoid movement away from the application site.
Ten compounds were isolated from the dry fruit of Choerospondias axillaris (Roxb.) Burtt et Hill. Their structures were elucidated as dihydroquercetin(1), quercetin(2), protocatechuic acid(3), gallic acid(4), 3,3'-di-o-methylellagic acid(5), beta-sitosterol(6), daucosterol (7), stearic acid(8), triacontanoic acid(9), octacosanol(10) by IR, EI-MS and NMR.
Stingless bees in Brazil are indigenous and found all over the country. Bee pollen is used for its nutritional value in the human diet. It is made up of natural flower pollen mixed with nectar and bee secretions. In order to evaluate the chemical composition, free radical scavenging activity, and botanical origin, sample of pollen loads from stingless bee, Melipona rufiventris (Uruçu amarela) was studied. The EtOAc extract of pollen of Melipona rufiventris yielded the following compounds: p-hydroxycinnamic acid, dihydroquercetin, isorhamnetin, isorhamnetin3-O-(6'-O-E-p-coumaroyl)-beta-D-glucopyranoside, luteolin, and quercetin. This is the first report of the isolation of isorhamnetin3-O-(6'O-E-p-coumaroyl)beta-D-glucopyranoside from pollen. The free radicalscavenging activities of different solvent extracts of pollen were determined using DPPH assay. This activity decreases in the order: EtOAc>EtOH>Hexane extract. It appears that the EtOAc extract of the pollen is a good scavenger of active oxygen species. The botanical evaluation of pollen loads showed the composition by two pollen types, with the dominant type (97.3%) being Scopariadulcis (L.) (Scrophulariaceae) and the minor one Senna obtusifolia (L.) Irwin & Barneby (Fabaceae). This suggests a specific foraging behavior in Melipona rufiventris bees, even in an environment with such a rich botanical diversity as the Northeastern Brazil.
We have demonstrated that dihydroquercetin is an antioxidant and possesses the properties of protecting capillaries, which is consistent with its action as an antiinflammatory agent, gastro- and hepatoprotecting agent, and its diuretic and hypolipidaemic activity. As a capillary protector, dihydroquercetin is 3.4 times more effective at a dose of 100 mg/kg and 4.9 times at a dose of 300 mg/kg than the well known bioflavonoid, quercetin. Dihydroquercetin shows a dose dependent suppression of lipid peroxidation in the rat liver. The hypolipidaemic activity of dihydroquercetin at 250 mg/kg is comparable to that of polysponin.
Small organic phenolic compounds from natural sources have attracted increasing attention due to their potential to ameliorate the serious consequences of acute and chronic traumata of the mammalian nervous system. In this contribution, it is reported that phenols from the knot zones of Siberian larch (Larix sibirica) wood, namely, the antioxidant flavonoid (+)-dihydroquercetin (1) and the lignans (−)-secoisolariciresinol (2) and (+)-isolariciresinol (3), affect migration and outgrowth of neurites/processes from cultured neurons and glial cells of embryonic and early postnatal mice. Compounds 1–3, which were available in preparative amounts, enhanced neurite outgrowth from cerebellar granule neurons, dorsal root ganglion neurons, and motoneurons, as well as process formation of Schwann cells in a dose-dependent manner in the low nanomolar range. Migration of cultured astrocytes was inhibited by 1–3, and migration of neurons out of cerebellar explants was enhanced by 1. These observations provide evidence ...
Derivatization of the natural flavonoid dihydroquercetin with p-aminobenzoic acid was carried out in an ethyl acetate/citric buffer biphasic system using laccase from the fungus Trametes hirsuta. The main reaction product yield was ~68 mol %. The product was characterized by 1H NMR, 13C NMR, and liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy, and its structure was elucidated. The reaction product affected viability of cultured human rhabdomyosarcoma cells (RD cell line) in a dose-dependent manner and, therefore, can be of interest to pharmaceutical industry.
We isolated a cDNA clone (CitFLS) encoding flavonol synthase (FLS) from the satsuma mandarin (Citrus unshiu Marc.) fruit and investigated the steady state of CitFLS RNA expression during the fruit development. The CitFLS was 1274 bp long, encoded 335 amino acid residues, and belonged to a family of 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases. The level of CitFLS transcript was higher in the young leaves than in the old leaves, and it was high at the early developmental stage and low at the mature stage in the juice sacs/segment epidermis (edible part). On the other hand, the CitFLS transcript increased in the peel during fruit maturation. These results indicated that the satsuma mandarin CitFLS was differentially regulated in the developmental stage and in a tissue-specific manner. Additionally, satsuma mandarin peel tissues produced rutin (a flavonol glycoside) from an exogenous dihydroquercetin (taxifolin), indicating the ability of these tissues to produce flavonols.
First, the effects of the biologically active polyphenols resveratrol and dihydroquercetin (DHQ) on morpho-physiological parameters and the antioxidant status of polyextremophilic yeast Yarrowia lipolytica at optimal and elevated temperatures were studied. Cultivation in the presence of 30 μM resveratrol at the optimal temperature caused a twofold increase in superoxide dismutase activity. It was shown that cultivation at a high temperature and high DHQ concentration stimulated a decrease in the alternate respiration level. High resveratrol concentrations and low dihydroquercetin concentrations were shown to have an inhibitory effect on the survival rate of Y. lipolytica yeast cells, while no visible inhibition effect of yeast growth was recorded at the optimal growth temperature. Polyphenols were shown to have a moderate stimulatory effect on the oxygen absorption rate by yeast cells.
Introduction: Microelements, essential nutrients that are needed in small amounts including minerals such as calcium, zinc, iron and other vitamins (A, B, C, and etc.), are macronutrients necessary for a healthy life. The role of micronutrients in vivo is well known, and there are several publications that have examined the effects of micronutrients on genomic stability. Furthermore, a number of vitamins and microelements are substrates and/or cofactors in metabolic pathways, which regulate DNA synthesis and/or repair and gene expression. A deficiency in such nutrients may result in disruption of genomic integrity and alterations in DNA methylation patterns, linking cellular nutrition with change in gene expression. For example, lack of vitamin C is known to cause increased DNA oxidation and chromosomal damage. Vitamin A, as well as other micronutrients, have a protective effect, whereas higher concentrations are associated with increased DNA damage. Ubiquinone (coenzyme Q10) and dihydroquercetin are used in therapy as antioxidant compounds and electron carriers, which reduce lipid peroxidation of cell membranes. However, previous studies indicate that various ubiquinone analogs may cause a divergent effect on oxidative stress and oxidative phosphorylation. The aim of our study was to investigate the effect of vitamins A and C, coenzyme Q10, and dihydroquercetin on the proliferative potential of cultured human embryonic diploid fibroblasts (M-22). Methods: In the first series of experiments, nontoxic concentrations of vitamins for the cells were identified using MTT assay. Results: Vitamins A and C, dihydroquercetin of 1µM, and coenzyme Q10 of 5µM were nontoxic for human skin fibroblasts. In the second series of experiments, cell cultivation was carried out with nontoxic concentrations. A vitamin C concentration of 1µM for 7 consecutive passages increased the proliferation index (PI) compared to the control. Thus, the average PI in the experiments was 2.3, whereas in the control, it was 1.7. Similar results were obtained when dihydroquercetin was added to the growth medium. However, further cultivation of cells in the presence of vitamin C decreased PI to 1.4, while the control value remained the same. Daily examination revealed no morphological changes in the cell culture, but the cell growth had slowed significantly. The use of vitamin A in a nontoxic concentration of 1 µM reduced PI to 0.7 in the first passage, so further culturing of human cells with vitamin A was stopped. Conclusion: Studies examining the effect of different combinations of microelements on the proliferation of human diploid cells and the expression of specific proteins in them are still being conducted.
This was confirmed by time-course fluorescence experiments and HPLC. Flavonoid applications to root tips resulted in basipetal movement in epidermal layers, with subsequent fluorescence detected 1 cm from application sites after 1 h. Flavonoid application to mid-root or cotyledons showed movement of flavonoids toward the root tip mainly in vascular tissue. Naringenin, dihydrokaempferol, and dihydroquercetin were taken up at the root tip, mid-root, or cotyledons and travelled long distances via cell-to-cell movement to distal tissues followed by conversion to quercetin and kaempferol. In contrast, kaempferol and quercetin were only taken up at the root tip. Using ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter and H + -ATPase inhibitors suggested that a multidrug-resistance associated protein ABCC transporter facilitated flavonoid movement away from the application site.
Stingless bees in Brazil are indigenous and found all over the country. Bee pollen is used for its nutritional value in the human diet. It is made up of natural flower pollen mixed with nectar and bee secretions. In order to evaluate the chemical composition, free radical scavenging activity, and botanical origin, sample of pollen loads from stingless bee, Melipona rufiventris (Uruçu amarela) was studied. The EtOAc extract of pollen of Melipona rufiventris yielded the following compounds: p-hydroxycinnamic acid, dihydroquercetin, isorhamnetin, isorhamnetin-3-O-(6"-O-E-pcoumaroyl)-β-D-glucopyranoside, luteolin, and quercetin. This is the first report of the isolation of isorhamnetin-3-O-(6"-O-E-p-coumaroyl)-β-D-glucopyranoside from pollen. The free radical-scavenging activities of different solvent extracts of pollen were determined using DPPH assay. This activity decreases in the order: EtOAc>EtOH>Hexane extract. It appears that the EtOAc extract of the pollen is a good scavenger of active oxygen species. The botanical evaluation of pollen loads showed the composition by two pollen types, with the dominant type (97.3%) being Scoparia dulcis (L.) (Scrophulariaceae) and the minor one Senna obtusifolia (L.) Irwin & Barneby (Fabaceae). This suggests a specific foraging behavior in Melipona rufiventris bees, even in an environment with such a rich botanical diversity as the Northeastern Brazil.
Wintersweet (Chimonanthus praecox (L.)), with an over-one-thousand-years long history in cultivation, is still a popular ornamental woody plant in China. The tepals of wintersweet flower are waxy in nature and the overall color of the flower is yellow, while the inner tepals range from yellow to red, which makes it an ideal plant to study floral color formation in ornamental shrubs. In our current work, HPLC analysis revealed that the principal pigments in tepals were the metabolite of flavonoids. All the tepals were containing quercetin, kaempferol 3‑O‑rutinoside and rutin while cyanidin‑3‑O‑glucoside and cyanidin‑3‑O‑rutinoside were only found in the in the red tepals. Moreover, we found the rutin as the principal component of all the pigments revealed. As well as in this study, a reference transcriptome library constructed from two varieties H29 and H64 flower. Further, 30 proteins of flavonoid biosynthesis pathway were identified in H29 flower using proteome analysis. Based on these dataset, the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway was also speculated. After quantitative analysis of gene expression, we found that ANS act as an on-off switch for the accumulation of red pigments and had positive correlations with various steps genes of the flavonoid pathway. This expression profiling demonstrates that no gene products compete for common substrates to redirect the metabolic flux in wintersweet. It is also demonstrated that high expression of F3'H would provide sufficient content of the precursor, dihydroquercetin, for both flavonol and anthocyanin biosynthesis. The results help us to deepen and enrich the gene resource of color formation in wintersweet flower, and provide specific breeding strategies for increasing diversity of flower color.
This report describes a detailed investigation of the thermal and enzymatic conversion of taxifolin to alphitonin. Chromatographic separation of the four dihydroquercetin stereoisomers 1-4 in combination with circular dichroism spectroscopy permitted elucidation of the kinetics of this rearrangement and characterization of the different reaction pathways involved. Our findings are corroborated by quantum chemistry calculations that reveal a unique cascade of tautomerization processes leading from taxifolin to alphitonin and also explain the racemization of alphitonin at room temperature. Furthermore, the substrate specificity toward (+)-taxifolin of an enzyme from Eubacterium ramulus catalyzing this intriguing rearrangement is demonstrated.
Abstract An ionic liquid-based homogenate-ultrasound-synergistic technique was proposed to simultaneously extract dihydroquercetin and arabinogalactan from Larix gmelinii stumps. The appropriate extraction solvent of [C2mim]Br was screened from thirteen kinds of imidazolium-based ionic liquids. The optimal conditions for the proposed method obtained by response surface methodology were a [C2mim]Br concentration of 0.87 mol/L, IL-HUSE time of 24 min, liquid/solid ratio of 14 mL/g, and ultrasound power of 240 W. Under these conditions, the satisfied extraction yields were 53.09 ± 2.24 mg/g for dihydroquercetin and 152.48 ± 5.78 mg/g for larch arabinogalactan. Validation studies suggested that the improved method was capable of extraction of dihydroquercetin and arabinogalactan from L. gmelinii stumps. High extraction yields of dihydroquercetin and arabinogalactan obtained from the recycled [C2mim]Br indicated that the proposed method is a highly efficient technique. The present research indicates that the improved process shows promising prospects for application to the preparation of bioactive substances from plant materials.
The effects of dihydroquercetin (50 mg/kg intragastrically daily for 6 weeks) on the density of capillary network (mean number of capillaries per mm2), mean capillary diameter, structure of capillary network, capillary diameter distribution (<3, 3-5, 5-7, and 7-9 μ), and local cerebral blood flow (by laser Doppler) in the visual cortex were studied in SHR rats during the development of arterial hypertension (from the 6th to the 12th week of life). Normally, the systolic and diastolic BP progressively increased in SHR rats during this period. Dihydroquercetin did not affect the development of arterial hypertension. At the same time, the drug significantly increased the mean diameter of capillaries (by 11%), capillary network density (by 23%), and in the percentage of capillaries with a diameter of 3-9 μ (passable for erythrocytes; by 42%). Positive effects of dihydroquercetin on the structure of microcirculatory bed improved microcirculation: local cerebral blood flow in the visual cortex of SHR rats was significantly higher (by 36%) than in rats receiving no flavonoid and close to the value in Wistar-Kyoto rats. Dihydroquercetin improved microvascularization and microcirculation in the cerebral cortex of SHR rats during the formation of arterial hypertension.
Additional index words. Sarracenia flava, Sarracenia leucophylla, Sarracenia psitticina, Sarracenia purpurea, Sarracenia rubra, pitcher plant, pigments, anthocyanin quantity (11%) was present in S. psitticina. Sarracenia flava has yellow flowers and contained no anthocyanidins. Romeom et al. (1977) reported that quercetin glycosides were the principal flavonols present in Sarracenia. In the biochemical pathway, dihydroquercetin is a precursor of both quercetin and cyanidin. Therefore, we expected to find cyanidin as the principal anthocyanidin in Sarracenia leaves and flowers. Romeo et al. (1977) found a small amount of kaempferol in Sarracenia, but we did not detect pelargonidin, which is derived from dihydrokaempferol. This also was not unexpected because many Petunia ×hybrida Hort. Vilm. cultivars contain small amounts of kaempferol and produce no pelargonidin (Griesbach and Asen, 1990; Griesbach et al., 1991). The discovery of delphinidin was not unexpected since Schnell (1978) had reported the presence of blue pigments in S. psittacina and S. purpurea. This current study identifies those blue pigments as delphinidin glycosides. Schnell, using TLC analysis, reported the presence of 13 different floral pigments. Our HPLC profiles of the floral anthocyanins of S. rubra and S. leucophylla before hydrolysis showed only a single anthocyanin peak (data not shown). In S. purpurea and S. psitticina, five different anthocyanin peaks were present, two of which were present in only trace amounts (data not shown). Many of the 13 pigments reported by Schnell were probably breakdown products. Further studies are needed to identify the sugar(s) attached to the two major anthocyanidins.
Centrifugal partition chromatography, Sephadex LH-20 and flash chromatography were applied to separate flavonoids and coumarins from Berchemia formosana. This first chemical investigation led to the isolation of ten compounds. Based on spectral analysis, they were determined to be quercetin (1), rutin (2), (+)-dihydroquercetin (3), (+)-dihydrokaempferol (4), naringenin (5), 2-hydroxy-naringenin (6), 2-hydroxy-naringenin-7-O-β-glucoside (7), (-)-catechin (8), (-)-gallocatechin (9) and scopoletin (10). Among these 7 is a novel natural product and was found to be composed of two inseparable diastereoisomers. The presence of the rare 2-hydroxyflavanones 6 and 7 in B. formosana is of interest for chemotaxonomy.
Abstract The methanol extract of Ficus sarmentosa var. henryi (King) Corner was found to detect potent inhibitory activities against 6 crop pathogenic fungi, Fusarium graminearum, Pumpkin fusarium Wilt, Curvularia lunata (Wakker) Boed, Septoria zeicola Stout, Botrytis cinerea, and Rhizoctonia solani. Four flavonoids were isolated from the extract of F. sarmentosa var. henryi by activity-guided fractionation and they were identified as eriodictyol (1), homoeriodictyol (2), dihydroquercetin (3), and luteolin (4) by spectroscopic means and displayed excellent inhibitory activity against F. graminearum and S. zeicola. Among them, luteolin (4) showed the strongest inhibitory activity with IC50 values of 56.38 and 81.48 mg L−1, to the fungi, respectively. The in vitro inhibitory activity of F. sarmentosa var. henryi (King) Corner was reported for the first time and the inhibitory action mechanism of luteolin (4) was worthy of further research.
Dihydroquercetin (dhq) and its 3-acetate react with acetic anhydride in the absence of a base catalyst to yield mixtures of partially acetylated products. Three new esters were characterized by NMR spectroscopy as dhq 3,7,3′-triacetate, 3,7,4′-triacetate and 5,7,3′,4′-tetraacetate. At its melting point neat dhq 3,7,3′,4′-tetraacetate is partially converted to dhq 3,3′,4′-triacetate and dhq pentaacetate by intermolecular acetyl transfer. Dhq 7,3′,4′-triacetate yields exclusively dhq 3′,4′-di- and 3,7,3′,4′-tetraacetate under these conditions. The acetylation/deacetylation reactions are accompanied by partial epimerization: 3 new acetates with 2,3-cis stereochemistry (dhq 3-, 3,7,3′,4′-tetra- and penta-) were identified. Dhq and its 3,7,3′,4′-tetraacetate undergo regiospecific dibromination at C-6 and C-8 with excess N-bromosuccinimide in polar solvents, and 6,8-dibromo-dhq can be regioselectively debrominated to 8-bromo-dhq with sodium sulfite.
Rokaityte A., Zaborskiene G., Macioniene I., Rokaitis I., Sekmokiene D. (2016): Combined effect of lactic acid, bioactive components and modified atmosphere packaging on the quality of minced meat. Czech J. Food Sci., 34: 52–60. The quality of minced beef was improved. Combinations of modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) and vacuum packaging (VP) with lactic acid (LA), dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and linalool (LIN) mixes were used on fresh minced beef. In the course of the study the total aerobic bacterial, escherichia coli, yeast and mould counts and formation of biogenic amines during 9 days of storage at +4°C temperature were investigated. Mixtures of DHQ+LA+LIN and DHQ+LA solutions statistically significantly reduced the total aerobic bacterial and e. coli count and meat pH (P ≤ 0.05) in comparison with control samples. We have identified a strong positive correlation between pH and total aerobic bacterial (R = 0.736, P 0.05) in the total aerobic bacterial and e. coli count between the different packaging techniques, but VP effectively inhibited yeasts and moulds in minced beef (P ≤ 0.05).
We studied cytotoxic effects of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and its derivatives, penta-O-acetylsalicylate dihydroquercetin (PAS DHQ), penta-O-acetate dihydroquercetin (PA DHQ), and penta-O-benzoate dihydroquercetin (PB DHQ), in aqueous solutions, liposomal form, and in the form of fat emulsions, on cultured tumor cells HL-60 and HEp-2. Solubility of the DHQ derivatives in aqueous solutions was much lower than that of DHQ. Modification of DHQ either did not alter its toxicity (PAS DHQ) or significantly reduced the cytotoxic effect of DHQ on tumor cells (PA DHQ, PB DHQ). DHQ and its derivative PAS DHQ were more toxic when dissolved in an aqueous solution than in the form of liposomes. Cytotoxic effect of DHQ applied in the form of fat emulsion was significantly higher than in the liposomal form and was close to the activity of DHQ in a solution. These results can be implicated for the development of new anticancer drugs based on liposomal and fat emulsions.
The quality of minced beef was improved. Combinations of modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) and vacuum packaging (VP) with lactic acid (LA), dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and linalool (LIN) mixes were used on fresh minced beef. In the course of the study the total aerobic bacterial, escherichia coli, yeast and mould counts and formation of biogenic amines during 9 days of storage at +4°C temperature were investigated. Mixtures of DHQ+LA+LIN and DHQ+LA solutions statistically significantly reduced the total aerobic bacterial and e. coli count and meat pH (P ≤ 0.05) in comparison with control samples. We have identified a strong positive correlation between pH and total aerobic bacterial (R = 0.736, P < 0.01) and e. coli count (R = 0.818, P < 0.01). Significant differences in the total biogenic amine content were determined between DHQ+LA+LIN and DHQ+LA treated samples in air packaging (AP) (P ≤ 0.05). However, there were no significant differences (P > 0.05) in the total aerobic bacterial and e. coli count between the different packaging techniques, but VP effectively inhibited yeasts and moulds in minced beef (P ≤ 0.05).
Adaptive correction of structural and metabolic disturbances in the lungs caused by longterm exposure to coal-rock dust were studied in experiments on rats. It was shown that the complex antioxidant preparation containing dihydroquercetin compensated disturbances in the redox balance in the lung tissue, prevented the formation of dust granulomas, and reduced the severity of degenerative changes in the bronchopulmonary system.
Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase family, catalyzes the last common step in the biosynthesis of flavan-3-ols and condensed tannins. Initial rates of DFR were measured by monitoring the 340-nm absorbance decrease resulting from the joint consumption of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and NADPH, as a function of pH, temperature and ionic strength. At pH 6.5 and 30o C, substrate inhibition was observed above 30 µM DHQ. At lower/non-inhibitory DHQ concentrations, NADP+ behaves as a competitive inhibitor with respect to NADPH and as a mixed inhibitor with respect to DHQ, which supports a sequential ordered mechanism, with NADPH binding first and NADP+ released last. Binding-equilib-rium data obtained by means of the chromatographic method of Hummel and Dreyer at pH 7.5 and by isothermal calorimetric titration at pH 6.5 led to the conclusion that ligands of the apoenzyme included NADPH, NADP+ and DHQ. The mechanism which best accounts for substrate inhibition at pH 6.5 in the absence of product involves the formation of a binary non-productive E.DHQ complex. Thus, a productive ternary complex cannot be formed when DHQ binds first. This mechanism of inhibition may prevent the accumulation of unstable leucoanthocyanidins within cells.
The ability of dihydroquercetin to inhibit the oxidation of fibrinogen has been evaluated. It is established that dihydroquercetin inhibits oxidation of fibrinogen by ozone, thus preventing oxidative modification of fibrinogen and preserving its functional activity.
Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase family, catalyzes the last common step in the biosynthesis of flavan-3-ols and condensed tannins. Initial rates of DFR were measured by monitoring the 340-nm absorbance decrease resulting from the joint consumption of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and NADPH, as a function of pH, temperature and ionic strength. At pH 6.5 and 30˚C, substrate inhibition was observed above 30 µM DHQ. At lower/non-inhibitory DHQ concentrations, NADP + behaves as a competitive inhibitor with respect to NADPH and as a mixed inhibitor with respect to DHQ, which supports a sequential ordered mechanism, with NADPH binding first and NADP + released last. Binding-equilibrium data obtained by means of the chromatographic method of Hummel and Dreyer at pH 7.5 and by isothermal calorimetric titration at pH 6.5 led to the conclusion that ligands of the apoenzyme included NADPH, NADP + and DHQ. The mechanism which best accounts for substrate inhibition at pH 6.5 in the absence of product involves the formation of a binary non-productive E.DHQ complex. Thus, a productive ternary complex cannot be formed when DHQ binds first. This mechanism of inhibition may prevent the accumulation of unstable leucoanthocyanidins within cells.
Abstract Dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) is a potent flavonoid found in onions, French maritime bark, milk thistle, tamarind seeds and commercially available semi-synthetic monoHER marketed as Venoruton®. This review focuses on the therapeutic promise of dihydroquercetin in major disease states such as cancer, cardiovascular disease and liver disease by reviewing the proposed mechanism(s) of action, including the activation of the antioxidant response element (ARE) and detoxifying phase II enzymes, inhibition of cytochrome P 450 and fatty acid synthase in carcinogenesis. TNF-alpha and NF-ĸB dependent transcription in hepatitis C infections, the scavenging effect of myeloperoxidase (MPO) derived reactive nitrogen species and subsequent effects on cholesterol biosynthesis as well as the effects on apob/apoA-I, HMG-CoA reductase and apoptosis are reviewed. The stereochemistry and pro-oxidant effect of dihydroquercetin are also considered. Although the majority of research on dihydroquercetin to date has focused on the identification of molecular targets in vitro , this review will bring together evidence of the potency and mode of action of dihydroquercetin and will propose a role for the therapeutic potential of flavonoid antioxidants.
Abstract The flavonoids quercetin, (+)-dihydroquercetin, and quercetin 3-methyl ether were isolated from the ethyl acetate fractions of the fruits and stems of Opuntia ficus-indica var. saboten. In the present study, we evaluated their protective effects against oxidative neuronal injuries induced in primary cultured rat cortical cells and their antioxidant activities by using three different cell-free bioassays. Quercetin was found to inhibit H2O2- or xanthine (X)/xanthine oxidase (XO)-induced oxidative neuronal cell injury, with an estimated IC50 of 4–5 μg/ml. However, it was no more protective at concentrations of 30 μg/ml and above. (+)-Dihydroquercetin concentration-dependently inhibited oxidative neuronal injuries, but it was less potent than quercetin. On the other hand, quercetin 3-methyl ether potently and dramatically inhibited H2O2- and X/XO-induced neuronal injuries, with IC50 values of 0.6 and 0.7 μg/ml, respectively. All three principles markedly inhibited lipid peroxidation and scavenged 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl free radicals. In addition, quercetin and quercetin 3-methyl ether were shown to inhibit XO activity in vitro, with respective IC50 values of 10.67 and 42.01 μg/ml. These results indicate that quercetin, (+)-dihydroquercetin, and quercetin 3-methyl ether are the active antioxidant principles in the fruits and stems of Opuntia ficus-indica var. saboten exhibiting neuroprotective actions against the oxidative injuries induced in cortical cell cultures. Furthermore, quercetin 3-methyl ether appears to be the most potent neuroprotectant of the three flavonoids isolated from this plant.
Teinturier variety grape cell cultures produce anthocyanins and exhibit a red appearance, although the major cell population is composed of nonpigmented cells. A novel cell suspension culture was initiated from selected nonpigmented cells that were shown, to synthesize catechins. Anthocyanin synthesis has been triggered when cell division was reduced by Pi deficiency. Furthermore, the addition of dihydroquercetin resulted in a 10-fold increase in dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) activity. In nonpigmented cells a higher level of precursors or an elevated level of substrate availability would induce anthocyanin synthesis.
3',4',5,7-Tetramethyldihydroquercetin was phosphorylated with phosphorous acid derivatives, and similar results were obtained with phosphorochloridites and phosphoramidites. The PIII derivatives obtained were subjected to oxidation. The structures of the products were determined by NMR spectroscopy.
Abstract Ultra high-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (UPLC-ESI-MS) was used to identify the free, bound and esterified phenolic acids in the extracts of custard apple (Annona squamosa L). In total around 16, 15 and 13 free, bound and esterified phenolic compounds respectively were identified. Among these about 5 phenolic compounds like quinic acid, gallocatechin, gallocatechin gallate, caffeoylhexoside, dihydroxyquercetin have and been reported for the first time in A. squamosa. Also, compounds like 4-(β- d -glucopyranosyloxy) benzoic acid, procyanidin B1, procyanidin C1 in free form, 7 hydroxycoumarin 7 glucoside (skimmin), dihydroquercetin, xanthotaxol acetate, decycloxybenzoic acid in bound extract and caffeoyl hexoside in esterified form have been tentatively identified. Apart from phenolic compounds few organic acids like malic, citric, citramalic, adipic and acotinic acid have been found in the custard apple extracts. This study provides a newer insight into the phenolic profile of custard apple and their characterization by UPLC-ESI-MS/MS.
1) Rutin, quercetin and dihydroquercetin (D.H.Q.) give diuretic action to normal and hydrated rabbits. 2) The mode of diuretic action is different in rutin, quercetin and D.H.Q. respectively. D.H.Q. shows its action shortly after injection and rutin at a later stage, while quercetin shows its action at both early and later stages. 3) The diuretic action can be observed also in rats slightly. 4) The effects of combined use of rutin, quercetin and D.H.Q. with caffein, g-strophanthin, or Igrosin are not identical. Simultaneous application of quercetin with caffein or Igrosin; and D.H.Q. with Igrosin produce a synergistic diuretic action. The antidiuretic action of g-strophanthin is antagonized by the use of these flavone compounds. 5) These flavone compounds cause hydremia in rabbits. Quercetin shows the most marked action of these compounds. 6) These flavone compounds cause a slight fall in blood pressure, without causing any influence upon a kidney volume. 7) Quercetin accelerates the respiration of kidney slices of mice, while no evident action is observed in the case of rutin or D.H.Q.. 8) The combination of quercetin with caffeine, g-strophanthin or Igrosin and that of D.H.Q. with Igrosin increase the rates of respiration of kidney slices. But the combined application of rutin with caffein or g-strophanthin decreases the tissue respiration. 9) Rutin, quercetin. and D.H.Q. are rapidly excreted in urine. After intravenous injection, from 20-50% of administered rutin or quercetin can be recovered in the urine and from 10-20 % of D.H.Q
Abstract Every year, a large number of construction scrap wood and industrial processing residues are generated, not only caused heavy pressure on the environment, also the natural biological active ingredient in larch wood is wasted. In order to solve this urgent problem, the dynamic distribution and biological storage analysis of procyanidins, arabinogalactan and dihydroquercetin extracted by ultrasound-assisted extraction (UAE) in different parts of larch wood was studied. The results show that pith and sapwood have the highest and lowest moisture content, respectively. Moisture content also exhibited an increase from outer to inner heartwood. However, moisture content tended to decrease from 13.11 to 6.99% with increasing latitude. Most PCs were exclusively distributed in the bark and sapwood. The PC content of bark was about 10–20 times higher than that in sapwood, which increased with latitude increasing in bark. The highest PC content was 601.94 mg/g at 14 m height. AG content in the outer heartwood and sapwood was higher, and was lower in pith. Bark contained almost no AG. AG content was increased with the latitude increasing, and the highest content of AG was found at 6 m in sapwood. The peak of DHQ content in outer heartwood was 31.58 mg/g at the ground 0 m, where it was lower in mid- and inner heartwood than that in outer heartwood, and was lowest in bark (0.08 mg/g). Two peaks of DHQ content were observed with increasing latitude (at 0 and 6 m, respectively).
Abstract Plants produce a vast array of secondary metabolites, many of which have important biological properties in animals when consumed as part of the diet. Interestingly, although the activities and benefits of plant secondary metabolites in animals are well established, comparatively little is known about the endogenous functions of these compounds in plants. One way to investigate the role of secondary products in plants is to modify the secondary metabolome and investigate the impact of such modifications on the phenotype. We have designed a novel feeding approach using different hydroxycinnamic acids (HCAs) and the cyanidin precursor dihydroquercetin (DHQ) to modify the metabolome of carrot R3M suspension cells. This strategy increased the accumulation of specific metabolites in a predictable way, and provided novel insights into the carrot phenylpropanoid pathway, suggesting that (a) cells use HCA hexose esters as substrates in the biosynthetic pathway leading to the accumulation of the various HCA derivatives and (b) p-coumaric acid derivative levels play a key roles in the regulation the flux of HCAs along the pathway. Moreover, this rapid strategy for metabolome modification does not depend on the availability of molecular tools or knowledge and can therefore be applied to any plant species.
Arabidopsis thaliana flavonol synthase (aFLS) catalyzes the production of quercetin, which is known to possess multiple medicinal properties. aFLS is classified as a 2-oxoglutarate dependent dioxygenase as it requires ferrous iron and 2-oxoglutarate for catalysis. In this study, the putative residues for binding ferrous iron (H221, D223 and H277), 2-oxoglutarate (R287 and S289) and dihydroquercetin (H132, F134, K202, F293 and E295) were identified via computational analyses. To verify the proposed roles of the identified residues, 15 aFLS mutants were constructed and their activities were examined via a spectroscopic assay designed in this study. Mutations at H221, D223, H277 and R287 completely abolished enzymes activities, supporting their importance in binding ferrous iron and 2-oxoglutarate. However, mutations at the proposed substrate binding residues affected the enzyme catalysis differently such that the activities of K202 and F293 mutants drastically decreased to approximately 10% of the wild-type whereas the H132F mutant exhibited approximately 20% higher activity than the wild-type. Kinetic analyses established an improved substrate binding affinity in H132F mutant (Km: 0.027+/-0.0028 mM) compared to wild-type (Km: 0.059+/-0.0063 mM). These observations support the notion that aFLS can be selectively mutated to improve the catalytic activity of the enzyme for quercetin production.
Abstract Taxifolin (3,5,7,3,4-pentahydroxy flavanone or dihydroquercetin) is a flavonoid commonly found in onion, milk thistle, French maritime pine bark and Douglas fir bark. It is also used in various commercial preparations like Legalon™, Pycnogenol®, and Venoruton®. This review focuses on taxifolin’s biological activities and related molecular mechanisms. Published literatures were gathered from the scientific databases like PubMed, SciFinder, ScienceDirect, Wiley Online Library, Google Scholar, and Web of Science up to January 2019. Taxifolin showed promising pharmacological activities in the management of inflammation, tumors, microbial infections, oxidative stress, cardiovascular, and liver disorders. The anti-cancer activity was more prominent than other activities evaluated using different in vitro and in vivo models. Further research on the pharmacokinetics, in-depth molecular mechanisms, and safety profile using well-designed randomized clinical studies are suggested to develop a drug for human use.
Abstract The results of a comparative in vivo study of flavonoid biosynthesis in Rhododendron simsii petals, with [2- 14 C] p -coumaric acid and [2- 14 C]caffeic acid indicate that p -coumaric acid is the true precursor. Moreover, supplementary in vitro experiments with enzyme preparations show that p -coumaroyl-CoA is a much better substrate for chalcone synthase than caffeoyl-CoA. This suggests that in Rhododendron the 3′-hydroxylation of the B-ring occurs at the stage of a C 15 intermediate. In addition, flavonoid 3′-hydroxylase activity was demonstrated by means of comparative in vivo experiments with, respectively, [4a,6,8- 14 C]naringenin and [4a,6,8- 14 C]dihydrokaempferol as C 15 precursors. In both cases, the formation of radioactive 3′,4′-hydroxylated co-pigments and anthocyanins was established. Furthermore, co-pigment biosynthesis may proceed via the sequence: naringenin, eriodictyol, dihydroquercetin (3′-hydroxylation at the flavanone stage), whereas the formation of the anthocyanins may take place via naringenin, dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin (3′-hydroxylation at the dihydroflavonol level).
Summary. The oxidation of ascorbic acid in citrate buffer at pH 2.9 has been investigated with and without added copper ions as catalyst, and the loss of ascorbic acid followed by polarographic analysis. Certain flavonoids occurring in blackcurrant juice were used as antioxidants and their activity, in the absence of added copper ions, was found to decrease in the order, quercetin and dihydroquercetin (equal), kaempferol and rutin. Cyanidin-3-rhamno-glucoside and delphinidin-3-glucoside accelerated the oxidation. In the presence of added copper ions quercetin showed increasing antioxidant activity up to 12.5 × 10-5M (7.8 : 1, quercetin-copper ratio) after which the activity decreased rapidly. Anthocyanins were shown to possess slight antioxidant activity in the presence of copper ions. the probable mechanism of ascorbic acid oxidation is outlined, and the mode of action of flavonoids as antioxidants discussed.
Several different groups of low molecular weight polyphenols in Douglas-fir outer bark appear to be precursors to phlobaphene formation. Isolated flavonoids, flavonoid glycosides, procyaninidins, and lignans all have characterstic signals in their 13C-NMR spectra that can also be observed in the 13C-NMR spectra of phlobaphene polymers. The isolation of two dihydroquercetin containing dimers with biphenyl linkages gives the first clear evidence for the role of phenolic oxidative coupling in phlobaphene formation. The C-5′ of the catechol B-ring of dihydroquercetin may be the favored site for oxidative coupling. The isolation of a furolactone related to the lignan, pinoresinol, suggests that fungi on the outer bark may be involved in some chemical transformations of bark polyphenols. The role of fungi, if any, in phlobaphene formation is not clearly defined at present but deserves further investigation.
Taxifolin (5,7,3 1 ,4 1 -tetrahydroxyflavanol, dihydroquercetin) belongs to a member of the flavonoids family. Taxifolin was found from the leaves of Chamaecyparis obtuse (Cupressaceae) and also commonly extracted from Pseudotsuga taxifolia (Lamb.) Britt., Larix gmelinii (Rupr.) Kuzen, and Larix sibirica Ledeb. (Pinaceae) [1] [2] [3] . It was even obtained from fruits, vegetables, beverages, and so on. It elicits a wide range of pharmacological effects of anti-oxidation and anti-radiation [4, 5] . Furthermore, it also has anti-inflammation activity, anti-viral activity, anti-tumor activity, and protective postmenopausal osteoporosis activity [6] [7] [8] [9] . Due to its pharmacological diversity, its bioavailability and biological properties have raised a great interest in future studies.
Preliminary studies of flavones such as kaempferol and morin as well as the flavanones hesperitin and dihydroquercetin showed that they were converted to polar metabolites by this fungus, which were hydrolyzed by mild acid at room temperature to the respective substrates. The potential of flavonoid sulfates as therapeutically useful agents, 3, 4) as standards to study flavonoid conjugation by mammals, 5) and for comparison with natural products 6) requires the preparation of flavonoids sulfated at specific sites.
The general pathway to anthocyanins is shown in Fig.  1 . Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) (EC number 1.1.1.219) is one of the key enzymes of the pathway leading to the formation of 3-hydroxyanthocyanins. The enzyme catalyzes the stereospecific reduction of ('/)(/ (2R , 3R )-dihydroflavonols to the respective (2R , 3S , 4S )-flavan-2,3-trans -3,4-cis -diols, which are commonly called leucoanthocyanidins. DFR enzymes often show distinct substrate specificity with respect to dihydroflavonols (dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin, dihydromyricetin) [9 Á/11] and thus, have strong influence on the type of anthocyanidin (pelargonidin, cyanidin, delphinidin) formed in the plant tissues. DFR enzymes from plants, which do not naturally form 3-deoxyflavonoids in their tissues showed divergent substrate specificities with respect to flavanones. Moreover, it remained an open question, whether the reduction of flavanones is catalyzed by DFR or by FNR as a novel independent enzyme activity. Enzyme preparations from S. cardinalis flowers catalyzed the reduction of both flavanones to flavan 4-ols and dihydroflavonols to flavan 3,4-diols [12] even when the preparations were made from tissue which contained exclusively 3-deoxyanthocyanins. On the other hand, DFR preparations from Matthiola [14] and Dianthus [15] , which do not naturally form 3-deoxyflavonoids, did only convert dihydroflavonols, whereas the purified enzyme from Dahlia [16] catalyzed both the reduction of dihydroflavonols and flavanones. But the latter result may only be valid for the purified enzyme, because the reduction of flavanones is not in agreement with the exclusive presence of 3-hydroxyflavonoids in Dahlia .
Dihydroquercetin, which is closely related to quercetin in chemical structure, has been shown to be nontoxic when fed to albino rats at a dietary level of 1 per cent for long periods of time. Chromatographic examination of the urine of two human volunteers before and after the ingestion of 2 grams of dihydroquercetin demonstrated the conversion of the compound to 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetic, m -hydroxyphenylacetic, and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylacetic acids. These same metabolites are excreted following oral administration of quercetin, or DOPA, to rats, rabbits, or humans.
FIELD: medicine, pharmaceutics. SUBSTANCE: group of inventions refers to medicine and aims at treating and preventing hepatic encephalopathies. There are presented composite formulations containing various combinations of L-carnitine, acetyl-L-carnitine, succinate, L-glutamate, L-arginine, betaine and creatine phosphate, N-acetylcysteine, coenzyme Q 10 and dihydroquercetin; S-adenosylmethionine; coenzyme Q 10 and dihydroquercetin, dihydroquercetin and lipoamide. EFFECT: group of inventions enables relieving behavioural, neurological and psychic disorders by activating the osmoprotective and energetic systems, detoxification reaction systems of ammonium ions and other toxins, as well as the antioxidant systems of cerebral and hepatic cells. 5 cl, 3 ex, 4 tbl, 3 dwg
The mutagenic activities of several flavonoids and flavonoid metabolites were examined by means of Salmonella typhimurium mutants that reveal base-pair substitution and frameshift mutagens. Of the compounds tested (naringin, rutin, neohesperetin, hesperetin, dihydroquercetin, quercetin, quercetin pentaacetate, permethylquercetin, m-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, and m,p-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid), only quercetin was mutagenic without microsomal activation. With activation, however, the mutagenic activity of quercetin was increased significantly and that of quercetin pentaacetate was revealed. The health implications of these findings and aspects of flavonoid structural requirements for mutagenic activity are discussed.
IVANOV, G., D. BALEV, H. NIKOLOV and S. DRAGOEV, 2009. Improvement of the chilled salmon sensory quality by pulverisation with natural dihydroquercetin solutions. Bulg. J. Agric. Sci., 15: 154-162 The effect of superficial treatment with either 0.05% or 0.1% solution of dihydroquercetin isolate from Siberian larch (Larix sibirica Ledeb) on the sensory quality characteristics of chilled-stored (1±1 0 C) salmon (Salmo salar) discs was investigated. The cross-section appearance color of raw salmon disc and the taste and odor of blanched samples were evaluated, both by ten member panel using nine point intensity scale, and 180 consumers using hedonic scale. Regression data analysis was performed. It was established that superficial treatment with 0.1% solution effectively preserved sensory evaluated color and taste of salmon allowing 4 d extending of the product shelf life.
The dry-fermented sausages are under high risk of microbial cross-contamination and physical impurities come from ground spices because they are not subjected to heat treatment. So, the objective of this study was to investigate the replacement of 3 g/kg ground black pepper (Piper nigrum L.), and cumin (Cuminum cyminum) with their aliquots of tetrafluoroethane extracts on oxidation stability in dry-fermented sausages. The influence of 0.2 g/kg added antioxidants: Dihydroquercetin from Siberian larch (Larix sibirica Ledeb), rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis L.) extract, or butylated hydroxytoluene on the antioxidant activity was studied too. For this purpose the acid value (AV), conjugated dienes and trienes, peroxide value (POV), TBARS, and fatty acid composition of Bulgarian-type dry-fermented sausages sudjuk Sadowski, were determined. The replacement of ground black pepper and cumin with tetrafluoroethane essential oil extracts in sudjuk effectively decrease the rate of lipolysis and lipid oxidation during processing and 30 days storage at 0–4°C. In comparison with control samples the AV was reduced by more than 38%, POV with 50.8%, conjugated dienes with 8.82%, conjugated trienes with 39.3%, and TBARS with approximately 39%. A strong linear correlation between TBARS and POV (R2 > 0.94); AV and POV (R2 > 0.89), and AV and TBARS (R2 > 0.83) was obtained. ::: ::: Practical applications: The black pepper and cumin tetrafluoroethane essential oil extracts or addition of 0.02% of natural antioxidants, such as dihydroquercetin and rosemary powder extract can be used in the composition of the Bulgarian type dry-fermented sausages such as sudjuk. They show strong antioxidant capacity with beneficial effect on lipolytical changes and lipid oxidation stability during 30 days vacuum storage at 0–4°C. In general, results suggest that black pepper and cumin tetrafluoroethane essential oil extracts with the combination of dihydroquercetin or rosemary powder extract can be successfully applied to protect dry-fermented sausages from lipid oxidation. ::: ::: ::: ::: Sample C, dry-fermented sausages prepared with ground spices; sample E, dry-fermented sausages prepared with tetrafluoroethane spices extracts; sample B, dry-fermented sausages prepared with ground spices and 0.2 g/kg BHT; sample R, dry-fermented sausages prepared with ground spices and 0.2 g/kg rosemary extract; sample T, dry-fermented sausages prepared with ground spices and 0.2 g/kg dihydroquercetin.
The work’s objective was to determine the influence of food ingredients, which can have direct effect of the oxidative stress neutralization (dihydroquercetin and shelf fungus extract), on the quality and preservation of bakery products. The objects of the research were the samples of wheat-and-rye dough and bread with dihydroquercetin and shelf fungus, as well as a reference sample without any additives. The organoleptic assessment of the samples under study allows to conclude on the pronounced influence which the introduced additives have on the appearance, crust colour and crumb structure of bread. However, the introduction of additives does not have any obvious effect on changing of flavour and aroma of the baked products. The assessment of the antioxidative activity of the studied samples of wheat-and-rye dough and crumb of bread made of it revealed that the samples of dough with additives showed 2.4–2.6 times higher antioxidative activity as compared to the reference sample. Once baked, the still enriched bakery products had higher antioxidative activity than the reference sample. Meanwhile, bread with shelf fungus showed the highest antioxidative activity (2.4 times higher as compared to the reference sample). A dependence was determined between the rheological characteristics of the studied and reference samples of wheat-and-rye dough and bread. The density of the dough produced using innovative technologies is somewhat higher as compared to the dough manufactured by the traditional technology. Adding shelf fungus extract reduces the general deformation of the bread crumb by 33%, what increases the degree of crumbling. And dihydroquercetin on the contrary slightly increases the general deformation by 9% and therefore makes the bread crumb more elastic.
From the MeOH extract of the aerial part of Blumea balsamifera L., a new dihydroflavonol, (2R,3S)-(−)-4′-O-methyldihydroquercetin (1), together with seven known compounds has been isolated. Their structures were elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic data. Compounds 1–4 and 6–8 displayed significant xanthine oxidase inhibitory activity in a concentration-dependent manner, and compounds 1, 6 and 8 showed more potent inhibitory activity, with IC50 values ranging from 0.23 to 1.91 µ m, than that of a positive control allopurinol (IC50 2.50 µ m). Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Dihydroquercetin monosuccinate is a synthetic derivative of native antioxidant dihydroquercetin, which has a wide spectrum of pharmacological properties. Being more soluble in water than its precursor, the novel synthetic derivative of the bioflavonoid maintains a high antioxidant activity, which is confirmed by the TEAC method and the voltammetry data. The redox transformations of dihydriquercetin monosuccinate on a graphite electrode are more complicated as compared to the parent flavonoid.
Dihydroquercetin effects on the tone of isolated segments of the portal vein of rats were studied. Dihydroquercetin did not modify the basal venous tone, but reduced the amplitude of contractions induced by KCl and norepinephrine hydrotartrate.
Summary (1) Hesperidin, hesperetin, naringenin, morin and luteolin were fed to young rats to determine their ability to induce thymus involution. Only luteolin was effective, and in this respect resembles quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and eriodictyol. (2) A commercially available preparation, “Calcium Flavonate Glycoside, Lemon,” caused thymus involution. Some relationships between structure and thymolytic action of flavonoids are discussed.
A comparative study of antioxidant (radical-interceptor) properties of tryptanthrin (quinazoline alkaloid shows a high anti-inflammatory activity and it is found in many types of different families of higher plants and microorganisms, including the human microbiome) in the systems of 2,2'-azo-bis(2-methylpropionamidin)dihydrochloride-luminol and hemoglobin-hydrogen peroxide-luminol has been conducted and the influence on the permeability of planar bilayer lipid membranes is evaluated. Trolox was used as a reference antioxidant, and ascorbic acid and dihydroquercetin were taken as standards. Tryptanthrin exhibits very weak antioxidant activity, being markedly inferior to the reference standard and antioxidants while testing antioxidant activity in both studied systems. By the efficacy of antioxidative action the substrates in the systems studied can be arranged in the following order: dihydroquercetin > trolox > ascorbic acid > tryptanthrin. Antioxidant potential of tryptanthrin is approximately 1000 and 3000 times lower than that of trolox and bioflavonoid dihydroquercetine, respectively. Tryptanthrin causes no significant changes in the permeability of planar bilayer membranes in a dose range of 0.5 to. 10 μg/ml. Our data show that tryptanthrin displays no significant radical-interceptor and membranotropic activities. It can be assumed that the observed high anti-inflammatory activity of tryptanthrin is not related to the neutralizing effect against reactive oxygen species and the influence on the permeability of cell membranes. The anticipated mechanisms of biological activity of tryptanthrin are discussed.
It was noted that the common current practice of presenting the results of identifying organic compounds in reversed-phase HPLC with the specification of analytical parameters that do not exhibit interlaboratory reproducibility or without giving any data is inadequate. This approach is oriented only to the use of reference materials, and it actually implies that identification be performed anew in each particular case. The means of solving this general problem based on the use of retention indices and UV-spectroscopic invariants, such as relative absorbance, are exemplified by solving a particular problem of the identification of impurities in dihydroquercetin.
The pharmacokinetics of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) was studied by HPLC in rats after intravenous injection of the compound in single doses of 1,3, 10 and 30 mg/kg and after oral administration in single doses of 50 and 500 mg/kg. Nonlinear pharmacokinetic behaviour was demonstrated for DHQ when administered intravenously to rats; after oral administration DHQ can be detected in blood plasma only in trace amounts. Model independent parameters for intravenous administration of DHQ were calculated, and the description of the dynamics of the change in concentration of DHQ as a two-compartmental model were given for blood plasma.
Abstract An assay, based on the colorimetric determination of 3′,4′-dihydroxyflavonoids, has been developed to study the hydroxylation of kaempferol, naringenin and dihydrokaempferol catalysed by a phenolase from leaves of spinach beet ( Beta vulgaris L. ssp. vulgaris). K m values of 1·6, 2·2 and 52·0 × 10 −4 M were obtained for naringenin, kaempferol and dihydrokaempferol, respectively, and the maximal velocities for these substrates were 8, 9 and 125 nmoles product/min/m-unit enzyme. For comparison, K m values of 2·2, 1·0 and 16·7 × 10 −4 M were determined for eriodictyol, quercetin and dihydroquercetin with maximal velocities of 0·037, 0·025 and 0·037 nmoles oxygen consumed/min/m-unit enzyme, respectively. These results are discussed in relation to the suggestion that dihydrokaempferol is a better substrate for hydroxylation at the 3′-position than kaempferol.
Reduced (+)-dihydromyricetin and/or reduced (+)-dihydroquercetin have been condensed with (+)-catechin to give the following all-trans-products: (4,8)-(+)-gallocatechin-(+)-catechin (prodelphinidin B3); (4,8:4,8)-(+)-gallocatechin-(+)-gallocatechin-(+)-catechin (prodelphinidin C2); (4, 8:4,8)-(+)-gallocatechin-(+)-catechin-(+)-catechin and (4,8:4,8)-(+)-catechin-(+)-gallocatechin-(+)-catechin. 1H N.m.r. spectra (360 MHz, CDCI2, room temperature) of the acetates are presented in flavour of the above structures, the structural interpretation being simplified to a great extent by inspection of the 1H n.m.r. data of the acetates of the well characterised all-trans compounds procyanidin B3, procyanidin B6, and procyanidin C2.
Abstract Polyphenolic compounds represent a wide group of phytochemicals, including well-known subgroups of phenolic acids, flavonoids, natural dyes, lignans etc., which are produced by plants. These natural bioactive compounds possess a variety of beneficial effects including antioxidant and anticarcinogenic activities, protection against coronary diseases as well as antimicrobial properties. Thymus species have already been reported as sources of different phenolic acids and flavonoids. Moreover, the composition and content of flavonoids in Thymus species play important role as taxonomic markers providing distinction of species. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with diode array detector (DAD) and on-line mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) method was used for analysis. The method was evaluated for a number of validation characteristics (repeatability and intermediate precision, LOD, LOQ, calibration range, and recovery). The polyphenolic pattern of five native Hungarian Thymus species ( T. glabrescens Willd., T. pannonicus All., T. praecox Opiz, T. pulegioides L., and T. serpyllum L.) was characterized. The dominant compound was rosmarinic acid, which ranged between 83.49 μg g −1 and 1.436 mg g −1 . Other phenolic acids (ferulic acid, caffeic acid and its other derivatives, chlorogenic acid and p -coumaric acids) were present in every examined Thymus species, as well as flavanones: naringenin, eriodictyol and dihydroquercetin; flavones: apigenin and apigenin-7-glucoside, flavonols: quercetin and rutin. The polyphenolic pattern was found to be a useful additional chemotaxonomic tool for classification purposes and determination of the locality of origin.
An analytical procedure for determining antioxidants was proposed based on chemiluminescence. The analytical system consisted of a free-radicals generator, 2,2′-azo-bis(2-amidinopropane), luminol was used as a chemiluminescence sensitizer in phosphate buffer solution (pH 7.4). The analytical conditions were optimized. The analytical procedure detection limits as low as (μM) the following: for trolox, the limit is 0.05; for ascorbate, it is 0.20; for quercetin, it is 0.03; and, for dihydroquercetin, it is 0.03. A test determination of antioxidants in food was performed.
The invention pertains to the food industry and essentially relates to a premix containing dihydroquercetin, which can be used in dairy, confectionery, alcoholic and non-alcoholic products. The premix contains dihydroquercetin and a filler selected from the group comprising propylene glycol, glycerin, a polysorbate, in the following proportions of the components in wt. %: 10-90% of dihydroquercetin; 90-10% of filler. The premix of the present invention has the properties of an antioxidant and of a capillary protector, and makes it possible to maintain the arterial pressure at the physiological level.
Currently, for the infectious diseases treatment are increasingly using the biologically active substances of plant origin, having a fewer side effects than synthetic medicines and similar in structure and actions to the natural components of the human organism. In the present paper was carried out a comparative study of the ability of polyphenolic preparations (dihydroquercetin, vitamin P, silibinin, KB8 and RAM 3) to inhibit the neuraminidase of influenza type A virus. It is shown that the dihydroquercetin effectively reduced the activity of the N1, N2 and N6 subtypes of influenza type A virus neuraminidase. The absence of a double bond between the 2 and 3 carbon atoms in the C ring of phenolic compound is making it the most active against the N2 subtype of neuraminidase (dihydroquercetin and KB8), availability of methyl group in such polyphenols is significantly reduced the antineuraminidase activity of substance (silibinin). The presence of OH-groups at C-3, 5, 7, of phenols C and A rings promotes suppression of the activity of N1 subtype of influenza type A virus neuraminidase (dihydroquercetin and silibinin). The substitution of OH-group on the carbohydrate component by 3-O position of C ring is lead to the reduction of anti-neuraminidase activity of the substance (vitamin P). However, the addition of gallic acid to the carbohydrate residue leads to the increasing of N1 subtype anti-neuraminidase activity (KB8). The adding of second gallic acid residue leads to the ability of substance to inhibit the neuraminidase activity in twice (RAM 3). The investigated polyphenolic preparations are equally effective reduced the activity of N6 subtype of influenza type A virus neuraminidase. Similar research will allow to develop the experimentally based recommendations for the use of directed action medications for both treatment and prophylaxis of influenza.
FIELD: medicine, pharmaceutics. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to compositions of an antioxidant composition aimed at the suppression of oxidative stress in type 2 diabetes. The said compositions contain, counted per 1 dose: 50-120 mg of coenzyme Q10, 30-160 mg of dihydroquercetin, and 30-60 mg of A-lipoic acid or 50-100 mg of coenzyme Q10, 50-100 mg of dihydroquercetin, 30-60 mg of A-lipoic acid and 50-100 mg of nicotineamide. EFFECT: compositions possess an antioxidant activity and prevent the development of the fatty tissue dysfunction. 2 cl, 1 dwg, 2 tbl, 2 ex
Dihydroquercetin is a natural flavonoid with antioxidant properties that are determined by its ability to scavenge free radicals and chelate transition metal ions. Chemiluminescent studies showed that iron (II) ions in complex with dihydroquercetin are inactive and cannot catalyze decomposition of hydrogen peroxide (Fenton reaction).
Application of growth stimulators can be especially effective on plantlets in vitro of tree species which are usually worse rooted and adapted in comparison with annual plants. In our work we evaluate effects of natural (dihydroquercetin, Zircon) and synthetic growth stimulators (Melafen, Fumar, Epin-Extra) on rooting and acclimatization of common ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.) microplants. The 0.05% - 0.2% Zircon and 10-5% Melafen enhanced in vitro rooting by 29% - 37% and 31%, respectively. Melafen also stimulated root formation faster compared to control plants. The dihydroquercetin concentration of 0.01% increased rooting by 24% and root number per shoot by 1.8 times. In vitro plants rooted on media supplemented with Melafen, Fumar and Zircon demonstrated enhanced ability to adapt to non-sterile conditions and accelerated growth. Two months after planting to the greenhouse, plants rooted on 0.01% dihydroquercetin were 45% taller than the control. Weekly spraying of plantlets with 0.02% Epin-Extra containing 24-epibrassinolid stimulated growth of uniform plants with large leaves. The obtained results support the use of growth stimulators for application in clonal micropropagation of common ash both for large-scale production of planting stock and for conservation of rare and valuable genotypes.
The invention relates to a method for extracting astilbin and dihydroquercetin from engelhardia roxburghiana wall leaves and application of extractives thereof. The method for extracting the astilbin from the engelhardia roxburghiana wall leaves comprises the steps of: extracting by refluxing ethanol, degreasing by using ligarine, extracting by using ethyl acetate, blending two organic solvents with different polarities in proportion, and performing recrystallization so as to obtain the astilbin; and the method for extracting the dihydroquercetin from the engelhardia roxburghiana wall leaves mainly comprises the steps of: firstly, obtaining the astilbin by using the provided method, and then hydrolyzing the astilbin to obtain the dihydroquercetin. The methods provided by the invention are beneficial to simplification of the traditional operation processes such as resin absorption, polyamide column or silicagel column chromatography and the like, and have the characteristics of simple, convenient and feasible process, simplicity for operation, lower cost and higher extraction efficiency and content; and after being measured with the HPLC (High Performance Liquid Chromatography) method, the contents of the astilbin and the dihydroquercetin are both more than 90%, therefore the method is suitable for industrialized production.
Dihydroquercetin mannich salt,a sihydroquercetin derivative,was prepared via mannich reaction.Its capability of scavenging the free radicals and antioxidant ability in KI-H2O2 system and lard were all studied.The results showed that the solubility of dihydroquercetin mannich salt in water was higher than that of dihydroquercetin.Its capability of scavenging the DPPH radicals was also improved.Besides,its antioxidant activity in KI-H2O2 system was better than those of dihydroquercetin,quercetin and vitamin C.Its antioxidant activity in lard was higher than that dihydroquercetin,but lower than that of BHT.The optimal amount of dihydroquercetin mannich salt in lard was 2.0 mmol/L.
The invention provides a synthesis method of dihydroquercetin, which mainly solves the problems of high preparation cost and unsuitability for large-scale industrial production of dihydroquercetin by the conventional method. The synthesis method of the dihydroquercetin comprises the following steps of: 1, preparing 2,4,6- trihydroxyacetophenone pyran ether; 2, preparing 3,4-protocatechualdehyde dipyran ether; 3, preparing chalcone; 4, preparing epoxy chalcone; and 5, removing a protective group and closing a loop so as to obtain a dihydroquercetin product, wherein a reaction end point is detected by thin layer chromatography. Raw materials and reagents used in a synthesis process are cheap and readily available, the entire route has high yield and low production cost; and the synthesis method has the characteristics of simple process, mature reaction steps, small using amounts of solvents, little environmental pollution, low requirement on production equipment and suitability for industrial production.
Many researchers consider a key role in initiation of apoptosis along the mitochondrial pathway to be enhanced by cytochrome c, one of the components of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, which acquires peroxidase activity by forming a complex with phospholipids. Mitochondrial membranes are destroyed affected by the peroxidase reaction catalyzed by this supramolecular nanoparticle, resulting in the release of various proapoptotic factors into the cellular cytoplasm, ultimately leading to the development of an apoptosis pathway. The study of lipoperoxidase activity of the cytochrome c with cardiolipin complex is conducted via activated chemiluminescence. However, prior to this study, no assessment of the potential contribution of free non-heme iron, which can be inserted into the sample, into chemiluminescence of the system of cytochrome c complex with cardiolipin– hydrogen peroxide. It was found during the study process, that chemiluminescence of this system is indeed generated by the activity of the cytochrome c with cardiolipin complex, and the method of activated chemiluminescence is actually suitable for its study. The effect of trolox and dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) as synthetic and natural antioxidants on lipoperoxidase activity of the cytochrome c with cardiolipin complex was as well assessed via application of chemiluminescence activator specific for lipid peroxidation reactions – coumarin-334. A complete inhibition of lipoperoxidase activity for a few minutes with its subsequent full development under the trolox response and its dose-dependent uniform decrease under dihydroquercetin effect was obtained. These findings are promising for the future studies on inhibition of lipoperoxidase activity of this nanoparticle by antioxidants in order to inhibit the inappropriate apoptosis. Peroxidase activity of intact mitochondria in the comparative application of two chemiluminescence activators: coumarin-334 and coumarin-525, was also featured. Significance of the study This study proves that the method of activated chemiluminescence is adequate to study the processes occurring in the early stages of apoptosis. Inhibition of lipoperoxidase activity of the cytochrome c with cardiolipin complex by antioxidants was demonstrated. These findings prove that studies on the effect of antioxidants on this supramolecular nanoparticle will eventually lead to discovery of the news means to prevent and treat diseases caused by apoptosis: myocardial infarction, Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, etc.
It was shown previously that the larch wood waste can be efficiently processed by passing as aqueous pulp through a disintegrator of cavitator type [1, 2]. By this procedure the wood waste is transformed into a new polymer material called “Cavitated wood.” Besides the cavitated wood, therewith are formed lowmolecular substances: the dihydroquercetin flavonoid, terpenes, terpenoids, etc. [2]. Apparently, the essence of the phenomenon lies in the reorganization of the polymer structure of the original wood raw material, by moving some of its –Ar–C–C–C–X nano-sized blocks. Let us call this lignin nano-isomerization.
Over the last decades, polyphenols have had an increasing interest on understanding vital functions of biological systems because they are important antioxidants of human diet. 1 Due to the health significance of these compounds, some analytical methods have been developed for their separation, identification and quantification in natural products. [2] [3] [4] Polyphenols have a wide variability of chemical structures, which differ in polarity and size, from simple phenolic compounds to oligomers. Additionally, they are found at low concentration levels in natural products. 5 Therefore, sample pre-treatment is normally required before instrumental analysis. 6 Liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) and solid phase extraction (SPE) are the sample pre-treatment techniques most frequently used. Among analytical techniques, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and capillary electrophoresis (CE) are the main methods. 7, 8 P. pinaster Aiton, a pine commonly known as french maritime pine and originally occurring in the Mediterranean region, 9 has been investigated with regard to its chemical constituents and biological effects. 10 The aqueous extract of the bark of P. pinaster has a high concentration of polyphenols represented by a mixture of procyanidins (comprising catechin and epicatechin subunits with varying chain lengths), besides phenolic acids (gallic, ferulic, caffeic and p-hydroxybenzoic acids), cinnamic acids and their glycosides forms, and taxifolin ( Figure 1) . 11, 12 It is widely used as a nutritional supplement and provides numerous health benefits due to its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immuno-modulatory effects. [13] [14] [15] The quality control for the bark extract of P. pinaster is specified in the United States Pharmacopeia (USP) monograph in the chapter of dietary supplements. 16 A method of HPLC with ultraviolet (UV) detection is described for identification test. It analyzes four components of the extract: caffeic acid, catechin, ferulic acid, and taxifolin. The method can also be used to generate chromatographic fingerprints that provide additional qualitative information. However, for quantitative purposes, Vol. 27, No. 9, 2016 a method of spectrophotometry is described which provides an estimation of the total procyanidins content (65-75%) and it does not give quantitative measurement of individual polyphenol content. In this regard, taxifolin, a flavanonol also known as dihydroquercetin, 17 can be a chemical marker for quality control of the bark extract of P. pinaster, because it is present in quantitatively detectable amount in the the extract when compared with other individual polyphenol contents. 18 Furthermore, it is widely found in barks of the species within the genus Pinus, so it is an important flavanonol for this group. 19, 20 Within this context, the aim of this work was to develop, optimize and validate a method of HPLC with photodiode array detection (PDA) for quantification of taxifolin in the bark extract of P. pinaster. The method optimization was investigated by a multivariate approach, taking into account a 3 3 Box-Behnken factorial design.
Many researchers consider a key role in initiation of apoptosis along the mitochondrial pathway to be enhanced by cytochrome c, one of the components of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, which acquires peroxidase activity by forming a complex with phospholipids. Mitochondrial membranes are destroyed affected by the peroxidase reaction catalyzed by this supramolecular nanoparticle, resulting in the release of various proapoptotic factors into the cellular cytoplasm, ultimately leading to the development of an apoptosis pathway. The study of lipoperoxidase activity of the cytochrome c with cardiolipin complex is conducted via activated chemiluminescence. However, prior to this study, no assessment of the potential contribution of free non-heme iron, which can be inserted into the sample, into chemiluminescence of the system of cytochrome c complex with cardiolipinhydrogen peroxide. It was found during the study process, that chemiluminescence of this system is indeed generated by the activity of the cytochrome c with cardiolipin complex, and the method of activated chemiluminescence is actually suitable for its study. The effect of trolox and dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) as synthetic and natural antioxidants on lipoperoxidase activity of the cytochrome c with cardiolipin complex was as well assessed via application of chemiluminescence activator specific for lipid peroxidation reactionscoumarin-334. A complete inhibition of lipoperoxidase activity for a few minutes with its subsequent full development under the trolox response and its dose-dependent uniform decrease under dihydroquercetin effect was obtained. These findings are promising for the future studies on inhibition of lipoperoxidase activity of this nanoparticle by antioxidants in order to inhibit the inappropriate apoptosis. Peroxidase activity of intact mitochondria in the comparative application of two chemiluminescence activators: coumarin-334 and coumarin-525, was also featured.
Dose-dependent inhibition of lipoperoxidase activity of the cytochrome ccardiolipin complex by trolox and dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) was identified, meaning the possible application of antioxidants in order to inhibit this process in living cells, therefore to block apoptosis and prevent, and perhaps cure, many neurodegenerative diseases, strokes, etc.
The flowers of delphinium cultivars owe their coloration to anthocyanins such as delphinidin or pelargonidin derivatives. To date, no delphinium cultivars have been found with red flowers due to the presence of cyanidin derivatives. This suggests that delphiniums do not have cyanidin biosynthesis ability because of the loss of function of flavonoid 3' hydroxylase (F3'H). Here, we show that the wild delphinium species Delphinium zalil (synonym semibarbatum) can accumulate quercetin 3-glucosides in its sepals, presumably through F3'H activity. We isolated F3'H cDNA from D. zalil (DzF3'H) and produced a recombinant enzyme from a yeast transformant. The recombinant DzF3'H protein could convert naringenin, apigenin, dihydrokaempferol and kaempferol to eriodictyol, luteolin, dihydroquercetin and quercetin, respectively. An expression analysis confirmed that blue flowered D. grandiflorum does not express F3'H, and also showed that flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase and anthocyanidin synthase do not function in D. zalil sepals. DzF3'H can act as a flavonoid hydroxylase to produce cyanidin accumulation. The introduction of the DzF3'H gene into other delphinium species by conventional breeding may enable development of cultivars with novel flower colors.
The white flowering mutant W48 of Petunia hybrida is dominant for the hydroxylation gene Hf1 and homozygous recessive for the hydroxylation gene Ht1 and the anthocyanin gene An1. Flower buds of this mutant accumulate dihydrokaempferol-glucosides. Thus the effect of Hf1 being dominant is not the hydroxylation of the C15 skeleton, as is the case in mutants that are able to synthesize anthocyanins. This can be explained either by a feed-back inhibition of the hydroxylation by small amounts of dihydromyricetin (glucosides), or by a controlling effect of the gene An1 on the expression of Hf1. However, the white flowering mutant W58, which is homozygous recessive for the gene An6 and dominant for Hf1, accumulates dihydromyricetin (glucosides). This excludes a possible feed-back inhibition by dihydromyricetin and we conclude that An1 controls the expression of Hf1. Feeding of radioactive malonic acid to isolated flower limbs of mutants able to synthesize anthocyanins, leads to the incorporation of radioactivity into dihydrokaempferol (glucosides) and dihydroquercetin (glucosides). These results show that glucosylation of dihydroflavonols is a normal event in anthocyanin biosynthesis and is not induced by an inhibition of anthocyanin synthesis.
Persulfated derivatives of natural polyhydroxy compounds, such as lignans secoisolariciresinol, and isolariciresinol, flavonoid dihydroquercetin, and myo-inositol, have been synthesized. The ability of these compounds to inhibit the intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation (APTT-test) and to reduce the activity of coagulation factor Xa in the presence of antithrombin(III) has been studied.
The leaves of Blumea balsamifera are used as a folk medicine in kidney stone diseases in South-East Asia. Phytochemical investigation revealed leaves contained a number of flavonoids. In view of these, the present work was aimed to quantify and preliminary pharmacokinetic investigation of five flavonoids viz. dihydroquercetin-7,4¢-dimethyl ether (I), dihydroquercetin-4¢-methyl ether (II), 5,7,3¢,5¢-tetrahydroxyflavanone (III), blumeatin (IV) and quercetin (V) in rat plasma following oral administration (0.5g/Kg) of B. balsamifera leaf extract in rats. Quantification was achieved by using a validated, reproducible high-performance liquid chromatographic method. The mean recoveries of I, II, III, IV and V were 90.6, 93.4, 93.5, 91.2 and 90.3% respectively. The limit of quantification was 25 ng/mL for I and IV, 10 ng/mL for II and III and 100 ng/mL for V respectively. The within day and day-to-day precision for all the compounds were < 10%. The validated HPLC method herein was applied for pharmacokinetic studies and the main pharmacokinetic parameters were: t1/2 (hr) 5.8, 4.3, 2.9, 5.7 and 7.3, Cmax (ng/mL) 594.9, 1542.9 1659.9, 208.9 and 3040.4; Tmax (hr) 4.7, 1.0, 1.0, 3.5 and 2.3; AUC0-oo (ng hr/mL) 5040, 5893, 9260, 1064 and 27233 for I, II, III, IV and V respectively. The developed method was suitable for pharmacokinetic studies and this preliminary study also revealed significant absorption after oral dosing in rats.
It was found that dihydroquercetin, a flavonoid of plant origin, localized in lecitin nanoparticles with glycine amino acid, reduced inflammatory reactions in wound zones after thermal burns. The application of the liposomal complex to burn trauma stabilized the endogenous antioxidant system and minimized the area of secondary necrosis in the wound. The intensification of skin regeneration and repair of hair follicles and sebaceous glands were also observed.
During the biosynthesis of anthocyanins in Petunia hybrida, the 3-hydroxyl group is glucosylated. Their supposed biosynthetic precursors, the dihydroflavonols, are glucosylated at the 7 or 4' positions. The question arose of whether these glucosides or the aglucones act as a substrate in anthocyanin synthesis. Using isolated flower buds of white flowering mutants that were blocked in an earlier step of biosynthesis, it was found that anthocyanin-3-glucosides and dihydroquercetin-7-glucoside were synthesized if dihydroquercetin, dihydroquercetin-7-glucoside, or dihydroquercetin-4'-glucoside were used as precursors in these experiments. Intracellular dihydroquercetin-glucosides were not used as a substrate for anthocyanin synthesis. The results are explained by deglucosylation of dihydroquercetin-glucosides during uptake by isolated flower limbs. Dihydroquercetin-7-glucoside, formed intracellularly, is not available as a precursor for anthocyanins. We conclude that the aglucone form of dihydroquercetin acts as a substrate in anthocyanin biosynthesis.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE ::: Muntingia calabura L. (Muntingiaceae) is locally known as kerukup siam. Its leaves, flowers, barks and roots have been used traditionally in East Asia and South America to treat various diseases including ulcer-related diseases. The present study aimed to investigate the mechanism(s) of gastroprotective effect of methanol extract of Muntingia calabura leaves (MEMC) using the pylorus ligation induced gastric ulceration in rats. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: Five groups of rats (n=6) were administered orally once daily for 7 days with 8% Tween 80 (negative control), 100 mg/kg ranitidine (positive control), or MEMC (100, 250 or 500 mg/kg), followed by the ulcer induction via ligation of the pyloric part of the rat's stomach. This was followed by the macroscopic analysis of the stomach, evaluation of gastric content parameters, and quantification of mucus content. The antioxidant (measured using the superoxide anion and 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH)-radical scavenging, oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) and total phenolic content (TPC) assays), anti-inflammatory (evaluated using the in vitro lipoxygenase and xanthine oxidase assays), phytoconstituents and HPLC analysis of MEMC were also carried out. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The MEMC significantly (p<0.05) reduced gastric lesion in this model. Furthermore, the extract also significantly (p<0.01) reduced the volume of gastric content whereas the total acidity was significantly (p<0.05) reduced in the doses of 100 and 500 mg/kg MEMC. Moreover, the mucus content increased significantly (p<0.01) in MEMC-treated rats. The extract also showed high antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities in all assays tested, and demonstrated the presence of high tannins and saponins followed by flavonoids. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The MEMC exerted gastroprotective effect via several mechanisms including the anti-secretory, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. These activities could be attributed to the presence of tannins, saponins and flavonoids (e.g. rutin, quercitrin, fisetin and dihydroquercetin).
Abstract A leaf survey of 206 Rhododendron species, subspecies and varieties showed that the genus possesses a relatively uniform flavonoid pattern. Three compounds which are generally rare in the angiosperms, gossypetin, azaleatin and caryatin, occur in 76, 34 and 10 per cent of the species respectively. Quercetin and leucoanthocyanidins are present in all taxa, while dihydroflavonols are present in 68 per cent, myricetin in 51 per cent and kaempferol in 23 per cent of the sample. Gossypetin is notably absent from the subgenus Pentanthera while caryatin characterises the single subgenus Hymenanthes. Of the three dihydroflavonols, dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin are reported in the genus for the first time, the former being isolated as the 3-arabinoside. The flavonols of Rhododendron leaf were found to be present as the 3-arabinosides, 3-rhamnosides, 3-galactosides and 3-glucosides. Simpler phenols were surveyed in leaves of 55 species with the following results: orcinol in 7 per cent, hydroquinone in 9 per cent, rhododendrol in 37 per cent, o -coumaric acid in 19 per cent, gentisic acid in 80 per cent and gallic acid in 84 per cent. Taxonomically, the results generally support the accepted sectional and subsectional classifications, although they suggest that on chemical grounds certain species might be misplaced. Phyletically, the data indicate that the genus still retains a wide range of primitive phenolic characters. Geographically, the separation of R. lochae , the only Australian species, from the rest of the genus in S.E. Asia is reflected in its chemistry.
Reaction of dihydroquercetin with acid chlorides of higher and functionalized carboxylic acids was studied with the purpose of creation of new pharmaceuticals.
Approximately half of the subclones examined from one clone of the wild carrot cell culture WC63-1-9-1 accumulated dihydroquercetin in the culture medium. The amount of dihydroquercetin accumulated in the medium varied with the subclone used, the size of the inoculum, the medium used and the time of sampling.
Thirty-seven flavonoid compounds (9 flavones, 18 flavonols, 8 flavanones, and 2 flavanonols) were investigated for their effect on feeding choice with bertha armyworm (Mamestra configurata Walker; BAW). Feeding choice was dependent upon subtle differences in biochemical structure. Unsubstituted flavone and flavanone were the strongest feeding deterrents in the choice bioassay, while 7.4'-dihydroxyflavone and dihydroquercetin stimulated BAW to feed. The constitutive flavonoids of Brassica napus, isorhamnetin-3-sophoroside-7-glucoside and kaempferol-3,7-diglucoside, were effective deterrents when supplemented at concentrations higher than endogenous levels. In a no-choice bioassay, flavone reduced both larval weight as well as larval and pupal development time.
Ethnopharmacological relevance: Muntingia calabura L. (Muntingiaceae) is locally known as kerukup siam. Its leaves, flowers, barks and roots have been used traditionally in East Asia and South America to treat various diseases including ulcer-related diseases. The present study aimed to investigate the mechanism(s) of gastroprotective effect of methanol extract of Muntingia calabura leaves (MEMC) using the pylorus ligation induced gastric ulceration in rats. Materials and methods: Five groups of rats (n=6) were administered orally once daily for 7 days with 8% Tween 80 (negative control), 100 mg/kg ranitidine (positive control), or MEMC (100, 250 or 500 mg/kg), followed by the ulcer induction via ligation of the pyloric part of the rat's stomach. This was followed by the macroscopic analysis of the stomach, evaluation of gastric content parameters, and quantification of mucus content. The antioxidant (measured using the superoxide anion and 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH)-radical scavenging, oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) and total phenolic content (TPC) assays), anti-inflammatory (evaluated using the in vitro lipoxygenase and xanthine oxidase assays), phytoconstituents and HPLC analysis of MEMC were also carried out. Results: The MEMC significantly (p<0.05) reduced gastric lesion in this model. Furthermore, the extract also significantly (p<0.01) reduced the volume of gastric content whereas the total acidity was significantly (p<0.05) reduced in the doses of 100 and 500 mg/kg MEMC. Moreover, the mucus content increased significantly (p<0.01) in MEMCtreated rats. The extract also showed high antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities in all assays tested, and demonstrated the presence of high tannins and saponins followed by flavonoids. Conclusion: The MEMC exerted gastroprotective effect via several mechanisms including the anti-secretory, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. These activities could be attributed to the presence of tannins, saponins and flavonoids (e.g. rutin, quercitrin, fisetin and dihydroquercetin).
Flavonoids are a large group of natural phenolic compounds contained in high concentrations in vegetables, fruits, etc. Antioxidant and redox properties of some flavonoids such as catechin, quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and rutin were investigated in this work. Optimal concentration and time of action of flavonoids were obtained. To determine the more effective range of antioxidant activity, mathematical models and the response surfaces of investigated flavonoids were determined using methods of experiment design. Oxidation potentials of the compounds were also obtained, E = 0.3 ÷ 0.4 V. Moreover, the antioxidant activity of flavonoids depends on the redox properties and the structure of the flavonoids. The antioxidant activity of flavonoids, which is correlated to reversible potentials for this compound is good. Finally, the use of these substances as antioxidants with therapeutic effects has been recommended in human diet.
Abstract Three new flavonoids have been isolated from the leaves of Petiveria alliacea and assigned the structures 6-formyl-8-methyl-7- O -methylpinocembrin, 6-hydroxymethyl-8-methyl-7- O -methylpinocembrin and 6-hydroxymethyl-8-methyl-5,7-di- O -methylpinocembrin, respectively. The 3- O -rhamnosides of dihydrokampferol, dihydroquercetin and myricetin have also been isolated.
In flowers of Matthiola incana, the B-ring hydroxylation pattern of anthocyanins is controlled by the locus b. Recessive genotypes produce pelargonidin and genotypes with wild-type alleles cyanidin as the aglycone. Supplementation experiments on acyanic flowers using extracts of pelargonidin-and cyanidin-producing flowers, respectively, showed not only the presence of compounds with a precursor function for anthocyanin synthesis in the cyanic flowers but also differences in the B-ring hydroxylation pattern of these compounds. Chromatographic investigations proved that flavanones and dihydroflavonols occur in extracts of cyanic flowers. Naringenin, dihydrokaempferol, and their 7-glucosides could be demonstrated in all flower extracts, but in extracts of cyanidin-producing flowers, dihydroquercetin and a further 3′, 4′-hydroxylated dihydroflavonol, tentatively identified as dihydroquercetin 3-glycoside, were additionally found. In no case, however, could eriodictyol be detected. From these results and from the ready hydroxylation of dihydrokaempferol to dihydroquercetin in a white mutant line of Matthiola incana, it can be concluded that introduction of the 3′-hydroxyl group of anthocyanins is not achieved by specific incorporation of caffeic acid during synthesis of the flavonoid skeleton, but by hydroxylation at the dihydroflavonol stage.
Toxoplasmosis is one of the most neglected zoonotic foodborne parasitic diseases that cause public health and socioeconomic concern worldwide. The current drugs used for the treatment of toxoplasmosis have been identified to have clinical limitations. Hence, new drugs are urgently needed to eradicate T.gondii infections globally. Here, an in vitro anti-Toxoplasma gondii activity of taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) and dihydrofolate inhibitor (pyrimethamine) alone and in combination with a fixed concentration of pyrimethamine were investigated against the rapidly proliferating T.gondii RH strain at 48 hr using colorimetric assay. Pyrimethamine showed the highest anti-T. gondii activity with IC50P of 0.84 μg/ml (p > .05), respectively. The combination of pyrimethamine with dihydroquercetin gave a significant inhibitory activity against tachyzoites in in vitro with IC50p of 1.39 μg/ml (p < .05). The IC50p ranges obtained for the individual and the combination of taxifolin with pyrimethamine inhibition of parasite growth were not cytotoxic to the infected HFF and Hek-293 cell lines used. These compounds combination should be investigated further using in vivo model of toxoplasmosis.
Abstract The rare dihydroquercetin 3- O -β- d -xyloside, caryatin 7- O -β- d -glucoside and the previously unknown 6-methoxylated flavonoid glycoside jaceidin 5- O -β- d -glucoside were isolated from twigs of Eucryphia glutinosa where they co-occur with the widespread reynoutrin.
The urgency of developing the technology for obtaining the dihydroquercetin-zinc complex is due to the high antiradical, antioxidant, antiviral activity and wound healing effects of the original pharmaceutical composition developed on its basis. The study aims to optimize the complexation of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) with Zn2+ ions in aqueous solution and to develop a technological scheme for preparation of the complex. Previously, we have determined the reaction parameters for the laboratory scheme for preparing the complex. A tenfold increase in the volume of the reaction solution (from 50 to 500 mL) has led to a decrease in the yield of the product. The task was to correct some reaction parameters for increasing the yield of the complex. It has been found that the increase in the reaction time (from 15 to 240 min) and the DHQ concentration in the reaction solution (from 0.05 to 0.1 M), while maintaining the previously optimized reaction parameters (the molar ratio Zn2+: DKB = 2: 1, pH 5.6), leads to an increase in the yield of the complex from 12 to 84%. Correspondence between the structures of the complex and the compound previously obtained in small volumes has been confirmed by the data of IR, 13C and 1H NMR spectroscopy and elemental analysis. The study will contribute to the more intensive use of extractive substances of larch wood to create new drugs that have antioxidant properties intended for the treatment of various diseases.
Soluble enzyme preparations from flower buds of Matthiola incana catalysed the conversion of dihydrokaempferol to kaempferol and of dihydroquercetin to quercetin. The reaction required 2-oxoglutarate, ascorbate and Fe²⁺ as cofactors and had a pH-optimum at about 7.0. Highest enzyme activity was already present in the youngest buds followed by a rapid decline during bud and flower development. Furthermore, a substantial correlation was observed between the enzyme activity for flavonol formation and the flavonol content of the buds and flowers.
The effect of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) on proton pumps of the vacuolar membrane (H+-ATPase and H+-pyrophosphatase), slow vacuolar (SV) channel, lipid peroxidation, and stability of isolated vacuoles was studied. The results of experiments showed that DHQ affected active and passive transport systems of the vacuolar membrane. The mechanism of action of DHQ may be based on its combined effect on the sulfhydryl groups of proteins and the lipid component of the membrane. The strong stabilizing effect of DHQ on the membranes of isolated vacuoles may be associated not only with its antioxidant properties but also with changes in the membrane permeability affecting the ion channels.
Soluble enzyme preparations from flower buds of Matthiola incana catalysed the conversion of dihydrokaempferol to kaempferol and of dihydroquercetin to quercetin. The reaction required 2-oxoglutarate, ascorbate and Fe2+ as cofactors and had a pH-optimum at about 7.0. Highest enzyme activity was already present in the youngest buds followed by a rapid decline during bud and flower development. Furthermore, a substantial correlation was observed between the enzyme activity for flavonol formation and the flavonol content of the buds and flowers.
BACKGROUND: The mass transfer of model drugs Lidocaine hydrochloride and Dihydroquercetin from hydrogels (the usual carriers for topical drugs), and hydrogels containing liposomes, as novel drug vehicles, was studied. Diffusion experiments were performed using a Franz diffusion cell. Experimental data were used to calculate drug diffusion coefficients across membranes, and their effective diffusion coefficients from hydrogels and liposome containing hydrogels. For the first time the diffusion resistance of all drug carriers was determined from corresponding diffusion coefficients. ::: ::: The main aim of this work was the study of drug diffusion coefficients from liposomes and their comparison with related diffusion coefficients from hydrogels to find how liposomes contribute to prolonged and controlled drug release. ::: ::: RESULTS: Drug diffusion coefficients were: 1.38 · 10−8m2 s−1 for Lidocaine hydrochloride and 5.96 · 10−9m2 s−1 for Dihydroquercetin, while corresponding effective diffusion coefficients from hydrogels were: 7.82 · 10−10m2 s−1 and 7.98 · 10−10m2 s−1, respectively. Effective diffusion coefficients from liposome-containing hydrogels were:4.82 · 10−10m2 s−1 (Lidocaine hydrochloride) and 4.305 · 10−10m2 s−1 (Dihydroquercetin). Diffusion resistances for the two hydrogels were almost the same. Very similar values of diffusion resistances for all liposome dispersions were obtained. ::: ::: CONCLUSION: Calculated diffusion coefficients and resistances demonstrate that liposomes, as drug carriers, significantly affect diffusion rates. The results obtained could be used whenever diffusion-controlled drug release is required. Copyright © 2010 Society of Chemical Industry
A selective and sensitive reversed-phase (RP) high-performance liquid chromatographic method is developed for the quantitative analysis of five naturally occurring flavonoids of Blumea balsamifera DC, namely dihydroquercetin-7,4'-dimethyl ether (DQDE), blumeatin (BL), quercetin (QN), 5,7,3',5'-tetrahydroxyflavanone (THFE), and dihydroquercetin-4'-methyl ether (DQME). These compounds have been isolated using various chromatographic methods. The five compounds are completely separated within 35 min using an RP C18, Nucleosil column and with an isocratic methanol-0.5% phosphoric acid (50:50, v/v) mobile phase at the flow rate of 0.9 mL/min. The separation of the compounds is monitored at 285 nm using UV detection. Identifications of specific flavonoids are made by comparing their retention times with those of the standards. Reproducibility of the method is good, with coefficients of variation of 1.48% for DQME, 2.25% for THFE, 2.31% for QN, 2.23% for DQDE, and 1.51% for BL. The average recoveries of pure flavonoids upon addition to lyophilized powder and subsequent extraction are 99.8% for DQME, 99.9% for THFE, 100.0% for BL, 100.6% for DQDE, and 97.4% for QN.
Arabinogalactan extracted from Siberian larch on an industrial scale was found to exist as noncovalent glycoconjugates with a group of wood extractive substances (their content in arabinogalactan is ~3%). The flavonoids dihydroquercetin (prevailing in extractive substances with a percentage of ~24%), aromadendrin, and quercetin were identified among the extractive substances. Flavonoid—arabinogalactan conjugates are readily soluble in water (unlike virtually insoluble free flavonoids) and exhibit highly effective antiradical properties directly in an aqueous solution (the hydrophilic ABTS+• model). Flavonoid—arabinogalactan conjugates, as well as arabinogalactan specially purified from flavonoids, can be used as an energy and carbon source for indigenous probiotic microbes: the polysaccharide is hydrolyzed by the enzymatic system of bifidobacterial β-glycosidases to form reducing sugars digested into organic acids. The growth and functional characteristics of bifidobacteria are influenced by the degree of urity of the polysaccharide. Thus, flavonoid—arabinogalactan conjugates retard the growth of bifidobacteria and the formation of organic acids, which can be attributed to the antimicrobial activity of flavonoids (antiradical disruption of physiological redox-signaling of microbial cells)
A glucosyltransferase, which catalyses the glucosylation of flavonols, using uridine diphosphate-D-glucose as glucose donor, has been isolated and purified about 5–10 fold from cell suspension cultures of soybean (Glycine max L., var. Mandarin). The pH optimum for this reaction was ca. 8.5 in glycine-NaOH buffer, and no additional cofactors were required. The enzyme glucosylated the following flavonols predominantly at the 3-position: quercetin (Km 126 μM), kaempferol (Km 172 μM), isorhamnetin (Km 200 μM) and fisetin (Km 270 μM). With quercetin as substrate, the apparent Km value for uridine diphosphate-D-glucose was 0.3 M. Glucosylation of flavonols and flavones by this preparation occurred weakly also at the 7-position. No activity was found with dihydroquercetin, naringenin, 4,2′,4′-trihydroxychalcone, daidzein or texasin. The enzyme was specific for flavonoid compounds, since no activity was observed towards cinnamic acids or simple phenols. However, the preparation was contaminated by a vanillic acid glucosyltransferase, from which it could be partially separated by ionexchange chromatography. The specific activity of the flavonol 3-O-glucosyltransferase increased with age of the culture, reaching a maximum late in the growth cycle of the culture.
The steady-state kinetics of horseradish peroxidase-catalyzed dihydroquercetin oxidation was studied. Dihydroquercetin was shown to be a slowly oxidized substrate of horseradish peroxidase. Two dihydroquercetin isoforms (cis and trans forms) that were selectively involved in peroxidase-induced oxidation were found in water-alcohol and buffer solutions. The k cat and K m were determined in the pH range of 4.5–8.0.
Objective To investigate the chemical constituents of Ficus sarmentosa var. henryi. Methods Column chromatographic techniques were used to isolate and purify the chemical constituents. NMR was employed for their structures. Results Eleven flavonoids were isolated and identified as the following:eriodictyol (1),homoeriodictyol (2),quercetin (3),dihydroquercetin (4),kaempferol (5),dihydrokaempferol (6),naringenin (7),luteolin (8),apigenin (9),chrysoeriol (10),and 3',5',5,7-tetrahydroxylfavanone (11). Conclusion Compounds 1—11 are isolated from this plant for the first time.
Abstract In clones of wild carrot ( Daucus carota L.) cells which accumulate anthocyanin, exogenously supplied sinapic acid increases their anthocyanin accumulation in the presence or absence of dihydroquercetin which is a known precursor of cyanidin. The exogenously supplied sinapic acid was not converted into malvidin by the cells. The cells accumulate anthocyanin with cyanidin as the only chromophore in the presence or absence of sinapic acid. Sinapic acid feeding did not initiate anthocyanin accumulation in clones which were not anthocyanin accumulating.
Mammals, dihydroquercetin to reduce and control the cardiometabolic risk factors especially related to the metabolic syndrome and hypercholesterolemia in humans (taxifolin), arabinogalactan, and arabinogalactan in combination with dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) a method of using nutritional compositions comprising, resulted in enhancement of the metabolism to reduce the level of cholesterol and triglycerides, and reduced oxidative damage in humans leads to other health benefits, methods. .BACKGROUND
Grape stems contain significant amounts of polyphenolic compounds, especially phenolic acids, flavonols, and flavanonols such as astilbin. The tannin content was characterized after the depolymerization reaction thiolysis. Tannins consisted of polymeric proanthocyanidins (up to 27 units) mainly consisting of (-)-epicatechin units along with smaller amounts of (+)-catechin, (-)-epicatechin gallate, and (-)-epigallocatechin. Flavanonols (astilbin) have been identified for the first time in stem and characterized by LC/MS and NMR. All phenolic compounds in grape stems were quantified by HPLC: quercetin 3-glucuronide was the most important, followed by catechin, caffeoyltartaric acid, and dihydroquercetin 3-rhamnoside (astilbin). Comparison was made of proanthocyanidin characteristics in different white and red grape varieties and also among parts of the cluster (skin, seed, and stem). Stem-condensed tannins were qualitatively intermediate between seed and skin but could not be differentiated between red and white varieties.
Perianth parts, in particular, tepals of Echinocereus triglochidiatus var. gurneyi yielded a complex mixture of dihydroflavonols and dihydroflavonol 7-O-glucosides. Dihydroquercetin and its 7-O-glucoside were the predominant compounds while dihydrokaempferol and dihydromyricetin and their 7-O-glycosides were present in lesser amounts. Quercetin 7-O-glucoside was the principal flavonol glycoside: others present were quercetin and kaempferol 3-O-glucosides and 3-O-rhamnosylglucosides. The epidermis and spines yielded only traces of presumed flavonols as determined by two-dimensional TLC. No flavonoids were detected in the cortex tissue. This is the first report of dihydroflavonol derivatives from the Cactaceae and constitutes the first record of flavonoids from Echinocereus.
The invention discloses a method for extracting dihydroquercetin from larch sawdust, comprising the following steps: (1) extraction: smashing raw material larch sawdust, adding ethanol water, carrying out reflux extraction, and condensing; adding ethanol water, precipitating and filtering arabinogalactan; and cleaning residues by the ethanol water, combining the filtrate and the cleaning solution, and carrying out reduced pressure concentration until no alcohol taste; (2) purification: carrying out liquid phase adsorption and separation on the concentrated solution by macroporous resins, carrying out gradient elution successively by deionized water and ethanol water, collecting eluate in a segmented mode, condensing, drying, detecting, and taking dihydroquercetin with higher dihydroquercetin content as a dihydroquercetin raw product; and (3) recrystallization. The product obtained by the invention has good stability and high purity which can reach 98%, adopts a pollution-free, nonhazardous and recyclable solvent to extract the dihydroquercetin, and utilizes the macroporous resins to purify and separate the dihydroquercetin so as to obtain pharmaceutical-grade raw materials, create high-value profit and recycle waste materials.
Although both are antioxidants, the flavonoids quercetin (Q) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ) can produce different biological effects. For example, Q is known to inhibit heat stress-induced heat shock p...
The effectiveness of using dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) in feeding cattle, pigs, broilers, hens and bees as a regulator of biological processes in organism in conditions and under impact of technological and environment stress-factors, including pollution by heavy metals (Cd, Pl, Zn, Cu) and radionuclides ( 90 Sr, 137 Cs) was studied. Dihydroquercetin is a natural etalon antioxidant with wide spectrum of biological properties, basic of them beeing capillary protection with improving blood microcirculation, protection of cells membrane in organs and tissues from destruction by lipids oxidation, support and biocorrection of metabolic health. The introduction of dihydroquercetin in the ration of dairy caws in periparturient period prevented ketosis, improved functional capacity of liver, reproductive ability and herd safety. When using in rations of growing and fattening pigs in extremal environment of high temperature and smog conditions the use of dihydroquercetin prevented lipids oxidation and increased viability of organism that reflected positively on daily gains and safety of pigs. Also positive results were achieved in the application of dihydroquercetin in growing broilers and hens. In beekeeping the use of dihydroquercetin increased reproduction ability of queen bee.
Rutin and Quercetin are plant metabolites having antioxidant property and play a significant role in combating diabetes [1] . Diabetes is a chronic metabolic disorder resulted in mortality of over one million people globally [2] . Besides diabetes, rutin helps in reducing severity of colon carcinogenesis [3] and hypertension [4] . Rutin is neither present in cereals nor in pseudocereals [5] . Buckwheat is the only field crop species which possess rutin in the form of its secondary metabolite product [6] . Buckwheat generally grows at high altitude mountainous area, which derives the evolutionary mechanism of protecting itself against UV rays [7] . Rutin and quercetin are synthesized by a cascade of enzymes, in which Phenylalanine Ammonia Lyase (PAL; E.C 4.3.1.5) gene (PAL gene) is the first enzyme, which catalyses the conversion of precursor amino acid 'phenylalanine' to 'trans-cinnamic acid'. Subsequently, several cascade of enzymes catalyzes further on each substrates until dihydroquercetin and finally Flavonol Synthase (FLS) converts dihydroquercetin to quercetin and rutin [8] (Fig 1) .
Seven flavonoids were isolated from Meconopsis quintuplinervia Regel for the first time, and their structures were elucidated as quercetin (I), dihydroquercetin (II), luteolin (III), chrysoeriol (IV), apigenin (V), huazhongilexone (VI) and hydnocarpin (VII) by spectroscopic methods including IR, EIMS, 1D- and 2D-NMR techniques.
The phenolic composition of Malbec (Vitis vinifera L.) grape skins and seeds during ripening and the effect of cluster thinning (CT) in two consecutive seasons (2008-2009) were evaluated by high-performance liquid chromatography-diode array detection/electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (HPLC-DAD/ESI-MS). Removal of 50% of clusters was performed at 40 days (T1), 80 days (T2), and 100 days after flowering (T3) in a vineyard located in southern Mendoza (Argentina). Yield components, with the exception of cluster weight, were significantly affected by CT in both seasons, but no statistically significant differences were found among treatments. Cluster thinning and its timing had little or no influence on physical parameters and fruit chemical composition, and the differences with respect to the control were mainly due to the season. At harvest in 2008, T1 encouraged the biosynthesis of individual anthocyanins in skins, generating 44.0, 39.6, and 41.2% more glucosylated, acetylated, and total anthocyanins, respectively, as compared to the control, whereas in seeds, T1 and T2 mainly changed the concentrations of (+)-catechin, epicatechin-3-gallate, procyanidin B4, dimer gallate 1, trimer gallate 2, and tetramer. Conversely in 2009, T1 significantly affected the content of flavanols and flavonols in skins, whereas in seeds, T1 and T2 modified the level of (+)-catechin, procyanidins B4 and B6, and trimer gallate 2. Moreover, in 2008 the grapes had a higher concentration of most phenolic compounds, indicating a greater potential for more complex wines. Finally, dihydroquercetin-3-glucoside was the major compound among all nonanthocyanin phenolics detected in Malbec skins and represented 25.7% (2008) and 39.9% (2009) of the total content of those compounds at harvest. This finding could represent a distinctive feature of this grape variety.
Two methods for the detection of long polymers in dihydroquercetin (DHQ) preparations has been developed. The first method is based on UV spectrophotometry. It was shown that the quantity of long polymers in aqueous solutions can be estimated by the ratio of the absorption bands at 328 and 290 nm, since the 328-nm band was attributed to the monomeric form of DHQ, whereas the 290-nm band was attributed to both the monomeric and polymeric forms. The second method is based on the high-sensitive measurement of light-scattering intensity in aqueous solutions of diluted DHQ preparations using a spectrofluorometer with crossed monochromators. It has been shown that the filtration of DHQ solutions through Millipore filters with a pore diameter of 0.05-0.45 microns makes it possible to nearly completely eliminate long polymers and their aggregates. Long polymers at high concentrations can aggregate. The longest polymers and their aggregates may be 0.1 mm in length, which leads to fluctuations in the light-scattering intensity on the second and minute time scale.
The technique based on monitoring oxygen consumption was applied to test 18 polyphenols (PP) and model phenolics as a chain-breaking antioxidant during the oxidation of styrene initiated by 2,2′-azobis(2,4-dimethylvaleronitril) at 37°C. The chain-breaking capability of PP was characterized by two parameters: the rate constant k1 for the reaction of antioxidants with the peroxy radical produced from styrene and the stoichiometric coefficient of inhibition, f, which shows how many kinetic chains are terminated by one molecule of PP. Rate constants k1 × 105 (in M−1 s−1) were found to be 10 (catechol), 27 (pyrogallol), 34 (3,6-di-tert-Bu-catechol), 4.3 (protocatechic acid), 12 (gallic acid), 15 (caffeic acid), <0.01 (chrysin), 1.3 (kaempferol), 19 (quercetin), 5.3 (baicalein), 16 (epicatechin), 32 (epigallocatechin), 9.0 (dihydroquercetin), 3.3 (resveratrol), and 16 (nordihydroguaiaretic acid). The value of k1 increases when going from one to two and three adjacent O-H groups in a benzene ring (catechol and pyrogallol derivatives, respectively). At the same time, two O-H groups in metaposition in a A-ring of flavonoids actually do not participate in the inhibition. For the majority of PP, f is near to 2 independent of the number of OH groups. The correlation of k1 with the structure of PP and the OH bond dissociation enthalpy has been discussed. © 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 41: 92–100, 2009
Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR, EC 1.1.1.219) catalyzes the reduction of dihydroflavonols to leucoanthocyanins, a key "late" step in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins. In this study we showed that a strong reduction in DFR expression occurs in the non-red orange cultivar (Navel and Ovale) compared to that of the red orange (Tarocco) suggesting that the enzyme could be involved in the lack of production of anthocyanins. Therefore, we isolated and compared the cDNAs, the genomic clones, as well as the promoter regions of blood and blond orange dfrs. Our data revealed that the cDNA sequences of pigmented and non-pigmented orange DFRs were 100% homologous and contained a 1017 bp open reading frame which encodes a protein of 338 amino acid residues, corresponding to a molecular mass of 38010.76 Da, with a theoretical pI of 5.96. Moreover, we found that there were no significant differences in non-coding regions (introns and 5' upstream region) of dfr sequences. Southern blot analysis of genomic DNA indicated that dfr was present as a single copy gene in both cultivars. From these findings the low expression level of blond orange dfr, which might play a role in the phenotypic change from blood to blond orange, is thought to be the result of a likely mutation in a regulatory gene controlling the expression of dfr. In addition, here we reported the successful expression of orange DFR cDNAs leading to an active DFR enzyme which converts dihydroquercetin to leucoanthocyanidin, thus confirming the involvement of the isolated genes in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins. Moreover, as far as we know, this is the first report concerning the in vitro expression of DFR from fruit flesh whose biochemical properties might be very different from those of other plant organ DFRs.
A total polyphenol content and total antioxidant activity in the extracts isolated from coniferous wood and bark, namely common spruce (Picea abies), common pine (Pinus sylvestris), cedar pine (Pinus sibirica), siberian larch (Larix sibirica), juniper (Juniperus communis) from 7 regions of the European Russia were under study. Extraction of polyphenols was performed using a 20% ethyl alcoholic solution with a VER-200 extractor. The total polyphenol content was performed spectrophotometrically using the Folin-Ciocalteu reagent. The total antioxidants capacity was assayed with a Tsvet-Yauza-01-AA liquid chromatograph to assess the extract oxidation on the working electrode surface. Gallic acid served as the standard. For polyphenolic components identification we used the gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy with 42 standard samples of phenolic and polyphenolic compounds as the standards. 15 compounds of phenolic nature, namely salicylic and ferulic acids, stilbenes of resveratrol and isoranaptigenin, flavonoids of catechin, catechol, dihydroquercetin, quercetin, dihydrokempferol, kempferol, dihydromyrcetin, luteolin, apigenin, chrysin, pinocembrin. The extracts from common spruce (Picea abies), common pine (Pinus sylvestris), and cedar pine (Pinus sibirica) from the Eastern Russian regions, namely Perm and Vologda regions. The application of Russian conifers bark and wood is concluded to be a promising source of biologically active polyphenols.
Quercetin and other flavonoids which had been previously found to be mutagenic in the Ames test, have been proved to inhibit tumor development in several experimental animal models. We studied the interaction between DNA and a series of flavonoids whose biological activity was known to span a wide range of potency: quercetin (the most active), morin, rutin, naringin, and 2,3-dihydroquercetin (inactive). The sensitivity of equilibrium binding analysis carried out by the dextran-polyethylene glycol-H 2 O biphase system was not high enough to reveal and evaluate the binding affinity of these flavonoids toward DNA. The much more sensitive flow linear dichroism technique provided evidence that they can bind DNA by intercalation and that their affinity for DNA increased following the same sequence of their biological activity
Abstract Cavitation hybrid rotation, which was and is still looked upon as an unavoidable nuisance in the flow systems, for extraction processing intensification of active chemical compounds from natural products. In this study, a homogenization-assisted cavitation hybrid rotation extraction method was applied to extract dihydroquercetin (DHQ) from larch ( Larix gmelinii ) wood root. The extraction parameters were optimized in single factor experiments with the DHQ extraction yields as the response values. The optimum conditions were as follows: number of extractions, three; ethanol volume fraction for the extraction, 60%; liquid–solid ratio for homogenization, 10 mL/g; homogenization time, 8 min; liquid–solid ratio for cavitation extraction, 9 mL/g, and cavitation extraction time, 35 min. Under these conditions, the DHQ content in extract was 4.50 ± 0.02 mg/g, and the extraction efficiency was higher than those of traditional techniques. Cavitation can be effectively used to improve the extraction rate by increasing the mass transfer rates and possible rupture of cell wall due to formation of microcavities leading to higher product yields with reduced processing time and solvent consumption. After the extraction process, macroporous resin column chromatography was used to concentrate and purify the DHQ. Three resins were selected from fifteen macroporous resins for further investigation of their performance. Among these resins, AB-8 resin exhibited relatively better adsorption capacities and desorption ratios for DHQ. The ethanol volume fraction of the solutions for sample loading and desorption, and flow rates for loading and desorption were optimized for the macroporous resin column chromatography.
Summary ::: Flavonoids, compounds that possess diverse health-promoting benefits, are lacking in the endosperm of rice. Therefore, to develop transgenic lines that produce flavonoids, we transformed a white rice cultivar, Oryza sativa japonica cv. Hwa-Young, with maize C1 and R-S regulatory genes. Expression of these transgenes was restricted to the endosperm using the promoter of a rice prolamin gene. The pericarp of the C1/R-S homozygous lines became dark brown in accordance with their maternal genotype, whereas the endosperm turned chalky, similar to the opaque kernel phenotype. Analysis via high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) revealed that numerous kinds of flavonoids were produced in these transgenic kernels. To identify individual flavonoids, the number of HPLC peaks was reduced through moderate acid hydrolysis, followed by ethyl acetate partitioning. Amongst the major flavonoids, dihydroquercetin (taxifolin), dihydroisorhamnetin (3′-O-methyl taxifolin) and 3′-O-methyl quercetin were identified through liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance analyses. Fluorescence labelling with diphenylboric acid showed that the flavonoids were highly concentrated in the cells of four to five outer endosperm layers. More importantly, a high fluorescence signal was present in the cytosol of the inner endosperm layers. However, the overall signal in the inner layers was significantly lower because starch granules and protein bodies occupied most of the cytosolic space. Our estimate of the total flavonoid content in the transgenic kernels suggests that C1/R-S rice has the potential to be developed further as a novel variety that can produce various flavonoids in its endosperm.
Mass spectrometry was ::: used for studying of non-covalent complexes of bioflavonoids with cyclotriveratrylene ::: (CVT). The complexes of cyclotriveratrylene (CVT) with the bioflavonoids ::: (quercetin or dihydroquercetin) have been synthesized in subcritical water. The ::: complexe formation was carried out at different ::: temperatures of subcritical water (from 120℃ to 230℃). The structure of the inclusion compounds was confirmed by the data of ESI MS spectroscopy. The mass spectrometry results ::: showed the presence of mixed adducts of CTV monomer, dimer, trimer and ::: tetramer with quercetin and dihydroquercetin. Composition of the CTV complexes ::: with the bioflavonoids, which were obtained in subcritical water medium and by traditional method, was compared.
UDC 636.5 DEVELOPMENT OF PREPARATIONS OF ANTIOXIDANT PROTECTION OF BIRDS ON THE BASIS OF MARSH CINQUEFOIL (COMARUM PALUSTRE L.) Yarovan N.I., Doctor of Biological Sciences, Professor Komissarova N.А.*, Post-graduate student Orel State Agrarian University, Orel City, Russia *E-mail: hlybova88@mail.ru Ryuzhkova G.F., Doctor of Biological Sciences, Professor Kursk State Agricultural Academy named after Professor I.I. Ivanov, Kursk, Russia E-mail: academy@kgsha.ru ABSTRACT The article shows the need to develop preparations antioxidant actions and identify the preparative form, optimal for use in a stressful poultry industry. Because the impact of negative factors emergency force feeding a bird is greatly reduced, the body experiences a deficiency of biologically active substances and their additional introduction food is ineffection, need to find other ways of introducing biological additives. As a means of antioxidant action is proposed the use of marsh cinquefoil (Comarum palustre L.), which consists of flavonoids - hesperidin, luteolin-7-glycoside, robinin, vicenin, dihydroquercetin, hyperoside; oksikorichnye acids - cicoria, coffee; coumarins-umbelliferon contributing to its antioxidant properties.The article presents the results of a study of antioxidant activity of different preparative forms on the basis of marsh cinquefoil (Comarum palustre L.), prepared according to the Pharmacopoeia of the Russian Federation XII(decoction, extract and tincture) from whole plant: roots and aboveground parts. A new method for determination of antioxidant activity in aqueous extract of marsh cinquefoil (Comarum palustre L.)through which confirms its antioxidant properties.From all the studied aqueous extracts of marsh cinquefoil (Comarum palustre L.) most appropriate to the poultry industry is the use of infusion, as the most convenient in the preparation of forms and the possessingrather high antioxidant activity. It is proposed in terms of industrial content desoldering bird water infusion marsh cinquefoil (Comarum palustre L.) in a dose of 5 ml per kg of live weight, the resulting rate of 1 g of marsh cinquefoil (Comarum palustre L.) to 10 ml of water. KEY WORDS Marsh cinquefoil (Comarum palustre L.); Malondialdehyde (МDА); Antioxidant protection; Free-radical oxidation; Poultry industry; Model systems; Lipid peroxidation. One of the main mechanisms of protection against stress accompanying the industrial technology of poultry, is to strengthen the full feeding birds, is not designed for the extra expense of energy and plastic material, biological additives of natural origin. In conditions impact of negative factors emergency power consumption of feed the birds is significantly reduced, making it impossible for the additional introduction of biologically active substances with feed, and the only acceptable method is desoldering their aqueous retrievals. In this connection actual is research of means and development of preparations of marsh cinquefoil as aqueous retrievals are intended for use in the poultry industry. A very important place among metabolic processes in biological organism is occupied by free-radical oxidation, which results in peroxide compounds formation [2,11,12]. Excessive activation of free-radical (peroxide) oxidation provides development of the mechanism of chain reactions resulting in sufficient metabolic disorders [6,7]. According to opinion of a number of scientists activation of free-radical oxidation is general nonspecific chain underlaying pathogenesis of different diseases [4,8]. Pathologic condition accompanied with upgrading free-radical oxidation and degradation antioxidant protection, at present is examined as oxidative stress. It requires additional introduction into animal or bird
Complex compounds of zinc and copper(ii) with trans-2R,3R-dihydro-2-(3,4-dihydroxy-phenyl)-3,5,7-trihydroxy-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (dihydroquercetin) were synthesized under optimized reaction conditions. The structures of the synthesized compounds [ZnL2(H2O)2] (1) and [CuLOH(H2O)] (2) were determined by IR and NMR spectroscopy, DART mass spectrometry, and elemental analysis. Experimental studies showed that compounds 1 and 2 exhibit in vivo activity against the influenza virus A/Aichi/2/68 (H3N2). Compound 2 was found to have direct virucidal activity against the virus A/Duck/Potsdam (H5N2).
Water soluble conjugates of trimethyl chitosan (ChTM) and the low molecular mass chitosan (Ch 30 ) with plant antioxidants – quercetin (Q) or dihydroquercetin (DHQ) – were synthesized. The carbodiimide-assisted reaction was used to couple Q or DHQ (previously modified by succinic anhydride) to the primary amino group of Ch 30 or ChTM. The in vitro free-radical scavenging activity of conjugates derived was tested by their capacity to bleach the stable 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical. All conjugates showed an antiradical activity higher than that of phenoxane, the known efficient antioxidant (sterically hindered phenol). The microparticles of complexes of the conjugates and Ch sulfate were proposed for pH-sensitive controlled release of antioxidants. The properties of the polyelectrolyte complexes with plant antioxidants would appear promising for per oral administration.
Mass spectrometry was used for studying of non-covalent complexes of bioflavonoids with cyclotriveratrylene (CVT). The complexes of cyclotriveratrylene (CVT) with the bioflavonoids (quercetin or dihydroquercetin) have been synthesized in subcritical water. The complexe formation was carried out at different temperatures of subcritical water (from 120˚C to 230˚C). The structure of the inclusion compounds was confirmed by the data of ESI MS spectroscopy. The mass spectrometry results showed the presence of mixed adducts of CTV monomer, dimer, trimer and tetramer with quercetin and dihydroquercetin. Composition of the CTV complexes with the bioflavonoids, which were obtained in subcritical water medium and by traditional method, was compared.
In this research, for the first time we used subcritical water as a medium for formation cyclotriveratrylene (CTV) host-guest complex with biflavonoids (quercetin (Q) and dhydroquercetin (dQ)). Structural formulas of mentioned compounds are shown on in Figure 1 . Cyclotriveratrylene (CTV) is rather flexible "host" having the form of a bowl or a shallow saucer [4] . It is capable to bind neutral molecules and even anions, both in a solution and in a solid state. It's known that CTV formed inclusion (host-guest, clathrate) compounds [5] in which molecules of a one compound (the guest) are enclosed in an intramolecular (monomolecular inclusion) or intermolecular (lattice type inclusion) space of the CTV molecules (the host) with no covalent bonds between the two compounds [6] . Obtaining of CTV intramolecular complexes with ordinary solvent molecules is of great scientific and practical interest and important for CTV host-guest chemistry. Formation of inclusion (host-guest) compounds CTV with quercetin and dihydroquercetin was studied at different properties of solvent and reaction medium by varying temperatures of subcritical water medium. Cyclotriveratrylene (CTV) has a relatively rigid bowl-shape and shows quite different host-guest chemistry [7] . In CTV clathrates, guest molecules are usually located out of the host cavity, i.e., it turns out that all CTV crystalline supramolecular associates are exocyclic complexes. Intracavity type complexes have been recently obtained for unusual guest molecules such as neutral fullerenes, carboranes and charged organometallic sandwich complexes [5] . Electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry was used for identifycation of non-covalent complexes. In present work, we have used mass spectrometry with electrospray ionization (ESI-MS) techniques to investigate guest-host compositions [8] [9] [10] in CTV complexes in samples processed with subcritical water at different temperatures. The existence of a guesthost complex can be confirmed by the presence of the peak of the host-guest complex in mass spectrum.
medium was used with a bioflavonoids. It is shown that, in the subcritical water medium, formation of complexes CTV with quercetin or dihydroquercetin is more effective than using traditional methods. The structure of complexes cyclotriveratrylene with quercetin and dihydroquercetin obtained in subcritical water is confirmed by the data of ESI MS spectroscopy. Moreover, the mass spectrometry results showed the presence of mixed adducts of CTV monomer, dimer, trimer and tetramer type. Mass spectrometry with ES ionization successfully used to the identification of non-covalent complexes of CTV with bioflavonoids was obtained under conditions of subcritical water. Despite the fact that the methods of solution phase are still required to fully understand the mode of binding, ESI-MS has advantages in speed, stoichiometry and sensitivity analysis of non-covalent interactions, including in terms of primary screening of the reaction products. ESI MS method sensitivity is sufficient to capture the formation of small quantities of complex compounds and to select optimal conditions for obtaining products of a given composition. All products of interaction CTV with a bioflavonoid in the subcritical water medium should be studied in more detail. 
Quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and rutin are capable of scavenging superoxide anion (rate constants of the reaction with superoxide at pH 10 were 1.7 x 10(5), 1.5 x 10(5), and 0.5 x 10(5) M-1 s-1, respectively). At the same time rutin and quercetin but not dihydroquercetin are iron ion chelators. These substances were used to elucidate the role of radical scavenging and iron chelating in flavonoid protection against asbestos-induced oxidative cellular injury. Exposure of rat peritoneal macrophages to chrysotile asbestos fibers resulted in "frustrated" phagocytosis, cell injury, and a LDH release. Quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and rutin were effective in protecting the phagocytic cells against injury caused by asbestos. Moreover, these flavonoids exhibited cellular protection in the same order of effectiveness as that observed for the quenching of superoxide: quercetin > dihydroquercetin > rutin. Exposure of human red blood cells to asbestos fibers also caused progressive cell injury and lysis. Quercetin and rutin protected the red cells (quercetin > rutin), whereas dihydroquercetin was ineffective in preventing asbestos-induced hemolysis. The protective ability of quercetin and rutin may be related to their iron-chelating activity. Due to this these flavonoids can be located on asbestos surface in sites of initiation of free radical reactions and their antiradical moieties can scavenge reactive oxygen species immediately after the appearance. Thus, both antiradical and chelating effects appear to be involved in the flavonoid protection against silica-induced cell injury.
Titanium and silicon-titanium xerogels have been obtained and it has been demonstrated that titanium(IV) incorporated into the xerogel matrix can participate in complexation reactions with ascorbic, gallic, ferulic, and caffeic acids and also rutin, quercetin, and dihydroquercetin present in aqueous solutions. In the case of dihydroquercetin 1 min of contact has been sufficient for achieving the equilibrium; the other compounds required 7–10 min. The stability constants of titanium(IV) complexes incorporated into xerogels reduced in the order dihydroquercetin > gallic acid > ascorbic acid > quercetin > caffeic acid > rutin. The procedures have been developed for solid-phase spectrophotometric determination of ascorbic, gallic, ferulic, caffeic acid as well as rutin, quercetin, and dihydroquercetin. The accuracy of the procedure has been examined by the standard addition method. The procedures for the determination of dihydroquercetin and ascorbic acid have been applied to the analysis of pharmaceutical preparations.
In recent years stimulants and protectants of new generation are widely used for pre-sowing treatment of soy seeds. In order to study the possibility of joint application of new strains of soy rhyzobium and some preparations laboratory experiments have been conducted. We studied the influence of industrial doses of protectants Vialtrast, Fundazol, Maxim, Scarlet, salt of Mo and growth stimulants EkoLariks, Arabinogalactan, Dihydroquercetin (DQU), Premix (concentration 10 mg/l) on the growth intensity of streak of pure cultures of soy rhyzobium’s two species: Bradyrhizobium japonicum (Jordan,1982) and Sinorhizobium-fredii (Scholla, Elkan, 1984) of the Amur selection [2]. In general, collection strains of soy rhyzobium of fast-growing species S.fredii are more resistant to studied preparations than strains of slow-growing species B.japonicum, and can be used in a joint application for pre-sowing treatment of soy seeds. Not all collection strains of rhyzobium are resistant to industrial doses of Mo, therefore it is necessary to select strains of soy rhyzobium compatible with molybdenum salts. Biological preparations Ekolariks, Arabinogalactan, Dihydroquercetin (DQU), Premix, having stimulating effect on plant growth, may be injected into nutrient medium during cultivation of pure cultures of rhyzobium of different species or can be used in mixture with soy rhyzobium (or bacterial preparations based on rhyzobium) for pre-sowing treatment of seeds. The safest concentration of Dihydroquercetin (DQU) for the joint application with strains of rhyzobium is 0,1 g/l. At the same time, all studied strains proved to be resistant to higher concentrations of stimulant Dihydroquercetin as well.
Abstract The incorporation of dihydrokaempferol-[T] (I) and dihydroquercetin-[T] (II) into kaempfero and quercetin in the pea plant was investigated. (I) is a precursor for both flavonols whereas (II) is a specific precursor for quercetin. These results give further support to the postulated pathway: flavanone → dihydroflavonol → flavonol, in which the introduction of the 3′-hydroxyl group occurs at the dihydroflavonol stage.
Extraction technology of dihydroquercetin from larch wood was studied by orthogonal tests. Effects of extration temperature, solid-liguid(water)ratio,extration time, extration times,pH,amount of precipitator and ethyl acetate dosage on dihydroquercetin yield were investigated. 0ptimum extraction conditions were determined as follows: extration temperature (80), m(larch) : V(water )= 112,extration time 20min,extration 3 times,pH = 6,amount of precipitator A 30% to larch and V(solution) V(ethyl acetate)= 10.7. The extraction yield of dihydroquercetin is 0.29%.
Quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and rutin are capable of scavenging superoxide anion (rate constants of the reaction with superoxide at pH 10 were 1.7 x 10 5 , 1.5 x 10 5 , and 0.5 x 10 5 M -1 s -1 respectively). At the same time rutin and quercetin but not dihydroquercetin are iron ion chelators. These substances were used to elucidate the role of radical scavenging and iron chelating in flavonoid protection against asbestos-induced oxidative cellular injury. Exposure of rat peritoneal macrophages to chrysotile asbestos fibers resulted in "frustrated" phagocytosis, cell injury, and a LDH release. Quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and rutin were effective in protecting the phagocytic cells against injury caused by asbestos. Moreover, these flavonoids exhibited cellular protection in the same order of effectiveness as that observed for the quenching of superoxide: quercetin > dihydroquercetin > rutin. Exposure of human red blood cells to asbestos fibers also caused progressive cell injury and lysis. Quercetin and rutin protected the red cells (quercetin > rutin), whereas dihydroquercetin was ineffective in preventing asbestos-induced hemolysis. The protective ability of quercetin and rutin may be related to their ironchelating activity. Due to this these flavonoids can be located on asbestos surface in sites of initiation of free radical reactions and their antiradical moieties can scavenge reactive oxygen species immediately after the appearance. Thus, both antiradical and chelating effects appear to be involved in the flavonoid protection against silica-induced cell injury.
Colorations caused by enzymatic reactions have been reported for Douglas fi r, Pseudotsuga menziesii, 9, 10 and oak heartwoods. 11 Compounds existing in living cells of Douglas fi r sapwood, such as o-dihydroxy phenols, (−)-epicatechin, and dihydroquercetin, react with naturally occurring enzymes in the trees and form brown-colored materials in the exposed surface of the lumber. Bauch et al. 11 found that the yellow coloration in Quercus robur L. and Quercus petraea is caused by a mold fungus, Paecilomyces variotii Bain., and that the reacting compounds are hydrolysable tannins. The tannase of Paecilomyces variotii Bain. 12 would release the reactants that would then form the coloration.
Tyrosinase inhibitory activity-guided fractionation of the bark of Peltophorum dasyrachis (yellow batai) led to the isolation of the six active compounds which were characterised as six flavonoids: apigenin (1), (+)-2,3-trans-dihydrokaempferol (2), (+)-2,3-trans-dihydrokaempferol-3-O-α-L-rhamnoside (3), (+)-4′,7-dimethoxy-2,3-trans-dihydroquercetin (4), (+)-2,3-trans-dihydroquercetin (5) and (–)-2,3-trans-dihydroquercetin-3-O-α-L-rhamnoside (6). All compounds were isolated for the first time from the bark of P. dasyrachis. Moreover, all compounds were evaluated for tyrosinase activities towards L-DOPA as the substrate. We observed that compounds 2 and 5 showed potent inhibitory effects (IC50 values were 126 ± 3.2 and 210 ± 5.8 µM, respectively). In general, for flavonoids the 3′,4′-dihydroxy group's substituent is a more potent inhibitor than the 4′-hydroxy group substituent, i.e. quercetin > kaempferol. Interestingly, our result in the oxidation of L-DOPA showed that the 4′-hydroxy group substituent (com...
The aim of this study was to identify antioxidants from Garcinia buchananii bark extract using hydrogen peroxide scavenging and oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) assays. LC-MS/MS analysis, 1D- and 2D-NMR, and circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy led to the unequivocal identification of the major antioxidative molecules as a series of three 3,8″-linked biflavanones and two flavanone-C-glycosides. Besides the previously reported (2R,3R,2″R,3″R)-naringenin-C-3/C-8″ dihydroquercetin linked biflavanone (GB-2; 4) and (2R,3S,2″R,3″R)-manniflavanone (3), whose stereochemistry has been revised, the antioxidants identified for the first time in Garcinia buchananii were (2R,3R)-taxifolin-6-C-β-d-glucopyranoside (1), (2R,3R)-aromadendrin-6-C-β-d-glucopyranoside (2), and the new compound (2R,3S,2″S)-buchananiflavanone (5). The H2O2 scavenging and the ORAC assays demonstrated that these natural products have an extraordinarily high antioxidative power, especially (2R,3S,2″R,3″R)-manniflavanone (3) and GB-2 (4),...
The possibility was demonstrated and conditions were developed of a directional phosphorylation of dihydroquercetin flavonoid with phosphorous hexaethyltriamide. The chemical properties of the obtained compounds of trivalent phosphorus are currently under investigation.
The present invention discloses a high-efficient compound food additive rich in active factor and an application of the additive, and belongs to the technical field of food additives. The disclosed compound food additive comprises 54%-65% of dihydroquercetin and 35%-46% of vitamin C. The disclosed compound food additive is safe and non-toxic, is free of side effects, and has a relatively good antioxidant effect. The disclosed compound food additive not only can replace the existing food antioxidants, but also has a relatively high free radical scavenging ability. At the same time, the disclosed compound food additive has high nutritional values, and can be used for the preparation of food, drugs and health-care food. In addition, the compound food additive disclosed by the invention has the advantages of being simple and feasible in production process, low in cost, high in extraction rate, etc.
Flavonoids are common colorants in plants and have long-established biomedicinal properties. Anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), a 2-oxoglutarate iron-dependent oxygenase, catalyzes the penultimate step in the biosynthesis of the anthocyanin class of flavonoids. The crystal structure of ANS reveals a multicomponent active site containing metal, cosubstrate, and two molecules of a substrate analog (dihydroquercetin). An additional structure obtained after 30 min exposure to dioxygen is consistent with the oxidation of the dihydroquercetin to quercetin and the concomitant decarboxylation of 2-oxoglutarate to succinate. Together with in vitro studies, the crystal structures suggest a mechanism for ANS-catalyzed anthocyanidin formation from the natural leucoanthocyanidin substrates involving stereoselective C-3 hydroxylation. The structure of ANS provides a template for the ubiquitous family of plant nonhaem oxygenases for future engineering and inhibition studies.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death in most industrialized countries, and the most important source of chronic disability, among which cerebral ischemic stroke represents about 85% of all. Ischemic stroke occurs by thrombotic or embolic blockade of an artery to the brain resulting in a deficiency in blood flow and causing a brain infarction. During ischemic stroke, diminished blood flow initiates a series of events such as inducing excessive release of excitatory amino acids and subsequent several receptor activations leading to elevated calcium influx that may result in damage to brain cells. Oxidative stress is one of the primary factors that exacerbate damage in cerebral ischemia. Moreover, the reactive oxygen species can create a secondary source of extensive cell injury and death since re-supply of oxygen to the brain through the reperfusion is relevant during the ischemic phase. Therefore, antioxidants that can scavenge oxygen free radicals have the therapeutic potential for the treatment of neuronal injury following ischemia and reperfusion. Many natural antioxidants are reported to reduce reactive oxygen species and protect neuronal cells in animal models of cerebral ischemia. Previously, we reported protective effects of quercetin 3O-methyl ether (1) and its related compounds (2, 3) isolated from Opuntia ficus-indica var. saboten against oxidative neuronal injuries induced in primary cultured rat cortical cells (Fig. 1). Quercetin (2) was found to inhibit H2O2or xanthine (X)/xanthine oxidase (XO)-induced oxidative neuronal cell injury with an estimated IC50 value of 4-5 μg/ mL. (+)-Dihydroquercetin (3) inhibited oxidative neuronal injuries concentration-dependently, but it was 2-3 fold less potent than 2. On the other hand, quercetin 3-O-methyl ether (1) potently inhibited H2O2and X/XO-induced neuronal injuries with IC50 values of 0.6 and 0.7 μg/mL, respectively, indicating that 1 appeared to be the most potent neuroprotectant among three flavonoids isolated from this plant. Recently, antioxidative activities in cell-free systems of 1 have also been reported. However, neuroprotective effects of 1 in ischemic animal models have not yet been reported. The present study, therefore, examined neuroprotective effects of 1 in a transient focal cerebral ischemic rat model and compared with those of related flavonoids 2 and (±)-3. The middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model has usually been used for assessing neuroprotective effects since most ischemic strokes occur in the territory of the middle cerebral artery. Transient focal cerebral ischemia was induced by occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery for 2 h with a silicone-coated 4-0 nylon monofilament in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The antioxidative flavonoids dissolved in 0.9% saline vehicle were administered intraperitoneally at a dose of 10 mg/kg 30 min after onset of ischemia. Infarct size and % edema were measured 24 h after onset of ischemia using a 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining method. Neurological scoring was performed 30 min and 24 h after MCAO. The neurobehavioral tests consisted of scoring the degree of left forelimb flexion (0 to 3), the duration of left forelimb flexion (0 to 4) and symmetry of movement/forepaw outstretching (0 to 3). Rats were scored on a ranking scale of 0 to 10, which reflects the cumulative score of the individual tests with a score of 10 reflecting normal behavior. Representative TTC staining is shown in Figure 2 to illustrate neuroprotective effects of 1, 2 and (±)3. Area stained red with TTC was considered normal, while area not stained red with TTC was considered infarcted.
The invention relates to the use of a combination of carnitine and / or a carnitine derivative with dihydroquercetin and / or a derivative Dihydroquercetin for positively influencing the natural pigmentation of the skin and / or skin appendages.
CONTEXT ::: Blumea balsamifera DC (Compositae) leaves have been recommended for use as a folk medicine in the treatment of various diseases related to urolithiasis in southeast Asia. Phytochemical studies of this plant revealed it contains four classes of flavonoids (e.g., flavonols, flavones, flavanones, and dihydroflavonol derivatives). ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: In view of the broad pharmacological activity of flavonoids, this study was carried out to determine the xanthine oxidase (XO) inhibitory and enzymatically produced superoxide radical scavenging activity of different organic extracts and that of the isolated flavonoids from B. balsamifera leaves. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: The inhibitory activity of XO was assayed spectrophotometrically at 295 nm. The superoxide radicals scavenging activity was assessed by NBT reduction method, spectrophotometrically at 560 nm. A dose response curve was plotted for determining IC₅₀ values. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The methanol extract (IC₅₀ = 0.111 mg/mL) showed higher XO inhibitory activity than the chloroform (0.138 mg/mL) and pet-ether extracts (0.516 mg/mL). IC₅₀ values of scavenging of superoxide radicals for extracts decreased in the order of: methanol (0.063 mg/mL) > chloroform (0.092 mg/mL) > pet-ether (0.321 mg/mL). The XO inhibitory activity of the isolated flavonoids and reference compounds tested decreased in the order of: allopurinol > luteolin > quercetin > tamarixetin > 5,7,3',5'-tetrahydroxyflavanone > rhamnetin > luteolin-7-methyl ether > blumeatin > dihydroquercetin-4'-methyl ether > dihydroquercetin-7,4'-dimethyl ether > L-ascorbic acid. ::: ::: ::: DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION ::: The results indicated that the flavone derivatives were more active than the flavonol derivatives. The flavanone derivatives were moderately active and the dihydroflavonol derivatives were the least. The higher flavonoid content of extracts contributed to their higher XO inhibitory activity.
The effect of the natural antioxidant dihydroquercetin was examined on the process of free radical oxidation of serum and liver lipids of mice, after a single 4 Gy dose of y-irradiation. The content of lipid peroxidation products reacting with thiobarbituric acid in irradiated animals receiving oral dihydroquercetin (experimental) for 155 days after irradiation was significantly lower compared with animals receiving irradiation and no antioxidant (controls). The intensity of Fe 2+ -induced chemiluminescence of liver homogenates of experimental mice was lower by the end of the experiment (p< 0.001) than the chemiluminescence of liver homogenates of both control and intact animals. It is assumed that this was due to the preferential uptake of dihydroquercetin by the liver.
Dihydroquercetin (DHQ), a dihydroxyflavone, possesses potent antioxidant properties and is proposed to be useful in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether DHQ has protective effects against MIRI and to elucidate the mechanism of attenuation of oxidative stress-and ERS-induced apoptosis via the PI3K/Akt pathway. Isolated rat hearts and H9c2 cardiomyocytes were treated with or without DHQ, and then subjected to I/R and H/R, respectively. Our results showed that DHQ pretreatment markedly alleviated cardiac dysfunction, scavenged free radicals, reduced lipid peroxidation, and increased the activity of antioxidant enzymes ex vivo and in vitro. The result of western blot analysis showed that DHQ inhibited the apoptotic pathway and the expression of pro-apoptotic proteins CHOP, Caspase-12, and p-JNK. In addition, DHQ delayed the onset of ERs by reducing GRP78, p-PERK, and p-eif2α expression levels and by increasing HO-1 expression and Nrf2 binding to antioxidant response elements. These cardioprotective effects of DHQ were partially counteracted by the PI3K/Akt inhibitor LY294002. The protective effects of DHQ on the inhibition of MIRI may be mediated by activating the PI3K/Akt pathway to reduce oxidative stress-and ERS-induced apoptosis.
Experimental model of sulpiride-provoked benign prostatic hyperplasia was employed to comparatively assess the effect of phenolic antioxidants (dihydroquercetin, p-thyrozol, dibornol, and prostagenin) on prostate morphology. All examined agents decreased the degree of hyperplasia in acinar epithelium; the greatest efficacy was demonstrated by prostagenin. Moreover, dihydroquercetin and p-thyrozol increased the cross-section area of acinar lumina and prostate volume, which is inadmissible in this pathology. These results suggest that the use of phenolic antioxidants in the therapy of benign prostatic hyperplasia should be strictly controlled.
Dihydroquercetin is a kind of dihydroflavonol compounds with antioxidant, antitumor, antivirus and radioresistance activities. This study attempted to produce the dihydroquercetin complexes with lecithin and β-cyclodextrin, and research their characteristics and bioactivities via ultraviolet spectrum (UV), infrared spectroscopy (IR), scanning electron microscope (SEM), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), X-ray diffraction spectrum (XRD), and MTT assay. Results showed that the complexes with lecithin and β-cyclodextrin could improve the solubility and dissolution rate, and remove the characteristic endothermic peak of dihydroquercetin. IR spectra proved their interaction, and results of SEM and XRD showed the amorphous characteristics of the dihydroquercetin compounds. These results indicated that dihydroquercetin was combined by lecithin or β-cyclodextrin with better physical and chemical properties, which would effectively improve the application value in the food and drug industries.
In carrot cells (Daucus carota L.), cultured in the presence of gibberellic acid, anthocyanin synthesis is blocked at the level of chalcone synthase. By feeding suitable precursors for anthocyanins (naringenin, eriodictyol, dihydroquercetin) biosynthesis of cyanidin glycosides can be restored. After addition of these substrates to the culture medium in the presence of gibberellic acid, the activity of chalcone synthase remained as low as in the control without precursors. The highest increase in anthocyanin content was achieved using dihydroquercetin as the added precursor. The time course of this supplementation showed a rapid response; within 4 h a substantial increase in anthocyanin could be observed. In contranst, the flavonol quercetin is not a precursor for cyanidin. The fact that naringenin was also accepted for cyanidin synthesis leads to the conclusion that hydroxylation in 3'-position of ring B in Daucus carota takes place at the flavonoid stage.
AIM To study the chemical constituents from root of Ficus tikoua Bur. collected from Chuxiong prefecture,Yunnan province. METHODS Chemical constituents were isolated on silica gel column,Sephadex LH-20,identified by physiochemical and spectral analyses,and compared with standard compounds. RESULTS Thirteen compounds isolated from ethanol extract of Ficus tikoua were mainly involved in steroids,triterpenoids and flavonoids. These compounds were elucidated as 5α-stigmastane-3,6-dione( 1),3β-hydroxystigmast-5-en-7-one( 2),β-sitosterol( 3),β-amyrin( 4),oleanolic acid( 5),α-amyrinacetate( 6),3-O-acetyloleanolic acid( 7), quercetin( 8),apigenin( 9),luteolin( 10),( 2R,3R)-( +)-dihydroquercetin( 11),eriodictyol( 12),naringenin( 13). CONCLUSION All compounds are isolated from this plant for the first time except for compounds 3,4,5,6 and 9.
Anthocyanidins are water-soluble pigments that accumulate in the vacuole and can be responsible for red-pink cyanidin, orange pelargonidin, and blue delphinidin in flowers. Production of the three primary classes of anthocyanidins by the phenyl propanoid pathway is controlled by the availability of the colorless substrates dihydrokaempferol (DHK), dihydroquercetin (DHQ), and dihydromyricetin (DHM) and the activities of flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H), flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase (F3'5'H), and Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR). Conversion of those three dihydroflavonoids into leucoanthocyanidins is a required step in anthocyanin biosynthesis and is catalyzed by DFR. Substrate specificity of DFR explains the absence of certain colors among some ornamental plants, which make this enzyme an important target for flower color manipulation through genetic engineering. In order to characterize DFR in two major subtropical orchids, full-length cDNA clones encoding DFR were isolated from petals of Dendrobium x Icy Pink 'Sahara* and Oncidium x Gower Ramsey using a RT-PCR based technique. The substrate specificity of Dendrobium dfr and Oncidium dfr was investigated by genetic transformation of the mutant Petunia line W80 that predominantly accumulating DHK...
Extractive differences between the roots of healthy Douglas-fir trees and those infected with Poria weirii Murr. have been demonstrated by the technique of thin-layer chromatography. Of these the most important are the absence of dihydroquercetin-3′-glucoside in root sections with advanced decay, the presence of an unknown non-phenolic constituent in healthy roots, and the presence of an unknown phenolic extractive in decayed roots.The complete absence of quercetin, quercetin-3′-glucoside, and aromadendrin in either root bark or root wood eliminates them from any possible participation in this study.
The antioxidative activity (AOA) of histochrome (2,3,5,6,8-pentahydroxy-7-ethyl-1,4-naphthoquinone) and some other drugs with antioxidant properties used in ophthalmology has been studied in the hemoglobin--hydrogen peroxide--luminol system. The AOA of histochrome, ascorbate, dicinon, rutin, quercetin, and dihydroquercetin is comparable to that of trolox, the reference antioxidant in our studies. The drugs (in physiological concentrations) listed above are characterized by a high AOA. Cerebrolysin was 300 times less active than trolox, and emoxipin showed no antioxidant properties. Lacrimal AOA increased after a parabulbar injection of histochrome. Histochrome is believed to be a perspective antioxidant for the treatment of ocular diseases.
A course of dihydroquercetin (antioxidant) injections to 5-month-old Wistar rats with sulpiride-induced benign prostatic hyperplasia led to reduction of proliferative activity in the glandular structures and to attenuation of the inflammatory reaction in the tissue. Prostatic antioxidant/prooxidant balance returned to normal after the treatment.
The course of preventive oral treatment with a dihydroquercetin-chitosan composition produced a strong antihypoxic effect under conditions of experimental hypobaric hypoxia (arbitrary altitude 12,000 m). The lactate/pyruvate ratio in composition-receiving rats was much lower than in hypoxic animals (by 83%), but higher than in intact specimens (by 29%). The composition of chitosan and dihydroquercetin also possessed a strong antioxidant activity.
10 Quercetin (2) was found to inhibit H 2 O 2 -or xanthine (X)/xanthine oxidase (XO)-induced oxidative neuronal cell injury with an estimated IC 50 value of 4-5 µg/ mL. (+)-Dihydroquercetin (3) inhibited oxidative neuronal injuries concentration-dependently, but it was 2-3 fold less potent than 2. On the other hand, quercetin 3-O-methyl ether (1) potently inhibited H 2 O 2 -and X/XO-induced neuronal injuries with IC 50 values of 0.6 and 0.7 µg/mL, respectively, indicating that 1 appeared to be the most potent neuroprotectant among three flavonoids isolated from this plant. Recently, antioxidative activities in cell-free systems of 1 have also been reported.
Dihydroquercetin is a kind of dihydroflavonol compounds with antioxidant, antitumor, antivirus and radioresistance activities. This study attempted to produce the dihydroquercetin complexes with lecithin and β-cyclodextrin, and research their characteristics and bioactivities via ultraviolet spectrum (UV), infrared spectroscopy (IR), scanning electron microscope (SEM), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), X-ray diffraction spectrum (XRD), and MTT assay. Results showed that the complexes with lecithin and β-cyclodextrin could improve the solubility and dissolution rate, and remove the characteristic endothermic peak of dihydroquercetin. IR spectra proved their interaction, and results of SEM and XRD showed the amorphous characteristics of the dihydroquercetin compounds. These results indicated that dihydroquercetin was combined by lecithin or β-cyclodextrin with better physical and chemical properties, which would effectively improve the application value in the food and drug industries.
Dihydroquercetin is a white crystalline pentahydroxy-flavanone commonly found in Pseudotsuga taxifolia, which is also known as taxifolin [1] . Dihydroquercetin exhibits various bioactivities-such as antitumor, antioxidant [2] , and antivirus activities-and it also plays an important role in cardiovascular and liver diseases [3, 4] . Therefore, dihydroquercetin has a high potential therapeutic promise to be developed as health food and pharmaceutical products, while its poor water-solubility limits the application.
The aim of present study was to produce the dihydroquercetin complexes with lecithin and β-cyclodextrin, and research their characteristics, and antioxidant and antitumor activities. This work may provide a pathway to enhancing the water solubility and bioactivities of dihydroquercetin through preparing stable complexes.
A colorimetric method for analyzing molybdenum in steel was developed using the reagent 3,3',4',5,7pentahydroxyflavanone (dihydroquercetin). By an extraction process, all interfering metals except tungsten are removed. The procedure is applicable for determining molybdenum in all substances not containing tungsten, (auth)
We have detected a flavonoid 3[prime],5[prime]-hydroxylase (F3[prime],5[prime]H) in the microsomal fraction of Petunia hybrida flowers. Activity varied with the development of flowers, peaking immediately prior to and during anthesis, but was absent in mature flowers. F3[prime],5[prime]H activity in flower extracts from genetically defined floral color mutants correlated strictly with the genotypes Hf1 and Hf2. No activity was detected in flowers from mutants homozygous recessive for both alleles. F3[prime],5[prime]H activity was dependent on NADPH and molecular oxygen; there was only slight activity with NADH. The enzyme catalyzes the hydroxylation of 5,7,4[prime]-trihydroxyflavonone at the 3[prime] and 5[prime] positions, and of 5,7,3[prime],4[prime]-tetrahydroxyflavonone and dihydroquercetin at the 5[prime] position. Hydroxylase activity was inhibited by plant growth regulators (1-aminobenzotriazole and tetcyclacis) and by CO, N-ethylmaleimide, diethyldithiocarbamate, and cytochrome (Cyt) c. Activity was not affected by diethylpyrocarbonate or phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, but was enhanced by 2-mercaptoethanol. A polyclonal antibody that inhibits higher plant NADPH-Cyt P450 reductase inhibited the F3[prime],5[prime]H. The data are consistent with the suggestion that the P. hybrida F3[prime],5[prime]H is a monooxygenase consisting of a Cyt P450 and a NADPH-Cyt P-450 reductase. Cyts P450 were detected in microsomal membranes and in solubilized detergent extracts of these membranes. F3[prime],5[prime]H activity was sensitive to low concentrations of all detergents tested, and therefore solubilization of the active enzyme was not achieved. Reaction products other than flavanones were observed in F3[prime],5[prime]H assays and these may be formed by enzymic oxidation of flavanones. The possibility of a microsomal flavone synthase of a type that has not been described in P. hybrida is discussed.
The optimum parameters for the process of extraction of the dihydroquercetin (DHQ) isomer with the greatest antioxidant activity were identified. Use of ethyl acetate as extractant in this process was found to have clear advantages over other industrial solvents. An optimum method of extracting DHQ from larch wood with a large enantiomer excess was proposed. The method was developed and the quantitative content of the (+)-2R,3R isomer of DHQ extracted from wood of Larix sibirica Ledeb. was assayed.
Dihydroquercetin enters into Mannich alkylaminomethylation after its preliminary complexation with primary amines.
We previously reported that lipid-soluble quercetin, not water-soluble dihydroquercetin, protects human red blood cells against oxidative damage. The objectives of this study were to determine if an antihemolytic effect could be produced by other lipid-soluble antioxidants and if anti-inflammatory activity played a role in antihemolysis by quercetin. This study compared three lipid-soluble polyphenols, muscadine, curcumin and quercetin, and three lipid- (alpha-tocopherol and alpha-tocotrienol) or water-soluble (ascorbic acid) vitamins. Among the tested polyphenols, muscadine was the most potent in inhibiting superoxide and 2,2-azobis(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride (AAPH)-generated peroxyl radicals, whereas ascorbic acid was the most potent inhibitor of hydrogen peroxide. Activities of the polyphenols after lipid extractions showed that curcumin inhibited superoxide production to a greater extent than quercetin and muscadine. All blood cells were tested 20 min after incubation with the selected compounds. All the polyphenols caused inhibition of N-formyl-l-methionyl-l-leucyl-l-phenylalanine-induced neutrophil oxidative bursts. Quercetin, but not other polyphenols, significantly reduced AAPH-induced oxidative hemolysis. No significant effect on neutrophil oxidative burst or oxidative hemolysis was found with any of the tested vitamins. These results suggest that quercetin enhances the resistance of membrane to destruction by free radicals. This effect of quercetin is not directly mediated through antioxidative or anti-inflammatory actions. Antioxidant or anti-inflammatory potency may not be used as a simple criterion to select polyphenols for cell protection benefits.
The present invention discloses a method for extracting and separating dihydroquercetin from wolfberry leaf, in which dihydroquercetin is prepared from wolfberry leaf through extracting, concentrating, column chromatography, crystallizing and hydrolyzing to generate an acicular crystal white dihydroquercetin, wherein the content of dihydroquercetin more than 95%(HPLC test). The present invention can extract astilbin, quercetin and dihydroquercetin from wolfberry leaf simultaneously, which has advantages of high yield and ripe technology, and it is suitable for industrialization and continuous production.
AIM: To study the chemical constituents of Evodia fargesii Dode. METHODS: Silica gel column chromatography was used for the isolation of compounds, and spectroscopic techniques (NMR, IR, UV and MS) were used for the structural identification. RESULTS: Thirteen compounds, including six alkaloids: 2-methyl-6-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-β-carboline (1), N,N-dimethyltryptamine (2), N-p-coumaroyltyramine (3), dictamnine (4), robustine (5), and haplophine (6), three limonoids: limonin (7), rutaevine (8), and evodol (9), two flavanoids: quercetin (10) and (+)-dihydroquercetin (11), as well as β-sitosterol (12) and daucosterol (13) were obtained from the titled plant. CONCLUSION: Compound 1 is new, the others are isolated from the plant for the first time.
Quercetin related compounds were tested against Leishmania amazonensis arginase, a potential target for the development of new approaches in treating leishmaniasis. The IC50 and kinetic analysis were performed to determine the dissociation constant Ki and the inhibition mechanism of the parasite's arginase enzyme. The best arginase inhibition was obtained from taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) with IC50 = 1.6 ± 0.1 μM. This study showed for the first time that rutin (IC50 = 10.4 ± 0.8 μM), and human metabolite quercetin-3-O-glucuronide (IC50 = 8.2 ± 0.4 μM), target L. amazonensis arginase. In addition, computational studies applying molecular docking simulations were performed to gain insight into the molecular basis for arginase inhibition by the competitive inhibitors. Our results suggest that these compounds could be exploited to develop new approaches for treating leishmaniasis through molecular nutrition supplement in a drug-based therapy.
The improvement of quality and the shelf life of veal by combination of 80%O2/20%CO2 modified atmosphere packaging and superficial spraying with 0.02% dihydroquercetin solutions was studied. The control samples C, air packaged only, D, air packaged sprayed by 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution, MAP, modified atmosphere packaging only, BMAP, modified atmosphere packaging sprayed by 0.02% butylated hydroxytoluene solution, and DMAP, modified atmosphere packaging sprayed by 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution, were measured. The best results were obtained in modified atmosphere packaging sprayed by 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution. Comparisons with control samples were expressed as reduction in acid value with 27.72%, peroxide value with 64.74%, 2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) with 65.71%, and the pH with 6.18%. The acid and peroxide values, TBARS, and pH were decreased linearly in response when applying the combination of 80%O2/20%CO2 modified atmosphere packaging and superficial spraying with 0.02% dihydroquercetin solutions (P < 0.05). The changes of amino nitrogen content of modified atmosphere packaging veal were not influenced statistically significantly by 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution (P > 0.05). According to results obtained it was concluded that 80%O2/20%CO2 modified atmosphere packaged veal stored at 0 ± 0.5°C after 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution treatment can preserve its quality and shelf life to 15 d postmortem.
The effect of alkaline hydrogen peroxide on Douglas fir sapwood and heartwood was investigated by ultraviolet microscopy and reflectance spectrophotometry. It was found that the high absorbance of the heartwood elements around 300 nm which was attributed to the flavanone dihydroquercetin was readily eliminated by the action of peroxide. It is also proposed that the brightening effect of hydrogen peroxide is due in part to the destruction of coniferaldehyde groups which occurs to the same extent in both sapwood and heartwood and in all the morphological elements. A correlation between the concentration of chromophoric groups and the concentration of lignin is demonstrated.
Dihydroquercetin (flavonoid of plant origin) immobilized with an amino acid in lecithin nanoparticles promotes reduction of inflammatory reactions in the wound after thermal burn. The use of a liposomal complex in burn injury stabilizes endogenous antioxidant system and limits the secondary necrotic zone in the wounds. The treatment was associated with intensification of skin regeneration processes and reparation of hairy follicles and sebaceous glands.
The improvement of quality and the shelf life of veal by combination of 80%O 2 /20%CO 2 modified atmosphere packaging and superficial spraying with 0.02% dihydroquercetin solutions was studied. The control samples C, air packaged only, D, air packaged sprayed by 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution, MAP, modified atmosphere packaging only, BMAP, modified atmosphere packaging sprayed by 0.02% butylated hydroxytoluene solution, and DMAP, modified atmosphere packaging sprayed by 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution, were measured. The best results were obtained in modified atmosphere packaging sprayed by 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution. Comparisons with control samples were expressed as reduction in acid value with 27.72%, peroxide value with 64.74%, 2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) with 65.71%, and the pH with 6.18%. The acid and peroxide values, TBARS, and pH were decreased linearly in response when applying the combination of 80%O 2 /20%CO 2 modified atmosphere packaging and superficial spraying with 0.02% dihydroquercetin solutions ( < 0.05). The changes of amino nitrogen content of modified atmosphere packaging veal were not influenced statistically significantly by 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution ( > 0.05). According to results obtained it was concluded that 80%O 2 /20%CO 2 modified atmosphere packaged veal stored at 0 ± 0.5 ∘ C after 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution treatment can preserve its quality and shelf life to 15 d postmortem.
The combination of 80%O 2 /20%CO 2 modified atmosphere packaging and superficial spraying with 0.02% dihydroquercetin solution can be used to improve veal quality and to extend the shelf life to reduce the acid value with 27.72%,
Depending on the pattern of hydroxylation and the substituents on the heterocyclic ring C, flavonoids can be classified into several sub-groups, but in this paper we will focus on flavonols. They are an important subfamily, as some of their members, like myricetin, kaempferol and quercetin, represent the major intake of dietary flavonoids in most societies [2, 3, 9] . generating dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) (Fig 1) , which finally is transformed in quercetin by the action of flavonol synthase 1 (FLS1) [12] . Myricetin, kaempferol, quercetin and their dihydro precursors show interesting nutraceutical activities, as it has been described above. This makes these bioactive compounds attractive targets for genetic and metabolic engineering experiments, like the heterologous expression of their plant biosynthetic gene pathways in suitable microbial factories such as actinomycetes. In this work, we have carried out this by using combinatorial biosynthesis, where genes from different organisms are grouped in an artificial gene cluster directing the production of the natural bioactive compound [34, 38] . Previous studies have reported the biosynthesis of flavonols in microorganisms; for instance, myricetin has been already heterologously produced, after feeding with naringenin precursor, in a strain of E. coli containing an incomplete flavonol biosynthetic gene cluster [39] . Also, kaempferol has been already produced in E. coli [40] and Saccharomyces cerevisiae [41] , needing in some cases feeding with coumaric acid or naringenin [39] . In the case of its heterologous production in Streptomyces venezuelae, feeding with naringenin was also necessary [42] . Finally, quercetin has been also produced in E. coli and in S. cerevisiae after feeding with coumaric acid or naringenin [39, 41] . In this work, we have achieved de novo production of these three flavonols by means of biosynthetic pathways heterologously expressed in S. albus and S. coelicolor, without feeding with precursors.
The invention provides a method of extracting dihydroquercetin from eastern larch, this method using water as extractant, extracting xingan eastern larch contains dihydroquercetin, liquid-liquid extracting the produced aquosity extract, adsorption decolouring methyl tert-butyl ether tobacco extract by activated char or active clay, stripping the dissolvant of decolourized methyl tert-butyl ether tobacco extract in vaccum, the grease thing of water stripped is crystallization purified by water and getting rude product of dihydroquercetin. According to need, the getted rude product of dihydroquercetin can be recrystallization purified by water and getting elaboration product of dihydroquercetin. The method of this invention has prominant technique effect, not only the yield is as high as 1.69%-2.0%, but also the getted rude product of dihydroquercetin's purity is as high as 95%-96%, the purified elaboration product of dihydroquercetin can reach the purity of 99%.
Solutions containing compounds that possess o-diphenol groups, such as 4-methyl-catechol, (-)-epicatechin, and dihydroquercetin, become discolored when mixed with buffered extracts from Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) sapwood. This discoloration has been attributed to wood enzymes, which, at least in part, may cause the chemical or enzymatic brown stains that often develop on the surfaces of sawn Douglas-fir lumber. Chemical or enzymatic brown stains have caused financial losses to lumber producers, particularly those producing valuable clear grades of export lumber. This work characterizes the enzyme extracts and shows them to be pH and temperature dependent and active with such substrates as (-)-epicatechin and dihydroquercetin, compounds known to be present in Douglas-fir wood.
Studies of the chemical composition of a butanol fraction of an extract from the above-ground part of the meadowsweet in 70% ethanol yielded five substances which were flavonoids (quercetin, isoquercetin, quercetin 4′-glucoside, rutin) and phenolcarboxylic acids (gallic acid). The fraction was found to have nootropic actions, with antiamnestic, antihypoxic, antioxidant, and adaptogenic activities. Studies of the antioxidant properties of the individual compounds showed that isoquercetin, quercetin 4′-glucoside, and rutin were more active than dihydroquercetin and ascorbic acid.
Economic efficiency of industrial technology largely due to at least two factors — ethological and feed. In the article the results of application of dihydroquercetin possessing the properties of polytropic in the diet of wild mink are presented. Investigations were carried out on wild minks in JSC «Saltykovskii» (Moscow oblast’, Russia). The feed and conditions of animals throughout the whole experiment was performed by technology management. The mink’s diet consisted of fish products and by-products, waste and by-products of beef, and pork and poultry. The diet also was consisted of barley flour and extruded grain. Weighing of minks was carried out individually once a month on the electronic scales above BSS-4070. Blood samples were collected in burrows of the tip of the tail on the fourth month of experience. In blood samples morphohematologic indicators were studied on the instrument ABC vet (Horiba ABZ, France) and biochemical indicators of blood serum using the Chem well analyzer (Awareness Technology, USA), antioxidant properties of blood serum were studied on the sum of active products of peroxidation and peroxide value test with TBA. The introduction in the diet of minks of natural antioxidant dihydroquercetin had a positive effect on protein, nitrogen, lipid, and mineral metabolisms; improved liver function and antioxidant protection of the organism; contributes to providing the body’s cells with oxygen, resulting in improved intensity and direction of anabolic metabolism. The positive influence of dihydroquercetin on the metabolism, antioxidant protection, and resistance of the organism of minks affected the growth intensity, particularly, at the early stage of ontogenesis.
Polyphenols have been described to have a wide range of biological activities, and many reports, published during recent years, have highlighted the beneficial effects of phenolic compounds, illustrating their promising role as therapeutic tools in several acute and chronic disorders. The purpose of study was to evaluate, in an already-assessed model of lung injury caused by bleomycin (BLM) administration, the role of resveratrol and quercetin, as well as to explore the potential beneficial properties of a mango leaf extract, rich in mangiferin, and a grape leaf extract, rich in dihydroquercetin (DHQ), on the same model. Mice were subjected to intra-tracheal administration of BLM, and polyphenols were administered by oral route immediately after BLM instillation and daily for 7 d. Treatment with resveratrol, mangiferin, quercetin and DHQ inhibited oedema formation and body weight loss, as well as ameliorated polymorphonuclear infiltration into the lung tissue and reduced the number of inflammatory cells in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Moreover, polyphenols suppressed inducible nitric oxide synthase expression, and prevented oxidative and nitroxidative lung injury, as shown by the reduced nitrotyrosine and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase levels. The degree of apoptosis, as evaluated by Bid and Bcl-2 balance, was also suppressed after polyphenol treatment. Finally, these natural products down-regulated cyclo-oxygenase-2, extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylated expression and reduced NF- κ Bp65 translocation. Our findings confirmed the anti-inflammatory effects of resveratrol and quercetin in BLM-induced lung damage, and highlight, for the first time, the protective properties of exogenous administration of mangiferin and DHQ on experimental pulmonary fibrosis.
The natural flavanoid dihydroquercetin was for the first time regioselectively phosphorylated using phosphoramidites. The resulting compounds were isolated in a homogeneous state as phosphorothioates, and their structure was confirmed by 1H, 13C, and 31P NMR spectroscopy.
(+)Leucopelargonidin [(2R,3S,4R)-3,4,5,7,4′-pentahydroxyflavan] and (+)leucocyanidin [(2R,3S,4R)-3,4,5,7,3′,4′-hexahydroxyflavan] were synthesized from (+)dihydrokaempferol and (+)dihydroquercetin, respectively, by sodium-borohydride reduction. The chemical and optical purity of these compounds was established by ultraviolet, proton-nuclear-magnetic-resonance, and optical-rotatory-dispersion spectroscopy. Supplementation experiments with these leucoanthocyanidins were carried out with genetically defined acyanic flowers of Matthiola incana. Feeding of leucopelargonidin and leucocyanidin to line 17 (blocked between dihydroflavonols and anthocyanins) and line 18 (blocked in the chalcone-synthase gene) led to formation of the corresponding anthocyanidin 3-O-glucosides, whereas supplementation of line 19 (blocked in a locus other than line 17 between dihydroflavonols and anthocyanins) did not result in anthocyanin synthesis. The conversion of leucopelargonidin into pelargonidin 3-O-glucoside was further confirmed by incorporation of [4-3H]leucopelargonidin into pelargonidin derivatives. The results are strong indications for the role of leucoanthocyanidins (flavan-3,4-diols) as intermediates in anthocyanin biosynthesis.
In this paper, the effect of hydrogenation on ring C of flavonols on the affinity for bovine serum albumin was investigated. Two differently substituted B-ring hydroxylation flavonols (myricetin and quercetin) and their dihydrides (dihydromyricetin and dihydroquercetin) were used to study their affinities for BSA by quenching the intrinsic BSA fluorescence in solution. From the spectra, the bimolecular quenching constants, the binding constants, the number of binding sites and the binding distances were calculated. The hydroxylation on ring B and hydrogenation on ring C of flavonols significantly affected the binding/quenching process; in general, the hydroxylation increased the affinity and the hydrogenation decreased the affinity. For myricetin and quercetin, the binding constants (K a) for BSA were 1.84×108 L⋅mol−1 and 3.83×107 L⋅mol−1. For dihydromyricetin, the binding constant was 1.36×104 L⋅mol−1, while dihydroquercetin hardly quenched the BSA intrinsic fluorescence. These results showed that hydrogen bonding and conjugative effects may play an important role in binding of flavonols to BSA. These results also showed that the properties of flavonols are related to their chemical structure.
A dimer of catechin has been separated from a number of ales, stouts and lagers. This compound has been shown to have the same structure as procyanidin B3, which has previously been isolated from plant sources. It can be conveniently synthesized from dihydroquercetin and catechin.
In flower buds of the white flowering mutant W19 of Petunia hybrida four biologically active dihydroflavonol intermediates-dihydroquercetin-7-glucoside, dihydroquercetin-4'-glucoside, dihydroquercetin, and dihydrokaempferol-7-glucoside-are accumulated. When dihydroquercetin was supplied to in vitro cultured corollas of the white flowering mutant W18, a mixture of cyanidin and delphinidin glycosides was produced, cyanidin-3-glucoside being the major pigment. The quantity of dihydroquercetin accumulated in W19 is very small, but this compound appears to be a more direct precursor of anthocyanins than the glucosides of dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin. The conditions for pigment synthesis in W18 were optimalized. The quantitative uptake of dihydroquercetin was also studied. It was demonstrated that ca. 1/3 of the quantity present in the culture solution entered the corolla. From the absorbed dihydroquercetin only 14% was converted into anthocyanins. Complementation experiments to determine the biosynthetic sequence of the anthocyanin genes An1, An2, and An3 indicated that the genes An1 and An2 are indistinguishable by this technique.
Heartwood Colour Dihydroquercetin Leucocyanidin Summary The natural red-orange colour of Douglas fir heartwood limits its utilization for the production of thermo-mechanical pulps. Heartwood colour, determined in the CIEL*a*b* system, is studied in relation to various treatments applied to the wood. Heartwood differs from sapwood by the presence of poorly extractible pigments, fairly resistant to hydrogen peroxide bleaching. A model experiment suggests that they are formed by the enzymic reduction of dihydroquerce tin, the main extractive of Douglas-fir heartwood. The resulting unstable leucocyanidin spontaneously auto-oxidizes to polymeric pigments similar to those found in heartwood.
Anthocyanins are synthesized from flavanones in the plant cytosol, on the endoplasmic reticulum, and then transported into the vacuole. Anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) and UDP-glucose: anthocyanidin 3-Oglucosyltransferase (3GT) are the last two enzymes in the pathway responsible for the formation of a stable colourful product (Ferreyra et al., 2012) . ANS belongs to the 2-oxoglutarate iron-dependent oxygenases and was cloned first from perilla (Perilla frutescens) (Saito et al., 1999) . It uses ferrous iron as a cofactor and 2-oxoglutarate (2OG) as a cosubstrate (Saito et al., 1999; Wilmouth et al., 2002) . The enzyme requires an unusually high concentration of ascorbate for optimal turnover. ANS was postulated to catalyse the reaction from the colourless leucoanthocyanidins to the coloured anthocyanidins (Saito et al., 1999) . Later in vitro activity studies revealed that the selectivities of 2OG-dependent oxygenases that are involved in flavonoid synthesis overlap. ANS was shown to have properties of a flavanol synthase FLS and catalyse oxidation of dihydroquercetin to quercetin (Wilmouth et al., 2002) . ANS from Gerbera hybrida and Petunia hybrida accepted (+)-catechin as a substrate to form cyanidin, quercetin and an oxidized (+)-catechin dimer (Wellmann et al., 2006; Yan et al., 2008) .
Polyphenols have been described to have a wide range of biological activities, and many reports, published during recent years, have highlighted the beneficial effects of phenolic compounds, illustrating their promising role as therapeutic tools in several acute and chronic disorders. The purpose of study was to evaluate, in an already-assessed model of lung injury caused by bleomycin (BLM) administration, the role of resveratrol and quercetin, as well as to explore the potential beneficial properties of a mango leaf extract, rich in mangiferin, and a grape leaf extract, rich in dihydroquercetin (DHQ), on the same model. Mice were subjected to intra-tracheal administration of BLM, and polyphenols were administered by oral route immediately after BLM instillation and daily for 7 d. Treatment with resveratrol, mangiferin, quercetin and DHQ inhibited oedema formation and body weight loss, as well as ameliorated polymorphonuclear infiltration into the lung tissue and reduced the number of inflammatory cells in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Moreover, polyphenols suppressed inducible nitric oxide synthase expression, and prevented oxidative and nitroxidative lung injury, as shown by the reduced nitrotyrosine and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase levels. The degree of apoptosis, as evaluated by Bid and Bcl-2 balance, was also suppressed after polyphenol treatment. Finally, these natural products down-regulated cyclo-oxygenase-2, extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylated expression and reduced NF-κBp65 translocation. Our findings confirmed the anti-inflammatory effects of resveratrol and quercetin in BLM-induced lung damage, and highlight, for the first time, the protective properties of exogenous administration of mangiferin and DHQ on experimental pulmonary fibrosis.
Laser desorption/ionization (LDI) mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) was used to acquire chemical images of flavonoid metabolites on the surface of wild-type and mutant (tt7) Arabidopsis thaliana flowers. Flavonoids were localized to the petals and carpels of flowers, with tissue heterogeneity in the petals. Specifically, kaempferol and/or its glycosides were abundant in the distal region of petals and quercetin and its downstream flavonoids were highly enriched in the more proximal region of petals. As a result of a mutation in the TT7 gene which blocks the conversion of dihydrokaempferol to dihydroquercetin, the downstream metabolites, quercetin, isohamnetin, and their glycosides, were not observed in the mutant flowers. Instead, the metabolites in an alternative pathway, kaempferol and/or its glycosides, were as highly abundant on the proximal region of the petals as in the distal region. In addition, the combined flavonoid amounts on the proximal region of petals in the wild-type are almost equivalent to the amounts of kaempferol and/or its glycosides in the mutant. This strongly suggests that the expression of the TT7 gene is localized on the proximal part of the petal while the other genes in the upper stream pathway are evenly expressed throughout the petal. Most importantly, this work demonstrates MSI of metabolites can be utilized for the localization of gene expression.
1. A method for isolating a flavonoid of the timber, including the butt portion of the wood, bark and roots, said method comprising the following steps: a) extraction of the extract from the polar solvent mixture with the wood particles comprising at least one of nizheukazannyhi) fraction is crushed to a particle size of chips obtained by crushing chips on said butt portions and roots, and ii) a secondary fraction dry bark or bark crushed obtained as waste in the production of mechanical wood products; and b) separating said extract resulting from said extraction steps, using the wood of conifers selected from the group consisting of larch (genus Larix), spruce (genus Picea), fir (genus Abies), pine (genus Pinus ), wood genus Pseudotsuga, and wherein the basic substance is emitted from all of the above flavonoid species is obtained and the wood is hardwood porod.2. The method of claim. 1, characterized in that the polar solvent is a polar agent, or a mixture of two or more polar agentov.3. A method according to claim. 2, characterized in that the two polar agent in said mixture comprise from 20% to 40% ethanol and 80% to 60% water (v / v) .4. The method of claim. 1, characterized in that said extraction step is performed in a vacuum system in which the energy is used for heating said mixture of said polar solvent in contact with said wood particles to remove said flavonoid dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) of said wood particles .five. A method according to claim. 3, characterized in that said extraction step is carried out in a vacuum system in which the energy is used
Summary ::: ::: Flavonols are important compounds for conditional male fertility in maize (Zea mays) and other crops, and they also contribute to protecting plants from UV-B radiation. However, little continues to be known on how maize and other grasses synthesize flavonols, and how flavonol biosynthesis is regulated. By homology with an Arabidopsis flavonol synthase (AtFLS1), we cloned a maize gene encoding a protein (ZmFLS1) capable of converting the dihydrokaempferol (DHK) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ) dihydroflavonols to the corresponding flavonols, kaempferol (K) and quercetin (Q). Moreover, ZmFLS1 partially complements the flavonol deficiency of the Arabidopsis fls1 mutant, and restores anthocyanin accumulation to normal levels. We demonstrate that ZmFLS1 is under the control of the anthocyanin (C1/PL1 + R/B) and 3-deoxy flavonoid (P1) transcriptional regulators. Indeed, using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments, we establish that ZmFLS1 is an immediate direct target of the P1 and C1/R regulatory complexes, revealing similar control as for earlier steps in the maize flavonoid pathway. Highlighting the importance of flavonols in UV-B protection, we also show that ZmFLS1 is induced in maize seedlings by UV-B, and that this induction is in part mediated by the increased expression of the P1, B and PL1 regulators. Together, our results identify a key flavonoid biosynthetic enzyme so far missed in maize and other monocots, and illustrate mechanisms by which flavonol accumulation is controlled in maize.
To analyze experimental data on the effect of various polyphenolic compounds on lifespan of mice, we approximated survival curves with the Gompertz model in its minimal form, which does not account for the heterogeneity of samples and the age-independent mortality. The plots of regressions of log0 (logarithm of the initial mortality) on  (the rate of aging) in series of control samples were used to assess the deviations of vectors directed from control to experimental data from the slopes of the control regressions. The analysis of published data suggests that resveratrol, polyphenol-containing grape skin extract, metformin, tocopherol, and the antioxidant SkQ1 do not produce changes beyond those possible upon comparing of different samples of a control population. The effect of the polyphenolic composition BP-C3 on female SHR mice is unique in being associated with a significant decrease in the rate of aging. The effect may be partly contributed to by the antioxidant properties of BP-C3. Its antioxidant capacity determined in vitro is comparable with that of established antioxidants, such as dihydroquercetin. Its effects in vivo include the ability to ameliorate reduction in the peroxide-decomposing activity of RBC lysates from male BALB/c mice treated with 5-fluorouracil.
OBJECTIVE: To study the chemical constituents from Sarcopyramis nepalensis. METHODS: Compounds were isolated by D101 macroporous adsorption resin column and purified by repeatedly chromatographic techniques on Sephadex LH-20, silica gel and ODS columnl chromatograph. Their structures were elucidated by chemical and spectral methods. RESULTS: Six compounds were isolated from Sarcopyramis nepalensis, and identified as kaempferol (1), myricetic (2), dihydroquercetin (3), egllagic acid (4), isoferulic acid (5) and caffeic acid (6). CONCLUSION: All compounds are isolated from the genus for the first time.
Fresh-cut Chinese water chestnuts (CWC) turn yellow after being peeled, reducing their shelf life and commercial value. Metabolomics, the systematic study of the full complement of small molecular metabolites, was useful for clarifying the mechanism of fresh-cut CWC etiolation and developing methods to inhibit yellowing. In this study, metabolic alterations associated with etiolation at different growth stages (0 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days) from fresh-cut CWC were investigated using LC–MS and analyzed by pattern recognition methods (principal component analysis (PCA), partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA), and orthogonal projection to latent structures-discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA)). The metabolic pathways of the etiolation molecules were elucidated. The main metabolic pathway appears to be the conversion of phenylalanine to p-coumaroyl-CoA, followed by conversion to naringenin chalcone, to naringenin, and naringenin then following different pathways. Firstly, it can transform into apigenin and its derivatives; secondly, it can produce eriodictyol and its derivatives; and thirdly it can produce dihydrokaempferol, quercetin, and myricetin. The eriodictyol can be further transformed to luteolin, cyanidin, dihydroquercetin, dihydrotricetin, and others. This is the first reported use of metabolomics to study the metabolic pathways of the etiolation of fresh-cut CWC.
Flavone derivatives and other phytochemicals were found to bind to three subtypes of adenosine receptors in the micromolar range. Affinity was determined in radioligand binding assays at rat brain A1 and A2A receptors using [3H]-N6-PIA ([3H]-(R)-N6-phenylisopropyladenosine) and [3H]CGS21680 ([3H]-2-[[4-(2-carboxyethyl)phenyl]ethylamino]-5'- (N-ethylcarbamoyl)adenosine), respectively. Affinity was determined at cloned human and rat brain A3 receptors using [125I]-AB-MECA [N6-(4-amino-3-iodobenzyl)adenosine-5'-(N-methyluronamide)]. A structure-activity analysis indicated that the hydroxyl groups of naturally occurring flavones are not essential for affinity at adenosine receptors. Galangin, 14, displayed Ki values of 1 microM at both rat A1 and A2A receptors and 3 microM at human A3 receptors. Methylation but not acetylation of the hydroxyl groups of galangin enhanced A3 affinity. Pentamethylmorin, 20, appeared to bind with 14-17-fold selectivity for human A3 receptors vs rat A1 and A2A receptors, with a Ki value of 2.65 microM. Two flavone derivatives (14 and 15) showed 14-fold greater affinity at human vs rat A3 receptors. Reduction of the 2,3-olefinic bond, as in (+/-)-dihydroquercetin, or glycosidation, as in robinin, greatly diminished affinity. An isoflavone, genistein, also bound only very weakly at A3 receptors. alpha-Naphthoflavone had greater receptor affinity (0.79 microM at A1 receptors) than the beta-isomer. Other natural products of plant origin, including oxogalanthine lactam, hematoxylin, and arborinine were found to bind to A1 adenosine receptors with Ki values of 3-13 microM. These findings indicate that the flavones, flavonols, flavanones, and other phytochemicals may provide leads for the development of novel adenosine antagonists. The unexpected finding of considerable affinity of flavones at both rat and human A3 receptors may explain some of the previously observed biological effects of these compounds.
Abstract In the course of a chemotaxonomic survey of New Zealand Podocarpus species, a number of new flavonoid glycosides have been isolated from P. nivalis . These are: luteolin 3′- O -β- D -xyloside, luteolin 7- O -β- D -glucoside-3′- O -β- D -xyloside, dihydroquercetin 7- O -β- D -glucoside, 7- O -methyl-(2 R :3 R )-dihydrokaempferol 5- O -β- D -glucopyranoside, 7- O -methyl-(2 R :3 R )-dihydroquercetin 5- O -β- D -glucopyranoside, 7- O -methylkaempferol 5- O -β- D -glucopyranoside and 7- O -methylquercetin 5- O -β- D -glucopyranoside. Diagnostically useful physical techniques for distinguishing substitution patterns in dihydroflavonols are discussed and summarized. Glucosylation of the 5-hydroxyl group in (+)-dihydroflavonols is shown to reverse the sign of rotation at 589 nm.
Dihydroquercetin was extracted from larch with water and acetone-water as extracting solvent respectively.The optimum extracting condition was obtained through the orthogonal experiment design L9(34).The antioxidant activity of the dihydro-quercetin in different fats was evaluated.The antioxidant synergy of Vc,BHT,EDTA and citric acid on dihydro quercetin was compared.Results indicated that the optimal conditions of water soaking was as follows: extraction temperature was 90℃,liquid ratio was 1∶12(g/mL),extraction time was 120 min.The optimal conditions of acetone-water soaking was as follows: the concentration of acetone was 60%(V/V)%,liquid ratio was 1∶14(g/mL),extraction time was 4 h.The extraction rate of soxhlet extraction by acetone-water was higher than that by water.The suitable amount of lard and soybean were added as extraction agent were 0.04%(m/m)% and 0.06%(m/m)% respectively.The synergized action of Vc was the best in the four synergistic agent.
Extracts of the above-ground part of meadowsweet (Filipendula ulmaria L. Maxim.) demonstrate a pronounced antioxidant activity. It is established that 70% and 95% ethanol extracts contain the most active substances. Investigation of the chemical composition of the above-ground part of the plant and its 70% ethanol extract by means of qualitative reactions, thin-layer chromatography, and paper chromatography showed the presence of various phenolic compounds, including quercetin and its glycosides, dihydroquercetin, apigenin, rododendrol, esculetin, and m-hydroxybenzoic, salicylic, anisic, gallic, gentisic, ferulic, chlorogenic, and caffeic acids.
Abstract: Fresh-cut Chinese water chestnuts (CWC) turn yellow after being peeled, reducing their shelf life and commercial value. Metabolomics, the systematic study of the full complement of small molecular metabolites, was useful for clarifying the mechanism of fresh-cut CWC etiolation and developing methods to inhibit yellowing. In this study, metabolic alterations associated with etiolation at different growth stages (0 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days) from fresh-cut CWC were investigated using LC-MS and analyzed by pattern recognition methods (principal component analysis (PCA), partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA), and orthogonal projection to latent structures-discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA)). The metabolic pathways of the etiolation molecules were elucidated. The main metabolic pathway appears to be the conversion of phenylalanine to p-coumaroyl-CoA, followed by conversion to naringenin chalcone, to naringenin, and naringenin then following different pathways. Firstly, it can transform into apigenin and its derivatives; secondly, it can produce eriodictyol and its derivatives; and thirdly it can produce dihydrokaempferol, quercetin, and myricetin. The eriodictyol can be further transformed to luteolin, cyanidin, dihydroquercetin, dihydrotricetin, and others. This is the first reported use of metabolomics to study the metabolic pathways of the etiolation of fresh-cut CWC.
The Asia lotus (Nelumbo nucifera Gaertn.) is an ornamental aquatic plant with high economic value. Flower colour is an important ornamental trait, with much of N. nucifera breeding focusing on its yellow flowers. To explore the yellow flower colouration mechanism in N. nucifera, we analysed its pigment constituents and content, as well as gene expression in the flavonoid pathway, in two N. nucifera cultivars. We performed metabolomic and gene expression analyses in two N. nucifera cultivars with yellow and white flowers, Molinqiuse (MLQS) and Yeguangbei (YGB), respectively, at five stages of flower colouration. Based on phenotypic observation and metabolite analyses, the later stages of flower colouration (S3–S5) were determined to be key periods for differences between MLQS and YGB, with dihydroflavonols and flavonols differing significantly between cultivars. Dihydroquercetin, dihydrokaempferol, and isorhamnetin were significantly higher in MLQS than in YGB, whereas kaempferol was significantly higher in YGB. Most of the key homologous structural genes in the flavonoid pathway were significantly more active in MLQS than in YGB at stages S1–S4. In this study, we performed the first analyses of primary and secondary N. nucifera metabolites during flower colouration, and found that isorhamnetin and kaempferol shunting resulted in petal colour differences between MLQS and YGB. Based on our data integration analyses of key enzyme expression in the putative flavonoid pathways of the two N. nucifera cultivars, NnFLS gene substrate specificity and differential expression of NnOMTs may be related to petal colour differences between MLQS and YGB. These results will contribute to determining the mechanism of yellow flower colouration in N. nucifera, and will improve yellow petal colour breeding in lotus species.
New peracyl derivatives of the natural flavonoid (±)-catechin were synthesized. It was shown that carboxylic-acid acyl residues enhanced to various degrees the cytotoxicity of peracyl catechins against HeLa cell line. The structures of the synthesized compounds were confirmed by PMR and 13C NMR spectroscopy and elemental analysis. The catechins were compared with previously studied analogous dihydroquercetin derivatives.
Ipomoea aquatica Forsk, a green leafy vegetable that is a rich source of vitamins and amino acids ::: with many health benefits, has been explored for the isolation and identification of its bioactive compounds. ::: Activity-guided repeated fractionation of a methanol extract on a silica gel column followed by an XAD ::: column yielded a compound that exhibited antioxidant activity with an EC50 value of 83 ± 1.02 µgml−1 ::: reaction mixture. It also showed very strong lipid peroxidation-inhibitory activity in a liposome ::: model system with an EC50 value of 72.2 ± 0.9 µgml−1. However, it showed negligible metal-chelating ::: activity. Based on UV, 2D nuclear magnetic resonance and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry ::: studies, the compound was tentatively identified to be 7-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl-dihydroquercetin-3-O-α- ::: D-glucopyranoside. This is the first report on the antioxidant properties of I aquatica leaf extracts. :::  2005 Society of Chemical Industry
FIELD: medicine. SUBSTANCE: invention concerns pharmaceutical, food, cosmetic industry. Wood substance of larch root is chopped to particle size 0.5-1.5 mm and at least twice extracted at temperature less than 45°C in cavitation condition at maintained ethanol concentration within 80-86%. Sawdust is separated from the extract. The prepared extract is kept within 20-30 hours and separated from recovered resins and oils. The extract is steamed to concentration 40-45% and separated from recovered resins and oils again. The extract is steamed to concentration 8-11% and separated from recovered resins and oils again. Then the extract is recrystallised by freezing to temperature -20 to -40°C within 6-8 hours. Defrosting is performed 24 to 36 h at 5-10°C. Defrosted solution is elutriated. The prepared solution is filtered and dried in nitrogen atmosphere at temperature not exceeding 40°C. Thus dihydroquercetin in native form of purity 92-96% is prepared. EFFECT: invention allows for high-yield native DHQ per a unit of initial wood, simplified technological process, reduced consumption of organic solvents and electric power. 1 ex
Characteristic features of phosphorylation of dihydroquercetin with trivalent phosphorus reagents were studied. Preparative methods for regioselective phosphorylation were found. The most important chemical properties of dihydroquercetin phosphites and cyclophosphites were studied. © 2003 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Heteroatom Chem 14:399–403, 2003; Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com). DOI 10.1002/hc.10115
The composition of c (Coriandrum sativum L.) has been studied. The results of HPLC showed the presence of 43 substances, among which 21 phenolic compounds were identified. These components represent mainly flavonoids, coumarins, and phenolcarboxylic acids. Some of these compounds, including apigenin, luteolin, hyperoside, hesperidin, vicenin, diosmin, orientine, dihydroquercetin, chrysoeriol, catechin, ferulic acid, gallic acid, salicylic acid, dicoumarin, 4-hydroxycoumarin, esculin, esculetin, maleic acid, tartaric acid, and arbutin were identified in this plant for the first time. The elemental and amino acid analyses of coriander, which were also performed for the first time, showed that the prevailing elements are potassium, sodium, calcium and phosphorus, while the prevailing amino acids are glutamine, asparagine, and arginine.
Abstract From the aerial parts of Hypericum japonicum , two novel chromone glycosides, 5, 7-dihydroxy-2-(1-methylpropyl) chromone-8- β - d -glucoside and 5, 7-dihydroxy-2-isopropylchromone-8- β - d -glucoside, and two new flavonoids, 7, 8-(2″, 2″-dimethylpyrano)-5, 3′, 4′-trihydroxy-3-mehoxyflavone and (2R, 3R) dihydroquercetin-3, 7-O- α - l -dirhamnoside were isolated together with nine known flavonoids. Their structures were deduced from spectroscopic and chemical evidence. Some of the compounds were found to exert an interesting coagulant activity in an in vitro test.
Mono-substituted spin-labeled compounds were synthesized from Mannich reactions of dihydroquercetin with 4-amino-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl, 3-amino-2,2,5,5-tetramethylpyrrolidine-1-oxyl, and 3-aminomethyl-2,2,5,5-tetramethylpyrrolidine-1-oxyl. According to preliminary data, the compounds possessed antioxidant activity and selective cytotoxicity against various tumor cells and were promising for biomedical tests including magnetic resonance tomography.
The methods of classical and ac polarography were used to study the electrochemical behavior of dihydroquercetin on a mercury dropping electrode. This process occurs only in protonic media. The protonated and nonprotonated forms of dihydroquercetin undergo electroreduction. The amount of electrons and protons participating in electroreduction of the studied flavonoid is determined. The nature of currents measured in the processes of electrochemical reduction of dihydroquercetin is studied.
【The current study examined the effects of freeze-dried mulberry fruit on disaccharidase activity in the small intestine and the lowering of blood glucose in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Sprague-Dawley male rats were randomly assigned to one normal and three streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic groups. The diabetic groups were fed a mulberry fruit-free diet (DM-group), 0.3% mulberry fruit diet (DM-F group) or 0.6% mulberry fruit diet (DM-2F group). After they were fed the experimental diets for three weeks, diabetes was induced with an intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin 50 mg/kg b.w before sacrificing 9 days later using the same experimental treatments. Analyses of anthocyanins, flavonoid and 1-deoxynojirimycin (DNJ) of lyophilized mulberry fruit were carried out and the major anthocyanins were rutin (142.5 mg), isoquercitrin (10.3 mg), quercetin (5.8 mg), morin (1.6 mg) dihydroquercetin (3.83 mg), cy-3-O-glucopyranoside (230.45 mg) and cy-3-O-rutinoside (131.5 mg) on the basis of 100 g dry weight. Total DNJ content was 2.39 mg/g dry weight of lyophilized mulberry fruit. Blood glucose level decreased in the diabetic mts fed the mulberry fruit supplement. The content of the liver glycogen increased in the diabetic mts fed the mulberry fruit supplement. Disaccharidase activity in the proximal part of the intestine, such as that of maltase, sucrase and lactase in the mulberry fruit supplementation groups, were lower than that of the DM group. These results suggest that mulberry fruit possess a suppressive effect on hyperglycemia, possibly by inhibiting the activity of disaccharidase in the small intestine of rats.】
Abstract Bis-nitroxide malonate methanofullerene (NO ) 2 -MF was studied as a biomimetic model of reduction–oxidation activity with natural compounds—cytochrome c (cyt c ), dihydroquercetin (DHQ), ascorbic acid (AA) and synthetic drug—1-(β-oxyethyl)-4,6-dimethyl-1,2-dihydro-2-oxopyrimidine (xymedon ® ). (NO ) 2 -MF may be used as the component of Langmuir monolayers on an aqueous subphase and as the adsorbate on silica gel. The activity of (NO ) 2 -MF in the reaction with cyt c was compared with the effect of nitroxide species such as gaseous nitric oxide, 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl radical (TEMPO) by using UV–vis and EPR-spectra. It has been shown, that iron(III) in cyt c 3+ under action (NO ) 2 -MF was reduced up to iron(II), similar effect was observed under the influence of gaseous NO in aqueous solution, but reduction of iron(III) in heme cyt c was reversible in the presence of TEMPO. Therefore, the state of Fe-heme in cyt c can be used as the indicator of the interaction of cyt c with nitroxide species in vitro . The interaction of cyt c , DHQ, xymedon ® with (NO ) 2 -MF monolayers was confirmed by the increasing of limiting area А 0 from 0.88 nm 2 up to 1.70 nm 2 of (NO ) 2 -MF on the aqueous subphase, by the paramagnetism and UV–vis spectral data changes. These results can be explained by appearance of oxoammonium ion (NO + ) 2 -MF adlayers and monolayers. The antioxidant and regenerating effects were shown when treating wounds by xymedon ® in the presence of additives (0.001%) of (NO ) 2 -MF in the experiments on the rats.
SUMMARY ::: The primary antioxidant activity of quercetin and some of its derivatives was studied in the 36–70°C range in dry systems, using two fatty-ester substrates, respectively with linoleate and linolenate, as the main constituent undergoing oxidation. Metal contamination was avoided as far as possible, and any residual traces of metals in the thoroughly purified esters were chelated with citric acid. ::: ::: Methylation of the 3, or 5, or 3 and 7, or 5 and 7 hydroxyls of the quercetin molecule led to considerable reduction of the antioxidant activity, while reduction due to methylation of the 7 hydroxyl was slight. Methylation of the 3′, or 4′, or 3′ and 4′ hydroxyls, or of any single hydroxyl of the B ring, and of an additional hydroxyl or hydroxyls of the A ring, led to a drastic reduction (to 11% or less); the 3,7,3′,4′ tetramethoxy derivative was found to be completely inactive. Hydrogenation of the 2,3 double bond resulted in an antioxidant (dihydroquercetin) with only about half the activity of qnercetin. ::: ::: The primary antioxidant activity of quercetin seems to be a function of the molecule as a whole and cannot be regarded as an additive property of active hydroxyls. The effect produced by methylation of a particular hydroxyl may, however, be related to the probability of formation of a stabilized free radical by the hydroxyl in question. ::: ::: The type of the substituted alkyl radical had little or no effect on the activity of the derivative, but replacement of a hydroxyl with hydrogen failed to produce the same effect as methylation of the same hydroxyl. ::: ::: No indication was found of pro-oxidant activity of the meta-hydroxyl grouping in the A ring.
Dihydroquercetin (DHQ) is a well-known antioxidant agent. In the present investigation, we reported for the first time that DHQ stimulates the expression of phase II detoxifying enzymes through the Nrf2-dependent signaling pathway. The IC50 values of DHQ for reduction of 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazol (DPPH), reducing power assay, lipid peroxidation assay, and xanthine oxidase inhibition were 5.96, 4.31, 2.03, and 13.24 μM, respectively. DHQ possessed considerable protective activity from oxidative DNA damage. A luciferase reporter assay also demonstrated that DHQ-activated signaling resulted in the increased transcriptional activity of Nrf2 through binding to the ARE (antioxidant response element) enhancer sequence. Furthermore, Western blotting and luciferase assay revealed DHQ activated ERK1/2, Akt, and JNK signaling pathways, subsequently leading to Nrf2 nuclear translocation. DHQ upregulated the Nrf2-related antioxidant genes heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), NAD(P)H quinone oxidoreductase-1 (NQO1), and glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier subunits. Inhibition of Nrf2 by siRNA reduced DHQ-induced upregulation of these antioxidant genes.
Abstract Anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), an iron(II) and 2-oxoglutarate (2OG) dependent oxygenase, catalyses the penultimate step in anthocyanin biosynthesis by oxidation of the 2 R ,3 S ,4 S - cis -leucoanthocyanidins. It has been believed that in vivo the products of ANS are the anthocyanidins. However, in vitro studies on ANS using optically active cis - and trans- leucocyanidin substrates identified cyanidin as only a minor product; instead both quercetin and dihydroquercetin are products with the distribution being dependent on the C-4 stereochemistry of the leucocyanidin substrates.
The dihydroflavonol dihydroquercetin 3-acetate (1) was isolated as a sweet constituent of the young shoots of Tessaria dodoneifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Cabrera (Compositae). Compound 1 and dihydroquercetin 3-acetate 4'-(methyl ether) (2), a novel synthetic analogue of this natural product lead compound, were rated by a taste panel as being 80 and 400 times sweeter than a 2% w/v sucrose solution, respectively. Synthetic dihydroquercetin 4'-(methyl ether) (3) showed a reduced sweetness intensity when compared to 2, while (+)-dihydroquercetin (4) was devoid of sweetness. Dihydroflavonol derivatives 1-3 represent a new class of potentially noncaloric and noncariogenic intense sweeteners.
ABSTRACT1. A total of 80 male Ross 308 broilers were used in a study to investigate the effect of dietary dihydroquercetin (DHQ) on growth performance variables, gastrointestinal tract (GIT) and im...
Metabolite profiling of the total ethanolic extract of Prunus amygdalus stem and leaves was carried out for the first time using LC-DAD-ESI-MS in the negative ion mode to investigate its chemical composition. Results revealed the identification of 33 phenolic compounds. Fifteen compounds were investigated in P. amygdalus for the first time and identified as; veratic acid, rosmarinicacid, protocatechuic acid-hexoside, 3-O-caffeoylquinic acid (neochlorogenic acid), dihydroquercetin- hexoside, coumaroyl-quinic acid, vanillic acid glucoside, cis piceid, hesperidin, dihydrokaempferol, acteoside, quercetin acetyl hexoside, homovanillic acid, fisetin-deoxyhexoside. The antioxidant potential of the total ethanolic extract (EE) and the fractions: petroleum ether (PE), chloroform (CE), ethyl acetate (EtE), methanol eluted diaion (DME) and diaion eluted with 50% methanol (D 50%E) was performed using DPPH assay. The most potent antioxidant EE, EtE and D50%E extracts (compared with vitamin C) were selected for further hepatoprotective assessment against hepatotoxicity induced by thioacetamide in a dose of 200 mg/kg compared with silymarin (50 mg/kg) as a standard drug. Results revealed the significant reversal of the deleterious effects of thioacetamide on serum ALT, AST and total protein in the order: EtE > (Silymarin = EE) > D50% E. The biochemical results were corroborated with the histological studies of liver.
Seven flavonoids were isolated from the whole plants and fruits ofCayratia japonica through the activity-guided isolation of a methanol extract using a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibition assay as a monitor. The chemical structures of the isolates were assigned as apigenin-7-O-β-D-glucuronopyranoside (1), apigenin (2), luteolin (3), luteolin-7-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (4), (+)-dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) (5), (+)-dihydrokaempferol (aromadendrin) (6) and quercetin (7). Among the isolated compounds, flavones such as apigenin (2) and luteolin (3), as well as the flavonol, quercetin (7) showed potent inhibitory effects against the MAO activity with IC50 values of 6.5, 22.6, and 31.6 μM, respectively. However, the flavone glycosides, apigenin-7-O-β-D-glucuronopyranoside (1) and luteolin-7-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (4), showed mild MAO inhibition (IC50 values: 81.7 and 118.6 μM, respectively). The flavanonol derivatives, taxifolin (5) and aromadendrin (6), also showed weak inhibition (IC50 values: 154.7 and 153.1 μM, respectively). Furthermore, quercetin (7) had a more potent inhibitory effect on MAO-A (IC60 value: 2.8 μM) than MAO-B (IC50 value: 90.0 μ.M). Apigenin (2) and luteolin (3) also preferentially inhibited MAO-A (IC50 values: 1.7 and 4.9 μM, respectively) compared with MAO-B (IC50 values: 12.8 and 59.7 μM, respectively).
Aleurone tissue of c2 Pr, C2 pr, or c2 pr genotypes can utilize either of two flavanones (naringenin, homoeriodictyol) or a flavanonol (dihydroquercetin) to synthesize anthocyanin. The anthocyanins formed have substitution patterns corresponding to those of the precursors, but c2 Pr tissue can hydroxylate the 4'-OH precursor at the 3' position. The results presented suggest that C2 acts before the flavanone step and that the hydroxylation gene (Pr) can act after C2.
A study of the antiviral activity of antioxidants against viral infections is believed to be essential for creating complex antiviral agents. Dihydroquercetin is considered as the most active antioxidant extracted from Larix gmelinii. In this work, we present results of experiments of the antiviral properties of dihydroquercetin against a member of the family Picarnaviridae--Coxsackievirus B4 in vitro. We have estimated that dihydroquercetin reduces viral titers at 100 µg/ml concentration as compared with control of virus. We have shown using the plaque assay that CPE of virusis reduced in the presence of dihydroquercetin at 100 µg/ml. Study of the phase of viral lifecycle, in which dihydroquercetin acted, demonstrated that the highest efficacy of the antiviral therapy was reached at early stages of virus reproduction (1-3 hours post infection). These results show that dihydroquercetin has antiviralproperty against Coxsackievirus B4. This drug and other antioxidants can be tested as inhibitors of viral replication.
We isolated cDNAs encoding flavonol synthase (FLS) from the red onion “H6” (AcFLS-H6) and the yellow onion “Hwangryongball” (AcFLS-HRB). We found three amino acid variations between the two sequences. Kinetic analysis with recombinant proteins revealed that AcFLS-HRB exhibited approximately 2-fold higher catalytic efficiencies than AcFLS-H6 for dihydroflavonol substrates and that both proteins preferred dihydroquercetin to dihydrokaempferol. The expression patterns of flavonoid biosynthesis genes corresponded to the accumulation patterns of flavonoid aglycones in both onions. Whereas the other flavonoid biosynthesis genes were weakly expressed in the HRB sheath compared to that of H6, the expression of FLS was similar in both onions. This relatively enhanced FLS expression, along with the higher activity of AcFLS-HRB, could increase the quercetin production in the HRB sheath. The quercetin content was approximately 12-fold higher than the cyanidin content in the H6 sheath, suggesting that FLS has priority...
Subclones from a wild carrot cell culture have been examined for their anthocyanin accumulation in the absence and presence of DMSO and 4-coumaric acid, naringenin, dihydroquercetin or leucocyanidin. Subclones that accumulate no or extremely low levels of anthocyanin do not increase their anthocyanin accumulation when treated with DMSO or intermediates. These compounds increased the anthocyanin accumulation in subclones which produce detectable anthocyanin in their absence.
Extracts of callus or cell suspension cultures from petioles of Ginkgo biloba catalyzed the production of (+)-gallocatechin (2,3-trans-3,5,7,3',4',5'-hexahydroxy-flavan) from (+)-dihydromyricetin (5'-hydroxy-dihydroquercetin) along with the expected 3,4-cis-diol intermediate, leucodelphinidin, in a NADPH-dependent double-step reductase reaction at pH 7.4. The latter diol, isolated from the above incubation mixture, produced (+)-gallocatechin in a NADPH-dependent reaction. Extracts from tissue cultures derived from needles of Pseudotsuga menziesii (Douglas fir) also produced significant amounts of the 3,4-diol from dihydromyricetin. (+)-Dihydromyricetin, purified via paper chromatography from leaves of Leptarrhena pyrolifolia, was reduced by NaBH(4) to the presumed 3,4-trans-diol and acid epimerized to the 3,4-cis-diol.
A NADPH-dependent reductase activity, capable of converting (+)-dihydroquercetin (2,3-trans) to its 3,4-diol (a leucocyanidin), has been demonstrated in crude, soluble protein extracts derived from cell suspension cultures of Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziessi). Neither NADH nor ascorbate substituted as the H-donor. Quantitative analyses were based on the production of cyanidin, the formation of an adduct with vanillin, and on absorbance at 280 nanometers. Nonenzymic reduction of (+)-dihydroquercetin with NaBH4 produced two presumably isomeric flavan-3,4,-diols. One of these was similar to the enzymically produced diol, based on products isolated by chromatography on paper, on thin-layer cellulose and on C18 reversed-phase columns (high performance liquid chromatography), and on the conversion of the diol to the all-trans dimer of (+)-catechin upon the addition of (+)-catechin.
• 41 E) in India is one of the major tea producing areas of the world. Tea in NE India is processed largely from the leaf of Camellia assamica, a source of a wide range of the catechins. Tea leaves contain about 180-360 mg g −1 of polyphenols, among which 70-80% are flavanols [2] . Total polyphenols including composition of catechins as well as their oxidation products were identified as being related to tea quality [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] . The variation in catechin composition is reflected in the variation in theaflavins (TFs) composition of black tea. It is well established that the formation of dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin, which are the precursors of dihydroxy catechins (epicatechin, (EC), epicatechin gallate (ECG)) and trihydroxy catechins (EGC and EGCG), respectively, is under genetic control [8] [9] [10] [11] .
Hen egg white lysozyme (HEWL) is commonly used as a model protein to study the mechanism of amyloid fibril formation and inhibition by small molecules [15, 16] . A variety of polyphenols, including (−)-epicatechin gallate [17] , myricetin [18] , curcumin and kaempferol [19] have been found effective. Additionally, we have recently reported that two naturally-occurring polyphenols, namely rosmarinic acid and resveratrol have the capacity to inhibit HEWL amyloid fibril formation, disaggregate preformed fibrils, and attenuate their related cytotoxicity [20] . Taxifolin (also known as dihydroquercetin) is a flavonoid found in grapes, citrus fruits, onions, green tea, olive oil, and several herbs (such as milk thistle) [21] . Besides its antitumor, hepatoprotective, and anti-inflammatory activities [22] , it is a potent antioxidant, which may contribute to its cardiovascular and neuroprotective properties [23] . As for amyloid-related diseases, some investigators have found that taxifolin could be used as a novel inhibitor of Aβ42 aggregation [24, 25] . Moreover, Saito et al. have reported that taxifolin prevents amyloid-β oligomer assembly and fully sustains cognitive and cerebrovascular function in cerebral amyloid angiopathy model mice [26] . However, the exact mechanism by which this natural antioxidant modulates the protein aggregation process has not been clearly understood. Therefore, in the present study, the effect of taxifolin on fibrillation of HEWL was evaluated. Our results clearly indicate that taxifolin effectively inhibits HEWL amyloid fibrillation and their related toxicity via directing the HEWL aggregation process toward formation of very large globular, chain-like aggregates. Moreover, its optimal binding to protein and the residues involved were identified by performing fluorescence anisotropy and molecular docking.
Extracts of callus or cell suspension cultures from petioles of Ginkgo biloba catalyzed the production of (+)-gallocatechin (2,3-trans-3,5,7,3',4',5'-hexahydroxy-flavan) from (+)-dihydromyricetin (5'-hydroxy-dihydroquercetin) along with the expected 3,4-cis-diol intermediate, leucodelphinidin, in a NADPH-dependent double-step reductase reaction at pH 7.4. The latter diol, isolated from the above incubation mixture, produced (+)-gallocatechin in a NADPH-dependent reaction.
The monophosphorylated products were obtained by phosphorylation of 2,3-dihydroquercetin with phosphorous acid amides. Sulfur addition to these compounds was studied.
The stimulating effect of extractives from pine needles on the growth of litter-decomposing basidiomycetes in synthetic nutrient nedia was partly due to 2-butanone soluble components. Taxifolin glucoside (dihydroquercetin-3′-β-glucoside) which constitutes 1–2% of the dry weight of the needles was separated and in pure form, significantly enhanced the growth rate of Marasmius androsaceus at a concentration of 5 p.p.m. Other flavonoids, belonging to the catechins, dihydrochalcones, flavanones, flavonols, and anthocyanidins, as well as gallic acid, had a similar effect. Collybia peronata and Micromphale perforons which like M. androsaceus are needle-decomposing fungi, were also stimulated by taxifolin glucoside.
Summary The antiperoxidative action of silymarin has been compared to that of quercetin, dihydroquercetin and quercitrin in microsomes and mitochondria from rat liver exposed in vitro to two peroxidizing systems: dihydroxyfumaric acid plus FeSo 4 and potassium peroxychromate. It has been found that silymarin is about as active as quercetin and dihydroquercetin, and more active than quercitrin as antiperoxidative agent, irrespective to the system used for inducing peroxidation. The results obtained are also consistent with the view that all flavonoids tested act as “scavengers” of free radicals and not simply as metal complexing agents.
The flavonoid family consists of over 8,000 secondary plant metabolites. Flavonoids are characterized by their C6-C3-C6 skeleton (Nguyen et al., 2016) and can be classified into the following eight subgroups according to their oxidation state and substitution pattern of the C-ring structure: flavanones, dihydroflavonols, flavones, flavonols, flavan-3,4-diols, flavan-3-ols, anthocyanidins, and proanthocyanidins (Xu et al., 2012) . Additionally, flavonoids can be conjugated to sugar molecules naturally occurring in plant tissues. These compounds have been associated with a broad range of applications, including antioxidants, insect repellent, and even cancer prevention (Ruiz et al., 2010 , Vazhappilly et al., 2017 . Flavonols are the most abundant group of flavonoids, and several biological properties have been attributed to these compounds, such as regulation of auxin transport, modulation of flower color, protection from UV radiation, prevention against microorganisms and pest invasions, and signaling interactions with insects and microbes (Nenaah 2013 , Dixit et al., 2017 , León-Chan et al., 2017 , Vazhappilly et al., 2017 . Flavonols are produced by the desaturation of dihydroflavonols. These compounds are formed from dihydroflavonols ( Figure 1 ) by the introduction of a double bond between C-2 and C-3, which is catalyzed by flavonol synthase (FLS) (Xu et al., 2012) . The B-ring of dihydrokaempferol (3,4′,5,7-tetrahydroxyflavanone) can be hydroxylated at the 3´ position by flavonoid 3´-hydroxylase (F3´H) or at the 3´ and 5´ positions by flavonoid 3´5´-hydroxylase (F3´5´H) to produce dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin, respectively. The oxidation reaction introducing the C-2/C-3 double bond is considered to be specific for dihydroflavonol substrates (Preub et al., 2009 , Lukacin et al., 2000 , Li et al., 2013 . Furthermore, FLS has been reported as a bifunctional enzyme capable of transforming not only dihydrokaempferol (3,4′,5,7-tetrahydroxyflavone) but also naringenin (4´,5,7-trihydroxyflavanone) into kaempferol (Lukacin et al., 2003) . Regarding pest management, various studies have focused on the deterrent and anti-feeding properties of these compounds. Onyilagha et al. (2012) found that kaempferol, quercetin, and isorhamnetin deterred feeding of the flea beetle, Phyllotreta cruciferae (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), on Camelina sativa leaves. Additionally, Selin-Rani et al. (2016) reported that quercetin isolated from Euphorbia hirta L. was toxic to Spodoptera litura Fab. (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) larvae and showed that 6 ppm caused a 94.6% mortality rate. Furthermore, larval weight was reduced to 100 mg at the same dose. Finally, Nenaah (2003) reported that a leaf methanolic extract from Calotropis procera that contained kaempferol showed considerable toxicity to Sitophilus oryzae (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) and Rhyzopertha dominica (Coleoptera: Bostrichidae) and that concentrations of 5 mL cm -2 caused a mortality rate of 86% in S. oryzae with applications of 2 mL of extract.
Polyphenols, synthesized via the phenylpropanoid pathway, can be classified into (iso)flavonoids, coumarins, aurones, condensed tannins, and anthocyanins [4] . Flavonoids are important secondary metabolites derived from malonylCoA and the aromatic amino acid phenylalanine [5] ; approximately 8000 different flavonoid compounds have been identified [6] . Flavonols are the most abundant of all the flavonoids [7] and play pivotal roles in a variety of plants [8] . Flavonols are particularly well known for their antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antiangiogenic, antiproliferative, and neuropharmacological properties and thereby account for the health-promoting effects of grapes and many other fruits [8, 9] . Flavonols are synthesized from dihydrokaempferol (DHK), dihydroquercetin (DHQ), or dihydromyricetin (DHM) by flavonol synthase (FLS) enzymes ( Figure 1) . FLS belongs to a growing family of 2-oxoglutaratedependent dioxygenase (2-ODD) nonheme ferrous enzymes that also includes the flavonoid enzymes flavanone-3 -hydroxylase (F3H), flavone synthase Ι (FS Ι), and leucoanthocyanidin reductase (LDOX) [10] . FLS activity was first characterized in irradiated parsley cells [11] . The first FLS gene was isolated from Petunia hybrida and expressed in yeast [12] . FLS genes have recently been cloned and characterized in Populus tremula [13] , Zea mays [14] , Fagopyrum tataricum [15] , and Ginkgo biloba [16] . Cloning and characterization of FLS from S. baicalensis have not been reported.
Flavonols, a class of bioactive polyphenols present in plants, are the products of flavonol desaturation catalyzed by flavonol synthase (FLS). We cloned the cDNA coding for the enzyme FLS from Camellia sinensis (CsFLS) by end-to-end PCR followed by 5'- and 3'-RACE. The putative CsFLS had 333 amino acid residues, displayed identities to the FLSs of Arabidopsis and Ginkgo of 53% and 52.5%, respectively, and contained several conserved elements found in the 2-oxoglutarate-Fe(II)-dioxygenase superfamily. The cDNA of CsFLS was subcloned into pET28a(+) and introduced into Escherichia coli (BL21-CodonPlus-RIL). Induction with 0.1mM IPTG at low temperature (20 degrees C) led to higher amounts of CsFLS in the soluble fraction than induction at 30 degrees C. The enzyme aggregated into inclusion bodies could be rescued by denaturation with 6M urea and purification with a His. Bind purification kit. The purified protein was desalted by Amicon Ultra-15 centrifugal filter unit, and the His-tag was removed with thrombin. The finally purified protein was assayed with dihydroquercetin as substrate and the products were analyzed by HPLC. The addition of FeSO(4) to the buffers used in the CsFLS purification significantly increased the recovery of active enzyme. The CsFLS obtained in this study was found to have higher specific activity and lower K(m) than previously reported FLSs.
A high throughput method was developed for rapid screening and identification of bioactive compounds from traditional Chinese medicine, marine products and other natural products. The system, integrated with five-channel chromatographic separation and dual UV-MS detection, is compatible with in vitro 96-well microplate based bioassays. The stability and applicability of the proposed method was validated by testing radical scavenging capability of a mixture of seven known compounds (rutin, dihydroquercetin, salvianolic acid A, salvianolic acid B, glycyrrhizic acid, rubescensin A and tangeretin). Moreover, the proposed method was successfully applied to the crude extracts of traditional Chinese medicine and a marine sponge from which 12 bioactive compounds were screened and characterized based on their anti-oxidative or anti-tumor activities. In particular, two diterpenoid derivatives, agelasine B and (-)-agelasine D, were identified for the first time as anti-tumor compounds from the sponge Agelas mauritiana, showing a considerable activity toward MCF-7 cells (IC50 values of 7.84±0.65 and 10.48±0.84 μM, respectively). Our findings suggested that the integrated system of 5-channel parallel chromatography coupled with on-line mass spectrometry and microplate based assays can be a versatile and high efficient approach for the discovery of active compounds from natural products.
Acetovanillon and the known flavonoids irisolidone, irigenin, irisolone, tectorigenin and dihydroquercetin-7.3′-dimethylether were detected in the rhizomes of Iris germanica. Also a few unknown compounds could be isolated and their structure elucidated; 9-methoxy-7-(3′.4′.5′-trimethoxyphenyl)-8H-1.3-dioxolo[4.5-g] [1]-benzopyran-8-on (=5.3′.4′.5′-tetramethoxy-6.7-methylenedioxyisoflavone (III A); 9-methoxy-7-(3′.4′-dimethoxyphenyl)-8H-1.3-dioxolo[4.5-g] [1]-benzopyran-8-on (=5.3′.4′-trimethoxy-6.7-methylenedioxyisoflavone(III B); 9-hydroxy-7-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-8H-1.3-dioxolo[4.5-g] [1]-benzopyran-8-on (=5.4′-dihydroxy-6.7-methylenedioxyiosoflavone (IX); 5.7-dihydroxy-3-(3′-hydroxy-4′-methoxyphenyl)-6-methoxy-4H-1-benzopyran-4-on (=5.7.3′-trihydroxy-6.4′-dimethoxyisoflavone (XI B); 5.7-dihydroxy-3-(4′-hydroxy-3′-methoxyphenyl)-6-methoxy-4H-1-benzopyran-4-on (=5.7.4′-trihydroxy-6.3′-dimethoxyisoflavone (XI C).
Three flavanonol namely quercetin, dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin were isolated from ethyl acetate fraction of Picea smithiana (wall) Boiss by using standard isolation schemes. The isolated flavanonol were evaluated for their enzyme inhibition potential against urease, carbonic anhydrase and Phosphodiesterases-I. Flavanonol showed significant activity against urease with IC50 value of 29.73 ± 1.22 μM, While quercetin and dihydroquercetin were found to be weak inhibitors of urease with IC50 values of 208.87 ± 2.11 and 202.87 ± 2.01 μM respectively. Thiourea was used as a standard for the inhibition of urease enzyme (IC50=21 ± 0.12). On the other hand flavanonol 2 showed potent activity against phosphodieseterase-1 when compared with the standard EDTA (IC50=273 ± 1.69 μM). Newly identified inhibitors of enzyme may lead for the discovery of new drug to treat urolithiasis, and cardiovascular associated disorder. In silico drug designing plays an important role in the discovery of new inhibitors against the target. Compounds 1-3 were screen for docking study. The docked conformations of compounds 1-3 and reference thiourea showed potency of compounds 1-3. From the docking statistics, it is observed that the binding affinity of compound 3 is -8.5 kcal/mol (Autodock vina docking energies), which is best than the standard thiourea (-3.4 kcal/mol).
The conversion of dihydroquercetin to catechin and procyanidin was studied in maturing wild type barley (Hordeum vulgare L., cv. Nordal) seeds and proanthocyanidin free mutants blocked in four different genes,ant 13, ant 17, ant 18 andant 19. In the wild type barley grown under controlled conditions, maximal rate of synthesis of catechin, procyanidin B3 and procyanidin C2 occurred 8–16 days after flowering. Dihydroquercetin was radioactively labelled by feeding (1-14C)-acetate and (2-14C)-acetate to flowerbuds of a petunia mutant accumulating this flavonoid. When fed to pericarp-testa tissue of wild type barley labelled catechin, procyanidin B3 and procyanidin C2 were synthesized establishing dihydroquercetin as a precursor of these compounds. In addition labelled 2,3-trans-3,4-cis-leucocyanidin was synthesized indicating that this compound is an intermediate. The leucocyanidin was identified by co-chromatography with an authentic standard prepared chemically by reduction of dihydroquercetin with NaBH4. The major product of this reduction, however, was the 2,3-trans-3,4-trans-leucocyanidin. Only mutantant 18-102 accumulated dihydroquercetin in the seeds. Feeding (14C)-dihydroquercetin to pericarp-testa tissue from the mutants revealed thatant 17-139 was capable of synthesizing significant amounts of labelled catechin and procyanidin, whereasant 13-101,ant 13-152,ant 18-102 andant 19-109 synthesized none or only very small amounts of these compounds. It is concluded that (i)ant 18 controls the reduction of dihydroquercetin to 2,3-trans-3,4-cis-leucocyanidin, (ii)ant 19 controls the reduction of the leucocyanidin to catechin, and (iii)ant 13 andant 17 control unidentified steps prior to dihydroquercetin.
FIELD: medicine, ophthalmology, chemical-pharmaceutical industry, pharmacy. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to design of ophthalmological agents of broad spectrum based on vegetable components, vitamins and trace elements. Agent for treatment of eye diseases comprises bilberry berries of sublimation drying, dihydroquercetin, beta-carotene, selexen, lutein, vitamins B 1 , B 2 , B 6 , B 12 and zinc. Agent shows the effect of broad spectrum and possesses regenerating, tonic and regenerative effect being without irritating, allergizing, inflammatory and other undesirable effects, and excluding mechanical contact with eye surface. EFFECT: valuable medicinal properties of agent. 5 cl
Thirteen flavonoid compounds were isolated from the aerial parts of Blumea balsamifera.Their structures were identified as 5,7-dihydroxy-3,3',4'-trimethoxy flavone(1),3,5,3',4'-tetrahydroxy-7-methoxyflavone(2),davidigenin(3),catechin(4),ayanin(5),davidioside(6),dihydroquercetin-7,4'-dimethylether(7),blumeatin(8),dihydroquercetin-4'-methylether(9),3,5,3'-trihydroxy-7,4'-dimethoxyflavone(10),5,7,3',5'-tetrahydroxyflavanone(11),luteolin(12),and quercetin(13).Among them,compounds 1 and 3-6 were isolated from this plant for the first time.
Abstract One new and six known flavonoid methyl ethers were isolated variously from seven Artemisia taxa. The new natural product, dihydroquercetin 7,3′-dimethyl ether, was obtained from A. pygmaea . The known compounds were apigenin 4′-methyl ether, kaempferol 6-methyl and 3,6,7-trimethyl ethers, quercetin 7,3′-dimethyl ether and the 3,6-dimethyl and 3,6,7-trimethyl ethers of quercetagetin.
The conversion of dihydroquercetin to catechin and procyanidin was studied in maturing wild type barley (Hordeum vulgare L., cv. Nordal) seeds and proanthocyanidin free mutants blocked in four different genes, ant 13, ant 17. ant 18 and ant 19. In the wild type barley grown under controlled conditions, maximal rate of synthesis of catechin, procyanidin B3 and procyanidin C2 occurred 8-16 days after flowering. Dihydroquercetin was radioactively labelled by feeding ( 1 -'4C)-acetate and (2-'4C)-acetate to flowerbuds of a petunia mutant accumulating this flavonoid. When fed to pericarp-testa tissue of wild type barley labelled catechin, procyanidin B3 and procyanidin C2 were synthesized establishing dihydroquercetin as a precursor of these compounds. In addition labelled 2,3-trans-3,4-cis-leucocyanidin was synthesized indicating that this compound is an intermediate. The leucocyanidin was identified by co-chromatography with an authentic standard prepared chemically by reduction ofdihydroquercetin with NaBH,. The major product of this reduction, however, was the 2,3-trans-3,4-trans-leucocyanidin. Only mutant ant 18-102 accumulated dihydroquercetin in the seeds. Feeding ('4C)-dihydroquercetin to pericarp-testa tissue from the mutants revealed that ant 17-139 was capable of synthesizing significant amounts of labelled catechin and procyanidin, whereas ant 13-101, ant 13-152, ant 18-102 and ant 19-109 synthesized none or only very small amounts of these compounds. It is concluded that (i) ant 18 controls the reduction of dihydroquercetin to 2,3-trans-3,4-cis-leucocyanidin, (ii) ant 19 controls the reduction of the leucocyanidin to catechin, and (iii) ant 13 and ant 17 control unidentified steps prior to dihydroquercetin.
The chemical study of Heterothalamus alienus gave rutin, spathulenol (1), (1R,7S)-germacra-4(15),5,10(14)-trien-1β-ol (2), sakuranetin (3), padmatin 3-acetate (4), (2R,3R)-dihydroquercetin-7,3′,4′-trimethyl ether (5), (2R,3R)-dihydroquercetin-7,4′-dimethyl ether (6), (2R,3R)-3-acetoxy-5,7,4′-trihydroxyflavanone (7), as the main components of an antifungal extract of the aerial parts of the plant. Compound 2 showed moderate activity, with Epidermophyton floccosum being the most susceptible species (MIC = 100 µg/mL); compound 3 showed the best antifungal behavior having a broad spectrum of action and the lowest MICs. This flavanone along with flavanolol 5 showed very good activity against standardized (MIC = 31.2 µg/mL) as well as clinical isolates of Trichophyton rubrum and T. mentagrophytes (MIC ranges 31.2–62.5 µg/mL and 31.2–125 µg/mL, respectively) and demonstrated not only fungistatic but also fungicide properties. Flavanolol 6 was active against all the dermatophytes tested with MICs of 62.5–250 µg/mL. Rutin, spathulenol (1) and the 3-acetylated flavanones 4 and 7 were inactive or marginally active against the fungal panel. Copyright © 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Dihydroquercetin (DHQ) is a readily available compound with a broad spectrum of biological activity that makes development of new drug forms based on this compound imperative. In particular, it exhibits capillary-protective, anti-oxidant, and anti-inflammatory effects. Microemulsions are promising systems for delivering drugs and can increase their biological availability and provide their controlled release. A water-in-oil microemulsion containing DHQ (2%), surfactant (Tween 80), cosurfactant (propyleneglycol), an oil phase (Labrafil M 1944 CS), and water was prepared. Physicochemical parameters (particle size, viscosity, refractive index, denisty, and pH) and the in vitro release of DHQ were studied by the paddle-over-disk method in systems modeling local transdermal application and the paddle method in systems modeling oral application. Release rate constants were calculated. The proposed microemulsion ensures uniform prolonged release of the active substance.
FIELD: medicine, pharmaceutical industry. SUBSTANCE: claimed composition represents emulsion from phospholipids in form of liposome with average particle size of 0.2-0.4 mum having membranes with integrated dihydroquercetin flavonoid and wheat germ oil, containing hydrophobic antioxidants such as tocopherols (Vitamin E) and carothenoids. Emulsion water phase contains sodium chloride, water soluble antioxidants such as ascorbic acid (Vitamin C), N-acetyl L-cysteine and sodium benzoate. EFFECT: effective composition for inhalation with prolonged storage time. 1 tbl, 1 ex
CONTEXT ::: Prosthechea michuacana W.E. Higgins (LaLlave & Lex) (Orchidaceae) is an orchid that has been used in traditional medicine for the treatment of inflammation, diabetes, wound, and liver disorders. Therefore, we thought it would be worthwhile to study the effect of this orchid on liver damage using mice as model. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: The present study investigates the effect of flavonoids isolated from methanol extract of P. michuacana on carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced liver damage in mice. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: The methanol extract was purified by repeated column chromatography, resulting in the identification of five metabolites whose hepatoprotective effects were evaluated by measuring aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, glutamate, total bilirubin level, lactate dehydrogenase, total serum protein, and lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances assay) in CCl(4)-induced hepatic injury in mice. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: From the bulbs of P. michuacana, four known flavonoids were isolated (scutellarein 6-methyl ether, dihydroquercetin, apigenin 7-O-glucoside, and apigenin-7-neohesperidoside), together with the new flavonol glycoside apigenin-6-O-β-D-glucopyranosil-3-O-α-L-rhamnopyranoside. Their structures were characterized by 1D and 2D nuclear magnetic resonance experiments. Treatment with flavonoids significantly prevented the biochemical measurable changes induced by CCl(4) in the liver. Compounds 1, 4, and 5 were found to exhibit good hepatoprotective effect. These effects were comparable to that of the standard drug silymarin, a well-known hepatoprotective agent. ::: ::: ::: DISCUSSION ::: These results demonstrate that flavonoids contained in the bulbs of P. michuacana contribute to the hepatoprotective activity attributed to the plant.
Study was carried out on the extraction technology of dihydroquercetin from larch wood, and on conditions of extraction ratio. The structure of the product was identified.
Many pine bark extracts have antioxidant properties. This work examined bench scale extraction on the yield, the composition and antioxidant properties of Pinus radiata. Acetone solvent (98.7% w/w at 120 °C) yielded maximum phenols concentration, tannins concentration, anti-radical activity (DPPH) and reducing activity (FRAP), although its extraction yield was the lowest. When the organic solvent in the mixture decreased, the chelating activity increased (ICA) and antiradical and reducing activities decreased. The extract largest yield was obtained with water at 120oC, but the antioxidant properties were relatively poor. Taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) and catechin were the main extract components detected by RP-HPLC. The best extraction conditions for high extractive yield and antioxidant properties was achieved with ethanol/water at 120 °C.
The larches, the Larix genus of plants are known as a natural source of taxifolin (dihydroquercetin), and extracts of its taxifolin rich xylem are used in dietary supplements to maintain health. In the present study, to assess biological activities of a methanol extract of the Japanese larch, Larix kaempferi (LK-ME), the effects of LK-ME on cell viability, inflammatory cytokine expression, and glycation were investigated. The effects of taxifolin which is known to be a main compound of LK-ME, and its related flavonoids, quercetin and luteolin were also examined. The results show that taxifolin exhibits lower growth inhibition activity and lesser induction activity of inflammatory cytokines in a human monocyte derived cell line, THP-1 cells, while in vitro anti-glycation activities of taxifolin were inhibiting at comparable levels to those of quercetin and luteolin. The growth inhibition and the cytokine induction activities, and the anti-glycation effects of LK-ME are assumed to have properties similar to taxifolin. The results of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis indicated that taxifolin was detected as the main peak of LK-ME at the absorbance of 280 nm, and the concentration of taxifolin was measured as 3.12 mg/ml. The actual concentration of taxifolin in LK-ME is lower than the concentration estimated from the IC50 values calculated by the results of glycation assays, suggesting that other compounds contained in LK-ME are involved in the anti-glycation activity.
An effect of aqueous subphases composition on the character of change of the bilayer structure of malonate mono- and dinitroxyl methanofullerenes surface films has been established. Their transformation to monolayers takes place in the presence of hydroxy-containing compounds (quercetin, dihydroquercetin, 4-methylphenol, ascorbic acid, as well as in a buffer mixture with pH 10). A loosening of mixed films on the basis of nitroxyl methanofullerenes in the presence of compounds affecting radical processes (2,4,6-tri(tert-butyl)phenol, 2-methyl-3-nitrosopropane, and TEMPO) has been demonstrated. The character of compression isotherms π = f(A 0) (π is a surface pressure, A 0 is an effective molecular area of methanofullerene) of the mixed films on water depends on the nature of component incorporated and the reaction time in solution: in all the cases, A 0 increased almost 2-fold, to 1.05 nm2 molecule−1, whereas a compressibility parameter β decreased 2–3-fold, to (1–2)·1017 N m−3. Visualization of the thin film surfaces (atomic force spectroscopy) showed that a decrease of parameter β in the Langmuir layers corresponds to the particle aggregation and structurization of the films.
Many pine bark extracts have antioxidant properties. This work examined bench scale extraction on the yield, the composition and antioxidant properties of Pinus radiata. Acetone solvent (98.7% w/w at 120 °C) yielded maximum phenols concentration, tannins concentration, anti-radical activity (DPPH) and reducing activity (FRAP), although its extraction yield was the lowest. When the organic solvent in the mixture decreased, the chelating activity increased (ICA) and antiradical and reducing activities decreased. The extract largest yield was obtained with water at 120ºC, but the antioxidant properties were relatively poor. Taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) and catechin were the main extract components detected by RP-HPLC. The best extraction conditions for high extractive yield and antioxidant properties was achieved with ethanol/water at 120 °C.
The larches, the Larix genus of plants are known as a natural source of taxifolin (dihydroquercetin), and extracts of its taxifolin rich xylem are used in dietary supplements to maintain health. In the present study, to assess biological activities of a methanol extract of the Japanese larch, Larix kaempferi (LK-ME), the effects of LK-ME on cell viability, inflammatory cytokine expression, and glycation were investigated. The effects of taxifolin which is known to be a main compound of LK-ME, and its related flavonoids, quercetin and luteolin were also examined. The results show that taxifolin exhibits lower growth inhibition activity and lesser induction activity of inflammatory cytokines in a human monocyte derived cell line, THP-1 cells, while in vitro anti-glycation activities of taxifolin were inhibiting at comparable levels to those of quercetin and luteolin. The growth inhibition and the cytokine induction activities, and the anti-glycation effects of LK-ME are assumed to have properties similar to taxifolin. The results of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis indicated that taxifolin was detected as the main peak of LK-ME at the absorbance of 280 nm, and the concentration of taxifolin was measured as 3.12 mg/ml. The actual concentration of taxifolin in LK-ME is lower than the concentration estimated from the IC 50 values calculated by the results of glycation assays, suggesting that other compounds contained in LK-ME are involved in the anti-glycation activity.
Japanese larch, Larix kaempferi is a deciduous needle leaved tree and afforested in Hokkaido and Nagano, Japan on a large scale. Among other Larix genus plants, Larix sibirica and Larix gmelinii are known to contain abundant taxifolin (dihydroquercetin), a flavonoid, in the xylem, and taxifolin rich extracts of these larch xylems are used in a dietary supplement [1, 2, 3] . Taxifolin is known to be an anti-oxidative agent [4] , and beneficial effects of taxifolin have been reported. Previous reports showed possible beneficial effects of taxifolin using animal models, including improvement of microcirculation [5] , hepatoprotective effects [6] , anti-viral activity [7] , and prevention of diabetic nephropathy [8] as well as cardiomyopathy [9] . Further, in vitro studies demonstrated that taxifolin exhibits anti-bacterial [10] , anti-fungal [11] , and anti-parasitic [12] effects, and taxifolin inhibits acetylcholinesterase and carbonic anhydrase isoenzymes [13] . Taxifolin also inhibits oligomer formation of amyloid β proteins in mice, and is thought to be effective to prevent Alzheimer related diseases [14] . Similar to L. sibirica and L. gmelinii, the xylem of L. kaempferi is also known to contain much taxifolin [15] . At present L. kaempferi extracts have not been used in dietary supplements, and the effects of L. kaempferi extracts on the health of humans or animals are not well known.
A soluble, NADPH-dependent reductase, catalyzing the reduction of (+)-dihydroquercetin to (+)-2,3-trans-3,4-cis-leucocyanidin ((2R, 3S, 4S)-3,4,5,7,3′,4′-hexahydroxyflavan), was demonstrated in an enzyme prepartation from maturing grains of wild type barley (Hordeum vulgare L., cv. Nordal). This reductase activity had a pH-optimum around 7.0 and was strongly inhibited by the product of the reaction. Furthermore, a second, less active NADPH-dependent reductase, catalyzing the reduction of (+)-2,3-trans-3,4-cis-leucocyanidin to (+)-catechin, was demonstrated by a double step reduction of (+)-dihydroquercetin to (+)-cartechin.
Abstract Taraxerol, taraxeryl acetate, α-amyrin cinnamate, α-spinosterol and a triterpenoid acid have been isolated from the bark of Mimusops hexandra . Further investigation with the seed constituents showed the presence of dihydroquercetin and quercetin in the testa, and the sterol in the seed kernel has been identified as α-spinosterol and not ergosterol as reported in the past.
Multicopper oxidases such as bilirubin oxidase (BOD) from Myrothecium verrucaria and laccase (LC) from the basidial fungus Trametes hirsuta have been used as catalysts in dihydroquercetin (DHQ) oxidative polymerization. The conditions selected enabled good yields of DHQ oligomers, which were then analyzed using UV-vis, FTIR, 1Н and 13С NMR spectroscopy. DHQ oligomers synthesized using both enzymes showed higher thermostability as compared with the monomer. Depending on the oxidase, the products of DHQ polymerization differed in physicochemical properties, and as shown by NMR studies, had different structures.
We cloned flavonol synthase gene (named as CmFLS) by RACE from Chrysanthemum morifolium cv. 'Hangju' based on transcriptome database. Sequencing results showed that 1 235 bp sequence was acquired with the largest open reading frame (ORF) of 1 008 bp, which encoded 335 amino acids. The predicted CmFLS encoded protein had an isoelectric point (pI) of 5.41. The phylogenetic tree analysis indicated that CmFLS was highly homologous to other FLSs, which identified from the species of Compositae. The recombinant fusion protein, with a molecular mass of 43 kDa, was successfully expressed by prokaryotic expression system. Meanwhile, Ni-NTA resin was used to purify the recombinant fusion protein, and the Ni-Native Buffer containing 250 mmol·L⁻¹ imidazole was most favorable for elution. The purified recombinant fusion protein was subjected to in vitro catalytic reaction, and then the products were extracted and analyzed by HPLC. The results showed that the recombinant fusion protein CmFLS was able to catalyze the production of quercetin by dihydroquercetin under specific buffer and reaction conditions, which indicated that the functional protein encoded by CmFLS had dioxygenase activity in the biosynthetic pathway of flavonoids biosynthesis in Ch. morifolium cv. 'Hangju'. The above results laid the foundation for further studying on CmFLS, and provided new ideas for the regulation of flavonoids metabolism from the molecular level and the catalytic synthesis of flavonols in vitro.
The effect of some preparations with antioxidant and/or antihypoxic properties was studied under the conditions of cytotoxic action of the antiviral drug rimantadine in an MDCK cell culture. The preparations under study were hypoxene, reduced and oxidized glutathione, metadoxil, trolox (water-soluble analog of vitamin E), dihydroquercetin, coenzyme Q, and recsod (superoxide dismutase enzyme preparation). The protective drug action on the model of cytotoxicity in vitro was observed for the preparations possessing a complex of antioxidant/antihypoxic and detoxicant properties: hypoxene, metadoxil, and reduced glutathione. The protective effect of preparations did not correlate with their direct antiradical activity with respect to the stable free radical DPPH. Some compounds of phenolic nature (trolox, coenzyme Q) and recsod enhanced the harmful effect of rimantadine on the culture cells under the conditions studied. A possible explanation of this fact could be the conversion, under certain conditions, of the effect of phenolic compounds from antioxidant to pro-oxidant, which is confirmed by some literature data. The results do not allow antioxidant preparations to be recommended for routine application as cytoprotectors during toxic stresses of different nature. The protective activity of such preparations should be estimated separately for each particular xenobiotic.
Anthocyanidin synthase catalyses the in vitro ::: conversion of its natural substrate, leucocyanidin, to cis- and ::: trans-dihydroquercetin, quercetin and a small amount of cyanidin; ::: incubation of trans-dihydroquercetin gave quercetin.
The main flavonoids found in Arabidopsis seeds are PAs of the procyanidin type and derivatives of the flavonol quercetin, both of which are produced from dihydroquercetin (Chapple et al., 1994) . At least three enzymes are involved in the conversion of leucocyanidins to catechin and procyanidins ( Figure 1 ): (1) an NADPH-dependent reductase that converts leucocyanidin (flavan-3,4-diol) to catechin (flavan-3-ol), which probably corresponds to the BAN protein in Arabidopsis (Devic et al., 1999) ; (2) hypothetically, a condensing enzyme that adds leucocyanidin to catechin (initiating unit) to form a dimeric procyanidin (condensed tannin); and (3) a second condensing enzyme that adds leucocyanidin to the procyanidin dimer, leading to elongation of the polymers (Kristiansen, 1984) . However, the fact that the immature testa of the tt7 ban double mutant (Albert et al., 1997) harbors a pelargonidin-like orange color suggests that the minor (pro)pelargonidin subpathway is also functional.
Arabidopsis testa pigments are essentially dihydroquercetin (DHQ) derivatives (Chapple et al., 1994) , presumably because of a higher enzymatic affinity for these products than for dihydrokaempferol (DHK) derivatives. Indeed, when the supply of DHQ is blocked (as in the tt7 mutant), the biosynthesis of DHK derivatives is observed (Koornneef et al., 1982; Schoenbohm et al., 2000) , although in very small amounts, accounting for the pale brown color of tt7. Consequently, tt7 tt12 seeds would appear unpigmented because of the reduced accumulation of DHK derivatives in the cytoplasm.
We found that the bark of the Siberian pine contains pinosylvin and dihydroquercetin, and the bark of Scotch pine quercetin and dihydroquereetin.
A new biflavonoid, 7-O-methylnaringenin-(4'→O→6″)-scutellarein (1), together with 11 known compounds (2-12) were isolated from the whole herb of Lepisorus ussuriensis. The structure of compound 1 was elucidated by spectroscopic analyses. Amongst them, dihydroquercetin (6), diosmetin (9), baicalein (11) and 7,8-dihydroxyflavone (12) were reported from the family Polypodiaceae for the first time. Meanwhile, quercetin (7), diosmetin (9) and luteolin (10) inhibited TNF-α-induced NF-κB reporter gene expression on HeLa cells up to 30 and 100 μM.
The time course of angiotensin-converting enzyme activity in the rat aorta after fractionated exposure to ionizing radiation and the effects of dihydroquercetin and fucoidin on this parameter were studied. Male Wistar rats were exposed to single or repeated (fractionated) X-ray radiation in a dose of 2.5 Gy at 200 kV. Activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme in aorta segments was evaluated 2 h after the last exposure by hydrolysis of hippuryl-histidineleucin substrate. Enzyme activity in the rat aorta was higher than normally after all the studied doses of fractionated exposure (2.5 Gy per fraction) with the maximum effect after the total dose of 7.5 Gy (3 fractions). Fucoidin, a blocker of endothelium receptors realizing the leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium, and flavonoid dihydroquercetin inhibiting expression of adhesion molecules in the endothelium abolished the increase in activity of angiotensinconverting enzyme in the rat aorta after single exposure; moreover, dihydroquercetin reduced significantly the effect of fractionated exposure. These data indicate that leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium is an important factor contributing to the increase of angiotensin-converting enzyme activity in the aorta.
Flavonoids are abundant in the leaves, flowers, branches, bark, and heartwood of Acacia confusa Merr. (Leguminosae), and the extracts have been found to have strong antioxidant activities. Flavonols are the major class of flavonoids found in A. confusa. The full-length gene (designated as AcFLS) contains an open reading frame of 996 nucleotides encoding 331 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular weight of 38 kDa and pI of 5.7. AcFLS mRNAs were abundant in the seedlings leaves and the flowers. Wounding by cutting leaves induced maximum AcFLS mRNA accumulation 6-12 h after treatment. AcFLS could enzymatically transform dihydromyricetin, dihydroquercetin, and naringenin into the flavonols myricetin, quercetin, and kaempferol, respectively. AcFLS could bind these three substrates with similar affinity.
Objective: To optimize the celluase-assisted extraction of dihydroquercetin from Larix olgensis Henry var.koreana Nakai wood chips by response surface methodology(RSM). Methods: Dihydroquercetin was extracted with ethanol in a herbal blitzkrieg extractor from pine wood chips pre-hydrolyzed with celluase. On the basis of the results of single-factor experiments, a Box-Behnken design was performed to optimize three extraction conditions including ethanol concentration, enzyme dosage and liquid-to-solid ratio. Results: The optimal extraction conditions were determined as hydrolysis with an enzyme dosage of 3.48 mg/g and subsequent extraction for 120 s with 60.93% ethanol in water at a liquid-to-solid ratio of 103.64:1(mL/g). Conclusion: The proposed extraction procedure can provide a simple, energy-saving and time-saving way for massive production of dihydroquercetin.
It was shown that the laccase (LC) included into hydrophobic ionic liquid (IL) can be reused for the biotransformation of dihydroquercetin (DHQ). The physicochemical characteristics of DHQ oligomers synthesized using LC/IL did not differ from the characteristics of the oligomers obtained with native laccase. The synthesized oligomers have a number average molecular weight of 1050 g/mol and a polydispersity index of 1.41. Oligomers possess higher antioxidant activity than the monomer.
The antioxidant effect of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) was studied in Wistar rats with experimental hepatitis, caused by tetrachloromethane (CCl(4)). Animals were divided into three groups: intact (n = 9); control (n = 9) which received CCl(4) subcutaneously for 4 days (4 mL/kg); and experimental (n = 9) which received DHQ (100 mg/kg) for 4 days prior to the first administration of CCl(4) and during the course of the subsequent 14 days. DHQ was intubated per os, using a water crystalline suspension. The content of products of lipid peroxidation, reacting with thiobarbituric acid in the serum and liver of the control animals, was increased by more than 1.5 fold compared with the intact and experimental animals (p < 0.01). The blood plasma antioxidant activity of the control animals was 1.8 to 2 times lower than that of experimental and intact animals (p < 0.01) It is suggested that the data obtained are dependent on the anti-oxidant properties of DHQ.
Abstract Centaurea cyanus is a popular garden plant native to Europe. Although their petals show abundant colour variations, the flavonoid profiling and the potential molecular mechanisms remain unclear. In the present study, we collected six cornflower cultivars with white, pink, red, blue, mauve and black petals. Ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with photodiode array and tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) was used to investigate the comparative profiling of flavonoids both qualitatively and quantitatively. Ten anthocyanins, six flavones and two flavonols were separated and putatively identified. Except for white petals without any anthocyanins, both pink and red flowers contained pelargonidin derivatives, whereas blue, mauve and black petals accumulated cyanidins. The expression patterns of genes involved in the flavonoid biosynthesis were performed by real-time quantitative reverse transcription-PCR. The anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway in white petals was inhibited starting from flavanone 3-hydroxylase, resulting in the absence of anthocyanin accumulation. The open reading frame of flavonoid 3′-hydroxylase in pink and red petals was truncated; this led to loss of a haem binding site, a conserved motif in the cytochrome P450 family, and loss of conversion from dihydrokaempferol to dihydroquercetin. The significantly higher expression of structural genes corresponding to the hyper-accumulation of flavonoids in black petals may play an important role in black coloration. Remarkably, the mauve and blue petals accumulated the same cyanidin derivative but contained apigenin with different modifications on the 4′ position, which may cause the coloration differences. The results obtained in this study will provide insights into the mechanisms of vivid colour diversities in cornflower.
SUMMARY— The role of various polyphenolic compounds in oxidations catalyzed by apple polyphenol oxidase (PPO) was investigated. Quercetin, quercitrin, rutin, cyanidin chloride, phloroglucinol, and resorcinol were neither substrates nor inhibitors of apple PPO. Phloroglucinol and resorcinol increased the rate of PPO catalyzed oxidation of chlorogenic acid. ::: ::: ::: ::: Esculetin and dihydroquercetin were found to be substrates of PPO. No synergistic effect was detected in the browning rates of an esculetinchlorogenic acid mixture or a dihydroquercetin-chlorogenic acid mixture. Ferulic acid, fisetin, and p-coumaric acid were generally non-competitive inhibitors, although ferulic acid inhibited competitively in one test. It was hypothesized that the conjugated system in flavones prevents these compounds from being apple PPO substrates.
The quantitative determination of quercetin and dihydroquercetin in the total flavonoids ofLatrix dahurica has been effected by the use of thin-layer chromatography on Kapron for separating the mixture with subsequent elution of the spots and colorimetry of the eluates obtained. The methanol-dimethylformamide (1:1) system was used as the eluate. It has been found that the flavonoids of the heartwood ofLatrix dahurica contain a predominating amount, 69% of dihydroquercetin, the amount of quercetin being 11%.
Information about types of vegetative raw material for flavonoid dihydroquercetin manufacture are given. Data of a wide spectrum of biological activity of dihydroquercetin are systematized. Two directions of use dihydroquercetin in food industry: as antioxidant and as biologically active supplement for creation different types of parapharmaceutical production is shown. Dihydroquercetin in the capacity of antioxidant may be compared or exceeds many synthetic and natural antioxidants and, in particular, known bioflavonoids (quercetin). High antioxidant activity of dihydroquercetin is combined with absence embryotoxicity, teratogenicity, allergenicity and mutability. Dihydroquercetin used as efficient antioxidant with regard to vegetable oils, animal fat, milk powder, fat contain pastry. Parapharmaceutical production with dihydroquercetin is intended for prophylactic of "oxidative stress" diseases (cardiovascular, bronchopulmonary, etc.). Practical application of new types of products containing dihydroquercetin was described. Dihydroquercetin is an available commercial food additive, producing domestic industry.
We analyzed changes in angiotensin-converting enzyme activity in the aorta of hypertensive SHR rats against the background of age-related BP increase (from week 7 to 14) and the effect of dihydroquercetin on BP rise and angiotensin-converting enzyme activity. Normotensive WKY rats of the same age were used as the control. BP and activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme in the aorta of SHR rats increased with age. Dihydroquercetin in doses of 100 and 300 μg/kg per day had no effect on the increase of these parameters; dihydroquercetin administered to 14-week-old WKY rats in a dose of 300 μg/kg reduced activity of the angiotensin-converting enzyme. Thus, the early (7-14 weeks) increase in BP and angiotensin-converting enzyme activity in the aorta of SHR rats was not modified by flavonoids (dihydroquercetin) in contrast to other rat strains and humans, which is indicative of specificity of hypertension mechanism in SHR rats.
The contents of phenols including 15 phenol monomers and antioxidant activity of four cultivated varieties of liliy flower petals were tested.The antioxidant activity of petal extracts was evaluated by measuring scavenging ability against ABTS+.,DPPH and hydroxyl free radicals,reducing power and metal-chelating ability.Flower petals of "Sorbonne" was found to contain the highest phenol content followed by "Siberia","Manissa" and Lilium regula.Different types of polyphenol monomers were found in the studied varieties of lily petals and catechin,epicatechin,pcoumaricacid,delphinidin,rutin,dihydromyricetin,dihydroquercetin and kaempferol were simultaneously present in them.In addition,phenols from 4 varieties showed strong radical scavenging activity against ABTS+.,DPPH and hydroxyl free radicals,copper ion reducing power and metal-chelating capacity.Our results indicate that these selected lilies can be developed and utilized in practice as promising sources of natural antioxidants.
Abstract From the hexane extract of Artemisia campestris subsp. glutinosa , sakuranetin, dihydroquercetin-7,3′-dimethyl ether and three acetophenone derivatives identified as 3-[4-acetoxyisopent-2( Z )-enyl]-4-hydroxyacetophenone, 3-[4-acetoxyisopent-2( E )-enyl]-4-hydroxyacetophenone and 3-(3-acetoxymethyl-2-hydroxybut-3-enyl)-4-hydroxyacetophenone, have been isolated.
Dihydroquercetin is a flavonol,it has a lot of biological function and use,so studies on dihydroquercetin from natural products have been followed with interest.This paper introduced the methods of isolation and purification on dihydroquercetin from natural products.There are organic solvent extraction,doposit isolation,microwave-assisted extraction,ultrasonic wave by turn microwave extraction,crystallization and repeating crystallization,chromatography etc.Through contrasting these methods,analyzed and summarized advantages and disadvantages of every method,and looked forward applicative direction of research methods in the future.
Bark of shore pine has high contents of the dihydroflavonols dihydromyricetin and dihydroquercetin. A method for isolation of the pure, optically active compounds in gram amounts has been developed, involving Soxhlet extraction of finely ground, dry bark and preparative scale reversed-phase HPLC. Among a number of inexpensive solvents tested ethyl acetate is useful, being reasonably effective in the extraction step and giving a crude extractive that is suitable for HPLC without any pre-treatment. The use of bark from dead trees, which have been lying in the open for a couple of years, is advantageous because of the lower content of resinous material. 270 MHz1H- and13C-NMR and electron impact mass spectra are presented.
This review assembled literature data on the distribution of flavonoid compounds (FC) among food plants as well as data on the antioxidative activity (AOA) as related to structure and pharmacologic action. Special attention was accorded to the problem of the use of FC as exergonic food antioxidants FC are not xenogenic to humans and are distinguished by their low (or completely absent) toxicity. Their AOA, as a rule, is superior to that of known antioxidants. The possible, eventual augmentation of wholesome medically prophylactic properties of essential food products by regulated addition of FC was discussed. The benefit of the use of specific additives-quercetin and dihydroquercetin-compared to the utilization of mixed plant SC was demonstrated. Medically prophylactic food products, with supplementation of FC, are devised for regions with unfavorable ecologic circumstances (increased radioactivity, contaminated industrial effluents) as well as for regions susceptible to the influence of stress factors or extreme climatic conditions.
SUMMARY ::: ::: The metabolic fate of six flavonoids during development and growth of larch needles was investigated. One flavonoid, dihydroquercetin, appeared to be a special bud-flavonoid. Four compounds were isolated both from buds and leaves, a maximum concentration was found in developing young leaves. A sixth flavonoid, kaempferol-3-(p-coumarylglucoside), was nearly absent in the buds, its highest concentration in the leaves occurred about two months later than that of the other compounds. Only one compound, naringenin-7-glucoside, tended to reaccumulate in late summer.
In addition to their plant-associated functions, flavonoids act as antioxidants against harmful free radicals in animals. Genetic engineering of food crops for a mix of antioxidant flavonoids is highly beneficial in promoting human health. Anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) is one of the four dioxygenases (DOX) of the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway that catalyzes the formation of anthocyanidins from leucoanthocyanidins. To investigate whether ANS mediates different DOX reactions of the pathway and produces a mix of flavonoids, the rice ANS cDNA was cloned and overexpressed in a rice mutant Nootripathu (NP). This mutant accumulates proanthocyanidins exclusively in pericarp and absolutely no anthocyanins in any tissue. In silico sequence analysis revealed that ANS contains a double-stranded beta helix and shows high sequence similarity with other DOXs of the pathway including flavonol synthase, flavonone 3beta-hydroxylase and flavone synthase I. Bacterially expressed ANS protein converted dihydroquercetin to quercetin and Pro(35S):ANS complemented the maize a2 mutant in producing anthocyanins in aleurone, suggesting that ANS functions as a DOX with different flavonoid substrates. Similarly, transgenic NP plants overexpressing Pro(MAS):ANS channeled the proanthocaynidin precursors to the production of anthocyanins in pericarp. Transgenics showed approximately ten and four-fold increase in the ANS transcripts and enzyme activity, respectively. As a result, these plants showed an increased accumulation of a mixture of flavonoids and anthocyanins, with a concomitant decrease in proanthocyanidins, suggesting that ANS may act directly on different flavonoid substrates of DOX reactions. Thus, overexpression of ANS in a rice mutant resulted in novel transgenic rice with a mixture of flavonoids and an enhanced antioxidant potential.
This study aimed to establish an optimal extraction process and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-photodiode array (PDA) analytical method for determination of marker compounds, dihydrokaempferol (DHK) and 3-O-methylquercetin (3-MeQ), as a part of materials standardization for the development of health functional foods from stems of Opuntia ficus-indica var. saboten (OFS). The quantitative determination method of marker compounds was optimized by HPLC analysis, and the correlation coefficient for the calibration curve showed very good linearity. The HPLC-PDA method was applied successfully to quantification of marker compounds in OFS after validation of the method in terms of linearity, accuracy, and precision. Ethanolic extracts from stems of O. ficus-indica var. saboten (OFSEs) were evaluated by reflux extraction at 70 and 80°C with 50, 70, and 80% ethanol for 3, 4, 5, and 6 h. Among OFSEs, OFS70E at 80°C showed the highest contents of DHK and 3-MeQ of 26.42±0.65 and 3.88±0.29 mg/OFS 100 g, respectively. Furthermore, OFSEs were determined for their antioxidant activities by measuring 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging and lipid peroxidation (LPO) inhibitory activities in rat liver homogenate. OFS70E at 70°C showed the most potent antioxidant activities with IC50 values of 1.19±0.11 and 0.89±0.09 mg/mL in the DPPH radical scavenging and LPO inhibitory assays, respectively. To identify active components of OFS, various chromatographic separation of OFS70E led to isolation of 11 flavonoids: dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin, 3-O-methylquercetin, quercetin, isorhamnetin 3-O-glucoside, isorhamnetin 3-O-galactoside, narcissin, kaempferol 7-O-glucoside, quercetin 3-O-galactoside, isorhamnetin, and kaempferol 3-O-rutinoside. The results suggest that standardization of DHK in OFSEs using HPLC-PDA analysis would be an acceptable method for the development of health functional foods.
Three constituents were isolated from Blumea balsamifera,and their structures were elucidated by spectroscopic evidence. They were xanthoxylin(Ⅰ),blumeatin(Ⅱ)and dihydroquercetin-7,4′-dimethylether(Ⅲ). Compound Ⅰ is obtained from genus Blumea for the first time.
OBJECTIVE To investigate the chemical constituents of Quercus pannosa Hand.-Mazz..METHODS The com- pounds were isolated and purified via silica gel and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography repeatedly and their structures were elu- cidated on the basis of spectroscopic evidences and physiochemical properties.RESULTS Five flavanoids were isolated and identified as(+)-catechin(1),(-)-epicatechin(2),(2R,3R)-(-)-dihydroquercetin 3-O-β-D-glucopyranoside(3),(2R,3R)-(-)-di- hydroquercetin 3-O-β-D-xylopyranoside(4),chamaechromone(5)respectively.CONCLUSION All compounds are isolated from the plant for the first time.
Milk thistle (Silybum marianum L.) belongs to family Asteraceae. S. marianum contains phenolic compounds that are involved in the biosynthesis of flavonolignans. Flavonolignans are formed by combination of coniferyl alcohol and dihydroquercetin (Taxifolin). Flavonolignans in S. marianum called silymarin. Silymarin is a mixture of different isomers; silibinin, isosilibinin, silicristin, silidianine and silychristine. Silymarin has a liver protective function as it acts an antioxidant and by promoting the growth of new liver cells [1] . Silymarin has been used (especially in Europe) to treat hepatitis and liver damage due to alcoholism [2] . A standardized extract should be 80% silymarin (the active ingredient). The usual dosage of milk thistle extract is between 300 and 600 mg daily. In addition, Milk thistle has been recently described as anticancer, antidepressant, antioxidant, cardio protective, demulcent, digestive tonic, hepatoprotective, hepatoregenerative, immunostimulatory and as a neuroprotective [3] .
OBJECTIVE ::: To study the chemical constituents from Ampelopsis grossedentata (hand-Mazz) W.T. Wang. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Chromatography and spectroscopic analysis were employed to isolate and elucidate the chemical constituents in the plant. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Seven compounds were isolated and elucidated as ampelopsin (I), myricetin (II), myricitrin (III), gallic acid (IV), beta-sitosterol (V), stigmasterol (VI) and dihydroquercetin (VII). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Among these compounds, IV, V, VI and VII were isolated from this plant for the first time, and compound VII was obtained from genus Ampelopsis for the first time.
Quantitative, qualitative, and group composition of resinous substances from the heartwood of larch (Larix sibirica Ledeb.), which are by-products of dihydroquercetin production, have been analyzed using highperformance liquid and gas chromatography. Isocembrol, a diterpene compound possessing the properties of a plant growth-regulating hormone, has been detected for the first time among the extractable substances from larch biomass. The chemical composition of the resinous substances implies high biological activity of the product analyzed and can be used to determine the areas of practical application of this product.
Abstract Aminooxyacetate (AOA), an inhibitor of phenylalanine transamination and deamination in vitro, inhibits the light-induced formation of chlorogenic acid, leucoanthocyanin, rutin and anthocyanin (cyanidin glycosides) in buckwheat hypocotyls. Anthocyanin production is inhibited 87 ± 4%, when excised hypocotyls are incubated in 0.5 mM AOA in Petri dishes. AOA is also effective when taken up through the roots or sprayed onto seedlings. In the presence of biosynthetic precursors of cyanidin ( l -phenylalanine, trans-cinnamic acid, p-coumaric acid, naringenin, eriodictyol, dihydrokaempferol. and dihydroquercetin) the inhibition of anthocyanin formation caused by AOA is completely or partially reversed. The general applicability of a complementation technique involving AOA or a similar inhibitor of phenylpropane synthesis is proposed to investigate the biosynthesis of natural products derived from cinnamic acid.
Abstract Three distinct glycosyltransferases have been isolated and partially purified from anthers of Tulipa cv. Apeldoorn. The following designations are proposed; UDP-glucose: flavonol 3-O-glucosyltransferase (GT-I), UDP-rhamnose: flavonol 3-O-glucoside rhamnosyltransferase (GT-II) and UDP-xylose: flavonol 3-glycoside xylosyltransferase (GT-III). The three enzymes exhibited an identical pH optimum within the range of 8.5 -9.0. The estimated molecular weight of GT-I and GT-II was about 40 000, GT-III showed a molecular weight of 30 000. GT-III required ions like NH4+or Ca2+ whereas these ions have almost no influence on GT-I and GT-II activity. The enzymes have a slight requirement for SH-reagents, particularly DTE. As opposed to GT-II activity of GT-I and GT-III is significantly influenced by SH reagents and PCMB. Sucrose enhanced GT-III activity but only slightly GT-I activity, GT-II activity is not influenced. Flavonol aglycones can function as glycosyl acceptor for the GT-I, whereas flavonol 3-O-glycosides, luteolin, dihydroquercetin, naringenin, cyanidin, p-coumaric acid and some other phenols were inactive as acceptor. The best acceptors were isorhamnetin and quercetin (Km: 0.9 × 10-6 ᴍ). GT-II did not accept aglycones as substrates. For this enzyme flavonol 3-O-glucosides were the most attractive substrates. GT-III did not have any affinity towards aglycones, too. This enzyme exhibited a high specificity for flavonol 3-O-glucosides as well as flavonol 3-O-galactosides. Both enzymes, the GT-II and GT-III, were able to glycosylate flavonol 3-O-diglycosides forming triglycosides. UDP-glucose (Km = 1.0 × 10-4 ᴍ), UDP-rhamnose and UDP-xylose where shown to be the best glycosyl donors for GT-I, GT-II or GT-III respectively. The glycosyl transfer catalysed by the GT-I was shown to be a freely reversible reaction. In the whole anthers, highest specific activities of GT-I and GT-II were found during late stages of anther development. Similar results were obtained using the contents of anthers or the tapetum fraction. In contrary, high GT-III activity can be detected already in young stages of anther development. The highest activities of the three glycosyltransferases were found in the tapetum fraction, whereas the pollen fraction exhibited only poor activities.
Abstract Previous studies showed evidence that quercetin can bind DNA by intercalation [R. Solimani et al., J. Agric. Food Chem. 43 (1995) 876–882] and a comparison with the flavanol dihydroquercetin indicated that the interaction is correlated to the planarity and hydrophobicity of the benzopyranic-4-one plane [R. Solimani, Int. J. Biol. Macromol. 18 (1996) 287–295]. In this study flow linear dichroism (LD) spectra of the hydrophobic quercetin were compared with hydrophilic aglycoside morin and 3-glycoside rutin in the same conditions: [DNA]=3.1·10−2 mol/l phosphate, [dye]=(1.0–4.0)·10−4 mol/l. Morin and rutin in an aqueous environment showed the same behaviour as quercetin in buffer–ethanol (70:30, v/v) solution, with their common benzopyranic-4-one part within the biopolymer. The LDR values (LD normalised to the relative isotropic absorption) indicated a greater affinity of the quercetin for the DNA. Comparison of the LDR of morin and rutin showed a ratio LDmorinR/LDrutinR≈1.1–1.2 very close to unity and this suggests the localisation of the 3-rutinoside of rutin outside the intercalation site. Dichroic measurements recorded in extreme conditions of concentration partly clarified the sequences of interaction between quercetin and DNA in solution which shows the prototypical behaviour of the flavonolic group. This consists of an initial weak external association, where an electrostatic component is excluded, and which can evolve to intercalation changing the DNA concentration, whereas the quantity of the flavonol influences relatively the association. The carbonylic region of the benzopyranic-4-one chromophore is probably localised outside the intercalation site. This was suggested by indirect infrared (attenuated total reflection ATR) data of the quercetin–ethanol solution: the presence of free and chelated carbonyl determines a greater density of negative charges in this region of the chromophore, with the consequent lower probability of this portion penetrating the external polyanionic perimeter of the DNA. A simple approach to determine the order of magnitude of the anisotropic band II of the flavonols completely covered by the more intense DNA band at 260 nm, was also proposed. The low number of intercalated chromophores did not determine an alteration of the flexibility and hydrodynamic behaviour of the biopolymer and this can be correlated to a biological consideration: the flavonols probably do not interfere with the genetic functionality of the DNA. In contrast, the potentially close relationship between these nucleophilic dyes and the biopolymer, shown in this study, suggests a protective role on the nucleophilic groups of the DNA, which are a target of free radicals and the reactive electrophilic groups.
Accessible triterpenoids of ursane and lupane series, the flavonoid dihydroquercetin and their synthetic derivatives with polar substituents were tested in vitro for inhibition of collagenase 1 (MMP-1) in UVB irradiation assay. Ursolic acid and uvaol disuccinate were the most active inhibitors in the ursane series. In the lupane series, the best inhibition was manifested by carboxymethyl ester of betulonic acid and betulin succinates. Down- regulation of MMP-1 by dihydroquercetin and its synthetic derivatives surpassed the activity of a standard (retinoic acid).
Abstract 1. 1.An enzyme catalyzing the transfer of d -glucose from UDP- d -glucose to the 3-hydroxyl group of flavonols is present in extracts from cell suspension cultures of parsley 2. 2.The flavonol 3-O- glucosyltransferase can be separated from the previously described 7-O- glucosyltransferase by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose or by disc electrophoresis 3. 3.The enzyme has a strict positional specificity but catalyzes the 3-O- glucosylation of a number of flavonols with the exception of dihydroquercetin. The enzyme also catalyzes the glucosylation of quercetin 7-O- glucoside to form quercetin 3,7- dig -O- Glucoside . This diglucoside is not formed from quercetin 3-O- glucoside with the 7-O- glucosyltransferase 4. 4.Extractable enzyme activity is increased by prior illumination of the cell cultures. Maximum activity is reached about 24 h after onset of illumination. The enzyme therefore belongs to the previously defined group II of enzymes involved in the flavone glycoside pathway in parsley.
The non-anthocyanin phenolic compounds in wines from five grape cultivars (Zuo Shan Yi, Zuo Shan Er, Shuang Hong, Shuang You and Shuang Feng) of Vitis amurensis and two hybrid cultivars (Zuo Hong Yi and Zuo You Hong) were examined by high-performance liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC/ESI-MS/MS) technique in this study. The non-anthocyanin phenolic compounds detected from 7 grape cultivars included 5 benzoic acids, 7 cinnamic acids, 5 flavan-3-ols, 9 flavonols and 4 stilbenes. The detected benzoic acids were gallic acid, protocatechuic acid, syringic acid, ethyl gallate, and ellagic acid. The cinnamic acids were trans-cinnamic acid, transcaftaric acid, trans-cutaric acid, ferulic acid, trans-fertaric acid, caffeic acid and ethyl caffeic acid. The flavan-3-ols were procyanidin B1, catechin, procyanidin B2, epicatechin, and trimeric procyanidin C1. The flavonols were dihydroquercetin, myricetin-3-glucoside, quercetin-3-galactoside, quercetin-3- glucuronide, quercetin-3-glucoside, myricetin, quercetin, naringenin and leutolin. The stilbenes were trans-piceid, cis-piceid, trans-resveratrol and cis-resveratrol. Principal components analysis showed that the non-anthocyanin phenolic compounds in wines were mainly composed of cinnamic acids, flavan-3-ols and benzoic acids. In addition, systematic cluster analysis suggested that the nonanthocyanin phenolic compound profiles were helpful for the classification of these cultivars of V. amurensis and the hybrids. Key words: Wine, non-anthocyanin phenolic compounds, high-performance liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.
The paper describes modern ways for selection of anti-radical substances. Molding of such components with a carbon-based material decreases the rate of its oxidative destruction. Addition of such a component to a carbon-based material decreases the rate of its oxidative destruction. The purpose of this study is to determine the antioxidant activity of ascorbates metals (Ca, Mg, Li, Co, Fe), used in the practice of medicine, as well as mixtures based on them together with well-known antioxidants. In this article we examine the effect of metals on the process of ascorbate oxygen electroreduction.From these ascorbates lithium and magnesium ascorbate showed the greatest activity toward cathode oxygen reduction process.Also mixtures with well-known examined antioxidants ascorbate (glucose, dihydroquercetin) were investigated at different concentrations of components. It is shown that the multicomponent mixtures exhibit lower activity than the individual drugs. Recommended the creation of drugs on the basis of ascorbate Mg and Li with not more than 3 number of components.
Some of the results were presented at the sym posi um of the Gesellschaft für Biologische Chem ie, 9 .-1 2 . March 1980, M ünster, B undesrepublik Deutschland. and reference proteins were obtained from Boehringer, M annheim, and UDP-xylose and AD P-glucose from Sigma, München. Catechin, coniferyl al cohol, /7-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, cyanidin, delphinidin, dihydroquercetin, naringenin, kaem pferol, quercetin and rutin were purchased from Roth, Karlsruhe. We gratefully acknowledge a gift of quercetin 3 -0 -glucoside from Prof. Zinsm eister, Saarbrücken. We also thank Prof. W agner, M ün chen, for a sample of quercetin 3-O-galactoside. Other flavonoid compounds were from our labora tory collection. Am pholine carrier am pholytes were obtained from LKB.
for the first time dihydroquercetin was discovered among the phenolic compounds of floriferous shoots, and vicenin in the root leaves. it is noteworthy that dihydroquercetin possesses strong anti-hemorrhagic action while vicenin has mainly an expectorant action. Thus, the various pharmacological activities of medicines made from theinvestigated plant parts of P. mollis could be connected with the different contents of phenolic compounds.
) were examined by high-performance liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC/ESI-MS/MS) technique in this study. The non-anthocyanin phenolic compounds detected from 7 grape cultivars included 5 benzoic acids, 7 cinnamic acids, 5 flavan-3-ols, 9 flavonols and 4 stilbenes. The detected benzoic acids were gallic acid, protocatechuic acid, syringic acid, ethyl gallate, and ellagic acid. The cinnamic acids were trans-cinnamic acid, transcaftaric acid, trans-cutaric acid, ferulic acid, trans-fertaric acid, caffeic acid and ethyl caffeic acid. The flavan-3-ols were procyanidin B1, catechin, procyanidin B2, epicatechin, and trimeric procyanidin C1. The flavonols were dihydroquercetin, myricetin-3-glucoside, quercetin-3-galactoside, quercetin-3-glucuronide, quercetin-3-glucoside, myricetin, quercetin, naringenin and leutolin. The stilbenes were trans-piceid, cis-piceid, trans-resveratrol and cis-resveratrol. Principal components analysis showed that the non-anthocyanin phenolic compounds in wines were mainly composed of cinnamic acids, flavan-3-ols and benzoic acids. In addition, systematic cluster analysis suggested that the nonanthocyanin phenolic compound profiles were helpful for the classification of these cultivars of V. amurensis and the hybrids.
In this experiment, 30 kinds of non-anthocyanin phenolic compounds in wines were identified in 7 grape cultivars including 5 benzoic acids, 7 cinnamic acids, 5 flavan-3-ols, 9 flavonols and 4 stilbenes. Also were found 25, 21, 21, 20, 20, 19 and 17 kinds in Zuo You Hong, Shuang Hong, Zuo Shan Yi, Shuang Feng, Zuo Hong Yi, Zuo Shan Er and Shuang You, respectively. Benzoic acids included gallic acid, protocatechuic acid, syringic acid, ethyl gallate and ellagic acid. Cinnamic acids were transcinnamic acid, trans-caftaric acid, trans-cutaric acid, ferulic acid, trans-fertaric acid, caffeic acid and ethyl caffeic acid. Flavan-3-ols were procyanidin B1, catechin, procyanidin B2, epicatechin, and trimeric procyanidin C1. Flavonols were dihydroquercetin, Myricetin-3-glucoside, quercetin-3-galactoside, quercetin-3-glucuronide, quercetin-3-glucoside, myricetin, quercetin, naringenin and leutolin. Stilbenes were trans-piceid, cis-piceid, transresveratrol and cis-resveratrol. Systematic cluster analysis suggested that the non-anthocyanin phenolic compounds profiles were helpful to classify these cultivars of V. amurensis and the corresponding hybrids.
The paper describes modern ways for selection of anti-radical substances. Molding of such components with a carbon-based material decreases the rate of its oxidative destruction. Addition of such a component to a carbon-based material decreases the rate of its oxidative destruction. The purpose of this study is to determine the antioxidant activity of ascorbates metals (Ca, Mg, Li, Co, Fe), used in the practice of medicine, as well as mixtures based on them together with well-known antioxidants. In this article we examine the effect of metals on the process of ascorbate oxygen electroreduction. From these ascorbates lithium and magnesium ascorbate showed the greatest activity toward cathode oxygen reduction process. Also mixtures with well-known examined antioxidants ascorbate (glucose, dihydroquercetin) were investigated at different concentrations of components. It is shown that the multicomponent mixtures exhibit lower activity than the individual drugs. Recommended the creation of drugs on the basis of ascorbate Mg and Li with not more than 3 number of components.
Thus, studies of antioxidant properties of ascorbate metals showed significant activity of Asc Mg and Asc Li. It is shown that with the increasing of concentration of Asc Mg its activity in relation to the process of ER О 2 increases. It was also noted that there is a synergistic effect in mixtures of dihydroquercetin with Asc Mg with the number of components no more than 2. Based on these data it is possible to recommend the establishment of pharmacological drugs on the basis of magnesium and lithium ascorbates in mixtures with small amounts of components for greater impact on the body.
Growth of white-rot fungi was inhibited by dihydroquercetin (3,5,7,3′,4′-pentahydroxy flavanone) in a liquid medium, while brown-rot fungi were generally unaffected by the presence of this compound at concentrations up to 0.16%. Dihydroquercetin was recovered from the cultures of brown-rot fungi, but degraded by white-rot fungi, suggesting that the degradation products might be more toxic than dihydroquercetin itself. Among the stain and mold fungi, Chaetomium globosum reacted similarly to this flavonone as white-rot fungi, while the growth of Trichoderma virgatum and Aspergillus sydowi were similar to brown-rot fungi. Cephaloascus fragrans and Penicillium sp. tolerated dihydroquercetin in the medium, but were also able to degrade it.
FIELD: liqueur and vodka industry. SUBSTANCE: method involves preparing a mixture by mixing purified drinking water and rectified ethyl alcohol "Luks" followed by its thorough stirring, purifying and feeding into finishing tank Then an aqueous solution comprising ascorbic acid and dihydroquercetin is added to the tank, the content of finishing tank is stirred thoroughly, strength value of mixture is controlled and control filtration is carried out. After dissolving ascorbic acid dihydroquercetin is added in the ratio dihydroquercetin to ascorbic acid = 1:1. Aqueous solution is added into finishing tank in common with a mixture water-ethyl alcohol wherein vodka components are used in the following ratio, kg per 1000 dal of ready product: ascorbic acid, 0.2-0.5; dihydroquercetin, 0.2-0.5; rectified ethyl alcohol "Luks" and purified drinking water, the balance, to provide the strength value of vodka 40%. Additional addition of granulated sugar in the amount 0-20.5 kg per 1000 dal of ready product into finishing tank is possible. Proposed invention provides higher organoleptic properties of vodka, high stability of its properties in storage up to 12 months and curative-prophylactic properties directed for prevention of arising alcohol withdrawal syndrome. EFFECT: improved producing method. 2 cl, 2 tbl, 4 ex
Biocomposites were obtained from larch wood by mechano-chemical treatment of the samples of antiviral drugs arbidol and rimantadine with arabinogalactan, their physical and biological properties were investigated. It has been shown that the dose of introduced drugs can be reduced significantly while maintaining adequate levels of antiviral activity of unmodified drugs. Antiviral activity of complex drug dihydroquercetin with arabinogalactan has been investigated. Qualitative and quantitative composition of dihydroquercetin isomers have been investigated.
The old-pressed oils (CPO) from grape seeds (GSO), flax seeds (FSO) and black cumin seeds (BSO) were analyzed for their fatty acid profiles, tocopherols, total phenolics, bioactives and phenolic compositions. The stability of CPO under thermal oxidation conditions was evaluated. The main fatty acid in FSO was linolenic acid (56.5% of total fatty acids); while GSO and BSO were rich in linoleic acid, which accounted for 66.8 and 56.8%, respectively. GSO was rich in ?-tocopherol (123.0 mg/kg), while ?-tocopherol was a prevalent isomer in FSO and BSO (137.9 and 128.9 mg/kg, respectively). The total phenolic contents in the oils ranged from 554 mg GAE/kg oil (FSO) to 1140 mg GAE/kg oil (BSO). Luteolin, dihydroquercetin and benzoic acids were the dominant bioactives and phenolics in FSO, GSO and BSO, respectively. Based on the oxidative stability index (OSI) value, BSO showed the highest value (6.14 h) among the other oils. The oxidative stability of FSO and BSO were higher than GSO according to peroxide value (PV) and conjugated diene (CD) values of the oils during storage at 60 °C. Hexanal, 2,4-heptadienal and ( E,E )-2,4-heptadienal were the major volatile oxidation compounds (VOC) in FSO. Hexanal and ( E )-2-heptanal were the main identified VOC in the GSO and BSO under the same oxidation conditions.
SummaryThree white forms of Endymion non-scriptus (L.) Garcke were identified which: (a) synthesised cyanidin from dihydroquercetin (DHQ) ; (b) remained acyanic when treated with DHQ,; (c) contained colourless anthocyanin pseudobase and were thus considered to be very pale pink forms. The frequency of these types in central Norfolk was determined. Type (b) constituted 10-3 of the population in one area; the other two were fairly evenly spread and formed only about 10-6 of the population. The anthocyanin pigments of this species and of E. hispanicus were analysed.
Objective:To study the effects and mechanisms of dihydroquercetin against myocardial ischemic model induced by isoproterenol in rat.Method: The health SD rats were randomly divided into blank group,model group,three dose groups of dihydroquercetin.Myocardial injury model was induced by subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol(5 mg·kg-1).The electrocardiogram ECG was recorded,superoxid dismutase(SOD),malondialdehyde(MDA),creatine kinase(CK),creatine kinase isoenzymes(CK-MB) and lactate dihydrogenase(LDH) in the blood were detected by ELISA,pathological changes of rat's myocardial tissue were determined by hematoxylin-eosin(HE) stainning.Result: J point displacement in ECG was improved in dihydroquercetin group.Serum CK,CK-MB and lactate dihydrogenase(LDH) decreased significantly in dihydroquercetin group compared with those in the model group.SOD activity increased and MDA content lowered in myocardial tissue homogenate in dihydroquercetin group.Conclusion: Dihydroquercetin had an effective role to treat coronary heart disease by inhibiting myocardial tissue ischemia induced by ISO and protecting myocardial cells from injury.
Differential scanning calorimetry was used to study the influence of the flavonoid taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) on the temperature-dependent phase transition of dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine multilamellar liposomes. Taxifolin was added to organic solution of the lipid during the procedure of liposomes preparation (addition from-within) or to a suspension of prepared liposomes (addition from-without). In the first case, liposomes contained from 2 to 50 mol% of taxifolin added from-within; in the second case, lyposomes were treated with 0.001% or 0.01% taxifolin. In both cases, the effect was similar. When the concentration of taxifolin increased, the temperature of lipid melting decreased while the width of transition considerably enlarged. Freeze-fracture electron microscopy revealed that taxifolin did not rupture multilamellar liposomes, while the formation of ripple-phase was retarded in all bilayers even when the liposomes were treated from without. This suggested the ability of taxifolin to penetrate through numerous bilayers of multilamellar liposomes.
Abstract An enzyme, catalysing the glucosylation of cyanidin at the 3-position using uridine diphosphate- D -glucose (UDPG) as glucosyl-donor, has been isolated and purified about 50-fold from young red cabbage ( Brassica oleracea ) seedlings. The pH optimum for this reaction was ca 8 and no additional cofactors were required. The reaction was inhibited by cyanidin (above 0.25 mM) and by very low concentrations of the reaction product cyanidin-3-glucoside (5 μM). The K m values for UDPG and cyanidin were 0.51 and 0.4 mM respectively. In addition to cyanidin the enzyme could also glucosylate the following compounds at the 3-position: pelargonidin, peonidin, malvidin, kaempferol, quercetin, isorhamnetin, myricetin and fisetin. In contrast, cyanidin-3-glucoside, cyanidin-3-sophoroside, cyanidin-3,5-diglucoside, apigenin, luteolin, naringenin and dihydroquercetin were not glucosylated.
Quercetin and gallic acid are natural activators of the transcription factor Nrf2, which regulates the expression of many cytoprotective enzymes including heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). We developed procedures for the synthesis of monogalloyl esters of quercetin and taxifolin (dihydroquercetin), namely, 3-O-galloylquercetin and 7-O-galloyltaxifolin, and examined their effect on the Nrf2 pathway in RAW264.7 cells. Unlike quercetin and free gallic acid, 3-O-galloylquercetin and natural quercetin derivatives isoquercitrin (quercetin-3-O-β-d-glucoside) and taxifolin had no effect on the expression of HO-1. In contrast, 7-O-galloyltaxifolin increased both mRNA and protein levels of HO-1 at concentrations of 25 μM and above. The induction of HO-1 by 7-O-galloyltaxifolin was primarily associated with the production of reactive oxygen species and phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), including p38 MAPKs and ERKs, followed by nuclear accumulation of Nrf2 and downregulation of Keap1, a negative re...
The antioxidant activity of the new pancreoprotective plant preparation Pancreophyt has been studied experimentally on an animal model of acute chloroethane-induced pancreatitis. The flavonoids luteolin-7-glycoside, apigenin, hpyeroside, rutin, vitexin, dihydroquercetin, and quercetin in addition to cinnamic, gallic, caffeic, and cichoric acids were observed in the phytopreparation.
Three white forms of Endyrnion non-scriptus (L.) Garcke were identified which: (a) synthesised cyanidin from dihydroquercetin (DHQ); (b) remained acyanic when treated with DHQ; (c) contained colourless anthocyanin pseudobase and were thus considered to be very pale pink forms. The frequency of these types in central Norfolk was determined. Type (b) constituted 10-' of the population in one area; the other two were fairly evenly spread and formed only about 10 of the population. The anthocyanin pigments of this species and of E. hispanicus were analysed.
The anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway (ABP) is a branch of the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway that is derived from the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway. Briefly, the ABP begins with the formation of chalcones by the chalcone synthase enzyme (CHS). Next, chalcone isomerase (CHI) converts chalcone into naringenin [4] . Naringenin is then hydroxylated at the 3′ position of its central ring by flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H) to produce dihydrokaempferol (DHK). DHK can then be further hydroxylated at the 3′ position or at both the 3′ and 5′ positions of the B-ring to produce dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin, respectively [5] ( Figure  1 ) DHK, dihydroquercetin, and dihydromyricetin generally result in the production of brick-red/orange pelargonidin-, red/pink cyanidin-, and blue/violet delphinidin-based pigments, respectively [5] . Thus, the establishment of these three biosynthesis pathways is essential for diverse flower colours.
There are two main strategies employed to modify flower colour using transgenic approaches. One is the control of endogenous flavonoid pigments in flowers both quantitatively and qualitatively, and the other strategy is to accumulate nonnative pigments in flowers [11] . Both strategies are effective. In rose, to out compete the endogenous DFR for substrates dihydroquercetin, RcDFR was targeted for downregulation via RNAi-mediated silencing. The resulting transgenic plants, which also expressed pansy F3'5'H and Dutch iris DFR genes, produced flowers that exclusively accumulated delphinidinbased anthocyanins with a concomitant colour change towards blue [12] . In carnation, over-expression of a petunia F3'5'H gene in a pelargonidin producing carnation cultivar produces petals in which delphinidin derivatives contribute to about 70% of total anthocyanins [13] . In gentian, suppression of the F3'5'H gene decreased delphinidin derivatives and resulted in magenta flower colours, which could be utilised as elite sources to breed gentian plants in the near future [14] . In Cyclamen persicum, suppression of the endogenous F3'5'H transcript resulted in a hue shift from purple to red/pink in one cultivar [15] Of these examples, we concluded that the most promising strategy to obtain blue flowers was to suppress endogenous competition enzymes of the substrate for F3′5′H and to simultaneously introduce an appropriate exogenous F3′5′H gene as well as downstream biosynthesis genes of the ABP pathway.
The effectiveness of complex drug “Bifidum BAG” for status correction of large intestine microbiocenosis and antioxidant properties of colonocytes in experimental dysbiosis has been studied. Acomplex drug was administered to experimental animals, which includes Bifidobacterium and Dihydroquercetin. Quantitative and qualitative study of large intestine was done in mices by bacteriological method. The state of lipid peroxidation system was evaluatedaccoding to the content of acylhydroperoxide and malonic dialdehyde. The state of antioxidant protective system was reached by means of catalase and superoxide dismutase activity. Experimental dysbiosis was shown as significant changes in mucosal microflora, changes colonocytes antioxidant properties. The use of the complex preparation “Bifidum BAG”, led to the normalization of the colon microbiota (11 of 16 microorganisms were recovered). After correction gentamicin-associated dysbiosis with a complex probiotic, a positive effect of the drug on the colonocytes antioxidant defense was noted. So the activity of catalase increased 1.1 times, compared with the determined index in the group “dysbiosis”. The activity of superoxide dismutase increased 2 times in comparison with the group “dysbiosis”, exceeding the value of the control group. The concentration of LPO products in colonocytes of experimental animals decreased significantly. The content of malonicdialdehyde and acylhydroperoxide decreased 1.6 times and 5.6 times in comparison with the determined index of the group “dysbiosis”, respectively.
The activities of flower color biosynthesis-controlling enzymes, flavonoid 3'hydroxylase (F3'H) and dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), were analyzed in Lilium longiflorum and 11 lily cultivars using biochemical and enzymological methods. Dihydroquercetin (DHQ) product was synthesized by F3'H using dihydrokaempferol (DHK) as a substrate in Lilium longiflorum. F3'H activity was also detected in the eight cultivars tested. The substrate-specific activity of F3'H was observed because eridictiol (ERI), which uses naringenin (NAR) as a substrate, was not detected in the tested cultivars. Leucocyanidin (LCy) product was synthesized by DFR using DHQ as a substrate in Lilium longiflorum. DFR activity was also detected in 'Le Reve', 'Montreux', 'Monte Negro', 'Etude', 'Acapulco', and 'Star Gazer', but not in 'Siberia', 'Royal Race', 'Nove Cento', 'Elite', and 'Cannes'. Substrate-specific activity of DFR was observed because leucopelar-gonidin (LPg), which uses DHK as a substrate, was not detected in the tested cultivars.
Larch (Larix decidua L., Pinaceae) wood is known to contain flavonols (mainly dihydroquercetin and dihydrokaempferol) which possess a high antioxidant activity comparable to that of α-tocopherol. This study was conducted to investigate whether larch sawdust (byproduct of larch wood production), supplemented to dairy cows, have effects on milk fatty acids composition and on the oxidative stability of milk. Sixteen Italian Friesian dairy cows in mid lactation were used in a 5-wk study. All animals were fed a total mixed diet. Animals were divided into two groups, one treated group (n = 8) received 300 g/d of larch sawdust 1 and one negative control group (n = 8). The treatment lasted for 21 d. Milk fatty acids was determined on samples collected on day 20 and on the same samples after storing at 4 °C for four days. Milk stored at 4 °C for four days were analyzed also for hexanal content. Milk yield was not affected by treatment. Total polyunsaturated fatty acids were higher in milk from cows fed with larch sawdust (p < 0.05) with an highest proportion of C20:3n-6 fatty acid (p < 0.01). The fatty acids in control milk after 4 days storage (4 °C) were more susceptible of oxidation. Milk from cows fed with larch sawdust was more resistant to fatty acids oxidation (PUFAs, p < 0.05). Despite its high polyunsaturated fatty acid content, milk from treated group was reasonably stable to oxidation with the lower hexanal production after 4 days of storage at 4 °C, than what observed in control milk (p < 0.01). These results suggest that larch sawdust is an interesting resource of valuable feed additive as naturally antioxidant. Moreover larch sawdust being a waste product, could represent an economically valid tool, keeping in mind that, the development of integrated biorefinery processes should be needed. Further studies with other animal species will be necessary to confirm the application. 1provided by Jannach Larchenholz GmbH, Thalheim, Austria- (SAFEWASTES, EU pr. 513949)
Oral administration of a number of flavonoids to animals and humans has been shown to result in the urinary excretion of a variety of hydroxy aromatic acids (1,2,3). This finding suggested that, through the medium of their metabolites, flavonoids might influence the pituitary-adrenal axis in a manner comparable to that reported for salicylic acid and related compounds(4,5). The present report concerns an investigation of this possibility with the flavonoids quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and eriodictyol.Methods. Albino rats from a colony maintained in this laboratory since 1931 were used. Young rats were weaned at about 21 days of age, weighed individually, and sexes segregated. Overweight and underweight rats were discarded. When selected rats were not more than 4 weeks old they were fed for 1 to 4 weeks a basal diet with or without addition of a flavonoid. The basal diet had the following percentage composition: corn meal 73, casein 10, linseed oil cake meal 10, alfalfa meal 2, cod liver oil 3, bone ash 1...
A chemical investigation on the H2O-soluble constituents from the leaf of Phoebe formosana. led to the characterization often compounds including two C-glycosylflavone — vitexin (1), isovitexin (2); six O-glycosylflavonol — quercetin 3-O-galactoside (3), quercetin 3-O-α-L-arabinopyranoside (4), kaempferol 3-O-α-L-arabinofuranoside (5), kaempferol 3-O-α-L-rhamnoside (6), kaempferol 3-O-β-D-xylopyranoside (7); one dihydroflavonol -(+)-dihydroquercetin (8) and two nucleosides -adenosine (9), and adenine (10). Their structures were determined on the basis of spectral analysis.
OBJECTIVE ::: To investigate the protective effect of (2R, 3R)-dihydroquercetin 7-O-β-D-glucopyranose (C1) extracted from Coreopsis tinctoria Nutt. in a mouse model of alcoholic acute pancreatitis (FAEE-AP) induced byfatty acid ethyl ester (FAEE). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The 30 healthy SPF mice were randomly divided into control group, model group, low dose group, middle dose group and high dose group, 6 in each group. Alcoholic pancreatitis was induced by ethanol and palmitoleic acid administration (1.75 g/kg ethanol, 200 mg/kg palmitoleic acid, 2 times peritoneal injections). The three treatment groups were given C1 (0 h, 4 h, 8 h) at the dose of 12.5, 25 and 50 mg/kg, respectively. After 24 h of molding, the serum amylase, lipase and IL-6 levels were detected. The trypsin level in pancreatic tissue and myeloperoxidase (MPO) level in pancreatic and lung tissue were detected. Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was used to observe the pathological changes of pancreatic tissue and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining was used to detect the expression of nuclear factor-erythroid 2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) in pancreatic tissue. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The pancreatic histopathological scores, serum amylase and lipase activity, trypsin level in pancreatic tissue, serum IL-6 level, MPO level of pancreas and lung were significantly higher in the model group than in the control group (P < 0.01). Compared with the model group, the pancreatic histopathologies of the low dose group was significantly improved (P < 0.05), as well as the serum amylase and lipase activity, trypsin level of pancreas, serum IL-6 level, the pancreas andthe lung's MPO level decreased significantly (P < 0.05), and up-regulate that expression of Nrf2 in pancreatic tissue. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: 12.5 mg/kg of (2R, 3R) -dihydroquercetin 7-O-β-D-glucopyranose (C1) improved the expression of Nrf2, reduced the expression of inflammatory factor IL-6, and protected acute pancreatitis caused by FAEE.
Abstract The major product from the reduction of (2 R ,3 R )-dihydroquercetin with sodium borohydride is the 2,3- trans -3,4- trans isomer of leucocyanidin [(2 R ,3 S ,4 R -3,3′,4,4′,5,7-hexahydroxyflavan] whereas the enzymatic reduction product is the 2,3- trans -3,4- cis isomer [(2 R ,3 S ,4 S )-3,3′,4,4′,5,7-hexahydroxyflavan]. The 3,4- trans isomer may be partly converted to the 3,4- cis isomer under mild acid conditions. The 3,4- cis isomer is more acid-labile, and more reactive both chemically with thiols and enzymatically with a diol reductase, than the 3,4- trans isomer.
Abstract (−)- cis -2,3-Dihydroquercetin (presumably as the 3′- O -β- d -glucopyranoside); the 3′- O - d -glucopyranosides of (+)- trans -2,3-dihydroquercetin, dihydromyricetin and eriodictyol; (+)-catechin and (+)-gallocatechin have been isolated from the needles of Pinus sylvestris . The dihydroquercetin aglycones interconvert in methanolic solution. Two chemotypes of Pinus sylvestris can be distinguished on the basis of their dihydroquercetin, dihydromyricetin and eriodictyol contents.
Abstract The new azaanthracene geovanine was isolated from the trunkwood of Annona ambotay Aubl. together with liriodenine, O -methylmoschatoline and other known substances, the flavonoids kaempferol, quercetin, (+)-dihydrokaempferol, (+)-dihydroquercetin, (±)-eriodictiol and (+)-catechin and the steroids sitosterol and 5α-stigmastan-3,6-dione.
The antiinflammatory (per os and topic) and analgesic (per os) properties of the aerial part of Proustia pyrifolia a species in danger of extinction were investigated, and the major compounds of two of its active extracts were isolated. In addition, the evaluation of cytotoxicity in three tumoral cell lines and the acute toxicity of the crude methanol extract were also assayed, together with the antioxidant activity for the different extracts of this species. The results of the evaluation of the topic antiinflammatory activities induced by arachidonic acid, and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate of the different extracts showed that this species possesses active constituents that could diminish cyclo-oxygenase and lipoxygenases activities, the enzymes that allow the synthesis of proinflammatory endogenous substances as prostaglandin E(2) and leukotrienes, respectively. Our results corroborate the antiinflammatory and analgesic effects of Proustia pyrifolia, and could justify its use in folk medicine for the treatment of rheumatic and gout illnesses. From bio-active extracts beta-sitosterol, quercetin and dihydroquercetin were obtained, and these compounds could explain in part the antiinflammatory, analgesic and antioxidant activities of this species. The crude methanol extract did not present acute toxicity or cytotoxic activity, however only this extract exhibited antioxidant activity.
Taxifolin (3,3',4',5,7-pentahydroxiflavanone, Figure 1 ), also known as dihydroquercetin, is a bioactive component (flavanonol) [7, 8] . As reported, taxifolin is widely used in the pharmaceutical industry as it can prevent diabetic cardiomyopathy [9] , enhance mitotic arrest and apoptosis [10] , suppress UV-induced skin carcinogenesis [11] , act as type I inhibitor for VEGFR-2 kinase [12] , and inhibit reductase [13] . It also has been used as a kind of natural antioxidant additive in the food industry [8] . Several extraction methods have been applied to extract taxifolin, which include heating, boiling or refluxing extraction with water and organic solvents [14] [15] [16] . However, there are many disadvantages in traditional extraction methods, such as being highly time-consuming and energy-consuming, low product recovery, tedious work-up procedures, and high consumption of organic solvents, which are often flammable and toxic, and responsible for the greenhouse effect. Thus, the development of a safe and environmentally benign extraction process is becoming increasingly necessary and important for the procedures of sample preparation and analytical determination. Compared with traditional extraction methods, the microwave-assisted extraction method has been widely used because it is more convenient, less time consuming and has higher efficiency for the extraction of bioactive compounds from plant materials [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] .
One of the mechanisms mediating the beneficial action of quercetin is the activation of the transcription factor NF-E2 p45-related factor 2 (Nrf2; also called NFE2L2) [17, 18] . Nrf2 regulates the expression of genes encoding various cytoprotective enzymes such as heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), and glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic (GCLC) and modifier subunits (GCLM) [19] . Being inspired by the fact that the Nrf2 activation by catechins (flavanols) positively depends on the presence of a galloyl moiety in the molecule [20] , we have previously prepared galloyl esters of quercetin and of its natural derivative, the flavanonol taxifolin (2,3-dihydroquercetin), and examined their effect on the Nrf2 pathway in murine macrophage RAW264.7 cells. We have found that 3-O-galloylquercetin, in contrast to quercetin, does not activate the Nrf2 pathway. On the other hand, we have demonstrated the activation of Nrf2 in cells treated with 7-O-galloyltaxifolin, while mere taxifolin was inactive. The same study also found that 7-O-galloyltaxifolin was readily oxidized to 7-O-galloylquercetin ( Fig. 1 ) in RAW264.7 cells [11] . Since it was unclear which of these two molecules was responsible for the biological response, we decided to prepare 7-O-galloylquercetin and to investigate its effect on the Nrf2 pathway in vitro.
Composites of SiO2 and polyphenols from plant raw materials and model composites based on amorphous SiO2 and dihydroquercetin and pyrocatechol were prepared by solid-state mechanochemistry. Results for the antiviral activities of these composites with respect to herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) and West Nile virus are presented and compared with those of several chemotherapeutics and chaga (Inonotus obliquus) extract.
Abstract Formation of plasmonic silver nanoparticles by flavonoid reduction was studied. Effects of the nature and the concentration of a flavonoid and a stabilizer, composition of the solution and the interaction time were revealed. It was found that quercetin, dihydroquercetin, rutin and morin produced an intense surface plasmon resonance band of silver nanoparticles at 415 nm which was linearly related to the concentration of a flavonoid, while chrysin, naringenin and naringin did not produce any remarkable changes. It was used for the spectrophotometric determination of the former four flavonoids with the detection limits of 0.03; 0.06; 0.09 and 0.1 μg mL −1 , respectively. The developed method was applied for the determination of flavonoids in biologically active food additives.
The sterols β-sitostenone (1), stigmast-4,6,8(14),22-tetraen-3-one (2), β-sitosterol (3) and stigmasterol (4), the aromatic derivatives antiarol (5) and gentisic acid (6), the phenylpropanes coniferyl alcohol (7), epoxyconiferyl alcohol (8) and ferulic acid (9), the apocarotenoid vomifoliol (10), the flavonoids naringenin (11), 7,4′-dimethoxytaxifolin (7,4′-dimethoxydihydroquercetin, 12), aromadendrin (13), kaempferol (14), taxifolin (dihydroquercetin, 15), prunin (naringenin-7-O-β-d-glucoside, 16), populnin (kaempferol-7-O-β-d-glucoside, 17) and senecin (aromadendrin-7-O-β-d-glucoside, 18) and the lignans kobusin (19) and pinoresinol (20), were isolated from the dried bark of Cochlospermum vitifolium Spreng (Cochlospermaceae), a Mexican medicinal plant used to treat jaundice, liver ailments and hepatitis C. Fourteen of these compounds were isolated for the first time from this plant and from the Cochlospermum genus. Compounds 3–4, 6–7, 9–11, 13–17 and 20 have previously exhibited diverse beneficial liver activities. The presence of these compounds in C. vitifolium correlates with the use of this Mexican medicinal plant.
ABSTRACTHighly selective surface molecularly imprinted polymer (DHQ-MPS/SiO2) for dihydroquercetin (DHQ) was synthesized by molecular imprinting technique on modified silica particles for solid-phase extraction (SPE). The prepared DHQ-MPS/SiO2 was characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (FT-IR) and transmission electron microscope (SEM) techniques. Interactions between the functional monomer and template were observed with UV-visible spectroscopy of the solutions of these components as well. The results indicated that a 1:2 molecular complex was formed between DHQ and 2-vinylpridine. The static adsorption experiments indicated that DHQ-MPS/SiO2 had significantly higher adsorption capacity for DHQ than its non-imprinted polymers (NIP-MPS/SiO2) and revealed that the Langmuir equation fitted the adsorption isotherm data. The thermodynamics parameters indicated that the binding system for DHQ-MPS/SiO2 was endothermic and entropy was gained and was spontaneous. The selectivity coefficients of ...
The effect of dihydroquercetin on peroxidation process of liposome membranes from egg phospholipids induced by ferrous sulfate or Fe(2+)-ascorbate system was studied. It was shown that dihydroquercetin antioxidant activity matches antioxidant activity of alpha-tocopherol. It was suggested that the mechanism dihydroquercetin antioxidant action consists in scavenging of lipids radicals.
At ripening initiation in red grapevine (Vitis vinifera) berries, the exocarp turns color from green to red and then to purple due to the accumulation and extent of methylation of anthocyanins. The accumulation of transcripts encoding an O-methyltransferase was recently shown to be closely correlated with the onset of ripening and the degree of blue/purple pigmentation in grapevine berries; however, the biochemical function of this gene has remained uncharacterized. In this study, an O-methyltransferase cDNA that showed a distinct expression pattern when compared to closely related sequences was expressed in Escherichia coli and enzyme assays were carried out with a broad array of anthocyanin and other flavonoid substrates. We demonstrate that this enzyme carries out 3′,5′-O-methylation of anthocyanins and flavonol compounds in vitro, which are known to be present in grape berries, with a preference for glycosylated substrates. The highest relative specific activity for the enzyme was found with delphinidin 3-O-glucoside as substrate. The enzyme is not able to methylate flavan type skeletons with chiral centers, such as either catechins or dihydroquercetin. The enzyme showed negligible specific activity for caffeoyl-CoA, compared to flavonol and anthocyanin substrates. Phylogenetic analysis of the O-methyltransferase suggests that it may be a member of a distinct subclass of Type 2 bivalent metal-dependent S-adenosyl-methionine O-methyltransferases.
It is possible to reduce the metformin or side effects of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, a novel pharmaceutical useful as antineoplastic agents, and acceptable salts of metformin or a pharmaceutically, dihydroquercetin or a pharmaceutically thereof providing a pharmaceutical characterized by combining a salt acceptable in. .BACKGROUND
The naturally occurring quercetin flavonoid, dihydroquercetin, is widely distributed in plant tissues and plays a variety of biological activities. Herein, a magnetic molecularly imprinted solid-phase extraction was tailor-made for selective determination of dihydroquercetin in Larix griffithiana using HPLC. Amino-functionalized core-shell magnetic nanoparticles were prepared and characterized using scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, vibrating sample magnetometer, and infrared spectra. The polymer had an average diameter of 250 ± 2.56 nm and exhibited good stability and adsorption for template molecule, which is enriched by hydrogen bonding interaction. Multi-factor for extraction, including loading, washing, elution solvents, and extraction time were optimized. The LOD was found to be 1.23 μg/g. The precision determined at various concentration of dihydroquercetin was less than 4% and the mean recovery was ranged between 74.64% - 101.80%. It has therefore been shown that this protocol can be used as an alternative extraction to quantify dihydroquercetin in L. griffithiana and purify quercetin flavonoid from other complex matrices. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
The sterols β-sitostenone (1), stigmast-4,6,8(14),22-tetraen-3-one (2), β-sitosterol (3) and stigmasterol (4), the aromatic derivatives antiarol (5) and gentisic acid (6), the phenylpropanes coniferyl alcohol (7), epoxyconiferyl alcohol (8) and ferulic acid (9), the apocarotenoid vomifoliol (10), the flavonoids naringenin (11), 7,4 -dimethoxytaxifolin (7,4 -dimethoxydihydroquercetin, 12), aromadendrin (13), kaempferol (14), taxifolin (dihydroquercetin, 15), prunin (naringenin-7-O-β-D-glucoside, 16), populnin (kaempferol-7-O-β-D-glucoside, 17) and senecin (aromadendrin-7-O-β-D-glucoside, 18) and the lignans kobusin (19) and pinoresinol (20), were isolated from the dried bark of Cochlospermum vitifolium Spreng (Cochlospermaceae), a Mexican medicinal plant used to treat jaundice, liver ailments and hepatitis C. Fourteen of these compounds were isolated for the first time from this plant and from the Cochlospermum genus. Compounds 3-4, 6-7, 9-11, 13-17 and 20 have previously exhibited diverse beneficial liver activities. The presence of these compounds in C. vitifolium correlates with the use of this Mexican medicinal plant.
Anthocyanins are the main water-soluble pigments widespread in many flowering plants. The red, blue, and purple colors found in various plant tissues, including flowers, leaves, fruits, and seeds, are mostly attributed to the accumulation of anthocyanins [1] [2] [3] . In addition to their well-known physiological functions of serving as pollinator and seed disperser attractants, anthocyanins also play essential roles in protecting plant tissues from being damaged by high light, UV radiation, cold, drought, nutrient deficiency, and pathogen attack 4 ; anthocyanins also act as important health-promoting supplements in the human daily diet. A growing amount of evidence has shown that regular intake of anthocyanins is associated with a lower risk of artherosclerosis and related diseases due to their ability to inhibit the oxidation of low-density lipids 5 . The health-promoting effects of anthocyanins are considered to be closely linked to high antioxidant activities and the capacity to eliminate reactive oxygen species [6] [7] [8] . However, recent studies have shown that anthocyanins and related derivatives are involved in modulating signaling pathways in mammalian cells 9 . In addition, the effects of anthocyanins on the prevention of cancer and some other chronic illnesses have been demonstrated 10, 11 . As the main subclass of phenylpropanoid metabolites, anthocyanins employ a biosynthetic pathway that has been well characterized (Fig. 1) . The synthesis of cinnamic acid catalyzed by phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) represents the initial reaction step of the phenylpropanoid pathway 12 . Chalcone synthase (CHS) catalyzes the condensation reaction with 4-coumaroyl CoA and malonyl CoA as substrates to produce naringenin chalcone, the entry molecule of the flavonoid pathway. 4-Coumaroyl CoA can be esterified with quinic acid by hydroxycinnamoyl CoA-quinate transferase (HQT), leading to the production of chlorogenic acid (CGA), a typical phenolic acid widespread in Solanaceae plants. The basic skeleton of all flavonoids (including anthocyanins, chalcones, flavones, flavonols, flavandiols, and condensed tannins) consists of three aromatic rings generated by CHS and CHI. F3H catalyzes the oxidation of the central ring of naringenin, yielding dihydrokaempferol. Moreover, dihydrokaempferol can be further hydroxylated on the 3′ or 5′ position of the B-ring by flavonoid 3′-hydroxylase (F3′H) and/or flavonoid 3′ 5′-hydroxylase (F3′5′H), resulting in the production of dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin, respectively 2 . Additionally, cyanidin and delphinidin can be further methylated at the 3′ or 5′ position of the B-ring by flavonoid 3′, 5′-methyltransferase (FAOMT), resulting in the production of peonidin, petunidin and malvidin, respectively. Unstable anthocyanidins are modified mostly by glycosylation and converted into stable forms, namely, anthocyanins 2 . Then, the final productions are transported into vacuoles coordinately by multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) transporters, glutathione S-transferase (GST) or ABC transporters 13, 14 . Except for anthocyanins, chalcones and CGA, flavonols and flavones can also be produced in the branch pathway of phenylpropanoid metabolism.
Taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) is flavanonol, a type of flavonoids (Fig. 1) , and can be found in Larix sibirica (Diwakar et al. 2012) and Taxus chinensis (Li et al. 2008) . Recently, taxifolin is demonstrated to exist in diploid strawberries (Fragaria vesca) (Sun et al. 2014a ). This phytochemical has been reported to possess a variety of beneficial effects such as antioxidant, anti-cardiomyopathic and anti-inflammatory effects (Sun et al. 2014b; Manigandan et al. 2015; Gupta et al. 1971) . Many flavonoids like kaempherol and apigenin are reportedly effective in hyperuricemic model animals (Mo et al. 2007) . A recent study has revealed that quercetin lowers plasma UA levels in pre-hyperuricemic humans (Shi and Williamson 2016) . However, it remains unclear whether or not taxifolin would be hypouricemic.
Chemical investigation of blackcurrant seed residue from oil extraction revealed the presence of an array of polyphenols which were dominated by four anthocyanins consisting of the rutinosides and glucosides of delphinidin and cyanidin. Also isolated were the glucosides and rutinosides of myricetin and quercetin, kaempferol-3-glucoside, dihydroquercetin and aureusidin, as well as the phenolic acids 1-cinnamoyl- and 1-p-coumaroyl-b-d-glucosides. This is the first report of aureusidin and 1-cinnamoyl-b-d-glucoside as blackcurrant constituents. # 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
The present application relates to cosmetic compositions containing the tetrapeptide lysine-aspartic acid-isoleucine-citrulline Lys-Asp-Ile-Cit-NH 2 and at least one antioxidant selected from carotenoids, particularly lycopene and astaxanthin, dihydroquercetin, 3.4 dihydro-7-methoxy-2,2-dimethyl-2H-1-benzopyran-6-ol, Vitis vinifera polyphenols, ubiquinones and / or Ubichinolen, superoxide dismutases and ellagic acid, and mixtures of these antioxidants.
The kinetics of oxidation reactions of flavonoids, quercetin, dihydroquercetin, and epicatechin has been studied in the presence of biocatalysts of different natures: horseradish peroxidase, mushroom tyrosinase, and hemoglobin from bull blood. Comparison of the kinetic parameters of the oxidation reaction showed that peroxidase appeared to be the most effective biocatalyst in these processes. The specificity of the enzyme for quercetin increased with increasing the polarity of the solvent in a series of ethanol–acetonitrile–dimethyl sulfoxide.
Cardamom fruits and carnation buds were tested by high-yield liquid chromatography (HPLC) method. 12 phenol compounds were found in cardamom fruits: gallic acid, isoferulic acid, chlorogenic acid, epicatechin, chicory acid, caffeic acid, dehydroquercetin, ferulic acid, luteolin, quercetin, rutin, o-methoxycoumarin, cinnamic acid, in carnation buds - 12 phenolic compounds: gallic acid, catechin, isoferulic acid, chicory acid, coffee acid, dihydroquercetin, ferulic acid, luteolin, quercetin, rutin, 0- methoxycoumarin, cinnamic acid. The methods of internal normalization show that gallic acid is prevailing compound in cardamom fruits and gallic acid and quercetin- in carnation buds. Quantity of amount of flavonoids in terms of rutin in carnation buds was measured by differential spectrophotometry. It varies from 3.55 % to 5.10%. Tanning agents in carnation buds and cardamom fruits were measured by permanganate titration, they are respectively 4.11- 5.02 % and 0.02- 0.06 %.
The work evaluates the effect of resveratrol (2.5 mg/kg) (I), hawthorn extract (3 mg/kg) (II), dihydroquercetinum (2 mg/kg) (III) and rosuvastatinum (2 mg/kg) (IV) on the area of necrotizing left ventricle myocardium and the level of blood serum troponin in case of acute coronary occlusion (60 min) with consecutive reperfusion (90 min) in anesthetized rabbits. It was evidenced that distant and pharmacological preconditioning, resveratrol, hawthorn extract and rosuvastatinum reduce the area of necrosis by 3, 2.5, 2.5, 2 and 2 times correspondingly. There was discovered that ATP-sensitive potassium channels participate in realization of cytoprotective effect of distant preconditioning, I, II, III and IV which was evidenced by elimination of cardioprotective effects after administration of glibenclamid (4 mg/kg).
Environmental stresses such as high light intensity and temperature cause induction of the shikimate pathway, aromatic amino acids (AAA) pathways, and of pathways downstream from AAAs. The induction leads to production of specialized metabolites that protect the cells from oxidative damage. The regulation of the diverse AAA derived pathways is still not well understood. To gain insight on that regulation, we increased AAA production in red grape Vitis vinifera cv. Gamay Red cell suspension, without inducing external stress on the cells, and characterized the metabolic effect of this induction. Increased AAA production was achieved by expressing a feedback-insensitive bacterial form of 3-deoxy- D-arabino-heptulosonate 7-phosphate synthase enzyme (AroG*) of the shikimate pathway under a constitutive promoter. The presence of AroG* protein led to elevated levels of primary metabolites in the shikimate and AAA pathways including phenylalanine and tyrosine, and to a dramatic increase in phenylpropanoids. The AroG* transformed lines accumulated up to 20 and 150 fold higher levels of resveratrol and dihydroquercetin, respectively. Quercetin, formed from dihydroquercetin, and resveratrol, are health promoting metabolites that are induced due to environmental stresses. Testing the expression level of key genes along the stilbenoids, benzenoids and phenylpropanoid pathways showed that transcription was not affected by AroG*. This suggests that concentrations of AAAs, and of phenylalanine in particular, are rate-limiting in production of these metabolites. In contrast, increased phenylalanine production did not lead to elevated concentrations of anthocyanins, even though they are also phenylpropanoid metabolites. This suggests a control mechanism of this pathway that is independent of AAA concentration. Interestingly, total anthocyanin concentrations were slightly lower in AroG* cells, and the relative frequencies of the different anthocyanins changed as well.
The invention relates to the use of a combination of dihydroquercetin and / or dihydroquercetin derivative having at least one amino acid for positively influencing the natural pigmentation of the skin and / or skin appendages.
A medical device for drug delivery treat a medical condition associated with a body lumen in the body lumen comprising a plurality of layers, where the insertable medical device drug delivery comprising: a balloon catheter; and an inflatable balloon positioned on the balloon catheter, wherein the inflatable balloon has a hydrophilic surface, wherein at least a portion of the hydrophilic surface is coated with a plurality of nanocarriers, in a nanocarrier of the plurality of nanocarriers comprises a drug surrounded by an encapsulating medium, in which a surface of the nanocarrier is devoid of the drug, and the encapsulation medium comprede a phospholipid. wherein the plurality of nanocarriers have a single average diameter, wherein the single average diameter is between 10 nm and 1000 nm. wherein the plurality of nanocarriers comprises a first set of nanocarriers having a first average diameter suitable for penetrating a first layer of the plurality of layers of body lumen between 800 nm and 1000 nm, a second set of nanocarriers having a second suitable average diameter to penetrate a first layer and a second layer of the plurality of layers of body lumen between 300 nm and 800 nm, and a third set of nanocarriers having an average diameter suitable for penetrating a first layer, a second layer and a third layer of the plurality of layers of body lumen ranging from 10 nm to 300 nm. in which the drug is selected from a group comprising sirolimus, paclitaxel, tacrolimus, clobetasol, dexamethasone, genistein, heparin, beta-estadiol, rapamycin, everolimus, ethyl rapamycin, zotarolimus, ABT-578, Biolimus. A9, docetaxel, methotrexate, azathioprine, vincristine, vinblastine, fluorouracil, doxorubicin hydrochloride, mitomycin, sodium heparin, low molecular weight heparin, heparinoid, hirudin, argatroban, forskolin, vapiprost, prostacyclin, dextran, D-phe-pro arg chloromethylketone , dipyridamole, glycoprotein Ilb / day, recombinant hirudin, bivalirudin, nifedipine, colchicines, lovastatin, nitroprusside, suramin, serotonin blockers, steroid inhibitors, thioprotease, triazolopyrimidine, nitric oxide, nitric oxide donors, super oxide dismutase, oxide super mimetics dismutase, estradiol, aspirin, angiopeptin, captopril, cilazapril, lisinopril, permirolast potassium, alpha interferon and bioactive RGD, at least one flavonoid, estrogen, antibodies, genetically engineered epithelial cells, wherein at least one flavonoid is selected from group comprising at least one of narigenina, naringin, eriodicitol, hesperetin, esperidi na (esperidina), kaempferol, quercetin, rutin, cianidol, meciadonol, catechin, epi gallocatequina gallate, taxifolin (dihydroquercetin), genistein, genistin, daidzein, biochanin, glycitein, chrysin, diosmin, luetolina, apigenin, tangeritin and nobiletin.
Proanthocyanidins and their potential precursors have been analyzed by paper chromatography and C18 reversed phase columns with high performance liquid chromatography. Total proanthocyanidins on a dry weight basis in cell suspension cultures derived from seedlings of Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) were equal to or greater than those found in mature needles of randomly selected outdoor-grown trees. The major monomer and dimer were catechin and epicatechin-catechin, respectively. Although only procyanidins were detectable in cell suspension cultures, mature needles of outdoor-grown trees contained prodelphinidins as well. Immature needles (flush growth) of the same trees contained only trace amounts of prodelphinidins. Eriodictyol-7-glucoside and dihydroquercetin-3′-glucoside were present in all tissues examined. The amount of eriodictyol-7-glucoside was strongly correlated with total proanthocyanidins in immature needles of flush growth (r = 0.89, p = 0.001). The most complex pattern of flavonoids was found in flush growth needles, which contained in addition to the above, naringenin-7-glucoside and five to six flavone glycosides. Chlorogenic acid was detected only in seedlings and in flush growth needles.
Modification by natural flavonoids quercetin and dihydroquercetin of the in vitro cell response to hyperthermal and chemical stress was studied. Quercetin completely inhibited the synthesis and intracellular accumulation of 70-kD heat shock protein (HSP70) in response to hyperthermia or to treatment with sodium arsenite, whereas dihydroquercetin in the same or higher doses had no such effect. Stress exposures under conditions of the quercetin-inhibited HSP70 expression significantly increased the percentage of dead and damaged cells compared to the same exposures in the absence of quercetin. On the contrary, dihydroquercetin virtually failed to increase the damage and death of the stress-exposed cells which displayed typical induction of HSP70. The findings suggest a new strategy for pharmacological use of these flavonoids with similar structure.
Phenylalanine and tyrosine levels are rate-limiting factors in production of health promoting metabolites in Vitis vinifera cv. Gamay Red cell suspension. Front. Plant Sci. 6:538. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00538 Phenylalanine and tyrosine levels are rate-limiting factors in production of health promoting metabolites in Vitis vinifera cv. Gamay Red cell suspension Environmental stresses such as high light intensity and temperature cause induction of the shikimate pathway, aromatic amino acids (AAA) pathways, and of pathways downstream from AAAs. The induction leads to production of specialized metabolites that protect the cells from oxidative damage. The regulation of the diverse AAA derived pathways is still not well understood. To gain insight on that regulation, we increased AAA production in red grape Vitis vinifera cv. Gamay Red cell suspension, without inducing external stress on the cells, and characterized the metabolic effect of this induction. Increased AAA production was achieved by expressing a feedback-insensitive bacterial form of 3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonate 7-phosphate synthase enzyme (AroG * ) of the shikimate pathway under a constitutive promoter. The presence of AroG * protein led to elevated levels of primary metabolites in the shikimate and AAA pathways including phenylalanine and tyrosine, and to a dramatic increase in phenylpropanoids. The AroG * transformed lines accumulated up to 20 and 150 fold higher levels of resveratrol and dihydroquercetin, respectively. Quercetin, formed from dihydroquercetin, and resveratrol, are health promoting metabolites that are induced due to environmental stresses. Testing the expression level of key genes along the stilbenoids, benzenoids, and phenylpropanoid pathways showed that transcription was not affected by AroG * . This suggests that concentrations of AAAs, and of phenylalanine in particular, are rate-limiting in production of these metabolites. In contrast, increased phenylalanine production did not lead to elevated concentrations of anthocyanins, even though they are also phenylpropanoid metabolites. This suggests a control mechanism of this pathway that is independent of AAA concentration. Interestingly, total anthocyanin concentrations were slightly lower in AroG * cells, and the relative frequencies of the different anthocyanins changed as well.
The pharmacokinetics of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) in the forms of parent substance and a new liposomal formulation (Flamena D) have been studied in rats upon single peroral administration in a dose of 50 mg/kg. DHQ concentration after enzymatic hydrolysis in the blood plasma was determined by HPLC with UV detection. The elimination half-life of DHQ introduced in the form of Flamena D was about T(1/2) = 1.3 h. The relative bioavailability of DHQ after the administration of Flamena D amounted to 159% in comparison to that of the parent substance of DHQ.
Flavonoids are major secondary metabolites in Camellia sinensis. Flavanone-3-hydroxylase (F3H) is a key enzyme in flavonoid biosynthesis in plants. However, its role in the flavonoid metabolism in C. sinensis has not been well studied. In this study, we cloned two F3Hs from C. sinensis, named CsF3Ha and CsF3Hb, where CsF3Ha containing 1107 bases encoded 368 amino acids, and CsF3Hb containing 1071 bases encoded 357 amino acids. Enzymatic activity analysis showed both recombinant CsF3H enzymes in Escherichia coli could convert naringenin and eriodictyol into dihydrokaempferol (DHK) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ), respectively. The expression profiles showed that CsF3Ha and CsF3Hb were highly expressed in the tender leaves of tea plants. Under different abiotic stresses, the two CsF3Hs were induced remarkably by ultraviolet (UV) radiation, sucrose, and abscisic acid (ABA). In the seeds of CsF3Hs transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana, the concentration of most flavonol glycosides and oligomeric proanthocyanidins increased significantly, while the content of monocatechin derivatives decreased. The present study revealed that CsF3Hs played critical roles in flavonoid biosynthesis in tea plants.
Flavonoid-mediated materials are promising substances for the design of new functional materials because of their bioactivity, eco-friendliness, and cost-effectiveness. Dihydroquercetin (DHQ) is the major flavonoid in the wood of Larix dahurica Turcz. Previously some new modifications were created on the basis of DHQ, they were characterized by different morphological, physico-chemical and biopharmaceutical properties. This study was performed to research the influence of the solvent on the formation of the solid phase in DHQ microtubes and crystal form as commercially available active pharmaceutical ingredient (API). The choice of the models for the computational simulation was based on the data of differential scanning calorimetry. All calculations were performed using Materials Science Suite. In silico analysis demonstrated that the molecules of solvent are a key player in the formation of the solid phase of the flavonoid-mediated material. Also the comparative analysis of physical characteristics between DHQ microtubes and crystal form was performed. These data give an opportunity to suggest, that DHQ microtubes may have a grate application as the dressing material and in the drug delivering. The results of this study could be helpful for the design of the new flavonoid-mediated materials by crystal engineering.
Cell cultures of an Afghan cultivar of Daucus carota L. (”black carrot”) propagated under dark conditions accumulate large amounts of cyanidin 3-(sinapoyl-xylosylglucosylgalactoside) as the major anthocyanin (Harborne et al. 1983 ; Hopp and Scitz 1987). The biosynthesis of anthocyanin is inhibited by physiological concentrations of gibberellic acid (GA3; 30 μM). In the presence of GA3 added 7 days after the onset of cultivation, the key enzyme of the anthocyanin pathway, the chalcone synthase (CHS), is inhibited by 60–80%. This inhibition of the catalytic activity of CHS takes place within 24 h. Subsequent to the inhibition of the CHS activity by GA3, anthocyanin biosynthesis could be restored by the addition of precursors of the anthocyanin to the culture medium (naringenin, eriodictyol, or dihydroquercetin). The best supplementation was achieved by feeding dihy-droquercetin, a precursor which is very close to cyanidin (Hinderer et al. 1984). These feeding experiments clearly demonstrate that the physiological block is located at the chalcone synthase. Inhibition of anthocyanin biosynthesis by GA3 was also described for a cell culture derived from Daucus carota L. cv. Kurodagosun in a culture medium lacking 2,4-D (Ozeki and Komamine 1986).
A new prenylated flavonoid (1) and two new aliphatic glycosides (2, 3) have been isolated from leaves of Euodia meliaefolia (Hance) Benth., together with three known compounds, (2R,3R)-5,7,4'-trihydroxy-8-(3-methylbut-2-enyl)dihydroflavonol 7-O-β-D: -glucopyranoside (phellamurin) (4), (2R,3R)-dihydroquercetin 3'-O-β-D: -glucopyranoside (5), and (7R,8S)-dihydrodiconiferyl alcohol 4-O-β-D: -glucopyranoside (6). Their structures were determined on the basis of the results of spectroscopic analysis.
The nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-dependent enzyme dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) catalyzes a late step in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins and condensed tannins, two flavonoid classes of importance to plant survival and human nutrition. This enzyme has been widely investigated in many plant species, but little is known about its structural and biochemical properties. To provide a basis for detailed structure-function studies, the crystal structure of Vitis vinifera DFR, heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli, has been determined at 1.8 A resolution. The 3D structure of the ternary complex obtained with the oxidized form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate and dihydroquercetin, one of the DFR substrates, presents common features with the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase family, i.e., an N-terminal domain adopting a Rossmann fold and a variable C-terminal domain, which participates in substrate binding. The structure confirms the importance of the 131-156 region, which lines the substrate binding site and enlightens the role of a specific residue at position 133 (Asn or Asp), assumed to control substrate recognition. The activity of the wild-type enzyme and its variant N133D has been quantified in vitro, using dihydroquercetin or dihydrokaempferol. Our results demonstrate that position 133 cannot be solely responsible for the recognition of the B-ring hydroxylation pattern of dihydroflavonols.
Reactions of catechin and dihydroquercetin flavonoids with amino acids containing primary amino groups have been conducted. Amino acids can be used in both electrophilic substitution (Mannich aminomethylation) and electrophilic substitution (acylation) reactions.
Flavonol synthase (FLS) belongs to the 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase (2-ODD) superfamily. We isolated OsFLS from the rice (Oryza sativa) cultivar “Ilmi” OsFLS includes highly conserved 2-ODD-specific motifs and FLS-specific regions. Recombinant OsFLS exhibited both FLS and flavanone 3β-hydroxylase (F3H) activities, converting dihydroflavonols into flavonols and flavanones into dihydroflavonols, respectively, and more efficiently used dihydrokaempferol than dihydroquercetin as a substrate. OsFLS was expressed in both nonpigmented and pigmented rice seeds and was developmentally regulated during seed maturation. Transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants expressing OsFLS produced pale pink or white flowers with significantly increased levels of kaempferol-3-O-rutinoside and dramatically reduced levels of anthocyanin in their petals. Additionally, pod size and weight were reduced compared to the wild type. Several early and late biosynthetic genes of flavonoid were downregulated in the transgenic f...
Highlights: •∼2800 National Cancer Institute USA compounds have been screened as potential inhibitors of TDO and/or IDO. •Seven compounds with anti-tumour properties have been identified as potent inhibitors. •NSC 36398 (taxifolin, dihydroquercetin) is selective for TDO with a K{sub i} of 16 M. •This may help further our understanding of the role of TDO in cancer. -- Abstract: The involvement of tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (TDO) in cancer biology has recently been described, with the enzyme playing an immunomodulatory role, suppressing antitumour immune responses and promoting tumour cell survival and proliferation. This finding reinforces the need for specific inhibitors of TDO that may potentially be developed for therapeutic use. In this work we have screened ∼2800 compounds from the library of the National Cancer Institute USA and identified seven potent inhibitors of TDO with inhibition constants in the nanomolar or low micromolar range. All seven have antitumour properties, killing various cancer cell lines. For comparison, the inhibition potencies of these compounds were tested against IDO and their inhibition constants are reported. Interestingly, this work reveals that NSC 36398 (dihydroquercetin, taxifolin), with an in vitro inhibition constant of ∼16 μM, is the first TDO-selective inhibitor reported.
Abstract A selective, sensitive and fully validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method was established for the determination of dihydromyricetin, dihydroquercetin, myricetin and quercetin in rat plasma after intragastric administration of Hoveniae Semen total flavonoids. Baicalin was selected as the internal standard. Analytes were extracted from the rat plasma by protein precipitation with acetonitrile and separated on a C18 chromatographic column (Agilent ZORBAX Eclipse Plus, 4.6 mm × 100 mm, 3.5 μm) using the mobile phase containing acetonitrile (A) and 0.1% formic acid-water (B) by gradient elution at 0.5 mL/min flow rate. A tandem mass spectrometer equipped with an electrospray ionization (ESI) source was used to detect analytes. The analytes were measured by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) in the negative ionization mode. The lower limit of quantification of dihydromyricetin, dihydroquercetin, myricetin and quercetin were 0.70, 8.16, 1.62 and 0.56 ng/mL, respectively. The accuracy, intra-day and inter-day precision and recovery were all satisfactory and the compounds were stable in rat plasma under all tested conditions. The approach was successfully applied to study pharmacokinetic characteristics of the four bioactive flavonoids in plasma after administering Hoveniae Semen total flavonoids intragastrically to rat. Further investigation was carried out to assess pharmacokinetic comparability of the four bioactive flavonoids after intragastric administration of Hoveniae Semen total flavonoids to mixture of flavonoids.
This study aimed to investigate the protective effects, effective constituents and preliminary mechanisms of Euonymus alatus on liver fibrosis and screen new high-efficacy drug for fibrosis. 112 male C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into 14 groups: control group (CG), CCL4 group (CTG), low/medium/high dose of Euonymus alatus ethanol extracts (EAE), catechin (CA), dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and kaempferol (KA) groups. The study lasted for 30 days by injecting CCL4 in peritoneal cavity to make fibrosis model, all mice were sacrificed to observe morphological changes and collagenous fiber by HE and Masson staining, to test liver index, ALT, AST, to measure the expression of α-SMA and collagen I by immunohistochemistry and western blotting, to discuss the pathways of TβR1-Smad2/3 and TNF-α-NF-κB by WB and Elisa; after being evaluated the efficacy, anti-fibrosis drug of highest efficacy was chosen to repeat these indexes in human hepatic stellate cells-LX2. Results showed that EAE/CA/DHQ/KA prevented increases in liver index, ALT, AST, α-SMA, collagen I, TβR1, Smad2/3, TNF-α and p-NF-κB caused by CCL4 in dose-dependence, they also improved the liver morphology, decreased inflammatory cell infiltration and collagenous fiber in dose-dependence, CA' efficacy was best in mice; in LX-2, CA also decreased the expression of α-SMA, collagen I, TGF-β, Smad2/3. All findings suggested that Euonymus alatus could alleviate liver inflammation and fibrosis by inhibiting TβR1-Smad2/3 and TNF-α-NF-κB pathways, flavonoid were effective constituents and catechin was screened as a new star for its best performance.
We investigate a flash-assisted extraction of dihydroquercetin (DHQ) from wood sawdust of Larix gmelinii by response surface methodology. Box–Behnken design optimized the extraction conditions, and the highest DHQ yield (6.15 %) was obtained under optimal extraction conditions: FAE time (3 min), extraction time (3 h), solid-to-liquid (g/mL) ratio (1:15), and ethanol concentration (75 %). After purification, the DHQ purity was 96 % as determined by HPLC and was further characterized by FTIR. Purified DHQ’s antioxidant activities were confirmed in vitro by determining DPPH and ABTS radical scavenging activities and reducing Fe³⁺ power. In the DPPH and ABTS radical scavenging activity assays, DHQ displayed prominent antioxidant activities with low IC₅₀ values (11.568 and 12.475 μg/mL, respectively). In reducing Fe³⁺ power assay, high DHQ absorbance values showed that DHQ had higher reducing power than butylated hydroxyl toluene and had nearly the same consistent power as ascorbic acid at the same doses.
Flavonoids are major secondary metabolites in Camellia sinensis. Flavanone-3-hydroxylase (F3H) is a key enzyme in flavonoid biosynthesis in plants. However, its role in the flavonoid metabolism in C. sinensis has not been well studied. In this study, we cloned two F3Hs from C. sinensis, named CsF3Ha and CsF3Hb, where CsF3Ha containing 1107 bases encoded 368 amino acids, and CsF3Hb containing 1071 bases encoded 357 amino acids. Enzymatic activity analysis showed both recombinant CsF3H enzymes in Escherichia coli could convert naringenin and eriodictyol into dihydrokaempferol (DHK) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ), respectively. The expression profiles showed that CsF3Ha and CsF3Hb were highly expressed in the tender leaves of tea plants. Under different abiotic stresses, the two CsF3Hs were induced remarkably by ultraviolet (UV) radiation, sucrose, and abscisic acid (ABA). In the seeds of CsF3Hs transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana, the concentration of most flavonol glycosides and oligomeric proanthocyanidins increased significantly, while the content of monocatechin derivatives decreased. The present study revealed that CsF3Hs played critical roles in flavonoid biosynthesis in tea plants.
Phytochemical analysis of B. balsamifera leaves has revealed important amounts of volatile oil and a number of flavonoids, including velutin, dihydroquercetin-7,4′-dimethyl ether, blumeatin, ombuine, tamarixetin, rhamnetin, chrysoeriol, diosmetin, luteolin-7-methyl ether, luteolin, quercetin, 5,7,3′,5′-tetrahydroflavanone, dihydroquercetin-4′-methyl ether, 3,4,5-trihydroxy-3,7-dimethoxyflavone, 3,4′,5-trihydroxy-3′,7-dimethoxyflavanone, 3′,4′,5-trihydroxy-7-methoxyflavanone and 3-O-7′′-biluteolin [14] [15] [16] [17] . Moreover, five guaiane sesquiterpenes and one eudesmane sesquiterpene were identified in this plant [18] . The BB oil contains L-borneol, D-camphor, cineole, limonene, palmitic, myristic acid and sesquiterpene alcohol [19] . GC-MS analysis showed that this oil contains Interestingly, dihydroflavonol, extracted from B. balsamifera, was shown to display protective effects on liver and primary cultured hepatocytes against lipid peroxidation in rats [21, 22] . In addition, Toshio et al. reported that the methanol extract of B. balsamifera was able to inhibit the growth of hepatocellular carcinoma [23] . Taken together, B. balsamifera contains different active constituents that may have antagonistic effects. For example, flavonoids are known to increase gastric motility (laxative effects) [24] , whereas tannins can decrease gastric motility (constipating effects) [25] . Drinking of green tea is usually safe; however, the caplet / capsular form of pure green tea polyphenols can cause liver injury, especially in predisposing conditions, like fever [26] . Similarly, if a separated fraction of B. balsamifera is consumed rather than the whole herb, counteraction of harmful effects may be lost, causing biological effects that may not be consistent with the common usage of the whole B. balsamifera extract. The essential oil extracted from plants has been used in folklore medicine, and as cosmetics and food additives; however, it may cause hepatotoxicity or other adverse reactions [27, 28] .
Abstract Mutagenicity induced by tert -butyl hydroperoxide (BHP) or cumene hydroperoxide (CHP) in Salmonella typhimurium TA102 was effectively reduced by flavonols with 3′,4′-hydroxyl groups such as fisetin, quercetin, rutin, isoquercitrin, hyperoxide, myricetin, myricitrin, robinetin, and to a lesser extent also by morin and kaempferol (ID 50 =0.25–1.05 μmol per plate). With the exception of isorhamnetin, rhamnetin, morin, and kaempferol, closely similar results were obtained with both peroxides. Hydrogenation of the double bond between carbons 2 and 3 (dihydroquercetin, dihydrorobinetin) as well as the additional elimination of the carbonyl function at carbon 4 (catechins) resulted in a loss of antimutagenicity with the notable exception of catechin itself. Again, all flavones and flavanones tested were inactive except luteolin, luteolin-7-glucoside, diosmetin, and naringenin. The typical radical scavenger butylated hydroxytoluene also showed strong antimutagenicity against CHP (ID 50 =5.4 μmol per plate) and BHP (ID 50 =11.4 μmol per plate). Other lipophilic scavengers such as α-tocopherol and N , N′ -diphenyl-1,4-phenylenediamine exerted only moderate effects, the hydrophilic scavenger trolox was inactive. The metal chelating agent 1,10-phenanthroline strongly reduced mutagenicities induced by CHP and BHP (ID 50 =2.75 and 2.5 μmol per plate) at low concentrations but induced mutagenic activities at higher concentrations. The iron chelator deferoxamine mesylate, however, was less effective in both respects. The copper chelator neocuproine effectively inhibited mutagenicity induced by BHP (ID 50 =39.7 μmol per plate) and CHP (ID 50 =25.9 μmol per plate), the iron chelator 2,2′-dipyridyl was less potent (ID 50 =6.25 mmol per plate against BHP, 0.42 mmol per plate against CHP). In the absence of BHP and CHP, yet not in the presence of these hydroperoxides, quercetin, rutin, catechin, epicatechin, and naringenin induced strong mutagenic activities in S. typhimurium TA102. Radical scavenging activities of flavonoids against peroxyl radicals generated from 2,2′-azo-bis(2-amidinopropane)dihydrochloride (AAPH) as measured in the haemolysis test, confirmed that in general flavonoids with di- or trihydroxy hydroxyl functions especially in positions 3′, 4′, 5′ are effective radical scavengers. In this test system, however, luteolin was the most potent compound, followed by epicatechin and eriodictyol. Again, isorhamnetin was a potent inhibitor of lysis of red blood cells despite the presence of a 3′-OCH 3 function. Radical scavenging activities of flavonoids against the stable radical 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) in principle obeyed the rules outlined above. Flavanones, tamarixetin, and rhamnetin, however, were only weakly active against DPPH, while isorhamnetin was again a potent compound. From these results we conclude that in the Salmonella /reversion assay with strain TA102 antimutagenic activities of flavonoids against the peroxide mutagens CHP and BHP are mainly caused by radical scavenging effects.
The possibility of designing a model of sensor to antioxidants based on thiacalix[4]arene monolayers with immobilized cytochrome c was shown. The molecular surface area S 0 of thiacalix[4]arene in the monolayers and the surface pressure coefficient −dπ/dS (elasticity) reflect changes in the redox state of cytochrome c in the presence of dihydroquercetin and ascorbic acid in the aqueous subphase. The absorption spectra in the visible and UV ranges of solutions of the subphase and transferred thiacalix[4]arene monolayers with immobilized cytochrome c confirm the oxidation of the antioxidants to quinones and formation of the reduced form of cytochrome c.
The aim . This article is devoted to the intensification of the production process of a thick extract of milk thistle fruits using ultrasonic processing of raw materials. Materials and methods. As an object of the study, the crushed milk thistle fruitss from Penza “Biokor” company were used. As the extractant, an aqueous solution of ethanol 70% vol. was used. For ultrasonic processing of plant materials and extractant, the installation “Bandelin SONOPULS HD 3200” was used, the ultrasound frequency was 20 kHz, the radiator power was 280 W, and the temperature was 25°С. The concentration of the extract was performed using a rotary evaporator RV-10 at the temperature of 60°C and a vacuum of 600–650 Mmhg to a residual moisture content of 25%. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of the thick extract was carried out using spectrophotometry and chromatography. Quantitative analysis of the amount of flavolignans was performed on an SF-56 spectrophotometer. The separation of the flavolignan complex and the quantification of silibinin was performed on a liquid chromatograph “Agilent Technologies 1200 Infinity”. Results and discussion . During the study it was found out, that processing of the crushed milk thistle fruits by ultrasound at the soaking stage almost doubles the output of the flavoligan complex from medicinal plant materials. The maximum amount of flavolignans is extracted when the fruits of milk thistle and extractant are processed with ultrasound at the frequency of 20 kHz for 5 minutes. Thus the obtained thick extract of milk thistle fruits in the component composition contains both the target flavolignan complex (87.39%, silibinin – 24.36%), providing the hepatoprotective effect, and flavonoids – chlorogenic acid (1.69%) and dihydroquercetin (10.92%) exhibiting antioxidant activity. It was established that, according to the qualitative composition of flavolignans, the obtained thick extract corresponds to preparations based on milk thistle. Thus, for the first time, the method was proposed for obtaining a thick extract of milk thistle fruits using ultrasonic processing of raw materials and extractant at the soaking stage. The obtained thick extract is proposed to be used as an active pharmaceutical substance for the production of granules based on methionine and milk thistle flavolignans. Conclusion . The results of the experiments allow us to recommend obtaining a thick extract of the milk thistle fruits, using the stage of ultrasonic processing of raw materials and extractant for 5 minutes at the ultrasound frequency of 20 kHz.
Summary The methylated flavonoids, peonidin and isorhamnetin, found in pigment extracts of maize (Zea mays L.) tissues are the products of methylation by the S-adenosylmethionine-flavonoid 3´-Omethyltransferase described herein. The transferase is found in seedlings, leaf sheaths, and immature aleurone tissues and requires S-Adenosylmethionine as the methyl donor. S-adenosylhomocysteine inhibited the enzyme 50% at the 27 µM level whereas the same inhibition was observed with sinefungin present at a 1 µM level. The transferase had no apparent metal ion requirement, an optimum temperature of 40 °C and an optimum pH range between 8.0 and 8.5. The enzyme utilized either eriodictyol, a flavanone; luteolin, a flavone; or quercetin a flavonol as the substrate but would not methylate dihydroquercetin, a partially reduced flavonol or quercetin 3-glucoside. This suggests that methylation occurs sometime prior to the glucosylation reaction which is thought to occur near the end of the biosynthetic sequence for the flavonoid compounds in maize. Identification of the biochemical-genetic interrelationships of the transferase with the genes known to be involved in flavonoid biosynthesis in maize remains to be determined.
Stoichometric coefficients are found for the reactions of electrogenerated halogens and hexacyanoferrate(III) ions with natural polyphenols, namely, rutin, quercetin, and dihydroquercetin, and also with ascorbic acid. The number of electrons participating in the reactions with hexacyanoferrate(III) matches the number of hydroxyl groups in the analyte molecules, which is reflected by the respective reaction schemes. In the determination of the specified compounds in model solutions, the value of RSD was 0.4–6%. A procedure for the direct quantification of polyphenols in pharmaceuticals by the reaction with hexacyanoferrate is proposed; it is proved applicable for the quality control of medications; RSD does not exceed 7%. The variation of titrants, i.e., iodine and hexacyanoferrate, makes possible the determination of phenols in the presence of ascorbic acid.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is currently the leading cause of acute liver disease, but therapeutic treatment strategies are commonly limited. Although dihydroquercetin (DHQ) is an attractive botanical antioxidant, its protective potential for liver disease remains elusive. The present study investigated the protective effects of DHQ against APAP-induced hepatic cytotoxicity. Primary mouse hepatocytes were treated with different concentrations of DHQ followed by APAP administration. Our data showed that DHQ relieved APAP-induced growth inhibition and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in a dose-dependent manner, as well as inhibited APAP-induced necrosis and extracellular signal regulated kinase-c-Jun-N-terminal kinase (ERK-JNK) stress. In addition, reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and mitochondria dysfunction were also reversed by DHQ treatment. Further study revealed that DHQ induced phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (JAK2/STAT3) cascade and thus modulated expression of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins. Moreover, DHQ induced autophagy which mediated its protective effects in hepatocytes. The protection was abrogated through pharmacological blockage of autophagy by chloroquine (CQ). These studies demonstrated, for the first time, that DHQ possessed hepatocellular protective effects in the context of APAP-induced cytotoxicity and subsequently revealed that the mechanisms comprised activation of JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway and autophagy. These altogether highlighted the significant therapeutic potential of this agent during acute liver failure and other types of liver diseases.
Objective:To study the chemical constituents of Ampelopsis grossedentata. Methods:The chemical constituents were isolated and purified by repeated silica gel and polyamide column chromatography as well as recrystallization etc. Structures of the pure compounds were established on the basis of their physiochemical and spectral data. Results:Six compounds were obtained from Ampelopsis grossedentata, they were β-sitosterol(1), oleanolic acid(2), hesperetin(3), dihydroquercetin(4), kaempferol(5), apigenin(6). Conclusion: Compounds 3, 5 and 6 were obtained from the plant for the first time.
Concurrent pulse-radiolytic generation of flavonoid aroxyl radicals and ascorbyl radicals causes a complex kinetic interplay of competing and parallel reactions. Evaluation by "kinetic modelling," that is, taking into account all possible reactions by a set of differential equations, allowed us to determine equilibria constants for the univalent steps by a novel method. From these kinetic data we were able to calculate the redox potentials for dihydroquercetin, quercetin, rutin (a quercetin 3-glycoside), kaempferol, fisetin, and luteolin. Despite the limited number of substances, two structural criteria became apparent: all substances containing the B-ring catechol group and the 2,3-double bond have a higher redox potential than ascorbate and are consequently able to oxidize it to the ascorbyl radical. With fisetin and kaempferol having values very similar to ascorbate, only the flavanone dihydro-quercetin was capable of reducing the ascorbyl radical, thus fulfilling the so-called "ascorbate-protective" function, originally proposed by Szent-Györgyi. While flavonoids are effective radical scavengers, these rather high redox potentials for most flavonols may explain their occasional prooxidative behavior.
231 Ethanollaqueous extracts from New Zealand plants were screened for inhibitory activity against HIV-1 protease using fluorogenic and HPLC assays. Among the examined extracts, Pseudotsuga menziesii, Elaeocalpus hookerianus, Pernettya macrostigma and Cassinia leptophylla showed significant inhibition at a concentration of 50 μg/mL in the HPLC confirmation assay. The IC 50 values of these extracts to HIV-1 protease on its synthetic peptide substrate were 9.63, 9.74, 27.62 and 60.73 μg/mL, respectively. The derivatives of dihydroquercetin and [5'5']-bisdihydroquercetin from Pseudotsuga menziesii could be the causative compounds for the inhibition.
Vitis bellula is a new grape crop in southern China. Berries of this species are rich in antioxidative anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins. This study reports cloning and functional characterization of a cDNA encoding a V. bellula dihydroflavonol reductase (VbDFR) involved in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins. A cDNA including 1014 bp was cloned from young leaves and its open reading frame (ORF) was deduced encoding 337 amino acids, highly similar to V. vinifera DFR (VvDFR). Green florescence protein fusion and confocal microscopy analysis determined the cytosolic localization of VbDFR in plant cells. A soluble recombinant VbDFR was induced and purified from E. coli for enzyme assay. In the presence of NADPH, the recombinant enzyme catalyzed dihydrokaempferol (DHK) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ) to their corresponding leucoanthocyanidins. The VbDFR cDNA was introduced into tobacco plants via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The overexpression of VbDFR increased anthocyanin production in flowers. Anthocyanin hydrolysis and chromatographic analysis revealed that transgenic flowers produced pelargonidin and delphinidin, which were not detected in control flowers. These data demonstrated that the overexpression of VbDFR produced new tobacco anthocyanidins. In summary, all data demonstrate that VbDFR is a useful gene to provide three types of substrates for metabolic engineering of anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins in grape crops and other crops.
A reliable method for identification of the dihydroquercetin flavonoid is proposed on the basis of its complex structural study.
The present invention relates to hair treatment compositions comprising at least one compound selected from the group of cross Cetine, preferably dihydroquercetin or dihydroquercetin-containing extracts, and the use of these compositions for revitalization of hair, reactivation of the hair root, activation of hair follicles, thickening hair, promoting or enhancing the hair growth, hair conditioning, for reducing hair loss and / or for the treatment of hair loss.
Patients with stages I and II of vascular encephalopathy developing on the background of atherosclerosis were treated with ascovertin during 21 days. Ascovertin is a complex of flavonoid dihydroquercetin and ascorbic acid. The study group included 21 patients aged 45-65 years and a comparison group consisted of 10 age-matched patients un treated with ascovertin. The ascovertin treatment relieved headache, reduced vertigo and fatigability, improved cognitive functions. The reliable diminishing of whole blood viscosity due to improvement of cellular rheology indices (decrease of aggregation and increase of erythrocyte deformability as well as decrease of indices of lipid peroxidation in erythrocyte membrane and blood plasma) was observed in the stydy group but not in the comparison one.
Anthocyanidin synthase (ANS, leucoanthocyanidin oxygenase), a 2-oxoglutarate iron-dependent oxygenase, catalyzed the penultimate step in the biosynthesis of the anthocyanin class of flavonoids, from the colorless leucoanthocyanidins to the colored anthocyanidins. The full-length cDNA and genomic DNA sequences of ANS gene (designated as GbANS) were isolated from Ginkgo biloba for the first time. The full-length cDNA of GbANS contained a 1062-bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding a 354-amino-acid protein. The genomic DNA analysis showed that GbANS gene had three exons and two introns. The deduced GbANS protein showed high identities to other plant ANSs. The conserved amino acids (H-X-D) ligating ferrous iron and residues (R-X-S) participating in 2-oxoglutarate binding were found in GbANS at the similar positions like other ANSs. Southern blot analysis indicated that GbANS belonged to a multi-gene family. The expression analysis by real-time PCR showed that GbANS expressed in a tissue-specific manner in G. biloba. GbANS was also found to be up-regulated by all of the six tested abiotic stresses, UV-B, abscisic acid, sucrose, salicylic acid, cold and ethylene, consistent with the promoter region analysis of GbANS. The recombinant protein was successfully expressed in E. coli strain with pET28a vector. The in vitro enzyme activity assay by HPLC indicated that recombinant GbANS protein could catalyze the formation the cyanidin from leucocyanidin and conversion of dihydroquercetin to quercetin, suggesting GbANS is a bifunctional enzyme within the anthocyanidin and flavonol biosynthetic pathway.
Abstract: Vitis bellula is a new grape crop in southern China. Berries of this species are rich in antioxidative anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins. This study reports cloning and functional characterization of a cDNA encoding a V. bellula dihydroflavonol reductase (VbDFR) involved in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins. A cDNA including 1014 bp was cloned from young leaves and its open reading frame (ORF) was deduced encoding 337 amino acids, highly similar to V. vinifera DFR (VvDFR). Green florescence protein fusion and confocal microscopy analysis determined the cytosolic localization of VbDFR in plant cells. A soluble recombinant VbDFR was induced and purified from E. coli for enzyme assay. In the presence of NADPH, the recombinant enzyme catalyzed dihydrokaempferol (DHK) and dihydroquercetin (DHQ) to their corresponding leucoanthocyanidins. The VbDFR cDNA was introduced into tobacco plants via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The overexpression of VbDFR increased anthocyanin production in flowers. Anthocyanin hydrolysis and chromatographic analysis revealed that transgenic flowers produced pelargonidin and delphinidin, which were not detected in control flowers. These data demonstrated that the overexpression of VbDFR produced new tobacco anthocyanidins. In summary, all data demonstrate that VbDFR is a useful gene to provide three types of substrates for metabolic engineering of anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins in grape crops and other crops.
Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) is a key late enzyme in the plant flavonoid pathway toward both anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins ( Figure 1 ). It catalyzes the key step from dihydroflavonols, such as dihydrokaempferol (DHK), dihydroquercetin (DHQ), and dihydromyricetin (DHM), to leucoanthocyanidins, such as leucopelargonidin, leucocyanidin, and leucodelphinidin [1] . DFR genes have been cloned from multiple plants and its mutation has been demonstrated to cause the loss of anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins in plants [2] [3] [4] [5] . To date, DFR is an economically important plant gene, given that anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins are two groups of antioxidants relating to high nutritional values of crop, food, and beverage (such as wine and green tea) products [6] [7] [8] [9] . Particularly, anthocyanins are one of the richest plant natural pigments with significant economic values in the horticulture industry [6, [10] [11] [12] [13] . Since the first success of Petunia flower color engineering was achieved using the first DFR cDNA cloned from maize [13] , multiple homologs have been cloned to engineer anthocyanins [1, 14, 15] and proanthocyanidins [16, 17] . DFR also plays a key role in transcription factor-based anthocyanin engineering. A common metabolic phenotype is that the activation or enhancement of DFR expression is necessary in MYB transcription factor-based anthocyanin engineering. For example, the regulatory function of the Production of Anthocyanin Pigmentation 1 (PAP1, a MYB75) depends upon the expression of DFR [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] .
Our previous study showed that D. zalil Aitch. & Hemsi. has F3'H activity, but defective anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) expression. Therefore, D. zalil does not produce anthocyanin, but rather accumulates flavonol glycosides in its sepals. The recombinant D. zalil F3'H enzyme protein expressed in yeast showed hydroxylation activity to convert naringenin, apigenin, dihydrokaempferol, and kaempferol to eriodictyol, luteolin, dihydroquercetin, and quercetin, respectively. Although kaempferol and quercetin glycosides are accumulated in D. zalil sepals, the recombinant enzyme activity showed a preference for dihydrokaempferol over other flavonoids ( Fig. 1 ; Miyahara et al., 2016) . In addition, we have also shown that D. cardinale Hook. accumulates large amounts of a single pelargonidin-based anthocyanin, which leads to the production of vivid red flowers (Miyagawa et al., 2015) . However, neither flavonoid 3', 5'-hydroxylase (F3'5'H) activity nor accumulation of F3'5'H reaction products has been detected in wild-type D. zalil or D. cardinale.
Evidence from in vitro and in vivo studies indicates that rutin, the main flavonoid in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), may have high value for medicine and health. This paper reports the finding of a flavonol synthase (FLS) gene, cloned and characterized from F. tataricum and designated FtFLS1, that is involved in rutin biosynthesis. The FtFLS1 gene was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), and the recombinant soluble FtFLS1 protein had a relative molecular mass of 40 kDa. The purified recombinant protein showed, with dihydroquercetin as substrate, total and specific activities of 36.55 × 10–3 IU and 18.94 × 10–3 IU/mg, respectively, whereas the total and specific activities were 10.19 × 10–3 IU and 5.28 × 10–3 IU/mg, respectively, with dihydrokaempferol. RT-PCR revealed that during F. tataricum florescence there was an organ-specific expression pattern by the FtFLS1 gene, with similar trends in flavonoid content. These observations suggest that FtFLS1 in F. tataricum encodes a functional prot...
A clinical investigation was conducted of therapy of patients with acute pneumonia using a new antioxidant diquertin, whose primary component is a bioflavonoid, dihydroquercetin. It was demonstrated that patients with acute pneumonia receiving diquertin in an adjuvant therapy had a faster recovery from symptoms of pneumonitis and a better state of free radical generating processes in serum lipids, compared with patients undergoing traditional therapy. The clinical effectiveness of the antioxidative activity of diquertin was confirmed by comparison with an antioxidative complex including α-tocopherol acetate and sodium thiosulphate.
Preface Classification of Polymers in Reactivity toward Nitrogen Oxides Influence of the Initiation Rate of Radicals on the Kinetic Characteristics of Quercetin & Dihydroquercetin in the Methyl Oleate Oxidation An Antioxidant from Hindered Phenols Group Activates Cellulose Hydrolysis by Celloviridin in a Wide Concentration Range, Including Ultralow doses a-Tocopherol as Modifier of the Lipid Structure of Plasma Membranes in Vitro in a Wide Range of Concentrations Studied by Spin-Probes Supercritical Carbon Dioxide Swelling of Polyheteroarylenes Synthesized in N-Methylpyrrolidone Inhibition of 2-Hexenal Oxidation by Essential Oils of Ginger, Marjoram, Juniper Berry, Black & White Pepper The Organophosphorus Plant Growth Regulator Melaphen as Adaptogen to Low Moisher Antioxidant Properties of Essential Oils from Clove Bud, Laurel, Cardamom, Nutmeg & Mace Specific Properties of some Biological Composite Materials Properties & Applications of Aminoxyl Radicals in Polymer Chemistry Synthesis of Flexible Manufacturings for Phosphoric Industry Waste Utilization based on the Cals-Concept Practical Hints on Application of Nanosilvers in Antibacterial Coating of Textiles The Nanostructure & Yield process of Cross-Linked Epoxy Polymers Nanostructures in Cross-Linking Epoxy Polymers & their Influence on Mechanical Properties The Degradation Heterochain Polymers in the Presence ?f Phosphorus St?bilizers Quantum-Chemical Calculation of Olefins of Cationic Polymerisation Branching in y-8, & e Position on Relations to Double Connection by Method MNDO Thermodinamic for Catalase & Hydrogen Peroxide Interaction Dr.rer.nat. Wolfgang Fritsche -- Scientist & Organizer of International Science Professor Victor Manuel de Matos Lobo on his 70th Anniversary The Scientist who has Outstripped His Time Professor Dr Ryszard Michal Kozlowski. Half a Century in Science & Technology The Second International Conference on Biodegradable Polymers & Sustainable Composites (BioPol-2009) Index.
Luteolin, a water-insoluble 3′,4′,5,7-tetrahydroxyflavon, is one of the best-studied representatives of bioflavonoids. Luteolin is an essential food component for humans and other mammals that possesses a wide spectrum of biological activities by affecting the activities of various metabolic enzymes, target receptors, and signal transduction pathways. In this study, we conducted a comparative study of the antioxidant (free-radical scavenging) properties of luteolin in 2,2′-azobis(2-methylpropionamidine) dihydrochloride–luminol and hemoglobin–hydrogen peroxide–luminol systems and assessed its effect on the permeability of planar lipid bilayer membranes. Trolox was used as a reference antioxidant, while ascorbic acid and dihydroquercetin were taken as standards. Luteolin shows moderate antioxidant activity, exhibiting a higher antioxidant capacity than trolox and ascorbic acid, but it was less effective than dihydroquercetin in tests for antioxidant activity in the studied systems. The studied compounds can be ranked according to the effectiveness of their antioxidant action: dihydroquercetin > luteolin > trolox > ascorbic acid. It should be noted that the antioxidant activity of a water-soluble form of luteolin, luteolin disulfate, is comparable with that of luteolin. Luteolin does not cause significant changes in the permeability of planar bilayer membranes in the dose range from 1.5 to 30 μM. Our findings indicate the presence of a high level of free-radical scavenging activity and the absence of a primary membranotropic effect for luteolin. It can be assumed that the multiple pleiotropic nature of luteolin activity towards a variety of biological systems is associated not only with a neutralizing effect in regard to reactive oxygen species, but also with the ability of luteolin to block and modulate different cell-signaling processes and biochemical pathways. The presumed mechanisms of the biological activity of luteolin and luteolin disulfate are discussed.
A comparative study of antioxidant (radical-scavenging) properties of triptantrin, which is a quinazoline alkaloid with anti-inflammatory activity that occurs in many species of higher plants and microorganisms, including the human microbiome, in systems containing 2,2’-azobis (2-methylpropionamidin) dihydrochloride and luminol, or hemoglobin, hydrogen peroxide, and luminol was performed and the impact of the alkaloid on the permeability of planar bilayer lipid membranes was assessed. Trolox was used as a reference antioxidant, and ascorbic acid and dihydroquercetin were used as standards. The antioxidant activity of triptantrin in both systems was much lower than that of the reference and standard antioxidants. The substances formed the following series according to antioxidant activity: dihydroquercetin > trolox > ascorbic acid > triptantrin, with the antioxidant potential of the latter being 1000 times lower than that of trolox and 3000 times lower than that of the bioflavonoid dihydroquercetin. Triptantrin did not cause significant changes in permeability of planar bilayer membranes when applied at concentrations of 0.5–10 μg/mL. The data show that triptantrin lacks considerable radical-scavenging and membranotropic activities; therefore one can assume that the high antiinflammatory activity that has been reported for triptantrin is neither related to an ability to neutralize reactive oxygen species nor to effects on cell membrane permeability. The putative mechanisms that underlie the biological effects of triptantrin are discussed.
Members of the family Picornaviridae, in particular, enteroviruses, represent a serious threat to human health. They are responsible for numerous pathologies ranging from mild disease to fatal outcome. Due to the limited number of safe and effective antivirals against enteroviruses, there is a need for search and development of novel drugs with various mechanisms of activity against enteroviruses-induced pathologies. We studied the effect of dihydroquercetin (DHQ), a flavonoid from larch wood, on the course of pancreatitis of white mice caused by coxsackievirus B4 (CVB4). DHQ was applied intraperitoneally at doses of 75 or 150 mg/kg/day once a day for 5 days postinfection (p.i.) starting on day 1 p.i., and its effect was compared to that of the reference compound ribavirin. The application of DHQ resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in the virus titer in pancreatic tissue, reaching, at the highest dose, 2.4 logs on day 5 p.i. Also, the application of DHQ led to restoration of antioxidant activity of pancreatic tissue that was impaired in the course of pancreatitis. Morphologically, pancreatic tissue of DHQ-treated animals demonstrated less infiltration with inflammatory cells and no signs of tissue destruction compared to placebo-treated mice. Both ribavirin- and DHQ-treated animals developed fewer foci of pancreatic inflammation per mouse, and these foci contained fewer infiltrating cells than those in placebo-treated mice. The effect of DHQ was comparable to or exceeded that of ribavirin. Taken together, our results suggest high antiviral activity of DHQ and its promising potential in complex treatment of viral pancreatitis.
The molecular structures of dihydroquercetin 3-acetate 3 and dihydroquercetin 3,3',4',7-tetraacetate 4 were determined by single crystal X-ray analysis. Comparison of their crystal data with those of 16 known 5-hydroxyflavanones shows intramolecular O(5)-H···O(4)=C hydrogen bonding, preference for nearly perpendicular orientation of the two aromatic rings and preferred sofa conformation of the heterocyclic ring. The major stabilizing force in the crystal packing pattern of 3 is intermolecular hydrogen bonding.Key words: crystal structure, dihydroquercetin, flavanones, hydrogen bonding.
Abstract Occasionally, endophytic fungal species cognize as a hidden prospective source of plant secondary metabolites. In this study, a potent Penicillium setosum sp. nov. was explored for its detailed antibacterial action on Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus through different in vitro and in silico assays. Fluorescence based viability assay determined increase in the number of dead cells in course of time with the continual exposure of extract during a 4 h period. Scanning electron micrographs reflect the distinguishable morphological changes in treated cells, namely shortening of size, bubbles, and blisters on the surface of E. coli, as well as open holes and deep craters on the surface of S. aureus, ultimately leading to rupture of cells. Significant intracellular changes in bacteria were remarkably noticed through different membrane permeabilization assays. The rate of Na+ and K+ leakage with respect to time, intracellular material and cytoplasmic β-galactosidase release were measured spectroscopically. The results indisputably prove that membrane disruption of S. aureus cells occurs within 2 h and in E.coli occurs in between 2 and 4 h of exposure. Crude extract of P. setosum was fractioned using semi-preparative HPLC and the separated antibacterial active fraction showed antibacterial efficacy with the minimum inhibitory concentration of 8 μg/mL against both organisms. Active fraction contains four well-known plant metabolite belongs to the polyphenolic group (Leucodelphinidin, dihydroquercetin, kaempferol, and quercetin) and one polyketide (patulin) familiar as fungal metabolite, identified through high resolution LC-MS. Interaction mechanisms of identified compounds with nine important antimicrobial drug targets showed highest binding affinity by leucodelphinidin followed by dihydroquercetin > kaempferol > quercetin. This is the first instance of using leucodelphinidin and dihydroquercetin for detailed interaction study with multiple targets, and it was found that they showed more effective interaction than quercetin, which was earlier utilized for antibacterial studies.
Flavonols are produced by the desaturation of flavanols catalyzed by flavonol synthase. The enzyme belongs to the class of intermolecular dioxygenases which depend on molecular oxygen and FeII/2-oxoglutarate for activity, and have been in focus of structural studies recently. Flavonol synthase cDNAs were cloned from six plant species, but none of the enzymes had been studied in detail. Therefore, a cDNA from Citrus unshiu (Satsuma mandarin) designated as flavonol synthase was expressed in Escherichia coli, and the purified recombinant enzyme was subjected to kinetic and mutational chacterizations. The integrity of the recombinant synthase was revealed by a molecular ion from MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry at m/z 37888 +/- 40 (as compared to 37899 Da calculated for the translated polypeptide), and by partial N-terminal sequencing. Maximal flavonol synthase activity was observed in the range of pH 5-6 with dihydroquercetin as substrate and a temperature optimum at about 37 degrees C. Km values of 272, 11 and 36 micro m were determined for dihydroquercetin, FeII and 2-oxoglutarate, respectively, with a sixfold higher affinity to dihydrokaempferol (Km 45 micro m). Flavonol synthase polypeptides share an overall sequence similarity of 85% (47% identity), whereas only 30-60% similarity were apparent with other dioxygenases. Like the other dioxygenases of this class, Citrus flavonol synthase cDNA encodes eight strictly conserved amino-acid residues which include two histidines (His221, His277) and one acidic amino acid (Asp223) residue for FeII-coordination, an arginine (Arg287) proposed to bind 2-oxoglutarate, and four amino acids (Gly68, His75, Gly261, Pro207) with no obvious functionality. Replacements of Gly68 and Gly261 by alanine reduced the catalytic activity by 95%, while the exchange of these Gly residues for proline completely abolished the enzyme activity. Alternatively, the substitution of Pro207 by glycine hardly affected the activity. The data suggest that Gly68 and Gly261, at least, are required for proper folding of the flavonol synthase polypeptide.
Regulation of maturation-related root initiation potential and anthocyanin accumulation in Hedera helix are discussed. Evidence is presented for regulation of these characteristics at the level of gene expression. In the case of anthocyanin, m-RNA for the enzyme dihydroquercetin-4-reductase accumulates in juvenile leaf discs during sucrose induced anthocyanin accumulation, but not in sucrose-treated mature leaf discs that do not accumulate anthocyanin. These results suggests that regulation of gene expression for this maturation-related enzyme is at the transcriptional level. A wound inducible cDNA clone is a highly expressed in mature but not juvenile petioles and may be related to maturation-related reduced rootability.
Abstract A new xanthone- O -glycoside, polycaudoside A, together with 2′-benzoylmangiferin, 1-methoxy-7-hydroxyxanthone, 1,2,8-trihydroxyxanthone, euxanthone, gentisein, wubangziside A, wubangziside B, 1,3-dihydroxy-2-methoxyxanthone, lancerin and neolancerin, stigmasterol, stigmastrol-3- O - d -glucoside, p -hydroxybenzoic acid, dihydroquercetin and quercetin were isolated from the roots of Polygala caudata . Their structures were established on the basis of chemical studies and spectral evidence, including 2D NMR analyses.
Anthocyanidin synthase from Vitis vinifera (VvANS) catalyzes the in vitro transformation of the natural isomer of leucocyanidin, 2R,3S,4S-cis-leucocyanidin, into 2R,4S-flavan-3,3,4-triol ([M + H]+, m/z 323) and quercetin. The C3-hydroxylation product 2R,4S-flavan-3,3,4-triol is first produced and its C3,C4-dehydration product is in tautomeric equilibrium with (+)-dihydroquercetin. The latter undergoes a second VvANS-catalyzed C3-hydroxylation leading to a 4-keto-2R-flavan-3,3-gem-diol which upon dehydration gives quercetin. The unnatural isomer of leucocyanidin, 2R,3S,4R-trans-leucocyanidin, is similarly transformed into quercetin upon C3,C4-dehydration, but unlike 3,4-cis-leucocyanidin, it also undergoes some C2,C3-dehydration followed by an acid-catalyzed hydroxyl group extrusion at C4 to give traces of cyanidin. Overall, the C3,C4-trans isomer of leucocyanidin is transformed into 2R,4R-flavan-3,3,4-triol (M + 1, m/z 323), (+)-DHQ, (−)-epiDHQ, quercetin, and traces of cyanidin. Our data bring the first ...
Summary ::: Resveratrol and related stilbenes are thought to play important roles in defence responses in several plant species and have also generated considerable interest as nutraceuticals owing to their diverse health-promoting properties. Pterostilbene, a 3,5-dimethylether derivative of resveratrol, possesses properties similar to its parent compound and, additionally, exhibits significantly higher fungicidal activity in vitro and superior pharmacokinetic properties in vivo. Recombinant enzyme studies carried out using a previously characterized O-methyltransferase sequence from Sorghum bicolor (SbOMT3) demonstrated its ability to catalyse the A ring-specific 3,5-bis-O-methylation of resveratrol, yielding pterostilbene. A binary vector was constructed for the constitutive co-expression of SbOMT3 with a stilbene synthase sequence from peanut (AhSTS3) and used for the generation of stably transformed tobacco and Arabidopsis plants, resulting in the accumulation of pterostilbene in both species. A reduced floral pigmentation phenotype observed in multiple tobacco transformants was further investigated by reversed-phase HPLC analysis, revealing substantial decreases in both dihydroquercetin-derived flavonoids and phenylpropanoid-conjugated polyamines in pterostilbene-producing SbOMT3/AhSTS3 events. These results demonstrate the potential utility of this strategy for the generation of pterostilbene-producing crops and also underscore the need for the development of additional approaches for minimizing concomitant reductions in key phenylpropanoid-derived metabolites.
It had been shown previously that [/S-14C]-4, 2', 4', 6 '-tetrahydroxychalcone-2 '-glucoside1 and the corres ponding flavanone [2-14C]-naringenin2 (5, 7, 4'-trihydroxyflavanone) are incorporated into catechins in young tea leaves or shoots. With the tetrahydroxychalcone-glucoside as precursor it was proved that the incorporation into epicatechin occurred without ran domization of the label1. Dihydrokaempferol and dihydroquercetin, which proved to be efficient pre cursors for kaempferol and quercetin3-4 and for cyanidin5, have also been postulated to be the more immediate precursors for catechins6.
Anthocyanins are a large group of over 500 pigments abundant in plant kingdom accumulated in the cell vacuole of some organs. Variation of substrate and possible sidegroup arrangements determines light absorbance spectrum of anthocyanin compounds; thus, their color can vary widely from purple, blue to red (Mazza and Miniati 1993) . The occurrence of these pigments in plant tissue is the result of a multistep and branched flavonoid biosynthesis pathway. A colorless naringenin (flavanone) is a precursor in the upstream pathway. It is converted to dihydroflavonols, which are then converted to unstable pigments, anthocyanidins. Anthocyanins, which are stable compounds, are glycosylated and methylated derivatives of anthocyanidins. Thus, accumulation of anthocyanin pigments requires colorless dihydroflavonols to be synthesized first. The later compounds, namely dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin, and dihydromyricetin, are products of naringenin hydroxylation via three branches of the pathway, and three hydroxylases may be involved in their synthesis depending on the pathway route. Flavanone-3-hydroxylase (F3H) attaches a hydroxy group to carbon 3 in the flavanone phenyl C-ring of the substrate compound that is a characteristic side group of anthocyanins, and F3H is the only enzyme that catalyses this hydroxylation reaction in all three routes. Thus, F3H is considered to be critical for anthocyanin biosynthesis (Cheynier et al. 2013; Petrussa et al. 2013) . When expression of F3H is inhibited, the synthesis of these pigments is restricted as demonstrated in orange carnation (Zuker et al. 2002) . Carrot (Daucus carota L. var. sativus Hoffm.) is able to synthesize mainly cyanidin-based anthocyanins (Kammerer et al. 2004 ). This group of pigments has purple color whose stability, saturation and hue depend on the type of glycosylation and acylation reactions, cell pH, and are modified by environmental factors (Stintzing et al. 2002; Kramer et al. 2012) . Some cultivars, traditionally grown in Asia and Middle East, develop purple storage root and accumulate a large amount of anthocyanins up to 17,414 mg/kg dry weight (Kammerer et al. 2004 ). High pigment content was correlated with expression of the flavonoid pathway key genes, including the F3H gene (Yildiz et al. 2013; Xu et al. 2014) . In contrast, carrots developing orange storage roots may accumulate only very small amount of anthocyanins in hypocotyl, basal part of petioles, and in the skin of storage root shoulders (Leja et al. 2013 ). However, visible purple color in these tissues is an evidence of functional anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway.
The article describes the results of a study of flour confectionery products produced with the use of raw materials of plants and berries origin, growing on the territory of the Far Eastern Region of Russia, as well as dihydroquercetin to enrich the ready product with natural biologically active substances with functional properties. The production technology of « Medovaya» honey-cake with no filler has been improved. Chemical values of black chokeberry berries and flour confectionery products (« Medovaya» honey-cake with no filler) produced according to standard formulation and enriched by adding black chokeberry powder have been identified. The use of black chokeberry berries processed products and dihydroquercetin in the production technology of flour confectionery products improves their quality and enriches them with the natural biologically active substances, meets the daily requirement for a number of physiologically functional ingredients, extends the storage life.
In the present study, secondary metabolites produced by an endophytic fungus Penicillium setosum were extracted using colony agar plug and culture broth extraction methods. High resolution LC-MS was used to explore the chemical nature of the secondary metabolites, as well, compare the reliability of the methods. P. setosum was chemotaxonomically distinguished from other members of section Lanata-divaricata, by its ability to produce mycotoxin, patulin and also by the presence of certain phenol-derived compounds, like quercetin, dihydroflavonols (dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin), kaempferol, luteolin, while some Penicillium specific compounds such as, citromycetin and andrastin D reveal its similarity towards section Lanata-Divaricata members. For the first time, the presence of dihydroquercetin is remarkably and spectrometrically confirmed from a microbial source. In addition, a few polyketides, anthroquinone compounds, hydrocarbons, and fatty acids were also detected in the culture extract. Being the first report on the production of polyphenolic compounds by an endophytic fungus of Penicillium species, the current research is crucial, and moreover the starin itself is a novel species.
1. A method of using nutritional compounds for the prevention, control and reduction of cardiometabolic risk factors associated with metabolic syndrome and hypercholesterolemia in humans, which comprises the steps of: determining whether there is a specific metabolic syndrome in a human, by determining that the specific person has at least three characteristics selected from the group consisting of the following: (a) a waist circumference greater than 102 cm for men and more than 88 cm in women, (b) the level of triglycerides greater than 150 mg / dL, (c) the level of HDL cholesterol less than 40 mg / dL for men and less than 50mg / dl for women, (d) blood pressure greater than or equal to 130/85 mm Hg, and (e) a fasting blood glucose level of 110 mg / dL; and wherein the determined presence of the metabolic syndrome in said human, introducing into the food containing compound dihydroquercetin (taxifolin), arabinogalactan or arabinogalactan together with dihydroquercetin (taxifolin) so that after introduction into said nutrient compound in such a person is not observed in more than one characteristic, selected from the group consisting of (a), (b), (c), (d), and (f) .2. A method of using the food containing compounds dihydroquercetin (taxifolin), arabinogalactan or arabinogalactan together with dihydroquercetin (taxifolin), which comprises the steps of: introducing said edible compound inside a person with cardiometabolic risk factors associated with metabolic syndrome, hypercholesterolemia, such that after said introducing into said edible compound in humans have lower levels of triglycerides, total reduction holes
Abstract Anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), a member of the 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase family in flavonoid biosynthesis, catalyzes the conversion of leucoanthocyanidins (e.g. 2R,3S,4S-cis-leucocyanidin, LCD) to flav-2-en-3,4-diols, a direct precursor of colored anthocyanidins via flavan-3,3,4-triols. The detailed oxygenation mechanism of 2R,3S,4S-cis-LCD to flav-2-en-3,4-diols was investigated using the density functional theory method. An initial model for the calculation was constructed from a structure obtained by a 100-ps molecular dynamics simulation of Arabidopsis ANS under physiological conditions. This model consisted of an LCD molecule as the substrate together with an iron atom, two histidine residues, an aspartic acid residue, a succinate, and an oxygen atom as ligands of the iron atom. The results of the calculation indicated that both the C-3 and C-4 positions of LCD can be oxidized, although C-4 oxidation is preferable. The C-3 oxidation required several steps to form flavan-3,3,4-triol: 1) formation of FeIII-OH and a substrate C-3 radical via hydrogen atom abstraction by FeIV=O, 2) formation of a C-3 ketone and a water molecule, 3) addition of OH- into the C-3 position of the ketone, and 4) addition of H+ to form flavan-3,3,4-triol. On the other hand, C-4 oxidation of 2R,3S,4S-cis-LCD resulted in the direct formation of 2R,3R-trans-dihydroquercetin. These results suggest that the oxidation at C-3 of LCD, a key reaction for coloring in anthocyanin biosynthesis, can be regarded as a “side reaction” from the viewpoint of quantum mechanics of enzymatic reactions. Molecular evolutional implications of ANS and related proteins are discussed in terms of reaction dynamics.
A topical trend in the industrial and ecological development of Russia is elaboration of the methods for integrated use of all components of natural raw materials, in particular, woodbased biomass. Note that the integrated processing of the woodbased bio� mass is possible only in close cooperation of various woodbased industries. These include production of traditional materials, energy sources, chemical prod� ucts, and biologically active compounds approaching the geochemically and energetically closed cycle tech� nology. Currently, all woodbased industries related to either mechanical or chemical processing of wood produce specific wastes although in different amounts. The difficulty of targeted standardized processing of these wastes is related to the necessity of strict indus� trial classification of the wastes and their averaging taking into account the physicochemical properties of the substances that form the material and parts of the trees. It is important that bulky wastes of woodbased biomass are formed upon extraction from wood of bio� logically active compounds such as terpenes, polypre� nols, and flavonoids, which are usually present in small amounts in the initial raw material (1). For example, the larch wood remainders after the removal of arabinogalactan and dihydroquercetin are large� scale wastes, their weight being about 85% of the wood weight (2, 3). A promising method for waste wood recycling is the production of plate materials without or with mini� mized use of synthetic binders. This trend is promising as regards the environmental safety of constructional materials. It was proposed to manufacture plate mate� rials from the compression molding material resulting from the extensive physicomechanical modification of wood by explosive autohydrolysis occurring at elevated
In the present study, secondary metabolites produced by an endophytic fungus Penicillium setosum were extracted using colony agar plug and culture broth extraction methods. High resolution LC-MS was used to explore the chemical nature of the secondary metabolites, as well, compare the reliability of the methods. P. setosum was chemotaxonomically distinguished from other members of section Lanata-divaricata, by its ability to produce mycotoxin, patulin and also by the presence of certain phenol-derived compounds, like quercetin, dihydroflavonols (dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin), kaempferol, luteolin, while some Penicillium specific compounds such as, citromycetin and andrastin D reveal its similarity towards section Lanata-Divaricata members. For the first time, the presence of dihydroquercetin is remarkably and spectrometrically confirmed from a microbial source. In addition, a few polyketides, anthroquinone compounds, hydrocarbons, and fatty acids were also detected in the culture extract. Being the first report on the production of polyphenolic compounds by an endophytic fungus of Penicillium species, the current research is crucial, and moreover the starin itself is a novel species.
Dihydroquercetin was converted to nitroso derivative by treatment with nascent nitrous acid in aqueous solution. The chemical structure of the synthesized compound was determined by quantitative 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy. As shown by the NMR spectra, the nitroso group is incorporated at the catechol ring of the flavonoid. The antiradical properties of nitrosated dihydroquercetin were evaluated by inhibition of the pyrocondensate formed in ethylene and propylene production, which readily polymerizes upon heat treatment. Nitrosated dihydroquercetin is 10–15% more active than the initial compound. The probable mechanisms of the radical-scavenging action of nitrosated dihydroquercetin are considered.
Abstract Oxidative spoilage is a phenomenon that can occur both in winemaking and during bottle storage. The complexity of oxidative spoilage makes it difficult to identify all the products from oxidation processes, especially in bottled wines with varying degrees of oxidative spoilage, i.e., “random oxidation”. To this end, this study sought to obtain a deeper insight into the chemistry of white wine samples to identify compounds able to discriminate the different oxidative statuses. The results of metabolomics and VIP analysis outlined molecules such as 3-methylcatechol, cyanidin 3-O-6″-p-coumaroyl-glucoside, delphinidin 3-O-glucoside, quercetin 3-O-glucosyl-xyloside, dihydroquercetin, and quercetin 3-O-glucuronide to be discriminant in the detection of the oxidative status of the white wines under study, which were preliminarily classified in low and high oxidation classes by means of sensory analysis. Parameters such as total and free sulfur dioxide content and browning and pinking measurements were confirmed to remain significantly correlated with oxidation-related issues.
Individual flowers from inflorescences of Dahlia variabilis (cv Scarlet Star) in young developmental stages contained relatively high activity of (+)-dihydroflavonol (DHF) 4-reductase. The DHF reductase was purified from such flowers to apparent homogeneity by a five-step procedure. This included affinity adsorption on Blue Sepharose and elution of the enzyme with NADP+. By gel filtration and by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis it was shown that DHF reductase contains only one polypeptide chain with a Mr of about 41,000. The reductase required NADPH as cofactor and catalyzed transfer of the pro-S hydrogen of NADPH to the substrate. Flavanones and dihydroflavonols (3-hydroxyflavanones) were substrates for DHF reductase with pH optima of about 6.0 for flavanones and of about 6.8 for dihydroflavonols. Flavanones were reduced to the corresponding flavan-4-ols and (+)-dihydroflavonols to flavan-3,4-cis-diols. Apparent Michaelis constants determined for (2S)-naringenin, (2S)-eriodicytol, (+)-dihydrokaempferol, (+)-dihydroquercetin, and NADPH were, respectively, 2.3, 2, 10, 15, and 42 microM. V/Km values were higher for dihydroflavonols than for flavanones. Conversion of dihydromyricetin to leucodelphinidin was also catalyzed by the enzyme at a low rate, whereas flavones and flavonols were not accepted as substrates. DHF reductase was not inhibited by metal chelators.
Objective: To study the chemical constituents of the whole plant of Rhododendron concinnum.Method: The compounds were isolated and purified by chromatography on silica gel and polyamide.Their structures were identified on the basis of spectroscopic data(MS,1H-NMR and 13C-NMR) and chemical evidence.Result: Five dihydroflavones were isolated and identified as(2R)-farrerol-7-O-glucopyranoside(1),(2R,3R)-(-)-dihydroquercetin-3-O-β-D-xylopyranoside(2),(2S,3S)-(-)-dihydroquercetin-3-O-β-D-glucopyranoside(3),eriodictyol-7-O-β-D-glucopyranoside(4),(2R,3R)-(+)-dihydroquercetin(5).Conclusion: Except compound 5,others were firstly isolated from the genus Rhododendron.
To understand the relationship between structure and antioxidant activity of flavonols,cyclic voltammetry and UVvisible spectroelectrochemical method in situ were used to investigate electro-oxidation mechanisms of myricetin and dihydroquercetin through the comparison with electrochemical-chemical mechanism of quercetin.Results indicated that 5'-OH at the B-ring of myricetin hindered the subsequent chemical transformation to a certain extent,while C-C saturated bond at 2,3 positions in dihydroquercetin completely stopped the subsequent transformation step,thus leading to the decrease in antioxidant activity.These findings suggest that the subsequent chemical transformation provide very important contribution to antioxidant activity of flavonols.
Objective: The objective was to compare the complex formation of flavones (luteolin, apigenin), flavonols (morin, quercetin, and rutin), flavanones (naringenin), flavanonols (dihydroquercetin), caffeic, and ferulic acids with aluminum ion using two spectrophotometric methods and the application of these methods to estimate the flavonoid content in the angionorm herbal product. Materials and Methods: Method 1 included direct complex formation with aluminum chloride, and Method 2 involved preliminary nitrozation and subsequent complex formation of nitroso-derivatives with aluminum chloride. 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine method was also tested. Results: The conjugation system increase in the chromophore structure of nitroso derivatives is reflected by the hyperchromic effect of all substances (from 1.4 to 4-fold). The largest bathochromic shift of nitroso derivatives was seen for rutin, luteolin, and dihydroquercetin (to 510–530 nm). The total flavonoids estimation in the extract of the four herbs mixture, which constitute angionorm preparation active ingredient, depends on the chosen reference substance (3.49% calculated as luteolin when measured by Method 1 or 8.71% by Method 2; 7.97% calculated as dihydroquercetin when measured by Method 1 and 4.14% by Method 2. Conclusion: The complex formation according to Methods 1 and 2 does not allow the identification of the selective spectral regions typical for the certain flavonoids subgroups and hydroxycinnamic acids. Neither method of complex formation is suitable for the assay of total flavonoids in unknown samples or for the flavonoid content comparison in the different herbal material.
The antiradical activity of Bioflavonoid Complex «Dihydroquercetin», flaxseed extract and its compositions with different molar ratios of dihydroquercetin and secoisolariciresinol diglucoside was investigated in vitro by ABTS method. Its TEAC (Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity) and IC50 values were calculated and compared by kinetic and dye decolorization method. The kinetic curves of ABTS •+ radical cation with «Dihydroquercetin» and flaxseed extract, the rate and degree of reduction of ABTS •+ by antioxidants were obtained and characterized by kinetic spectrophotometric method. The antioxidant activity of Bioflavonoid Complex «Dihydroquercetin» was several times more than antioxidant activity of flaxseed extract. Its compositions showed antagonism which depend on molar ratio of secoisolariciresinol diglucoside in mixture model.
(+)-2,3-trans-3,4-cis-Leucocyanidin was produced by acidic epimerization of (+)-2,3-trans-3,4-trans-leucocyanidin synthesized by reduction of (+)-dihydroquercetin with NaBH4, and structures of the two stereoisomers purified by C18- and phenyl-reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) were confirmed by NMR spectroscopy. We confirm that only 3,4-cis-leucocyanidin is used by leucoanthocyanidin reductase as substrate. The two stereoisomers are quite stable in aqueous solution at -20 °C. Characterization of the two stereoisomers was also performed using electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS), and we discuss here for the first time the corresponding MS/MS fragmentation pathways, which are clearly distinct. The main difference is that of the mode of dehydration of the 3,4-diol in positive ionization mode, which involves a loss of hydroxyl group at either C3 or C4 for the 3,4-cis isomer but only at C3 for the 3,4-trans isomer. Tandem mass spectrometry therefore proves useful as a complementary methodology to NMR to identify each of the two stereoisomers.
The absolute configurations of the cis-dihydroquercetin-3-O-β-L-rhamnosides isoastilbin and neoisoastilbin are reaffirmed as 2R, 3S and 2S, 3R, respectively, despite recent reports to the contrary.
The reactivity of dihydroquercetin and catechol flavonoids in acylation, phosphorylation, and aminomethylation reactions was compared. The structure of natural polyatomic phenols was shown to affect markedly their chemical behavior.
Abstract In a leaf flavonoid survey of 59 specimens of the Winteraceae and related families, representing nine genera, luteolin 7,3′-dimethyl ether (in 77%) and flavonols (in 81%) were found to be major constituents. Indeed the high incidence of luteolin 7,3′-dimethyl ether chemically isolates the family from all other angiosperm groups, including families and genera that have been taxonomically associated with the Winteraceae in the past. Simple flavones (in 16%), on the other hand, were found only in some Drimys s. str., Tasmannia and Pseudowintera species. Similarly, the distribution of flavone C -glycosides was restricted to specimens of T. piperita and one specimen of D. winteri . The frequent occurrence of procyanidin (in 60%) and dihydroquercetin (in 44%) reflects the primitive and woody nature of the family. The combined flavonoid data clearly support previous cytological, morphological and phylogenetic studies in the division of the Winteraceae into three groups of genera: (1) Bubbia , Belliolum , Exospermum and Zygogynum ; (2) Drimys s. str. and Pseudowintera and (3) Tasmannia . Some generic variations were found within the Bubbia , Belliolum , Expospermum and Zygogynum group but apart from minor geographic variations within Belliolum the flavonoid results do not appear to provide suitable evidence for subgeneric taxonomy.
The reaction of dihydroquercetin, quercetin, and rutin with Cu(II) acetate in aqueous solution is studied. Quercetin and dihydroquercetin form complexes with Cu. The water-insoluble complexes are characterized as chelates of the 3,4-positions of the main γ-pyrone ring. Electronic spectroscopy showed the presence of stable polynuclear rutin complexes of composition rutin :Cu = 1:x, where x > 2.
It was shown using various methods that the radical scavenging and radical scavenging activities of chitosan conjugates with phenolic antioxidants of plant origin significantly exceed the corresponding values of their low molecular weight analogs (gallic and syringic acids, quercetin and dihydroquercetin). Cytogenetic analysis of human peripheral blood lymphocytes demonstrated that the conjugates showed pronounced antimutagenic efficiency when the cells were γ-irradiated in vitro at a dose of 2 Gy.
The effect of flavonoids of various structures (baikalein, baikalin, quercetin, dihydroquercetin, genistein, and daidzein) on the process of formation of lipid hydroperoxides during thermoinduced autooxidation of neutral lipids of animal origin is studied. The minimum inhibitory concentration of isoflavones was found to be equal to 10-3 M. The effective inhibitory concentration of other flavonoids (except baikalin) was equal to 10-4 M. Baikalin was an effective promoter of lipid peroxidation. The antioxidant activity of the flavonoids tested was calculated, taking ionol as a reference.
Abstract The flavonoids of Ichthyothere terminalis are based upon quercetin, with minor amounts of kaempferol and dihydroquercetin. All glycosides are linked at position-3. Quercetin 3-glucoside, 3-galactoside, and 3-arabinoside comprise the monoglycoside fraction. The diglycoside fraction consists of quercetin 3-rutinoside, 3-rhamnosylgalactoside and 3-digalactoside. The single triglycoside present was shown to be quereetin 3-rhamnosylgalactosylgalactoside. A major constituent of the aglycone fraction was shown to be 3-0-methylquercetin. The flavonoid profile of Ichthyothere terminalis shows marked ditterences from those of the related genera Clibadium and Desmanthodium .
This paper describes the ability of a powerful antioxidant dihydroquercetin (DHQ) as a new inhibitor of the alpha-amylase. The enzyme activity was estimated in presence of different concentration of DHQ. The IC50 of this compound is close to 9 mM. Competitive kinetic mechanism of inhibition was demonstrated. Inhibition constant was estimated as 2.25 ± 0.22 mM (684 ± 66 ppm). It indicates a high affinity of dihydroquercetin to enzyme. The effect of dihydroquercetin as starch hydrolysis inhibitor was confirmed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae biological model. Molecular docking analysis demonstrated binding of DHQ through hydrogen bonding with Tyr 193, Trp 263, and His 327 of the alpha-amylase. These interactions cause the competitive enzyme inhibition. DHQ constitutes a promise in the development of new drugs for the control of diabetes mellitus.
Abstract An enzyme preparation from leaves of spinach beet ( Beta vulgaris L. ssp. vulgaris ) which catalyses the hydroxylation of p -coumaric acid to caffeic acid is also able to catalyse the hydroxylation of naringenin, dihydrokaempferol and kaempferol at the 3′-position to eriodictyol, dihydroquercetin and quercetin, respectively.
Abstract The methanol extractives from western red cedar mechanical pulps were found to be radically different in composition to the extractives obtained from the heartwood. The major heartwood extractive components, the tropolones and lignans, were not present in the extractives from the pulps. However, the proportion of a brown polymer doubled. The low and high molecular weight methanol extractives components from the pulps were separated using methyl tert-butyl ether. The low molecular fraction contained mostly guaiacyl-based compounds with dihydroquercetin, thujic acid, 3-hydroxy-1-(4′-hydroxy-3′-methoxyphenyl)-2-oxopropane and 4-ethyl-2-methoxy-6-hydroxyphenol being positively identified. The brown polymeric portion had molecular weights ranging from 1,000 to 10,000. Infrared analysis indicated that the polymers were formed from lignans. Examination of the changes in diffuse reflectance UV-visible and infra red spectra of the pulps on extraction with methanol, suggested that the colour resides in insoluble polymers formed from plicatic acid/plicatin during refining.
Objective: To investigate the protective effects of dihydroquercetin against H2O2-induced injury in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts. Methods: A model of H2O2-induced injury in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts was established.Cell viability was determined colorimetrically by 3-( 4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium( MTT) assay. The supernates and cells were collected,respectively,after the different treatments for measuring the LDH and MDA levels,as well as SOD,CAT,and GSH-Px activity with the corresponding detection kit according to the manufacturer's instructions. Results: H9c2 cells were pretreated with dihydroquercetin for 12 h before exposure to 150 μM for 6 h. H2O2 treatment caused severe injury to H9c2 cardiomyoblasts. Dihydroquercetin pretreatment could attenuate H2O2-induced injury,decrease the levels of LDH leakage and MDA,and increase the activities of SOD,CAT,and GSH-Px with a dose-dependent. Conclusion: Dihydroquercetin showed significantly protective effects against H2O2-induced injury in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts in dose-dependent. The mechanism of this may be due to its increasing the activities of endogenous antioxidant enzymes,as well as improving the stabilization of myocardial cells.
Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase from Petunia flowers catalyzes the reduction of dihydroquercetin to leucocyanidin and, in particular, of dihydromyricetin to leucodelphinidin, whereas reduction of the simple dihydroflavonol dihydro- kaempferol to leucopelargonidin could not be observed. This special substrate specificity of dihydroflavonol 4-reductase is most probably the reason for the observations that delphinidin derivatives are the main end products of anthocyanin biosynthesis in Petunia flowers, whereas an- thocyanins based on pelargonidin are rarely found and, if present, are only formed in very small amounts.
Dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR, EC1.1.1.219) catalyzes a key step late in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins, condensed tannins (proanthocyanidins), and other flavonoids important to plant survival and human nutrition. Three DFR cDNA clones (designated GbDFRs) were isolated from the gymnosperm Ginkgo biloba. The deduced GbDFR proteins showed high identities to other plant DFRs, which form three distinct DFR families. Southern blot analysis showed that the three GbDFRs each belong to a different DFR family. Phylogenetic tree analysis revealed that the GbDFRs share the same ancestor as other DFRs. The expression of the three recombinant GbDFRs in Escherichia coli showed that their actual protein sizes were in agreement with predictions from the cDNA sequences. The recombinant proteins were purified and their activity was analyzed; both GbDFR1 and GbDFR3 could catalyze dihydroquercetin conversion to leucocyanidin, while GbDFR2 catalyzed dihydrokaempferol conversion to leucopelargonidin. qRT-PCR showed that the GbDFRs were expressed in a tissue-specific manner, and transcript accumulation for the three genes was highest in young leaves and stamens. These transcription patterns were in good agreement with the pattern of anthocyanin accumulation in G.biloba. The expression profiles suggested that GbDFR1 and GbDFR2 are mainly involved in responses to plant hormones, environmental stress and damage. During the annual growth cycle, the GbDFRs were significantly correlated with anthocyanin accumulation in leaves. A fitted linear curve showed the best model for relating GbDFR2 and GbDFR3 with anthocyanin accumulation in leaves. GbDFR1 appears to be involved in environmental stress response, while GbDFR3 likely has primary functions in the synthesis of anthocyanins. These data revealed unexpected properties and differences in three DFR proteins from a single species.
Radioactive tracer work and experiments with flower mutants o f several plants have shown that dihydroflavonols (3-hydroxyflavanones) are interm e diates in anthocyanin biosynthesis [1] . These Find ings have been corroborated by results of inhibition experiments [2] . Hydroxylation of the flavanone na ringenin (1) (Fig. 1 ) in the 3-position to dihydrokaempferol (3) and in the 3' -position to eriodictyol (2) as well as o f dihydrokaem pferol to dihydroquercetin (4) was found with perm eabilized cells and with a microsomal fraction from Haplopappus gracilis cell cultures [3] . Enzyme activity o f these preparations was variable and the results did not give an answer to the question whether hydroxyla tion in the 3-and 3'-position is catalyzed by sepa rate enzymes.
Reprint requests to Prof. Dr. H. Grisebach. 0341-0382/80/0900-0691 $01.00/0 was further concluded that introduction of the 3'-hydroxyl group probably occurs at the dihydroflavanol stage [5] . We now report on the first successful correlation between a genotype of M. incana and enzymatic 3'-hydroxylation. An N A D PH -dependent microsomal 3'-hydroxylase activity was detected only in flowers with the wild-type allele b +. F urther more, a soluble enzyme is described which catalyses hydroxylation of naringenin in the 3-position. 2-Oxoglutarate, F e2+ and ascorbate are cofactors for the latter reaction. dihydroquercetin, (4) .
The enzymes from flowers of M atthiola [2] , Callistephus [3] , Sinningia [4] , Dianthus (Forkm ann, un published) and Dahlia (G risebach, personal com munication) were found to use dihydrokaem pferol, dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin as substrate for the reduction reaction, to the respective leucoanthocyanidins. Dihydromyricetin is even reduced by enzyme extracts from flowers which naturally lack delphinidin derivatives. The substrate specificity of dihydroflavonol 4-reductase seem ed therefore to be not essentially influenced by the B-ring hydroxyla tion pattern of dihydroflavonols. Enzymatic studies with Petunia flowers extracts revealed now, how ever, that the dihydroflavonol 4-reductase of this plant exhibits a high substrate specificity with regard to the B-ring substitution pattern.
Dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR, EC1.1.1.219) catalyzes a key step late in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins, condensed tannins (proanthocyanidins), and other flavonoids important to plant survival and human nutrition. Three DFR cDNA clones (designated GbDFRs) were isolated from the gymnosperm Ginkgo biloba. The deduced GbDFR proteins showed high identities to other plant DFRs, which form three distinct DFR families. Southern blot analysis showed that the three GbDFRs each belong to a different DFR family. Phylogenetic tree analysis revealed that the GbDFRs share the same ancestor as other DFRs. The expression of the three recombinant GbDFRs in Escherichia coli showed that their actual protein sizes were in agreement with predictions from the cDNA sequences. The recombinant proteins were purified and their activity was analyzed; both GbDFR1 and GbDFR3 could catalyze dihydroquercetin conversion to leucocyanidin, while GbDFR2 catalyzed dihydrokaempferol conversion to leucopelargonidin. qRT-PCR showed that the GbDFRs were expressed in a tissue-specific manner, and transcript accumulation for the three genes was highest in young leaves and stamens. These transcription patterns were in good agreement with the pattern of anthocyanin accumulation in G.biloba. The expression profiles suggested that GbDFR1 and GbDFR2 are mainly involved in responses to plant hormones, environmental stress and damage. During the annual growth cycle, the GbDFRs were significantly correlated with anthocyanin accumulation in leaves. A fitted linear curve showed the best model for relating GbDFR2 and GbDFR3 with anthocyanin accumulation in leaves. GbDFR1 appears to be involved in environmental stress response, while GbDFR3 likely has primary functions in the synthesis of anthocyanins. These data revealed unexpected properties and differences in three DFR proteins from a single species.
Flavonoids are a large family of plant secondary metabolites, that exist widely throughout the plant kingdom. Flavonoids are divided into several structural classes, including flavanones, isoflavonoids, flavonols, anthocyanins, catechins, and condensed tannins, and are abundant in fruits, leaves and flowers [1] . To date, over 9000 different flavonoid compounds have been identified [2] , many of which are involved in biological processes such as pigmentation of flowers, auxin transport regulation, seed development, protection against UV-B damage, defense against pathogens and pests, and pollen viability [3] [4] [5] . Several flavonoids are active ingredients in herbal medicines and appear to confer health benefits to humans when consumed regularly [6] . Particular attention has been placed on the anthocyanins, catechins, and proanthocyanidins because of their antioxidant activities and their interactions with human health [6, 7] . The biosynthetic pathway of flavonoids are well established in plants. Many flavonoid biosynthetic genes are induced under stress conditions and, accordingly, flavonoid levels increase during exposure to biotic and abiotic stresses, such as wounding, drought, metal toxicity and nutrient deprivation [8, 9] . Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR, EC1.1.1.219) is the first committed enzyme of the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway leading to common anthocyanins. DFR is a rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins and condensed tannins and catalyzes the reduction of dihydroflavonols to leucoanthocyanins [10] . DFR preparations from several plants can catalyze the reduction of three dihydroflavonols, kaempferol (DHK), dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and dihydromyricetin (DHM), into leucoanthocyanidins, which are common precursors for anthocyanin and condensed tannin synthesis ( Figure S1 ) [11, 12] . The genetics and regulation of DFR have been studied extensively in various plants [10, 11, 13, 14] . Induction of DFR activity has been linked to an increase in condensed tannins accumulation, which may be important for defense against herbivores [15] . Knowledge of the details of DFR biochemistry is very important for understanding aspects of flavonoid biosynthesis, especially how plants regulate flavonoids, condensed tannins synthesis and anthocyanin biosyn-thesis. Little has been reported regarding other biochemical properties of DFR isoenzymes, and the role of isoforms in the regulation of specific branches of the flavonoid pathways is unclear.
Two types of sulfotransferases, namely recombinant rat liver aryl sulfotransferase AstIV and bacterial aryl sulfotransferase from Desulfitobacterium hafniense, were used for the sulfation of quercetin, its glycosylated derivatives (isoquercitrin and rutin), and dihydroquercetin ((+)-taxifolin). The rat liver enzyme was able to sulfate only quercetin and taxifolin, whereas the quercetin glycosides remained intact. The D. hafniense enzyme sulfated isoquercitrin and rutin selectively at the C-4′ position of the catechol moiety with very good yields. Taxifolin was sulfated at the C-4′ position and a minor amount of the C-3′ isomer was formed. Sulfation of quercetin proceeded preferentially at the C-3′ position, but a lower proportion of the C-4′ isomer was formed as well. A detailed analysis of the kinetics of this reaction is provided and a full structural analysis of all products is presented.
The study-state kinetics of individual and cooxidation of ferrocyanide and dihydroquercetin catalyzed by horseradish peroxidase is studied. It is shown that ferrocyanide and dihydroquercetin are slowly oxidized substrata peroxidase. In an interval of pH 4.5–8.0, sizes k cat and K m for these substrata peroxidase are certain. In reactions of cooxidation substrata, it was revealed that, at pH 4.5–7.0, dihydroquercetin accelerated oxidation ferrocyanide. At pH 7.5 oxidation only dihydroquercetin was observed. Mechanisms of reactions of combined oxidation ferrocyanide and dihydroquercetin are offered.
Background ::: Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) is the key enzyme committed to anthocyanin and proanthocyanidin biosynthesis in the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway. DFR proteins can catalyse mainly the three substrates (dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin, and dihydromyricetin), and show different substrate preferences. Although relationships between the substrate preference and amino acids in the region responsible for substrate specificity have been investigated in several plant species, the molecular basis of the substrate preference of DFR is not yet fully understood.
Phlobaphenes are reddish-colored, water-insoluble phenolic substances that are believed to be related to co-occurring condensed tannins. The term is also used to describe the red insoluble material produced by treating condensed tannins with mineral acid. The chemical composition of the “natural” phlobaphenes is complex and linked to other extraneous materials in addition to condensed tannins. Phlobaphenes are variable from plant source to plant source and display a variety of functional groups not seen in the condensed tannins. Douglas-fir phlobaphenes are composed of a mixture of polymeric procyanidins, dihydroquercetin, carbohydrate (glucosyl), and methoxyl moieties. Water insolubility appears to be due to the abundance of methoxyl groups.
Background: Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) is the key enzyme committed to anthocyanin and proanthocyanidin biosynthesis in the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway. DFR proteins can catalyse mainly the three substrates (dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin, and dihydromyricetin), and show different substrate preferences. Although relationships between the substrate preference and amino acids in the region responsible for substrate specificity have been investigated in several plant species, the molecular basis of the substrate preference of DFR is not yet fully understood.
According to WHO reports, since 2000 a microorganism resistance to antimicrobials has become a serious threat to global public health. Thereby, more strict control for used antibiotics and novel antibacterial substances are considered helpful. Of that, the development of new antimicrobial compounds seems to be most perspective, seeing the high yielding animals are much more susceptible to diseases, and animal products are poorly stored because of microbial contamination. Among compounds possessing antimicrobial properties the dihydroquercetin, a bioflavonoid is of special interest due to wide range of biological activity, including antioxidant activity. Dihydroquercetin is used widely in food industry and medicine, but in animal farming its use is a novel project aimed to provide for animal welfare and quality of livestock products. We compared in vitro antimicrobial effect of different antibiotics (tetracycline, chloramphenicol, streptomycin, bacitracin, grisin, benzyl penicillin at 3. 
We studied the effect of dihydroquercetin (20 mg/kg/day intragastrically for 6 weeks) on mean BP and macro- and microrheological blood parameters in hypertensive SHR rats; in vitro effect of dihydroquercetin on the tone in thoracic aorta rings isolated from hypertensive SHR rats were also examined. At the end of the treatment course, the mean BP in the experimental rats decreased by 11%; the left ventricular mass index by 2%, and whole blood viscosity by 7-10% in comparison with control SHR rats; erythrocyte aggregation half-time increased by 15%; plasma viscosity, hematocrit, and erythrocyte deformability did not change. In in vitro experiments, dihydroquercetin (10-8-10-6M) induced relaxation of the isolated thoracic aorta rings in a dose-dependent manner. Hence, the antihypertensive effect of dihydroquercetin results from the decrease in blood viscosity and vasodilation.
The invention relates to for obtaining a conifer bark composition enriched dihydroquercetin, comprising the following steps: a) grinding dried chips of a conifer bark to obtain a ground product of particle bark conifer, and b) selecting, from the ground material particles obtained in step a) of the fraction of particles larger representing at most 50% by weight, based on the total weight of the particles crushed obtained in step a).
FIELD: medicine. SUBSTANCE: proposed paste contains, in wt %: abrasive 5.0-25.0, forming thickener 0.2-2.0, preservative 0.05-0.1, water retention agent 15.0-85.0, foaming component 1.0-3.0, sweetener 0.1-1.0, perfume 0.01-0.05, active substances, purified water - the rest, while the active substances used are dihydroquercetin - 0.1-5.0, mangiferin - 0.5-5.0, and an alkyl adamantane derivative with an alkyl fragment length (C 2 -C 11 ) - 0.1-10.0. The paste can contain aerosil as an abrasive material, xanthan gum as the forming thickener, glycerin as a moisture retention agent, cocamidopropyl betaine as a foaming agent, sodium saccharinate as a sweetening agent, limonene as a perfume. EFFECT: high efficiency of treatment and prevention of caries, inflammatory diseases of the oral cavity, prevention of the development teeth enamel demineralization when treated with orthodontic devices. 7 cl, 1 tbl, 1 ex
This study demonstrated the antioxidant activity of aqueous and aqueous-ethanolic (40%, 70%, 95%) extracts of the above-ground parts of the dropwort (Filipendula vulgaris Moench) in relation to the process of electroreduction of oxygen. Antioxidant properties were more marked in the more lipophilic dropwort extract. The lipophilic fraction of the aqueous extract (extracted with ethyl acetate) had marked antioxidant activity, and its efficacy was greater than those of dihydroquercetin and ascorbic acid, and this resulted from the more complete extraction of total biologically active compounds of phenolic (simple phenols, flavonoids, hydroxycoumarins, phenolcarboxylic acids) and triterpene (acids, saponins) nature, as well as amino acids.
The antiradical activities of some flavonols (kaempferol, quercetin, robinetin, quercetagetin, and myricetin), flavones (apigenin, baicalein, and luteolin), flavanones (naringenin and dihydroquercetin), and flavanols [(+)-catechin and (−)-epicatechin] were determined by measuring the reaction kinetics with 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and α,γ-bisdiphenylene-β-phenylallyl (BDPA) radicals. The reactions, which follow the mixed second-order rate law, were investigated under pseudo-first-order conditions by use of a large excess of flavonoids, and their stoichiometry was determined by spectrophotometric titration. The results confirm stoichiometric factors of 1, 2, and 3 for flavonoids with one, two, and three hydroxyl groups in the B-ring, respectively, excluding kaempferol, which, despite a single OH group in the B-ring, has a factor of 2, which is explained by the 3-OH group supporting the reaction with free radicals. Structure−activity considerations indicate for the present series of flavonoids t...
Antioxidant and prooxidant properties of dihydroquercetine, mexidol and an ascorbic acid in reactions with participation of radicals OH* and O2(-)*, induced by gamma-irradiation, iron-catalyzed decomposition of hydrogen peroxide and oxidation of reduced NADH by phenazine metosulfate are investigafed. The efficiency of scavenging of radicals OH* estimated by the results of the analysis of deoxyribose degradation, and the efficiency of scavenging of superoxide anion-radicals O2(-)* is estimated by the results of the analysis of occurrence the reduced nitrotetrazolium blue. The concentrations of analyzed compounds, scavenging on 50% (C50%) formation of radicals OH* and O2(-)* are certain. It is shown, that an ascorbic acid, dihydroquercetine and mexidol decrease the generating of superoxide anion-radicals O2(-)* in the gamma-irradiated solutions of sodium format and at oxidation of reduced NADH by phenazine metosulfate scavanged of superoxide anion-radicals O2(-)*. In the gamma-irradiated saline solutions an ascorbic acid, dihydroquercetine and mexidol protected deoxyribose from oxidizing action of hydroxyl radicals OH*. However at presence Fe(3+), EDTA and hydrogen peroxide addition of an ascorbic acid (0.1 mmol/l) increased generating of hydroxyl radicals OH* and in 2.8 times raised the maintenance of products of deoxyribose oxidation, reacting with thiobarbituric acid. Prooxidant action of an ascorbic acid is observed as well in absence of hydrogen peroxide. Obtained data testify that in various modelling systems reagents, in particular ions of iron, and the formed active intermediate products render significant influence on scavenging efficiency of investigated compounds.
From the stems and fruits ofOpuntia ficus-indica var.saboten, eight flavonoids, kaempferol (1), quercetin (2), kaempferol 3-methyl ether (3), quercetin 3-methyl ether (4), narcissin (5), (+)-dihydrokaempferol (aromadendrin,6), (+)-dihydroquercetin (taxifolin,7), eriodictyol (8), and two terpenoids, (6S,9S)-3-oxo-α-ionol-|β-D-glucopyranoside (9) and corchoionoside C (10) were isolated and identified by means of chemical and spectroscopic. Among these isolates, compounds3–5 and8–10 were reported for the first time from the stems and fruits of O.ficusindica var.saboten.
The antioxidant activity of grape bioflavonoid and some flavonoid standard (unsubstituted flavone, apigenin, fisetin, morin, quercetin and dihydroquercetin) samples have been studied. All samples were incubated in hydrophilic and lipophilic systems and oxidation was measured according to the formation of hydroperoxides and malondialdehyde. The activity of antioxidants (concentration 10 μM) was calculated based on the decrease in the formation of hydroperoxides and malondialdehyde. The order of antioxidant activity in hydrophilic and lipophilic system was nearly the same: quercetin >grape bioflavonoids > morin > fisetin > dihydroquercetin > α-tocopherol > apigenin > unsubstituted flavone. In both systems approximately the same activity sequence was found in the case of malondialdehyde. In hydrophilic as well as in lipophilic systems the antioxidant activity of the flavonoids increased with the increase of the number of hydroxyl groups and was dependent on the position of the hydroxyl groups.
PURPOSE ::: We have recently reported that the effect of a flavonoid on ocular blood flow depends upon the number of hydroxy (OH) groups in its backbone structure. To elucidate the structural features on the number and type of functional groups present in the flavonoid molecule plus the number of OH groups, flavonoids with four to five OH groups, with or without methoxy groups, were studied on their effects to affect the ocular blood flow and the retinal function recovery. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: A colored microsphere technique was used to determine the ocular blood flow in albino rabbit eyes and electroretinography was used to measure the retinal function recovery. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Flavonols with four free OH groups produced no effects on the ocular blood flow (fisetin, kaempferol), whereas flavanone and flavones with four free OH groups and without the C2-C3 double bond produced the rapid increment on ocular blood flow (dihydrofisetin and luteolin, respectively). Similarly, flavonols with five free OH groups produced no effects on the ocular blood flow (morin, quercetin). Yet, flavanone with five free OH groups and without the C2-C3 double bond produced the rapid increment on ocular blood flow (dihydroquercetin). Flavanols with five free OH groups and without the C2-C3 double bond and the carbonyl group produced no effects on the ocular blood flow (catechin). Flavonols with four free OH groups and a methoxy group on the 7 position produced no effects on the ocular blood flow (Rhamnetin). Flavonols with four free OH groups and a methoxy group at the 5 (5-methylquercetin) or 3' position (isorhamnetin) produced positive effects on the ocular blood flow also. Flavonol with five methoxy groups but no OH group produced positive effects on the ocular blood flow (pentamethylquercetin). Flavonols with an excessive number of OH groups, having both a catechol-like structure in the C ring and a catechol at the B ring, produced no effect on the ocular blood flow (rhamnetin, quercetin). Parallel results were obtained on retinal function recovery after ischemic insult. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The presence of OH groups at certain positions and the double bond at C2-C3 in the flavonoid molecules, which produces lipophilic action, can affect the increment on ocular blood flow and retinal function recovery. O-methylation can increase ocular blood flow and retinal function recovery as well.
Structural examination of the metabolic pool of the aerial parts of Pelargonium sidoides DC has led to the isolation of two new metabolites, 4-allyl-2,5-dimethoxyphenol-1-β-D-gluco-pyranoside and 6,7-dihydroxycoumarin-8-sulfate, along with a series of uncommon compounds including (2R,3R)-(+)-dihydroquercetin-3-β-glucopyranoside, (2R,3R)-(+)-dihydrokaempferol-3-β-glucopyranoside, fraxetin-7-β-glucopyranoside, 7-methoxycoumarin-6-β-glucopyranoside, umckalin, orientin-2"-gallate, and isoorientin-2"-gallate. They are accompanied by the widespread isoorientin, orientin, fraxetin, (2R,3S)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate, gallic acid and protocatechuic acid. The structures of the compounds were established from spectroscopic studies. Determination of configurations was achieved by circular dichroism.
Structural examination of the metabolic pool of the aerial parts of Pelargonium sidoides DC has led to the isolation of two new metabolites, 4-allyl-2,5-dimethoxyphenol-1-β -D-glucopyranoside and 6,7-dihydroxycoumarin-8-sulfate, along with a series of uncommon compounds including (2R,3R)-(+)-dihydroquercetin-3-β -glucopyranoside, (2R,3R)-(+)-dihydrokaempferol-3-β -glucopyranoside, fraxetin-7-β -glucopyranoside, 7-methoxycoumarin-6-β -glucopyranoside, umckalin, orientin-2"-gallate, and isoorientin-2"-gallate. They are accompanied by the widespread isoorientin, orientin, fraxetin, (2R,3S)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate, gallic acid and protocatechuic acid. The structures of the compounds were established from spectroscopic studies. Determination of configurations was achieved by circular dichroism.
A new chalcone glycoside ( 2) and a new tetrahydrofuranoid lignan ( 3), along with 12 known compounds, were isolated from the stems and leaves of Viburnum propinquum Hemsl. The structures of all isolated compounds were deduced using spectroscopic and chemical methods. Antioxidative activities of most phenolic compounds were evaluated. Compounds 1 (3,4,2',4'-tetrahydroxy- TRANS-chalcone), 2 (3,4,2',4'-tetrahydroxy- TRANS-chalcone-2'- O- beta- D-glucoside), 12 (quercetin), 13 ((+)-dihydroquercetin), and 14 (eriodictyol) showed antioxidative capacities in the DPPH and hydroxyl free-radical assays, with IC (50) values of 3.80-6.12 microg/mL, and 9.24-11.87 microg/mL, respectively. Compounds 1, 2, 12, 13, and 14 also exhibited inhibitory activities against lipid peroxidation in rat liver homogenate, with an inhibitory rate of 10.8-39.9 % at 20 microg/mL, 38.8-57.2 % at 100 microg/mL, and 44.2-72.4 % at 200 microg/mL, respectively.
Abstract Oxidation reactions are essential biological reactions necessary for the formation of high-energy compounds used to fuel metabolic processes, but can be injurious to cells when produced in excess. Cutaneous tissue is especially susceptible to damage mediated by reactive oxygen species and low-density lipoprotein oxidation, triggered by dysmetabolic diseases, inflammation, environmental factors, or aging. Here we have examined the ability of the flavonoid quercetin to protect cutaneous tissue-associated cell types from injury induced by oxidative stress, and possible cooperative effects of ascorbic acid. Human skin fibroblasts, keratinocytes, and endothelial cells were cultured in the presence of buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an irreversible inhibitor of glutathione (GSH) synthesis. Depletion of intracellular levels of GSH leads to an accumulation of cellular peroxides and eventual cell death. Quercetin concentration-dependently (EC50: 30–40 μM) reduced oxidative injury of BSO to all cell types, and was also effective when first added after BSO washout. BSO caused marked decreases in the intracellular level of GSH, which remained depressed in quercetin-protected cells. Ascorbic acid, while by itself not cytoprotective synergized with quercetin, lowered the quercetin EC50 and prolonged the window for cytoprotection. The related flavonoids rutin and dihydroquercetin also decreased BSO-induced injury to dermal fibroblasts, albeit less efficaciously so than quercetin. The cytoprotective effect of rutin, but not that of dihydroquercetin, was enhanced in the presence of ascorbic acid. Further, quercetin rescued sensory ganglion neurons from death provoked by GSH depletion. Direct oxidative injury to this last cell type has not been previously demonstrated. The results show that flavonoids are broadly protective for cutaneous tissue-type cell populations subjected to a chronic intracellular form of oxidative stress. Quercetin in particular, paired with ascorbic acid, may be of therapeutic benefit in protecting neurovasculature structures in skin from oxidative damage. Copyright © 1997 Elsevier Science Inc.
To explore the comprehensive phenolic profile of mulberry (Morus alba L.) fruit and reveal the novel anti-diabetic constituents, mulberry polyphenols (MP) were fractionated through gradient ethanol elution and subjected to composition and bioactivity analysis. Forty-seven phenolic compounds were identified and quantified through UHPLC-HR-ESI-TOF-MS/MS, including twenty-one newly identified compounds such as delphinidin 3-rutinoside-5-glucoside and cyanidin 3-rutinoside dimer. The antioxidant activity and anti-diabetic potential of fractionated MP were analyzed in vitro and ex vivo with HepG2 and pancreatic β-cell RIN-m5F. Hierarchical cluster analysis and Pearson correlation coefficients revealed compounds such as syringic acid and galloylcyanidin-glycoside contributed most to inhibit α-glucosidase activity. Quercetin and cyanidin-glycosides were essential for cellular antioxidant activity. Dihydroquercetin and 1,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid were newly identified and validated as the main contributors after rutin to protect RIN-m5F cells against glucotoxicity. Such findings suggest the promising role of MP for type II diabetics and lay the foundation of further utilization and investigation.
Anthocyanins (ANCs) are a group of water-soluble pigments belonging to a flavonoid class of secondary metabolites synthesized by plants [1] . They derive the name from two Greek words, "anthos = flower" and "kianos = blue", and possess attractive colors ranging from red to magenta, purple, and blue in flower, fruits, and vegetables [2, 3] . The ANCs occur primarily as glycosides or acylglycosides of their corresponding aglycones, and over 600 naturally occurring anthocyanins have been reported thus far, varying in (1) number and position of hydroxyl and methoxyl groups, (2) type, number, and position of sugar attachment, and (3) both the type and the extent of sugar acylation [4, 5] . Owing to their intense color, the ANCs are regarded as safe natural colorants to replace artificial pigments in the food industry [6] . Additionally, based on many cell models, animal models, and clinical trials, the ANCs were shown to possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-cancer activities, as well Figure 1 shows the biosynthesis pathway of anthocyanins in plants. It is an extension of a general flavonoid pathway, which is initiated through chalcone synthase (CHS)-mediated reaction of one molecule of p-coumaroyl coenzyme A (p-coumaroyl-CoA) with three molecules of malonyl coenzyme A (malonyl-CoA) to form naringenin chalcone [37] . Then, an isomerization of naringenin chalcone in the presence of chalcone isomerase (CHI) yields naringenin, which is eventually converted into eriodictyol and pentahydroxyflavanone by flavanone 3 -hydroxylase (F3 H) and flavanone 3 ,5 -hydroxylase (F3 5 H), respectively [38] . Through further hydroxylation by flavonoid 3-hydroxylase (F3H), dihydroquercetin, dihydrokaempferol, and dihydromyricetin are produced, all of which can then undergo reduction to generate their corresponding colorless leucoanthocyanidins by dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) followed by colored anthocyanidins by anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) [39] . The anthocyanidins are further modified to generate different forms of anthocyanins through glycosylation by uridine diphosphate-sugar flavonoid 3-O-glycosyltransferase (UFGT) and O-methyl transferase (OMT) or acylation by anthocyanin acyltransferase (ACT) [38] . Although the CHS is the key enzyme for initiation of anthocyanin biosynthesis, the anthocyanin composition, the B-ring hydroxylation pattern, the pigmentation, and eventually the color are largely determined by the primary enzymes F3 H and F3 5 H as well as DFR [39, 40] .
Dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) is the enzyme which catalyses the reduction of dihydroflavonols such as dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin to the respective leucoanthocyanidins in the anthocyanin pathway (Dooner et al. 1991) . The leucoanthocyanidins are substrates for the next step in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins. DFRs in many plants are different in their substrates specificities. For example, DFR of Petunia hybrida has the highest activity with dihydromyricetin as a substrate and does not reduce dihydrokaempferol (Forkmann and Ruhnau 1987) , whereas DFR of barley reduces dihydrokaempferol as well as dihydroquercetin in vitro (Jende-Strid 1991). Petunia does not normally produce significant amounts of pelargonidin because its DFR does not reduce dihydrokaempferol (Forkmann and Ruhnau 1987) . In a previous research, the DFR gene was isolated from maize and introduced into a petunia line that accumulate dihydrokaempferol (Meyer et al. 1987) . The ability of DFR from maize to convert dihydrokaempferol to leucopelargonidin resulted in the production of a novel brick red colour in petunia flowers. However, multiple copies or additions of a limited number of gene copies may lead to the suppression of gene expression (van der Krol et al. 1990 ).
In the core flavonoid pathway, chalcone synthase (CHS, encoded by the TT4 locus) catalyses the first committed step to form 4,2′,4′,6′-tetrahydroxychalcone (naringenin chalcone), by the stepwise condensation of three molecules of malonyl-CoA with one molecule of p-coumaroyl-CoA. Chalcone isomerase then catalyses the isomerization of naringenin chalcone into 5,7,4′-trihydroxyflavanone (naringenin), which is considered to be the earliest intermediate with the flavonoid core. Naringenin can be hydroxylated by flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H) to form dihydrokaempferol, and dihydrokaempferol can be further hydroxylated by flavanone 3′-hydroxylase (F3′H) to form dihydroquercetin. These intermediates are further converted to flavonols, anthocyanins, and PAs through distinct branches of the flavonoid pathway (Fig. 1) . Flavonols, anthocyanins, and PAs are three major subgroups of flavonoid molecules known to occur in Arabidopsis thaliana, where they accumulate in an organ-specific manner . Among them, flavonols are accumulated in almost all organs, including leaves and seeds, whereas anthocyanins are present in all organs with the exception of the immature seeds. Unlike flavonols and anthocyanins, PAs and their precursor (-)-epicatechin are specifically accumulated in the seed coat Routaboul et al., 2006; Saito et al., 2013) . PAs can react with p-dimethylaminocinnamaldehyde (DMACA) to form a blue to purple stain (Li et al., 1996) . Typically, mutations in the genes encoding the enzymes of the core flavonoid pathway usually lead to transparent testa seed phenotypes in Arabidopsis due to the lack of oxidized flavonoid compounds (mainly PAs).
Safety assessment is reported of an orally ingested dihydroquercetin-rich extract (Lavitol) derived from the Dahurian larch tree, used as a food additive and as a dietary supplement ingredient. Dihydroquercetin, a potent antioxidant, is also known as taxifolin. The results of genotoxicity and toxicological tests (Comet assay, micronucleus test in human lymphocytes, chromosomal aberration test, subacute 7-day oral toxicity study, subchronic 90-day toxicology study with histopathologies, and, prenatal and postnatal developmental toxicity studies) on the extract provide further support for the safety of its consumption as a food supplement and food additive.
FIELD: food industry. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to food industry, in particular to confectionary, specifically compositions for production of marmalade. Jelly marmalade production method involves preparation of raw material, preparing a solution of gelling substance, preparation of syrup containing sugar, molasses, water, evaporating syrup, adding jellying substance, stirring, adding citric acid, cooling, adding a biologically active component, stirring, pouring, moulding, drying. Biologically active component used is a mixture of dihydroquercetin and powder extract of mate, taken in ratio 1:100, method additionally uses aqueous concentrate of Iceland moss, added to syrup after jellying substance, in following ratio of components, wt%: molasses 30-35, gelatine 15-17, mixture of dihydroquercetin and mate extract 10-14, aqueous concentrate of Iceland moss 6-8, citric acid 1.2-1.4, sugar - balance up to 100 %. EFFECT: invention improves nutritive and biological value of jelly marmalade, improves structural-mechanical properties, and improves preventive properties of product. 1 cl, 3 ex
A method for increasing periods of juice storage, liquid milk and other liquid food products, characterized in that the additive is a natural dihydroquercetin rate of 5 ÷ 100 micromol / l (15 ÷ 30 mg / l liquid product) helps to prevent the reaction of free radical and peroxidation of fermentation and formation mold.
Lepidium sativum L. (Brassicaceae), garden cress or pepper grass, is the source of valuable biologically active compounds [1]. It is used in folk medicine for cancer, uterine tumors, polyps, and other neoplasms. It is used in medicine as the alcoholic tincture, which possesses sedative and anticonvulsive activity [2]. Herein we communicate results from investigations of phenolic compounds isolated from L. sativum seeds grown in culture by us. Ground air-dried raw material (seeds, 1.0 g) was extracted successively with hexane, CCl4, and CHCl3 (20 mL each), discarding the produced extracts. Then, the remaining raw material was extracted with boiling ethanol (70%) for 1 h. The extract was cooled, filtered through paper into a volumetric flask (100-mL), and adjusted to the mark with ethanol (70%). The resulting extract (2 mL) was placed into a volumetric flask (25-mL) and adjusted with the same solvent to the mark (stock solution). A series of reference solutions in ethanol (70%) was prepared in parallel. These included rutin, quercetin, luteolin, luteolin-7-glycoside, hyperoside, hesperidin, apigenin, vicenin, vitexin, 4-hydroxycoumarin, scopoletin, robinin, dicoumarin, coumarin, umbelliferone, dihydroquercetin, catechin, orientin, and gallic, chlorogenic, neochlorogenic, cinnamic, caffeic, ferulic, salicylic, and ellagic acids. The stock and reference solutions (20 μL) were injected into a chromatograph. The qualitative composition of the phenolic compounds from L. sativum seeds was studied on a Gilston Model 305 (France) high-performance liquid chromatograph (HPLC) with a Rheodyne 7125 (USA) manual injector with subsequent computer processing of the results using the program Multichrom for Windows. The mobile phase was CH3OH:H2O:H3PO4 (400:600:5). The analysis was performed at room temperature. The eluent flow rate was 0.5 mL/min; analysis time, 120 min. Detection used a Gilston Model 151 UV/Vis UV detector operating at 254 nm. A total of 12 compounds was isolated by the HPLC analysis of L. sativum seeds. Of these, gallic acid (9.44%, content in the isolated mixture by internal normalization method), chlorogenic acid (14.77%), ferulic acid (5.63%), neochlorogenic acid (2.22%), luteolin-7-glycoside (14.67%), dihydroquercetin (4.37%), and quercetin (3.15%) were identified. Quantitative analysis of phenolic compounds from L. sativum seeds was based on the UV absorption spectra of this group of compounds. The absorption spectra were defined using the extract (70% ethanol) of seeds and a Helios (USA) selfrecording spectrophotometer in the wavelength range 210-400 nm. According to preliminary results on the identification by HPLC of phenolic compounds from L. sativum seeds, chlorogenic acid was the predominant component. Therefore, the absorption spectrum of chlorogenic acid in ethanol (70%) was recorded in parallel as a working standard in the same wavelength range. Absorption spectra of the studied solution and the chlorogenic acid solution had a common absorption maximum at 329 ± 2 nm. This enabled us to calculate the total phenolic compounds in L. sativum seeds using chlorogenic acid as a working standard. The studied solution was prepared by the method given above (weight 1.0 g). The working standard (chlorogenic acid, 0.02 g) was placed in a volumetric flask (50-mL), treated with ethanol (70%, 30 mL), stirred until dissolved, and adjusted to the mark (solution A). Solution A (1 mL) was placed in a volumetric flask (50-mL) and adjusted with the same solvent to the mark (working standard). The optical density of the resulting solutions was measured at 329 nm relative to ethanol (70%). The contents of total phenolic compounds calculated as chlorogenic acid in L. sativum seeds was 0.85%.
Interactions of silybin and dihydroquercetin (taxifolin), flavanonols from milk thistle [Silybum marianum (L.) Gaertn.] fruits, with Langmuir monolayers of lecithin and bilayers of liposomes are compared. It is established that the investigated flavanonols have different mechanisms of action. Taxifolin produces predominantly membrane-stabilizing action whereas silybin is characterized by immobilization in the hydrophobic part of the phospholipid bilayer with the formation of more hydrophilic micellar structures. The presence of silybin and taxifolin in the liquid extract of milk thistle fruits suggests that a dual mechanism of action may occur in this preparation and also in other combined medicines based on these fruits. The results of this study show good prospects for creating combined preparations based on milk thistle fruit, taxifolin, and other flavonoids (quercetin, rutin, diosmin, etc.) possessing pronounced membrane-stabilizing action.
The effect of cromoglycate and of natural flavonoids on histamine release from peritoneal rat mast cells induced by compound 48/80 and ionophore A23187 was studied according to preincubation time of mast cells with drugs and to incubation time of cells with the triggering agent. Preincubation of cells with cromoglycate, dihydroquercetin and amentoflavone, a biflavonoid, decreased the potency of drugs to inhibit the ionophore-induced release; the optimal inhibitions were observed when drugs were added simultaneously with the ionophore A23187. In contrast, a short preincubation (2 min) of cells with quercetin or luteolin decreased their inhibitory effect on the ionophore-induced release, whereas a longer preincubation increased the inhibition. When compound 48/80 was used to trigger histamine secretion, the inhibitory potencies of all the compounds used were decreased according to preincubation time. Dihydroquercetin (taxifolin), previously considered as inactive, showed an interesting cromoglycate-like behaviour.
1. injectable dosage form based heptapeptide sequence Met-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke and traumatic brain injury, characterized in that it contains as active ingredient a therapeutically effective amount of a heptapeptide Met-Glu- His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro and at least one substance selected from the group consisting of antioxidants including β-carotene, retinol acetate, α-tocopherol acetate, ascorbic acid, lutein, quercetin, rutin (vitamin P), dihydroquercetin , butylated hydroxytoluene, α-lipoic ki lot, L-carnitine, succinic acid, and, optionally, at least one auxiliary substance selected from the group consisting of stabilizers, prolongatory, buffering agents, emulsifying agents - solubilizers, solvents, fillers, preservatives, and other auxiliary substances permitted for medical application, in the following ratio, wt.%: heptapeptide 0,0002-99,99998 antioxidant 0,00002-99,9998 adjuvant to 100! 2. The injectable formulation according to claim 1, characterized in that the stabilizer comprises at least one substance selected from the group consisting of Trilon B, sodium metabisulfite, sodium thiosulfate, glycine, arginine, histidine, lysine or their physiologically acceptable salts such as hydrochloride, sulfate, acetate, glutamate, aspartate, maleate, and, as prolongator - at least one substance selected from the group consisting of polyvinylpyrrolidone having a molecular weight of 10-60 kDa dextran with a molecular weight of 10-100 kDa, e.g. polygenes Yoockin or reopoligljukin, polyvinyl alcohol, sodium karboksimetiltsellyulo
ABSTRACT Viburnum mullaha (Buch.-Ham. Ex D. Don), is an underexplored wild edible fruit of Indian Himalayan region, analyzed for total polyphenol contents, antioxidant, anti-elastase, anti-collagenase, and anti-tyrosinase activities using in vitro assays. High values of total phenolic contents of 1257 ± 40 mg gallic acid equivalents/100 g fruit weight and total flavonoid contents of 3501 ± 203 mg catechin equivalents/100 g fruit weight were observed. V. mullaha fruit extracts showed outstanding antioxidant activities (ABTS+, 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl, superoxide anion, linoleate peroxyl radicals scavenging, and ferric reducing activities) and remarkable anti-elastase, anti-collagenase, and anti-tyrosinase activities. High resolution liquid chromatography–mass spectroscopy analysis revealed presence of 15 phenolic compounds, namely, chlorogenic acid, acetyl salicylic acid, dihydrorobinetin, dihydromyricetin, 2-isoprenylemodin, rutin, cosmosiin hexaacetate, pectolinarin, dihydroquercetin, eriodictyol, iriginol hexaacetate, theaflavin, epicatechin-pentaacetate, lomatin, and peucenin in fruit extracts. This study recommends utilization of V. mullaha fruit as functional food with prospective pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, and cosmeceutical properties.
FIELD: medicine, pharmaceutics. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to sports medicine and pharmacology, namely to specialised products for feeding athletes and people engaged in physical exercise. Complex of biologically active substances, protecting athletes against overtraining contains L-arginine alpha-ketoglutarate, vitamin PP, glutamine, lecithin, taurine, L-tyrosine, carnosine, L-citrulline and dihydroquercetin with specified ratio of components. EFFECT: invention makes it possible to increase muscular force and endurance, allows faster adaptation to physical load and strength recovery after trainings, increase of attention concentration, stimulation of regenerative processes, reduction of load on joints and ligaments. 3 tbl, 1 ex
Viburnum mullaha (Buch.-Ham. Ex D. Don), is an underexplored wild edible fruit of Indian Himalayan region, analyzed for total polyphenol contents, antioxidant, anti-elastase, anti-collagenase, and anti-tyrosinase activities using in vitro assays. High values of total phenolic contents of 1257 ± 40 mg gallic acid equivalents/ 100 g fruit weight and total flavonoid contents of 3501 ± 203 mg catechin equivalents/100 g fruit weight were observed. V. mullaha fruit extracts showed outstanding antioxidant activities (ABTS + , 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl, superoxide anion, linoleate peroxyl radicals scavenging, and ferric reducing activities) and remarkable anti-elastase, anti-collagenase, and anti-tyrosinase activities. High resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy analysis revealed presence of 15 phenolic compounds, namely, chlorogenic acid, acetyl salicylic acid, dihydrorobinetin, dihydromyricetin, 2-isoprenylemodin, rutin, cosmosiin hexaacetate, pectolinarin, dihydroquercetin, eriodictyol, iriginol hexaacetate, theaflavin, epicatechin-pentaacetate, lomatin, and peucenin in fruit extracts. This study recommends utilization of V. mullaha fruit as functional food with prospective pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, and cosmeceutical properties.
We studied changes in ROS content in the aorta of Wistar rats at early terms after irradiation in doses equal to single fraction used in tumor radiotherapy and the effects of taxifolin and fucoidin, blockers of leukocyte adhesion to endothelium, on ROS content. Male rats were exposed to X-rays (200 kW) in doses of 1-7.5 Gy. ROS production in aorta segments was measured in 1-48 h after irradiation by dichlorodihydrofluorescein oxidation. The content of ROS in the aorta of rats exposed to radiation in doses of 1-2.5 Gy increased in 1-24 h after irradiation, the peak ROS content was found in 2 h after irradiation. Taxifolin (100 μg/kg dihydroquercetin once a day with drinking water) and fucoidin (10 mg/kg, i.v.) abolished ROS accumulation. The content of ROS in rat aorta increased in 1-24 h after irradiation in doses used for tumor radiotherapy and this increase can be determined by leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium.
A new biflavonoid, 5,7,3',5'',7'',4'''-hexahydroxy (4'-O-3''')-biflavone (1) and a polyketide derivative, methylcylohex-1-ene (3) (previously reported only as a synthetic compound) were isolated from aerial parts of Vangueria infausta. In addition, eight other known flavonoids viz. (-)-epicatechin, epiafzelechin, dihydrokaempferol, quercetin, luteolin (2), dihydroquercetin-3'-O- glucoside, daidzein and genistein were also isolated from this plant. Structures were identified using 1D- and 2D NMR experiments as well as ESI-MS, IR and UV spectra. The new biflavonoid 1 showed higher radical scavenging activity against 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) reagent compared to ascorbic acid (standard) using a spectrophotometric method. Compound 1 was less sensitive to Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacterial strains and yeast (Candida mycoderma) compared to luteolin and quercetin on the Bioautographic Agar Overlay Assay.
Abstract Dietary flavonoids and synthetic derivatives have a well-known potential for biomedical applications. In this perspective, we report herein new methodologies to access chrysin and 5,7-dihydroxychromone, and these structures were combined with those of naturally occurring quercetin, luteolin, (+)-dihydroquercetin and apigenin to assemble a set of polyphenols with structure variations for in vitro testing over the aggregation of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) amyloid peptide Aβ1−42. Using thioflavin-T (ThT) monitored kinetics and subsequent mechanistic analysis by curve fitting, we show that catechol-type flavonoids reduce Aβ1−42 fibril content by 30% at molar ratios over 10. Without affecting secondary nucleation, these compounds accelerate primary nucleation events responsible for early primary oligomer formation, putatively redirecting the latter into off-pathway aggregates. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) imaging of reaction end-points allowed a comprehensive topographical analysis of amyloid aggregate populations formed in the presence of each compound. Formation of Aβ1−42 small oligomers, regarded as the most toxic amyloid structures, seems to be limited by flavonoids with a C2 phenyl group, while flavonol 3-OH is not a beneficial structural feature. Overall, the diversity of structural variations within flavonoids opens avenues for their development as chemical tools in the treatment of AD by tackling the formation and distribution of neurotoxic oligomers species.
An investigation of the previously unexamined ancient Tasmanian clone Lomatia tasmanica W. M. Curtis (Proteaceae) and two other endemic species Lomatia tinctoria R. Br. and Lomatia polymorpha (Labill.) R. Br. was undertaken. This represents the first extensive natural products study in which individual phytochemical components have been isolated and identified from these three Lomatia species. Extraction of L. tasmanica leaves provided the naphthoquinone juglone (0.34% w/w), and n-alkanes nonacosane and heptacosane (0.30% w/w combined). L. polymorpha afforded the flavonoid glycosides dihydroquercetin 3-O-β-D-xyloside (0.22% w/w) and quercetin 3-O-β-d-glucose (0.14% w/w), as well as the naphthalene glucoside 1,4,8-trihydroxynaphthalene-1-O-β-d-glucose (0.04% w/w) and 4-O-p-coumaroyl-d-glucose (0.03% w/w). In addition, both L. polymorpha and L. tinctoria contained juglone (0.32% w/w and 0.58% w/w, respectively). L. polymorpha provided tetracosan-1-ol, hexacosan-1-ol and octacosan-1-ol (0.07% w/w combined), while L. tinctoria gave nonacosane (0.13% w/w). Analysis of three individual specimens from each of the three species demonstrated consistency in the respective phytochemical profiles of these populations and tentatively suggests limited intraspecific variation.
Objective: The i ngerprint chromatograms were established for quality evaluation of ultramicro Xanthoceras sorbifolia Bung from dif erent sources by HPLC. Methods: The analysis was performed on a Agilent C18 column(4.6mm×250mm, 5μm) with acetonitrile-0.4% phosphate acid as mobile phase in a gradient mode at a l ow rate of 1.0mL/min, at the wavelength of 226 nm and at a column temperature of 20℃. Results: 16 peaks were chosen as the common i ngerprint peaks. The RSD for relative retention value and relative peak areas were less than 2% in the precision and repeated test. The similarity of 10 batches of samples was more than 0.9. And we identfiied six main characteristic i ngerprint peaks including Catechin, Epigallocatechin, Epicatechin, Myricetin, 2α, 3β-dihydromyricetin, Dihydroquercetin. The Catechin was isolated for the first time from the Xanthoceras sorbifolia Bung medicinal materials have been isolated. Conclusion: The method is accurate, reliable and repeatable, and they can be helpful for quality control of ultramicro Xanthoceras sorbifolia Bung.
This paper is to analyze the latest data on synthesis, structure, chemical and biological properties of flavonoid dihydroquercetin (taxifolin). Complexes including DHQ (dihydroquercetin) into cyclodextrins were obtained. These supramolecular representatives are characterized by high water-solubility, good permeability through biomembranes, prolonged action in the organism and stability while being transported in bloodflow. The use of DHQ in complex with β-cyclodextrin is more promising from the medical point of view than the use of pure DHQ. Total and partial acidylation of DHQ with acid chlorides of aliphatic, aromatic, and heterocyclic carboxylic acids, as well as selective phosphorylation with acid derivatives of trivalent phosphorus (with amides and amidethers of phosphorous acid), and aminomethylation were carried out. DHQ freely undergoes Mannich Reaction with formaldehyde and amines of various structures. The products of the reaction are isolated from the reaction mix with good yield. Isolated aminomethylated derivatives have neurotropic and antiproliferative action.The structure of all synthesized compounds was proved with the help of modern methods of analysis: spectroscopy NMR ( 1 H, 13 C) and XRS. Biological activity of dihydroquercetin modified derivatives was studied. It was found out that some of them are characterized by high cytotoxic, antitumour, and antioxidant biological activity. The inclusion complexes of dihydroquercetin and cyclodextrin were obtained. Acylation, phosphorylation and aminomethylation of dihydroquercetin was performed. The biological activity of obtained compounds was studied.
Lipid oxidation is one of the main factors responsible for the quality loss in refrigerated and frozen stored fish products. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of superficial treatment of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) with dihydroquercetin (DHQ) solutions on the hydrolytic and oxidative changes in fish lipids during refrigerated storage. It was found that treatment with DHQ solution (1.0 g l−1) reduced approximately twice the free fatty acids content of chilled stored salmon. After 11 days of storage at 1 °С, the contents of hydroperoxides (HPO) and 2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) of these samples decreased with 45.00 and 0.91 mg MDA/kg, respectively. The share of saturated fatty acids (SFA), monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA), and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) in control and experimental samples did not differ significantly (P>0.05). Results obtained show that the superficial treatment of salmon with DHQ solution (1.0 g l−1) delayed the hydrolytic and oxidative changes...
Myricetin, robinetin and luteolin inhibited the mutagenic activity resulting from the metabolic activation of benzo[a]-pyrene and (+/-)-trans-7,8-dihydroxy-7,8-dihydrobenzo[a]-pyrene by rat liver microsomes. These naturally occurring plant flavonoids and seventeen additional flavonoids and related derivatives with phenolic hydroxyl groups inhibited the mutagenic activity of (+/-)-7 beta,8 alpha-dihydroxy-9 alpha,10 alpha-epoxy-7,8,9,10- tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P 7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide-2), which is an ultimate mutagenic and carcinogenic metabolite of benzo[a]pyrene. Several flavonoids without phenolic hydroxyl groups or with methylated phenolic hydroxyl groups were inactive. The mutagenic activity of 0.05 nmol of BP 7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide-2 towards strain TA 100 of S. typhimurium was inhibited 50% by incubation of the bacteria and the diol-epoxide with myricetin (2 nmol), robinetin (2.5 nmol), luteolin (5 nmol), quercetin (5 nmol), 7-methoxyquercetin (5 nmol), rutin (5 nmol), quercetin (5 nmol), delphinidin chloride (5 nmol), morin (10 nmol), myricitrin (10 nmol), kaempferol (10 nmol), diosmetin (10 nmol), fisetin (10 nmol), or apigenin (10 nmol). Considerably less antimutagenic activity was observed for dihydroquercetin, naringenin, robinin, D-catechin, genistein, kaempferide and chrysin. Pentamethoxyquercetin, tangeretin, nobiletin, 7,8-benzoflavone, 5,6-benzoflavone, and flavone, which lack free phenolic groups, were inactive. The antimutagenic activity of hydroxylated flavonoids results from their direct interaction with B[a]P 7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide-2 since the rate of disappearance of the diol-epoxide from cell-free solutions in 1:9 dioxane:water was markedly stimulated by myricetin, robinetin and quercetin. Myricetin was a highly potent inhibitor of the mutagenic activity of bay-region diol-epoxides of benzo[a]pyrene, dibenzo[a,h]pyrene and dibenzo[a,i]pyrene, but higher concentrations of myricetin were needed to inhibit the mutagenicity of the chemically less reactive benzo[a]pyrene 4,5-oxide and bay region diol-epoxides of benz[a]anthracene, chrysene and benzo[c]phenanthrene.
The use of medicinal plants as prophylactic method in fish is considered safe and a very promising alternative to the use of chemicals in aquaculture practices. The prospective mode of action of dihydroquercetin, fraction of the medical plant deodar (Cedrus deodara), was evaluated on immune status of gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata L.). Fish were divided into 4 groups before being fed for 14 days with commercial diets supplemented with 0% (control), 0.1%, 0.5% and 1% of dihydroquercetin. Cellular (phagocytosis and respiratory burst activities) and humoral (seric complement activity, antiprotease, total protein, peroxidase, bactericidal activity and IgM level) immune parameters were investigated. The results recorded enhancement in all the tested parameters and in all the dihydroquercetin supplemented groups compared to the control. Interestingly, the fish received the lowest dose of dihydroquercetin (0.1%) showed a highly significant difference (p < 0.05) in phagocytosis, respiratory burst, IgM level, total protein, complement, antiprotease and bactericidal activities compared to the control. Direct effect of different doses of dihydroquercetin on head-kidney leucocytes was also studied in a previous in vitro assay. Again, the lowest doses tested provoked the highest immune cellular activities, where, the highest phagocytic and respiratory bust activities were recorded in leucocytes incubated with 0.025% and 0.0125% doses, respectively. Therefore, the results suggest that low concentrations of dihydroquercetin as food supplements are able to increase the immune status of gilthead seabream.
Results of investigation s of the phospholipids (PL) and hydroperoxide influence on the antioxidant action efficiency of the synthetic phenolic antioxidants (InH) -2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol (BHT), 4- methoxyphenol (MOP), 4-tert-butylphenol; natural InH - α-tocopherol (TP), quercetin (Q) and dihydroquercetin (QH2) and hydrated quinoline - 2,2,4-trimethyl-6-ethoxy- 1,2-dihydroquinoline (ethoxyquin, EQ), performed by the model of the initiated oxidation of methyl oleate are generalized. It is established that the PL additives lead to both an increase of the oxidation rate within the induction period ( W τ) and an alteration of the induction period duration (τ). According to the increase in Wτ for mixtures with PL studied InH is graded by the following sequence: QH2 > Q > EQ > TP > MOP > BHT, that is conformed by the differential UV spectroscopy data. The value of τ increases in the presence of PL for TP, MOP and EQ, it is unchangeable for BHT and substantially decreases for QH2 and Q. Reasons leading to an alteration of the InH efficiency in the PL presence are discussed.
''')-biflavone (1) and a polyketide derivative, methylcylohex-1-ene (3) [previously reported only as a synthetic compound] were isolated from aerial parts of Vangueria infausta. In addition, eight other known flavonoids viz. (-)-epicatechin, epiafzelechin, dihydrokaempferol, quercetin, luteolin (2), dihydroquercetin-3'-Oglucoside, daidzein and genistein were also isolated from this plant. Structures were identified using 1D-and 2D NMR experiments as well as ESI-MS, IR and UV spectra. The new biflavonoid 1 showed higher radical scavenging activity against 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) reagent compared to ascorbic acid (standard) using a spectrophotometric method. Compound 1 was less sensitive to Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacterial strains and yeast (Candida mycoderma) compared to luteolin and quercetin on the Bioautographic Agar Overlay Assay. General procedures. UV-VIS spectra: Shimadzu UV-2101PC UV-VIS Scanning Spectrophotometer. NMR experiments: 1D [ 1 H (300 and/or 600 MHz), 13 C (75.4 and/or 150.9 MHz), DEPT] and 2D [COSY, HMBC, HMQC] were acquired on Bruker Avance DPX 300 and/or DRX 600 spectrometers, signals were referenced to deutereted solvents. Melting points: Stuart Scientific (SMP1) melting point instrument. The infrared (IR) spectra were recorded on Perkin Elmer 2000 FT-IR spectrophotometer and mass spectra were acquired from Finnigan LCQ DECA instrument. Specific rotations [α] D were determined using the Autopol IV (Rudolph Research Analytical) Automatic Polarimeter. Materials and extraction. Parts of Vangueria infausta were collected in March 2002 from Mapoka village, North East District in Botswana. A voucher specimen number RRT.2/2002 was deposited at the Herbarium, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Botswana.
Abstract: Dietary flavonoids and synthetic derivatives have a well-known potential for biomedical applications. In this perspective, we report herein new methodologies to access chrysin and 5,7-dihydroxychromone, and these structures were combined with those of naturally occurring quercetin, luteolin, (+)-dihydroquercetin and apigenin to assemble a set of polyphenols with structure variations for in vitro testing over the aggregation of Alzheimer's disease (AD) amyloid peptide Aβ 1−42 . Using thioflavin-T (ThT) monitored kinetics and subsequent mechanistic analysis by curve fitting, we show that catechol-type flavonoids reduce Aβ 1−42 fibril content by 30 % at molar ratios over 10. Without affecting secondary nucleation, these compounds accelerate primary nucleation events responsible for early primary oligomer formation, putatively redirecting the latter into off-pathway aggregates. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) imaging of reaction end-points allowed a comprehensive topographical analysis of amyloid aggregate populations formed in the presence of each compound. Formation of Aβ 1−42 small oligomers, regarded as the most toxic amyloid structures, seems to be limited by flavonoids with a C2 phenyl group, while flavonol 3-OH is not a beneficial structural feature. Overall, the diversity of structural variations within flavonoids opens avenues for their development as chemical tools in the treatment of AD by tackling the formation and distribution of neurotoxic oligomers species.
Mechanistically, Aβ 1−42 peptide undergoes a highly complex but relatively well described self-aggregation pathway in the brain, initially involving a primary nucleation phase to form primary fibrils that grow longer in the subsequent elongation process. These fibrils then catalyze secondary nucleation events by recruiting soluble monomers to form cytotoxic oligomeric species, which are able to further multiply themselves in a positive feedback loop [8] [9] [10] , as illustrated in Fig. 1 . This self-assembly reaction also involves the generation of off-pathway aggregates arising from the main fibril assembly route, which are generally more amorphous and frequently stable final reaction end-points, rather than intermediates. Together, these events account for the polymorphism of β-amyloid species found in the sequence of the self-assembly process of Aβ 1−42 monomers. Yet, it has been shown in vivo that close to amyloid plaques the secondary nucleation process is significantly enhanced when compared to primary nucleation events and, although amyloid fibrils do not seem to be the major cause of direct neurotoxicity, once they are present in a small but critical concentration, they are indeed the major source of new diffusible cytotoxic oligomers by surface catalysis [8, 10] . Hence, by tackling secondary nucleation in addition to the primary nucleation process, the proliferation of neurotoxic Aβ oligomers could be prevented [10, 11] . Dietary flavonoids have been extensively studied for a variety of medical applications, and many of them were shown to display advantageous neuroprotective properties associated with multitarget mechanisms of action. Indeed, different flavonoids as natural phenolic compounds exhibit very high antioxidant effect [12, 13] , but (+)-dihydroquercetin (3) was shown to have potential to ameliorate the serious consequences of acute and chronic traumata of the mammalian nervous system [14] , while quercetin (1) and luteolin (2) are potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory molecules with activity against Aβ-induced neurotoxicity, anti-amyloidogenic and fibril-disaggregating effects, being additionally able to regulate BACE1-mediated AβPP processing [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] . Moreover, both catechol-type flavonoids were shown to have therapeutic potential in the treatment of insulin resistance and bacterial infections in vivo [22, 23] , which encourages further optimization of the flavonoid scaffold to tackle diabetes-and microbe-induced Aβ accumulation and neurotoxicity. Yet, a noncatechol-type flavone, chrysin (5), has also been described as a potent neuroprotective agent able to reduce Aβ-induced oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and hippocampal neuronal loss, resulting in the prevention of cognitive decline [24] [25] [26] . This compound can also tackle vascular complications associated with insulin resistance [27] and has recently served as scaffold for the development of new β-ketoacyl-acyl carrier protein synthase III (FabH) inhibitors with antimicrobial activity [28] . Indeed, these data suggest that the catechol group in the flavonoid scaffold might not be a "must have" moiety in the design of new multitarget flavonoidbased compounds with neuroprotective activity.
Medicinal plants are the richest bio-resource of drugs for traditional systems of medicine, modern medicines, food supplements, pharmaceutical intermediates and chemical entities for synthetic drugs. Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT) is a challenging and deadly disease due to its complex epidemiology and clinical presentations. This study was conducted to investigate anti-trypanosomal action of Ximenia americana root bark on Trypanosoma brucei brucei using various solvent extracts and to develop thin layer (TLC-MS) and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometric (LC-MS) profiles of the plant. Soxhlet extraction was used to obtain acetone, 70% ethanol total extracts in addition to n-hexane, dichloromethane, ethyl acetate and methanol fractions by sequential extraction. The inhibitory activity of the various extracts was compared by testing against T. b. brucei using isometamidium chloride as standard drug. The most active extract was separated by solid-phase extraction (C18 stationary phase) to obtain fractions which were profiled by TLC-MS (+ESI) and LC-MS. It was observed that anti-trypanosomal activity of acetone (16.83% yield) and 70% ethanol (18.23% yield) were comparable. However, methanol extract exhibited the highest activity with 99.18%, 97.5% and 87.50% inhibition at 3 h incubation (room temperature) using 1000 µg, 500 µg and 250 µg concentrations respectively. The activities at 1000 µg for methanol extract and isometamidium chloride were comparable with 95% CI [-1.10, 1.77]. TLC-MS and LC-MS analyses suggested gallic acid, 2,3,4,5-tetrahydroxybenzoic acid, 2ʹ,5-dimethoxyflavone, quercetin, dihydroquercetin and sesquiterpene when compared with literature database. This study presents data that could be useful in standardisation and preparation of alternative medicine in the treatment of African trypanosomiasis.
Human African trypanosomiasis remains one of the neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) with limited therapeutic agents to combat the disease. It was observed in this study that total extraction yield of Ximenia americana root bark is independent of different solvents used (acetone and 70% ethanol). The plant part (root bark) possesses secondary metabolites such as tannins, saponins, flavonoids and terpenes. Methanol extract derived from sequential Soxhlet extraction exhibited inhibitory effect on Trypanosoma brucei brucei when compared with the standard drug (Isometamidium chloride) at the same concentration. Chromatographic and spectroscopic techniques used in this study provided data similar to some library data for gallic acid, quercetin, dihydroquercetin, 2,3,4,5-tetrahydobenzoic acid and 2',5-dimethoxyflavone. Thus, results presented will be useful in further analysis of plant materials. Elucidation of active compound(s) from natural products sometimes requires application of multiple separating techniques. Therefore, purification processes such as flash chromatography and preparative HPLC could be used to obtain purer substance(s). Moreover, in vivo study on anti-trypanosomal potency of X. americana root bark is required to ascertain the toxicity of the active agent(s) and its trypanocidal effect.
This paper is to analyze the latest data on synthesis, structure, chemical and biological properties of flavonoid dihydroquercetin (taxifolin). Complexes including DHQ (dihydroquercetin) into cyclodextrins were obtained. These supramolecular representatives are characterized by high water-solubility, good permeability through biomembranes, prolonged action in the organism and stability while being transported in bloodflow. The use of DHQ in complex with β-cyclodextrin is more promising from the medical point of view than the use of pure DHQ. Total and partial acidylation of DHQ with acid chlorides of aliphatic, aromatic, and heterocyclic carboxylic acids, as well as selective phosphorylation with acid derivatives of trivalent phosphorus (with amides and amidethers of phosphorous acid), and aminomethylation were carried out. DHQ freely undergoes Mannich Reaction with formaldehyde and amines of various structures. The products of the reaction are isolated from the reaction mix with good yield. Isolated aminomethylated derivatives have neurotropic and antiproliferative action.The structure of all synthesized compounds was proved with the help of modern methods of analysis: spectroscopy NMR ( 1 H, 13 C) and XRS. Biological activity of dihydroquercetin modified derivatives was studied. It was found out that some of them are characterized by high cytotoxic, antitumour, and antioxidant biological activity. The inclusion complexes of dihydroquercetin and cyclodextrin were obtained. Acylation, phosphorylation and aminomethylation of dihydroquercetin was performed. The biological activity of obtained compounds was studied.
The use of medicinal plants as prophylactic method in fish is considered safe and a very promising alternative to the use of chemicals in aquaculture practices. The prospective mode of action of dihydroquercetin, fraction of the medical plant deodar (Cedrus deodara), was evaluated on immune status of gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata L.). Fish were divided into 4 groups before being fed for 14 days with commercial diets supplemented with 0% (control), 0.1%, 0.5% and 1% of dihydroquercetin. Cellular (phagocytosis and respiratory burst activities) and humoral (seric complement activity, antiprotease, total protein, peroxidase, bactericidal activity and IgM level) immune parameters were investigated. The results recorded enhancement in all the tested parameters and in all the dihydroquercetin supplemented groups compared to the control. Interestingly, the fish received the lowest dose of dihydroquercetin (0.1%) showed a highly significant difference (p < 0.05) in phagocytosis, respiratory burst, IgM level, total protein, complement, antiprotease and bactericidal activities compared to the control. Direct effect of different doses of dihydroquercetin on head-kidney leucocytes was also studied in a previous in vitro assay. Again, the lowest doses tested provoked the highest immune cellular activities, where, the highest phagocytic and respiratory bust activities were recorded in leucocytes incubated with 0.025% and 0.0125% doses, respectively. Therefore, the results suggest that low concentrations of dihydroquercetin as food supplements are able to increase the immune status of gilthead seabream.
Deodar, Cedrus deodara (Roxb.), belonging to the family Pinaceae, is one of the most important medicinal plant which has been used since ancient days in Ayurvedic medical. For example, oil and extracts of this plant are used in treatment of patients from inflammations, dyspepsia, insomnia, cough, fever, urinary discharges, bronchitis, itching, elephantiasis, tuberculous glands, leucoderma, ophthalmia, plies, disorders of the mind, diseases of the skin and of the blood, among others [14, 15] . Additionally, different parts of the plant have also particular uses: wood extract has been used to treat flatulence, rheumatism, piles, kidney stone, pulmonary and urinary disorder; bark extract is used as astringent and also useful for treating fever, diarrhoea and dysentery [16] . Interestingly, the bark of C. deodara contains large amounts of a flavonoid compound known as dihydroquercetin.
Dihydroquercetin, also known as taxifolin, is a flavonoid compound commonly found in many vegetables, fruits and plants. Weidmann [17] showed evidence for a therapeutic promise of dihydroquercetin in major disease states such as cancer, cardiovascular disease and liver disease by reviewing the proposed mechanism(s) of action. Moreover, previous available data shown to exhibit antiinflammatory effects in protection against oxidative cellular injury in rat peritoneal macrophages [18] and human endothelial cells [19] . Also, oral administration of dihydroquercetin caused decrease in mortality of white mice infected with influenza virus [20] . Injection with dihydroquercetin, shown effectiveness in treatment of atopic dermatitis in mice by preventing the production of inflammatory cytokines and by reducing skin inflammation [21] . Interestingly, a drug known as Ascovertin in Russia (a complex of dihydroquercetin and vitamin C) is a popular treatment for many health conditions that share oxidative stress as an underlying mechanism. It showed improvement in memory, mental performance, relieved vertigo, normalized sleep, and relieved headaches in patients [22] . To the best of our knowledge, the effect of dihydroquercetin as a possible immunostimulant for fish has not been studied yet. Therefore, the current study aims to examine the prospective effect of dihydroquercetin (previously isolated from C. deodara) on the immune system of gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata L.) with a consider of the effective dose, which could use in fish farms, in order to check its effectiveness to prevent/or treat the fish disease.
Results of investigations of the phospholipids (PL) and hydroperoxide influence on the antioxidant action efficiency of the synthetic phenolic antioxidants (InH) -2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol (BHT), 4-methoxyphenol (MOP), 4-tert-butylphenol; natural InH -α-tocopherol (TP), quercetin (Q) and dihydroquercetin (QH 2 ) and hydrated quinoline -2,2,4-trimethyl-6-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (ethoxyquin, EQ), performed by the model of the initiated oxidation of methyl oleate are generalized. It is established that the PL additives lead to both an increase of the oxidation rate within the induction period ( W τ ) and an alteration of the induction period duration (τ). According to the increase in W τ for mixtures with PL studied InH is graded by the following sequence: QH 2 > Q > EQ > TP > MOP > BHT, that is conformed by the differential UV spectroscopy data. The value of τ increases in the presence of PL for TP, MOP and EQ, it is unchangeable for BHT and substantially decreases for QH 2 and Q. Reasons leading to an alteration of the InH efficiency in the PL presence are discussed.
characteristic reaction, UV photo-spectrometer and high performance liquid chromatography, and quantitatively analyzed We qualitatively identified pigments of Berberis thunbergii cv.atropurpurea leaves by thin layer chromatography, color the pigments by HPLC-DAD.B.thunbergii cv.atropurpurea leave contains chlorophyll A, carotenoids, cyanidin, cyani-din-galactoside, petunidin, dihydroquercetin, dihydromyricetin, quecetin, chlorogenic acid, myricetin, rutin, epicatechin and apigenin.The purple color of B.thunbergii cv.atropurpurea leaves is caused by the accumulation of cyanidin, cyani-din-galactoside, petunidin, chlorophyll A, carotenoids and quercetin.
Oxidative coupling of substituted catechols with isoeugenol or coniferyl alcohol in the presence of silver oxide affords 2,3-trans-1,4-benzodioxans in good yield. The reaction is highly regioselective when the catechol bears an alkyl substituent, much less so in the case of an electrophilic one. A free-radical coupling mechanism is proposed. A one-step biomimetic synthesis in high yield of the natural flavanolignans silybin and isosilybin from 2R,3R-dihydroquercetin and coniferyl alcohol is reported.
The invention relates to a process for obtaining a conifer bark-base composition enriched with dihydroquercetin or with tannins, comprising the following steps: a) grinding dried shavings of bark from a conifer so as to obtain a ground conifer bark particle material, and b) selecting, from the ground particle material obtained in step a), the fraction of particles:- of smallest size representing at most 40% by weight, relative to the total weight of the ground particle material obtained in step a), this fraction being enriched with tannins; or - of largest size representing at most 50% by weight, relative to the total weight of the ground particle material obtained in step a), this fraction being enriched with dihydroquercetin.
According to the data of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, global food losses are about one third of their total output, mainly due to spoilage. Therefore, a search for safe methods of shelf life extension is an important task, especially for products for specialized nutrition. According to literature data, natural antioxidants can be alternative to existing preservatives due to its ability to inhibit oxidation of the main nutrients. Pulp, seeds and peel of quince, apple «Simirenko», feijoa, persimmon, Jerusalem artichoke, white, red and yellow onion were objects of the study. The total antioxidant capacity was determined by Oxygen Radical Absorbance Capacity (ORAC) and Ferric Reducing Antioxidant Power (FRAP) methods and expressed in µmol equiv. Trolox / g of sample and µmol equiv. Dihydroquercetin / g of sample. It was noticed that peels demonstrated higher antioxidant activity, and red onion husk possessed the highest value, which was 722.8 ± 13.9 µmol equiv. Dihydroquercetin / g of sample and 3357.5 ± 42.2 µmol equiv. Trolox / g of sample. It was shown that the use of fruit and vegetable wastes is promising for production of food-grade antioxidants. In addition, the results of the research could facilitate stimulation of rational and efficient environmental management.
Establishment of an effective supplementary lighting procedure is necessary to increase the value of leaf lettuce grown using a hydroponic method involving a low production cost. In leaf lettuce extracts, quercetin, one of the flavonoids, was isolated and identified. It was investigated that quercetin has important functions that can be used as a dietary supplement. Flavonol synthase (FLS) is a key enzyme involved in quercetin biosynthesis, catalyzes the conversion of dihydroquercetin to quercetin. Therefore, we determined the sequence of the flavonol synthase gene (FLS) in red leaf lettuce. We harvested leaf lettuce grown using supplementary light sources, such as ultraviolet radiation B (UV-B), ultraviolet radiation A, blue, and red lamps during the night. It is noteworthy that FLS expression and the quercetin content were particularly increased to a greater extent in young leaves than in mature leaves when UV-B and blue light were used simultaneously at night. We suggest that UV-B with blue light is used simultaneously at night for producing leaf lettuce with high quercetin content.
The effect of food additive including antioxidant dihydroquercetin and polysaccharide arabinogalactan on the activity of metabolic enzymes in muscles and liver of artificially grown rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss affected by bacterial infection was investigated. The results of the study indicated an increase in the resistance of trout to the action of bacterial infection with the enrichment of the diet with the studied bioactive components, apparently mediated, among other factors, by the activation of metabolic pathways of synthesis of energy and reducing equivalents.
The combination of cytochrome c (Cyt c) and cardiolipin is known to catalyze free radical oxidation of membrane lipids, thereby triggering the cascade of reactions that lead to programmed cell death (apoptosis). It was interesting to estimate the possibility of controlling this reaction with the use of inhibitors of free radical reactions (antioxidants). The effects of bovine heart cardiolipin (BCL) and synthetic 1,1′,2,2′-tetraoleyl cardiolipin (TOCL) on the Cyt c peroxidase activity detected by luminol-enhanced chemiluminescence (CL) were studied. The CL amplitude substantially increased in the presence of TOCL and BCL in the ranges of the cardiolipin to Cyt c molar ratios from 0 to 30 and from 0 to 50, respectively, and insignificantly increased upon further increase in these ratios to 640: 1 and 320: 1. This dependence of the CL amplitude on the cardiolipin to protein ratio may have been accounted for by saturation of the protein surface with cardiolipin molecules reached at a certain molar ratio. The effects of the antioxidants rutin and dihydroquercetin (DHQ) on the peroxidase activity of Cyt c in combination with BCL was studied in the presence of the CL activator coumarine C-525 at a BCL to Cyt c molar ratio of 32: 1. In both cases, the peroxidase activity decreased as the antioxidant content of the system increased. A 50% inhibition of the reaction was observed at DHQ and rutin concentrations of 10 and 3 μM, respectively. It is supposed that the use of antioxidants will make it possible to control the formation of lipid radicals on membrane-bound Cyt c, which is the key stage of apoptosis.
Objective: To establish a RP-HPLC method for detection of dihydroquercetin in matsuba extraction.Methods: Dihydroquercetin in samples were purified with methanol,separated by C18 reversed phase column,and detected at wavelength of 290 nm.Results: The dihydroquercetin was shown to be linear in the range from 5 μg/ml to 200 μg/ml(r=0.99998),the limit of detection was 0.2 μg/ml.The recovery of the method was 97.1%,RSD was 1.0%~1.2%.Conclusion: The method is simple,rapid,accurate and reliable,which could be used for detection of dihydroquercetin content in health food of matsuba extraction.
Antioxidants liposomal composition for inhalation in diseases of the lungs and upper respiratory tract, characterized in that it is an emulsion of natural and / or synthetic phospholipids in the form of liposomes with an average particle size of 0.2-0.4 microns, in which the membrane of the liposomes are the flavonoid dihydroquercetin and wheat germ oil incorporated, and wherein the aqueous phase of the emulsion of sodium chloride in the form of a 0.9% solution and the water-soluble antioxidants including ascorbic acid (vitamin C), N-acetyl-L-cysteine ​​and sodium benzoate , at the following ratio of the components (wt .-%): phospholipids 2.25 to 2.75 dihydroquercetin 0.9-1.1 Wheat germ oil, containing the hydrophobic antioxidant tocopherols (TP) (vitamin E) and carotenoids 0.9-1.1 ascorbic acid 0.04-0.06 N-acetyl-L-cysteine 0.9-1.1 sodium benzoate 0.12 to 0.17 0.9% sodium chloride solution rest at pH = 6.4 ± 0.5.
Venous hypertension and swelling of the hind limbs was demonstrated to develop in rat model of chronic venous insufficiency. It was found that 14-day course of dihydroquercetin (50 mg/kg) and lipoic acid (50 mg/kg) administered intragastrically prevented the increase in hind limb volume and reduced the severity of edema of rat muscle tissue in chronic venous insufficiency.
The effects of ethanol concentration, solid-to-liquid ratio, extraction temperature and time on the yield of dihydroquercetins from larch were studied, and a L9(34) orthogonal test was then employed to optimize the extraction. The content of dihydroquercetins was determined by spectrometry. Results showed that the optimum extraction conditions were as follows: ethanol concentration 30%, temperature 40 ℃, solid-liquid ratio 1:20 (g/ml) and extraction time 120 min. Under such conditions, the yield of dihydroquercetins extract was 2.14% with its purity at 11.3%.
A BST R ACT According to the data of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, global food losses are about one third of their total output, mainly due to spoilage. Therefore, a search for safe methods of shelf life extension is an important task, especially for products for specialized nutrition. According to literature data, natural antioxidants can be alternative to existing preservatives due to its ability to inhibit oxidation of the main nutrients. Pulp, seeds and peel of quince, apple «Simirenko», feijoa, persimmon, Jerusalem artichoke, white, red and yellow onion were objects of the study. The total antioxidant capacity was determined by Oxygen Radical Absorbance Capacity (ORAC) and Ferric Reducing Antioxidant Power (FRAP) methods and expressed in µmol equiv. Trolox / g of sample and µmol equiv. Dihydroquercetin / g of sample. It was noticed that peels demonstrated higher antioxidant activity, and red onion husk possessed the highest value, which was 722.8 ± 13.9 µmol equiv. Dihydroquercetin / g of sample and 3357.5 ± 42.2 µmol equiv. Trolox / g of sample. It was shown that the use of fruit and vegetable wastes is promising for production of food-grade antioxidants. In addition, the results of the research could facilitate stimulation of rational and efficient environmental management.
Nowadays, a search for alternative sources of natural preservatives is relevant, because negative effect of synthetic preservatives on health was proven [7, 8] . Moreover, a demand for healthy foods is growing and an assortment of functional and specialized products is increasing, including foods for breastfeeding and pregnant women, children and adolescents. Thus, plant antioxidants could be an alternative source of natural preserving agents. It is known that natural antioxidants (AO) in the composition of plant extracts and in a form of mono-substances are widely used both as natural preservatives and as functional additives. The antioxidants with the proved positive effect include dihydroquercetin, tocopherol, vitamin C and others [9, 10, 11] .
The interspecies differences were determined concerning onion samples. Red onion peel displayed the maximum antioxidant activity determined by the FRAP method and absorbance capacity of antioxidants determined by the ORAC method equaled to 722.8 ± 13.9 µmol equiv. Dihydroquercetin / g of sample and 3357.5 ± 42.2 µmol equiv. Trolox / g of sample, respectively, which was higher than the value of yellow onion by 65.4% (Р < 0.05) and 35.2% (Р < 0.05), respectively. The detected values in white onion were incommensurably small.
The previously mentioned data on the important role of angiotensin II in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis demonstrate that the antiatherosclerotic effect of flavonoids may be due to the inhibition of ACE. Indeed, there are numerous reports showing that the ACE activity in vitro is inhibited by different flavonoids (Kameda et al. 1987; Hansen et al. 1996; Lacaille-Dubois et al. 2001; Actis-Gorettaa et al. 2003 Braga et al. 2007; Loizzo et al. 2007 ). There are some data on the influence of flavonoids on the ACE activity in endothelial cells and vessels. The results of Meunier et al. (1987) can be considered as indirect evidence that flavonoids inhibit the ACE activity in vessels. It was shown that the vasoconstrictive action of angiotensin I in rabbits is suppressed by the intravenous introduction of procyanidolic oligomers (5 μg/kg). The direct effect of another flavonoid genistein on the activity of ACE and its expression in endothelial cells in vitro, in serum, and in vessels was studied by Xu et al. (2006) . Genistein suppressed the expression and activity of ACE in cells, vessels, and serum. In this work, the effect of genistein on the ACE activity was studied after the short-time treatment of normal rats, and the ACE activity was determined in aorta homogenate. The effect of flavonoids on the ACE activity in rats with increased ACE activity (aging rats and N ω -nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME)-treated or dexamethasone-treated rats) was not studied. In addition, the ACE activity in homogenate can considerably differ from that (determined) in tissue . We have previously developed methods for measuring the ACE activity Korystova et al. 2012 ) and the amount of reactive oxygen species (ROS)/reactive nitrogen species (RNS) in rat aorta sections (Korystov et al. 2009 ). In the present study, we have examined the effect of taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) on the ACE activity in aortas of aging rats and rats treated with the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor or dexamethasone. Previously, we demonstrated that the ACE activity in the aorta of aging rats and rats treated with these agents increases . We also determined the influence of taxifolin on the amount of ROS/RNS in the aorta and the contributions of different enzymes to their production after the treatment of rats with the NO synthase inhibitor.
Echinochrome A (6-ethyl-2,3,5,7,8-pentahydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone) isolated from the body of sand dollar Scaphechinus mirabilis is an active substance of cardioprotective medication Histochrome and exerts a wide spectrum of anti-inflammatory activities. In the present paper, we conducted a comparative study of the antioxidant (radical-scavengering) properties of echinochrome A in 2,2′-azobis(2-methylpropionamidine) dihydrochloride−luminol and hemoglobin−hydrogen peroxide−luminol systems and assessed its impact on permeability of planar bilayer lipid membranes. Trolox was used as a reference antioxidant and ascorbic acid and dihydroquercetin are taken as standards. Echinochrome A shows moderate antioxidant activity, possessing higher antioxidant capacity than Trolox and ascorbic acid, but exhibiting lower antioxidant potential compared with dihydroquercetin in tests for antioxidant activity in both investigated systems. The test substances can be arranged in the following order according to the effectiveness of the antioxidant effect: dihydroquercetin > echinochrome A > Trolox > ascorbic acid. Echinochrome A does not lead to significant changes in the permeability of planar bilayer membranes in a dose range of 1.5 to 30 μМ. Our data indicate that echinochrome A has a rather high level of radical-scavengering activity without a primary membranotropic effect. It is thought that the high levels of the cardioprotective and anti-inflammatory activities of echinochrome A may be due not only to the ability of this substance to neutralize reactive oxygen species, but also to its capacity to generate physiological concentrations of hydrogen peroxide molecules in biological systems as signaling messengers of various metabolic processes and biochemical pathways. The suspected mechanisms of the biological activity of echinochrome A are discussed.
Prevention of cardiovascular disease is a vital measure for each person and for the entire nation. To prevent diseases of the cardiovascular system as a source of essential bioactive substances are used dietary supplements on the base of medicinal plants and bioflavonoids. Aim. The aim was to develop specific technique to quantify the dihydroquercetin in dietary supplements "Kapilliarol", "Kapilliarol forte" and "Cardio-Vert with Dihydroquercetin" and determination of its validation characteristics. Methods. Photocolorimetric method of quantification of DQW, which was based on the specific reaction of cyanidine chloride formation when added zinc powder to dihydroquercetin solution in an acidic medium. Results. Flavonoid contents recalculating on dihydroquercetin in dietary supplements in "Kapilliarol", "Kapilliarol forte" and "Cardio-Vert Dihydroquercetin of" has been stated, the basic validation characteristics have been determined. Contents of DQV has been defined in dietary supplements: "Kapilliarol" not less than 0.02 g, "Kapilliarol Forte" not less than 0,015 g, "Cardio-Vert with Dihydroquercetin" not less than 0.02 g. Conclusions. The obtained metrological data of the developed photocolorimetric technique has shown that the method reproduced in conditions of two different laboratories with confidence probability of 95 % of deviation of unit value was 100,93±2,15 %. Complete uncertainty of analysis was 1.35 %, including sample preparation uncertainty of 1.15 %, that indicates a significant influence of sample preparation on the results of the analysis
Abstract In the course of a chemotaxonomic survey of Erica cinerea , the new 2 R ,3 R -dihydrogossypetin 7,8-dimethyl ether has been isolated along with the two rare 2 R ,3 R -dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin 3′-glucosides, the structures of which were elucidated by 1 H and 13 C NMR.
Oligomeric proanthocyanidins (PAs) composed primarily of epicatechin units accumulate in the seed coats of the model legume Medicago truncatula, reaching maximal levels at around 20 d after pollination. Genes encoding the single Medicago anthocyanidin synthase (ANS; EC 1.14.11.19) and leucoanthocyanidin reductase (LAR; EC 1.17.1.3) were cloned and the corresponding enzymes functionally identified. Recombinant MtANS converted leucocyanidin to cyanidin, and, more efficiently, dihydroquercetin to the flavonol quercetin. Levels of transcripts encoding dihydroflavonol reductase, ANS, and anthocyanidin reductase (ANR), the enzyme responsible for conversion of anthocyanidin to (-)-epicatechin, paralleled the accumulation of PAs in developing seeds, whereas LAR transcripts appeared to be more transiently expressed. LAR, ANS, and ANR proteins were localized to the cytosol in transfected tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves. Antisense down-regulation of ANS in M. truncatula resulted in reduced anthocyanin and PA levels, but had no impact on flavonol levels. Transgenic tobacco plants constitutively overexpressing MtLAR showed reduced anthocyanin content, but no catechin or increased levels of PAs were detected either in leaves or in flowers. Our results confirm previously ascribed in vivo functions for ANS and ANR. However, the apparent lack of catechin in M. truncatula PAs, the poor correlation between LAR expression and PA accumulation, and the lack of production of catechin monomers or oligomers in transgenic plants overexpressing MtLAR question the role of MtLAR in PA biosynthesis in Medicago.
Abstract In order to elucidate the mechanism of the flavonoid taxifolin (dihydroquercetin) oxidation under the electrochemical experiment conditions in the aqueous solutions the chronoamperometry and bulk electrolysis with following characterization of the oxidation products by means of the HPLC with both UV–vis and MS detection have been coupled. The taxifolin diffusion coefficient has been evaluated in the aqueous solution as 3.63 × 10 −6 cm 2 /s. The experimentally obtained number of electrons per one taxifolin molecule falls between 2 and 3 demonstrating that under electrochemical oxidation conditions only part of initially oxidized taxifolin molecules participates in dimerization and further transformation.
The reaction of dihydroquercetin monosuccinate with ammonia, a series of alkylamines, and amino-derivatives of heterocyclic compounds including nitroxyl radicals and alkaloids produced the corresponding ionic conjugates, the water solubility of which was 1–2 orders of magnitude greater than that of dihydroquercetin with retention of the high antioxidant activity.
The phytochemcal profiles of Cudrania cochinchinensis leaf, twig, stem and root were compared by HPLC analysis. It was found that C. cochinchinensis stem extract contained some unknown natural products with potential tyrosinase inhibitory activities. Therefore, the chemical constitutes in extract (95% ethanol) of C. cochinchinensis stem were further investigated in this study. A new racemic mixture, (±)2,3-cis-dihydromorin, and fifteen known phenolic compounds, dihydrokaempferol 7-O-β-d-qlucopyranoside, skimmin, quercetin-7-O-β-d-glucoside, 2,3-dihydroquercetin 7-O-β-d-glucoside, kaempferol-7-O-β-glucopyranoside, quercetin-3,7-di-O-β-d-glucoside, morin-7-O-β-d-glucoside, 1,3,5,8-tetrahydroxyxanthen-9-one, 2,3-trans-dihydromorin, aromadendrin, oxyresveratrol, genistin, protocatechuic acid, kaempferol 3,7-di-O-β-glucopyranoside, and naringenin were isolated. Spectral techniques (MS, (1)H NMR and (13)C NMR) were utilized for their structural identification and their inhibitory activities on mushroom tyrosinase were also evaluated. The results showed that tyrosinase inhibitory activities of (±)2,3-cis-dihydromorin (IC(50) = 31.1 μM), 2,3-trans-dihydromorin (IC(50) = 21.1 μM), and oxyresveratrol (IC(50) = 2.33 μM), were more potent than that of kojic acid (IC(50) = 50.8 μM), a well-known tyrosinase inhibitor, indicating that Cudrania cochinchinensis stem will be a great potential agent for the development of effective natural tyrosinase inhibitors.
Treating dihydroquercetin with formaldehyde and amines under conditions of Mannich reaction provided mono- and diaminomethyl derivatives of dihydroquercetin.
The dihydroflavonols, (2R,3S)-(+)-3',5-dihydroxy-4',7-dimethoxydihydroflavonol and (2R,3R)-(+)-4',5,7-trimethoxydihydroflavonol were isolated from the stem bark of Lannea coromandelica, along with the known (2R,3R)-(+)-4',7-di-O-methyldihydroquercetin, (2R,3R)-(+)-4',7-di-O-methyldihydrokaempferol and (2R,3R)-(+)-4'-O-methyldihydroquercetin. All five compounds were isolated for the first time from the genus Lannea; furthermore, (2R,3S)-(+)-3',5-dihydroxy-4',7-dimethoxydihydroflavonol, was a rare cis-type isomer. The structures of all compounds were elucidated by spectroscopic methods including 2D NMR and CD analysis.
A complex of fullerene C60 and dihydroquercetin (DHQC) was synthesized. Its biological activity in a model system was studied using chemiluminometry. It was established that the C60/DHQC complex possessed antioxidant activity, which prompted further investigation of its biological effects. The structure of the complex will be elucidated in a continuation of this work using analytical HPLC and NMR spectroscopy.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seeds were soaked in aqueous 10−4 M dihydroquercetin (DHQ) to examine its influence on seed germination and further growth of seedlings under optimal soil watering and flooding conditions. The adaptive potential of the plants was estimated by the content of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARs) and the activity of ascorbate peroxidase (AsP). High-grade seeds were germinated evenly under (−DHQ)- and (+DHQ)-treatments. Low-grade seeds soaked in DHQ, showed no mold and twofold germination rate in comparison with the same seeds soaked in water. The seedlings grown from the similarly germinated seeds did not differ from each other in the shoot growth, independent of the DHQ-pretreatment. The root growth was higher in DHQ-pretreated plants. Soil flooding suppressed the shoot and root growth rates in non-pretreated and DHQ-pretreated plants, however TBARs content was lower in the roots and leaves of (+DHQ)-seedlings as compared to the (−DHQ)-ones. The activity of AsP increased more significantly in the (+DHQ)-plants. The ratio between TBARs content and the AsP activity was lower in the leaves of (+DHQ)-plants both under optimal soil conditions and flooding. Thus, the treatment of low-grade barley seeds with DHQ protects the seeds against mold and increases adaptive potential of the seedlings.
When producing dihydroquercetin from larch, a significant amount of biologically active substances can be obtained as a byproduct. One such biologically active substance is arabinogalactan.
Skin cancer is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers in United States. Taxifolin (3, 3′, 4′, 5, 7-pentahydroxy-flavanone, (2R,3R)-dihydroquercetin), which is found in many citrus fruits such as grapefruits and oranges, has been studied for multiple biological effects. However, the molecular mechanisms and direct target of taxifolin in skin cancer chemoprevention are unclear. Here we show that taxifolin suppresses UV-induced skin carcinogenesis by directly targeting epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-K). In silico computer screening results suggest that EGFR and PI3-K are potential targets for taxifolin. In vitro and ex vivo pull-down assay data revealed that taxifolin indeed directly interacts with EGFR and PI3-K at the ATP-binding pocket, and inhibited their kinase activities in vitro. UVB-induced phosphorylation of EGFR and Akt were substantially suppressed by taxifolin in mouse skin epidermal JB6 P+ cells. Taxifolin also suppressed UVB-induced phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression. Importantly, topical treatment with taxifolin to the dorsal skin significantly suppressed tumor incidence, multiplicity and volume in a solar UV-induced skin carcinogenesis mouse model. Further analysis of the solar UV-exposed mouse skin showed that the taxifolin-treated group had a substantial reduction in solar UV-induced phosphorylation of EGFR and Akt. These results suggest that taxifolin exerts potent chemopreventive activity against UV-induced skin carcinogenesis by targeting EGFR and PI3-K. Citation Format: {Authors}. {Abstract title} [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 103rd Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2012 Mar 31-Apr 4; Chicago, IL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2012;72(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 1590. doi:1538-7445.AM2012-1590
Abstract Three stilbenes (astringin, isorhapontin and isorhapontigenin) were present in rhytidome samples from Picea engelmannii , P. glauca , P. mariana , P. rubens and P. sitchensis . A fourth stilbene (astringenin) was primarily present in P. sitchensis , P. engelmannii and P. glauca , with only small amounts (less than 0·01 per cent) present in P. rubens and P. mariana . Other compounds present were probably the cis forms of the stilbenes, but the yields were too low for full identification. Dihydroquercetin, catechin, and epicatechin were identified in all species.
Thrombin plays a vital role in blood coagulation, which is a key process involved in thrombosis by promoting platelet aggregation and converting fibrinogen to form the fibrin clot. In the receptor concept, drugs produce their therapeutic effects via interactions with the targets. Therefore, investigation of interaction between thrombin and small molecules is important to find out the potential thrombin inhibitor. In this study, affinity capillary electrophoresis (ACE) and in silico molecular docking methods were developed to study the interaction between thrombin and ten phenolic compounds (p-hydroxybenzoic acid, protocatechuic acid, vanillic acid, gallic acid, catechin, epicatechin, dihydroquercetin, naringenin, apigenin, and baicalein). The ACE results showed that gallic acids and six flavonoid compounds had relative strong interactions with thrombin. In addition, the docking results indicated that all of optimal conformations of the six flavonoid compounds were positioned into the thrombin activity centre and had interaction with the HIS57 or SER195 which was the key residue to bind thrombin inhibitors such as argatroban. Herein, these six flavonoid compounds might have the potential of thrombin inhibition activity. In addition, the developed method in this study can be further applied to study the interactions of other molecules with thrombin.
Abstract Phytochemical investigation on the leaves of Blumea balsamifera DC resulted in the isolation of 11 flavonoids. Their chemical structures were elucidated by means of elemental analyses and different spectroscopic methods, such as UV, IR, NMR and MS. The free radical scavenging activity of organic extracts of B. balsamifera DC leaves and that of pure flavonoids isolated from the leaves was evaluated using 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical. A dose response curve was plotted for determining SC 50 values (the concentrations required to inhibit radical formation by 50%). The antioxidant activities of crude extracts decreased in the order: methanol extract > chloroform extract > pet-ether extract. The antioxidant activities of all compounds tested decreased in the order: quercetin > rhamnetin > luteolin > luteolin-7-methylether > l -ascorbic acid > blumeatin > butylated hydroxyanisole > 5,7,3 ′ ,5 ′ -tetrahydroxyflavanone > tamarixetin > butylated hydroxytoluene > α-tocopherol > dihydroquercetin-4 ′ -methylether > dihydroquercetin-7,4 ′ -dimethylether. This result indicates that flavonoid contents of different solvent extracts of B. balsamifera DC leaves were responsible for their antioxidant properties.
Abstract Wild-type Arabidopsis L. leaves exposed to low ultraviolet-B (U V B ) conditions contained predominantly kaempferol glycosides, with low levels of quercetin glycosides. The flavonoid level doubled on treatment with UVB and an increase in the ratio of quercetin: kaempferol was observed. These results suggest that flavonols protect Arabidopsis plants from UVB damage, and indicate that the flavonoid 3’-hydroxylase (F3’H) enzyme, which converts dihydrokaempferol to dihydroquercetin, may play a crucial role. The tt7 mutant lacks this gene and, after treatment with sub-ambient UVB, contained kaempferol glycosides exclusively, to a level of total flavonols similar to that in wild-type Arabidopsis. Total flavonols after enhanced UVB treatment were higher in tt7 than in similarly treated wild-type plants, and only kaempferol glycosides were detected. Despite this high level, tt7 plants were less tolerant of UVB radiation than wild-type plants. These observations suggests that kaempferol is a less effective photoprotectant than quercetin. The chalcone isomerase (CHI) mutant (tt5) surprisingly did not accumulate naringenin chalcone, and this suggests that the mutation may not be restricted to the CHI gene alone. The concentration of hydroxycinnamic acid derivatives did not change with UVB treatment in most varieties indicating that their role in UV photoprotection may be subordinate to that of the flavonoids.
Abstract Quercetin is one of the most prominent and widely studied flavonoids. Its oxidation has been previously investigated only indirectly by comparative analyses of structurally analogous compounds, e.g. dihydroquercetin (taxifolin). To provide direct evidence about the mechanism of quercetin oxidation, we employed selective alkylation procedures for the step-by-step blocking of individual redox active sites, i.e. the catechol, resorcinol and enol C-3 hydroxyls, as represented by newly prepared quercetin derivatives 1–3. Based on the structure-activity relationship (SAR), electrochemical, and computational (density functional theory) studies, we can clearly confirm that quercetin is oxidized in the following steps: the catechol moiety is oxidized first, forming the benzofuranone derivative via intramolecular rearrangement mechanism; therefore the quercetin C-3 hydroxy group cannot be involved in further oxidation reactions or other biochemical processes. The benzofuranone is oxidized subsequently, followed by oxidation of the resorcinol motif to complete the electrochemical cascade of reactions. Derivatization of individual quercetin hydroxyls has a significant effect on its redox behavior, and, importantly, on its antiradical and stability properties, as shown in DPPH/ABTS radical scavenging assays and UV–Vis spectrophotometry, respectively. The SAR data reported here are instrumental for future studies on the oxidation of biologically or technologically important flavonoids and other polyphenols or polyhydroxy substituted aromatics. This is the first complete and direct study mapping redox properties of individual moieties in quercetin structure.
rombin plays a vital role in blood coagulation, which is a key process involved in thrombosis by promoting platelet aggregation and converting fibrinogen to form the fibrin clot. In the receptor concept, drugs produce their therapeutic effects via interactions with the targets. erefore, investigation of interaction between thrombin and small molecules is important to find out the potential thrombin inhibitor. In this study, affinity capillary electrophoresis (ACE) and in silico molecular docking methods were developed to study the interaction between thrombin and ten phenolic compounds (p-hydroxybenzoic acid, protocatechuic acid, vanillic acid, gallic acid, catechin, epicatechin, dihydroquercetin, naringenin, apigenin, and baicalein). e ACE results showed that gallic acids and six flavonoid compounds had relative strong interactions with thrombin. In addition, the docking results indicated that all of optimal conformations of the six flavonoid compounds were positioned into the thrombin activity centre and had interaction with the HIS57 or SER195 which was the key residue to bind thrombin inhibitors such as argatroban. Herein, these six flavonoid compounds might have the potential of thrombin inhibition activity. In addition, the developed method in this study can be further applied to study the interactions of other molecules with thrombin.
e aim of this study was to investigate the interaction between thrombin and phenolic compounds including p-hydroxybenzoic acid, protocatechuic acid, vanillic acid, gallic acid, catechin, epicatechin, dihydroquercetin, naringenin, apigenin, and baicalein (the chemical structures of the investigated compounds are presented in Figure 1 ) by ACE and in silico molecular docking. Firstly, ACE was used to calculate the binding constants (K b ) of the interactions between thrombin and phenolic compounds in experimental environment. en, in silico molecular docking as assistant technology was also utilized to further explore the interactions between phenolic compounds and thrombin, including the binding sites and positioning of the ligand into the binding site. Finally, the interaction of compounds with enzyme activity centre, which might be potential thrombin inhibitors, could be obtained by the results of ACE and molecular docking. 
Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) is a key enzyme of the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway which catalyses the NADPH-dependent reduction of 2R,3R-trans-dihydroflavonols to leucoanthocyanidins. The latter are the precursors of anthocyans and condensed tannins, two major classes of phenolic compounds that strongly influence the organoleptic properties of wine. DFR has been investigated in many plant species, but little was known about its structural properties until the three-dimensional structure of the Vitis vinifera enzyme complexed with NADP(+) and its natural substrate dihydroquercetin (DHQ) was described. In the course of the study of substrate specificity, crystals of DFR-NADP(+)-flavonol (myricetin and quercetin) complexes were obtained. Their structures exhibit major changes with respect to that of the abortive DFR-NADP(+)-DHQ complex. Two flavonol molecules bind to the catalytic site in a stacking arrangement and alter its geometry, which becomes incompatible with enzymatic activity. The X-ray structures of both DFR-NADP(+)-myricetin and DFR-NADP(+)-quercetin are reported together with preliminary spectroscopic data. The results suggest that flavonols could be inhibitors of the activity of DFR towards dihydroflavonols.
Extracts of cell suspension cultures from Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) needles catalyzed the production of (+)-catechin (2,3-trans flavan-3-o1) from the 2,3-trans-flavan,3,4-cis-diol (leucocyanidin) in a NADPH-dependent reductase reaction at pH 7.4. Catechin was also produced, along with the 3,4-cis-diol, in a double step reduction from (+)-dihydroquercetin. It was necessary to eliminate any thiol such as 2-mercaptoethanol or dithiothreitol from the extract or assay mixture because these thiols apparently formed thioethers with the 3,4-diols.
Objective To study the chemical constituents of flavonoids in pine needles of Cedrus deodara.Methods Flavonoids were isolated and purified from ethyl acetate extract of pine needles by chromatography on silica gel and Sephadex LH-20.Their structures were identified on the basis of spectroscopic analysis and chemical evidence.Results Five flavonoids were isolated and purified.Their structures were identified as cedrusone A(1),myricetin (2),2R,3R-dihydromyricetin(3),quercetin(4),and 2R,3R-dihydroquercetin(5).Conclusion Compound 1 is a new compound.Compounds 2-5 are isolated from pine needles of this genus for the first time.
Taxifolin, also known as dihydroquercetin, is a flavonoid commonly found in plants. Carbonic anhydrase (CA, EC 4.2.1.1) plays an important role in many critical physiological events including carbon dioxide (CO2)/bicarbonate (HCO3(-)) respiration and pH regulation. There are 16 known CA isoforms in humans, of which human hCA isoenzymes I and II (hCA I and II) are ubiquitous cytosolic isoforms. In this study, the inhibition properties of taxifolin against the slow cytosolic isoenzyme hCA I, and the ubiquitous and dominant rapid cytosolic isoenzyme hCA II were studied. Taxifolin, as a naturally bioactive flavonoid, has a K(i) of 29.2 nM against hCA I, and 24.2 nM against hCA II. For acetylcholinesterase enzyme (AChE) inhibition, K(i) parameter of taxifolin was determined to be 16.7 nM. These results clearly show that taxifolin inhibited both CA isoenzymes and AChE at the nM levels.
For the prevention and treatment of various liver diseases are increasingly being used antioxidants of natural origin. The preparation consisted of an oligomer of dihydroquercetin, terpene hydrocarbons, esters of resin acids, phytosterols, bioflavonoids (digidrokempferol, kaempferol, quercetin, izoramnetin, listvinidin, spirobioflavonoidy). In the model of acute toxic hepatitis in white rats induced by administration of carbon tetrachloride, show high hepatoprotective properties of bioflavonoid complex of larch. A comparison of the pharmacological action of the drug with larivitol is conducted. A more pronounced effect bioflavonoid complex of larch should be noted. It is established that the bioflavonoid complex of larch l arivitol have positive effect on the recovery of liver function, manifested by normalization of enzyme levels transamination and alkaline phosphatase in serum, by increased levels of albumin and by restoring the function of hepatocytes.
Summary The storage stability of vacuum foam-dried whole milk powder containing antioxidants was studied organoleptically. The relative effectiveness of antioxidants in reducing flavor deterioration in stored samples was found to decrease in the following order: lauryl gallate, propyl gallate, nordihydroguaiaretic acid, ascorbyi palmitate, butylated hydroxy anisole, ascorbic acid, dihydroquercetin, sodium diethyldithiocarbamate, thiodipropionic acid, quercetin, dilaurylthiodipropionate. Largest flavor stabilizing effects in samples stored at 80F for six months were observed in air packs. Statistical analysis of the data showed that only dihydroquercetin, ascorbic acid, ascorbyi palmitate, or sodium diethyldithiocarbamate produced significant improvement of the flavor scores of powders packed in nitrogen containing 0.1 or 1.0% oxygen. None of the antioxidants tested allowed the production of powders with greater stability than those obtained by drying milk heated at 165F for 30min.
Extrats of cel sspnin culturs from Douglas fir (Puado wa minzinji) nedls catalyzed the prductio of (+)-catechin (2,3-tran flavan-3-ol) from the 2,-tras-flavan,3,4-cis-diol (leucocyanidin) in a NADPH-dependent redutas reaction at pH 7A. Catechin was also produced, along with the 3,4-ci-didl, in a double step reductio from (+)-dihydroquercetin. It was necessary to eliminate any thibl such as 2-mercaptoethanol or dithiothreitol from the extract or assay mixture becanse these thiols apparently formed thioethers with the 3,4-diols.
Decoctions of herbal mixtures I (including 30% Filipendula ulmaria meadowsweet grass, 10% bilberry shoots, and 60% Bergenia crassifolia green leaves) and II (60% meadowsweet grass, 10% bilberry shoots, and 30% bergenia green leaves) exhibited antioxidant activity. Biologically active substances of herbal mixture I exhibited predominantly catalytic decomposition of hydrogen peroxide formed during electroreduction of oxygen. Active substances of herbal mixture II interacted with oxygen radicals generated as a result of oxygen electroreduction on the electrode surface (EC mechanism) and were more effective than both dihydroquercetin and ascorbic acid. Herbal mixtures I and II normalized the content of thiobarbiturate-reactive products in brain homogenates under conditions of hypoxia-activated lipid peroxidation. In addition, herbal mixture II reduced the concentration of antiradical antioxidants in the lipid extracts. The antioxidant properties were inherent to a greater extent in mixture II dominated by meadowsweet grass, which contained the most complete sum of biologically active phenolic substances (simple phenols, flavonoids, hydroxycoumarins, phenolcarboxylic acids, mainly hydrolyzable tannins), amino acids, and macro- and microelements.
Flow-Linear Dichroism (LD) spectra on quercetin-DNA solutions (buffer-ethanol 30%) showed evidence that the flavonol can intercalate the biopolymer. There is no electrostatic component in the formation of the quercetin-DNA complex. The DNA concentration and the planarity of the chromophore are limiting factors in the interaction. There are no induced LD signals for concentrations of the biopolymer less than 7.8 × 10−3M phosphate. The interaction is most probably of a hydrophobic nature between the most hydrophobic segment of the quercetin (benzopyran-4-one) and the intercalation site, which allows the chromophore to penetrate the DNA helix and to arrange its planar structure more or less parallel to the adjacent planes of the nitrogenous bases. A comparison between the planar and hydrophobic flavonol quercetin, and the non-planar and hydrophilic flavanone dihydroquercetin, showed that the interaction of the latter with DNA was strongly limited. The notable biological activity of the quercetin compared to the ‘weaker’ activity of the dihydroquercetin could also be derived from the different planarity (and probably hydrophobicity) of the two flavonoids. The very low concentration of the quercetin-DNA complex was efficiently shown by the high sensitivity of the LD technique, whereas it could not be resolved by isotropic UV-Vis and induced circular dichroism spectra. The hypothesis of a frame shift mutagenicity activity of quercetin (Science 1977; 197: 577–578) is highly improbable. In fact, the affinity of quercetin for DNA, which emerges from this study, is very low compared with that of a typical intercalator agent (Q. Rev. Biophys. I 1992; 25: 51–170)
Rosmarinic acid is found in many species of different families of higher plants and its chemical structure is phenol propanoid with various biological activity. In this paper, we conducted a comparative study of antioxidant (radical-scavenging) properties of rosmarinic acid in systems of 2,2'-azo-bis(2-methylpropionamidin)dihydrochloride-luminol and hemoglobin-hydrogen peroxide-lu- minol, determined its protective potential in preventing peroxidation of linoleic acid, and evaluated the effect on the permeability of planar bilayer lipid membranes. Linoleic acid peroxidation was assessed by iron-thiocyanate method. In these studies, trolox was used as a reference antioxidant, and ascorbic acid, and dihydroquercetin were taken as standards. Rosmarinic acid is significantly superior to trolox, ascorbic acid and dihydroquercetin in the tests for antioxidant activity in the systems studied, as well as in inhibition of linoleic acid peroxidation. According to their activity the investigated substances can be arranged in the following order: rosmarinic acid > dihydroquercetin trolox > ascorbic acid. Rosmarinic acid does not cause significant changes in the permeability of planar bilayer membranes in a dose range of 0.5 to 10 mkg/mL. Antioxidant activity of rosmarinic acid is due to the neutralization of reactive oxygen species and/or luminol radicals generated in model systems. The observed features of the antioxidant and membrane activity of rosmarinic acid, which may underlie the previously mentioned pharmacological effects are discussed.
BACKGROUND ::: Diabetic nephropathy (DN), the leading cause of end-stage renal disease, is acknowledged as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease, which underlines the urgent need for new medications to DN. Dihydroquercetin (DHQ), an important natural dihydroflavone, exerts significant antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antifibrotic properties, but its effects on DN have not been investigated yet. ::: ::: ::: PURPOSE ::: We aimed to explore the kidney protection effects of DHQ on DN rats induced by high-fat diet/streptozotocin in vivo and the underlying mechanisms of DHQ on renal cells including HBZY-1 and HK2 exposed to high glucose in vitro. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Major biochemical indexes were measured including urine microalbumin, fasting serum glucose, serum levels of creatinine, total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein cholesterol. Renal histologic sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin, periodic acid-Schiff and Masson. The cell proliferation was assessed by MTT assay. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation was detected by DCFH-DA assay and laser scanning confocal microscope. Expression of all proteins was examined by western-blot. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: In high-fat diet/streptozotocin-induced DN rats, DHQ at the dose of 100 mg/kg/day significantly attenuated the increasing urine microalbumin excretion, hyperglycemia and lipid metabolism disorders, and mitigated renal histopathological lesions. In in vitro studies, DHQ significantly suppressed cell proliferation and the excessive ROS generation, and alleviated the activation of nucleotide binding and oligomerization domain-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome and the expression of renal fibrosis-associated proteins in renal cells exposed to high glucose. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The results revealed that DHQ possesses kidney protection effects including attenuating urine microalbumin excretion, hyperglycemia and lipid metabolism disorders, and mitigating renal histopathological lesions on DN, and one of the possible renal-protective mechanisms is suppressing ROS and NLRP3 inflammasome.
FIELD: pharmacology. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to chemico-pharmaceutical industry immediately dealing with preparation of biologically active supplements of herbal material ingredients. VITALARIX CARDIO biologically active supplement has antioxidant, angioprotective, immunoregulatory and antithrombotic values. It contains a bioflavonoid complex extracted from larch-tree wood, B 6 vitamin, cobamamide, folic acid, ascorbic acid and a carrier. The bioflavonoid complex contains dihydroquercetin (with a pureness index at least 95%), dihydrokaempferol and naringenin. EFFECT: preparation of a biologically active supplement that provides for preventive treatment of cardiovascular and inflammatory diseases as well as food, alcoholic and narcotic intoxication compensation, ultimately enabling human life extension. 4 ex
OBJECTIVE ::: To study the chemical constituents from Sarcopyramis nepalensis. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Compounds were isolated by D101 macroporous adsorption resin column and purified by repeatedly chromatographic techniques on Sephadex LH-20, silica gel and ODS columnl chromatograph. Their structures were elucidated by chemical and spectral methods. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Six compounds were isolated from Sarcopyramis nepalensis, and identified as kaempferol (1), myricetic (2), dihydroquercetin (3), egllagic acid (4), isoferulic acid (5) and caffeic acid (6). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: All compounds are isolated from the genus for the first time.
We investigated the effects of two flavonoids quercetin and dihydroquercetin (DHQ), which have different solubilities and antioxidant capacities, on hemolysis and platelet aggregation in human blood. Exposure of human red blood cells (RBCs) to free radicals generated by 2,2 � -azobis(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride (AAPH) for 2 h resulted in 63.5 ± 3.9% hemolysis (vehicle: 0.3 ± 0.4%). Pre-incubation of RBCs with lipid-soluble quercetin and water-soluble DHQ for 30 min significantly reduced the AAPH-induced hemolysis to 3.6 ± 1.5% and 32.5 ± 5.6% respectively. In contrast, quercetin and DHQ were similarly effective in reducing phospholipase C-induced hemolysis (37.2 ± 9.1% and 45.4 ± 10.0% versus vehicle 75.7 ± 5.2%, P < 0.001). Pre-incubation with quercetin, but not DHQ, inhibited the aggregation of platelets by adenosine diphosphate. DHQ was more potent than quercetin in inhibiting superoxide produced by xanthine oxidase. These results suggest that the antihemolytic effects of flavonoids may not be directly mediated by removal of free radicals and may likely be due to their interaction with cell membrane. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.
Several studies show potential roles of natural plant extracts and compounds for the treatment of asthma and COPD [22, 23] . Anti-inflammatory and antioxidant polyphenols including resveratrol, curcumin, quercetin, sulforaphane, lycopene, mangiferin, and dihydroquercetin suppress experimental pulmonary fibrosis and modulate various biochemical features of COPD [24, 25] . A MORGEN study suggests a beneficial effect of a high intake of catechins and solid fruits with flavonols and flavones against COPD [26] . Our previous studies revealed that several compounds such astragalin, kaempferol, and oleuropein antagonized airway epithelial apoptosis and fibrosis, Inflammation and airway thickening in ovalbumin (OVA)-challenged mice [27] [28] [29] . Additionally, oleuropein rich in olives exhibits favorable effects on pulmonary inflammation in CS-challenged mice through blocking recruitment of inflammatory and allergic cells and blunting alveolar destruction [29] . A recent study has reported that dried yeast extracts (YE) may effectively inhibit oxidative stress-responsive epithelial eosinophilia and mucus-secreting goblet cell hyperplasia in asthma [30] . However, the beneficial effects of YE on smoking-induced inflammation and emphysema in bronchioles and alveoli have not been reported. This study examined whether YE abrogated airway inflammation and apoptotic emphysema in CS-and OVA-challenged mouse models. Pulmonary inflammation and emphysema were also examined in alveolar epithelial cells exposed to cigarette smoke extract (CSE) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS).
The pattern of B-ring hydroxylation of anthocyanins plays a key role in determining their color. Dihydrokaempferol (DHK) can be hydroxylated at the 3 0 position to produce dihydroquercetin (DHQ) and at the 3 0 and 5 0 position to produce dihydromyricetin (DHM) (Fig. 1) . DHQ leads to the generation of cyanidin-based anthocyanins contributing to red and pink flower color. The production of DHM leads to the generation of delphinidin-based anthocyanins. Cyt P450 enzymes catalyze these hydroxylations, flavonoid 3 0 -hydroxylase (F3 0 H) (classified to CYP75B in Cyt P450 nomenclature) and flavonoid 3 0 , 5 0 -hydroxylase (F3 0 5 0 H) (mainly CYP75A), and therefore the presence or absence of these enzymes in different plant species contributes to many of the petal color variations observed in nature (Tanaka and Brugliera 2013) .
In the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway, dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR, EC 1.1.1.219) is one of the rate-limited enzymes that catalyzes the stereospecific reduction of three dihydroflavonols (dihydrokaempferol, dihydroquercetin and dihydromyricetin) to leucoanthocyanidins (flavan-3,4-diols) using NADPH as a cofactor [2, 6, 7] . Leucoanthocyanidins, the precursors of the anthocyanin branch, are essential for the formation of CTs [8] . Previous studies demonstrated that deactivation of the DFR gene resulted in the loss of anthocyanins and CTs in mutants of barley and Arabidopsis [9, 10] . Due to their crucial role in the flavonoid pathway, various DFR genes have been isolated from different species, such as A. thaliana, maize (Zea mays), barley (Hordeum vulgare), trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides), Medicago truncatula and Petunia hybrida [8, [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] . Variable DFR genes were therefore found in various genomes, i.e., a single copy DFR is present in A. thaliana, barley, tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), grape (Vitis vinifera), snapdragon (Antirrhinum majus) and rice (Oryza sativa), while multicopy DFRs exist in P. hybrida (Line V30), Ipomoea purpurea, I. nil and M. truncatula [7, 8, 11, [16] [17] [18] .
Briefly, the pathway is initiated with chalcone synthase (CHS) catalyzing the stepwise condensation of three molecules of acetate residues from malonlyl-CoA with one molecule of 4-coumaroyl-CoA to form the basic structure of flavonoids (tetrahydroxychalcone), which is rapidly isomerized to the colorless naringenin by chalcone isomerase (CHI). Naringenin is then converted to dihydroflavonol by flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H). Dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), which is a specific enzyme for the anthocyanin synthesis, catalyses the production of leucoanthocyanidins from dihydroflavonols, which can be hydroxylated on the 3 or 5 position of the B-ring by flavonoid 3 -hydroxylase (F3 H) to produce dihydroquercetin or by flavonoid 3 5 -hydroxylase (F3 5 H) to form dihydromyricetin. Subsequently, leucoanthocyanidin oxidase/anthocyanidin synthase (LDOX/ANS) is responsible for the formation of the anthocyanidins 2 Journal of Nucleic Acids from the colorless leucoanthocyanidins. GT enzymes (Oglucosyltransferases) represent the final step in anthocyanin biosynthesis: anthocyanidins are converted in differentially "decorated" anthocyanin molecules [15, 16] . Biochemical approaches have demonstrated that all anthocyanin pigments are derived from one of three aglycones: pelargonidin, cyaniding, and delphinidin. The main determinants of the apparent color of these pigments are the hydroxylation and methylation patterns, as well as the number and type of sugars on the beta ring of the flavonoid molecule [1, 3, [17] [18] [19] . Figure 1 depicts a generalized anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway. At least, two groups of genes are required for anthocyanin biosynthesis: the first group is represented by the structural genes encoding enzymes for the production of the flavonoid precursors, as well as those involved in the formation of particular ("decorated") anthocyanin molecules. The second group includes the genes encoding regulatory factors that control the expression of structural genes which are mainly orenestrated by complexes formed by MYB and basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors that include WDR (WD40 repeats) proteins [2, 4, 15, 16, [20] [21] [22] [23] .
Abstract Feeding of leucopelargonidin and leucocyanidin, but not of naringenin or dihydroquercetin, to petals of an acyanic mutant of Callistephus chinensis , blocked by recessive alleles of the gene F, led to formation of the respective anthocyanidin glucosides, whereas in a further acyanic mutant, blocked by recessive alleles of the gene A, none of these compounds initiated anthocyanin synthesis. The results strongly support the role of flavan-3,4-diols in anthocyanin biosynthesis. Moreover, in enzyme preparations from cyanic Callistephus flowers, dihydroflavonol 4-reductase activity was demonstrated catalysing the stereospecific reduction of (+)-dihydrokaempferol to (+)-3,4- cis -leucopelargonidin with NADPH as co-factor. With NADH the reaction rate was only about 35% of that observed with NADPH. A pH-optimum around 6.7 was determined. In agreement with the anthocyanidin pattern of Callistephus flowers , (+)-dihydroquercetin and (+)-dihydromyricetin were also reduced by the enzyme preparations to the respective flavan-3,4- cis -diols. They are even better substrates than dihydrokaempferol. As expected from the feeding experiments, the gene F but not the gene A controls dihydroflavonol 4-reductase activity; enzyme activity is in addition controlled by gene G.
'Selva' strawberries(Fragaria×ananassa)were used to study the effects of the mechanism of anthocyanins and flavonols.Twelve anthocyanins and seven flavonols were detected in 'Selva'fruits.The results showed that no anthocyanins were accumulated while abundant flavonols were synthesized in young fruits 15 to 25 days after full bloom.Thereafter,the anthocyanins increased continuously with the fruit development.On the contrary,the content of flavonols in fruits was decreased.Shading reduced fruit anthocyanins and flavonols by 70%-90%,particularly cyanins and quercitrins by 90%.These results may imply that the accumulation of anthocyanins and flavonols were restrained by shading in strawberry,and the light effects on cyanidin and quercetin were greater than on pelargonidin and kaempferol.Two major biosynthates were found in the pathway of accumulating anthocyanins,they were dihydroquercetin at the stage of young fruit and pelargonidin at the stage of mature fruit.
Abstract A novel water soluble antioxidant, dihydroquercetin monosuccinate electrochemical transformations have been studied on the graphite electrode in a wide range of pH. In contrast to acidic solutions, in basic media dihydroquercetin monosuccinate redox transformations have a weak diffusion control, and occur in the close to electrode surface layer. The number of protons transferred per one electron for different conditions has been elucidated.
SUMMARY ::: ::: The secondary (metal-complexing) activity of quercetin and some of its derivatives was studied with the conventional Warburg technique in an ascorbic acid system catalyzed with cupric ions. ::: ::: ::: ::: The 3-hydroxy-4-keto group was the most powerful metalcomplexing group in the quercetin molecule; the 5-hydroxy-4-keto group had some activity, but was considerably weaker. The 3′,4′-o-diphenolic group, important for the primary antioxidant activity, possessed virtually no metal-deactivating properties. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methylation of the 4′- or 7-hydroxyl (or, to a lesser degree, of the 3′-hydroxyl) increased the complexing capacity of the 0-methylated derivative of quercetin, while hydrogenation of the 2,3 double bond yielded an almost completely inactive compound (dihydroquercetin).
Abstract Ionisation constants of catechin ( 1 ), robinetinidol ( 2 ), leuco-fisetinidin ( 3 ), fustin ( 4 ), dihydrorobinetin ( 5 ), dihydroquercetin ( 6 ) and a series of polyphenols are reported. The p K a values of these flavonoids are shown to fit the linear relationships between p K a , and substituent σ constant for a series of related phenols.
Abstract The mesocarp yielded caprylic acid esters and acetates of α- and β-amyrins, α-spinasterol and β- d -glucoside of β-sitosterol; the seed coat constituents including dihydroquercetin and quercetin were the same as those present in the seed coats of the other two spp. of Mimusops ; xylose has also been found to be a constituent sugar of the seed kernel saponin besides those reported in the past.
The flavonoids from plants is very widly used as natural dye for food and medicine etc. In this study, red pine which is widespread in Korea was studied to find new chemicals which may use as raw material for the special purpose. The fIavonoids of red pine bark were separated with Sephadex LH-20 and Toyo pearl HW-40F as packed materials and the structure of separated f1avonoids was determined by -and -NMR spectroscopy. The (+) catechin which is widespread in nature and dihydroquercetin-3'-0--galactoside were found in red pine bark. The dihydroquercetin-3'-0--galactoside is newly found in this species.
In vitro cultured corollas of the white flowering mutant W18 of Petunia hybrida synthesize anthocyanins after administration of a bud extract of the white flowering mutant W19. Dihydroquercetin-7-glucoside was identified as the major metabolite from W19, which is converted into anthocyanins in W18. This result supports the genetic evidences with regards to the biosynthetic pathway leading to anthocyanins in this plant. W18 was not able to convert flavanones or flavonols into anthocyanins. This type of experiments may be of value for elucidation of certain aspects of flavonoid biosynthesis.
Abstract A correlation between flavonoid chemistry and plant geography has been discovered among Eucryphia species. The rare quercetin 5-monomethyl- and 3,5-dimethyl ethers, azaleatin and caryatin, have been identified in leaf of the two South American species E. cordifolia and E. glutinosa and in two of their hybrids. Caryatin occurs in the free state but azaleatin is present as the 3-galactoside, as a 3-arabinosylgalactoside and as a 3-diglucoside; the 3-galactoside, 3-rhamnoside and a 3-diglycoside of quercetin are also present. Neither of the above methyl ethers occurs in leaf of the other three known Eucryphia species, all of which are of Australian origin. These three species have a much simpler flavonoid pattern: E. milliganii has dihydroquercetin glycoside, E. moorei a quercetin 3-triglycoside and E. lucida kaempferol 3,7-dimethyl ether as the respective major leaf constituents. This survey represents a complete coverage of the Eucryphiaceae as at present constituted and the bearing of these results on the taxonomic position of the family are discussed.
Molecules with high antioxidant activity, including substances containing a pharmacophoric chromane core such as atocopherol, trolox, dihydroquercetin (taxifolin), rutin, etc., are used today in directed chemical transformations for the synthesis of compounds with high pharmacological potential Nepovimova et al., 2015) . For example, hybrid compounds containing trimethyl chromane fragments have been shown to be efficient multifunctional agents with antitumor (Nakagawa- Goto et al., 2007; Arya et al., 1998) anti-inflammatory (Goto et al., 2002) , cardioprotective (Koufaki et al., 2003) and neuroprotective properties (Koufaki et al., 2009 ). Trolox (6-hydroxy-2,5,7,8-tetra methyl chromane-2-carboxylic acid) 1 is one of the most widely known antioxidants (Scott et al., 1974) and is used as an antioxidant platform for the synthesis of polyfunctional hybrids containing different pharmacologically active fragments covalently bonded to base compounds either directly or through a corresponding linker. Based on trolox, a whole series of hybrid compounds with various types of biological activities was synthesised (Stvolinsky et al., 2010; Koufaki et al., 2004) . Trolox conjugated to tacrine seems to be a promising polyfunctional drug with cholinergic, antioxidant, neuroprotective and hepatoprotective properties that can cure Alzheimer's disease.
In our previous studies, the immunomodulative effect of the aqueous and ethanolic extracts of Galium verum L. herb was established [12, 13] . Among other species of the genus Galium L., one of the most widely spread is Galium aparine L., also called cleavers or goosegrass, which can be found all over Ukraine, Europe, Northern America and certain parts of Asia; its habitat in the north reaches Alaska and Greenland whereas as introduced species it can be found in Australia, New Zealand and sub-Antarctic islands. Extensive research on the phytochemical composition of G. aparine showed that cleavers herb contains iridoids: asperulosidic acid and 10-deacetylasperulosidic acid [14] , monotropein, asperuloside, acumine and aucubin [15] ; alkaloids: protopine, harmine, (±)-vasicinone, (−)-l-hydroxypeganine and (−)-8-hydroxy-2,3-dihydrodesoxypeganine [16]; phenolcarbonic and hydroxycinnamic acids: chlorogenic, caffeic, n-coumaric, ferulic, caftaric and gentisic [17, 18] ; flavonoids: quercetin, dihydroquercetin, rutin, hyperosid, isoquercetrin, kaempferol, kaempferol-3-O-glucoside (astragalin), epicatechin, neohesperidin, luteolin, luteolin-7-O-diglucoside and apigenin [18] [19] [20] [21] ; cholesterol, campesterol, stigmasterol, sitosterol, ∆-[5]-avenasterol, ∆-[7]-stigmasterol and ∆-[7]-avenasterol [21] [22] [23] . According to our previous studies triterpenoids (oleanolic, ursolic, euscaphic and tormentic acids, betulin and lupeol), sesquiterpenoids, squalene, aromatic compounds and higher alkanes, and their derivatives fatty acids, chlorophylls, and carotenoids were identified in extracts of cleavers herb [24, 25] .
Summary ::: ::: We have isolated a cDNA clone that corresponds to the Ht1 locus of petunia which controls the hydroxylation of dihydrokaempferol to dihydroquercetin and of naringenin to eriodictyol by the action of flavonoid 3′-hydroxylase (F3′H). The cDNA encodes a 512 amino acid polypeptide with regions of similarity to petunia flavonoid 3′,5′-hydroxylases (F3′5′H). Both F3′H and F3′5′H are cytochromes P450 and are key enzymes in the flavonoid pathway leading to the production of the coloured anthocyanins. The F3 ′H transcript is most abundant in petals from flowers at an early stage of development and levels decline as the flower matures. Transcripts are also detected in the ovaries, sepals, peduncles, stems and anthers of the petunia plant. No or very reduced levels of transcripts are detected in ht1/ht1 lines. This is the first report of isolation of a F3 ′H cDNA clone from any species.
Pigments of Malus 'Royalty' leaves were qualitative identified using of UV photo-spectrometer,thin layer chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography;and quantitative analysized using of NaNO2-Al(NO3)3-NaOH coloration system and HPLC-DAD.The results showed that Malus 'Royalty' leaves contains chlorophyll,carotenoids,cyanidin,cyanidin-galactoside and other monomer phenol(catechin,chlorogenic acid,epicatechin,rutin,ρ-coumaric acid,dihydroquercetin,lueolin,quecetin,kaempferol,phloretin,naringenin).The red color of Malus 'Royalty' leaves was caused by accumulation of cyanidin,cyanidin-galactoside and chlorophylls.Carotenoids,rutin,lueolin,quecetin,kaempferol,naringenin played a role as co-pigments.
The effect of flavonoids of different structure (baikalein, baikalin, quercetin, dihydroquercetin, genistein, and daidzein) on the process of formation of lipid hydroperoxides during thermoinduced autooxidation of neutral lipids of animal origin. The minimum inhibitory concentration of isoflavones was found to be equal to 10(-3) M. Effective inhibitory concentration of other flavonoids (except baikalin) was equal to 10(-4) M. Baikalin was an effective promoter of lipid peroxidation. The antioxidant activity of the flavonoids tested was calculated taking ionol as a reference.
Abstract The use of reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography for the determination of the biologically active plant phenolic compounds mangiferin, likviritin and dihydroquercetin is described. Perchloric acid (35%) was used for deproteinization in the case of mangiferin and likviritin, and acidified methanol for dihydroquercetin. Detection was performed at 254, 275 and 290 nm for mangiferin, likviritin and dihydroquercetin in plasma, and 365, 312 and 290 nm in urine, respectively. The limit of detection was 0.2 μg/ml for plasma and 0.5 μg/ml for urine.
The hot water extractives of the fresh smooth green bark and the fresh leaves of a Populus deltoides Bartr. tree cut in June and processed by the Waring Blendor technique in ethanol were extracted fractionally with ethyl acetate, and the individual ethyl acetate extracts were fractionated by elution chromatography with water, 20% ethanol, and 50% ethanol on polyamide columns. Important components found in the bark were salicortin, salicin, salicyl alcohol, pyrocatechol, ω-salicyloylsalicin, grandidentatin, grandidentoside, populoside, trichocarposide, and 6-methyldihydroquercetin. Important components found in the leaves were salicortin, salicin, salicyl alcohol, pyrocatechol, 1-O-p-coumaroyl-β-D-glucoside, populoside, ω-salicyloylsalicin, chrysin-7-glucoside, and a new glucoside, deltoidin, which has been identified as 2-O-salicyloylsalicin.
BALEV, D., G. IVANOV, H. NIKOLOV and St. DRAGOEV, 2009. Effect of pretreatment with natural antioxidants on the colour surface properties of chilled-stored salmon discs. Bulg. J. Agric. Sci., 15: 379-385 The CIE Lab color properties of chilled-stored (1±1 0 N) salmon (Salmo Salar) discs were investigated depending on the pretreatment with solution containing either 0.05 g.l -1 or 0.1 g.l -1 of dihydroquercetin isolated from Siberian larch (Larix sibirica Ledeb). The superficial treatment with 0.1 g.l -1 dihydroquercetin solution was more effective in stabilizing cross-section appearance colour, as indicated by smaller decrease of C and H values representing the color purity and tonality, respectively. It also contributed to an increase of the colour brightness (L*) with 2.3% and of the */b* ratio with 38 %.
Influence of metal ions (Fe2+, Fe3+, Cu2+, Zn2+) on the protective effect of rutin, dihydroquercetin, and green tea epicatechins against in vitro asbestos-induced cell injury was studied. Metals have been found to increase the capacity of rutin and dihydroquercetin to protect peritoneal macrophages against chrysotile asbestos-induced injury. The data presented here show that this effect is due to the formation of flavonoid metal complexes, which turned out to be more effective radical scavengers than uncomplexed flavonoids. At the same time epicatechins and their metal complexes have similar antiradical properties and protective capacities against the asbestos induced injury of macrophages. Metal complexes of all flavonoids were found to be considerably more potent than parent flavonoids in protecting red blood cells against asbestos-induced injury. It was also found that the metal complexes of all flavonoids were absorbed by chrysotile asbestos fibers considerably better than uncomplexed compounds and probably for this reason flavonoid metal complexes have better protective properties against asbestos induced hemolysis. Thus, the results of the present study show that flavonoid metal complexes may be effective therapy for the inflammatory response associated with the inhalation of asbestos fiber. The advantage of their application could be the strong increase in ROS scavenging by flavonoids and finally a better cell protection under the conditions of cellular oxidative stress.
Oregano is an herbaceous plant native to the Mediterranean regions used as a medicinal plant that belongs to the Labiatae family. Some healthy properties have been attributed to this plant, such as its powerful anti-bacteria and anti-fungical effects [9, 10] that seemed related to some of the primary components of oregano essential oil, namely, carvacrol and thymol [11] . Also, some antioxidant activity has been detected in these compounds [12] . However, little is known about the antioxidant activity of oregano compounds. Some authors have found free radical scavenging activity in aqueous and organic extracts of oregano leaves [13, 14] . In a recent work done in our research group, we studied the antioxidant activity of CO 2 supercritical fluid extracts of oregano and some of the compounds responsible of the antioxidant activity were tentatively identified as dihydroquercetin, eriodyctiol, dihydrokaempferol, naringenin, quercetin and other flavones and phenolics [15] .
