The proton affinities of lysine (1) and its three homologues ornithine (2), 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (3), and 2,3-diaminopropanoic acid (4) have been determined using two different variants of the extended kinetic method in an electrospray ionization−quadrupole ion trap instrument. A value of 1004.2 ± 8.0 kJ/mol is recommended for the proton affinity for lysine on the basis of this work and previous experimental measurements and theoretical predictions. Values of 1001.1 ± 6.6, 975.8 ± 7.3, and 950.2 ± 7.1 kJ/mol have been determined for the proton affinities of 2−4. These experimental results are supported by hybrid density functional theory calculations at B3LYP/6-311++G**//B3LYP/6-31+G*. An analysis of the derived entropy terms lends support to the notion that these values can be used as a quantitative prediction for the thermodynamic entropy of protonation provided that appropriate error bars are assigned. Finally, for systems in which this entropy term is large, it is essential that the extended kinet...
The neurotoxin β-N-methylamino-l-alanine (BMAA) has been reported in cyanobacteria and shellfish, raising concerns about widespread human exposure. However, inconsistent results for BMAA analysis have led to controversy. Liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC–MS/MS) is the most appropriate method for analysis of BMAA, but the risk of interference from isomers, other sample components, and the electrospray background is still present. We have investigated differential mobility spectrometry (DMS) as an ion filter to improve selectivity in the hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatographic (HILIC)–MS/MS determination of BMAA. We obtained standards for two BMAA isomers not previously analyzed by HILIC–MS, β-amino-N-methylalanine and 3,4-diaminobutanoic acid, and the typically used 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid and N-(2-aminoethyl)glycine. DMS separation of BMAA from these isomers was achieved and optimized conditions were used to develop a sensitive and highly selective multidimensional HILIC–DMS–MS/MS method. This work revealed current technical limitations of DMS for trace quantitation, and practical solutions were implemented. Accurate control of low levels of DMS carrier gas modifier was essential, but required external metering. The linearity of our optimized method was excellent from 0.01 to 6 μmol L−1. The instrumental LOD was 0.4 pg BMAA injected on-column and the estimated method LOD was 20 ng g−1 dry weight for BMAA in sample matrix. The method was used to analyze cycad plant tissue, a cyanobacterial reference material, and mussel tissues, by use of isotope-dilution quantitation with deuterated BMAA. This confirmed the presence of BMAA and several of its isomers in cycad and mussel tissues, including commercially available mussel tissue reference materials certified for other biotoxins.
1. A medicament for prevention and treatment of progressive myopia, containing as active ingredient an effective amount of the amine with the functional groups in salt form or in complex compound of a transition metal or smesi.2. A medicament according to claim 1, characterized in that the amine-functional groups using amino alcohols or amino acids or amino acid derivatives or oligopeptides, or polypeptides, or polyamines or derivatives of 3-hydroxy-2-methylpyridine, or aminosaharidy or smes.3. A medicament according to claim 2, characterized in that the aminoalcohol is 2-amino-2-methyl-1,3-propanediol or tris (hydroxymethyl) aminomethane or smes.4. A medicament according to claim 2, characterized in that the amino acids are used as 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid, or ornithine, or lysine, or hydroxylysine, or 2,7-diaminogeptanovuyu acid, or 2,8-diaminooktanovuyu acid, or 2.9 -diaminononanovuyu acid, or 2,10-diaminodekanovuyu acid, or 2,12-diaminododekanovuyu acid, or arginine or smes.5. A medicament according to claim 2, characterized in that as amino acids are used D- or L-optical isomer or the D, L-mixture (racemate) .6. A medicament according to claim 2, characterized in that as amino acid derivatives using one of the amino lactam of claims 4 and 5, or an amino acid mixture of lactams of claims 4 and 5.7. A medicament according to claim 2, characterized in that as amino acid derivatives using one ester of amino acids according to claim 4 and 5 or a mixture of amino acid esters according to claims 4 and 5.8. A medicament according to claim 7, wherein those
Eleven doubly protonated peptides with a residue homologous to lysine were investigated by electron capture dissociation mass spectrometry (ECD-MS). Lysine homologues provide the unique opportunity to examine the ECD fragmentation behavior by allowing us to vary the length of the lysine side chain, with minimal structural change. The lysine homologue has a primary amine side chain with a length that successively decreases by one methylene (CH(2)) unit from the --CH(2)CH(2)CH(2)CH(2)NH(2) of lysine and the accompanying decrease of its proton affinities: lysine (K), 1006.5(+/-7.2) kJ/mol; ornithine (K(*)), 1001.1(+/-6.6) kJ/mol; 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (K(**)), 975.8(+/-7.4) kJ/mol; 2,3-diaminopropanoic acid (K(***)), 950.2(+/-7.2) kJ/mol. In general, the lysine-homologous peptides exhibited overall ECD fragmentation patterns similar to that of the lysine-containing peptides in terms of the locations, abundances, and ion types of products, such as yielding c(+) and z(+.) ions as the dominant product ions. However, a close inspection of product ion mass spectra showed that ECD-MS for the alanine-rich peptides with an ornithinyl or 2,4-diaminobutanoyl residue gave rise to b ions, while the lysinyl-residue-containing peptides did not, in most cases, produce any b ions. The peptide selectivity in the generation of b(+) ions could be understood from within the framework of the mobile proton model in ECD-MS, previously proposed by Cooper (Ref. 29). The exact mass analysis of the resultant b ions reveals that these b ions are not radical species but rather the cationic species with R-CO(+) structure (or protonated oxozalone ion), that is, b(+) ions. The absence of [M+2H](+.) species in the ECD mass spectra and the selective b(+)-ion formation are evidence that the peptides underwent H-atom loss upon electron capture, and then the resulting reduced species dissociated following typical MS/MS fragmentation pathways. This explanation was further supported by extensive b(+) ions generated in the ECD of alanine-based peptides with extended conformations.
A novel group of glutamine analogs, N3-fumaroyl-L-2,3-diaminopropanoic acid (FDP) and its derivatives and analogs including amide (FCDP), methyl ester (FMDP) and its homologue, N4-(4-methoxyfumaroyl)-L-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid, inactivate glucosamine-6-phosphate synthetase (L-glutamine: D-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase (hexose-isomerizing), EC 2.6.1.16), isolated from Salmonella typhimurium, by covalent modification. For comparative purposes, selected known glutamine analogs were also examined. Anticapsin, 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine and, at high concentration, azaserine inactivate the enzyme. The pseudo-first-order rate constants show a hyperbolic dependence on inhibitor concentration for all the above-mentioned inhibitors, suggesting the formation of a reversible complex prior to covalent modification. Dissociation constants for inhibitors were determined and ranged from 10(-4) M for FCDP to 10(-6) M for FMDP. Albizziin, gamma-glutamylhydroxamate and, at low concentration, azaserine inhibit glucosamine synthetase only reversibly. All inhibitors tested are competitive in relation to glutamine. and competitive inhibitors, albizziin and gamma-glutamylhydroxamate protect the enzyme against inactivation. Fructose 6-phosphate accelerates the rate of inactivation. Some analogs of FDP, such as SMDP, CRDP, O-FMSer, MMDP and AADP, are not active against glucosamine-6-phosphate synthetase. The structure-activity relationship of the novel group of glutamine analogs is discussed and structural requirements for the activity of these compounds is established. It is postulated that the compounds examined can be classified as mechanism-based enzyme inactivators.
Abstract The structures and absolute proton affinities of several arginine (2-amino-3-guanidinopropionic acid, 2-amino-4-guanidinobutyric acid, homoarginine, citrulline and canavanine), histidine (1-methylhistidine and 3-methylhistidine) and lysine (2,3-diaminopropanoic acid, 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid, ornithine, 5-hydroxylysine, canaline and thialysine) homologues and analogues have been estimated using composite G3MP2B3 computational protocol. For a majority of here studied non-standard amino acids the gas-phase proton affinities were established for the first time, while for the others obtained values are used to improve the accuracy of the computational and experimental proton affinities reported previously. In addition, structures and proton affinities are discussed in order to rationalize their biological activity.
The possibility of forming a peptide boronate adduct in a serine protease active site that mimics the first tetrahedral intermediate in the peptide hydrolysis mechanism was explored with the complex boronic acid analogs 7, 8-OH, and 8-NH(2)(). In these structures, the P(1) and P(2) residues and the P(1)'-P(3)' residues are connected through the P(2) and P(1)' side chains, to encourage formation of the diester or amide-ester adducts via macrocyclization. These inhibitors were assembled from suitably protected derivatives of 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid or 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid (11), borophenylalanine (12), aspartic acid, malic acid or the substituted malic acid analog 13, and Leu-Arg dipeptide. Stereoselective syntheses were developed for the (S,S)-2,4-diaminopentanoate 11 and for the (S,S)-beta-isobutylmalate 13 derivatives. The complex peptidyl boronates 7 (K(i) = 26 nM) and 8-OH (68 nM) are potent inhibitors of alpha-chymotrypsin; however, the affinity of 7 is neither time- nor pH-dependent, and it is only moderately greater than that found for comparison compounds like 8-H (114 nM), 9 (356 nM), and 10 (219 nM) that cannot cyclize or form a diester adduct.
Abstract The stability constants of mixed ligand complexes formed in the Cu(II)-sulfathiazole(stz)(A)-glycine(gly), dl -2-aminobutanoic acid(2aba), dl -3-aminobutanoic acid(3aba), 1,2-diaminopropane(dp), 1,3-diaminopropane(tp), dl -2,3-diaminopropanoic acid(dapa), dl -2,4-diaminobutanoic acid(daba), dl -2,5-diaminopentanoic acid(ornithine, orn)(B) systems have been determined pH-metrically at 37 °C and I = 0.15 mol dm −3 (NaClO 4 ) using SCOGS program. Analysis of experimental data indicates the presence of CuABH, CuAB, CuAB 2 H 2 or CuAB 2 species. The Δlog K values demonstrate higher stabilities for the mixed ligand complexes compared to the binary analogues. The CuAB complexes with B = gly, 2aba, dapa & orn systems were isolated and characterized using micro analytical, magnetic moment, ESR, electrochemical studies, TG/DTA, power XRD and SEM analysis. Magnetic susceptibility and electronic spectral studies suggest square planar geometry for the CuAB complexes. The g values indicate that the unpaired electron lies in the ::: d x 2 - y 2 orbital. The TG/DTA studies reveal that the complexes are non hydrated and possesses high thermal stability. The powder XRD data suggest that the complex is microcrystalline. The antimicrobial activity and CT DNA cleavage studies of the complexes are also reported.
A new cyclic heptapeptide cupolamide A (1) was isolated from two samples of the sponge Theonella cupola collected in Indonesia and Okinawa. It contains two l-Val, one d-Leu, and one d-Ser, and three uncommon amino acid residues, d-homoarginine (Har), trans-4-hydroxy-l-proline (Hyp), and l-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (Dba). The structure elucidation of 1 was performed by NMR spectroscopic techniques and the stereochemistry was determined by Marfey's method. Cupolamide A (1) was active against P388 murine leukemia cells with an IC50 = 7.5 μg/mL.
Pseudomonas cichorii, which causes varnish spots on lettuce and seriously damages lettuce production during the summer season in the highland areas of Japan (e.g., Nagano and Iwate prefectures) was isolated. The structure of a toxin produced by this organism was analyzed based on the detailed evaluation of its 2D NMR and FABMS spectra, and this compound has not been reported previously. We propose the name cichorinotoxin for this toxin. In conjunction with the D or L configurations of each amino acid, which were determined by Marfey’s method, we propose the structure of cichorinotoxin to be as follows: 3-hydroxydecanoyl-(Z)-dhThr1-D-Pro2-D-Ala3-D-Ala4-D-Ala5-D-Val6-D-Ala7-(Z)-dhThr8-Ala9-Val10-D-Ile11-Ser12-Ala13-Val14-Ala15-Val16-(Z)-dhThr17-D-alloThr18-Ala19-L-Dab20-Ser21-Val22, and an ester linkage is present between D-alloThr18 and Val22 (dhThr: 2-aminobut-2-enoic acid; Dab: 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid). Thus, the toxin is a lipodepsipeptide with 22 amino acids. The mono- and tetraacetate derivatives and two alkaline hydrolysates, compounds A and B, were prepared. We discuss here the structure–activity relationships between the derivatives and their necrotic activities toward lettuce.
Pseudomonas cichorii, which causes varnish spots on lettuce and seriously damages lettuce production during the summer season in the highland areas of Japan (e.g., Nagano and Iwate prefectures) was isolated. The structure of a toxin produced by this organism was analyzed based on the detailed evaluation of its 2D NMR and FABMS spectra, and this compound has not been reported previously. We propose the name cichorinotoxin for this toxin. In conjunction with the D or L configurations of each amino acid, which were determined by Marfey's method, we propose the structure of cichorinotoxin to be as follows , and an ester linkage is present between D-alloThr 18 and Val 22 (dhThr: 2-aminobut-2-enoic acid; Dab: 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid). Thus, the toxin is a lipodepsipeptide with 22 amino acids. The mono-and tetraacetate derivatives and two alkaline hydrolysates, compounds A and B, were prepared. We discuss here the structure-activity relationships between the derivatives and their necrotic activities toward lettuce.
Amino acids identified in the Murchison chondritic meteorite by molecular and isotopic analysis are thought to have been delivered to the early Earth by asteroids, comets, and interplanetary dust particles where they may have triggered the appearance of life by assisting in the synthesis of proteins via prebiotic polycondensation reactions [Oro, J. (1961) Nature 190, 389–390; Chyba, C. F. & Sagan, C. (1992) Nature 355, 125–132]. We report the identification of diamino acids in the Murchison meteorite by new enantioselective GC-MS analyses. dl-2,3-diaminopropanoic acid, dl-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid, 4,4′-diaminoisopentanoic acid, 3,3′-diaminoisobutanoic acid, and 2,3-diaminobutanoic acid were detected in the parts per billion range after chemical transformation into N,N-diethoxycarbonyl ethyl ester derivatives. The chiral diamino acids show a racemic ratio. Laboratory data indicate that diamino acids support the formation of polypeptide structures under primitive Earth conditions [Brack, A. & Orgel, L. E. (1975) Nature 256, 383–387] and suggest polycondensation reactions of diamino acids into early peptide nucleic acid material as one feasible pathway for the prebiotic evolution of DNA and RNA genomes [Joyce, G. F. (2002) Nature 418, 214–221]. The results obtained in this study favor the assumption that not only amino acids (as the required monomers of proteins) form in interstellar/circumstellar environments, but also the family of diamino monocarboxylic acids, which might have been relevant in prebiotic chemistry.
Analogues of N alpha-(4-amino-4-deoxypteroyl)-N delta-(hemiphthaloyl)-L-ornithine (PT523) with 3',5'-dichloro substitution in the p-aminobenzoyl moiety or with one less or one more CH2 group in the amino acid moiety were synthesized and tested as inhibitors of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) activity and cell growth. Replacement of L-ornithine in PT523 by L-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid or L-lysine did not decrease binding to human recombinant DHFR but resulted in some loss of activity against SCC25 human and SCC VII murine squamous cell carcinoma and against MCF-7 human breast carcinoma in culture. PT523 was several times more potent than methotrexate (MTX), aminopterin (AMT), or trimetrexate (TMQ). 3',5'-Dichloro substitution did not decrease either DHFR binding or cytotoxicity. A new synthetic route to PT523 from 2,4-diamino-6-(hydroxymethyl)pteridine and methyl N alpha-(4-aminobenzoyl)-N delta-phthaloyl-L-ornithinate was investigated but was not found superior to previously described methods. In comparative experiments on the ability of PT523 and MTX to competitively inhibit the influx of (6R)-5,10-dideazatetra-hydrofolate (DDATHF, lometrexol), used here as a surrogate for MTX and reduced folates, the Ki of PT523 was lower than that of MTX in both wild-type CCRF-CEM human leukemic lymphoblasts and the transport- and polyglutamylation-defective subline CEM/MTX. The CCRF-CEM cells were 10-fold more sensitive to PT523 than to MTX, whereas the CEM/MTX cells were 240-fold more sensitive. However, in contrast to other MTX-resistant cells where collateral sensitivity to PT523 has been seen. CEM/MTX cells still showed substantial cross resistance to PT523 which may reflect an unusual heightened ability to utilize exogenous folic acid. The good correlation observed with both cell lines between the cytotoxicity of PT523 and MTX and the ability to inhibit DDATHF influx supported the view that PT523 and MTX share, at least in part, a common protein carrier for membrane transport.
(S)-2,4-Diaminobutanoic acid (DABA) is a noncanonical amino acid often co-produced by cyanobacteria along with β-N-methylamino-l-alanine (BMAA) in algal blooms. Although BMAA is a well-established neurotoxin, the toxicity of DABA remains unclear. As part of our development of biocompatible materials, we wish to make use of DABA as both a building block and as the end-product of enzymatically induced depolymerization; however, if it is toxic at very low concentrations, this would not be possible. We examined the toxicity of DABA using both in vivo embryonic and adult zebrafish models. At higher sublethal concentrations (700 μm), the fish demonstrated early signs of cardiotoxicity. Adolescent zebrafish were able to tolerate a higher concentration. Post-mortem histological analysis of juvenile zebrafish showed no liver or brain abnormalities associated with hepato- or neurotoxicity. Combined, these results show that DABA exhibits no overt toxicity at concentrations (100-300 μm) within an order of magnitude of those envisioned for its application. This study further highlights the low cost and ease of using zebrafish as an early-stage toxicological screening tool.
(R,S)-[1-14C, 15N]Methionine, (R,S)-[1-14C, 2-15N]- and (R,S)-[1-14C, 4-15N]-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid, and [1-13C, carboxyl-14C, 15N]-1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid were synthesized and fed to Convallaria majalis plants. The labelled methionine was the most efficient precursor of azetidine-2-carboxylic acid (A-2-C), the specific incorporation of the 15N (0.47%) being essentially the same as that of the 14C (0.45%). The A-2-C derived from the labelled 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid was radioactive (specific incorporation of 14C: 0.05, 0.06%); however, a much higher level of activity was found in aspartic and glutamic acid, and 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid is not considered to be a direct precursor of A-2-C in this species. Negligible 14C activity was found in A-2-C after feeding the labelled 1-aminocyclopropane 1-carboxylic acid.
Analogues of N~-(4-amino-4-deoxypteroyl)-N~-(hemiphthaloyl)-~-ornithine (PT523) with 3',5'dichloro substitution in the p-aminobenzoyl moiety or with one less or one more CH2 group in the amino acid moiety were synthesized and tested as inhibitors of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) activity and cell growth. Replacement of L-ornithine in PT523 by ~-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid or L-lysine did not decrease binding to human recombinant DHFR but resulted in some loss of activity against SCC25 human and SCC VI1 murine squamous cell carcinoma and against MCF-7 human breast carcinoma in culture. PT523 was several times more potent than methotrexate (MTX), aminopterin (AMT), or trimetrexate (TMQ). 3',5'-Dichloro substitution did not decrease either DHFR binding or cytotoxicity. A new synthetic route to PT523 from 2,4-diamino-6(hydroxymethy1)pteridine and methyl N~-(4-aminobenzoyl)-Nb-phthaloyl-~-ornithinate was investigated but was not found superior to previously described methods. In comparative experiments on the ability of PT523 and MTX to competitively inhibit the influx of (6R)-5,10-dideazatetrahydrofolate (DDATHF, lometrexol), used here as a surrogate for MTX and reduced folates, the Ki of PT523 was lower than that of MTX in both wild-type CCRF-CEM human leukemic lymphoblasts and the transport- and polyglutamylation-defective subline CEM/MTX. The CCRFCEM cells were 10-fold more sensitive to PT523 than to MTX, whereas the CEM/MTX cells were 240-fold more sensitive. However, in contrast to other MTX-resistant cells where collateral sensitivity to PT523 has been seen. CEM/MTX cells still showed substantial cross resistance to PT523 which may reflect an unusual heightened ability to utilize exogenous folic acid. The good correlation observed with both cell lines between the cytotoxicity of PT523 and MTX and the ability to inhibit DDATHF influx supported the view that PT523 and MTX share, at least in part, a common protein carrier for membrane transport. N~-(4-Amino-4-deoxypteroyl)-Nb-hemiphthaloyl-~
The initial glycan transfer in asparagine-linked protein glycosylation is catalysed by the integral membrane enzyme oligosaccharyltransferase (OST). Here we study the mechanism of the bacterial PglB protein, a single-subunit OST, using chemically synthesized acceptor peptide analogues. We find that PglB can glycosylate not only asparagine but also glutamine, homoserine and the hydroxamate Asp(NHOH), although at much lower rates. In contrast, N-methylated asparagine or 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (Dab) are not glycosylated. We find that of the various peptide analogues, only asparagine- or Dab-containing peptides bind tightly to PglB. Glycopeptide products are unable to bind, providing the driving force of product release. We find no suitably positioned residues near the active site of PglB that can activate the acceptor asparagine by deprotonation, making a general base mechanism unlikely and leaving carboxamide twisting as the most likely mechanistic proposal for asparagine activation.
The initial glycan transfer in asparagine-linked protein glycosylation is catalysed by the integral membrane enzyme oligosaccharyltransferase (OST). Here we study the mechanism of the bacterial PglB protein, a single-subunit OST, using chemically synthesized acceptor peptide analogues. We find that PglB can glycosylate not only asparagine but also glutamine, homoserine and the hydroxamate Asp(NHOH), although at much lower rates. In contrast, N-methylated asparagine or 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (Dab) are not glycosylated. We find that of the various peptide analogues, only asparagine-or Dab-containing peptides bind tightly to PglB. Glycopeptide products are unable to bind, providing the driving force of product release. We find no suitably positioned residues near the active site of PglB that can activate the acceptor asparagine by deprotonation, making a general base mechanism unlikely and leaving carboxamide twisting as the most likely mechanistic proposal for asparagine activation.
Today about 50 complete or fairly complete pyoverdin structures have been elucidated (Budzikiewicz, 2004; Fuchs et al., 2001) , and from preliminary siderotyping studies it appears that many more are to be expected. Pyoverdins consist of three distinct structural parts, viz. a dihydroxyquinoline chromophore responsible for their fluorescence, a peptide chain comprising 6 to 12 amino acids bound to the chromophore carboxy group, Abbreviations: Common amino acids, 3-letter code; Dab, 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid; AcOHOrn, N , and it is responsible for the recognition of the ferri-pyoverdins by specific receptors located at the surface of the producing cell (Meyer et al., 2002) . The variability of the peptide chain is closely connected with the second function: It safeguards that a given ferri-pyoverdin is available only to the producing strain because of the usually highly specific interaction between the ferri-pyoverdin and its receptor outer membrane protein (Hohnadel and Meyer, 1988) .
In the bacterial culture medium occasionally together with pyoverdins compounds are encountered which are considered to be their biogenetic precursors. They have the same peptide chain as the corresponding pyoverdins, but differ in the N-terminal part. Thus in ferribactins the pyoverdin chromophore is replaced by a condensation product of d-Tyr and l-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (Böckmann et al., 1997; Hohlneicher et al., 1992 Hohlneicher et al., , 2001 ). The strain presently studied, Pseudomonas sp. PS 6.10, when grown in a casamino acid medium, produced large amounts of pyoverdin, but in succinate minimal medium the corresponding ferribactin was produced as the major component.
A series of amino- and guanidino-terminating 3- and 4-generation 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (Dab) dendrons have been robustly synthesized on solid phase and characterized as cellular delivery agents in antisense PNA conjugates in the pLuc705 HeLa cell splice switching system. The dendron-PNA conjugates exhibited splice correction activity at one digit micromolar concentrations, and guanidino-terminating dendrons were significantly more effective than analogous amine terminating ones. Furthermore, introduction of lipophilic groups such as phenyl, alkyl or fatty acids increased efficacy, but also increased cellular toxicity. Fluorescence microscopy analyses supported an endosomal uptake mechanism and furthermore predominantly showed co-localization with late endosomes and lysosomes. The robust solid phase synthesis should make such Dab-dendrons a useful platform for further both in vitro as well as in vivo optimization.
A homologous series of nonapeptides and their acetylated versions were successfully prepared using solid-phase synthetic techniques. Each nonapeptide was rich in a,a-dialkylated amino acids (one 4-aminopiperidine-4-carboxylic acid (Api) and six a-aminoisobutyric acid (Aib) residues) and also included lysines or lysine analogs (two residues). The incorporation of the protected dipeptide 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (Fmoc)-Aib-Aib-OH improved the purity and overall yields of these de novo designed peptides. The helix preference of each nonapeptide was investigated in six different solvent environments, and each peptide's antimicrobial activity and cytotoxicity were studied. The 310-helical, amphipathic design of these peptides was born out most prominently in the N-terminally acetylated peptides. Most of the peptides exhibited modest activity against Escherichia coli and no activity against Staphylococcus aureus. The nonacetylated peptides (concentrations £ 100 lM) and the acetylated peptides (concentrations £ 200 lM) did not exhibit any significant cytotoxicity with normal (nonactivated) murine macrophages. Abbreviations: Amino acids and peptides are abbreviated and designated following the rules of the IUPAC-IUB Commission of Biochemical Nomenclature ((1985) J. Biol. Chem. 260, 14-42) Amino acid symbol denote the L-configuration unless otherwise noted. The following additional abbreviations are used. aaAA, a,a-disubstituted amino acid; Aib, a-aminoisobutyric acid; Ac, acetyl; Api, 4-aminopiperidine-4-carboxylic acid; ATCC, American Type Culture Collection; CCA, cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid; Dab, 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid; Dap, 2,3-diaminopropanoic acid; DBU, 1,8-diazobicyclo(4.5.0)undec-7-ene; DIEA, N,N- diisopropylethylamine; DMF, N,N-dimethylformamide; E. coli, Dates:
This paper introduces the structural characterization and studies on reversible oxygenation behavior of a new oxygen carrier Co(II)-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (DABA) complex in aqueous solution. The composition of the oxygenated complex was determined by gas volumetric method, molar ratio method, and mass spectrometry, and the formula of the oxygenated complex was determined to be [Co(DABA)2O2]. In aqueous solution, the complex can continuously uptake and release dioxygen and exhibit excellent reversibility of oxygenation and deoxygenation ability. This complex can maintain 50% of its original oxygenation capacity after 30 cycles in 24 h and retain 5% of the original oxygenation capacity after more than 260 cycles after 72 h. When a ligand analogue was linked to histidine (His), the new complex exhibited as excellent reversible oxygenation property as His-Co(II) complex. Insight into the relationship between structural detail and oxygenation properties will provide valuable suggestion for a new family of oxygen carriers.
This paper introduces the structural characterization and studies on reversible oxygenation behavior of a new oxygen carrier Co(II)-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (DABA) complex in aqueous solution. The composition of the oxygenated complex was determined by gas volumetric method, molar ratio method, and mass spectrometry, and the formula of the oxygenated complex was determined to be [Co(DABA) 2 O 2 ]. In aqueous solution, the complex can continuously uptake and release dioxygen and exhibit excellent reversibility of oxygenation and deoxygenation ability. This complex can maintain 50% of its original oxygenation capacity after 30 cycles in 24 h and retain 5% of the original oxygenation capacity after more than 260 cycles after 72 h. When a ligand analogue was linked to histidine (His), the new complex exhibited as excellent reversible oxygenation property as His-Co(II) complex. Insight into the relationship between structural detail and oxygenation properties will provide valuable suggestion for a new family of oxygen carriers.
In this paper, the reversible oxygenation of 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid-Co(II) was investigated by UV-Vis spectra and oxygenmetry in aqueous solution at room temperature. The formation of the oxygenated complex was characterized by UV-Vis spectrophotometry, infrared (IR) spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry (MS), and the composition of the oxygenated complex was determined by molar ratio method and gas volumetric method. The reversible cycles of oxygenation and the oxygenation life of the complex were tested in aqueous solution, and all results demonstrated that the complex exhibited excellent reversibility in its oxygenation. This work represents a shift away from histidine and histidine analogues, which have previously been confirmed to undergo reversible oxygenation/deoxygenation events, and provides a link to biological systems that utilize iron and copper for this purpose in vivo.
Several analogues of N3-fumaramoyl-L-2,3-diaminopropanoic acid were synthesized and evaluated for inhibition of glucosamine-6-phosphate synthetase activity. The syntheses were accomplished by acylation reaction of N2-tert.-butoxycarbonyl-L-2,3-diaminopropanoic acid (Boc-A2pr) or N2-tert.-butoxy-carbonyl-L-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (Boc-A2-bu) with the N-succinimidoyl esters of several derivatives of α, β-unsaturated acids 2a-d followed by deprotection of the Boc groups. The obtained compounds were tested for inhibition of glucosamine synthetase isolated from Salmonella typhimurium and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The results indicated that among the synthesized compounds, N3-4-methoxyfumaroyl-L-2,3-diaminopropanoic acid (FMDP) was the most powerful inhibitor of glucosamine synthetase.
Equilibrium constants are reported for the protonation of L-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (HL) and for the formation of the complexes [CoL]+, [CoL]2], [Co(HL)2+, and [CoL(HL)]+ at 25 °C and I= 0.1 mol dm–3 NaCl. The stoicheiometries and stabilities of the cobalt(II) complexes are compared with those for homologous amino-acids H3[graphic omitted]·[CH2]n·CH(NH2)CO2–(n= 1–4). Equilibrium data for the formation of the µ-dioxygen adduct [L2CoO2- CoL2] in aqueous solution (log KO2= 7.77 ± 0.04) have been obtained by use of a polarographic oxygen analyser.
The main challenge in trapping a ternary-complex intermediate of OST was to ensure that the glycan transfer did not proceed. This could in principle be achieved by generating nonfunctional PglB mutants or by using substrate analogs that can bind PglB but would not allow glycan transfer. We did not use PglB mutants, because for all active-site mutations that were investigated in the past, binding of the peptide substrate was also severely reduced. We next considered the use of nonreactive peptide substrates. Arguably, the least-reactive substitution of the acceptor asparagine residue in the sequon is 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (Dab). Dab-containing peptides were previously found to act as competitive inhibitors of both prokaryotic 21 and eukaryotic OST 22-24 . Although we have previously shown that a Dabcontaining sequon also inhibits PglB 21 , the absence of the carboxamide group reduces the affinity of the corresponding peptide to PglB approximately ten-fold relative to an asparagine-containing sequon. Also, the activation mechanism of the carboxamide group cannot be 
Abstract The irreversible inhibition of carbonic anhydrase by cyanogen occurs by a unique mechanism. Cyanogen is an affinity label: it behaves like a carbodiimide and produces an intra-molecular cross-link without being incorporated. The nucleophile-labile cross-link is formed between a γ-COOH of a Glu and an imidazole of a His with a 1:1:1 stoichiometry with the enzyme. The deletion of ~ 1 Glu and ~ 1 His was noted by amino acid analysis of enzymatically hydrolyzed carbonic anhydrase. The modified Glu was converted to 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid and quantitated by amino acid analysis. The presence and quantity of modified His was supported through high-resolution proton NMR analysis.
Abstract Three new Schiff bases have been synthesised from the reaction of salicylaldehyde with the plant amino acids l -2-amino-3-methylaminopropanoic acid ( l -MeDAP), dl -2,4-diaminobutanoic acid ( dl -DAB) and dl -2,3-diaminopropanoic acid ( dl -DAP). The reaction of salicylaldehyde with l -MeDAP gave only the 2- (α-) product. The reaction of salicylaldehyde with dl -DAB or with dl -DAP produced, at equilibrium, predominately the 4- (ω-) or 3- (β-) species. X-ray single-crystal structures were determined for two compounds.
For Part L X X X V III see Ruangwiryachai et al., 2000. Abbreviations'. CAS test: chrome azurol S test; DAB, 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid; TAP-derivatives, N/O-trifluoroacetyl isopropyl esters; GC, gas chromatography; MS, mass spectrometry; ESI, electrospray ionization; COSY, correlated spectroscopy; DEPT, distortionless enhance ment by polarization transfer; HMBC, heteronuclear multiple bond correlation; HMQC, heteronuclear multiple quantum coherence; NOE, nuclear Overhauser effect; DSS, 2,2-dimethyl-2-silapentane-5-sulfonate; TMS, tetramethylsilane.
Abstract Multiple equilibrium studies by pH-metric measurements in the ternary copper(II) complexes with ampicillin(amp) as ligand A and glycine(gly), dl -2-aminobutanoic acid(2aba), dl -3-aminobutanoic acid(3aba), 1,2-diaminopropane(dp), 1,3-diaminopropane(tp), dl -2,3-diaminopropanoic acid(dapa), dl -2,4-diaminobutanoic acid(daba) & dl -2,5-diaminopentanoic acid(ornithine)(orn) as ligands B show the presence of CuABH, CuAB or CuAH−1 B ternary complex species. In the CuAB species the binding of the ligands A and B is similar to their binding in their respective binary complexes. In CuABH −1 species the deprotonation occurs with amp(A) ligand. The Δlog K values indicate higher stabilities for the ternary complexes than the binary species. The CuAB species with B = gly, 2aba, dapa & orn have been isolated and characterized. The conductivity measurements indicate that the complexes are non-electrolytes. Magnetic susceptibility and electronic spectral data suggest a square pyramidal geometry for CuAB with B = gly/2aba complexes and distorted octahedral geometry for CuAB with B = dapa/orn. The vibrational spectra are interpreted to find the mode of binding of ligand to metal. The TG/DTA studies reveal that the complexes decompose in three steps, indicating non-involvement of hydrated or coordinated water molecules in the complex. The cyclic voltammograms indicate a quasi reversible Cu 2+ /Cu + couple. The antimicrobial activity and CT-DNA cleavage ability of the complexes show higher activity for ternary complexes.
Abstract Multiple equilibrium studies by pH-metric measurements in the ternary copper(II) complexes with ampicillin(amp) as ligand A and glycine(gly), DL-2-aminobutanoic acid(2aba), DL-3-aminobutanoic acid(3aba), 1,2-diaminopropane(dp), 1,3-diaminopropane(tp), DL-2,3-diaminopropanoic acid(dapa), DL-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid(daba) & DL-2,5-diaminopentanoic acid(ornithine) (orn) as ligands B show the presence of CuABH, CuAB or CuAHÀ1 B ternary complex species. In the CuAB species the binding of the ligands A and B is similar to their binding in their respective binary complexes. In CuABH À1 species the deprotonation occurs with amp(A) ligand. The Dlog K values indicate higher stabilities for the ternary complexes than the binary species. The CuAB species with B = gly, 2aba, dapa & orn have been isolated and characterized. The conductivity measurements indicate that the complexes are non-electrolytes. Magnetic susceptibility and electronic spectral data suggest a square pyramidal geometry for CuAB with B = gly/2aba complexes and distorted octahedral geometry for CuAB with B = dapa/orn. The vibrational spectra are interpreted to find the mode of binding of ligand to metal. The TG/DTA studies reveal that the complexes decompose in three steps, indicating non-involvement of hydrated or coordinated water molecules in the complex. The cyclic voltammograms indicate a quasi reversible Cu 2+ /Cu + couple.
The chemistry of b-lactum antibiotics in relation to their biological activities has been shown considerable interest in recent years (Zhang and Shi, 2006; Anderegg et al., 2005; Knobloch et al., 2003) . Biological metal ions play key roles in the structural organization and activation of certain enzymes, which are involved in the transfer of genetic information from DNA, leading to the synthesis of specific proteins (Matagne et al., 1999; Bush, 1998; Concha et al., 1997) . It is well known that ternary complexes play an important role in biological processes, as exemplified by many instances in which enzymes are known to be activated by metal ions (Lenhart et al., 2000) . Ternary complexes have also been implicated in the storage and transport of active substances through biological membranes. These phenomena strongly depend upon the formation of higher order complexes (Grzybowski, 2000; Plateeuw, 2006; Christiane et al., 2005) . Ampicillin, a penicillin group of pharmaceuticals shows antibiotic properties by virtue of its ability to inhibit the protein synthesis (Kraatz and Nolte, 2006; Borisenko et al., 2006) . However, convincing information on the nature of bonding with metal ions in the presence of antibiotics is still lacking. The penicillin family of antibiotics exerts its antibacterial action by the competitive inhibition of the enzyme dihydropterase synthetase towards the substrate (Anderton et al., 2004) . Several authors have reported the antimicrobial activity of amino penicillin drug and its metal complexes (Azza Abu-Hussen and Linert, 2009; Chohan et al., 2004) . Studies on its metal chelates have much physiological and pharmacological relevance because the metal chelates of amino penicillin drug have been found to be more bacteriostatic than the drugs themselves (Anacona et al., 2002) . With a view to throw more light upon the interaction of amino penicillin drug with the transition metal ions, a systematic study on the interaction of Cu(II) with commonly used amino penicillin drug viz. ampicillin(amp)(A) in the presence of glycine(gly), DL-2-aminobutanoic acid(2aba), DL-3-aminobutanoic acid(3aba) 1, 2-diaminopropane(dp), 1,3-diaminopropane(tp), DL-2,3-diaminopropanoic acid(dapa), DL-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid(daba) & DL-2,5-diaminopentanoic acid (ornithine) (orn)(B) (Fig. 1 ) has been undertaken in the solution state. The Cu(II)-amp(A)-gly, 2aba, dapa & orn(B) complexes have also been synthesized and were characterized using micro analytical, conductance, magnetic susceptibility, electronic and vibrational spectral analysis. The ESR, TG and DTA, and electrochemical studies of Cu(II)-amp(A)-gly & dapa(B) complexes have also been carried out. The biological activity of these complexes was tested against bacteria Salmonella typhi, yeast Saccharomyces cerevisae and fungi Lapsiodiplodia theobrome and Fusarium oxysporum using DMF as control. The DNA cleavage activity of the complexes was tested against CT DNA using gel electrophoresis in the presence of H 2 O 2 .
Abstract The non-encoded diaminomonocarboxylic acids, 3-N-methyl-2,3-diaminopropanoic acid (syn: α-amino-β-methylaminopropionic acid, MeDAP; β-N-methylaminoalanine, BMAA) and 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (2,4-DAB), are distributed widely in cyanobacterial species in free and bound forms. Both amino acids are neurotoxic in whole animal and cell-based bioassays. The biosynthetic pathway to 2,4-DAB is well documented in bacteria and in one higher plant species, but has not been confirmed in cyanobacteria. The biosynthetic pathway to BMAA is unknown. This review considers possible metabolic routes, by analogy with reactions used in other species, by which these amino acids might be biosynthesised by cyanobacteria, which are a widespread potential environmental source of these neurotoxins. Where possible, the gene expression that might be implicated in these biosyntheses is discussed.
Acacia angustissima has potential in agroforestry systems for forage production in tropical environments. However, feeding trials indicate that the leaves are potentially toxic. Signs of toxicity in sheep are similar to those presented by sheep fed flatpea (Lathyrus sylvestris) hay which contains a high concentration of the non-protein amino acid 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (DABA). Cation exchange chromatography, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and NMR were used to isolate and identify the non-protein amino acid in A angustissima leaves. A quantitative HPLC method was used to determine the content of the non-protein amino acid in leaves from 20 accessions. The non-protein amino acid was identified as 4-N-acetyl-2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (ADAB), previously reported to occur in seeds. The average and range in ADAB content were 16.8 and 10.6–25.4 mg g−1 respectively. This content of ADAB is higher than the levels of DABA in flatpea hay that are toxic to sheep. ::: ::: ::: ::: © 2001 Society of Chemical Industry
Abstract The absolute gas-phase acidities (Δ H acid ) for three lysine homologues (ornithine (Orn), 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid (Daba) and 2,3-diaminopropanoic acid (Dapa)) and 2 proline analogs (azetidine-2-carboxylic acid (Aze) and pipecolic acid (Pip)) were determined using the extended kinetic method in an electrospray ionization–triple quadrupole instrument. The gas-phase acidities of the three lysine homologues (1415 ± 10, 1419 ± 7, and 1418 ± 8 kJ/mol for Orn, Daba, and Dapa, respectively) are the same as that of lysine (1416 ± 7 kJ/mol) obtained from earlier studies within error limits. The two proline analogs are less acidic (1425 ± 13 and 1432 ± 11 kJ/mol for Aze and Pip) than the lysine analogs, but have the same acidity as proline (1430 ± 7 kJ/mol). Experimental acidities are supported by density functional theory calculations at the B3LYP/6-311++G**//B3LYP/6-31+G* level, which give predictions for the acidities from an isodesmic reaction with acetic acid as the reference bases. Agreement between theory is excellent (within 5 kJ/mol) for Daba, Dapa, Aze, and Pip. The computed acidity for Orn is 9 kJ/mol higher than the measured acidity, but is still within the error limits. As the difference in acidities within the sets of analogs is smaller than the absolute error bars, relative acidities (Δ G acid ) were obtained using kinetic method ratios with 3-OH-benzoic acid as the reference acid. Relative acidity (Δ G acid ) orderings of Dapa > Lys > Daba > Orn and Pro > Pip > Aze were obtained.
