Abstract 1. 1. Thiamine phosphate levels were determined in the soluble and particulate fractions of various rat tissues. 2. 2. There was marked tissue difference in the cellular localization of thiamine phosphates. 3. 3. Brain thiamine triphosphate was localized only in the particulate fraction, whereas skeletal muscle thiamine triphosphate was in the soluble fraction as a protein-unbound form.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the preparation of thiamine triphosphate. Thiamine triphosphate can be synthesized by heating a mixture of thiamine hydrochloride and phosphorus pentoxide in orthophosphoric acid. It is purified by chromatography on a strong acid cation ion-exchange resin, Dowex 50-W, instead of the weak acid resin Amberlite indirect resin composites (IRC)-50 used before. The precipitate is collected and dissolved in 100 ml of water. Precipitation is repeated three times and the final volume of the aqueous mixture is adjusted to 150 ml after removal of the acetone and ethanol under reduced pressure. The crystals are washed with cold ethanol and ether, dried at room temperature, and stored at −70 °C. The column is regenerated with 5 liters of 4 M HCl and washed with water. The crystals from 10 chromatographies are pooled and then recrystallized as before. The final yield of pure thiamine triphosphate is 2 g.
The effect of thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) and thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) on the activity of rat liver pyruvate dehydrogenase complex regulatory enzymes (kinase and phosphatase) was studied in experiments with isolated enzyme preparations. It is shown that ThDP caused a pronounced activation of pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase (Ka is equal to 65.0 nM). ThTP inhibits phosphatase competitively against the substrate--the phosphorylated pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. The both thiamine phosphates inhibit the pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase activity almost similarly in concentrations exceeding 10 microM. The physiological significance of the antagonistic action of ThDP and ThTP on the pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase activity is discussed.
A series of children with Leigh's disease had normal hepatic pyruvate carboxylase activity, increased cerebral thiamine diphosphate, and decreased cerebral thiamine triphosphate. These thiamine esters were normal in liver. The author suggests that the histologic changes of Leigh's disease, as well as the similar changes of Wernicke's disease, could be due to a deficiency of cerebral thiamine triphosphate.
Treatment of a case of Leigh's disease with (1.5 gm) thiamine and thiamine propyl disulfide (300 mg) was associated with marked improvement in weight and neurologic status and appeared to reverse respiratory failure. For reasons yet unknown, it became increasingly difficult to maintain thiamine levels above 50μg/100 ml in the patient's cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), through blood levels exceeded 1,000μg/100 ml. Remissions correlated with increased CSF thiamine concentrations, exacerbations with low levels. Brain tissue obtained at autopsy had only a slightly elevated total thiamine content (2μg/gm). No thiamine triphosphate was present in pons or cerebellum. Initial successes with this case and several others suggest that there may be some rationale for the use of thiamine and thiamine propyl disulfide in this condition.
This chapter explores the possibility of using pharmacologic doses of thiamine, emphasizing the difference between deficiency and dependency. The polysymptomatic presentation of thiamine deficiency may cause a clinician to be faced with a patient where it is necessary to consider it in the differential diagnosis. Laboratory methodology is therefore discussed in some detail. Since creatinuria was reported in beriberi, the possible reason for this is discussed. The reason for using pharmacologic doses of thiamine in treatment is offered and the therapeutic use of thiamine derivatives is described. The indications for intravenous infusions of water-soluble vitamins and the clinical expectations are emphasized. The first case of thiamine dependency to be reported is described in detail and several animal experiments are outlined in an attempt to research the complex mechanisms affecting the brain and nervous system. The role of thiamine triphosphate in the clinical expression of disease is suggested.
Thiamine and its phosphate esters in rat tissues were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography after conversion to thiochrome and its phosphate esters as described previously (Ishii, K. et al. (1979) Anal. Blochem., 97, 191-195). Total thiamine concentrations determined in the brain, liver, heart and kidney were 6.39, 25.2, 15.7, and 14.9 nmol/g wet weight, respectively. In all the tissues tested, thiamine, its monophosphate, pyrophosphate, and triphosphate were found to be present at the rates of 1.2-7.7, 5.9-11.0, 85.7-90.0, and 0.7-1.6%, respectively. Although these percentages of thiamine phosphates were similar to those reported previously using different procedures, the percentage of thiamine triphosphate content in rat tissues was found to be fairly lower than that reported. The time required for the whole process of analysis averaged 90min after isolation of the organs from the animal.
Pyruvate carboxylase plays a central role in the regulation of the flux of carbon in metabolism1, not only in liver and kidney tissues with a high activity of pyruvate carboxylase but in other tissues as well, particularly in the developing brain2. A deficiency of this enzyme may therefore give rise to a variety of biochemical abnormalities and clinical symptoms. A further complication is the possible relationship with subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy (Leigh) or SNE3. However, this histopathologically defined disease may be associated with more than one biochemical abnormality4, such as disorders in thiamine triphosphate metabolism5, pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency6 and pyruvate carboxylase deficiency7.
Overactivation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) has been demonstrated to result in various stress-related diseases, including diabetes mellitus. Deficiency of cellular nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) content, consumed by PARP-1 to add ADP-ribose moieties onto target proteins, contributes to pathophysiological conditions. Adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP) exists in small amounts in mammals; however, the function(s) of this metabolite remains unresolved. The structure of AThTP resembles NAD(+). Recent experimental studies demonstrate beneficial impacts of high-dose thiamine treatment of diabetic complications. These findings have led us to hypothesize that AThTP may modulate the activity of PARP-1. We have chemically synthesized AThTP and evaluated the effect of AThTP on recombinant PARP-1 enzyme activity. AThTP inhibited the PARP-1 activity at 10 µM, and a structural model of the PARP-1-AThTP complex highlighted the AThTP binding site. The results provide new insights into the pharmacological importance of AThTP as an inhibitor of PARP-1.
The effect of intermittent light stimulation (ILS) on the distribution of thiamine derivatives in three brain areas (occipital, motor, and premotor) was compared in photosensitive and nonphotosensitive baboons. ILS induces paroxysmal discharges in the motor and premotor areas of photosensitive animals only. In baboons submitted to ILS, thiamine triphosphate (TTP) decreases in both photosensitive and nonphotosensitive animals; thiamine monophosphate (TMP) increases in photosensitive animals, which present ILS-induced paroxysmal discharges, whereas it is unaffected in nonphotosensitive animals. The variations are the most significant in the occipital (visual) cortex. A consumption of TTP may result from electrical activity induced by light stimulation in the occipital area. No correlation between ILS-induced paroxysmal activity and a decrease in TTP contents was found. However, photosensitive animals are affected differently from nonphotosensitive animals, as their content of TMP in the cerebral cortex increases on stimulation. However, as long as the exact role of thiamine compounds in relation to membrane excitability in the nervous system remains unknown, it is impossible to conclude whether the differences observed in the metabolism of thiamine compounds are the cause or the consequence of the photosensitivity in the baboon Papio papio.
Summary Overactivation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) has been demonstrated to result in various stress-related diseases, including diabetes mellitus. Deficiency of cellular nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD ϩ ) content, consumed by PARP-1 to add ADP-ribose moieties onto target proteins, contributes to pathophysiological conditions. Adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP) exists in small amounts in mammals; however, the function(s) of this metabolite remains unresolved. The structure of AThTP resembles NAD Substantial recent experimental studies demonstrate beneficial impacts of high-dose thiamine on diabetic complications, such as diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy, diabetic neuropathy and diabetic cardiomyopathy ( 1-4 ). However, the pharmacological relevance of high-dose thiamine treatments remains unknown.
Adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP), a new thiamine derivative, was recently identified in Escherichia coli ( 9 ), followed by the identification in small amounts in mouse brain, heart, skeletal muscle, liver and kidneys ( 10 ). AThTP is composed of two molecules, an adenine base and thiamine, which are joined through phosphate groups. The structure of AThTP appears to closely resemble NAD ϩ . Although the biological role of AThTP is unknown, the existence of noncoenzyme functions of thiamine derivatives has been speculated (11) (12) (13) (14) .
In the context of 1) structural resemblance of AThTP to NAD ϩ , 2) the experimental evidence implicating PARP-1 as a causative factor in the pathogenesis of diabetes and diabetic complications in vitro and in vivo (reviewed in Szabó ( 8 )), and 3) beneficial effects of highdose thiamine on diabetic complications, we hypothesized that AThTP could interact with PARP-1 and mod-E-mail: t.tanaka.md@gmail.com Abbreviations: AThTP, adenosine thiamine triphosphate; NAD ϩ , nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide; PARP-1, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1.
Using preparations of synaptosomes and subsynaptosomal fractions from the rat brain, we studied the localization of thiamine-binding protein (TBP) in the subcellular structures of the neurons. In addition, we studied the distribution in synaptosomes of two types of activity typical of TBP (thiamine triphosphatase and thiamine-binding activities), as well as the effects of factors destroying the plasma membrane of synaptosomes on binding of [14C]thiamine with the latter. We found that the thiamine-associated activity of TBP was the highest in fractions of the synaptic vesicles and plasma membranes. Hydrolysis of thiamine triphosphate was also most active in these structures. Our results allow us to conclude that TBP is localized mostly in the synaptic vesicles and plasma membranes of synaptosomes.
The effects of chronic methamphetamine administration (10 mg/kg, ip) on thiamine and its phosphate esters in the rat brain were studied. Thiamine triphosphate (TTP) decreased significantly in correlation to the stereotyped behavior. However, thiamine, thiamine monophosphate (TMP) and thiamine diphosphate (TDP) did not change significantly. In the chronic methamphetamine intoxicated rat, TMP and TDP decreased immediately after a single haloperidol injection (10 mg/kg, ip), and the level of TDP decreased significantly TTP in the brain, however, did not change for 60 minutes. Further studies on the relationship between biogenic amines and TTP which is supposed to be a neuroactive agent would be required.
Abstract A new method has been developed and successfully applied to the selective measurement of thiamine (nonphosphorylated), total thiamine (sum of thiamine, thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine diphosphate (TDP), and thiamine triphosphate (TTP)), and potentially interfering riboflavin in acidic (2% trichloroacetic acid) extracts of selected salmonid and walleye egg samples. Acidic extracts of eggs were applied directly to end-capped C18, reversed-phase solid-phase extraction (SPE) columns and separated into three fractions by elution with mixtures of PO4 buffer (pH 2), methanol (10%), and acetonitrile (20%). All thiamine compounds recovered in the first two fractions were oxidized to their corresponding thiochromes with alkaline potassium hexacyanoferrate, and we measured the thiochrome fluorescence (excitation at 360 nm, emission at 460 nm) in a 96-well microplate reader. Riboflavin, recovered in third fraction (eluted with pH 2, 20% acetonitrile), was analyzed directly by measuring the fluorescenc...
Thiamine, also known as vitamin B1, exists in a variety of thiamine-rich food sources including beef, liver, dried milk, oats, pork, eggs, seeds, legumes, peas and fortified grain and it is vitally important to maintain normal body function. Thiamine could play an important role in the nervous system [1, 2] , heart health [3] , energy metabolism [4] , and psychological health [5] . A recommended dietary allowance (RDA) has been announced by the U.S. Food and Nutrition Board for vitamin B1 (thiamin) to prevent the deficiency in a healthy population (Food and Nutrition Board). The RDA could be calculated by calorie intake referring to 0.5 mg per 1000 kcal and the intake range could be 1.0-1.1 mg per day for women and 1.2-1.5 mg for men, referring to an average caloric intake. The specific population also showed inadequate dietary intake and thiamin insufficiency so the RDA could be increased to 1.5 mg/day for health maintenance [6] . Physical activity could also affect the thiamine requirement in addition to gender, age, and physiological status [7] . Thiamine could be converted to three phosphorylated forms, thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP), and thiamine triphosphate (TTP), after intestinal absorption, but the rate-limiting transport system for thiamine absorption causes a bioavailability issue [8] .
When rats were injected with a thiamine disulfide derivative, the content of thiamine triphosphate (TTP) in the liver doubled within 3 h after a preceeding rise in thiamine pyrophosphate; it then returned to the basal level within the next 3h, indicating a net increase of TTP in vivo and its rapid turnover.
Leigh disease has distinct neuropathologic characteristics, but a poorly understood pathogenesis. All patients with this diagnosis proved at autopsy have had an inhibitor to the synthesis of thiamine triphosphate in their body fluids and reduced thiamine triphosphate concentration in their brains. To understand better the role of the inhibitor in Leigh disease, we have purified it from urines of patients with, and obligate carriers of, Leigh disease. The effect of the inhibitor is reduced by treating the patient with thiamine derivatives; it is inactivated by trypsin and acid (pH 3.0) and unaffected by treatment with neuraminidase, phosphodiesterase, and alkali (pH 9.5). Based on gel filtration chromatography on a fractionating column (Sephadex), the molecular weight of the inhibitor is about 37,000.
1. ::: 1. The thiamine phosphates formed when baker's yeast was incubated with thiamine and pyrophosphate were analysed by paper chromatography. In addition to thiamine diphosphate (cocarboxylase) and thiamine monophosphate, a compound containing thiamine and phosphate accumulated, which had almost the same RF value as synthetic thiamine triphosphate. It was taken to be enzymically synthesized TTP. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. Chemically synthesized TTP incubated with a potato apyrase was hydrolysed in the same way as ATP suggesting that the arrangement of the phosphate groups in the two compounds is the same. Enzymically synthesized TTP incubated with potato apyrase was hydrolysed in the same way but more slowly and the two hydrolysing steps were not so distinct as in the case of the chemically synthesized TTP. These differences were shown to be very probably caused by an inhibitor contaminating the yeast TTP. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. Neither the enzymically synthesized TTP nor the chemically synthesized TTP can replace with apyrase at o°, which cxaused the removal of the γ-phosphate of TTP, was cocarboxylase activity obtained.
Summary Hypo and hyperthiaminosis were classified into ten types based on elevated or decreased levels of free thiamine (free T), thiamine monophosphate, thiamine diphosphate (TDP) and thiamine triphosphate, including total vitamin B1 (total B1) concentrations in whole blood specimens. Classifications of more than a thousand Japanese subjects revealed that two types (Type Ⅱb and Type Ⅳb) were not observed. Type Ⅲb (decreased levels in TDP) had a clinical problem, because the presence of TDP deficiency was not diagnosed by total B1 levels. Type Ⅴa (elevated levels in free T) needed further investigaion if this was normal status for the healthy subjects merely observed just after taking higher amounts of vitamin B1, otherwise, the case included clinical symptoms.
Glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) of animal cells is usually considered to be a mitochondrial enzyme. However, this enzyme has recently been reported to be also present in nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum and lysosomes. These extramitochondrial localizations are associated with moonlighting functions of GDH, which include acting as a serine protease or an ATP-dependent tubulin-binding protein. Here, we review the published data on kinetics and localization of multiple forms of animal GDH taking into account the splice variants, post-translational modifications and GDH isoenzymes, found in humans and apes. The kinetic properties of human GLUD1 and GLUD2 isoenzymes are shown to be similar to those published for GDH1 and GDH2 from bovine brain. Increased functional diversity and specific regulation of GDH isoforms due to alternative splicing and post-translational modifications are also considered. In particular, these structural differences may affect the well-known regulation of GDH by nucleotides which is related to recent identification of thiamine derivatives as novel GDH modulators. The thiamine-dependent regulation of GDH is in good agreement with the fact that the non-coenzyme forms of thiamine, i.e., thiamine triphosphate and its adenylated form are generated in response to amino acid and carbon starvation.
Abstract: Glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) of animal cells is usually considered to be a mitochondrial enzyme. However, this enzyme has recently been reported to be also present in nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum and lysosomes. These extramitochondrial localizations are associated with moonlighting functions of GDH, which include acting as a serine protease or an ATP-dependent tubulin-binding protein. Here, we review the published data on kinetics and localization of multiple forms of animal GDH taking into account the splice variants, post-translational modifications and GDH isoenzymes, found in humans and apes. The kinetic properties of human GLUD1 and GLUD2 isoenzymes are shown to be similar to those published for GDH1 and GDH2 from bovine brain. Increased functional diversity and specific regulation of GDH isoforms due to alternative splicing and post-translational modifications are also considered. In particular, these structural differences may affect the well-known regulation of GDH by nucleotides which is related to recent identification of thiamine derivatives as novel GDH modulators. The thiamine-dependent regulation of GDH is in good agreement with the fact that the non-coenzyme forms of thiamine, i.e., thiamine triphosphate and its adenylated form are generated in response to amino acid and carbon starvation.
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is found in small amounts in most organisms from bacteria to mammals, but little is known about its physiological role. In vertebrate tissues, ThTP may act as a phosphate donor for the phosphorylation of certain proteins; this may be part of a new signal transduction pathway. We have recently characterized a highly specific 25-kDa thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase) that is expressed in most mammalian tissues. The role of this enzyme may be the control of intracellular concentrations of ThTP. As the latter has been considered to be a neuroactive form of thiamine, we have studied the distribution of ThTPase mRNA and protein in rodent brain using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. With both methods, we found the strongest staining in hippocampal pyramidal neurons, as well as cerebellar granule cells and Purkinje cells. Some interneurons were also labeled and many ThTPase mRNA-positive and immunoreactive cells were distributed throughout cerebral cortical gray matter and the thalamus. White matter was not significantly labeled. ThTPase immunoreactivity seems to be located mainly in the cytoplasm of neuronal perikarya. Immunocytochemical data using dissociated cultured cells from hippocampal and cerebellum showed that the staining was more intense in neurons than in astrocytes. The protein was rather uniformly located in the perikarya and dendrites, suggesting that ThTP and ThTPase may play a general role in neuronal metabolism rather than a specific role in excitability. There was no apparent correlation between ThTPase expression and selective vulnerability of certain brain regions to thiamine deficiency.
1. A nanoparticle comprising casein matrix, a basic amino acid and a metal selected from the group consisting of a divalent metal, trivalent metal and kombinatsii.2. A nanoparticle according to claim 1, wherein the basic amino acid is selected from the group consisting of arginine, lysine, histidine and smesi.3. A nanoparticle according to claim 1, wherein the divalent metal is selected from the group consisting of calcium, magnesium, zinc, iron in the divalent form and combinations thereof, wherein said divalent metal is preferably a kaltsiy.4. A nanoparticle according to any one of claims 1-3, which further comprises a biologically active soedinenie.5. A nanoparticle according to claim 4, wherein the biologically active compound is selected from the group consisting of water-soluble biologically active compound and an oil-soluble biologically active soedinenie.6. A nanoparticle according to claim 5, wherein the water-soluble biologically active compound is selected from the group consisting of vitamin B group, vitamin C derivative, vitamin B group, a derivative of vitamin C group, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, thioctic acid and their salts, esters, or kombinatsii.7 them. A nanoparticle according to claim 5, wherein the water-soluble biologically active compound is selected from the group consisting of folic acid, 4-aminobenzoic acid, niacin, pantothenic acid, tiaminmonofosfat, thiamine, thiamine triphosphate, ascorbic acid, pteroilpoliglutaminovye acid, folinic acid, nicotinic acid, hyaluronic acid , thioctic acid, p-coumaric acid, caffeic acid and their pharmaceutically, cosmetically acceptable, food grade derivatives
Thiamine is a water-soluble vitamin that is obtained from exogenous sources and primarily from the diet (4, 5) . The vitamin is absorbed in the small intestine via facilitated transport and is rapidly converted via thiamine kinases into thiamine monophosphate, thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP), and thiamine triphosphate (6) . TPP accounts for approximately 80% of total thiamine stores in the human body and is the active form of the vitamin, acting as a coenzyme for various enzyme complexes (6) .
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the high-pressure liquid chromatography of thiamine, their analogs, and their phosphate esters. Of the three thiamine phosphate esters known to occur in biological material, only thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) and thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) appear to have biological activity, free thiamine and thiamine monophosphate (ThMP) being considered only as the hydrolysis products of the more phosphorylated forms of the vitamin. The simultaneous determination of thiamine, oxythiamine (OTh), and their phosphate esters in rat tissue is accomplished by taking advantage of the fact that thiamine compounds give the thiochrome reaction, whereas Oth and its phosphate esters do not form the fluorescent product. The separation of thiamine and its esters after conversion to thiochrome is achieved with conventional column chromatography. High-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) has been applied for thiamine determination, generally as a separation method for pharmaceutical application. The chapter describes HPLC methods for the separation of the phosphate esters of thiamine, Oth, or pyrithiamine and the separation of thiamine and Oth.
This paper reports that addition of cGMP results in an increase of the amount of32Pi incorporated into thiamine triphosphate in nerve roots and sympathetic trunks. The effect is present both at rest and during electrical stimulation. Other nucleotides were less effective. Theophylline increased the incorporation, possibly because of phosphodiesterase inhibition. A blocking effect of atropine was noted in sympathetic trunk preparations that contain ganglion cells.
Mammalian soluble thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase) is a 25-kDa cytosolic enzyme that specifically catalyzes the conversion of thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) to thiamine diphosphate and has an absolute requirement for divalent cations. We have investigated the kinetic properties of recombinant mouse thiamine triphosphatase (mThTPase) and determined its solution structure by NMR spectroscopy. Residues responsible for binding Mg(2+) and ThTP were determined from NMR titration experiments. The binding of Mg(2+) induced only a minor local conformational change, whereas ThTP binding was found to cause a more global conformational change. We derived a structural model for the mThTPase.ThTP.Mg(2+) ternary complex and concluded from this that whereas free mThTPase has an open cleft fold, the enzyme in the ternary complex adopts a tunnel fold. Our results provide a functional rationale for a number of conserved residues and suggest an essential role for Mg(2+) in catalysis. We propose a mechanism underlying the high substrate specificity of mThTPase and discuss the possible role of water molecules in enzymatic catalysis.
Abstract Experiments were undertaken to determine whether depletion of thiamine phosphate esters occurs in a selective manner in portions of rat brain which are known to be most vulnerable to thiamine deprivation, namely, the pons and midbrain. We found that total thiamine in the brain diminished in all regions over the course of the study, which comprised 9 weeks on a thiamine-deficient diet; however, the pattern of diminution of thiamine phosphate esters varied. In cerebral cortex and cerebellum, nearly normal proportions of thiamine phosphate esters were maintained throughout depletion. In contrast, thiamine pyrophosphate became markedly depleted proportionately in the pons and midbrain. A striking proportionate increment in thiamine triphosphate was noted in these regions. Both changes tended to be most marked in animals showing more severe clinical signs of depletion.
Infants with subacute necrotizing encephalopathy or Leigh's encephalopathy usually are first examined before the age of 2 years with degenerative neurologic disease with variable clinical appearance. Necrotizing lesions of the CNS occur with special predilection of the gray matter. Biochemical defects of thiamine triphosphate associated with an inhibitor of the enzyme thiamine pyrophosphate-adenosine triphosphate phosphoryltransferase and deficiency of the enzyme pyruvate carboxylase have been found. Progressive neurologic deterioration and death occurred in an infant with pyruvate carboxylase deficiency. Pathologic studies showed extensive necrotizing areas of the gray matter, mamillary bodies, and midbrain and basal ganglia. Biochemical studies on the liver confirmed a deficiency of pyruvate carboxylase.
Summary: The aetiology of the sudden infant death syndrome: Current ideas on breathing and sleep and possible links to deranged thiamine Neurochemistry. ::: ::: ::: ::: The sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is now the commonest cause of death between one week and one year of age in most western countries. An asphyxia/ death, with unrecognised hypoxic episodes during sleep in the preceding weeks, has been postulated from autopsy evidence for both acute and chronic hypoxia; the evidence includes Po2 values, intra-thoracic distribution of petechiae, pulmonary arteriolar and right ventricular hypertrophy. Long-term monitoring of infants resuscitated from a “near miss” SIDS demonstrates sleep apnoea, sometimes associated with episodic collapse and obstruction of the upper airway. ::: ::: ::: ::: Physiological studies in healthy babies and animals highlight factors leading to vulnerability to asphyxia in different phases of sleep. In REM-sleep (rapid-eye-movement), inhibition of intercostal muscle activity leads to: inspiratory collapse of the rib-cage, impaired reflex compensation for airway obstruction, overall lung-deflation with reduction of O2-stores and rapid hypoxaemia during apnoea. In REM-sleep, breathing efforts are not augmented by hypercapnia and the defense against asphyxia depends on reflex responses to hypoxia. ::: ::: ::: ::: Sleep apnoea sometimes occurs in infants with a rare congenital defect of brain thiamine triphosphate. This draws attention to many similarities of modern SIDS and other infantile syndromes reported historically which involve deranged thiamine neurochemistry. Sudden unexpected deaths occur in apparently thriving infants of asymptomatic thiamine deficient mothers. Other similarities include: a peak incidence at 2–4 months of age; precipitation often by minor febrile episodes; seasonal and familial risk factors, with increased risk in twins; many common findings at autopsy. ::: ::: ::: ::: Although asymptomatic maternal thiamine deficiency is common in western communities ingesting high carbohydrate diets containing various thiamine antagonists, the effect on infant thiamine stores has received little attention. ::: ::: ::: ::: Future research is needed to evaluate SIDS incidence after identification and elimination of low thiamine states. Defective neural control of breathing during sleep should be evaluated in relation to thiamine-neurochemistry, particularly to the leaky blood-brain barrier, to glutamate and GAB A, to sympathetic denervation and to defective vagal reflexes of the lungs and larynx.
Several important cofactors are adenine nucleotides with a vitamin as the catalytic moiety. Here, we report the discovery of the first adenine nucleotide containing vitamin B1: adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP, 1), or thiaminylated ATP. We discovered AThTP in Escherichia coli and found that it accumulates specifically in response to carbon starvation, thereby acting as a signal rather than a cofactor. We detected smaller amounts in yeast and in plant and animal tissues.
Thiamine (vitamin B1) deficiency in birds is caused by malnutrition or thiaminase-rich foods (raw freshwater fish) or foods high in anti-thiamine factors (betel nuts).Thiamine is an essential water soluble vitamin contributing phosphate derivatives that are involved in many cellular processes as coenzymes in the catabolism of sugars and amino acids. Also thiamine triphosphate (TTP) helps in proper functioning of neuronal membranes (Cooper and Pincus, 1979) and its deficiency leads to polyneuritis which is manifested as lethargy, head tremors, impaired digestion, general weakness, star-gazing and frequent convulsions
The levels of phosphate esters and the activities of thiamine biotransformation enzymes in the blood and tissues of albino rats were studied during oxythiamine-induced B1 deficiency and after metabolic correction with thiamine and taurine. Among thiamine phosphates, the most informative indicators of thiamine deficiency were shown to be triphosphate esters and free thiamine diphosphate. The biosynthetic enzymes thiamine kinase and thiamine diphosphate kinase played a decisive role in maintaining the initial rate and in recovering the physiologically active forms of vitamin B1. The activation of hydrolytic enzymes of thiamine phosphate esters occurred by producing abundant free thiamine diphosphate and thiamine triphosphate. Within the first hours, taurine favoured the acceleration of phosphoester biosynthesis and, accumulating in the tissues, inhibited vitamin phosphorylation reactions.
Sodium and potassium currents in the node of Ranvier decrease exponentially with time during long lasting voltage clamp experiments. This decline is strongly dependent on temperature (Q10 approximately 3). Thiamine and, particularly, its diand triphosphoric acid esters are shown to prevent this exponential decline of the ionic currents. Thiamine acts from the outside and from the inside of the nodal membrane, but more potently from the inside. Thiamine diphosphate prevents the exponential decline of the ionic currents only when applied internally. Thiamine triphosphate, the most effective thiamine derivative was tested form the inside only. Bacterial thiaminases applied externally were not effective, presumably because they do not permeate the nodal membrane. Tetrodotoxin, that has been shown by other investigators to induce a release of thiamine from nerve membranes, does not alter the action of thiamine on the exponential decline of current and vice versa. It is concluded that: (1) thiamine diphosphate or thiamine triphosphate are the active thiamine compounds in nerve membranes; (2) the site of action is located at the internal suface of the membrane; (3) the reduction of the thiamine concentration in the membrane or in the axoplasm could cause the exponetial decline of currents; (4) the release of thiamine from nerve membranes induced by tetrodotoxin is interpreted as a side effect not even related to the mechanism by which tetrodotoxin blocks the sodium channels; (5) thiamine polyphosphates appear to stabilise the intrinsic electric field strength of the nodal membrane in the resing state. Threfore, as a working hypothesis, it is suggested that the thiamine derivatives control the number of functioning ionic channels by stabilising the density of negative surface charges at the inner side of the nerve membrane.
1. Thiamine diphosphate level was higher in soleus muscle than in extensor digitorum longus muscle in various animals, whereas thiamine triphosphate level was less in the former muscle than in the latter except for mouse. 2. 2-Oxoglutarate dehydrogenase, transketolase and thiamine pyrophosphokinase activities were higher in soleus muscle than in extensor digitorum longus in rat and guinea pig. 3. The differences between rat two muscle phenotypes in thiamine diphosphate, but not thiamine triphosphate, level and the thiamine-related enzyme activities disappeared after denervation. 4. Tenotomy had little effect on thiamine phosphate levels and the thiamine-related enzyme activities in rat skeletal muscles.
In experimental stress the total concentration of thiamine is slightly reduced in the initial stage ofresistance, although the concentration of its more power-consuming phosphorylatedform, thiamine triphosphate, making up 15% of the total pool of the vitamin is almost half reduced. The changes ofcoenzyme thiamine biphosphate content are not so considerable. The reduction of thiamine triphosphate concentration is due to activation of specific thiamine triphosphotase. The preliminary introduction of thiamine to animals under stress considerably levels these disorders. The mechanism of adaptative action of the vitamin is probably mediated and acts through the stimulation of hormonopoietic function of insulocytes.
A thiamine-binding protein (ThBP) with a specific activity of 8.21 nmoles/mg protein was isolated from rat brain synaptosomes by affinity chromatography and gel filtration on Sephadex G-200. The protein was purified 746-fold with a 40.5% yield. ThBP was homogeneous during sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis; its molecular mass was determined by gel filtration on Sephadex G-200 and by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis and was equal to 107 and 103 kD, respectively. The pH optimum for the binding is 8.35. When the ability of ThBP to bind thiamine phosphates was tested, the latter decreased in the following order: thiamine monophosphate greater than thiamine triphosphate greater than greater than thiamine diphosphate.
In neuroblastoma cells, the intracellular thiamine triphosphate (TTP) concentration was found to be about 0.5 μm, which is several times above the amount of cultured neurons or glial cells. In inside-out patches, addition of TTP (1 or 10) μm to the bath activated an anion channel of large unit conductance (350–400 pS) in symmetrical 150 mm NaCl solution. The activation occurred after a delay of about 4 min and was not reversed when TTP was washed out. A possible explanation is that the channel has been irreversibly phosphorylated by TTP. The channel open probability (Po) shows a bell-shaped behavior as a function of pipette potential (Vp). Po is maximal for −25 mV<Vp<10 mV and steeply decreases outside this potential range. From reversal potentials, permeability ratios of PCl/ PNa = 20 and PCl/Pgluconate = 3 were estimated. ATP (5 mm) at the cytoplasmic side of the channel decreased the mean single channel conductance by about 50%, but thiamine derivatives did not affect unit conductance; 4,4′ -diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2′-disulfonic acid (0.1 mm) increased the flickering of the channel between the open and closed state, finally leading to its closure. Addition of oxythiamine (1 mm), a thiamine antimetabolite, to the pipette filling solution potentiates the time-dependent inactivation of the channel at Vp=−20 mV but had the opposite effect at +30 mV. This finding corresponds to a shift of Po towards more negative resting membrane potentials. These observations agree with our previous results showing a modulation of chloride permeability by thiamine derivatives in membrane vesicles from rat brain.
Kinetic as well as thermodynamic considerations favour the idea that the change in sodium conductance explaining the action potential, must result from a bimolecular reaction system. The fact that thiamine phosphorylated derivatives are associated with the specific protein forming the sodium channel could well mean that these thiamine derivatives and more specifically thiamine triphosphate are directly involved in the conductance change.
The analysis of the steady-state kinetics of the thiamine triphosphate ester hydrolysis reaction catalyzed by homogeneous thiamine triphosphatase (EC 3.6.1.28; thiamine triphosphate phosphohydrolase) from bovine brain enables us to suggest, that the ThTP binding to the catalytic site of the ThTPase active centre takes place by the phosphate radical. The correct orientation of the substrate molecule occurs by means of the contact of the thiamine component. The crucial role in this process belong to the amino group of the pyrimidine ring and hydrophobic forces. The quaternary nitrogen of thiazole is important for the hydrolytic splitting of the substrate. The hydrolysis of thiamine triphosphate ester occurs through the formation of the ternary enzyme-substrate complex, with the Mg2+ and Mg.ThTP adding being random.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the separation of thiamine phosphoric esters on Sephadex cation exchanger. The main problem in estimating thiamine phosphoric esters in biological material is their quantitative separation. Separating these pure compounds from their mixture presents no difficulties. Several methods are available, and the more suitable appear to be electrophoresis on cellulose polyacetate strips and chromatography on various ion-exchange resins. However, high concentrations of inorganic salts and other impurities complicate greatly the separation of thiamine compounds by the above-mentioned methods. Using a Sephadex ion-exchange column, it is possible to achieve a simultaneous purification of substances and their separation by molecular dimensions and charges of their ionic forms. The major purpose of this method is to obtain a sharp separation of thiamine triphosphate (TTP) and thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP); thiamine monophosphate (TMP) isolation as known presents no difficulties. The thiamine esters of tissue are calculated on the basis of the molecular weight of each compound and expressed in microgram per gram of tissue.
The distribution of thiamine-binding and thiamine triphosphatase activity typical of thiamine-binding proteins was studied in intracellular structures of rats liver and kidneys. It was found that the fraction of microsomes has the highest rate of specific thiamine-binding activity amide fractions of subcellular structures that was isolated using differential centrifugation in the both organs. Hydrolysis of thiamine triphosphate (pH 7.4) was also extremely active in these structures. The results of our research allow to make a conclusion that subcellular structures precipitated as fraction of microsomes (endoplasmic reticulum and vesicled parts of plasma membranes) are the sites of the most probable localisation of thiamine-binding proteins of liver and kidneys.
Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was used to investigate the relation of the soluble thiamine triphosphatase activity of various rat tissues to other phosphatases. This technique separated the thiamine triphosphatase of rat brain, heart, kidney, liver, lung, muscle and spleen from alkaline phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.1), acid phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.2) and other nonspecific phosphatase activities. In contrast, the hydrolytic activity for thiamine triphosphate in rat intestine moved identically with alkaline phosphatase in gel electrophoresis. Thiamine triphosphatase from rat liver and brain was also separated from alkaline phosphatase and acid phosphatase by gel chromatography on Sephadex G-100. This gave an apparent molecular weight of about 30,000 and a Stokes radius of 2.5 nanometers for brain and liver thiamine triphosphatase. The intestinal thiamine triphosphatase activity of the rat was eluted from the Sephadex G-100 column as two separate peaks (with apparent molecular weights of over 200,000 and 123,000) which exactly corresponded to the peaks of alkaline phosphatase. The isoelectric point (pI) of the brain thiamine triphosphatase was 4.6 (4 degrees C). The partially purified thiamine triphosphatase from brain and liver was highly specific for thiamine triphosphate. The results suggest that, apart from the intestine, the rat tissues studied contain a specific enzyme, thiamine triphosphatase (EC 3.6.1.28). The specific enzyme is responsible for most of the thiamine triphosphatase activity in these tissues. Rat intestine contains a high thiamine triphosphatase activity but all of it appears to be due to alkaline phosphatase.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the procedure for assay of thiamine and its phosphate esters. The procedure is a modification of existing methods for electrophoretic separation and subsequent fluorometric determination of thiamine compounds. The advantage of the method lies in both its speed of separation of the compounds and its sensitivity. The chapter describes the separation of thiamine and its phosphate esters on Sepraphore II and illustrates the relationship between fluorescent units and concentration of thiamine triphosphate.
Thiamine (vitamin B1) is a precursor of the well-known coenzyme of central metabolic pathways thiamine diphosphate (ThDP). Highly intense glucose oxidation in the brain requires ThDP-dependent enzymes, which determines the critical significance of thiamine for neuronal functions. However, thiamine can also act through the non-coenzyme mechanisms. The well-known facilitation of acetylcholinergic neurotransmission upon the thiamine and acetylcholine co-release into the synaptic cleft has been supported by the discovery of thiamine triphosphate (ThTP)-dependent phosphorylation of the acetylcholine receptor-associated protein rapsyn, and thiamine interaction with the TAS2R1 receptor, resulting in the activation of synaptic ion currents. The non-coenzyme regulatory binding of thiamine compounds has been demonstrated for the transcriptional regulator p53, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, prion protein PRNP, and a number of key metabolic enzymes that do not use ThDP as a coenzyme. The accumulated data indicate that the molecular mechanisms of the neurotropic action of thiamine are far broader than it has been originally believed, and closely linked to the metabolism of thiamine and its derivatives in animals. The significance of this topic has been illustrated by the recently established competition between thiamine and the antidiabetic drug metformin for common transporters, which can be the reason for the thiamine deficiency underlying metformin side effects. Here, we also discuss the medical implications of the research on thiamine, including the role of thiaminases in thiamine reutilization and biosynthesis of thiamine antagonists; molecular mechanisms of action of natural and synthetic thiamine antagonists, and biotransformation of pharmacological forms of thiamine. Given the wide medical application of thiamine and its synthetic forms, these aspects are of high importance for medicine and pharmacology, including the therapy of neurodegenerative diseases.
Children with chronic metabolic acidosis should be investigated to determine the presence of an organic acid, especially when the plasma electrolyte profile shows a deficiency of anion. One of the organic acids that should be looked for in such a patient is lactic acid. Lactic acidosis due to tissue hypoxia is a well-known phenomenon (e.g., in shock and cardiopulmonary disease) and has not been discussed in this essay; nor has lactic acidosis due to exogenous causes like infusion of fructose or sorbitol, or admiministration of phenformin. Chronic lactic acidosis in infancy is a rare condition. It may be associated with glycogen storage disease Type 1, fructose diphosphatase deficiency, methylmalonic acidemia, propionic acidemia, pyruvate carboxylase or dehydrogenase deficiency and Leigh's subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy (SNE). Some patients with chronic lactic acidosis do not have nay of these diseases and comprise an "idiopathic" group. This is a heterogeneous group, probably having several different causes for the metabolic error. In Leigh's SNE, a metabolic block in the formation of thiamine triphosphate in brain has been demonstrated and has been attributed to the presence of an inhibitor of thiamine pyrophosphate-adenosine triphosphate (TPP-ATP) phosphoryl transferase in body fluids. The inhibitor has also been encountered in cases of intermittent cerebellar ataxia and of primary hypoventilation (Ondine's curse), which may represent variants of Leigh's disease. Increased blood levels of lactate, pyruvate and alanine frequently are encountered in SNE, but it still is not clear whether they are due to a primary or secondary disturbance in the catabolism of pyruvate. Disturbed lactate and pyruvate metabolism has also been encountered in isolated cases of mental retardation and growth failure, in mitochondrial myopathies and in polyneuropathies, and may be expected to occur in Wernicke's encephalopathy. Finally, it has been noted in malignancy and in association with other rare metabolic disorders.
The conditions were developed for preparative isolation of thiamine triphosphate (TTP) from a mixture of phosphoric acid esters of thiamine (PET) (40-80 mg thiamine). The Dowex 1 x 4 resin (acetate form) and triethylammonium acetate (TEAA), pH 4.5 as an eluent were used. The employment of volatile TEAA instead of acetate buffer facilitates the obtaining of concentrated TTP preparations and their subsequent identification. This method is successfully used for purification of commercial cocarboxylase preparations (TDP) (80 mg by PET). In comparison with electrophoresis and paper chromatography, the preparative isolation of TTP and TDP by the ion-exchange chromagraphic method is less laborious and permits larger amounts of PET to be separated for a single run.
Thiamine, also referred to as thiamin and vitamin B1, is a water-soluble and colorless vitamin with a characteristic odor and slightly bitter taste [1] . Thiamine was first discovered by two Dutch chemists, Dr. B. C. P. Jansen and his closest collaborator Dr. W. Donath in 1926, and it was isolated, purified, and synthesized by Dr. R. R. Williams in 1936 [2] . Thiamine is an essential micronutrient for humans, which is supplied from a diet rich in thiamine [3] . Thiamine is enriched in lean pork, beef, wheat germ and whole grains, organ meats, eggs, fish, legumes, and nuts [4] . In humans, thiamine exists in four forms: unphosphorylated thiamine, thiamine monophosphate, thiamine diphosphate, and thiamine triphosphate [5] . Thiamine plays an essential role for life and health for humans since thiamine derivatives and thiamine-dependent enzymes play a key role in cell metabolism [6, 7] .
The current work is aimed at understanding the structure and functionality of thiamine binding protein (TBP) in neural cells plasma membranes. The influence of thiamine triphosphate on thiamine binding by TBP in synaptic plasma membranes (SPM) isolated from the rat brain was investigated. It was shown that thiamine triphosphate inhibits thiamine binding activity of SPM in concurrent manner (K(i) = 1.0 +/- 0.3 microM). At the same time thiamine had no effect on thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase) activity at the concentration range 0.5-20 microM. Otherwise, ThTPase activation with the maximum at the concentration about 2.5 microM was observed. Further, the influence of classic thiamine antagonists (amprolium, oxythiamine and pyrithiamine) on both biological activities of TBP in SPM was studied. The IC50 value for inhibition of thiamine binding on SPM by amprolium comprised 50 +/- 4.0 microM. Still, this antagonist had no effect on ThTPase activity. For the oxythiamine inhibition of both TBP activities was detected. The values of IC50 were 125 +/- 28 and 1000 +/- 95 microM for thiamine binding and ThTPase activity, respectively. The values of IC50 for thiamine binding and ThTPase activity inhibition differed by more than one order of magnitude and comprised 2.2 +/- 0.2 and 43 +/- 9 microM, respectively. The obtained data indicate that the active sites on SPM responsible for thiamine binding and ThTPase activity have different sensitivity to thiamine antagonists. Our results allow us to suppose that different active protein sites are responsible for the specific binding and for thiamine phosphates hydrolysis by TBP of synaptic membranes.
BACKGROUND ::: Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is present in most organisms and might be involved in intracellular signaling. In mammalian cells, the cytosolic ThTP level is controlled by a specific thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase), belonging to the CYTH superfamily of proteins. CYTH proteins are present in all superkingdoms of life and act on various triphosphorylated substrates. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Using crystallography, mass spectrometry and mutational analysis, we identified the key structural determinants of the high specificity and catalytic efficiency of mammalian ThTPase. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Triphosphate binding requires three conserved arginines while the catalytic mechanism relies on an unusual lysine-tyrosine dyad. By docking of the ThTP molecule in the active site, we found that Trp-53 should interact with the thiazole part of the substrate molecule, thus playing a key role in substrate recognition and specificity. Sea anemone and zebrafish CYTH proteins, which retain the corresponding Trp residue, are also specific ThTPases. Surprisingly, the whole chromosome region containing the ThTPase gene is lost in birds. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The specificity for ThTP is linked to a stacking interaction between the thiazole heterocycle of thiamine and a tryptophan residue. The latter likely plays a key role in the secondary acquisition of ThTPase activity in early metazoan CYTH enzymes, in the lineage leading from cnidarians to mammals. ::: ::: ::: GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE ::: We show that ThTPase activity is not restricted to mammals as previously thought but is an acquisition of early metazoans. This, and the identification of critically important residues, allows us to draw an evolutionary perspective of the CYTH family of proteins.
Abstract 1. 1. The activities of 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase, transketolase, thiamine pyrophosphokinase and thiamine triphosphatase and the concentrations of thiamine phosphates were almost the same between rat extensor digitorum longus and soleus muscles at 2 weeks of age. 2. 2. These enzyme activities changed after 3 weeks of age in a different way depending on the muscle phenotype. 3. 3. Thiamine diphosphate level and the activity of 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase increased only in soleus muscle and thiamine triphosphate level increased only in extensor digitorum longus during development.
In most organisms, the main form of thiamine is the coenzyme thiamine diphosphate. Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is also found in low amounts in most vertebrate tissues and can phosphorylate certain proteins. Here we show that ThTP exists not only in vertebrates but is present in bacteria, fungi, plants and invertebrates. Unexpectedly, we found that in Escherichia coli as well as in Arabidopsis thaliana, ThTP was synthesized only under particular circumstances such as hypoxia (E. coli) or withering (A. thaliana). In mammalian tissues, ThTP concentrations are regulated by a specific thiamine triphosphatase that we have recently characterized. This enzyme was found only in mammals. In other organisms, ThTP can be hydrolyzed by unspecific phosphohydrolases. The occurrence of ThTP from prokaryotes to mammals suggests that it may have a basic role in cell metabolism or cell signaling. A decreased content may contribute to the symptoms observed during thiamine deficiency.
Thiamine (vitamin B1) is a key primary metabolite for viability of all organisms. Its active form thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) is a crucial co-enzyme of pyruvate dehydrogenase, a-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and transketolase. Thiamine triphosphate (TTP) is an important regulatory factor of vertebrate neuronal activity. In the natural world, only prokaryotes, fungi and plants are thiamine prototrophs; mammals lost the capacity for de novo thiamine synthesis, and it must be obtained from dietary sources such as cereal grains, leafy green vegetables and fruits. Deficiency of thiamine disturbs the central nervous and circulatory systems and causes beriberi disease (Buridick 1998 , Nosaka 2006 . In plants, Tunc-Ozdemir et al. (2009) observed that thiamine is able to enhance tolerance to oxidative stress during different abiotic stress conditions. More recently, it was reported that thiamine was required for shoot meristem maintenance of maize (Woodward et al. 2010) . However, thiamine biosynthesis in plants is not well elucidated. Current understanding of thiamine biosynthesis relies primarily on genetic and biochemical studies in microorganisms, such as Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The de novo synthesis of thiamine is a complex, highly regulated pathway. The thiazole and pyrimidine moieties of thiamine are synthesized separately and then coupled to form thiamine monophosphate (TMP), which is further phosphorylated to TPP and TTP (Begley et al. 1999 , Allen et al. 2002 , Morett et al. 2003 . In bacteria, 12 gene products distributed across 11 enzymatic steps are required for thiamine synthesis (Rodionov et al. 2002) . Biosynthesis of the thiazole moiety requires five gene products (ThiF, ThiS, ThiG, ThiH and ThiI) and uses 1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate, tyrosine and cysteine as the primary substrates (Park et al. 2003) . For synthesis of the pyrimidine unit, researchers recently clarified that THIC was responsible for the reaction of AIR (5 0 -aminoimidazole ribonucleotide) with AdoMet (S-adenosyl methionine) to produce HMP-P (4-amino-5-hydroxymethyl-2-methylpyrimidine phosphate) (Chatterjee et al. 2008) . In S. cerevisiae, 15 THI genes are involved in thiamine biosynthesis (Nosaka 2006) . Thiazole biosynthesis requires a single enzyme THI4 and uses NAD, glycine and an unknown sulfur source (Chatterjee et al. 2007 ). HMP-P is formed via condensing pyridoxine with histidine with catalysis by the THI5 enzyme (Maundrell 1990) .
Vitamin B1 is essential to all living organisms, as thiamine diphosphate (TDP) acts as a coenzyme for many enzymes involved in central metabolic processes. However, the term vitamin B1 does not only refer to the active coenzyme TDP, but describes a family of thiamine related molecules, i.e. thiamine, thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine triphosphate (TTP), adenosine thiamine diphosphate (ATDP) and adenosine thiamine triphosphate (ATTP) which differ in the number of phosphate residues and adenylyl moieties. The main aim of this study was to characterize triphosphorylated thiamine compounds in plants and the plant model, Arabidopsis thaliana. The findings of TTP, such as detection only in aerial tissues, diurnal oscillation, light induction and dependence on photosynthesis together with the generation of TTP depleted transgenic plants should help to further elucidate the role of these compounds in Arabidopsis.
(57) Abstract: The present invention, phosphoric acid and monophosphate thiamine, diphosphate thiamine triphosphate thiamine and phosphate from a solution containing a higher order phosphates thiamine triphosphate thiamine and higher It relates to a method of separating a phosphate thiamine. The present invention is, that the phosphoric acid solution of phosphoric acid thiamine, through a non-ionic adsorbent upper resin containing an unsaturated cyclic nitrogen bases, eluting with a suitable solvent monophosphate thiamine and diphosphate thiamine the features.
Abstract Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is found at low concentrations in most animal tissues, and recent data suggest that it may act as a phosphate donor for the phosphorylation of some proteins. In the mammalian brain, ThTP synthesis is rapid, but its steady-state concentration remains low, presumably because of rapid hydrolysis. In this report we purified a soluble thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase; EC3.6.1.28) from calf brain. The bovine ThTPase is a 24-kDa monomer, hydrolyzing ThTP with virtually absolute specificity. Partial sequence data obtained from the purified bovine enzyme by tandem mass spectrometry were used to search the GenBankTM data base. A significant identity was found with only one human sequence, the hypothetical 230-amino acid protein MGC2652. The coding regions from human and bovine brain mRNA were amplified by reverse transcription-PCR, cloned in Escherichia coli, and sequenced. The human open reading frame was expressed in E. coli as a GST fusion protein. Transformed bacteria had a high isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside-inducible ThTPase activity. The recombinant ThTPase had properties similar to those of human brain ThTPase, and it was specific for ThTP. The mRNA was expressed in most human tissues but at relatively low levels. This is the first report of a molecular characterization of a specific ThTPase.
1. The action of thiamine and related compounds on the isolated heart of clam (Meretrix meretrix lusoria) was investigated.2. S-benzoylthiamine (SBT) and thiamine propyl disulfide (TPD) among these related compounds displayed a very remarkable positive inotropic action, whereas thiamine, acetylthiamine, thiamine diphosphate, thiamine triphosphate, benzoylthiamine monophosphate and ATP did not practically display any clear action.3. SBT and TPD showed a remarkable antagonistic action against the negative inotropic action of acetylcholine, but have no effect on the action of 5-hydroxytryptamine.4. The positive inotropic action of SBT and TPD was retained in K-free medium, but it completely disappeared in Na-free or Cafree medium. When more or less Na+ or Ca2+ was present in the medium, the action of SBT and TPD appeared as in the normal medium.5. The positive inotropic action of SBT and TPD, therefore, is believed to be closely related to the transport system of the cellular membrane of the clam heart muscle, in which Na+ and Ca2+ are involved.
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is found at low concentrations in most animal tissues, and recent data suggest that it may act as a phosphate donor for the phosphorylation of some proteins. In the mammalian brain, ThTP synthesis is rapid, but its steady-state concentration remains low, presumably because of rapid hydrolysis. In this report we purified a soluble thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase; EC 3.6.1.28) from calf brain. The bovine ThTPase is a 24-kDa monomer, hydrolyzing ThTP with virtually absolute specificity. Partial sequence data obtained from the purified bovine enzyme by tandem mass spectrometry were used to search the GenBank TM data base. A significant identity was found with only one human sequence, the hypothetical 230-amino acid protein MGC2652. The coding regions from human and bovine brain mRNA were amplified by reverse transcription-PCR, cloned in Escherichia coli, and sequenced. The human open reading frame was expressed in E. coli as a GST fusion protein. Transformed bacteria had a high isopropyl-␤-D-thiogalactopyranoside-inducible ThTPase activity. The recombinant ThTPase had properties similar to those of human brain ThTPase, and it was specific for ThTP. The mRNA was expressed in most human tissues but at relatively low levels. This is the first report of a molecular characterization of a specific ThTPase.
Abstract Thiamine triphosphate is hydrolyzed by a specific triphosphatase in subcellular fractions of rat brain. This enzyme differs from nucleoside triphosphatases in (1) its subcellular distribution pattern; (2) its susceptibility to inhibition by Ca 2+ ; (3) its activation by sodium deoxycholate; (4) its failure to be affected by known inhibitors of other triphosphatases. The specific activity of the thiamine triphosphatase is as high as that of Mg 2+ -activated ATPase.
The possibility of thiamine phosphates to participate in the regulation of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex activity on the level of isolated mitochondria is studied. It is shown that an increase in the thiamine diphosphate concentration in incubation medium produces no significant changes in the pyruvate dehydrogenase activity of mitochondria. The pyruvate dehydrogenase activity decreases when mitochondria are incubated with thiamine triphosphate or ATP under different conditions. Thiamine triphosphate is not able to replace ATP in kinase reaction of the isolated complex, but it inhibits reactivation of the complex with exogenase phosphatase; under the same conditions thiamine diphosphate activates phosphatase. Analysis of these data leads to conclusion that under native conditions an increase of the intramitochondrial thiamine triphosphate concentration can produce a drop in the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex activity by inhibition of the phosphatase reaction.
In the present ::: paper thiamine, and its thiamine phosphates thiamine monophosphate, thiamine diphosphate and thiamine triphosphate were analysed in the grain species wheat (Triticum aestivum, Dekan), rye (Secale cereale, ::: Agronom), triticale (Triticosecale, SW Talentro), ::: oat (Avena sativa, Dominik) and barley ::: (Hordeum vulgare, Merlot). The analyses were performed during the corn formation phase at ::: different development stages from the beginning of the spike development to ::: the mature grain. Furthermore analyses in various yeasts of the genus Saccharomyces cerevisiae ::: like fresh bakery yeast, dry bakery yeast, fresh brewer´s ::: yeast and brewer´s yeast flakes were ::: performed. For the determination in ::: fresh pork meat (30 min post mortem) as well as during storage for up to 9 ::: days (216 h) a modified enzymatic digestion was performed in parallel for the ::: same pork meat sample. This method led to improved results compared to the § ::: 64 LFGB method. For the ::: simultaneous determination of thiamine and thiamine phosphates a newly ::: developed solid phase extraction and a new HPLC method were used. The ::: application of these new methods it was possible for the first time a ::: concurrent purification of thiamine and thiamine phosphates in complex grain ::: matrices as well as in yeast and pork meat matrices. For the solid phase ::: extraction a C-18-Saule was combined with a SAX-column and for the HPLC ::: method a C-8-column was combined with a NH2 column. These ::: combinations result in a reversed sequence of retention. Due to this thiochrome ::: is retarded as first substance and the higher thiochrome ::: phosphates are visible in the chromatogram without interfering peaks. The limit of detection for ::: thiamine is 0.3 ng/mL, for ::: thiamine monophosphate 0.5 ng/mL ::: and for thiamine diphosphate it is 0.9 ng/mL. ::: In ::: triticale, oat, barley, wheat and rye the thiamine and thiamine phosphate ::: contents were analysed at different times during the ripening. In all ::: analysed samples no thiamine triphosphate was ::: detect. Only thiamine, thiamine monophosphate and ::: thiamine diphosphate in different concentrations ::: were determined in the grain samples. The course and spreading of the ::: thiamine compounds were similar in all grain species. In all grain samples a ::: certain percentage of thiamine diphosphate is ::: present at the beginning, which is declining during the ripening of the corn. ::: This percentage varies between 16,5 % in triticale ::: and 46,9 % in oat. ::: Thiamine phosphate is present at a percentage of 1,2 ::: % in barley up to 13,6 % in oat at the beginning of the analyses. At the end ::: of the analyses nearly only free thiamine with a percentage of 97 % on ::: average was present in all grain species. A minor percentage of thiamine ::: phosphate is still present in some cases. Thiamine monophosphate ::: could not be detected any more at the ripeness of the grains. A specific ::: characteristic could be shown for rye and wheat during the growth and ::: ripening. An anew synthesis of thiamine monophosphate ::: happened for wheat at a solids content of 56,79 % ::: and for rye at a solids content of 87,85 %. Typically the ripe corn passes over to the stadium ::: of dormancy and mobilizes the resources during the next germination. At this point in time climatic ::: conditions must have been present which influenced this process and initiate ::: the synthesis of thiamine monophosphate in the ::: grain plant. The relevance of thiamine monophosphate ::: for the metabolism is not definitely clarified yet. Probably it is like in ::: the animal organism a precursor molecule for the synthesis of thiamine and ::: thiamine diphosphate which is a coenzyme. It can be summarized that the new methods ::: for thiamine analysis can as well reliably be used for the analysis of ::: thiamine compounds in a variety of grain species. A decrease of the thiamine ::: content like in pork meat during the alteration of the phosphorylation ::: level was not observed in grains. The ::: total thiamine content was nearly constant (with slight deviations) during ::: the growth of the grains related to dry solids. Only in triticale a reduction ::: of the thiamine content during the ripening was detected. With this method it ::: was possible for the first time to establish a sum of the developing thiamine ::: compounds in grain. In yeasts ::: the developed method for the analysis of thiamine resulted in a good ::: separation of the thiamine compounds from the complex matrix of the samples. ::: The determination of the thiamine compounds was possible within a short ::: duration. The ::: thiamine content in fresh bakery yeast was 10 times higher and the content in ::: brewer´s yeast was 3 times higher compared to the ::: contents mentioned in literature references. In the yeast samples the presence of thiamine triphosphate was detected. In brewer´s ::: yeast flakes a further unknown substance was detected. Up to now it was not ::: possible to identify this substance. In fresh ::: meat the main content of thiamine phosphate esters consisted of thiamine triphosphate and besides that an unknown substance was ::: detected, possibly thiamine tetraphosphate / ::: adenosine thiamine triphosphate. The samples of ::: pork meat were analysed by using an enzymatically ::: modified § 64 LFGB method and the total thiamine content (unphosphorylated ::: thiamine) was determined. These results were compared with the results of the ::: determinations of the single thiamine compounds. The modification of the ::: analytical method by using an enzyme combination results in a higher release ::: of spare thiamine of up to 40 %. All samples were tested for the presence and content of the thiamine ::: compounds as well as the resulting total thiamine content. In freshly ::: slaughtered pork meat a further thiamine compound after the retention of ::: thiamine triphosphate was detected regularly. It is ::: assumed due to the kinetic chemical fate that this compound might be thiamine ::: tertraphosphate or Adenosinthiamintriphosphat (AThTP). ::: The results confirm the suspicion, that thiamine phosphate esters ::: transformation into a non extractable protein-binding form.
Leigh's Encephalopathy (SNE) is still an incompletely defined CNS disorder affecting children. Recent studies of muscle in two male children, ages 7 months and 4 years (at the onset) revealed previously undescribed histological and histo-chemical changes. There were two distinctly separate populations of muscle fibers, large polygonal type I fibers and and small polygonal type I and II. Each type I large fiber was surrounded by several small type I and II fibers in an orderly pattern throughout all of the muscle fascicles. There were rare large type II fibers. The histological changes were identical in both infants. The youngest infant died at nine months as did a sibling two years previously following a similar course of degeneration. Muscle was obtained at autopsy from the left pectoralis major. The second child developed progressive neurological deterioration at four years and is still alive. Muscle was obtained by biopsy of the left deltoid. During life both patients and parents showed urinary inhibition of TPP while brain tissue analysis (patient no. 1) for thiamine and thiamine triphosphate (J. Murphy, Pittsburgh) was reduced as reported in SNE. Studies also showed progressive EEG deterioration, mild biochemical derangements in alaninepyruvate-lactate levels and normal CSF protein. These studies of muscle suggest another component to SNE and a possible method of diagnostic confirmation.
Leigh's syndrome is characterized by symmetrical lesions in the brain, especially in the stem. Reported biochemical abnormalities are liver pyruvate carboxylase (PC) deficiency and thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) deficiency in the brain. We are using rats put from the time of conception on a biotin-poor, avidin-rich diet as a possible animal model for Leigh's syndrome. In rats fed a normal diet liver PC activity rises steep after birth with a maximum between 2 and 3 days. From day 3 on the activity decreases to a minimum reached at day 9, followed by an increases to the adult level which is reached at day 20. PC activity of the liver of biotin deficient young rats is lowered for more than 80%. PC in the brain of normal rats, shows a highest activity in the brainstem. After birth the activity of PC of total brain rises slowly to a maximum which is reached between 30 and 32 days, contrary to the activity in the brainstem, which shows maxima during the periods 20-22 and 36-38 days. PC activity in the brain of biotin deficient rats is inactivated from 60 to 70 %. Thiamine concentrations in liver and brain of biotin deficient rats hardly differs from normal rats. There is no deficiency of ThTP in the brain or in the liver of biotin deficient rats, which show, especially after fasting, a marked lactic acidosis and hypoglycemia.
The conditions were developed for preparative isolation of thiamine triphosphate (TTP) from a mixture of phosphoric acid esters of thiamine (PET) (40-80 mg thiamine). The Dowex 1 x 4 resin (acetate form) and triethylammonium acetate (TEAA), pH 4.5 as an eluent were used. The employment of volatile TEAA instead of acetate buffer facilitates the obtaining of concentrated TTP preparations and their subsequent identification. This method is successfully used for purification of commercial cocarboxylase preparations (TDP) (80 mg by PET). In comparison with electrophoresis and paper chromatography, the preparative isolation of TTP and TDP by the ion-exchange chromagraphic method is less laborious and permits larger amounts of PET to be separated for a single run.
In animals, thiamine deficiency leads to specific brain lesions, generally attributed to decreased levels of thiamine diphosphate, an essential cofactor in brain energy metabolism. However, another far less abundant derivative, thiamine triphosphate (ThTP), may also have a neuronal function. Here, we show that in the rat brain, ThTP is essentially present and synthesized in mitochondria. In mitochondrial preparations from brain (but not liver), ThTP can be produced from thiamine diphosphate and Pi. This endergonic process is coupled to the oxidation of succinate or NADH through the respiratory chain but cannot be energized by ATP hydrolysis. ThTP synthesis is strongly inhibited by respiratory chain inhibitors, such as myxothiazol and inhibitors of the H+ channel of F0F1-ATPase. It is also impaired by disruption of the mitochondria or by depolarization of the inner membrane (by protonophores or valinomycin), indicating that a proton-motive force (Δp) is required. Collapsing Δp after ThTP synthesis causes its rapid disappearance, suggesting that both synthesis and hydrolysis are catalyzed by a reversible H+-translocating ThTP synthase. The synthesized ThTP can be released from mitochondria in the presence of external Pi. However, ThTP probably does not accumulate in the cytoplasm in vivo, because it is not detected in the cytosolic fraction obtained from a brain homogenate. Our results show for the first time that a high energy triphosphate compound other than ATP can be produced by a chemiosmotic type of mechanism. This might shed a new light on our understanding of the mechanisms of thiamine deficiency-induced brain lesions.
In animals, thiamine deficiency leads to specific brain lesions, generally attributed to decreased levels of thiamine diphosphate (ThDP), an essential cofactor in brain energy metabolism. However, another far less abundant derivative, thiamine triphosphate (ThTP), may also have a neuronal function. Here, we show that in the rat brain ThTP is essentially present and synthesized in mitochondria. In mitochondrial preparations from brain (but not liver), ThTP can be produced from ThDP and inorganic phosphate (P i ). This endergonic process is coupled to the oxidation of succinate or NADH through the respiratory chain but cannot be energized by ATP hydrolysis. ThTP synthesis is strongly inhibited by respiratory chain inhibitors such as myxothiazol and inhibitors of the H + channel of F 0 F 1 -ATPase. It is also impaired by disruption of the mitochondria or by depolarization of the inner membrane (by protonophores or valinomycin), indicating that a proton-motive force (Δp) is required. Collapsing Δp after ThTP synthesis causes its rapid disappearance, suggesting that both synthesis and hydrolysis are catalyzed by a reversible H + -translocating ThTP synthase. The synthesized ThTP can be released from mitochondria in the presence of external P i . However, ThTP probably does not accumulate in the cytoplasm in vivo, as it is not detected in the cytosolic fraction obtained from a brain homogenate. Our results show for the first time that a high-energy triphosphate compound other than ATP can be produced by a chemiosmotic type of mechanism. This might shed a new light on our understanding of the mechanisms of thiamine deficiency-induced brain lesions.
In brain, as in most other mammalian tissues, ThDP is the most abundant thiamine derivative, amounting to 80-90% of total thiamine, but several other thiamine derivatives such as ThTP might play physiological roles (3, 4) . Recently, we discovered the first thiamine adenine nucleotide, adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP), that is accumulated in E. coli during carbon starvation (5). AThTP is also present in mammalian tissues. Furthermore, another adenine thiamine nucleotide, adenosine thiamine diphosphate (AThDP), seems to exist, at least in liver (6). Though ThTP is found in most organisms, from bacteria to mammals, it exists only in small amounts (0.1 -1% of total thiamine) in animal tissues (7) but much higher amounts of ThTP are found in E. coli during amino acid starvation (8) .
Summary Analytical results for thiamine and its phosphate esters are dependent on the purity of the standard solutions prepared from these materials. Our sources of reagents were Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd., Osaka, Japan, and Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO, USA. The purity of thiamine and its phosphate esters in 0.1 mol/L HCl were based on the published absorptivities of these materials at 248 nm. Thiamine from Wako gave 100.9% purity, and the same from Sigma gave 96.8% purity. Thiamine monophosphate (anhydrate and dihydrate) from Sigma and thiamine triphosphate from Wako all showed > 82% purity. Thiamine diphosphate from Wako was > 86.0% pure, and the same from Sigma was > 81.5% pure, p < 0.05.
Abstract Thiamine pyrophosphate-ATP phosphoryltransferase, the enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of thiamine triphosphate, has been found in the supernatant fraction of rat liver. The substrate for the enzyme is endogenous, bound thiamine pyrophosphate, since the addition of exogenous thiamine pyrophosphate had no effect. Thus, when a rat liver supernatant was incubated with γlabelled [32P] ATP, thiamine [32P] triphosphate was formed whereas the incubation of thiamine [32P] pyrophosphate with ATP did not produce thiamine [32P]. triphosphate. The endogenous thiamine pyrophosphate was found to be bound to a high molecular weight protein which comes out in the void volume of Sephadex G-75, and is not dialyzable. The activity that catalyzes the formation of thiamine triphosphate has an optimum pH between 6 and 6.5, a linear time course of thiamine triphosphate synthesis up to 30 min, and is not affected by Ca2+, cyclic GMP and sulfhydryl reagents.
The main electric organ of Electrophorus electricus is particularly rich in thiamine triphosphate, which represents 87% of the total thiamine content in this tissue. The thiamine pyrophosphate concentration, however, is very low in the eel electric organ and skeletal muscle as compared with other eel or rat tissues. Furthermore, electroplax membranes contain a whole set of enzymes responsible for the dephosphorylation of thiamine tri-, pyro- and monophosphate. Thiamine triphosphatase has a pH optimum of 6.8 and is dependent on Mg2+. The real substrate of the enzyme is probably a 1:1 complex of Mg2+ and thiamine triphosphate. Thiamine pyrophosphatase is activated by Ca2+. The apparent Km for thiamine triphosphate and Vmax are found to be, respectively, 1.76 mM and 5.95 nmol/mg of protein/min. Thiamine triphosphatase activity is inhibited at physiological K+ concentrations (up to 90 mM) and increasing Na+ concentrations (50% inhibition at 300 mM). ZnCl2 (10 mM) inhibits 90% of the enzyme activity. ATP and ITP are also strongly inhibitory. No significant effect of neurotoxins is seen. Membrane-associated thiamine triphosphatase is affected differently by proteolytic enzymes and is partially inactivated by pretreatment with phospholipase C and neuraminidase. The physiological significance of thiamine triphosphatase is discussed in relation to a specific role of thiamine in the nervous system.
SYNOPSIS Analysis offive brains frompatients withLeigh's disease demonstrates anaccumulation ofthiamine pyrophosphate anda deficiency ofthiamine triphosphate. Theenzyme which converts thiamine pyrophosphate tothiamine triphosphate was normally active intwoofthese brains, suggesting thattheinhibitor foundinLeigh's disease isprobably producing theobserved neurochemical changes. Reasons forthehistological similarity between Leigh's andWernicke's diseases are suggested. Leigh's disease, subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy, isarecessively inherited disorder afflicting children ofallages(Pincus, 1972). The clinical findings arenonspecific andthediagnosis ismadebyfindingthe typical pathological changes inthebrain ofthepatient orthebrain ofa similarly afflicted sibling (Montpetit etal., 1971). Twopatients withLeigh's disease havehada deficiency oftheenzyme, pyruvate carboxylase (Hommesetal., 1968; Tangetal., 1972), but this hasnotbeena consistent feature inall patients withthedisease (Grover etal., 1972; Murphy, 1974). A second biochemical feature of Leigh's disease isthepresence ofaninhibitor to thesynthesis ofthiamine triphosphate bybrain (Cooper etal., 1969). Thisinhibitor canbe 1 Thisresearch wassupported byGeneral Research Support grants fromtheNational Institutes ofHealth totheChildren's Hospital of Pittsburgh andtotheUniversity ofPittsburgh School ofMedicine, andbyagrant (HD07465-01) fromtheInstitute ofChildHealth and HumanDevelopment. 2Present address: Milwaukee Children's Hospital, 1700WestWisconsin Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53233, U.S.A. (Accepted 9June1975.)
BACKGROUND ::: Thiamine (vitamin B1) is an essential molecule for all life forms because thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) is an indispensable cofactor for oxidative energy metabolism. The less abundant thiamine monophosphate (ThMP), thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) and adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP), present in many organisms, may have still unidentified physiological functions. Diseases linked to thiamine deficiency (polyneuritis, Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome) remain frequent among alcohol abusers and other risk populations. This is the first comprehensive study on the distribution of thiamine derivatives in human biopsies, body fluids and cell lines. ::: ::: ::: METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS ::: Thiamine derivatives were determined by HPLC. In human tissues, the total thiamine content is lower than in other animal species. ThDP is the major thiamine compound and tissue levels decrease at high age. In semen, ThDP content correlates with the concentration of spermatozoa but not with their motility. The proportion of ThTP is higher in humans than in rodents, probably because of a lower 25-kDa ThTPase activity. The expression and activity of this enzyme seems to correlate with the degree of cell differentiation. ThTP was present in nearly all brain and muscle samples and in ∼60% of other tissue samples, in particular fetal tissue and cultured cells. A low ([ThTP]+[ThMP])/([Thiamine]+[ThMP]) ratio was found in cardiovascular tissues of patients with cardiac insufficiency. AThTP was detected only sporadically in adult tissues but was found more consistently in fetal tissues and cell lines. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE ::: The high sensitivity of humans to thiamine deficiency is probably linked to low circulating thiamine concentrations and low ThDP tissue contents. ThTP levels are relatively high in many human tissues, as a result of low expression of the 25-kDa ThTPase. Another novel finding is the presence of ThTP and AThTP in poorly differentiated fast-growing cells, suggesting a hitherto unsuspected link between these compounds and cell division or differentiation.
Background: Thiamine (vitamin B1) is an essential molecule for all life forms because thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) is an indispensable cofactor for oxidative energy metabolism. The less abundant thiamine monophosphate (ThMP), thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) and adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP), present in many organisms, may have still unidentified physiological functions. Diseases linked to thiamine deficiency (polyneuritis, Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome) remain frequent among alcohol abusers and other risk populations. This is the first comprehensive study on the distribution of thiamine derivatives in human biopsies, body fluids and cell lines.
Recently, we discovered the first thiamine adenine nucleotide, adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP), which accumulates in E. coli during carbon starvation or collapse of the membrane H + gradient [39, 40] . AThTP is also present in mammalian tissues. In E. coli it can be synthesized by a ThDP adenylyl transferase, present in the cytosol [41] , according to the reaction ThDP + ADP O AThTP + P i . In carbon-starved E. coli, it rapidly disappears after addition of glucose [39] , suggesting the presence of an AThTP-hydrolyzing enzyme. Furthermore, another adenine thiamine nucleotide, adenosine thiamine diphosphate (AThDP), exists, at least in mouse and quail liver [42] , but we no information concerning its synthesis or degradation. Interconversion of thiamine derivatives in a model human cell. 1, cytosolic thiamine diphosphokinase (TPK); 2, cytosolic thiamine diphosphatase (also hydrolyzes nucleoside diphosphates); 3, thiamine monophosphatase (hypothetical); 4, mitochondrial membrane-associated ThTP synthase; 5, cytosolic adenylate kinase; 6, cytosolic 25-kDa ThTPase; 7, cytosolic ThDP adenylyl transferase; 8, AThTP hydrolase (hypothetical). The mechanisms of AThDP synthesis and degradation are unknown. Dp, transmembrane H + gradient. Updated from [21] . doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0013616.g001
Introduction Thiamine (vitamin B1) is mainly known for its diphosphorylated derivatives, an essential coenzyme in energy metabolism. However, noncoenzyme roles have been suggested for this vitamin for many years. Such roles have remained hypothetical, but recent data from various sources have shed a new light on this hypothesis. First, other phosphorylated thiamine derivatives, most prominently thiamine triphosphate and adenosine thiamine triphosphate, can reach significant levels in Escherichia coli, respectively, during amino acid starvation and energy stress. Although much less is known about these compounds in animals, mammalian cells contain a highly specific soluble thiamine triphosphatase controlling cytosolic thiamine triphosphate concentrations. Second, there is now growing evidence in favour of the existence of thiamine-binding proteins with specific roles in the nervous system, possibly in the regulation of neurotransmitter release. Thiamine and some of its synthetic precursors with higher bioavailability have beneficial effects in several models of Alzheimer’s disease and may be beneficial for patients suffering from Alzheimer’s or Parkinson’s diseases. These effects might be related to non-coenzyme roles of thiamine, possibly involving thiamine-binding proteins. The aim of this review was to discuss biological
Abstract Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is present in low amounts in most organisms from bacteria to humans, but its biological role remains unknown. Escherichia coli grown aerobically in LB medium contain no detectable amounts of ThTP, but when they are transferred to M9 minimal medium with a substrate such as glucose or pyruvate, there is a rapid but transient accumulation of relatively high amounts of ThTP (about 20% of total thiamine). If a mixture of amino acids is present in addition to glucose, ThTP accumulation is impaired, suggesting that the latter may occur in response to amino acid starvation. To test the importance of ThTP for bacterial growth, we used an E. coli strain overexpressing a specific human recombinant thiamine triphosphatase as a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein (GST-ThTPase). Those bacteria were unable to accumulate measurable amounts of ThTP. On minimal medium supplemented with glucose, pyruvate, or acetate, they exhibited an intermediate plateau in cell growth compared with control bacteria expressing GST alone or a GST fusion protein unrelated to thiamine metabolism. These results suggest that the early accumulation of ThTP initiates a reaction cascade involved in the adaptation of bacteria to stringent conditions such as amino acid starvation. This is the first demonstration of a physiological role of this ubiquitous compound in any organism.
The experiments described in this paper serve as a contribution to the solution of the discrepancies which exist in the assay of ATP:thiamine diphosphate phosphotransferase activity (EC 2.7.4.15), presently in use as a tool for the diagnosis of Leigh's disease (SNE, subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy). The results obtained with this phosphotransferase assay can, in part, be explained by the presence of thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) in the preparation of thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) used as a substrate, by the inhibition by ATP of the ThTP phosphohydrolase activity, present in fractions of rat brain homogenates, and by the stimulation by ThDP of the ATPase activity. When [2-14C-thiazole]thiamine was used for the synthesis of [14C]ThTP in fractions of rat brain, it was found that after chromatographic separation of thiamine and its phosphates,14C radio-activity could be demonstrated in the ThTP fractions, even in the absence of an enzyme source. Probably a complex is formed between [14C]thiamine and a phosphate ester which behaves chromatographically as ThTP. It is concluded that the assay system for the measurement of ThTP synthesis in its present form is, in our hands, not suitable for diagnostic purposes.
Thiamine and its three phosphorylated derivatives (mono-, di- and triphosphate) occur naturally in most cells. Recently, we reported the presence of a fourth thiamine derivative, adenosine thiamine triphosphate, produced in Escherichia coli in response to carbon starvation. Here, we show that the chemical synthesis of adenosine thiamine triphosphate leads to another new compound, adenosine thiamine diphosphate, as a side product. The structure of both compounds was confirmed by MS analysis and 1H-, 13C- and 31P-NMR, and some of their chemical properties were determined. Our results show an upfield shifting of the C-2 proton of the thiazolium ring in adenosine thiamine derivatives compared with conventional thiamine phosphate derivatives. This modification of the electronic environment of the C-2 proton might be explained by a through-space interaction with the adenosine moiety, suggesting U-shaped folding of adenosine thiamine derivatives. Such a structure in which the C-2 proton is embedded in a closed conformation can be located using molecular modeling as an energy minimum. In E. coli, adenosine thiamine triphosphate may account for 15% of the total thiamine under energy stress. It is less abundant in eukaryotic organisms, but is consistently found in mammalian tissues and some cell lines. Using HPLC, we show for the first time that adenosine thiamine diphosphate may also occur in small amounts in E. coli and in vertebrate liver. The discovery of two natural thiamine adenine compounds further highlights the complexity and diversity of thiamine biochemistry, which is not restricted to the cofactor role of thiamine diphosphate.
Indeed, in addition to ThDP and free thiamine, several other phosphorylated and adenylated derivatives are observed ( Figure 2 ): thiamine monophosphate (ThMP), thiamine triphosphate (ThTP), adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP) and adenosine thiamine diphosphate (AThDP) 5, 6 . The existence of such forms in many living cells would suggest that they also have some biological role(s). It is indeed worth wondering why the diphosphorylated form of thiamine is the coenzyme, when the monophosphorylated form would do just as well, as is the case for pyridoxal phosphate for instance. It is indeed true that the diphosphate contributes to the binding energy of apoenzymes, but the catalytic properties of thiamine solely rely on the thiazolium ring's ability to lose a proton and form a reactive ylide ( Figure 1c ). Ylide formation is not influenced by the presence of phosphate groups on the hydroxyethyl arm, and there is no obvious advantage to use ThDP (rather than ThMP or ThTP) as coenzyme.
The pellet was resuspended in a small volume of the homogenizing solution and diluted with 15 vol of0.1 mM EDTA/ Abbreviations: ThPP, thiamine pyrophosphate; ThTP, thiamine triphosphate. * To whom reprint requests should be addressed. 5886
130 related to cellular growth. Next, we investigated the proteome of the thiamine-auxotrophic Y. 131 lipolytica growing in 0 and 400 µg/L thiamine ( Figure 3A) . Across 2 exponential time points, we 132 identified 535 upregulated and 515 downregulated proteins (i.e., log2 fold change > |1|) in 133 response to thiamine deficiency ( Figure 3B ). First, we looked at metabolic enzymes that require 134 TPP as a cofactor including PDH, KGDH, transketolase (TKL), branched chain α-ketoacid 135 dehydrogenase (BCKDC) and acetolactate synthase (AHAS) ( Supplementary Table S1 ). 136 Interestingly, all proteins encoding subunits (E1-E3) of BCKDC were upregulated in thiamine 137 depletion ( Supplementary Table S1 ). However, none of the other TPP-requiring proteins were 138 157 and thiamine-depleted cultures ( Figure 3E ). Without thiamine, we observed increased 158 abundance of proteins in the upper branch of thiamine synthesis but decreased abundance in 159 proteins converting thiamine monophosphate into thiamine and TPP into thiamine triphosphate. 160 9 378 gene as described elsewhere (23). 379 Promoter characterization with hrGFP. Fresh colonies of Y. lipolytica promoter 380 constructs were grown in 2 mL of MpA medium containing 400 µg/L thiamine overnight. Cultures 381 were washed once with water and transferred into 25mL of MpA containing 5 µg/L thiamine 382 overnight. Finally, cells were washed twice with water before being inoculated in MpA medium 383 with various concentrations of thiamine. Incubation was performed at 400 rpm and 28° using 384 96-well plates and Duetz-system covers (Cat# SMCR1296, Kuhner, Switzerland). Sacrificial 385 samples were collected for fluorescence measurements (excitation at 485 nm and emission at 386 528 nm) using a synergy HT microplate reader. 387 High performance liquid chromatography. Prior to HPLC run, 1 mL of culture medium 388 was filtered using 0.2 m filters. Metabolites, substrates and products were quantified by a 389 Shimadzu HPLC system equipped with UV and RID detectors (Shimadzu Scientific Instruments, 390 Inc., MD, USA) and the Aminex 87H column (Biorad, CA, USA) with 10 mN H 2 SO 4 mobile phase at 391 0.6 mL/min flow rate. The column was maintained at 48 °C (23). 392 Proteomic analysis. Y. lipolytica were grown in biological triplicate in 0 and 400 µg/L 393 thiamine. Samples were collected at two time points during the exponential growth phase and 394 processed for LC-MS/MS analysis. Whole-cell lysates were prepared by bead beating in sodium 395 deoxycholate lysis buffer (4% SDC, 100 mM ammonium bicarbonate, pH 8.0) using 0.15 mM 396
The main eJectric organ of Electrophorus electricus is particularly rich in thiamine triphosphate (TTP). Membrane fractions prepared from this tissue contain a thiamine triphosphatase that is strongly activated by anions and irreversibly inhibited by 4,4′-diisothiocyanostilbene-2.2′-disul-fonic acid (DIDS), an anion transport inhibitor. Kinetic parameters of the enzyme are markedly affected by the conditions of enzyme preparation: In crude membranes, the apparent Km is 1.8 mM and the pH optimium is 6.8, but trypsin treatment of these membranes or their purification on a sucrose gradient decreases both the apparent Am (to 0.2 mM) and the pH optimum (to 5.0). Anions such as NO3 (250 mM) have the opposite effect, i.e., even in purified membranes, the pH optimum is now 7.8 and the Km is 1.1 mM; at pH 7.8, NO3 increases the Vmax 24-fold. TTP protects against inhibition by DIDS, and the KD for TTP could be estimated to be 0.25 mM, a value close to the apparent Km measured in the same purified membrane preparation. Thiamine pyrophosphate (0.1 mM) did not protect against DIDS inhibition. At lower (10-5-10-6M) substrate concentrations. Lineweaver-Burk plots of thiamine triphosphatase activity markedly deviate from linearity, with the curve being concave downward. This suggests either anticooperative binding or the existence of binding sites with different affinities for TTP. The latter possibility is supported by binding data obtained using [γ-32P]TTP. Our data suggest the existence of a high-affinity binding site (KD of ˜0.5 μM) for the Mg-TTP complex. The membrane-bound thiamine triphosphatase is insensitive to low concentrations of vanadate and is not activated by protonophores. These and other features suggest that this enzyme is quite distinct from most of the known membrane ATPases and that it may have a specific function in excitable cell membranes, possibly in relation to their permeability to certain anions.
Concentrations of phosphate esters in blood of patients with vertebral osteochondrosis and activities of enzymes involved in thiamine metabolism have been investigated. The pathological processes were characterized by a decrease in content of thiamine triphosphate while concentration of coenzyme, thiamine diphosphate, was relatively constant. The enzymes involved in the initial and final steps of biosynthesis and degradation of thiamine phosphorylated derivatives play the main role in maintaining vitamin B1 metabolic homeostasis.
Thiamine triphosphate can be found in most tissues at very low levels, but its role is unknown. Organs and muscles that generate electrical impulses are particularly rich in this compound. This paper describes a thiamine triphosphatase from the electrical organ of Electrophorus electricus. The activity of this enzyme, as measured by a high-performance liquid chromatographic method, is closely anion-regulated. Furthermore, thiamine triphosphate increases chloride uptake in membrane vesicles prepared from rat brain. Our results suggest that this compound could play an important role in the regulation of chloride permeability.
Thiamine is a vitamin cofactor in enzyme complexes that play key roles in central carbon metabolism (Richardson and Moscow, 2010) . Extracellular thiamine is transported into the cell by two specific transporters and is phosphorylated into its biologically active forms. Thiamine pyrophosphate, the diphosphate form, is the cofactor form of thiamine and is required for pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, which facilitates the catalysis of glucose-derived pyruvate and formation of acetyl CoA. The latter enters the tricarboxylic acid cycle for the efficient extraction of energy from its chemical structure. In addition, thiamine pyrophosphate is a cofactor for transketolase, another key step in a different pathway that extracts the carbon from glucose for production of biomass. Other intracellular forms of phosphorylated thiamine include thiamine monophosphate, thiamine triphosphate. and adenosine thiamine triphosphate (Gangolf et al., 2010) . Gangolf et al. (2010) have recently shown wide variation in intracellular concentrations of thiamine and phosphorylated thiamine pools in various tissues.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) and thiamine deficiency (TD) represent two disorders in which metabolic derangements play a major role in their pathophysiology. They also define the areas of primary focus of Dr. Roger F. Butterworth, Ph.D., D.Sc. who retired from the University of Montreal in the summer of 2013. This special issue of Metabolic Brain Disease commemorates his valuable contribution to the study of these maladies. ::: ::: Although HE is considered a metabolic disorder, new evidence is emerging to show that it has a molecular basis as well. Vemuganti et al reports altered cerebral profiles of microRNAs after acute liver failure (ALF) that likely contribute in a significant way to gene expression changes associated with the ensuing HE. Disrupted ammonia detoxification is considered a major precipitator of neurological dysfunction in HE, and current understanding of the contribution of ammonia in liver diseases is discussed in an article by Ott and Vilstrup, while the effects of hyperammonemia on cerebral metabolic function are focussed on in an article by Schousboe and colleagues. In addition, impaired brain energy metabolism is a serious complicating feature of liver failure, with lactate production being a major consequence of this problem. In relation to this, the role of increased lactate accumulation and its pathogenetic basis in HE is discussed by Bosoi and Rose. Also, a major and often lethal complication of ALF is brain edema, and the significance of this edema and its underlying basis in ALF-induced HE is examined by Rama Rao et al, while the usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging as a tool in both acute and chronic liver failure is considered by Chavarria and Cordoba. ::: ::: Minimal hepatic encephalopathy (MHE) represents the mildest of the spectrum of HE forms in which patients do not display clinical symptoms but have mild cognitive and psychomotor deficits. It is also associated with poor survival rates. Two papers examine aspects of MHE, in which cognitive impairment and the issue of cognitive variability as a contributing factor in these patients is a focus of attention in Bisiacchi et al, and in an experimental model of chronic liver failure in which focal increases in the binding of translocator (18kD) protein in brain is reported by Agusti et al. Increasingly, the phenomenon of acute-on-chronic liver failure, in which acute deterioration of liver function in patients with cirrhosis is a consequence, is being considered a distinct clinical entity. The subject is discussed in Wright et al. In addition, considerable evidence has shown that astrocyte dysfunction plays a major role in HE. Karabara and colleagues explore the potential role of GlcNAcylation in these cells, while the protective effect of inhibition of glutamine synthesis is examined in neurological diseases, including HE, by Jeitner and Cooper. ::: ::: Development of well-defined biomarkers and improved therapeutic targets represents an important subject regarding HE. In this regard, the paper by Cooper and Kuhara shows that α-ketoglutaramate is a good marker of HE, and the paper by Mondal and Trigun demonstrates that pannexin-1 can be a marker as well as a target for HE. Although the mechanism(s) underlying the beneficial effects of rifaximin in HE remain largely unknown, the topic is tackled using multi-modal MRI in Ahluwalia et al. In addition, the subject of microglial proliferation and its significance in alcoholics with HE is explored experimentally in Dennis et al. Dienel and Cruz address the subject of decreased proteolysis as a result of hyperammonemia due to liver failure, and the effects of thioacetamide-induced ALF on citrulline uptake is examined in a study by Zielinska et al. ::: ::: Finally, Roger’s interest in the pathophysiology of TD has been long and enduring. A number of papers in this special issue deal with different aspects of TD. Afadlal et al shows that astrocytes play a significant role in TD-induced encephalopathy, while Bettendorff explores the role of thiamine triphosphate in cells. In addition, since mitochondrial dysfunction is an important aspect of both TD and Alzheimer’s disease in which thiamine-dependent enzyme activity is reduced, Huang et al explores how cellular calcium stores are affected in a fibroblast cell line, an important first step towards the eventual determination of how this process comes about in the AD patient and development of protective/treatment strategies targeting this mechanism, which may also have relevance for the future treatment of TD.
• Thiamine and thiamine triphosphate (TTP) values were assayed in various brain regions in 11 controls and 13 patients with subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy (SNE, Leigh disease). The TTP values of normal brain were 5% of the total thiamine value. The relative TTP (or % TTP) level was consistently low in the pons, midbrain, and cerebellum of all the SNE brains. Twenty-five percent of the SNE brains had normal TTP levels in the frontal region. The TTP values correlated with the degrees of pathologic involvement in all sampled regions of the brain except the cerebellum. The concentration of thiamine in the mammillary bodies exceeded its concentration elsewhere in both control and SNE brains. The finding of low TTP levels in morphologically abnormal regions supports the hypothesis that TTP deficiency is etiologically related to SNE.
The investigations described in this thesis are a contribution to the study of Leigh's disease (Subacute Necrotizing Encephalomyelopathy, SNE). SNE resembles in neuropathology Wernicke's encephalopathy, which is caused by thiamine deficiency. The scope and the purpose of the present study is given in the introduction (chapter 1). From a review of the selected literature, given in chapter 2, it will be clear that the pathogenesis of Leigh's disease is far from understood. The expirimental procedures used in the investigations described , are outlined in chapter 3. The investigations focus on the following aspects: -1- a synthesis of thiamine triphosphate in vitro (chapter 4), -2- biotin deficiency in the newborn rat as an animal model for reduced pyruvate carboxylase activity in man (chapter 5 and 6), -3- the effect of thiamine on carbohydrate metabollism of normal rats and rats which slow lactic acidosis as a result of biotin deficiency (chapter 7). ... Zie: Summary
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses membrane-bound thiamine triphosphatase. Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is present in significant quantities in most organisms, although its specific role in the cellular economy is unknown. Involvement of this compound in the function of excitable membranes has been postulated, but this hypothesis as yet remains unproved. The membrane thiamine triphosphatase described in the chapter has been first characterized in rat brain. It catalyzes the hydrolysis of the γ phosphate from ThTP, producing as products ThDP and Pi. A distinct soluble ThTPase is also described in the chapter. Enzyme activity is determined by monitoring the quantity of inorganic phosphate released from ThTP during a test interval under conditions in which the subsequent hydrolysis of ThDP can be shown to be negligible. Inorganic phosphate may be determined by any of several colorimetric assays. The chapter describes the source of the enzyme thiamine triphosphatse. Detectable levels of the enzyme have been demonstrated in crude membrane preparations of most soft tissues of the rat, highest specific activities being found in the intestine and kidney.
Soluble thiamine triphosphatase (EC 3.6.1.28) of bovine brain has been purified 68,000-fold to an electrophoretically homogeneous state with an overall recovery of 5.5% by hydrophobic chromatography on Toyopearl HW-60, Sephadex G-75 gel filtration, DEAE-Toyopearl 650M chromatography and Blue Sepharose CL-4B chromatography. The enzyme has an absolute specificity among thiamine and nucleoside phosphate esters for thiamine triphosphate and shows no nonspecific phosphatase activities. Thiamine triphosphatase is composed of a single polypeptide chain with molecular mass of 33,900 kDa as estimated by Sephadex G-100 gel filtration and SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The enzyme has a pH optimum of 8.7 and is dependent on divalent metal ions. Mg2+ has been found to be the most effective among cations tested. A study of the reaction kinetics over a wide range of thiamine triphosphate concentrations has revealed a biphasic saturation curve being described by higher-degree rational polynomials.
There is currently no direct experimental evidence for the up-regulation of thiamine/TDP biosynthesis in plants under abiotic or biotic stress other than a recent finding that the expression of the thiazole synthesizing gene thi1 in Arabidopsis is activated by flooding, high salinity, and sugar deprivation (Ribeiro et al., 2005) . There are, however, other reported phenomena that suggest a role of thiamine in plant stress responses, although the exact molecular mechanisms remain to be elucidated. These include the observed accumulation of thiamine triphosphate and adenosine thiamine triphosphate, recently hypothesized to function as universal signalling molecules, in withering Arabidopsis (Makarchikov et al., 2003; Bettendorff et al., 2007) and the induction of systemic acquired resistance in Arabidopsis and several other plant species against some fungal and bacterial infections through the activation of pathogenesis-related genes (PR) by thiamine compounds (Ahn et al., 2005) . On the other hand, a rice gene OsDR8 was shown to have a dual function in disease resistance induction and thiamine accumulation (Wang et al., 2006) . This gene shows a high sequence similarity to the thiazole-synthesizing gene thi1 of Arabidopsis and its baker's yeast orthologue THI4 which, in addition, have been suggested to play a role, although as yet unclear, in DNA repair mechanisms (Machado et al., 1996 (Machado et al., , 1997 .
KY-2 and KY-2-8 cation-exchange resins are described as employed for preparative isolation of thiamine triphosphate. When it is eluted from the mentioned resins by distilled water, the preparation needs no additional purification from low-molecular admixtures. The preparation purity was controlled by paper electrophoresis in 0.025 M citric-acid buffer (pH 3.8-4.0).
BackgroundE. coli cells are rich in thiamine, most of it in the form of the cofactor thiamine diphosphate (ThDP). Free ThDP is the precursor for two triphosphorylated derivatives, thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) and the newly discovered adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP). While, ThTP accumulation requires oxidation of a carbon source, AThTP slowly accumulates in response to carbon starvation, reaching ~15% of total thiamine. Here, we address the question whether AThTP accumulation in E. coli is triggered by the absence of a carbon source in the medium, the resulting drop in energy charge or other forms of metabolic stress.ResultsIn minimal M9 medium, E. coli cells produce AThTP not only when energy substrates are lacking but also when their metabolization is inhibited. Thus AThTP accumulates in the presence of glucose, when glycolysis is blocked by iodoacetate, or in the presence lactate, when respiration is blocked by cyanide or anoxia. In both cases, ATP synthesis is impaired, but AThTP accumulation does not appear to be a direct consequence of reduced ATP levels. Indeed, in the CV2 E. coli strain (containing a thermolabile adenylate kinase), the ATP content is very low at 37°C, even in the presence of metabolizable substrates (glucose or lactate) and under these conditions, the cells produce ThTP but not AThTP. Furthermore, we show that ThTP inhibits AThTP accumulation. Therefore, we conclude that a low energy charge is not sufficient to trigger AThTP accumulation and the latter can only accumulate under conditions where no ThTP is synthesized. We further show that AThTP production can also be induced by the uncoupler CCCP but, unexpectedly, this requires the presence of pyruvate or a substrate yielding pyruvate (such a D-glucose or L-lactate). Under the conditions described, AThTP production is not different when RelA or SpoT mutants are used.ConclusionsIn E. coli, AThTP accumulates in response to two different conditions of metabolic stress: lack of energy substrates (or inhibition of their metabolization) and uncoupled pyruvate oxidation. Both conditions prevent bacterial growth. There is no obvious link with the stringent response or catabolite repression.
Background: E. coli cells are rich in thiamine, most of it in the form of the cofactor thiamine diphosphate (ThDP). Free ThDP is the precursor for two triphosphorylated derivatives, thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) and the newly discovered adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP). While, ThTP accumulation requires oxidation of a carbon source, AThTP slowly accumulates in response to carbon starvation, reaching ~15% of total thiamine. Here, we address the question whether AThTP accumulation in E. coli is triggered by the absence of a carbon source in the medium, the resulting drop in energy charge or other forms of metabolic stress.
Thiamine (vitamin B1) is an essential molecule for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, mainly because its diphosphorylated form (thiamine diphosphate, ThDP) is an indispensable cofactor for energy metabolism. In microorganisms, thiamine monophosphate (ThMP) is an intermediate in ThDP synthesis but, like free thiamine, it has no known physiological function. In addition to ThMP and ThDP, three other phosphorylated thiamine derivatives have been characterized: thiamine triphosphate (ThTP), and the newly discovered adenylated deriv-
Abstract Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is found in most living organisms and it may act as a phosphate donor for protein phosphorylation. We have recently cloned the cDNA coding for a highly specific mammalian 25 kDa thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase; EC 3.6.1.28). As the enzyme has a high catalytic efficiency and no sequence homology with known phosphohydrolases, it was worth investigating its structure and catalytic properties. For this purpose, we expressed the untagged recombinant human ThTPase (hThTPase) in E. coli , produced the protein on a large scale and purified it to homogeneity. Its kinetic properties were similar to those of the genuine human enzyme, indicating that the recombinant hThTPase is completely functional. Mg 2+ ions were required for activity and Ca 2+ inhibited the enzyme by competition with Mg 2+ . With ATP as substrate, the catalaytic efficiency was 10 −4 -fold lower than with ThTP, confirming the nearly absolute specificity of the 25 kDa ThTPase for ThTP. The activity was maximum at pH 8.5 and very low at pH 6.0. Zn 2+ ions were inhibitory at micromolar concentrations at pH 8.0 but activated at pH 6.0. Kinetic analysis suggests an activator site for Mg 2+ and a separate regulatory site for Zn 2+ . The effects of group-specific reagents such as Woodward’s reagent K and diethylpyrocarbonate suggest that at least one carboxyl group in the active site is essential for catalysis, while a positively charged amino group may be involved in substrate binding. The secondary structure of the enzyme, as determined by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, was predominantly β-sheet and α-helix.
Thiamine (vitamin B1) is an essential molecule for all living organisms. It is the precursor for several phosphorylated derivatives, the most important being the coenzyme thiamine diphosphate (ThDP). Plants and microorganisms synthesize thiamine, but humans and other animals must rely on exogenous dietary sources. Thiamine is transported into cells by specific transporters and pyrophosphorylated to ThDP in the cytosol. ThDP is a cofactor for important catabolic reactions, that is, pyruvate dehydrogenase, 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (a limiting step in the Krebs cycle), branched-chain 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase, and transketolase (a key enzyme in the pentose phosphate pathway). Therefore, ThDP is indispensable for oxidative energy metabolism. Humans are particularly sensitive to thiamine deficiency, which mainly affects the nervous system and causes two classical diseases, beriberi (a polyneuritic syndrome) and Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome (encephalopathy and dementia linked to alcoholism). The selective vulnerability of some brain regions is difficult to explain by general metabolic impairment; hence, a non-cofactor role of some thiamine derivative(s) has been suggested. ThDP is the precursor for two triphosphorylated derivatives, thiamine triphosphate and adenosine thiamine triphosphate. In bacteria, those compounds are produced in response to specific conditions of nutritional downshift. Their possible role(s) in eukaryotic organisms are unknown.
1. ::: ::: Thiamine triphosphate was hydrolyzed, followed by isolation of the thiamine diphosphate (cocarboxylase) formed on ion-exchange resins. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Cocarboxylase was obtained in the form of the hydrochloride; the possibility of freeing it from the admixture of ionogenic orthophosphoric acid by precipitation from an aqueous hydrochloric acid solution with a mixture of anhydrous alcohol with hydrochloric acid (10∶:0.8) or by crystallization from an acidified aqueous alcohol solution, was demonstrated; cocarboxylase was isolated in the form of a crystalline preparation with a high degree of purity.
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is found at low concentrations in most animal tissues and it may act as a phosphate donor for the phosphorylation of proteins, suggesting a potential role in cell signaling. Two mechanisms have been proposed for the enzymatic synthesis of ThTP. A thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) kinase (ThDP+ATP if ThTP+ADP) has been purified from brewer's yeast and shown to exist in rat liver. However, other data suggest that, at least in skeletal muscle, adenylate kinase 1 (AK1) is responsible for ThTP synthesis. In this study, we show that AK1 knockout mice have normal ThTP levels in skeletal muscle, heart, brain, liver and kidney, demonstrating that AK1 is not responsible for ThTP synthesis in those tissues. We predict that the high ThTP content of particular tissues like the Electrophorus electricus electric organ, or pig and chicken skeletal muscle is more tightly correlated with high ThDP kinase activity or low soluble ThTPase activity than with non-stringent substrate specificity and high activity of adenylate kinase.
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is found at low concentrations in most animal tissues and it may act as a phosphate donor for the phosphorylation of proteins, suggesting a potential role in cell signaling. Two mechanisms have been proposed for the enzymatic synthesis of ThTP. A thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) kinase (ThDP + ATPZThTP + ADP) has been purified from brewer's yeast and shown to exist in rat liver. However, other data suggest that, at least in skeletal muscle, adenylate kinase 1 (AK1) is responsible for ThTP synthesis. In this study, we show that AK1 knockout mice have normal ThTP levels in skeletal muscle, heart, brain, liver and kidney, demonstrating that AK1 is not responsible for ThTP synthesis in those tissues. We predict that the high ThTP content of particular tissues like the Electrophorus electricus electric organ, or pig and chicken skeletal muscle is more tightly correlated with high ThDP kinase activity or low soluble ThTPase activity than with non-stringent substrate specificity and high activity of adenylate kinase. D
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) occurs in most animal tissues [7] and recent data suggest that it may act as a phosphate donor for the phosphorylation of proteins. For instance, in Torpedo electric organ, ThTP is specifically used for the phosphorylation of histidyl residues of rapsyn [20] , a protein required for the clustering of nicotinic receptors at the neuromuscular junction [12] . ThTP is also the donor for phosphorylation of as yet unidentified proteins in rodent brain [20] . In isolated patches of neuroblastoma cells, ThTP activates a high conductance chloride channel possibly by phosphorylation [2] . Thus, protein phosphorylation by ThTP could be part of a new phosphorylation signal conduction pathway.
Abstract A membrane-associated thiamine triphosphatase in subcellular fractions of the rat brain is described. This enzyme is shown to be different from a less active soluble thiamine triphosphatase previously reported. It is also shown to be distinct from ATPases and from a general nucleoside triphosphatase in the tissues examined. The membrane-associated thiamine triphosphatase activity has an absolute divalent cation requirement which is satisfied by Mg2+, Ca2+, or Mn2+. Maximal activation occurs at a cation to substrate ratio of 1:1. At its optimal pH of 6.5, the enzyme exhibits a Km of 1.0 to 2.0 mm and a Vmax of 4.0 to 8.0 µmoles per mg of protein per hour. The enzyme is heat-labile and is inactivated by low concentrations of sodium deoxycholate. ADP (10-6 to 10-3 m) strongly inhibits the enzyme. A specific inhibitor of the enzyme, the β-γ-methylene phosphonate analog of thiamine triphosphate, has been synthesized, and its inhibitory characteristics are described.
Radiometric and fluorescent methods for detection of thiamine triphosphate have been used to show the presence of thiamine diphosphate kinase activity in brewer's yeast and to determine optimal conditions for its manifestation. A method of enzyme purification has been developed which involves glycerol-EDTA solution extraction, heat treatment, 2-fold ammonium sulphate fractionation, Sephadex G-200 gel filtration and ion-exchange chromatography on Sephadexes CP-C-50 and QAE-A-25. The protein has been purified 2000-fold in a 19% yield. The isoelectric and isoionic points, the amino acid composition and the molecular weight have been determined. Hydrophobic amino acids and those responsible for alpha-helix formation of the protein globule are predominant. The isoelectric point, as calculated by the amino acid composition and found by the maximum of the changes in fluorescence, is 5.8. The isoionic point value is identical with the isoelectric point. Upon gel filtration thiamine diphosphate kinase is eluted as two protein peaks with molecular weights of 162,000 +/- 8,000 and 81,000 +/- 4,000. After treatment with urea or sodium dodecyl sulphate, the protein dissociates into subunits with molecular weights of 12,500 and 14,000. The purified enzyme has some properties typical of a dissociating enzyme system.
Thiamine is a major cofactor involved in energy metabolism in brain tissue. In humans, at least four forms of thiamine are known, namely free-thiamine (free-T), thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine diphosphate (TDP), and thiamine triphosphate (TTP) (Gangolf et al., 2010) . Both free-T and TMP forms are absorbed in the small intestine by two specific transporters: thiamine transporter-1 (hTHTR1, encoded by SLC19A2) and thiamine transporter-2 (hTHTR2, encoded by SLC19A3) (Rajgopal et al., 2001; Subramanian et al., 2006; Mayr et al., 2011) . In the blood-brain barrier and the choroid plexus, hTHTR2 is expressed in the pericytes surrounding endothelial cells, while hTHTR1 is localized to the luminal side; this supports their role in the transport of thiamine into the CNS (Kevelam et al., 2013) .
BackgroundThiamine triphosphate (ThTP) exists in most organisms and might play a role in cellular stress responses. In E. coli, ThTP is accumulated in response to amino acid starvation but the mechanism of its synthesis is still a matter of controversy. It has been suggested that ThTP is synthesized by an ATP-dependent specific thiamine diphosphate kinase. However, it is also known that vertebrate adenylate kinase 1 catalyzes ThTP synthesis at a very low rate and it has been postulated that this enzyme is responsible for ThTP synthesis in vivo.ResultsHere we show that bacterial, as vertebrate adenylate kinases are able to catalyze ThTP synthesis, but at a rate more than 106-fold lower than ATP synthesis. This activity is too low to explain the high rate of ThTP accumulation observed in E. coli during amino acid starvation. Moreover, bacteria from the heat-sensitive CV2 strain accumulate high amounts of ThTP (>50% of total thiamine) at 37°C despite complete inactivation of adenylate kinase and a subsequent drop in cellular ATP.ConclusionThese results clearly demonstrate that adenylate kinase is not responsible for ThTP synthesis in vivo. Furthermore, they show that E. coli accumulate large amounts of ThTP under severe energy stress when ATP levels are very low, an observation not in favor of an ATP-dependent mechanisms for ThTP synthesis.
Background: Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) exists in most organisms and might play a role in cellular stress responses. In E. coli, ThTP is accumulated in response to amino acid starvation but the mechanism of its synthesis is still a matter of controversy. It has been suggested that ThTP is synthesized by an ATP-dependent specific thiamine diphosphate kinase. However, it is also known that vertebrate adenylate kinase 1 catalyzes ThTP synthesis at a very low rate and it has been postulated that this enzyme is responsible for ThTP synthesis in vivo.
After adrenalectomy, the absorption of [35S]thiamine in the small intestine of rats was significantly reduced. Injection of delta1,4-pregnadiene-11beta,17alpha,21-triol-3,20-dione (prednisolone) restored this absorption to some extent, but not to the value found in control (unoperated) rats. Treatment with 1% saline had no effect. Adrenalectomy also reduced the amount of [35S]thiamine that accumulated in the intestinal mucosa and liver compared with that found in controls, but treatment with prednisolone increased the retention of thiamine in these tissues. One per cent NaCl raised the retention of thiamine in the liver but not in the mucosa of the jejunum. The loss in body weight that occurred after adrenalectomy was not, however, corrected after treatment with either saline or steroid. In adrenalectomized rats, the concentrations of thiamine mono- and diphosphates in the intestinal mucosa and the liver were lower than in the control animals. The concentration of thiamine triphosphate was, however, higher in the intestinal mucosa after adrenalectomy, but remained unchanged in the liver. Treatment with prednisolone increased the concentrations of thiamine mono-, di- and triphosphates in both of these tissues in adrenalectomized rats, compared with unoperated control animals.
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) was discovered over 60 years ago and it was long thought to be a specifically neuroactive compound. Its presence in most cell types, from bacteria to mammals, would suggest a more general role but this remains undefined. In contrast to thiamine diphosphate (ThDP), ThTP is not a coenzyme. In E. coli cells, ThTP is transiently produced in response to amino acid starvation, while in mammalian cells, it is constitutively produced at a low rate. Though it was long thought that ThTP was synthesized by a ThDP:ATP phosphotransferase, more recent studies indicate that it can be synthesized by two different enzymes: (1) adenylate kinase 1 in the cytosol and (2) FoF1-ATP synthase in brain mitochondria. Both mechanisms are conserved from bacteria to mammals. Thus ThTP synthesis does not seem to require a specific enzyme. In contrast, its hydrolysis is catalyzed, at least in mammalian tissues, by a very specific cytosolic thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase), controlling the steady-state cellular concentration of ThTP. In some tissues where adenylate kinase activity is high and ThTPase is absent, ThTP accumulates, reaching ≥ 70% of total thiamine, with no obvious physiological consequences. In some animal tissues, ThTP was able to phosphorylate proteins, and activate a high-conductance anion channel in vitro. These observations raise the possibility that ThTP is part of a still uncharacterized cellular signaling pathway. On the other hand, its synthesis by a chemiosmotic mechanism in mitochondria and respiring bacteria might suggest a role in cellular energetics.
AL are at particular risk of malnutrition because of modifications to their eating habits and/or compromised absorption of nutrients in the gastrointestinal tract [11] . Malnutrition is one of the operational criteria for the in vivo diagnosis of Wernicke's encephalopathy [12] , and has been associated with mild-to-moderate cognitive impairments in AL [5] . However, relationships between malnutrition and neuropsychological deficits in AL have never been described in the literature. Decreased dietary intake and the deleterious effects of alcoholism on thiamine transport, storage and utilization [13, 14] seem to be responsible for thiamine deficiency. Thiamine deficiency is found in 30-80% of AL [15] , and can result in Wernicke's encephalopathy [16] and Korsakoff 's syndrome, which is characterized by severe and irreversible neurological complications [7] . Four different forms of thiamine are present in the human body: unphosphorylated thiamine (thiamine T), thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine diphosphate (TDP) and thiamine triphosphate (TTP). TDP is regarded as the physiologically active form of thiamine. Studies conducted in AL before the administration of vitamin supplements have shown that TMP [17] and TDP [18] concentrations are lower in patients than in healthy controls, whereas thiamine T concentration is abnormally high in some patients [17] . Thiamine metabolism, expressed as the ratio of phosphorylated to unphosphorylated thiamine, is also lower in AL patients [17] . Lower levels of TDP have been found in patients with a history of poor dietary intake compared with patients with no such history [5] . Moreover, in one study, TDP levels were found to be linked to memory scores in AL, especially in patients with a history of malnutrition [5] , although another study failed to replicate this result [19] .
In mammals, thiamine is an essential dietary supplement and is important for neurotransmission and neurological function [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] . Thiamine is absorbed in the intestine and transported from the extracellular space by thiamine transport receptors (THTR1 and THTR2, also called SLC19A2 and SLC19A3, respectively) [6, 7, 8] . Thiamine exists as the free molecule as well as in the form of several phosphate esters: thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine diphosphate (TDP, also called thiamine pyrophosphate), and thiamine triphosphate (TTP) [9] . Inside cells, TDP is an important coenzyme in several biochemical processes, including carbohydrate and amino acid metabolism [10, 11, 12] . Additionally, several naturally occurring thiaminylated adenine nucleotides are found in bacteria and mammalian tissues [13, 14, 15] . Prokaryotes and eukaryotes thus contain a diverse repertoire of thiamine analogs.
1. The activities of 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase, transketolase, thiamine pyrophosphokinase and thiamine triphosphatase and the concentrations of thiamine phosphates were almost the same between rat extensor digitorum longus and soleus muscles at 2 weeks of age. 2. These enzyme activities changed after 3 weeks of age in a different way depending on the muscle phenotype. 3. Thiamine diphosphate level and the activity of 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase increased only in soleus muscle and thiamine triphosphate level increased only in extensor digitorum longus during development.
The action potential is a dissipative process producing entropy and using free energy. This is well demonstrated by: 1) the evolution of the Na conductance under voltage clamping conditions, 2) the microcalorimetric measurements, 3) the analysis of heat evolution during the conductance changes. The most appropriate explanation must involve an exogenous energy source since the energy dissipated by the ionic flows or even the applied stimulus depolarization are far too small to account for the overall energy balance. Thiamine triphosphate is a likely candidate as specific operating substance. The more so, since it is specifically hydrolyzed by a triphosphatase the activity of which is modulated by various anions. It is therefore suggested that the control of the Cl-permeability, a process requiring the hydrolysis of thiamine triphosphate, is the key to our understanding of the energetics of the action potential.
The present invention relates to a phosphoric acid, thiamine monophosphate, thiamine diphosphate, phosphate removal, thiamine triphosphate and higher thiamine phosphate, thiamine triphosphate and higher thiamine phosphoric acid from a solution of method. The method is characterized in that the non-ionic phosphoric acid solution of thiamine phosphate through an unsaturated cyclic nitrogen bases containing an adsorbent resin and eluting with a suitable solvent thiamine monophosphate and thiamine diphosphate.
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) exists in various living cells--from bacteria to mammals. ThTP concentration in mammals is regulated by a specific soluble ThTPase, which has not been revealed experimentally, however, in other organisms. In NCBI and Ensembl databases we have found information about full-size or partial amino acid sequences of the enzyme from 38 mammal species. An average rate of amino acid substitutions (k(aa)) in ThTPase molecule was estimated from the data available to be 1.41 x 10(-9) per site per year. This corresponds to unit evolutionary period of about 4.4 million years. The evolutionary rate varies for different portions of the enzyme, C-terminal fragment being the most variable (k(aa) = 3.76 x 10(-9); calculated only for 230 aa species + elephant). An average replacement rate of 1.95 x 10(-9) per amino acid site per year was calculated for the central portion of the enzyme (residues 69-141), while N-terminal sequence (residues 1-68) and 142-210 fragment evolved with k(aa) of 1.03 x 10(-9) and 0.81 x 10(-9), respectively.
The invention relates to a method for removing phosphoric acid, thiamine triphosphate and higher thiamine phosphates from solutions that contain phosphoric acid, thiamine monophosphate, thiamine diphosphate, diamine triphosphate and higher phosphates. The inventive method is characterized by passing the phosphoric acid solution of thiamine phosphates over a non-ionogenic adsorber resin which comprises unsaturated cyclic nitrogen bases and eluting thiamine monophosphate and thiamine diphosphate with a suitable solvent.
Abstract Membrane fragments isolated from rat brain have been shown to be the site of the drug-induced release of thiamine. As a brain homogenate is purified to yield the membrane fraction, the concentration of thiamine triphosphate rises, suggesting that this may be the neurophysiologically active form of the vitamin. Attempts to find a concurrent release of other compounds along with thiamine were unsuccessful.
Abstract Thiamine triphosphatase has been partially purified from rat brain and some of its properties have been determined. The enzyme is localized primarily in the soluble fraction of the cell, has an absolute specificity among thiamine phosphate esters for thiamine triphosphate, and is inhibited by calcium.
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is found in most organisms, but its biological role remains unclear. In mammalian tissues, cellular ThTP concentrations remain low, probably because of hydrolysis by a specific 25 kDa thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase). The aim of the present study was to use quantitative PCR, for comparing the 25 kDa ThTPase mRNA expression in various mouse tissues with its enzyme activities. ThTPase mRNA was expressed at only a few copies per cell. The highest amount of mRNA was found in testis, followed by lung and muscle, while the highest enzyme activities were found in liver and kidney. The poor correlation between mRNA levels and enzyme activities might result either from tissue-specific post-transcriptional regulation of mRNA processing and/or translation or from the regulation of enzyme activities by post-translational mechanisms. Purified recombinant human ThTPase was phosphorylated by casein kinase II, but this phosphorylation did not modify the enzyme activity. However, the characterization of the 3'-untranslated mRNA region revealed a unique, highly conserved, 200-nucleotide sequence that might be involved in translational control. In situ hybridization studies in testis suggest a predominant localization of ThTPase mRNA in poorly differentiated spermatogenic cells. This is the first study demonstrating a cell-specific 25 kDa ThTPase mRNA expression, suggesting that this enzyme might be related to the degree of differentiation or the metabolic state of the cell.
Triphosphate tunnel metalloenzymes (TTMs) are present in all kingdoms of life and catalyze diverse enzymatic reactions such as mRNA capping, the cyclization of adenosine triphosphate, the hydrolysis of thiamine triphosphate, and the synthesis and breakdown of inorganic polyphosphates. TTMs have an unusual tunnel domain fold that harbors substrate- and metal co-factor binding sites. It is presently poorly understood how TTMs specifically sense different triphosphate-containing substrates and how catalysis occurs in the tunnel center. Here we describe substrate-bound structures of inorganic polyphosphatases from Arabidopsis and Escherichia coli, which reveal an unorthodox yet conserved mode of triphosphate and metal co-factor binding. We identify two metal binding sites in these enzymes, with one co-factor involved in substrate coordination and the other in catalysis. Structural comparisons with a substrate- and product-bound mammalian thiamine triphosphatase and with previously reported structures of mRNA capping enzymes, adenylate cyclases, and polyphosphate polymerases suggest that directionality of substrate binding defines TTM catalytic activity. Our work provides insight into the evolution and functional diversification of an ancient enzyme family.
Triphosphate tunnel metalloenzymes (TTMs) are present in all kingdoms of life and catalyze diverse enzymatic reactions such as mRNA capping, the cyclization of adenosine triphosphate, the hydrolysis of thiamine triphosphate, and the synthesis and breakdown of inorganic polyphosphates. TTMs have an unusual tunnel domain fold that harbors substrate-and metal co-factor binding sites. It is presently poorly understood how TTMs specifically sense different triphosphate-containing substrates and how catalysis occurs in the tunnel center. Here we describe substrate-bound structures of inorganic polyphosphatases from Arabidopsis and Escherichia coli, which reveal an unorthodox yet conserved mode of triphosphate and metal cofactor binding. We identify two metal binding sites in these enzymes, with one co-factor involved in substrate coordination and the other in catalysis. Structural comparisons with a substrate-and product-bound mammalian thiamine triphosphatase and with previously reported structures of mRNA capping enzymes, adenylate cyclases, and polyphosphate polymerases suggest that directionality of substrate binding defines TTM catalytic activity. Our work provides insight into the evolution and functional diversification of an ancient enzyme family.
Thiamine, also known as vitamin B 1 , is present in the human body as thiamine, thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine diphoshate (ThDP), thiamine triphosphate (TTP), and as the thiamin derivative, adenosine thiamin triphosphate (AThTP) [1] . The biologically active form of thiamine, ThDP, is essential for energy metabolism [1] . Acting as a coenzyme for reactions catalyzed by enzymes such as pyruvate dehydrogenase, α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, branched-chain α-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex, and transketolase (TK), ThDP is required for mitochondrial oxidative decarboxylation [2] , the pentose phosphate pathway, and the citric acid cycle [3] . Free thiamine and TMP are actively transported into the central nervous system, and are required to maintain sodium and potassium gradients essential for conducting nerve impulses [2, 3] . TTP concentrations are regulated by a specific thiamine triphosphatase [4] ; however, the role of TTP is not fully understood. Similarly, understanding of the biochemical mechanisms underlying AThTP synthesis and degradation is incomplete [5] .
Extracts of tissue fluids from a patient with subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy inhibit thiamine pyrophosphate-adenosine triphosphate phosphotransferase of rat brain. Brain tissue from the patient, in contrast to normal brain tissue, contained essentially no thiamine triphosphate, although thiamine and its other phosphate esters were present in normal concentrations. These findings suggest a relation between this disease and thiamine triphosphate.
That thiamine triphosphate (TTP) has a functional role in the nervous system is indicated by: (1) its deficiency in the brain of patients with Leigh's disease, (2) release of TTP from nerve membrane by pharmacologic or electric stimulation, and (3) the rapid incorporation of 32P into TTP by brain slices or subcellular nerve particles. Although thiamine triphosphatase has been well-characterized, the enzyme which synthesizes TTP in brain has not previously been described.We have been able to demonstrate TTP synthesis by incubating ATP, thiamine diphosphate, MgCl2, TEA (pH 7.4), sucrose and microsomes at 37.5°. Controls (no synthesis) are identical save that the microsomes are heat-denatured (5′ at 100°). TTP is separated by electrophoresis on cellulose acetate, and identified by applying purified TTP on an adjacent strip.Utilizing this method, TTP is synthesized at a linear rate for at least 3 hours. The addition of incremental amounts of microsomal protein is associated with an increased rate of TTP synthesis; i.e. 43.5 nM TTP/mg protein/hr when 0.456 mg of protein is used, and 90 nM/mg protein/hr when 3.08 mg are used. The effect of the inhibitor associated with Leigh's disease on this enzyme(s) will be studied.
Our results show that a net synthesis of thiamine triphosphate (TTP) can be demonstrated in vitro using rat brain extracts. The total homogenate was preincubated with thiamine or its diphosphate derivative (TDP), centrifuged, and washed twice. With TDP (1 mM) as substrate, a 10-fold increase in TTP content was observed in this fraction (nuclear fraction, membrane vesicles). A smaller, but significant, increase was observed in the P2 fraction (mitochondrial/synaptosomal fraction). In view of the low TTP content of our fractions, it was carefully assessed that authentic TTP was being formed. Incorporation of radioactivity from [beta-32P]TDP and [gamma-32P]ATP in TTP suggests that these two compounds are its precursors. Furthermore, TTP synthesis was inhibited by ADP and relatively low concentrations of Zn2+. These results suggest that TTP synthesis is catalyzed by an ATP:TDP transphosphorylase rather than by the cytoplasmic adenylate kinase that may be present in the vesicles. After osmotic lysis of the vesicles at alkaline pH, TTP was recovered in protein-bound form. Concomitantly, a soluble thiamine triphosphatase, with alkaline pH optimum, was also released from the vesicles. No net synthesis could be obtained in the cytosolic fraction or in detergent-solubilized systems. Like TTP synthesis, chloride permeability of the vesicles was increased when the homogenate had been incubated with thiamine and particularly with TDP. Our results suggest a regulatory role of TTP on chloride permeability, but the target remains to be characterized.
A recently identified metastasis suppressor, N-myc downstream regulated gene-1 (Ndrg-1), has been shown to reduce the invasion and metastasis of breast, colon, prostate and pancreatic cancer. Among its many functions, Ndrg-1 is involved in modulating differentiation, proliferation and angiogenesis. However, knowledge of the molecular targets of Ndrg-1 is limited. The current study has focused on examining the functions of Ndrg-1 in a number of different cancer cell models including prostate, colon, lung and pancreatic cancer to elucidate the known pleiotropic nature of this protein. Furthermore, the potential gene targets of Ndrg-1 were analyzed using whole genome gene array revealing a substantial number of genes whose expression was affected by this metastasis suppressor. Significantly, Ndrg-1 up-regulated thiamine triphosphatase (Thtpa) expression in three of the four cell models. Thtpa is known to decrease the levels of the energy currency molecule, thiamine triphosphate, suggesting a potential pathway for the anti-proliferative effects of Ndrg-1. Furthermore, Ndrg-1 reduced the protein levels of cathepsin C which plays a role in invasion, indicating a potential mechanism of its anti-metastatic role in pancreatic cancer cells. These findings provide a potential link between the observed functions of Ndrg-1 and its molecular targets, further demonstrating its anti-metastatic effect.
We compared the whole blood, plasma, and erythrocyte (red blood cell (RBC)) concentrations of thiamine and thiamine phosphate esters in the presence of heparin or EDTA as anticoagulants. Three blood specimens were collected from each of 24 healthy volunteers into evacuated collection tubes containing the following anticoagulants: heparin, Na2EDTA, or K2EDTA. The concentrations of nonphosphorylated free thiamine (T), thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine diphosphate (TDP), and thiamine triphosphate (TTP) were determined by the NH2-column HPLC method. The anticoagulant used had no effect on the concentrations obtained in whole blood and plasma of thiamine or any of the above thiamine compounds (P>0.05). RBCs were isolated by centrifugation and washed with isotonic saline, and the cell counts of the washed cells were adjusted to their whole blood values. In the washed RBCs with any anticoagulant, the concentrations of T, TMP, and TDP expressed either as nmol/L of whole blood or a ratio to hemoglobin were significantly lower (P<0.05) than those in whole blood. J. Clin. Lab. Anal. 19:205–208, 2005. © 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Incubation of rat brain homogenates with thiamine or thiamine diphosphate (TDP) leads to a synthesis of thiamine triphosphate (TTP). In membrane vesicles subsequently prepared from the homogenates, increased TTP content correlates with increased 36Cl- uptake. A hyperbolic relationship was obtained with a K0.5 of 0.27 nmol TTP/mg protein. In crude mitochondrial fractions from the brains of animals previously treated with thiamine or sulbutiamine, a positive correlation between 36Cl- uptake and TTP content was found. These results, together with other results previously obtained with the patch-clamp technique, suggest that TTP is an activator of chloride channels having a large unit conductance.
The enzymes involved in thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) metabolism in birds are not characterized so far. The aim of the present work was to study some properties of ThTPase in chicken liver. In liver homogenate, ThTPase activity has been found to display a bell-like pH-profile with a maximum of 5.5-6.0. Low activity was observed without divalent metal ions, while the addition of Mg2+ or Ca2+, each at 5 mM concentration, enhanced the rate of ThTP hydrolysis by a factor of 17-20. In the presence of 5 mM Mg2+ an apparent K(m) of the enzyme for ThTP was estimated by the method of non-linear regression as well as from the Hanes plot to be 1.7-2.2 mM. Monovalent anions such as I-, SCN-, NO3-, Br-, Cl- (at 150 mM concentration) showed inhibitory effect decreasing the rate of ThTPase reaction by 20-60%. After the homogenate was centrifuged, more than 85% of ThTPase activity was revealed in the fraction of insoluble particles indicating a membrane localization of the enzyme. The precipitate treatment with 1% sodium deoxycholate caused about 53% solubilization of the activity. During Toyopeal HW-55 chromatography, ThTPase activity was eluted simultaneously with ATPase and ITPase peaks in the void volume of the column. Thus, a non-specific high molecular mass protein complex seems to be involved in ThTP hydrolysis in the chicken liver. The chicken liver phosphatase is clearly distinguishable from all membrane-bound ThTPases reported previously.
We developed a novel chemical synthesis of thiamine triphosphate which allows us to incorporate /sup 32/P in the gamma position. The reaction is based on the condensation of (/sup 32/P)orthophosphoric acid and thiamine diphosphate in the presence of ethyl chloroformate. After purification by two ion-exchange purification steps, the thiamine derivative has a specific radioactivity of 10 Ci/mmol. The average final yield synthesis is about 10%.
Thiamine phosphate esters (thiamine monophosphate-TMP; thiamine diphosphate-TDP and thiamine triphosphate-TTP) were measured as their thiochrome derivatives by High Performance Liquid Chromatography in the brains of pyrithiamine-treated rats at various stages during the development of thiamine deficiency encephalopathy. Severe encephalopathy was accompanied by significant reductions of all three thiamine phosphate esters in brain. Neurological symptoms of thiamine deficiency appeared when brain levels of TMP and TDP fell below 15% of normal values. Activities of the TDP-dependent enzyme alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase were more severely reduced in thalamus compared to cerebral cortex, a less vulnerable brain structure. On the other hand, reductions of TTP, the non-cofactor form of thiamine, occurred to a greater extent in cerebral cortex than thalamus. Early reductions of TDP-dependent enzymes and the ensuing metabolic pertubations such as lactic acidosis impaired brain energy metabolism, and NMDA-receptor mediated excitotoxicity offer rational explanations for the selective vulnerability of brain structures such as thalamus to the deleterious effects of thiamine deficiency.
When tested, all autopsy-proven patients with Leigh's disease have had an inhibitor to the synthesis of thiamine triphosphate in their urine. The inhibitor is also present in obligate carriers and thiamine treatment produces a drop in the inhibition (Peds 51: 710, 1973).
The electric organ of Torpedo murmorutu was found to contain as much as 120 ? 24 nmol of thiamine per g of fresh tissue. The vitamin was distributed as nonesterified thiamine (32%), thiamine monophosphate (22%), thiamine diphosphate (8%), and an important proportion of thiamine triphos- phate (38%). A high level of thiamine triphosphate was found in synaptosomes isolated from the electric organ. In contrast, the synaptic vesicles did not show any enrichment in thiamine, whereas they contained a marked peak of acetyl- choline (ACh) and ATP. Thus thiamine seems to be very abundant in choliner- gic nerve terminals; its localization is apparently extravesicular, either in the axoplasm or in association with plasma membrane. When calcium was reduced and magnesium increased in the external medium, the efficiency of transmis- sion was diminished, owing to inhibition of ACh release; in a parallel manner the degree of thiamine phosphorylation was found to increase-this condition is known to modify the repartition of ACh between vesicular and extravesicu- lar compartments. Electrical stimulation, which causes periodic variations of the level of ACh and ATP, also caused significant changes in thiamine esters. In addition, related changes of the vitamin and the transmitter were observed under other conditions, suggesting a functional link between the metabolism of thiamine and that of ACh in cholinergic nerve terminals. Key words: Thiamine-Acetylcholine-Synaptic transmission-Electric organ- Synaptosomes-Synaptic vesicles. Eder L. and Dunant Y. Thiamine and cholinergic transmission in the electric organ of Torpedo. I. Cellular localiza- tion and functional changes of thiamine and thiamine phosphate esters. J. Neurochem. 35, 1278-1286 (1980).
Thiamine diphosphate (TDP) is an important cofactor of pyruvate (PDH) and alpha-ketoglutarate (KGDH) dehydrogenases and transketolase. Thiamine deficiency leads to reversible and irreversible brain lesions due to impaired oxidative metabolism. A specific non-cofactor role for thiamine has also been proposed in excitable cells and thiamine triphosphate (TTP) might be involved in the regulation of ion channels. Thiamine is taken up by neuroblastoma cells through a high affinity transporter. Inside the cells, it is rapidly phosphorylated to TDP. This high turnover TDP pool is the precursor for TTP. Most of the TDP however has a low turnover and is associated with PDH and KGDH in mitochondria. In excised inside-out patches from neuroblastoma cells, TTP, at a concentration of 1 microM, activates chloride channels of large unitary conductance, the so-called maxi-Cl- channels. These channels are inhibited by oxythiamine from the outide. In addition to the role of TTP in the regulation of chloride channels, thiamine itself, or a presently unknown analog, may have trophic effects on neuronal cells.
Abbreviations: ETKA = erythrocyte transketolase activity, ICU = intensive care unit, TDP = thiamine diphosphate, TMP = thiamine monophosphate, TTP = thiamine triphosphate.
Lactate plays a key role in cellular metabolism and energy production. [1] Hyperlactatemia related acidosis, resulting from the balance between lactate production and clearance occurs in a series of conditions, including shock, trauma, vigorous muscular exercises, liver diseases, cancer, carbon monoxide or cyanide poisoning and after drug intake such as b 2 agonists or metformin. [2] Sepsis, the inappropriate host response to an infection, is also associated with hyperlactatemia. [3, 4] During sepsis, the pathogenesis of hyperlactatemia, although poorly understood is thought to be due to increased lactate production in response to the stress response, and impaired lactate clearance. [5, 6] Hyperlactatemia related acidosis is associated with an increased risk of mortality and lactate normalization is a therapeutic target in sepsis-associated hypotension or septic shock. [7] Hyperlactatemia may be an adaptive response to stress, since lactate provides substrates for gluconeogenesis as well as optimizes tissue bioenergetics. [8] Thiamine deficiency is characterized by impaired cardiac performance, water and salt retention, vasodilatation and hyperlactatemia related acidosis, which are all hallmarks of sepsis. [9] Thiamine, or vitamin B1, is implicated in cellular and mitochondrial energy production. [10] In the cytosol, thiamine is an obligatory cofactor for the transketolase enzyme, implicated in the pentose phosphate pathway. [11] Thiamine is a cofactor for the pyruvate dehydrogenase, enabling the entry of pyruvate into the mitochondria, and the subsequent entry of its metabolite, acetyl-CoA into the citric acid cycle. [11] Since excess pyruvate is subsequently converted into lactate, thiamine deficiency leads to hyperlactatemia. [12] Thiamine is also a cofactor for the a-ketogluterate dehydrogenase and branchedchain keto-acid dehydrogenase, implicated respectively in the citric acid cycle and in the metabolism of branched chain amino acids. The vitamin occurs as free thiamine and under various stages of phosphorylation, including thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine diphosphate (TDP), and thiamine triphosphate (TTP), which can all be measured in red blood cells. [13] Thiamine content can be indirectly estimated by measuring the erythrocyte transketolase activity (ETKA). The recommended daily intake of thiamine is usually covered by a balanced diet. Risk factors for thiamine deficiency include improper vitamin intake and alcoholism. [9] It has recently been proposed that a cocktail consisting of steroids, vitamin C, and thiamine could be associated with improved outcomes in severe sepsis and septic shock. [14, 15] We sought in the current work to assess the thiamine status of septic patients, both directly, by measuring erythrocyte concentrations of thiamine compounds and indirectly by measuring the activity of thiamine dependent enzymes. We also assessed the interaction between thiamine compounds and lactate concentration. Finally, we sought to determine whether thiamine status affected outcomes in septic patients.
Thiamine (vitamin B1) is an essential nutritional factor metabolized inside the body in its mono-, di-, and triphosphate forms. Although the action of thiamine and thiamine diphosphate have been intensely investigated, many questions remain unanswered and the role of thiamine triphosphate is still especially unknown. To probe recent hypotheses on the implication of thiamine triphosphate in a new phosphorylation pathway involving synaptic proteins, we synthesized a series of thiamine di- and triphosphate analogues that are resistant to both enzymatic and chemical hydrolyses. The key step in the preparation of the title compounds is the coupling of thiamine propyl disulfide with adequately protected methylenebisphosphonic acid, the corresponding triphosphate analogue, and difluoromethylenebisphosphonic acid.
An infant with subacute necrotising encephalopathy is described, in whom slow motornerve conduction velocities suggested the presence of peripheral neuropathy. Peripheral nerves are not invariably involved in patients with this disease, but as they are involved in thiamine-deficiency states it is conjectured that the presence or absence of peripheral neuropathy in patients with subacute necrotising encephalopathy may distinguish those with thiamine triphosphate deficiency from those in whom the disease is due to other causes.
Background: The mechanisms of the different sensitivity or resistance of animals and humans to alcohol are still not completely understood. For further biochemical characterization of animals genetically selected for high-alcohol sensitivity (HAS) and low-alcohol sensitivity (LAS) with the hypnotic effect of alcohol, the thiamine status and thiamine metabolizing enzymes in these animals have been studied. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods: We investigated thiamine diphosphate and thiamine triphosphate levels as well as the activity of thiamine-dependent enzyme, transketolase, and thiamine-metabolizing enzymes, thiamine kinase, and thiamine triphosphatase in the liver and brain of HAS, LAS, and CAS (control) rats by standard biochemical techniques. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results: It was found that the activity of transketolase, and the level of the coenzyme form of thiamine, thiamine diphosphate (TDP), were significantly lower in HAS versus LAS rats. The activation of transketolase by the exogenous TDP (TDP-effect) was significantly higher in the liver and brain regions of HAS rats compared with LAS rats. The level of TDP in the liver and cerebellum of HAS rats was significantly lower compared with LAS rats. These results indicate a severe deficiency of TDP in HAS rats. HAS rats have a significantly lower activity of thiamine triphosphatase, the additional source of TDP. Accordingly, HAS rats have much higher thiamine triphosphate levels in the liver and brain, compared with LAS rats. There were no significant differences between groups with respect to the thiamine diphosphatase and thiamine kinase activity. Most of the above parameters had the intermediate values in CAS rats, compared with LAS and HAS rats. These data indicate the possible role of the thiamine phosphate esters and related enzymes in the mechanisms that bring about the differential sensitivity to the hypnotic effect of alcohol. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusions: HAS rats have the genetically mediated thiamine diphosphate deficiency and increased thiamine triphosphate levels, probably due to reduced activity of thiamine triphosphatase in the liver and brain, compared with LAS rats. It can be related with the higher initial sensitivity of HAS rats to hypnotic effect of ethanol.
The presence of an enzyme involved in ATP synthesis by transfer of phosphate from thiamine triphosphate to ADP in maize germ axis was indicated by the assays on partially purified (27-fold) enzyme with luciferase method, spectrophotometric assay with hexokinase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and paper chromatography. Optimal activity was found at pH 9.0. The enzyme was heat-labile SH-enzyme, and its activity required the presence of Mg2+.
Heat stress (HS) negatively affects meat quality by affecting material and energy metabolism, and exploring the mechanism underlying the muscle response to chronic HS in finishing pigs is important for the global pork industry. This study investigated changes in the metabolic profiles of the longissimus dorsi (LD) muscle of finishing pigs under high temperature using ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS) and multivariate data analysis (MDA). Castrated male DLY pigs (Duroc × Landrance × Yorkshire pigs, n = 24) from 8 litters were divided into three treatment groups: constant optimal ambient temperature at 22 °C and ad libitum feeding (CR, n = 8); constant high ambient temperature at 30 °C and ad libitum feeding (HS, n = 8); and constant optimal ambient temperature 22 °C and pair-feeding to the control pigs (PF, n = 8). The metabolic profile data from LD muscle samples were analyzed by MDA and external search engines. Nine differential metabolites (L-carnosine, acetylcholine, inosinic acid, L-carnitine, L-anserine, L-α-glycerylphosphorylcholine, acetylcarnitine, thiamine triphosphate, and adenosine thiamine diphosphate) were involved in antioxidant function, lipid metabolism, and cell signal transduction, which may decrease post mortem meat quality and play important roles in anti-HS. Four metabolites (L-carnosine, acetylcholine, inosinic acid, and L-carnitine) were verified, and it was indicated that the muscle L-carnitine content was significantly lower in HS than in CR (p < 0.01). The results show that constant HS affects the metabolites in the LD muscle and leads to coordinated changes in the endogenous antioxidant defense and meat quality of finishing pigs. These metabonomics results provide a basis for researching nutritional strategies to reduce the negative effects of heat stress on livestock and present new insights for further research.
Abstract Vitamin B1 (thiamine) is converted in living cells into biologically active forms, among which thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) predominates. ThDP is a coenzyme for several key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism including pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) which is involved in pyruvate decarboxylation with the acetyl-CoA formation. ThDP-dependent pyruvate dehydrogenase, the first enzyme in the complex, is regulated by phosphorylation–dephosphorylation performed by specific regulatory enzymes. It was shown that ThDP and thiamine triphosphate can participate in this PDC regulation as effectors modulating the activity of the regulatory enzymes. Numerous studies indicate that PDC plays a central role in the maintenance of glucose homeostasis in the body and the disturbance of its regulation can initiate the development of metabolic and neurodegenerative diseases. The search for effectors of the PDC regulatory enzymes, including, among others, thiamine derivatives, is a promising approach to the treatment of the above diseases.
Abstract: Heat stress (HS) negatively affects meat quality by affecting material and energy metabolism, and exploring the mechanism underlying the muscle response to chronic HS in finishing pigs is important for the global pork industry. This study investigated changes in the metabolic profiles of the longissimus dorsi (LD) muscle of finishing pigs under high temperature using ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS) and multivariate data analysis (MDA). Castrated male DLY pigs (Duroc × Landrance × Yorkshire pigs, n = 24) from 8 litters were divided into three treatment groups: constant optimal ambient temperature at 22 • C and ad libitum feeding (CR, n = 8); constant high ambient temperature at 30 • C and ad libitum feeding (HS, n = 8); and constant optimal ambient temperature 22 • C and pair-feeding to the control pigs (PF, n = 8). The metabolic profile data from LD muscle samples were analyzed by MDA and external search engines. Nine differential metabolites (L-carnosine, acetylcholine, inosinic acid, L-carnitine, L-anserine, L-α-glycerylphosphorylcholine, acetylcarnitine, thiamine triphosphate, and adenosine thiamine diphosphate) were involved in antioxidant function, lipid metabolism, and cell signal transduction, which may decrease post mortem meat quality and play important roles in anti-HS. Four metabolites (L-carnosine, acetylcholine, inosinic acid, and L-carnitine) were verified, and it was indicated that the muscle L-carnitine content was significantly lower in HS than in CR (p < 0.01). The results show that constant HS affects the metabolites in the LD muscle and leads to coordinated changes in the endogenous antioxidant defense and meat quality of finishing pigs. These metabonomics results provide a basis for researching nutritional strategies to reduce the negative effects of heat stress on livestock and present new insights for further research.
The review highlights metabolism and biological functions of vitamin B1 (thiamine). Thiamine transport systems, enzymes of its biosynthesis and degradation in various organisms, as well as molecular basis of thiamine-dependent hereditary patologies are considered. A special emphasis is given to discuss the role of thiamine triphosphate and adenylated thiamine triphosphate, a new thiamine derivative recently discovered in living cells.
We developed a novel chemical synthesis of thiamine triphosphate which allows us to incorporate 32P in the gamma position. The reaction is based on the condensation of [32P]orthophosphoric acid and thiamine diphosphate in the presence of ethyl chloroformate. After purification by two ion-exchange purification steps, the thiamine derivative has a specific radioactivity of 10 Ci/mmol. The average final yield synthesis is about 10%.
Abstract Massive doses of 35 S-labeled disulfide derivatives of thiamine and 35 S-labeled thiamine-HCl were administered to rats, and a comparative study was made of the formation of phosphorylated thiamine in the heart and liver by means of starch block electrophoretic techniques. It was noted that thiamine propyl disulfide and thiamine tetrahydrofurfuryl disulfide, when compared with thiamine-HCl, transferred far more rapidly into heart muscle cells and subsequently were converted into thiamine phosphates. It was also shown that the thiamine triphosphate fraction in the extract of heart tissues showed higher amounts of radioactivity than the thiamine diphosphate fraction. It was conjectured that thiamine triphosphate might play an important role in the contraction processes of the heart.
The relationship of thiamine (vitamin B1) and its phosphoric esters to cholinergic neuro-transmission was examined using the electric organ of Torpedo marmorata (Eder, L., et al., Nature (Lond.), 264, 186–188, 1976). The total amount of thiamine and its esters is 117 ± 51 nmol/g as compared to acetycholine (ACh) which is 590 ± 77 nmol/g of electrogenic tissue. Thiamine, its monophosphate, diphosphate and triphosphate esters represent 37%, 25%, 6% and 32% of the total respectively; thiamine triphosphate is most abundant in the isolated cholinergic nerve endings. When incubated with increasing concentrations of external [ 14 C]thiamine (from 10 −5 to M) the vitamin is phophorylated with an apparent K m of 2 × 10 −4 M and approximate V max of 0.76 nmol · g −1 · min −1 . Electrophysiological and radiochemical methods were used to measure the effects of external thiamine or its analogue, oxythiamine, on synaptic transmission. Thiamine (5 × 10 −3 M) first caused an increase in the amplitude of the discharge, followed by a subsequent decrease. Oxythiamine (10 −4 M) induces a long lasting increase both in amplitude and duration of the discharge. These effects were found to be due to modifications in the amount of ACh released, as measured directly. Histofluorescence analysis of thiamine shows that a strong fluorescence reaction is produced in the axons and nerve terminals and only a weak response takes place in the electroplaque cells (Eder, L., et al., J. Neurocytol., in press). From these observations we conclude that thiamine is involved in ACh metabolism and release at the presynaptic nerve endings.
A method for the determination of thiamine and thiamine phosphate esters in human and rat blood by liquid chromatography with post-column derivatization, and distribution of thiamine and its phosphate esters in human and various animals is demonstrated. Blood is deproteinized and centrifuged. Aliquots of the samples are applied to a mu Bondapak C18 column attached to a high-performance liquid chromatograph. Addition of potassium ferricyanide sodium hydroxyide solution to the column effluent with a proportioning pump converts thiamine phosphate into fluorophores, the intensities of which are measured with a spectrofluorophotometer. In human blood, thiamine pyrophosphate was present in the greatest concentration, followed by thiamine triphosphate; thiamine monophosphate and thiamine were present in small amounts. In rat blood, thiamine pyrophosphate was found in the largest amount, followed by thiamine monophosphate. Thiamine triphosphate and thiamine were present in small amounts.
We examined the effects of thiamine derivatives on ion uptake in rat brain membrane vesicles. Thiamine triphosphate (1 mM) and pyrithiamine (0.1 mM) increase chloride uptake. Preincubation of crude homogenate with thiamine or pyrithiamine increases chloride uptake while oxythiamine has the reverse effect. Thiamine and oxythiamine also affect 22Na+ and 86Rb+ uptake in the same way as for 36Cl- but to a lesser extent. Thiamine-dependent 36Cl- uptake is activated by sodium bicarbonate (10 mM) and partially inhibited by bumetanide (0.1 mM) and 2,4-dinitrophenol (0.1 mM). Preincubation with thiamine increases the thiamine triphosphate content of the vesicles. The hypothesis that TTP is the activator of a particular chloride uptake mechanism is discussed.
Subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy or Leigh's disease [10] is an inborn error of metabolism [9] characterized by symmetrical lesions of the brainstem. Two theories on the cause of the disease have been proposed: the first based on the demonstration of a deficiency of pyruvate carboxylase [9] subsequently confirmed by Yoshida et al. [18] , Delvin et al. [6] , and Tang et al. [17] and the second based on a deficiency of thiamine triphosphate, caused by inhibition of thiamine diphosphate: ATP-phosphotransferase by specific inhibitors circulating in the body fluids of affected patients [3] .
Bisulphite/sulphite cleaves thiamine and its biological phosphorylated derivatives into the same pyrimidine moiety and their respective thiazole moiety with pseudo-first order kinetic constants following the order of thiamine greater than thiamine monophosphate greater than thiamine diphosphate greater than thiamine triphosphate over the pH range of 3.9 to 7.0. The activation energy was 14.8 kcal/mol for all four thiamines at pH 5.2 and over the temperature range of 25 to 65 degrees C. The rate differences may be rationalized in terms of differences in the pH-dependent electronic, charge and conformation distributions of the various thiamine species.
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is found in most organisms and may be an intracellular signal molecule produced in response to stress. We have recently cloned the cDNA coding for a highly specific mammalian 25-kDa thiamine triphosphatase. The enzyme was active in all mammalian species studied except pig, although the corresponding mRNA was present. In order to determine whether the very low ThTPase activity in pig tissues is due to the absence of the protein or to a lack of catalytic efficiency, we expressed human and pig ThTPase in E. coli as GST fusion proteins. The purified recombinant pig GST-ThTPase was found to be 2-3 orders of magnitude less active than human GST-ThTPase. Using site-directed mutagenesis, we show that, in particular, the change of Glu85 to lysine is responsible for decreased solubility and catalytic activity of the pig enzyme. Immunohistochemical studies revealed a distribution of the protein in pig brain very similar to the one reported in rodent brain. Thus, our results suggest that a 25-kDa protein homologous to hThTPase but practically devoid of enzyme activity is expressed in pig tissues. This raises the possibility that this protein may play a physiological role other than ThTP hydrolysis.
Three of six siblings presented with sleep apnea between 18 and 26 months of age. Twin females and a male had normal growth and development without antecedent neurologic or apparent metabolic disorder. The females presented at 25 and 27 months respectively with irregular respiration and episodes of apnea. Twin A succumbed to an apneic episode while sleeping. Central sleep apnea was diagnosed in twin B at the Stanford Sleep Clinic. She died following an apneic episode three months after evaluation. The male presented at 18 months with fatal sleep apnea. A fourth child was evaluated for sleep apnea at 7 weeks of age with several hospitalizations before her death at 31 months. She and remaining family members were extensively studied for inherited neurologic disorders including subacute necrotizing encephalomyopathy (SANE, Leigh disease). This family with lethal sleep apnea presents an association with SANE with minimal neurologic signs and symptoms and neuropathologic involvement. Lesions were conined to the respiratory centers of the lower brain stem, making sleep apnea explicable. This child and family members tested positive or borderline for inhibitor substance thiamine triphosphate (TTP). All testing for TTP inhibitor substance was performed in Professor Jack R. Cooper's laboratory, Department of Pharmacology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn. These cases present an interesting and instructive lesson emphasizing the need for extensive evaluation of children with unsuspected sleep apnea with early demise.
Total thiamine (the sum of thiamine and its phosphate esters) concentrations are two- to fourfold lower in human brain than in the brain of other mammals. There were no differences in the total thiamine content between biopsied and autopsied human brain, except that in the latter, thiamine triphosphate was undetectable. The main thiamine phosphate-metabolizing enzymes could be detected in autopsied brain, and the kinetic parameters were comparable to those reported in other species. Thiamine diphosphate levels were lowest in hippocampus (15 +/- 4 pmol/mg of protein) and highest in mammillary bodies (24 +/- 4 pmol/mg of protein). Maximal levels of thiamine and its phosphate ester were found to be present at birth. In parietal cortex and globus pallidus, mean levels of total thiamine in the oldest age group (77-103 years) were, respectively, 21 and 26% lower than those in the middle age group (40-55 years). Unlike cerebral cortex, the globus pallidus showed a sharp drop in thiamine diphosphate levels during infancy, with concentrations in the oldest group being only approximately 50% of the levels present during the first 4 months of life. These data, consistent with previous observations conducted in blood, suggest a tendency toward decreased thiamine status in older people.
A high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of thiamine and its phosphate esters using gradient elution is presented. Chromatography was performed on an octadecyl C18 column with post-column derivatization using potassium ferricyanide: thiamine was oxidized to thiochrome, which was detected fluorimetrically. The gradient system avoids the use of a modifier and an ion-pairing reagent. The proposed method enables the separation of thiamine triphosphate, thiamine pyrophosphate, thiamine monophosphate and free thiamine, at concentrations of ca. 2 nM, within 10 min The within-assay precision for blood and serum total thiamine was less than 2 and 5%, respectively, and the between-day variation was less than 3 and 5%, respectively. The method is simple and rapid, and it can be used for screening of thiamine deficiency and for clinical study of various diseases related to vitamin B1 deficiency.
Thiamine metabolism in vivo was studied by intracerebroventricular injection of labeled thiamine in rat brain. Labeled thiamine was found to be rapidly converted to the phosphorylated thiamine esters. The distribution of the radioactive thiamine compounds was reached to steady state at 3 hr after injection: thiamine, thiamine monophosphate, thiamine pyrophosphate, and thiamine triphosphate were 8-12%, 12-14%, 72-74%, and 2-3%, respectively, in cerebral cortex. The presence of labeled thiamine triphosphate in the brain was further confirmed by the treatment with thiamine triphosphatase which had an absolute substrate specificity for thiamine triphosphate. These results suggest that thiamine triphosphate is synthesized in vivo in rat brain.
Thiamine (vitamin B1) plays a central role in brain energy metabolism. Thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) is an essential cofactor of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex, pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and transketolase. ThDP is the most abundant derivative in the brain and other tissues, while free thiamine and other phosphorylated derivatives (thiamine monophosphate, ThMP and thiamine triphosphate, ThTP) may be important for other brain functions (1) (2) (3) (4) . Accumulating evidence has demonstrated that thiamine deficiency plays a central role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) (5, 6) . A marked reduction in thiamine, its derivatives, and thiamine-dependent enzymes has been detected in plasma, red blood cells (5, 7, 8) , cerebrospinal fluid (9) , and postmortem brain tissue from AD patients (5, (10) (11) (12) .
Abstract We aimed to clarify the mechanisms affecting postmortem thiamine and its phosphoester contents in major edible pork muscles, namely the longissimus lumborum (LL) in addition to vastus intermedius (VI). Metabolomic analysis by capillary electrophoresis-time of flight mass spectrometry revealed that the level of thiamine triphosphate (ThTP), approximately 1.8-fold higher in LL than in VI muscle at 0 h postmortem, declined in the first 24 hrs, resulting in an undetectable level at 168 h postmortem in both muscles. In contrast, the thiamine content in both muscles increased after 24 h postmortem during the aging process. The thiamine accumulation and ThTP decline progressed in parallel with a drastic reduction of the ATP level. The intermuscular differences in pH at 24 h and in expression of thiamine transporter and thiamine pyrophosphokinase might result in delayed thiamine generation in LL. These results suggest that postmortem ATP exhaustion forced ThTP hydrolysis and further depyrophosphorylation of thiamine diphosphate in the porcine muscles, which resulted in thiamine accumulation.
Several methods for the chemical synthesis of gamma-32P-labeled and unlabeled nucleoside 5(')-triphosphates and thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) have been described. They often proved unsatisfactory because of low yield, requirement for anhydrous solvents, procedures involving several steps or insufficient specific radioactivity of the labeled triphosphate. In the method described here, all these drawbacks are avoided. The synthesis of [gamma-32P]ThTP was carried out in one step, using 1,3-dicyclohexyl carbodiimide as condensing agent for thiamine diphosphate and phosphoric acid in a dimethyl sulfoxide/pyridine solvent mixture. Anhydrous solvents were not required and the yield reached 90%. After purification, [gamma-32P]ThTP had a specific radioactivity of 11Ci/mmol and was suitable for protein phosphorylation. The method can also be used for the synthesis of [gamma-32P]ATP of the desired specific radioactivity. It can easily be applied to the synthesis of unlabeled ThTP or ribo- and deoxyribonucleoside 5(')-triphosphates. In the latter case, inexpensive 5(')-monophosphate precursors can be used as reactants in a 20-fold excess of phosphoric acid. Deoxyribonucleoside 5(')-triphosphates were obtained in 6h with a yield of at least 70%. After purification, the nucleotides were found to be suitable substrates for Taq polymerase during polymerase chain reaction cycling. Our method can easily be scaled up for industrial synthesis of a variety of labeled and unlabeled triphosphoric derivatives from their mono- or diphosphate precursors.
In E. coli, thiamine triphosphate (ThTP), a putative signaling molecule, transiently accumulates in response to amino acid starvation. This accumulation requires the presence of an energy substrate yielding pyruvate. Here we show that in intact bacteria ThTP is synthesized from free thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) and Pi, the reaction being energized by the proton-motive force (Δp) generated by the respiratory chain. ThTP production is suppressed in strains carrying mutations in F1 or a deletion of the atp operon. Transformation with a plasmid encoding the whole atp operon fully restored ThTP production, highlighting the requirement for FoF1-ATP synthase in ThTP synthesis. Our results show that, under specific conditions of nutritional downshift, FoF1-ATP synthase catalyzes the synthesis of ThTP, rather than ATP, through a highly regulated process requiring pyruvate oxidation. Moreover, this chemiosmotic mechanism for ThTP production is conserved from E. coli to mammalian brain mitochondria.
Abstract Although it has been generally accepted that moving the infant from the prone to the supine position has solved the problem of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), it has been hypothesized that this is an insufficient explanation and that a mixture of genetic risk, some form of stressful incident and marginal brain metabolism is proportionately required. It is suggested that each of these three variables, with dominance in one or more of them, act together in the common etiology. Much has been written about the association of thiamin and magnesium but the finding of extremely high concentrations of serum thiamin in SIDs victims has largely caused rejection of thiamin as being involved in the etiology. The publication of abnormal brainstem auditory evoked potentials strongly suggests that there are electrochemical changes in the brainstem affecting the mechanisms of automatic breathing and the control of cardiac rhythm. The brainstem, cerebellum and limbic system of the brain are known to be highly sensitive to thiamin deficiency (pseudo-hypoxia) and the pathophysiology is similar to a mild continued deprivation of oxygen. Little attention has been paid to the complex metabolism of thiamin. Dietary thiamin requires the cooperation of the SLC19 family of thiamin transporters for its absorption into cells and recent information has shown that transporter SNPs may be relatively common and can be expected to increase genetic risk. Thiamin must be phosphorylated to synthesize thiamin pyrophosphate (TPP), well established in its vital action in glucose metabolism. TPP is also a cofactor for the enzyme 2-hydroxyacyl-CoA lyase (HACL1) in the peroxisome, emphasizing its importance in alpha oxidation and plasmalogen synthesis in cell membrane physiology. The importance of thiamine triphosphate (TTP) in energy metabolism is still largely unknown. Thiamin metabolism has been implicated in hyperemesis gravidarum and iatrogenic Wernicke encephalopathy has been reported when the patient is treated with hyperalimentation, in spite of the pharmaceutical doses of thiamin in the intravenous fluid. Defective glucose metabolism, the vital fuel for energy synthesis, particularly in brain, must affect the developing fetus and the pattern of subsequent neonatal health. Sudden death in an apparently healthy infant, occurring at 3–4months, has long been known to result from feeding the infant with thiamin deficient breast milk. The early investigators of the cause of beriberi considered that this form of sudden death was pathognomonic of the infantile form of the disease.
The possibility that thiamine (vitamin B1) has a role in nervous tissue that is independent of its well-documented coenzyme function is discussed. After reviewing the localization and metabolism of the vitamin and its phosphate esters, the effects of either thiamine deprivation or antimetabolites of thiamine on conduction and transmission, and the relationship between thiamine triphosphate and the genetic, neurological disease, subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy (Leigh's disease), it is suggested that despite the lack of hard evidence, it is likely that the vitamin possesses this alternate function.
The role of thiamine and more specifically thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP), the active form of what is commonly known as vitamin B1, in carbohydrate metabolism is well documented. However, a broader understanding of the biological role(s) of thiamine outside of carbohydrate metabolism is not yet available. Thiamine is a watersoluble vitamin which is passively absorbed in the small intestine at high concentrations or actively absorbed through thiamine transporter proteins at lower concentrations [1] . It exists in multiple forms through the addition of one or more phosphate groups. These include the nonphosphorylated or free thiamine, thiamine monophosphate (TMP), TPP or diphosphate (TPP) and thiamine triphosphate (TTP) (Figure 1 ). Collectively, these will be referred to here as thiamine compounds.
— ::: ::: The effect of depolarization of rat brain cortex slices on the relative distribution of thiamine among its various phosphate esters and on the efflux of thiamine was studied as a probe of possible coenzyme-independent neurophysiological functions of thiamine. Electrical pulses for 30 min increased lactate production but did not affect the levels of thiamine esters. Depolarization with 41 mM-potassium decreased thiamine diphosphate by only 3 percent (P= 0.05). Thiamine triphosphate levels (TTP) were unaffected by depolarization but doubled during incubation for 1 h in which time efflux of 40 percent of the total thiamine from the slices as unesterified thiamine occurred. Depolarization by potassium released a small but highly variable portion of the thiamine content of superfused cortex slices above the basal rate of efflux. The basal efflux was partially sodium dependent. Thiamine efflux was unaffected by acetylcholine, ouabain, or tetrodotoxin, compounds previously reported to increase thiamine efflux. The incorporation of 32P1 into the endogenous thiamine phosphates of cortex slices was studied. Incorporation into thiamine diphosphate reached only 20 percent of the specific activity of its precursor, ATP, after 2h of incubation while the incorporation into TTP approached equilibrium with ATP in 15-30 min indicating that the TTP pool was the most rapidly turning over of the thiamine phosphates. The data suggest that only a small portion of the TDP pool undergoes rapid turnover and serves as a precursor for TTP. The rapid turnover of TTP phosphoryl groups is consistent with specific functions for this compound related to its potential for phosphorylation reactions. An analog of TTP with the β, γ oxygen bridge replaced by a methylene group decreased TDP levels and increased thiamine when incubated with cortex slices, but did not effect thiamine monophosphate or triphosphate levels indicating inhibition of thiamine pyrophosphokinase.
Abstract Thiamine transport in cultured neuroblastoma cells is mediated by a high-affinity carrier ( K M = 40 nM). In contrast, the uptake of the more hydrophobic sulbutiamine (isobutyrylthiamine disulfide) is unsaturable and its initial transport rate is 20-times faster than for thiamine. In the cytoplasm, sulbutiamine is rapidly hydrolyzed and reduced to free thiamine, the overall process resulting in a rapid and concentrative thiamine accumulation. Incorporation of radioactivity from [ 14 C]thiamine or [ 14 C]sulbutiamine into intracellular thiamine diphosphate is slow in both cases. Despite the fact that the diphosphate is probably the direct precursor for both thiamine monophosphate and triphosphate, the specific radioactivity increased much faster for the latter two compounds than for thiamine diphosphate. This suggests the existence of two pools of thiamine diphosphate, the larger one having a very slow turnover (about 17 h); a much smaller, rapidly turning over pool would be the precursor of thiamine mono- and triphosphate. The turnover time for thiamine triphosphate could be estimated to be 1–2 h. When preloading the cells with [ 14 C]sulbutiamine was followed by a chase with the same concentration of the unlabeled compound, the specific radioactivities of thiamine and thiamine monophosphate decreased exponentially as expected, but labeling of the diphosphate continued to increase slowly. Specific radioactivity of thiamine triphosphate increased first, but after 30 min it began to slowly decrease. These results show for the first time the existence of distinct thiamine diphosphate pools in the same homogeneous cell population. They also suggest a complex compartmentation of thiamine metabolism.
I The Description in Physico-Chemical Terms of Nervous System Properties.- I.1. Living systems as dissipative structures with local quasi equilibrium.- I.1.1. The creation of order by fluctuations.- I.1.2. Local quasi-equilibrium.- I.2. Information flows in living systems.- I.2.1. Measure of the amount of information.- I.2.2. The amount of information transmitted through trains of nerve impulses.- I.3. Evolution of the ideas about bioelectrogenesis. A brief account.- I.3.1. Prehistory of the study of excitability.- I.3.2. Nerve impulse as bioelectric event.- I.3.3. Studies of non-electric aspects of the nerve impulse.- I.3.4. Reception and transmission of excitation between cells.- References.- II Cell Membranes and Bioelectrogenesis.- II.1. The ubiquitous cellular component.- II.2. Membrane molecular components and their dynamics.- II.3. Silent and excitable membranes.- References.- III Phenomenological Aspects of Bioelectricity.- III.1. Resting potential of the cells.- III.1.a. Equilibrium transmembrane potentials.- III.1.b. Steady-state nonequilibrium transmembrane potential.- III.2. The passive propagation of potential changes. Axons as electric cables.- III.2.a. Membrane time and length constants.- III.2.b. Electrotonic propagation.- III.3. Regenerative propagation of action potentials in excitable membranes.- III.3.a. Ionic pathways in the axonal membranes.- III.4. Intercellular transmission of excitation.- III.4.a. Main events in chemical synaptic transmission.- III.4.b. Post-synaptic potentials.- III.5. An overview of bioelectric phenomena.- References.- IV Molecular Approaches of Bioelectricity.- A. Intermediary metabolism in brain.- B. Control of glycolysis.- C. Non oxidative consumption of glucose during neural activity.- D. The pentose shunt.- E. The amino acids pool.- F. Concluding remarks.- References.- V Puzzle of Nerve Impulse Thermodynamics.- V.1. Oxygen consumption and heat production inactive nerve.- V.2. Energy dissipation by Na+/K+ pumps in nerves.- V.3. Energy changes during the action potential.- V.3.a. Ionic dissipation of energy.- V.3.b. Capacitive energy changes.- V.3.c. Energetics of ionic conducting sites transitions.- V.4. Thermodynamic inconsistency of the kinetics of n, m and h parameters.- References.- VI Thiamine Triphosphate as the Specific Operative Substance in Spike-Generation.- Conclusion.- References.- VII. Merging Electrophysiology and Molecular Approaches.- VII.1. Single-channel recording.- VII.2. The structure of channel proteins.- VII.3. From molecular mechanisms to complex brain functions.- VII.4. Levels of unitary events.- References.- Index of Names.- Index of Subjects.
Abstract The subcellular distribution of thiamine derivatives in rat brain was studied. Thiamine diphosphate content was highest in the mitochondrial and synaptosomal fractions, and lowest in microsomal, myelin and cytosolic fractions. Only 3–5% of total thiamine diphosphate was bound to transketolase, a cytosolic enzyme. Thiamine triphosphate was barely detectable in the microsomal and cytosolic fraction, but synaptosomes were slightly enriched in this compound compared to the crude homogenate. Both myelin and mitochondrial fractions contained significant amounts of thiamine triphosphate. In order to estimate the relative turnover rates of these compounds, the animals received an intraperitoneal injection of either [ 14 C]thiamine or [ 14 C]sulbutiamine (isobutyrylthiamine disulfide) 1 h before decapitation. The specific radioactivities of thiamine compounds found in the brain decreased in the order: thiamine > thiamine triphosphate > thiamine monophosphate > thiamine diphosphate. Incorporation of radioactivity into thiamine triphosphate was more marked with [ 14 C]sulbutiamine than with [ 14 C]thiamine. The highest specific radioactivity of thiamine diphosphate was found in the cytosolic fraction of the brain, though this pool represents less than 10% of total thiamine diphosphate. Cytosolic thiamine diphosphate had a twice higher specific radioactivity when [ 14 C]sulbutiamine was used as precursor compared with thiamine though no significant differences were found in the other cellular compartments. Our results suggest the existence of two thiamine diphosphate pools: the bound cofactor pool is essentially mitochondrial and has a low turnover; a much smaller cytosolic pool (6–7% of total TDP) of high turnover is the likely precursor of thiamine triphosphate.
BackgroundWe have recently identified a new thiamine derivative, adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP), in E. coli. In intact bacteria, this nucleotide is synthesized only in the absence of a metabolizable carbon source and quickly disappears as soon as the cells receive a carbon source such as glucose. Thus, we hypothesized that AThTP may be a signal produced in response to carbon starvation.ResultsHere we show that, in bacterial extracts, the biosynthesis of AThTP is carried out from thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) and ADP or ATP by a soluble high molecular mass nucleotidyl transferase. We partially purified this enzyme and characterized some of its functional properties. The enzyme activity had an absolute requirement for divalent metal ions, such as Mn2+ or Mg2+, as well as for a heat-stable soluble activator present in bacterial extracts. The enzyme has a pH optimum of 6.5–7.0 and a high Km for ThDP (5 mM), suggesting that, in vivo, the rate of AThTP synthesis is proportional to the free ThDP concentration. When ADP was used as the variable substrate at a fixed ThDP concentration, a sigmoid curve was obtained, with a Hill coefficient of 2.1 and an S0.5 value of 0.08 mM. The specificity of the AThTP synthesizing enzyme with respect to nucleotide substrate is restricted to ATP/ADP, and only ThDP can serve as the second substrate of the reaction. We tentatively named this enzyme ThDP adenylyl transferase (EC 2.7.7.65).ConclusionThis is the first demonstration of an enzyme activity transferring a nucleotidyl group on thiamine diphosphate to produce AThTP. The existence of a mechanism for the enzymatic synthesis of this compound is in agreement with the hypothesis of a non-cofactor role for thiamine derivatives in living cells.
Content of thiamine triphosphate (TTP) was studied in rat liver tissue under conditions of normal state, thiamine deficiency and after loading with thiamine. The concentration of TTP in hepatocytes of control animals was found to be 3.2-3.6 micrograms/g, corresponding to 40% of the total thiamine pool in the cells. The TTP appears to serve as a reserve of vitamin B1 deposited in mitochondria of the cells in which the biosynthesis of thiamine pyrophosphate of their own did not take place. Administration of thiamine did not induce the TTP overproduction in hepatocytes; the content of TTP was maintained in the mitochondria of the hepatocytes at the constant level.
43K rapsyn is a peripheral protein specifically associated with the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) present in the postsynaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction and of the electrocyte, and is essential for its clustering. Here, we demonstrate a novel specific phosphorylation of 43K rapsyn by endogenous protein kinase(s) present in Torpedo electrocyte nAChR-rich membranes and identify thiamine triphosphate (TTP) as the phosphate donor. In the presence of Mg(2+) and [gamma-(32)P]-TTP, 43K rapsyn is specifically phosphorylated with a (32)P-half-maximal incorporation at approximately 5-25 microM TTP. The presence of TTP in the cytosol and of 43K rapsyn at the cytoplasmic face of the postsynaptic membrane, together with TTP-dependent phosphorylation of 43K rapsyn without added exokinases, suggests that TTP-dependent-43K-rapsyn phosphorylation may occur in vivo. In addition, phosphoamino acid and chemical stability analysis suggests that the residues phosphorylated are predominantly histidines. Inhibition of phosphorylation by Zn(2+) suggests a possible control of 43K rapsyn phosphorylation state by its zinc finger domain. Endogenous kinase(s) present in rodent brain membranes can also use [gamma-(32)P]-TTP as a phosphodonor. The use of a phosphodonor (TTP) belonging to the thiamine family but not to the classical (ATP, GTP) purine triphosphate family represents a novel phosphorylation pathway possibly important for synaptic proteins.
Background: We have recently identified a new thiamine derivative, adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP), in E. coli. In intact bacteria, this nucleotide is synthesized only in the absence of a metabolizable carbon source and quickly disappears as soon as the cells receive a carbon source such as glucose. Thus, we hypothesized that AThTP may be a signal produced in response to carbon starvation.
The CYTH superfamily of proteins is named after its two founding members, the CyaB adenylyl cyclase from Aeromonas hydrophila and the human 25-kDa thiamine triphosphatase. Because these proteins often form a closed β-barrel, they are also referred to as triphosphate tunnel metalloenzymes (TTM). Functionally, they are characterized by their ability to bind triphosphorylated substrates and divalent metal ions. These proteins exist in most organisms and catalyze different reactions depending on their origin. Here we investigate structural and catalytic properties of the recombinant TTM protein from Nitrosomonas europaea (NeuTTM), a 19-kDa protein. Crystallographic data show that it crystallizes as a dimer and that, in contrast to other TTM proteins, it has an open β-barrel structure. We demonstrate that NeuTTM is a highly specific inorganic triphosphatase, hydrolyzing tripolyphosphate (PPP(i)) with high catalytic efficiency in the presence of Mg(2+). These data are supported by native mass spectrometry analysis showing that the enzyme binds PPP(i) (and Mg-PPP(i)) with high affinity (K(d) < 1.5 μm), whereas it has a low affinity for ATP or thiamine triphosphate. In contrast to Aeromonas and Yersinia CyaB proteins, NeuTTM has no adenylyl cyclase activity, but it shares several properties with other enzymes of the CYTH superfamily, e.g. heat stability, alkaline pH optimum, and inhibition by Ca(2+) and Zn(2+) ions. We suggest a catalytic mechanism involving a catalytic dyad formed by Lys-52 and Tyr-28. The present data provide the first characterization of a new type of phosphohydrolase (unrelated to pyrophosphatases or exopolyphosphatases), able to hydrolyze inorganic triphosphate with high specificity.
Injection of thiamine (250 micrograms per 100 g of mass daily) to rats with alimentary intensification of lipogenesis decreases the pyruvate dehydrogenase activity in the liver, which is accompanied by an increase in the concentration of pyruvate and drop in the level of free fatty acids. Under these conditions the content of total thiamine is 1.5 times as high. The level of thiamine pyrophosphate and thiamine triphosphate rises significantly. When all parameters were determined in dynamics after a single thiamine injection, an inverse dependence is observed between the content of thiamine phosphoric esters, thiamine triphosphate in particular, and pyruvate dehydrogenase activity.
