Ketohexokinase (EC 2.7.1.3) was purified to homogeneity from human liver, and fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (EC 4.1.2.13) was partially purified from the same source. Ketohexokinase was shown, by column chromatography and polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis, to be a dimer of Mr 75000. Inhibition studies with p-chloromercuribenzoate and N-ethylmaleimide indicate that ketohexokinase contains thiol groups, which are required for full activity. With D-xylulose as substrate, ketohexokinase and aldolase can catalyse a reaction sequence which forms glycolaldehyde, a known precursor of oxalate. The distribution of both enzymes in human tissues indicates that this reaction sequence occurs mainly in the liver, to a lesser extent in the kidney, and very little in heart, brain and muscle. The kinetic properties of ketohexokinase show that this enzyme can phosphorylate D-xylulose as readily as D-fructose, except that higher concentrations of D-xylulose are required. The kinetic properties of aldolase show that the enzyme has a higher affinity for D-xylulose 1-phosphate than for D-fructose 1-phosphate. These findings support a role for ketohexokinase and aldolase in the formation of glycolaldehyde. The effect of various metabolites on the activity of the two enzymes was tested to determine the conditions that favour the formation of glycolaldehyde from xylitol. The results indicate that few of these metabolites affect the activity of ketohexokinase, but that aldolase can be inhibited by several phosphorylated compounds. This work suggests that, although the formation of oxalate from xylitol is normally a minor pathway, under certain conditions of increased xylitol metabolism oxalate production can become significant and may result in oxalosis.
Ketohexokinase (EC 2.7.1.3) was purified to homogeneity from human liver, and fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (EC 4.1.2.13) was partially purified from the same source. Ketohexokinase was shown, by column chromatography and polyacrylamidegel electrophoresis, to be a dimer of Mr 75 000. Inhibition studies with pchloromercuribenzoate and N-ethylmaleimide indicate that ketohexokinase contains thiol groups, which are required for full activity. With D-xylulose as substrate, ketohexokinase and aldolase can catalyse a reaction sequence which forms glycolaldehyde, a known precursor of oxalate. The distribution of both enzymes in human tissues indicates that this reaction sequence occurs mainly in the liver, to a lesser extent in the kidney, and very little in heart, brain and muscle. The kinetic properties of ketohexokinase show that this enzyme can phosphorylate D-xylulose as readily as D-fructose, except that higher concentrations of D-xylulose are required. The kinetic properties of aldolase show that the enzyme has a higher affinity for Dxylulose 1-phosphate than for D-fructose 1-phosphate. These findings support a role for ketohexokinase and aldolase in the formation of glycolaldehyde. The effect of various metabolites on the activity of the two enzymes was tested to determine the conditions that favour the formation of glycolaldehyde from xylitol. The results indicate that few of these metabolites affect the activity of ketohexokinase, but that aldolase can be inhibited by several phosphorylated compounds. This work suggests that, although the formation of oxalate from xylitol is normally a minor pathway, under certain conditions of increased xylitol metabolism oxalate production can become significant and may result in oxalosis.
A Mg(2+)-dependent, alkaline phosphatase has been isolated from mature pollen of Lilium longiflorum Thunb., cv. Ace and partially purified. It hydrolyzes 1l- and 1d-myo-inositol 1-phosphate, myo-inositol 2-phosphate, and beta-glycerophosphate at rates decreasing in the order named. The affinity of the enzyme for 1l- and 1d-myo-inositol 1-phosphate is approximately 10-fold greater than its affinity for myo-inositol 2-phosphate. Little or no activity is found with phytate, d-glucose 6-phosphate, d-glucose 1-phosphate, d-fructose 1-phosphate, d-fructose 6-phosphate, d-mannose 6-phosphate, or p-nitrophenyl phosphate. 3-Phosphosphoglycerate is a weak competitive inhibitor. myo-Inositol does not inhibit the reaction. Optimal activity is obtained at pH 8.5 and requires the presence of Mg(2+). At 4 millimolar, Co(2+), Fe(2+) or Mn(2+) are less effective. Substantial inhibition is obtained with 0.25 molar Li(+). With beta-glycerophosphate as substrate the K(m) is 0.06 millimolar and the reaction remains linear at least 2 hours. In 0.1 molar Tris, beta-glycerophosphate yields equivalent amounts of glycerol and inorganic phosphate, evidence that transphosphorylation does not occur.In higher plants this myo-inositol-1-phosphatase links myo-inositol biosynthesis to the myo-inositol oxidation pathway to produce an alternative path from d-glucose 6-phosphate to UDP-d-glucuronate that bypasses UDP-d-glucose dehydrogenase. myo-Inositol-1-phosphatase also furnishes free myo-inositol for reactions that lead to other cyclitols and cyclitol-containing compounds of biosynthetic and/or regulatory significance in plant growth and development.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the chemical synthesis of fructose 2-phosphates. Treatment of D-fructose 1-phosphate with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in aqueous pyridine in the presence of triethylamine leads to the formation of D-fructopyranose 1,2-cyclic phosphate and D-fructofuranose 1,2- cyclic phosphate. Alkaline hydrolysis of the cyclic phosphates gives D-fructopyranose 2-phosphate and D-fructofuranose 2-phosphate, besides D-fructose 1-phosphate. The barium salt of D-fructose 1-phosphate 2 is converted into the pyridinium salt by passage through either Dowex 50 or Dowex 50 followed by neutralization with pyridine. D-Fructofuranose 2-phosphate is separated from the D-fructopyranose analog by paper chromatography with various solvent systems. The fructose 2-phosphates have no reducing power, but reducing properties appear after a short acid hydrolysis. In contrast with other fructose esters, on treatment of chromatograms with the phosphate reagent they give yellow spots which turn blue after heating and exposure to ultraviolet light. At pH 4 and 37° about 50% of the D-fructofuranose 2-phosphate is split in about 8 minutes, whereas the D-fructopyranose ester at the same pH and temperature is 50% hydrolyzed in about 28 minutes.
Over the last two decades, several studies aimed at investigating the metabolism and insulinotropic action of D-fructose in pancreatic islets. In terms of metabolism, attention was drawn to the participation of different enzymes to the phosphorylation of the ketohexose, including fructokinase (1), the low-Km hexokinase (2) , and the high-Km glucokinase with emphasis on the glucose-induced cooperativity of this enzyme towards D-fructose (3, 4) and the anomeric specificity of such a process (5, 6) . The possible participation of D-fructose 1-phosphate in the regulation of glucokinase activity at the intervention of its regulatory protein (7) was also examined (Iwashiga K, et al, Diabetologia 38 (Suppl 1): abs. 394, A102, 1995) (8) . In terms of stimulus-secretion coupling, puzzling findings relate to the dissociation both between the effects of D-fructose on proinsulin biosynthesis and insulin release (9) and between the changes evoked by the ketohexose in the ATP and ADP content, as well as ATP/ADP ratio, and its insulinotropic action (Giroix M-H, et al, Diabetologia 47 (Suppl 1): abs. 457, A168, 2004) in isolated islets. From the physiological standpoint, a recent study revealed that both the immediate and delayed effects of D-fructose, as compared to D-glucose, upon secretory activity may differ in insulin-, somatostatinand glucagon-producing cells (10) . The possible participation of D-fructose insulinotropic action in the improvement of Dglucose tolerance evoked in vivo by the ketohexose was also investigated (11) . Last, in terms of the perturbation of islet function in type 2 diabetes, several studies aimed at comparing the fate of D-fructose in islets obtained from either control rats or animals currently used as models for this disease (12) (13) (14) .
The present study deals with one of these issues, i.e. the activity of fructokinase in rat pancreatic islets. In a prior study, it was already documented that rat islets indeed display fructokinase activity (1) . The ATP-dependent phosphorylation of D-fructose in homogenates of rat pancreatic islets that had been heated for 5 min at 70˚C in order to inactivate hexokinases was found to be dependent on the presence of K + and inhibited by D-tagatose. The phosphorylation product was identified as D-fructose 1-phosphate through its conversion to a bisphosphate ester by Clostridium difficile fructose 1-phosphate kinase (1) . In this prior study, however, the fructokinase activity in islet homogenates was not compared to that found in other organs, and the respective contribution of B and non-B islet cells to such an activity was not investigated. The results of the present study provide this missing information. 14 C-labelled D-glucose using an alkaline isomerization procedure and were further purified by HPLC, as described elsewhere (15) .
In the post-microsomal supernatant of pancreatic islets, prepared from fasted or fed rats, D-fructose 1-phosphate increased the activity of glucokinase by 20-30% as measured in the presence of D-glucose 6-phosphate and D-fructose 6-phosphate. Such an activation was less marked than that found in liver extracts. The islet cytosol was also found to inhibit purified liver glucokinase, and this effect was antagonized by D-fructose 1-phosphate. In the presence of hexose 6-phosphates, partially purified islet glucokinase was inhibited by the hepatic glucokinase regulatory protein in a D-fructose-1-phosphate-sensitive manner. In intact islets, D-glyceraldehyde stimulated the generation of 14C-labelled D-fructose 1-phosphate from D-[U-14C]glucose and increased the production of 3H2O from D-[5-3H]glucose. These findings suggest that the activity of glucokinase in islet cells may be regulated by a protein mediating the antagonistic effects of D-fructose 6-phosphate and D-fructose 1-phosphate in a manner qualitatively similar to that operating in hepatocytes, but with lower efficiency.
The metabolism of D-glucose was recently reported to be impaired in pancreatic islets from second generation rats depleted in long-chain polyunsaturated ω3 fatty acids. Considering the increased clearance of circulating non-esterified fatty acids prevailing in these rats, a possible inhibition of glucokinase in insulin-producing cells by endogenous long-chain fatty acyl-CoA was considered. The present study was mainly aimed at assessing the validity of the latter proposal. The activity of glucokinase in islet homogenates, as judged from the increase in D-glucose phosphorylation rate in response to a rise in the concentration of the hexose represented, in the ω3-depleted rats, was only 81.8 ± 4.8% (n = 11; p < 0.005) of the paired value recorded in control animals. This coincided with the fact that the inclusion of D-glucose 6-phosphate (3.0 mM) and D-fructose 1-phosphate (1.0 mM) in the assay medium resulted in a lesser fractional decrease of D-glucose phosphorylation in ω3-depleted rats than in control animals. Moreover, whereas palmitoyl-CoA (50 µM) decreased the activity of glucokinase by 38.0 ± 6.0% (n = 4; p < 0.01) in islet homogenates from normal rats, the CoA ester failed to affect significantly the activity of glucokinase in islet homogenates from ω3-depleted rats. These findings afford direct support for the view that glucokinase is indeed inhibited by endogenous long-chain fatty acyl-CoA in islets from ω3-depleted rats, such an inhibition probably participating to the alteration of D-glucose catabolism prevailing in these islets. Copyright © 2007 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The scr regulon of pUR400 and the chromosomally encoded scr regulon of Klebsiella pneumoniae KAY2026 are both negatively controlled by a specific repressor (ScrR). As deduced from the nucleotide sequences, both scrR genes encode polypeptides of 334 residues (85.5% identical base pairs, 91.3% identical amino acids), containing an N-terminal helix-turn-helix motif. Comparison with other regulatory proteins revealed 30.6% identical amino acids to FruR, 27.0% to Lacl and 28.1% to GalR. Six scrRs super-repressor mutations define the inducer-binding domain. The scr operator sequences were identified by in vivo titration tests of the sucrose repressor and by in vitro electrophoretic mobility shift assays. D-fructose, an intracellular product of sucrose transport and hydrolysis, and D-fructose 1-phosphate were shown to be molecular inducers of both scr regulons. An active ScrR-FruR hybrid repressor protein was constructed with the N-terminal part of the sucrose repressor of K. pneumoniae and the C-terminal part of the fructose repressor of Salmonella typhimurium LT2. Gel retardation assays showed that the hybrid protein bound to scr-specific operators, and that D-fructose 1-phosphate, the inducer for FruR, was the only inducer. In vivo, neither the operators of the fru operon nor of the pps operon, the natural targets for FruR, were recognized, but the scr operators were. These data and the data obtained from the super-repressor alleles confirm previous models on the binding of repressors of the Lacl family to their operators.
A D-mannose 6-phosphate receptor was isolated from total membranes of porcine testis, and its interaction with ligands was examined. The receptor was a glycoprotein comprised of several 36-kDa sub-units with an isoelectric point (pI) of 6.1. The binding of the receptor to the insoluble phosphomannan core occurred in the absence of divalent cations, but was selectively stimulated by MnCl2 and effectively inhibited by D-mannose 6-phosphate, D-fructose 1-phosphate, and pentamannosyl monophosphate. The phosphate group and HO-2 of D-mannose 6-phosphate are important in the receptor-ligand interaction, HO-4 probably contributes to a lesser extent, and HO-1 seems to have no interaction.
The metabolism of D-glucose was recently reported to be impaired in pancreatic islets from second generation rats depleted in long-chain polyunsaturated omega3 fatty acids. Considering the increased clearance of circulating non-esterified fatty acids prevailing in these rats, a possible inhibition of glucokinase in insulin-producing cells by endogenous long-chain fatty acyl-CoA was considered. The present study was mainly aimed at assessing the validity of the latter proposal. The activity of glucokinase in islet homogenates, as judged from the increase in D-glucose phosphorylation rate in response to a rise in the concentration of the hexose represented, in the omega3-depleted rats, was only 81.8 +/- 4.8% (n = 11; p < 0.005) of the paired value recorded in control animals. This coincided with the fact that the inclusion of D-glucose 6-phosphate (3.0 mM) and D-fructose 1-phosphate (1.0 mM) in the assay medium resulted in a lesser fractional decrease of D-glucose phosphorylation in omega3-depleted rats than in control animals. Moreover, whereas palmitoyl-CoA (50 microM) decreased the activity of glucokinase by 38.0 +/- 6.0% (n = 4; p < 0.01) in islet homogenates from normal rats, the CoA ester failed to affect significantly the activity of glucokinase in islet homogenates from omega3-depleted rats. These findings afford direct support for the view that glucokinase is indeed inhibited by endogenous long-chain fatty acyl-CoA in islets from omega3-depleted rats, such an inhibition probably participating to the alteration of D-glucose catabolism prevailing in these islets.
The condensation of D-fructose 6-phosphate or 1-phosphate with cyanide has been used to synthesize 2-carboxyhexitol 6-phosphates and 1-phosphates. The products have been characterized in terms of their action on ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase. The reaction of D-fructose 6-phosphate with cyanide is four times as fast (at 22°C) at pH 7.5 than at pH 11.5 and the primary products of condensation are more easily isolated by anion exchange chromatography. Two minor chromatographic peaks (I and II) for diastereomeric 2-carboxyhexitol 6-phosphates are isolated in addition to two major peaks, III and IV, which are lactones. The lactones are those of 2-C-carboxy-D-glucitol 6-phosphate (CG6P) in peak III and 2-C-carboxy-D-mannitol 6-phosphate (CM6P) in peak IV, as established after dephosphorylation by the relative rates of oxidation by periodate and by gas chromatographic retention times of the acetates. Analogous methodology has been used to synthesize the diastereomeric 2-carboxy-hexitol 1-phosphates (CG1P and CM1P) and their lactones from D-fructose 1-phosphate. The four carboxylates inhibit ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase from spinach or Pseudomonas oxalaticus in the following decreasing order of potency: CG6P, CM6P, CG1P, CM1P. The inhibition pattern suggests that the binding of the 5-phosphate moiety of the intermediate in the reaction catalyzed by ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase may be stronger by an order of magnitude than the binding of the 1-phosphate group.
Abstract This paper presents evidence that the pathway by which d-fructose is metabolized in Aerobacter aerogenes PRL-R3 depends on whether it is presented to the cells extracellularly as the free hexose or intracellularly as a product of sucrose hydrolysis. Whereas the metabolism of exogenously supplied d-fructose is mediated by a phosphoenolpyruvate:d-fructose 1-phosphotransferase system and d-fructose 1-phosphate kinase (ATP:d-fructose 1-phosphate 6-phosphotransferase), the metabolism of the d-fructose moiety of sucrose is mediated by a specific d-fructokinase (ATP:d-fructose 6-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.4) that is preferentially induced by sucrose. Conclusions drawn from studies with the wild type strain were supported by an analysis of mutants lacking d-fructokinase, d-fructose 1-phosphate kinase, or both of these enzymes. However, in contrast with the wild type, the mutant which lacks d-fructokinase metabolizes the d-fructose moiety of sucrose via d-fructose 1-phosphate rather than d-fructose 6-phosphate.
A procedure for the coupling at pH 7.2 of p-carboxy benzene diazonium chloride with rabbit muscle aldolase supported on phosphocellulose is described and some of the spectroscopic, structural and catalytic features of the material obtained are reported. ::: ::: ::: ::: The tetrameric azoenzyme is homogeneous in disc gel electrophoresis even in the presence of 8 M urea. Twelve molecules of the reactant are bound to the protein. Eight azocysteines are identified by both spectroscopic studies and amino acid analysis. The presence of one azohistidine is suggested by the spectroscopic data along with the presence of other, as yet unknown, chromophores. ::: ::: ::: ::: The azoaldolase shows unchanged catalytic properties using both D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate and d-fructose 1-phosphate as substrates, as compared with the native enzyme. The pH profile of the enzyme activity is broadened towards the alkaline region but no changes occur in the physiological range of pH.
MATERIALS AND METHODS Reagents. Leibovitz (L-15) tissue culture medium, penicillin/streptomycin mixture, and fetal calf serum were purchased from GIBCO. Hi/Wo/Ba medium (10 times concentrated) was obtained from International Scientific Industries (Cary, IL). Insulin, collagenase (type 1), L-y-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide, glycylglycine, p-nitrophenyl phosphate, D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate, D-fructose 1-phosphate, and a-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase-triosephosphate isomerase were purchased from Sigma. Dexamethasone phosphate was purchased from Merck, Sharp & Dohme; NADH from Boehringer Mannheim; and L-(+)-homoarginine from Aldrich. y-Glutamyl-4-methoxy-2-naphthylamide was obtained from Vega-Fox Biochemicals (Tucson, AZ), and [methyl-3H1thymidine (40-60 Ci/mmol) was purchased from New England Nuclear.
Abstract d-Fructose 1-phosphate kinase from Aerobacter aerogenes was purified 315-fold, and its properties, regulation, and reaction kinetics were compared with those of d-fructose 6-phosphate kinase from the same organism. d-Fructose-6-P kinase exhibited a sigmoidal dependence of rate on d-fructose-6-P concentration, whereas d-fructose-1-P kinase exhibited hyperbolic dependence of rate on d-fructose-1-P concentration. The apparent Km of d-fructose-1-P kinase for either substrate (d-fructose-1-P or ATP) did not vary with the concentration of the other substrate, which indicates a sequential mechanism of substrate binding. ATP inhibited both enzymes when the ratios of Mg++ to ATP concentrations were below 2:1; ATP inhibition of d-fructose-6-P kinase was relieved by Mg++, d-fructose-6-P, ADP, and various other nucleoside diphosphates, whereas ATP inhibition of d-fructose-1-P kinase was relieved by Mg++ only. Both enzymes showed a sigmoidal dependence of rate on Mg++ concentration; increased levels of d-fructose-6-P shifted the d-fructose-6-P kinase curve from sigmoidal to hyperbolic, whereas d-fructose-1-P had no effect on a similar plot for d-fructose-1-P kinase. Other nucleoside triphosphates were used as phosphoryl donors by both enzymes and, unlike the situation with other described phosphofructokinases, inhibited activity when the ratios of Mg++ to nucleotide concentrations were below 2:1. In contrast with the result obtained with ATP, the inhibition of d-fructose-6-P kinase by other nucleoside triphosphates could not be relieved by d-fructose-6-P. The data indicate that, whereas d-fructose-6-P kinase exhibits allosteric properties and a regulatory pattern similar to those of d-fructose-6-P kinases from various other organisms, d-fructose-1-P kinase behaves more like a nonallosteric kinase. However, citrate (Ki 0.85 mm), d-fructose-1,6-di-P (Ki 4.4 mm), and d-fructose-6-P (Ki 1.0 mm) inhibited d-fructose-1-P kinase competitively with d-fructose-1-P, which suggests possible control of activity in vivo. The molecular weights of d-fructose-6-P kinase and d-fructose-1-P kinase were estimated to be 90,000 and 75,000, respectively. Other properties of the two phosphofructokinases, such as substrate specificity, Km values, pH optima, and stability, are also reported.
A procedure for the coupling at pH 7.2 of p-carboxy benzene diazonium chloride with rabbit muscle aldolase supported on phosphocellulose is described and some of the spectroscopic, structural and catalytic features of the material obtained are reported. The tetrameric azoenzyme is homogeneous in disc gel electrophoresis even in the presence of 8 M urea. Twelve molecules of the reactant are bound to the protein. Eight azocysteins are identified by both spectroscopic studies and amino acid analysis. The presence of one azohistidine is suggested by the spectroscopic data along with the presence of other, as yet unknown, chromophores. The azoaldolase shows unchanged catalytic properties using both D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate and D-fructose 1-phosphate as substrates, as compared with the native enzyme. The pH profile of the enzyme activity is broadened towards the alkaline region but no changes occur in the physiological range of pH.
The Cori ester α-d-glucose 1-phosphate (αGlc 1-P) is a high-energy intermediate of cellular carbohydrate metabolism. Its glycosidic phosphomonoester moiety primes αGlc 1-P for flexible exploitation in glucosyl and phosphoryl transfer reactions. Two structurally and mechanistically distinct sugar-phosphate phosphatases from Escherichia coli were characterized in this study for utilization of αGlc 1-P as a phosphoryl donor substrate. The agp gene encodes a periplasmic αGlc 1-P phosphatase (Agp) belonging to the histidine acid phosphatase family. Had13 is from the haloacid dehydrogenase-like phosphatase family. Cytoplasmic expression of Agp (in E. coli Origami B) gave a functional enzyme preparation (kcat for phosphoryl transfer from αGlc 1-P to water, 40 s−1) that was shown by mass spectrometry to exhibit no free cysteines and the native intramolecular disulfide bond between Cys189 and Cys195. Enzymatic phosphoryl transfer from αGlc 1-P to water in H218O solvent proceeded with complete 18O label incorporation into the phosphate released, consistent with catalytic reaction through O-1–P, but not C-1–O, bond cleavage. Hydrolase activity of both enzymes was not restricted to a glycosidic phosphomonoester substrate, and d-glucose 6-phosphate was converted with a kcat similar to that of αGlc 1-P. By examining phosphoryl transfer from αGlc 1-P to an acceptor substrate other than water (d-fructose or d-glucose), we discovered that Agp exhibited pronounced synthetic activity, unlike Had13, which utilized αGlc 1-P mainly for phosphoryl transfer to water. By applying d-fructose in 10-fold molar excess over αGlc 1-P (20 mM), enzymatic conversion furnished d-fructose 1-phosphate as the main product in a 55% overall yield. Agp is a promising biocatalyst for use in transphosphorylation from αGlc 1-P.
The Cori ester ␣-D-glucose 1-phosphate (␣Glc 1-P) is a high-energy intermediate of cellular carbohydrate metabolism. Its glycosidic phosphomonoester moiety primes ␣Glc 1-P for flexible exploitation in glucosyl and phosphoryl transfer reactions. Two structurally and mechanistically distinct sugar-phosphate phosphatases from Escherichia coli were characterized in this study for utilization of ␣Glc 1-P as a phosphoryl donor substrate. The agp gene encodes a periplasmic ␣Glc 1-P phosphatase (Agp) belonging to the histidine acid phosphatase family. Had13 is from the haloacid dehydrogenase-like phosphatase family. Cytoplasmic expression of Agp (in E. coli Origami B) gave a functional enzyme preparation (k cat for phosphoryl transfer from ␣Glc 1-P to water, 40 s ؊1 ) that was shown by mass spectrometry to exhibit no free cysteines and the native intramolecular disulfide bond between Cys 189 and Cys 195 . Enzymatic phosphoryl transfer from ␣Glc 1-P to water in H 2 18 O solvent proceeded with complete 18 O label incorporation into the phosphate released, consistent with catalytic reaction through O-1-P, but not C-1-O, bond cleavage. Hydrolase activity of both enzymes was not restricted to a glycosidic phosphomonoester substrate, and D-glucose 6-phosphate was converted with a k cat similar to that of ␣Glc 1-P. By examining phosphoryl transfer from ␣Glc 1-P to an acceptor substrate other than water (D-fructose or D-glucose), we discovered that Agp exhibited pronounced synthetic activity, unlike Had13, which utilized ␣Glc 1-P mainly for phosphoryl transfer to water. By applying D-fructose in 10-fold molar excess over ␣Glc 1-P (20 mM), enzymatic conversion furnished D-fructose 1-phosphate as the main product in a 55% overall yield. Agp is a promising biocatalyst for use in transphosphorylation from ␣Glc 1-P.
The relative significance of the pathways for the conversion of d-fructose to d-fructose 1,6-diphosphate via d-fructose 1-phosphate or d-fructose 6-phosphate in Aerobacter aerogenes PRL-R3 was assessed by observing growth patterns of mutants lacking either d-fructose 6-phosphate kinase or d-fructose 1,6-diphosphatase. The mutant lacking d-fructose 6-phosphate kinase grew well on d-fructose or glycerol but not on d-glucose, whereas the mutant lacking d-fructose 1,6-diphosphatase grew on d-glucose but not on d-fructose or glycerol. The data indicate that the pathway of d-fructose metabolism is primarily through d-fructose 1-phosphate rather than d-fructose 6-phosphate.
The relative significance of the pathways for the conversion of D-fructose to D-fructose 1 ,6-diphosphate via D-fructose 1-phosphate or D-fructose 6-phosphate in Aerobacter aerogenes PRL-R3 was assessed by observing growth patterns of mutants lacking either D-fructose 6-phosphate kinase or D-fructose 1 ,6-diphosphatase. The mutant lacking D-fructose 6-phosphate kinase grew well on D-fructose or glycerol but not on D-glucose, whereas the mutant lacking D-fructose 1, 6-diphosphatase grew on D-glucose but not on D-fructose or glycerol. The data indicate that the pathway of D-fructose metabolism is primarily through D-fructose 1-phosphate rather than D-fructose 6-phosphate.
Rabbit muscle aldolase catalyses the stereospecific exchange of the pro-S C-1 hydrogen of dihydroxyacetone phosphate, d-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate and d-fructose 1-phosphate. The rate of exchange, however, is at least 400 times slower than the proton exchange of the pro-S hydrogen at C-3 in dihydroxyacetone phosphate.
6-Deoxy-D-fructose 1-phosphate (6-deoxyF-1-P) forms when a solution containing D-fructose 1,6-diphosphate (FDP) and D-lactaldehyde is treated with the enzymes aldolase and triosephosphate isomerase. This transformation involves three reactions: aldolase-catalyzed cleavage of FDP to a mixture of dihydroxyacetone phosphate and D-glyceraldehyde phosphate, triosephosphate isomerase catalyzed equilibration of dihydroxyacetone phosphate and D-glyceraldehyde phosphate, and aldolase-catalyzed condensation of dihydroxyacetone phosphate and D-lactaldehyde to 6-deoxyF-1-P. An analogous process converts a mixture of FDP and L-lactaldehyde to 6-deoxysorbose 1-phosphate (6-deoxyS-1-P). Aldolase-catalyzed reaction of dihydroxyacetone phosphate, prepared separately, with D-lactaldehyde yields 6-deoxyF-1-P directly; similar reaction of dihydroxyacetone phosphate with α-hydroxybutyraldehyde yields a mixture of 6-methyl-6-deoxyhexose 1-phosphates. Acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of the sugar phosphates releases the corresponding free sugars. A mixture containing 6-deoxyhexoses is formed directly by base-catalyzed aldol condensation of dihydroxyacetone and D,L-lactaldehyde. Treatment of any of the 6-deoxyhexoses with acids generates 2,5-dimethyl-4-hydroxy-2,3-dihydrofuran-3-one (Furaneol, a flavor principle). Furaneol can also be prepared in moderate yields by hydrogenolysis of FDP and other hexose phosphates in alkaline media
Abstract Purified Aerobacter aerogenes d-fructose 1-phosphate kinase (ATP:d-fructose 1-phosphate 6-phosphotransferase), an enzyme which does not exhibit cooperative kinetics, was activated by K+, Rb+, and NH+4, inhibited by Li+, and not significantly affected by Na+ or Cs+. The enzyme exhibited some activity when assayed in tetramethylammonium-glycylclycine buffer even in the absence of other monovalent cations, suggesting that the requirement for monovalent cations is not absolute. K+ increased the reaction velocity about 4-fold in the presence of excess ATP and d-fructose-1-P, and about 10-fold when both substrates were present at concentrations near their Km values (0.3 mm). K+ also exerted a much greater activating effect under conditions of inhibiting ATP levels than when Mg++ was present at a sufficiently high level to prevent inhibition by ATP. The Ka for K+ (about 3 mm) was not affected by the Mg++ or ATP concentration, but was increased by decreased levels of d-fructose-1-P. K+ decreased the Km values for both ATP and d-fructose-1-P. These kinetics are consistent with Michaelis-Menten theory and suggest a simple model in which the enzyme exists in two active forms, one form predominating in the presence of K+ and the other predominating in its absence.
Abstract An inducible enzyme which phosphorylates d-fructose 1-phosphate with adenosine triphosphate to yield d-fructose 1,6-diphosphate has been identified and partially purified from extracts of d-fructose-grown Aerobacter aerogenes PRL-R3. Evidence is cited which supports the participation of this enzyme in d-fructose metabolism in this organism.
