A chiral liquid chromatographic method for determination of the enantiomeric purity of both l-carnitine and acetyl-l-carnitine is described. Separation of the enantiomers of dl-carnitine and acetyl-dl-carnitine was achieved on a commercial chiral column (Chiralcel OD-R) after derivatization with (alpha-bromo)methyl phenyl ketone. Introduction of this lipophilic UV chromophoric group to the carnitine and acetylcarnitine molecules improved their retention, resolution, and UV detection. The mobile phase was 74:26 (v/v) 0.5 mol L-1 sodium perchlorate–acetonitrile, pH 3.8, and the flow rate was 0.4 mL min-1. Detection was performed at 235 nm. The method is selective and reliable for determination of the enantiomeric purity of bulk drug substances l-carnitine and acetyl-l-carnitine.
The content of coenzyme A-SH (CoASH) and acetyl-CoA of suspensions of rat heart mitochondria was stabilized by the addition of DL-carnitine and acetyl-DL-carnitine, in the presence of the respiratory inhibitor rotenone. The mitochondrial content of NAD+ and NADH was similarly stabilized by the addition of acetoacetate and DL-3-hydroxybutyrate, and the content of ADP and ATP was imposed by the addition of these nucleotides to the mitochondrial suspension, in the presence of uncoupling agent and oligomycin, to inhibit ATPase. Under these conditions, mitochondrial CoASH/acetyl-CoA, NAD+/ NADH, and ADP/ATP ratios could be varied independently, and the effect on the interconversion of active and inactive pyruvate dehydrogenase could be studied. Decreases in both CoASH/acetyl-CoA and NAD+/NADH ratios were shown to be inhibitory to the steady state activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase, and this effect is described at three different ADP/ATP ratios and different concentrations of added MgCl2. A new steady state level of activity was achieved within 10 min of a change in either CoASH/acetyl-CoA or NAD+/NADH ratio; the rate of inactivation was much higher than the rate of reactivation under these conditions. Effects of CoASH/acetyl-CoA and NAD+/NADH may be additive but are still quantitatively lesser than the changes in activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase induced by changes in ADP/ATP ratio. The variation in activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase with ADP/ATP ratio is described in the absence of changes in the other two ratios, conditions which were not met in earlier studies which employed the oxidation of different substrates to generate changes in all three ratios.
The kinetic properties of carnitine acetyltransferase from the skeletal muscle of the Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius) were studied. The enzyme showed an optimum pH between 7.2 and 8.2. Reciprocal plots of data obtained by varying one substrate concentration while keeping the other constant revealed lines that converged on the abscissa, indicating that the enzyme possible follows a random mechanism of catalysis. The Kms for L-carnitine and acetyl-coenzyme A were 244 and 44 microM respectively, while those for acetyl-DL-carnitine and coenzyme A (Co A) were 307 and 39 microM respectively. The Km for one substrate was found to be independent of the concentration of the second substrate used. Corresponding Vmax values for L-CA, acetyl-Co A, acetyl-DL-carnitine and Co A are 98, 98, 102 and 100 mumol min-1 mg-1 protein respectively. The low Km obtained for acetyl-DL-carnitine suggests an adaptive mechanism in this desert species for enduring prolonged dry spells without food and water.
Reid found selenium (Se) deficient soils were a common factor in two populations with the highest incidence of SIDS world-wide (Indian population of King County Washington State, USA and the population of Canterbury, New Zealand). Reid compared a map of the selenium responsive livestock areas in New Zealand with areas of low soil iodine (I). She found that the 1989 report of areas of the highest SIDS incidence coincided with Se responsive livestock areas combined with low soil iodine. Foster found the 1983-84 incidence of SIDS in USA has the strongest positive correlation with the incidence of goitre in World War I troops (1916). Sodium and strontium were positively related. Emery found a hypernatraemic SIDS victim in a very cold environment. Robertson and Parker associated increased sodium (Na) (used in Scunthorpe, England, as a water softener) with increased incidence of SIDS. Godwin's study of White Muscle Disease in lambs describes Se protection. Skeletal muscle mitochondria from dystrophic animals showed lowered respiratory rates with palmitoyl-dl-carnitine and acetyl-dl-carnitine as substrate. Dystrophic organelles failed to respond to ADP. Rognun found elevated hypoxanthine and an enhanced immune response in most SIDS victims. A syndrome associated with potassium deficiency has been described as a killer of healthy, young Asian men, most often during sleep. This paper describes the interactions of sodium (Na), potassium (K), selenium (Se), and iodine (I) to some factors affecting the utilization of oxygen and the production of energy.
A photolabile reagent, p-azidophenacyl-DL-thiocarnitine, was synthesized and tested as a photoaffinity label for carnitine acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.7) from pigeon breast. p-Azidophenacyl-DL-thiocarnitine is an active-site-directed reagent for this acetyltransferase, since it is a competitive inhibitor (Ki 10 microM) versus carnitine. U.v. irradiation of a mixture of p-azidophenacyl-DL-thiocarnitine and enzyme produces irreversible inhibition. Acetyl-DL-carnitine protects the enzyme from inhibition by photoactivated p-azidophenacyl-DL-thiocarnitine. In the presence of 30 mM-2-mercaptoethanol as a scavenger, the relationship between loss of activity and photoincorporation of reagent suggests that one molecule of reagent is incorporated per molecule of inhibited enzyme. However, peptide maps of enzyme labelled with p-azidophenacyl[14C]thiocarnitine indicate that several (about six) tryptic peptides (of a possible 60-65) are modified. The presence of 5 mM-acetyl-DL-carnitine significantly decreases the incorporation of reagent in each labelled tryptic peptide.
