Potential mechanisms whereby steady-state histamine levels in fasting ECL cells could be altered include a decrease in histamine synthesis by down-regulation of the rate limiting enzyme, histidine decarboxylase (HDC), by changes in translational or posttranslational processing of HDC affecting its activity, or by depletion of the substrate, Lhistidine, for this enzyme. The latter effect could be achieved by up-regulation of a Lhistidine degrading pathway catalyzed by histidine ammonia lyase (histidase) and urocanate hydratase (urocanase) forming the 4-imidazolone 5-propionate intermediate which is then converted to L-glutamate or by down-regulation of the L-histidine transporter in the ECL cell. Histamine stores could also be depleted by down regulation of VMAT-2, the vesicular histamine transporter, resulting in decreased histamine accumulation in the secretory vesicles.
Abstract Enzymatic activity of urocanase )4-imidazolone-5-propionate hydro-lyase, EC 4.2.1.49) has an unusual resistance to temperature changes, and a temperature-dependent conformational change has been suggested (Hug, D.H. and Hunter, J.K. (1974) Biochemistry 13, 1427–1431). A conformational change or dissociation has been proposed in the range 29–31°C (Cohn, M.S., Lynch, M.C. and Phillips, A.T. (1975) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 377, 444–453). In this work no evidence was found for a temperature-dependent conformational change or dissociation. Arrhenins plots of K m and V max were linear; the sedimentation coefficient was independent of temperature; tryptophanyl fluorescence was a linear function of temperature; and heat capacity calorimetry showed no transitions below 60°C.
Urocanate hydratase (4-imidazolone-5-propionate hydro-lyase, EC 4.2.1.49) isolated from Pseudomonas putida contains covalently bound alpha-ketobutyrate as its cofactor. In the process of examining the mechanism by which alpha-ketobutyrate serves in this capacity, various thermodynamic parameters and temperature effects on urocanate hydratase activity were determined. As the equilibrium constant at 15 degrees C for imidazooone propionate formation from urocanate is approximately 69, regardless of whether urocanic acid or chemically synthesized imidazolone propionate is used as the initial substrate, it is concluded that the reaction is freely reversible. DeltaG degrees ', deltaH degrees ' and deltaS degrees ' were --2.5 kcal/mole, +5.2 kcal/mole and +26 cal/deg mole, respectively. Measurement of first-order reaction rates at various temperatures, in order to calculate the Arrhenius activation energy, showed a sharp break in the Arrhenius plot at 29 degrees C. Further examination of this phenomenon by determining s20,w values of urocanate hydratase as a function of temperature revealed a dramatic change at 31 degrees C. Since the enzyme in both experiments reverts to its original state when the temperature is lowered back below the transition point, it is proposed that urocanate hydratase undergoes a reversible conformational change or partial dissociation which affects its catalytic properties in the range of 29--31 degrees C.
Abstract Two enzymes in the pathway of l-histidine degradation were partially purified from extracts of Bacillus subtilis grown on l-histidine. Urocanase, the enzyme catalyzing the conversion of urocanate to 4-imidazolone-5-propionate, has a molecular weight of about 120,000 and is composed of at least two subunits. It is a highly unstable enzyme, partially stabilized by pyridoxal phosphate. It has a Km value of 7.7 x 10-5 m; imidazolepropionate acts as a competitive inhibitor with a Ki value of 3.1 x 10-4 m. Formiminoglutamate hydrolase, the enzyme catalyzing the conversion of N-formimino-l-glutamate to l-glutamate and formamide, has a molecular weight of about 220,000. The enzyme has a specific requirement for Mn++ at a concentration of 5 x 10-5 to 1 x 10-3 m. It also requires 2.5 x 10-3 m glutathione. The enzyme displays maximum activity at pH 8.70 and at this pH has a Km value of about 0.53 m. At pH 7.4 it has a Km value of 0.039 m. Two mutants lacking the enzymatic activity were found to produce material immunologically cross-reacting with formiminoglutamate hydrolase.
The reaction of 1-aryl-3-benzoyl thioureas with chloroacetic chloride was studied, and 1-aryl-3-benzoyl-2-thioxo-4-imidazolones were synthesized. The structure of products were characterized by IR,~1H NMR,~(13)C NMR and MS spectra.
The major compounds formed from the Nα-benzoylarginine amide (BzArgNH2) and 3-deoxyglucosone (3DG) reaction system were purified by reversed-phase HPLC. The major product was identified as R-4-imidazolone (I); R = 2-(4-benzoylamino-5-pentamide)amino-5-(2,3,4-trihydroxybutyl) as described in a previous paper (ref. 10). Intermediate products to the formation of compound I were identified as R-4(5H)-imidazolone (II), R-4(5-hydroxy)-imidazolone (III), and R-4-dihydroxyl-2-imidazoline (IV). Periodical changes in the amounts of compounds I, II, III, and IV suggest the formation of compound I via compound II by dehydration and oxidation from the BzArgNH2-3DG reaction system to be the major pathway, the formation of compound I via compound III being the other pathway.
Imidazolonepropionase (EC 3.5.2.7) catalyzes the third step in the universal histidine degradation pathway, hydrolyzing the carbon-nitrogen bonds in 4-imidazolone-5-propionic acid to yield N-formimino-l-glutamic acid. Here we report the crystal structures of the Bacillus subtilis imidazolonepropionase and its complex at 2.0-A resolution with substrate analog imidazole-4-acetic acid sodium (I4AA). The structure of the native enzyme contains two domains, a TIM (triose-phosphate isomerase) barrel domain with two insertions and a small beta-sandwich domain. The TIM barrel domain is quite similar to the members of the alpha/beta barrel metallo-dependent hydrolase superfamily, especially to Escherichia coli cytosine deaminase. A metal ion was found in the central cavity of the TIM barrel and was tightly coordinated to residues His-80, His-82, His-249, Asp-324, and a water molecule. X-ray fluorescence scan analysis confirmed that the bound metal ion was a zinc ion. An acetate ion, 6 A away from the zinc ion, was also found in the potential active site. In the complex structure with I4AA, a substrate analog, I4AA replaced the acetate ion and contacted with Arg-89, Try-102, Tyr-152, His-185, and Glu-252, further defining and confirming the active site. The detailed structural studies allowed us to propose a zinc-activated nucleophilic attack mechanism for the hydrolysis reaction catalyzed by the enzyme.
Similar unknown peaks were detected on an amino acid chromatogram of the acid hydrolysates in 3-deoxyglucosone (3DG)-lysozyme as well as glucose–lysozyme reaction systems. Unknown peaks were also detected in the acid hydrolysates of 3DG and Nα-benzoylarginine amide (BzArgNH2) reaction system. By this system, several products were purified by reversed-phase HPLC and subjected to a FAB-MS analysis. The mass spectral data showed that the major products were formed from one molecule of BzArgNH2 and from one or two molecules of 3-DG. The major product was identified as 2-(4-benzoylamino-5-pentamide)-amino-5-(2,3,4-trihydroxybutyl)-4-imidazolone.
In Salmonella typhimurium, the genes coding for the four enzymes of histidine utilization (hut) are clustered in two adjacent operons, hutMIGC and hut(P,R,Q)UH (1, 9, (15) (16) (17) . A single repressor regulates both operons. The gene coding for the repressor, C, is itself a member of one of the operons (the MIGC operon), and the repressor thus regulates its own synthesis (5, 15) . There are two distinct promoter-operator regions, one in the MIGC operon near M, and one in the (P,R,Q)UH operon in (P,R,Q). Transcription is rightward from these two regions. Urocanate, the first degradation product of histidine and the inducer of the hut operons, prevents the binding of the repressor at either operator. (The hut regulatory mechanism is illustrated in Fig. 1.) M and (P,R,Q) are cis-acting control regions of the two operons (17). Mutations in M result in an increased level of 4-imidazolone-5-propionate amidohydrolase (the product of the I gene), N-formimino-L-glutamate formiminohydrolase) (FGA hydrolase) (the product of the G gene), and repressor in cells grown in the presence of inducer (16, 17) (P,R,Q) represents a promoter-operator complex (1, 9, 17). Mutations in P result in a greatly reduced level of histidase (the product of theH gene) and urocanase (the product of the U gene) in cells grown in the presence of inducer. Mutations in R render the synthesis of histidase and urocanase insensitive to catabolite repression. Mutations in Q render the synthesis of histidase and urocanase partially constitutive and insensitive to catabolite repression.
Five creatinine derivatives were prepared by the treatment of creatinine with activated carbon and appropriate alcohol (1-4), or ammonia solution (5). Product structures were determined by 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy in solution, including 2D HSQC and HMBC experiments. Then, the proton and carbon chemical shifts for these compounds were calculated using GIAO-DFT [B3LYP/6-311G(2d,p)] method and the Gaussian 03W program and furthermore for 1 and 5 using polarizable continuum model (PCM). The conclusions coming from the comparison of the experimental and theoretical spectra supported the adopted signal assignments and solved the structural problems due to the potential annular tautomerism of the investigated compounds. One can predict that 5-substituted creatinines, just like creatinine, appear in solution in the form of 2-amino-1,5-dihydro-1-methyl-4-imidazolone. Correlations between experimental and calculated substituent-induced chemical shifts for two tautomeric forms of 5-substituted creatinines indicate that the mechanism of the substituent influence in both tautomers for the investigated compounds appears to be analogous. We can predict that in solution this accepting inductive effect of substituent groups does not significantly influence the structure of creatinine molecule in solution. The analysis of coupling constants for 5-substituted creatinines gives information about conformation of the investigated molecules in solution.
Abstract The administration of choline to choline-deficient rats led to significant increases in the hepatic levels of histidase ( l -histidine ammonia-lyase, EC 4.3.1.3) and urocanase (4-imidazolone-5-propionate hydro-lyase, EC 4.2.1.49). In contrast high dietary levels of methionine and choline had no significant effect on the levels of histidase and urocanase in the livers of chow-fed rats. Similarly, high dietary levels of methionine, choline and vitamin B12, either alone or in combination, did not alter the levels of histidase and urocanase in the livers of rats bearing the Reuber H-35 transplantated hepatoma. However, a chow diet containing elevated levels of methionine, choline and vitamin B12 led to marked increases in the activities of both histidase and urocanase in the H-35 hepatoma. These results indicate that the altered control of histidase and urocanase seen in hepatomas may result from the abnormal metabolism of methyl donors generally seen in tumors.
Abstract We have constructed an F factor bearing the genes (hut) responsible for the synthesis of the histidine-degrading enzymes in Salmonella typhimurium. This was accomplished by transducing the genes from the chromosome onto an F factor from Escherichia coli bearing the gal-bio region, which brackets the hut genes but does not include them. Recovery of this nonhomologous transduction was made possible by deleting the homologous hut region from the chromosome. Studies of the control of enzyme synthesis in heterozygous merodiploids showed that the hut region is composed of two operons. One operon includes the structural genes for histidase and urocanase, the first two enzymes of the pathway, and a promoter-operator complex controlling their expression in cis. The second operon includes the structural genes for 4-imidazolone-5-propionate amidohydrolase and N-formimino-l-glutamate formiminohydrolase, the last two enzymes of the pathway, and a promoter gene controlling their expression in cis. Located between these two operons is a regulatory gene, whose product presumably represses both operons in trans. The target site of catabolite repression of histidase and urocanase is the promoter of their operon, as is the case in the lac operon of E. coli.
Abstract Creatinine (2-amino-1,5- dihydro-1-methyl-4-imidazolone) is a natural by-product of cellular metabolism related to muscular mass. It is excreted in human urine and is necessary for normal kidney function. Urinary secretion of creatinine serves as a bench mark for several clinical measurements. Recently, in our laboratories, during the course of an investigation of the urine of cancer patients for tumor markers, we found some new metabolites of creatinine. These were identified as 5-methoxy and 5-ethoxy creatinine by UV, NMR and Mass spectrometry and their tautomeric structures confirmed by crystal structural investigations of the metabolites. The x-ray crystallographic analysis confirmed the structures of the compound and showed that it exists in the 2-amino form. The spectral characteristics of these new compounds and the generality of the reaction are discussed in this paper. Creatinine, when allowed to react with methanol, ethanol and propanol respectively, in the presence of charcoal and air ...
2-(3,3-Dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2 H -isoquinolin-1-ylidene)acetonitrile containing an enamine fragment has been acylated using acetyl or benzoyl chlorides to give the corresponding enamino ketones. The acylation using oxalyl chloride gives 5,5-dimethyl-2,3-dioxo-2,3,5,6-tetrahydropyrrolo[2,1- a ]isoquinoline-1-carbonitrile. Reaction of the latter with guanidine carbonate or o -phenylenediamine is accompanied by opening of the pyrrole ring and heterocyclization to give the corresponding 2-amino-4-imidazolone and 2-quinoxalone derivatives. Linear amines were formed in similar reactions with m -toluidine, 1-aminoadamantane, o -aminophenol, and 2-amino-3-hydroxypyridine. Authors: A. G. Mikhailovskii, O. V. Surikova, P. A. Chugainov, and M. I. Vakhrin English Translation in Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds , 2013, 49 (7), pp 974-979 http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10593-013-1334-x
Reinvestigation of the behaviour of benzal-anils (1) towards the action of potassium cyanide was found to give a mixture of 4-imidazolidinone (6) and 4-imidazolone (7). 6 was also obtained by benzaldehyde addition to α-arylamino-α-phenylacetonitrile (7) or by condensation of benzaldehyde with α-phenylamino-α-phenylacetamide (8). The partial conversion of 6 and 7 to each other was discussed.
Reinvestigation of the behaviour of benzal-anils (1) towards the action of potassium cyanide was found to give a mixture of 4-imidazolidinone (6) and 4-imidazolone (7). 6 was also obtained by benzaldehyde addition to a-arylamino-a-phenylacetonitrile (7) or by condensation of benzaldehyde with a-phenylamino-a-phenylacetamide (8). The partial conversion of 6 and 7 to each other was discussed.
2-(3,3-Dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-isoquinolin-1-ylidene)acetonitrile containing an enamine fragment has been acylated using acetyl or benzoyl chlorides to give the corresponding enamino ketones. The acylation using oxalyl chloride gives 5,5-dimethyl-2,3-dioxo-2,3,5,6-tetrahydropyrrolo[2,1-a]-isoquinoline-1-carbonitrile. Reaction of the latter with guanidine carbonate or o-phenylenediamine is accompanied by opening of the pyrrole ring and heterocyclization to give the corresponding 2-amino-4-imidazolone and 2-quinoxalone derivatives. Linear amines were formed in similar reactions with m-toluidine, 1-aminoadamantane, o-aminophenol, and 2-amino-3-hydroxypyridine.
A number of 4-hydroxy-2H (or alkyl)-N-(3-aralkyl-2-thio-1-hydantoinyl)-1,2-benzothiazine-3-carboxamide 1,1-dioxides were synthesized through the reaction of 4-hydroxy-2H (or alkyl)-1,2-benzothiazine-3-carboxylic methyl ester 1,1-dioxide and 1-amino-2-thio-3-aralkyl-4-imidazolones in xylene. The compounds synthesized were screened for antiinflammatory effect on carrageeenin-induced edema in rat and for analgesic effect on acetic acid-induced Writhing syndrome in mice. Most compounds were inhibitors of carrageenin-induced rat foot edema and some showed significant antiinflammatory activity comparable to that of indomethacin and significant analgesic activity comparable to that of indomethacin and aspirin.
Yin and Yang are the two counter-balancing aspects in ancient Chinese philosophy. In traditional Chinese medicine, Yin deficiency syndrome (YDS) is a common sub-health state with complex causes. While the syndrome may be treated to various degrees of effectiveness with traditional Chinese medicine, efficient modern methods are yet to be developed for diagnosing and treating the YDS. Here we performed a metabolomics study on YDS in rats. Serum metabolites in rats were analyzed using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS) method to identify potential biomarkers for YDS. The rats were divided randomly into the healthy control group, the untreated YDS group, and the anemarrhena treated YDS group. Compared with the control group, significant increase in the metabolites such as dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and 5β-DHT, 4-imidazolone-5-propanoate, 4-(L-alanin-3-yl)-2-hydroxy-cis,cis-muconate 6-semialdehyde, and 5-(L-alanin-3-yl)-2-hydroxy-cis,cis-muconate 6-semialdehyde were observed in the serum of untreated YDS group, which returned to normal in the anemarrhena treated group. Therefore, these metabolites may serve as potential biomarkers for YDS, and may facilitate the diagnosis and treatment of YDS. Anat Rec, 2018. © 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Tobacco smoke (TS) is a major causative agent to lead to chronic bronchitis (CB). However the mechanisms of CB induced by TS are unclear. In this report, rats were exposed to different concentrations of TS and the metabolic features of CB were characterized by using a nontargeted metabolic profiling method based on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) to detect the altered metabolic patterns in serum from CB rats and investigate the mechanisms of CB. 11 potential biomarkers were identified in serum of rats. Among them, the levels of lysophosphatidylethanolamine (18:1), lysophosphatidic acid (18:1), lysophosphatidylethanolamine (18:0), lysophosphatidylethanolamine (16:0), lysophosphatidylethanolamine (20:4), docosahexaenoic acid, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and 5'-carboxy-γ-tocopherol were higher in TS group compared to control group. Conversely, the levels of 4-imidazolone-5-propionic acid, 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid and uridine were lower in TS group. The results indicated that the mechanism of CB was related to amino acid metabolism and lipid metabolism, particularly lipid metabolism. In addition, lysophosphatidylethanolamines were proved to be important mediators, which could be used as biomarkers to diagnose CB. These results also suggested that metabolomics was suitable for diagnosing CB and elucidating the possible metabolic pathways of TS-induced CB.
OBJECTIVE ::: We expressed a nikkomycin biosynthetic gene cluster in the well-characterized surrogate Streptomyces coelicolor M1146. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: By using PCR-targeting method, we replaced the promoters of sanG and sanF in pNIK, which contains nikkomycin biosynthetic gene cluster, with the hrdB promoter to generate pNIKm. We transferred pNIK and pNIKm into S. coelicolor M1146 by intergeneric conjugation and obtained M1146-NIK and M1146-NIKm, respectively. We then evaluated expression of the gene cluster in the heterologous host by RT-PCR. Furthermore, we also compared the antifugal activity and nikkomycin production of M1146-NIK and M1146-NIKm by bioassay against Alternaria longipes and HPLC analysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: M1146-NIK and M1146-NIKm exhibited antifungal activity, and they can produce a trace amount of nikkomycin X, nikkomycin Z and pseudo-Z. There was a substantial accumulation of uridine in M1146-NIK, whereas substantial accumulations of uridine, ribofuranosyl-4-formyl-4-imidazolone and pyridylhomothreonine were observed in M1146-NIKm. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: We successfully expressed the nikkomycin biosynthetic gene cluster in the heterologous host and identified nikkomycins and some of its key biosynthetic intermediates. This study will provide the basis for enzymatic reaction of the condensation between the two nikkomycin moieties and for the generation of hybrid antibiotics by combinatorial biosynthesis.
The potassium salts of thiocarboxanilide of 2- phenylimino-3-phenyl-4-thiazolidinone and 1,3- diphenyl-2-thioxo-4-imidazolone react with hydrazonoyl halides in N,N-dimethylformamide to afford the corresponding 1,3,4-thiadiazoline derivatives. 2-Phenylimino-3-phenyl-4-thiazolidinone reacts with active chloromethylene compounds in N,N-dimethylformamide to give the corresponding thiazolylidenethiazolidin-4-one derivatives. The new compounds were characterized using IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR and mass spectra.
Summary In the glucose-lysozyme reaction system, unknown peaks were detected on an amino acid chromatogram of the acid hydrolysates. The unknown peaks were also detected in acid hydrolysates of a N-α-benzoylarginine amide (BzArgNH2) and 3-deoxyglucosone (3DG) reaction system. Several peaks from reversed-phase HPLC were purified and subjected to mass spectrometry. Mass spectral data showed that major compounds were formed from the reaction of one molecule of BzArgNH2 with one or two molecules of 3DG. A major product was identified as R-4-imidazolone (I); R=2-(4-benzoyl-5-pentamide)amino-5-(2, 3,4-trihydroxy-butyl). Intermediate products were identified as R-4(5H)-imidazolone (II), R-4(5-hydroxy)-imidazolone (III), and R-4-dihydroxy-2-imidazoline (IV). Formation of compound I via compound II is considered to be the major pathway, followed by compound I via, compound III. In further studies, a fluorescent product was purified from the butylamine-3DG reaction system. The compound was formed by the loss of five molecules of water from the reaction between 2 molecules of butylamine and 2 molecules of 3DG, resulting in the formation of a pyridinium ring.
Curcumin and trans-Cinnamaldehyde (Fig. 1 ) contain a common core structural moiety, phenyl-alkyl-one ; which we propose is important and/or essential for their observed antibiotic pharmacologic activities. We decided to take advantage of this core feature to produce novel agents by hybridizing the phenyl-alkyl-one with substituted imidazolone (Fig. 1) . The 3-alkylidene-4-imidazolone skeleton was selected as it possesses a greater size and more importantly contains an already preserved electronwithdrawing substructure. The electron-withdrawing groups in the compounds are expected to improve their metabolic stability, as well as control the electrophilic reactivity of the nucleus molecule while maintaining a "drug-like electrophile" core. The newly developed natural product hybrids were evaluated for their ability to exert in vitro antibacterial activity as well as their potential as bacterial anti-adhesive agents. 
Imidazolonepropionase (HutI, EC 3.5.2.7) catalyzes the hydrolytic cleavage of carbon-nitrogen bond in 4-imidazolone-5-propionic acid (IPA) to yield l-formiminoglutamic acid, which is the third step in the universal histidine degradation pathway. In this article, using a combined quantum mechanics and molecular mechanics (QM/MM) approach, the specificity and catalytic mechanism of HutI from Bacillus subtilis have been explored by considering the four isomers of (S)- and (R)-enantiomers of IPA (SIPA-1, SIPA-2, RIPA-1 and RIPA-2). Our calculations reveal that the activation of hydrolytic water (a zinc-bound water) is performed by residue E252 via a "bridging" water molecule, which occurs before binding of the substrate. After the substrate binding, this activation channel is blocked by the substrate, and the other two residues (D324 and H272) cannot act as the general base to activate the hydrolytic water. For the two (S)-enantiomers of IPA, HutI can specifically convert one isomer of (S)-enantiomer (SIPA-1) to l-formiminoglutamic acid with an energy barrier of 16.6 kcal mol-1. The conversion of another (S)-enantiomer (SIPA-2) corresponds to the energy barrier of 21.9 kcal mol-1. However, for the two isomers of (R)-enantiomer, RIPA-1 corresponds to a higher energy barrier (21.8 kcal mol-1), and RIPA-2 is associated with a weak binding in the active site compared to SIPA-2. Thus, on the basis of our calculations, SIPA-1 is suggested to be the most favorable substrate for HutI, whereas the hydrolytic cleavage of SIPA-2 may require a preliminary isomerization to SIPA-1.
Abstract The third and fourth enzymes of the pathway of histidine degradation in Salmonella typhimurium are induced by histidine and repressed by glucose. An improved assay for the third enzyme, 4-imidazolone-5-propionate amidohydrolase, was developed and some properties of this enzyme were studied. Mutants with decreased stability of this enzyme have been isolated. Their lesions are unlinked by transduction to the cluster containing the genes for the histidine-degrading enzymes. Mutants lacking 4-imidazolone-5-propionate amidohydrolase or the fourth enzyme, N-formimino-l-glutamate formiminohydrolase, have also been isolated. Their lesions are located in two closely linked genes near the cluster of genes controlling the synthesis of the first two enzymes of the pathway (histidase and urocanase). Mutations leading to increased levels of the third and fourth enzymes are located to one side of this pair of genes. The following observations suggest that these two clusters form separate units of expression. (a) While the two enzyme activities within each pair are coordinately controlled upon induction or catabolite repression, there is no apparent coordination between the pairs. (b) Mutations affecting the level of enzymes from 1 pair of genes and located to one side of them have no effect on the level of enzymes from the other pair. (c) A gene controlling the inducibility of all four enzymes is located between the two clusters. It is suggested that the units of expression correspond to two operons controlled by a single regulatory gene located between them.
Similar unknown peaks were detected on an amino acid chromatogram of the acid hydrolysates in 3-deoxyglucosone (3DG)-lysozyme as well as glucose-lysozyme reaction systems. Unknown peaks were also detected in the acid hydrolysates of 3DG and N a -benzoylarginine amide (BzArgNH 2 ) reaction system. By this system, 2-(N α -benzoyl-N δ -ornithylamide)-5-(2,3,4-trihydroxybutyl)-4-imidazolone (S17) and 2-(N α -benzoyl-N δ -ornithylamide)-5-(2,3,4-trihydroxybutyl)-2-imidazoline-4-one (S12) were identified as major products in a previous paper (Hayase et al. Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 1995, 59, 1407-1411). In addition, minor products were also formed from one molecule of BzArgNH 2 and two molecules of 3-DG. The minor product was identified as 2-(N α -benzoyl-N δ -ornithylamide)-5,6a-di(2,3,4-trihydroxybutyl)-5,6-dihydroxydehydrofuro[2,3-d]imidazole (S11). Periodic changes in the amounts of compounds S17, S12, and S11 suggest the formation of compound S17 via compound S12 by dehydration and oxidation from the BzArgNH 2 -3DG reaction system to be the major pathway, the formation of compound S11 by the addition of 3DG to compound S12 being the other pathway.
A time-delayed fluorescence immunoassay was developed for the determination of serum levels of methylglyoxal (MG)-derived hydroimidazolone using a monoclonal antiserum raised against Nalpha-acetyl-Ndelta-(5-hydro-5-methyl)-4-imidazolone, Europium-labeled anti-mouse IgG antiserum as indicator, and MG modified bovine serum albumin (BSA) as standard. Serum levels of hydroimidazolone were measured in 45 patients with type 2 diabetes aged 59.4 +/- 6.1 (mean +/- SD) years and with duration of diabetes of 7.3 +/- 3.1 years, and in 19 nondiabetic controls aged 56.3 +/- 4.3 years. The serum levels of hydroimidazolone were significantly higher in patients compared to controls: median, 3.0 (5-95 percentile, 1.6 to 5.4) U/mg protein versus 1.9 (1.2 to 2.8) U/mg protein (P =.0005). Significant positive correlations were observed between the serum levels of hydroimidazolone and serum levels of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), measured with a polyclonal anti-AGE antibody: r = 0.59 for patients (P <.0001), and r = 0.65 for controls (P =.002). Similarly, significant correlations were also found between serum levels of hydroimidazolone and N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)-lysine (CML): r = 0.36 in patients and r = 0.55 for controls (both P =.02). Serum hydroimidazolone levels did not correlate with fasting plasma glucose or hemoglobin A(1c) (HbA(1c)) levels. The observed differences between patients with diabetes and nondiabetic controls seem to be comparable to differences measured for other AGE compounds.
The nikO gene encoding a putative enolpyruvyl transferase has been identified within the Streptomyces tendae Tü901/8c nikkomycin gene cluster. nikO encodes a deduced protein of 471 amino acid residues which exhibits significant sequence similarity to UDP-N-acetylglucosamine enolpyruvyl transferase and 5-enol-pyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase from various origin. The nikO gene was inactivated by inserting a kanamycin resistance cassette; the mutant did not produce biologically active nikkomycins I, J, X, and Z nor the nucleoside moieties, nikkomycins C(x) and C(z), but accumulated the novel component RT 2.0. RT 2.0 has been isolated from culture filtrate and its structure was determined by using mass spectrometry and NMR analyses as ribofuranosyl-4-formyl-4-imidazolone which represents a novel nucleoside. The putative activity of the nikO gene product in nikkomycin biosynthesis will be discussed.
