Linear single oligomers of nylon-6, up to 12 repeat units, have been prepared by stepwise synthesis using protection, deprotection, and coupling reactions. The dimer was synthesized starting with 6-aminohexanoic acid; the tetramer, hexamer, octamer, and dodecamer were synthesized by coupling oligomers of lower molecular weight. The synthesized oligomers were characterized by 1H NMR and TOF-SIMS to confirm their structures and molecular weights. In addition to silver cationized oligomer peaks, which are usually observed in TOF-SIMS spectra, oligomer peaks cationized by sodium and hydrogen were observed. No fragmentation other than loss of H2 was observed even for the highest oligomer prepared in this study.
Proteoglycan monomer (D1) and aggregate (A1) preparations were isolated from 4 M guanidinium chloride extracts of the Swarm rat chondrosarcoma. When EDTA, 6-aminohexanoic acid, and benzamidine were present in the solutions, the D1 preparation contained a single component (SO = 23 S), and the A1 preparation contained 30% monomer (SO = 23 S) and 70 percent aggregate (SO = 111 S). In the absence of EDTA, 6-aminohexanoic acid, and benzamidine, the A1 preparations contained only small proteoglycan fragments, indicating that extensive enzymatic degradation had occurred. The composition of the proteoglycan monomer was different from that of proteoglycan monomer preparations from normal hyaline cartilages in that it did not contain keratan sulfate and chondroitin 6-sulfate; only chondroitin 4-sulfate was found. The A1 preparation from the chondrosarcoma contained only one link protein, which was like the smaller (molecular weight of 40,000) of the two link proteins present in A1 preparations from bovine nasal cartilage. When the A1 preparation from the chondrosarcoma was treated with chondroitinase ABC and trypsin and the digest was chromatographed on Sepharose 2B, a complex was isolated which contained the link protein and the segments of the protein core from the hyaluronic acid-binding region of the proteoglycan molecules.
Plasmin (Plm), an active form of plasminogen (Plg), functions as a key enzyme in the fibrinolytic system. Furthermore, this enzyme directly inactivates various coagulation factors such as factor V (FV) and factor VIII (FVIII) by limited proteolysis, suggesting another role of Plm in the regulation of the coagulation system. We recently reported that Plm/Plg interacts with FVIII and its active form (FVIIIa), both dependently and independently of lysine-binding site (LBS) (Blood2007; 110, 522a). In this study, we attempted to localize a factor Va (FVa)-interactive region on Plm (and Plg) using Plm/Plg kringle fragments. Surface plasmon resonance-based assays showed that FVa directly bound to active-site modified Plm (anhydro-Plm) with an ~2-fold higher affinity, compared to Plg ( K d ; 97 and 198 nM, respectively). In particular, FVa bound to the immobilized-Plg fragment consisting of kringle 1-2-3 domains (K1-3) ( K d : 706 nM), whilst FVa failed to bind both the kringle 4 domain (K4) and Plg fragment consisting of kringle 5 and catalytic domains (K5-CD). A similar experiment using immobilized FVa also revealed that the K1-3 solely bound to FVa. These results were quite different from those obtained by FVIII and Plm/Plg binding experiment that the K5-CD bound to FVIII(a) more preferably. Competitive binding assay using 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA), a competitor of LBS of Plm/Plg, showed that 6-AHA markedly inhibited (by >90%) the K1-3 binding to FVa (IC 50 ; ~25 μM), suggesting that interaction of FVa with Plm is mostly dependent upon LBS. According to the one stage-clotting assay, 6-AHA inhibited (>90%) Plm-catalyzed inactivation of FVa in a dose-dependent manner (IC 50 ; ~10 μM). Furthermore, Plm-catalyzed inactivation of FVa was blocked by an anti-K1-3 monoclonal antibody (mAb), not by either anti-K4 or anti-K5-CD mAb, although Plm-catalyzed inactivation of FVIII was blocked by anti-K5-CD mAb. In order to confirm that the inhibitory effect of 6-AHA on the Plm-catalyzed inactivation, we performed SDS-PAGE experiment. Plm cleaves FVa at Lys 309 and Arg 348 in the heavy chain, and at Arg 1752 in the light chain. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that 6-AHA blocked Plm-catalyzed cleavages of the light chain more prominently than that of the heavy chain (IC 50 ; ~10 and ~>100 μM, respectively). These findings suggest that the K1-3 of Plm (and Plg) interacts with the FVa through the LBS-dependent mechanisms, and these interactions likely contribute to the FVa-catalyzed inactivation by proteolytic cleavages at Arg 1752 in the light chain. Present study indicated that plasmin-catalyzed protelytic inactivation of coagulation factor is complicatedly regulated by the LBS dependency in the protein and protein interaction.
Abstract A convenient chemoenzymatic procedure for the synthesis of p -aminophenyl glycosides of sialyl N -acetyllactosaminide has been developed from p -nitrophenyl N -acetyl-β- d -glucosaminide as starting material through three steps: synthesis of p -nitrophenyl N -acetyllactosaminide with β- d -galactosidase, chemical reduction of the p -nitrophenyl group, and sialylation with sialyltransferase. The p -aminophenyl glycosides were then successfully biotin-labeled through the coupling with N -(+)-biotinyl-6-aminohexanoic acid to afford biotinylated oligosaccharides with an aminohexanosyl group and phenyl group as the spacers between the biotin and glycan. Furthermore, the biotin-labeled sugars were shown to be useful for immobilization and assay of the carbohydrate–lectin interactions by an optical biosensor based on surface plasmon resonance.
Preparation of nanocomposites of organo-modified montmorillonites and the biodegradable poly(ester amide) derived from glycolic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid has been evaluated by the in situ polymerization technique. The reaction was based on the thermal polycondensation of sodium chloroacetylaminohexanoate, which has the formation of the sodium chloride salt as the driving force of the process. Polymerized samples were studied by means of X-ray diffraction and transmission electron microscopy. The most dispersed structure was obtained by addition of C25A organoclay. Evaluation of thermal stability and crystallization behavior of these samples showed significant differences between the neat polymer and its nanocomposite with C25A. Isothermal and nonisothermal calorimetric analyses of the polymerization reaction revealed that the kinetics was highly influenced by the presence of the silicate particles. Crystallization of the polymer was observed to occur when the process was isothermally conducted at temperatures lower than 145 °C. In this case, dynamic FTIR spectra and WAXD profiles obtained with synchrotron radiation were essential to study the polymerization kinetics. Clay particles seemed to reduce chain mobility and the Arrhenius preexponential factor. © 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 47: 3616–3629, 2009
An antibody population that reacted with the high-affinity lysine binding site of human plasminogen was elicited by immunizing rabbits with an elastase degradation product containing kringles 1-3 (EDP I). This antibody was immunopurified by affinity chromatography on plasminogen-Sepharose and elution with 0.2 M 6-aminohexanoic acid. The eluted antibodies bound [125I]EDP I, [125I]Glu-plasminogen, and [125I]Lys-plasminogen in radioimmunoassays, and binding of each ligand was at least 99% inhibited by 0.2 M 6-aminohexanoic acid. The concentrations for 50% inhibition of [125I]EDP I binding by tranexamic acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid, and lysine were 2.6, 46, and 1730 microM, respectively. Similar values were obtained with plasminogen and suggested that an unoccupied high-affinity lysine binding site was required for antibody recognition. The antiserum reacted exclusively with plasminogen derivatives containing the EDP I region (EDP I, Glu-plasminogen, Lys-plasminogen, and the plasmin heavy chain) and did not react with those lacking an EDP I region [miniplasminogen, the plasmin light chain or EDP II (kringle 4)] or with tissue plasminogen activator or prothrombin, which also contain kringles. By immunoblotting analyses, a chymotryptic degradation product of Mr 20,000 was derived from EDP I that retained reactivity with the antibody. The high-affinity lysine binding site was equally available to the antibody probe in Glu- and Lys-plasminogen and also appeared to be unoccupied in the plasmin-alpha 2-antiplasmin complex. alpha 2-Antiplasmin inhibited the binding of radiolabeled EDP I, Glu-plasminogen, or Lys-plasminogen by the antiserum, suggesting that the recognized site is involved in the noncovalent interaction of the inhibitor with plasminogen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lipoprotein(a) is composed of low-density lipoprotein linked both covalently and noncovalently to apolipoprotein(a). The structure of lipoprotein(a) and the interactions between low-density lipoprotein and apolipoprotein(a) were investigated by electron microscopy and correlated with analytical ultracentrifugation. Electron microscopy of rotary-shadowed and unidirectionally shadowed lipoprotein(a) prepared without glycerol revealed that it is a nearly spherical particle with no large projections. After extraction of both lipoprotein(a) and low-density lipoprotein with glycerol prior to rotary shadowing, the protein components were observed to consist of a ring of density made up of nodules of different sizes, with apolipoprotein(a) and apolipoprotein B-100 closely associated with each other. However, when lipoprotein(a) was treated with a lysine analogue, 6-aminohexanoic acid, much of the apolipoprotein(a) separated from the apolipoprotein B-100. In 6-aminohexanoic acid-treated preparations without glycerol extraction, lipoprotein(a) particles had an irregular mass of density around the core. In contrast, lipoprotein(a) particles treated with 6-aminohexanoic acid in the presence of glycerol had a long tail, in which individual kringles could be distinguished, extending from the ring of apolipoprotein B-100. The length of the tail was dependent on the particular isoform of apolipoprotein(a). Dissociation of the noncovalent interactions between apolipoprotein(a) and low-density lipoprotein as a result of shear forces or changes in the microenvironment may contribute to selective retention of lipoprotein(a) in the vasculature.
Preparation of Membranes and Isolation of PBCs. Membranes were prepared by grinding cells with glass beads as described previously (9). The penicillin-binding components were isolated by affinity chromatography as described (10) except the Sepharose 4B200 (Sigma) was coupled with 6-aminohexanoic acid (Aldrich) prior to 6-aminopenicillanic acid (6-APA) (Sigma) substitution.
Abstract Biotinylated peptides often have low solubility in water. In this Letter, we describe a new method to synthesize a biotinylating reagent for water-solubilizing hydrophobic peptides. The biotinyl-6-aminohexanoic derivatives prepared contain a hydrophilic 3,6,9-trioxaundecanedioic acid linker moiety between the biotin and the peptide to improve the water solubility, and also to function as a spacer. The monoesterified derivative of 3,6,9-trioxaundecanedioic acid was synthesized, and the Fmoc-protected ethylenediamine was used to link to the carboxylic group of biotin. The hydrophilic nature of this new biotin–peptide conjugate was also demonstrated in a comparative analysis of compounds containing a biotinyl-6-aminohexanoic acid or 3,6,9-trioxaundecanedioic acid derivative.
In this work, experimental results for surface tension of aqueous solutions of 3-aminopropanoic acid, 4-aminobutanoic acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid at T = (293.15, 298.15, 303.15 and 308.15) K at several concentrations are presented. The results were used to evaluate the limiting experimental slopes of surface tension with respect to mole fraction at each temperature. Surface tension measurements were taken using a LAUDA TVT-2 drop volume tensiometer with temperature control better than 0.1 K at T = (293.15, 298.15, 303.15 and 308.15) K The thermodynamic behavior of the aqueous α,ω-amino acid solutions is compared with that reported for α-amino acids in water. The surface behavior is discussed in terms of the effect of the hydrocarbon chain and the position of polar groups on water structure. The temperature dependence of the limiting slopes of surface tension with respect to mole fraction, derived from surface tension measurements, is discussed.
The binding, internalization, and degradation of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) were studied in a rat hepatoma (Novikoff) cell line. Binding of t-PA to specific saturable high affinity binding sites (Kd = 12 nM, 54,000 sites/cell) was followed by internalization and degradation and did not require a functional active site. The catabolism of t-PA was not inhibited by an excess of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA), and t-PA bound to Novikoff membranes was not complexed to PAI-1, suggesting a mechanism independent of PAI-1. Additionally, a mannose receptor is not involved since t-PA binding was not influenced by an excess of mannose, galactose, ovalbumin, or EDTA. Furthermore, the degradation of t-PA was not influenced by 10 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid, a lysine analogue. The t-PA receptor binds to and can be eluted from wheat germ agglutinin-Sepharose. Cross-linking of t-PA with partially purified receptor and ligand blot analysis, suggest that t-PA binds to two proteins, a principal one of 55 kDa and a minor one of 43 kDa. Novikoff cells are able also to bind (Kd = 1.4 nM, 25,000 sites/cell) and degrade u-PA. The binding was inhibited by pro-u-PA and the amino-terminal fragment of u-PA, but not by an excess of t-PA. The u-PA receptor, but not the t-PA receptor, was removed by treatment with phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C. Our results show that the clearance receptor for t-PA on Novikoff cells is different from the mannose receptor and the PAI-1-dependent receptor described in other cells. The rat hepatoma cells are thus a good model to study the PAI-1 independent hepatocyte-specific clearance of t-PA.
Abstract Enzyme kinetic plots relating the initial rate of activation of pro-urokinase to urokinase by plasmin, according to the concentration of substrate, were smooth downward curves and indicated that an apparent decrease in binding affinity occurred with increase in the concentration of pro-urokinase. Such nonlinear plots were obtained with plasmin 1 and also plasmin 2. Over sections of each curve it was possible to estimate apparent kinetic constants. At the uppermost concentrations of substrate tested, these were K m 2.9 μ m and k cat 35.5 min −1 for plasmin 1, and at the lowermost concentrations. K m 9.5 nM and k cat 2.0 min −1 . Linear plots were obtained when the single proteolytic cleavage was made by K 5 -plasmin or undegraded plasmin in the presence of 1.0 m m 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHa). Constants were estimated for catalysis of this reaction by K 5 plasmin to be K m 6.0 μ M and k cat 38 min −1 ( r = 0.987). The catalytic efficiency of plasmin, at the lowermost concentrations of pro-urokinase tested, was therefore 33-fold higher than that of K 5 -plasmin. Plotting of data for the cleavage of pro-urokinase by plasmin 1 (in the absence of 6-AHa) according to the model of Hill, gave a slope of 0.5 at the lowermost concentrations of pro-urokinase increasing to 1.0 at higher concentrations (>;0.3 μ m ); such a profile is characteristic of negative cooperativity. The rates of formation of plasmin and urokinase in a mixture containing a low concentration of plasminogen and pro-urokinase were measured and compared to those predicted by a computer program designed to calculate theoretical rates using available kinetic data. The observed rates of generation of both plasmin and urokinase coincided to those predicted from the negative cooperativity model. The mechanism of the negative cooperativity may reside in a conformational change induced by binding of pro-urokinase to the kringle structure of plasmin. This property may be of significance in controlling the fibrinolytic properties of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator system.
Aqueous amino acid salt solutions might be an attractive alternative over traditional alkanolamines in the removal of CO2 from flue gases especially because of their oxidative stability and negligible volatility. The density and viscosity of the aqueous solutions of the potassium salts of the following amino acids have been measured: β-alanine, 6-aminohexanoic acid, l-arginine, l-aspartic acid, l-glutamic Acid, dl-methionine, l-phenylalanine, l-proline, and sarcosine. Data are reported in the temperature range of (25 to 60) °C and concentration range of (0.25 to 3.5) mol·L−1. The data could be correlated accurately with relatively simple relations. The physical solubility of N2O in the same amino acid salt solutions was also measured at a temperature of 298 K and a concentration of 0.5 mol·L−1 of the amino acid salt. Using the N2O/CO2 analogy on one hand and Schumpe’s method on the other, the physical solubility of CO2 in these solutions was estimated. Both methods yielded results very close to each other.
Plasmin (Plm), an active form of plasminogen (Plg), not only functions as a key enzyme in the fibrinolytic system, but also directly inactivates several coagulation factors. Especially, factor VIII is inactivated by Plm immediately after the activation by limited proteolytic cleavage at Lys 36 , Arg 336 , Arg 372 , and Arg 740 in the heavy chain, and at Arg 1689 and Arg 1721 in the light chain (Nogami et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2007, 282, 5287). We recently have identified the plasmin-interactive sites on the A2 domain responsible for cleavages at Arg 336 and Arg 372 , and on the light chain responsible for cleavage at Lys 36 (Abst #1991/1709, BLOOD 102/108, 2005/2006). In the present study, we attempted to localize a factor VIII-interactive site on Plm (and Plg). Competitive binding assay using 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA), a competitor of lysine-binding site (LBS) of Plm/Plg, showed that 6-AHA markedly inhibited (by >90%) the light chain binding to active-site modified Plm (anhydro-Plm), whilst inhibited weakly the A2 binding (by ∼30%). These results suggested that the light chain interaction with Plm was mainly dependent upon LBS, but the A2 interaction was independent. The addition of monoclonal antibody (mAb) against Plg kringle 5-catalytic domain (K5-CD) significantly inhibited Plm-catalyzed activation/inactivation of factor VIII or VIIIa with an ∼4-fold lower rate constant. On the other hand, anti-K1-3 and anti-K4 mAbs any little affected. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that only anti-K5-CD mAb blocked Plm-catalyzed cleavages at Arg 336 and Arg 372 by ∼90% in dose-dependent manners (IC 50 : ∼20 nM). Surface plasmon resonance-based assays showed that the isolated K5-CD bound to factor VIII with an ∼50-fold higher affinity ( K d : 3 nM) compared to the K1-3 and K4, similar to the affinity obtained with anhydro-Plm ( K d : 4 nM). In particular, the K5-CD bound to the A2 domain with an ∼5-fold higher affinity ( K d : 42 nM) than those obtained with the K1-3 and K4. In contrast, both the K1-3 and K4 bound to the light chain predominantly ( K d : 43 and 87 nM, respectively), whilst the K5-CD failed to bind. Furthermore, the addition of a goat antibody against the CD (C-14; Santa Cruz Biotechnology) completely blocked the A2 and K5-CD interaction (by ∼95%). These findings suggest that the CD of Plm (and Plg) interacts with the factor VIII A2 domain through the LBS-independent mechanisms, whilst the K1-3 (and/or K4) interacts with the light chain through the LBS-dependent mechanisms. Furthermore, the CD and A2 interaction would regulate the activation/inactivation of factor VIII by proteolytic cleavages of Arg 336 and Arg 372 .
Chemokines are small signaling proteins that play a key role in the human immune response by activating leukocyte chemotaxis towards sites of inflammation or to lymph organs. CXCL8 (interleukin-8) was first described in 1987 as a tissue-derived neutrophil-activating protein. 9 The 72 amino acid isoform is the most potent neutrophil attractant in vivo. 10 Due to its involvement in several pulmonary diseases, rheumatism and cancer, CXCL8 can be used as a diagnostic marker. It is also a promising target for drug development. 11, 12, 13 Only a few CXCL8-binding peptides have been previously characterized: the peptide Ac-RRWWCR-NH 2 was reported to inhibit CXCL8-binding to human neutrophils and neutrophil chemotaxis, 14 while the peptide VTTFFDYDYGAPC was reported as a low-affinity ligand for CXCL8. 15 In addition, peptides derived from two short sequence motifs of the CXCR1 N-terminus connected by a linker with the general sequence Ac-MWDFDD-linker-MPPADEDYSP-NH 2 possess K i values in the low micromolar range. 16, 17 An NMR-based structural model (PDB id: 1ILQ) of the structure of one of these peptides, CXCR1-p1 (K i 7 µM 17 ) with a 6-aminohexanoic acid linker, in complex with CXCL8 has been described. 18 CXCL8-binding peptides derived from the N-terminus of rabbit CXCR1 have also been reported. 19 However, no peptides have been shown to capture CXCL8 on-bead or on glass surface so far.
The use of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) as a routine treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus is undermined by its short biological half-life. A cause of degradation is its cleavage at the N-terminal HAE sequence by the enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP IV). To protect from DPP IV, we have studied the biological activity of a GLP-1 analog in which 6-aminohexanoic acid (Aha) is inserted between histidine and alanine at positions 7 and 8. We have compared the biological activity of this new compound, GLP-1 Aha8, with the previously described GLP-1 8-glycine (GLP-1 Gly8) analog. GLP-1 Aha8 (10 nm) was equipotent with GLP-1 (10 nm) in stimulating insulin secretion in RIN 1046-38 cells. As with GLP-1 Gly8, the binding affinity of GLP-1 Aha8 for the GLP-1 receptor in intact Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing the human GLP-1 receptor (CHO/GLP-1R cells) was reduced (IC50: GLP-1, 3.7± 0.2 nm; GLP-1 Gly8, 41 ± 9 nm; GLP-1 Aha8, 22 ± 7 nm). GLP-1 Aha8 was also shown to stimulate intracellular cAMP produ...
Abstract Fucoidan [sulfated poly (L-fucopyranose)] was compared with 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AH) or CNBr-cleaved fibrinogen (CNBr-Fbg) alone or in combination in enhancing the activation of glutamic plasminogen (Glu-Plg) or lysine plasminogen (Lys-Plg) by two-chain tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) or LMwt-urokinase or by streptokinase. Fucoidan enhanced the t-PA activation of Glu-Plg or Lys-Plg at Plg concentrations greater than 75nM, while stimulation by CNBr-Fbg of t-PA activation followed saturation kinetics of Michaelis-Menton. During t-PA activation of Glu-Plg, a high degree of synergism was observed between 6-AH and fucoidan while the enhancement by CNBr-Fbg was not influenced by fucoidan and was reversed by 6-AH. Fucoidan alone at higher concentrations was effective in enhancing the activation of Glu-Plg by urokinase while the combination of fucoidan and 6-AH showed additive effect in enhancing the activation of Lys-Plg. The activation of Glu-Plg by streptokinase was reversed by fucoidan in a manner similar to that reported for 6-AH. The results are interpreted to suggest that CNBr-Fbg and 6-AH compete with each other for the same lysine binding sites (LBS) on the Plg molecule while fucoidan acted synergistically with 6-AH in enhancing the t-PA activation of Glu-Plg by a different mechanism. The double reciprocal plot for the interaction of Glu-Plg and urokinase also showed a significantly higher affinity between the two in presence of fucoidan.
The overall conformation of plasminogen depends upon the presence of anions and molecules such as AHA (6-aminohexanoic acid) and BZ (benzamidine). The purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of conformation on the initial and secondary cleavages of plasminogen to generate active angiostatins. Plasminogen was digested with the physiologically relevant neutrophil elastase in one of the four Tris/acetate buffers: buffer alone or buffer plus NaCl, AHA or BZ. The initial cleavage of Glu1-plasminogen was much slower in the tight NaCl-induced alpha-conformation, fastest in the intermediate BZ-induced beta-conformation and intermediate both in the control and in the AHA-induced open gamma-conformation. Although the buffer system determined the relative amounts of the initial cleavage products, the same four cleavage sites were utilized under all conditions. A fifth major initial cleavage within the protease domain was observed in the presence of BZ. N-terminal peptide cleavage required for angiostatin formation occurred as either the initial or the secondary cleavage. Angiostatins were generated fastest in the presence of BZ and slowest in the presence of NaCl. Both the initial and secondary cleavages were affected by the modifying agents, indicating that they influence the conformation of both Glu-plasminogen and the initial cleavage products. The angiostatins produced under the different conditions inhibited proliferation of human umbilical-vein endothelial cells. These results suggest that plasminogen conversion into active angiostatins is dependent more on the specific conformation changes induced by the various modifying reagents rather than on the overall openness of the molecule.
Three amino acid residues previously reported to establish the interactions between lysine-like derivatives and plasminogen kringle 4 have been replaced by other residue types using the methods of site-directed mutagenesis. The effect of these modifications on the binding constant have been measured. The residues are Lys35, Asp57, and Arg71, according to the sequence numbering scheme adapted from the plasminogen kringle 5 domain. The plasminogen kringle 4 derivatives where Lys35 of the native molecule is replaced with isoleucine and methionine residues, respectively, were seen to bind the ligands, respectively, with association constants similar to those of the unmodified recombinant kringle 4 domain. The modification of Asp57 to asparagine was shown to eliminate the ability to bind to the lysine affinity column used to purify the protein. Similarly the site-directed mutagenesis for Arg71 to glutamine resulted in a 12-19-fold decrease in binding of each of the two ligands. In addition, the effect of ionic strength on the binding of 6-aminohexanoic acid to the recombinant plasminogen kringle 4 and the three single substituted derivatives was examined. For the unmodified kringle domain as well as for the two derivatives modified only at the position of Lys35, an ionic strength of 0.5 M reduced the binding constant by a factor of 3 to 0.12 x 10(5) M-1. The derivative modified at the position of Arg71 was not effected by the ionic strength and maintained a rather low binding constant of 0.02 x 10(5) M-1. The observations suggest that the carboxylate of Asp57 and the guanidino group of Arg71 provide the electrostatic interaction in the binding site for the epsilon-amino group and the alpha-carboxylate of a C-terminal lysine residue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The mechanism of plasminogen activation by recombinant staphylokinase was studied both in the absence and in the presence of fibrin, in purified systems, and in human plasma. Staphylokinase, like streptokinase, forms a stoichiometric complex with plasminogen that activates plasminogen following Michaelis-Menten kinetics with Km = 7.0 microM and k2 = 1.5 s-1. In purified systems, alpha 2-antiplasmin inhibits the plasminogen-staphylokinase complex with k1(app) = 2.7 +/- 0.30 x 10(6) M-1 s-1 (mean +/- S.D., n = 12), but not the plasminogen-streptokinase complex. Addition of 6-aminohexanoic acid induces a concentration-dependent reduction of k1(app) to 2.0 +/- 0.17 x 10(4) M-1 s-1 (mean +/- S.D., n = 5) at concentrations greater than or equal to 30 mM, with a 50% reduction at a 6-aminohexanoic acid concentration of 60 microM. Staphylokinase does not bind to fibrin, and fibrin stimulates the initial rate of plasminogen activation by staphylokinase only 4-fold. Staphylokinase induces a dose-dependent lysis of a 0.12-ml 125I-fibrin-labeled human plasma clot submersed in 0.5 ml of citrated human plasma; 50% lysis in 2 h is obtained with 17 nM staphylokinase and is associated with only 5% plasma fibrinogen degradation. Corresponding values for streptokinase are 68 nM and more than 90% fibrinogen degradation. In the absence of a fibrin clot, 50% fibrinogen degradation in human plasma in 2 h requires 790 nM staphylokinase, but only 4.4 nM streptokinase. These results suggest the following mechanism for relatively fibrin-specific clot lysis with staphylokinase in a plasma milieu. In plasma in the absence of fibrin, the plasminogen-staphylokinase complex is rapidly neutralized by alpha 2-antiplasmin, thus preventing systemic plasminogen activation. In the presence of fibrin, the lysine-binding sites of the plasminogen-staphylokinase complex are occupied and inhibition by alpha 2-antiplasmin is retarded, thus allowing preferential plasminogen activation at the fibrin surface.
Abstract The osmotic coefficients of aqueous solutions of the α,ω-amino acids: 3-aminopropanoic acid, 4-aminobutanoic acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid were measured using the isopiestic method at 298.15 K. The activity coefficients of these solutes were calculated from the experimental osmotic coefficients and the pairwise free energy coefficients for solute–solute interactions were obtained using the Mc-Millan-Mayer theory. The results are compared with the activity coefficients of α-amino acids and are discussed in terms of solute–solute interactions.
Abstract Limited proteolysis of native Glu-plasminogen with pancreatic elastase produced three major fragments, K1+2+3 , K4, K5-light chain (miniplasminogen). Fibrin-binding was determined by clotting fibrinogen in the presence of 125I-labelled fragments and measuring 125I in the washed fibrin and in the supernatant. Of the fragments miniplasminogen showed the highest fibrin-binding, the strength of which was intermediate between those of Glu-plasminogen and Lys-plasminogen. The fibrin-binding of all three fragments was decreased by 6-aminohexanoic acid or tranexamic acid. This decrease was most pronounced with K1+2+3 . The fibrin-binding of K1+2+3 , but not that of K4 and miniplasminogen was decreased by α 2 -antiplasmin. The fibrin-binding of K1+2+3 and miniplasminogen was lower in a plasma clot than in a purified fibrin clot. Our results indicate that each of the three fragments can bind to fibrin. They confirm that an α 2 -antiplasmin-binding site is located on K1+2+3 . Furthermore two of the fragments, namely K4 and K1+2+3 contain lysine-binding site(s).
Nature productively performs complex enzymatic reactions in a sequential order, thus eliminating the undesired accumulation of intermediates and to attain high atom efficiency toward the desired product [1, 2] . Scientists have adapted this strategy for the production of industrially important chemicals for environmentally benign processes. Such multi-enzyme cascade reactions provide many advantages for the process design and the overall economics. The lack of the necessity for intermediate isolation and purification reduces the solvent load and waste produced in the process [3] , which in turn improves the economics of the process. Cascade reactions also make it easy to work with unstable intermediates or by shifting an unfavourable reaction equilibrium toward the end product [4] [5] [6] [7] . Here we present a cascade reaction (Scheme 1) for the production of 6-hydroxyhexanoic acid (4), which can serve as an intermediate in polymer chemistry. Products derived from 4 includes 1,6-hexanediol via a single step hydrogenolysis [8] or adipic acid by oxidation [9] . It can also undergo direct condensation polymerization to produce co-polymers with lactic acid [10] . An interesting multi-enzyme cascade was reported by Sattler et al. where 4 was converted to 6-aminohexanoic acid [11] . Here, 4 was first oxidized to 6-oxohexanoic acid by a primary alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and then aminated to 6-aminohexanoic acid with a ω-transaminase. Hence, it is interesting to establish a large-scale enzymatic production of 4.
The overall conformation of plasminogen depends upon the presence of anions and molecules such as AHA (6-aminohexanoic acid) and BZ (benzamidine). The purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of conformation on the initial and secondary cleavages of plasminogen to generate active angiostatins. Plasminogen was digested with the physiologically relevant neutrophil elastase in one of the four Tris/acetate buffers: buffer alone or buffer plus NaCl, AHA or BZ. The initial cleavage of Glu 1 -plasminogen was much slower in the tight NaCl-induced α-conformation, fastest in the intermediate BZ-induced β-conformation and intermediate both in the control and in the AHA-induced open γ -conformation. Although the buffer system determined the relative amounts of the initial cleavage products, the same four cleavage sites were utilized under all conditions. A fifth major initial cleavage within the protease domain was observed in the presence of BZ. N-terminal peptide cleavage required for angiostatin formation occurred as either the initial or the secondary cleavage. Angiostatins were generated fastest in the presence of BZ and slowest in the presence of NaCl. Both the initial and secondary cleavages were affected by the modifying agents, indicating that they influence the conformation of both Glu-plasminogen and the initial cleavage products. The angiostatins produced under the different conditions inhibited proliferation of human umbilical-vein endothelial cells. These results suggest that plasminogen conversion into active angiostatins is dependent more on the specific conformation changes induced by the various modifying reagents rather than on the overall openness of the molecule.
Eight-armed PEG was functionalized with furyl and maleimide groups (8armPEG20k-Fur and 8armPEG20k-Mal); degradable hydrogels were obtained by cross-linking via Diels-Alder chemistry. To increase the stability to degradation, the macromonomers were modified by introducing a hydrophobic 6-aminohexanoic acid spacer between PEG and the reactive end-groups (8armPEG20k-Ahx-Fur and 8armPEG20k-Ahx-Mal). In an alternative approach, the number of reactive groups per macromonomer was increased by branching the terminal ends of eight-armed PEG with lysine (Lys) and Ahx residues (8armPEG20k-Lys-Ahx-Fur2 and 8armPEG20k-Lys-Ahx-Mal2). The hydrolytic resistance of the synthesized macromonomers was determined by UV spectroscopy; the obtained hydrogels were characterized by rheology and degradation studies. The degradation time of 5% (w/v) 8armPEG20k-Ahx hydrogels (28days) was twice as long as the degradation time of 5% (w/v) 8armPEG20k hydrogels (14days); this is explained by increased hydrolytic resistance of the maleimide group. Using dendritic 8armPEG20k-Lys-Ahx macromonomers substantially increased the stability of the resulting hydrogels; degradation of 5% (w/v) 8armPEG20k-Lys-Ahx hydrogels occurred after 34 weeks. 8armPEG20k hydrogels had the largest mesh size of all tested hydrogels, while hydrogels made from dendritic 8armPEG20k-Lys-Ahx macromonomers showed the smallest value. To evaluate their potential for the controlled release of therapeutic antibodies, the hydrogels were loaded with bevacizumab. The incorporated bevacizumab was released over 10 days (8armPEG20k) and 42days (8armPEG20k-Ahx), respectively; release from 8armPEG20k-Lys-Ahx hydrogels was not completed after 105 days. In summary, we believe that 8armPEG20k-Ahx or 8armPEG20k-Lys-Ahx hydrogels could serve as controlled release system for therapeutic antibodies such as bevacizumab.
Abstract Transferrin was chemically modified by covalent linkage of cholesteryloxycarbonyl-6-aminohexanoic acid to the lysine amino groups. Cholesteryloxycarbonyl-6-aminohexanoic acid was prepared from cholesteryl chlorocarbonate and 6-aminohexanoic acid. This derivative was attached by an amide bond to the free amino groups of transferrin. The level of derivatization was quantified by amino acid analysis and determination of free amino groups by the trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid method. The physicochemical characteristics of native and derivatized transferrin were studied by several methods. Surface activity was determined by the pressure increases at the air/water interface. Surface hydrophobicity was checked by anilino naphthalene sulfonic acid titration. Lipid-protein interactions were determined by intrinsic fluorescence changes, with the bilayers in the fluid and gel state. The results obtained show that derivatization renders the protein highly hydrophobic. Nevertheless, the surface activity or the interaction with lipids do not correlate with the hydrophobicity of the molecule, thus suggesting the formation of some type of internal micelles or a strongly packed structure.
Stimulation of Lys-plasminogen (Lys-Pg) and Glu-plasminogen (Glu-Pg) activation under the action of staphylokinase and Glu-Pg activation under the action of preformed plasmin-staphylokinase activator complex (Pm-STA) by low concentrations and inhibition by high concentrations of omega-amino acids (>90-140 mM) were found. Maximal stimulation of the activation was observed at concentrations of L-lysine, 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA), and trans-(4-aminomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 8.0, 2.0, and 0.8 mM, respectively. In contrast, the Lys-Pg activation rate by Pm-STA complex sharply decreased when concentrations of omega-amino acids exceeded the above-mentioned values. It was found that formation of Pm-STA complex from a mixture of equimolar concentrations of staphylokinase and Glu-Pg or Lys-Pg is stimulated by low concentrations (maximal at 10 mM) of 6-AHA. Negligible increase in the specific activities of plasmin and Pm-STA complex was detected at higher concentrations of 6-AHA (to maximal at 70 and 50 mM, respectively). Inhibitory effects of omega-amino acids on the rate of fibrinolysis induced by staphylokinase, Pm-STA complex, and plasmin were compared. It was found that inhibition of staphylokinase-induced fibrinolysis by omega-amino acids includes blocking of the reactions of Pm-STA complex formation, plasminogen activation by this complex, and lysis of fibrin by forming plasmin as a result of displacement of plasminogen and plasmin from the fibrin surface. Thus, the slow stage of Pm-STA complex formation plays an important role in the mechanism of action of omega-amino acids on Glu-Pg activation and fibrinolysis induced by staphylokinase. In addition to alpha-->beta change of Glu-Pg conformation, stimulation of Pm-STA complex formation leads to increase in Glu-Pg activation rate in the presence of low concentrations of omega-amino acids. Inhibition of Pm-STA complex formation on fibrin surface by omega-amino acids is responsible for appearance of long lag phases on curves of fibrinolysis induced by staphylokinase.
The purpose of this study was to characterize the stimulus that activates the 5-lipoxygenase pathway in human peripheral monocytes (PM) during the process of contact activation. Incubation of PM, but not of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN), in contact-activated, recalcified plasma induced a time-dependent release of leukotrienes (LT). The presence of platelets was required for the generation of cysteinyl-LT, but LTB4 formation also proceeded in their absence, although to a lesser extent. Plasmin, presumably generated via the intrinsic fibrinolytic pathway, was liable for the 5-lipoxygenase stimulation during contact activation inasmuch as (1) the 5-lipoxygenase pathway in PM was stimulated by contact-activated, recalcified, autologous or homologous plasma, but not by factor XII-deficient or prekallikrein-deficient plasma; (2) lysine analogs such as N alpha-acetyl-L-lysine, 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA), or trans-4- (aminomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylic acid (t-AMCA), which inhibit plasmin(ogen) binding to PM plasmin(ogen) binding sites, concentration-dependently reduced the cysteinyl-LT release; (3) plasminogen activators such as urokinase or streptokinase concentration-dependently enhanced the cysteinyl-LT release up to 10 and 1,000 IU/mL, respectively, while higher concentrations were less effective leading to bell-shaped concentration-response curves; (4) plasmin inhibitors such as aprotinin or alpha 2-antiplasmin concentration-dependently inhibited the cysteinyl-LT release; and (5) preincubation of plasma with monoclonal antibodies directed against plasminogen and capable of preventing plasminogen activation blocked the contact-mediated 5-lipoxygenase stimulation. Moreover, incubation of PM with plasmin, but not with plasma kallikrein, in Hanks' balanced salt solution (HBSS)-bovine serum albumin (BSA) 0.4% triggered a concentration-dependent release of LTB4 up to 0.1 caseinolytic units (CU)/mL, with higher concentrations being less effective. By contrast, release of cyclooxygenase metabolites such as thromboxane (TX) B2 and prostaglandin (PG) E2 was not stimulated by plasmin, indicating specificity for the 5-lipoxygenase pathway. With plasmin as a hitherto unknown stimulus of the 5-lipoxygenase pathway in PM, a novel link between contact activation and inflammation has been established.
The purpose of this study was t o characterize the stimulus that activates the 5-lipoxygenase pathway in human peripheral monocytes (PM) during the process of contact activation. Incubation of PM, but not of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN), in contact-activated, recalcified plasma induced a time-dependent release of leukotrienes (LT). The presence of plateletcr was required for the generation of cysteinyl-LT, but LTB4 formation also proceeded in their absence, although t o a lesser extent. Plasmin, presumably generated via the intrinsic fibrinolytic pathway, was liable for the Ilipoxygenase stimulation during contact activation inasmuch as (1) the 5-lipoxygenase pathway in PM was stimulated by contact-activated, recalcified, autologous or homologous plasma, but not by factor XII-deficient or prekallikrein-deficient plasma; (2) lysine analogs such as W-acetyl-L-lysine, 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA), or trans-4-(aminomethyl)cyclohexane-l-carboxylic acid (t-AMCA), which inhibit plasmin(ogen) binding t o PM plasmin(ogen) binding sites, concentration-dependently reduced the cysteinyl-LT release; (3) plasminogen activators such as urokinase or streptokinase concentration-dependently enhanced N PREVIOUS STUDIES, we have shown that contactinduced clotting of human whole blood in vitro is not only accompanied by generation of cyclooxygenase-derived thromboxane (TX) Az, but also by formation of 5-lipoxygenase-derived leukotrienes (LT).'" A time-dependent release of chemotactic LTB4,45 as well as vasoconstrictory and edemogenic cysteinyl-LT: has been demonstrated, and the identity of the immunoreactive material has been confirmed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and in the case of cysteinyl-LT additionally by bioassay."3 Activation of the 5-lipoxygenase pathway by the process of blood coagulation is not restricted to in vitro conditions, since it was also detectable in blood permitted to clot in clamped autologous umbilical vein segments, as well as in fresh thrombus specimens obtained from patients with acute deep vein thrombosis of the lower limb.' Thus, intravascular 5-lipoxygenase activation is likely to occur during thrombotic events in humans.
The challenging researches in polymeric vectors for gene therapy have been developed to improve the treatment of several diseases for many years. One of the effective transfection vector systems is either viral vectors or virus-associated sequences, that display very efficient target cell-specific trasfection results. 1 However, immunogenic problems and unexpected stimulation of protooncogenes caused by using viral vectors have been seriously issued so far. 2, 3 Among non-viral vectors, polycationic polymers are intensively studied for the self-assembling ability with DNA, the formation of biocompatible nano-size particles, and the enhanced transport of DNA into the cell through the membrane. 4 The polyplex particles formed by cationic polymers have been characterized by charge density, size, morphology, degradation and transfection efficiency. The non-degradable polymers with high charge densities, and high molecular weight like PEI showed significant cellular toxicities which revealed the need for low-toxic, and degradable polymers possessing effective gene transfection efficacy. Many degradable polymers have been reported, but most of them degrade relatively too fast to attain long-circulating or effective controlled release of the complexed therapeutic genes. [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] Materials and Methods Materials. Ethylene diamine, Fmoc-ε-Ahx-OH, ethidium bromide, methyl acrylate, tris(2-hydroxyethyl)amine, MTT (3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide), N,N-Diisopropylethylamine (DIPEA), piperidine (Hexahydropyridine), ethanolamine, PEI (average molecular weight 25 kDa), and trizma base (2-Amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol), diethyl ether were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO). Fmoc-6-aminohexanoic acid (Fmoc-eAhx) was purchased from Novabiochem (Laufelfingen, Switzerland). N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-O-(1H-benzotriazole-1-yl)uranium hexafluorephosphate (HBTU), and 1-hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBt) were purchased from Anaspec, Inc. (San Jose, CA). Reporter Lysis Buffer, Luciferase 1000 Assay system was a product of Promega (Madison, WI). Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) and fetal bovine serum (FBS) were purchased from GIBCO (Gaithersburg, MD). Micro BCA protein assay kit was purchased from PIERCE (Rockford, Il). PicoGreen was purchased from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR).
Patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer at a late stage have a dismal survival rate. Accurate early detection of pancreatic cancer with a size of 10 mm or less could dramatically improve patient survival after timely treatments. We have developed a new PET probe ZD2-(68Ga-NOTA) specific to extradomain-B fibronectin (EDB-FN), an oncoprotein in tumor microenvironment, for sensitive molecular imaging and early diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. A targeted ligand ZD2-NOTA is synthesized by conjugation of a macrocyclic ligand NOTA via a 6-aminohexanoic acid spacer to a linear ZD2 peptide (Thr-Val-Arg-Thr-Ser-Ala-Asp). ZD2-(68Ga-NOTA) is synthesized by relabeling of ZD2-NOTA with 68GaCl3 in a high purity under GMP conditions. The expression of EDB-FN is demonstrated in BxPC3 and Capan-1 human pancreatic cancer cells and tumor xenografts in mice. ZD2-(68Ga-NOTA) results in significantly higher uptake in the both BxPC3 and Capan-1 tumor xenografts than normal organs and tissues, including the brain, heart, liver and muscle, at 1 hr postinjection in mice. The tumor to muscle uptake ratio is at least 5 folds for the tracer in both tumors. ZD2-(68Ga-NOTA) is able to clearly delineate the PaCa tumors with a size of 10 mm or less with minimal background noise in normal tissues, including the liver. Substantial tumor uptake is still visible at 2 hr post-injection. The results suggest that the ZD2 peptide targeted PET probe has a potential for sensitive molecular imaging of EDB-FN and early detection of pancreatic cancer to improve healthcare of the patients diagnosed with the disease.
The isolated 'kringle' structures 1 and 4 of human plasminogen lost lysine affinity upon photo-oxidation of histidine, but mostly retained it in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid. Lysine affinity was lost and could be partially restored after blocking of histidine with diethylpyrocarbonate and deblocking, or after esterification of COOH-groups and saponification. Only His-31 and most likely Asp-54 qualify as participants in a lysine binding site when the primary structures of the 'kringles' are considered.
The objective of this study was to characterize the plasmin-induced stimulation of leukotriene (LT) B4 biosynthesis in human peripheral monocytes (PM). Plasmin up to 175 x 10(-3) CTA U/ml triggers a concentration-dependent release of 5-lipoxygenase-derived LTB4 while release of the cyclooxygenase products thromboxane (TX) B2 and prostaglandin (PG) E2 remained unaffected. The stimulatory effect appeared to be specific in as much as 1) it was found in PM, but not in polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN), 2) it requires the lysine binding sites of plasmin molecule since it was inhibited by the lysine analogues 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) and trans-4(aminomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylic acid (t-AMCA), 3) the intact catalytic center of plasmin is required since neither plasminogen nor catalytic center-blocked plasmin share the stimulatory effect of active plasmin, 4) other serine proteases such as alpha-chymotrypsin, human neutrophil elastase and cathepsin G did not stimulate release of detectable amounts of LTB4 from PM. In addition, catalytic center-blocked plasmin antagonized the stimulatory effect of active plasmin. Plasmin-mediated monocyte activation apparently proceeds via a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein. Plasmin did not increase inositol (1,4,5) trisphosphate levels, but a time- and concentration-dependent stimulation of cyclic GMP formation was observed. The data show that plasmin is a specific stimulus for human peripheral monocytes. Plasmin may be an important link between the coagulation cascade and inflammatory reactions.
This document describes biochemical pathways for producing 6-hydroxyhexanoic acid using a monooxygenase to form a 7-hydroxyoctanoate intermediate, which can be converted to 6-hydroxyhexanoate using apolypeptide having monooxygenase, secondary alcohol dehydrogenase, or esterase activity. 6-hydroxyhexanoic acid can be enzymatically converted to adipic acid, caprolactam, 6-aminohexanoic acid, hexamethylenediamine or 1,6-hexanediol. This document also describes recombinant hosts producing 6-hydroxyhexanoic acid as well as adipic acid, caprolactam, 6-aminohexanoic acid, hexamethylenediamine and 1,6-hexanediol.
The present specification provides a biochemical pathway for producing 6-hydroxyhexanoic acid using a polypeptide having β-ketothiolase activity to form a 3-oxo-6-hydroxyhexanoyl-CoA intermediate. Describe. 6-Hydroxyhexanoic acid can be enzymatically converted to adipic acid, caprolactam, 6-aminohexanoic acid, hexamethylenediamine, or 1,6-hexanediol. This specification also describes recombinant hosts that produce 6-hydroxyhexanoic acid, as well as adipic acid, caprolactam, 6-aminohexanoic acid, hexamethylenediamine, and 1,6-hexanediol.
Active opioid binding proteins weresolubi- lized fromratbrain membranes inhighyield withsodium deoxycholate inthepresence ofNaCl.Purification ofopioid b ngproteins wasaccomplished byopioid antagonist affinity chromatography. Chromatography using the8-oploid antago- nist N,N-diallyl-Tyr- D-Leu-Gly-Tyr-Leu attached toat-amin- ododecyl-agprose (Affl-G) (procedure A)yielded apartially purified protein thatbindsselectively the8-opiold agonist (3HJTyr-D-Ser-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr withaKdof19 ± 3nMandaB,,of5.1± 0.4nmol/mg ofprotein. Subse- quently, Lenscuinaris aggutinin-Sepharose 4Bchromatogra- phyoftheAffl-G eluate resulted inisolation ofanelectrophoret- ically homogeneous protein of58kDathatbinds selectively P(3lDSLET withaKdof21± 3nMandaB. of16.5 ± 1.0 nmol/mg ofprotein. Chromatography using thenonselective antagonist 6-aminonaloxone coupled to6-aminohexanoic acid- Sepharose 4B(Affi-NAL) (procedure B)resulted inisolation of aprotein that binds selectively (3HJDSLET with aKdof32±2 nM andaB. of12.4+ 0.5nmol/mg ofprotein, and NaDodSO4/PAGE revealed amajor bandofapparent molec- ularmass58kDa.Polyclonal antibodies (Anti-R IgG)raised aainst theAffi-NAL protein inhibit thespecific (3H)DSLET binding totheAffi-NAL eluate andtothesolubilized mem- branes. Moreover, theAnti-R IgGinhibits thespecific binding ofradiolabeled Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-N-methyl-Phe-Gly-ol (DAMGO; p.agonist), DSLET(&agonist), andnaloxone tohomogenates of ratbrain membranes withequal potency. Furthermore, immu- offnity chromatography ofsolubilized membranes resulted in theretention ofamajor protein ofapparent molecular mass58 kDa.Inaddition, immunoblottig ofsolubilized membranes and purified proteins fromtheAffl-G andAffi-NAL matrices re- vealed that theAnti-R IgGinteracts withaprotein of58kDa.
In the present study we have quantitatively characterized the interaction of purified human Glu- and Lys-plasminogen with intact and degraded fibrin by ligand-binding experiments using a radioisotopic dilution method and antibodies against human plasminogen. A fibrinogen monolayer was covalently linked to a solid support with polyglutaraldehyde and was treated with thrombin or with thrombin and then plasmin to respectively obtain intact and degraded fibrin surfaces. Under these conditions, a well-defined surface of fibrin is obtained (410 +/- 4 fmol/cm2) and, except for a 39-kDa fragment, most of the fibrin degradation products remain bound to the support. New binding sites for plasminogen were detected on the degraded surface of fibrin. These sites were identified as carboxy-terminal lysine residues both by inhibition of the binding by the lysine analogue 6-aminohexanoic acid and by carboxy-terminal end-group digestion with carboxypeptidase B. The binding curves exhibited a characteristic Langmuir adsorption isotherm saturation profile. The data were therefore analyzed accordingly, assuming a single-site binding model to simplify the analysis. Equilibrium dissociation constants (Kd) and the maximum number of binding sites (Bmax) were derived from linearized expression of the Langmuir isotherm equation. The Kd for the binding of Glu-plasminogen to intact fibrin was 0.99 +/- 0.17 microM and for degraded fibrin was 0.66 +/- 0.22 microM. The Kd for the binding of Lys-plasminogen to intact fibrin was 0.41 +/- 0.22 microM and for degraded fibrin was 0.51 +/- 0.12 microM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Bradykinin B1 receptor (B1R) that is overexpressed in cancers but minimally expressed in normal healthy tissues represents an attractive biomarker for the development of cancer imaging agents. The goal of this study was to evaluate the effect of different linkers on the pharmacokinetics and tumor uptake of a B1R-targeting radio-peptide sequence, 68Ga-DOTA-linker-Lys-Arg-Pro-Hyp-Gly-Cha-Ser-Pro-Leu. Four peptides, SH01078, P03034, P04115, and P04168, with 6-aminohexanoic acid, 9-amino-4,7-dioxanonanoic acid, Gly-Gly, and 4-amino-(1-carboxymethyl)piperidine, respectively, as the linker were synthesized and evaluated. In vitro competition binding assays showed that the Ki values of SH01078, P03034, P04115, and P04168 were 27.8 ± 4.9, 16.0 ± 1.9, 11.4 ± 2.5, and 3.6 ± 0.2 nM, respectively. Imaging and biodistribution studies were performed in mice bearing both B1R-positive HEK293T::hB1R and B1R-negative HEK293T tumors. All tracers showed mainly renal excretion with excellent tumor visualization and minimal ba...
Apolipoprotein[a] (apo[a]) is a large disulfide linked glycoprotein synthesized by hepatocytes. We have examined the role of disulfide bond formation in the processing of apo[a] using human and rat hepatoma cells expressing apo[a] isoforms containing varying numbers of kringle 4 (K4) domains, following treatment with DTT. Hepatoma cells expressing 6- or 9-K4 isoforms revealed approximately 90% inhibition of apo[a] secretion following DTT treatment, although larger isoforms containing 13- or 17-K4 domains demonstrated continued secretion (up to 30% of control values), suggesting that a fraction of the larger isoforms is at least partially DTT resistant. Wash-out experiments demonstrated that these effects were completely reversible for all isoforms studied, with no enhanced degradation associated with prolonged intracellular retention. DTT treatment was associated with enhanced binding of apo[a] with the endoplasmic reticulum-associated chaperone proteins calnexin, calreticulin, and BiP, which was reversible upon DTT removal. The chemical chaperone 6-aminohexanoic acid, previously demonstrated by others to rescue defective apo[a] secretion associated with alterations in glycosylation, failed to alter the secretion of apo[a] following DTT treatment. The demonstration that DTT modulates apo[a] secretion in a manner influenced by both the type and number of K4 repeats extends understanding of the mechanisms that regulate its exit from the endoplasmic reticulum.
The purpose of this study is the detection and identification, using combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry, of breakdown products which appear during leather collagen degradation. Experiments were performed on naturally and artificially aged leathers. All gas chromatograms are similar, with high amounts of the classical amino acids together with a great number of others at low concentration of which several were identified as : α-aminobutyric acid, β- alanine, pyroglutamic acid, allo-isoleucine, γ- aminobutyric acid (GABA), dehydroproline (dPRO), two isomers of hydroxyproline (cis-3-HYP and cis-4- HYP), 6-aminohexanoic acid, ornithine and α- aminoadipic acid (AAD). To evaluate how much artificial aging affects the release of the breakdown products, and to compare it to natural aging, semiquantitative and comparative analysis were performed on four "new" amino acids. We calculate d and studied the evolution of the following peaks area ratios : GABA/dPRO, cis-4- HYP/trans-4-HYP, dPRO/PRO and AAD/dPRO. Our results confirm the hypothesis that amino acids are first transformed into breakdown products in form of new amino acids, which are then transformed into other breakdown products or amino acids. COMPENDIO
The effects of some 15 organic solutes in aqueous solution, including urea, acetamide, simple amino acids and peptides, upon the dielectric dispersion of water have been studied by measuring the complex permittivity at 70 GHz and 20 °C. The results are expressed by two quantities derived from a simple model according to which water is the only significant contributor to the dielectric loss factor Iµ″. These quantities are the apparent dielectric relaxation frequency of water, ω1, and the limiting high-frequency permittivity of the solute, Iµ2 a ∞. In general, with exceptions discussed, ω1 is decreased in presence of the solutes, a result of practical significance in increasing the already dominant role of modified water in the heating of biological materials by microwaves. A correlation with the apolar composition of the solute is noted. The values of Iµ2a ∞ are generally not much different from that of pure water. It seems therefore that, like water itself, these solutes must traverse a further dispersion so as to attain the optical refractive index. A few measurements at different temperatures suggest that Iµ-aminocaproic acid (6-aminohexanoic acid) and bovine plasma albumin cause a small decrease in the activation entropy of water. An analogy between dielectric relaxation and thermal migration is noted and illustrated by analysis of the Soret coefficients of amino acids in aqueous solution.
6-Aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase produced by Achromobacter guttatus cells grown on 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer (1,8-diazacyclotetradecane-2,9-dione) was purified until it was homogeneous according to polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis, sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, Sephadex G-200 column chromatography, and analytical centrifugation. The following characteristics of the purified enzyme were observed. ::: ::: ::: ::: (1) The molecular weight of the enzyme, estimated to be 110 000 by column chromatography on Sephadex G-200 and 100 000 by sedimentative equilibrium, together with the minimum molecular weight of 55 000 obtained by sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, indicated it is a dimeric enzyme. The sedimentation constant (s20) was estimated to be 5.7 S from the sedimentation velocity. ::: ::: ::: ::: (2) The enzyme had an optimum pH of 7.3 when 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer was used as substrate. It was stable in a pH range between 5.5 to 8.5, and 50% and 100% of activity was lost after 10 min of heating at 45°C and 50°C respectively. The optimum temperature for activity was 33°C. The Michaelis-Menten constant (Km) was 6 mM toward the dimer, and the turnover number was 8 s−1 assuming a molecular weight of 100 000. ::: ::: ::: ::: (3) This enzyme was strongly inhibited by 1 μM diisoprpylphosphofluoridate and 10 μM p-chloromercuribenzoate but scarcely inhibited by 100 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. The enzyme inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzoate could be reactivated by 2-mercaptoethanol. ::: ::: ::: ::: (4) This enzyme was only active on 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer to form 6-aminohexanoyl-6-aminohexanoic acid. It was inactive on 6-aminohexanoic acid oligomers (degree of polymerization 2 to 6), various cyclic amides, cyclic diamides, amides, oligopeptides, and casein. ::: ::: ::: ::: (5) The absorption coefficient (A1%280 nm) of the enzyme was 19.4. The enzyme was composed of 500 amino acid residues including 3 cysteines; from this the molecular weight was calculated to be 103 200 as a dimer. ::: ::: ::: ::: (6) 6-Aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase was classified as a new cyclic amide hydrolase.
Recent methodologies used in preparing anaphylatoxins from complement-activated serum are described. Activation of the alternative pathway generates C3a and C5a; however, activation of the classical pathway is required to generate the anaphylatoxin from C4. This article describes an activation scheme that simultaneously generates all three of the anaphylatoxins (e.g., C3a, C4a and C5a) in human serum and outlines a procedure for isolating each as homogeneous products. Purification of intact anaphylatoxins directly from complement-activated serum takes place only if an exopeptidase in serum, known as carboxypeptidase N (SCPN), is properly inhibited. A new series of mercapto derivatives of arginine analogs are introduced as potent and effective inhibitors of SCPN. These inhibitors permit normal complement activation but prevent degradation of the released activation fragments C3a, C4a or C5a. The SCPN inhibitor previously used was 6-aminohexanoic acid (EACA), but it required a 1 M concentration for effective inhibition, the substituted mercapto-guanido compounds prove to be effective in the mM range.
Sites of restriction endonucleases were mapped on pOAD2, a plasmid harbored in Flavobacterium sp. KI72. The plasmid codes 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase and 6-aminohexanoic acid linear oligomer hydrolase. pOAD2 (molecular weight: 28.8 megadaltons [Mdal]) had 6 HindIII and 5 EcoRI sites, which were located at 0, 8.4, 8.9, 11.1, 19.0 and 25.0 Mdal (for HindIII) and 3.3, 5.4, 20.4, 20.8, 22.6 Mdal (for EcoRI). A mutant which could not grow on 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer but grew on the linear dimer as the sole carbon and nitrogen source harbored a deletion plasmid pOAD21 derived from pOAD2. By comparing the restriction sites of these two plasmids, the deleted region was localized on which the 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase was coded.
Hybrids were constructed of the genes for two homologous enzymes, 6-aminohexanoic acid-oligomer hydrolase (EII, one of the nylon oligomer degradation enzymes), and its probable evolutionary antecedent (EII'). The structural genes of EII (nylB) and EII' (nylB') have 88% similarity in their nucleotide sequences, an open frame encoding a peptide of 392 amino acids, conserved restriction sites, and in vitro recombination between these genes at the corresponding restriction sites generated genes directing various hybrid enzymes. In a comparison of the EII, EII', and the hybrid enzymes, we concluded that one or more of the four amino acid alterations that occurred in the intramolecular region (between amino acids 162-257) of EII' is essential to the adaptation of the enzyme to nylon oligomer degradation, and that its effect is enhanced 20-fold by one or more further alterations in the 258-380 region. Our results also suggest that this technique is useful for improving enzyme characteristics.
Antisera were raised in rabbits against kringle 4, one of the five homologous domains of human plasminogen, and one which contains a site that binds lysine. A double antibody radioimmunoassay was developed for kringle 4 and used for cross-reactivity studies with plasminogen, kringle 1 + 2 + 3, kringle 5 + light chain, and the plasmin-antiplasmin complex, as competitors of either 125I-kringle 4 or 125I-Lys-plasminogen for binding to anti-kringle 4 antisera. Lys- and Glu-plasminogen caused 50% inhibition of anti-kringle 4 binding to 125I-kringle 4 at ratios of 4 and 20 mol/mol (competitor/kringle 4), respectively. The plasmin-antiplasmin complex behaved similarly to Glu-plasminogen. Kringle 1 + 2 + 3 inhibited at a ratio of about greater than 1000 mol/mol. Our results suggest that most of the surface antigenic sites of kringle 4 are exposed on Lys-plasminogen, Glu-plasminogen, and the plasmin-antiplasmin complex. There may be weak antigenic homology between kringle 4 and kringle 1 + 2 + 3, but there is little or no homology with kringle 5 + light chain and prothrombin fragments 1 and 2. Both 6-aminohexanoic acid and trans-4-(aminomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylic acid can cause a maximum of 30% inhibition, with the latter being a much better inhibitor. Our results suggest that part of the antibody population is directed against a region of kringle 4 containing a lysine-binding site.
Mutual diffusion coefficients for aqueous solutions of 3-aminopropanoic acid (β-alanine), 4-aminobutanoic acid (γ-aminobutyric acid), 5-aminopentanoic acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid, and 7-aminoheptanoic acid at infinitesimal concentration were measured at atmospheric pressure and temperatures from (298.2 to 333.2) K using the Taylor dispersion method. The results were compared with those of the structural isomers measured in our previous studies to examine the effect of position of amino and carboxylic acid groups on the values of diffusion coefficients. The diffusion coefficients of all amino acid isomers were almost the same, indicating that the diffusion coefficients of amino acids measured in our studies were mostly determined by the molar mass and the increase in the distance between amino and carboxylic acid groups was not an important factor. The temperature dependences of the diffusion coefficients were well-correlated with viscosity of water, η, as D12/T = αηβ where D12 is the diffusion coefficient ...
We have examined in detail the kinetics of binding of the serpin alpha 2-antiplasmin to the serine proteases alpha-chymotrypsin and plasmin. These represent model systems for serpin binding. We find, in contrast to earlier published results with alpha 2-antiplasmin and plasmin, that binding is reversible, and slow binding kinetics can be observed, under appropriate conditions. Binding follows a two-step process with both enzymes, with the formation of an initial loose complex which then proceeds to a tightly bound complex. In the absence of lysine and analogues, equilibrium between alpha 2-antiplasmin and plasmin is achieved rapidly, with an overall inhibition constant (Ki') of 0.3 pM. In the presence of tranexamic acid or 6-aminohexanoic acid, lysine analogues that mimic the effects of fibrin, plasmin binding kinetics are changed such that equilibrium is reached slowly following a lag phase after mixing of enzyme and inhibitor. The Ki' is also affected, rising to 2 pM in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid concentrations above 15 mM. Thus extrapolation to the in vivo situation indicates that complex formation in the presence of fibrin will be delayed, allowing a burst of enzyme activity following plasmin generation, but a tight, pseudoirreversible complex will result eventually. Chymotrypsin is more weakly inhibited by alpha 2-antiplasmin, exhibiting an overall Ki' of 0.1 nM, after two-stage complex formation. The inhibition constant for the initial loose complex (Ki) is very similar for both enzymes. The difference in binding strength between the two enzymes is accounted for by the dissociation rate constant of the second step of complex formation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The synthesis and the conformational studies of the following sequential polypeptides are reported: poly(alanyl-3-aminopropanoic acid), poly(alanyl-4-aminobutanoic acid), poly(alanyl-5-aminopentanoic acid), and poly(alanyl-6-aminohexanoic acid). These compounds were examined in the solid state by X-ray diffraction and in solution by circular dichroism spectroscopy. X-ray diffraction patterns indicate that all copolymers assume an antiparallel pleated-sheet conformation. The results in solution suggest that the synthetic polypeptides, in 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol (TFE)/methanol exhibit a β-conformation. The addition of water to a solution of copolymers in TFE destabilize this ordered structure except in the case of poly(alanyl-6-aminohexanoic acid).
3-(3,5-Dinitrobenzoylamido)propanoic acid(Ⅰ) and 6-(3,5-dinitrobenzoylamido) hexanoic acid(Ⅱ) were synthesized respectively by reaction of 3,5-dinitrobenzoyl chloride with 3-aminopropanoic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid at room temperature.In the experiment,3,5-dinitrobenzoyl chloride should be added in portions,2 mol/L aqueous NaOH solution was dropped into the reaction system to keep pH=8～9,and n(3,5-dinitrobenzoyl chloride)∶n(amino acid)=1.Yields of Ⅰ and Ⅱ are 84% and 81% respectively.The nitro compounds Ⅰ and Ⅱ were hydrogenated with 10%Pd /C as catalyst(m(catalyst)∶m(nitro compound)=10∶100),and then acidized with hydrochloric acid to get the title compounds 3-(3,5-diaminobenzoylamido)propanoic acid hydrochloride and 6-(3,5-diaminobenzoylamido)hexanoic acid hydrochloride in 93% and 94% yield respectively.Structures of the compounds were confirmed by FTIR,~1HNMR and ~(13)CNMR.
The kinetics of the reaction between human plasma kallikrein and C1-esterase inhibitor was studied in a purified system. By monitoring the inhibition reaction for extended periods of time, it was found to proceed in two consecutive steps, a fast reversible second-order binding step followed by a slower, irreversible first-order transition. The rate constants in this reaction model were determined, as well as the dissociation constant of the initial, reversible enzyme-inhibitor complex. Thus, at 37 degrees C the second-order rate constant k1 was found to be 5 X 10(4) M-1 . s-1, the first-order rate constant k2 was 5 X 10(-4) s-1, and the dissociation constant K was 1.5 X 10(-8) M. Heparin (28 U/ml) and 6-aminohexanoic acid (10 mM) had no effect on the k1 of the reaction.
In our previous study, paramagnetic liposomes with conjugated Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD)-lipopeptide could effectively deliver a sufficient amount of contrast agents into tumor [27] . Thus, we hypothesized that by targeting two molecules simultaneously in tumor angiogenesis, e.g., ανβ3-integrin and neuropilin-1, could enhance the signal of paramagnetic liposome-based MR imaging of tumor. Two high-affinity ligands of RGD for ανβ3-integrin and Ala-Thr-Trp-Leu-Pro-Pro-Arg (ATWLPPR, A7R) for neuropilin-1 (NRP1, a VEGF-R co-receptor) were functionalized to the liposome by conjugating with 6-aminohexanoic acid (C6)-palmitic acid (Pal). These dual-targeted Gd-DTPA-encapsulated liposomes were evaluated by comparison with pure Gd-DTPA, non-targeted, and single-targeted liposomes by using in vitro and in vivo assays.
We report on the synthesis and characterization of a PEGylated IR786 GUMBOS (Group of Uniform Materials Based on Organic Salts). The synthesis of this material was accomplished using a three step protocol: (1) substitution of chloride on the cyclohexenyl ring in the heptamethine chain of IR786 by 6-aminohexanoic acid, (2) grafting of methoxy polyethylene glycol (MeOPEG) onto the 6-aminohexanoic acid via an esterification reaction, and (3) anion exchange between [PEG786][I] and lithium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide (LiNTf(2)) or sodium bis(2-ethylhexyl)sulfosuccinate (AOT) in order to obtain PEG786 GUMBOS. Examination of spectroscopic data for this PEG786 GUMBOS indicates a large stokes shift (122 nm). It was observed that this PEG786 GUMBOS associates in aqueous solution to form nano- and mesoscale self-assemblies with sizes ranging from 100 to 220 nm. These nano- and mesoscale GUMBOS are also able to resist nonspecific binding to proteins. PEGylation of the original IR786 leads to reduced cytotoxicity. In addition, it was noted that anions, such as NTf(2) and AOT, play a significant role in improving the photostability of PEG786 GUMBOS. Irradiation-induced J-aggregation in [PEG786][NTf(2)] and to some extent in [PEG786][AOT] produced enhanced photostability. This observation was supported by use of both steady state and time-resolved fluorescence measurements.
Abstract Conformational changes of two isozymes of Glu-plasminogen(Glu-plg I and II) induced by ω-aminoacids were studied by using fluorescence polarization and spectropolarimetry. The rotational relaxation times (Ph) of FITC labeled Glu-plg I and II decreased in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid (6AHA) or tranexamic acid (t-x), which may mean increase in Brownian motion of FITC labeled region (possibly N-terminal region) of Glu-plg I and II when 6AHA or t-x binds with lysine binding sites (LBS) of these plasminogens. Glu-plg II seems to have longer rotational relaxation time compared to that of Glu-plg I, which may mean smaller extent of Brownian motion of FITC labeled region of Glu-plg II in comparison to that of Glu-plg I. The far ultraviolet circular dichroism (CD) spectra indicate that there may be some difference in the polypeptide backbone between Glu-plg I and II, possibly more of β-structure and less of random coil structure in Glu-plg II in comparison to Glu-plg I The presence of 6AHA or t-x gave rise to larger change of the negative ellipticity at around 208 nm in Glu-plg I in comparison to its change in Glu-plg II, which may mean the larger extent of conformational change of Glu-plg I induced by 6AHA or t-x than that of Glu-plg II.
Urokinase digestion of maleinated plasminogen results in cleavage of the single peptide bond Arg-68-Met-69, which is one of the bonds normally cleaved during the first step of the activation procedure. The inactive intermediate compound formed in this way was subjected to NH2-terminal amino acid sequence analysis, which clearly demonstrates the structural relationship between the forms of plasminogen with different NH2-terminal amino acids. It is thus shown that lysine-78 and valine-79 in the "glutamic acid" plasminogen actually are the NH2-terminal amino acids in "lysine" and "valine" plasminogen respectively. The forms with glutamic acid in NH2-terminal position are called plasminogen A, while all other forms lacking the NH2-terminal part of the molecule and which can be activated in a single step are called plasminogen B. By affinity chromatographic studies of the NH2-terminal activation peptide on insolubilized plasminogen B, it was demonstrated that this peptide has specific affinity for plasminogen B. It was also shown that this noncovalent interaction is broken by 6-aminohexanoic acid in two concentration. The tryptic heptapeptide (Ala-Phe-Gln-Tyr-His-Ser-Lys) which occupies the positions number 45 to 51 in the NH2-terminal activation peptide (as well as in the intact plasminogen molecule) is importance for the conformational state of the plasminogen molecule.
A series of diosgenyl analogs were prepared from diosgenin to evaluate their anticancer activity and antithrombotic property. Analog 4, which had a spiroketal structure with a 6-aminohexanoic acid residue, exhibited the highest potency against all five tumor cell lines. It significantly blocked tumor growth, induced cell apoptosis and autophagy, and regulated cellular calcium concentration, mitochondrial membrane potential, adenosine triphosphate, and cell cycle. In addition, fluorescence-tagged compounds indicated that the analogs could rapidly accumulate in the cytoplasm, but no specific localization in the nucleus of cancer cells was observed. Furthermore, preliminary structure-activity relationship studies demonstrated that spiroketal analogs exhibit better antithrombotic activity than furostanic analogs, which exhibit the opposite effect by promoting thrombosis. Our study indicates that compound 4 may be a promising anticancer drug candidate for cancer patients with thromboembolism.
Ab deposition, whether by reaction with the specific Ag or by preformed immune complexes, is followed by activation and deposition of complement components. Tissue destruction is observed in the Ab- and complement-induced lesions. The proteolytic enzyme plasmin is thought to participate in the Ab- and complement-mediated organ pathology. Plasmin is generated from plasma-derived plasminogen by cell-derived plasminogen activators (PAs). Two types of PAs are known, urokinase-type PA (uPA) and tissue-type PA (tPA). We investigated whether the PA system and the complement system can interact to promote local plasmin generation. Among the terminal complement components C5b6, C7, C8, and C9, the nonenzymatic component C7 is a plasminogen-binding protein. Radioligand binding studies revealed that the isolated component, as well as C7 after its incorporation into the terminal complement complex C5b-9, can bind plasminogen. Binding was inhibited by the lysine analogues 6-aminohexanoic acid and tranexamic acid, implicating the lysine binding sites of plasminogen into the binding interaction. tPA-mediated plasminogen activation was enhanced in the presence of C7. Based on these findings, an interaction is proposed between the complement system and the plasminogen activator system; a mechanism that may focus plasmin activity to structures that have been tagged by Ab and complement deposition.
Abstract ::: Fine structure of the gene of 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase, one of the enzymes responsible for the degradation of the nylon oligomer (6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer), on the plasmid pOAD2 harbored in Flavobacterium sp. KI72 was determined by constructing miniplasmids from plasmid pNDH5 (a hybrid plasmid consisting of pBR322 and a 9.1-kilobase-pair HindIII fragment of pOAD2 ). The 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase produced by cells of Escherichia coli C600 harboring pNDH5 or its miniplasmid was examined immunologically and electrophoretically and was found to be identical to that of Flavobacterium sp. KI72 . A fragment of pOAD2 (17.2- to 19.1-kilobase-pair region on pOAD2 ) was detected as hybridized fragment by Southern blotting experiments, indicating the presence of the DNA region analogous to the 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase gene on the plasmid.
Summary A total of 63 strains representing 7 species of plasminogen binding bacteria, were examined for the ability to potentiate t-PA and urokinase (u-PA) mediated activation of human plasminogen to plasmin. Tested species included β-haemolytic streptococci groups A, C, and G, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis, Haemophilus influenzae and Proteus mirabilis . The effect on plasminogen activation was measured using a coupled enzymatic assay with a chromogenic substrate. The changes in absorbance were found to be linear functions of t 2 in agreement with theoretical expectations. Most plasminogen binding strains were capable to dramatically enhance the rate of t-PA induced plasminogen activation. The most pronounced potentiation was observed with a Streptococcus equisimilis strain which increased the activation rate 130-fold. High potentiations was also detected for N. meningitidis and S. pneumoniae strains. P. mirabilis was an exception as some strains were capable to bind plasminogen without any influence on plasminogen activation. Also, u-PA mediated plasminogen activation was enhanced in the presence of bacteria. However the stimulation factor obtained were in most strains much less than those obtained with t-PA. For different strains within a species, the capability to enhance the rate of the t-PA mediated activation correlated with plasminogen binding (r=0.74–0.92). Both plasminogen binding and the stimulation of plasminogen activation were abolished in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA, ɛ-aminocaproic acid) suggesting that the lysine-binding sites in the plasminogen molecule are involved in both phenomena. The binding of plasminogen and facilitation of its activation provide bacteria with an active proteolytic shield of possible importance in tissue penetration and infection.
The lysine-binding-site-mediated interaction between plasmin and antiplasmin is of great importance for the fast rate of this reaction. It also plays an important part in regulating the fibrinolytic enzyme system. To identify structures important for its noncovalent interaction with plasmin, we constructed seven single-site mutants of antiplasmin by modifying charged amino acids in the C-terminal part of the molecule. All the variants were expressed in the Drosophila S2 cell system, purified, and shown to form stable complexes with plasmin. A kinetic evaluation revealed that two mutants of the C-terminal lysine (K452E or K452T) did not differ significantly from wild-type antiplasmin in their reactions with plasmin, in either the presence or absence of 6-aminohexanoic acid, suggesting that this C-terminal lysine is not important for this reaction. On the other hand, modification of Lys436 to Glu decreased the reaction rate about fivefold compared with wild-type. In addition, in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid, only a small decrease in the reaction rate was observed, suggesting that Lys436 is important for the lysine-binding-site-mediated interaction between plasmin and antiplasmin. Results from computerized molecular modelling of the C-terminal 40 amino acids support our experimental data.
Abstract In this study, we have synthesized magnetic nanocomposites of magnetite nanoparticles coated with 6-aminohexanoic acid and pectin (MAP). The size of the aqueous dispersion of the nanocomposites was 147 nm with a Polydispersity index (PDI) of 0.32, and the nanocomposites were stable in NaCl up to a concentration of 0.45% (w/v) after which they aggregated. The dispersion of the nanocomposites was stable in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) in the presence of 5 and 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS). Curcumin was used as a model drug to evaluate the potential of the nanocomposites for drug delivery applications. The release behavior of curcumin from the nanocomposites showed a biphasic pattern with initial burst release followed by a slow release, and the size of the aqueous dispersion of curcumin loaded nanocomposites was 159 nm with a PDI of 0.34.
Abstract This work describes a green and efficient one-pot synthesis of N -alkyl-2-(2-oxoazepan-1-yl)-2-arylacetamide derivatives via an Ugi four-center, three-component reaction of 6-aminohexanoic acid, aromatic aldehydes, and isocyanide derivatives in water under reflux conditions in the absence of a catalyst.
Tissue factor (TF), the initiator of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation, binds plasminogen (Pg) with high affinity through an interaction between kringles 1-3 of Pg and the extracellular domain of TF. We investigated the binding of Pg type 1 (Pg 1) and Pg type 2 (Pg 2) to highly invasive, TF-expressing, 1-LN human prostate tumor cells and to TF isolated from 1-LN cell membranes. Pg 1, containing both N-linked and O-linked oligosaccharide chains, bound to isolated TF with high affinity, whereas Pg 2, containing only one O-linked oligosaccharide chain, did not bind to TF. Although Pg 1 and Pg 2 bind to 1-LN cells, only anti-TF antibodies inhibited the binding of Pg 1, suggesting that TF functions as the receptor for Pg 1 on 1-LN cells. Binding of Pg 1 to isolated TF was inhibited by 6-aminohexanoic acid and α-methylmannoside, suggesting that Pg 1 l-lysine binding sites and the biantennary, mannose-containing N-linked oligosaccharide chain are involved in this interaction. Binding of Pg 1 to 1-LN cells promoted activation by receptor-bound urinary-type Pg activator (u-PA) and initiated a Ca++ signaling cascade. In previous studies we demonstrated that the Pg 2 O-linked carbohydrate chain is essential for its binding to CD26 on 1-LN cells. The current studies suggest that Pg oligosaccharide chains regulate the binding of Pg 1 and Pg 2 to separate receptors on the cell surface.
The reaction of lanthanide nitrates with different aminocarboxylic acids in the presence of cucurbit[6]uril (CB6) in water at room temperature yielded five novel complexes which were crystallographically characterized. The cerium complex involving the zwitterionic form of β-alanine (β-Ala), [Ce(β-Ala)(CB6)(NO3)(H2O)3]·2NO3·5H2O (1), is a molecular species in which the metal cation is bound to three carbonyl groups of CB6 and one monodentate carboxylate; the ammonium-bearing chain is encapsulated in the CB6 cavity, with the ammonium group hydrogen bonded to the uncomplexed portal. With a longer alkyl chain, 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-ah) leads to a different, dimeric structure in [Ce(6-ah)(CB6)(H2O)3]2·6NO3·17H2O (2), in which two metal ions connect two CB6 molecules and are further bridged by two carboxylate groups. The alkyl chains are included in the CB6 cavities and the ammonium groups are hydrogen bonded to the uncomplexed portals. Neighbouring, perpendicular dimers are associated through ammonium-water, water-carbonyl and CH⋯O(carbonyl) hydrogen bonds. Three complexes were obtained with the enantiopure α-amino acid L-methionine (L-Met), all of which are chiral. In [Yb(L-Met)(H2O)7]·CB6·3NO3·7H2O (3) and [Dy(L-Met)(H2O)7]4[Dy(NO3)2(H2O)5]·4CB6·13NO3·29H2O (4), the metal ions are bound to one monodentate carboxylate and seven water molecules. The ammonium group is involved in hydrogen bonding with two CB6 molecules and the thioether-containing chain is included in the cavity of one CB6, with the sulphur atom shortest contact being with a ureido carbon atom. The supramolecular arrangement is columnar, the neighbouring chains being connected by hydrogen bonds formed by the ammonium groups. The neodymium complex [Nd(L-Met)(CB6)(NO3)(H2O)3]2[Nd(L-Met)(L-Met – H)(H2O)5]2·8NO3·30H2O (5) displays two dinuclear units held by double carboxylate bridges. In one of them, the metal atoms are bound to CB6 and the L-Met molecules are excluded from the CB6 cavities while, in the other, the metal atoms are not bound to CB6, but two L-Met ligands are hydrogen bonded to CB6 portals and encapsulated. Together with previous results involving other aminocarboxylic acids, these complexes illustrate the different association modes between lanthanide ions, CB6 molecules and ammoniocarboxylates, which depend on the nature and geometry of the latter, and on a balance between CB6 complexation to the lanthanide ion and ammoniocarboxylate/CB6 association through weak interactions. Short contacts between the sulphur atoms of L-Met and ureido carbon atoms in 3–5 are likely indicative of the presence of weak dipole–dipole interactions.
The hydrodynamic properties of plasminogen are highly affected during the activation process as found by studies on the sedimentation-velocity, sedimentation-equilibrium behaviour, gelfiltration behaviour of plasminogen A, plasminogen B and of plasmin inactivated by diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (Dip-plasmin). The molecular weight was estimated to 92 000, 84000 and 81 000 for plasminogen A, B and Dip-plasmin, respectively and the frictional ratio, f/f0, was found to be 1.50, 1.56 and 1.55. ::: ::: ::: ::: The circular dichroism (CD) spectra of human plasminogen A, plasminogen B and Dip-plasmin have been studied at pH 7.4 in 0.1 M KCI. The far-ultraviolet spectra are almost identical for all the samples and indicate that they contain a large proportion of random structure (about 80%) and about 20%β-structure, while no significant amounts of α-helix could be detected. In the near-ultraviolet region, large significant differences were seen, which are consistent with a stepwise activation of plasminogen A via plasminogen B to plasmin. ::: ::: ::: ::: The effects of 6-aminohexanoic acid and l-lysine on the CD spectra of plasminogen A and of the activation peptide on that of plasminogen B indicate that the amino-terminal peptidic material has great affinity for the rest of the protein at pH 7.4 and greatly affects the CD spectrum between 250–280 nm. In this area, the spectra of Dip-plasmin and plasminogen B are almost identical and the same spectrum is also obtained with plasminogen A when treated 0.01 M 6-aminohexanoic acid or 0.1 M l-lysine. The conformation around the amino-terminal part of Dip-plasmin and around the internal peptide bond cleaved during the activation to plasmin seems to be of great importance for the CD spectra at 280–305 nm.
Abstract Human Glu-plasminogen, Lys-plasminogen and plasmin were effectively separated by high-performance affinity chromatography. The affinity adsorbent was prepared by using a micro-particulate polyvinyl alcohol gel (Asahipak GS-gel) as the supporting material and p -aminobenzamidine as the specific ligand. All of the active enzyme and proenzymes were adsorbed. Glu-plasminogen was eluted by changing the pH of the eluent and Lys-plasminogen by using an eluent containing 6-aminohexanoic acid. This affinity adsorbent recognized the difference between these proenzyme species. For the elution of plasmin, addition of urea was necessary. Plasmin may have been adsorbed through a two-site interaction with the adsorbent. All proteins were eluted as sharp peaks and the time required for one cycle was about 1 h. Fluorimetric detection of eluted protein and on-line assay of enzyme activity using a fluorigenic substrate made it possible to analyse microgram amaounts of proteins specifically.
A twin-chiral and twin-tailed Gemini-type fatty acid with a rigid spacer, 2,3-bis(decyloxy) succinic acid, formed chiral self-assembled structures in aqueous solution with heteroditopic amines, such as 6-aminohexanoic acid and 4-aminobutyric acid. The morphology of such structures was governed by the stoichiometry between the fatty acid and the amine. Mixtures with 1 : 2 molar ratio formed exclusively spherical vesicles, while the 1 : 1 mixtures resulted in entropically driven chiral cones in addition to spherical vesicles. Surface tension measurements, light scattering, and TEM studies proved the existence of vesicles in aqueous solution. Cones were formed through disclinations introduced in the hexatic chiral membrane with specific angles, in accordance with θ = arcsin (1 − (n/6)), [0 < θ < π/2, 1 < n < 5]. Mixtures prepared with 4-aminobutyric acid formed only spherical vesicles and no conical self-assemblies, emphasizing the geometry of the Gemini–heteroditopic amine pair, which directs the morphology of the final self-assembled structures.
For detection of versican, embryos at day 12.5 in gestation were collected and tail biopsies were taken to determine genotype. Hearts were dissected above the atria and frozen individually until genotype was identified. Hearts of the same genotype were pooled (3-4 hearts per pool) and protein homogenates prepared as described previously (Schonherr et al., 1997) . Tissues were extracted with GuHCl buffer (4 M guanidine-HCl, 100 mM sodium sulfate, 100 mM Tris base, 2.5 mM Na 2 EDTA, 0.5% Triton X-100, pH 7.0) containing protease inhibitors (5 mM benzamidine-HCl, 100 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid, 1 mM phenylmethyl sulfonyl fluoride) overnight at 4°C. Tissue extracts were then dialyzed against urea buffer (8 M urea, 2 mM EDTA, 50 mM Tris base, 0.5% Triton X-100, pH 7.5) to remove the guanidine. To assess levels of intact versican variants containing the GAGß domain, equal amounts of protein, as determined using the Coomassie Protein Assay kit (Thermo Scientific), from each pool were subjected to DEAE ion exchange chromatography. Eluates were ethanol precipitated, digested with chondroitin ABC lyase, and analyzed by SDS-PAGE (4-12% polyacrylamide separating gel with 3.5% polyacrylamide stacking gel). Proteins were transferred to nitrocellulose and probed with the anti-GAGß antibody at 0.25 lg/ml. To detect the 70-kDa cleavage fragment of versican, equal amounts of protein were ethanol precipitated and subjected to SDS-PAGE (8% polyacrylamide separating gel with 3.5% polyacrylamide stacking gel) followed by transfer to nitrocellulose. Blots were probed with an anti-DPEAAE antibody (Affinity Bioreagents) at 1 lg/ml. The blot was stripped and re-probed with anti-actin antibody (Sigma) to control for loading. Bands were visualized using enhanced chemiluminescence (Thermo Scientific).
Oxidative stress is the cause of many diseases and at the heart of it is the overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS). There are several protective enzymes, e.g., superoxide dismutases (SOD), able to decrease the level of ROS in the cell; however, a therapeutic use of these enzymes is problematic. Small molecule compounds and complexes able to scavenge free radicals such as superoxide anion radicals could be used instead. These compounds are often called SOD-mimics and various researches are interested in synthesis and study of these compounds. In our study, a series of Cu(II) complexes were synthesized, containing reduced Schiff base ligands prepared from salicylaldehyde and amino acids with longer chain length (5-aminopentanoic acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid, 8-aminooctanoic acid, 11-aminoundecanoic acid, and 12-aminododecanoic acid). Complexes prepared from these ligands are novel and were prepared using three different methods. An assay based on the ability to inhibit reduction of iodonitrotetrazolium dye by superoxide anion radicals was used to determine antiradical activity of the prepared complex. Most of the prepared complexes proved to be good antiradical agents compared to cystamine and the copper(II) complex with Schiff base type ligand N-salicylidene-β-alanine. The best IC50 values of the radical transfer of the prepared compounds were two complexes of N-(2-hydroxybenzyl)-11-aminoundecanoic acid: 97.0 ± 1.9 and 45.1 ± 0.5 μM.
The interactions of fucoidan with human glutamic type plasminogen (Glu-Plg), porcine pancreatic elastase digested plasminogen fractions and two chain tissue plasminogen activator t-PA) were investigated using fucoidan-Sepharose affinity chromatography. The results showed a high degree of affinity between fucoidan-Sepharose and Glu-Plg or PlgK1−3 but not with PlgK4 or mini-Plg. Fucoidan-Sepharose also showed a high affinity for t-PA, which was largely reversed by 0.002 M 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AH). The addition of fucoidan and CNBr-fibrinogen digest (CNBr-Fbg) gave the highest enhancement of thein vitro activation of Glu-Plg by t-PA in the presence of 0.002 M 6-AH. The results of affinity chromatography and enhancement studies suggested a template mechanism, since increasing the concentrations of any one of the two cofactors reversed the enhancement. Enzyme kinetic studies, using double reciprocal plots, showed that the addition of fucoidan-6-AH increased Kcat by 7-fold without affecting Km and addition of CNBr-Fbg lowered Km by 5-fold without significantly affecting Kcat while addition of the two cofactors lowered Km by 16-fold without significantly affecting Kcat. The enhancement by fucoidan-6-AH or by CNBr-Fbg of thein vitro activation of Glu-Plg by t-PA was reversed by plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1). Fucoidan-Sepharose affinity chromatography revealed that the binding of PAI-1 with fucoidan may be responsible for the reversal of the enhancement by fucoidan-6-AH.
The binding of plasminogen to preformed human plasma clots immersed in citrated human plasma was measured and correlated with the sensitivity of these clots to lysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA), recombinant single-chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (rscu-PA) or two chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (tcu-PA, urokinase). When 0.15 ml plasma clots were compressed mechanically to about 1% of their original weight, and immersed in 0.15 ml plasma, 131I-labeled native plasminogen (Glu-plasminogen) adsorbed progressively from the plasma milieu onto the clot; binding was 3 +/- 1% (n = 10) after 1 h, 7 +/- 1% after 12 h and 12 +/- 1% after 48 h. This was associated with an increased sensitivity of the clot to lysis; 50% clot lysis in 4 h was obtained with 65 +/- 5 ng/ml (n = 3) rt-PA before and 30 +/- 5 ng/ml (n = 3) after 48 h preincubation in plasma (p less than 0.01), with corresponding values of 660 +/- 55 ng/ml (n = 3) and 280 +/- 25 ng/ml (n = 3) for rscu-PA, (p less than 0.01), and 800 +/- 85 ng/ml (n = 3) and 270 +/- 35 ng/ml (n = 3) for urokinase (p less than 0.01). Additional binding of plasminogen and increased sensitivity to lysis were reduced or abolished when the clot was preincubated in plasminogen-depleted or in t-PA-depleted plasma, or when 20 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid or 2,000 KIU/ml aprotinin were added.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract Carbocyclic analogs of 3′-deoxyadenosine were synthesized as racemates and the resulting stereoisomers were separated by chromatography on a chiral column. The conjugation of obtained compounds with hexa-( d -arginine) via 6-aminohexanoic acid linker led to a highly potent inhibitor of several basophilic protein kinases with some selectivity towards cAMP-dependent protein kinase.
Localization of the plasminogen binding sites on fibrin has been difficult since these interactions occur on polymerizing fibrin, and studies with fragments can be misleading because of multiple carboxyl-terminal lysines that may bind to plasminogen. A hetero-functional photoaffinity cross-linker was used to study these interactions. Following attachment of the cross-linker to plasminogen in the dark, a clot was formed by addition of fibrinogen or fragment X and thrombin, and then the plasminogen was cross-linked to adjacent parts of fibrin by exposure to light. There was more Glu1-plasminogen bound to fibrin than to fibrinogen and more to fragment X polymer than to fibrin. Electron microscopy of rotary shadowed individual molecules reveals that Glu1-plasminogen appears to be more compact than Lys78-plasminogen or Glu1-plasminogen with 6-aminohexanoic acid. Cross-linked complexes from the dissolved clot observed by electron microscopy reveal plasminogen bound to the end of fibrin or bridging the ends of two fibrin molecules; larger complexes were also observed. Analysis of changes in the appearance of negatively contrasted fibers with plasminogen bound also indicates the probable locations of binding sites, yielding results consistent with the cross-linking studies. The photoaffinity probe was also used to study interactions between plasminogen and fibrin or its derivatives in the course of tissue plasminogen activator-mediated fibrinolysis. Samples cross-linked at various times indicate that complexes with fragment X are particularly dominant during the rapid phase of plasminogen activation. In conclusion, these studies indicate that plasminogen binds to the pocket at the end-to-end junction between two fibrin or fragment X molecules in the protofibril; from this position, it can reach all of the sites that are cleaved during fibrinolysis.
A procedure for the isotachophoretic determination of thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA) in urine after desalination and pH adjustment of analyzed samples was elaborated. The salts present in urine were precipitated by addition of ethanol. TDGA was determined in anionic isotachophoretic mode in 0.01 M HCl as a leading electrolyte containing 0.01 % (2-hydroxyethyl)cellulose at pH 4.0 (adjusted with 6-aminohexanoic acid). 0.01 M acetic acid was used as a terminating electrolyte. The reproducibility of TDGA determination was very good, the relative standard deviation was less than 1.5 % for a concentration of TDGA 90 mg.l-1.
A new affinity column for renin was prepared by coupling the isosteric peptide inhibitor of renin, H.77 (D-His-Pro-Phe-His-LeuR-Leu-Val-Tyr, where R is a reduced isosteric bond, -CH2-NH-), to activated 6-aminohexanoic acid-Sepharose 4B. Chromatography of a crude extract of human kidney cortex on this material resulted in a 5500-fold purification of renin in 76% yield. The purified enzyme (specific activity 871 units/mg) was free of non-specific acid-proteinase activity and was stable at pH 6.8 and -20 degrees C over a period of several weeks.
Pulse radiolysis techniques have been employed to investigate the one-electron reduction of a variety of chloramines and chloramides. These include models for the side-chain of Lys (6-aminohexanoic acid chloramine and α-N-acetyl-Lys chloramine), Gly chloramine, β-alanine chloramine and two models of protein backbone amides, the chloramides of cyclo-(Gly)2 and cyclo-(Ala)2. The molar absorption coefficients and stabilities of these chloramines/amides have been determined. The one-electron reduction of these chloramine/amide species by hydrated electrons occurs with second-order rate constants of the order of 109–1010 M−1 s−1, and results in cleavage of the N–Cl bonds to yield nitrogen-centred radicals and chloride ions (as measured by high performance ion chromatography). The reactivities of the nitrogen-centred radicals have been investigated with the readily ::: oxidisable quenchers, hydroquinone and Trolox. These quenchers were used as models of the in vivo antioxidants, ubiquinol-10 and α-tocopherol, and react with second-order rate constants between 2 × 107 and 1 × 108 M−1 s−1. No evidence was obtained in these pulse radiolysis experiments for a rapid rearrangement of the oxidising nitrogen-centred radicals to reducing carbon-centred radicals, though such reactions have been indicated in previous EPR studies.
An effective and reliable method was developed for the synthesis of protoporphyrin IX-derived amides. The reaction of protoporphyrin IX with an amino acid [ l -leucine, l -valine, l -lysine, l -aspartic acid (Asp), l -glutamic acid (Glu), glycine, or 6-aminohexanoic acid] or a short peptide (Asp-Glu) as an amine counterpart in the presence of O -(benzotriazol-1-yl)- N , N , N ′, N ′-tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate and 1 H -1,2,3-benzotriazol-1-ol gave the desired diamides in excellent yields.
A new affinity column for renin was prepared by coupling the isosteric peptide inhibitor of renin, H.77 (D-His-Pro-Phe-His-LeuLLeu-Val-Tyr, where R is a reduced isosteric bond, -CH2-NH-), to activated 6-aminohexanoic acid-Sepharose 4B. Chromatography of a crude extract of human kidney cortex on this material resulted in a 5500-fold purification of renin in 76% yield. The purified enzyme (specific activity 871 units/mg) was free of non-specific acid-proteinase activity and was stable at pH 6.8 and -200C over a period of several weeks.
Abstract Hexamethylene bisacetamide, a compound which in vitro induces differentiation in a wide variety of human and animal cancer cell lines, is being investigated in phase I clinical trials. After i.v. administration of hexamethylene bisacetamide to humans, urine contained the parent compound and at least five metabolites formed by deacetylation and oxidation pathways. Identification of urinary metabolites was accomplished by gas chromatography-mass spectrometric analysis after isolation by ion exchange chromatography or extraction with ethyl acetate. Metabolites with amino or alcohol groups were trifluoroacetylated and acidic functional groups were esterified with 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol or methanol. The structure of each metabolite was confirmed by comparison with authentic standards. Metabolites identified included the major metabolite, 6-acetamidohexanoic acid; the monodeacetylated product, N -acetyl-1,6-diaminohexane; the bis-deacetylated diamine, 1,6-diaminohexane; and the amino acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid and its lactam, caprolactam.
Six dicarboxylic acids were prepared from pyromellitic dianhydride and ω-amino acids, such as glycine, 4-aminobutyric acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid, 11-aminoundecanoic acid and 12-aminododecanoic acid. Polyesters were prepared from these dicarboxylic acids and 4,4′-biphenyldiol, 2,6-dihydroxynaphthalene, 2,7-dihydroxynaphthalene, methyl-, chloro-and phenylhydroquinone. All polyesters were characterized by elemental analyses, viscosity and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) measurements, and by optical microscopy. Several polyesters were also characterized by wide-angle X-ray scattering (WAXS) powder patterns, by penetration measurements and thermogravimetrical analyses. Those polyesters derived from highly symmetrical diphenols and diols are highly crystalline (>90%) and form a layer structure in the solid state. An amorphous phase was not detectable and the heat distortion temperature corresponds to the melting point. Poly(ester-imide)s derived from less symmetric diphenols are semicrystalline and glass transition temperatures are detectable. However, true liquid-crystalline phases were never found.
Radiolabeled Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) peptide analogs have been extensively studied for αvβ3 integrin-targeted angiogenesis imaging. According to recently presented evidence, the dodecapeptide GE11 has high affinity to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), which is overexpressed in many types of cancer. Dual-receptor molecular imaging probes with two different heterodimeric peptides exhibit improved cancer targeting efficacy. In the present study, the design and synthesis of a new RGD-GE11 peptide heterodimer for dual αvβ3 integrin/EGFR-targeted cancer imaging are described. The RGD-GE11 heterodimer was linked with 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-Ahx) and cysteine and conjugated with 1,4,7-triazacyclononane-N,N',N″-triacetic acid (NOTA) to form NOTA-RGD-cys-6-Ahx-GE11. The monomeric peptides, NOTA-cys-6-Ahx-GE11 and c(RGDyK), were formed by a peptide synthesizer. The peptide heterodimer NOTA-RGD-GE11 was obtained by NOTA-cys-6-Ahx-GE11 and maleimidopropyl-c(RGDyK) conjugation with a thioether linkage. The NOTA peptide conjugate was labeled with freshly eluted (68)Ga and purified using reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. The (68)Ga-NOTA-RGD-cys-6-Ahx-GE11 was successfully prepared, in this study, with a radiochemical yield of 85% and a radiochemical purity of >98%. These results warrant further investigation of this heterodimeric peptide's binding affinity to the receptors.
p-Aminobenzamidine was covalently attached via a spacer moiety to a microparticulate hydrophilic vinyl-polymer gel (Toyopearl HW65S) and this affinity adsorbent was used for the separation of plasmin and plasminogen by high-performance affinity chromatography. Toyopearl HW65S was alkylated with chloroacetylglycylglycine in dimethyl sulphoxide using methylsulphinyl carbanion as a catalyst, then p-aminobenzamidine was coupled to the carboxyl group of glycylglycine to form an acid amide bond. A column packed with the adsorbent retained both plasmin and plasminogen. Plasminogen was eluted with 6-aminohexanoic acid, a haptenic compound for the lysine-binding sites of plasminogen. For the elution of plasmin, the coexistence of 6-aminohexanoic acid and leupeptin (a competitive inhibitor for plasmin) was necessary. The results indicate a two-site interaction of plasmin with the immobilized ligand, i.e., at the lysine-binding sites and the catalytic site. Fluorometric detection of eluted protein and on-line assay of plasmin activity using a fluorogenic substrate, peptidylmethylcoumarylamide, revealed that effective chromatographic separation of the enzyme could be achieved with high sensitivity (10 micrograms) within 1 h.
Partially purified bone inducing factor (I) is prepd. by (1) treating demineralised bone with a chaetropic extracting agent that solubilises non-fibrous proteins. (2) gel filtering the extract to recover proteins of mol. wt. 10,000-30,000. (3) absorbing this fraction on a carboxymethylcellulose ion exchanger (CMC) at pH 4.5 to 5.5. (4) eluting the above fraction from the ion exchanger with a 10 mm to 150 mm aq. sodium chloride gradient in the presence of a non-ionic chaotropic agent. The ion exchanger is not restricted to CMC. The chaotropic extracting agents may be guanidine HCl, urea + salt or sodium dodecylsulphate. The extn. step is preferably carried out in the presence of a protease inhibitor such as phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride, NaN3, N-ethylmaleimide or 6-aminohexanoic acid, to prevent digestion of the protein. The time reqd. is from 4 hr. to 1 day. For the ion exchange resin purification step, the non-ionic chaotropic agent may be 6M urea soln. The final prod. is assayed for activity by in vivo bone induction measurements.
By reaction of accessible 5-(p-tolyl)isoxazole-, and 4,5-dichloroisothiazole-3-carbonyl azides with 4-aminobutanioc and 6-aminohexanoic acids the corresponding substituted (1,2-azolyl)3-carboxamides with amino acid residues were synthesized and transformed in water soluble Na salt forms. For the synthesis of isothiazolyl(isoxazolyl)ureas with amino acid residues the 5-(p-tolyl)isoxazole-, 4,5-dichloroisothiazole- and 5-(benzylthio)-4-chloroisothiazole-3carbonyl azides were converted into corresponding (1,2-azol-3-yl)carbamates by action of phenol or 4-fluorophenol. Obtained carbamates were introduced in reaction with amino acids to form target substituted ureas, further transformed in water soluble salt forms. Some of the synthesized derivatives possess antitumor activity.
There is evidence that, in its receptor-binding conformation, the N and C terminus of LH-RH may be in close proximity and two cyclic analogues of the hormone were synthesized to test the hypothesis. Cyclic [beta-Ala1,D-Ala6,Gly10]- and [6-aminohexanoic acid1,D-Ala6,Gly10]-LH-RH were prepared by treatment of their linear precursor peptides with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in the presence of 1-hydroxybenzotriazole in dilute dimethylformamide solution. Although the linear peptides possessed no detectable LH-releasing activity in ovariectomized rats, the cyclic beta-Ala analogue had 1.2% the activity of LH-RH, whereas the longer chain cyclic 6-aminohexanoic acid analogue had 0.65% activity. These results support the concept of an important interaction between the ends of the LH-RH molecule possibly involving hydrogen-bond formation between the pyrrolidone carbonyl group of pyroglutamic acid and the glycinamide group.
Fourier syntheses have been used to establish the arrangement of organic molecules in the interlamellar regions of a 16.10 A phase of ornithine-vermiculite and a 16.92 A phase of 6-aminohexanoic acid-vermiculite. The organic cations form two layers parallel to the silicate surfaces in ornithine-vermiculite and in 6-aminohexanoic acid-vermiculite the organic cations form ascending and descending “stairs” from the silicate sheets.
Abstract New conjugates of polyfluorinated 1,4-naphthoquinone core with amino acid fragments were synthesized by the reactions of hexafluoro-1,4-naphthoquinone ( 1 ) with ethyl aminoacetate, glycine, 3-aminopropanoic, 4-aminobutanoic, and 6-aminohexanoic acids. In all the cases, the quinone 1 aminodefluorination on the 2-position occurred to give ethyl (3,5,6,7,8-pentafluoro-1,4-dioxo-1,4-dihydronaphthalen-2-yl)aminoacetate ( 2 ), (3,5,6,7,8-pentafluoro-1,4-dioxo-1,4-dihydronaphthalen-2-yl)amino]acetic ( 3 ), 3-[(3,5,6,7,8-pentafluoro-1,4-dioxo-1,4-dihydronaphthalen-2-yl)amino]propanoic ( 4 ), 4-[(3,5,6,7,8-pentafluoro-1,4-dioxo-1,4-dihydronaphthalen-2-yl)amino]butanoic ( 5 ), and 6-[(3,5,6,7,8-pentafluoro-1,4-dioxo-1,4-dihydronaphthalen-2-yl)amino]hexanoic acid ( 6 ), respectively. A possibility to further modify a carboxylic function of ω-[5,6,7,8-tetrafluoro-1,4-naphthoquinon-2-yl]aminocarboxylic acids was demonstrated by transformation of acids 3 and 5 into the corresponding acyl chlorides 10 and 12 followed by their in situ conversion into N,N-diethylamides 13 and 14 or ethyl esters 15 and 16 . Upon the analogous treatment of acid 4 the primary generated acyl chloride 11 underwent an intramolecular N-acylation to yield 2,5,6,7,8-pentafluoro-3-(2-oxopyrrolidin-1-yl)naphthalene-1,4-dione ( 17 ) which was smoothly diethylaminodefluorinated at the 3-position to afford 2-(2-oxopyrrolidin-1-yl)-3-diethylamino-5,6,7,8-tetrafluoronaphthalene-1,4-dione ( 18 ). The cytotoxicity evaluation of twelve new quinones in human myeloma, human mammary adenocarcinoma, human hepatocellular carcinoma HepG2 epithelial tumor cells, normal mouse fibroblasts and Chinese hamster Ag 17 cells as well as their mutagenic and antioxidant properties in a Salmonella tester strain was performed. All the compounds effectively suppressed the growth of three lines of tumor cells. These data together with the better cytotoxic effect against cancer cells compared to normal mammalian cells, the bacterial cells protection against spontaneous and H 2 O 2 -dependent mutagenesis, and lower general toxicity toward different cells, reveal quinones 2 , 13 , 15 , 16 , and 18 as best inhibitors of tumor cells growth among the tested substances.
CERK activity is commonly determined using a radioactivity-based assay [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] based on [γ-32 P]ATP. After extraction of lipids, the amount of radiolabeled ceramide-1-phosphate in the organic phase is determined by directly counting [12] or by TLC followed by autoradiography and quantitation [7, 8] . To avoid the use of radioactivity, we intended to develop a fluorescence-based CERK assay, sensitive enough to be employed for cellular work and whose format would be suitable or could be adapted to search for CERK inhibitors via HTS. Based on previous work, showing that truncated ceramides such as C 2 -ceramide (N-acetyl-sphingenine) and C 6 -ceramide (Nhexanoyl-sphingenine), when presented bound to albumin, are well recognized by human CERK [8, 13] , we tested a fluorescent analogue, namely, N-[7-(4-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole)]-6-aminohexanoyl-sphingenine (NBD-C 6 -ceramide, NBD-C 6 -Cer), in which NBD is coupled to sphingenine via an 6-aminohexanoic acid linker (see Figure 1 ). This lipid was introduced several years ago by Pagano and coworkers for the study of sphingolipid metabolism and shown to be metabolized in a similar way as ceramide, being incorporated into NBD-sphingomyelin and NBDcerebrosides [14] . During these and subsequent studies its phosphorylation, as far as we are aware of, was never detected or described, likely due to the very low activity of CERK compared to the other ceramide utilizing pathways. Also when using ceramides containing a shorter N-acyl chain (truncated ceramides), phosphorylation by intact cells is difficult to reveal, requiring 32 P-uploading of the cells as reported for neutrophils [15, 16] , cerebellar granule cells, [17] and Hela cells [18] . Upon overexpression of CERK, detection of intracellular formed truncated ceramide-1-32 P is facilitated [8, 13] .
Abstract--Fourier syntheses have been used to establish the arrangement of organic molecules in the interlamellar regions of a 16.10 A phase of ornithine-vermiculite and a 16.92 A phase of 6-aminohexanoic acid-vermiculite. The organic cations form two layers parallel to the silicate surfaces in ornithinevermiculite and in 6-aminohexanoic acid-vermiculite the organic cations form ascending and descending "stairs" from the silicate sheets.
Ornithine-vermiculite forms a true single layer polytype but by contrast 6-aminohexanoic acid-vermiculite is two-layered and has a true c axis of 34.09 A. Since a two layered vermiculite was used as a starting material to prepare the organic complexes, exchangeable organic cations affect the stacking sequence of the silicate sheets.
We synthesized N-(4-nitrophenyl)-6-aminohexanamide (AHpNA) and used it as a substrate in a kinetic study of 6-aminohexanoate-hydrolase (NylB), a nylon oligomer-hydrolyzing enzyme. NylBs derived from Arthrobacter sp. KI72 and Pseudomonas sp. NK87 hydrolyzed AHpNA as well as a 6-aminohexanoic acid dimer, a known substrate for NylB. The Km values of the NylB from Arthrobacter sp. KI72 and Pseudomonas sp. NK87 for AHpNA were 0.5 mM and 2.0 mM, respectively.
Because angiogenic endothelial cells of the tumor vasculature represent an interesting target to potentiate the antivascular effect of photodynamic therapy, we recently described the conjugation of a photosensitizer [5-(4-carboxyphenyl)-10,15,20-triphenylchlorin (TPC)], via a spacer [6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx)], to a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-specific heptapeptide [H-Ala-Thr-Trp-Leu-Pro-Pro-Arg-OH (ATWLPPR)] and showed that TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR binds to neuropilin-1. Because peptides often display low stability in biological fluids, we examined the in vivo and in vitro stability of this conjugate by high-performance liquid chromatography and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time of flight mass spectrometry. TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR was stable in vitro in human and mouse plasma for at least 24 h at 37 degrees C but, following i.v. injection in glioma-bearing nude mice, was degraded in vivo to various rates, depending on the organ considered. TPC-Ahx-A was identified as the main metabolic product, and biodistribution studies suggested that its appearance in plasma mainly resulted from the degradation of the peptidic moiety into organs of the reticuloendothelial system. According to in vitro cell culture experiments, TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR was also significantly degraded after incorporation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), mainly into TPC-Ahx-A and to a lesser extent into TPC-Ahx-AT and TPC-Ahx-ATWLPP. TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR mostly localized into lysosomes, and when HUVEC were treated with the lysosomal enzymes' inhibitor ammonium chloride, this resulted in a significant decrease of the peptide degradation. This study provides essential information for the choice of the time of activation of the photosensitizer (drug-light interval) not to be exceeded and for the future design of more stable molecules.
Abstract An assessment study involving the use of the transglutaminase (TGase) conjugation method and the nitride-technetium-99m labelling on a bis(thiosemicarbazone) (BTS) bifunctional chelating agent is presented. The previously described chelator diacetyl-2-(N4-methyl-3-thiosemicarbazone)-3-(N4-amino-3-thiosemicarbazone), H2ATSM/A, has been functionalized with 6-aminohexanoic acid (e-Ahx) to generate the bifunctional chelating agent diacetyl-2-(N4-methyl-3-thiosemicarbazone)-3-[N4-(amino)-(6-aminohexanoic acid)-3-thiosemicarbazone], H2ATSM/A-e-Ahx (1), suitable for conjugation to glutamine (Gln) residues of bioactive molecules via TGase. The feasibility of the TGase reaction in the synthesis of a bioconjugate derivative was investigated using Substance P (SP) as model peptide. Compounds 1 and H2ATSM/A-e-Ahx-SP (2) were labelled with nitride-technetium-99m, obtaining the complexes [99mTc][Tc(N)(ATSM/A-e-Ahx)] (99mTc1) and [99mTc][Tc(N)(ATSM/A-e-Ahx-SP)] (99mTc2). The chemical identity of 99mTc1 and 99mTc2 was confirmed by radio/UV-RP-HPLC combined with ESI-MS analysis on the respective carrier-added products 99g/99mTc1 and 99g/99mTc2. The stability of the radiolabelled complexes after incubation in various environments was investigated. All the results were compared with those obtained for the corresponding 64Cu-analogues, 64Cu1 and 64Cu2. The TGase reaction allows the conjugation of 1 with the peptide, but it is not highly efficient due to instability of the chelator in the required conditions. The SP-conjugated complexes are unstable in mouse and human sera. However, indeed the BTS system can be exploited as nitride-technetium-99m chelator for highly efficient technetium labelling, thus making compound 1 worthy of further investigations for new targeted technetium and copper radiopharmaceuticals encompassing Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography and Positron Emission Tomography imaging.
Abstract In order to further understand the clinical toxicities of hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA) and to allow appropriate in vitro studies, we developed a suitable gas chromatographic assay and quantified plasma concentrations and urinary excretion of four metabolites which we had previously identified in urine of patients receiving 5-day HMBA infusions at 4.8–43.2 g/m 2 /day. 6-Acetamidohexanoic acid (AcHA) was the major plasma metabolite and reached steady state concentration ( C ss ) by 24 h. AcHA C ss increased from 0.12 ± 0.02 (SD) mm at 4.8 g/m 2 /day to 0.72 mm at 43.2 g/m 2 /day. The C ss AcHA: C ss HMBA ratio decreased with increasing HMBA dosage. At dosages below 24 g/m 2 /day plasma C ss of N -acetyl-1,6-diaminohexane (NADAH), the initial metabolite of HMBA, were below the limit of detection of our assay. With HMBA infusions of 24, 33.6, and 43.2 g/m 2 /day, C ss of NADAH were 0.16 ± 0.05, 0.14 ± 0.06, and 0.19 ± 0.04 mm, respectively. C ss NADAH: C ss HMBA ratios at 24, 33.6, and 43.2 g/m 2 /day were 0.18 ± 0.06, 0.08 ± 0.02, and 0.31 ± 0.05, respectively. Plasma C ss of 1,6-diaminohexane and 6-aminohexanoic acid were below the limit of detection of our assay. Each patient9s urinary excretion of NADAH, AcHA, and 1,6-diaminohexane was consistent from day to day. The fraction of dose excreted in urine as AcHA was not affected by HMBA dosage and accounted for 12.7 ± 3.9% of the daily dose. The percentage of daily HMBA dose accounted for by excretion of NADAH decreased with increasing HMBA dosage (10.8 ± 6.0% at 4.8 g/m 2 /day to 4.2 ± 1.2% at 33.6 g/m 2 /day). Urinary excretion of 1,6-diaminohexane always accounted for less than 3% of the daily dose. Our results indicate that: ( a ) plasma concentrations of AcHA alone cannot explain the degree of acidosis observed with toxic doses of HMBA; ( b ) NADAH is present in plasma at concentrations that we have found to cause differentiation in vitro ; and ( c ) the probable rate-limiting step in HMBA metabolism is the initial deacetylation.
Active opioid binding proteins were solubi- lized from rat brain membranes in high yield with sodium deoxycholate in the presence of NaCl. Purification of opioid binding proteins was accomplished by opioid antagonist affinity chromatography. Chromatography using the 6opioid antago- nist N,N-diallyl-Tyr-D-Leu-Gly-Tyr-Leu attached to o-amin- ododecyl-agarose (Affi-G) (procedure A) yielded a partially purified protein that binds selectively the -opioid agonist (3H)Tyr-D-Ser-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr ((3H)DSLET), with a Kd of 19 ? 3 nM and a Bmax of 5.1 ? 0.4 nmol/mg of protein. Subse- quently, Lens culinaris agglutinin-Sepharose 4B chromatogra- phy of the Affi-G eluate resulted in isolation of an electrophoret- ically homogeneous protein of 58 kDa that binds selectively (3H)DSLET with a Kd of 21 ? 3 nM and a Bm. of 16.5 ? 1.0 nmol/mg of protein. Chromatography using the nonselective antagonist 6-aminonaloxone coupled to 6-aminohexanoic acid- Sepharose 4B (Affil-NAL) (procedure B) resulted in isolation of a protein that binds selectively (3H)DSLET with a Kd of 32 ? 2 nM and a Bma of 12.4 ? 0.5 nmol/mg of protein, and NaDodSO4/PAGE revealed a major band of apparent molec- ular mass 58 kDa. Polyclonal antibodies (Anti-R IgG) raised against the Affi-NAL protein inhibit the specffic (3H)DSLET binding to the Affi-NAL eluate and to the solubilized mem- branes. Moreover, the Anti-R IgG inhibits the specific binding of radiolabeled Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-N-methyl-Phe-Gly-ol (DAMGO; ,u-agonist), DSLET (6-agonist), and naloxone to homogenates of rat brain membranes with equal potency. Furthermore, immu- noaffinity chromatography of solubilized membranes resulted in
Abstract Three new hypocrellin derivatives, amino- or amino acid–substituted on the side ring of hypocrellin B (HB), were synthesized by the reactions of HB with 3-methoxypropylamine, 6-aminohexanoic acid and γ-amino-n-butyric acid, respectively. The structures of these compounds were characterized with proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectra, infrared spectra and mass spectra. The UV–visible absorption spectra, singlet oxygen–generating quantum yield and amphiphilicities of hypocrellin derivatives were measured and compared with HB, the parent compound. These derivatives showed strong absorption in the domain of the phototherapeutic window (600–900 nm) and improved amphiphilicity. HB and the derivatives were preliminarily tested for their photodynamic effects on human oral cavity epithelial carcinoma KB cell line in vitro. Two amino acid–substituted hypocrellins showed phototoxicity to the KB cell line. At an inhibitory dosage of 50% killing only 0.51 μmol L−1 compound 3 (or 0.88 μmol L−1 compound 2) and 0.5 J cm−2 irradiation were required. The hypocrellins exhibited some dark toxicity to the KB cell line. HB and amino acid–substituted hypocrellins showed lower dark toxicity to the KB cell line than amino-substituted hypocrellins in the assessment of cell survival.
We have prepared conjugates of pneumococcal type 4 polysaccharides (PS4) or oligosaccharides to tetanus toxoid using the carbodiimide method. The use of a spacer, 6-aminohexanoic acid, resulted in higher incorporation of carrier protein. Conjugates contained up to 10% free polysaccharide, but no free protein. In general, polysaccharide conjugates induced higher anti-PS4 IgG antibody titers than oligosaccharide conjugates. Conjugates with the highest amount of incorporated protein were the most immunogenic. The response to conjugated PS4 does show characteristics of a T cell-dependent antibody response, in terms of both isotype distribution and induction of immunological memory. Repeated immunization with high doses of PS4TT conjugate resulted in a virtually negative anti-PS4 IgG response, suggestive of the induction of high dose tolerance.
As part of a project directed at the synthesis of new potential transdermal penetration enhancers based on the structure of 6-aminohexanoic acid derivatives [1, 3] , the problem of C-N coupling reactions of ethyl-2-bromo-6-(2,5-dioxopyrrolidin-1-yl)hexanoate (2) and several nitrogen-containing saturated rings, including mainly basic heterocycles, ω-lactams and a cyclic imide, was solved. Nitrogen-containing heterocycles are very important targets in the organic chemistry. They are abundant in natural products and in pharmaceutical agents. A number of various compounds containing C-N bond have important biological, pharmaceutical, or material properties [5] [6] [7] .
Because angiogenic endothelial cells of the tumor vasculature represent an interesting target to potentiate the antivascular effect of photodynamic therapy, we recently described the conjugation of a photosensitizer [5-(4-carboxyphenyl)-10,15,20-triphenylchlorin (TPC)], via a spacer [6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx)], to a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-specific heptapeptide [H-AlaThr-Trp-Leu-Pro-Pro-Arg-OH (ATWLPPR)] and showed that TPCAhx-ATWLPPR binds to neuropilin-1. Because peptides often display low stability in biological fluids, we examined the in vivo and in vitro stability of this conjugate by high-performance liquid chromatography and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time of flight mass spectrometry. TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR was stable in vitro in human and mouse plasma for at least 24 h at 37°C but, following i.v. injection in glioma-bearing nude mice, was degraded in vivo to various rates, depending on the organ considered. TPCAhx-A was identified as the main metabolic product, and biodistribution studies suggested that its appearance in plasma mainly resulted from the degradation of the peptidic moiety into organs of the reticuloendothelial system. According to in vitro cell culture experiments, TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR was also significantly degraded after incorporation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), mainly into TPC-Ahx-A and to a lesser extent into TPCAhx-AT and TPC-Ahx-ATWLPP. TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR mostly localized into lysosomes, and when HUVEC were treated with the lysosomal enzymes' inhibitor ammonium chloride, this resulted in a significant decrease of the peptide degradation. This study provides essential information for the choice of the time of activation of the photosensitizer (drug-light interval) not to be exceeded and for the future design of more stable molecules.
All three antisera were stripped of endogenous iodothyronines before use by multiple (>8) passes through a column of Amberlite CG 400 ion-exchange resin (1 ml/ml of serum). Pooled normal human serum used as an additive in binding studies was also stripped in this way. Preparation ofhuman thyroglobulin Three samples of thyroid tissue were obtained 24-36h post mortem from one hyperthyroid (TgC) and two euthyroid (TgR and TgE) individuals and frozen at -300C until use. The tissue was thawed, finely chopped and extracted for 2h with phosphate buffer (0.05 mol/litre), pH 7.4, containing 6-aminohexanoic acid (0.05 mol/litre) (3 ml/g of tissue). The extract was centrifuged at 300 g for 15 min and the clear red supernatant chromatographed in 5 ml portions on a column (2.5 cm x 38 cm) of Sepharose-6B. The Tg peak was located by a radioimmunoassay for thyroxine, which also detects Tg, and coincided with a u.v. (280 nm)-absorbing peak. Those fractions within the peak with protein concentrations >70% of that found at the centre were pooled, concentrated by pressure dialysis and stored frozen at -300C until required. The thyroglobulin yields obtained were: TgC, 17.2mg from 1.36g of tissue; TgR, 167.8mg from 5.57g of tissue; and TgE, 41.4mg from 1.72g of tissue. On 5% (w/v)-polyacrylamide-disc-gel electrophoresis at pH 8.6 (Ornstein, 1965; Davis, 1965) , each Tg preparation showed two closely spaced bands staining approximately equally with Amido Schwarz, with no evidence for faster-or slower-running components.
: Human α-calcitonin gene-related peptide (h-α-CGRP) is a highly potent vasodilator peptide that belongs to the family of calcitonin peptides. There are two forms of CGRP receptors in humans and rodents: α-CGRP receptor predominately found in the cardiovascular system and β-CGRP receptor predominating in the gastrointestinal tract. The CGRP receptors are primarily localized to C and Aδ sensory fibers, where they are involved in nociceptive transmission and migraine pathophysiology. These fibers are found both peripherally and centrally, with extensive perivascular location. The CGRP receptors belong to the class B G-protein-coupled receptors, and they are primarily associated to signaling via Gα proteins. The objectives of the present work were: (i) synthesis of three single-labelled fluorescent analogues of h-α-CGRP by 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (Fmoc)-based solid-phase peptide synthesis, and (ii) testing of their biological activity in isolated human, mouse, and rat arteries by using a small-vessel myograph setup. The three analogues were labelled with 5(6)-carboxyfluorescein via the spacer 6-aminohexanoic acid at the chain of Lys24 or Lys35. Circular dichroism (CD) experiments were performed to obtain information on the secondary structure of these fluorescently labelled peptides. The CD spectra indicated that the folding of all three analogues was similar to that of native α-CGRP. The three fluorescent analogues of α-CGRP were successfully prepared with a purity of >95%. In comparison to α-CGRP, the three analogues exhibited similar efficacy, but different potency in producing a vasodilator effect. The analogue labelled at the N-terminus proved to be the most readily synthesized, but it was found to possess the lowest vasodilator potency. The analogues labelled at Lys35 or Lys24 exhibited an acceptable reduction in potency (i.e., 3–5 times and 5–10 times less potent, respectively), and thus they have potential for use in further investigations of receptor internalization and neuronal reuptake.
The involvement of the strictly conserved tryptophan-25 (W 25 ) residue in the structural stability and ω-amino acid ligand binding properties of the recombinant (r) kringle 2 (K2) domain of tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) has been investigated. Two conservative mutants were constructed and expressed that contained W 25 →F and W 25 →Y substitutions. The binding (dissociation) constants (K d ) for three ligands, viz., 6-aminohexanoic acid (EACA), 7-aminoheptanoic acid(7-AHpA), and L-lysine (Lys), to these polypeptides were determined by intrinsic fluorescence titrations. In the case of r-[K2 tPA /W 25 F], the K d values for these ligands were found to be 37, 16, and 89 μM for EACA, 7-AHpA, and Lys, respectively
Abstract Circular polarization of luminescence spectra of human plasminogen and of its derivatives were measured in solutions of ligand-free proteins and with saturating amounts of 6-aminohexanoic acid. Spectroscopic changes induced by the ligand reveal similar perturbations of the binding sites in all the protein derivatives. It is concluded that the gross conformational change induced by 6-aminohexanoic acid binding to the native plasminogen involves changes of sterical relations of entire protein domains.
Sixty-one strains of alkane-oxidizing bacteria were tested for their ability to oxidize N-(2-hexylamino-4-phenylimidazol-1-yl)-acetamide to imidazol-2-yl amino acids applicable for pharmaceutical purposes. After growth with n-alkane, 15 strains formed different imidazol-2-yl amino acids identified by chemical structure analysis (mass and nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry). High yields of imidazol-2-yl amino acids were produced by the strains Gordonia rubropertincta SBUG 105, Gordonia terrae SBUG 253, Nocardia asteroides SBUG 175, Rhodococcus erythropolis SBUG 251, and Rhodococcus erythropolis SBUG 254. Biotransformation occurred via oxidation of the alkyl side chain and produced 1-acetylamino-4-phenylimidazol-2-yl-6-aminohexanoic acid and the butanoic acid derivative. In addition, the acetylamino group of these products and of the substrate was transformed to an amino group. The product pattern as well as the transformation pathway of N-(2-hexylamino-4-phenylimidazol-1-yl)-acetamide differed in the various strains used.
Sixty-one strains of alkane-oxidizing bacteria were tested for their ability to oxidize N-(2-hexylamino-4-phenylimidazol-1-yl)-acetamide to imidazol-2-yl amino acids applicable for pharmaceutical purposes. After growth with n-alkane, 15 strains formed different imidazol-2-yl amino acids identified by chemical structure analysis (mass and nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry). High yields of imidazol-2-yl amino acids were produced by the strains Gordonia rubropertincta SBUG 105, Gordonia terrae SBUG 253, Nocardia asteroides SBUG 175, Rhodococcus erythropolis SBUG 251, and Rhodococcus erythropolis SBUG 254. Biotransformation occurred via oxidation of the alkyl side chain and produced 1-acetylamino-4-phenylimidazol-2-yl-6-aminohexanoic acid and the butanoic acid derivative. In addition, the acetylamino group of these products and of the substrate was transformed to an amino group. The product pattern as well as the transformation pathway of N-(2-hexylamino-4-phenylimidazol-1-yl)-acetamide differed in the various strains used.
Abstract Recent findings have indicated that certain hydroxyl groups of peptides have enhanced intrinsic chemical reactivity and can be O-acylated by N -hydroxysuccinimide esters of biotin. Analytical procedures are described for the identification of O-acylated derivatives of seryl, threonyl, and tyrosyl residues after reaction with the N -hydroxysuccinimide ester of biotin containing the extended spacer arm 6-aminohexanoic acid. The identification and chemical characterization of O-biotinylated residues included amino acid analysis, peptide sequence determination, and mass spectrometric analysis. The application of these analytical procedures provided unequivocal identification of O-biotinylated residues for a number of peptides investigated. In a separate study, we also show that O-biotinylated amino-terminal seryl residues occurring after proteolysis of peptides or proteins can rapidly undergo an O → N acyl shift resulting in blockage of sequence analysis by the Edman degradation procedure.
Abstract By chymotryptic fragmentation of plasminogen or partially reduced and S-carboxymethylated plasmin A-chain it is possible to obtain peptides in the molecular weight region of less than 10 000, which still seems to have an intact lysine-binding site. These peptides have been purified by chromatography on lysine·Sepharose and Sephadex G-75. Amino acid analysis indicates that they originate from the NH2-terminal part of the plasmin A-chain. The interaction between plasminogen and fibrin is studied by affinity chromatography on insolubilized fibrin or fibrinogen using gradient elution with 6-aminohexanoic acid. “Glu-plasminogen”, “Lys-plasminogen” and plasmin A-chain were all eluted in two peaks, very similar to the results obtained on lysine·Sepharose. All chymotryptic fragments obtained from plasminogen which had affinity for lysine·Sepharose were also completely adsorbed to fibrin·Sepharose, while the peptides with no affinity for lysine·Sepharose neither were adsorbed to fibrin·Sepharose. Thus it is concluded that the lysine binding site in plasminogen is responsible for its interaction with fibrin.
A kaolinite–nylon 6 intercalation compound was prepared by the polymerization of 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA) in the interlayer space of kaolinite. The intercalation of AHA was achieved by a guest displacement reaction using a kaolinite–methanol intercalation compound as an intermediate. After AHA dissolved in a mixed solvent of methanol and water (1 : 3) was added to a kaolinite–methanol intercalation compound, the mixture was stirred for 3 h. The basal spacing of the product increased to 1.23 nm, indicating the intercalation of AHA molecules with a monolayer arrangement between the layers of kaolinite. AHA was polymerized by a heat treatment at 250 °C for 1 h under a nitrogen flow. Although the basal spacing of the heat-treated product slightly decreased to 1.16 nm, the spacing was larger than those of kaolinite and the kaolinite–methanol intermediate. The formation of a kaolinite-nylon 6 intercalation compound was confirmed by the appearance of IR bands due to amide I (1637 cm−1) and amide II (1550 cm−1).
Objective: To observe the effect of treatment of endotoxemia using 6-Aminohexanoic Acid(EACA). Methods: Experiment 1: Ten rabbits were firstly given the intravenous injection of bacterial endotoxin, whose chief ingredient is lipopolysaccharide (LPS), to trigger the febrile reaction of endotoxin, then, they were divided into two groups randomly. The intravenous injection of EACA was given in the treatment group and the control group was treated with the muscular injection of promethazine hydrochloride and intravenous injection of dexamethasone. Experiment 2: We 9 rabbits divided into three groups, each group was anaesthetized, intubated in the carotid, and the mean artery pressure (MAP)was collected using the MedLab biological signal collection and process system. After the slow intravenous injection of LPS to the three groups, the combination treatment of promethazine hydrochloride and dexamethasone, the treatment of EACA, and the intravenous injection of physiological saline solution of the same volume as EACA were applied, to the different group. Results: In the first experiment, both methods can treat the febrile reaction of transfusion. In the control group, the time for controlling the state of illness is 3004±3.13 min, and in the treatment group, the time (only 2.36±1.12 min), is much shorter than that of the control group (P 0.001). In the second experiment, two groups of drug can prevent from the decreasing effect of bloodpressuse caused by LP.S. Druo action was responsed quickly in EACA groop. The significance of clifference could be observed after treatment in 10 and 30 min(P0.05).Drug action was started slowly in Dethamethaxone group. The effect of drug was obviously improved with time putting off. Conclusion: EACA is a better drug to be selected in the treatment of acute poisoning causedby LP.S.
The effects of hypotensive agents (captopril, enalaprilate, and lisinopril) on the activities of components of the fibrinolytic system (FS) and the effects of antifibrinolytic agents (6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) and tranexamic acid (t-AMCHA)) on the activities of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) were studied in vitro. Enalaprilate did not affect the FS activity. Captopril considerably inhibited the amidase activities of urokinase (u-PA), plasminogen tissue activator (t-PA), and plasmin ([I]50 (2.0-2.6) +/- 0.1 mM), and the activation of Glu-plasminogen affected by t-PA and u-PA ([I]50 (1.50-1.80) +/- 0.06 mM), which may be due to the presence of a mercapto group in the inhibitor molecule. Lisinopril did not affect the amidase activities of FS enzymes, but stimulated Glu-plasminogen and u-PA activation and inhibited activation of t-PA-fibrin-bound Glu-plasminogen ([I]50 (12.0 +/- 0.5) mM). Presumably, these effects can be explained by the presence in lisinopril of a Lys side residue, whose binding to lysine-binding Glu-plasminogen centers resulted, on the one hand, in the transformation of its closed conformation to a semi-open one and, on the other hand, in its desorption from fibrin. Unspecific inhibition of the activity of ACE, a key enzyme of the renin-angiotensin system, in the presence of 6-AHA and t-AMCHA ([I]50 10.0 +/- 0.5 and 7.5 +/- 0.4 mM, respectively) was found. A decrease in the ACE activity along with the growth of the fibrin monomer concentration was revealed. The data demonstrate that, along with endogenous mediated interactions, relations based on the direct interactions of exogenous inhibitors of one system affecting the activities of components of another system can take place.
We have investigated the agglomeration behaviour of two types of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWNTs; N-MWNTs and D-MWNTs), which have different chemical functionalities, average diameter, varying extent of agglomeration and agglomerations. The properties were altered by varying the agglomerated structure. The strength of the MWNT agglomerates was estimated via nanoindentation. The work done to indent D-MWNT agglomerates (3910.3 × 10(-8) erg) was higher than for N-MWNTs agglomerates (2316.4 × 10(-8) erg). An organic modifier, the Li salt of 6-aminohexanoic acid (Li-AHA), was used to deagglomerate the MWNTs in an aqueous medium. The stability of the aqueous dispersion of Li-AHA-modified MWNTs was analyzed by UV-vis spectroscopy and zeta potential measurements. An increase in Li-AHA concentration increased the dispersion of MWNTs in the aqueous medium. Furthermore, the mechanism of dispersion of the two types of MWNTs in the aqueous medium in the presence of Li-AHA was determined based on the electrostatic charge repulsion between the negatively charged species. A fluorescence-activated cell sorting technique was used to assess the debundling of MWNT agglomerates in the aqueous medium. We examined the morphology-property relationship in Li-AHA-modified MWNTs.
AIM ::: Anchoring folic acid (FA) with a biomimetic peptidic linker resistant to proteolytic degradation to act as a homing device on functionalized carbon nanotubes. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS & METHODS ::: Ethylenediamine was attached to oxidized multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWNTs) using 4-(4,6-dimethoxy-[1,3,5]triazin-2-yl)-4-methylmorpholinium tetrafluoroborate. FA was coupled with 6-aminohexanoic acid and derivatives of β-alanine, affording four intermediates, which connected to the MWNTs via peptidic linkers of various lengths. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Biomimetic nanomaterials were produced with FA as a homing molecule. The structure and properties of the nanomaterials were analyzed, confirming the versatility of the peptides used as linkers. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Conjugates of FA attached to MWNTs via peptide linkers prepared from β-alanine residues are resistant to proteolytic degradation. Viability in colon cancer cells and normal colonocytes confirmed their lack of cytotoxicity.
Abstract Fronds of the fern nardoo ( Marsilea drummondii ) contain a thiaminase I enzyme at very high levels of activity. Highest levels of enzyme activity were found in vigorously growing plant material. The thiaminase I has been purified to a final sp act value of 2.07 μkat/mg protein at 30° and pH 6.5. It was shown to have similar properties to thiaminase I enzymes purified from bracken fern, rock fern and freshwater mussels. These enzymes have MW values in the range 93 000–115 000, energies of activation of 14 000 cal mol, pH optima of 8–9 and are quite stable in the pH range 3 to 12 and to extended incubation at 55°. The temperature for 50 % denaturation is 60–65°. p -CMB, mersalyl acid and HgCl 2 (10 t-6 M) are potent inhibitors, but monoiodacetic acid (10 −4 M) has no effect. A wide range of heterocyclic bases, sulphydryl compounds, and amines, including the non-aromatic amines 6-aminohexanoic acid and ethanolamine, act as co-substrates in the thiaminase I reaction; however, their effectiveness is dependent on both their degrees of basicity and to some extent, their stereochemistry. When the co-substrate activity of a range of substituted anilines were compared, no correlation was found between the degree to which the base activates the reaction and the p K b (or Hammett's sigma constant) of the base.
Comparative antimicrobial properties of three artificial cationic synthetic antimicrobial peptides (SAMP): (RAhaR)4AhaβA (where R is Arg, Aha is 6-aminohexanoic acid, βA is beta-alanine), (KFF)3K and R9F2 with various amphiphilic properties have been studied relative to pathogenic strains of microorganisms: Gram-negative bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, and Salmonella enterica, Gram-positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus, and pathogenic yeast fungus Candida albicans. The selectivity index (SI) values of the peptide preparations were calculated as the ratio of the 50% cytotoxic concentration (TC50) towards eukaryotic host cells to the MIC50 values of the testing antimicrobial peptides. The studied SAMPs appeared to be the most active against the pathogenic yeast fungus C. albicans and the bacterial strains St. aureus and P. aeruginosa. The SI values in these cases exceed 40. Some assumed molecular interactions of the studied SAMPs on the microbial cells have been considered, and possible pathways to increase their antimicrobial activity have been suggested. The proposed SAMPs can serve as a basis for the design and synthesis of new promising synthetic antimicrobial agents.
Abstract The goal of this study is to design new 99m Tc-radiolabelled shortened CCK derivatives that might be suitable for the molecular imaging of cholecystokinin-2 receptors (CCK2-R), these receptors being over-expressed in a number of neuroendocrine tumors such as medullary thyroid cancer and small-cell lung cancer. For this purpose, we designed several modified CCK4 analogs bearing an ON 2 S tetradentate chelating agent at the N -terminus, the CCK4 sequence representing the minimal peptide sequence that presents nanomolar affinity and activity towards the CCK2-R. Four peptide conjugates of general formula (Trt)SN 2 OPh–( X ) n –CCK4 ( X = β -alanine or 6-aminohexanoic acid spacers; n = 0, 2, 4) and their oxorhenium peptide conjugates have been synthesized and characterized. In vitro evaluation of these compounds showed a close relationship between the nature and the length of the spacer and the corresponding binding affinity values. The most promising oxorhenium complex 5 - Re exhibited potent CCK2-receptor agonist properties in promoting the production of inositol phosphate in COS-7 cells (EC 50 = 5.17 nM). Preliminary 99m Tc-radiolabelling studies with peptide conjugates 3 or 5 led exclusively to the corresponding 99m TcO-complexes 3 - Tc and 5 - Tc , which exhibited high resistance towards an excess of cysteine and satisfactory stabilities in human serum. To conclude, the promising in vitro characteristics of compounds 5 - Re , 5 - Tc illustrate the feasibility to develop stable radiolabelled shortened CCK4 derivatives with a nanomolar CCK2-R affinity.
Chemical modification of human degraded form of plasminogen with NH2-terminal lysine (Lys-plasminogen) and the elastase fragments kringle 1 + 2 + 3 and kringle 4 with the tryptophan reagent [14C]dimethyl(2-hydroxy-5-nitrobenzyl)sulfonium bromide results in the incorporation of label and the parallel loss of lysine binding ability. In the case of kringle 4, only one-half of the lysine binding sites could be inactivated, but the modified and unmodified forms could be separated by affinity chromatography. The modified form contained 1 mol of 2-hydroxy-5-nitrobenzyl groups/mol of kringle 4 and did not bind to lysine-Sepharose. Lysine analogs such as 6-aminohexanoic acid protected kringle 4 against modification. Peptide-mapping studies on this form showed that essentially all of the label was in two chymotryptic peptides containing a tryptophan corresponding to Trp426 in the plasminogen sequence. Competition experiments with anti-kringle 4 antibodies having an affinity for the lysine binding site showed that the binding of 2-hydroxy-5-nitrobenzyl-kringle 4 to antibodies was about 10 times weaker than for unmodified kringle 4. These results indicate that the integrity of specific tryptophan residue is critical to the binding of lysine and related amino acids to kringle 4of human plasminogen.
The 1H-NMR spectrum of the kringle 1 domain of human plasminogen complexed with 6-aminohexanoic acid, an antifibrinolytic drug, has been assigned. Elements of secondary structure have been identified on the basis of sequential, medium and long-range dipolar interactions, back-bone amide spin-spin couplings (3JHN-H alpha) and 1H-2H exchange rates. The kringle contains scarcely any repetitive secondary structure: eight reverse turns and two short beta-sheets. These comprise 40% and 12% of the domain, respectively. No alpha-helix was found. An aromatic cluster formed by His31, Phe36, Trp62, Phe64, Tyr72 and Tyr74 is indicated by several inter-residue Overhauser connectivities. Contacts between the methyl groups of Leu46 and the side chains of Phe36, Trp62 and Trp25 are observed. A second hydrophobic cluster formed by Tyr9, Ile77 and Leu78 is also indicated. A comparison of secondary structure elements among plasminogen kringles 1 and 4 and tissue-type plasminogen activator kringle 2 suggests that there is variability in the position and number of reverse turns on going from one kringle to another; however, the beta-sheets are conserved among the homologs.
Arginine-rich cell penetrating peptides are powerful tools for in vitro as well as in vivo delivery of a wide plethora of biomolecules. However, presence of consecutive arginine residues leads to enhanced amenability for proteolytic degradation as well as steric hindrances for membrane interactions which compromise its bioavailability. In order to overcome these limitations we previously reported a safe and stable octaarginine based oligomer, i.e., (r-x-r)4-carbamate, where the backbone amide linkages were replaced by carbamate linkages and 6-aminohexanoic acid based spacer moieties were incorporated for better flexibility, hydrophobicity, optimal spacing of guanidinium groups, and protection against proteolytic cleavage; resulting in improved transfection efficiency over its amide counterpart. In the present work we have investigated the mechanism behind this enhanced transfection efficiency and, based on our observations, demonstrate how the synergistic effect of rationalized oligomer designing, complex...
The conformation of Lp(a) was probed with a set of ω-aminocarboxylic acids and other analogs of 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA). Using the viscosity-corrected sedimentation coefficient, six additional ligands were shown to induce a major conformational change in Lp(a), from a compact form to an extended form. These were trans-4-(aminomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylic acid (t-AMCHA), proline, 4-aminobutyric acid, 8-aminooctanoic acid, Nα-acetyllysine, and glycine. Lysine, Ne-acetyllysine, glutamic acid, and adipic acid were determined not to cause a conformational change. Urea and guanidine hydrochloride were ineffective at inducing this conformational change at concentrations at which the above ligands did unfold Lp(a). The conformational change was inhibited by 100 mM NaCl and to a lesser extent by 20 mM sodium glutamate. Despite the fact that these two salts have nearly the same ionic strengths, the greater inhibition of the unfolding by NaCl is consistent with a proposed stabilization of interkringle interacti...
1. 3,4,5,6-Tetrahydro-2H-azepine is an intermediate in the enzyme-catalyzed conversion of 1,6-diaminohexane to 6-aminohexanoic acid and its corresponding lactam, caprolactam, by mammalian liver aldehyde oxidase. 2. Identification of metabolites was based on analysis by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and confirmed by comparison with the properties of authentic standards. 3. The results indicate that the cell differentiating agent hexamethylene bisacetamide is converted into 1,6-diaminohexane, and its metabolism therefore involves diamine oxidase. 4. The metabolic fate of 1,6-diaminohexane is similar to that of putrescine and cadaverine in that a cyclic imine is an intermediate in the formation of metabolites with ring (lactam) and chain (amino acid) structures.
Abstract We have previously demonstrated a number of metabolites of hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA) in the urine of patients treated with HMBA. These include N-acetyl-1,6-diaminohexane (NADAH), 6-acetamido-hexanoic acid (6AcHA), 1,6-diaminohexane (DAH) and 6-aminohexanoic acid (6AmHA). Because these compounds have potential roles in the dose-limiting metabolic acidosis and neurotoxicity associated with HMBA therapy, and are similar in structure to known substrates of monoamine oxidase (MAO) and diamine oxidase (DAO), we investigated the activities of these enzymes in the metabolic interconversions of HMBA metabolites. NADAH (5 mM) was incubated with MAO and aldehyde dehydrogenase. 6 AcHA production was verified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and quantified by gas chromatography. 6AcHA production was linear for up to 4 hr. Complete inhibition of MAO activity was observed with 2 m M tranyl-cypromine or pargyline. Mouse liver microsomes, which do not contain MAO, did not convert NADAH to 6AcHA and, in control experiments, did not degrade 6 AcHA. The HMBA metabolite, DAH, was a substrate for DAO, producing 3,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2H-azepine. Participation of DAO in the metabolism of HMBA implies potential interaction of HMBA and metabolites with polyamine metabolism and may represent a mechanism for HMBA's effects on cellular growth and differentiation. Metabolism of NADAH, also a differentiator, by MAO implies that concurrent use of HMBA and an MAO inhibitor may be clinically useful.
Abstract Because histidine-rich glycoprotein binds to the kringle 1-3 domain of plasminogen, it may affect fibrinolysis by reducing fibrin-dependent plasmin production, and in this way it could be mechanistically analogous to 6-aminohexanoic acid. We tested this hypothesis by comparing the effects of histidine-rich glycoprotein and 6-aminohexanoic acid in an in vitro assay of fibrin-dependent plasmin production mediated by tissue plasminogen activator. Whereas 1 mM of 6-aminohexanoic acid increased the Km of the reaction from ∼0.22 μM to ∼1.7 μM, 2 μM of histidine-rich glycoprotein had no discernible effect. Similar results were obtained in an assay based upon fibrin clot lysis. Therefore, we could not document an effect of histidine-rich glycoprotein on the rate of fibrin-dependent plasmin production.
A new, sensitive LC–MS method for evaluation of the purity of Transkarbam 12 (T12), a novel and highly effective accelerant of transdermal penetration, has been developed and validated. T12 and its impurities (6-aminohexanoic acid, AH, e-caprolactam, CA, and dodecyl 6-(6-aminohexanamido)hexanoate, DAH) were characterized by MS and MS–MS analysis. Separation was achieved on a 150 mm × 3 mm, 5-μm particle, phenyl–hexyl column. The mobile phase was a gradient prepared from water, formic acid, and acetonitrile. The method was validated within the concentration range 50–250 ng mL−1; correlation coefficients were >0.998. The accuracy of the method was from 98.6–105.0% for AH, 102.6–104.8% for CA, and 97.9–100.9% for DAH. Precision was in the range 3.19–4.42% for AH, 3.22–5.81% for CA, and 4.8–8.78% for DAH. The selectivity of the method and sample stability were also confirmed. The practical applicability of the method was proven by analysis of T12 bulk substance.
Abstract The strength of the interaction of trypsin with immobilized p -aminobenzamidine derivatives was studied by affinity electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel in Trisdiethylbarbituric acid buffer (pH 8). p -Aminobenzamidine was coupled to two kinds of soluble macromolecular carrier: (i) periodate-oxidized Dextran T-500 and (ii) a synthetic copolymer of N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide and 4-nitrophenyl esters of 6-(methacroyl)aminohexanoic acid. The enzyme inhibitor was attached to the periodate oxidized dextran either directly or through glycine, 6-aminohexanoic acid or 12-aminododecanoic acid spacer. The strength of the interaction of trypsin with immobilized p -aminobenzamidine did not depend on the type of macromolecular carrier that the ligand was bound to but it did depend on the length of the spacer arm. The dissociation constants of the trypsin-immobilized p -aminobenzamidine complexes decreased with increasing length of the spacer arm.
A number of naturally occurring small organic molecules, primarily involved in maintaining osmotic pressure in the cell, display chaperone-like activity, stabilizing the native conformation of proteins and protecting them from various kinds of stress. Most of them are sugars, polyols, amino acids or methylamines. In addition to their intrinsic protein-stabilizing activity, these small organic stress molecules regulate the activity of some molecular chaperones, and may stabilize the folded state of proteins involved in unfolding or in misfolding diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, or alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency and cystic fibrosis, respectively. Similar to molecular chaperones, most of these compounds have no substrate specificity, but some specifically stabilize certain proteins, e.g., 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA) stabilizes apolipoprotein A. In the present work, the capacity of 6-aminohexanoic acid to stabilize non-specifically other proteins is demonstrated. Both trehalose and AHA significantly protect glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) against glycation-induced inactivation, and renatured enzyme already inactivated by glycation and by guanidinium hydrochloride (GuHCl). To the best of our knowledge, there are no data on the effect of these compounds on protein glycation. The correlation between the recovery of enzyme activity and structural changes indicated by fluorescence spectroscopy and Western blotting contribute to better understanding of the protein stabilization mechanism.
The characteristics of plasminogen activation by glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored urokinase were evaluated and compared with those reported previously for receptor-bound urokinase. When expressed in cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells, GPI anchoring of single-chain urokinase plasminogen activator (scu-PA) potentiated plasmin generation as compared with GPI-anchored scu-PA that had been released into solution from the cell surface by enzymatic cleavage of the GPI anchor ("released" scu-PA). The potentiation of plasmin generation by GPI-anchored scu-PA was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by 6-aminohexanoic acid, a lysine analog, suggesting that the augmentation of plasmin generation by GPI-anchored scu-PA was dependent on simultaneous binding of plasminogen to the cell surface. GPI-anchored two-chain urokinase (tcu)-PA cleaved a peptide substrate at a rate equivalent to that of released urokinase. However, at a plasminogen concentration of 0.5 microM, GPI-anchored tcu-PA activated plasminogen less rapidly than did released urokinase. Modeling of kinetics of individual reactions revealed that cell-associated plasminogen activation by GPI-anchored tcu-PA was characterized by a Km of approximately 0.15 microM. This value of Km was 70-fold below that for activation of solution plasminogen by GPI-anchored urokinase. There was a concomitant decrease in Vmax for plasminogen activation by anchored tcu-PA. These alterations in kinetic parameters are similar to those reported previously for the activation of plasminogen by receptor-bound tcu-PA. In addition, GPI-anchored tcu-PA exhibited a modest resistance to plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 inactivation. The enzymatic characteristics of GPI-anchored urokinase reported here resemble closely those reported previously for receptor-bound urokinase. These data suggest that the urokinase receptor may regulate plasmin generation through a relatively nonspecific localization of urokinase to the cell surface rather than through any intrinsic property of the urokinase receptor.
The conformation of a permeation enhancer, given their mechanism of action, could influence its enhancing properties, since the stratum corneum components form essentially a chiral environment. The racemate and both enantiomers of 6-aminohexanoic acid 2-octylester as model enhancers with one chiral center were synthesized and their ability to enhance in vitro theophylline permeation through human skin was tested. The MTMT concept could not be applied in this study (the melting points of the substances were lower than 20oC) and we observed no significant difference in enhancement ratios (ERs) of racemic 6-aminohexanoic acid 2-octylester and that of each enantiomer. However, differences in permeation rates between enantiomers and their racemates do not have to be related to stereoselective interactions, since they may also be explained by differences in physicochemical properties. The study also showed that there was no difference in the permeation enhancement ability between the (R)-(–) and (S)-(+) isomers of 6-aminohexanoic acid 2-octylester (the ERs were 2.72±0.42 and 2.79±0.60 for (R) and (S) enantiomers, respectively), suggesting that the enhancing properties of the compounds are not dependent on their spatial arrangement. Although stereoselective interactions between an enhancer and stratum corneum components may exist, they seem not to be important for the enhancer action.
Surface biotinylation. Hippocampal slices isolated from control and postseizure rats were labeled with 100 M biotin (Biotinamidohexanoyl-6-aminohexanoic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester; Sigma) in standard physiological solution on ice for 60 min. The reaction was quenched by washing the slices with 1 M glycine in standard physiological solution for 10 min on ice. The CA1 region was isolated and subsequently homogenized in RIPA buffer (150 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, 0.5% deoxycholic acid, 0.1% SDS, 50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 8.0) with a protease inhibitor mixture (Complete Mini EDTA free protease inhibitor mixture; Roche), and the biotinylated proteins were purified on immobilized streptavidin agarose (Sigma) and eluted in SDS-PAGE sample buffer at 75°C for 10 min. The eluent from the streptavidin column (biotinylated proteins) and the supernatant (unlabeled internal proteins) were separated on an 8% acrylamide gel, and the immunoblot analysis was performed as described above. For the surface analyses after induction of seizure-like activity in vitro, pairs of slice samples were processed in par-allel. First, the effect of seizure-like activity on KCC2 surface expression was analyzed and then the effect of K252a on this was assessed in separate experiments (i.e., control vs kainate and kainate vs kainate plus K252a). To compare the three experimental groups, the KCC2 immunoreactivity was normalized to the signal in the samples from the kainate group.
The protective effect of scFv/uPA-T was tested in a mouse model of lung ischemia-reperfusion. Thirty minutes prior to causing ischemiareperfusion, 75 g scFv/uPA-T or scFv/uPA or the same volume of PBS was injected intravenously. Unilateral left lung ischemia-reperfusion was created using a protocol previously described in detail. 8, 9 Briefly, after performing a thoracotomy in ventilated anesthetized mice, the hilum of the left lung was cross-clamped for 120 minutes followed by 150 minutes of reperfusion, while being ventilated with 95% O 2 . Five minutes prior to killing, 400 U heparin was injected intravenously to prevent postmortem clotting and the left lobe of the lung was excised. Sham-operated mice underwent the same procedure except that clamping of the hilum was omitted. Lung specimens were weighed and homogenized in PBS (pH 7.2) containing protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma), aprotinin (30 KIU/mL), heparin 15 U/mL, and 100 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid (EACA). Aliquots of tissue homogenates were prepared for analysis. Lung fibrin was extracted from one aliquot, detected by Western blot using fibrin ␤-chain-specific antibody 350 (American Diagnostica), as described previously. 29 Total lung proteins were extracted with 1% SDS and 1% Triton X-100 and subjected to Western blot using anti-␤-actin polyclonal antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA). Lung fibrin was quantified by densitometric analysis and normalized to ␤-actin. Antithrombotic effect was calculated by comparing lung fibrin deposition in the PA-treated and PBS-treated groups. Oxygen tension in the arterial blood was measured as previously described using I-Stat (Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL). 22
Abstract We have prepared conjugates of pneumococcal type 4 polysaccharides (PS4) or oligosaccharides to tetanus toxoid using the carbodiimide method. The use of a spacer, 6-aminohexanoic acid, resulted in higher incorporation of carrier protein. Conjugates contained up to 10% free polysaccharide, but no free protein. In general, polysaccharide conjugates induced higher anti-PS4 IgG antibody titers than oligosaccharide conjugates. Conjugates with the highest amount of incorporated protein were the most immunogenic. The response to conjugated PS4 does show characteristics of a T cell-dependent antibody response, in terms of both isotype distribution and induction of immunological memory. Repeated immunization with high doses of PS4TT conjugate resulted in a virtually negative anti-PS4 IgG response, suggestive of the induction of high dose tolerance.
Experimental and clinical data suggest that tissue factor (TF), the major initiator of blood coagulation cascade, as well as proteases and components of the fibrinolytic system are involved in tumor growth at least in some solid tumors via effects on angiogenesis. Whereas the pro- and anti-angiogenic effects of the plasminogen/plasmin system and plasminogen kringle domains, respectively, are well characterized, the pathways responsible for the pro-angiogenic properties of TF remain poorly understood. To learn more about the biological significance of the recently described binding of plasminogen to the extracellular domain of TF, we examined the effects of soluble TF (sTF) on angiostatin-inhibited proliferation of endothelial cells. In solid phase binding assays, we found that sTF binds specifically to plasminogen, to the plasminogen kringle domains K1-3, K1-5, K4, as well as to mini-plasminogen. Inhibition of binding of plasminogen and its kringle domains to sTF by the lysine analog 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA) suggests that lysine-binding sites are involved in plasminogen interaction with TF. Moreover, in the presence of sTF, the inhibitory effect of K1-5 on bFGF-mediated HUVEC proliferation was dose-dependently and saturably abolished. This suggests that TF can interfere with the antagonistic effect of K1-5 on endothelial cell proliferation. In contrast, sTF by itself had no effect on the endothelial cell proliferation. Whereas the interference of TF with K1-5-mediated effect was prevented by AHA, this lysine analog did not abolish the proliferation inhibition of K1-5. In conclusion, the binding of sTF to the plasminogen fragment K1-5 seems to antagonize the anti-angiogenic effects of this plasminogen fragment.
This paper describes the synthesis and charac- terization of aromatic diimide-diacids (DIDAS) obtained by reacting pyromellitic dianhydride (PMDA), 4,4 0 -oxo diphthalic anhydride (ODA), 1,4,5,8-naphthalene tetra carboxylic dianhydride (NTDA) with excess of 4-amino- butyric acid (B) or 6-aminohexanoic acid (H) using N,N- dimethyl formamide (DMF) as solvent. The synthesized compounds were used as curing agents to investigate the effect of structure on the curing and thermal behaviour of diglycidyl ether of bisphenol-A (DGEBA). Structural characterization of DIDAS was done by using FTIR, 1 H-NMR, 13 C-NMR spectroscopy and elemental analysis. Curing behaviour of DGEBA in the presence of aromatic DIDAS was investigated by differential scanning calo- rimetry (DSC). The peak exotherm temperature (TP) was low in the case of DIDAS synthesized from ODA and high in the case of DIDAS synthesized from NTDA. Thermal stability of the isothermally cured DGEBA with DIDAS was investigated using dynamic thermogravimetry in nitrogen atmosphere. The char yield was highest for resin cured with DIDAS containing NTDA.
Abstract Mark-Houwink-Sakurada relations for random copolymers from para -aminobenzoic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid were determined in N , N -dimethylacetamide, dichloroacetic acid and trifluoroacetic acid. Unperturbed chain dimensions, solvent-polymer interaction parameters and conformational parameter, δ, were obtained by using the Stockmayer-Fixman equation. The unperturbed dimensions were also calculated by using a semi-empirical relation of Krigbaum; they compare favourably with values calculated through the use of (S-F) equation. The results show that the unperturbed dimensions are dependent on the solvent nature.
Abstract The homogeneous dispersion of carbon nanotubes (CNT) remains a hindrance in exploiting the exceptional properties associated with CNT in polymer/CNT composites. Here we present for the first time the key role of sodium salt of 6-aminohexanoic acid (Na-AHA) in assisting debundling the multiwall carbon nanotubes (MWNT) through specific interactions leading to homogeneous dispersion within polyamide6 (PA6) matrix during melt-mixing. The composite fabricated via this route exhibits low electrical percolation threshold of 0.5 wt% at room temperature, the lowest reported value in this system so far. FTIR and Raman spectroscopy reveal the existence of ‘cation–π’ interaction between Na-AHA and MWNT. The phenomenon of reactive coupling between amine functionality of Na-AHA and acid end group of PA6 during melt-mixing is also established.
Flavobacterium sp. K172, which is able to grow on 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer as the sole source of carbon and nitrogen, and plasmid control of the responsible enzymes, 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase and 6-aminohexanoic acid linear oligomer hydrolase, were studied. The wild strain of K172 harbors three kinds of plasmid, pOAD1 (26.2 megadaltons), pOAD2 (28.8 megadaltons), and pOAD3 (37.2 megadaltons). The wild strain K172 was readily cured of its ability to grow on the cyclic dimer by mitomycin C, and the cyclic dimer hydrolase could not be detected either as catalytic activity or by antibody precipitation. No reversion of the cured strains was detected. pOAD2 was not detected in every cured strain tested but was restored in a transformant. The transformant recovered both of the enzyme activities, and the cyclic dimer hydrolase of the transformant was immunologically identical with that of the wild strain. All of the strains tested, including the wild, cured, and transformant ones, possessed identical pOAD3 irrespective of the metabolizing activity. Some of the cured strains possessed pOAD1 identical with the wild strain, but the others harbored plasmids with partially altered structures which were likely to be derived from pOAD1 by genetic rearrangements such as deletion, insertion, or substitution. These results suggested that the genes of the enzymes were borne on pOAD2.
Abstract A new procedure has been devised for the rapid isolation of yeast hexokinase isoenzymes PI and PII, giving specific activities comparable to those obtained after conventional purification. Hexokinases were bound to d -glucosamine, which had been coupled to CH Sepharose 4B using 6-aminohexanoic acid as a spacer. An ATP/ d -glucose/MgCl 2 solution was used for elution. After concentration with DEAE-Sephacel, isoenzymes were separated by chromatofocusing. Hexokinase PI gave a single band on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, whereas one minor foreign band was seen for hexokinase PII.
NorFES (DAIPN1SIPKGY, N1 = norleucine) is an undecapeptide that contains a recognition sequence and cleavage site for the serine protease elastase. When NorFES is doubly labeled with a variety of fluorophores on opposite sides of this amino acid sequence, the fluorescence is quenched due to formation of intramolecular ground-state dimers. Although the spectral characteristics of these dimers are predictable by exciton theory, influence of the peptide backbone on H-dimer formation is less well understood. Specifically, factors that modify the attractive forces between and orientation of dyes are not well-characterized. Thus, by varying the dye linker moieties, we have sought to evaluate the thermodynamic parameters for intramolecular H-type dye−dye association and the structures of these dimers. We now present data from a series of homodoubly labeled NorFES derivatives that differ by the addition of one or two 6-aminohexanoic acids to the peptide backbone. By comparing absorption and fluorescence propertie...
Insulinomas are rare endocrine tumors. Detection of insulinoma is still very difficult using standard diagnostic techniques. Surgery can be performed only if this small tumor is well localized. The sensitivity of somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (SRS) is only 40-60% due to relatively low incidence of somatostatin subtype receptor sstr2 and sstr5 expression in insulinomas [1] . Importantly, in insulinomas the glucagon like peptide-1 receptors (GLP-1R) are expressed with high incidence and high density, twice that of sstr2 [2, 3] . The natural agonist of GLP-1R is a 30 amino acid hormone that is rapidly degraded by dipeptidyl peptidase IV [4] . The more stable agonists are Exendin-4 and Exendin-3. Consequently, GLP-1 receptor-avid radioligands have been developed and evaluated [5] [6] [7] [8] . In particular, the preclinical animal studies have shown the ability of [Lys 40 (Ahx [6-aminohexanoic acid]-DTPA-
The synthetic sequence GPRGQOGVNleGFO, with norleucine replacing methionine in VWFIII to avoid oxidation, has a similar affinity for DDR1 [32] and the A3 domain of VWF, and a higher affinity for DDR2 [33] . We therefore produced synthetic peptides containing this binding motif, flanked with 5 GPP triplets and with a 6-aminohexanoic acid linker on the N-terminus. This peptide is referred to as VWFIII Nle in this study. We then end-stapled three VWFIII Nle peptide strands to stabilise their subsequent triplehelical conformation. Many attempts to covalently link THP strands have been reported, through cysteine knots [34] or peptide elongation from di-lysine [35] but in our hands, these strategies gave poor results. Instead, we used a method described by Khew et al., where three peptide strands on solid support are covalently linked at their N-terminus using a short diglutamate-containing peptide (a tri-acid), generating a THP with an increased thermal stability and with a one-residue stagger between chains, as well as a single free N-terminus for derivatisation [36, 37] .
An adsorbent for high-performance affinity chromatography of trypsins was prepared, based on a micro-particulate polyvinyl alcohol gel for high-performance liquid chromatography, Asahipak GS-gel. After the hydroxyl groups had been activated with 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole, 6-aminohexanoic acid was coupled as a spacer, then p-aminobenzamidine, a specific ligand for trypsin-family enzymes, was immobilized on the spacer. Fluorometric detection of eluted protein and on-line assay of enzyme activity using a fluorogenic substrate, peptidylmethylcoumarylamide, made it possible to attain very high sensitivity. Microgram amounts of bovine trypsin and Streptomyces griseus trypsin could easily be analyzed in a short time (less than 1 h).
Abstract The bonding of 11-aminoundecanoic (11-AA), 8-amino octanoic and 6-aminohexanoic acids as representatives of Zwitterionic ion-pairing agents, was determined on C18 column in the pH range 3–8. The break through curve of 11-AA has shown minimum in the vicinity of the isoelectric point. In the same pH range the chromatographic behaviour of fluoroquinolone gyrase inhibitor derivatives was studied in 0.002 M 11-AA containing methanol-phosphate buffer (1:1) eluent. The retention of the fluoroquinolones has shown a maximum close to the pH of the isoelectric points. As explanation the adsorption of the neutral form is suggested by the authors. The reverse chromatographic behaviour of 1 1-AA and the fluoroquinolone lomefloxacin harmonizes well with the results of pH dependent species distribution.
The nylon oligomer (6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer) degradation genes on plasmid pOAD2 of Flavobacterium sp. KI72 were cloned into Escherichia coli vector pBR322. The locus of one of the genes, the structural gene of 6-aminohexanoic acid linear oligomer hydrolase, was determined by constructing various deletion plasmids and inserting the lacUV5 promoter fragment of E. coli into the deletion plasmid. Two kinds of repeated sequences (RS-I and RS-II) were detected on pOAD2 by DNA-DNA hybridization experiments. These repeated sequences appeared five times (RS-I) or twice (RS-II) on pOAD2. One of the RS-II regions and the structural gene of the hydrolase overlapped. Images
We immobilized many classes of pyrimidine compounds on the carrier Sepharose® 4B via alkyl spacers by constructing various spacers using cyanogen bromide activation of the carrier. A crude enzyme solution of Escherichia coli with cytosine- and 5-fluorocytosine-deaminating activity was studied by adsorption and desorption chromatography with columns of the sixty-eight kinds of gels we made. Gels made with the following five ligands were effective. 2-Mercapto-pyrimidine or 2-thiobarbituric acid, when coupled with 1,6-diaminohexane and then with the activated carrier, was suitable. So was 2-amino-4,6-dihydroxypyrimidine or 5-aminouracil, when linked by carbodiimide coupling to a carrier coupled with 6-aminohexanoic acid. Orotic acid, when linked in the same way with a carrier coupled with 1,4-diaminobutane, was also effective.
The energies of combustion of crystalline L-α-glutamic and 6-aminohexanoic acids were measured in a static bomb adiabatic calorimeter, in pure oxygen at 3040 kPa. Corrections were made for the heats due to the ignition of sample and for the nitric acid formation. The derived enthalpies of formation for L-α -glutamic and 6-aminohexanoic acids are Δf H cr 0= -1002.6±1.1 kJ mol-1and Δf H cr 0= -641.6±1.2 kJ mol-1, respectively. The data of enthalpy of formation are compared with literature values and with estimated values by means of group additivity, using parameters recommended by Domalski and Hearing.
Some physico-chemical properties, the digestion by human plasmin and the activation by urokinase of human plasminogen were studied. ::: ::: NH2-terminal glutamic acid plasminogen had an estimated molecular weight of 93 300 ± 1000 and a sedimentation coefficient s°20,w of 5.72 ± 0.16. The molecular weight of NH2-terminal lysine plasminogen was 89 100 ± 1400 while the sedimentation coefficient was only 4.52 ± 0.17. These data confirm the conformational differences between these two types of plasminogen. ::: ::: NH2-terminal lysine plasminogen was more susceptible to be activated by urokinase than NH2-terminal glutamic acid plasminogen. Under the present experimental conditions maximal proteolytic activity was respectively generated by 200 and 2000 units urokinase per 0.45 mg plasminogen. Activation with 20 units urokinase per 0.45 mg plasminogen initially proceeded linearly for NH2-terminal lysine plasminogen, while for NH2-terminal glutamic acid plasminogen a lag period was initially observed. ::: ::: Following limited proteolysis by human plasmin or in the presence of 10−3 M 6-aminohexanoic acid, the activation of NH2-terminal glutamic acid plasminogen was indistinguishable from that of NH2-terminal lysine plasminogen. At this concentration of 6-aminohexanoic acid the digestion rate of NH2-terminal glutamic acid plasminogen by human plasmin was also accelerated. ::: ::: Because incomplete removal of 6-aminohexanoic acid or limited proteolytic digestion markedly influence the activation rate, these results may explain, at least in part, the disparate specific activities of purified plasminogen preparations reported in the literature.
Abstract Gastrin-releasing peptide receptors (GRPr) and prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) are two identifying biomarkers expressed in very high numbers on prostate cancer cells and could serve as a useful tool for molecular targeting and diagnosis of disease via positron-emission tomography (PET). The aim of this study was to produce the multipurpose, bivalent [DUPA-6-Ahx-( 64 Cu-NODAGA)-5-Ava-BBN(7-14)NH 2 ] radioligand for prostate cancer imaging, where DUPA = (2-[3-(1,3-dicarboxypropyl)-ureido]pentanedioic acid), a small-molecule, PSMA-targeting probe, 6Ahx = 6-aminohexanoic acid, 5-Ava = 5-aminovaleric acid, NODAGA = [2-(4,7-biscarboxymethyl)-1,4,7-(triazonan-1-yl)pentanedioic acid] (a derivative of NOTA (1,4,7-triazacyclononane-1,4,7-triacetic acid)), and BBN(7-14)NH 2 = bombesin, a GRPr-specific peptide targeting probe. Methods The PSMA/GRPr dual targeting ligand precursor [DUPA-6-Ahx-K-5-Ava-BBN(7-14)NH 2 ], was synthesized by solid-phase and manual peptide synthesis, after which NODAGA was added via manual conjugation to the e-amine of lysine (K). The new bivalent GRPr/PSMA targeting vector was purified by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC), characterized by electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS), and metallated with 64 CuCl 2 and nat CuCl 2 . The receptor binding affinity was evaluated in human, prostate, PC-3 (GRPr-positive) and LNCaP (PSMA-positive) cells and the tumor-targeting efficacy determined in severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) and athymic nude mice bearing PC-3 and LNCaP tumors. Whole-body maximum intensity microPET/CT images of PC-3/LNCaP tumor-bearing mice were obtained 18 h post-injection (p.i.). Results Competitive binding assays in PC-3 and LNCaP cells indicated high receptor binding affinity for the [DUPA-6-Ahx-( nat Cu-NODAGA)-5-Ava-BBN(7-14)NH 2 ] conjugate. MicroPET scintigraphy in PC-3/LNCaP tumor-bearing mice indicated that xenografted tumors were visible at 18 h p.i. with collateral, background radiation also being observed in non-target tissue. Conclusions DUPA-6-Ahx-( 64 Cu-NODAGA)-5-Ava-BBN(7-14)NH 2 ] targeting vector, as described herein, is the first example of a dual GRPr-/PSMA-targeting radioligand for molecular of imaging prostate tumors. Detailed in vitro studies and microPET molecular imaging investigations of [DUPA-6-Ahx-( 64 Cu-NODAGA)-5-Ava-BBN(7-14)NH 2 in tumor-bearing mice indicate that further studies are necessary to optimize uptake and retention of tracer in GRPr- and PSMA-positive tissues.
This study demonstrates an enhancing effect of aspirin on the amidolytic activity of plasmin. The stimulation of plasmin by aspirin was concentration-dependent and was attained at aspirin concentrations above 2 x 10(-4) M. Aspirin produced a small, reproducible and statistically significant stimulation of the chromogenic activity of plasmin upon H-D-Valyl-L-Leucyl-L-Lysine-p-nitroanilide (S-2251) or pyro-Glu-Gly-Arg-p-nitroanilide (S-2444). Kinetic analysis demonstrated a slight decrease in the affinity of plasmin for substrate S-2251 in the presence of aspirin, reflected by a change of the Km from 3.2 x 10(-4) M to 3.8 x 10(-4) M, and an increase of the Vm. The reciprocal Lineweaver-Burk curve indicated an uncompetitive type of stimulation. The stimulatory effect of aspirin was abolished by the lysine analogue 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA) but not by the alpha-amino acid glutamic acid. The effect of AHA suggests a specific involvement of lysine binding sites (LBS) on plasmin in the interaction of the enzyme with aspirin. Transient acidification of plasmin abolished its response to aspirin, to AHA and to their combination. The addition of aspirin to diluted human control or pregnancy plasma in vitro stimulated the plasma-mediated cleavage of the chromogenic substrate S-2251. In contrast to its effect on plasmin, aspirin failed to change the activity of tissue-type or urokinase-type plasminogen activators. It is conceivable that in addition to the antithrombotic effect of aspirin ascribed to its interaction with the platelets, aspirin also directly stimulates plasmin activity.
Cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs), containing arginine (R), 6-aminohexanoic acid (X), and/or β-alanine (B) conjugated to phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMOs), enhance their delivery in cell culture. In this study, the potency, functional biodistribution, and toxicity of these conjugates were evaluated in vivo, in EGFP-654 transgenic mice that ubiquitously express the aberrantly spliced EGFP-654 pre-mRNA reporter. Correct splicing and enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) upregulation serve as a positive readout for peptide-PMO (PPMO) entry into cells and access to EGFP-654 pre-mRNA in the nucleus. Intraperitoneal injections of a series of PPMOs, A-N (12 mg/kg), administered once a day for four successive days resulted in splicing correction in numerous tissues. PPMO-B was highly potent in the heart, diaphragm, and quadriceps, which are key muscles in the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. We therefore investigated PPMO M23D-B, designed to force skipping of stop-codon containing dystrophin exon 23, in an mdx mouse model of the disease. Systemic delivery of M23D-B yielded persistent exon 23 skipping, yielding high and sustained dystrophin protein expression in body-wide muscles, including cardiac muscle, without detectable toxicity. The rescued dystrophin reduced serum creatinine kinase to near-wild-type levels, indicating improvement in muscle integrity. This is the first report of oligonucleotide-mediated exon skipping and dystrophin protein induction in the heart of treated animals.
The Fenvalerate hapten,N-[2-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-methylbutyry]-4-aminobutyric acid,was covalently conjugated to carrier protein to synthesize artificial antigen and coating antigen. The proper artificial antigen was used as immunogen to immune New Zealand rabbits to prepare antiserum,from which the polyclonal antibodies with high affinity to Fenvalerate was separated by the method of salting out and purified by column chromatography. Another hapten,N-[2-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-methylbutyry]-6-aminohexanoic acid was conjugated to horseradish peroxidase to prepare enzyme tagged hapten(HRP-hapten) using active ester method. The direct competitive enzyme linked immunosorbent assay was developed by the mode of purified antibodies immobilized on microplate,Fenvalerate and HRP-hapten competitively combined to the immobilized antibodies. Under the optimized conditions,the linear concentrations ranged from 0.001 to 10 mg/L and the detection limit was 0.001 mg/L with relative standard deviation (RSD) of 9.2% for the determination of Fenvalerate standard. The recoveries were 83.8%-109% and 93.6%-110% with the RSD of 11.7% and 7.3% at the spiked levels of 0.10 and 5.0 mg/kg in Brassica chinensis,respectively,the effective detection limit was 0.007 mg/L for the real sample. Other common used pyrethroid pesticides Cypermethrin,Deltamethrin,Lambdacyhalothrin,Ethofenprox and Bifenthrin have no interference with the analysis of Fenvalerate.
Cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs), containing arginine (R), 6-aminohexanoic acid (X), and/or β-alanine (B) conjugated to phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMOs), enhance their delivery in cell culture. In this study, the potency, functional biodistribution, and toxicity of these conjugates were evaluated in vivo, in EGFP-654 transgenic mice that ubiquitously express the aberrantly spliced EGFP-654 pre-mRNA reporter. Correct splicing and enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) upregulation serve as a positive readout for peptide-PMO (PPMO) entry into cells and access to EGFP-654 pre-mRNA in the nucleus. Intraperitoneal injections of a series of PPMOs, A-N (12 mg/kg), administered once a day for four successive days resulted in splicing correction in numerous tissues. PPMO-B was highly potent in the heart, diaphragm, and quadriceps, which are key muscles in the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. We therefore investigated PPMO M23D-B, designed to force skipping of stop-codon containing dystrophin exon 23, in an mdx mouse model of the disease. Systemic delivery of M23D-B yielded persistent exon 23 skipping, yielding high and sustained dystrophin protein expression in body-wide muscles, including cardiac muscle, without detectable toxicity. The rescued dystrophin reduced serum creatinine kinase to near-wild-type levels, indicating improvement in muscle integrity. This is the first report of oligonucleotide-mediated exon skipping and dystrophin protein induction in the heart of treated animals.
The plasminogen binding with streptokinase decapeptides, modeling the primary structure of molecule, and chymotryptic fragments of streptokinase have been investigated. The immunoenzymatic assay has shown that plasminogen binds to all streptokinase fragments with the decreasing affinity in the set of fragments: 36 > 30 > 17 > 7 > 11 kDa. Location of the binding sites in streptokinase primary structure was performed using the immobilized decapeptides on plastic pins adopted to IEA. In the presence of 10 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid 11 sites for human Glu- and mini-plasminogens, pig and bovine plasminogens binding have been found. They were of the same location for human, bovine and pig plasminogens. 3 sites were located in plasminogen alpha-domain--T43-A72, N113-T126, Q133-V158, 5 sites in beta-domain--T163-L188, A203-S222, Q239-I264, Y275-L294, T315-L340, and 3 sites in gamma-domain--T361-R362, N377-E392, T397-N410. Participation of linear part of streptokinase polypeptide chain in plasminogen--streptokinase complex formation is suggested.
We synthesized a novel cationic dendrimer consisting of a poly(amidoamine) dendrimer (PAMAM, generation 4) backbone with both L-arginine (Arg) at the termini and 6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx) between the original core polymer and the peripheral Arg units. The sequential chemical modification of PAMAM G4 with Ahx and Arg resulted in higher transfection efficiency with much less cytotoxicity. PAMAM G4-Ahx-Arg formed stable polyplexes at weight ratios of 8:1 or higher (polymer: plasmid DNA), and the mean polyplex diameter was . PAMAM G4-Ahx-Arg showed much higher transfection ability than PAMAM G4 or PAMAM G4-Ahx. Furthermore, PAMAM G4-Ahx-Arg was much less cytotoxic than PEI25KD and PAMAM G4-Arg. In addition to Arg grafting of the PAMAM dendrimer, which endows a higher transfection capability, the addition of Ahx spacer increased dendrimer hydrophobicity, introduced flexibility into the conjugated amino acids, and reduced cytotoxicity. Overall, it appears that the concomitant modification of PAMAM with Ahx and Arg could lead to new PAMAM conjugates with better performances.
Sequence analysis of eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), a ribonuclease of broad antimicrobial activity, allowed identification of residues 1–45 as the antimicrobial domain. We have further dissected ECP(1–45) with a view to defining the minimal requirements for antimicrobial activity. Structure-based downsizing has focused on both α-helices of ECP(1–45) and yielded analogues with substantial potency against Gram-negative and -positive strains. Analogues ECP(8–36) and ECP(6–17)-Ahx-(23–36) (Ahx, 6-aminohexanoic acid) involve 36% and 40% size reduction relative to (1–45), respectively, and display a remarkably ECP-like antimicrobial profile. Both retain segments required for self-aggregation and lipolysaccharide binding, as well as the bacterial agglutination ability of parent ECP. Analogue (6–17)-Ahx-(23–36), in particular, is shown by NMR to preserve the helical traits of the native 8–16 (α1) and 33–36 (α2) regions and can be proposed as the minimal structure capable of reproducing the activity of the ent...
Five peptide renin inhibitors containing the sequence: Phe-His-Sta-epsilon Ahx (Sta = 4(S)-amino-3(S)-hydroxy-6-methylheptanoic acid, epsilon Ahx = 6-aminohexanoic acid) were synthesized and their potency was assayed in vitro by a spectrofluorometric method (assay of Leu-Val-Tyr-Ser released from N-acetyltetradecapeptide substrate by renin in the presence of an inhibitor). Their stability was tested by assay of Phe and Pro-Phe released after incubation with chymotrypsin. The most potent inhibitor was Boc-Phe-His-Sta-epsilon Ahx-OMe (IC50 = 5 x 10(-9) M/l), the most stable--Boc-Pro-Phe-His-Sta-epsilon Ahx-OMe (resistant to incubation with chymotrypsin for 4 h).
Bovine spleen cathepsin B1 and collagenolytic cathepsin were separated by chromatography on Amberlite IRC-50 and collagenolytic cathepsin was partially purified by chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex (A-50). 2. Collagenolytic cathepsin degraded insoluble tendon collagen maximally at pH 3.5 and 28 degrees C; mainly alpha-chain components were released into solution. At 28 degrees C the telopeptides in soluble skin collagen were also cleaved to yield alpha-chain components. Collagenolytic cathepsin was thus similar to cathepsin B1 in its action against native collagen, but mixtures of these two enzymes exhibited a synergistic effect. 3. The addition of thiol-blocking compounds produced similar inhibition of collagenolytic cathepsin and cathepsin B1. The enzyme responded similarly to all other compounds tested except to 6-aminohexanoic acid, when collagenolytic cathepsin was slightly activated and cathepsin B1 was almost unaffected. 4. Leupeptin, which is a structural analogue of arginine-containing synthetic substrates, inhibited collagenolytic cathepsin as effectively as cathepsin B1. Collagenolytic cathepsin was shown to retain a low residual activity against alpha-N-benzoyl-DL-arginine p-nitroanilide during purification which was equivalent to 0.2% of the activity of cathepsin B1. 5. Cathepsin B1 and collagenolytic cathepsin could not be separated by affinity chromatography on organomercurial-Sepharose 4B. The two enzymes could be resolved on DEAE-Sephadex (A-50) and by isoelectric focusing in an Ampholine pH gradient. The pI of the major cathepsin B1 isoenzyme was 4.9 and the pI of collagenolytic cathepsin was 6.4. 6. From chromatography on Sephadex G-75 (superfine grade) the molecular weights were calculated to be 26000 for cathepsin B1 and 20000 for collagenolytic cathepsin. The difference in molecular weight was confirmed by sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis.
Abstract Two chimeric peptides, consisting of the linear vasopressin receptor V 1 antagonist PhAc-D-Tyr(Me)-Phe-Gln-Asn-Arg-Pro-Arg-Tyr, in the N-terminus and mastoparan in the C-terminus connected directly (M375) or via 6-aminohexanoic acid (M391), have been synthesised. At 10 μM concentration, these novel peptides increased insulin secretion from isolated rat pancreatic islet cells 18–26-fold at 3.3 mM glucose and 3.5–5-fold at 16.7 mM glucose. PTX pretreatment of the islets decreased the peptide-induced insulin release. M375 and M391 bind to V 1a vasopressin receptors with affinities lower than the unmodified vasopressin antagonist, but with K D values of 3.76 nM and 9.02 nM, respectively, both chimeras are high affinity ligands. The GTPase activity and GTPγS binding in the presence of these peptides has been characterised in Rin m5F cells. Comparison of the influence of the peptides M375 and M391 on GTPase activity in native and pertussis toxin-treated cells suggests a selective activation of Gα i /Gα o subunits, combined with a suppression of other GTPases, primarily Gα s . However, the GTPγS binding data show that the peptides retain some of the activating property even in PTX-treated cell membranes. In conclusion, the conjugation of mastoparan with the V 1a receptor antagonists produce peptides with properties different from the parent peptides that could be used to elucidate the role of different G proteins in insulin release.
Guanidine hydrochioride (GuHCI), 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethyl-ammonio]-l-propane sulfonate (CHAPS), diaminobenzidine (DAB) hydrochloride, type II, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), benzamidine hydrochloride, 6-aminohexanoic acid, and Protein A-Sepharose 4B beads were obtained from Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO). Na35[SO4] (carrier free) was obtained from ICN (Chemical and Radioisotope Division, Irvine, CA). Chondroitinase ABC and heparifinase were from Miles Scientific Div. (Naperville, IL), and chromatographic resins were from Pharmacia Fine Chemicals (Piscataway, N J).
The synthesis of diazo and perfluorophenyl azide (PFPA) functionalized glutaraldehydes 7 and 13a-d as new cross-linking reagents for bioconjugation and potential fixatives for electron microscopy is reported. A key step is the generation of the 1,5-dialdehyde structures by oxidative cleavage of the corresponding cyclopentene epoxide using HIO4 in aqueous tetrahydrofuran. A model reaction between 3-substituted glutaraldehyde 14 and 6-aminohexanoic acid resulted in the formation of pyridinium ion containing products with UV spectra comparable to those observed with glutaraldehyde itself. Thus modification of glutaraldehyde in the 3-position most probably did not significantly change its reactivity with amines under chemical-fixation conditions. Fixation of red blood cells by 7 demonstrates that as a fixative, 7 is comparable to glutaraldehyde.
For many heterogeneous sensor applications as well as the synthesis of hapten antigens to produce antibodies, protein conjugates of the target substance are essential. A requirement is that the target substance already offers or is modified to contain a functionality that allows for coupling to a protein, that is, an amino acid residue. Ideally, to avoid shielding of the compound by the carrier protein, a sufficient distance to the protein surface should be provided. With its carboxyl function diclofenac (DCF) allows for direct binding to lysine residues after in situ synthesis of the NHS ester. One problem is that diclofenac as free acid tends to autocondensation, which results in low yields. Here we describe the ‘insertion’ of a C6 spacer via synthesis of the amide with 6-aminohexanoic acid. To carry out the reaction in solution, first the methyl ester of the amino acid had to be produced. Due to otherwise low yields and large cleaning efforts, solid-phase synthesis on Fmoc Ahx Wang resin is recommended. The crude product is mainly contaminated by cleavage products from the resin which were removed by chromatography. The structure of the highly pure hapten was completely determined by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy.
ABSTRACT Peptide phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PPMOs) are synthetic DNA mimics that bind cRNA and inhibit bacterial gene expression. The PPMO (RFF) 3 RXB-AcpP (where R is arginine, F, phenylalanine, X is 6-aminohexanoic acid, B is β-alanine, and AcpP is acyl carrier protein) is complementary to 11 bases of the essential gene acpP (which encodes acyl carrier protein). The MIC of (RFF) 3 RXB-AcpP was 2.5 μM (14 μg/ml) in Escherichia coli W3110. The rate of spontaneous resistance of E. coli to (RFF) 3 RXB-AcpP was 4 × 10 −7 mutations/cell division. A spontaneous (RFF) 3 RXB-AcpP-resistant mutant (PR200.1) was isolated. The MIC of (RFF) 3 RXB-AcpP was 40 μM (224 μg/ml) for PR200.1. The MICs of standard antibiotics for PR200.1 and W3110 were identical. The sequence of acpP was identical in PR200.1 and W3110. PR200.1 was also resistant to other PPMOs conjugated to (RFF) 3 RXB or peptides with a similar composition or pattern of cationic and nonpolar residues. Genomic sequencing of PR200.1 identified a mutation in sbmA , which encodes an active transport protein. In separate experiments, a (RFF) 3 RXB-AcpP-resistant isolate (RR3) was selected from a transposome library, and the insertion was mapped to sbmA . Genetic complementation of PR200.1 or RR3 with sbmA restored susceptibility to (RFF) 3 RXB-AcpP. Deletion of sbmA caused resistance to (RFF) 3 RXB-AcpP. We conclude that resistance to (RFF) 3 RXB-AcpP was linked to the peptide and not the phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer, dependent on the composition or repeating pattern of amino acids, and caused by mutations in sbmA . The data further suggest that (RFF) 3 R-XB PPMOs may be transported across the plasma membrane by SbmA.
1. Two different gels have been prepared suitable for the separation of a number of enzymes, in particular NAD+-dependent dehydrogenases, by affinity chromatography. For both the matrix used was Sepharose 4B. For preparation (a), NAD+–Sepharose, 6-aminohexanoic acid has been coupled to the gel by the cyanogen bromide method and then NAD+ was attached by using dicyclohexylcarbodi-imide; for preparation (b), AMP–Sepharose, N6-(6-aminohexyl)-AMP has been coupled directly to cyanogen bromide-activated gel. 2. Affinity columns of both gels retain only the two enzymes when a mixture of bovine serum albumin, lactate dehydrogenase and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase is applied. Subsequent elution with the cofactor NAD+ yields glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase whereas lactate dehydrogenase is eluted by applying the same molarity of the reduced cofactor. 3. The binding of both glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase and lactate dehydrogenase to the gel tested, AMP–Sepharose, is strong enough to resist elution by gradients of KCl of up to at least 0.5m. A 0.0–0.15m gradient of the competitive inhibitor salicylate, however, elutes both enzymes efficiently and separately. 4. The elution efficiency of lactate dehydrogenase from AMP–Sepharose has been examined by using a series of eluents under comparable conditions of concentration etc. The approximate relative efficiencies are: 0 (lactate); 0 (lactate+semicarbazide); 0 (0.5mm-NAD+); 80 (lactate+NAD+); 95 (lactate+semicarbazide+NAD+); 100 (0.5mm-NADH). 5. All contaminating lactate dehydrogenase activity can be removed from commercially available crude pyruvate kinase in a single-step procedure by using AMP–Sepharose.
The kinetic of plasmin, Va1442-plasmin, Lys530-plasmin inhibition reaction by alpha 2-antiplasmin as well as interaction of the inhibitor with different derivatives of the plasminogen and its fragments were studied. It was shown that plasmin, mini- and micro-plasmin activity decreased by 97, 88 and 85%, respectively, for equimolar ratio 1:1 of the inhibitor. The value of the inhibition reached its maximum in 1-2, 5-10 and 10-15 min, respectively. The constants of the complex formation rate were 1.4 x 10(6); 1.7 x 10(5) and 6.2 x 10(4) M-1s-1 for the plasmin, mini- and micro-plasmin with alpha 2-antiplasmin, respectively. Both 10(-2) M 6-aminohexanoic acid and 10(-1) M arginine reduced the complex formation rate between plasmin, mini-plasmin and alpha 2-antiplasmin to the value of the rate reaction between micro-plasmin and inhibitor. alpha 2-Antiplasmin bound with all investigated derivatives and fragments of plasminogen. The amount of inhibitor decreased in the series: plasmin, kringle 1-3, kringle 4, mini-plasminogen, micro-plasminogen. The kringle 1-4 and kringle 5 were determined to control the rate of reaction between enzyme and inhibitor, being not necessary for the inhibition. The comparison of the inhibitor interaction with DPP-plasmin, mini-plasminogen and micro-plasminogen displayed the possibility of the additional region existence in catalytic domain. This region participated in the complex with alpha 2-antiplasmin formation. It is supposed that the multisite interaction between plasmin and alpha 2-antiplasmin provides for the specificity and efficiency the inhibitor action.
We have previously demonstrated a low-affinity (0.8 microM, non-covalent complex formation between high-molecular-mass kininogen (HK) and plasminogen (Plg) which prevented Plg interaction with glioma and endothelial cells. We have now extended our previous observations by exploring the potential complex formation between Plg and low-molecular-mass kininogen (LK) and between LK and HK with Plg cleaved with human neutrophil elastase (HNE). Plg cleavage by HNE (PlgHNE) yielded kringles 1-3, kringle 4 and mini-plasminogen. PlgHNE was subjected to SDS/PAGE under non-reducing conditions, followed by western blotting, and incubated with either 125I-HK or 125I-LK. Autoradiograms revealed that 125I-HK bound to miniplasminogen and to kringles 1-3 but not to kringle 4 and the presence of 10 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx) disrupted only the interaction with kringles 1-3. In contrast, 125I-LK bound to miniplasminogen but not to kringles 1-3 or 4 and Ahx had no effect at all. The complex formation of either HK (0.67 microM) or LK (3 microM) with Plg (1.5 microM) did not affect its conversion to plasmin by tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) (10 U/ml) in the presence of a tissue plasminogen stimulator (0.14 microM). However, the rate of conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by t-PA was affected when platelets were added to the reaction mixture. Since HK (0.83 microM) has been shown to inhibit plasmin-induced platelet aggregation, we investigated whether this inhibitory property is found within the heavy chain shared by HK and LK. We found that LK inhibited plasmin-induced platelet aggregation, but a 4-fold molar excess was required when compared to HK. Compared to plasmin, 3-5-fold molar excess of miniplasmin is required to induce platelet aggregation, indicating the important role of kringles 1-3 for plasmin interactions with these cells. These results indicate that HK and LK-mediated inhibition of plasmin-induced platelet aggregation is likely due to complex formation with kringle 5 without interfering with plasmin's active site. We found an additional interaction between HK and kringles 1-3 enhancing the inhibitory effect, presumably by interfering with plasmin's interaction with platelets. This HK and LK-associated modulation of plasmin-induced platelet aggregation may serve as a template to develop synthetic peptides as novel therapeutic agents to prevent some of the plasmin-associated thrombocytopenia seen during thrombolytic therapy.
Fibrinogen was isolated from a 2 litre pool of human citrate-treated plasma (not yet past the 'expiration date'), purchased from a local hospital blood bank, by combination of the methods of Kazal et al. (1963, 1964), Mosesson & Sherry (1966) and Mosesson (1962) . Only variations from these procedures are described below. Plastic containers were used for all operations. Solid 6-aminohexanoic acid (Sigma) was added to the plasma, to a concentration of 0.1 M, immediately on pooling. After centrifugation to remove cell debris, the plasma was treated three times by BaSO4 adsorption (J. T. Baker powder) at successive concentrations of 90g/litre, 90g/litre and 45g/litre. After each I h adsorption period and centrifugation at 5000g, the plasma was tested for thromboplastin-clotting time (0.1 ml of plasma plus 0.1 ml of Dade thromboplastin reagent) and recalcification-clotting time [O.1 ml of plasma+ 0.1 ml of CaCI2 (0.02M, containing 0.2M-6-aminohexanoic acid)]. After the third BaSO4 treatment, the recalcification-clotting time was infinite (greater than 4 days, when observation was ceased) and the thromboplastin-clotting time was >lOh. This plasma was then treated by the methods cited in the above references with Matheson glycine crystals, maintaining the 6-aminohexanoic acid concentration at 0.1 M in all of the solutions during all operations, to isolate the fibrinogen as fractions I-l, 1-2, I-8 and I-9. Only fibrinogen fraction 1-2, the so-called lowsolubility, or normal, fibrinogen molecular population, was used in the experimental work described in the present paper. The isolated fibrinogen 1-2 was dialysed against 0.06M-Tris/0.3M-NaCl (pH 7.4) and stored frozen. The fibrinogen was free from plasmin, plasmin inhibitor, thrombin inhibitor, heparin cofactor, plasminogen and factor XIII, as judged by the absence of these activities in the following assays: plasmin, no thrombin-clot lysis over an extended time period; plasminogen, no thrombin-clot lysis with urokinase and no fibrinogen lysis with urokinase as judged by immunoelectrophoresis and gel chromatography; plasmin inhibitor, no ability to change standard plasmin activity on fibrin-plate assay; thrombin inhibitor, no ability to inhibit thrombin hydrolysis of Bz-Phe-Val-Arg-pNA; heparincofactor, no ability to increase the inherent heparin thrombininhibition activity in the presence of heparin (Smith, 1977) ; factor XIII, no 5M-urea-insoluble fibrin and covalently bound chains in fibrin on SDS/dithiothreitol/lO% polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. Fraction 1-9 was used as a molecular-weight standard (275000) for gel chromatography. Thrombin Bovine thrombin was purified from Parke Davis topical thrombin by the methods of Rasmussen (1955) and McCoy et al. (1974) and was assayed by plasmaclotting kinetics against N.I.H. reference human thrombin (lot 3-B) and found to have an activity of 2200 N.I.H. units/mg (Smith & Craft, 1976) . The thrombin was judged to be free of a2-antithrombin by SDS/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. In the experiments described in the present paper the same results were obtained by using either purified thrombin or the crude topical thrombin. Thrombin was dissolved in 0.06M-Tris/0.3 M-NaCI (pH 7.4).
We recently discovered several nonlysine-analog conformational modulators for plasminogen. These include SMTP-6, thioplabin B and complestatin that are low molecular mass compounds of microbial origin. Unlike lysine-analog modulators, which increase plasminogen activation but inhibit its binding to fibrin, the nonlysine-analog modulators enhance both activation and fibrin binding of plasminogen. Here we show that some nonlysine-analog modulators promote autoproteolytic generation of plasmin(ogen) derivatives with its catalytic domain undergoing extensive fragmentation (PMDs), which have angiostatin-like anti-endothelial activity. The enhancement of urokinase-catalyzed plasminogen activation by SMTP-6 was followed by rapid inactivation of plasmin due to its degradation mainly in the catalytic domain, yielding PMD with a molecular mass ranging from 68 to 77 kDa. PMD generation was observed when plasmin alone was treated with SMTP-6 and was inhibited by the plasmin inhibitor aprotinin, indicating an autoproteolytic mechanism in PMD generation. Thioplabin B and complestatin, two other nonlysine-analog modulators, were also active in producing similar PMDs, whereas the lysine analog 6-aminohexanoic acid was inactive while it enhanced plasminogen activation. Peptide sequencing and mass spectrometric analyses suggested that plasmin fragmentation was due to cleavage at Lys615-Val616, Lys651-Leu652, Lys661-Val662, Lys698-Glu699, Lys708-Val709 and several other sites mostly in the catalytic domain. PMD was inhibitory to proliferation, migration and tube formation of endothelial cells at concentrations of 0.3–10 µg·mL−1. These results suggest a possible application of nonlysine-analog modulators in the treatment of cancer through the enhancement of endogenous plasmin(ogen) fragment formation.
Gabexate mesylate was synthesized from caprolactam by hydrolysis to give 6-aminohexanoic acid,which was subjected to reaction with S-methylisothioureasulfate to obtain 6-guandinyl hexanoic acid,followed by esterification and two steps of acidification,resulting in an overall product yield of 65%.The improved process has the advantages of cheap raw materials used,mild reaction conditions and simple operation.
Abstract Cross-linked agarose gel beads (Sepharose CL-4B) were O-alkylated with chloroacetylglycylglycine or N-chloroacetyl-6-aminohexanoic acid in dimethyl sulfoxide by using methylsulfinyl carbanion as a catalyst. The reaction was completed within 30 min and the degree of substitution reached 100μmol per ml settled volume of the gel with about 50% yield. The terminal carboxyl group of the spacers can be coupled with an affinity ligand containing an amino function by the use of water-soluble carbodiimide. The ligand—matrix linkage is stable and free from undesired electric charge. Streptomyces griseus trypsin was purified to homogeneity from Pronase by using a column of the Sepharose derivative coupled with p-aminobenzamidine.
Twice-distilled water was used throughout all experiments. 4-Bromo-1,8-naphthalic anhydride, 6-aminohexanoic acid and piperazine were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich; all other chemicals were of analytical reagent grade, purchased from Shanghai Chemical Reagent Corporation (Shanghai, China), and used without further purification. 
Abstract This study is based on our previous findings showing that certain amino acids may protect hybridoma cells against starvation-induced apoptosis. In the present work we have screened 44 amino acids and analogs for their capacity of modulating apoptosis in human T-lymphoblastic leukemia cell line MOLT-4 exposed to starvation in a nutrient-poor medium. The panel of tested substances was found to contain not only compounds with antiapoptotic activity (e.g., l -glutamine, l -histidine, glycine, l -proline, and l -2-aminopentanoic acid), but also compounds with proapoptotic activity (e.g., l -phenylalanine, l -tryptophan, l -arginine, and l -2-aminohexanoic acid). The apoptosis-modulating effects were dependent on fine details of the structure of the compounds. A switch from antiapoptotic activity to proapoptotic activity was found between 6-aminohexanoic acid and 7-aminoheptanoic acid, as well as between l -2-aminopentanoic acid and l -2-aminohexanoic acid. D-amino acids tested were without effect.
The substrate analog alpha-D-galactosylamine was synthesized, linked to 6-aminohexanoic acid, and coupled to carboxyhexyl-Sepharose. This affinity support permitted the purification of human alpha-galactosidase A (alpha-D-galactoside galactohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.22) from spleen, placenta, and plasma. When used in conjunction with conventional procedures, affinity chromatography enabled the rapid and specific purification of alpha-galactosidase A from each source. Significantly, pyrogenic endotoxins were eliminated from enzyme preparations by the use of the affinity column. Splenic alpha-galactosidase A was purified in high yield (38%) with a specific activity of 1.9 X 10(6) units/mg. The purified enzyme was a homodimer with a native molecular weight of 101,000 and a subunit weight of 49,800. The UV absorption coefficient was E280 1% = 18 and the lambda max was 282 nm. The plasma form was purified with a markedly improved yield to a specific activity (229,000 units/mg) which was 3 times greater than that achieved previously. The enzymes from plasma, spleen, and placenta were immunologically identical. The physical and kinetic properties of the purified enzymes were consistent with and confirmed previous findings.
The isolated kringle 4 domain of human plasminogen has been compared with homologous structures from bovine and porcine sources, both free and in the presence of the ligand 6-aminohexanoic acid, by two-dimensional 1H-NMR spectroscopies at 300 MHz and 600 MHz. The chemical-shift-correlated, spin-echo-correlated, and double-quantum-correlated aromatic spectra of the three proteins reveal that the globular conformation of the fourth kringle is closely maintained throughout the set of homologs. Direct comparison shows that the three conserved Trp residues (at sites 25, 62 and 72) which exhibit highly non-degenerate subspectra, find themselves in similar intramolecular environments. In particular, proton Overhauser experiments reveal that the close steric interaction between the Trp-II (Trp62 or Trp25) indole group and the aromatic ring at site 74 (Tyr74 or Phe74) is strictly preserved. This feature forces the kringle inner loop, closed by the Cys51-Cys75 link, to fold back onto itself so as to place the site 74 residue proximal to the Cys22-Cys63 bridge. ::: ::: ::: ::: Single-residue substitutions enable unambiguous assignments of His-I to His3, Tyr-III to Tyr41 and Tyr-IV to Tyr74. From this direct evidence, comparison with the kringle 1 spectrum, and the previously reported chemical modification of Tyr-II (Tyr50) [Trexler M., Banyai L., Patthy L., Pluck N. D. & Williams R. J. P. (1985) Eur. J. Biochem. 152, 439–446], Tyr-I and Tyr-V (the latter, an immobile ring on the 600-MHz time scale) could be assigned to Tyr2 and Tyr9, respectively. Since Trp-III has previously been assigned to Trp72 at the lysine-binding site, the present study completes the assignment of 10 out of 12 aromatic spin systems in the kringle 4 1H-NMR spectrum; the only ambiguity which remains concerns the Trp-I and Trp-II indole spin systems, which are totally identified but as yet only tentatively assigned to Trp25 and Trp62, respectively.
3H-Glycine and 6-aminohexanoic acid were used as model amine compounds and reacted with glutaraldehyde. Based on the spectral characteristics and the molecular weights obtained from the reaction products, it is concluded that glutaraldehyde can modify amines to form an intermediate which absorbs at 300 nm and has a molecular weight of about 200. In the presence of excess glutaraldehyde, this intermediate is quickly converted to a much larger intermediate which absorb strongly at 265 nm. The larger intermediates are finally altered to yield a strong absorption peak at 325 nm with no apparent change in the molecular weight. These results suggest that a process of polymerization is induced by the initial reaction of glutaraldehyde with amines. The glutaraldehyde-polymer amine complex is self-limiting in size and can undergo internal rearrangement to become chemically inert.
The beta2 integrins on leukocytes play important roles in cell adhesion, migration and phagocytosis. One of the beta2 integrins, alphaXbeta2 (CD11c/CD18), is known to bind ligands such as fibrinogen, Thy-1 and iC3b, but its function is not well characterized. To understand its biological roles, we attempted to identify novel ligands. The functional moiety of alphaXbeta2, the alphaX I-domain, was found to bind plasminogen, the zymogen of plasmin, with moderate affinity (1.92 X 10-(6) M) in the presence of Mg(2+) or Mn(2+). The betaD-alpha5 loop of the alphaX I-domain proved to be responsible for binding, and lysine residues (Lys(242), Lys(243)) in the loop were the most important for recognizing plasminogen. An excess amount of the lysine analog, 6-aminohexanoic acid, inhibited alphaX I-domain binding to plasminogen, indicating that binding is lysine-dependent. The results of this study indicate that leukocytes regulate plasminogen activation, and consequently plasmin activities, through an interaction with alphaXbeta2 integrin.
The kringle 2 (E161T/C162S/EEE[K2HPg/C169S]TT) and the kringle 3 (TYQ[K3HPg]DS) domains of human plasminogen (HPg) were expressed in Escherichia coli in an expression vector with the phage T5 promotor/operator element N250PSN250P29 and the cDNA sequence for a hexahistidine tail to facilitate the isolation of the recombinant protein. A coagulation factor Xa (FXa)-sensitive cleavage site was introduced to remove the N-terminal histidine tag. In r-K2, mutations E161T and C162S were introduced to enhance the FXa cleavage yield and C169S to replace the cysteine residue, participating in the inter-kringle disulfide bridge between kringles 2 and 3. Recombinant proteins were isolated by affinity chromatography on Ni(2+)-nitrilotriacetic acid/agarose and refolded under denaturing and reducing conditions followed by a non-denaturing and oxidising environment. The free thiol group in position 297 in r-K3 was selectively alkylated with iodoacetamide. The hexahistidine tail was successfully removed with FXa. The N-terminal sequence, the amino acid composition and the molecular mass analyses are in agreement with the expected data. The correct arrangement of the disulfide bonds was verified by sequence analysis of the corresponding thermolytic and subtilisin fragments. r-K2 exhibits weak binding to lysine-Bio-Gel. The weak binding affinity of r-K2 for omega-aminocarboxylic acids is confirmed by intrinsic fluorescence titration with 6-aminohexanoic acid (NH2C5COOH) indicating a Kd of approximately 401 microM. In contrast, r-K3 seems to be devoid of a binding affinity for omega-aminocarboxylic acids. Considering earlier determined Kd values of kringle 1, kringle 4 and kringle 5, the binding affinity of HPg kringle domains for NH2C5COOH is proposed to decrease in the following order, kringle 1 > kringle 4 > kringle 5 > kringle 2 > kringle 3.
Analogs of N,N'-bis[6-[(2-methoxybenzyl)amino]hex-1-yl]cystamine (benextramine, BXT, 2) were synthesized using solution-phase peptide synthesis methodology and analyzed for activity in displacing specifically bound 1 nM N-[propionyl-3H]neuropeptide Y([3H]NPY) from benextramine-sensitive neuropeptide Y (NPY) binding sites in rat brain. Our new synthetic approach to these analogs began with the acylation of cystamine with the N-hydroxysuccinimide ester of tert-butyloxycarbonyl (t-Boc) protected 6-aminohexanoic acid, followed by deprotection of the t-Boc groups with 4 N HCl in dioxane. Acylation of this symmetric diamine with N-hydroxysuccinimide esters of appropriately substituted benzoic acids, followed by reduction of the resultant tetraamides with diborane in refluxing THF, afforded the target compounds. The BXT analog lacking the benzylic group (i.e., compound 11) had no [3H]NPY displacement activity at concentrations up to 1.4 x 10(-3) M. The 9-fold range in activities observed for the ortho, meta, and para regioisomers of the methoxy, chloro, and hydroxy benextramine analogs at benextramine-sensitive NPY rat brain binding sites does not differ from the range of potencies observed at alpha-adrenoceptors. However, the order of potencies at [3H]NPY sites differs from the order of potencies at alpha-adrenoceptors, with the m-methoxyphenyl (9a), m-hydroxyphenyl (10b), and 2-naphthyl (9f) analogs being the most active at [3H]NPY binding sites. The present results demonstrate the importance of the benzylic moiety for BXT's NPY antagonist activity, and suggest that the BXT binding site on the NPY receptor is significantly distinct from that on the alpha-adrenoceptor.
Disulfide-rich neurotoxins from venomous animals continue to provide compounds with therapeutic potential. Minimizing neurotoxins often results in removal of disulfide bridges or critical amino acids. To address this drug-design challenge, we explored the concept of disulfide-rich scaffolds consisting of isostere polymers and peptidic pharmacophores. Flexible spacers, such as amino-3-oxapentanoic or 6-aminohexanoic acids, were used to replace conformationally constrained parts of a three-disulfide-bridged conotoxin, SIIIA. The peptide-polymer hybrids, polytides, were designed based on cladistic identification of nonconserved loci in related peptides. After oxidative folding, the polytides appeared to be better inhibitors of sodium currents in dorsal root ganglia and sciatic nerves in mice. Moreover, the polytides appeared to be significantly more potent and longer-lasting analgesics in the inflammatory pain model in mice, when compared to SIIIA. The resulting polytides provide a promising strategy for transforming disulfide-rich peptides into therapeutics.
The technique of resin loading by the attachment of the amino acid side chain represents a powerful tool for the synthesis of cyclopeptides by solid phase. We investigated the anchoring of the side chain of N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl, Fmoc)-tyrosine methyl ester to benzyl-type resins by the Mitsunobu reaction. Satisfactory loading was obtained for HMPB−MBHA and Wang resins. The suitability of the preloaded resins for solid-phase peptide synthesis by using the Fmoc strategy, combined with the head-to-tail cyclization on the solid support, was illustrated by the preparation of three cyclic analogues of neuropeptide Y (NPY), a 36-residue peptide hormone and one of the most abundant neuropeptides in the brain. Each peptide contained the N- and C-terminal tetrapeptide segments of NPY, joined by different spacers: 6-aminohexanoic acid, β-alanine, or Ala-Aib. First the synthesis of the peptide methyl esters was performed, followed by saponification and cyclization on the resin. HOBt/DIC or HOBt/TBTU was used...
The binding and the encapsulation of the 6-aminohexanoic acid (1) and 11-aminoundecanoic acid (2) are achieved in aqueous solution and in crystalline Pyrene-box cages. Unexpectedly, the amino-guanidinium AG+ and the amino acids 1 or 2 are reacting in aqueous solution in the absence and in the presence of Pyrene-box cages. The formation of an amide bond between a carboxylic acid and the amino-guanidine unit under mild acidic conditions in water without the use a coupling reagent is extremely interesting and unexpected. The resulted adducts AG1 and AG2 show adaptive binding behaviors and compressions.
Cationic CPPs (cell-penetrating peptides) have been used largely for intracellular delivery of low-molecular-mass drugs, biomolecules and particles. Most cationic CPPs bind to cell-associated glycosaminoglycans and are internalized by endocytosis, although the detailed mechanisms involved remain controversial. Sequestration and degradation in endocytic vesicles severely limits the efficiency of cytoplasmic and/or nuclear delivery of CPP-conjugated material. Re-routing the splicing machinery by using steric-block ON (oligonucleotide) analogues, such as PNAs (peptide nucleic acids) or PMOs (phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers), has consequently been inefficient when ONs are conjugated with standard CPPs such as Tat (transactivator of transcription), R9 (nona-arginine), K8 (octalysine) or penetratin in the absence of endosomolytic agents. New arginine-rich CPPs such as (R-Ahx-R)4 (6-aminohexanoic acid-spaced oligo-arginine) or R6 (hexa-arginine)–penetratin conjugated to PMO or PNA resulted in efficient splicing correction at non-cytotoxic doses in the absence of chloroquine. SAR (structure–activity relationship) analyses are underway to optimize these peptide delivery vectors and to understand their mechanisms of cellular internalization. ::: ::: Abbreviations: CPP, cell-penetrating peptide; EGFP, enhanced green fluorescent protein; miRNA, microRNA; ON, oligonucleotide; PMO, phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer; PNA, peptide nucleic acid; R6, hexa-arginine; (R-Ahx-R)4, 6-aminohexanoic acid-spaced oligo-arginine; RT, reverse transcription; SAR, structure–activity relationship; siRNA, short interfeing RNA; Tat, transactivator of transcription
The murine plasminogen/urokinase-type plasminogen-activator (u-PA) system was studied using purified proteins, plasma and endothelioma cells. Recombinant murine u-PA was obtained as a single-chain molecule of 45 kDa which was converted to two-chain u-PA with plasmin by cleavage of the Lys159-Ile1 60 peptide bond. Murine plasminogen, purified from plasma as a single-chain protein of 95 kDa, was resistant to quantitative activation with murine recombinant two-chain u-PA: only 15% activation within 1 h at 37°C was obtained in mixtures of 1 μM plasminogen and 5 nM recombinant two-chain u-PA, whereas quantitative activation was observed in the autologous human system. Addition of 6-aminohexanoic acid to native murine plasminogen resulted in quantitative activation within 1 h. In murine plasma in vitro, plasminogen was also resistant to quantitative activation with u-PA (50% activation within 1 h at 37°C with 50 nM recombinant two-chain u-PA, whereas in the human system nearly quantitative activation was obtained). Murine plasma clots submerged in murine plasma were resistant to lysis with u-PA; ≤2% clot lysis in 2 h was obtained with 80nM recombinant two-chain u-PA in the autologous murine system whereas 50% clot lysis in 2 h required only 15 nM recombinant two-chain u-PA in the autologous human system. ::: ::: ::: ::: Saturable binding of murine recombinant two-chain u-PA was observed to murine endothelioma cells that are genetically deficient in u-PA (u-PA−/− End cells). Binding was characterized by a Kd of 5.5 nM and 800000 binding sites/cell. However, u-PA−/− End cells did not significantly stimulate the activation rate of murine plasminogen by murine recombinant two-chain u-PA and did not enhance the plasmin-mediated conversion rate of murine recombinant single-chain u-PA to its two-chain derivative. Murine recombinant two-chain u-PA bound to murine endothelioma cells was quantitatively inhibited by murine plasminogen-activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). ::: ::: ::: ::: Thus, the interactions between murine plasminogen, u-PA and PAI-1 are qualitatively similar to those between their human counterparts. However, quantitative differences were observed both in the presence of cells and in plasma which may contribute to a reduced u-PA-mediated fibrinolytic activity in the murine systems.
Upconversion (UC) is a powerful mulitphoton mechanism that converts low energy photons into higher energy emission. One of the most investigated UC systems is upconverting phosphors (UCPs). Here, a new, one-pot synthetic procedure was used to prepare water dispersible, visibly emissive, rare-earth doped UCPs that were capped with the functional groups oleic acid (OA), 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA), and 6-maleimidohexanoic acid (MHA). These synthesised UCPs were characterised by UC luminescence, dynamic light scattering (DLS), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and powder X-ray diffraction (pXRD). This study expands upon our previous proof-of-principle work in demonstrating the use of UCPs (both synthesised and commercial) to detect on the level and function of biological analytes, from enzymes to key disease biomarkers (PETNR, glucose oxidase, vitamin B12, and cytochrome c). By tailoring the absorption profile of the biomolecule cofactors to the UCP emission, a wide-range of analytes can be utilised. We also demonstrate the ability of our system to reversibly monitor the addition of enzyme substrates via repeat oxidation and reduction of pentaerythritol tetranitrate reductase (PETNR).
AbstractA discontinuous 17-amino acid peptide analog of neuropeptide Y (NPY), NPY 1-4-Ahx-25-36 containing 6-aminohexanoic acid instead of the residues 5 to 24, was found to bind preferentially to Y2 subtypes of NPY receptors. In order to further characterize the binding site, three different types of cyclic analogs were synthesized. Firstly lactamisation between residues 2 and 30 led to the most selective Y2-agonist, secondly lactamisation between the N-terminus and residue 31 reduced binding significantly. Thirdly, any cyclization including the C-terminus led to an inactive compound. Circular dichroism revealed different conformations for the three analogs with reduced α-helical content in comparision to the linear ana-log. The different conformation of the peptides has been confirmed by molecular dynamics simulations. A model for peptide-receptor interaction is suggested.
Strains and plasmids. B. stearothermophilus IAM11001, provided by the Institute of Applied Microbiology, University of Tokyo, was used as the source of heat-stable Pgalactosidases. The ,-galactosidase-deficient mutant, E. coli 294-43, which was derived from strain 294 (endA thi hsdR) (1) by N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine treatment, was used as the recipient for transformation. Bacillus subtilis MI111 (arg-15 leuA8 rM-mM-) was provided by K. Sakaguchi, Mitsubishi-kasei Institute for Life Sciences. Plasmids pBR322 (4), pACYC177 (7), pNL212 (a hybrid plasmid consisting of pBR322, the lacUV5 promoter fragment [1] , and a DNA fragment containing the nylB gene [structural gene of 6-aminohexanoic acid linear oligomer hydrolase]) (27) , and pUB110 (18) were used as vector DNA for cloning experiments.
Cationic CPPs (cell-penetrating peptides) have been used largely for intracellular delivery of low-molecularmass drugs, biomolecules and particles. Most cationic CPPs bind to cell-associated glycosaminoglycans and are internalized by endocytosis, although the detailed mechanisms involved remain controversial. Sequestration and degradation in endocytic vesicles severely limits the efficiency of cytoplasmic and/or nuclear delivery of CPP-conjugated material. Re-routing the splicing machinery by using steric-block ON (oligonucleotide) analogues, such as PNAs (peptide nucleic acids) or PMOs (phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers), has consequently been inefficient when ONs are conjugated with standard CPPs such as Tat (transactivator of transcription), R 9 (nona-arginine), K 8 (octalysine) or penetratin in the absence of endosomolytic agents. New arginine-rich CPPs such as (R-Ahx-R) 4 (6-aminohexanoic acid-spaced oligoarginine) or R 6 (hexa-arginine)-penetratin conjugated to PMO or PNA resulted in efficient splicing correction at non-cytotoxic doses in the absence of chloroquine. SAR (structure-activity relationship) analyses are underway to optimize these peptide delivery vectors and to understand their mechanisms of cellular internalization.
Glu- and Lys-plasminogen interaction with native and desAABB-fibrin obtained from fibrinogen partially hydrolyzed by plasmin was studied. It was found that native fibrin adsorbs 6 times more Lys-plasminogen as compared to the native form of the proenzyme. The range of the Lys-plasminogen binding does not change, if part of the fibrinogen molecules hydrolyze down to X-fragments. At the same time, the appearance in the system of 1% Xi-fragments leads to a 6-fold increase in the Glu-plasminogen binding. The amount of adsorbed Glu-plasminogen reaches the level of Lys-plasminogen adsorption both in the native and partially hydrolyzed fibrin. It was found that kringle K 1-3 or 6-aminohexanoic acid at saturating for high-affinity lysine-binding sites concentrations do not influence the Glu-plasminogen binding to native fibrin but inhibit it when the partially purified form is used. It is assumed that the manyfold increase of the Glu-plasminogen binding to partially hydrolyzed fibrin is due to the alteration of the proenzyme conformation at the initial steps of fibrin hydrolysis during the formation of Xi fragments.
Abstract Three Drosophila transfer RNAs, tRNA 2 Met , tRNA 3 Met and tRNA 2 Arg , were purified from larvae using a new fractionation procedure. After enzymatic aminoacylation, the amino group of aminoacyl-tRNA was coupled covalently to activated CH-Sepharose 4B (the N -hydroxysuccinimide ester of 6-aminohexanoic acid coupled to Sepharose 4B). The resin was washed extensively to remove the unaminoacylated tRNAs and the tRNA specific for the amino acid was eluted at high pH. Addition purification and separation of isoacceptors was done by RPC-5 chromatography. In situ hybridization of 125 I-labeled tRNA 2 Met identifies 48AB on chromosome 2 and 72F on chromosome 3 as gene loci. The rate of in situ hybridization at these two sites is the same and corresponds to the rate expected for a pure tRNA. Hybridization to several other sites occurs at slower rates and is interpreted as due to impurities in the tRNA preparation. Based on in situ , filter, and gel transfer hybridizations, there are two genes for tRNA 2 Met at 48AB and two at 72F. Similar experiments with tRNA 2 Arg indicate about eight genes at 42A on chromosome 2 and about five genes at 84EF on chromosome 3. In situ hybridization of tRNA 3 Met labels 61D, 70DE, 42A and 42E. The rapid rate of labeling at 61D and 70DE establishes these as sites with tRNA 3 Met genes. The precision of the in situ hybridization measurements is too low to determine whether 42A and 42E are tRNA 3 Met genes or sites labeled by impurities.
A procedure is given for the ozonization of petroselinic acid, chemical reduction of the ozonides to aldehydes, formation of oximes, and catalytic hydrogenation of the oximes using Raney nickel in the presence of ammonia, to yield 48% dodecylamine and 44% 6-aminohexanoic acid calculated on the amounts theoretically available from the wt of petroselinic acid. The ultimate analyses, melting points, and distribution coefficients between ethyl ether and water of lauraldehyde and adipaldehydic acid oximes were determined. The infrared spectra of lauraldehyde oxime, adipaldehydic acid oxime, and 6-aminohexanoic acid are given and interpreted.
Pretreatment of native plasminogen (plg) with plasmin or activators resulted in an increase in the rate of activation (RA) by urokinase and a shift in mobility from β2 to γ in agarose gel electrophoresis at pH 8.6. 6-Aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) had the same effects at c=10-4 to 3.3 ± 10-3 mol/1, probably owing to a reversible binding to pig. 6-AHA produced a decrease in RA at higher c, probably owing to a reversible binding to urokinase. The high RA of pretreated pig was inhibited at c > 10-4 mol/1. L-Lysine and trans-4-aminomethylcyclohexane-1-carboxylic acid had the same effects as 6-AHA on RA and mobility at 7 times higher and lower c. Dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide electrophoresis showed that pretreated pig had a lower Mr than native plg (δMr 3700).
Gln-Aha-Cys-NH 2 , Aha= 6-aminohexanoic acid, MW=3541.1) was prepared by standard solid-phase peptide synthesis with Fmoc/t-Bu chemistry. The N-terminus was acetylated 10 and the C-terminus was amidated. Briefly, the peptide was synthesized by solid phase chemistry on a NovaPEG Rink Amide resin (0.62 mmeq/g, EMD Biosciences) using a 12
Asp-Lys-Val-Gln-Aha-Cys (PEG-Biotin)-NH 2 , Aha= 6-aminohexanoic acid, PEG= polyethylene glycol, MW=4066.8) was prepared by a reaction of purified J8 peptide with 30 a 2-fold molar excess of EZ-Link maleimide-PEG2-Biotin (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Rockford, IL) in 0.1M ammonium acetate buffer, pH 7.0 for 1 hour. The peptide was 32 purified by Reverse Phase HPLC on a C18 Jupiter Column (Phenomenex Jupiter 10µ, C18, 300A) and eluted with an appropriate linear gradient of an increasing concentration 34 of acetonitrile containing 0.1% TFA. The purified peptide was characterized by electrospray mass spectrometry. 36
Val-D-Leu-Pro-Phe-Phe-Val-D-Leu, a specific inhibitor of aspartate proteinases of the pepsin type, was synthesized. Its bonding to activated 6-aminohexanoic acid-Sepharose 4B afforded an affinity support suitable for the purification of human, porcine, and chicken pepsin, human gastricsin, and bovine cathepsin D. These enzymes bind to the support over the pH range 2-5 at 0-1.5 M concentration of NaCl. A buffer at pH greater than or equal to 6, low ionic strength, and containing 20% dioxane can serve as a general desorption agent. The proteinases were isolated from the crude extracts by a single-step procedure in a high degree of purity and in yields exceeding 70%; human pepsin, however, was not separated from human gastricsin. The support does not show any binding capacity for rat plasma renin at pH 7.4 and for some cysteine endopeptidases (cathepsin B, H, and L) at pH 3-5. The cathepsin D preparations isolated by affinity chromatography on the new support and on pepstatin-Sepharose were of the same degree of purity as evidenced by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, N-terminal amino acid sequences, and specific activity.
The role of plasminogen activators (PAs) as potential mediators of involution of the rat ventral prostate was investigated by using an approach involving the administration in vivo of anti-PA drugs. The prostates of castrated rats, which had been injected daily for 7 days with the anti-PA drugs 6-aminohexanoic acid, tranexamic acid, aprotinin and cortisol, were assayed for PA activity, weight and cell number. In the prostates from the castrated controls, there was a 10-fold increase in the mean PA activity and a 7-fold decrease in cell number relative to that of the non-castrated animals. Although this rise in enzyme activity could be decreased to some extent by all the drugs except aprotinin, only treatment with high doses of tranexamic acid or cortisol had a statistically significant effect. A similar pattern was observed with respect to the relative potency of the drugs in preventing the loss of prostatic weight and cell number after castration. The effects of cortisol were dose-dependent, with complete inhibition of both the rise in PA activity and cell loss occurring at a dose of about 15 mg/day. Since the concentration of the principal intranuclear androgen, dihydrotestosterone, was the same in the prostates from treated and untreated castrated rats, the effects of cortisol are not due to increased retention of this androgen. Rather, the high inverse correlation (r = 0.86) between the cellular concentration of PA activity and the cell population of the prostate implies that PAs are directly associated with prostatic involution and that cortisol, and to a lesser extent tranexamic acid, blocks the involution process through inhibition of PAs.
Plasminogen, the zymogen form of the serine proteinase plasmin, has been implicated in numerous physiological and pathological processes involving extracellular-matrix remodelling. We have previously demonstrated that the activation of plasminogen catalysed by tissue plasminogen activator is dramatically stimulated in the presence of basement-membrane-specific type IV collagen [Stack, Gonzalez-Gronow & Pizzo (1990) Biochemistry 29, 4966-4970]. The present paper describes the binding of plasminogen to type IV collagen. Plasminogen binds to both the alpha 1(IV) and alpha 2(IV) chains of basement-membrane collagen, with binding to the alpha 2(IV) chain preferentially inhibited by 6-aminohexanoic acid. This binding is specific and saturable, with Kd,app. values of 11.5 and 12.7 nM for collagen and gelatin respectively. Although collagen also binds to immobilized plasminogen, this interaction is unaffected by 6-aminohexanoic acid. Limited elastase proteolysis of plasminogen generated distinct collagen-binding fragments, which were identified as the kringle 1-3 and kringle 4 domains. No binding of collagen to mini-plasminogen was observed. These studies demonstrate a specific interaction between plasminogen and type IV collagen and provide further evidence for regulation of plasminogen activation by protein components of the extracellular matrix.
The kinetics of inhibition of the amidolytic activity of plasmin on D-Val-L-Leu-L-Lys p-nitroanilide hydrochloride (S-2251) by fibrinogen and fibrin were determined. Reciprocal (1/v versus 1/[S]) plots of plasmin inhibition by 0.50 microM-fibrinogen showed a non-linear downward curve. The Hill coefficient (h) was 0.68, suggesting negative co-operativity. By contrast, fibrin produced a simple competitive inhibition of plasmin (Ki = 12 micrograms/ml). Addition of 0.1 mM-6-aminohexanoic acid shifted the non-linear curve obtained in the presence of fibrinogen to a straight line as for controls, indicating that 6-aminohexanoic acid abolishes the fibrinogen-induced inhibition. Transient exposure of the enzyme to pH 1.0 abrogates the ability of fibrinogen to inhibit plasmin activity. Acidification had no effect on the Vmax but increased the Km of plasmin. The present evidence for modulation of plasmin reveals a novel mechanism for control of fibrinolysis by fibrinogen, a component of the coagulation system and the precursor of the physiological substrate of plasmin.
Studies were conducted on the effect of heparin or 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AH) on the activation of glutamic plasminogen (Glu-Plg) by streptokinase in the presence of different concentrations of buffer, NaCl and divalent cations. Heparin and 6-AH inhibited streptokinase-mediated activation of Glu-Plg using 10 mM Tris-HCl buffer pH 7.4. This inhibition was partially reversed by the addition of 0.2-1.0 mM of Mg ions. Increasing the ionic strength of Tris-HCl buffer from 10 to 50 mM or addition of 50-150 mM of NaCl to 50 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.4 inhibited the activation of Glu-Plg by streptokinase while decreasing the % inhibition by heparin over the control samples. Double reciprocal plot of the activation of Glu-Plg by streptokinase using 50 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.4 containing 100 mM NaCl showed that the addition of heparin lowered Vmax by 50% without affecting Km. To determine whether the inhibitory effect of heparin was specifically directed towards Glu-Plg or streptokinase, the ratios of the initial rate of plasmin generation in the presence of heparin over the controls were plotted against the inverse of the volume fraction of Glu-Plg or streptokinase after serial dilutions. The results indicated that the dilutions of streptokinase but not of Glu-Plg influenced the ratios, suggesting an interaction of heparin with streptokinase. Addition of 6-AH reversed the inhibitory effect of NaCl on the activation of Glu-Plg by streptokinase and the results of the near UV CD spectra of Glu-Plg showed that addition of 6-AH enhanced the spectra in this region with an increase in the ellipticity which was not affected by addition of NaCl.
activity of 6-aminohexanoic acid (I), p-aminomethylbenzoic acid (II), trans-4-aminomethylcyclohexanocarboxylic acid (III) ~, and their analogs have been covered in a wide range of literature that offers data on biological actionstructure relationships and a qualitative analyses of the contribution made by some functional groups to overall inhibitory activity [6]. It has been shown in particular that the presence of free amino and carboxyl groups separated by a distance of 0.7 nm is an important condition for the high level of antiproteolytic activity of this group of substances [9]. For the purpose of obtaining potential medicinal agents from compounds I-III, we undertook the synthesis of a number of their vitamin conjugates. Because of the vitamin presence in their molecular composition, we believed such compounds would be less toxic, exhibit a high degree of organotropy, as well as concomitant vitamin activity, and might also have better pharmacokinetic characteristics. That supposition has been recently justified by the production of vitamin conjugates with y-aminobutyric acid [3, 7]. The present work cites results of studies on the antifibrinolytic activity of N-amide derivatives of nicotinic acid with substances of compounds I-III as compared to I. N-nicotinoyl-6-a minohexanoic acid (IV), p-aminomethylbenzoic acid (V), and trans-4-aminomethylcyclohexanecarboxylic acid (VI) ~Jere synthesized by the condensation of nicotinic acid chloroanhydride with salts of the corresponding acids in a water medium with a relatively low yield. This was apparently due to the partial hydrolysis of the chloroanhydride in the Schotten--Baumann reaction:
Native Fucoidan and unfractionated heparin enhanced by 6-fold the in vitro activation of human glutamic plasminogen (Glu-Plg) by tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) using 0.05 M Tris buffer pH 7.4, while sulfated fucoidan inhibited the activation under these conditions. Double reciprocal plots of these interactions showed that sulfated fucoidan inhibited the activation in a noncompetitive manner while the enhancements by heparin or native fucoidan were due to an increase of Vmax without affecting Km. To determine whether the stimulatory effect of the individual cofactor was due to its interaction with Glu-Plg or with t-PA, experiments were performed at a fixed level of the cofactor and either varying in a serial fashion the concentration of Glu-Plg or of t-PA. The ratios of the initial rate of plasmin generation in the presence or absence of the cofactors were plotted against the inverse of the volume fraction of Glu-Plg or of t-PA. The results showed that heparin interacted with Glu-Plg while native fucoidan and sulfated fucoidan interacted with t-PA. Studies were also conducted on the effect of the two fucoidans and heparin on the activation of Glu-Plg by t-PA using 0.05M Tris buffer pH 7.4 containing 0.1M NaCl. Under these conditions, sulfated fucoidan was most effective in enhancing the activation followed by native fucoidan and heparin respectively. The results of this study showed that in presence of the buffer containing 0.1 M NaCl, heparin was interacting with t-PA while the two fucoidans were interacting with both t-PA and Glu-Plg. A comparison of the double reciprocal plots of the rate of enhancement by the cofactors using 0.05 M Tris buffer pH 7.4 containing 0.1 M NaCl or in presence of buffer alone showed that the cofactors were more effective using 0.05M Tris buffer pH 7.4 alone and that addition of NaCl to the buffer slowed down the reactions by decreasing Vmax without affecting Km. Circular Dichroism (CD) studies of Glu-Plg in the far ultraviolet (UV) range showed that addition of NaCl destabilized the beta sheet structure which was reversed by addition of 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AH) or one of the cofactors, while the near UV CD spectra of Glu-Plg in presence of 0.1 M NaCl was enhanced by the cofactors by increasing its ellipticity as reported earlier for 6-AH.
This paper discusses the application of a method developed for cyclic peptide synthesis using allyl-based sidechain-protecting groups to obtain a so-called tailed cyclic peptide, a cyclic peptide bearing a side-chain anchoring tail. The method used for the synthesis of cyclo[-d-Val-Arg-Gly-Asp-Asp(-eAhx-Cys-NH2)-]incorporates the α-allyl-protected aspartic acid Fmoc-l-Asp-OAl. A major side reaction, resulting in aspartimide formation, was observed when Fmoc-l-Asp-OAl was incorporated into the sequence at the N-terminus of 6-aminohexanoic acid (eAhx). This side reaction leads to an aspartimidyl linear peptide with the same molecular weight as the expected cyclized peptide. Additionally, the undesired peptide contains a free amino terminus, which was responsible for further side reactions during the subsequent steps of the synthesis, mainly tetramethylguanidinium formation (M+98) in TBTU-induced cyclization, and acetylation (M+42).
Haemophilus influenzae b polysaccharide (Hib-PS) protein conjugate vaccines differ chemically and immunologically. The structure of Hib PS was elucidated and its immunologic properties were characterized (1). Successful induction of antibody responses to influenzae type b-3)β -D-Ribƒ-( 11)ribitol-5-PO4polysaccharide in immunology experiment requires the conjugation of protein to the Hib-Ps. However, Hib-PS lacks chemically reactive groups which could be bound to a protein directly. Further, this polysaccharide is unstable in acidic or basic conditions. We conjugated activated Hib-PS (carbonyl diimidazole or 6-aminohexanoic acid) with different proteins by carbodimide-mediated condensation. The carrier proteins we used were diphtheria toxin or meningococcic vaccine. Purification of above proteins was done by extraction, centrifugation and ultrafiltration. The synthetic route is depicted in the following schemes 1 and 2.
It is well established that tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) binds to the D region of fibrin(ogen) and that two distinct CNBr fragments of fibrinogen (FCB), FCB-2 and FCB-5, comprising parts of this region, stimulate plasminogen activation by t-PA. In the present work, ligandbinding studies were performed to characterize the interactions between t-PA and the corresponding fibrin regions using a well defined model of a fibrin surface and both FCB-2 and FCB-5 in liquid and solid phase. Binding isotherms showed a characteristic Langmuir adsorption saturation profile. The dissociation constants determined for the binding of t-PA to immobilized FCB-2 (& = 0.70 2 0.10 nM) and FCB-5 (& = 0.47 * 0.08 nM) were of the same order of magnitude as the Kd for fibrin binding (Kd = 1 ? 0.2 nM). The specificity of the binding was demonstrated by the ability of soluble FCB-2 and FCB-5 to inhibit t-PA binding to solid-phase fibrin (K, = 3.3 pM and 6.4 pM, respectively). The binding of t-PA to fibrin and to immobilized FCB-2 was partially inhibited by the lysine analogue 6-aminohexanoic acid (K, = 123 * 47 pM and 364 pM, respectively) but was not modified by carboxypeptidase B, thus indicating involvement of internal lysine residues. Removal of lysine residues by treatment with, successively, plasmin and carboxypeptidase B, produced only a partial inhibition of t-PA binding, thus confirming the existence of both a lysine-dependent and a lysine-independent mechanism of binding of t-PA to both fibrin and FCB-2. In contrast, the binding of t-PA to FCBJ was not significantly affected by 6-aminohexanoic acid. Altogether, these data indicate that the mechanism of binding of t-PA to fibrin involves mainly a lysine-independent interaction with the D region which is contributed by sequences present in FCB-5 and FCB-2; contribution to binding by a lysine-dependent interaction was detected only in FCB-2 and is probably of minor relevance as suggested by the limited effect of 6-aminohexanoic acid.
The single-crystal polarised electronic spectra, e.s.r., and magnetic anisotropy of tetra-(6-aminohexanoic acid)copper(II) diperchlorate are reported. These properties are interpreted by use of a point-charge crystal-field model and are seen to be consistent with the relative orbital energies, dxy > dx2–y2 > dz2 > dxz yz. The crystal-field parameters obtained are shown to agree closely with those for CaCu(AcO)4,6H2O when allowance is made for the different Cu–O distances involved.
Abstract The resolution of free dl -amino acids in human nail was carried out by combination of the R(−)-4-(3-isothiocyanatopyrrolidin-1-yl)-7-(N,N-dimethylaminosulfonyl)-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole [R(−)-DBD-PyNCS] derivatives and UPLC–ESI-TOF-MS. The reaction of the reagent with amino acids effectively proceeds at 55 °C for 20 min in the presence of 1% triethylamine (TEA) to produce the corresponding diastereomers. Each pair of the resulting derivatives was efficiently separated by a gradient program (a mixture of H2O and CH3CN containing 0.1% formic acid (HCOOH) or 5 mM CH3COONH4 and CH3CN) using a reversed-phase ACQUITY UPLC™ BEH C18 (1.7 μm, 100 mm × 2.1 mm i.d.) column and sensitively detected by TOF-MS. The detection limits (S/N = 3) of the TOF-MS were 1.0–750 fmol, respectively. A good linearity was achieved from the calibration curves, which was obtained by plotting the peak area ratios of the analytes relative to the internal standard (IS), i.e., 6-aminohexanoic acid, versus the injected amounts of each amino acid (r2 > 0.996), and the intra-day and inter-day assay precisions were less than 8.93%. The derivatives of the free dl -amino acids in human nail were successfully identified by the proposed procedure. As we know, for the first time, these five kinds of d -amino acids, which were d -Ala, d -Val, d -Pro, d -Ile and d -Leu, were found from human nail samples. Fifteen kinds of l -amino acids were also recognized from human nails. Using these methods, the amounts of dl -amino acids in the nails of healthy volunteers and diabetic patients were determined. When comparing the index from diabetic patients to those from healthy volunteers, there is no significant difference in the content of the l -amino acids in the nails. However, a statistically significant (P d / l -amino acid concentration ratios (Ala, Val, Ile, Leu). Therefore, because the proposed method provides a good mass accuracy and the trace detection of the dl -amino acids in human nails, this analytical technique could be a noninvasive technique to assist in the diagnosis and assessment of disease activity in diabetic patients.
A synthesis of aminospacered N-β-glycosides of tri-, penta-, hexaand nonasaccharides containing one or two α-D-Neu5Ac residue, namely, α-D-Neu5Ac-(2→6)-β-D-Galp-(1→4)-β-D-Glcp-NHCO(CH2) n NH2 (n = 1 (1d), 3 (1f), 5 (1i)), α-D-Neu5Ac-(2→3)-β-D-Galp-(1→4)β-D-Glcp-NHCO(CH2) n NH2 (n = 1 (2d), 3 (2f), 5 (2i)), β-D-Galp-(1→3)-[α-D-Neu5Ac(2→6)]-β-D-GlcNAcp-(1→3)-β-D-Galp-(1→4)-β-D-Glcp-NHCOCH2NH2 (3d), α-D-Neu5Ac(2→3)-β-D-Galp-(1→3)-[α-D-Neu5Ac-(2→6)]-β-D-GlcNAcp-(1→3)-β-D-Galp-(1→4)-β-DGlcp-NHCOCH2NH2 (4d), α-D-Neu5Ac-(2→3)-β-D-Galp-(1→3)-[α-D-Neu5Ac-(2→6)]-β-D-GlcNAcp-(1→3)-{β-D-Galp-(1→4)-[α-L-Fucp-(1→3)]-β-D-GlcNAcp-(1→6)}-β-D-Galp(1→4)-β-D-Glcp-NHCOCH2NH2 (5d), has been developed. Mono- and disialooligosaccharides from human breast milk and urine treated with ammonium carbamate in aqueous methanol in the presence of NH3 gave the corresponding β-glycopyranosylamines. Their N-acylation with N-hydroxysuccinimidyl esters of N-Z-glycine, N-Z-4-aminobutanoic (GABA) and N-Z-6-aminohexanoic acids (Z is the benzyloxycarbonyl) with subsequent hydrogenolysis of the Z group furnished N-aminoacyl-β-glycopyranosylamines of sialooligosaccharides 1d,f,i, 2d,f,i, 3d—5d in 30—50% yield.
Binding of 6-aminohexanoic acid to the AH-site, a weak lysine binding site in Glu-plasminogen, alters the conformation of the molecule. The kinetics of the binding and the accompanying conformational change are investigated at pH 7.8, 25 degrees C. Changes of intrinsic protein fluorescence were measured as a function of time after rapid mixing in a stopped-flow apparatus. The results reflect a two-step reaction mechanism: Rapid association of Glu-plasminogen and 6-aminohexanoic acid (K1 = 44 mM) followed by the conformational change (k2 = 69 s-1 and k-2 = 3 s-1) with an overall dissociation constant Kd = 2.0 mM. Thus the conformational change is rather fast, t12 = 0.01 s. Its importance for the rates of Glu-plasminogen activation reactions is discussed.
We studied the ability of five metabolites of hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA), which we had previously identified in patient urine, to induce differentiation or to influence differentiation induced by HMBA of a human promyelocytic cell line. Differentiation of HL60 cells was quantified by morphological changes and by the ability to reduce nitroblue tetrazolium. N-Acetyl-1,6-diaminohexane (NADAH), the deacetylated, first metabolite of HMBA, was a more potent inducer of HL60 differentiation than was HMBA. NADAH produced 20-30% differentiation at 0.25 mM and 30-40% differentiation at 0.5 mM. NADAH (1 mM) induced 2-3-fold more differentiation than did 1 mM HMBA. HL60 differentiation, induced by various combinations of HMBA and NADAH, reflected a combined effect of the two compounds. In contrast, 1,6-diaminohexane, at 0.5-5 mM, failed to induce HL60 differentiation. Similarly, 0.5-5 mM 6-acetamidohexanoic acid, the major metabolite of HMBA, and 6-aminohexanoic acid failed to induce differentiation of HL60 cells. However, 6-acetamidohexanoic acid, when combined with HMBA or NADAH at various concentrations and ratios, enhanced the differentiation of HL60 cells induced by these two compounds. This enhancement was most apparent with addition of 0.50-3.0 mM 6-acetamidohexanoic acid to HL60 cells incubated with 1.0-3.0 mM HMBA or 0.25-1.0 mM NADAH. 6-Aminohexanoic acid similarly enhanced HMBA-induced differentiation of HL60 cells. These in vitro results have implications in terms of the clinical application of HMBA and interpretation of the results of clinical trials performed to date and may provide some insight into the mechanism of HMBA-induced cellular differentiation.
Neurotensin (NT) is a regulatory peptide with a nanomolar affinity towards NT receptors, which are overexpressed by different types clinically relevant tumours (e.g. Ewing’ sarcoma, breast, colon and exocrine pancreatic cancer). Regulatory peptides have been shown to be suitable vectors for the specific delivery of radioactivity to tumours for diagnostic and therapeutic applications in nuclear medicine. Therefore, the binding sequence of Neurotensin, NT (8-13), is a promising vector for the development of peptidic radiotracers for tumour imaging and therapy. A potential drawback of this peptide vector is its instability in vivo as the result of rapid degradation by proteases. It has been shown that stabilization of a peptide against proteases can lead to an increased tumour uptake. However, classical peptide backbone modifications (e.g., N-methylation or reduction of the amide bond) were only partially successful in providing stabilized NT-analogues with improved tumour-targeting properties. It has been suggested that 1,4-disubstituted 1,2,3-triazoles might represent suitable trans-amide bond bioisosters, which are resistant to proteases. To study the effect of 1,4-disubstituted 1,2,3-triazoles on NT (8-13) as amide bond mimics, we performed a ‘triazole scan’ of the amino acid sequence by which every backbone amide bond of the NT (8-13) sequence is substituted with a 1,4-disubstituted 1,2,3-triazole. ::: The focus of the first part of this thesis was on the investigation of the pharmacological influence of a spacer on a radiometallated DOTA-functionalized NT (8-13) sequence. A NT (8-13)-based peptide conjugate without a spacer to separate the chelator from the tumour-targeting peptide was compared side-by-side with two NT (8-13) peptide conjugates, each having a different spacer, one hydrophilic (tetraethylenglycol, PEG4) and one lipophilic (6-aminohexanoic acid, Ahx). The compound with the PEG4-spacer exhibited the best properties in vitro and was thus selected as reference compound and starting point for future peptide conjugates. ::: A ‘triazole scan’ of NT (8-13) yielded several triazole backbone-modified NT (8-13) analogues with interesting properties. It was found that a triazole modification was only tolerated between the N-terminal PEG4 spacer and Arg9 and in the position between Arg8 and Arg9. Substitution of these bonds yielded two single-triazole containing compounds as well as one bis-triazole analogue with nanomolar affinities towards NTR1 and moderately improved metabolic stabilities (first generation of triazole-containing NT (8-13) peptidomimetics). ::: Further enhancement of the metabolic stability of the peptidomimetics of the first generation was achieved by the substitution of Ile12 of NT (8-13) with a Tle12. The triazole insertion was only introduced at the previously identified positions which tolerate the modification. The obtained compounds (second generation of triazole-containing NT (8-13) analogues) were evaluated in vitro and compared side-by-side to the reference compound. Our investigations revealed that the Ile12 to Tle12 residue switch led to a substantial improvement of the metabolic stability of the compounds, however a significant loss of receptor affinity was observed. ::: The compounds with the most promising properties in vitro (retained nanomolar NTR1 affinity and improved metabolic stability) were selected for biodistribution studies and compared side-by-side with the corresponding reference compounds of the first and second generation. The NT (8-13) analogues with a 1,4-disubstituted 1,2,3-triazole between Arg8 and Arg9 exhibited a 2-fold tumour uptake, in comparison to the reference compounds. Compared to literature data we can report exceptionally good tumour to background ratios in general, especially for the tumour to kidney ratio. A high tumour to background ratio is beneficial for the potential application of peptidic radiopharmaceuticals as imaging or therapeutic agents. In general, no or little correlation between the in vitro behaviour (metabolic stability or receptor binding affinity) and the uptake of the conjugates in the tumour in vivo could be observed, which demonstrates the necessity of preclinical evaluations of novel radiotracers. ::: In summary, we report the first ‘triazole scan’ of the binding sequence of NT (8-13) and the synthesis and biological evaluation of novel radiolabelled triazole-peptidomimetics. The substitution of amide bonds with 1,4-disubstitued 1,2,3-triazoles provided NT (8-13) peptidomimetics with improved tumour-targeting properties. The NT (8-13) analogues described in this thesis represent interesting candidates for the development of novel tumour-targeting probes with applications in nuclear medicine.
The regeneration characteristics and biological activities of mitomycin C-dextran conjugate (MMC-D) were investigated in comparison with those of free mitomycin C (MMC), and the following results were obtained. (1) MMC is coupled at the 1a-nitrogen position via an amide linkage to a carboxyl group of e-aminocaproic acid (6-aminohexanoic acid) which was introduced onto dextran as a spacer. (2) MMC-D was stabler than MMC against acid-catalyzed and metabolic degradation. (3) MMC was liberated from MMC-D with a half-life of about 24 h under physiological conditions (pH 7.4, 37°C) and more rapidly at higher pH. (4) Liver homogenate did not accelerate the liberation of MMC from MMC-D. (5) Antimicrobial activity of MMC-D against Escherichia coli B was less than one-eighteenth of that of MMC. (6) MMC-D showed about one-tenth of the antitumor activity of MMC in vitro in contact with L1210 leukemia cells, but showed almost equal efficiency in the i. p.-i. p. system in vivo, suggesting that MMC-D exhibited activity after being regenerated to the parent drug in the body.
The second dissociation constants of the amino acids β-alanine, taurine, sarcosine, 6-aminohexanoic acid, dl-methionine, glycine, l-phenylalanine, and l-proline and the third dissociation constants of l-glutamic acid and l-aspartic acid have been determined from electromotive force measurements at temperatures from (293 to 353) K. Experimental results are reported and compared to literature values. Values of the standard state thermodynamic properties are derived from the experimental results and compared to the values of commercially available amines used as absorbents for CO2 capture.
Studies were conducted on the mechanism of the stimulatory effect of 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AH) during the in vitro activation of human glutamic plasminogen (Glu-Plg) by streptokinase or by tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) and the possible role of the addition of physiological concentrations of NaCl to the buffer solution. Enhancement by 6-AH was investigated by measuring the rate of plasmin generation using chromogenic substrate H-D-glu-phe-lys-pNA (S-2403). Control studies using plasmin showed that the addition of 6-AH at concentrations below 20 mM did not significantly affect the initial rate of the amidolytic activity of plasmin with or without the addition of NaCl to 0.05 M Tris buffer (pH 7.4). On the other hand, addition of NaCl to the buffer slowed down the initial rate of activation of Glu-Plg by streptokinase or by t-PA while increasing the percent enhancement by 6-AH when compared with the controls. The ratios of the initial rates of plasmin generation in the presence or in the absence of 6-AH were plotted against the inverse of the volume fraction of Glu-Plg, streptokinase or t-PA after serial dilutions. The results showed that when the activation reactions were performed in 50 mM of Tris buffer (pH 7.4), the enhancements by 6-AH were related to its interaction with streptokinase or t-PA, while using the same Tris buffer containing 0.6 % NaCl, the enhancements by 6-AH were related to its interaction with both Glu-Plg and streptokinase or t-PA. However, upon increasing the NaCl to 0.9%, the results showed that the enhancements by 6-AH of the activation of Glu-Plg by streptokinase or t-PA were related to its interaction with Glu-Plg. The results suggested that changes in the concentrations of NaCl play a regulatory role during the activation process.
Aqueous solutions of amines are frequently used for the removal of acid gases, such as CO 2 and H 2 S, from a variety of gas streams. In particular, aqueous solutions of alkanolamines and blends of alkanolamines are widely applied in gas treating. 1 It has been reported that alkanolamines undergo degradation in an oxygen atmosphere, usually encountered in the treatment of flue gases. Aqueous amino acid salt solutions might be an attractive alternative to alkanolamines. They have been found to have better resistance to degradation, and their reactivity with CO 2 is comparable to aqueous alkanolamines of related classes. Due to their ionic nature, aqueous solutions of salts of amino acids have negligible volatility and, among others, also have higher surface tension than aqueous solutions of alkanolamines. [2] [3] [4] The second dissociation constants of -alanine, taurine, sarcosine, 6-aminohexanoic acid, DL-methionine, glycine, Lphenylalanine, and L-proline and the third dissociation constants of L-glutamic acid and L-aspartic acid have been determined from (293 to 353) K in this work by the use of electromotive force measurements. Parts of the results extend the temperature range of available literature data for the compounds under investigation.
The dissociation constants of protonated MDEA, the second dissociation constants of -alanine, taurine, sarcosine, 6-aminohexanoic acid, DL-methionine, glycine, L-phenylalanine, and L-proline, and the third dissociation constants of L-glutamic acid and L-aspartic acid have been determined from electromotive force measurements from (293 to 353) K. Parts of the results extend the temperature range of available literature data of the investigated compounds. The experimental results agree with results previously reported in the literature.
Carboxylic acid-functionalized SWNTs prepared via the reaction of an amino acid, NH2(CH2)nCO2H, with fluoronanotubes show similar levels of sidewall functionalization; however, the solubility in water is controlled by the length of the hydrocarbon side chain (i.e., n). The 6-aminohexanoic acid derivative is soluble in aqueous solution (0.5 mg mL-1) between pH 4 and 11, whereas the glysine and 11-aminoundecanoic acid derivatives are insoluble across all pH values.
The 600-MHz proton spectrum of dethiobiotin (prepared from d-biotin with Raney nickel) was measured in order to gain information pertaining to its stereochemical homogeneity. The spectrum demonstrated clearly that the material is a 6:1 mixture of two stereoisomers. The cis compound, corresponding to the stereochemistry of d-biotin, is the major isomer. Two biotinyl- and two dethiobiotinylinsulins were prepared in which the distance between the biotins and insulin was varied by interposition of spacer arms. The synthesis of these compounds involved repeated N-hydroxysuccinimido ester condensations. Biotin N-hydroxysuccinimido ester, dethiobiotin N-hydroxysuccinimido ester, 6-aminohexanoic acid, and N-[3-[(3-aminopropyl)carboxyamino]-propyl]succinamic acid N-tert-butyl ester served as the building blocks for the spacers. The latter compound was prepared from N-[3-[(3-aminopropyl)amino]propyl]succinamic acid sulfate by the use of a selective amino-protecting method based on the differential stability toward acid of citraconyl and tert-butoxycarbonyl amino-protecting groups. The structure of N-[3-[(3-aminopropyl)amino]propyl]succinamic acid sulfate was established unequivocally by X-ray diffraction. The attachment of the biotinylated spacers to the insulin was exclusively at the N alpha, B1 position. Homogeneity of the final products as well as of the intermediates used in their synthesis was established by thin-layer chromatography, by high-pressure liquid chromatography, and in most instances by elemental analysis. The ratio of 6-aminohexanoic acid to lysine in hydrolysates of the insulin derivatives was in agreement with theory. The insulin derivatives were required for a study on the effect of avidin on their ability to interact with insulin receptors on rat epididymal adipocytes, which is described in the accompanying paper.
The properties of the cationic locus within the recombinant (r) kringle 2 domain (residues 180-261) of tissue-type plasminogen activator ([K2tPA]) that are responsible for stabilization of its interaction with the carboxylate moiety of omega-amino acid ligands have been assessed by determination of the binding constants of several such ligands to a variety of r-[K2tPA] mutants obtained by oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis. We have generated, expressed in Escherichia coli, and purified alanyl mutants of individual histidyl,lysyl, and arginyl residues of r-[K2tPA] and determined the dissociation constants of several omega-amino acids, viz., 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHxA), 7-aminoheptanoic acid (7-AHpA), L-lysine (L-Lys), and trans-(aminomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylic acid (AMCHA), to each of the r-[K2tPA] variants. We find that K33 plays the most significant role as a cationic partner of the complementary carboxylate group of these ligands. When K33 is altered to a variety of other amino acids, the K33R mutant best stabilizes binding of all of these ligands. However, the r-K33L and r-K33F variants selectively interact with 7-AHpA almost as strongly (ca. 2-fold reduction in binding strength) as wild-type r-[K2tPA]. Increased polarity (K33Q) or a negative charge (K33E) at this sequence position significantly destabilizes binding of omega-amino acids to the muteins. We also found that the r-K33E mutant and, to a lesser extent, the r-K33Q variant selectively interact with a new ligand, 1,6-diaminohexane. These observations show that the omega-amino acid binding site of wtr-[K2tPA] could be redesigned to provide a new binding specificity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Four sets of centrally truncated analogues of neuropeptide Y have been synthesized. In each series the N-terminal part was constant, while the C-terminal segment was systematically varied in length. The C- and N-terminal parts were linked by 6-aminohexanoic acid. The affinity to the Y1 receptor was investigated on human neuroblastoma cells SK-N-MC. Significant differences were found between the series of peptides as well as within each set. Remarkably, the affinity did not solely depend on the length of the segment, and with increasing numbers of residues the IC50 values were not always decreased. With a given N-terminal segment, only one optimal length of the C-terminal segment was found, which suggests that it is not the amino acids themselves but their 3D arrangement and orientation that is important for high receptor affinity.
The α2plasmin inhibitor prepared by affinity chromatography on plasminogen-Sepharose 4B appears mainly as a molecular form with Mr67000 but also as forms with Mr65000 and 60000. The 67000-Mr and 60000. The 67000-Mrform spontaneously converts to the lower-molecular-mass forms. The rate of conversion is temperature-dependent. All three molecules react with specific immuno globulin against α2plasmin inhibitor. The plasminogen-binding capacity of the 67000-Mr form is lost upon its conversion into the 65000-Mrform, but it has retained its capacity to inhibit plasmin. Upon conversion to the 60000-Mr form the capacity to inhibit plasmin is also lost. The presumed catalytic effect of a copurified serine proteinase on these reactions could not be substantiated since the addition of a number of known serine proteinases and serine proteinase inhibitors did not influence the rate of conversion of the 67000-Mrform to the modified forms. The functional properties of the 65000-Mrnon-plasminogen-binding α2plasmin inhibitor form were compared to those of the 67000-Mrplasminogen-binding form. In a clot lysis assay the plasminogen-binding inhibitor was a more efficient inhibitor of fibrinolysis than the non-plasminogen-binding inhibitor. Plasminogen was displaced from fibrin more readily by the plasminogen-binding inhibitor than by the non-plasminogen-binding form, and activation of Glu-plasminogen by urokinase and tissue activator was more rapid with the plasminogen-binding inhibitor than with the non-plasminogen-binding form. ::: ::: ::: ::: Kinetic studies showed that the plasminogen-binding α2plasmin inhibitor reacted more readily with plasmin than the non-plasminogen-binding form and that the inactivation of plasmin by the former was a biphasic process in the absence of 6-aminohexanoic acid, but monophasic in its presence. Inactivation of plasmin by the non-plasminogen-binding α2plasmin inhibitor was a monophasic reaction both in the absence and the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid and identical to the reaction with the plasminogen-binding form in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid.
Abstract The standard molar enthalpies of formation of β-alanine, sarcosine, and 4-aminobutanoic acid in the gaseous phase at T = 298.15 K were calculated by the high-level Gaussian-4 method. The agreement with available experimental data is good for β-alanine and 4-aminobutanoic acid, while a significant discrepancy between theoretical and experimental enthalpy of formation values for sarcosine suggests the inaccuracy of experimental data for this compound. These results were also supported by isodesmic reaction calculations. The recommended values of Δ f H m ∘ (β-alanine, g, 298.15 K) = (−419.7 ± 4.0) kJ · mol −1 , Δ f H m ∘ (sarcosine, g, 298.15 K) = (−389.0 ± 4.0) kJ · mol −1 , and Δ f H m ∘ (4-aminobutanoic acid, g, 298.15 K) = (−436.7 ± 5.0) kJ · mol −1 together with those obtained earlier for glycine and alanine, enable one to determine the group additivity values (GAVs) for some groups with nitrogen bound to carbon. These GAVs were used to estimate the enthalpies of formation of 5-aminopentanoic acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid, and 8-aminooctanoic acid. For the two first species, the experimental and calculated values agree well. A large deviation observed for 8-aminooctanoic acid suggests that experimental Δ f H m ∘ ( cr ) value for this compound is not reliable.
Abstract In the pituitary gland, activated protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms accumulate either selectively at the cell-cell contact (α and ϵ) or at the entire plasma membrane (β1 and δ). The molecular mechanisms underlying these various subcellular locations are not known. Here, we demonstrate the existence within PKCϵ of a cell-cell contact targeting sequence (3CTS) that, upon stimulation, is capable of targeting PKCδ, chimerin-α1, and the PKCϵ C1 domain to the cell-cell contact. We show that this selective targeting of PKCϵ is lost upon overexpression of 3CTS fused to a (R-Ahx-R)4 (where Ahx is 6-aminohexanoic acid) vectorization peptide, reflecting a dominant-negative effect of the overexpressed 3CTS on targeting selectivity. 3CTS contains a putative amphipathic α-helix, a 14-3-3-binding site, and the Glu-374 amino acid, involved in targeting selectivity. We show that the integrity of the α-helix is important for translocation but that 14-3-3 is not involved in targeting selectivity. However, PKCϵ translocation is increased when PKCϵ/14-3-3 interaction is abolished, suggesting that phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate activation may initiate two sets of PKCϵ functions, those depending on 14-3-3 and those depending on translocation to cell-cell contacts. Thus, 3CTS is involved in the modulation of translocation via its 14-3-3-binding site, in cytoplasmic desequestration via the α-helix, and in selective PKCϵ targeting at the cell-cell contact via Glu-374.
Series of alkyl esters of 6-(diethylamino)-, 6-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)-, 6-(piperidin-1-yl) and 6-(morpholin-4-yl)hexanoic acids and alkylamides of 6-(dimethylamino)-, 6-(piperidin-1-yl) and 6-(morpholin-4-yl)hexanoic acids, containing 8―12 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain, were prepared by methods of classical organic synthesis. The appropriate secondary amine was alkylated with ethyl 6-bromohexanoate to give ester of ω-substituted hexanoic acid, except of ethyl 6-(dimethylamino)hexanoate (1), which was prepared by Eschweiler―Clarke methylation of 6-aminohexanoic acid followed by direct esterification with ethanol. The resulted esters of ω-substituted hexanoic acids underwent direct transesterification with long chain alkanols to yield the desired amino esters, or they were treated with long-chain alkylamines to prepare secondary amides of the appropriate heterocyclic hexanoic acids. These products were in vitro tested on their activity as transdermal permeation enhancers on the strips of the excised human skin with theophylline as the model permeant. The activity was evaluated using parameter enhancement ratio (ER), defined as the ratio between the overall amount of the permeant passing through the skin with the tested enhancer and that without tested substance. Decyl 6-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)hexanoate (9) with ER = 30 showed the highest activity. The enhancing effects of the esters were generally better than those of the amides.
A conventional and general route has been exploited to the high yield synthesis of many kinds of highly crystalline metal oxide and mixed oxide nanocrystals with different morphologies including belt, rod, truncated-octahedron, cubic, sphere, sheet via the hydrothermal reaction of inorganic precursors in aqueous solution in the presence of bifunctional 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA) molecules as a capping agent. This method is a simple, reproducible and general route for the preparation of a variety of high-crystalline inorganic nanocrystals in scale-up. The shape of inorganic nanocrystals such as CoWO(4), La(2)(MoO(4))(3) can be controlled by simply adjusting the synthesis conditions including pH solution and reaction temperature. Further, by tuning precursor monomer concentration, the mesocrystal hierarchical aggregated microspheres (e.g., MnWO(4), La(2)(MoO(4))(3)) can be achieved, due to the spontaneous assembly of individual AHA-capped nanoparticles. These obtained AHA-capped nanocrystals are excellent supports for the synthesis of a variety of hybrid metal/oxide nanocrystals in which noble metal particles are uniformly deposited on the surface of each individual nanosupport. The photocatalytic activity of Ag/TiO(2) nanobelts as a typical hybrid photocatalyst sample for Methylene Blue degradation was also studied.
Series of esters of 6-aminohexanoic acid, 7-aminoheptanoic acid, and 8-aminooctanoic acid were synthesized as candidates for novel skin penetration enhancers. The permeation of theophylline expressed in the form of the enhancement factor (EF) was studied with human cadaver skin by a diffusion cell technique in the presence of the esters 1-17 in the water vehicle. The permeation in the presence of the 6-aminohexanoates 1-5 was also studied in the olive oil vehicle. Of the compounds tested, the most satisfactory enhancement in the water vehicle and oil vehicle were observed with octyl 6-aminohexanoate (EF = 45.5) and decyl 6-aminohexanoate (EF = 19.5), respectively.
1. Highly purified human ceruloplasmin was isolated from fresh donor blood in the presence of inhibitors of proteolysis and from stored retroplacental blood serum both with and without inhibitors of proteolysis. According to the data of electrophoresis. ultracentrifuge sedimentation velocity and sedimentation equilibrium, all the ceruloplasmin samples were homogeneous, their molecular weight being 130000. 2. The dissociation of the samples treated by dodecylsulphate, guanidine . HC1, and urea was studied by means of quantitative analytical and preparative electrophoresis, and sedimentation equilibrium. The dissociation patterns depended on whether inhibitors were used in the isolation procedure. Polypeptides with molecular weights of 130000, 112000 and 16000 (minor component) were obtained, if phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and/or 6-aminohexanoic acid were used; if these compounds were not used, the dissociation yielded additional polypeptides of molecular weights of 100 000 (minor component), 64000 and 48 000. Under proteolysis-favouring conditions the relative amount of these polypeptides increased. Prolonged storage of samples under sterile conditions without inhibitors of proteolysis resulted in a decrease of the relative amount of polypeptides with molecular weights of 130000, 112000, 100000, 64000 and 48000, contrary to that of the 16000-M, polypeptide, which increased. At the same time new polypeptides appeared with molecular weights of 42 000 and 21 500 - 23 000. 3. Spontaneous specific fragmentation of the ceruloplasmin molecule is due to trace amounts of proteases, which seem to originate from blood plasma. 4. Limited tryptic hydrolysis of the ceruloplasmin globule resulted in the appearance of polypeptides with the same molecular weights which were observed in spontaneous fragmentation. 5. A conclusion is drawn that the ceruloplasmin molecule in vivo is a single polypeptide chain with at least five bonds which in vitro are the points of specific proteolytic fragmentation, yielding six principal fragments.
Abstract Two novel chlorinated fluoresceins 4,7,2′,7′-tetrachloro-6-(5-carboxypentyl)fluorescein ( 8a ) and 4,7,4′,5′-tetra- chloro-6-(5-carboxypentyl)fluorescein ( 8b ) were synthesized as fluorescent probes for labeling proteins. These two fluoresceins contain 6-aminohexanoic acid as spacer linker to minimize the fluorescence quenching of the fluorescein molecules by the proteins to be labeled.
Abstract Aliquat 336, tri- n -octylmethylammonium chloride, was impregnated into the polymer chain grafted onto a porous hollow-fiber membrane. 6-Aminohexanoic acid and octadecylamine were introduced into the epoxy group of the graft chain. The amount of impregnated Aliquat 336 was 1.2 mol/kg of the GMA-grafted porous hollow-fiber membrane. The coexistence of 6-aminohexanoic acid and octadecylamino groups enabled the high-density and stable impregnation of Aliquat 336 to the graft chain. Palladium chloride (100 mg-Pd/L) dissolved in 1 M hydrochloric acid was forced to permeate through the pores of the Aliquat 336-impregnated porous hollow-fiber membrane. The binding efficiency, defined as the ratio of number of moles of palladium adsorbed to half the number of moles of impregnated Aliquat 336, was found to be 69%.
Abstract Lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)], a risk factor for coronary artery disease, is a LDL-like particle with apolipoprotein (a) [apo(a)] covalently linked to apolipoprotein B (apoB). Apo(a) has many repeats of kringle 4-like domain, classified as type 1 through type 10 (T1–T10). Deletion analysis was performed to define the functional modules of human apo(a). We found that T7 has an affinity for cell surfaces and is required for Lp(a) formation. Cell surface binding was inhibited by l -proline, K I = 4.7 ± 3.6 mM (n=3). We also found that T8 has an affinity for subendothelial extracellular matrix (ECM). ECM binding was inhibited modestly by l -proline (K I = 6.1 ± 1.9 mM, n=3), and more effectively by l -lysine (K I = 2.7 ± 1.0 mM, n=3) and its analogue, 6-aminohexanoic acid (K I = 0.35 ± 0.13 mM, n=3). These data point to T7 and T8 as important functional modules of apo(a).
Coomassie Brilliant Blue G-250 (CBBG) was bound to the reaction products of glutaraldehyde with various compounds containing amino group. The reaction products of acetaldehyde and malonaldehyde with the amines did not bind with CBBG, indicating that the binding was specific for the product of glutaraldehyde. The dye binding products rapidly formed in alkaline pH. Gel filtration chromatography indicated that a reaction product of more than 2 kDa has a dye- binding ability. The reaction product of glutaraldehyde with 6-aminohexanoic acid was separated with SP-Sephadex. CBBG was bound to the first eluted fraction from the column with highest affinity. The absorbance at 595nm by CBBG binding was linearly related to this lyophilized fraction at a concentration of up to 250μg/ml, suggesting its applicability to the determination of the reaction product of glutaraldehyde and amine. The present method should contribute to our understanding of the chemistry of glutaraldehyde associated with diverse fields, such as enzyme technology and biochemistry.
Abstract A comparison of the effects of cimetidine and 6-aminohexanoic acid (EACA) on activator-induced fibrinolysis showed, that cimetidine does not have any antifibrinolytic effect, when applied in the concentration range used in the treatment of haemorrhagic gastritis or hypertrophic protein-losing gastritis. Concentrations of cimetidine above the therapeutic level impaired fibrin formation.
The lipoprotein (LP) from Escherichia coli and other Enterobacteriaceae as well as lipoprotein derived lipopeptides constitute potent B lymphocyte mitogens. Several synthetic peptide segments of the lipoprotein were tested for mitogenic activity towards splenocytes of BALB/c mice. Mitogenic effects were observed for the lipoprotein fragments LP-(2-15), LP-(2-20), LP-(2-25), and LP-(33-47), and a less pronounced effect was determined for LP-(2-10). The mitogenicity of the peptides could be further enhanced by their attachment to the lipopeptide N-palmitoyl-S-[2,3-bis(palmitoyloxy)-(2R,S)-propyl]-(R)- cysteine (Pam3Cys). The additional insertion of 6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx) between the peptide segments and Pam3Cys further increased mitogenicity. Thus, in addition to the known mitogenic N-terminal lipopeptide of lipoprotein, additional peptide segments of the molecule were shown to exhibit a biological activity.
Antisera were purified by affinity chromatography, byr4 protein from the soluble fraction of the bacterial lysate were purified by incubation with Ni-agarose (Qiagen, Chatsworth, CA) for 30 min on ice. The beads were washed three times with 60 mM imidazole, 50 mM NaC1, 20 mM Tris-HC1 (pH 7.9) and five times with crosslinking buffer (20 mM Hepes, 5% glycerol, 0.03% Brij-35, 100 mM NaC1 [pH 7.4]), and eluted three times with 1 ml of crosslinking buffer with 100 mM EDTA. The material purified from a 500 ml bacterial culture was coupled to 1 ml of 6-aminohexanoic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester Sepharose 4B (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO) at 4°C for 16 h. The coupled beads were washed and used to affinity purify an equal volume of serum using standard techniques (Harlow and Lane, 1988) .
The SSO targeted to a donor splice site of intron 23 or other splicing elements in exon 23 forces skipping of the exon, leading to internally deleted dystrophin production. Among oligonucleotide chemistries tested in mdx mice, systemically delivered phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMOs) were particularly effective in exon 23 skipping and dystrophin expression at therapeutic levels in body-wide skeletal muscles of mdx mice, which led to functional improvement of skeletal muscles. Unfortunately, induction of exon skipping and dystrophin expression, if any, in heart was not detectable. 11 Since all striated muscles, including cardiac muscle, are affected by DMD, and 30% of deaths in DMD patients are caused by heart failure, 13 induction of dystrophin expression in cardiac muscle is critical for DMD treatment. We previously reported for the first time that dystrophin expression was efficiently induced in the heart of mdx mice by arginine-rich cell-penetrating peptide conjugated PMO (PPMO), named AVI-5225 carrying (RXRRBR) 2 XB peptide, where R is arginine, X is 6-aminohexanoic acid, and B is b-alanine.
Abstract Pretreatment of native plasminogen with plasmin or activators resulted in a pronounced increase in the binding of plasminogen to fibrin. The pretreated plasminogen was considered to be identical to the proteolytically degraded proenzyme with NH2-terminal lysine, valine or methionine, which is formed as an intermediate stage during activation of plasminogen. Bound plasminogen could be extracted by 6-aminohexanoic acid indicating a reversible binding between plasminogen and fibrin. Adsorption of pretreated plasminogen decreased when increasing concentrations of 6-aminohexanoic acid or trans-4-aminomethylcyclohexane-1-carboxylic acid (t-AMCHA) were present during fibrin formation. The concentration of amino acid producing a decrease in the binding of pretreated plasminogen to 0.5 of the amount bound in the absence of amino acid was 8.0 · 10−5 M with 6-aminohexanoic acid and 1.7 · 10−5 M with t-AMCHA. The decrease in binding is most likely related to an effect of the amino acids on plasminogen, since agarose gel electrophoresis of pretreated plasminogen in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid or t-AMCHA showed a cathodic shift in mobility at the same range of concentrations of amino acid, which produced the decrease in binding of plasminogen to fibrin. Evidence is provided that the decrease in binding of proteolytically degraded plasminogen may result in an inhibition of fibrinolysis caused by activators.
Plasminogen is detected in the basal cell layer of the epidermis, keratinocytes can generate plasminogen activators and it is suggested that the generation of plasmin may facilitate keratinocyte division, migration and differentiation. In this study we have investigated the characteristics of plasminogen binding sites in normal human epidermis. It was found that 6-aminohexanoic acid and benzamidine displaced endogenous epidermal plasminogen from the basal layer suggesting that endogenous plasminogen binds initially via the kringle 5 aminohexyl (AH) site. Plasminogen binding sites in epidermis were further investigated by displacing endogenous plasminogen and incubating sections with exogenously added glu-plasminogen, lys-plasminogen and plasmin or the isolated plasminogen fragments kringles 1-3, kringle 4 and kringle 5L. The results suggest that the uptake of plasminogen involves primary interaction with the kringle 5AH site and a secondary interaction with lysine binding sites of kringles 1-3. Cell binding is not dependent upon additional reactions of the plasmin active centre.
Reactive absorption is a common process in the chemical industry and is used, among others, in the treatment of CO2 containing industrial gas streams. The current work was a part of a project with the aim to assess new reactive solvents based on amino acid salts for CO2 removal from industrial gas streams. Initially, a group of promising amino acid salts (taurine, sarcosine, L-proline, -alanine, 6-aminohexanoic acid and DL-methionine) was screened for their CO2 absorption kinetics, pKa values, CO2 effective capacity, precipitation window and identity of the precipitates. Based on the results of this study, the (alkaline salt) of imino acid L-proline was chosen for further investigation. For this solvent, important characteristics like physico-chemical properties, CO2 absorption kinetics, thermodynamic equilibria and energy consumption for a solvent regeneration (reboiler duty) were determined. The potential of L-proline and other (precipitating) amino acid salts solutions for CO2 capture and utilization is still not fully explored and deserves further consideration.
This thesis describes investigations performed into the ion exchange and intercalation properties of aluminium triphosphate, AlH\(_2\)P\(_3\)O\(_{10}\)•2H\(_2\)O (AlTP). Materials synthesised were characterised using a variety of techniques, including powder neutron and X-ray diffraction, Rietveld analysis, thermogravimetic analysis and environmental scanning microscopy. Monovalent ion exchange (with Na, K, Rb, Cs and Ag) gave complete and facile exchange of the host’s hydrogen ions and gave crystalline products. A thermodynamically favoured phase with two waters of crystallisation was observed for all monovalent cation exchanges. The alkali metals also showed metastable phases with differing numbers of waters of crystallisation, four for Na and one for K, Rb and Cs. Unit cells have been assigned to the exchanged phases, with all showing a more than doubling of the \(a\) parameter. Structural characterisation of the rubidium and caesium phases show this to be a result of a change of symmetry to C2/c causing adjacent layers to shift half a unit cell along [010] with respect to one another. Ion exchange with divalent cations (Cu, Mn, Zn, Ca and Sr) has also been shown to be possible, with phases showing altered XRD patterns and decomposition products. Intercalation with a range of increasingly complex amines was found to be possible in AlTP. Multifunctional molecules, including amino acids, were also found to intercalate into AlTP, with evidence in the intercalation of 6-aminohexanoic acid that interactions between intercalated molecules within the inter-lamellar region are possible. Trends were found to be similar to other layered phosphates with respect to the amounts and angles of intercalation of simple monoamines and the effects of pK\(_b\) and sterics upon an amines ability to intercalate into AlTP. In addition, intercalation with silver exchanged AlTP was also found to be possible. This was able to intercalate several similar amines to AlTP, but showed its own unique intercalation properties including the ability to intercalate thiols.
Rabbit albumin treated with glutaraldehyde is immunogenic in rabbits due to the new antigenic determinants induced into the molecule by glutaraldehyde (Onicǎ et al., 1978a, b). Hardy et al. (1976a, 1977) isolated quaternary pyridinium compounds from the acid hydrolysis products of glutaraldehyde-reacted ovalbumin, which are responsible for the strong chromophore absorbing at 265 nm exhibited by glutaraldehyde-treated proteins. Our data have shown that such structures are involved in the antigenic determinants of glutaraldehyde-treated rabbit albumin. As a consequence, the reaction between the modified albumin and the specific antibodies is inhibited by: (1) peptides with molecular weights of 7800 and 11,000 daltons, and having an absorption maximum at 265 nm, isolated from the pronase digest of glutaraldehyde-treated albumin; (2) compounds with pyridinium structures obtained by the reaction of glutaraldehyde and the amino groups of 6-aminohexanoic acid and (3) other proteins (human and bovine albumin, ovalbumin, rabbit immunoglobulin G, peroxidase) treated with glutaraldehyde. ::: ::: Since glutaraldehyde-treated albumin shows a reaction of identity with albumin aged in vivo or in vitro, it is possible that the physiologic aging of albumin involves the formation of pyridinium-like structures. The molecular rearrangements around such structures may represent the new antigenic sites specific for the aged albumin. These sites could be recognized as non-self by the immunocompetent cells, stimulating the production of physiologic autoantibodies which remove the modified albumin from the circulation.
Preparation of mitochondrial extracts-All operations were carried out at 4 °C. HEK293T cells were washed with cold phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7), scraped from the wells, suspended in 250 mM sucrose buffered with 20 mM imidazole-HCl, pH 7, containing 1 mM EDTA and protease inhibitors [leupeptin (5 µg/ml), antitrypsin (5 µg/ml), pepstatin (1 µg/ml) trans-epoxysuccinyleucylamido [4-guanidino] butane (3.6 µg/ml) and phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride (1 mM)] and homogenized with 30 strokes in a Dounce homogenizer. Homogenates were centrifuged at 1,000 x g for 10 min. The pellet was homogenized again with a new portion of the buffer and centrifuged. Both supernatants were combined and centrifuged at 12,000 x g for 30 min at 4 °C. The resulting pellet was used for preparation of mitochondrial extract or stored at -80 °C. Mitochondria were extracted by incubation for 30 min, with occasional mixing, in a solution (20 µl per 21 mg wet cells) containing 2% lauryl maltoside, 50 mM sodium chloride, 50 mM imidazole-HCl, pH 7, 2 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid, 1 mM EDTA and protease inhibitors. The extract was centrifuged at 12,000 x g for 15 min, the supernatant was collected and the extraction repeated. Both supernatants were combined and centrifuged at 100,000 x g for 20 min. The extract, which contained both matrix and solubilized membrane proteins, was aliquoted, flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at -80 °C. Protein concentration in the extracts was measured with bicinchoninic acid reagent (Pierce) using bovine serum albumin as standard.
Blue native PAGE and complex I activityMitochondrial complexes were separated on 1 mm thick 4-13% acrylamide gel gradients, using a 3.5% stacking gel, prepared in a Bio-Rad Mini Protean II system (37). Each sample, usually 32 µg protein, contained 5% glycerol and 0.5% G-250 suspension in 0.5 M 6-aminohexanoic acid to achieve mass ratio between lauryl maltoside and G-250 equal to 30. Electrophoresis was performed at 4°, 60 V for the first 15 min, then at 5 mA constant current. Deep blue buffer was replaced with light blue buffer (37) when front reached 2/3 of gel length. Complex I activity was measured directly in the gel using nitrotetrazolium blue (38).
A new synthetic route of gabexate mesylate was designed.And this synthesis method is simple and easy to fulfill the industrial production.6-Aminohexanoic acid hydrochloride(3) was reacted with aminonitrile under certain conditions to give 4.Then 4 was reacted with ethyl hydroxybenzoate in DCC in the presence of DMAP to give the target product.This synthesis method can overcome the disadvantage of traditional synthetic method of expensive raw material and the reaction to overcome the prodution problem.The target compound was identified by 1H-NMR,IR,MS and the yield was raised to 43.1% with 99.2% content.
Streptokinase (SK) activates human fibrinolysis by inducing non-proteolytic activation of the serine proteinase zymogen, plasminogen (Pg), in the SK.Pg* catalytic complex. SK.Pg* proteolytically activates Pg to plasmin (Pm). SK-induced Pg activation is enhanced by lysine-binding site (LBS) interactions with kringles on Pg and Pm, as evidenced by inhibition of the reactions by the lysine analogue, 6-aminohexanoic acid. Equilibrium binding analysis and [Lys]Pg activation kinetics with wild-type SK, carboxypeptidase B-treated SK, and a COOH-terminal Lys414 deletion mutant (SKDeltaK414) demonstrated a critical role for Lys414 in the enhancement of [Lys]Pg and [Lys]Pm binding and conformational [Lys]Pg activation. The LBS-independent affinity of SK for [Glu]Pg was unaffected by deletion of Lys414. By contrast, removal of SK Lys414 caused 19- and 14-fold decreases in SK affinity for [Lys]Pg and [Lys]Pm binding in the catalytic mode, respectively. In kinetic studies of the coupled conformational and proteolytic activation of [Lys]Pg, SKDeltaK414 exhibited a corresponding 17-fold affinity decrease for formation of the SKDeltaK414.[Lys]Pg* complex. SKDeltaK414 binding to [Lys]Pg and [Lys]Pm and conformational [Lys]Pg activation were LBS-independent, whereas [Lys]Pg substrate binding and proteolytic [Lys]Pm generation remained LBS-dependent. We conclude that binding of SK Lys414 to [Lys]Pg and [Lys]Pm kringles enhances SK.[Lys]Pg* and SK.[Lys]Pm catalytic complex formation. This interaction is distinct structurally and functionally from LBS-dependent Pg substrate recognition by these complexes.
Biotin-labelled peptidyl diazomethane inhibitors of cysteine proteinases, based on the N-terminal substrate-like segment of human cystatin C, a natural inhibitor of cysteine proteinases, were synthesized. These synthetic derivatives were tested as irreversible inhibitors of cruzipain, the major cysteine proteinase of Trypanosoma cruzi, to compare the kinetics of the inhibition of the parasite proteinase with that of the mammalian cathepsins B and L. The accessibility of the active sites of these proteinases to these probes was also investigated. The inhibition of cruzipain by Biot-LVG-CHN2 (where Biot represents biotinyl and L,V and G are single-letter amino acid residue abbreviations) and Biot-Ahx-LVG-CHN2 (where Ahx represents 6-aminohexanoic acid) was similar to that of unlabelled inhibitor. Biotin labelling of the inhibitor slowed the inhibition of both cathepsin B and cathepsin L. Adding a spacer arm (Ahx) between the biotin and the peptide moiety of the derivative increased the inhibition of cathepsin B but not that of cathepsin L. The discrimination provided by this spacer is probably due to differences in the topologies of the binding sites of proteinases, a feature that can be exploited to improve targeting of individual cysteine proteinases. Analysis of the blotted proteinases revealed marked differences in the accessibility of extravidin-peroxidase conjugate to the proteinase-bound biotinylated inhibitor. Cruzipain molecules exposed to Biot-LVG-CHN2 or Biot-Ahx-LVG-CHN2 were readily identified, but the reaction was much stronger when the enzyme was treated with the spacer-containing inhibitor. In contrast with the parasite enzyme, rat cathepsin B and cathepsin L treated with either Biot-LVG-CHN2 or Biot-Ahx-LVG-CHN2 produced no detectable bands. Papain, the archetype of this family of proteinases, was poorly labelled with Biot-LVG-CHN2, but strong staining was obtained with Biot-Ahx-LVG-CHN2. These findings suggest that optimized biotinylated diazomethanes might considerably improve their selectivity for the T. cruzi target enzyme.
Two dimensional materials are promising candidates for sensing, catalysis, and energy storage applications because of their high surface area and excellent electronic properties. Layered materials such as graphite, transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) and transition metal oxides (TMOs) can be a major source of two dimensional systems. However, the development of two dimensional systems from layered materials has been hindered by the lack of a proper exfoliation technique. We report the exfoliation of bulk MoS2 powder into few layered nanoflakes using lithium salt of 6-aminohexanoic acid (Li-AHA) in an aqueous dispersion. Li-AHA treated MoS2 was ‘destacked’ to form few layered nanoflakes due to the electrostatic repulsion. XRD analysis showed that the Li-AHA treatment resulted in the formation of highly crystalline MoS2 nanoflakes. Raman spectroscopic analysis indicated a shift in E12g and A1g peaks suggesting the reduction in interlayer interactions, which in turn indicates exfoliation. Electron microscopic observations strongly suggested the formation of a few layered structure. These nanoflakes can be further incorporated into various polymer matrices to prepare composites with superior mechanical and electrical properties as compared to its bulk counterpart. The reported exfoliation technique is simple, effective and can be extended to exfoliate various transition metal dichalcogenides.
Abstract The treatment of bioprosthetic tissue routinely involves the use of glutaraldehyde, although the specific chemistry of glutaraldehyde fixation is not fully understood. Descriptions of definitive work on this reaction using model compounds are limited. The aim of the present study was to increase our understanding of the chemistry involved in the treatment of collagen-rich tissue with glutaraldehyde. Initially, 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) was used to model the lysine/hydroxylysine molecules in collagen before studying the more complex chemistry of the tissue. The reaction between 0.6% glutaraldehyde and 6-AHA was studied by positive ion electrospray-mass spectroscopy. Untreated, locally treated and commercially produced explanted and non-implanted tissue were hydrolyzed under various conditions and analyzed both directly and after derivatization with 4-chlorophenylhydrazine, 4-bromophenacyl bromide and dansyl chloride by reverse-phase-high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The mass spectral data obtained from the reaction of glutaraldehyde with 6-AHA showed the presence of alpha,beta unsaturated aldehydes and their further condensation products involving Michael reactions of glutaraldehyde, Schiff base cross-links and various cyclization products incorporating pyridinium and dihydropyridine ring structures. The only stable cross-link detected was an 'anabilysine'-like compound. Similar structures were present in the tissue, and anabilysine was identified by tandem mass spectrometry. The results from the reaction of glutaraldehyde with 6-AHA agree with those published previously. The only detectable stable cross-link definitively identified in treated bioprosthetic tissue was anabilysine. No long-chain polymers of glutaraldehyde were detected.
Chemical modification of the egg-laying hormone (ELH) of Aplysia by reaction with the N-hydroxysuccinimide ester of biotin, which contained 6-aminohexanoic acid as spacer, yielded seven distinct derivatives that were readily separated by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography. The derivatives were chemically characterized by amino acid compositional analysis, sequence analysis, and mass spectrometry. The seven derivatives resulted from combinations of differential modification of the three amino groups in the ELH molecule located at Ile1 (alpha-NH2), Lys8, and Lys36. Of the seven derivatives formed, only one, monobiotinyl Lys36-ELH, was biologically active in eliciting egg-laying activity and altering the electrophysiological activity of the abdominal ganglion neuron R15 and LB and LC cluster neurons. In addition, evaluation of the time course of biotinylation of ELH revealed that the relative rate of amino group reactivity was epsilon-NH2-Lys36 greater than epsilon-NH2-Lys8 much greater than alpha-NH2-Ile1. The slow rate of reaction of the terminal alpha-amino group suggested that it was relatively inaccessible to biotinylation, possibly due to conformational factors or to ion-pair formation with an unidentified carboxyl group. Loss of bioactivity of ELH monobiotinylated on the alpha-amino group, coupled with the unusually low reactivity of the alpha-amino group, provided strong evidence for the importance of the alpha-amino group in ELH function. Furthermore, the development and availability of a bioactive ELH probe should greatly facilitate the isolation, characterization, and localization of the ELH receptor.
Abstract Rare-earth upconversion nanophosphors (UCNPs) have great potential to become excellent biological luminescent labels for fluorescence bioimaging. However, it is still difficult to directly synthesize high-quality water-soluble UCNPs bearing appropriate functional groups using a one-step synthetic strategy. Herein, we report a one-step synthetic strategy for high-quality water-soluble and surface-functionalized UCNPs using a hydrothermal reaction assisted by binary cooperative ligands (HR-BCL). In this system, 6-aminohexanoic acid and oleate were introduced to control nuclear generation and crystal growth of small nanoparticles. The UCNPs synthesized here showed high crystalline and intense upconversion luminescence emission. Fourier-transform infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy indicated that 6-aminohexanoic acid and oleate cooperate as surface ligands to co-control the surface of UCNPs. Thus, the water-solubility of the as-prepared UCNPs can be tuned by changing the molar ratio of 6-aminohexanoic acid to oleate. The AA-modified UCNPs provided a free amine content of (6.0 ± 0.2) × 10 −5 mol/g, which renders them dispersible in aqueous solution and allows further conjugation with folic acid (FA) for targeted bioimaging. Furthermore, the amine-functionalized UCNPs show intense near-infrared upconversion luminescence and were successfully applied in the lymphatic capillary bioimaging of small animals with a high signal-to-noise ratio, suggesting that these surface-functionalized UCNPs are promising candidates for luminescent biolabels.
Abstract In the background of the recombinant K2 module of human plasminogen (K2Pg), a triple mutant, K2Pg[C4G/E56D/L72Y], was generated and expressed inPichia pastoris cells in yields exceeding 100 mg/liter. The binding affinities of a series of lysine analogs, viz.4-aminobutyric acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid, e-aminocaproic acid, 7-aminoheptanoic acid, andt-4-aminomethylcyclohexane-1-carboxylic acid, to this mutant were measured and showed up to a 15-fold tighter interaction, as compared with wild-type K2Pg (K2Pg[C4G]). The variant, K2Pg[C4G/E56D], afforded up to a 4-fold increase in the binding affinity to these same ligands, whereas the K2Pg[C4G/L72Y] mutant decreased the same affinities up to 5-fold, as compared with K2Pg[C4G]. The thermal stability of K2Pg[C4G/E56D/L72Y] was increased by approximately 13 °C, as compared with K2Pg[C4G]. The functional consequence of up-regulating the lysine binding property of K2Pg was explored, as reflected by its ability to interact with an internal sequence of a plasminogen-binding protein (PAM) on the surface of group A streptococci. A 30-mer peptide of PAM, containing its K2Pg-specific binding region, was synthesized, and its binding to each mutant of K2Pg was assessed. Only a slight enhancement in peptide binding was observed for K2Pg[C4G/E56D], compared with K2Pg[C4G] (K d = 460 nm). A 5-fold decrease in binding affinity was observed for K2Pg[C4G/L72Y] (K d = 2200 nm). However, a 12-fold enhancement in binding to this peptide was observed for K2Pg[C4G/E56D/L72Y] (K d = 37 nm). Results of these PAM peptide binding studies parallel results of ω-amino acid binding to these K2Pg mutants, indicating that the high affinity PAM binding by plasminogen, mediated exclusively through K2Pg, occurs through its lysine-binding site. This conclusion is supported by the 100-fold decrease in PAM peptide binding to K2Pg[C4G/E56D/L72Y] in the presence of 50 mm 6-aminohexanoic acid. Finally, a thermodynamic analysis of PAM peptide binding to each of these mutants reveals that the positions Asp56 and Tyr72 in the K2Pg[C4G/E56D/L72Y] mutant are synergistically coupled in terms of their contribution to the enhancement of PAM peptide binding.
A new simple and efficient purification method for alpha 2-antiplasmin is described that is based on the interaction between alpha 2-antiplasmin and a fragment from elastase-digested plasminogen constituting the three N-terminal triple-loop structures in the plasmin A-chain (LBSI). After a single-step adsorption of the alpha 2-antiplasmin from plasminogen-depleted plasma to LBSI-Sepharose and elution with 6-aminohexanoic acid, an 80-90% pure preparation with a yield of 50-60% is obtained. The major impurity is fibrinogen, which can easily be removed by gel filtration, and, as a result, a homogeneous fully active alpha 2-antiplasmin preparation is obtained that has the same properties as previously described for alpha 2-antiplasmin. Evidence is put forward that a form of alpha 2-antiplasmin with less affinity for the lysine-binding sites in plasminogen may exist, even in unfractionated plasma.
An assay for human plasminogen using Nα-CBZ-l-lysine p-nitrophenyl ester as the substrate is described. The procedure is performed by activating the sample with streptokinase for 5 min at pH 6.0 and 25°, the substrate is added to this mixture and its hydrolysis is monitored spectrophotometrically at 340 nm for up to 4 min. The initial rate of the product formation is proportional with enzyme concentration from 10 to 300 μg/ml. The rate is independent of streptokinase concentration in the range used in the assay. The antifibrinolytic agent 6-aminohexanoic acid interferes with the assay. A standard plasminogen preparation from the Committee on Thrombolytic Agents (CTA) of the National Heart Institute was assayed to determine the conversion factor for the two methods. This factor is 2.0 CTA units per unit in the new assay. These data show that this assay is more specific and convenient than other methods using Nα-tosyl-l-arginine methyl ester or Nα-benzoyl-l-arginine ethyl ester as substrates. The method was also applied to measuring plasminogen in plasma. Since the endogeneous plasma inhibitors did not interfere in this method, the assay was performed on plasma directly. The assay requires only 100 μl of plasma and takes less than 15 min.
There are two main types of inhibitors of fibrinolysis: those which inhibit plasmin (plasmin inhibitors or antiplasmins) and those which inhibit the activation of plasminogen (anti-activators). Many substances derived from biological fluids, tissues, plants, or micro-organisms inhibit fibrinolysis. Some active site titrants of serine proteases are potent inhibitors of fibrnolytic enzymes and certain amino-acids such as lysine, 6-aminohexanoic acid, or tranexamic acid inhibit the digestion of fibrin. This review will deal mainly with the natural inhibitors of fibrinolysis occurring in human blood. The properties of the other inhibitors are reviewed elsewhere.'
This reaction rate is one of the fastest so far described for protein-protein interactions and is one order of magnitude higher than the reaction rate of trypsin with its inhibitors. The dissociation constant of the reversible step is approximately 2 x 10-1' M and the rate constant of the second step 4 x 10-3s-1."1 Plasmin which has 6-aminohexanoic acid" or lysine'0 bound to its lysine-binding sites or substrate bound to its active site1" reacts only very slowly with 0u2-antiplasmin. These findings indicate that free lysine-binding sites and a free active site in the plasmin molecule are of great importance for the rate of its reaction with 0x2-antiplasmin. As discussed further, these interactions are probably of great importance for the regulation of fibrinolysis in vivo. A structural analysis of the plasmin-CX2-antiplasmin complex suggested that the stable complex is formed by a plasmic attack at a specific leucylmethionyl peptide bond in the COOH-terminal portion of the inhibitor. A strong, probably covalent bond is formed between the active site seryl residue in plasmin and the carbonyl group of this specific leucyl residue in the inhibitor.12
The determination of the organic acids, tartaric, malic, citric, lactic, succinic, and acetic, by capillary electrophoresis was investigated. The acids were separated on a polyethyleneimine (PEI)-coated capillary filled with 20 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid and 5 mM 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and adjusted to pH 4.9. The anodic electroosmotic flow generated by the PEI coating favors the separation speed of organic acids. The method was applied to the determination of organic acids in white wine and fruit juices. ©1999 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Micro Sep 11: 541–543, 1999
Bovine Complex III is a dimeric complex with a protein mass of 486 kDa. The isolated dimeric complex III contains 16–18 molecules of tightly bound cardiolipin, 20–40 molecules of phosphatitylethanolamine, 10–20 molecules of phosphatidylcholine, and additionally about 140 molecules of bound Triton X-100. The total molecular mass therefore is around 650 kDa. The structure of 3D-crystals has been resolved recently. Each monomer contains 11 distinct protein subunits. Complex III was delipidated and one subunit, the 6.4 kDa protein, was removed together with phospholipid. The subcomplex, termed subcomplex Dl (Dehpidated; missing 1 subunit), was used to study the dependence of catalytic activity on phospholipid and/or the missing 6.4 kDa protein subunit. All steps were performed at 4°C to keep proteolytic activities low. Aminocaproic acid (6-aminohexanoic acid; 5 mM), 1 mM EDTA, and 0.1 mM PMSF were used as protease inhibitors. PMSF was added to the buffers shortly before use (from a 0.5 M stock solution in DMSO kept at –20°C).
Upon reactions of pyromellitic dianhydride(PMDA)and 3,3',4,4'-biphenyltetracarboxylic dianhydride(BPDA)with p-aminobenzoic acid(PABA)and 6-aminohexanoic acid,respectively,a series of imido-diacid(IDA)monomers were prepared by two-stage temperature-controlled method,which involved ring-opening to form amic acid and subsequent azeotropic dehydration using toluene as the dehydrating agent.And poly(imide-oxadiazole)was prepared through the reaction of resulted thereby N,N'-(4,4'-carboxyphenyl)-pyromellitic imide upon hydrazine sulfate.The structure of IDA monomers and poly(imide-oxadiazole)were confirmed by IR,and 1HNMR.
Although the interactions of oligopyridine ruthenium complexes with DNA have been widely studied, the biological activity of similar diruthenium oligopyridine complexes conjugated with peptides has not been investigated. Herein, we report the stepwise synthesis and characterization of diruthenium complexes with the general formula [(La)Ru(tppz)Ru(Lb)]n+ (tppz = 2,3,5,6-tetra(2-pyridyl)pyrazine, La = 2,2':6',2''-terpyridine or 4-phenyl-2,2':6',2''-terpyridine and Lb = 2,2':6',2''-terpyridine-4'-CO(Gly1-Gly2-Gly3-LysCONH2) (5), (6), n = 5; 2,2':6',2''-terpyridine-4'-CO(Gly1-Gly2-Lys1-Lys2CONH2) (7), (8), n = 6; 2,2':6',2''-terpyridine-4'-CO(Ahx-Lys1Lys2CONH2) (9), (10), n = 5, Ahx = 6-aminohexanoic acid). The compounds [(trpy)Ru(tppz)Ru(trpy-CO2H)](PF6)4, (2)(PF6)4, [(ptrpy)Ru(tppz)Ru(trpy-CO2H)](PF6)4, (3)(PF6)4 and [(ptrpy)Ru(tppz)Ru(trpy)](PF6)4, (4)(PF6)4 were also characterized by single crystal X-ray methods. Moreover, the interactions of the chloride salts (5), (6) and (4) with the self-complementary dodecanucleotide duplex d(5'-CGCGAATTCGCG-3')2 were studied by NMR spectroscopic techniques. The results show that complex (4) binds in the central part of the oligonucleotide, from the minor groove through the ligand ptrpy, while the ligand trpy, which was located on the other side of the diruthenium core, does not contribute to the binding. Complex (5) binds similarly, through the ligand ptrpy. However, the induced upfield shifts of the ptrpy proton signals are significantly lower than the corresponding ones in the case of (4), indicating much lower binding affinity. This is clear evidence that the tethered peptide Gly1-Gly2-Gly3-Lys1CONH2 hinders the complex binding, even though it contains groups that are able to assist it (e.g., the positively charged amino group of lysine, the peptidic backbone, the terminal amide). Complex (6) shows a non-specific binding, interacting through electrostatic forces. The chloride salts of (4), (5) and (6) had insignificant effects on the cell cycle distribution and marginal cytotoxicity (IC50 > 750 μM) against human lung cancer cell lines H1299 and H1437, indicating that their binding to the oligonucleotide is not a sufficient condition for their cytotoxicity.
The involvement of specific aspartic acid (D) and glutamic acid (E) residues of the recombinant (r) kringle 2 (K2) domain of tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) in stabilizing its interaction with omega-amino acid ligands has been assessed by examination of these binding events subsequent to site-directed mutagenesis of the relevant amino acid residues. We have expressed and purified nonconservative alanine (A) replacement mutants at the following amino acid sequence locations in r-K2tPA:E17 (r-[K2tPA/E17A]), E75 (r-[K2tPA/E75A]), and D78 (r-[K2tPA/D78A]). More conservative E for D replacements were generated at the only other anionic (at neutral pH) amino acids of r-[K2tPA], viz., D57 (r-[K2tPA/D57E]) and D59 (r-[K2tPA/D59E]). Each of these variant polypeptides was then utilized for binding investigations with a series of omega-amino acids. No substantial differences were found in the binding constants (pH 8.0, 25 degrees C) for the ligands, 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHxA), 7-aminoheptanoic acid (7-AHpA), L-lysine, and trans-(aminomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylic acid (AMCHA), among wild-type (wt) r-K2tPA, r-[K2tPA/E17A], r-[K2tPA/E75A], and r-[K2tPA/D78A]. On the other hand, dramatic effects on this same binding were observed in recombinant mutants with alterations at D57 and D59. In these cases, even with the most conservative replacements, i.e., r-[K2tPA/D57E] and r-[K2tPA/D59E], the Kd values for these ligands were increased approximately 3-6-fold and 18-85-fold, respectively. NMR analysis of these variants suggested that no substantial gross conformational changes occurred as a result of the mutations made, but some localized alterations in amino acid microenvironments did take place.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract ESR spectra of calcium copper acetate hexahydrate and tetra-(6-aminohexanoic acid) copper(II) diperchlorate have been recorded for solutions in methanol, ethanol, dimethylformamide and pyridine at 295 and 77 K. The coordination around the Cu(II) ion in both there complexes is of dodecahedral symmetry, comprising both an elongated and a compressed tetrahedron of oxygen atoms. The spin-Hamiltonian parameters of the complexes in ethanol, methanol and dimethylformamide, obtained after fitting the spectra to an axially-symmetric spin-Hamiltonian, indicate an effectively flattened tetrahedron alone. In contrast, the spectra recorded for solutions in pyridine indicate octahedral coordination caused by substitution of the oxygen atoms by pyridine.
6-Aminohexanoic acid is a potent antifibrinolytic agent with the ability to retard dissolution of fibrin clots. The corneal penetration of 6-aminohexanoic acid was measured to determine if therapeutic levels of the drug could be maintained in the anterior chamber by topical administration. The conjunctival sac to anterior chamber transfer coefficient was found to be 1.51 X 10-4 +/- 0.20 X 10-4 per minute and the corneal permeability found to be 3.46 X 10-7 +/- 0.46 X 10-7 cm. per second in the rhesus monkey eye. The results indicate that, to establish a therapeutic level in the aqueous humor, a high concentration of drug would have to be used with topical drop administration or a zero order delivery system must be used.
Immunoassays in pesticide residue analysis significantly profit from the monoclonal antibody (mAb) technology because a sufficient supply of standardized antibodies can be provided. For the production of atrazine-specific mAbs hybridoma cells were produced by fusion of mouse myeloma cells and spleen cells from mice which were immunized with 4-chloro-6-ethylamino- 1,3,5-triazine-2-(6-aminohexanoic acid) coupled to keyhole limped hemocyanin. After screening with a competitive enzyme immunoassay (EIA) a mAb with high binding affinity towards atrazine was selected. A sensitive EIA was developed detecting atrazine with a range from 0.05 to 1 (mu) g/l with a test midpoint of 0.1 (mu) g/l. The mAb cross-reacts predominantly with propazine (136%). Since this herbicide is not used in most European countries, the test allows a rapid and inexpensive screening for atrazine in the ppt range. Another EIA has been constructed for the detection of terbuthylazine. The limiting factor in EIA development is the screening for cell lines secreting mAbs with high affinity and selectivity towards the analyte. Super paramagnetic beads being coated with suitable immonoconjugates are shown to bind to hybridomas presenting hapten-specific receptors on their surface. Hybridomas secreting hapten-specific mAbs can be removed by a magnet and be cloned subsequently by standard procedures. A considerable demand of mAbs is expected in the future due to new emerging techniques such as immunosensors.
Human tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) consists of five domains designated (starting from the N-terminus) finger, growth factor, kringle 1, kringle 2, and protease. The binding of t-PA to lysine-Sepharose and aminohexyl-Sepharose was found to require kringle 2. The affinity for binding the lysine derivatives 6-aminohexanoic acid and N-acetyllysine methyl ester was about equal, suggesting that t-PA does not prefer C-terminal lysine residues for binding. Intact t-PA and a variant consisting only of kringle 2 and protease domains were found to bind to fibrin fragment FCB-2, the very fragment that also binds plasminogen and acts as a stimulator of t-PA-catalyzed plasminogen activation. In both cases, binding could completely be inhibited by 6-aminohexanoic acid, pointing to the involvement of a lysine binding site in this interaction. Furthermore, the second site in t-PA involved in interaction with fibrin, presumably the finger, appears to interact with a part of fibrin, different from FCB-2.
Three new, optically active, methyl-substituted 2-oxohexamethyleneimines were prepared by cyclization of the respective optically active C-methylated 6-aminohexanoic acids. The active forms of the amino acids used for the preparation of (−)-3-methyl-2-oxohexamethyleneimine and (−)-7-methyl-2-oxohexamethyleneimine were obtained by resolution of their diastereomeric quinine salts. s-(+)-5-methyl-2-oxohexamethyleneimine was synthesized without racemization from optically pure 2-isopropylidene-5-methyleyclohexanone (pulegone).
Rapid kinetics demonstrate a three-step pathway of streptokinase (SK) binding to plasminogen (Pg), the zymogen of plasmin (Pm). Formation of a fluorescently silent encounter complex is followed by two conformational tightening steps reported by fluorescence quenches. Forward reactions were defined by time courses of biphasic quenching during complex formation between SK or its COOH-terminal Lys(414) deletion mutant (SKΔK414) and active site-labeled [Lys]Pg ([5-(acetamido)fluorescein]-D-Phe-Phe-Arg-[Lys]Pg ([5F]FFR-[Lys]Pg)) and by the SK dependences of the quench rates. Active site-blocked Pm rapidly displaced [5F]FFR-[Lys]Pg from the complex. The encounter and final SK ·[5F]FFR-[Lys]Pg complexes were weakened similarly by SK Lys(414) deletion and blocking of lysine-binding sites (LBSs) on Pg kringles with 6-aminohexanoic acid or benzamidine. Forward and reverse rates for both tightening steps were unaffected by 6-aminohexanoic acid, whereas benzamidine released constraints on the first conformational tightening. This indicated that binding of SK Lys(414) to Pg kringle 4 plays a role in recognition of Pg by SK. The substantially lower affinity of the final SK · Pg complex compared with SK · Pm is characterized by a ∼ 25-fold weaker encounter complex and ∼ 40-fold faster off-rates for the second conformational step. The results suggest that effective Pg encounter requires SK Lys(414) engagement and significant non-LBS interactions with the protease domain, whereas Pm binding additionally requires contributions of other lysines. This difference may be responsible for the lower affinity of the SK · Pg complex and the expression of a weaker "pro"-exosite for binding of a second Pg in the substrate mode compared with SK · Pm.
Proc Amer Assoc Cancer Res, Volume 47, 2006 ::: ::: 5186 ::: ::: Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) is a new modality for cancer treatment, that involves a photosensitizer, light and molecular oxygen, whose combined action results in the formation of highly cytotoxic species. Tumor eradication occurs not only through direct destruction of tumor cells, but also indirectly, following destruction of its neovasculature. This vascular effect is thought to play a major part in the eradication of some vascularized tumors by PDT. Since the over-expression of receptors for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is correlated with tumor angiogenesis, we conjugated a photosensitizer (5-(4-carboxyphenyl)-10,15,20-triphenyl-chlorin, TPC), via a spacer (6-aminohexanoic acid, Ahx), to a VEGF receptor (VEGF-R) specific-heptapeptide (ATWLPPR). This coupling resulted in an increased uptake and improved photodynamic activity of TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR, compared to TPC, in human endothelial cells (HUVEC), that express VEGF-Rs. However, we have shown that this was not due to ATWLPPR affinity for type-2 VEGF-R (VEGFR-2/KDR), as originally thought, but for its co-receptor neuropilin-1 (NRP-1). Since singlet oxygen, the main cytotoxic species produced by PDT, is not able to diffuse over distances longer than 10-20 nm during its excited state lifetime, the determination of photosensitizer localization sites is of primary interest. Therefore, we investigated, by confocal microscopy, the intracellular localization of TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR in HUVEC, using different organelles probes (Bodipy, DioC6, LysoTracker Green and MitoTracker Green, in order to visualize the Golgi apparatus, endoplasmic reticulum, lysosomes and mitochondria, respectively). Colocalization was assessed by Pearson’s correlation coefficients, from the images obtained. We found that TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR was mostly localized in lysosomes. In relation with this lysosomal preferential localization site, the peptide moiety of TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR was degraded as a function of time into three products (TPC-Ahx-A, TPC-Ahx-AT and TPC-Ahx-ATWLPP), as assessed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry.
The solution structure of a recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator kringle 2 domain, complexed with the antifibrinolytic drug 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) was determined via 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and dynamical simulated annealing calculations. The structure determination is based on 610 intramolecular kringle 2 and 14 intermolecular kringle 2-6-AHA interproton distance restraints, as well as on 82 torsion angle restraints. Three sets of simulated annealing structures were computed from three different classes of starting structures: (1) random conformations devoid of disulfide bridges; (2) random conformations that contain correct disulfide bonds; and (3) a folded conformation modeled after the homologous prothrombin kringle 1 X-ray crystallographic structure. All three sets of structures are well defined, with averaged atomic root-mean-square deviations between individual structures and mean set structures of 0.77, 0.99 and 0.70 A for backbone atoms, and 1.36, 1.55 and 1.41 A for all atoms, respectively. Kringle 2 is an oblate ellipsoid with overall dimensions of approximately 34 A x 30 A x 17 A. It exhibits a compact globular conformation characterized by a number of turns and loop elements as well as by one right-handed alpha-helix and five (1 extended and 4 rudimentary) antiparallel beta-sheets. The extended beta-sheet exhibits a right-handed twist. Close van der Waals' contacts between the Cys22-Cys63 and Cys51-Cys75 disulfide bridges and the central hydrophobic core composed of the Trp25, Leu46, His48a and Trp62 side-chains are among the distinguishing features of the kringle 2 fold. The binding site for 6-AHA appears as a rather exposed cleft with a negatively charged locus defined by the Asp55 and Asp57 side-chains, and with an aromatic pocket structured by the Tyr36, Trp62, His64 and Trp72 side-chains. The Trp62 and His64 rings line the back surface of the pocket, while the Tyr36 and Trp72 rings confine it from two sides. The Trp62 and Trp72 indole rings conform a V-shaped groove. The methyl groups of Val35 also contribute lipophilic character to the ligand-interacting surface. It is suggested that the positively charged side-chains of Lys34 and, potentially, Arg69 may favor interactions with the carboxylate group of the ligand. The Trp25 and Tyr74 aromatic rings, although conserved elements of the binding site structure, seem not to undergo direct contacts with the ligand.
Arginine-rich cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) are promising transporters for intracellular delivery of antisense morpholino oligomers (PMO). Here, we determined the effect of L-arginine, D-arginine and non-α amino acids on cellular uptake, splice-correction activity, cellular toxicity and serum binding for 24 CPP−PMOs. Insertion of 6-aminohexanoic acid (X) or β-alanine (B) residues into oligoarginine R8 decreased the cellular uptake but increased the splice-correction activity of the resulting compound, with a greater increase for the sequences containing more X residues. Cellular toxicity was not observed for any of the conjugates up to 10 μM. Up to 60 μM, only the conjugates with ⩾ 5 Xs exhibited time- and concentration-dependent toxicity. Substitution of L-arginine with D-arginine did not increase uptake or splice-correction activity. High concentration of serum significantly decreased the uptake and splice-correction activity of oligoarginine conjugates, but had much less effect on the conjugates containing X or B. In summary, incorporation of X/B into oligoarginine enhanced the antisense activity and serum-binding profile of CPP−PMO. Toxicity of X/B-containing conjugates was affected by the number of Xs, treatment time and concentration. More active, stable and less toxic CPPs can be designed by optimizing the position and number of R, D-R, X and B residues.
Dependence of fibrinolysis parameters on the concentration of inhibitors of fibrinolytic process has been studied when using turbidimetric method. It is shown that the process of destruction of fibrin clot formed in diluted blood plasma is subjected to the Michaelis-Menten ratio. The constant of inhibition of fibrinolytic process in diluted plasma activated by prothrombin and streptokinase is 10 and 0.5 microM for 6-aminohexanoic acid and contrykal, respectively.
Anhydrochyumotrypsin was purified by high-performance affinity chromatography based on its increased affinity for peptides containing an aromatic amino acid at the carboxyl terminal, i.e., product-type ligands of chymotrypsin. Tryptophan was attached via its α-amino group to a hydrophilic vinyl-polymer gel, Toyopearl HW65S, through a spacer of 6-aminohexanoic acid and this affinity adsorbent was used for the chromatography. A crude anhydrochymotrypsin preparation was applied at pH 5 and the adsorbed proteins were eluted with an ascending pH gradient. This procedure resulted in complete separation of anhydrochymotrypsin not only from denatured protein and the remaining active enzyme, but also from a protein species which is catalytically inactive but has some binding affinity for the ligand.
Different methods for administration of human growth hormone (hGH) have been examined with a view to efficient use of the limited amounts of hGH at present available for clinical use. We found that in hypophysectomized rats (1) hGH administered by continuous subcutaneous infusion induced a greater increase in body weight (referred to throughout as growth) than hGH administered by intermittent (daily) injection and (2) intermittent injections of hGH dissolved in 16% gelatin induced more growth than hGH dissolved in a glycine buffer. It was further found that (1) hGH dissolved in 16% gelatin compared with hGH dissolved in a glycine buffer induced lower maximal levels of immunoreactive plasma hGH and between 7 and 9 h after treatment higher plasma levels when injected subcutaneously in rabbits, (2) 125I-labelled hGH added as a tracer to hGH in gelatin was removed more slowly from subcutaneous injection sites in rabbits than 125I-labelled hGH given with hGH in glycine buffer and (3) changes in the ratio of hGH to gelatin had little effect on the time-course of plasma levels of hGH in the rabbit. Addition of the protease inhibitors aprotinin or 6-aminohexanoic acid, to injection of hGH in gelatin or glycine did not induce any consistent increase in plasma levels of hGH.
Arginine-rich cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) are promising transporters for intracellular delivery of antisense morpholino oligomers (PMO). Here, we determined the effect of L-arginine, D-arginine and non-a amino acids on cellular uptake, splicecorrection activity, cellular toxicity and serum binding for 24 CPP2PMOs. Insertion of 6-aminohexanoic acid (X) or b-alanine (B) residues into oligoarginine R 8 decreased the cellular uptake but increased the splice-correction activity of the resulting compound, with a greater increase for the sequences containing more X residues. Cellular toxicity was not observed for any of the conjugates up to 10 kM. Up to 60 kM, only the conjugates with 5 5 Xs exhibited timeand concentration-dependent toxicity. Substitution of L-arginine with D-arginine did not increase uptake or splice-correction activity. High concentration of serum significantly decreased the uptake and splice-correction activity of oligoarginine conjugates, but had much less effect on the conjugates containing X or B. In summary, incorporation of X/B into oligoarginine enhanced the antisense activity and serum-binding profile of CPPÀPMO. Toxicity of X/B-containing conjugates was affected by the number of Xs, treatment time and concentration. More active, stable and less toxic CPPs can be designed by optimizing the position and number of R, D-R, X and B residues.
The C3-symmetric molecule 1 has been previously shown to mimic CD40 ligand (CD40L) homotrimers and to display effector functions. This molecule consists of a cyclic hexapeptide core containing the repetition of the D-Ala-L-Lys motif. The side chains of the lysine residues have been modified by appending the CD40L-derived sequence 143Lys-Gly-Tyr-Tyr146via a 6-aminohexanoic acid residue as a spacer. The present report describes a general solid-phase synthesis approach to 1 and related trimeric architectures. In addition, their CD40 binding properties as well as their effector functions have been evaluated.
Lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] is a risk factor for coronary artery disease. It is characterized by apolipoprotein (a) [apo(a)] disulphide linked to apolipoprotein B (apoB), by Cys4057 of apo(a) and possibly Cys3734 of apoB. We call this the covalent apo(a):apoB-Lp interaction, to distinguish it from the non-covalent Lp(a):apoB-Lp interaction, mediated by the proline-binding kringle-4-like domain(s) of Lp(a). The Lp(a):apoB-Lp interaction was inhibited by an apoB peptide spanning residues 3304-3317. This peptide was found by a computerized search for sites on apoB similar to the plasminogen's kringle-4-binding site of alpha 2-antiplasmin. It probably constitutes part of the Lp(a)-binding site on apoB because: (1) it corresponds to the alpha 2-antiplasmin minimum binding domain for plasminogen's kringle-4; (2) the competitive nature of inhibition [KI = (1.5 +/- 0.7) x 10(-4) M, n = 5] suggested that it and apoB-Lp bound to Lp(a) by the same mechanism at the same site; and (3) it specifically bound Lp(a) and not apoB-Lp, and the bound Lp(a) was dissociated by inhibitors of the Lp(a):apoB-Lp interaction, 6-aminohexanoic acid and L-proline. Inhibition was independent of its proline residue, suggesting that proline in the context of a peptide is not a ligand for the kringle(s) which mediated the binding of Lp(a) to apoB-Lp.
The major plasmin inhibitors namely alpha2-plasmin inhibitor and alpha2-macroglobulin were compared for their effects on lysis of fibrin clot. Plasmin fibrinolytic activity was immediately inhibited by alpha2-plasmin inhibitor, whereas alpha2-macroglobulin inhibited plasmin progressively. Urokinase(plasminogen activator)-induced clot lysis was inhibited efficiently by alpha2-plasmin inhibitor present in the clot. Inhibition of urokinase-induced clot lysis by alpha2-macroglobulin was weak and the molar concentration necessary for alpha2-macroglobulin to achieve the same degree of inhibition as that achieved with alpha2-plasmin inhibitor was about 10 times higher than that of alpha2-plasmin inhibitor. Binding of Lys-plasminogen to fibrin was inhibited by alpha2-plasmin inhibitor but not by alpha2-macroglobulin. Molar concentrations of alpha2-plasmin inhibitor which were effective in inhibiting the binding were 30 times less than that of 6-aminohexanoicacid. alpha2-Plasmin inhibitor was found to interact with Lys-plasminogen to form a weakly-bound complex which is dissociable in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid, suggesting that inhibition of binding of Lys-plasminogen to fibrin by alpha2-plasmin inhibitor may be due to interaction of alpha2-plasmin inhibitor with a specific site of the plasminogen molecule and that the site may be 6-aminohexanoic acid-binding site. It is suggested that alpha2-plasmin inhibitor is more reactive and efficient inhibitor of fibrinolysis than alpha 2-macroglobulin.
We have observed that a murine IgG1 monoclonal antibody directed against human urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) greatly potentiates pro-uPA-mediated plasminogen activation. This effect was dependent on the interaction between the immunoglobulin and the kringle domain of pro-uPA and could be competed efficiently by kringle-containing proteolytic fragments of uPA. In addition, the potentiation could also be competed by the lysine analog 6-aminohexanoic acid, an antagonist of plasminogen binding. This unexpected plasminogen binding dependence was found to be due to a carboxyl-terminal lysine residue on the immunoglobulin gamma chain, which by analogy with other proteins represents a potential binding site for plasminogen. Removal of this residue with carboxypeptidase B resulted in a complete abolition of the potentiation. It appears therefore that the potentiatory effect involves a novel mechanism with the antibody acting to provide a specific template for the assembly of a ternary complex involving pro-uPA/uPA and plasminogen, enabling them to interact in a catalytically favorable manner. This interpretation was confirmed by studying the kinetics of plasminogen activation by the complex between active, two-chain uPA and the antibody, which resulted in an overall 50-fold increase in reaction efficiency (kcat/Km), primarily due to a reduction in Km from 20 to 0.1 microM. Pro-uPA activation by plasmin was also accelerated, although to a lesser extent. The potentiation due to complex formation also provides a mechanism for the initiation of this system, dependent only on the low intrinsic proteolytic activity of the zymogen forms. The effects observed here, mediated by ternary complex formation, simulate the effects we have previously observed on assembly of the uPA receptor-mediated cellular plasminogen activation system and may therefore represent a mechanistic model for both its activity and initiation.
Plasmin, an active form of plasminogen, activates and inactivates factor VIII (FVIII) by limited proteolysis. We have previously identified lysine-binding site-independent plasmin-interactive sites on the FVIII A2 domain responsible for cleavages at Arg336 and Arg372, together with lysine-binding site-dependent plasmin sites on the light chain responsible for cleavage at Lys36. We have now characterised FVIII-interactive regions on plasmin. SDS-PAGE analysis demonstrated that a monoclonal antibody (mAb) against kringle (K)5-catalytic domain (K5-CD) of plasmin significantly blocked plasmin-catalysed cleavages at Arg336 and Arg372. K5-CD fragment and this mAb blocked plasmin-catalysed activation and inactivation of FVIII(a). Anti-K1-2-3 and anti-K4 mAbs blocked plasmin-catalysed cleavages at Lys36, and K1-2-3 and K4 fragments inhibited plasmin-catalysed inactivation of A11-336FVIIIa. The K5-CD preferentially bound to the A2 domain (Kdapp; 52 nM), whilst the K1-2-3 and K4 bound to the light chain (Kdapp; 75 and 106 nM, respectively) in ELISA. Binding was attributed to the A2 484-509 region and A3 1690-1705/1804-1818 region, respectively. 6-aminohexanoic acid, a lysine analogue, significantly inhibited the light chain/K1-2-3 (and K4) binding by approximately 90%, whilst A2/K5-CD binding was moderated by only approximately 35%. Furthermore, an anti-CD antibody blocked plasmin-catalysed cleavage by inhibiting the A2/K5-CD interaction. These data demonstrate that the K5-CD of plasmin (and plasminogen) interacts with the A2 domain independent of lysine-binding site, whilst interactions of K1-2-3 and K4 with the light chain are lysine-binding site-dependent. Interactions between the K5-CD and A2 likely constitute the major regulatory mechanism for activation and inactivation of FVIII(a) mediated by cleavage at Arg372 and Arg336.
In this work, we applied multi-wavelength stopped-flow spectroscopy (MSFS) to study the chemical equilibria between tautomeric or hydrated forms of various vitamin B6 compounds and the Schiff base formed by epsilon-aminocaproic acid (= 6-aminohexanoic acid) with pyridoxal 5'-phosphate at 25 degrees and variable pH. Since some of these compounds are photosensitive, we analyzed the possible occurrence of any secondary photo-induced processes under the conditions of irradiation in the MSFS equipment (continuous irradiation with light from a 75-W Xe lamp spanning the wavelength range of 200-700 nm). To determine the tautomeric composition of these compounds, the electronic absorption spectra were analyzed by means of log-normal curves. Continuous irradiation of pyridoxamine and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate over the wavelength range of 200-700 nm displaces the chemical equilibrium between the tautomeric or hydrated forms of these compounds. However, the Schiff base of epsilon-aminocaproic acid with pyridoxal 5'-phosphate is insensitive to the radiation used. The photo-induced processes detected in pyridoxamine and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate should be taken into account in examining vitamers by MSFS. In fact, these additional processes should be considered in studying the mechanism of action of vitamin B6-dependent enzymes by the MSFS technique, whenever some free vitamer may be present in solution.
The assembly of the F 1 F O -ATP synthase was assessed by blue-native PAGE (BN-PAGE) essentially as described (Schägger, 2001; Wittig et al., 2006) . To generate a surplus of nuclear encoded subunits, wild-type and mutant strains were grown for 2 h in the presence of chloramphenicol (2 mg/ml) before mitochondria were isolated as described (Tatsuta and Langer, 2007) . Mitochondria were resuspended at a concentration of 0.66 mg/ml in translation buffer [0.6 M sorbitol, 150 mM KCl, 15 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.4, 20 mM Tris/Cl, pH 7.4, 13 mM MgSO 4 , 0.3% (wt/vol) BSA (fatty acid free), 4 mM ATP, 0.5 mM GTP, 6 mM ␣-ketoglutarate, 5 mM phosphoenolpyruvate, 0.1 mM each amino acid except methionine] that was supplemented with pyruvate kinase (0.5 mg/ml). After 2 min incubation at 30°C, 35 S methionine was added (0.5 Ci/g mitochondria), and samples were further incubated at 30°C for 3 min. Mitochondrial translation was stopped by adding methionine (5 mM) and puromycin (0.03 mg/ml). After a further incubation for 2 min at 30°C, samples were cooled on ice for 5 min. Mitochondria were pelleted, washed with 0.6 M sorbitol, 1 mM EDTA, pH 8, 5 mM methionine, and then resuspended in translation buffer (0.66 mg/ml). Aliquots of the suspension (corresponding to 150 g mitochondria) were incubated at 30°C for the indicated time periods. After washing, mitochondria were solubilized under constant mixing for 15 min at 4°C at a concentration of 7 mg/ml in 1.6% (vol/vol) Triton X-100, 50 mM NaCl, 5 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid, 50 mM imidazole/HCl, pH 7, 10% (vol/vol) glycerol, 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4. After centrifugation for 20 min at 4°C at 20,000 ϫ g, the supernatant was mixed with 1/10 1% (wt/vol) Coomassie in solubilization buffer and loaded onto a blue native gel (5-13%; Schägger, 2001). Gels were stained with Coomassie and analyzed by autoradiography. Assembled F Osubunits of the ATP synthase were quantified by phosphoimaging using the program Quantity One (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA).
The hetero-dyad NDI-6 was achieved in quantitative yield, treating NDI-10 in neat N 1 ,N 1dimethylpropane-1,3-diamine for 5 minutes, at 180 °C, under microwave assistance. Figure 4. Synthesis of the dimeric NDIs 6-12: letter a denotes 6-aminohexanoic acid (four equivalents), glacial acetic acid, 120 °C, 20 min, closed-vessel microwave-assisted; letter b denotes NDI-18 (0.95 equivalent) with one equivalent of 3 or 4 or 16 or 17 and five equivalents of DIPEA in DMF, 110 °C, 20 min, closed-vessel MW-assisted; letter c denotes NDI-10 in neat N 1 ,N 1 -dimethylpropane-1,3diamine, 180 °C, 5 min, closed-vessel microwave-assisted.
The affinity chromatography-based G4-CPG assay, recently described by some of us [26] [27] [28] 32, 33] , consists in incubating putative G4 ligands solutions with Controlled Pore Glass (CPG) solid supports functionalized with different secondary structure-forming oligonucleotides. In this screening, defined volumes of a washing solution first, and then of releasing solutions, were flown Figure 4. Synthesis of the dimeric NDIs 6-12: letter a denotes 6-aminohexanoic acid (four equivalents), glacial acetic acid, 120 • C, 20 min, closed-vessel microwave-assisted; letter b denotes NDI-18 (0.95 equivalent) with one equivalent of 3 or 4 or 16 or 17 and five equivalents of DIPEA in DMF, 110 • C, 20 min, closed-vessel MW-assisted; letter c denotes NDI-10 in neat N 1 ,N 1 -dimethylpropane-1,3-diamine, 180 • C, 5 min, closed-vessel microwave-assisted.
Carbon nanotube-based nanovectors, especially functionalized nanotubes, have shown potential for therapeutic drug delivery. 6-Aminohexanoic acid-derivatized single-wall carbon nanotubes (AHA-SWNTs) are soluble in aqueous stock solutions over a wide range of physiologically relevant conditions; however, their interactions with cells and their biological compatibility has not been explored. Human epidermal keratinocytes (HEKs) were dosed with AHA-SWNTs ranging in concentration from 0.00000005 to 0.05 mg/ml. MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) cell viability decreased significantly (p < .05) from 0.00005 to 0.05 mg/ml after 24 h. The proinflammatory mediators of inflammation cytokines interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, IL-10, and IL-1beta were also assessed. Cytokine analysis did not show a significant increase in IL-6 and IL-8 in the medium containing 0.000005 mg/ml of AHA-SWNTs from 1 to 48 h. IL-6 increased in cells treated with 0.05 mg/ml of AHA-SWNTs from 1 to 48 h, whereas IL-8 showed a significant increase at 24 and 48 h. No significant difference (p < .05) was noted with TNF-alpha, IL-10, and IL-1beta expression at any time point. Transmission electron microscopy of HEKs treated with 0.05 mg/ml AHA-SWNTs for 24 h depicted AHA-SWNTs localized within intracytoplasmic vacuoles in HEKs. Treatment with the surfactant 1% Pluronic F127 caused dispersion of the AHA-SWNT aggregates in the culture medium and less toxicity. These data showed that the lower concentration of 0.000005 mg/ml of AHA-SWNTs maintains cell viability and induces a mild cytotoxicity, but 0.05 mg/ml of AHA-SWNTs demonstrated an irritation response by the increase in IL-8.
Objective To develop the non-transgenic method for inducing transcription of oct4 gene in epidermic stem cells.Methods RT-PCR was performed to measure the transcription level of oct4 gene in epidermic stem cells 48h after activated by 6-aminohexanoic acid.Results 6-aminohexanoic acid effectively activated the transcription of oct4 in epidermic stem cells.Conclusion RT-PCR can accurately and repeatedly detect the transcription level of oct4 gene in epidermic stem cells,and is thus a simple and practical method for screening the potential small molecular compounds expressed in inducing transcription genes.
Binding of the fibrinolytic proteinase plasmin (Pm) to streptokinase (SK) in a tight stoichiometric complex transforms Pm into a potent proteolytic activator of plasminogen. SK binding to the catalytic domain of Pm, with a dissociation constant of 12 pm, is assisted by SK Lys(414) binding to a Pm kringle, which accounts for a 11-20-fold affinity decrease when Pm lysine binding sites are blocked by 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) or benzamidine. The pathway of SK.Pm catalytic complex formation was characterized by stopped-flow kinetics of SK and the Lys(414) deletion mutant (SKDeltaK414) binding to Pm labeled at the active site with 5-fluorescein ([5F]FFR-Pm) and the reverse reactions by competitive displacement of [5F]FFR-Pm with active site-blocked Pm. The rate constants for the biexponential fluorescence quenching caused by SK and SKDeltaK414 binding to [5F]FFR-Pm were saturable as a function of SK concentration, reporting encounter complex affinities of 62-110 nm in the absence of lysine analogs and 4900-6500 and 1430-2200 nm in the presence of 6-AHA and benzamidine, respectively. The encounter complex with SKDeltaK414 was approximately 10-fold weaker in the absence of lysine analogs but indistinguishable from that of native SK in the presence of 6-AHA and benzamidine. The studies delineate for the first time the sequence of molecular events in the formation of the SK.Pm catalytic complex and its regulation by kringle ligands. Analysis of the forward and reverse reactions supports a binding mechanism in which SK Lys(414) binding to a Pm kringle accompanies near-diffusion-limited encounter complex formation followed by two slower, tightening conformational changes.
Human tissue factor pathway inhibitor-2 (TFPI-2)/matrix-associated serine protease inhibitor (MSPI), a Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitor, inhibits plasmin, trypsin, chymotrypsin, plasma kallikrein, cathepsin G, and factor VIIa-tissue factor complex. The mature protein has a molecular mass of 32-33 kDa, but exists in vivo as two smaller, underglycosylated species of 31 and 27 kDa. TFPI-2/MSPI triplet is synthesized and secreted by a variety of cell types that include epithelial, endothelial, and mesenchymal cells. Because the majority (75-90%) of TFPI-2/MSPI is associated with the extracellular matrix (ECM), we examined which components of the ECM bind TFPI-2/MSPI. We found that TFPI-2/MSPI bound specifically to heparin and dermatan sulfate. Interaction of these two glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) with TFPI-2/MSPI involved one or more common protein domains, as evidenced by cross-competition experiments. However, binding affinity for TFPI-2/MSPI with heparin was 250-300 times greater than that for TFPI-2/MSPI with dermatan sulfate. Binding of TFPI-2/MSPI to GAGs was inhibited by NaCl or arginine but not by glucose, mannose, galactose, 6-aminohexanoic acid, or urea, suggesting that arginine-mediated ionic interactions participate in the GAG binding of TFPI-2/MSPI. This supposition was supported by the observation that only NaCl or arginine could elute the TFPI-2/MSPI protein triplet from an ECM derived from human dermal fibroblasts. Reduced TFPI-2/MSPI did not bind to heparin, suggesting that proper disulfide pairings and conformation are essential for matrix binding. To determine whether heparin modulates the activity of TFPI-2/MSPI, we determined the rate of inhibition of plasmin by the inhibitor with and without heparin and found that TFPI-2/MSPI is more active in the presence of heparin. Collectively, our results demonstrate that conformation-dependent arginine-mediated ionic interactions are responsible for the TFPI-2/MSPI triplet binding to fibroblast ECM, heparin, and dermatan sulfate and that heparin augmented the rate of inhibition of plasmin by TFPI-2/MSPI.
Plasmin is a labile enzyme destroyed by a process termed autodigestion. Studied by a kinetic assay on the substrate Tos-Gly-Pro-Lys-pNA this process is shown to follow a bimolecular mode of reaction, which is retarded by plasmin degradation products. Plasmin is protected by fibrinogen, by epsilon-aminocaproic acid (6-aminohexanoic acid), by increasing ionic strength, and by glycerol. CNBr fragments of fibrinogen did not protect. Lack of substrate protection of plasmin may give rise to errors in a two-stage plasminogen activator assay, while the presence of substrate in a one-stage method prevents degradation of the generated plasmin.
Destruction of the neovasculature is essential for efficient tumor eradication by photodynamic therapy (PDT). Since the over-expression of receptors for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is correlated with tumor angiogenesis and subsequent growth, we conjugated a photosensitizer (5-(4-carboxyphenyl)-10,15,20-triphenyl-chlorin, TPC), via a spacer (6-aminohexanoic acid, Ahx), to a VEGF receptor-specific heptapeptide (ATWLPPR). ATWLPPR and TPC–Ahx–ATWLPPR bound exclusively to neuropilin-1 (NRP-1) recombinant chimeric protein (IC50 = 19 and 171 ?M, respectively) but were devoid of affinity for VEGF receptor type 2 (VEGFR-2, KDR), to which ATWLPPR was initially thought to bind. TPC–Ahx–ATWLPPR was incorporated up to 25-fold more in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) than TPC over a 24-h period, and the addition of 8 mM ATWLPPR induced a significant decrease of this uptake (P < 0.05), corroborating a receptor-mediated incorporation. Slightly less cytotoxic in the dark, TPC–Ahx–ATWLPPR exhibited enhanced in vitro photodynamic activity (10.4-fold), compared to TPC. Pharmacokinetic analysis in nude mice xenografted with U87 human malignant glioma cells revealed relevant tumor levels as soon as 1 h after intravenous injection of TPC–Ahx–ATWLPPR, and a rapid elimination from the blood compartment. Moreover, TPC–Ahx–ATWLPPR was not degraded in vivo up to 2 h after intravenous injection. Taken together, our results demonstrate that TPC–Ahx–ATWLPPR is a much more potent photosensitizer in vitro than TPC, in NRP-1-expressing cells. Thus, it may efficiently potentiate the vascular effect of PDT in vivo.
Human tissue factor pathway inhibitor-2 (TFPI-2)/ matrix-associated serine protease inhibitor (MSPI), a Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitor, inhibits plasmin, trypsin, chymotrypsin, plasma kallikrein, cathepsin G, and factor VIIa-tissue factor complex. The mature protein has a molecular mass of 32-33 kDa, but exists in vivo as two smaller, underglycosylated species of 31 and 27 kDa. TFPI-2/MSPI triplet is synthesized and secreted by a variety of cell types that include epithelial, endothelial, and mesenchymal cells. Because the majority (75-90%) of TFPI-2/MSPI is associated with the extracellular matrix (ECM), we examined which components of the ECM bind TFPI-2/MSPI. We found that TFPI-2/MSPI bound specifically to heparin and dermatan sulfate. Interaction of these two glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) with TFPI-2/MSPI involved one or more common protein domains, as evidenced by cross-competition experiments. However, binding affinity for TFPI-2/MSPI with heparin was 250 -300 times greater than that for TFPI-2/MSPI with dermatan sulfate. Binding of TFPI-2/MSPI to GAGs was inhibited by NaCl or arginine but not by glucose, mannose, galactose, 6-aminohexanoic acid, or urea, suggesting that arginine-mediated ionic interactions participate in the GAG binding of TFPI-2/MSPI. This supposition was supported by the observation that only NaCl or arginine could elute the TFPI-2/MSPI protein triplet from an ECM derived from human dermal fibroblasts. Reduced TFPI-2/MSPI did not bind to heparin, suggesting that proper disulfide pairings and conformation are essential for matrix binding. To determine whether heparin modulates the activity of TFPI-2/MSPI, we determined the rate of inhibition of plasmin by the inhibitor with and without heparin and found that TFPI-2/MSPI is more active in the presence of heparin. Collectively, our results demonstrate that conformation-dependent arginine-mediated ionic interactions are responsible for the TFPI-2/MSPI triplet binding to fibroblast ECM, heparin, and dermatan sulfate and that heparin augmented the rate of inhibition of plasmin by TFPI-2/MSPI.
Films of several 6-iminohexanoyl/12-oxydodecanoyl random copolymers containing from 19 to 46 wt.-% (29-60 mol-%) of 6-iminohexanoyl units, together with comparison films of nylon 6 homopolymer, were incubated at pH 7,4 in vitro for 336 h at 37° with solutions of protease, collagenase, α-chymotrypsin and pancreatin. The first three mentioned enzymes were without visible effect upon any of the polymer films, and there was no significant evidence with any enzyme or substrate of the formation of 6-aminohexanoic acid as a product of amide-bond splitting. By contrast, incubation with pancreatin caused the topochemical surface erosion of each copolyesteramide (but not of nylon 6), with the depletion of ester group content in the surface layer and the development of an amide-richer characteristic striated surface morphology. Random incorporation of amide groups into polyesters, in the form of oligoamide sequences, is suggested as a means of protecting the ester component against esterolytic attack.
Physiological levels of human fibrinogen markedly inhibited the chemotactic activity of human neutrophils triggered by zymosan-activated serum (ZAS), C5a, or IL-8 in a Boyden chamber assay. Fibrinogen also slightly inhibited the N-formyl-methionyl leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP)-induced migration of human neutrophils. Albumin was devoid of the inhibitory activities displayed by fibrinogen in this system. The inhibition of chemotaxis by fibrinogen was dose-dependent and saturable. Fibrinogen placed in the upper compartment of the Boyden chamber produced a larger inhibition than that obtained with fibrinogen placed in the lower compartment. Lysine as well as the lysine analog 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA) decreased the inhibitory capacity of fibrinogen. In contrast, both arginine and glutamine failed to suppress the fibrinogen-mediated inhibition of neutrophil chemotaxis. AHA counteracts the inhibition of ZAS-induced chemotaxis by anti-CD18 monoclonal antibody, suggesting that lysine binding sites are required for integrin function in chemotaxis. Fibrinogen also inhibited, in a dose-dependent manner, the oxygen consumption of neutrophils activated by opsonized zymosan. Taken together, the present results indicate that fibrinogen modulates neutrophil functions and suggest that in addition to its role in blood coagulation, circulating fibrinogen may be involved in regulation of the inflammatory response.
The mechanisms by which cationic amino acids influence pancreatic B-cell function have been studied by monitoring simultaneously (86)Rb(+) efflux and insulin release from perifused rat islets. The effects of two reference amino acids arginine and lysine were compared with those of closely related substances to define the structural requirements for recognition of these molecules as secretagogues. Arginine accelerated (86)Rb(+) efflux and increased insulin release in the absence or in the presence of 7mm-glucose. Its effects on efflux did not require the presence of extracellular Ca(2+) or Na(+), but its insulinotropic effects were suppressed in a Ca(2+)-free medium and inhibited in an Na(+)-free medium. Among arginine derivatives, only 2-amino-3-guanidinopropionic acid mimicked its effects on (86)Rb(+) efflux and insulin release; citrulline, guanidinoacetic acid, 3-guanidinopropionic acid and guanidine were inactive. Norvaline and valine also increased (86)Rb(+) efflux, but their effect required the presence of extracellular Na(+); they did not stimulate insulin release. Lysine as well as the shorter-chain cationic amino acids ornithine and 2,4-diaminobutyric acid accelerated (86)Rb(+) efflux in a Ca(2+)- and Na(+)-independent manner. Their stimulation of insulin release was suppressed by Ca(2+) omission, but only partially inhibited in an Na(+)-free medium. The uncharged glutamine and norleucine increased the rate of (86)Rb(+) efflux in the presence of glucose, only if extracellular Na(+) was present. Norleucine slightly increased release in a Ca(2+)- and Na(+)-dependent manner. The effects of lysine on efflux and release were not mimicked by other related substances such as 1,5-diaminopentane and 6-aminohexanoic acid. The results suggest that the depolarizing effect of cationic amino acids is due to accumulation of these positively charged molecules in B-cells. This causes acceleration of the efflux of K(+) ((86)Rb(+)) and activation of the influx of Ca(2+) (which triggers insulin release). The prerequisite for the stimulation of B-cells by this mechanism appears to be the presence of a positive charge on the side chain of the amino acid, rather than a specific group.
All Fmoc protected amino acids were purchased from Advanced Chemtech Europe (Cambridge, UK), Fmoc-6-aminohexanoic acid was purchased from CN Biosciences U.K. (Nottingham, United Kingdom), and d-biotin from Sigma-Aldrich Ltd. (Dublin, Ireland). The PAL support amide resin and N- [(dimethylamino)-1H-1,2,3-triazolo[4,5-b]pyridin-1-ylmethylene]-Nmethylmethanaminium hexafluorophosphate N-oxide (HATU) were purchased from PE Applied Biosystems (Cheshire, United Kingdom); piperidine, N,N-diisopropylethylamine (DIEA), dichloromethane (DCM) and N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) were all from Rathburn Chemicals Ltd. (Walkerburn, Scotland).
Multiple peptide synthesis was carried out at 0.010 mmol scale using an Advanced Chemtech 396 peptide synthesizer (Advanced Chemtech Europe, Cambridge, United Kingdom), using standard Fmoc chemistry. A sixfold excess of amino acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid and d-biotin was used, and coupling was achieved using HATU. The Fmoc-6-aminohexanoic acid was coupled onto the N terminus of the peptide sequence, and after removal of the Fmoc from 6-aminohexanoic acid, the biotin was then coupled onto the aminohexanoic linker using double coupling. Cleavage of the peptides was carried out automatically by the machine over 2 h incubation at room temperature with a mixture of thioanisole, ethanedithiol, triisopropylsilane, water, and trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) (2:1:1:1:95 v/v/v/v/v). Peptide purity was ascertained by reverse phase HPLC using a C5 reverse-phase 250 mm × 4.6 mm column (Phenomenex); peptide identity was verified using a Finnigan LCQ ion trap mass spectrometer. Most of the hydrophobic peptides were not soluble in aqueous solutions; therefore, peptide solutions for the ELISA studies were prepared from stock solutions in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) (Sigma-Aldrich Company Ltd., Dorset, England) at 2.2 mg/ml.
Cell penetrating peptides (CPPs) are short peptides capable of traversing the plasma membrane. Therefore, they can promote the transport of low and high molecular weight cargos, including peptides and proteins, into the cell 1 . Based on their biochemical properties CPPs are classified into three groups: (i) cationic, (ii) amphipathic and (iii) hydrophobic 2 . Among cationic CPPs a subgroup of arginine rich peptides which can be subdivided into: (i) poly-arginine peptides 3, 4 , (ii) Tat peptides 3 and (iii) (R-Ahx-R) 4 peptides 5 , can be distinguished. Poly-arginine CPPs include for example R 6 , or R 8 peptides composed of six or eight consecutive arginine residues, respectively 4 . One of the Tat peptide variants called Tat [49][50][51][52][53][54][55][56][57] , which originates from the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) Tat protein, is composed of nine amino acids including six arginine residues 6 . Finally, the synthetic (R-Ahx-R) 4 peptide has eight arginine residues which are interspersed with 6-aminohexanoic acid spacers 5 . Recently, particular attention has been given to studies of potential therapeutic application of CPPs. It is considered that in the future they could play the role of transporters for externally delivered therapeutics, which must cross the plasma membrane to provide the proper functioning of the organism. The advantage of cellular cargo delivery using CPPs is that a broad range of different cell types can uptake these peptides 3 . In vitro studies on cationic CPP cytotoxicity showed that they can be tolerated by cells at much higher concentrations than amphipathic CPPs. Although CPP-based therapy has not yet entered human, but only in vitro and animal clinical trials, the current results may be cautiously considered as optimistic 7 . There are numerous reports where successful transport of various cargos into different types of cells including plant cells using arginine-rich peptides, was demonstrated [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] . One of the obstacles that limits the potential therapeutic use of arginine-rich CPP-tagged proteins is the lack of appropriate tools dedicated for their purification. For example, up till now CPP-tagged proteins could be purified using multistep conventional chromatography methods, which is laborious, time consuming and may yield a product of unsatisfactory quality and quantity. Alternatively, to provide simple and fast purification of these proteins by affinity chromatography additional tags, e.g. His-tag can be fused with CPP-tagged proteins 8 . However, the additional tag may have a negative impact on the CPP-tagged protein activity. Moreover, in the case of therapeutic applications of the protein the possible induction of human immune response by the additional tag cannot be ignored. For the above reasons the unnecessary extra tag should be removed, which is not always possible, and separated from the protein which significantly increases the cost of large scale CPP-tagged protein production.
Isolation of Glomerular Proteoglycans. Glomeruli were isolated from the radiolabeled kidneys (7) and extracted in 10 vol of 4 M guanidine HCI (pH 6.0) containing 0.5% Chaps and protease inhibitors (1 mM PMSF/10 mM N-ethylmaleimide/10 mM EDTA/10 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid/5 mM benzamidine-HCI) for 16 hr at 4°C with shaking. The unextracted residue was pelleted by centrifugation (1000 x g for 10 min) and proteoglycans were purified according to Yanagishita and Hascall (16) by passing the clarified extract over a Sephadex G-50 column, elution with 8 M urea/50 mM sodium acetate/0.15 M NaCl, pH 6, followed by application of the excluded volume onto a DEAE-Sephacel column and elution with a continuous NaCl gradient (0. 15-1.5 M). Fractions corresponding to the peaks of radioactivity that eluted in the starting buffer (peak 1) and at 0.45-1.0 M NaCl (peak 2) were collected, dialyzed overnight against PNaCl and stored at -20°C. Previous studies have shown that proteoglycans extracted from rat glomeruli are eluted from DEAESephacel at >0.45 M NaCl (17). Proteoglycan samples (from peak 2) were further analyzed by molecular sieve chromaAbbreviations: GBM, glomerular basement membrane; HSPG, heparan sulfate proteoglycans; PMSF, phenylmnethylsulfonyl fluoride; Chaps, 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammoniol-1-propane sulfonate; GAG, glycosaminoglycan.
The mechanisms by which cationic amino acids influence pancreatic B-cell function have been studied by monitoring simultaneously 86Rb+ efflux and insulin release from perifused rat islets. The effects of two reference amino acids arginine and lysine were compared with those of closely related substances to define the structural requirements for recognition of these molecules as secretagogues. Arginine accelerated 86Rb+ efflux and increased insulin release in the absence or in the presence of 7mM-glucose. Its effects on efflux did not require the presence of extracellular Ca2+ or Na+, but its insulinotropic effects were suppressed in a Ca2+-free medium and inhibited in an Na+-free medium. Among arginine derivatives, only 2-amino-3-guanidinopropionic acid mimicked its effects on 86Rb+ efflux and insulin release; citrulline, guanidinoacetic acid, 3-guanidinopropionic acid and guanidine were inactive. Norvaline and valine also increased 86Rb+ efflux, but their effect required the presence of extracellular Na+; they did not stimulate insulin release. Lysine as well as the shorter-chain cationic amino acids ornithine and 2,4-diaminobutyric acid accelerated 86Rb+ efflux in a Ca2+-and Na+-independent manner. Their stimulation of insulin release was suppressed by Ca2+ omission, but only partially inhibited in an Na+-free medium. The uncharged glutamine and norleucine increased the rate of 86Rb+ effiux in the presence of glucose, only if extracellular Na+ was present. Norleucine slightly increased release in a Ca2+-and Na+-dependent manner. The effects of lysine on efflux and release were not mimicked by other related substances such as 1,5-diaminopentane and 6-aminohexanoic acid. The results suggest that the depolarizing effect of cationic amino acids is due to accumulation of these positively charged molecules in B-cells. This causes acceleration of the efflux of K+ (86Rb+) and activation of the influx of Ca2+ (which triggers insulin release). The prerequisite for the stimulation of B-cells by this mechanism appears to be the presence of a positive charge on the side chain of the amino acid, rather than a specific group.
Abstract Kringle 4 of human plasminogen has been studied by NMR spectroscopy to define the solution structure of the kringle-fold and to characterize the ω-aminocarboxylic acid binding site. Aromatic and aliphatic resonances of the NMR spectrum have been identified with the aid of spin-decoupling and NOE procedures as well as pH-titration and metal ion probe studies. Comparison of the NMR spectrum of kringle 4 with the spectra of various kringle 4 species chemically modified at defined positions permitted the assignment of several resonances to specific residues in the kringle 4 sequence. The NOE studies revealed that Leu 45 is in close proximity of the sequentially distant Trp 25 /Trp 61 residue pair, thus delineating a definite structural feature of the kringle-fold. The binding of 6-aminohexanoic acid to kringle 4 was shown to cause shifts in the resonances of several aromatic residues, including those of Trp 71 , suggesting that several aromatic residues may be lining the ω-aminocarboxylic acid binding site. The binding of the ligand is competitive with the binding of lanthanide ions which reveal much detail of this site.
Apolipoprotein (a) (apo(a)) is a component of the atherogenic lipoprotein, Lp(a). The efficiency with which apo(a) escapes the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and is secreted by the liver is a major determinant of plasma Lp(a) levels. Apo(a) contains a series of domains homologous to plasminogen kringle (K) 4, each of which possesses a potential lysine-binding site. By using primary mouse hepatocytes expressing a 17K4 human apo(a) protein, we found that high concentrations (25-200 mM) of the lysine analog, 6-aminohexanoic acid (6AHA), increased apo(a) secretion 8-14-fold. This was accompanied by a decrease in apo(a) presecretory degradation. 6AHA inhibited accumulation of apo(a) in the ER induced by the proteasome inhibitor, lactacystin. Thus, 6AHA appeared to inhibit degradation by increasing apo(a) export from the ER. Significantly, 6AHA overcame the block in apo(a) secretion induced by the ER glucosidase inhibitor, castanospermine. 6AHA may therefore circumvent the requirement for calnexin and calreticulin interaction in apo(a) secretion. Sucrose gradients and a gel-based folding assay were unable to detect any influence of 6AHA on apo(a) folding. However, non-covalent or small, disulfide-dependent changes in apo(a) conformation would not be detected in these assays. Proline also increased the efficiency of apo(a) secretion. We propose that 6AHA and proline can act as chemical chaperones for apo(a).
It was demonstrated that plasminogen and the plasmin heavy chain form a complex with an immobilized fibrinogen fragment E. The E-fragment interacts, in its turn, with the immobilized heavy chain; this interaction is provided for by the lysin binding sites of the plasminogen molecule. The plasmin light chain having no lysin binding sites is specifically absorbed on the immobilized fragment D, whereas the D-fragment--on the immobilized light chain. The elution is caused by arginine or benzamidine; 6-aminohexanoic acid does not affect this interaction. It is assumed that the interaction of plasminogen and plasmin with fibrin is provided for not only by the lysine binding but also by the benzamidine binding sites of the plasminogen molecule.
Abstract Plasminogen and plasminogen derivatives which contain lysine-binding sites were found to decrease the reaction rate between plasmin and α 2 -antiplasmin by competing with plasmin for the complementary site(s) in α 2 -antiplasmin. The dissociation constant K d for the interaction between intact plasminogen (Glu-plasminogen) and α 2 -antiplasmin is 4.0 μM but those for Lys-plasminogen or TLCK-plasmin are about 10-fold lower indicating a stronger interaction. The lysine-binding site(s) which is situated in triple-loops 1–3 in the plasmin A-chain is mainly responsible for the interaction with α 2 -antiplasmin. The interaction between Glu-plasminogen and α 2 -antiplasmin furthermore enhances the activation of Glu-plasminogen by urokinase to a comparable extent as 6-aminohexanoic acid, suggesting that similar conformational changes occur in the proenzyme after complex formation. Fibrinogen, fibrinogen digested with plasmin, purified fragment E and purified fragment D interfere with the reaction between plasmin and α 2 -antiplasmin by competing with α 2 -antiplasmin for the lysine-binding site(s) in the plasmin A-chain. The K d obtained for these interactions varied between 0.2 μM and 1.4 μM; fragment E being the most effective. Thus the fibrinogen molecule contains several complementary sites to the lysine-binding sites located both in its NH 2 -terminal and COOH-terminal regions; these sites are to a large extent preserved after plasmic degradation. Fibrinogen also competes with the plasmin catalyzed cleavage of d -Val-Leu-Lys-Nan with a K i value (obtained from a Dixon plot) of 1.9 μM which was increased 4-fold in the presence of 6-amino-hexanoic acid. The lysine-binding sites therefore are of importance for the enzyme-substrate binding.
Abstract The enzymic properties of the activated plasminogen fragment (Val-442-Arg-560; S-S bridged to Val-561-Asn-790) also called miniplasmin or neo-plasmin-Val-442, were studied. This neo-plasmin was prepared by urokinase catalysed conversion of the corresponding fragment of plasminogen (Val-442-Asn-790) produced by specific limited proteolysis of native plasminogen by porcine pancreatic elastase and purified by chromatography on l -lysine-Sepharose 4B. The kinetic parameters of hydrolysis of a number of synthetic substrates by plasmin and by ‘miniplasmin’, respectively, were found to be alike. Furthermore the inhibition by 6-aminohexanoic acid and the pH-dependence of the hydrolysis of Bz-Arg-OEt were identical for the two enzymes. It is concluded that the catalytic site of ‘miniplasmin’ is very similar to that of plasmin. The interaction of ‘miniplasmin’ with α2-antiplasmin was studied in the presence and in the absence of 6-aminohexanoic acid. The reaction scheme which accounts satisfactorily for the reaction of plasmin with the inhibitor also fits the reaction of ‘miniplasmin’ with the inhibitor. However, it was found that ‘miniplasmin’ initially reacts with the inhibitor less readily than does plasmin, but that the rate of the second reaction step is equal to that of the corresponding step in the inhibitor-plasmin reaction. The hypothesis that site(s) other than the catalytic site of plasmin located at the NH2-terminal part of the heavy chain (residues 77–441) primarily determine the association rate of plasmin and α2-antiplasmin is supported.
Seven imidodicarboxylic acids II-1 to 5, II-10, and II-11 were prepared from trimellitic anhydride and ω-amino acids, such as glycine, β-alanine, 4-aminobutyric acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid, 11-aminoundecanoic acid, and 12-aminododecanoic acid. Several aliphatic-aromatic poly(amide-imide)s were prepared by triphenyl phosphite promoted polycondensation reaction from the combination of 3-(4-carboxyphthalimido)propionic acid (II-2) or 6-(4-carboxyphtalimido)hexanoic acid (II-5) with various aromatic diamines and of all the imidodiacids with p-phenylenediamine or 4,4′-oxydianiline. All poly(amide-imide)s were characterized by inherent viscosity, gel permeation chromatography (GPC) measurements, solubility, tensile test, wide-angle X-ray scatting patterns, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) measurements, and thermogravimetric (TGA) analyses. Effects of structural changes such as polymethylene length and diamine moieties on the properties of poly(amide-imide)s were studied. © 1994 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Streptokinase (SK) interacts with human plasminogen (Pg) or plasmin (Pm) with formation of Pg-SK or Pm-SK complex. Pm-SK complex manifests a fibrinolytic, amidolytic and Pg activator activity. SK in complex with Pm isn't stable and so capable to be hydrolysed rapidly. We investigated a correlation between molecular form of SK and catalytic properties of equimolar Pm-SK complex during preincubation at 20 degrees C. It was found out that amidolytic activity of Pm-SK complex was not changing for 5 hours and decreased to the initial Pm value after 24 hours. During this time alpha 2-antiplasmin (alpha 2-AP) has any effect on amidolytic activity of the complex. Fibrinolytic activity of Pm-SK complex makes up 20% of the initial Pm value and wasn't changing within the investigated period. Pg activator activity was decreasing rapidly to 30-40% of the initial one within few minutes from the moment of Pm-SK complex formation. It was 10-20% of that initial after 24 hours. The decrease in Pg activator activity of Pm-SK complex correlated with the initial very rapid conversion of 47 kDa SK to 36 kDa SK within few minutes and following more slow conversion of SK in 31, 25 and 15 kDa fragments after 5 hours. alpha 2-AP didn't influence on the Pg activator activity of Pm-SK complex but eliminated its fibrinolytic activity completely. It was supposed that alpha 2-AP inhibited fibrinolytic activity of Pm-SK complex similarly to 6-aminohexanoic acid by preventing Pm-SK complex binding to fibrin polymer.
Caprolactam is a large-volume industrial compound mainly used in the production of Nylon 6, a versatile synthetic polymer applied in fabrics, utensils, mechanical parts, etc. Synthesis of Nylon 6 is achieved by ring-opening polymerization of caprolactam at high temperatures. During this process, several side products are generated, including 6aminocaproic acid (6-aminohexanoic acid (6-ACA)) unreacted monomers, as well as dimers, cyclic dimers, and oligomers of 6-ACA. Caprolactam and these by-products are present as contaminants in waste water of nylon production plants (Fortmann and Rosenberg 1984; Kalinová et al. 2014 Kalinová et al. , 2016 . The toxic nature of these chemicals, including mutagenic effects and plant growth inhibition, has been shown in different studies (Sheldon 1989; Vogel 1989) .
In this study, a new effective, pH and thermally stable glucose oxidase (GOX)-silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) bioconjugate was designed. AgNPs were synthesized based on the reduction of silver nitrate (AgNO(3)) by sodium borohydride (NaBH(4)) using two simple procedures. Periodic acid was used for oxidation of the GOX and emission of Lucifer yellow (LyCH) was monitored by spectrofluorometer for evaluation of the oxidation properties of the GOX. The oxidized GOX (Ox-GOX) was immobilized on AgNPs by its sugar moieties via 6-aminohexanoic acid (6AHA) as linker. A sample of the synthesized bioconjugate was loaded on 7.5% non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) to confirm its structural and physical stability. The results from enzymatic activity assay showed that the bioconjugate, GOX and Ox-GOX were similar in stability and activity in acidic and basic pH (optimum pH=7.0-8.0). Based on the results from thermal stability assay, it was found that the activity of the bioconjugate was found to be higher at lower temperatures. The V(max) of the bioconjugate, GOX, and Ox-GOX was estimated as 28.6, 6.2, and 6 IU microg(-1) enzyme and the K(m) was calculated as 2.7, 9, and 9.5 mM, respectively. It was found that the immobilization method improves the activity and stability of the GOX in different pH and temperatures. As a conclusion, the proposed method opens up the way to the development of a new bioconjugate with potential use in sensing, and many find potential applications in clinical diagnostics, medicine, and industries.
We report the preparation of biotinylated analogs of phytosulfokine-α (Tyr(SO3H)-Ile-Tyr(SO3H)-Thr-Gln; PSK-α), an endogenous peptide growth factor in plants. Because the modification of the N-terminal amino group leads to significant loss of the activities, a Lys residue was incorporated in the C-terminal region of PSK-α, and its e amino group was reacted with biotinylation reagent. Results of the binding assay showed that [N(ε)-(biotinyl)Lys(5)]PSK-α retained the same binding activity and mitogenic activity as that of native PSK-α. Insertion of a single or double 6-aminohexanoic acid spacer between the ε amino group of Lys(5) and the carboxyl group of biotin did not significantly alter the activities of biotinylated [Lys(5)]PSK-α. Structure-activity information obtained here would be useful for the detection and isolation of PSK-α receptors.
Summary ::: Background The rubber elongation factor in Hevea rubber (Hev b 1) is one of the most important latex allergen and is leading cause oflatex type 1 hypersensitivity in children with spina bifida. ::: ::: Objective The aim of this study was to define the allergenic and antigenic epitopes of Hev b 1. ::: ::: Methods The immunoglobulin- (Ig)E and IgG antibody binding sites on Hev b 1 allergen were delineated by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using synthetic overlapping peptides covering the whole Hev b 1 sequence. In order to improve the binding capacity and specificity all peptides were biotinylated at the N-terminal end via a 6-aminohexanoic acid as spacer and then adsorbed to streptavidin pre-coated microtitre plates. Fine mapping to define the essential amino acid residues for the antibody binding was achieved by using overlapping peptides with one amino acid offset. ::: ::: Results It was demonstrated that the IgE epitopes were located in different regions of Hev b 1 including the C-terminal segment (121–137) and the segments with amino acid residues of 30–49 and 46–64. Two monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) II2F3 and II4G9 raised against purified Hev b 1 recognized the C-terminal segment only. The results of epitope mapping with three rabbit antisera revealed that five positive peptides, including the epitope peptides 31–49, 46–64 and 121–137, were involved in the antibody-binding sites. Eine mapping on the segments 46–64 and 121–137 showed that the two MoAbs reacted with the peptide 125–134 in the C-terminal region, whereas the peptide with amino acids 124–134 was essential for recognition by human IgE antibodies. Epitopes to rabbit polyclonal IgG and human IgE were also found to be involved in the amino acid residues of 47–59. ::: ::: Conclusion Our results indicate that the most allergenic/antigenic portions of Hev b 1 allergen are the C-terminal region and the region with amino acid residues of 31–64. In both regions, the minimal IgE-binding epitope is almost identical with the IgG-binding epitope.
An essentially alternating copolyamide of 6-aminohexanoic acid and 11-aminoundecanoic acid was obtained by the condensation polymerization of methyl 11-(6-aminohexanamido)undecanoate. The monomer was synthesized by the following reaction steps: (1) nitration of cyclohexanone to α-nitrocyclohexanone; (2) cleavage of α-nitrocyclohexanone by methyl 11-aminoundecanoate to obtain methyl 11-(6-nitrohexanamido)undecanoate; (3) hydrogenation of the nitro group of the cleavage product. The polymer was characterized by its melting and crystallization behavior as determined by differential scanning calorimetry, by x-ray analysis, and by comparison with an equimolar, random copolyamide of the two amino acids.
Abstract Schiff bases derived from 5-nitro-salicylaldehyde and 4-aminobutyric acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid were synthesized both as monosodium salts ( 1a–3a ) and neutral forms ( 1b–3b ). The monosodium-Schiff bases were characterized by elemental analysis, 1 H/ 13 C NMR, IR, powder XRD, UV–vis spectra and conductivity measurements. The neutral-Schiff bases were characterized by elemental analysis, 1 H/ 13 C NMR, 2D NMR (HMQC), mass, IR, powder XRD, UV–vis spectra and conductivity measurements. The intramolecular hydrogen bonding and related tautomeric equilibria in all the Schiff bases were studied by UV–vis and 1 H NMR spectra in solution. Additionally, the neutral-Schiff bases were screened against Staphylococcus aureus- EB18, S. aureus- ATCC 25923, Escherichia coli- ATCC 11230, Candida albicans- M3 and C. albicans- ATCC 16231.
C-11- and I-123-labeled long chain fatty acid derivatives have been reported as useful radiopharmaceuticals for the estimation of myocardial fatty acid metabolism. We have reported that Tc-99m-labeled N-[[[(2-mercaptoethyl)amino]carbonyl]methyl]-N-(2-mercaptoethyl)-6-aminohexanoic acid ([(99m)Tc]MAMA-HA), a medium chain fatty acid derivative, is metabolized by beta-oxidation in the liver and that the MAMA ligand is useful for attaching to the omega-position of fatty acid derivatives as a chelating group for Tc-99m. On the basis of these findings, we focused on developing a Tc-99m-labeled long chain fatty acid derivative that reflected fatty acid metabolism in the myocardium. In this study, we synthesized a dodecanoic acid derivative, MAMA-DA, and a hexadecanoic acid derivative, MAMA-HDA, and performed radiolabeling and biodistribution studies. [(99m)Tc]MAMA-DA and [(99m)Tc]MAMA-HDA were prepared using a ligand-exchange reaction. Biodistribution studies were carried out in normal mice and rats. Then, a high initial uptake of Tc-99m was observed, followed by a rapid clearance from the heart. The maximum heart/blood ratio was 3.6 at 2 min postinjection of [(99m)Tc]MAMA-HDA. These kinetics were similar to those with postinjection of p-[(125)I]iodophenylpentadecanoic acid. Metabolite analysis showed [(99m)Tc]MAMA-HDA was metabolized by beta-oxidation in the body. In conclusion, [(99m)Tc]MAMA-HDA is a promising compound as a long chain fatty acid analogue for estimating beta-oxidation of fatty acid in the heart.
As part of a general study on copper-protein interaction, the copper ion complexes of 6-aminohexanoic acid are being investigated. This particular ligand is intended as a model for carboxylate and e-amino side chains present in proteins. In a solution study, we have previously shown that the carboxylate group rather than the e-amino group of aminohexanoic acid interacts with copper(II) ions (Osterberg & Toftggwd, 1972) . In the corresponding copper(I) system, on the other hand, our data indicate that copper(1) is bound to the e-amino group (Osterberg & Sj6berg, 1972) . Here, we report the crystal structure of bis-(6-aminohexanoato)copper(I1) dihydrate, which clearly demonstrates that copper(ll) ions interact with the e-amino group in the solid state.
Histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRGP) is an a2-glycoprotein in human plasma (16, 17) of apparently diverse biological functions. HRGP interacts with several divalent metals, suggesting that HRGP may have a role in the transport or homeostasis of metals in vivo (18, 19) . HRGP interacts with the high affinity lysine-binding site of plasminogen (20) , which mediates the binding of plasmin(ogen) to fibrin and of plasmin(ogen) to a2-plasmin inhibitor (21) . By reducing the binding of plasminogen to fibrin, HRGP may represent a physiological counterpart of antifibrinolytic amino acids, such as 6-aminohexanoic acid, which results in an antifibrinolytic effect. More recently, HRGP was found to interact strongly with heparin, resulting in neutralization of the anticoagulant activity of heparin (22) . HRGP, therefore, may play a role in the modulation ofthe anticoagulant properties of heparin in plasma. HRGP is also immunochemically identical with a serum factor that inhibits autorosette formation between erythrocytes and peripheral lymphocytes; this suggests that HRGP may modulate the immune responses of lymphocytes (23) . We have recently found that HRGP is present in human platelets and is released following thrombin stimulation (24) . In this study, we present evidence demonstrating specific complex formation between HRGP and TSP. The complex contained heparin-binding and neutralizing activity. (3) , as previously described (10) . The isolation and purification of Factor VIII Related:antigen (VIIIR:Ag), fibronectin, a2-plasmin inhibitor, antithrombin III, and platelet membrane glycoproteins (GP) lIb and i11a have been described in detail (25) (26) (27) (28) . Factor X was a generous gift from Dr Antisera. Antisera to the purified HRGP were raised in rabbits by using methods previously described (25) . Insolubilized HRGP-depleted plasma was used to remove traces of contaminating antibodies from the HRGP antisera. HRGP-depleted plasma was prepared by utilizing the fibrinogen-depleted plasma supernatant as detailed above for the purification of HRGP. The supernatant was mixed with CM-cellulose 52 (1 g/40 ml supernatant) for I h and the resin removed by centrifugation. This adsorption step was repeated and a portion of the supernatant was coupled to Sepharose beads. The absorbed HRGP antisera produced a single precipitin arc when diffused against human serum and yielded a reaction of immunologic identity between serum and the purified HRGP. y-globulin fractions of the absorbed anti-HRGP sera and normal rabbit sera were prepared as previously described (25 (10, 29) . Briefly, microtitration plates were coated with purified TSP by incubating TSP (0.2 ml) in the bicarbonatecoating buffer (15 mM Na2CO3, 35 mM NaHCO3, pH 9.6,0.02% NaN3) for 3 h at 37°C. The wells were washed three times with Tris-Tween buffer (0.01 M Tris-HCl, 0.15 M NaCl, 0.05% Tween 20, pH 7.4). Purified HRGP diluted in Tris-Tween buffer was added in duplicate to coated wells for 18 h at 4°C. The washing procedure was repeated and alkaline phosphatase-conjugated, immunopurified anti-HRGP IgG (1:800 dilution) was added for 3 h at 37°C. After washing, the substrate pnitrophenyl phosphate was added and color development was followed by repeated readings at 405 nm in a Titertek multiscan photometer. The formation of the TSP-HRGP complex was expressed as the enzymatic activity of the bound alkaline phosphatase (AA405 min-'). For the double antibody ELISA, anti-TSP IgG (8 gg/ml) in coating buffer was applied to the plastic wells for 3 h at 37°C. After washing, TSP (4 ,ug/ml) in Tris-Tween buffer was added for 4 h at 37°C. The washing step was repeated, and HRGP in Tris-Tween buffer was added and the remaining steps were carried out as described above.
To improve the efficiency of exon skipping in muscles, particularly in cardiac muscle, we designed and examined the effect of several arginine-rich cell-penetrating peptides linked to the same PMOE23. The PMOE23 conjugated with the peptide of the (RXRRBR) 2 XB sequence (R ϭ arginine, X ϭ 6-aminohexanoic acid, and B ϭ ␤ alanine) (referred as PPMOE23 hereafter) showed the highest efficiency for skipping exon 23 by i.m. injection in the adult (age 4-5 weeks) mdx mouse (Fig. 1A) . Strong dystrophin expression was induced in 85% of the fibers in the entire tibialis anterior (TA) muscle after injection of 2 g of PPMOE23 (Fig. S1) . The same amount of unmodified PMOE23 produced only 14% dystrophin-positive fibers. A se-
A method is described by which the heavy chain of human plasmin, obtained by partial reduction of urokinase-activated plasminogen with 2-mercaptoethanol, is adsorbed on lysine coupled to polyacrylamide. The heavy chain is recovered from the adsorbent by elution with 6-aminohexanoic acid (yield 60–65%). ::: ::: ::: ::: Sulfhydryl titrations of the heavy chain showed that the partial reduction involved primarily the cleavage of the sole interchain disulfide bridge of plasmin. Dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide electro-phoresis gave essentially a single band corresponding to a component of about 60000 molecular weight. The NH2-terminal amino acid was predominantly threonine. ::: ::: ::: ::: 6-Aminohexanoic acid at different concentrations caused significant variations of the sedimentation and diffusion constants of the heavy chain indicating inhibitor-induced conformational alterations of the protein. The present results suggest that in plasmin only the heavy chain is capable of interacting with 6-aminohexanoic acid, and it appears that it is primarily this chain which plays an important role in the inhibition of the enzyme by 6-aminohexanoic acid.
Glu-plasminogen [native plasminogen (Glu-1-Asn-790)], Lys-plasminogen [plasmin-cleaved fragment of plasminogen (Lys-77-Asn-790)] and miniplasminogen [fragment of plasminogen (Val-440-Asn-790)] were all found to interact specifically with immobilized 6-aminohexyl ligands. The interactions apparently are mediated by a single weak lysine-binding site, termed the AH-site, as seen from the patterns of inhibition obtained from frontal-quantitative-affinity-chromatography experiments with 6-aminohexanoic acid and alpha-N-acetyl-L-lysine methyl ester as competing ligands. The AH-site, in contrast with the strong lysine-binding site of Glu-plasminogen and Lys-plasminogen, may prefer ligands not carrying a free carboxylate function and therefore may interact with lysine side chains of proteins. In Glu-plasminogen the AH-site is present, but is apparently only partially free to react. It is suggested that it participates in an intramolecular complex and that an equilibrium state between two Glu-plasminogen forms exists. It is further suggested that binding of the plasminogens to fibrin is mainly determined by the AH-site.
Abstract Introduction The present study describes the design and development of a new heterodimeric RGD-bombesin (BBN) agonist peptide ligand for dual receptor targeting of the form 64 Cu-NO2A-RGD-Glu - 6-Ahx-BBN(7-14)NH 2 in which Cu-64=a positron emitting radiometal; NO2A=1,4,7-triazacyclononane-1,4-diacetic acid; Glu=glutamic acid; 6-Ahx=6-aminohexanoic acid; RGD=the amino acid sequence [Arg-Gly-Asp], a nonregulatory peptide that has been used extensively to target α v β 3 receptors up-regulated on tumor cells and neovasculature; and BBN(7-14)NH 2 =Gln-Trp-Ala-Val-Gly-His-Leu-Met-NH 2 , an agonist analogue of bombesin peptide for specific targeting of the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPr). Methods RGD-Glu-6-Ahx-BBN(7-14)NH 2 was manually coupled with NOTA (1,4,7-triazacyclononane-1,4,7-triacetic acid), and the resulting conjugate was labeled with 64 Cu to yield 64 Cu-NO2A-RGD-Glu-6-Ahx-BBN(7-14)NH 2 . Purification was achieved via reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography and characterization confirmed by electrospray ionization–mass spectrometry. Results Competitive displacement binding assays displayed single-digit nanomolar IC 50 values showing very high binding affinities toward the GRPr for the new heterodimeric peptide analogues. In vivo biodistribution studies showed high uptake and retention of tumor-associated radioactivity in PC-3 tumor-bearing rodent models with little accumulation and retention in nontarget tissues. The radiolabeled conjugate also exhibited rapid urinary excretion and high tumor-to-background ratios. Micro-positron emission tomography (microPET) molecular imaging investigations produced high-quality, high-contrast images in PC-3 tumor-bearing mice 15 h postinjection. Conclusions Based on microPET imaging experiments that show high-quality, high-contrast images with virtually no residual gastrointestinal radioactivity, this new heterodimeric RGD-BBN conjugate can be considered as a promising PET tracer candidate for the diagnosis of GRPr-positive tumors in human patients.
Author(s): Zhang, Jingwei | Advisor(s): Keasling, Jay | Abstract: Lactam is an important class of commodity chemicals used in the manufacture of nylons, with millions of tons of production every year.2-Pyrrolidone is a valuable bulk chemical with myriad applications as a solvent, polymer precursor and active pharmaceutical intermediate. A novel 2-pyrrolidone synthase, ORF27, from Streptomyces aizunensis was identified to catalyze the ring closing dehydration of γ-aminobutyrate. ORF27’s tendency to aggregate was resolved by expression at low temperature and fusion to the maltose binding protein (MBP). Recombinant Escherichia coli was metabolically engineered for the production of 2-pyrrolidone from glutamate by expressing both the genes encoding GadB, a glutamate decarboxylase, and ORF27. Incorporation of a GadB mutant lacking H465 and T466, GadB_ΔHT, improved the efficiency of one-pot 2-pyrrolidone biosynthesis in vivo. When the recombinant E. coli strain expressing the E. coli GadB_ΔHT mutant and the ORF27-MBP fusion was cultured in ZYM-5052 medium containing 9 g/L of L-glutamate, 7.7 g/L of L-glutamate was converted to 1.1 g/L of 2-pyrrolidone within 31 h, achieving 25% molar yield from the consumed substrate.Caprolactam and valerolactam are important commodity chemicals used in the manufacture of nylons, with millions of tons produced every year. Biological production of these high valued chemicals has not been possible due to a lack of enzymes that will cyclize the ω-amino fatty acid precursors to the corresponding lactams under ambient conditions. In this study, we demonstrated proof of these bioconversions by in vitro enzyme assays. We found that ORF27, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of ECO-02301 in Streptomyces aizunensis, has a broad substrate spectrum and can not only cyclize γ-aminobutyric acid into butyrolactam, but also 5-aminovaleric acid (5-AVA) into valerolactam and 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) into caprolactam. The ORF27 lactam formation reaction was characterized by product analysis, and ORF27’s activity on the three ω-amino fatty acids were compared. Recombinant E. coli expressing ORF27 produced valerolactam and caprolactam when 5-AVA and 5-AHA, respectively, were added to the culture medium. Upon co-expressing ORF27 with a metabolic pathway that produced 5-aminovaleric acid from lysine, we were able to demonstrate production of -valerolactam from lysine or directly from glucose.Biological production of caprolactam, valerolactam and butyrolactam were enabled by the recent discovery of lactam synthases that cyclize their ω-amino fatty acid precursors to the corresponding lactams. To facilitate strain optimization with regard to product yields, productivities, and titers, it is desirable to develop a high throughput screening system forspecific small-molecule detection and response. We took the chemical informatics concepts used in small molecule drug discovery, and adapted them into a metabolic engineering strategy for targeted scouting of protein sensor candidates, named “Analog Generation towards Catabolizable Chemicals”. We discovered a lactam biosensor based on the ChnR/Pb transcription factor-promoter pair. The microbial biosensor was engineered to be a single plasmid system, demonstrating dose dependent response for caprolactam, valerolactam and butyrolactam with great dynamic range (1.8-3.5) and wide linear range of 1-2 orders of magnitude. The biosensor also showed specificity against intermediates of lactam biosynthetic pathways and therefore could potentially be applied for high throughput metabolic engineering for industrially important lactam biosynthesis.
The full peptide antagonist of the pancreatic cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor, JMV 179, [Boc-Tyr(SO3H)-Ahx-Gly-dTrp-Ahx-Asp phenylethyl ester, where Tyr(SO3H) = sulfated tyrosine, Ahx = 6-aminohexanoic acid] was modified at its N-terminus by incorporation of p-hydroxyphenyl propionate (Bolton-Hunter reagent, BH) and was subsequently radioiodinated. After HPLC purification, 125I-BH-JMV-179, a CCK antagonist radioligand of high specific activity (2000 Ci/mmol) was obtained. 125I-BH-JMV-179 bound to a single population of sites on rat pancreatic plasma membranes, (Kd= 3.9 nM, Bmax= 40 pmol/mg protein). Binding was dependent on time, temperature, and protein concentration, and was fully reversible. JMV 179 radioligand detected four times as many sites as an agonist radioligand [C. Hadjiivanova, M. Dufresne, S. Poirot, P. Sozzani, N. Vaysse, L. Moroder and D. Fourmy (1992) Eur. J. Biochem. 204, 273–279]. Agonists and antagonists of the A- and B-subtype CCK/gastrin receptors inhibited 125I-BH-JMV-179 binding with an order of potency compatible with the A-subtype CCK receptor pharmacology. Moreover, the sulfate group on the tyrosine residue of the CCK peptides appeared to be of much less importance for antagonist affinity than for agonist affinity. Inhibition of 125I-BH-JMV-179 binding by agonists (except JMV 180), demonstrated the presence of two affinity classes of binding sites. The population of sites having an apparent high affinity for CCK represented 30 pmol/mg protein and threefold the number of high-affinity sites previously identified by an agonist radioligand. In presence of non-hydrolyzable GTP, all the sites bound CCK agonists with a low affinity. Moreover, saturation analysis of JMV 179 radioligand binding in the presence of CCK indicated that CCK interacted competitively with all JMV 179 sites and demonstrated binding of JMV 179 radioligand to two distinct affinity classes of sites. In the presence of GTP[S] a single affinity class of sites for JMV 179 radioligand was found as in the control experiments without CCK. ::: ::: ::: ::: This study, with the first CCK peptide antagonist radioligand, demonstrtes that CCK receptors exist in two interconvertible affinity states regulated by guanine-nucleotide-binding regulatory protein(s) in rat pancreatic plasma membranes. JMV 179 radioligand does not induce receptor coupling but distinguishes the two affinity states of the CCK receptors. JMV 179 reveals the existence of populations of high-affinity and low-affinity site for CCK which had not previously been detected by agonist radioligand binding, thus suggesting heterogeneity of CCK receptor sites in membranes.
The aqueous solubilities of glycine, dl-α-alanine (2-aminopropanoic acid), dl-α-aminobutyric acid (2-aminobutanoic acid), dl-α-norvaline (2-aminopentanoic acid), dl-α-norleucine (2-aminohexanoic acid), β-alanine (3-aminopropanoic acid), γ-aminobutyric acid (4-aminobutanoic acid), 5-aminovaleric acid (5-aminopentanoic acid), and 6-aminocaproic acid (6-aminohexanoic acid) were determined from 293.15 to 323.15 K at intervals of 5.00 K using the gravimetric method. The temperature dependence of the solubility of α-amino acids and α,ω-amino acids in water is well described by the van’t Hoff equation. Linear van’t Hoff plots were used to determine the differential enthalpy of solution. The results obtained are compared with reported values in literature and are discussed in terms of the position of the ionic groups in the hydrocarbon chain.
Abstract Heparin was immobilized in a defined orientation on Sepharose, agarose, and polyacrylamide supports by coupling through its reducing end. This is expected to mimic the attachment of heparin to the protein core in the naturally occurring proteoglycan and impart better ligand binding efficiency by exposing all the binding sites available in the naturally occurring heparin. The coupling chemistry was accomplished by modifying heparin at its reducing end to introduce reactive functionality that can react with appropriately functionalized supports. Three reducing end modified heparins were synthesized and characterized: 2,6-diaminopyridinyl heparin, containing a reactive amino group at the reducing end; ω-hydrazido-adipyl-azo heparin, containing a hydrazido group at the reducing end; and heparin lactone, containing a reactive ester functionality at the reducing end. These heparin derivatives were then reacted with the supports to give directionally immobilized heparin using different coupling chemistries: coupling of reducing end modified heparins to amine-containing supports (i.e., ω-aminohexyl Sepharose and omega-aminobutyl agarose), hydrazide-containing supports (i.e., Emphaze hydrazide), and activated carboxy-containing supports (i.e., activated 6-aminohexanoic acid Sepharose, Emphaze azlactone). The heparinized matrices were prepared and analyzed for their heparin content and protamine binding capacity.
In search for new drugs lowering arterial blood pressure, which could be applied in anti-hypertensive therapy, research concerning agents blocking of renin-angiotensin-aldosteron system has been conducted. Despite many years of research conducted at many research centers around the world, aliskiren is the only one renin inhibitor, which is used up to now. Four novel potential renin inhibitors, having structure based on the peptide fragment 8-13 of human angiotensinogen, a natural substrate for renin, were designed and synthesized. All these inhibitors contain unnatural moieties that are derivatives of N-methylleucyl-β-hydroxy-γ-amino acids at the P2-P1' position: 4-[N-(N-methylleucyl)-amino]-3-hydroxy-7-(3-nitroguanidino)-heptanoic acid (AHGHA), 4-[N-(N-methylleucyl)-amino]-3-hydroxy-5-phenyl-pentanoic acid (AHPPA) or 4-[N-(N-methylleucyl)-amino]-8-benzyloxycarbonylamino-3-hydroxyoctanoic acid (AAHOA). The previously listed synthetic β-hydroxy-γ-amino acids constitute pseudodipeptidic units that correspond to the P1-P1' position of the inhibitor molecule. An unnatural amino acid, 4-methoxyphenylalanin (Phe(4-OMe)), was introduced at the P3 position of the obtained compounds. Three of these compounds contain isoamylamide of 6-aminohexanoic acid (ε-Ahx-Iaa) at the P2'-P3' position. The proposed modifications of the selected human angiotensinogen fragment are intended to increase bioactivity, bioavailability, and stability of the inhibitor molecule in body fluids and tissues. The inhibitor Boc-Phe(4-OMe)-MeLeu-AHGHA-OEt was obtained in the form of an ethyl ester. The hydrophobicity coefficient, expressed as log P varied between 3.95 and 8.17. In vitro renin inhibitory activity of all obtained compounds was contained within the range 10(-6)-10(-9) M. The compound Boc-Phe(4-OMe)-MeLeu-AHPPA-Ahx-Iaa proved to be the most active (IC50 = 1.05 × 10(-9) M). The compounds Boc-Phe(4-OMe)-MeLeu-AHGHA-Ahx-Iaa and Boc-Phe(4-OMe)-MeLeu-AHPPA-Ahx-Iaa are resistant to chymotrypsin.
Density, sound velocity, and viscosity were measured in the temperature range of 288.15–308.15 K at intervals of 5 K for glycine, 3-aminopropanoic acid, 4-aminobutanoic acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid, and 6-aminohexanoic acid in water and in aqueous solutions of sodium chloride. The apparent molar volumes and the apparent molar compressibilities were determined as a function of composition from the density and sound velocity data. Infinite dilution partial molar volumes and partial molar adiabatic compressibilities of the amino acids in water and in aqueous sodium chloride solutions were obtained by extrapolation at the selected temperatures. The relative viscosity values were fitted by least-squares to an equation of the type used by Tsangaris-Martin to obtain the empirical viscosity B and D coefficients. The results show that the addition of NaCl produces an increase in the partial molar volumes, the compressibilities, and the viscosity B coefficients of the solutes. The results are a consequence of the in...
A model compound for protein lysine side chains, 6-aminohexanoic acid, forms copper(II) complexes in solution only with its dipolar ionic form (HA). This is shown by emf titrations at 25° and 3.0 M NaClO4 medium, using glass and copper amalgam electrodes. The results found are consistent assuming the following main equilibria: The data are first treated by graphical methods and then by Letagrop, a general least squares computer program. Deviations of the data might be ascribed to small analytical errors but may also indicate some minor species; if so, they are Cu2(HA)34+ and Cu(HA)42+. Although copper(II) ions can be bound to the ϵ-amino group of 6-aminohexanoic acid, after first being reduced and then reoxidized, the compositions of the present complexes indicate that in solution the carboxylate rather than the ϵ-amino group interacts directly with Cu(II) ions.
Objectives:To construct tumor angiogenesis-targeting paramagnetic liposomes and investigate their potential value as a magnetic resonance imaging(MRI) to detect minute tumor foci in tumor-bearing nude mice.Methods:Peptide-palmitic acid conjugate was prepared using fluorenylmethoxy carbony(Fmoc) solid-phase synthetic method.Angiogenesis-targeting paramagnetic liposome particles were prepared by the thin film dispersion-sonication method.Entrapped efficiency of Gd-DPTA-BMA was determined by centrifugal ultrafiltration.The average size of liposome particles was determined by laser particle sizing analysis.Gd3+ concentration was determined by chlorophosphonazo Ⅲ colorimetry.The signal enhancement ratio of targeted paramagnetic liposome particles was evaluated by MRI in human lung adenocarcinoma implanted in nude mice.Results:Five paramagnetic liposome particles which targeted αVβ3,vascular endothelial growth factor receptor(VEGFR)-1 and-2 and had different conjugation forms were prepared.Entrapped efficiency of the five prepared paramagnetic liposome particles was from 55.5% to 60.1%,and average particle size was from 109-128 nm.Integrin αⅤβ3 and VEGFR-2-targeted paramagnetic liposome particles showed good tumor-specific MRI signal enhancement in xenograft of the nude mice,especially for Integrin αVβ3 receptor.Spacer 6-aminohexanoic acid demonstrated the better signal enhancement than the other two linkages.Tumor relative signal intensity was increased 1.8-2.8 folds than control in T1 weighted MR imaging.Minute tumor nodules(2-5 mm) were clearly identified.Biodistribution analysis showed that the Gd3+ concentration in tumor was significantly higher than that in the heart,lung,liver,and muscle,and slightly higher than that in the spleen and kidney.Conclusion:Angiogenesis-targeting paramagnetic liposome particles were tumor-specific and lasted for a long time.MRI signal enhancement was higher and minute tumor foci(2-5 mm) were clearly identified.It can be developed as a potential tumor-specific MRI contrast agent for the early diagnosis of cancer and metastases.
The region located 6.0–6.2 kb upstream from a structural gene for 6-aminohexanoic acid linear oligomer hydrolase (EII) in Flavobacterium was found to be responsible for EII expression in Escherichia coli. In this region there existed a 50 bp long inverted repeat containing a sequence homologous to the E. coli promoter −35 and −10 regions. Introduction of deletions in this region resulted in decreases in EII activity to various levels.
CPP-PMO conjugates have also been used effectively to alter pre-mRNA splicing in DMD models. DMD is usually caused by nonsense or frame-shifting exon mutations in the dystrophin gene that result in an absence of functional protein. (R-Ahx-R) 4 AhxB-PMO (R = arginine, Ahx = 6-aminohexanoic acid and B = betaalanine) conjugates have been used in several models to promote skipping of the mutated exon to produce internally shortened but functional dystrophin protein. An (R-Ahx-R) 4 AhxB-PMO conjugate was much more effective to cause desired exonskipping in primary muscle cells isolated from a golden retriever muscular dystrophy dog than the corresponding non-conjugated PMO or OMe ON. A 300 nM extracellular concentration of the conjugate caused complete exon-skipping in the muscle cells. Ten days after a single treatment, conjugate-treated cells continued to show abundant exon-skipped RNA product [51] . Another (R-Ahx-R) 4 -PMO conjugate caused desired exonskipping in both mdx mouse muscle explants [52] and in several muscles of the intact mdx mice [53] (see Section 5) .
Regions of apoprotein(a) of lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] exhibit striking primary sequence homology to the kringles of plasminogen. The kringles of plasminogen are lysine binding structures and mediate interactions of plasmin(ogen) with substrates and inhibitors. In the current study, the lysine binding properties of Lp(a) have been compared to those of plasminogen and isolated kringle 4 of plasminogen (K4). An analytical assay was implemented to quantitate the interaction of kringle-containing molecules with lysine-Sepharose beads. Radioiodinated ligands, Lp(a), plasminogen, and K4, bound to the beads, and their interactions were inhibited by lysine analogues in a dose-dependent fashion. A series of omega-aminocarboxylic acids inhibited Lp(a), plasminogen, and K4 binding to the lysine-Sepharose beads, but marked differences in the effectiveness of these compounds were observed with each ligand. In this series of compounds, 6-aminohexanoic acid was the most potent inhibitor of binding to lysine-Sepharose for all three ligands. The pH had little effect on the inhibition of plasminogen binding by these compounds. For Lp(a), a low pH caused a marked decrease in inhibition by the 5-carbon and 4-carbon omega-amino acids. In addition, tranexamic acid was 750-fold more potent than lysine in inhibiting plasminogen and 55-fold more potent for K4 binding to the beads. In contrast, the differential potency of these compounds on Lp(a) binding was only 3-fold. These results suggest that the kringles of Lp(a) possess lysine binding functions which are similar, but not identical, to those of plasminogen and its K4.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract The complex (electric) permittivity of aqueous solutions of dipolar solutes has been measured as a function of frequency between 1 MHz and 40 GHz. Solutes are the isomers DL-2-aminobutyric acid, DL-3-aminobutyric acid, and 4-aminobutyric acid, and also 6-aminohexanoic acid. The measured dielectric spectra show two dispersion/dielectric loss regions, one due to the orientational diffusion of the solute molecules the other one due to the dielectric relaxation of the solvent water. A relaxation spectral function based on a model of the solutions has been fitted to the measured frequency dependence of the complex permittivity. The values for the electric dipole moment and reorientation time of the zwitterionic part of the solute particles derived by this analysis from the measurements fairly agree with theoretical predictions. Quite remarkably, the dipole moment in solution of 4-aminobutyric acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid up to remarkably high solute concentrations is nearly constant. A noteworthy result for the hydration water of the amino acids is, that its relaxation time is almost independent of the solute dipole moment.
Some synthetic dextran derivatives that mimic the action of heparin/heparan sulfate were shown to promote in vivo tissue repair when added alone to wounds. These biofunctional mimetics were therefore designated as "regenerating agents" in regard to their in vivo properties. In vitro, these biopolymers were able to protect various heparin-binding growth factors against proteolytic degradation as well as to inhibit the enzymatic activity of neutrophil elastase. In the present work, different dextran derivatives were tested for their capacity to inhibit the enzymatic activity of human plasmin. We show that dextran containing carboxymethyl, sulfate as well as benzylamide groups (RG1192 compound), was the most efficient inhibitor of plasmin amidolytic activity. The inhibition of plasmin by RG1192 can be classified as tight binding hyperbolic noncompetitive. One molecule of RG1192 bound 20 molecules of plasmin with a K(i) of 2.8 x 10(-8) m. Analysis with an optical biosensor confirmed the high affinity of RG1192 for plasmin and revealed that this polymer equally binds plasminogen with a similar affinity (K(d) = 3 x 10(-8) m). Competitive experiments carried out with 6-aminohexanoic acid and kringle proteolytic fragments identified the lysine-binding site domains of plasmin as the RG1192 binding sites. In addition, RG1192 blocked the generation of plasmin from Glu-plasminogen and inhibited the plasmin-mediated proteolysis of fibronectin and laminin. Data from the present in vitro investigation thus indicated that specific dextran derivatives can contribute to the regulation of plasmin activity by impeding the plasmin generation, as a result of their binding to plasminogen and also by directly affecting the catalytic activity of the enzyme.
The specific binding sites for tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) were investigated in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. After adding 125I-t-PA (M.W. 70 kDa) to endothelial cells in suspension culture, the ligand was recovered from the cell extract after disuccinimidyl suberate treatment as a high molecular complex with M.W. of 90 kDa on SDS-PAGE. The complex reacted to only anti-t-PA IgG but not to anti-PAI-1 IgG immunoblot analysis, indicating a t-PA specific binding protein. 125I-t-PA ligand blotting of the cell extract revealed that the binding protein had M.W. 20 kDa. The binding of 125I-t-PA to endothelial cells was reduced in the presence of an excess amount of t-PA, plasminogen and 6-aminohexanoic acid, indicating that the binding sites were also recognized by plasminogen, and that t-PA and plasminogen were bound via lysine binding sites in the molecule. These findings suggest that human endothelial cells have specific t-PA binding molecules which may be expressed on the cell surface as t-PA receptors.
Abstract The uptake of [ 125 I-plasminogen]-APSAC into crosslinked human plasma clots from autologous plasma was significantly greater than the uptake of equimolar iodinated lys77-plasminogen. The uptake of APSAC in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid (10 mM) was also significantly greater than the uptake of plasminogen in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid. The accumulation of APSAC continued for at least 2 h (in nonlysing conditions), was similar in platelet-rich, platelet-poor and whole-blood clots and was not affected by prior aging of the clots (up to 6 h). The uptakes of APSAC and streptokinase plasminogen were slightly affected by the plasma concentration of anti-SK IgG and, in general, the fibrin-binding of APSAC was similar to the binding of radiolabelled t-PA. Urokinase (high-molecular weight) did not demonstrate fibrin- binding, the uptake being explained by simple diffusion (quantified using albumin). The relative order of continuing accumulation APSAC = t-PA > lys-plasminogen > urokinase is similar to the order of initial binding (
The effects of freeze-thawing of the tissue, and of protease inhibitors, on proteoglycans extracted sequentially from pig laryngeal cartilage with 0.15 M sodium acetate and 4 M guanidinium chloride were examined. Freeze-thawing of the tissue prior to extraction resulted in an increase in the proportion of smaller-sized proteoglycans in the sodium acetate extracts and a decrease in the proportion of aggregated proteoglycans in 4 M guanidinium extracts. In addition, a slight decrease in the hydrodynamic size of purified disaggregated proteoglycans was noted after freeze-thawing of the cartilage. When the protease inhibitors EDTA, 6-aminohexanoic acid and benzamidine hydrochloride were added to the sodium acetate buffer the yields of proteoglycans from fresh and freeze-thawed cartilage were diminished, but the inhibitors had no effect on the hydrodynamic size of the proteoglycans extracted with sodium acetate. Addition of the protease inhibitors to the 4 M guanidinium solvent increased the proportion of proteoglycans present in aggregates. The highest proportion of aggregated proteoglycans was obtained when fresh tissue was extracted in the presence of the inhibitors.
Abstract To understand the regulation of integrin α IIb β 3 , a critical platelet adhesion molecule, we have developed a peptide affinity chromatography method using the known integrin regulatory motif, LAMWKVGFFKR. Using standard Fmoc chemistry, this peptide was synthesized onto a Toyopearl AF-Amino-650 M resin on a 6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx) linker. Peptide density was controlled by acetylation of 83% of the Ahx amino groups. Four recombinant human proteins (CIB1, PP1, ICln and RN181), previously identified as binding to this integrin regulatory motif, were specifically retained by the column containing the integrin peptide but not by a column presenting an irrelevant peptide. Hemoglobin, creatine kinase, bovine serum albumin, fibrinogen and α-tubulin failed to bind under the chosen conditions. Immunodetection methods confirmed the binding of endogenous platelet proteins, including CIB1, PP1, ICln RN181, AUP-1 and β 3 -integrin, from a detergent-free platelet lysate. Thus, we describe a reproducible method that facilitates the reliable extraction of specific integrin-binding proteins from complex biological matrices. This methodology may enable the sensitive and specific identification of proteins that interact with linear, membrane-proximal peptide motifs such as the integrin regulatory motif LAMWKVGFFKR.
A simple, rapid and sensitive microchip electrophoretic (MCE) method with fluorescence detection is described for the simultaneous determination of two GABA analogue drugs, baclofen (BCN) and vigabatrin (VGN). Pre-microchip derivatization of both analytes with 4-fluoro-7-nitro-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole (NBD-F) was performed in a basic borate buffer. The NBD-fluorescent derivatives of the studied drugs (λex/em 470/540) were baseline separated in a dynamically-coated poly(methyl methacrylate) microfluidic channel within 120 s using a 40 mM borate buffer containing 0.4% methylcellulose as the background solution. The ability of methylcellulose to form a network sieve of small pore size allowed the labelled analytes to be separated efficiently according to their molecular size variations with a resolution factor equal to 7.8 and a number of theoretical plates of more than 500 000 per meter. The MCE method was applied to assay BCN and VGN in tablets using 6-aminohexanoic acid as an internal standard. The method sensitivity was enhanced by application of combined stacking and a dynamic pH junction. The method was applied to assay BCN in human plasma and human urine samples with a detection limit lower than 0.3 ng mL−1 and mean extraction recoveries of more than 95% (% RSD < 7) after protein precipitation with methanol.
Abstract Fibrin carries sites which bind plasmin and preactivated plasminogen (mol.wt. 84,000) allowing the formation of stable complexes. Fibrinogen degradation product E interferes with this complex formation suggesting that the plasmin(ogen) binding site is present in this fragment. The complexes are also dissociated by the anti-fibrinolytic agents 6-aminohexanoic acid and aminomethyl cyclohexanoic acid which both compete for the fibrin binding site of plasmin and plasminogen.
All PPMOs were synthesized and purified at Sarepta Therapeutics (Corvallis, OR, USA) as described previously. 26 The PPMO nucleobase sequences are: NDM-1, 5 0 -TCCTTTTATTC; NDM-1 0 , 5 0 -GGCAATTCCAT; and scrambled base sequence control (Scr), 5 0 -TCTCAGATGGT. Each PPMO was conjugated to (RXR) 4 XB, where R is arginine, X is 6-aminohexanoic acid and B is b-alanine. Meropenem was purchased from Hospira Inc. (Lake Forest, IL, USA), doripenem (Doribax V R ) from Shionogi and Co. Ltd (Osaka, Japan) and imipenem from LKT Laboratories, Inc. (St Paul, MN, USA).
Factor VIII is inactivated by limited proteolytic cleavages at Arg336 and Lys36 by plasmin (Abst #1017 and 1018, BLOOD 106, 2005). We recently identified a plasmin-interactive site in the A2 domain responsible for cleavage at Arg336, and also reported that the cleavage at Lys36 was selectively regulated by the light chain that might interact with its protease. In the current study, several approaches were employed to examine the localization of plasmin-interactive site(s) responsible for cleavage at Lys36. Rate constant of plasmin-catalyzed factor VIIIa inactivation by the addition of the 1649A3-C1-C2 (intact light chain) or 1690A3-C1-C2 fragment was reduced by ~2-folds in a dose-dependent manner using one-stage clotting assay, but not by the 1722A3-C1-C2. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that Lys36 cleavage in A1/1722A3-C1-C2 dimer by plasmin was markedly slower than that in the A1/1649A3-C1-C2 or A1/1690A3-C1-C2 dimer. Surface plasmon resonance-based assay using anhydro-plasmin (Ah-plasmin), catalytically inactive derivative of plasmin in which the active-site serine was converted to dehydroalanine, showed that the 1722A3-C1-C2 bound to Ah-plasmin (Kd; 191 nM) with an ~3-fold lower affinity compared with 1649A3-C1-C2 or 1690A3-C1-C2 (68 or 83 nM, respectively). Recombinant A3 domain, expressed in E.Coli, also bound to Ah-plasmin with similar affinity (Kd; 44 nM), but the C2 failed to bind, suggesting the presence of a plasmin-binding site within N-terminus of the A3 domain. On the other hand, Glu-Gly-Arg-active-site modified factor IXa blocked the light chain binding to Ah-plasmin by ~60% (Ki: 10.5 nM), supporting that another plasmin-binding site juxtaposes or overlaps with a factor IXa-binding site (residues 1804–1818) in the A3 domain. The 6-aminohexanoic acid, a competitor of lysine-binding site of plasmin, blocked by >90% the light chain and Ah-plasmin interaction (Ki; 6.8 microM). Based on the major contribution of lysine-binding site(s) of plasmin for interaction with the light chain, evaluation of the A3 sequence revealed two regions involving clustered lysine residues of 1690–1705 and 1804–1818. Two synthetic peptides corresponding to these regions blocked the light chain binding to Ah-plasmin by ~50% (Ki: ~20 microM). We conclude that an extended surface centered the 1690–1705 and 1804–1818 regions within the A3 domain interacts with plasmin for the cleavage at Lys36 within the A1 domain.
Skin penetration enhancers are compounds used to facilitate the transdermal delivery of drugs that are otherwise not sufficiently permeable. Through a synthetic route implementing two series of esters, we generated transdermal penetration enhancers by a multi-step reaction with substituted 6-aminohexanoic acid. We present the synthesis of all newly prepared compounds here with structural confirmation accomplished by (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, IR and mass spectroscopy (MS). The lipophilicity (logk) of all compounds was determined via RP-HPLC and their hydrophobicity (logP/ClogP) was also calculated using two commercially available programs. Ab initio calculations of geometry and molecular dynamic simulations were employed to investigate the 3-dimensional structures of selected compounds. The transdermal penetration-enhancing activity of all the synthesized esters were examined in vitro and demonstrated higher enhancement ratios than oleic acid. Compounds 2e (C(10) ester chain) and 2f (C(11) ester chain) exhibited the highest enhancement ratios. It can be concluded that the series non-substituted at the C((2)) position by a ω-lactam ring showed significantly higher activity than those with azepan-2-one. None of the prepared compounds penetrated through the skin. All of the investigated agents demonstrated minimal anti-proliferative activity using the SK-N-MC neuroepithelioma cell line (IC(50)>6.25μM), suggesting these analogs would have a low cytotoxic profile when administered in vivo as chemical penetration enhancers. The correlation between the chemical structure of the studied compounds and their lipophilicity is discussed in regards to transdermal penetration-enhancing activity.
The activable serine proteinase domain is located in the COOH-terminal third of Pg. The NH 2 -terminal two-thirds of Pg contains an 8-kDa preactivation peptide and five characteristic kringle domains (K1-K5), each ϳ9 kDa. The kringles mediate interactions with multiple ligands, including fibrin, the primary target of Pg, and ␣ 2 -plasmin inhibitor, its principal regulator (1, 2). The recognition events depend upon interactions between lysine-binding sites in the kringles and exposed COOH-terminal lysines in the ligands. Lysine analogues, such as 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA), mimic COOH-terminal lysines in the interaction with kringles and the structural basis of the interactions between some kringles, particularly K1 and K4, and 6-AHA has been disclosed (9 -12). The affinity of the different kringles for lysine or 6-AHA is variable, such that K1 displays the highest affinity, whereas K3 shows no measurable interaction with 6-AHA (13, 14). Some kringles, notably K1 and K5, also bind lysine analogues and proteins lacking a carboxylgroup. The molecular requirements for these "pseudo-lysine" interactions have not been disclosed.
** To whom correspondence should be addressed: Dept. of MIG, Laboratory Medicine, Sölvegatan 23, S-22362 Lund, Sweden. Tel.: 46-46-173238; Fax: 46-46-189117; E-mail: ulf.sjobring@mmb.lu.se. 1 The abbreviations used are: Pg, plasminogen; 6-AHA, 6-aminohexanoic acid; m-Pg, mini-plasminogen; PBS, phosphate buffered saline; rK1, rK2, and rK3, recombinant kringles 1, 2, and 3.
Streptokinase reacts very rapidly with human plasmin (rate constant 5.4 S 10(7) M-1 s-1) forming a 1:1 stoichiometric complex which has a dissociation constant of 5 X 10(-11) M. This plasmin-streptokinase complex is 10(5) times less reactive towards alpha 2-antiplasmin than plasmin, the inhibition rate constant being 1.4 X 10(2) M-1 s-1. The loss of reactivity of the streptokinase-plasmin complex towards alpha 2-antiplasmin is independent of the lysine binding sites in plasmin since low-Mr plasmin, which lacks these sites, and plasmin in which the sites have been blocked by 6-aminohexanoic acid, are both equally unreactive towards alpha 2-antiplasmin on reaction with streptokinase. The plasmin-streptokinase complex binds to Sepharose-lysine and Sepharose-fibrin monomer in the same fashion as free plasmin, showing that the lysine binding sites are fully exposed in the complex. Bovine plasmin is rapidly inhibited by human alpha 2-antiplasmin (k1 = 1.6 X 10(6) M-1 s-1) and similarly loses reactivity towards the inhibitor on complex formation with streptokinase (50% binding at 0.4 microM streptokinase).
Abstract The interactions of fucoidan with glutamic plasminogen (Glu-Plg), two-chain tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), LMwt-urokinase, thrombin, and antithrombin III (AT-III) were investigated using fucoidan-sepharose affinity chromatography. The results showed 1) a high degree of affinity between fucoidan-sepharose and Glu-Plg; LMwt-urokinase and thrombin while t-PA and AT-III did not bind with fucoidan-sepharose. 2) The double reciprocal plot for the LMwt-urokinase activation of Glu-Plg showed that plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) inhibited this reaction in a noncompetitive manner and that the presence of fucoidan decreased K m for this interaction by 50% and increased K cat by 30-fold. 3) The double reciprocal plot for the t-PA activation of Glu-Plg showed that PAI-1 inhibited this reaction in a competitive manner and that fucoidan in conjunction with 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AH) increased K cat for this interaction by 5-fold without affecting K m . 4) Fucoidan enhanced the interaction of thrombin with both AT-III and heparin cofactor II (HC-II) and it was more effective than unfractionated heparin or LMwt-heparin in enhancing the interaction of HC-II with thrombin. © 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd .
abstract "method to biosynthesize one or more products and recombinant host" This document describes biochemical pathways to produce adipic acid, caprolactam, 6-aminohexanoic acid, hexamethylenediamine or 1,6-gexanodiol forming two terminal functional groups comprised of carboxyl groups, amine or hydroxyl, in a main chain aliphatic C6 substrate. these paths, and cultivation metabolic engineering strategies described herein are based on stretching dependent enzymes COA or similar enzymes with the carbon storage paths of bacteria accumulating polyhydroxyalkanoate. 1/1
Ligand binding to a recombinant human tissue-type plasminogen (tPA) kringle 2 domain has been characterized via 1H-NMR spectroscopy at 500 MHz. Seven omega-amino acid ligands were investigated: L-Lys, 6-aminohexanoic acid (6AHA), 7-aminoheptanoic acid (7AHA), trans-(aminomethyl)-cyclohexanecarboxylic acid (AMCHA), p-(aminomethyl)benzoic acid (PAMBA), p-(aminoethyl)benzoic acid (PAEBA), and p-benzylaminesulfonic acid (BASA). The interactions with two peptides containing a C-terminal lysyl residue, Tyr-Leu-Leu-Lys (YLLK) and Ala-Phe-Gln-Tyr-His-Ser-Lys (AFQYHSK), were also studied. The sequence AFQYHSK is found within the plasminogen N-terminal activation peptide while the tetrapeptide YLLK corresponds the 119-122 segment of the fibrinogen B beta-chain. Spectral comparison of ligand-free and ligand-containing kringle 2 samples leads to the conclusion that all the small ligands as well as the peptides' C-terminal lysyl residues interact with a common binding site in kringle 2. Two-dimensional spectra show that besides the Tyr36, Trp62, His64, Trp72, and Tyr74 aromatic rings, the Val35 and Asp55 aliphatic side chains also participate in ligand binding. Contact points with the ligands 6AHA and BASA were unambiguously identified from kringle 2-ligand nuclear Overhauser effects (NOEs). Overall, the ligand-induced chemical shifts and the intermolecular NOEs correlate remarkably well. Association constant (Ka) values for the kringle 2-ligand interactions were determined. Among the investigated ligands, BASA perturbs the kringle 2 spectrum the most and exhibits the highest affinity for kringle 2 (Ka approximately 233 mM-1). Of the two other aromatic ligands, PAEBA binds to kringle 2 less firmly (Ka = approximately 12 mM-1) than does the one-methylene group shorter analog PAMBA (Ka approximately 31 mM-1). By comparison, relative to 6AHA (Ka approximately 22 mM-1), the longer chain linear aliphatic ligand 7AHA interacts with kringle 2 with significantly higher affinity (Ka approximately 149 mM-1). By reference to the NMR-derived binding site structure, it is suggested that the higher affinity toward 7AHA may stem from (a) a relatively more favored ionic pairing between its carboxylate group and the LYs34 + Arg 69 side-chain cationic centers and (b) an enhanced interaction between the ligand hydrocarbon moiety and the kringle hydrophobic pocket, in particular with the Leu70 side chain. The latter is consistent with the relatively good affinity of kringle 2 for the cyclic hydrocarbon ligand AMCHA (Ka approximately 69 mM-1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Bovine β-lactoglobulin (BLG) is a major component in whey and its physical properties are important for the texture of many dairy-based foods. Modification of proteins with transglutaminase from Streptoverticillium mobaraense (MTGase) can be used to alter their physical properties. MTGase-mediated modification of native BLG was until now, however, not effective. Here we report a method that allows for the enzymatic modification of native BLG with MTGase. Lysines 8, 77, and 141 were modified with α-N-carbobenzyloxy-glutamine-glycine and glutamines 35, 59, 68, and 155 were modified with 6-aminohexanoic acid under nonreducing and nondenaturing conditions. MTGase-mediated BLG crosslinking is hampered by the low reactivity of the lysines and enzymatic deamidation of the glutamines prevails. Modification of BLG with poly-lysine yields a BLG derivative with increased affinity for the water-air interface and stronger surface tension lowering capacities than normal BLG. Hence, this modification method offers the opportunity to change the functional properties of BLG and to prepare novel protein foods. © 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The mass spectra of a series of N-phthaloyl and N-trifluoroacetyl derivatives of ω-amino acids ranging from 3-aminopropionic acid to 6-aminohexanoic acid were determined. Ions of significant intensity resulting from the loss of neutral fragments from precursor ions were observed. Deuterium labeling studies indicate the initial fragmentation loss of a neutral molecule; i.e. the loss of water from the molecular ion involves ω-hydrogen loss from the alkyl chain. A fragmentation scheme consistent with metastable, high resolution and deuterium labeling data is presented.
Each kringle of human plasminogen (HPg) except kringle 3 (K3) exhibits affinity for omega-aminocarboxylic acids. Assuming that the K3 domain contains a preformed but nonfunctional lysine binding site (LBS), Lys311 was altered by site-directed mutagenesis into Asp311 in accordance with the consensus sequence of the LBS. Cys297 involved in the interkringle disulfide bridge was mutated into Ser297 to minimize dimerization and aggregation. The mutated K3 TYQ[K3HPg/C297S/K311D]DS (r-K3mut) was expressed in Escherichia coli, isolated on an Ni2(+)-nitrilotriacetic acid-agarose column, refolded and purified on a lysine Bio-Gel column. Fluorescence titration indicates affinity of r-K3mut for omega-aminocarboxylic acids with the following association constants (Kass, mM-1): 5-aminopentanoic acid: 1.3; 6-aminohexanoic acid: 4.2; 7-aminoheptanoic acid: 0.5; trans-(aminomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylic acid: 12.7; p-benzylaminesulfonic acid: 11.8. r-K3mut exhibits an affinity similar to native and mutated (R220G, E221D) K2. The results indicate the presence of a preformed but nonfunctional LBS in native K3 of HPg. We were able to demonstrate for the first time that an appropriate mutation in the LBS of a kringle produced a weak but distinct affinity for omega-aminocarboxylic acids.
The kringle 2 (E161T/C162S/EEE[K2HPg/C169S]TT) and the kringle 3 (TYQ[K3HPg]DS) domains of human plasminogen (HPg) were expressed in Escherichia coli in an expression vector with the phage T5 promotor/operator element N250PSN250P29 and the cDNA sequence for a hexahistidine tail to facilitate the isolation of the recombinant protein. A coagulation factor Xa (FXa)-sensitive cleavage site was introduced to remove the N-terminal histidine tag. In r-K2, mutations E161T and C162S were introduced to enhance the FXa cleavage yield and C169S to replace the cysteine residue, participating in the inter-kringle disulfide bridge between kringles 2 and 3. Recombinant proteins were isolated by affinity chromatography on Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid/agarose and refolded under denaturing and reducing conditions followed by a non-denaturing and oxidising environment. The free thiol group in position 297 in r-K3 was selectively alkylated with iodoacetamide. The hexahistidine tail was successfully removed with FXa. The N-terminal sequence, the amino acid composition and the molecular mass analyses are in agreement with the expected data. The correct arrangement of the disulfide bonds was verified by sequence analysis of the corresponding thermolytic and subtilisin fragments. r-K2 exhibits weak binding to lysine-Bio-Gel. The weak binding affinity of r-K2 for ω-aminocarboxylic acids is confirmed by intrinsic fluorescence titration with 6-aminohexanoic acid (NH2C5COOH) indicating a Kd of approximately 401 μM. In contrast, r-K3 seems to be devoid of a binding affinity for ω-aminocarboxylic acids. Considering earlier determined Kd values of kringle 1, kringle 4 and kringle 5, the binding affinity of HPg kringle domains for NH2C5COOH is proposed to decrease in the following order, kringle 1 > kringle 4 > kringle 5 > kringle 2 > kringle 3.
beta-Glycosides of N-acetylglucosamine, obtained by the oxazoline synthesis, with 2-dodecyltetradecanol-1 and 2,3-didodecyloxypropanol-1 as aglycons, were converted into muramic acids and then coupled with the dipeptide to give lipophilic glycosides of muramoyldipeptide. On the other hand, condensation of 2-dodecyltetradecanyl esters of glycine and 6-aminohexanoic acid with Boc-L-Ala-D-Glu-NH2 gave the corresponding lipophilic tripeptides, which upon coupling with alpha-benzyl-4,6-O-benzylyden-N-acetylmuramic acid yielded lipophilic esters of muramoyltripeptides. The protecting groups were removed by acid hydrolysis and hydrogenolysis.
Studies were conducted on the effect of 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AH) or fucoidan on the activation of glutamic plasminogen (glu-plg) by streptokinase using 0.05 mol/l Tris buffer containing a physiological concentration of NaCl. In contrast to the earlier reports where no NaCl was added to the buffer solution, addition of 6-AH enhanced the initial rate while the inhibition by fucoidan was not affected. Double reciprocal plots of the activation of glu-plg by streptokinase in the presence of 6-AH showed an increase in V max , but no change in K m . However, the addition of fucoidan showed a decrease in V max , but no change in K m . To determine whether the stimulatory effect of 6-AH was specifically directed towards glu-plg or streptokinase, the ratios of the initial rate of plasmin generation in the presence of 6-AH over the controls were plotted against the inverse of the volume fraction of glu-plg or streptokinase after serial dilutions. The results indicated that the dilutions of glu-plg, but not of streptokinase, influenced the ratios, suggesting an interaction of 6-AH with glu-plg. Similar experiments were conducted to determine the mechanism of inhibition of streptokinase by fucoidan. The results indicated that fucoidan was interacting with streptokinase, but not with glu-plg. Circular dichroism studies of glu-plg in the near-ultraviolet spectra (250-308 nm) showed that addition of 6-AH enhanced the spectra in the region around certain chromophores, which reflected conformational changes. On the contrary, the far-ultraviolet spectra were almost identical.
Objective: Conjugation of arginine-rich cell-penetrating peptide (CPP) to phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMO) has been shown to enhance cytosolic and nuclear delivery of PMO. However, the in vivo disposition of CPP−PMO is largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the pharmacokinetics, tissue distribution, stability, and safety profile of an anti-c-myc PMO conjugated to the CPP, (RXR)4 (X = 6-aminohexanoic acid) in rats. Methods: The PMO and CPP−PMO were administrated intravenously into rats. The concentrations of the PMO and the CPP−PMO in plasma and tissues were monitored by HPLC. The stability of the CPP portion of the CPP−PMO conjugate in rat plasma and tissue lysates was determined by mass spectrometry. The safety profile of the CPP−PMO was assessed by body weight changes, serum chemistry, and animal behavior. Results: CPP conjugation improved the kinetic behavior of PMO with a 2-fold increase in the estimated elimination half-life, a 4-fold increase in volume of distribution, and i...
Plasmin inhibition by alpha 2-antiplasmin (alpha 2AP) is regulated by the vascular components fibrin(ogen) fragments, plasminogen and lipoprotein (a). Kinetic analysis demonstrates that CNBr-derived fibrinogen fragments completely protect plasmin from alpha 2AP. Plasminogen and 6-aminohexanoic acid decrease the rate of inhibition by 5- and 10-fold respectively. These studies show that CNBr-derived fibrinogen fragments and 6-aminohexanoic acid bind plasmin kringle(s) with binding constants of 2 micrograms/ml and 120 microM respectively, and that plasminogen binds to alpha 2AP with an affinity of 0.5 nM. The unmodulated inhibition is not effected by the presence of lipoprotein (a), but in the presence of protective CNBr-derived fibrinogen fragments the rate of inhibition is increased by the presence of the lipoprotein. The kinetics demonstrate that lipoprotein (a) binds to CNBr-derived fibrinogen fragments with an affinity of 4 nM, displacing plasmin from the protective surface. In addition, tissue-type plasminogen activator and trypsin inhibition by alpha 2AP is not slowed by the presence of CNBr-derived fibrinogen fragments or plasminogen (Pg), respectively. These kinetics suggest that the initial reversible interaction between plasmin and alpha 2AP is mediated by binding of the inhibitor to the kringle 1 domain of plasmin, with a reversible inhibition constant (Ki) of 5.0 x 10(-10) M. Under conditions where this kringle-inhibitor interaction is blocked, the reversible inhibition still occurs between the plasmin and alpha 2AP, but the initial Ki is increased to 5.0 x 10(-9) M. These data suggest that, in the circulation, plasmin inhibition by alpha 2AP may be down-regulated by fibrin, fibrin(ogen) fragments and Pg, but up-regulated by lipoprotein (a) in the presence of fibrin or fibrin(ogen) fragments. The lipoprotein (a)-mediated promotion of plasmin inhibition may provide an additional mechanism by which the lipoprotein impairs fibrinolysis and promotes atherosclerosis.
To establish a method for radiochemical quality control of [99mTc]plasmin based on the known affinity of plasmin for lysine residues, human [113Sn]plasmin and [99mTc]plasmin formed by different methods were analyzed in an affinityradiochromatographic system of lysine coupled to CNBr-activated sepharosis. From the observed immobilizations of the radioactivity when the plasmin was bound to the lysine-sepharosis, radiochemical purities of radiolabelled plasmin could be calculated. The effects of presence of Sn(II) and tartaric and gentisic acid and the remobilizations induced by 6-aminohexanoic acid were studied.
The crystal structures of two CuII complexes of 6-aminohexanoic acid (HA) have been determined by X-ray diffraction analysis: the copper of Cu(HA)4·2ClO4 is co-ordinated to the oxygens of four carboxylate groups forming four short and four long bonds, whereas the copper of CuA2·2H2O is co-ordinated to two nitrogens and four oxygens.
A new and regioselective strategy was developed for the preparation of fluorine-18-labeled insulin as a novel positron emission tomography (PET) tracer. [18F]-4-Fluorobenzoic acid (4-18FBA), which was produced in 83 +/- 8% yield (n = 10), through the use of succinimidyl [18F]-4-fluorobenzoate (4-(18)FSB), was conjugated through a short spacer (6-aminohexanoic acid, AHx) to the PheB1 residue of a protected form of insulin. 18FB-AHx-insulin (8b) was repeatedly prepared in practical quantities (10-20 mCi, 370-740 MBq) in good radiochemical yield (9 +/- 5%, n = 9) and in a specific activity of 7.8 mCi/micromol. The final product was characterized by comparing the radioHPLC and radioTLC of 8b with that of the 19F-analogue (19FB-AHx-insulin, 8a) and by analyzing a carrier-added synthesis by mass spectrometry. Dithiothreitol and endoproteinase Glu-C digestion experiments on 8a confirmed that the prosthetic group was in fact conjugated to the PheB1 residue. An insulin receptor (IR) phosphorylation assay using CHO-hIR cells overexpressing recombinant human insulin receptors indicated no statistical difference in the extent of autophosphorylation stimulated by 8a as compared to that for human insulin (EC50 values of 0.82 nM and 1.0 nM, respectively). The stimulation of 2-deoxyglucose uptake in 3T3-L1 mouse adipocytes utilizing 8a versus unmodified human insulin gave similar EC50 values of 0.68 nM and 0.41 nM, respectively. The IC50 values for 8a versus native insulin for the displacement of 125I-insulin from HEK-293 cells were also the same within experimental error (2.6 nM for 8a versus 2.4 nM for unmodified human insulin). These results support the use of the 18F-insulin analogue as a PET tracer for imaging the distribution of insulin in vivo.
Using affinity chromatography, the binding of Lys-plasminogen to fibrinogen, fibrin and the consecutively formed products of their proteolysis was studied. The optimal conditions for this binding were elaborated, and the quantitative parameters of Lys-plasminogen binding to fibrinogen-Sepharose were determined. It was found that the interaction of Lys-plasminogen with fibrinogen- and fibrin-Sepharose is provided for by the lysine-binding sites of the proenzyme molecule. After partial hydrolysis of fibrinogen by plasmin, the amount of adsorbed plasminogen increases and the type of binding changes; part of the proenzyme molecules bind in the presence of 0.003 M 6-aminohexanoic acid, i.e., when lysine-binding sites appear to be blocked. A comparative study of plasminogen binding to fibrinogen fragments was carried out. The resistance of the complexes formed to the effect of 6-aminohexanoic acid and arginine competing for the binding sites was determined. The data obtained testify to the appearance of additional plasminogen-binding sites in the fibrinogen molecule during proteolysis. These sites are complementary for both lysine-and arginine-binding sites of the plasminogen molecule and are localized in the peripheral domains of the fibrinogen molecule.
Cyclic oligomers are the major substances migrating from polyamide (PA) food contact materials. However, no commercial standards are available for the quantification of these substances. For the first time the quantification of cyclic oligomers was carried out by HPLC coupled with a chemiluminescence nitrogen detector (CLND) and single-substance calibration. Cyclic monomer (MW = 226 Da) and dimer (MW = 452 Da) of PA66 were synthesised and equimolar N detection of CLND to synthesised oligomers, caprolactam, 6-aminohexanoic acid (monomers of PA6) and caffeine (a typical nitrogen calibrant) was proven. Relative response factors (UVD at 210 nm) referring to caprolactam were determined for cyclic PA6 oligomers from dimer to nonamer, using HPLC-CLND in combination with a UVD. A method for quantification of cyclic oligomer content in PA materials was introduced using HPLC-CLND analysis and caffeine as a single nitrogen calibrant. The method was applied to the quantification of cyclic PA oligomers in several PA granulates. For two PA6 granulates from different manufacturers markedly different oligomer contents were analysed (19.5 versus 13.4 g kg⁻¹). The elution pattern of cyclic oligomers offers the possibility of identifying the PA type and differentiating between PA copolymers and blends.
Objective To find the mobility rule of fibrinolysis system for patient during the cardiosurgery extracorporeal circulation period in order for the drug-monitoring to based on .Methods 79 valve replacement patient were divided into two groups according to the antifibrinolytic agent they used. D-dimer、α2-AP were analyzed before the operation、aorta opened during the operation, and 72 hr after the surgery .Results (1) Transversal comparison: for patient use 6-aminohexanoic acid and aprotinin, before the operation , for both D-dimer and α2-AP ,the difference between two groups have no statistics discrepancy, P0.05; while aorta opened during the operation, there is statistics discrepancy, P0.05; 72 h after the surgery , the difference between two groups have no statistics discrepancy, P0.05。(2)Comparison:for both 6-aminohexanoic acid and aprotinin groups, D-dimer and α2-AP have no statistics discrepancy, P0.05, but there is statistics discrepancy for D-dimmer before and during the operation, and there is also statistics discrepancy for D-dimmer during and after the operation.Conclusion (1) From the comparison , there is significant variation, which indicate the alteration of fibrinolysis system, so ,it should be close monitored.(2) From the transversal comparison, it indicate there is differential between these two anti-fibrinolysis therapy during the operation, while after the operation, there is not.
The partial molar volume at infinite dilution of aqueous solutions of 3-aminopropanoic acid, 4-aminobutanoic acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid were determined at T=(293.15,298.15,303.15 and 308.15 K) from density measurements. The thermodynamic behavior of the aqueous α,ω-amino acid solutions is compared with that reported for α-amino acids in water. The interaction volume is calculated and the influence of charged and uncharged groups of the amino acids is discussed in terms of solute–solvent interactions.
The conformations of Glu-plasminogen and defined proteolytic fragments, in the presence and absence of 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA), trans-4-(aminomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylic acid (t-AMCHA), and benzamidine, were studied using three methods: size-exclusion high-performance liquid chromatography (SE-HPLC), small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), and dynamic laser light scattering (DLLS). The well-documented conformational change of Glu-plasminogen with 6-AHA or t-AMCHA was measured as a decrease in molecular elution time by SE-HPLC (8.93 +/- 0.01 to 8.32 +/- 0.01 min) and increases in radius of gyration (30.7 +/- 0.1 to 49.8 +/- 0.3 A) and Stokes radius (40.6 +/- 0.3 to 48.5 +/- 0.3 A) by SAXS and DLLS, respectively. The addition of benzamidine to Glu-plasminogen resulted in a conformation (radius of gyration 41.0 +/- 0.4 A and Stokes radius 46.6 +/- 0.3 A) distinct from that in the presence of 6-AHA. 6-AHA, but not benzamidine, induced significant conformational changes in Lys-plasminogen and kringles 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5. We conclude that Glu-plasminogen adopts three distinct conformations involving two intramolecular interactions: one mediated by regions of the NH2-terminal peptide and kringle 5, competed for by 6-AHA or benzamidine, and the other possibly between kringles 3 and 4, competed for by 6-AHA but not benzamidine.
The low-molecular-mass, cyclic analog of neuropeptide Y, [Ahx5-24, gamma-Glu2-epsilon-Lys30] NPY (YESK-Ahx-RHYINKITRQRY; Ahx, 6-aminohexanoic acid; NPY, neuropeptide Y), was synthesized and investigated for receptor binding, inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation, inhibition of electrically stimulated rat vas deferens contractions and ability to increase blood pressure. Like the linear peptide [Ahx5-24] NPY (YPSK-Ahx-RHYINLITRQRY), the more rigid, cyclic analog showed good correlation between receptor binding to rabbit kidney membranes and biological activity in the vas deferens assay. Binding of this peptide to a new Y2-receptor-expressing cell line was slightly reduced, compared to the linear peptide [Ahx5-24] NPY, however inhibition of cAMP accumulation was even more efficient. Unlike the linear peptide [Ahx5-24] NPY, the cyclic analog did not induce a blood pressure increase in rats. Reduced binding to Y1 receptor-expressing SK-N-MC cells, as well as the loss of capability of signal transduction, suggest that only Y2-mediated activity is preserved after cyclization. The selectivity of the cyclic compound for Y2 subtypes of NPY receptors with respect to inhibition of cAMP accumulation is more than fortyfold increased, as compared to the linear NPY-(13-36) peptide, which has been used to determine Y2 selectivity so far.
Human plasmin activity is inhibited by various penicillins in a dose-dependent manner. Ampicillin and cloxacillin produce a 50% inhibition of the globinolytic activity of plasmin at 4.5 and 5.3 mM respectively. A lower inhibitory capacity is displayed by carbenicillin. Assay of plasmin by its amidolytic activity on D-valyl-L-leucyl-L-lysine p-nitroanilide dihydrochloride showed that ampicillin at a concentration producing half-maximal inhibition converted the hyperbolic activity-substrate concentration curve into a sigmoidal curve. A similar conversion occurred in the presence of ampicillin when plasmin was assayed with an alternative chromogenic substrate, L-pyroglutamyl-glycyl-L-arginine p-nitroanilide hydrochloride 6-Aminohexanoic acid at 7.5 microM abolished the inhibition of plasmin induced by ampicillin. The present observations suggest that ampicillin interacts with plasmin at a regulatory site different from the active site of the enzyme. The effect of 6-aminohexanoic acid indicates that the lysine-binding site may be part of a regulatory site. It is possible that modulation of plasmin activity by ligands plays a role in the control of fibrinolysis.
Abstract The partial molar volume and partial molar adiabatic compressibilities at infinite dilution of dl -aminobutanoic acid, dl -norvaline, β-alanine, 4-aminobutanoic acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid and glycylglycine have been obtained in water and aqueous solutions of (0.5, 1.0 and 1.5) mol · kg −1 sodium sulphate at (288.15, 298.15 and 308.15) K from measurements of density and ultrasonic velocity. A qualitative interpretation of the results has been given using the Kirkwood model and nature of the interactions in solutions. A model, derived from Scaled Particle Theory, has been used for quantitative explanation of partial molar volumes and for the understanding the volumes of interaction. The results distinguish the behaviour of α-amino acids from that of α,ω-amino acids, and of the “less polar” 5-aminopentanoic acid from that of the analogous, but “more polar”, glycylglycine in solution. These findings are in agreement with previous studies in aqueous solutions and they support the water-structure making ability of sodium sulphate.
Two types of phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMOs) were tested for inhibition of growth of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. Both PMOs have the same 11-base sequence that is antisense to the region near the start codon of acpP, which is essential for lipid biosynthesis and viability. To the 3' end of each is attached the membrane-penetrating peptide (RXR)4XB (R, X, and B indicate arginine, 6-aminohexanoic acid, and beta-alanine, respectively). One peptide-PMO (AcpP PPMO) has no charge on the PMO moiety. The second PPMO has three cations (piperazine) attached to the phosphorodiamidate linkages (3+Pip-AcpP PPMO). A scrambled-sequence PPMO (Scr PPMO) was synthesized for each type of PMO. The MICs of AcpP PPMO, 3+Pip-AcpP PPMO, and either one of the Scr PPMOs were 1.25 microM (7 microg/ml), 0.156 microM (0.94 microg/ml), and >160 microM (>900 microg/ml), respectively. 3+Pip-AcpP PPMO at 1.25 or 2.5 microM significantly reduced the growth rates of pure cultures, whereas AcpP PPMO or either Scr PPMO had no effect. However, the viable cell count was significantly reduced at either concentration of 3+Pip-AcpP PPMO or AcpP PPMO, but not with either Scr PPMO. In other experiments, macrophages were infected intracellularly with S. enterica and treated with 3 microM 3+Pip-AcpP PPMO. Intracellular bacteria were reduced >99% with 3+Pip-AcpP PPMO, whereas intracellular bacteria increased 3 orders of magnitude in untreated or Scr PPMO-treated cultures. We conclude that either AcpP PPMO or 3+Pip-AcpP PPMO inhibited growth of S. enterica in pure culture and that 3+Pip-AcpP PPMO reduced intracellular viability of S. enterica in macrophages.
Sensitive and selective detection of 2, 4, 6-trinitrophenyl derivatives (TNP derivatives) based on surface plasmon resonance (SPR) was performed using polyclonal anti-TNP antibody and N-(TNP)-ovalbumin (TNP-OVA) conjugate. TNP-bovine serum albumin (TNP-BSA) conjugate was injected into the mice, and polyclonal anti-TNP antibody was gained after purification of the sera using protein G. TNP-OVA was immobilized on the Au film of the SPR sensor chip by physical adsorption. The incidence angle shift of the TNP-OVA immobilized sensor increased steeply with increasing concentration of anti-TNP antibody up to 20 μg/ml and increased only slightly above this concentration. The additions of TNP derivatives into the anti-TNP antibody solution were found to decrease the incidence angle shift because of the inhibition effects of TNP derivatives. The lowest detection limit for trinitrotoluene (TNT) by SPR was 1×10 -7 g/ml, whereas for TNP-6-aminohexanoic acid (TNP-aha) it was 3×10 -9 g/ml. Evaluations of affinity constants of anti-TNP antibody were performed. Analyses of SPR data were carried out by assumptions of the Langmuir isotherm and equilibrium state of immunoreaction. The value of association constant between anti-TNP antibody and immobilized TNP-OVA (K 1 ) was 6.4×10 6 M -1 . The values of association constants between antibody and TNP-aha (K 2 ) were 2.7 and 8.5×10 6 M -1 when 20 and 10 μg/ml antibody were used, respectively.
1. Possible interactions between fibrin(ogen) and heparin in the control of plasminogen activation were studied in model systems using the thrombolytic agents tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), urokinase and streptokinase.plasminogen activator complex and the substrates Glu- and Lys-plasminogen. 2. Both t-PA and urokinase activities were promoted by heparin and by pentosan polysulphate, but not by chondroitin sulphate or hyaluronic acid. The effect was on Km. 3. In the presence of soluble fibrin (and its mimic, CNBr-digested fibrinogen) the effect of heparin on t-PA was attenuated, although not abolished. In studies using a monoclonal antibody and 6-aminohexanoic acid, it was found that heparin and fibrin did not seem to share a binding site on t-PA. 4. The activity of t-PA B-chain was unaffected by heparin, so the binding site is located on the A-chain of t-PA (and urokinase). 5. Fibrin potentiated the activity of heparin on urokinase. The activity of streptokinase.plasminogen was unaffected by heparin whether or not fibrin was present. 6. If these influences of heparin and fibrin also occur in vivo, then, in the presence of heparin, the relative fibrin enhancement of t-PA will be diminished and the likelihood of systemic activation by t-PA is increased.
Abstract When human plasma was mixed with 50 units of urokinase and clotted with thrombin in the presence of S-2251, the hydrolysis of S-2251 in the clot was higher than that in the plasma. The presence of 10 μM of tranexamic acid resulted in decrease in the activation rate of plasminogen in the clot but not in the plasma. Further increase in its concentration resulted in marked increase in plasminogen activation in both clot and plasma. The addition of 6-aminohexanoic acid or cis-AMCHA showed changes in the rate of plasminogen activation similar to that shown in the presence of tranexamic acid. Fifty μM of tranexamic acid totally inhibited urokinase induced clot lysis, while 1 mM of cis-AMCHA and 6-aminohexanoic acid totally inhibited clot lysis. The presence of 1 mM of these ω-aminoacids remarkably increased the activation of plasminogen by urokinase, but no clot lysis was observed.
1. Possible interactions between fibrin(ogen) and heparin in the control of plasminogen activation were studied in model systems using the thrombolytic agents tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), urokinase and streptokinase-plasminogen activator complex and the substrates Glu-and Lys-plasminogen. 2. Both t-PA and urokinase activities were promoted by heparin and by pentosan polysulphate, but not by chondroitin sulphate or hyaluronic acid. The effect was on Km. 3. In the presence of soluble fibrin (and its mimic, CNBr-digested fibrinogen) the effect of heparin on t-PA was attenuated, although not abolished. In studies using a monoclonal antibody and 6-aminohexanoic acid, it was found that heparin and fibrin did not seem to share a binding site on t-PA. 4. The activity of t-PA B-chain was unaffected by heparin, so the binding site is located on the A-chain of t-PA (and urokinase). 5. Fibrin potentiated the activity of heparin on urokinase. The activity of streptokinase -plasminogen was unaffected by heparin whether or not fibrin was present. 6. If these influences of heparin and fibrin also occur in vivo, then, in the presence of heparin, the relative fibrin enhancement of t-PA will be diminished and the likelihood of systemic activation by t-PA is increased.
We investigated whether leukemic cell lines could convert hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA) to any of the metabolites previously identified and quantified in the urine and plasma of patients treated with HMBA. After 5-7 days of incubation with 1-2 mM HMBA, HL60 human promyelocytic leukemic cells, L1210 and P388 murine lymphoblastic leukemic cells, and Friend murine erythroleukemia cells contained 4 of the previously identified metabolites of HMBA. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry confirmed the presence of N-acetyl-1,6-diaminohexane (NADAH), 1,6-diaminohexane (DAH), 6-acetamidohexanoic acid (AcHA), and 6-aminohexanoic acid (AmHA). Gas chromatography with nitrogen-phosphorus selective detection was used to quantify cellular concentrations of each metabolite. Cellular concentrations of AmHA and DAH were greater than those of NADAH and AcHA but no concentration of a metabolite exceeded that of HMBA. Metabolites were not detected in media from cells incubated with HMBA. Friend murine erythroleukemia cells that were resistant to HMBA contained only HMBA and NADAH. Moreover, the concentrations of NADAH in Friend murine erythroleukemia cells that were resistant to HMBA were less than those in the other cell lines studied. HL60 cells accumulated HMBA rapidly. NADAH, DAH, AcHA, and AmHA appeared sequentially in HL60 cells that were incubated with HMBA. NADAH appeared very rapidly, but concentrations of DAH were greater than or equal to those of NADAH by 8 h. AcHA and AmHA were not detected in cells before 24-48 h of incubation with HMBA. HL60 cells incubated with individual HMBA metabolites were able to accumulate each compound and to interconvert some: cells incubated with NADAH also contained DAH, AcHA, and AmHA; cells incubated with AcHA also contained low concentrations of AmHA; cells incubated with DAH also contained AmHA; and cells incubated with AmHA contained no other HMBA metabolites. HMBA was not present in cells incubated with any of its known metabolites. These results document the ability of various leukemic cells to metabolize HMBA, indicate the unidirectional catabolism of that compound, and may have implications as to its mechanism of action.
Interaction of streptokinase and alpha-2-antiplasmin with plasmin and plasminogen fragments was compared. Binding sites on the enzyme become half-saturated, streptokinase and alpha-2-antiplasmin concentration being 8.5 and 30 nM, respectively. 6-Aminohexanoic acid in concentration of 20 mM reduces the adsorption of streptokinase and and alpha-2-antiplasmin by 20 and 60%, respectively. From all the investigated fragments, streptokinase shows the greatest affinity for mini-plasminogen and alpha-2-antiplasmin for kringles 1-3. Both proteins in the presence of 20 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid do not bind with kringle domains. Arginine dose 0.1 M does not influence streptokinase adsorption on mini-plasminogen and decreases the value of alpha-2-antiplasmin binding with mini-plasminogen by 50%. The data obtained indicate that plasminogen molecule has the sites of the highest affinity for streptokinase on the serine-proteinase domain, however for alpha-2-antiplasmin it is in the kringles 1-3. Streptokinase with equimolar quantity in respect of alpha-2-antiplasmin inhibits the adsorption of alpha-2-antiplasmin on the plasmin by 70% and in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid it is inhibited completely. Addition of streptokinase also increases the influence of increasing concentration of the acid. Inhibiting influence of streptokinase decreases, and that of 6-aminohexanoic acid increases, when plasmin is modified with diisopropylfluorophosphate in its active centre. At the same time maximum inhibition of streptokinase adsorption on the plasmin at different concentrations of alpha-2-antiplasmin and 6-aminohexanoic acid accounts for only 20%. We suppose that in the process of complex formation streptokinase competes with alpha-2-antiplasmin for the binding sites on the catalytic domain of the plasmin. Partial or complete blocking of the plasmin active centre contact zone by streptokinase effectively protects it from inhibition by alpha-2-antiplasmin.
The potency of antisense peptide-phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PPMOs) was improved by varying the peptide composition. An antisense phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer (PMO) complementary to the mRNA of the essential gene acpP (which encodes the acyl carrier protein required for lipid biosynthesis) in Escherichia coli was conjugated to the 5′ ends of various cationic membrane-penetrating peptides. Each peptide had one of three repeating sequence motifs: C-N-N (motif 1), C-N (motif 2), or C-N-C (motif 3), where C is a cationic residue and N is a nonpolar residue. Variations in the cationic residues included arginine, lysine, and ornithine (O). Variations in the nonpolar residues included phenylalanine, valine, β-alanine (B), and 6-aminohexanoic acid (X). The MICs of the PPMOs varied from 0.625 to >80 μM (about 3 to 480 μg/ml). Three of the most potent were the (RX)6B-, (RXR)4XB-, and (RFR)4XB-AcpP PMOs, which were further tested in mice infected with E. coli. The (RXR)4XB-AcpP PMO was the most potent of the three conjugates tested in mice. The administration of 30 μg (1.5 mg/kg of body weight) (RXR)4XB-AcpP PMO at 15 min postinfection reduced CFU/ml in blood by 102 to 103 within 2 to 12 h compared to the numbers in water-treated controls. All mice treated with 30 μg/dose of (RXR)4XB-AcpP PMO survived infection, whereas all water-treated mice died 12 h postinfection. The reduction in CFU/ml in blood was proportional to the dose of PPMO from 30 to 300 μg/ml. In summary, the C-N-C motif was more effective than the other two motifs, arginine was more effective than lysine or ornithine, phenylalanine was more effective than 6-aminohexanoic acid in vitro but not necessarily in vivo, and (RXR)4XB-AcpP PMO reduced bacterial infection and promoted survival at clinically relevant doses.
Abstract C3a anaphylatoxin is derived from the third component (C3) of the blood complement system. Selective proteolysis of C3 by activated proenzymes indigenous to blood generates the C3a fragment. Human C3a was isolated from inulin-activated serum containing 6-aminohexanoic acid, according to recently published procedures (Hugli, T. E., Vallota, E., and Muller-Eberhard, H. J. (1975) J. Biol. Chem. 250, 1472-1498). The human C3a fragment is a highly cationic molecule exhibiting an approximate molecular weight of 9000 and composed of 77 amino acid residues. It consists of a single polypeptide chain containing 8% cysteine and lacks both tryptophan and carbohydrate. A tentative primary structure for the human C3a molecule, deduced from overlapping peptides obtained after cyanogen bromide cleavage, tryptic and chymotryptic digestion, is: See article. Two cystelhylcysteine sequences were established at positions 22, 23 and 56, 57 in human C3a. The 6 half-cystine residues in C3a are all interconnected through three disulfide linkages intersecting in a disulfide knot. The functionally amino acid residues distributed among 14 residues at the COOH-terminal end of C3a. This unusually cationic COOH-terminal region of C3a is presumed to play an important role in the interaction of this protein molecule with cellular receptors. A comparison between the linear sequence of human C3a and the NH2-terminal sequences of light and heavy chains of human immunoglobulin indicates that limited identity exists.
Determinations of the molecular orientation of ornithine and 6-aminohexanoic acid on the surface of vermiculite using polarized i.r. attenuated total reflectance have shown that the ornithine molecules lay almost flat on the clay surface, except for a C–N bond projecting towards, and hydrogen bonded to, the surface. Ornithine formed two adjacent layers in the interlayer space, whereas 6-aminohexanoic acid formed only one layer. The terminal C-N bond of 6-aminohexanoic acid was at 46° to the surface, the plane of the carbon chain having a tilt of 34°, and the molecular axis sloped at 36° to the surface. The amino acids, thus orientated, were positioned in the interlayer space using van der Waals contact distances and hydrogen bond lengths obtained from i.r. spectra. The i.r. results agreed with two dimensional electron density projections. In the ornithine complex, some of the methylene groups were so close to the clay surface that interaction may have caused the marked reduction observed in the intensity of the C–H stretching vibrations.
The inhibiting behavior of 6-aminohexanoic acid (C 6 H 13 N0 2 ) on mild steel corrosion in 1 M HCI as corroding solution at 25 °C was evaluated by weight loss, polarization, and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) methods. The weight loss, polarization, and EIS measurements were relatively in good agreement together. Results obtained by the three methods showed that the inhibition efficiency (%IE) increases with increasing the concentration of 6-aminohexanoic acid up to 6.86 × 10 -05 M (about %IE = 80). It was also found that the adsorptive behavior of the investigated inhibitor on the steel surface followed Langmuir-type isotherm, the 6-aminohexanoic acid acted as a mixed type inhibitor and its inhibition mechanism obeys from the chemisorption interaction between 6-aminohexanoic acid and the mild steel.
Abstract The extracellular endo- d -galacturonanase of Aspergillus niger was covalently bound to (hydroxyalkyl) methacrylate gel by using glycine, β-alanine, 4-aminobutanoic acid, glycyl-glycine, and 6-aminohexanoic acid, respectively, as spacers. Immobilization of the enzyme invariably led to decreased activity, the extent of the decrease being inversely proportional to the chain length of the spacer. This fact, as well as apparent kinetic parameters of the immobilized enzyme indicated that steric hindrance and, probably, diffusion effects are responsible for the decrease in activity. The covalent binding also caused an alteration of the action pattern of the enzyme on polymeric and oligomeric substrates. In the case of the polymers the randomness in degradation was lowered because of restriction of the enzyme action to peripheral areas of the substrate molecule. Among oligomeric substrates, the most important change was observed in tetra( d -galactosiduronic acid), in which (2 + 2) degradation occurred as well as the (1 + 3) degradation characteristic of the soluble enzyme.
Abstract There are described two routes to the synthesis of N -(1-deoxy d -fructos-1-yl) derivatives of l -valine, l -leucine, l -methionine, l -phenylalanine, and 6-aminohexanoic acid. One route involved reductive amination of d - arabino -hexos-2-ulose in the presence of sodium cyanoborohydride; yields were limited by the formation of significant quantities of N -(1-deoxyhexitol-1-yl)amino acids, which were difficult to remove. this drawback was overcome in the second route, which involved reductive amination of 2,3:4,5-di- O -isopropylidene- aldehydo -β- d - arabino -hexos-2-ulo-2,6-pyranose; following a deblocking step, N -(1-deoxy- d -fructos-1-yl) derivatives of the aforementioned amino acids were obtained in yields which were at least double those reported for the current procedure involving the reaction of an amino acid with d -glucose, and an Amadori type of rearrangement of the resulting d -glucosylamine.
Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), an aphthovirus from the Picorna6iridae family, causes the economically most important disease of farm animals [1] and is characterized by an extremely high antigenic and genetic variability that gives rise to seven serotypes and over 65 subtypes. In serotype C, neutralizing antiAbbre6iations: 2D-1 H NMR, two-dimensional proton nuclear magnetic resonance; AA, amino acid residue; AAA, amino acid analysis; Ahx, 6-aminohexanoic acid; AM, 2-[4-aminomethyl-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)]phenoxyacetic acid (linker); C A , analyte concentration; DdHa, conformational chemical shift for proton a; DIEA, diisopropylethylamine; DMF, N,N%-dimethylformamide; EDC, N-ethyl-N%-dimethylaminopropylcarbodiimide; EID, enzyme immunodot; EITB, enzyme immuno-electrotransfer blot; ESIMS, electrospray ionization mass spectrometry; Et 3 Si, triethylsilane; Fab, fragment antigen binding; FMDV, foot-and-mouth disease virus; Fmoc, 9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl; HPLC, high performance liquid chromatography; IC 50 , 50% inhibition concentration; k a , association rate constant (M ; mAb, monoclonal antibody; MALDI-TOF MS, matrix-assisted laser desorption -time-of-flight mass spectrometry; MBHA, p-methylbenzhydrylamine resin; MeCN, acetonitrile; NHS, N-hydroxysuccinimide; NMM, N-methylmorpholine; NOE, nuclear Overhauser effect; PBS, phosphate buffer saline; R eq , equilibrium response; RI, bulk refractive index; R immob , immobilization response; R max , maximum response (RU); RPLC, reverse phase liquid chromatography; RU, resonance units; SPPS, solid phase peptide synthesis; SPR, surface plasmon resonance;
a X stands for a 6-aminohexanoic acid residue. b Parenthesis stand for an intra-molecular Cys-Cys bond (cyclic peptide).
The potency of antisense peptide-phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PPMOs) was improved by varying the peptide composition. An antisense phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer (PMO) complementary to the mRNA of the essential gene acpP (which encodes the acyl carrier protein required for lipid biosynthesis) in Escherichia coli was conjugated to the 5 ends of various cationic membrane-penetrating peptides. Each peptide had one of three repeating sequence motifs: C-N-N (motif 1), C-N (motif 2), or C-N-C (motif 3), where C is a cationic residue and N is a nonpolar residue. Variations in the cationic residues included arginine, lysine, and ornithine (O). Variations in the nonpolar residues included phenylalanine, valine, ␤-alanine (B), and 6-aminohexanoic acid (X). The MICs of the PPMOs varied from 0.625 to >80 M (about 3 to 480 g/ml). Three of the most potent were the (RX) 6 B-, (RXR) 4 XB-, and (RFR) 4 XB-AcpP PMOs, which were further tested in mice infected with E. coli. The (RXR) 4 XB-AcpP PMO was the most potent of the three conjugates tested in mice. The administration of 30 g (1.5 mg/kg of body weight) (RXR) 4 XB-AcpP PMO at 15 min postinfection reduced CFU/ml in blood by 10 2 to 10 3 within 2 to 12 h compared to the numbers in water-treated controls. All mice treated with 30 g/dose of (RXR) 4 XB-AcpP PMO survived infection, whereas all water-treated mice died 12 h postinfection. The reduction in CFU/ml in blood was proportional to the dose of PPMO from 30 to 300 g/ml. In summary, the C-N-C motif was more effective than the other two motifs, arginine was more effective than lysine or ornithine, phenylalanine was more effective than 6-aminohexanoic acid in vitro but not necessarily in vivo, and (RXR) 4 XB-AcpP PMO reduced bacterial infection and promoted survival at clinically relevant doses.
Abstract--Determinations of the molecular orientation of ornithine and 6-aminohexanoic acid on the surface of vermiculite using polarized i.r. attenuated total reflectance have shown that the ornithine molecules lay almost fiat on the clay surface, except for a C-N bond projecting towards, and hydrogen bonded to, the surface. Ornithine formed two adjacent layers in the interlayer space, whereas 6-aminohexanoic acid formed only one layer. The terminal C-N bond of 6-aminohexanoic acid was at 46 ~ to the surface, the plane of the carbon chain having a tilt of 34 ~ and the molecular axis sloped at 36 ~ to the surface. The amino acids, thus orientated, were positioned in the interlayer space using van der Waals contact distances and hydrogen bond lengths obtained from i.r. spectra. The i.r. results agreed with two dimensional electron density projections. In the ornithine complex, some of the methylene groups were so close to the clay surface that interaction may have caused the marked reduction observed in the intensity of the C-H stretching vibrations.
Chiral Building Blocks for Syntheses by Kolbe Electrolysis of Enantiomerically Pure β-Hydroxybutyric-Acid Derivatives. (R)- and (S)-Methyl-, and (R)-Trifluoromethyl-γ-butyrolactones, and -δ-valerolactones ::: ::: ::: ::: The coupling of chiral, non-racemic R* groups by Kolbe electrolysis of carboxylic acids R*COOH is used to prepare compounds with a 1.4- and 1.5-distance of the functional groups. The suitably protected β-hydroxycarboxylic acids (R)- or (S)-3-hydroxybutyric acid, (R)-4,4,4-trifluoro-3-hydroxybutyric acid (as acetates; see 1–6), and (S)-malic acid (as (2S,5S)-2-(tert-butyl)-5-oxo-1,3-dioxolan-4-acetic acid; see 7) are decarboxylatively dimerized or ‘codimerized’ with 2-methylpropanoic acid, with 4-(formylamino)butyric acid, and with monomethyl malonate and succinate. The products formed are derivatives of (R,R)-1,1,1,6,6,6-hexafluoro-2,5-hexanediol (see 8), of (R)-5,5,5-trifluoro-4-hydroxypentanoic acid (see 9,10), of (R)- and (S)-5-hydroxyhexanoic acid (see 11) and its trifluoro analogue (see 12, 13), of (S)-2-hydroxy- and (S,S)-2,5-dihydroxyadipic acid (see 23, 20), of (S)-2-hydroxy-4-methylpentanoic acid (‘OH-leucine’, see 21), and of (S)-2-hydroxy-6-aminohexanoic acid (‘OH-lysine’, see 22). Some of these products are further converted to CH3- or CF3-substituted γ- and δ-lactones of (R)- or (S)-configuration (14, 16–19), or to an enantiomerically pure derivative of (R)-1-hydroxy-2-oxocyclopentane-1-carboxylic acid (see 24). Possible uses of these new chiral building blocks for the synthesis of natural products and their CF3 analogues (brefeldin, sulcatol, zearalenone) are discussed. The olfactory properties of (R)- and (S)-δ-caprolactone (18) are compared with those of (R)-6,6,6-trifluoro-δ-caprolactone (19).
A new affinity column for renin was prepared by coupling the isosteric peptide inhibitor of renin, H.77 (D-His-Pro-Phe-His-LeuR-Leu-Val-Tyr, where R is a reduced peptide bond, -CH2-NH-), to activated 6-aminohexanoic acid-Sepharose 4B. Chromatography of a crude extract of human kidney cortex on this material resulted in a 5,500-fold purification of renin in 76% yield. The purified enzyme (specific activity 871 units/mg) was free of non-specific acid proteinase activity and was stable at pH 6.8 and -20
The binding of epsilon-amino[14C]caproic acid (6-aminohexanoic acid, EACA) to native human plasminogen was determined using the ultrafiltration technique of Paulus (Paulus, H. (1969) Anal. Biochem. 32, 91-100) at free ligand concentrations ranging from 2 micrometer to 16 mM. One strong binding site (Kd = 0.009 mM) and approximately five weaker ones (Kd = 5 mM) were found. The constants were obtained by fitting the experimental points to the simple assumption of two sets of noninteracting sites. The distinct separation of the two kinds of sites allowed the correlation of the well known epsilon-aminocaproic acid-induced conformational transition in plasminogen with the saturation of the weaker group of binding sites by this ligand. The conformational transition was monitored by measurements of the sedimentation coefficient, as was done by others earlier. The midpoint of the transition occurred at approximately 3.3 mM free ligand. A dissociation constant of 0.32 mM was also obtained for L-lysine by measurements of the competition between this compound and labeled epsilon-aminocaproic acid for the strong binding site. The correlation between epsilon-aminocaproic acid binding and effects of the compound on various physical and functional properties is discussed. A discussion of the possible sources of error encountered in the technique used is also included.
1,6-Hexamethylene diamine (HDA), used as raw material in industrial manufacturing operations, was orally administered to six healthy volunteers. After acid hydrolysis of the urine by hydrochloric acid, HDA and the metabolite 6-aminohexanoic acid were quantified. HDA was determined as an ethyl-chloroformate derivative by capillary gas chromatography using thermionic specific detection (TSD), and 6-aminohexanoic acid was quantified by ion chromatography using the ninhydrin reaction. In nonhydrolysed urine, monoacetylated HDA (N-acetyl-1,6-hexamethylene diamine) and HDA, were verified as heptafluorobutyric anhydride derivatives by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), in a chemical ionization mode using isobutane and ammonia as reagent gases. In hydrolysed urine, a mean of 0.28 mg (range 1-6%) of the administered dose (8.2 mg) was recovered as HDA, and a mean of 0.8 mg (range less than 1-27%) as 6-aminohexanoic acid. The urinary excretion of both the determined compounds was rapid, and the principal part (greater than 90%) of the elimination was completed within 10 h. There was a considerable inter-individual variation in the excreted amounts, but the intra-individual variation in the excretion of HDA was limited. The subjects N-acetylator phenotype was determined by a dapsone test. Three slow acetylators excreted lower amounts (mean 2% of given dose) of HDA than three rapid ones (mean 5%).
Abstract The first steps in the biosynthesis of most monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes are catalysed by a novel class of enzymes termed cyclases. Several techniques were tested for the immobilization of a partially purified monoterpene cyclase from Foeniculum vulgare [geranyl pyrophosphate: (-)-endo- fenchol cyclase] and a partially purified sesquiterpene cylase from Pogostemon cablin [farnesyl pyrophosphate:(-)-patchoulol cyclase]. Although both enzymes could be immobilized by entrapment and adsorption methods, the most efficient immobilization, in terms of activity recovery, was achieved by covalent attachment involving coupling of the protein amino groups to N -hydroxysuccinimide-activated 6-aminohexanoic acid Sepharose 4B. The immobilized forms of these cyclases were markedly more stable in storage than the free forms.
With the aim of developing a highly sensitive immunoassay for the insecticide carbaryl, seven compounds were synthesized, conjugated to carrier proteins, and used as immunizing haptens in mice and rabbits. Polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies were subsequently obtained and characterized for their affinity to carbaryl. Three monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) that showed the highest affinity (I 50 < 3.0 nM) were chosen for immunoassay development and further tested in the coating conjugate and coating antibody enzyme-linked immunosorbert assay (ELISA) formats, against both homologous and heterologous conjugates. Among several immunoassays developed, the combination of LIB-CNH36 MAb with the heterologous conjugate ovalbumin-N-(1-naphthoyl)-6-aminohexanoic acid in the coating conjugate ELISA format afforded the highest sensitivity for carbaryl determination (I 50 = 1.1 nM). This work also provided some insights into the influence of the immunizing hapten structure on the affinity of the antibodies obtained, as well as into the effect of the ELISA format and hapten heterology on the assay sensitivity.
Objective To investigate the effect of 6-aminohexanoic acid in the treatment of fever reaction of transfusion.Methods 29 patients were divided into two groups randomly,the control group(13 cases) were treated with 25mg Promethazine muscular injectionf plus more than 5 mg (average 6.15 mg) dexamethasone intravenous injection;and the treatment group (16 cases) were given the intravenous injection (average 2.23g) of 6-Aminohexanoic Acid.The curative effects were observed in the two groups.Results The average time of starting to settle 〔(3.8±2.18) min〕 and the average time of completely settling 〔(7.2±4.64) min〕 were both shorter in the treatment group than those in the control group 〔(17.4±8.16)min and (31.1±7.20)min,P0.001〕.The conditions of two cases in the control group became worse 15～20 min after the original treatment,but the conditions of two cases were quickly under control after 6-aminohexanoic acid was applied.Conclusion 6-aminohexanoic acid is one of good choice in the treatment of fever reaction in transfusion.
It has previously been shown, that large differences exist between the effects of 6-aminohexanoic acid or alpha1-antitrypsin on fibrinolysis caused by a porcine tissue plasminogen activator or by human urokinase, while insignificant differences exist between the effects of a number of natural protease inhibitors on fibrinolysis caused by the two types of plasminogen activator. The present study shows that changes in substrate composition (pH, ionic strength fibrinogen concentration, plasminogen concentration) may influence to different degrees the fibrinolytic activities of human urokinase and the porcine tissue plasminogen activator. It is suggested, that this finding is partly related to marked differences in affinity for fibrin of the two activators.
Synthesis of Compounds. The heterobifunctional reagents 3, 6, and 8 were constructed by coupling two subcomponents followed by additional transformations as outlined (Fig. 1) . To this end, compound 1 was prepared by means of the 1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-3-ethylcarbodiimide (EDC) coupling of the 2-trimethylsilylethyl (TMSE) ester of N-Z-6-aminohexanoic acid (Z ϭ carbobenzoxy; Sigma) with N-maleoylglycine followed by deprotection with trifluoroacetic acid (TFA). The TMSE ester of N-Z-6-aminohexanoic acid was obtained by using EDC coupling with 2-trimethylsilylethanol (Aldrich). The N-maleoylglycine was prepared by modifications of procedures found in the literature (12, 13). Compound 2 was prepared from 4-nitrophenylacetic acid (Aldrich) in two steps that entailed EDC coupling with phenol followed by hydrogenation. The final compound 3 was purified by flash chromatography (R f ϭ 0.22, 95͞5 CH 2 Cl 2 ͞MeOH). Compound 4 was synthesized from the lysine derivative N-(5-Z-1-carboxypentyl)iminodiacetic acid (14) and a 10-fold molar excess of 2-trimethylsilylethanol using EDC coupling followed by hydrogenation. Compound 5 was prepared from 4-aminophenylacetic acid (Aldrich) by the four-step sequence (i) Boc protection, (ii) EDC coupling with benzyl alcohol, (iii) TFA deprotection; and (iv) glutaric anhydride, triethylamine, CH 2 Cl 2 . The tris(TMSE) ester precursor to 6 was purified by flash chromatography (R f ϭ 0.50, 70͞30 CH 2 Cl 2 ͞EtOAc). Compound 7 was synthesized from 4-nitrophenylacetic acid by first forming the TMSE ester using EDC, then hydrogenation, followed by successive cycles of EDC coupling with N-Z-
The cultured explants were extracted with 4 M guanidine chloride solution containing 0.2 M NaCl, 10 mM EDTA, 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA), 10 mM N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), and 0.5% 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)-dimethylammonio]-1-propane sulfonate (CHAPS) in 0.5 M Tris-HCl, pH 7.5 as reported previously.
Abstract This work presents a new analytical system to study the electrophoretic mobility of gold nanoparticles with different sizes, in which the platinum-coated alumina membranes are used as the separator due to the high pore densities, rigid support structure, chemical and thermal stability. It is shown that the electrophoretic mobility of gold nanoparticles is dependent on the nature of mobile phase and interfacial properties of alumina channels. The transport performance of nanoparticles are improved with the addition of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) into the mobile phase, because SDS not only decreases the physical adsorption of gold nanoparticles on the nano-channel wall of alumina membrane, but also reduces the thickness of the electric double layer (decreasing the apparent size of particles). When the alumina membranes were modified with 6-aminohexanoic acid, it was further confirmed that the physical adsorption played a key role for the electrophoretic mobility of gold nanoparticles. Under optimized conditions, the mobility of gold nanoparticles had a fairly linear dependence on particle size ( R 2 > 0.99), reiterating that our membrane system was also capable of characterizing gold nanoparticles in nanometer-size regimes.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the use of glutaraldehyde as a coupling agent for proteins and peptides. In immunochemical study, the need arises to link proteins to particles, to polymerize proteins, or to form covalent conjugates of proteins and smaller peptides. The availability of reagents that are simple and effective, while largely preserving the native antigenicity of the proteins and peptides under study, is of considerable utility. Glutaraldehyde is such a reagent and has been successfully used for all the above applications. Glutaraldehyde has been employed for coupling adenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and glucagon to larger proteins. The resulting conjugates were uniformly antigenic in rabbits. There have also been attempts to identify the reaction products of glutaraldehyde with the model compounds 6-aminohexanoic acid and α- N -acetyllysine. The ultraviolet, infrared, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra of a purified product, from the reaction of glutaraldehyde, with 6-aminohexanoic acid, has led to postulate those compounds of the type that have a polymeric quaternary pyridinium structure. Basics of the reactions of glutaraldehyde with proteins are discussed in this chapter. Immunogenicity of cytochrome c polymers in rabbits is described. Protein–particle conjugation is also discussed in this chapter.
Interaction of tissue plasminogen activator with alpha-2-antiplasmin and its influence on tissue activator binding to fibrin was studied. Alpha-2-Antiplasmin decreases the binding of tissue activator to fibrin by 20%. The inhibitor formed a complex with tissue plasminogen activator (Kd 78.2 nM) and had no effect on amidolytic activity of the activator. The tissue activator binding to alpha-2-antiplasmin decreases by 20-35% in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid. It indicates that not only kringle 2 of the tissue activator molecule takes part in complex formation with alpha-2-antiplasmin, but also other activator domains. Two models were proposed to explain the alpha-2-antiplasmin effect on the Glu-plasminogen activation by tissue activator on fibrin. In the first place, the inhibitor binds to fibrin in the site where the activator complex is localized. It can create steric hindrances for the proenzyme interaction with its activator on fibrin. In the second place, alpha-2-antiplasmin in a complex with tissue plasminogen activator can bring to a change in the activator conformation and a decrease of its functional activity.
[2-14C]Caprolactam, prepared from [1-14C]cyclohexanone by reaction with sodium azide, was acetylated and ring-cleaved to give N-acetyl-6-amino[1-14C]hexanoate (acexamic acid) as the calcium salt. At least 70% of a single oral dose of calcium 14C-acexamate was rapidly absorbed by rats and almost eliminated in 48 hr. During 4 days, a mean of 68.6% was excreted in the urine, 15.2% in the feces, and 0.9% in the expired air as 14CO2, and 1.8% remained in the carcass and viscera. In the urine and feces, 57.0 and 13.8% of the dose, respectively, consisted of unchanged acexamate and less than 4% of 6-aminohexanoic acid. After the oral dose, plasma concentrations of 14C, probably consisting mainly of unchanged acexamate, were highest after 1 hr and declined with a half-life of 4 hr. After an intravenous dose, plasma 14C declined with half-lives of 0.3 and 4 hr. After an oral dose, levels of 14C were highest in the liver, kidneys, gastrointestinal tract, and nasal mucosa after 1 and 2 hr. Smaller amounts were present in the heart, lungs, salivary glands, anil bone. Concentrations of 14C were declining after 4 hr, and after 72 hr traces of 14C remained mainly in the kidneys. There were no significant differences in the distribution of 14C between normal rats and those With a skin wound. ::: ::: When applied to the skin of rats, calcium 14C-acexamate was possibly absorbed more rapidly from aqueous solution than from a cream base, and in solution was possibly absorbed slightly more rapidly through a skin wound than through intact skin. About 10% was percutaneously absorbed during 48 hr and 14C was distributed throughout the skin layers.
An enzymatic method for 6-oxohexanoic acid production was developed using 6-aminohexanoic acid and an ω-amino group-oxidizing enzyme (ω-AOX) from Phialemonium sp. AIU 274. 6-Oxohexanoic acid was produced from 6-aminohexanoic acid with 100% yield by incubation with 0.3 U of the ω-AOX and 20 U of catalase at 30 °C for 30 h in 0.1 M potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0).
Abstract A method is described for purifying luciferase from firefly lanterns in very good yield. The enzyme was extracted from Photinus lanterns, dialyzed, and further purified by affinity chromatography with 6-aminohexanoic acid-Sepharose 4b benzylamine. Fractions containing luciferase activity were pooled, concentrated by ultrafiltration, and crystallized by dialysis against a low-ionic-strength buffer. The crystalline enzyme appears to be homogeneous by sodium dodecyl sulfate-gel electrophoresis. The entire protocol described was conveniently performed in less than 3 days and yielded 6.2 mg of enzyme from 2.2 g of firefly lanterns. Furthermore, the affinity column employed can be reused at least five times without appreciable loss of binding capacity. Luciferase was chromatographed with several other affinity gels and the results are compared. It appears that 6-aminohexanoic acid-Sepharose 4b benzylamine does not function as a true bioaffinity gel, but rather as a hydrophobic interaction support.
A non-invasive method of pancreatic β-cell mass measurement is needed to enhance our understanding of the pathogenesis of diabetes, facilitate the early diagnosis of this disease, and promote the development of novel therapeutics. Here, we described the synthesis of a novel indium-111 (111In) exendin-4 derivative, [Lys12(In-BnDTPA-Ahx)]exendin-4, through a process involving isothiocyanate-benzyl-DTPA (BnDTPA) and 6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx) attached to an ɛ-amino group at the lysine-12 residue. We further evaluated the potential use of this derivative as a SPECT probe for pancreatic β-cell imaging. An in vitro binding assay revealed that [Lys12(natIn-BnDTPA-Ahx)]exendin-4 has a high affinity for GLP-1 receptors (IC50=0.43nM). In biodistribution experiments involving normal mice, high [Lys12(111In-BnDTPA-Ahx)]exendin-4 uptake was observed in the pancreas (21.8 ± 4.0%ID/g) and was maintained for 2h after injection. Pre-injection of excess exendin(9-39) markedly reduced the pancreatic uptake of [Lys12(111In-BnDTPA-Ahx)]exendin-4 (95.2%), indicating that the uptake of this tracer is specific and mediated by GLP-1 receptors. Ex vivo autoradiography experiments involving pancreatic sections from MIP-GFP mice confirmed the accumulation of [Lys12(111In-BnDTPA-Ahx)]exendin-4 in pancreatic β-cells. Finally, in mice, [Lys12(111In-BnDTPA-Ahx)]exendin-4 SPECT/CT yielded clear images of the pancreas at 30min post-injection. In conclusion, SPECT with [Lys12(111In-BnDTPA-Ahx)]exendin-4 enables to visualize β-cells in vivo non-invasively.
The use of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) as a routine treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus is undermined by its short biological half-life. A cause of degradation is its cleavage at the N-terminal HAE sequence by the enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP IV). To protect from DPP IV, we have studied the biological activity of a GLP-1 analog in which 6-aminohexanoic acid (Aha) is inserted between histidine and alanine at positions 7 and 8. We have compared the biological activity of this new compound, GLP-1 Aha(8), with the previously described GLP-1 8-glycine (GLP-1 Gly(8)) analog. GLP-1 Aha(8) (10 nM) was equipotent with GLP-1 (10 nM) in stimulating insulin secretion in RIN 1046-38 cells. As with GLP-1 Gly(8), the binding affinity of GLP-1 Aha(8) for the GLP-1 receptor in intact Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing the human GLP-1 receptor (CHO/GLP-1R cells) was reduced (IC(50): GLP-1, 3.7 +/- 0.2 nM; GLP-1 Gly(8), 41 +/- 9 nM; GLP-1 Aha(8), 22 +/- 7 nM). GLP-1 Aha(8) was also shown to stimulate intracellular cAMP production 4-fold above basal at concentrations as low as 0.5 nM. However, it exhibited a higher ED(50) when compared to GLP-1 and GLP-1 Gly(8) (ED(50): GLP-1, 0.036 +/- 0.002 nM, GLP-1 Gly(8), 0.13 +/- 0.02 nM, GLP-1 Aha(8), 0.58 +/- 0.03 nM). A series of D-amino acid-substituted GLP-1 compounds were also examined to assess the importance of putative peptidase-sensitive cleavage sites present in the GLP-1 molecule. They had poor binding affinity for the GLP-1 receptor, and none of these compounds stimulated the production of intracellular cAMP in CHO/GLP-1R cells or insulin secretion in RIN 1046-38 cells. GLP-1 Aha(8) (24 nmol/kg) administered sc to fasted Zucker (fa/fa) rats (mean blood glucose, 195 +/- 32 mg/dl) lowered blood glucose levels to a nadir of 109 +/- 3 mg/dl, and it remained significantly lower for 8 h. Matrix-assisted linear desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry of GLP-1 Aha(8) incubated with DPP IV (37 C, 2 h) did not exhibit an N-terminal degradation product. Taken together, these results show that insertion of Aha after the 7 position in GLP-1 produces an effective, long-acting GLP-1 analog, which may be useful in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
1,1'-Carbonyldiimidazole, a carbonylating reagent, has been shown to be suitable for the activation of cross-linked agaroses for affinity chromatography. The activated matrix (an imidazolyl carbamate) is relatively stable to hydrolysis but smoothly reacts with N-nucleophiles such as those present in either affinity chromatography ligands or leashes, e.g. ethylenediamine or 6-aminohexanoic acid. If butylamine was attached via the 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole method, the resulting product was devoid of charged groups and thus had the same titration curve as agarose. The suitability of this new matrix for affinity chromatography was demonstrated by the successful purification of trypsin by several different systems.
A method is described for the determination of the stoichiometry of biotinylation of peptides and proteins after reaction with an N-hydroxysuccinimide ester of biotin containing the extended spacer arm 6-aminohexanoic acid (NHS-epsilon Ahx-biotin). The method of analysis, based on the quantification of phenylthiocarbamyl derivatives of 6-aminohexanoic acid, is able to measure low picomolar amounts of biotinyl derivative. Analyses were performed using an automated on-line hydrolyzer-derivatizer followed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Compositional analyses determined for known peptides were in excellent agreement with analyses obtained by mass spectrometry. Procedures are also described for the production of biotinylated protein probes that can be labeled reproducibly to contain specific amounts of biotin. The analytical advantage and steric freedom provided by the 6-aminohexanoic acid spacer arm argue strongly for the NHS-epsilon Ahx-biotin reagent to be a reagent of choice for the biotinylation of peptides and proteins.
Abstract The effect of ionic strength upon the isolation of human plasminogen by affinity chromatography with Sepharose-L-lysine was studied. An extract of human Cohn Fraction III in 0.01 M NaCl, 0.01 M potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, was applied to a column of Sepharose-L-lysine. A linear salt gradient to 0.5 M NaCl, 0.01 M potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, eluted two major peaks. The plasminogen was then eluted by adding 0.1 M 6-aminohexanoic acid to the buffer. Human plasminogen was also obtained by affinity chromatography at lower ionic strength according to the method of Brockway and Castellino ( J. Biol. Chem.: 246 , 4641, 1971). The former product was more active toward Nα-CBZ-L-lysine p -nitrophenyl ester and was less contaminated with an unknown colloidal substance. The product with the higher specific activity also was obtained when the extraction and application to the column were performed at high ionic strength. Thus, ion exchange chromatography was an important and simultaneous phenomenon in the purification of human plasminogen from Fraction III using Sepharose-L-lysine.
The mechanism of gene duplication as the means to acquire new genes with previously nonexistent functions is inherently self limiting in that the function possessed by a new protein, in reality, is but a mere variation of the preexisted theme. As the source of a truly unique protein, I suggest an unused open reading frame of the existing coding sequence. Only those coding sequences that started from oligomeric repeats are likely to retain alternative long open reading frames. Analysis of the published base sequence residing in the pOAD2 plasmid of Flavobacterium Sp. K172 indicated that the 392-amino acid-residue-long bacterial enzyme 6-aminohexanoic acid linear oligomer hydrolase involved in degradation of nylon oligomers is specified by an alternative open reading frame of the preexisted coding sequence that originally specified a 472-residue-long arginine-rich protein.
An intercalated nanocomposite of the organically modified montmorillonite Cloisite C25A and a degradable ::: poly(ester amide) based on glycolic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid units (poly(glc-alt-amh)) was ::: prepared using a twin-screw co-rotating extruder. The non-isothermal degradation kinetics was investigated ::: by thermogravimetric analysis (TG and DTG) in the temperature range of 50–600 ◦C at five ::: heating rates (2, 5, 10, 20 and 40 ◦C/min) and compared with the neat polymer. Significant differences ::: were found since the nanocomposite showed three degradation steps instead of the two decomposition ::: processes detected in the pristine sample. The onset mass loss temperature decreased in the ::: nanocomposite due to the presence of the organo-modifier compound, but the presence of the silicate ::: layers significantly decreased the degradation rate at the last stages of decomposition. Kinetic analysis ::: was performed using the Kissinger method and the isoconversional (Kissinger–Akahira–Sunose ::: and Friedman) methods. The true kinetic triplets (E, A, f(˛)) were determined for the first two ::: steps of degradation through the Coats–Redfern and the Invariant Kinetic Parameters methods. The ::: results clearly indicated that the presence of the organo-modified clay modified the mechanisms of ::: degradation.
UNLABELLED ::: Strong overexpression of glucagonlike peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptors in human insulinoma provides an attractive target for imaging. The first clinical trials demonstrated that GLP-1 receptor SPECT/CT using [Lys(40)(Ahx [6-aminohexanoic acid]-DOTA-(111)In)NH(2)]-exendin-4 can localize hardly detectable insulinomas. However, [Lys(40)(Ahx-DOTA-(111)In)NH(2)]-exendin-4 imaging has drawbacks related to the use of (111)In in that it is costly and carries a relatively high radiation burden for the patient. The aim of this study was the preclinical evaluation of [Lys(40)(Ahx-DOTA-(68)Ga)NH(2)]-exendin-4 for PET/CT and [Lys(40)(Ahx-hydrazinonicotinamide [HYNIC]-(99m)Tc)NH(2)]-exendin-4 for SPECT/CT. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Internalization, biodistribution, dosimetry, and imaging studies were performed in the Rip1Tag2 mouse model of pancreatic beta-cell carcinogenesis and compared with our gold standard [Lys(40)(Ahx-DOTA-(111)In)NH(2)]-exendin-4. Poly-glutamic acid and Gelofusine, a gelatin-based plasma expander, were used for renal uptake reduction studies. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The tumor uptake of [Lys(40)(Ahx-DOTA-(68)Ga)NH(2)]-exendin-4 was 205 +/- 59 percentage injected activity per gram of tissue at 4 h. Other GLP-1 receptor-positive organs showed more than 4.8 times lower radioactivity uptake. [Lys(40)(Ahx-HYNIC-(99m)Tc/ethylenediaminediacetic acid [EDDA])NH(2)]-exendin-4, compared with its (111)In- and (68)Ga-labeled sister compounds, showed significantly less tumor and organ uptake. The significantly lower tumor and organ uptake of [Lys(40)(Ahx-HYNIC-(99m)Tc/EDDA)NH(2)]-exendin-4 did not result in inferior tumor-to-organ ratios or reduced image quality. All radiopeptides tested showed a high tumor-to-background ratio, resulting in the visualization of small tumors (maximum diameter between 1.0 and 3.2 mm) by SPECT and PET. The only exception was the kidneys, which also showed high uptake. This uptake could be reduced by 49%-78% using poly-glutamic acid, Gelofusine, or a combination of the 2. The estimated effective radiation dose was 3.7 muSv/MBq for [Lys(40)(Ahx-HYNIC-(99m)Tc/EDDA)NH(2)]-exendin-4, which was 8 times less than that for [Lys(40)(Ahx-DOTA-(68)Ga)NH(2)]-exendin-4 and 43 times less than that for [Lys(40)(Ahx-DOTA-(111)In)NH(2)]-exendin-4. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: These promising pharmacokinetic and imaging data show that [Lys(40)(Ahx-DOTA-(68)Ga)NH(2)]-exendin-4 and [Lys(40)(Ahx-HYNIC-(99m)Tc/EDDA)NH(2)]-exendin-4 are suitable candidates for clinical GLP-1 receptor imaging studies.
Objectives: Phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMOs) are uncharged DNA analogues that can inhibit bacterial growth by a gene-specific, antisense mechanism. Attaching cationic peptides to PMOs enables efficient penetration through the Gram-negative outer membrane. We hypothesized that cationic groups attached directly to the PMO would obviate the need to attach peptides. Methods: PMOs with identical 11-base sequence (AcpP) targeted to acpP (an essential gene) of Escherichia coli were synthesized with various numbers of either piperazine (Pip) or N-(6-guanidinohexanoyl)piperazine (Gux) coupled to the phosphorodiamidate linker. Peptide– PMO conjugates were made using the membranepenetrating peptide (RXR)4XB (X is 6-aminohexanoic acid; B is b-alanine). Results: MICs (mM/mg/L) were measured using E. coli :3 þPip –AcpP, 160/653; 6þ Pip–AcpP, 160/673; 2 þGux– AcpP, 20/88; 5þGux –AcpP, 10/49; 8 þGux–AcpP, 10/56; 3 þPip –AcpP–(RXR)4XB, 0.3/2; and 5 þGux–AcpP– (RXR)4XB, 0.6/4. In cell-free protein synthesis reactions, all PMOs inhibited gene expression approximately the same. These results suggested that Pip –PMOs inefficiently penetrated the outer membrane. Indeed, the MICs of 3þPip –AcpP and 6 þPip –AcpP were reduced to 0.6 and 2.5 mM (1.2 and 10.5 mg/L), respectively, using as indicator a strain with a ‘leaky’ outer membrane. In vivo, mice were infected intraperitoneally with E. coli. Intraperitoneal treatment with 50 mg/kg 3 þPip –AcpP, 15 mg/kg 5þ Gux–AcpP or 0.5 mg/kg 3 þPip – AcpP –(RXR)4XB, or subcutaneous treatment with 15 mg/kg 5 þGux– AcpP or (RXR)4XB –AcpP reduced bacteria in blood and increased survival. Conclusions: Cationic PMOs inhibited bacterial growth in vitro and in vivo, and Gux–PMOs were more effective than Pip–PMOs. However, neither was as effective as the equivalent PMO– peptide conjugates. Subcutaneous treatment showed that 5þGux –AcpP or (RXR)4XB – AcpP entered the circulatory system, reduced infection and increased survival.
Abstract Ferrocene (Fc) and its conjugates have attracted considerable attention in recent years due to their unique electrochemical behavior and significant biological activities such as antitumor, antimalarial, and antifungal. Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD)-containing peptides, because of their selective binding to integrins which are highly expressed in tumor-induced angiogenesis, play a key role in cancer targeted therapy. In this study, Fc–RGD and Fc–Am–RGD (Fc: ferrocenoyl; Am: 6-aminohexanoic acid) conjugates were synthesized, and the antitumor activities in vitro were investigated. The cell uptake of the conjugates by B16 murine melanoma cells was measured using HPLC-electrochemical method. The antitumor activities of the conjugates were also evaluated by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) and flow cytometric measurements. The experimental results revealed that Fc–RGD and Fc–Am–RGD exhibit more effective antitumor activities than their parent compounds RGD and Fc-COOH. Moreover, it is found that Fc–Am–RGD yields the lowest IC 50 values of 5.2 ± 1.4 μM toward B16 cells. The HPLC-electrochemical studies confirmed that the insertion of flexible alkyl spacer Am between Fc and RGD significantly increases the cell uptake toward B16 cells and consequently improves the antitumor activity. Our results suggest that Fc–RGD and Fc–Am–RGD conjugates are potential candidates for cancer treatment.
The binding of urokinase-type plasminogen activators (u-PA) to receptors on various cell types has been proposed to be an important feature of many cellular processes requiring extracellular proteolysis. We have investigated the effect of single-chain u-PA binding to the monocyte-like cell line U937 on plasminogen activation. A 16-fold acceleration of the activation of plasminogen was observed at optimal concentrations of single-chain u-PA. This potentiation was abolished by the addition of either 6-aminohexanoic acid or the amino-terminal fragment of u-PA, thus demonstrating the requirement for specific binding of both single-chain u-PA and plasminogen to the cells. The mechanism of the enhancement of plasmin generation appears to be due primarily to an increase in the rate of feedback activation of single-chain u-PA to the more active two-chain u-PA by cell-bound plasmin, initially generated by single-chain u-PA. This increased activity of the plasminogen activation system in the presence of U937 cells provides a mechanism whereby u-PAs may exert their influence in a variety of cell-associated proteolytic events.
Cell cultures obtained from chick embryo pelvic rudiments which respond to somatomedin C (SM) by increased incorporation of /sup 35/(SO/sub 4/) into proteoglycans were stimulated with SM in the presence of /sup 32/P(PO/sub 4/). Cells were harvested at zero time, 50 min, and 7 hrs following addition of the /sup 32/P and SM, homogenized, and dialyzed against phosphate buffered saline. After centrifugation at 100,000 xg, the pellet and the supernatant were incubated with DNase and RNase in the presence of benzamidine HCl, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 6-aminohexanoic acid and EDTA, and subjected to electrophoresis in a 5 to 15% polyacrylamide gel gradient in sodium dodecyl sulfate. In samples from cells stimulated for 50 min with SM, radioautography revealed two labeled bands at molecular weights of approximately 400K and 500K in the 100,000 xg pellet; no labeled bands were observed in the corresponding control cells. After 7 hr incubation extensive labeling was observed in both control and stimulated cells without discernible differences between control and SM-stimulated samples. These results suggest that an early event in SM stimulation of proteoglycan synthesis may be phosphorylation of proteins distinct from the SM receptor. It is interesting that one of the labeled bands corresponds approximately to themore » molecular weight of the proteoglycan core protein precursor.« less
The cellular uptake of PMOs (phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers) can be enhanced by their conjugation to arginine-rich CPPs (cell-penetrating peptides) . Here, we discuss our recent findings regarding (R-Ahx-R)4AhxB (Ahx is 6-aminohexanoic acid and B is β-alanine) CPP–PMO conjugates in DMD (Duchenne muscular dystrophy) and murine coronavirus research. An (R-Ahx-R)4AhxB–PMO conjugate was the most effective compound in inducing the correction of mutant dystrophin transcripts in myoblasts derived from a canine model of DMD. Similarly, normal levels of dystrophin expression were restored in the diaphragms of mdx mice, with treatment starting at the neonatal stage, and protein was still detectable 22 weeks after the last dose of an (R-Ahx-R)4AhxB–PMO conjugate. Effects of length, linkage and carbohydrate modification of this CPP on the delivery of a PMO were investigated in a coronavirus mouse model. An (R-Ahx-R)4AhxB–PMO conjugate effectively inhibited viral replication, in comparison with other peptides conjugated to the same PMO. Shortening the CPP length, modifying it with a mannosylated serine moiety or replacing it with the R9F2 CPP significantly decreased the efficacy of the resulting PPMO (CPP–PMO conjugate). We attribute the success of this CPP to its stability in serum and its capacity to transport PMO to RNA targets in a manner superior to that of poly-arginine CPPs.
Expanded graphite (EG) and multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWNTs) based hybrid nano-composites were prepared with polyamide 6 (PA6) matrix via melt-mixing technique using a conical twin-screw micro-compounder. A novel organic modifier (lithium salt of 6-aminohexanoic acid; Li-AHA) was employed to modify MWNTs, which was utilized to intercalate Li-AHA modified MWNTs into the partially exfoliated EG gallery. Morphological investigation showed the intercalation of Li-AHA modified MWNTs into a partially exfoliated EG gallery in an EG/MWNTs-m2h hybrid, whereas the unmodified EG/MWNTs-h hybrid mixture exhibited a separate identity in the mixture. Improved interaction via melt-interfacial reaction between the acid end group of PA6 and the amine functionality of Li-AHA in the EG/MWNTs-m2h hybrid filler was confirmed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopic analysis. The extent of melt-interfacial reaction was increased as a function of Li-AHA concentration in the filler. Wide angle X-ray diffraction analysis showed the existence of the α-crystalline phase of PA6. The incorporation of MWNTs, EG and EG/MWNTs hybrid in the PA6 matrix has favoured an α-crystalline structure of the PA6 phase. Crystallization studies have indicated a significant increase in the bulk crystallization temperature of the PA6 phase in the presence of MWNTs, EG and the EG/MWNTs hybrid filler. Moreover, the formation of PA6 'trans-crystalline lamellae' on the MWNTs surface was facilitated in the case of composites with MWNTs and the EG/MWNTs hybrid filler. An attempt has been made to investigate the role of the EG/MWNTs hybrid filler in influencing the crystallization behaviour of the PA6 phase in the hybrid nano-composites.
Antisense oligomers of various structural types have been used to interfere with gene expression of several human viral pathogens (Schubert and Kurreck, 2006) , and a phosphorothioate oligonucleotide designed to target mRNA of cytomegalovirus (CMV) that is intended to treat CMV-induced retinitis is an approved drug (De Clercq, 2004) . However, antisense therapeutic technology continues to be hampered by limitations in both oligomer stability and delivery to RNA targets within relevant cells (Kurreck, 2003) . Phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMO) are a class of oligonucleotide-like antisense agents that possess the same four bases as DNA, but contain a different backbone. The deoxyribose ring and phosphodiester linkage of DNA are replaced by a morpholine ring and phosphorodiamidate linkage in PMO . PMO are nonionic, are stable in cellular extracts and human serum (Nelson et al., 2005; Youngblood et al., 2007) and typically are synthesized to a length of 20-25 subunits. The PMO mechanism of antisense action is via steric-blocking of complementary RNA sequence (Stein et al., 1997) , and thus differs from that of antisense agents based on DNA chemistry, which induce RNase H-mediated cleavage of the RNA strand of a RNA-DNA duplex, or RNAi/ siRNA involving double-stranded agents that recognize target mRNA and induce its degradation by cellular proteins (Masiero et al., 2007) . PMO covalently conjugated to a cell-penetrating peptide (CPP) can be delivered efficiently into cells (Deas et al., 2005; Moulton et al., 2004; Yuan et al., 2006; Zhang et al., 2006) . CPP-PMO are water-soluble and have been shown to generate potent inhibition of several RNA viruses, including dengue virus (Holden et al., 2006; Kinney et al., 2005) , West Nile virus (Deas et al., 2005) , SARS Coronavirus (Neuman et al., 2005) , Equine Arterivirus (van den Born et al., 2005) and influenza virus (Ge et al., 2006) in cell culture, and Coxsackievirus B3 (Yuan et al., 2006) , Ebola virus (Enterlein et al., 2006) , murine Coronavirus (Burrer et al., 2007) and West Nile virus (Deas et al., 2007) both in cell culture and in mouse models. Two different CPP-conjugated PMO (PPMO), one containing oligoarginine (P3) and one containing 6-aminohexanoic acid (P7), have been utilized (Moulton et al., 2004; Abes et al., 2006) . A recent report documented that P7-conjugated PPMO are highly stable in human serum for at least 2 hours (h), and moderately stable for 24 h (Youngblood et al., 2007) .
The mechanism of gene duplication as the means to acquire new genes with previously nonexistent functions is inherently self limiting in that the function possessed by a new protein, in reality, is but a mere variation of the preexisted theme. As the source of a truly unique protein, I suggest an unused open reading frame of the existing coding sequence. Only those coding sequences that started from oligomeric repeats are likely to retain alternative long open reading frames. Analysis of the published base sequence residing in the pOAD2 plasmid of Flavobacterium Sp. K172 indicated that the 392-amino acid-residue-long bacterial enzyme 6-aminohexanoic acid linear oligomer hydrolase involved in degradation of nylon oligomers is specified by an alternative open reading frame of the preexisted coding sequence that originally specified a 472-residue-long arginine-rich protein.
The cellular uptake of PMOs (phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers) can be enhanced by their conjugation to arginine-rich CPPs (cell-penetrating peptides) . Here, we discuss our recent findings regarding (R-Ahx-R) 4 AhxB (Ahx is 6-aminohexanoic acid and B is β-alanine) CPP-PMO conjugates in DMD (Duchenne muscular dystrophy) and murine coronavirus research. An (R-Ahx-R) 4 AhxB-PMO conjugate was the most effective compound in inducing the correction of mutant dystrophin transcripts in myoblasts derived from a canine model of DMD. Similarly, normal levels of dystrophin expression were restored in the diaphragms of mdx mice, with treatment starting at the neonatal stage, and protein was still detectable 22 weeks after the last dose of an (R-Ahx-R) 4 AhxB-PMO conjugate. Effects of length, linkage and carbohydrate modification of this CPP on the delivery of a PMO were investigated in a coronavirus mouse model. An (R-Ahx-R) 4 AhxB-PMO conjugate effectively inhibited viral replication, in comparison with other peptides conjugated to the same PMO. Shortening the CPP length, modifying it with a mannosylated serine moiety or replacing it with the R 9 F 2 CPP significantly decreased the efficacy of the resulting PPMO (CPP-PMO conjugate). We attribute the success of this CPP to its stability in serum and its capacity to transport PMO to RNA targets in a manner superior to that of poly-arginine CPPs.
Expanded graphite (EG) and multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWNTs) based hybrid nano-composites were prepared with polyamide 6 (PA6) matrix via melt-mixing technique using a conical twin-screw micro-compounder. A novel organic modifier (lithium salt of 6-aminohexanoic acid; Li-AHA) was employed to modify MWNTs, which was utilized to 
To understand the regulation of integrin alpha(IIb)beta(3), a critical platelet adhesion molecule, we have developed a peptide affinity chromatography method using the known integrin regulatory motif, LAMWKVGFFKR. Using standard Fmoc chemistry, this peptide was synthesized onto a Toyopearl AF-Amino-650 M resin on a 6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx) linker. Peptide density was controlled by acetylation of 83% of the Ahx amino groups. Four recombinant human proteins (CIB1, PP1, ICln and RN181), previously identified as binding to this integrin regulatory motif, were specifically retained by the column containing the integrin peptide but not by a column presenting an irrelevant peptide. Hemoglobin, creatine kinase, bovine serum albumin, fibrinogen and alpha-tubulin failed to bind under the chosen conditions. Immunodetection methods confirmed the binding of endogenous platelet proteins, including CIB1, PP1, ICln RN181, AUP-1 and beta3-integrin, from a detergent-free platelet lysate. Thus, we describe a reproducible method that facilitates the reliable extraction of specific integrin-binding proteins from complex biological matrices. This methodology may enable the sensitive and specific identification of proteins that interact with linear, membrane-proximal peptide motifs such as the integrin regulatory motif LAMWKVGFFKR.
The reaction between glutaraldehyde-treated human albumin and the anti-albumin autoantibodies found in sera of hepatic patients was inhibited by: (1) peptides with a molecular weight around 10,000 daltons which were isolated from the pronase digest of glutaraldehyde-polymerized human albumin, (2) pyridinium compounds resulting from the reaction of glutaraldehyde with the amino groups of 6-aminohexanoic acid, and (3) other glutaraldehyde-treated proteins (rabbit albumin, bovine albumin, ovalbumin, peroxidase, human gamma globulin). Our results suggest that the anti-albumin autoantibodies recognize on glutaraldehyde-treated human albumin the new antigenic determinants containing at least partly pyridinium-like structures. This type of structure could also occur in vivo, in circulating albumin molecules, by inter- and intramolecular cross-linking reactions between aldehydic groups which appear by oxidative deamination and e-amino groups of lysine residues, thus leading to non-self albumin which stimulates the synthesis of autoantibodies.
The binding of the zymogenic form of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (pro-uPA) to its specific cellular receptor, uPAR, leads to a large potentiation of plasmin generation. This is dependent on the concurrent cellular binding of plasminogen, and is completely abrogated by the plasminogen lysine-binding site ligand, 6-aminohexanoic acid. Previous data have provided circumstantial evidence for the formation of specific complexes to mediate the kinetically favorable reciprocal interactions between the protease and zymogen components [Ellis, V., and Dano, K. (1993) J. Biol. Chem. 268, 4806-4813]. To further investigate the formation of these putative complexes, we have studied the effect of various lysine-binding site ligands on the binding and activation of plasminogen on U937 cells. Lysine-binding site ligands resembling internal lysine residues, such as Nalpha-acetyl-L-lysine methyl ester, were found to specifically inhibit uPAR-mediated cell-surface plasminogen activation at concentrations up to 40-fold lower than those inhibiting the cellular binding of 125I-labeled plasminogen (IC50s 300 microM vs 8.5 mM). By contrast, 6-aminohexanoic acid, resembling a C-terminal lysine residue, did not display this disparity (IC50s 25 vs 30 microM). These lysine analogues were also found to compete a non-active-site interaction between uPA and plasminogen, detected by surface plasmon resonance (Kd 50 nM), at concentrations correlating with their effect on cell-surface plasminogen activation, suggesting that this interaction is part of the kinetic mechanism. Consistent with this, synthetic peptides corresponding to the sequence uPA149-158 (GQKTLRPRFK) and uPA149-157 (GQKTLRPRF) specifically abolished the amplification of cell-surface plasminogen activation. These data demonstrate that a novel non-active-site interaction between uPA and plasminogen is necessary for the assembly and efficiency of cell-surface plasminogen activation complexes.
The ultrasonic absorption has been measured in aqueous solutions of Ni(II) complexes of glycine, β-alanine, 4-aminobutyric acid, and 6-aminohexanoic acid. The relaxation absorption could not be ascribed to one of the steps of the ordinary step-by-step complex formation mechanism. Kinetic data were obtained as functions of the initial concentrations of Ni(II) and amino acids, the pH, and the temperature. The relaxation absorption was attributed to the formation-breaking equilibrium of an intramolecular hydrogen bond due to the carboxylato group of amino acid coordinated to the Ni(II) ion. The rate constant of the hydrogen bond-breaking process has been obtained. The relationship between the relaxation parameters and the acid dissociation constant of the carboxyl group of the amino acid ligands is discussed with reference to the analogous result for the carboxylato ligands reported previously. Supplementary work is also carried out for Ni(II)-aspartato and glutamato complexes.
Surface-associated plasmin(ogen) may contribute to the invasive properties of various cells. Analysis of plasmin(ogen)-binding surface proteins is therefore of interest. The N-terminal variable regions of M-like (ML) proteins from five different group A streptococcal serotypes (33, 41, 52, 53 and 56) exhibiting the plasminogen-binding phenotype were cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant proteins all bound plasminogen with high affinity. The binding involved the kringle domains of plasminogen and was blocked by a lysine analogue, 6-aminohexanoic acid, indicating that lysine residues in the M-like proteins participate in the interaction. Sequence analysis revealed that the proteins contain common 13-16-amino-acid tandem repeats, each with a single central lysine residue. Experiments with fusion proteins and a 30-amino-acid synthetic peptide demonstrated that these repeats harbour the major plasminogen-binding site in the ML53 protein, as well as a binding site for the tissue-type plasminogen activator. Replacement of the lysine in the first repeat with alanine reduced the plasminogen-binding capacity of the ML53 protein by 80%. The results precisely localize the binding domain in a plasminogen surface receptor, thereby providing a unique ligand for the analysis of interactions between kringles and proteins with internal kringle-binding determinants.
The peptide-conjugated PS first developed in our group was TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR. This conjugate consisted of a PS (5-(4-carboxyphenyl)-10,15,20-triphenyl chlorin (TPC)), a spacer (6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx)) and a peptide sequence (ATWLPPR) [12, 13, 18, 19] , which was designed to target the neuropilin-1 receptor (NRP-1), a receptor of vascular endothelial growth factor 165 (VEGF165). The conjugate successfully demonstrated enhanced uptake and comparable photodynamic properties to those of the non-conjugated TPC [12] , which indicated that the selectivity of PS accumulation in tumor tissue could be enhanced by conjugation with peptide moieties. However, further studies found that this conjugate was degraded in vivo into TPC-Ahx-A, leading to loss of selectivity of the peptide moiety [14] .
Phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMO) are nonionic oligonucleotide analogues that contain the same four bases as DNA but possess a backbone composed of morpholine rings and phosphorodiamidate inter-subunit linkages instead of the deoxyribose and phosphodiester components of DNA. 16 Antisense PMO have been reported to be effective against both Ebola virus 17 and feline calicivirus 18 in vivo. PMO delivery into cells can be much improved through covalent conjugation to arginine-rich cell-penetrating peptides (CPP). 19, 20 CPPconjugated PMO (PPMO) have been shown to generate potent inhibition of DENV infections 21, 22 in cell cultures, and of West Nile virus (WNV), 23 poliovirus (PV), 24 murine coronavirus 25 and influenza A virus 26 infections, in both cell culture and mouse models. Experiments with various CPPs conjugated to PMO indicate that a 14 residue peptide, named P7, containing four repeats of arginine:6-aminohexanoic acid:arginine, appears to have characteristics that allow its consideration for potential therapeutic applications. 27 -30 Previous reports showed that PPMO designed against either the 5 0 terminal nucleotides (nt) (5 0 SL) or against the 3 0 cyclization-sequence (3 0 CS) region of the DENV genome were highly effective at inhibiting DENV amplification in cell cultures. 21, 22 Other reports have documented that PPMO designed against corresponding regions in WNV and other flaviviruses were effective both in cell cultures and in vivo. 20, 23 The intention of the study reported here was to extend those previous observations and explore the efficacy of PPMO against DENV in vivo. We found that PPMO targeting the DENV 5 0 -terminal and 3 0 -cyclization sequence region were effective in vivo, extending the average survival of DENV-2-infected AG129 mice by up to 8 days. Further, we compared PPMO of various lengths in cell cultures designed against either the 5 0 SL-or 3 0 CS-regions for anti-DENV efficacy, and found that PPMO of 22-24 bases were more effective than shorter or longer PPMO targeting the same regions. Pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that PPMO distributes readily into liver and can persist there for at least 5 days. Several toxicological analyses indicated that repeated ip dosing of PPMO, at 10 mg/kg, did not have deleterious effects on the health of non-infected mice.
The interaction of various small aliphatic and aromatic ionic ligands with the human plasminogen (HPg) recombinant kringle 2 (r-K2) domain has been investigated by 1H-NMR spectroscopy at 500 MHz. The results are compared against ligand-binding properties of the homologous, lysine-binding HPg kringle 1 (K1), kringle 4 (K4), and kringle 5 (K5). The investigated ligands include the ω-aminocarboxylic acids 4-aminobutyric acid (4-ABA), 5-aminopentanoic acid (5-APA), 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA), 7-aminoheptanoic acid (7-AHA), lysine and arginine derivatives with free and blocked α-amino and/or carboxylate groups, and a number of cyclic analogs, zwitterions of similar size such as trans-(aminomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylic acid (AMCHA) and p-benzylaminesulfonic acid (BASA), and the nonzwitterions benzylamine and benzamidine. Equilibrium association constant (Ka) values were determined from 1H-NMR ligand titration profiles. Among the aliphatic linear ligands, 5-APA (Ka ∼ 3.4 mM-1) shows the strongest interaction w...
Skin penetration enhancers are used to allow formulation of transdermal delivery systems for drugs that are otherwise insufficiently skin-permeable. The series of seven esters of substituted 6-aminohexanoic acid as potential transdermal penetration enhancers was formed by multistep synthesis. The general synthetic approach of all newly synthesized compounds is presented. Structure confirmation of all generated compounds was accomplished by 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR and IR spectroscopy.
In this work we present the effect of tem- perature on the viscosities of aqueous so- lutions of 3-aminopropanoic acid, 4-ami- nobutanoic acid, 5-aminopentanoic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid as a function of concentration. The experimental mea- surements were done from 293.15 K to 308.15 K. At each temperature the experi- mental data were fi tted to the Tsangaris- Martin equation and the B viscosity coef- fiwas determined. The dependence of the B coeffi cients on the number of carbon atoms of the amino acids is linear, so the contribution of polar and apolar groups was established. The results are interpreted in terms of amino acid hydra- tion.
The contrasting roles of streptokinase (SK) domains in binding human Glu1-plasminogen (Plg) have been studied using a set of proteolytic fragments, each of which encompasses one or more of SK's three structural domains (A, B, C). Direct binding experiments have been performed using gel filtration chromatography and surface plasmon resonance. The latter technique has allowed estimation of association and dissociation rate constants for interactions between Plg and intact SK or SK fragments. Each of the SK fragments that contains domain B (fragments A2-B-C, A2-B, B-C, and B) binds Plg with similar affinity, at a level approximately 100- to 1,000-fold lower than intact SK. Experiments using 10 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid or 50 mM benzamidine demonstrate that either of these two lysine analogues abolishes interaction of domain B with Plg. Isolated domain C does not show detectable binding to Plg. Moreover, the additional presence of domain C within other SK fragments (B-C and A2-B-C) does not alter significantly their affinities for Plg. In addition, Plg-binding by a noncovalent complex of two SK fragments that contains domains A and B is similar to that of domain B. By contrast, species containing domain B and both domains A and C (intact SK and the two-chain complex A1 x A2-B-C) show a significantly higher affinity for Plg, which could not be completely inhibited by saturating amounts of 6-AHA. These results show that SK domain B interacts with Plg in a lysine-dependent manner and that although domains A and C do not appear independently to possess affinity for Plg, they function cooperatively to establish the additional interactions with Plg to form an efficient native-like Plg activator complex.
Abstract: Skin penetration enhancers are used to allow formulation of transdermal delivery systems for drugs that are otherwise insufficiently skin-permeable. The series of seven esters of substituted 6-aminohexanoic acid as potential transdermal penetration enhancers was formed by multistep synthesis. The general synthetic approach of all newly synthesized compounds is presented. Structure confirmation of all generated compounds was accomplished by 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR and IR spectroscopy.
The combination of two cofactor self-sufficient biocatalytic cascade modules allowed the successful transformation of cyclohexanol into the nylon-6 monomer 6-aminohexanoic acid at the expense of only oxygen and ammonia. A hitherto unprecedented carboxylic acid capping strategy was introduced to minimize the formation of the dead-end intermediate 6-hydroxyhexanoic acid. For this purpose, the precursor ε-caprolactone was converted in aqueous medium in the presence of methanol into the corresponding methyl ester instead of the acid. Hence, it was shown for the first time that esterases--specifically horse liver esterase--can perform the selective ring-opening of ε-caprolactone with a clear preference for methanol over water as the nucleophile.
The native form of plasminogen is Glu-plasminogen, which by plasmin cleavage gives Lys-plasminogen. Lys-plasminogen is a considerably better substrate compared with Glu-plasminogen for plasminogenolytic enzymes. The contact activation of the intrinsic pathway of coagulation consisting of factor XII, prekallikrein and high Mr kininogen has been implicated to play a role in the intrinsic fibrinolysis. Here activation of Glu- and Lys-plasminogen by factor XIIa in the absence of prekallikrein/kallikrein and high Mr kininogen was studied in a purified system by the generation of amidolytic activity towards pyroGlu-Phe-Lys-pNA (S-2403), a chromogenic substrate of plasmin. A slow activation rate of both Glu- and Lys-plasminogen by factor XIIa was enhanced approximately 60-fold in the presence of Zn2+ and a negatively charged surface. 6-Aminohexanoic acid further enhanced the activation of Glu-plasminogen but inhibited the activation of Lys-plasminogen. The presence of a specific factor XIIa inhibitor completely prevented the generation of plasmin amidolytic activity indicating that activation was mediated by proteolytical cleavage, although this could not be proven by Western-blotting. Physiological concentration of factor XIIa was as more efficient than soluble u-PA to lyse fibrin as a result of activation of Glu-plasminogen. This did not require the presence of Zn2+ or sulfatide.
Abstract The molecular recognition of five targeted amino acids differing in the nature of the side (R)- group and in the size of the aliphatic chain, glycine (Hgly), phenylalanine (Hphe), glutamic acid (Hglu − ), 4-aminobutyric acid (Hgaba), and 6-aminohexanoic acid (Heahx), has been studied with a new heteroditopic receptor based in two distinct macrocycles, a cyclen and a crown ether moiety. The bismacrocycle L was synthesized via the bis-aminal route allowing to obtain the designed compound in gram scale and in good yield. Protonation constants of L and its binding constants with amino acids were determined by potentiometry in H 2 O/MeOH (1:1 v/v) solutions at 298.2 K and I =0.10 mol dm −3 in NMe 4 NO 3 . Stronger binding ability of the H n L n + receptor for α-amino acids, Hgly and Hphen, than for the other studied substrates were found. Structural data derived from NMR studies showed that the binding of α-amino acids result from the cooperative participation of hydrogen bonds between the carboxylate group of amino acids and the polyammonium sites of cyclen, and the ion-dipole interactions between the ammonium group of the amino acids and the oxygen atoms of the crown ether.
Seven rabbit antisera were obtained by immunization with either N-(l-naphthylacetyl)-6-aminohexanoic acid (3) or l-(l-naphthyl)-3-(5-carboxypentyl)urea (8) conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH). From these sera Ab2114 (against 8KLH) was used for the optimization of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the determination of the insecticide carbaryl. An I50 of 2-5 ng/mL and a detection limit of 0.2 ng/mL were obtained using N-(2-naphthoyl)8-aminohexanoic acid (5) coupled to conalbumin as a coating antigen. No interference with naphthol, the main degradation product of carbaryl, was observed. An enzyme tracer was prepared by covalently linking hapten 5 with alkaline phosphatase. When the ELISA was performed using a format involving coating the plate with antibodies, an 150 of 0.4-0.6 ng/mL and a detection limit of 0.05 ng/mL were obtained. Preliminary studies with different samples showed that this immunoassay can be used for the determination of carbaryl in water, soil, body fluids, and food samples. This paper demonstrates the flexibility of using stable derivatives of a target compound such as carbaryl to generate antibodies and a sensitive ELISA for molecules containing functionalities susceptible to chemical hydrolysis and biodegradation.
The kinetics of activation of Lys-plasminogen (Lys-77-Asn-790) and miniplasminogen (Val-442-Asn-790) catalysed by low-molecular-weight urokinase (LMW-urokinase) was investigated in the presence and absence of ligands that bind to the AH-site of the plasminogens. 6-Aminohexanoic acid and alpha-N-acetyl-L-lysine methyl ester (AcLysMe) were used. Saturation of the AH-sites of the plasminogens result in similar, but rather small positive effects on the kinetics of activation of the two plasminogens. Michaelis constants decrease approx. 2-fold and second-order rate constants (kc/Km)Pg increase approx. 1.2-fold. Michaelis constants (KPg values) were obtained using a new approach; the values were determined from the competing effects of the plasminogens on urokinase-catalysed hydrolysis of a synthetic substrate. In the pH range 7.4-8.0, only minor alterations of the values of the kinetic parameters are observed. At 25 degrees C, values of (kc/Km)Pg are approx. 3-fold less than the value at 37 degrees C, whereas KPg is not changed. We conclude that kc/Km values are approx. 10(5) M-1.s-1 and that KPg values are approx. 40 microM of urokinase-catalysed conversions of Lys- and miniplasminogen to their respective plasmins.
Abstract In order to facilitate the purification of salicylate hydroxylase (salicylate 1-monooxygenase, EC 1.14.13.1) from Pseudomonas sp. RPP (ATCC 29351), an affinity chromatography procedure was developed employing immobilized salicylate as the affinity ligand. The immobilization was achieved by reacting p -aminosalicylate with the N -hydroxysuccinimide ester of Sepharose 4B-6-aminohexanoic acid. When the bacterial crude extract was chromatographed with this affinity column, salicylate hydroxylase was absorbed to the gel while the bulk of protein freely passed through. The absorbed enzyme was subsequently eluted from the affinity column by applying a 0–60 m m sodium salicylate gradient. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the enzymatically most active fraction of the affinity effluent revealed salicylate hydroxylase was by far the most predominant protein but there were also small amounts of contaminating proteins. However, a virtually homogeneous enzyme preparation was obtained when the crude extract was first fractionated with a DE-52 anion-exchange column followed by the affinity step. The enzyme preparation obtained by this two-step procedure showed a specific activity of 14.9 units/mg and an A 450 : A 372 : A 280 of 1.01:1:10.23. Because most of the enzymes belonging to the class of external flavoprotein monooxygenase utilize salicylate analogs as substrates and share many other common properties, there is a strong possibility that the salicylate column may be useful for the purification of other member monooxygenases.
Regions of the human plasminogen (Pg) cDNA containing its kringle 4 (K4) and K5 domains have been expressed in Escherichia coli, and binding constants of omega-amino acid ligands for recombinant (r)-[K4Pg] and r-[K5Pg] have been obtained. In each case, the results showed that of a series of aliphatic alpha, omega-amino acid analogues, 6-aminohexanoic acid showed maximal affinity for these modules, and all ligands interacted more strongly with r-[K4Pg] than with r-[K5Pg]. Site-directed mutagenesis investigations demonstrated that the major amino acid side chain contributors to ligand binding were similar for each of these kringles. Ligand binding was stabilized by charged groups at Asp56 of r-[K4Pg] and Asp57 of r-[K5Pg] as well as by Arg69 of both r-[K4Pg] and r-[K5Pg]. Some hydrophobic amino acids that contributed significantly to the binding strength of the ligands were identified. These were provided by homologous residues in each of the domains, viz. Trp60 and Trp70 of r-[K4Pg] and Trp62 and Tyr72 of r-[K5Pg]. Tyr74 of r-[K5Pg] also substantially contributed to its ligand binding energy.
The effects of L-lysine, 6-aminohexanoic acid, and trans-4-aminomethylcy-clohexane-1-carboxylic acid on the catalytic activity of plasmin (EC 3.4.21.7) have been investigated. The kinetics of the plasmin-catlysed hydrolysis of alpha-N-benzoyl-L-arginine ethyl ester in the presence of these compounds have been studied at a number of different concentrations of the three modifiers. They each exert two effects on the reaction, an activation and an inhibition, the concentration dependencies of which are markedly different. They must therefore arise from two different interactions between plasmin and the modifier. The inhibition is competitive, so that it most probably results from direct interaction at the catalytic site. The activation is kinetically non-competitive. The experimental observations seem to be explained best by assuming that L-lysine and certain analogous compounds function as both allosteric modifiers and competitive inhibitors of plasmin.
A fluorescence polarisation immunoassay for quantitating serum concentrations of valproic acid was developed and validated. Its low molecular weight and lack of structural features caused difficulties in producing suitable antibodies. However, success was achieved using 2-propyl-6-aminohexanoic acid to make the fluorescein-labelled drug and two immunogens, the first using glutaraldehyde to link the drug derivative to keyhole limpet haemocyanin, and the second by carbodiimide activation of cellulose hydroxyl groups and coupling them to the drug derivative and killed Mycobacteria. It was found that both immunogens produced a good antibody response in sheep. The antibodies were highly specific and the assay results correlated well with an in-house gas-liquid chromatographic method.
Skin penetration/permeation enhancers facilitate drug delivery through the skin barrier. However, the specific mechanisms that govern the enhancer interactions with the skin, drug, and donor solvent are not fully understood. We designed and synthesized fluorescent-labeled enhancers by attaching 7-nitrobenzo[c][1,2,5]oxadiazol-4-yl (NBD) groups to 6-aminohexanoic acid esters. These NBD esters (applied at a 1% concentration) enhanced the permeation of the model drugs theophylline and hydrocortisone through human skin in vitro up to 6.6- and 3.9-times, respectively. The enhancement effects were strongly affected by the ester chain length (C8–C12) and the polarity of the donor solvent. Using high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection, no NBD esters were detected in the acceptor buffer, but their hydrolysis product, NBD acid, was detected, whereas both acid and esters were found in the skin. The enhancer hydrolysis occurred in the lower stratum corneum and epidermis; more hydrophilic NB...
A fluorescence polarisation immunoassay for quantitating serum concentrations of valproic acid was developed and validated. Its low molecular weight and lack of structural features caused difficulties in producing suitable antibodies. However, success was achieved using 2-propyl-6-aminohexanoic acid to make the fluorescein-labelled drug and two immunogens, the first using glutaraldehyde to link the drug derivative to keyhole limpet haemocyanin, and the second by carbodiimide activation of cellulose hydroxyl groups and coupling them to the drug derivative and killed Mycobacteria. It was found that both immunogens produced a good antibody response in sheep. The antibodies were highly specific and the assay results correlated well with an in-house gas-liquid Chromatographie method.
Recombinant apolipoprotein(a) has been studied by hydrodynamic techniques and electron microscopy. Recombinant apo(a) was primarily a monomer in solution with an s0(20,w) of 9.3 S, a D20,w of 2.29 ficks, and a molecular weight of 325,000 from sedimentation equilibrium and 318,000 from combining the sedimentation and diffusion coefficients. A small amount, approximately 10%, of the recombinant apo(a) was present as a high molecular weight aggregate. The Stokes radius of the monomer, determined either from the diffusion coefficient or by combining the sedimentation equilibrium data with the sedimentation velocity data, was 94 A. The frictional ratio was 2.2, suggesting a highly asymmetric or random coil structure. In the electron microscope, recombinant apolipoprotein(a) was visualized as a long, highly flexible chain of domains forming large, open coiled structures on the EM grid with contour lengths of about 800 A. Addition of 6-aminohexanoic acid at 50 mM, a concentration which should saturate the weak lysine binding sites, did not alter the sedimentation behavior. In vivo, apolipoprotein(a) is associated tightly with LDL to form a highly atherogenic lipoprotein, Lp(a). A single molecule of recombinant apo(a) also associated tightly with LDL to yield a 13.3-S Lp(a)-like complex. This complex dissociated upon the addition of 50 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid. A novel sucrose gradient centrifugation technique was employed to determine a dissociation constant for the reversible equilibrium between recombinant apo(a) and LDL; at physiological ionic strength the dissociation constant was 0.3 nM. Raising the salt concentration to 5 M NaBr caused the dissociation constant to increase to 500 nM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Biodegradable hydrogels were prepared from furan- and maleimide-functionalized eight-armed poly(ethylene glycol) with an average molecular mass of 40 000 Da (8armPEG40k-furan and 8armPEG40k-maleimide) using the Diels-Alder (DA) reaction as a cross-linking mechanism. Hydrophobic 6-aminohexanoic acid (C6) and 12-aminododecanoic acid (C12) spacers were introduced between the polymer backbone and the functional end-groups; the influence on the gel properties was studied. Modification with C6 and C12 spacers induced hydrophobic interactions between the macromonomers leading to association and increased viscosity of the polymer solutions; both effects were influenced by the spacer length. In combination with DA cross-linking, hydrophobic derivatives of 8armPEG40k-furan and 8armPEG40k-maleimide led to hydrogels with improved properties. Upon introduction of C12 spacers, gelation of 8armPEG40k hydrogels occurred twice as fast. Interestingly, no effect was observed when only one of the two components had been modified. Our experiments suggest that the association of macromonomers by hydrophobic interactions facilitates chemical cross-linking via DA chemistry. This hypothesis is supported by calculations of the network mesh size and the Young's modulus of compression, which showed an increased cross-linking density of hydrophobically modified hydrogels. As a consequence of the increased cross-linking density, the degradation stability of C12-modified hydrogels increased by a factor of 4. Moreover, hydrophobic modification improved the hydrolytic resistance of maleimides; this also contributes to gel stability. The in vitro release of bevacizumab, which served as a model antibody, could be delayed for almost 60 days using modification with C12. Similar trends were observed for C6-modified 8armPEG40k hydrogels; however, the effects were considerably weaker. In summary, utilizing hydrophobic association and chemical cross-linking in tandem is a promising approach to create biodegradable hydrogels for delayed antibody release.
The effects of alpha 2-antiplasmin and fibrin on the activation of plasminogen by recombinant staphylokinase (STAR) were studied in an effort to elucidate further the molecular basis of the fibrin-specificity of this fibrinolytic agent. In purified systems consisting of 1.5 mumol/L intact or low-M(r) plasminogen and 3 mumol/L alpha 2-antiplasmin, at 37 degrees C and in the absence of fibrin, STAR did not induce plasminogen activation and plasmin-alpha 2-antiplasmin complex (PAP) formation. Addition of a purified fibrin clot (30% vol at a concentration of 3 mg/mL) to mixtures containing intact plasminogen caused approximately 40% plasminogen activation within 2 hours, whereas in mixtures containing low-M(r) plasminogen, no activation was observed. In contrast, 10 nmol/L streptokinase (SK) induced 74% to 100% plasminogen activation within 2 hours in mixtures containing either intact or low-M(r) plasminogen, in both the absence and the presence of fibrin. In citrated human plasma in the absence of fibrin, 30 nmol/L STAR did not induce measurable plasminogen activation and PAP formation (< 1.5% within 2 hours), whereas addition of a plasma clot (12% vol) resulted in complete clot lysis and conversion of 19% +/- 8% of the plasminogen to PAP within 2 hours. Addition of a second plasma clot produced 23% +/- 2% additional plasminogen activation. Equipotent concentrations for plasma clot lysis of SK (100 nmol/L) induced 54% +/- 11% plasminogen activation in the absence and 49% +/- 16% in the presence of fibrin. Addition of 50 mmol/L 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) abolished the effect of fibrin on plasminogen activation with STAR, but not on activation with SK. In alpha 2-antiplasmin-depleted human plasma in the absence of fibrin, 30 nmol/L STAR did not induce fibrinogen breakdown (> 90% residual fibrinogen after 6 hours), whereas 30 nmol/L preformed plasmin-STAR complex induced extensive fibrinogen degradation (70% within 20 minutes). Thus, in the absence of fibrin, alpha 2-antiplasmin inhibits the activation of plasminogen by STAR, by preventing generation of active plasmin-STAR complex. Fibrin stimulates plasminogen activation by STAR via mechanisms involving the lysine-binding sites of plasminogen, probably by facilitating the generation of plasmin-STAR complex and by delaying its inhibition at the clot surface.
We determined the degradation of articular cartilage proteoglycans in a single episode of experimental hemarthrosis in rat knees. The right knee joints of rats were injected once with autologous whole blood. Both knee joints were examined histologically. Biochemical studies of cartilage proteoglycans extracted from the knees were also conducted. Histological examination revealed an accumulation of mononuclear cells in intraarticular fibrin clots and subsynovial layers 8 hours after the injection of blood. Accordingly, initiation of proteoglycan degradation occurred 8 hours after injection of blood, lasting from 1 day of limited degradation to 3 days; recovery then occurred within 7 days. The proteoglycan degradation could be inhibited by 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, a general serine proteinase inhibitor, 0.1 M 6-aminohexanoic acid, a specific inhibitor of plasminogen activators, 10 mM EDTA, and 10(-6) to 10(-8) M dexamethasone, indicating that the accumulation of mononuclear cells in intraarticular fibrin clots and subsynovial layers may play an important role in cartilage damage.
Biodegradable hydrogels were prepared from furan-and maleimide-functionalized eight-armed poly-(ethylene glycol) with an average molecular mass of 40 000 Da (8armPEG40k-furan and 8armPEG40k-maleimide) using the Diels-Alder (DA) reaction as a cross-linking mechanism. Hydrophobic 6-aminohexanoic acid (C 6 ) and 12-aminododecanoic acid (C 12 ) spacers were introduced between the polymer backbone and the functional end-groups; the influence on the gel properties was studied. Modification with C 6 and C 12 spacers induced hydrophobic interactions between the macromonomers leading to association and increased viscosity of the polymer solutions; both effects were influenced by the spacer length. In combination with DA cross-linking, hydrophobic derivatives of 8armPEG40k-furan and 8armPEG40k-maleimide led to hydrogels with improved properties. Upon introduction of C 12 spacers, gelation of 8armPEG40k hydrogels occurred twice as fast. Interestingly, no effect was observed when only one of the two components had been modified. Our experiments suggest that the association of macromonomers by hydrophobic interactions facilitates chemical cross-linking via DA chemistry. This hypothesis is supported by calculations of the network mesh size and the Young's modulus of compression, which showed an increased cross-linking density of hydrophobically modified hydrogels. As a consequence of the increased cross-linking density, the degradation stability of C 12 -modified hydrogels increased by a factor of 4.
Proteins and reagents. Recombinant STAR was purified from the culture broth of transformed Escherichia coli and was characof the plasminogen to PAP within 2 hours. Addition of a second plasma clot produced 23% f 2% additional plasminogen activation. Equipotent concentrations for plasma clot lysis of SK (1 00 nmol/L) induced 54% f 11 % plasminogen activation in the absence and 49% f 1 6% in the presence of fibrin. Addition of 50 mmol/L 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) abolished the effect of fibrin on plasminogen activation with STAR, but not on activation with SK. In a,-antiplasmin-depleted human plasma in the absence of fibrin, 30 nmol/L STAR did not induce fibrinogen breakdown (>go% residual fibrinogen after 6 hours), whereas 30 nmol/L preformed plasmin-STAR complex induced extensive fibrinogen degradation (70% within 20 minutes). Thus, in the absence of fibrin, a,-antiplasmin inhibits the activation of plasminogen by STAR, by preventing generation of active plasmin-STAR complex. Fibrin stimulates plasminogen activation by STAR via mechanisms involving the lysine-binding sites of plasminogen, probably by facilitating the generation of plasmin-STAR complex and by delaying its inhibition at the clot surface.
The interaction of the isolated kringles 4 and 5 from human plasminogen with 6-aminohexanoic acid, pentylamine, pentanoic acid and arginine has been quantitatively characterized by scanning calorimetry and fluorescent spectroscopy. It has been found that the ligands with the positively charged group have a good binding ability while pentanoic acid in comparison with 6-aminohexanoic acid being devoid of amino group does not interact with the kringles under study. The positively charged group of the ligand is suggested to play a crucial role in ligand binding with the lysine-binding site.
Cyclopeptides of formula (I), their salts and individual enantiomers or diastereomers are new: Cyclo(Arg-A-Asp-R1-R2) is (I); A is Gly or Ala; R1 is 2-carboxy-8-amino-4-thiapiperolidine-9-one (Btd); o-aminomethyl-o'-carboxybiphenyl (Biph); 2-aminomethyl-5-carboxymethyl-thiophene (Act); 6-aminohexanoic acid (Aha); 2-(1,7-diazaspiro(4,4)-nonan-7-yl)-4-methylpentanoic acid ((S,S)spiro-Pro-Leu); or 2-(3-amino-1-pyrrolide-2-onyl)-4-methylpentanoic acid ((S) or (R)Gly(ANC-2)-Leu) all these residues being bonded via peptide links; R2 is absent or is Val. (I) are inhibitors of integrins, esp. they inhibit interaction between beta 3 or beta 5 integrin receptors and ligands. They are useful, in human or veterinary medicine, for treatment or prevention of:(a) diseases of the circulation or bone (e.g. thrombosis, cardiac infarct, arteriosclerosis, inflammation, apoplexy, angina, osteoporosis, etc.) or (b) tumours. (I) also have antiviral and antimicrobial activity, e.g. for use as disinfectants for implants, catheters, etc. (I) can also be used to prepare immobilised ligands for purificn. of integrins by affinity chromatography. Dosage: 0.01-2 mg/kg/day, given orally, rectally, by injection or locally.
Abstract The Schiff-base ligand (H2salhyhNH3)Cl (1) derived from salicylaldehyde and 6-aminohexanoic acid hydrazide hydrochloride reacts with ammonium metavanadate in methanol solution to yield the dioxidovanadium(V) complex [VO2(salhyhNH3)] (2). The utilized hydrazone ligand contains a flexible and protonated amino side chain. Crystallization from methanol affords complex 2 in the monoclinic space group P21/n, whereas crystallization from a methanol/water mixture 1:1 yields crystals, containing a water molecule of crystallization per two formula units (2⋅1/2H2O), in the orthorhombic space group Pbcn. In both cases the protonated amino group compensates the negative charge on the dioxidovanadium moiety and is involved in an extensive hydrogen bonding network particularly including the oxido groups from neighboring vanadium complexes. The reactivity of complex 2 toward protonation in aqueous solution has been investigated by spectrophotometric titrations and is characterized by two subsequent protonation steps at the hydrazide nitrogen atom of the ligand system and an oxido group leading to the formation of an oxidohydroxidovanadium(V) species with corresponding pKa values of 3.2 and 2.9, respectively. With larger excess of acid the oxidohydroxidovanadium(V) species starts to form the corresponding anhydride. The formation of the anhydride is strongly favored in the presence of methanol. The reaction of complex 2 with hydrogen peroxide in methanol solution leads to the formation of an oxidoperoxidovanadium(V) species, whereas in aqueous solution the addition of one equivalent of acid is required. Complex 2 catalyzes the oxidation of methylphenylsulfane to the corresponding sulfoxide in methanol/dichloromethane mixture using hydrogen peroxide as oxidant at room temperature.
A series of optical amino acid diosgenyl esters and diosgenyl salicylate conjugates were designed and synthesized to develop new anticancer and anti-inflammatory agents. The analogue 9c that contains an 6-aminohexanoic acid residue at C-3 of diosgenin exhibits higher potency against all three tumor cell lines with IC(50) values ranging from 4.7 μM in C26 cells to 14.6 μM in Hep G2 cells. In addition, seven of newly synthesized compounds significantly inhibit xylene-induced ear edema and exhibit comparable or better anti-inflammatory activities than those of diosgenin and aspirin. Furthermore, preliminary structure-activity relationship studies demonstrate that diosgenyl salicylate conjugates have stronger anti-inflammatory activities than amino acid diosgenyl esters.
Lincomycin, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, was an excellent inductor of beta-lactamase, and its total activity and specific activity were increased 2.5- and 3.6-fold respectively. The beta-lactamase produced by Shigella flexneri UCSF-129 was purified by affinity chromatography on phenylboronic acid-agarose with a type B column using an hydrophobic spacer arm (6-aminohexanoic acid activated with succinimide). The yield and specific activity were 96% and 29,283 U/mg, respectively. These were 1.7- and 3.8-fold higher, respectively, than those obtained by the traditional method using ion-exchange chromatography and gel filtration. The working-time was reduced to a third, and the enzyme preparation was shown to be pure by several criteria. From nine divalent cations assayed, only Sn(II) inhibited the enzyme by 74%, and the chloride ion did not have any effect on enzyme activity.
Abstract Effects of clot formation and ω -aminoacids on the activation rates of various forms of plasminogen by urokinase (UK) were studied. The activation rates of Glu-plasminogen (including Plg-I and II) increased in the presence of fibrin, while little difference was observed in the activation rate of Lys-plasminogen in the presence and absence of fibrin. The activation rate of acid treated plasminogen (A-plg) was smaller in the presence of fibrin than in its absence. Increase in the concentration of ω -aminoacids first resulted in increase in the activation rates of Glu-forms of plasminogen of which the peak values were obtained at 1 mM for tranexamic acid, 10 mM for 6-aminohexanoic acid (6AHA), and 100 – 1,000 mM for L-lysine. Further increase in the concentration of tranexamic acid, and 6AHA resulted in decrease in the activation rates. The activation rate of Lys-plasminogen slightly increased with increase in the concentration of tranexamic acid. The activation rate of A-plg decreased with increase in the concentration of tranexamic acid, and 6AHA. In the clot, the activation rate of Glu-plasminogen first slightly decreased and then increased with increase in the concentration of ω-aminoacids. Activation was almost totally inhibited at 10 mM of tranexamic acid. Fibrinolysis showed some inhibition at 0.01 mM of tranexamic acid at which concentration slight decrease in the activation rate was observed, then almost total inhibition was observed at 1 mM which was a peak value in the activation rate. In conclusion, interaction of ω-aminoacids or fibrin with lysine binding sites of plasminogen may result in different effects on the activation rate by UK, depending upon different forms of plasminogen. Possibly different lysine binding sites may have different roles in the influence on the activation rate of plasminogen.
Six novel potential renin inhibitors have been designed and synthesized. All these inhibitors contained an unnatural aminoalkanoyl moiety at the central position P1- P1' of the molecule, which is attacked by renin. The moiety consists of pseudodipeptidic units, transition state analogues of a natural dipeptide of the parent substance: 4-amino-3-hydroxybutanoic acid (AHBA), 4-amino-5-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-3-hydroxypentanoic acid (AEPHPA), 4-amino-5-cyclohexyl-3-hydroxypentanoic acid (ACHPA) or 4-amino-3-hydroxynonanoic acid (AHNA). An unnatural moiety, 4-methoxyphenylalanylhistydyl (Phe(4-OMe)-His) has been introduced at the P3-P2 position of the obtained compounds. Five compounds contain isoamylamide of 6-aminohexanoic acid (epsilon-Ahx-laa) at the P2'-P3' position. One of designed inhibitors has been obtained in the form of an ethyl ester. The in vitro renin inhibitory activity of all synthesized compounds is contained within the range 10(-6) - 10(-8) M. The compound in the form of an ethyl ester has proven to be the most active (IC50 = 1.3 x 10(-8) M) but also susceptible to enzymatic degradation. The other five inhibitors were stable to chymotrypsin.
Abstract Circular Dichroism (CD), isothermal calorimetry (ITC) and calcein fluorescence leakage experiments were conducted to provide insight into the mechanisms of binding of a series of antimicrobial peptides containing unnatural amino acids (Ac-XF-Tic-Oic-XK-Tic-Oic-XF-Tic-Oic-XK-Tic-KKKK-CONH2) to zwitterionic and anionic micelles, SUVs and LUVs; where X (Spacer# 1) is either Gly, β-Ala, Gaba or 6-aminohexanoic acid. It is the intent of this investigation to correlate these interactions with the observed potency and selectivity against several different strains of bacteria. The CD spectra of these compounds in the presence of zwitterionic DPC micelles and anionic SDS micelles are very different indicating that these compounds adopt different conformations on binding to the surface of anionic and zwitterionic membrane models. These compounds also exhibited very different CD spectra in the presence of zwitterionic POPC and anionic mixed 4:1 POPC/POPG SUVs and LUVs, indicating the formation of different conformations on interaction with the two membrane types. This observation is also supported by ITC and calcein leakage data. ITC data suggested these peptides interact primarily with the surface of zwitterionic LUVs and was further supported by fluorescence experiments where the interactions do not appear to be concentration dependent. In the presence of anionic membranes, the interactions appear more complex and the calorimetric and fluorescence data both imply pore formation is dependent on peptide concentration. Furthermore, evidence suggests that as the length of Spacer# 1 increases the mechanism of pore formation also changes. Based on the observed differences in the mechanisms of interactions with zwitterionic and anionic LUVs these AMPs are potential candidates for further drug development.
6-Aminohexanoic-acid-oligomer hydrolase of Flavobacterium sp. KI72 was purified to homogeneity by column chromatography three times, and by preparative polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis twice. The purified enzyme had the following characteristics. ::: ::: ::: ::: 1 ::: The molecular weight was estimated to be 84000 by Sephadex G-200 molecular-sieve chromatography. The enzyme consisted of two homologous subunits of 42000, judged from sodium dodecylsulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. ::: ::: 2 ::: The optimum pH for activity was between 8 and 9, the optimum temperature was 40° C for a 1-h reaction. The Michaelis-Menten constants and turnover numbers for the 6-aminohexanoic acid dimer and trimer were 5.9 mM and 2.4 s−1, and 6.2 mM and 2.0 s−1 respectively. ::: ::: 3 ::: The enzyme was inhibited by 0.37 mM diisopropylfluorophosphate and by 0.013 mM p-chloromercuribenzoate. ::: ::: 4 ::: The enzyme was active on 6-aminohexanoic acid oligomers from dimer to hexamer and icosamer but not on hectamer, and the activity decreased with the increase of the polymerization number of the ougomer. The oligomers were hydrolyzed so as to remove the 6-aminohexanoic acid residue successively from the amino terminus. The enzyme could not hydrolyze other linear amides, cyclic amides, dipeptides, tripeptides or casein. ::: ::: 5 ::: 6-Aminohexanoic-acid-oligomer hydrolase was classified as a new member of the linear amidases (EC 3.5.1.-).
Abstract : Variant-specific surface antigens (VSSA) from Trypanosoma b. rhodesiense WRATat clones have been purified using Con A-lectins affinity chromotography. The molecular weights of VSSA-2 an VSSA-12 have been estimated to be about 65,000 daltons by SDS-PAGE. Proteolytic activity in the lysates was significantly inhibited by including PMSF or TLC in the lysing buffers. Treatment of the lysate with p-aminobenzamidine-6-aminohexanoic acid-sepharose was equally effective. Characterization of the antigens by classical techniques is now being pursued. Low levels of parasitemia (300 million/ml) were overcome by disturbing the innate resistance of the rodent hosts with cyclophophamide, dexamethasone, prednisolone or anti-neutrophil serum prior to infection. These treatments resulted in infections peaking at greater than 10 to the 9th power/ml. Separation of the trypanosomes from blood cells was accomplished by treating the infected blood with a hemagglutinating lectin from Maclura pomifera. This innovation allowed us to decrease the volume of DEAE-cellulose to only twice that of the blood volume and to run the columns at 4 C. Experiments with the antibiotic tunicamycin have demonstrated that trypanosomes can be inhibited by very low concentrations. Because this drug interferes with glycoprotein biosynthesis, it could be very useful in studying VSSA synthesis and degradation. (Author)
Abstract In order to investigate the effect of branching and cyclization in the hydrophobic part of skin permeation enhancers, 17 novel branched-chain and cyclic 6-aminohexanoic acid esters were prepared. Their permeation enhancing activity was evaluated in vitro using human skin and theophylline as a model drug, and compared to that of the corresponding linear-chain analogues. The results showed that chain branching and cyclization has a negative influence on the enhancing activity of 6-aminohexanoates. For example, the enhancement ratios (ERs) of dodecan-1-yl, dodecan-2-yl, dodecan-4-yl, and cyclododecyl ester were 39.7, 29.3, 3.1, and 2.2, respectively. No significant change in the optimum length of the chain was observed. Dodecan-2-yl 6-aminohexanoate, the most active branched derivative, still maintains a remarkable enhancing activity (ER 29.3). Presumably, the relatively small degree of branching of these molecules does not prevent them from interacting with the lipid components of the stratum corneum. However, a higher degree of branching, cyclization of the chain, and presence of an aromatic ring resulted in a loss of activity. © 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.
Earlier studies of addition of naturally sulfated polysaccharides including unfractionated heparin showed a significant enhancement of the in-vitro activation of glutamic plasminogen (Glu-Plg) by tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) or urokinase plasminogen activator (u-PA). However, supplementing of physiological concentration of NaCl (0.9%) to the buffer reversed the enhancement. To overcome this reversal attempts were made to oversulfate the compounds and re-evaluate their biological properties. Chondroltin-6-sulfate (N-2) was oversulfated using chlorosulfonic acid-pyridine complex and isolated as the sodium salt. Infrared and 1 H-NMR studies of the oversulfated compound showed introduction of new sulfate groups with the formation of 60% of chondroitin-4-6-disulfate. In-vitro studies were conducted on comparing the effect of oversulfated chondroitin-6-sulfate (S-2) with native compound (N-2) and unfractionated heparin in enhancing the activation of Glu-Plg by t-PA or u-PA using 0.05 mol/I Tris buffer (pH 7.3) containing 0.9% of NaCl. The enhancement of activation of Glu-Plg by t-PA or u-PA was measured by formation of plasmin using H-D-Glu-Phe-Lys-pNA (S-2403) as the substrate. The activation by t-PA was enhanced two-fold by 2.86 μg/ml of S-2, 4-6-fold by addition of 32.4 mmol/l of lysine or 5.4 mmol/l of 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AH) and 14-16-fold enhancement by addition of both S-2 and lysine or S-2 and 6-AH showing a synergistic effect, whereas unfractionated heparin alone gave no enhancement and in conjunction with lysine or 6-AH gave no additional enhancement. Similar studies using u-PA in place of t-PA gave identical results. During the activation of Glu-Plg to plasmin, lysine plasminogen (Lys-Plg) is reported to be an intermediate. Therefore we investigated the role of S-2, lysine and 6-AH in the activation of Lys-Plg to plasmin. The results showed that S-2 enhanced this activation, whereas lysine or 6-AH which were active in enhancing the activation of Glu-Plg were not active using Lys-Plg indicating that the site of enhancement by lysine or 6-AH was during the initial phase. Double reciprocal plot of Glu-Plg activation by t-PA with or without S-2 and lysine showed no change in K m but a 10-fold increase of K cat suggesting a template mechanism for the attenuation when both cofactors are used.
Abstract N α -Fmoc-serine pentafluorophenyl ester was glycosylated with perbenzoylated lactosyl bromide. The resulting product was coupled to a resin functionalized with 6-aminohexanoic acid and then N α -acylated to give a serine-based analogue of lactosylceramide. The water-soluble neoglycolipid was covalently linked to microtiter plates via its carboxyl group and was recognized by a lactose-binding lectin in an ELISA.
Abstract Rare-earth up-converting nanophosphors (UCNPs) have great potential to become a new generation of biological luminescent labels, but their use has been limited by difficulties in obtaining water-soluble UCNPs bearing appropriate functional groups. To address this problem, we report herein a simple and efficient procedure for the preparation of amine-functionalized UCNPs by a modified hydrothermal microemulsion route assisted with 6-aminohexanoic acid. The amine content of the resultant UCNPs has been determined to be (9.5 ± 0.8) × 10 −5 mol/g, which not only confers excellent dispersibility in aqueous solution, but also allows further conjugation with targeted molecules such as folic acid (FA) as a ligand. By means of the laser scanning up-conversion luminescence microscopy (LSUCLM) and the in vivo up-conversion luminescence (UCL) imaging under excitation at the CW infrared laser at 980 nm, FA-coupled UCNPs have been demonstrated to be effective in targeting folate-receptor overexpressing HeLa cells in vitro and HeLa tumor in vivo and ex vivo . These results indicated that our UCNPs could be used as whole-body targeted UCL imaging agents.
The catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km) of high-molecular-mass urokinase for the activation of Glu-plasminogen is increased about 10-fold in the presence of CNBr-digested fibrinogen. This stimulation is similar to that observed with 6-aminohexanoic acid, and yields kinetic parameters comparable to those for the activation of Lys-plasminogen by urokinase. The increase of the activation rate of Glu-plasminogen by urokinase in the presence of CNBr-Fg can thus be explained by a conformational change in the plasminogen molecule similar to that observed upon conversion of Glu-plasminogen to Lys-plasminogen and upon binding of 6-aminohexanoic acid to Glu-plasminogen. Stabilization of the Michaelis complex between urokinase and plasminogen by formation of a cyclic ternary complex with CNBr-Fg, which has been invoked to explain the dramatic stimulatory effect of CNBr-Fg on the activation of plasminogen by tissue-type plasminogen activator, does not appear to play a significant role in the increased activation rate.
Peptide synthesis. The Fmoc-protected amino acids glycine (0.65 g, 2 eq.), alanine (0.37 g, 1 eq.), isoleucine (0.42 g, 1 eq.), valine (0.41 g, 1 eq.), phenylalanine (0.46 g, 1 eq.), 6-aminohexanoic acid (0.78 g, 2 eq.) and glutamine(trt) preloaded 2-chlorotrityl resin (0.368 g, 0.68 mmol/g) were prepared for automated peptide synthesis (CEM Liberty). The activator HBTU (1.897 g, 0.2 M) in DMF (25 mL), activator base DIPEA (5.2 mL) in NMP (9.8 mL), deprotector piperidine 20% v/v (40 mL) in DMF (160 mL) and the solvents DMF (1.6 L) and DCM (83 mL) were added to the machine. The peptide was run with standard cycles and was completed after 5.5 h. The resin was washed by filtration with DMF (3 x 10 mL), DCM (3 x 10 mL) and Et2O (2 x 10 mL) and dried in vacuo. Acidic cleavage The peptide was cleaved from the resin with a mixture of HFIP/DCM 1:4 (10 mL, 27 mL/g) by agitation for 10 min 17 . The resin was filtered and washed with DCM (2 x 5 mL), MeCN (2 x 8 mL), MeCN/H2O 1:1 (10 mL), MeOH (10 mL), DCM (2 x 8 mL), Et2O (10 mL) and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The crude peptide was first purified by trituration with cold Et2O/hexane 1:1 (40 mL), centrifugation (15 min, 7197 G) and decantation to give crude peptide 8 (113.0 mg, 26%). 30 mg of the crude mixture was purified by HPLC to give a white solid (19.0 mg, 4%). 0, 15.3, 17.9, 18.2, 19.3, 24.6, 24.8, 25.0, 25.6, 25.9, 26.8, 27.0, 28.9, 29.2, 30.7, 33.3, 35.1, 36.2, 37.2, 38.6, 40.4, 42.0, 42.4, 48.4, 53.4, 54.0, 57.6, 57.8, 69.2, 126.3, 127.5, 128.0, 128.6, 129.2, 138.2, 145.0, 167.9, 168.6, 171.0, 171.4, 171.4, 171.8, 172.0, 172.2, 172.5, 174.0 After stirring for 14.5 h DIPEA (78.9 μL, 0.45 mmol, 6 eq.) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for one hour until tlc indicated complete conversion of starting material and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The crude peptide was first purified by trituration with cold Et2O/hexane 1:1 (2 x 30 mL), centrifugation (10 min, 7197 G) and decantation to give the crude mixture (87.7 mg, 97%) which was further purified by HPLC to give peptide 9 as a white solid (40.7 mg, 45%). Rf 0.72 (CHCl3/MeOH/FA 40:10:1); HPLC Phenomenex Synergi 4u Hydro-RP 80A (100 x 21.2 μm, 4 micron), tR = 18.2 min (H2O/MeCN 95:5→5:95, 24 min, 1 mL/min, 210 nm); tR = 19.2 min is an isomeric form (2.8 mg, 3%); IR (film) νmax 3725-3629, 3283 (OH, NH), 2966-2867 (CH3, CH2, CH), 1627 (C=O amide), 1523 (NH amide), 1456 (CH2), 1396, 1366, 1252, 1170, 1055, 1033, 1013, 669, 649, 618; 0, 15.3, 18.0, 18.1, 19.2, 24.5, 25.0, 25.1, 25.9, 26.0, 27.6, 28.3, 28.9, 29.3, 30.6, 32.7, 35.1, 35.4, 36.4, 37.3, 38.3, 39.6, 40.4, 41.9, 41.9, 48.4, 51.9, 53.7, 57.2, 57.6, 69.2, 77.3, 126.1, 126.3, 127.5, 127.9, 128.5, 129.2, 138.1, 144.9, 155.6, 168.5, 168.6, 170.9, 171.2, 171.4, 171.4, 171.8, 172.1, 172.5, 173.4; m/z (ESI+) calc. for [M] + = 1259.7059, found = 1259.7075.
Hydrochloric 6-guandinyl hexanoic acid is synthesized from caprolactam by the hydrolization to give 6-aminohexanoic acid which is subjected to reaction with S-methylisothioureasulfate to obtain 6-guandinyl hexanoic acid,then reacted with dilute hydrochloric acid followed by 6-guandinyl hexanoic acid salt formation.The method has been improved in the process of synthesis of 6-aminocaproic and 6-guandinyl hexanoic acid and the total yield can be increased to 70.4%.
Skin penetration enhancers are used in the formulation of transdermal delivery systems for drugs that are otherwise not sufficiently skin-permeable. We generated two series of esters by multi-step synthesis with substituted 6-aminohexanoic acid as potential transdermal penetration enhancers by multi-step synthesis. The synthesis of all newly prepared compounds is presented here. Structure confirmation of all generated compounds was accomplished by (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, IR and MS spectroscopy. All the prepared compounds were analyzed using RP-HPLC and their lipophilicity (logk) was determined. The hydrophobicity (logP/ClogP) of the studied compounds was also calculated using two commercially available programs and 3D structures of the selected compounds were investigated by means of ab initio calculations of geometry and molecular dynamic simulations. All the synthesized esters were tested for their in vitro transdermal penetration-enhancing activity and showed higher enhancement ratios than oleic acid. The highest enhancement ratios were exhibited by compound 5f (C((2)) substituted with piperidine-2-one, C(11) ester chain) and 5a (C((2)) substituted with piperidine-2-one, C(6) ester chain). The series with a ω-lactam ring (piperidin-2-one; 5a-g), showed slightly higher activities than those with morpholine (6a-6g). All of the agents showed minimal anti-proliferative activity (IC(50) >6.25μM), indicating they would have low cytotoxicity when administered as chemical penetration enhancers. The relationships between the lipophilicity and the chemical structure of the studied compounds, as well as the correlation between their chemical structure and transdermal penetration-enhancing activity, are discussed.
The solid products precipitating upon a reactive absorption of CO2 in aqueous solutions of the potassium, sodium and lithium salts of a series of amino acids were identified using CHN analysis, AAS, XRD, C and H NMR. Among the investigated amino acids were α-aminoisobutyric acid, taurine, l-alanine and 6-aminohexanoic acid. The results from the precipitates identification together with relations between the initial solvent composition and the solid composition are reported.
UNLABELLED ::: Gastrin-releasing peptide receptors (GRPr) are a member of the bombesin (BBN) receptor family. GRPr are expressed in high numbers on specific human cancers, including human prostate cancer. Therefore, copper-64 ((64)Cu) radiolabeled BBN(7-14)NH(2) conjugates could have potential for diagnosis of human prostate cancer via positron-emission tomography (PET). The aim of this study was to produce [(64)Cu-NO2A-(X)-BBN(7-14)NH(2)] conjugates for prostate cancer imaging, where X=pharmacokinetic modifier (beta-alanine, 5-aminovaleric acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid, 8-aminooctanoic acid, 9-aminonanoic acid or para-aminobenzoic acid) and NO2A=1,4,7-triazacyclononane-1,4-diacetic acid [a derivative of NOTA (1,4,7-triazacyclononane-1,4,7-triacetic acid)]. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: [(X)-BBN(7-14)NH(2)] Conjugates were synthesized by solid-phase peptide synthesis (SPPS), after which NOTA was added via manual conjugation. The new peptide conjugates were radiolabeled with (64)Cu radionuclide. The receptor-binding affinity was determined in human prostate PC-3 cells, and tumor-targeting efficacy was determined in PC-3 tumor-bearing severely combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice. Whole-body maximum intensity microPET/CT images of PC-3 tumor-bearing SCID mice were obtained 18 h postinjection (pi). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Competitive binding assays in PC-3 cells indicated high receptor-binding affinity for the [NO2A-(X)-BBN(7-14)NH(2)] and [(nat)Cu-NO2A-(X)-BBN(7-14)NH(2)] conjugates. In vivo biodistribution studies of the [(64)Cu-NO2A-(X)-BBN(7-14)NH(2)] conjugates at 1, 4 and 24 h pi showed very high uptake of the tracer in GRPr-positive tissue with little accumulation and retention in nontarget tissues. High-quality, high-contrast microPET images were obtained, with xenografted tumors being clearly visible at 18 h pi. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: NO2A chelator sufficiently stabilizes copper(II) radiometal under in vivo conditions, producing conjugates with very high uptake and retention in targeted GRPr. Preclinical evaluation of these new peptide conjugates in tumor-bearing mice provides some impetus for clinical evaluation in human patients.
In this study, we hypothesize that a specific domain of Ab protein provides a structural basis for its neuronal binding, which ultimately triggers its internalization. It has been suggested that Ab-microglial interactions occur through membrane-associated heparin sulfate interactions with the HHQK domain of Ab [14] . This same cluster of basic amino acids is also known as a domain with high-binding affinity for heparin sulfate. These authors have suggested that HHQK-like agents may offer a specific therapy to block plaque-induced microgliosis. Epitope mapping studies have revealed that positively charged amino acid clusters with common epitopes of Ab (HHQKL) and APO-E (LRKRL) are regions that are known to be heparin-binding domains [15] . These authors have substituted Ab residues with glycine (GGQGL) and found that they failed to compete with the cellular uptake of APO-E enriched bVLDL. They suggest that these observations indicate that Ab and APO-E are taken up into cells by a common pathway involving heparin sulfate proteoglycans. Diaz et al. [16] have observed that small peptides of Ab that have replacements of histidine 13 and 14 by alanine or lysine block the Ab ion channel activity. Tickler et al. [17] demonstrated that methylation in the imidazole side chains of all three histidine residues on Ab resulted in a four-fold increase in H 2 O 2 generation. Despite the higher levels of H 2 O 2 , the modified peptides were not neurotoxic. These modifications both altered Cu binding and inhibited peptide/cell surface membrane interaction. In similar studies by the same group, Smith et al. [18] determined that copper-mediated Ab toxicity was associated with an intermolecular bridge involving histidines 6, 13, and 14 of Ab. Methylation of these histidine residues was shown to be non-toxic in cell culture systems, because these chemical modifications inhibited the interaction between the peptide and the cell surface membrane. Interestingly, three amino acid differences exist in a comparison of human Ab peptide with the rodent Ab peptide (Arg-5RGly; Tyr-10RPhe and His-13RArg). Despite these three amino acid substitutions, no difference was observed in the ability of either rodent or human peptides to form fibrils in aqueous buffer [19] [20] [21] , yet rats and mice do not innately develop age-associated amyloid pathology [22] . Replacement of the His-13 for Arg in rodent Ab disrupts the metal coordination site which results in the rodent peptide having less ability to zincinduced aggregation in vitro [23] [24] [25] . In addition, the rodent form of Ab that has His13 mutated to an Arg has been shown to be non-toxic [26] . Indeed platinum-based compounds that target histidine residues on Ab inhibit Ab toxicity [27] . All of these studies point to a critical role of histidine residues at positions 13 and 14 on Ab protein. As a result, we decided to evaluate the effects of H13,14 substitution of Ab40 on its ability to affect neuronal binding in a culture model of differentiated PC12 cells and in cortical and hippocampal neurons in WT mouse brain slices. These in vitro systems have been well characterized and used by numerous investigators as models to study neuronal physiology [28] [29] [30] [31] . Because of the well recognized involvement of Ab in forming fibrils and amyloid plaques, we also evaluated the effects of H13,14 substitution of Ab40 on its subsequent ability to form fibrils, bind to Ab fibrils, and label amyloid plaques. Human Ab1-40, with the sequence DAEFRHDSGYEVHH-QKLVFFAEDVGSNKGAIIGLMVGGVV, Ab1-40 H13G with  the sequence DAEFRHDSGYEVGHQKLVFFAEDVGSNKG-AIIGLMVGGVV, Ab1-40 H13,14G with sequence DAEFRH-DSGYEVGGQKLVFFAEDVGSNKGAIIGLMVGGVV, Ab1-40 H13R with sequence DAEFRHDSGYEVRHQKLVFFAE-DVGSNKGAIIGLMVGGVV, and Ab1-40 R5G, Y10F, H13R (rodent Ab1-40) with sequence DAEFGHDSGFEVRHQKLV-FFAEDVGSNKGAIIGLMVGGVV were synthesized with or without Ahx (Fmoc-6-aminohexanoic acid) attached to the Nterminal on a CEM Liberty (Mathews, NC) peptide synthesizer using HBTU activation and the manufacturer's suggested synthesis protocols. The starting resin was Val-NovaSyn TGA (Novabiochem EMD Biosciences, San Diego, CA). For fluoresceinated peptides, after completion of the synthesis and final Fmoc deprotection, NHSfluorescein, [5-(and 6 )-carboxyfluorescein, succinimidyl ester] (Pierce) was added to the N-terminal Ahx residue by dissolving fluorescein in 2 ml of DMSO/8 ml DMF and reacting the fluorescein solution with the peptide-resin, which had been washed previously with DIEA/DCM. The coupling of fluorescein was allowed to proceed overnight at RT. The peptides were then cleaved from the resin support using 5% crystalline phenol, 5% water, 2.5% triisopropylsilane, and 87.5% TFA for two hours at RT. The peptide was purified by reverse-phase HPLC on a Jupiter C18 column (250 mm621.2 mm, Phenomenex Corp) using a gradient system of 0.1% aqueous TFA containing 80% acetonitrile/ water/0.1% TFA. The calculated mass weight was 4329 amu for Ab1-40; 4249 amu for Ab1-40 H13G; 4169 amu for Ab1-40 H13,14G; 4348 amu for Ab1-40 H13R; and 4233 amu for Ab1-40 R5G, Y10F, H13R as confirmed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (Thermoelectron Surveyor MSQ).
A new simple and efficient purification method for alpha 2-antiplasmin is described that is based on the interaction between alpha 2-antiplasmin and a fragment from elastase-digested plasminogen constituting the three N-terminal triple-loop structures in the plasmin A-chain (LBSI). After a single-step adsorption of the alpha 2-antiplasmin from plasminogen-depleted plasma to LBSI-Sepharose and elution with 6-aminohexanoic acid, an 80-90% pure preparation with a yield of 50-60% is obtained. The major impurity is fibrinogen, which can easily be removed by gel filtration, and, as a result, a homogeneous fully active alpha 2-antiplasmin preparation is obtained that has the same properties as previously described for alpha 2-antiplasmin. Evidence is put forward that a form of alpha 2-antiplasmin with less affinity for the lysine-binding sites in plasminogen may exist, even in unfractionated plasma.
The amidolytic activity of plasmin with the chromogenic substrate H-D-valyl-L-leucyl-L-lysine p-nitroanilide (S-2251) is stimulated by oleic acid in a dose-dependent and saturable fashion. The activity of plasmin on S-2251 in the presence of oleic acid followed a sigmoidal kinetic pattern, with an almost 4-fold stimulation of activity at 60 microM-oleic acid. Half-maximal stimulation occurred at an oleic acid level of 19.5 microM. The amino acid analogue 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA), which is known to bind to lysine-binding sites in plasmin, suppressed the stimulatory effect of oleic acid in a concentration-dependent manner; at 0.3 mM-AHA, about 70% of the oleic acid-dependent enhancement of plasmin activity was abolished. The l/v versus 1/[S] plot for plasmin changed in the presence of oleic acid from a linear to a non-linear curve, suggesting positive co-operativity. 14C-labelled oleic acid bound to plasmin, and the bound ligand was displaced by an excess of unlabelled oleic acid. Oleic acid also produced a marked (40-fold) stimulation of the plasminogen-dependent cleavage of S-2251 by urokinase. A half-maximal effect on plasminogen activation was obtained at 40 microM-oleic acid. The present findings suggest that the ability of oleic acid to stimulate plasmin activity and to enhance the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin depends on the interaction of oleic acid with specific lysine-binding sites in plasmin.
Summary The pathogenesis of Hailey–Hailey disease and Darier's disease was investigated using immunocytological and explant-tissue-culture techniques. There was breakdown of the intercellular adhesions between keratinocytes in explants from clinically uninvolved skin of patients with Hailey–Hailey disease or Darier's disease. The major desmosomal components were present in the cultures and were expressed in a punctate peripheral pattern at cell-cell contact sites, but there was diffuse staining of acantholytic cells. Plasminogen, which is expressed by basal keratinocytes in normal skin, was detected in association with suprabasal acantholytic cells in skin biopsies from these disea. Plasminogen was reversibly displaced from the cells by 6-aminohexanoic acid, suggesting that binding is mediated by a reaction with the lysine receptor on the plasminogen molecule. Plasminogen was also detected in separating cells in explant cultures and there was cytoplasmic expression of the plasminogen activator urokinase by these cells. ::: ::: ::: ::: These abnormalities are not unique to either disease and do not account for the phenotypic differences between Darier's disease and Hailey–Hailey disease, but plasmin generation may have a role in perpetuating cell separation.
The ligand binding of kringle 1 + 2 + 3 and kringle 1 from human plasminogen has been investigated by fluorescence spectroscopy. Analysis of fluorescence titration of kringle 1 + 2 + 3 with 6-aminohexanoic acid shows that this fragment, besides the high-affinity lysine-binding site with Kd = 2.9 microM, contains two additional lysine-binding sites which differ in binding strength (Kd = 28 microM and Kd = 220 microM). This strongly suggests the existence of a lysine-binding site in each of the first three kringles. 6-Aminohexanoic acid, pentylamine, pentanoic acid and arginine were used for investigation of the ligand specificity of isolated kringle 1 prepared by pepsin hydrolysis of kringle 1 + 2 + 3. It has been established that kringle 1 has high affinity to 6-aminohexanoicacid, pentylamine and arginine (Kd values are 3.2 microM, 4.8 microM and 4.3 microM, respectively). At the same time pentanoic acid did not bind with kringle 1. These facts indicate, firstly, a broad ligand specificity of kringle 1 and, secondly, the paramount importance of the positively charged group of the ligand for its interaction with lysine-binding site of this kringle.
The amidolytic activity of plasmin with the chromogenic substrate H-D-valyl-L-leucyl-L-lysine p-nitroanilide (S-2251) is stimulated by oleic acid in a dose-dependent and saturable fashion. The activity of plasmin on S-2251 in the presence of oleic acid followed a sigmoidal kinetic pattern, with an almost 4-fold stimulation of activity at 60 ,uM-oleic acid. Halfmaximal stimulation occurred at an oleic acid level of 19.5 4uM. The amino acid analogue 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA), which is known to bind to lysine-binding sites in plasmin, suppressed the stimulatory effect of oleic acid in a concentrationdependent manner; at 0.3 mM-AHA, about 70% of the oleic acid-dependent enhancement of plasmin activity was abolished. The 1/v versus I /[S] plot for plasmin changed in the presence of oleic acid from a linear to a non-linear curve, suggesting positive co-operativity. 14C-labelled oleic acid bound to plasmin, and the bound ligand was displaced by an excess of unlabelled oleic acid. Oleic acid also produced a marked (40-fold) stimulation of the plasminogen-dependent cleavage of S-2251 by urokinase. A half-maximal effect on plasminogen activation was obtained at 40 ,uM-oleic acid. The present findings suggest that the ability of oleic acid to stimulate plasmin activity and to enhance the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin depends on the interaction of oleic acid with specific lysine-binding sites in plasmin.
Abstract Skizzle (SkzL), secreted by Streptococcus agalactiae, has moderate sequence identity to streptokinase and staphylokinase, bacterial activators of human plasminogen (Pg). SkzL binds [Glu]Pg with low affinity (KD 3–16 μm) and [Lys]Pg and plasmin (Pm) with indistinguishable high affinity (KD 80 and 50 nm, respectively). Binding of SkzL to Pg and Pm is completely lysine-binding site-dependent, as shown by the effect of the lysine analog, 6-aminohexanoic acid. Deletion of the COOH-terminal SkzL Lys415 residue reduces affinity for [Lys]Pg and active site-blocked Pm 30-fold, implicating Lys415 in a lysine-binding site interaction with a Pg/Pm kringle. SkzL binding to active site fluorescein-labeled Pg/Pm analogs demonstrates distinct high and low affinity interactions. High affinity binding is mediated by Lys415, whereas the source of low affinity binding is unknown. SkzL enhances the activation of [Glu]Pg by urokinase (uPA) ∼20-fold, to a maximum rate indistinguishable from that for [Lys]Pg and [Glu]Pg activation in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid. SkzL binds preferentially to the partially extended β-conformation of [Glu]Pg, which is in unfavorable equilibrium with the compact α-conformation, thereby converting [Glu]Pg to the fully extended γ-conformation and accelerating the rate of its activation by uPA. SkzL enhances [Lys]Pg and [Glu]Pg activation by single-chain tissue-type Pg activator, ∼42- and ∼650-fold, respectively. SkzL increases the rate of plasma clot lysis by uPA and single-chain tissue-type Pg activator ∼2-fold, confirming its cofactor activity in a physiological model system. The results suggest a role for SkzL in S. agalactiae pathogenesis through fibrinolytic enhancement.
The bisulfite-induced transamination at the 4-position of eytosine was used to prepare N4-aminoalkyl-cytidine 2′(3′)-monophosphate derivatives in a single, simple reaction. The primary aliphatic amine function of these derivatives could readily be coupled to either cyanogen bromide-activated agarose or a commercially available activated Sepharose derivative (the N-hydroxysuccinimide ester of Sepharose-6-aminohexanoic acid) to yield effective and specific affinity adsorbents for bovine pancreatic ribonuclease
Abstract The proteolytic activity of the indigenous proteinase, plasmin, in buffalo milk and casein was examined under different conditions, e.g. pH, NaCl, lysine or 6-aminohexanoic acid and heat treatments. The plasmin activity, which was primarily associated with the casein fraction, showed large variations between different types of casein preparation; rennet casein had greater plasmin activity than acid or centrifugal casein. The breakdown of buffalo casein by the indigenous proteinase was generally similar to that of bovine casein but minor differences were observed, and buffalo casein hydrolyzate produced by indigenous plasmin corresponded to that of a bovine plasmin-treated sample. Holding the milk at pH in the range 4·8–8·0 for 4 h had no effect on the distribution of plasmin activity between casein and whey, while at pH 4·6 or lower the plasmin activity was completely dissociated from the micelles but remained stable in the supernatant over pH range 4·0–8·0. There was little activity in the casein from milk samples treated with 3–15% NaCl but incubation of casein solutions in the presence of 1–15% NaCl caused proteolysis in all samples but the extent decreased with increasing NaCl concentration. 6-Aminohexanoic acid was more effective in dissociating plasmin from casein micelles than lysine and the micelles were almost devoid of plasmin after treatment with 0·2 m concentrations of either reagent. Heat treatment at 70°C for 10 min increased the plasmin activity in milk while heating at 80°C for 10 min caused losses of only 15 and 40% of the original activity in milk and casein solution, respectively. While heating at higher temperatures caused greater losses of plasmin activity in buffalo milk, some activity still survived in casein dispersions following heating at 90°C for 10 min.
Deposition of finely dispersed noble metals on porous materials is a common technique for the preparation of heterogeneous catalysts. It generally involves impregnation of the carrier with a soluble precursor and calcination, or precipitation and reduction followed in most cases by calcination which is expected to increase the fixation of the metal on the carrier. With respect to (meso)porous ceria, this has been described for, e.g., rhodium [49, 50] (impregnation), platinum [51] (ultrasound-assisted reduction), and gold [52, 53] (impregnation and photochemical reduction, respectively). In principle, these procedures should be applicable to ceria NP as well, but in the light of the observed increase in agglomeration after calcination of ceria NP (see above) some caution is justified when the preparation calls for this technique. Several approaches to noblemetal-decorated ceria NP have been suggested recently: for gold and palladium by reduction [48, 54, 55] , and for gold and platinum by microwave-assisted reduction [56] . In order to prevent agglomeration during calcination of Pt/CeO 2 hybrid particles, a procedure was reported that adds H 2 PtCl 6 to ceria NP, followed by gel/sol formation with TEOS, calcination and finally removal of the SiO 2 protective shell with NaOH [57] . With our ceria NP this failed because of extensive platinum nucleation in the gel, the resulting platinum NP not being attached to CeO 2 . Photochemical attachment of platinum NP to silica core-shell (described above) and ceria NP also failed for the same reason (K 2 PtCl 4 solution, citrate buffer, xenon lamp). A procedure based on the idea of electrostatic attraction between NP finally worked for our systems. The CeO 2 NP after coordination with 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA) obtain a strongly positive ζ-potential. Platinum NP stabilized by PVP, in contrast, develope a negative ζ-potential. Forming the platinum NP by reduction of K 2 PtCl 4 with borohydride in the presence of PVP and AHA-stabilized ceria NP should therefore lead to a better connection of both [58] . Having possible simplifications of the experimental procedure in mind, we checked if one could omit AHA and PVP; in this case the ζ-potentials of the particles have lower absolute values but maintain their sign [58] .
XPRESSION of specific proteinase activities at cell surfaces is a phenotypic feature of a variety of cells and is a frequently elicited response of cells to stimulation and transformation (22, 32, 33, 36) . Plasminogen activators (PA) l are among the most broadly distributed of such cell surface proteinases (27, 37, 39, 40) . Urokinase (UK) is representative of one of the two major types of PA enzymes. This type of PA is expressed by a variety of cells including many tumor cells (3, 27, 37) and activated mononuclear cells (27, 33, 36) . UK is highly specific for plasminogen and can activate the zymogen to plasmin by cleavage of a single peptide bond (26). Plasmin, in addition to its primary role in the proteolysis of fibrin, is a broad spectrum proteinase which may participate in such general functions as cell migration and differentiation, tissue remodeling, and inflammation (9, 17, 25) . Control of UK synthesis and secretion and production of specific inhibitors of PA and plasmin are identified 1. Abbreviations used in this paper: 6-AHA, 6-aminohexanoic acid; DIPplasmin and DIP-UK, diisopropylphosphoryl-plasmin and -urokinase obtained by treating plasmin or UK with 5 mM diisopropyl fluorophosphate; PA, plasminogen activator; UK, urokinase. mechanisms for regulation of the proteolytic activity of the plasminogen system. Recently, evidence has been provided for the presence of specific binding sites for UK on cell surfaces, suggesting a previously unconsidered mechanism for the regulation of the plasminogen system. Vassalli et al. (34) showed the presence of specific binding sites for UK on the U937 cell line which has certain monocyte-like properties, and on human peripheral blood monocytes; Del Rosso et al. (6) demonstrated the interaction of this ligand with 3T3 cells and a Rous sarcoma transformed line of 3T3 cells; and Stopelli et al. (29) demonstrated that the UK binding capacity of U937 cells could be regulated with phorbol myristate acetate. Taken together, these studies provide direct evidence for the existence of cell surface binding sites for UK. The results of these studies differ with regard to the requirement for catalytically active UK in the interactions. U937 cells bind both active and diisopropyl fluorophosphate-treated UK (34), and this interaction is apparently mediated by the amino-terminal region of the ligand (29). In contrast, binding to the 3T3 cells requires an active catalytic site in the enzyme (6).
Dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) were fabricated with immobilized Rhodamine B isothiocyanate (RB-ITC) on TiO2 as energy relay dye (ERD), by reaction of the isothiocyanate group of RB-ITC and the amino group of 6-aminohexanoic acid (6AHA) adsorbed on TiO2. The resulting DSSCs showed improved performance in the spectral range of 450–600 nm and the power conversion efficiency via Forster resonant energy transfer (FRET).
A simple aqueous-phase route to the synthesis of ruthenium (Ru) nanoparticles with size in the sub-2-nm regime was prepared by reducing RuCl3 with NaBH4 as a reducing agent in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA) as a capping agent. We found that AHA plays a key role in the formation and distribution of ultrasmall Ru nanoparticles on inorganic supports, with its amine and carboxyl groups serving as a surface-capping agent for the Ru nanoparticles and an anchor to inorganic supports, respectively. The catalytic activity of the size-controlled Ru nanoparticles with sub-2-nm size on various supports, such as TiO2, CeO2, and Vulcan carbon, revealed that a strong metal–support interaction of Ru nanoparticles, especially on carbon support, is responsible for a higher CH4 selectivity during Fischer–Tropsch synthesis.
One of thirty murine monoclonal antibodies, raised by immunization with human plasmin-alpha 2-antiplasmin complex, was found to be directed against the high-affinity lysine-binding site in plasminogen. Indeed, this antibody (MA-HAL) reacted with plasminogen and with a fragment of plasminogen composed of the first three triple-loop structures (LBS I) and was displaced by 6-aminohexanoic acid (50% displacement at 25 microM). In competitive radioimmunoassays the binding of radiolabeled plasminogen to MA-HAL was reduced to 50% with 2.3 microM alpha 2-antiplasmin or 1.3 microM histidine-rich glycoprotein, which corresponds to the known dissociation constants between these ligands and the high-affinity lysine-binding site of plasminogen. MA-HAL did not influence the activation of plasminogen by tissue-type plasminogen activator in the absence of CNBr-digested fibrinogen, but abolished the effect of CNBr-digested fibrinogen on the Michaelis constant of the reaction. MA-HAL reduced the reaction rate between plasmin and alpha 2-antiplasmin by a factor 20 and abolished the binding of plasminogen to fibrin. These results indicate that MA-HAL specifically binds to and masks the high-affinity lysine-binding site of plasminogen. It therefore is a useful tool for the investigation of the role of this structure in the regulation of fibrinolysis, both at the level of fibrin-stimulated activation of plasminogen and of the inhibition of generated plasmin.
Caprolactam (2-oxohexamethylenimine) is metabolized in the rat partly to 4-hydroxycaprolactam or the corresponding free acid. The 4-hydroxy metabolite rearranges spontaneously in acidic aqueous medium to an equilibrium mixture of which 6-amino-gamma-caprolactone is the major component and 6-amino-4-hydroxyhexanoic acid is a minor component. Approximately 16% of the caprolactam ingested daily by rats fed a diet containing 3% caprolactam was excreted as the 4-hydroxy metabolite and a small amount was excreted as the non-hydroxylated acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid. The metabolites were isolated by ion-exchange chromatography and identified by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy and infra-red and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.
The reverse phase suspension and embedment technique were adopted to prepare magnetic dextran microsphere (MDMS). The dispersion medium was mixture of some organic solvents. Span-80 was used as stabilizer. The aqueous dextran with magnetic fluid was suspended in dispersion medium with epichlorohydrin as cross-linking reagent. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature and then heated at 70 degrees C for 4 hours, MDMS was thus obtained. MDMS was activated by epichlorohydrin on which 6-aminohexanoic acid, glycine or ethylene diamine was bonded as spacers. Then it was coupled with p-aminobenzamide, L-arginine methyl ester or guanidohexanoic acid and five magnetic affinity adsorbents were prepared. The MDMS was polydisperse particles with the size of 50-300 meshes and the content of Fe3O4 was about 6.2 per cent in the MDMS. Influence of some parameters such as viscosity and density of organic phase, the volume ratio of organic and aqueous phase, the quantity of surfactant and stirring speed on preparing MDMS was studied. Magnetic affinity adsorbents were used to purify crude urokinase in a bath mode and the effect of coupling reagents and ligands on results of purification was discussed. The bioactivity recovery was 40.0 to 60.7 per cent, the purification-fold was between 14.9 and 32.8, and the adsorptive capacity varies from 89 mg to 121 mg per milliliter of adsorbent.
Gabexate mesylate was synthesized from 6-aminohexanoic acid and S-methylisothiourea sulfate by condensation to give 6-guanidohexanoic acid, which was subjected to reaction with 4,4'-[sulfinylbis (oxy)]bisbenzoic acid diethyl ester followed by mesylate salt formation with an overall yield of about 63%.
Binding of lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) to membrane proteins of the monocyte-macrophage cell lineage may be an important event in atheroma formation. Since Lp(a) with distinct apolipoprotein(a) (apo(a)) isoforms may show differences in their affinity with regard to fibrin binding, the existence of such a functional behavior in the interaction of apo(a) in Lp(a) with these cells was explored using the monocytic cell line THP-1. Lp(a) preparations containing small size apo(a) isoforms (M(r) = 450,000 to 550,000) and high molecular mass isoforms (M(r) > or = 700,000) were purified from plasmas containing > 0.35 g/L of Lp(a) obtained from subjects (n = 14) with cardiovascular atherosclerotic disease. Binding of plasminogen to THP-1 cells was performed using the method of radioisotopic dilution. For binding of Lp(a) to cells, the THP-1 monocytic cells were incubated with varying concentrations of the different Lp(a) preparations; cells were then washed and the amount of Lp(a) bound was detected with a radiolabeled polyclonal antibody directed against apo(a). Binding due to kringle interactions with lysine residues was calculated by subtracting from the total bound the amount of Lp(a) bound (approximately 10%) in the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid. Analysis of data with the Langmuir equation indicated identical and independent (non-interacting) sites and allowed evaluation of the Kd. Binding isotherms of small size isoforms showed saturation and a high affinity (Kd = 25.8 +/- 19 nmol/L) relative to that of plasminogen (Kd = 1750 +/- 760 nmol/L). A similar difference (Kd = 17.5 +/- 7.9 nmol/L versus Kd = 600 +/- 220 nmol/L) was found when binding experiments were performed with a fibrin surface. In contrast, binding isotherms of the high molecular mass isoforms did not show saturation at the highest Lp(a) concentrations used, thus indicating a lower affinity. In conclusion, these results show that apo(a) isoforms may display polymorphism-linked functional heterogeneity with regard to cell binding, which may explain the higher association with cardiovascular risk of small size isoforms. These qualitative differences in the binding of apo(a) isoforms to fibrin or cells may modulate the cardiovascular risk associated with high levels of Lp(a).
Lactams have strong polarity, high boiling points, and strong coordination capacity. However they are yet to be well accepted as solvents for the synthesis of nanomaterials. This work aims at developing a facile and general lactam method to synthesize inorganic nanoparticles such as ZnO and Fe3O4 using three homologous lactams, γ-butyrolactam (BL), δ-valerolactam (VL) and e-caprolactam (CL), as solvents. The resulting nanoparticles (NPs) are uniform and spherical in shape and have good dispersion. The ZnO NPs synthesized in BL, VL and CL have average diameters of ca. 30.0, 7.3, and 8.5 nm, respectively. The average diameters of Fe3O4 NPs synthesized in BL, VL and CL are ca. 6.3, 4.0 and 4.8 nm, respectively. Moreover, their dispersion tends to deteriorate with increasing number of methylene groups in the lactam. Some explanations for the influence of lactam on the morphology of the synthesized NPs are proposed. Optical properties of ZnO NPs are investigated and are correlated with their morphologies and surface states. 6-Aminohexanoic acid (AHA), a biocompatible amino acid, is used to displace lactam capped on the surfaces of ZnO NPs.
Binding of streptokinase (SK) to plasminogen (Pg) activates the zymogen conformationally and initiates its conversion into the fibrinolytic proteinase, plasmin (Pm). Equilibrium binding studies of SK interactions with a homologous series of catalytic site-labeled fluorescent Pg and Pm analogues were performed to resolve the contributions of lysine binding site interactions, associated changes between extended and compact conformations of Pg, and activation of the proteinase domain to the affinity for SK. SK bound to fluorescein-labeled [Glu]Pg1 and [Lys]Pg1 with dissociation constants of 624 ± 112 and 38 ± 5 nM, respectively, whereas labeled [Lys]Pm1 bound with a 57000-fold tighter dissociation constant of 11 ± 2 pM. Saturation of lysine binding sites with 6-aminohexanoic acid had no effect on SK binding to labeled [Glu]Pg1, but weakened binding to labeled [Lys]Pg1 and [Lys]Pm1 31- and 20-fold, respectively. At low Cl- concentrations, where [Glu]Pg assumes the extended conformation without occupation of l...
The objective was to improve efficacy of antisense phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMOs) by improving their uptake into bacterial cells. Four different bacterium-permeating peptides, RFFRFFRFFXB, RTRTRFLRRTXB, RXXRXXRXXB, and KFFKFFKFFKXB (X is 6-aminohexanoic acid and B is beta-alanine), were separately coupled to two different PMOs that are complementary to regions near the start codons of a luciferase reporter gene (luc) and a gene required for viability (acpP). Luc peptide-PMOs targeted to luc inhibited luciferase activity 23 to 80% in growing cultures of Escherichia coli. In cell-free translation reactions, Luc RTRTRFLRRTXB-PMO inhibited luciferase synthesis significantly more than the other Luc peptide-PMOs or the Luc PMO not coupled to peptide. AcpP peptide-PMOs targeted to acpP inhibited growth of E. coli or Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium to various extents, depending on the strain. The concentrations of AcpP RFFRFFRFFXB-PMO, AcpP RTRTRFLRRTXB-PMO, AcpP KFFKFFKFFKXB-PMO, and ampicillin that reduced CFU/ml by 50% after 8 h of growth (50% inhibitory concentration [IC(50)]) were 3.6, 10.8, 9.5, and 7.5 microM, respectively, in E. coli W3110. Sequence-specific effects of AcpP peptide-PMOs were shown by rescuing growth of a merodiploid strain that expressed acpP with silent mutations in the region targeted by AcpP peptide-PMO. In Caco-2 cultures infected with enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC), 10 microM AcpP RTRTRFLRRTXB-PMO or AcpP RFFRFFRFFXB-PMO essentially cleared the infection. The IC(50) of either AcpP RTRTRFLRRTXB-PMO or AcpP RFFRFFRFFXB-PMO in EPEC-infected Caco-2 culture was 3 microM. In summary, RFFRFFRFFXB, RTRTRFLRRTXB, or KFFKFFKFFXB, when covalently bonded to PMO, significantly increased inhibition of expression of targeted genes compared to PMOs without attached peptide.
Systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) is self-destructive and uncontrollable inflammatory response of the whole body triggered by infection, trauma, or a variety of severe injuries. Although reactive oxygen species play a pivotal role in the development of SIRS, the trials with conventional antioxidants have failed to improve patient outcome. Ceria nanoparticles (CeNPs) have potent, autocatalytic reactive oxygen species scavenging activities, which may have sufficient therapeutic effects for SIRS. Herein, 3 nm CeNPs are fabricated totally in aqueous phase by using 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) and their Ce3+ to Ce4+ ratio is increased to enhance antioxidative properties. The obtained 6-AHA-CeNPs demonstrate strong antioxidative and anti-inflammatory effects in various biofluids and inflammatory cells. In SIRS animal models, 6-AHA-CeNPs are demonstrated to reduce multiple organ injuries and inflammation. Moreover, 6-AHA-CeNPs decrease mortality and improve clinical scores of SIRS models. These findings suggest that 6-AHA-CeNPs have potential as a therapeutic nanomedicine for SIRS.
Interactions of the developmentally regulated chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan NG2 with human plasminogen and kringle domain-containing plasminogen fragments have been analyzed by solid-phase immunoassays and by surface plasmon resonance. In immunoassays, the core protein of NG2 binds specifically and saturably to plasminogen, which consists of five kringle domains and a serine protease domain, and to angiostatin, which contains plasminogen kringle domains 1-3. Apparent dissociation constants for these interactions range from 12 to 75 nm. Additional evidence for NG2 interaction with kringle domains comes from its binding to plasminogen kringle domain 4 and to miniplasminogen (kringle domain 5 plus the protease domain) with apparent dissociation constants in the 18-71 nm range. Inhibition of plasminogen and angiostatin binding to NG2 by 6-aminohexanoic acid suggests that lysine binding sites are involved in kringle interaction with NG2. The interaction of NG2 with plasminogen and angiostatin has very interesting functional consequences. 1) Soluble NG2 significantly enhances the activation of plasminogen by urokinase type plasminogen activator. 2) The antagonistic effect of angiostatin on endothelial cell proliferation is inhibited by soluble NG2. Both of these effects of NG2 should make the proteoglycan a positive regulator of the cell migration and proliferation required for angiogenesis.
Redirecting the splicing machinery through the hybridization of high affinity, RNase H- incompetent oligonucleotide analogs such as phosphoramidate morpholino oligonucleotides (PMO) might lead to important clinical applications. Chemical conjugation of PMO to arginine-rich cell penetrating peptides (CPP) such as (R-Ahx-R)(4) (with Ahx standing for 6-aminohexanoic acid) leads to sequence-specific splicing correction in the absence of endosomolytic agents in cell culture at variance with most conventional CPPs. Importantly, (R-Ahx-R)(4)-PMO conjugates are effective in mouse models of various viral infections and Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Unfortunately, active doses in some applications might be close to cytotoxic ones thus presenting challenge for systemic administration of the conjugates in those clinical settings. Structure-activity relationship studies have thus been undertaken to unravel CPP structural features important for the efficient nuclear delivery of the conjugated PMO and limiting steps in their internalization pathway. Affinity for heparin (taken as a model heparan sulfate), hydrophobicity, cellular uptake, intracellular distribution and splicing correction have been monitored. Spacing between the charges, hydrophobicity of the linker between the Arg-groups and Arg-stereochemistry influence splicing correction efficiency. A significant correlation between splicing correction efficiency, affinity for heparin and ability to destabilize model synthetic vesicles has been observed but no correlation with cellular uptake has been found. Efforts will have to focus on endosomal escape since it appears to remain the limiting factor for the delivery of these splice-redirecting ON analogs.
Abstract The affinity of human plasminogen for lysine-Sepharose is eliminated by 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-carbodiimide, but presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid prevents affinity loss. The data indicate that abolition of affinity for lysine-Sepharose is due to reaction of carboxyl-group(s). 1,2-Cyclohexanedione modification of arginine residues of plasminogen also abolishes binding to lysine-Sepharose, and 6-aminohexanoic acid provides protection against the effect of the reagent. It is suggested that the essential carboxyl- and guanidino-groups bind the amino- and carboxyl function of ω-aminocarboxylic acids, respectively.
Redirecting the splicing machinery through the hybridization of high affinity, RNase H-incompetent oligonucleotide analogs such as phosphoramidate morpholino oligonucleotides (PMO) might lead to important clinical applications. Chemical conjugation of PMO to arginine-rich cell penetrating peptides (CPP) such as (R-Ahx-R) 4 (with Ahx standing for 6-aminohexanoic acid) leads to sequencespecific splicing correction in the absence of endosomolytic agents in cell culture at variance with most conventional CPPs. Importantly, (R-Ahx-R) 4 -PMO conjugates are effective in mouse models of various viral infections and Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Unfortunately, active doses in some applications might be close to cytotoxic ones thus presenting challenge for systemic administration of the conjugates in those clinical settings. Structureactivity relationship studies have thus been undertaken to unravel CPP structural features important for the efficient nuclear delivery of the conjugated PMO and limiting steps in their internalization pathway. Affinity for heparin (taken as a model heparan sulfate), hydrophobicity, cellular uptake, intracellular distribution and splicing correction have been monitored. Spacing between the charges, hydrophobicity of the linker between the Arg-groups and Arg-stereochemistry influence splicing correction efficiency. A significant correlation between splicing correction efficiency, affinity for heparin and ability to destabilize model synthetic vesicles has been observed but no correlation with cellular uptake has been found. Efforts will have to focus on endosomal escape since it appears to remain the limiting factor for the delivery of these splice-redirecting ON analogs.
Abstract Biodegradability can be incorporated into cationic polymers via use of disulfide linkages that are degraded in the reducing environment of the cell cytosol. In this work, N -(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA) and methacrylamido-functionalized oligo- l -lysine peptide monomers with either a non-reducible 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHX) linker or a reducible 3-[(2-aminoethyl)dithiol] propionic acid (AEDP) linker were copolymerized via reversible addition–fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization. Both of the copolymers and a 1:1 (w/w) mixture of copolymers with reducible and non-reducible peptides were complexed with DNA to form polyplexes. The polyplexes were tested for salt stability, transfection efficiency, and cytotoxicity. The HPMA–oligolysine copolymer containing the reducible AEDP linkers was less efficient at transfection than the non-reducible polymer and was prone to flocculation in saline and serum-containing conditions, but was also not cytotoxic at charge ratios tested. Optimal transfection efficiency and toxicity were attained with mixed formulation of copolymers. Flow cytometry uptake studies indicated that blocking extracellular thiols did not restore transfection efficiency and that the decreased transfection of the reducible polyplex is therefore not primarily caused by extracellular polymer reduction by free thiols. The decrease in transfection efficiency of the reducible polymers could be partially mitigated by the addition of low concentrations of EDTA to prevent metal-catalyzed oxidation of reduced polymers.
Recombinant Chinese hamster ovary cells were successfully cultured semi-continuously on microcarriers of gelatin or modified dextran under non-selective conditions for up to three weeks. High and constant production rates for human immune interferon and tissue-type plasminogen activator were obtained. For cells that produced interferon, the highest cell concentration and interferon production was obtained with gelatin microcarriers though the specific production when grown in the presence of 0.2% fetal calf serum was slightly higher for cells cultured on dextran microcarriers (0.12 U/cell day versus 0.11 U/cell day). For cells that produced plasminogen activator, a slightly higher cell concentration was obtained for cells grown on dextran microcarriers (9x105 cells/ml versus 7x105 cells/ml). However, the specific and total production rates were significantly higher for cells cultured on gelatin microcarriers (6.7 pg/cell day versus 2.1 pg/cell day). The maximum cell concentration and specific production rate could be increased to 2.3x106 cells/ml and 3.4 pg/cell day for dextran microcarriers by adding 6-aminohexanoic acid to the medium. For gelatin microcarriers, the addition of 6-aminohexanoic acid increased the specific production rate to 14.4 pg/cell day. Cell growth, however, was inhibited.
Dimeric dipeptide mimetic GK-2 or hexamethylenediamide bis-(N-monosuccinyl-L-glutamyl-L-lysine), which activated TrkA receptors and exhibited neuroprotective activity in vitro (10–5 – 10–9 M) and in vivo (0.05 – 5 mg/kg i.p.), was designed by us earlier based on the beta-turn of the nerve growth factor (NGF) fourth loop. The effect of dimerizing spacer length on the manifestation of neuroprotective activity was studied by synthesizing GK-2 (11 σ-bonds) analogs tetramethylenediamide bis-(N-monosuccinyl-L-glutamyl-Llysine) (GK-2c); pentamethylenediamide bis-(N-monosuccinyl-L-glutamyl-L-lysine) (GK-2b); and trimethylenediamide bis-(N-monosuccinyl-L-glutamyl-L-lysyl-6-aminohexanoic acid) (GK-2a) containing 9, 10, and 22 σ-bonds, respectively, between the lysine Cα-atoms of the dipeptide fragments. Neuroprotective activity was investigated in vitro using HT-22 mouse hippocampal neuronal cell culture under H2O2-induced oxidative stress and showed that the neuroprotective activity as measured by the minimum effective concentration was 104 times less if the distance between the dipeptide fragments increased from 11 to 22 σ-bonds. The neuroprotective activity decreased insignificantly if this distance was decreased from 11 to 10 σ bonds (GK-2b) and disappeared with 9 σ -bonds (GK-2c). Therefore, the hexamethylene spacer was optimal although the distance between the corresponding amino-acid moieties of natural NGF from an x-ray structure analysis was considerably greater at 33 σ-bonds. This contradiction could have arisen because two ionically bound mimetic molecules interacted with TrkA receptors. Another possible explanation was that TrkA molecules could approach closer in the presence of bis-dipeptide GK-2 than NGF.
The production of an antiserum recognizing an early advanced glycation product of glycated human serum albumin (HSA) is reported. The antiserum was produced with the intention of recognizing the Amadori product, i.e. the monofructosamine derivative, of any glycated protein. In retrospect, however, the immunogen appears to have been transformed in vivo which led to the production of antibodies to an early advanced glycation product. Two-site immunometric and competitive ELISAs showed that the affinity-purified antibodies recognized glycated HSA only after it had been stored for several months. This recognition, by the antibody, was more specific for the transformed product than for the original hapten (1-amino-1-deoxy-D-fructose-6-aminohexanoic acid) used for immunization by a factor of more than 1,000. These antibodies also detected immunoreactive material present in the elution fraction after in vivo glycated HSA had been chromatographed on an aminophenylboronate affinity column, indicating that an early advanced glycation product can co-elute with the Amadori product of glycated HSA on aminophenylboronate affinity chromatography. This suggests that the antiserum recognized an early advanced glycation product that also contained cis-diols as does the Amadori product, and may prove useful in the early detection of clinical complications in diabetic patients.
A new type of copolymer from para-aminobenzoic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid was obtained by reacting the monomers in four different mole ratios. The polycondensation was carried out at 80dC with triphenyl phosphite as the initiator in N-methyl-2 pyrrolidone/pyridine mixture. The molecular weights of unfractionated and fractionated samples were determined by light scattering techniques in solvents of varying refractive index. From the values of second virial coefficient it is concluded that the solvent power for copolymer increases with increasing aminohexanoic acid mole fraction in the case of dichloroacetic acid and trifluoroacetic acetic acid while in dimethyl acetamide it decreases.
Carboxylic acid-functionalized single walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) prepared via the reaction of an amino acid, NH2(CH2) n CO2H where n = 1 (glycine, GLY), 5 (6-aminohexanoic acid, AHA), 10 (11-aminoundecanoic acid, AUDA), with fluorinated single walled carbon nanotubes (F-SWNTs) have been characterized by MAS 13C NMR spectroscopy. The ease of observing the aliphatic CH2 groups and the resolution of the signal are dependent on the length of the amino acid’s aliphatic chain. We have proposed that where substituent chains are short (making NMR data collection difficult) chemical modification to extend the chain length should alleviate analysis problems. In this regard, we have investigated the esterification of the carboxylic acid termini. The amino acid-functionalized SWNTs were esterified with an appropriate alcohol to ensure parity of the overall substituent length, i.e., GLY-SWNT (C1) + 1-dodecanol (C12) = DOD-GLY-SWNT (1), AHA-SWNT (C5) + 1-octanol (C8) = OCT-AHA-SWNT (2), and AUDA-SWNT (C10) + 1-propanol (C3) = PRO-AUDA-SWNT (3). The 13C NMR shift for the sp3 nitrogen-substituted carbon atoms of the SWNT sidewall is observed at δ ≈ 75 ppm. Increasing the length of SWNT sidewall functional groups enhances the ability to observe the sidewall sp3 carbon. The methylene carbon signal intensity is less attenuated in the dipolar dephasing spectrum of the ester-functionalized SWNTs than their associated amino acid derivatives, suggesting more motional freedom of the side chain in the solid state. The confirmation of the dipolar dephasing spectral effects was assisted by the characterization of the ester of AUDA-SWNT with 1,3-propanediol: PPD-AUDA-SWNT (4).
Amino acid analysis using direct electrochemical detection was compared with precolumn fluorescent derivatization using 6-aminoquinolyl-N-hydroxysuccinimidyl carbamate (AQC) for evaluation of the degree of covalent coupling of peptides to a carrier–protein complex derived from the bacteria Neisseria meningitidis. AQC derivatization was found to give superior sensitivity compared to electrochemical detection, with less interference from sample components such as carbohydrates or buffer salts. Hydrolysis time and temperature were optimized for maximal recoveries of the marker amino acid 6-aminohexanoic acid (e-Ahx) and the unique amino acids S-dicarboxyethyl cysteine (SDCEC) and S-carboxymethyl homocysteine (SCHMC), which are generated upon the hydrolysis of the covalent linkage between the peptide and the carrier protein. Quantitation of these amino acids enabled the determination of the ratio of peptide to protein in the conjugate samples.
Carboxylic acid-functionalized single walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) prepared via the reaction of an amino acid, NH 2 (CH 2 ) n CO 2 H where n = 1 (glycine, GLY), 5 (6-aminohexanoic acid, AHA), 10 (11-aminoundecanoic acid, AUDA), with fl uorinated single walled carbon nanotubes (F-SWNTs) have been characterized by MAS 13 C NMR spectroscopy. The ease of observing the aliphatic CH 2 groups and the resolution of the signal are dependent on the length of the amino acid's aliphatic chain. We have proposed that where substituent chains are short (making NMR data collection difficult) chemical modification to extend the chain length should alleviate analysis problems. In this regard, we have investigated the esterifi cation of the carboxylic acid termini. The amino acid-functionalized SWNTs were esterified with an appropriate alcohol to ensure parity of the overall substituent length, i.e., GLY-SWNT (C 1 ) + 1-dodecanol (C 12 ) = DOD-GLY-SWNT (1), AHA-SWNT (C 5 ) + 1-octanol (C 8 ) = OCT-AHA-SWNT (2), and AUDA-SWNT (C 10 ) + 1-propanol (C 3 ) = PRO-AUDA-SWNT (3). The 13 C NMR shift for the sp 3 nitrogen-substituted carbon atoms of the SWNT sidewall is observed at ≈ 75 ppm. Increasing the length of SWNT sidewall functional groups enhances the ability to observe the sidewall sp 3 carbon. The methylene carbon signal intensity is less attenuated in the dipolar dephasing spectrum of the ester-functionalized SWNTs than their associated amino acid derivatives, suggesting more motional freedom of the side chain in the solid state. The confi rmation of the dipolar dephasing spectral effects was assisted by the characterization of the ester of AUDA-SWNT with 1,3-propanediol: PPD-AUDA-SWNT (4).
A novel phospholipid, 1-fatty acyl-2-(12-aminododecyl) phosphatidylcholine (APC), was synthesized and reacted with two different activated agarose matrices, differing in the spacer arm length: N-hydroxysuccinimidylester agarose (1-atom spacer arm) and N-hydroxysuccinimidylester-6-aminohexanoic acid agarose (8-atom spacer arm). Both immobilized phosphatidylcholines were readily degraded by Bacillus cereus phospholipase C at similar rates. By contrast, Crotalus adamanteus phospholipase A2 hydrolyzed long-spacer arm phosphatidylcholine, but had less than one tenth of the activity towards the short-spacer arm one. These results are interpreted in terms of a chain length-related steric hindrance caused by the matrix, affecting phospholipase A2 but not phospholipase C activity, supporting the view that the first involves a deeper burrowing of the substrate into the enzyme molecule.
As a source of physiological CD4 + T cell blasts, we first obtained T cells from 5C.C7 mice, which have transgenic expression of a TCR that specifically recognizes a peptide of moth cytochrome c (MCC) amino acids 88-103 bound to the mouse MHC class II molecule I-E k (MCC-I-E k ), then cultured the cells for 6-8 d with antigen. We used the following three peptides for this test: MCC (an agonist peptide), 102S (a weak agonist) and ER60 (an endogenous peptide). They all bind strongly to I-E k , but as pMHC complexes, they interact with the 5C.C7 TCR with the following varying affinities 9 : MCC-I-E k , K d = 22.9 µM and t 1/2 = 5.77 s; 102S-I-E k , K d = 206 µM and t 1/2 = 0.83 s; and ER60-I-E k , K d and t 1/2 below the detection limit of surface plasmon resonance. Next we generated photocrosslinkable derivatives of these peptides via solid-phase peptide synthesis and chemical modification (Supplementary Fig. 1a ). We used 4-azidosalicyclic acid (ASA) as the photocrosslinker. To avoid interference with TCR recognition, we introduced the ASA group just outside the core TCR-recognition region in the peptides. We did this by synthesizing a peptide derivative containing a cysteine residue at position P-3 (biotin-Ahx-SGGGSGGGSCGGIAYLKQATK, where ' Ahx' indicates the 6-aminohexanoic acid linker, and underlining indicates the P-3 cysteine residue and the MHC-binding region), then conjugated ASA to that cysteine. For ease of detection, each peptide had a biotin moiety at its amino terminus; thus, we called the resultant derivatives BioMCC(ASA), Bio102S(ASA) and BioER60(ASA), respectively.
Atherosclerosis is an inflammatory process involving activation of monocytes recruited by various chemoattractant factors, among which lipoprotein(a) and its specific apolipoprotein apo(a). Lp(a) contains a specific apolipoprotein apo(a) which size is determined by a variable number of repeats of a specific structural domain, the kringle IV type 2 (IV-2). Lp(a) plasma concentration and apo(a) size is inversely correlated, and smaller apo(a) are major risk factors for coronary heart disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of recombinant apo(a) isoforms (containing 10, 18 or 34 kringles) on monocytes interacting with type I collagen. Apo(a) isoforms stimulated reactive oxygen species (ROS) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) production by monocytes, and not modified monocytes adhesion on type I collagen. This effect was specific of apo(a) since no effect was observed in the presence of plasminogen and was inversely related to apo(a) size. The lysine analogue 6-aminohexanoic acid which blocks the lysine binding sites (LBS), and carboxypeptidase B (CpB) which cleaves carboxy-terminal lysine residues, abolished apo(a)-induced ROS and MMP-9 production, highlighting an effect mediated by apo(a) lysing-binding sites. These results indicate that activation of collagen-primed monocytes stimulated with apo(a) is a Kringle number-dependent effect and reinforce the hypothesis of a role for small size apo(a) isoforms in atherothrombosis.
Skin penetration enhancers are used to allow formulation of transdermal delivery systems for drugs that are otherwise insufficiently skin-permeable. The series of seven esters of substituted 6-aminohexanoic acid as potential transdermal penetration enhancers was formed by multistep synthesis. The synthesis of all newly prepared compounds is presented here. Structure confirmation of all generated compounds was accomplished by (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, IR and MS spectroscopy. All the prepared compounds were analyzed using RP-HPLC method for the lipophilicity measurement and their lipophilicity (logk) was determined. Hydrophobicities (logP/ClogP) of the studied compounds were also calculated using two commercially available programs and 3D structures of the selected compounds were investigated by means of ab initio/DFT calculations of geometry. All the synthesized esters were tested for their in vitro transdermal penetration enhancer activity. The relationships between the lipophilicity and the chemical structure (SLR) of the studied compounds as well as the relationships between their chemical structure and transdermal penetration activity are mentioned.
Carboxylate-alumoxanes are prepared from the reaction of boehmite [Al(O)(OH)]n with carboxylic acid (HO 2 CR). Although, they are given the general formula, [Al(O) x (OH) y (O 2 CR) z ] n where 2x + y + z = 3 and R = C 1 -C 14 [1] , carboxylate-alumoxanes are in fact alumina nanoparticles between 5 and 200 nm in diameter. The surface of the nanoparticle is covered with covalently bound carboxylate groups [4, 5] . Some of the simple carboxylic acids which have been used are: acetic acid, methoxyacetic acid, methoxy (ethoxy) acetic acid, methoxy (ethoxy ethoxy) acetic acid, hexanoic acid etc. Some of the carboxylic acids containing other functionalized groups are: 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-aminobenzoic acid, methacrylic acid, hydroxylacetic acid, aminoacetic acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid, lactic acid, L-lysine etc [4] .
Background: Atherosclerosis is an inflammatory process involving activation of monocytes recruited by various chemoattractant factors, among which lipoprotein(a) and its specific apolipoprotein apo(a). Lp(a) contains a specific apolipoprotein apo(a) which size is determined by a variable number of repeats of a specific structural domain, the kringle IV type 2 (IV-2). Lp(a) plasma concentration and apo(a) size is inversely correlated, and smaller apo(a) are major risk factors for coronary heart disease. Design and methods: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of recombinant apo(a) isoforms (containing 10, 18 or 34 kringles) on monocytes interacting with type I collagen. Results: Apo(a) isoforms stimulated reactive oxygen species (ROS) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) production by monocytes, and not modified monocytes adhesion on type I collagen. This effect was specific of apo(a) since no effect was observed in the presence of plasminogen and was inversely related to apo(a) size. The lysine analogue 6-aminohexanoic acid which blocks the lysine binding sites (LBS), and carboxypeptidase B (CpB) which cleaves carboxy-terminal lysine residues, abolished apo(a)-induced ROS and MMP-9 production, highlighting an effect mediated by apo(a) lysing-binding sites. Conclusions: These results indicate that activation of collagen-primed monocytes stimulated with apo(a) is a Kringle number-dependent effect and reinforce the hypothesis of a role for small size apo(a) isoforms in atherothrombosis.
Biochemical Procedures. Each cornea was individually thawed, the epithelium and endothelium were removed rapidly by scraping, and the stroma was placed in 1.0 ml of extraction solvent containing 4 M guanidine-HCL 0.1 M 6-aminohexanoic acid, 0.01 M Na2 EDTA, 5 mM benzamidine hydrochloride, and 0.5 M sodium acetate (pH 5.8-6.0) for 24 hr at 4°C (11). The extracting solvent was removed, and the stroma was reextracted in 0.5 ml of the same solvent for 4-6 hr at 40C. The extracts were combined, and unincorporated radioactivity was removed by chromatography on a Sephadex G-25 PD-10 column (Pharmacia) that had been equilibrated with and eluted with 4 M guanidine-HCI/0.02 M Tris-HCI, pH 7.0. The residual tissue was digested with 0.5 mg papain (Sigma) in 1.0 ml of 1 M sodium acetate, pH 6.5/5 mM cysteine/5 mM EDTA at 55-i60C for 6 hr. Any unincorporated radioactivity in the digest was removed by chromatography on PD-10 columns as described above.
The functionalized, asymmetric fluoro–fluoroalkyl scaffold F48H7COOHPcZn (3) was used to prepare F48H7COOPcZn-6-amino-hexanoate-CTVALPGGYVRVC (5), a Pep42 peptide bioconjugate envisioned for photodynamic therapy, which can specifically target the GRP78 chaperone protein overexpressed and exclusively localized on some cancer cell surfaces. The analogous F48H7COOHPcCu (4) has also been prepared, and its single-crystal X-ray structure was elucidated. Despite reduced steric hindrance relative to the nonfunctionalized, single-site complexes of the F64Pc scaffold, no aggregation was detected in solution via UV–vis spectroscopy, for either 3, 4, or 5, consistent with the lack of π stacking observed for the crystalline 4. The 6-aminohexanoic acid-Pep42 moiety diminishes the fluorescence efficiency of 5, relative to 3, but for singlet oxygen (1O2) generation, photochemical hydroperoxidation of β-(−)-citronellol using 5 and 3 occurs with comparable substrate turnover efficiency, albeit at a slower initial triplet o...
Abstract Administration of large amounts of synthetic peptides based on the Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) sequence has been shown to suppress tumor metastasis. To overcome the rapid degradation of peptides in the circulation, an RGD mimetic, L-arginyl-6-aminohexanoic acid (NOK), was synthesized and conjugated with phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) (NOK-PE) for liposomalization. Cell adhesion assays revealed that B16BL6 murine melanoma cells adhered to immobilized NOK-PE. This adhesion was inhibited by addition of either soluble RGDS or NOK at similar concentration in a dose-dependent manner. Administration of NOK-PE liposomes (equivalent to ca. 500μg RGD peptides) via the tail vein completely inhibited lung colonization of B16BL6 cells. The same dose of soluble NOK was not effective in inhibition of the tumor metastasis. In addition, injection of NOK-PE liposomes via the tail vein inhibited spontaneous lung metastasis of B16BL6 cells from the primary tumor site in the hind footpad. These results suggest that NOK, a structural mimetic of RGD, is capable of suppressing metastasis by blockade of the binding of the integrins present on tumor cells to the RGD-containing extracellular matrix.
We have developed a rapid, sensitive, and quantitative latex immunoturbidimetric assay for the measurement of alpha2 plasmin inhibitor-plasmin inhibitor complex (PIC) in human plasma. The method is based on the latex agglutination reaction using a suitable pair of monoclonal antibodies. One reacts with plasmin and the other reacts with alpha2 plasmin inhibitor. In this assay, we added 6-aminohexanoic acid to the reaction buffer in order to avoid the nonspecific latex agglutination caused by precursor proteins such as plasminogen. We used this method with an automatic analyzer HITACHI 7150 (Hitachi Ltd., Hitachi, Japan) and measured PIC within the range of 0.2 to about 50 mg/mL in only 15 minutes. The precision indices (CV%) of intra-assays and interassays were <4.4% and <3.4%, respectively. The influence of plasminogen or alpha2 plasmin inhibitor on plasma was negligible. Based on these results, it is considered that this method would be useful for evaluation of a broad spectrum of fibrinolytic disorders, particularly disseminated intravascular coagulation.
It is well known that proteinases and their natural inhibitors regulate biological functions cooperatively to maintain homeostasis, while any imbalance between proteinases and their natural inhibitors can cause serious disorders. 2,3) With regard to plasmin (PL), a 2 -macroglobulin (a 2 -M) 4) and a 2-plasmin inhibitor (a 2-PI) 5) are known as endogenous inhibitors. It is also well known that a 2 -PI consists of two parts: one part binds to the active site (catalytic site) of PL and another to the lysine binding site (LBS) of PL. An imbalance between PL and its natural inhibitors causes a serious syndrome, such as hyperfibrinolysis. 6—8) At present, e-aminocaproic acid 9) and trans-4-aminomethylcyclohexanecarboxylic acid (trans-AMCHA) 10) are used clinically as PL inhibitors. These inhibitors show fairly potent inhibition of fibrinolysis by PL with an IC 50 value of 60 m M, but poor inhibition of the amidolysis of small peptide substrates and fibrinogenolysis by PL. This is because these inhibitors act on PL by blocking the LBS of an enzyme, which is not the catalytic site. 11) With the objectives of obtaining a powerful new tool to study the role of PL and developing novel types of clinical therapy, we focused our attention on the synthesis of potent active center-directed PL inhibitors. Previously, we reported the development of active center-directed inhibitors of PL 12,13) and studies of their structure‐inhibitory activity relationship. 14) Our inhibitors consist of three parts, P1, P19 and P 29 15) and their structure‐activity relationship is summarized in Table 1. As shown in Table 1, compound I inhibits plasma kallikrein (PK) specifically, compound II inhibits both PL and PK, and compound III inhibits PL specifically. These results, showed that we could design enzyme-selective inhibitors by combining various kinds of substituents at positions P1, P19 and P 29 . Bearing in mind the above results, we designed and synthesized a series of plasmin-selective inhibitors and this report deals with these PL inhibitors and their structure‐activity relationship. Tyr(O-2-BrZ) was selected as the P19 substituent, since it is known that this residue can increase the affinity for some part of the active center of trypsin-like proteinases. 14) As the P1 substituent, we chose 6-aminohexanoic acid or trans-4aminomethylcyclohexanecarboxylic acid.
Background: Lactam cyclized alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-MSH) analogues exhibit high stability and affinity for the MC1-R receptors over expressed in melanoma cells. Recently, we reported a novel 99mTc- HYNIC-cycMSH4-13 analogue with the HYNIC chelator directly attached to the lactam cyclized ring. Objective: In this study we proposed the introduction of a 6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx) linker between the HYNIC chelator and lactam cyclized peptide cycMSH4-13 to reduce steric hindrance and improve the melanoma targeting and imaging proprieties of the radiolabeled peptide. Method: HYNIC-Ahx-cycMSH4-13 peptide was synthesized on an automated peptide synthesizer and displayed an IC50 of 0.3 nM using B16/F1 cells. The 99mTc/tricine radiolabeled peptide was examined for radiochemical purity, stability and cell binding. In vivo, biodistribution and planar gamma imaging studies were performed in B16/F1 melanoma tumor bearing C57BK mice. Results: 99mTc-HYNIC-Ahx-cycMSH4-13 was obtained with a radiochemical purity >95%, was stable up to 24 h at room temperature and exhibited high binding and rapid internalization in B16/F1 cells. In vivo biodistribution studies showed a tumor uptake of 4.92 ± 0.92 % ID/g and 2.78 ± 1.48 % ID/g at 2 h and 4 h post injection, respectively. Whole-body clearance was rapid through urinary excretion. The melanoma tumors were clearly visualized by planar gamma imaging. Conclusion: 99mTc-HYNIC-Ahx-cycMSH4-13 was shown radiochemically stability and exhibited rapid and selective uptake in melanoma cells and tumors. Imaging studies yielded promising preclinical results, warranting further evaluation of 99mTc-HYNIC-cycMSH analogs as melanoma specific imaging agents.
Abstract A sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed for the detection of the herbicide trifluralin. Polyclonal antibodies were developed in rabbits against a haptenic analogue N -(2,6-dinitro-4-trifluoromethylphenyl)- N - n -propyl-6-aminohexanoic acid. Using antibodies against this hapten, a hapten-heterologous competitive ELISA in the antigen-immobilized format allowed detection of the target analyte at concentrations between 0.1 and 100 ng ml −1 . Closely related herbicides benfluralin, ethalfluralin cross-reacted with the antibodies in the optimized immunoassay at 5.2 and 2.9%, respectively, while less related dinitroaniline herbicides, e.g. isopropalin and pendimethalin did not show significant cross-reactivity. Various factors, e.g. the effect of pH and organic solvents have also been studied. The ELISA system tolerated methanol as a co-solvent at up to 5% content, while detection sensitivity appeared to be more vulnerable to other solvents including acetone. The optimized ELISA was found to be applicable to the detection of trifluralin in various matrices including surface water samples and vegetable juices.
A2PI is the principal physiological inhibitor of plasmin (Plm) [2] [3] [4] , the key enzyme of the fibrinolytic cascade. Plasminogen (Pgn), the zymogen of Plm, is a 90-kDa multidomain plasma glycoprotein synthesized in the liver [23] . It is composed of an N-terminal PAN module [24] , five kringle domains [25] , and a trypsin-like serine protease unit [26] . All kringle domains contain a lysine-binding site (LBS), which is responsible for the interaction of Pgn with, e.g., fibrin, A2PI, and small molecules with positively charged group(s) such as lysine and lysine analogous, like 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) or trans-4-(aminomethyl) cyclohexanecarboxylic acid (t-AMCHA) (reviewed in [27] ). Plm reacts with A2PI to form an enzymatically inactive 1:1 equimolar complex [3, 5, 28, 29] upon cleavage of the scissile peptide bond (Arg 365 -Met 366 ) in the reactive center loop (RCL) of A2PI [30] . Kinetic data suggest a two-step reaction for the rapid inhibition of Plm: a fast reversible second-order reaction (k 1 , 3.8 9 10
14) As the P 1 substituent, we chose 6-aminohexanoic acid or trans-4-aminomethylcyclohexanecarboxylic acid.
Abstract Hydrogenation of linear ω-azido-pentafluorophenyl esters from mixed oligomers of 6-amino-6-deoxy- d -galactonic acid (or 6-amino-6-deoxy- d -mannonic acid) and 6-aminohexanoic acid gives cyclic peptides containing 14-, 28- and 42-membered ring lactams. Hydrogenation of a tetrameric peptide derived from e-amino acids gave a 28-membered ring lactam in 79% yield.
The addition of proteinase inhibitors (1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 10 mM N-ethylmaleimide, 0.25 mM benzamidine hydrochloride, 6.25 mM EDTA, 12.5 mM 6-aminohexanoic acid and 2 mM iodoacetic acid) to explant cultures of adult bovine articular cartilage inhibits proteoglycan synthesis as well as the loss of the macromolecule from the tissue. Those proteoglycans lost to the medium of explant cultures treated with proteinase inhibitors were either aggregates or monomers with functional hyaluronic acid-binding regions, whereas proteoglycans lost from metabolically active tissue also included a population of monomers that were unable to aggregate with hyaluronate. Analysis of the core protein from proteoglycans lost into the medium of inhibitor-treated cultures showed the same size distribution as the core proteins of proteoglycans present in the extracellular matrix of metabolically active cultures. The core proteins of proteoglycans appearing in the medium of metabolically active cultures showed that proteolytic cleavage of these macromolecules occurred as a result of their loss from the tissue. Explant cultures of articular cartilage maintained in medium with proteinase inhibitors were used to investigate the passive loss of proteoglycan from the tissue. The rate of passive loss of proteoglycan from the tissue was dependent on surface area, but no difference in the proportion of proteoglycan aggregate to monomer appearing in the medium was observed. Furthermore, proteoglycans were lost at the same rate from the articular and cut surfaces of cartilage. Proteoglycan aggregates and monomer were lost from articular cartilage over a period of time, which indicates that proteoglycans are free to move through the extracellular matrix of cartilage. The movement of proteoglycans out of the tissue was shown to be temperature dependent, but was different from the change of the viscosity of water with temperature, which indicates that the loss of proteoglycan was not solely due to diffusion. The activation energy for the loss of proteoglycans from articular cartilage was found to be similar to the binding energies for electrostatic and hydrogen bonds.
Abstract A series of chimeric urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) genes, which contain combinations of kringle domains of human plasminogen (HPg) in place of the uPA kringle (K uPA ), has been constructed and expressed. Some of the resulting recombinant (r) variant uPA chimeras contain modules that potentially mediate the macroscopic binding of HPg to its activation effectors, fibrin(ogen) and 6-aminohexanoic acid (EACA). Such binding sites are not possessed by K uPA , but are present in certain of the HPg kringles, viz., kringle 1 (K1 HPg ), kringle 4 (K4 HPg ), and kringle 5 (K5 HPg ). The recombinant (r) chimeras constructed included molecules with replacements of K uPA with K1 HPg (r-[K uPA → K1 HPg ]uPA), and with K uPA replaced by double kringle combinations of K1 HPg K4 HPg (r-[K uPA → K1 HPg K4 HPg ]uPA), K2 HPg K3 HPg (r-[K uPA → K2 HPg K3 HPg ]uPA), and K4 HPg K5 HPg (r[K uPA → K4 HPg K5 HPg ]uPA). All of these variant genes, along with their wild-type (wt) r-uPA counterparts, were expressed in human kidney 293 cells. In cases wherein EACA-binding kringles from HPg have been placed in uPA, this property has been retained in the chimeric molecule and employed as an essential part of the purification procedures for the variants. The steady state amidolytic activity of two-chain (tc) wtr-uPA toward the chromogenic substrate, H-D-pyroglutamyl-Gly-L-Arg- p -nitroanilide (S2444), is characterized by a k cat / K M (pH 7.4, 37°C) of 120 s −1 mM −1 . This value ranges from 92 s −1 mM −1 (tcr-[K uPA → K1 HPg ]uPA) to 166 s −1 mM −1 (tcr[K uPA → K1 HPg K4 HPg ]uPA) for each of the variants, demonstrating that the catalytic efficiency of the active site is altered only in a small way by changes in the noncatalytic domain of uPA. Small differences are also observed in the abilities of these tcr variants to interact with the fast-acting plasma inhibitor of uPA, viz., plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). The second-order rate constant for the interaction of PAI-1 with tcr-uPA, 0.46 × 10 7 M −1 s −1 (pH 7.4, 10°C), ranges from 0.29 × 10 7 M −1 s −1 (tcr-[K uPA → K1 HPg K4 HPg ]uPA) to 1.08 × 10 7 M −1 s −1 (tcr-[K uPA → K4 HPg K5 HPg ]uPA), for the tcr-chimeric variants. Neither wtr-uPA nor any of its chimeric r-variants interacted macroscopically with a fibrin clot under conditions that allowed binding of 74% of single-chain r-tissue-type plasminogen activator. However, the tcr-chimeric uPA variants provided HPg-enriched clot lysis times between 0.2 (r-[K uPA → K1 HPg K4 HPg ]uPA) and 2.4 (r-[K uPA → K2 HPg K3 HPg ]uPA) relative to that of wtr-uPA. These results demonstrate that no perceptible relationship exists between macroscopic fibrin binding and the clot lytic properties of the variants. In addition, under conditions wherein the HPg activation by tissue-type plasminogen activator was significantly stimulated by fibrinogen, fibrin, and CNBr fragments of fibrinogen, this same activation was not similarly stimulated by these effectors when wtr-uPA or any of the chimeric variants were employed as the activators. These results demonstrate that despite the retention of the EACA binding properties of K1 HPg , K1 HPg K4 HPg , and K4 HPg K5 HPg , a factor that supports the independent domainal character of HPg kringle domains, neither fibrin-binding capabilities nor fibrin-selectivity for HPg activation was engineered into uPA when the domains were inserted into uPA in place of K uPA .
Single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) were functionalized by direct fluorination and subsequent reaction with 6-aminohexanoic acid for water-soluble carboxylic acid functionalized SWNTs (AHA-SWNTs). Both of the compounds were used as precursors to attach SWNTs to APTES coated silicon surfaces. AHA-SWNTs in aqueous solution were reacted with APTES self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) with coupling reagents N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N'-ethylcarbodiimide (EDC) and N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS). The surface coverage is a function of concentration of AHA-SWNTs, solvent and coupling method. While for the fluorinated SWNTs (F-SWNTs), direct addition of F-SWNTs to preformed APTES SAMs at 90 degrees C shows essentially no reaction, in contrast to the one-pot reaction of F-SWNTs with APTES molecules in the presence of SWNTs on a silicon substrate. This reaction route provides a convenient method to attach SWNTs to silicon surfaces.
Activation of human Glu-plasminogen, Lys-plasminogen and low-Mr plasminogen (lacking lysine-binding sites) by pro-urokinase (pro-UK), obtained from a human lung adenocarcinoma cell line (Calu-3, ATCC), obeys Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Activation occurs with a comparable affinity (Km 0.40-0.77 microM), while the catalytic rate constant (kcat) is comparable for Glu-plasminogen (0.0022s-1) and low-Mr plasminogen (0.0034 s-1), but is somewhat higher for Lys-plasminogen (0.0106 s-1). The rate of activation of plasminogen by pro-UK is not significantly influenced by the presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid, purified fragments LBS I or LBS II or histidine-rich glycoprotein, indicating that the high affinity of pro-UK for plasminogen is not mediated via the high-affinity lysine-binding site of plasminogen located in kringles 1-3 (LBS I) nor via the low-affinity lysine-binding site comprised within kringle 4 (LBS II). The site(s) in plasminogen involved in the high-affinity interaction with pro-UK thus appear to be located within the low-Mr plasminogen moiety.
A study towards the kinetics of CO2 with several aqueous salts of amino acids was performed at a temperature of 298 K. Absorption rate experiments were carried out in the pseudo-first-order regime, enabling the determination of the kinetic rate constant from the flux. In a preliminary screening at a concentration of 0.5 moL-1 the potassium salts of 6-aminohexanoic acid, β-alanine, l-arginine, l-glutamic acid, dl-methionine, l-proline and sarcosine were investigated. Based on the results of this screening the aqueous potassium salts of sarcosine and proline were considered to be the most promising solvents. For these solvents, and the corresponding lithium solvents, the physical distribution coefficient of N2O was determined for various temperatures and concentrations. Subsequently for these same solvents the kinetics were more extensively studied at 298 K in which the concentration of the amino acid salts was varied between 0.5 and 3moL-1.
The objective of the present study was to develop an immunoassay for multi-determination of the residues of four macrolide antibiotics in milk. Tylosin was derivatized with 6-aminohexanoic acid to synthesize a hapten that was used to produce the monoclonal antibody. The obtained monoclonal antibody simultaneously recognized tylosin, acetylisovaleryltylosin, tilmicosin and desmycosin with crossreactivities of 100%, 91%, 49% and 76%, respectively. Then an indirect competitive immunoassay was developed to determine the four analytes in milk simultaneously. The limits of detection for the four analytes were in the range of 5.5–11.7 ng/mL depending on the compound. The recoveries of the four analytes from fortified blank milk were in the range of 78%–96% with coefficients of variation lower than 11.4%. The developed immunoassay could be used as a practical tool for rapid screening the residues of the four anlytes in milk.
Abstract Phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMOs) are DNA analogues that inhibit translation by an antisense mechanism. Membrane-penetrating peptides attached to PMOs increase PMO efficacy by enhancing penetration through bacterial membranes. The objectives of these experiments are to demonstrate gene-specific efficacy and establish a dose-response relationship of a peptide-PMO conjugate. An 11-base PMO (AcpP) targeted at acpP (an essential gene) of Escherichia coli was synthesized and conjugated with the cell-penetrating peptide RFFRFFRFFRXB (X is 6-aminohexanoic acid and B is beta-alanine). Mice were infected by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection with K-12 E. coli W3110, and treated i.p. at 15 min and 12 h post-infection with various amounts of AcpP peptide-PMO conjugate, AcpP PMO without attached peptide, scrambled base sequence PMOs or ampicillin. A strain (LT1) of E. coli was constructed by replacing acpP with an allele that has four wobble base substitutions in the region targeted by the PMO. Twelve hours after a single treatment, 30 microg of AcpP peptide-PMO or 3 mg of AcpP PMO reduced bacteraemia by 3 orders of magnitude compared with treatment with water. Neither scrambled base sequence PMO controls nor 30 microg of ampicillin reduced bacteraemia. Two treatments with 30 microg of AcpP peptide-PMO reduced cfu significantly more than four treatments with 15 microg at 15 min, 4, 8 and 12 h. Mice treated with doses of AcpP peptide-PMO > 30 microg showed further reductions in plasma cfu. Survival 48 h after treatment with 2 x 30 microg (3 mg/kg) of AcpP peptide-PMO or 2 x 3 mg (300 mg/kg) of AcpP PMO was 100%, compared with 20% for mice treated with water or scrambled base sequence PMO controls. However, survival was reduced to 75% and 0% for mice treated with 2 x 300 microg and 2 x 1 mg of AcpP peptide-PMO, respectively. A conjugate made from the D-isomeric form of each amino acid was less effective than the L-amino acid equivalent, and required 2 x 300 microg treatments for significant reduction in bacteria and survival. Mice infected with LT1 and treated with AcpP peptide-PMO did not survive and had the same amount of bacteria in the blood as mice treated with water, whereas those treated with 2 x 100 microg of AcpPmut4 peptide-PMO (complementary to the mutated allele) survived, and had a 3 orders of magnitude reduction in bacteria in the blood at 24 h post-infection. Both AcpP peptide-PMO and AcpP PMO significantly reduced bacteraemia and promoted survival of mice infected with E. coli W3110. The conjugate was about 50-100 times more potent than the PMO without attached peptide. The L-isomeric peptide-PMO was 10 times more potent than the D-isomeric equivalent. The conjugate apparently was toxic at doses > or = 2 x 300 microg/mouse (30 mg/kg). PMOs produced a sequence-specific antibiotic effect and the conjugate had a therapeutic index (toxic dose/effective dose) approximately equal to 10 in a mouse model of infection.
The balance of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) production and degradation determines its concentration in blood and tissues. Disturbance of this balance may result in either increased or decreased proteolysis. In the present study, we identified the receptor systems involved in the degradation of t-PA by human monocytes/macrophages in culture. Monocytes were cultured and became macrophages within 2 days. At 4°C, 125I-t-PA bound to macrophages with high (apparent dissociation constant [kd], 1 to 5 nmol/L) and low affinity (kd > 350 nmol/L). At 37°C, the cells internalized and degraded t-PA via the high affinity binding sites, which were partially inhibited by mannan. The low affinity binding sites were 6-aminohexanoic acid-inhibitable and not involved in t-PA degradation. Degradation of t-PA was upregulated during differentiation of monocytes to macrophages. Dexamethasone further upregulated the mannan-inhibitable t-PA degradation. Lipopolysaccharide downregulated both mannan-inhibitable and non-mannan- inhibitable t-PA degradation. Non-mannan-inhibitable degradation was completely blocked by recombinant 39-kD receptor-associated protein (RAP, inhibitor of lipoprotein receptor-related protein [LRP]), whereas mannan- inhibitable degradation was blocked by the addition of a monoclonal antibody against the mannose receptor. No differences between the degradation of t-PA and functionally inactivated t-PA were observed. We conclude that human monocyte-derived macrophages are able to bind, internalize, and degrade t- PA. Degradation of t-PA does not require complex formation with plasminogen activator inhibitors. The macrophages use two independently regulated receptors, namely, the mannose receptor and LRP, for the uptake and degradation of t-PA. Chemicals/CAS: aminocaproic acid, 1319-82-0, 60-32-2; tissue plasminogen activator, 105913-11-9; Dexamethasone, 50-02-2; LDL-Receptor Related Protein 1; Lipopolysaccharides; mannose receptor; Receptors, Cell Surface; Receptors, Immunologic; Tissue Plasminogen Activator, EC 3.4.21.68
Multiresistant Acinetobacter baumannii, a common etiologic agent of severe nosocomial infections in compromised hosts, usually harbors aac(6')-Ib. This gene specifies resistance to amikacin and other aminoglycosides, seriously limiting the effectiveness of these antibiotics. An antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN4) that binds to a duplicated sequence on the aac(6')-Ib mRNA, one of the copies overlapping the initiation codon, efficiently inhibited translation in vitro. An isosequential nuclease-resistant hybrid oligomer composed of 2',4'-bridged nucleic acid-NC (BNA(NC)) residues and deoxynucleotides (BNA(NC)-DNA) conjugated to the permeabilizing peptide (RXR)4XB ("X" and "B" stand for 6-aminohexanoic acid and β-alanine, respectively) (CPPBD4) inhibited translation in vitro at the same levels observed in testing ODN4. Furthermore, CPPBD4 in combination with amikacin inhibited growth of a clinical A. baumannii strain harboring aac(6')-Ib in liquid cultures, and when both compounds were used as combination therapy to treat infected Galleria mellonella organisms, survival was comparable to that seen with uninfected controls.
We report syntheses of oligoamides that consist of oligomers of 6-aminohexanoic acid condensed with a central linear dicarboxylic acid or diamine.
New peptides-9-aminoacridine conjugates with an ethylene diamine linker-have been synthesized (both solution and solid phase methods were used) and their interactions with DNA have been studied. The affinity of H-Phe-Gln-Gly-Ile(2)-NHCH(2)CH(2)NH-Acr conjugate and of its extended analogue containing 6-aminohexanoic acid to DNA were lower than that of a standard H-Gly-NHCH(2)CH(2)NH-Acr conjugate. The results fit well into our concept of peptide conjugates with lowered binding activity to DNA, which could be capable of unlimited extravascular distribution. Moreover, new structures could be potentially useful as the mild tuners of DNA interaction with strong bis-acridine binders.
Multiresistant Acinetobacter baumannii, a common etiologic agent of severe nosocomial infections in compromised hosts, usually harbors aac(6=)-Ib. This gene specifies resistance to amikacin and other aminoglycosides, seriously limiting the effectiveness of these antibiotics. An antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN4) that binds to a duplicated sequence on the aac(6=)-Ib mRNA, one of the copies overlapping the initiation codon, efficiently inhibited translation in vitro. An isosequential nuclease-resistant hybrid oligomer composed of 2=,4=-bridged nucleic acid-NC (BNA NC ) residues and deoxynucleotides (BNA NC -DNA) conjugated to the permeabilizing peptide (RXR) 4 XB ("X" and "B" stand for 6-aminohexanoic acid and ␤-alanine, respectively) (CPPBD4) inhibited translation in vitro at the same levels observed in testing ODN4. Furthermore, CPPBD4 in combination with amikacin inhibited growth of a clinical A. baumannii strain harboring aac(6=)-Ib in liquid cultures, and when both compounds were used as combination therapy to treat infected Galleria mellonella organisms, survival was comparable to that seen with uninfected controls.
Abstract The role of the streptokinase (SK) α-domain in plasminogen (Pg) and plasmin (Pm) interactions was investigated in quantitative binding studies employing active site fluorescein-labeled [Glu]Pg, [Lys]Pg, and [Lys]Pm, and the SK truncation mutants, SK-(55–414), SK-(70–414), and SK-(152–414). Lysine binding site (LBS)-dependent and -independent binding were resolved from the effects of the lysine analog, 6-aminohexanoic acid. The mutants bound indistinguishably, consistent with unfolding of the α-domain on deletion of SK-(1–54). The affinity of SK for [Glu]Pg was LBS-independent, and although [Lys]Pg affinity was enhanced 13-fold by LBS interactions, the LBS-independent free energy contributions were indistinguishable. α-Domain truncation reduced the affinity of SK for [Glu]Pg 2–7-fold and [Lys]Pg ≤2-fold, but surprisingly, rendered both interactions near totally LBS-dependent. The LBS-independent affinity of SK for [Lys]Pm, 3000-fold higher compared with [Lys]Pg, was reduced dramatically by α-domain truncation. Thermodynamic analysis demonstrates that the SK α-domain contributes substantially to affinity for all Pg/Pm species solely through LBS-independent interactions, and that the higher affinity of SK for [Lys]Pm compared with [Lys]Pg involves all three SK domains. The residual affinity of the SK βγ-fragment for all Pg/Pm species was increased by an enhanced contribution to complex stability from LBS-dependent interactions or free energy coupling between LBS-dependent and -independent interactions. Redistribution of the free energy contributions accompanying α-domain truncation demonstrates the interdependence of SK domains in stabilizing the SK-Pg/Pm complexes. The flexible segments connecting the SK α, β, and γ domains allow their rearrangement into a distinctly different bound conformation accompanying loss of the constraint imposed by interactions of the α-domain.
The solution structure of the human plasminogen kringle 1 domain complexed to the antifibrinolytic drug 6-aminohexanoic acid (epsilon Ahx) was obtained on the basis of 1H-NMR spectroscopic data and dynamical simulated annealing calculations. Two sets of structures were derived starting from (a) random coil conformations and (b) the (mutated) crystallographic structure of the homologous prothrombin kringle 1. The two sets display essentially the same backbone folding (pairwise root-mean-square deviation, 0.15 nm) indicating that, regardless of the initial structure, the data is sufficient to locate a conformation corresponding to an essentially unique energy minimum. The conformations of residues connected to prolines were localized to energetically preferred regions of the Ramachandran map. The Pro30 peptide bond is proposed to be cis. The ligand-binding site of the kringle 1 is a shallow cavity composed of Pro33, Phe36, Trp62, Tyr64, Tyr72 and Tyr74. Doubly charged anionic and cationic centers configured by the side chains of Asp55 and Asp57, and Arg34 and Arg71, respectively, contribute to anchoring the zwitterionic epsilon Ahx molecule at the binding site. The ligand exhibits closer contacts with the kringle anionic centers (approximately 0.35 nm average O...H distance between the Asp55/Asp57 carboxylate and ligand amino groups) than with the cationic ones (approximately 0.52 nm closest O...H distances between the ligand carboxylate and the Arg34/Arg71 guanidino groups). The epsilon Ahx hydrocarbon chain rests flanked by Pro33, Tyr64, Tyr72 and Tyr74 on one side and Phe36 on the other. Dipolar (Overhauser) connectivities indicate that the ligand aliphatic moiety establishes close contacts with the Phe36 and Trp62 aromatic rings. The computed structure suggests that the epsilon Ahx molecule adopts a kinked conformation when complexed to kringle 1, effectively shortening its dipole length to approximately 0.65 nm.
Kringles are protein modules found within a wide variety of fibrinolytic and coagulation-related proteins that show binding affinity for lysine, lysine analogs and for fibrin. We report here the crystal structures of apolipoprotein(a) kringle IV37 (apo(a) K437) in its free state and in separate complexes with two ω-amino acids, 6-aminohexanoic acid (6AHA) andp-aminomethylbenzoic acid (PAMBA). The structures of the unliganded form and of both complexes have been determined and refined by restrained least-squares methods to about 2.0 A. The overall kringle architecture is essentially identical with that determined in other kringles but it shows some small significant structural changes in the lysine binding site. There is virtually no difference in conformation between the unliganded and complexed forms, suggesting that apo(a) K437does not undergo any conformational rearrangement upon binding. The 6AHA molecule binds to apo(a) K437in a completely different way from that observed with the kringle 4 of plasminogen (PGK4). Its amino group makes an ion pair interaction with the two aspartate residues (Asp55/Asp57) of the anionic center and its carboxylate group faces out into the solvent making water-mediated contacts with the protein. The mode of binding of PAMBA resembles more that described for 6AHA when bound to PGK4. The PAMBA molecule is bound by ion pair interactions with the two aspartate residues (Asp55/Asp57) and with Arg71 from the cationic center and by van der Waals contacts. The relative importance of the cationic center from kringles for binding zwitterionic ligands is discussed.
Regions of the human plasminogen (Pg) cDNA containing its kringle 4 (K4) and K5 domains have been expressed in Escherichia coli, and binding constants of oamino acid ligands for recombinant (r)-[K4,,] and r-[K5,,] have been obtained. In each case, the results showed that of a series of aliphatic a,o-amino acid analogues, 6-aminohexanoic acid showed maximal affinity for these modules, and all ligands interacted more strongly with r-[K4,,] than with r-[K5,,]. Site-directed mutagenesis investigations demonstrated that the major amino acid side chain contributors to ligand binding were similar for each of these kringles. Ligand binding was stabilized by charged groups at Asp56 of r-[K4,,] and Asp" of r-[K5,,] as well as by kg9 of both r-[K4<,] and r-[K5,,]. Some hydrophobic amino acids that contributed significantly to the binding strength of the ligands were identified. These were provided by homologous residues in each of the domains, uiz. Trp60 and Trp'O of r-[K4,,1 and TrpSz and T~I-'~ of r-[K5,,]. TyrT4 of r-[K5,,] also substantially contributed to its ligand binding energy.
The products of interaction of glutaraldehyde with 6-aminohexanoic acid and with α-N-acetyl-lysine have been separated and partially purified; studies of the most highly purified fraction are indicative of the formation of 1,3,4,5-tetrasubstituted pyridinium salts, such as (II), analogous to desmosine. It is suggested that similar structures are present in the cross-linked products formed by the action of glutaraldehyde on proteins.
Transport properties of model compounds in aqueous solutions such as amino acids can provide valuable information in order to understand the complex interactions in aqueous solutions as well as the protein stability in water and the relevant factors involved. Informations about the diffusion of amino acids in water and in aqueous solutions of sodium chloride are very scarce, especially for the 5-aminopentanoic acid and 6-aminohexanoic acid. In this study, limiting binary mutual diffusion coefficients at 298.15 K of 5-aminopentanoic and 6-aminohexanoic acids in aqueous solutions of NaCl 0.15 mol kg-1 , using the Taylor dispersion technique, were determined and the results compared with the limiting binary mutual diffusion coefficients for 2-aminopentanoic acid, and 2-aminohexanoic acid, obtained in the same experimental conditions. The discussion of the properties of the selected amino acids is centered on the positions of the ionic groups in the hydrocarbon chain and, in addition, we have discussed the effects of NaCl on their structures and properties. The data on diffusion properties are supported by 1 H, 13 C and 23 Na NMR experiments, which we have obtained for 5-aminopentanoic and 6-aminohexanoic acids, in aqueous solution, also in the presence of NaCl.
Lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] exhibits many of the same properties as plasminogen, owing to a similar structural makeup from a composite of multiple kringle domains. Shared behavior includes induction of an expanded conformation by lysine analogues, inhibition of this effect, and creation of a compact conformation by NaCl. Here, we examine in detail the independent and mutual effects of NaCl and 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA) on the structure of Lp(a) and the relationship between the binding of the two ligands. We find that NaCl promotes the compact conformation while binding to Lp(a) homogeneously. In the absence of salt, 6-AHA leads to the complete unfolding of Lp(a), a process that is accompanied by cooperative binding. Reversal of conformation and weakening of binding occurred when one ligand was added to Lp(a) in the presence of the other, suggesting competitive binding. High concentrations of NaCl completely reversed the expansion of Lp(a) in 100 mM 6-AHA, and high concentrations of 6-AHA unfolded Lp(a) in the presence of 100 mM NaCl, but only by 30% in the case of the 15 kringle IV Lp(a) studied. Induction of the compact form of Lp(a) appears to be an effect in common with all salts examined and cannot be attributed solely to the anion, as in the case of plasminogen. The results were summarized in terms of a model of Lp(a) depicting the conformational alterations of apo(a) caused by the binding of the two ligands. In the compact conformation in NaCl, apo(a) is apposed to the particle surface. The fully expanded form in 6-AHA results from release of both the variable and constant kringle domains. In the intermediate form in water and in a solution containing both NaCl and 6-AHA, only the variable domain is released from the particle surface.
The role of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) in vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) apoptosis mediated by plasminogen activation was studied with the use of aortic VSMC derived from mice with deficiency of PAI-1 (PAI-1−/−), tissue-type (t-PA−/−) or urokinase-type (u-PA−/−) plasminogen activator or from wild-type (WT) mice with corresponding genetic background. ::: ::: Plasminogen incubated with confluent VSMC was activated in a concentration-dependent and saturable manner for all 4 cell types, with maximal activation rates that were comparable for WT, u-PA−/− and t-PA−/− cells, but about 2- fold higher for PAI-1−/− cells. Plasminogen activation was impaired by addition of the lysine analogue 6-aminohexanoic acid, and by addition of t-PA and u-PA neutralizing antibodies, suggesting that it depends on binding to cell surface COOH-terminal lysine residues, and on plasminogen activator activity. Morphological alterations consistent with apoptosis were observed much earlier in PAI-1−/− than in WT VSMC. Without addition of plasminogen, the apoptotic index was similar for all 4 cell types, whereas after incubation with physiological plasminogen concentrations, it was greater in PAI-1−/− VSMC, as compared to WT, t-PA−/− or u-PA−/− VSMC. Furthermore, the apoptotic rate paralleled the release of plasmin. ::: ::: Thus, plasmin-mediated apoptosis of VSMC occurs via plasminogen activation by either t-PA or u-PA and is impaired by PAI-1.
The antimicrobial and hemolytic activities of R9F2С2 (P1ss), (KFF)3KС2 (P2ss), and (RAhaR)4AhaβAС2 (P3ss) (where Aha is 6-aminohexanoic acid and βA is beta-alanine) synthetic antimicrobial peptides (SAMP) with different amphipathic properties and containing the cysteine residues with free sulfhydryl groups were studied. The introduction of cysteine residues into the composition of SAMP was shown to increase their antimicrobial activity 3–7 times, while their hemolytic activity increased 2–12 times in relation to human erythrocytes for different peptides in different ways, which determined their different selectivity. The P1ss peptide with a linear type of amphipathicity showed the highest antimicrobial activity and high selectivity against the fungus Candida albicans and bacterium Staphylococcus aureus (MIC 0.5 μM; TI 52 μM). The P1ss peptide possessed not only greater antimicrobial activity against pathogenic fungus C. albicans in comparison to the P2ss peptide (MIC 3.9 μM) with the classical helical amphipathicity, but also more than three times lower hemolytic activity (MHC 26 and 8 μM, respectively). Therefore, TI for the P2ss peptide (TI 2.1) turned out to be more than 20 times lower than that for the P1ss peptide. Thus, the P1ss peptide is the most promising antimicrobial preparation among the studied SAMP.
Native human Glu-plasminogen (Glu{sub 1}-Asn{sub 791}) was previously shown to have a radius of gyration of 39{angstrom} and a shape best described by a prolate ellipsoid. Upon occupation of a weak lysine-binding site, the shape reversibly changes to that best described by a Debye random coil with a radius of gyration of 56{angstrom}. Conversion from the closed to the open form is not accompanied by any change in secondary structure, hence the closed conformation is formed by interaction between domains, the five kringles and the protease domain, and this is abolished upon conversion to the open form. Here the authors analyzed by small-angle neutron scattering the conformations of human Lys-plasminogen (Lys{sub 78}-Asn{sub 791}) and the fragment K1-3 that contains the first three kringles of plasminogen (Tyr{sub 80}-Val{sub 338} or Tyr{sub 80}-Val{sub 354}). The fragment K1-3 in the absence or presence of 6-aminohexanoic acid had a shape best described equally either by an elongated prolate ellipsoid or by a Debye random coil, with a radius of gyration of 29{angstrom}. They model for the two forms of plasminogen is that, in the closed form, domain interaction generates a compact, almost globular, structure. The structural differences between the closed and open forms ofmore » plasminogen are discussed in terms of functional differences relevant to the regulation of plasminogen activation.« less
NH2 where NO2A=,4,7-triazacyclononane-1,4,-diacetic acid and X=Paraaminobenzoic acid, 6-aminohexanoic acid, 8-aminooctanoic acid and 9nonanoic acid. All of the new conjugates were radiolabeled and purified by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Complete and full characterization of Cu-BBN conjugates was done using electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry. Competitive displacement binding assays indicated that all of the conjugates exhibited IC50s in the nM range in human, prostate PC-3 cells. Biodistribution studies using these new conjugates in rodents bearing PC-3 xenografted tumors indicated rapid clearance of targeting vector from blood with high uptake and retention in tumors. Molecular imaging studies in rodents produced high-contrast, high-quality micro-positron emission tomography images with very high tumor-to-background ratios. doi:10.1016/j.nucmedbio.2010.02.012
A series of end-capped oligomers 13 (2n = 1, 2, 4, 8 and 16) related to nylon 6, have been prepared from a fully protected derivative of 6-aminohexanoic acid 4 using the reactions of polypeptide chemistry. The formation of N-protected secondary amide bonds bearing the N-(p-methoxybenzyl) group ensured the solubility of all intermediates in common organic solvents and enabled purification by chromatography; boiling trifluoroacetic acid removed the protecting group in the final stage of the synthesis.
The concentration dependent transformation of an oligopeptide nanostructure from nanovesicles to nanotubes at neutral pH is presented. The oligopeptide Acp-Tyr-Glu (Acp: 6-aminohexanoic acid) forms nanovesicles at a concentration of 6.9 mg mL -1 . At a concentration of 2.3 mg mL -1 these vesicular structures completely disappear and nanotubular structures are observed. We have also successfully optimized an intermediate concentration (3.4 mg mL -1 ) where an ordered array of fused vesicular structures are formed, which actually leads to the transition from nanovesicles to nanotubes. These vesicular structures are very much sensitive toward metal ions and pH. Biocompatible calcium ions and high pH (10.7) can trigger the rupturing of these nanovesicles. One important property of these nanovesicular structures is the encapsulation of a potent anticancer drug doxorubicin, which can also be released in the presence of calcium ions promising a future use of these nanovesicles as vehicles for carrying biologically important molecules.
Summary ::: ::: ::: Reasons for performing study: The antifibrinolytic, 6-aminohexanoic acid, also named aminocaproic acid (ACA), has been used empirically as a treatment for exercise-induced pulmonary haemorrhage (EIPH) on the unsubstantiated basis that transient coagulation dysfunction may contribute to its development. ::: ::: ::: ::: Objective: To assess the effect of ACA on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) erythrocyte counts in horses performing treadmill exercise at an intensity greater than that needed to reach maximal oxygen consumption. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods: Eight Thoroughbreds were exercised to fatigue 3 times on a 10% inclined treadmill at a speed for which the calculated oxygen requirement was 1.15 times. Horses were treated with a saline placebo, 2 and 7 g ACA i.v. 4 h before exercise, with a crossover design being used to determine the order of the injections. Exercise-induced pulmonary haemorrhage severity was quantified via the erythrocyte count in BALF. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was collected 4 h before and 30–60 min post exercise. Results were expressed as mean ± s.e.m. and analysed by one way repeated measures ANOVA (P<0.05). ::: ::: ::: ::: Results: Aminocaproic acid administration had no effect on any measured variables ( = 148 ± 3.0 [C]; 148 ± 3.0 [2 g ACA]; 145 ± 3.0 [7 g ACA] ml/kg bwt/min, respectively; run time = 77 ± 3 [C]; 75 ± 2 [2 g ACA]; 79 ± 3 [7 g ACA] seconds, respectively). All horses developed EIPH: 1691 ± 690 vs. 9637 ± 3923 (C); 2149 ± 935 vs. 3378 ± 893 (2 g ACA); 1058 ± 340 vs. 4533 ± 791 (7 g ACA) erythrocytes/µl pre- vs. post exercise recovered in BALF, respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion: Aminocaproic acid was not effective in preventing or reducing the severity of EIPH or improving performance under the exercise conditions of this study.
The reaction between antiplasmin (A) and plasmin (P) proceeds in at least two steps: a very fast reversible second-order reaction followed by a slower irreversible first-order reaction, and may be represented by: . The two forms of plasmin with different affinities for lysine-Sepharose (plasmin I and plasmin II) react at different rates with antiplasmin. The k1 is (3.8±0.3)×107 M−1 s−1, for the reaction between plasmin I and antiplasmin, and (1.8±0.2) × 107 M−1 s−1 for plasmin II and antiplasmin. This reaction rate is one of the fastest so far described for protein-protein interactions. The k1 for trypsin and antiplasmin is (1.8±0.2) × 10−10 M for plasmin II with antiplasmin. The second step has a half-time of approximately 165 s for both types of plasmin, corresponding to a k2 of 4.2×10−3 s−1. Plasmin which has 6-aminohexanoic acid bound to its lysine binding site or the substrate d-valyl-l-lysyl-p-nitroanilide bound to its active site does not react, or reacts very slowly, with antiplasmin. ::: ::: ::: ::: From these findings we postulate that plasmin formed in the circulating blood is rapidly neutralized by antiplasmin, but plasmin bound to fibrin is not. This hypothesis may provide a molecular basis for the mechanism of thrombolysis in vivo.
The primary inhibitor of plasmin in human plasma was purified by a four-step procedure involving fractional (NH(4))(2)SO(4) precipitation, ion-exchange chromatography on a column of DEAE-Sepharose CL-6B and affinity chromatography on both a plasminogen-CH-Sepharose 4B column and a column of 6-aminohexanoic acid covalently coupled through the carboxylate function to AH-Sepharose 4B. No impurities in the final preparation could be detected when tested by immunoelectrophoresis against a range of specific antisera or against rabbit anti-human serum. On polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis the inhibitor preparation showed a single band. The dissociation constant for the inhibitor-plasminogen complex was determined to be approx. 3mum at pH7.8. The reactions of the inhibitor with human plasmin and with bovine trypsin were studied. Comparison of the results obtained confirms the hypothesis previously presented, namely that the reaction of the inhibitor with plasmin involves at least two steps, the initial rapid formation of an enzyme-inhibitor complex followed by a slow irreversible transition to another complex. The results also indicate that the reaction of the inhibitor with trypsin involves just a single, irreversible step, so that this reaction seems to be less complicated than that of the inhibitor with plasmin. The ways in which 6-aminohexanoic acid influences the reactions were studied. The same value for the dissociation constant (approx. 26mum) for 6-aminohexanoic acid is obtained for both its effect on the reaction of the inhibitor with trypsin and for competitive inhibition of trypsin. The inhibitory effect of 6-aminohexanoic acid thus seems to be due to its blocking of the active site of trypsin. In contrast with this, the inhibitory effects of l-lysine and 6-aminohexanoic acid on the inhibitor-plasmin reaction occur at concentrations much too low to affect the active site of plasmin. The possible dependence of the reaction of the inhibitor with plasmin on a second site(s) on plasmin is discussed.
We report here the synthesis and activity of new analogs of the N-formyl and N-tert-butyloxycarbonyl (Boc) derivatives of the tripeptide Met-Leu-Phe-OMe containing an achiral ω-amino acid residue replacing the hydrophobic central leucine. The tripeptides HCO-Met-NH-(CH2)n-CO-Phe-OMe and Boc-Met-NH-(CH2)n-CO-Phe-OMe (n=3–5) containing the central homomorphic residue of 5-aminopentanoic acid (δ-aminovaleric acid; δ-Ava; n=4) and the two non-homomorphic residues of 4-aminobutanoic acid (γ-aminobutyric acid; γ-Abu; n=3) and 6-aminohexanoic acid (e-aminocaproic acid; e-Aca; n=5) have been examined. The activity as agonists and antagonists in chemotaxis, lysozyme release, and superoxide anion production of the new analogs has been determined. The N-Boc derivatives 2a and 2b, incorporating the γ-Abu and the δ-Ava residues, show good and selective antagonist activity on superoxide anion production.
The plasminogen/plasmin system is involved not only in fibrinolysis but also in many other physiological and pathological processes requiring localized proteolysis, including inflammation, tissue remodeling, ovulation, tumor metastasis and tissue invasion of pathogens [1ϳ5] . In this system, the zymogen plasminogen is proteolytically activated into plasmin by urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) or tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA). Circulating plasminogen with an N-terminal Glu (Gluplasminogen) is a single-chain glycoprotein with multiple functional domains, which consist of an N-terminal peptide, five homologous kringle domains and a trypsinlike serine protease domain [6, 7] . The binding of plasminogen to fibrin and cell surfaces localizes fibrinolytic activity on these surfaces [8] . The plasminogen binding is mediated by lysine binding sites located within the kringle domains [9, 10] . Glu-plasminogen exhibits a tight, spiral structure [11] due to an intramolecular interaction between a lysine residue(s) (Lys 50 and/or Lys 62 ) in the N-terminal peptide and the lysine-binding site in kringle 5 domain [12ϳ15] . The tight conformation of Glu-plasminogen attenuates both its activation and binding to fibrin and cellular receptors [16ϳ18] . Lysine analogs, such as 6-aminohexanoic acid, bind to the lysine binding sites and induces a large-scale conformational change in Gluplasminogen [13, 19, 20] , facilitating its activation to plasmin. Conformational regulation of Glu-plasminogen activation is also revealed by using several monoclonal antibodies that bind to kringle domains [21] . Hydrolysis of Glu-plasminogen by plasmin yields a truncated form of plasminogen called Lys-plasminogen, which predominantly has Lys 78 as an N-terminal residue [22, 23] . Lysplasminogen adopts a relaxed, extended conformation, and such conformation is implicated in an increased susceptibility to activation and a high affinity fibrin binding of Lys-plasminogen [13, 16, 24, 25] . Thus, conformational status of plasminogen is implicated in localized activation of plasminogen.
The reaction between antiplasmin (A) and a low-molecular-weight form of plasmin (P) proceeds in at least two steps: a fast reversible second-order reaction followed by a slower irreversible first-order transition, and may be represented by: P +A k1 in equilibrium k-1 PA k2 leads to PA'. The low-Mr plasmin, which is obtained by limited elastase digestion, is composed of an intact B chain and a small A chain lacking the lysine-binding sites. The k1 of the reaction is (6.5 +/- 0.5) x 10(5) M-1 s-1 which is 30--60 times smaller than that for normal plasmin and antiplasmin. The dissociation constant of the first step is 1.9 x 10(-9) M which is 10 times higher than for normal plasmin and antiplasmin. The rate constant of the second step is (4.2 +/- 0.2) x 10(-3) s-1 for both normal and low-Mr plasmin. Low Mr plasmin which has substrate bound to its active site does not react or reacts only very slowly with antiplasmin. The reaction rate, however, is only slightly influenced by 6-aminohexanoic acid in concentrations up to 1 mM which decrease the reaction rate of normal plasmin approximately 50-fold. The findings further indicate that the lysine-binding site(s) of plasmin are of great importance for the rate of its reaction with antiplasmin.
Abstract A transcript produced in Escherichia coli of the 6-aminohexanoic acid linear oligomer hydrolase (EII) gene of Flavobacterium sp. KI72 was analyzed by Northern hybridization and S1 mapping. Fairly long mRNAs (7 and 9 kb) were identified as products of EII transcription. Transcription was initiated near the promoter-like region 6.0 kb upstream from the EII structural gene.
We have previously isolated a monoclonal antibody, designated as 1-3-1, specific for tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA). We have shown that t-PA dissociates from 1-3-1 in the presence of the lysine analogue 6-aminohexanoic acid (6-AHA). Here we describe a method for the one-step immunoaffinity purification of t-PA from conditioned melanoma cell medium, using 1-3-1 immobilised on Sepharose under mild elution conditions, favourable for t-PA. The yield of t-PA (antigen or total protein) from a 1-3-1-Sepharose column, when eluted using a buffer supplemented with 0.2 M 6-AHA at neutral pH, was as effective as other buffers that involve a strong pH-change, i.e., pH 2-3. However, the enzymatic activity of the t-PA purified with 6-AHA was 25 to 30% higher, as compared with t-PA eluted using a pH change. This resulted in a markedly higher specific activity of t-PA purified with 0.2 M 6-AHA, as compared with t-PA purified using a strong pH-change. The purity of t-PA, purified using the present method, was very high, as determined by gel electrophoresis. An additional advantage of the present procedure is that the mild elution conditions prolong the column life.
A series of strategically designed recombinant (r) mutants of the kringle 1 region of human plasminogen ([K1HPg]) have been constructed and the resulting gene products employed to reveal the identities of the residues that contribute to stabilization of the binding of omega-amino acid ligands to this domain. On the basis of determinations of the binding constants of the ligands, 6-aminohexanoic acid and trans-4-(aminomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylic acid, to a variety of these mutants, we find that the anionic site of the polypeptide responsible for stabilization of the amino group of the ligands consists of both D54 and D56 and the cationic site of the polypeptide that interacts with the carboxylate group of the ligand is composed solely of R70. The main hydrophobic interactions that stabilize binding of these ligands, likely by interactions with the ligand hydrophobic regions, are principally due to W61, Y63, and Y71. The results obtained are consistent with conclusions that could be made from analysis of the X-ray crystal structure of r-[K1HPg] and from previous studies from this laboratory regarding the binding of ligands of this type to the kringle 2 region of tissue-type plasminogen activator ([K2tPA]). It thus appears as though a common ligand binding site has evolved in different kringles with ligand specificity differences between r-[K2tPA] and r-[K1HPg] perhaps explainable by the different nature of the cationic sites on these polypeptides that are involved in coordination to the ligand carboxylate groups.
