The protecting-group-induced highly regio- and enantioselective syntheses of dicyclopropanated building blocks starting from microbially produced trans-2,3-dihydroxy-2,3-dihydrobenzoic acid are described. Key to the success was a two-step cycloaddition―photolysis sequence for the second cyclopropanation. The structure of the unexpected inverse [3+2]-cycloaddition product of the 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition was verified.
Abstract p - rmAminophenylalanine is biosynthesized in Vigna vexillata (L.) A. Rich. from shikimic acid through a pathway different from that giving phenylalanine and tyrosine. Experiments with 1,6- 14 C-labelled shikimic acid demonstrate that the C 3 -side chain in p -aminophenylalanine is attached to the original C-1 in shikimic acid. The biosynthesis of p -aminophenylalanine in Vigna vexillata probably follows the same pathway as the biosynthesis of this amino acid in Streptomyces species where it is known to be an intermediate in the biosynthesis of chloramphenicol. It is proposed that the biosynthesis takes place through chorismic acid, 4-amino-3-enolpyruvylcyclohexa-1,5-dienecarboxylic acid, 3-(4-amino-1-carboxycyclohexa-2,5-dienyl)pyruvic acid, and 4′-aminophenyl-pyruvic acid. It is proposed that chorismic acid can gave rise to 4-amino-3-enolpyruvyl-cyclohexa-1, 5-dienacarboxylic acid, 2-amino-3-enolpyruvylcyclohexa-4,6-dienecarboxylic acid, and isochorismic acid, and that these three compounds and chorismic acid itself by simple rearrangements and elimination reactions can give rise to most known chorismic acid derivatives, i.e. p -hyrroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxy-3,4-dihydrobenzoic acid, phenylalanine, tyrosine, p -aminobenzoic acid, p -aminophenylalanine, anthranilic acid, 2-amino-3-hydroxy-2, 3-hydroxy-2,3-dihydrobenzoic 3-(3-carboxyphenyl)alanine, 3-(3-carboxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)-alanine, salicylic acid, and 2,3-dihydroxy-2,3-dihydrobenzoic acid.
Cyclohexadiene-trans-5,6-diols such as (S,S)-2,3-dihydroxy-2,3-dihydrobenzoic acid (2,3-trans-CHD) have been shown to be of importance as chiral starting materials for the syntheses of bioactive substances, especially for the syntheses of carbasugars. By using methods of metabolic-pathway engineering, the Escherichia coli genes entB and entC, which encode isochorismatase and isochorismate synthase, were cloned and over-expressed in E. coli strains with a deficiency of entA, which encodes 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate synthase. A 30-fold increase in the corresponding EntB/EntC enzyme activities affects the accumulation of 2,3-trans-CHD in the cultivation medium. Although the strains did not contain deletions in chorismate-utilising pathways towards aromatic amino acids, neither chorismate nor any other metabolic intermediates were found as by-products. Fermentation of these strains in a 30 L pH-controlled stirred tank reactor showed that 2,3-trans-CHD could be obtained in concentrations of up to 4.6 g L(-1). This demonstrates that post-chorismate metabolites are accessible on a preparative scale by using techniques of metabolic-pathway engineering. Isolation and separation from fermentation salts could be performed economically in one step through anion-exchange chromatography or, alternatively, by reactive extraction. Starting from 2,3-trans-CHD as an example, we established short syntheses towards new carbasugar derivatives.
A new synthesis of ent-senepoxide and iso-crotepoxide starting from microbially produced(+)-trans-2,3-dihydroxy-2,3-dihydrobenzoic acid via regio- and stereoselective epoxidation is described.
A new synthesis of ent-senepoxide and iso-crotepoxide starting from microbially produced (+)-trans-2,3-dihydroxy-2,3-dihydrobenzoic acid via regio-and stereoselective epoxidation is described.
