The success of arsenic trioxide in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia has renewed interest in the cellular targets of As(III) species. The effects of arsenicals are usually attributed to their ability to bind vicinal thiols or thiol selenols in prefolded proteins thereby compromising cellular function. The present studies suggest an additional, more pleiotropic, contribution to the biological effects of arsenicals. As(III) species, by avid coordination to the cysteine residues of unfolded reduced proteins, can compromise protein folding pathways. Three representative As(III) compounds (arsenite, monomethylarsenous acid (MMA), and an aryl arsenical (PSAO)) have been tested with three reduced secreted proteins (lysozyme, ribonuclease A, and riboflavin binding protein (RfBP)). Using absorbance, fluorescence, and pre-steady-state methods, we show that arsenicals bind tightly to low micromolar concentrations of these unfolded proteins with stoichiometries of 1 As(III) per 2 thiols for MMA and PSAO and 1 As(III) for every 3 thiols with arsenite. Arsenicals, at 10 microM, strongly disrupt the oxidative folding of RfBP even in the presence of 5 mM reduced glutathione, a competing ligand for As(III) species. MMA catalyzes the formation of amyloid-like monodisperse fibrils using reduced RNase. These in vitro data show that As(III) species can slow, or even derail, protein folding pathways. In vivo, the propensity of As(III) species to bind to unfolded cysteine-containing proteins may contribute to oxidative and protein folding stresses that are prominent features of the cellular response to arsenic exposure.
The oxidation of arsenous acid by 12-tungstocobaltate(III) ion, [CoIIIW]5–, studied in perchloric acid solution at constant ionic strength (1.0 mol dm–3), can be expressed by the rate equation (i) where k and k1kobs= 2(k+k1Ka[H+]–1)[H3AsO3](i) are the rate constants for reaction paths involving As(OH)3 and [AsO(OH)2]– and Ka is the ionisation constant of arsenous acid. The activation parameters for the two paths are evaluated. Based on a rapid-scan spectrum of the reaction mixture, the formation of an intermediate between [MCoIIIW]4– and [AsO(OH)2]– in equilibrium prior to its rate-limiting decomposition is suggested where [MCoIIIW]4– is an ion pair between [CoIIIW]5– and alkali-metal ion M+(Li+, Na+ or K+). The rate is accelerated by alkali-metal ions in the order K+ > Na+ > Li+. The equilibrium constant for the ion-pair formation between M+ and [CoIIIW]5– is also evaluated.
Abstract Arsenic species, including arsenous acid, arsenic acid, methylarsonic acid, and dimethylarsinic acid, were determined using HPLC–ICPMS. The species were separated with a Discovery HS F5 column and a simple, volatile, and isocratic mobile phase of 0.1% (v/v) formic acid and 1% (v/v) methanol. The Discovery HS F5 column with a pentafluorophenyl (PFP) stationary phase gave sharp peaks and full separation of the arsenic species in 5 min, and other PFP columns showed lower performance. This separation method was applied to arsenic species analysis in rice. The extraction of arsenic from rice samples was performed using 0.15 M nitric acid. The methodology was validated by use of certified reference materials, NMIJ CRM 7503-a and NIST SRM 1568a, and extremely low arsenic rice samples as blank samples.
We investigate the consequences of delay in the iodate-arsenous acid reaction under the influence of an electric field at a constant current density. Using the charge balance condition, we show how the electric field may induce an intrinsic delay in the system, which gives rise to instability. The different instability regions in the appropriate parameter space are examined. We show how the delay incites an absolute instability in a system otherwise displaying varied wave-front characteristics, viz., convective and absolute instabilities and also stationary patterns.
The main goal of this study was to evaluate how faithful arsenic (As) has been preserved in ombrotrophic peat bogs from Finland. The changing rates of atmospheric As deposition have been reconstructed using peat cores from three Finnish bogs: Harjavalta (Har), nearby a Copper (Cu) - Nickel (Ni) smelter, Outokumpu (Out), near a famous Cu-Ni mine, and a peat bog at Hietajarvi (Hie) which is remote from industrial activity. To study the preservation of As within these cores, firstly several new accurate and sensitive analytical procedures for the reliable and direct determination of As in nitric acid digests of ombrotrophic peat samples at low ng l-1 concentrations, namely hydride generation – atomic absorption spectrometry (HG-AAS), hydride generation – atomic fluorescence spectrometry (HG-AFS) and inductively coupled plasma – sector field – mass spectrometry (ICP-SF-MS) were developed. The analytical procedures were critically evaluated by analysing several certified plant and peat reference materials. Results for the determination of As in selected peat samples highly correlated underpinning the accuracy of all adopted analytical protocols (HG-AAS, HG-AFS, ICP-SF-MS). Secondly, chronologies of atmospheric As accumulation in these cores were compared with historical records of industrialisation. Comparison of anthropogenic and natural As and Pb concentrations showed that anthropogenic As and Pb decreased from ~1000 AD onwards (coal burning) and that additionally the As concentration profiles reflected the atmospheric deposition history of the mining and smelting sites (Out, Har). As an independent check of the retention of As by the peat cores, As was also determined in the pore waters using ICP-SF-MS. Only 0.02% to 0.05% of the total As concentrations were present in the pore waters, further suggesting that As is well retained in ombrotrophic peat bogs. As a further check on the preservation of As by the peat cores and to mimic the leaching ability of the natural pore fluids of the peat which are derived exclusively from rainwater, As was extracted from fresh Finnish peat samples using water and the predominant As species were determined using anion-exchange HPLC-ICP-SF-MS. Extraction yields (0.7% to 12% of the total As concentrations) were low. All water extracts from the Finnish peat samples contained arsenic acid, and arsenous acid was present in all but two Finnish peat samples. Dimethylarsinic acid was the dominant organic arsenic species. The low extraction yields together with the low As concentrations in the pore waters indicate, that the arsenic species may react with their functional groups (onium centers, hydroxyl groups, doubly bonded oxygen atoms) and thus become preserved in peat bogs.
The complex [Cp′′₂Zr(CO)₂] (Cp′′ = C₅H₃tBu₂) was used to transform the nortricyclane type cage compounds E₄Q₃ (E = P, Q = S, Se; E = As, Q = S) resulting in unprecedented complexes [(Cp′′₂Zr)₂(μ,η¹:¹:¹:¹-E₂Q₄)] possessing bridging ligands that represent the anions of the so far unknown tetrachalcogenohypodiphosphorous acid (HQ)₂PP(QH)₂ and tetrathiohypodiarsenous acid (HS)₂AsAs(SH)₂, respectively.
A modification of the fluorimetric method for the determination of adrenaline and noradrenaline in pharmaceutical solutions is described. In this method sulphite present is destroyed with iodine, the added excess of which is reduced with arsenous acid, a manipulation which does not affect the fluorescence obtainable.
Abstract This paper presents a method for the determination of methylarsenous acid which is converted into gaseous methylarsine by adding a sodium tetrahydroborate(III) solution. The generated arsine is collected in a liquid nitrogen cryogenic trap. This is revolatilized and driven to the quartz flow cell and measured by gas phase molecular absorption spectrometry with diode array detection. The spectra obtained over a wide range of wavelengths allows multivariate calibration. The parameters affecting the production and collection of the arsines are studied. The detection limit, (6 × SD of blank) = 2.8 ng ml −1 and the relative standard deviation ( n = 10) at 28 ng ml −1 was 5.3%. An interference study is made.
BackgroundNod26-like intrinsic proteins (NIPs) that belong to the aquaporin superfamily are unique to plants. According to homology modeling and phylogenetic analysis, the NIP subfamily can be further divided into three subgroups with distinct biological functions (NIP I, NIP II, and NIP III). In some grasses, the NIP III subgroup proteins (NIP2s) were demonstrated to be permeable to solutes with larger diameter, such as silicic acid and arsenous acids. However, to date there is no data-mining or direct experimental evidences for the permeability of such larger solutes for dicot NIP2s, although they exhibit similar three-dimensional structures as those in grasses. It is therefore intriguing to investigate the molecular mechanisms that drive the evolution of plant NIP2s.ResultsThe NIP III subgroup is more ancient with a divergence time that predates the monocot-dicot split. The proliferation of NIP2 genes in modern grass species is primarily attributed to whole genome and segmental chromosomal duplication events. The structure of NIP2 genes is relatively conserved, possessing five exons and four introns. All NIP2s possess an ar/R filter consisting of G, S, G, and R, except for the cucumber CsNIP2;2, where a small G in the H2 is substituted with the bulkier C residue. Our maximum likelihood analysis revealed that NIP2s, especially the loop A (LA) region, have undergone strong selective pressure for adaptive evolution. The analysis at the amino acid level provided strong statistical evidences for the functional divergence between monocot and dicot NIP III subgroup proteins. In addition, several SDPs (Specificity Determining Positions) responsible for functional specificity were predicted.ConclusionsThe present study provides the first evidences of functional divergence between dicot and monocot NIP2s, and suggests that positive selection, as well as a radical shift of evolutionary rate at some critical amino acid sites is the primary driver. These findings will expand our understanding to evolutionary mechanisms driving the functional diversification of monocot and dicot NIP III subgroup proteins.
We report experimental observations of the convection-driven fingering instability of an iodate-arsenous acid chemical reaction front. The front propagated upward in a vertical slab; the thickness of the slab was varied to control the degree of instability. We observed the onset and subsequent nonlinear evolution of the fingers, which were made visible by a pH indicator. We measured the spacing of the fingers during their initial stages and compared this to the wavelength of the fastest growing linear mode predicted by the stability analysis of Huang et al. [Phys. Rev. E 48, 4378 (1993), and unpublished]. We find agreement with the thickness dependence predicted by the theory. \textcopyright{} 1996 The American Physical Society.
The convection-induced increase of the wave front velocity in the iodate-arsenous acid system can be explained by considering the convective flow velocity caused by the density gradient in the reaction front. The density is decreased by the exothermicity of the reaction and by the positive volume change of the reaction. Because both effects decrease the density, no complicated mcchunisni wch as double-diffusive convection need be invoked. The wave front velocity may be considered as a superposition ora fluid flow velocity on a reaction-diffusion velocity. We provide a qualitative description of the upward and downward propagating Cronia and make predictions of changes in the shape of the upward front at different tube radii. We calculate the incrcasc in front vclocity for ascending fronts using results from experiments on flames in vertical tubes. We also calculate the incrcax in front vclocity for waves in a horizontal tube using an asymptotic solution for the fluid velocity in a differentially heated cylinder.
Background: Nod26-like intrinsic proteins (NIPs) that belong to the aquaporin superfamily are unique to plants. According to homology modeling and phylogenetic analysis, the NIP subfamily can be further divided into three subgroups with distinct biological functions (NIP I, NIP II, and NIP III). In some grasses, the NIP III subgroup proteins (NIP2s) were demonstrated to be permeable to solutes with larger diameter, such as silicic acid and arsenous acids. However, to date there is no data-mining or direct experimental evidences for the permeability of such larger solutes for dicot NIP2s, although they exhibit similar three-dimensional structures as those in grasses. It is therefore intriguing to investigate the molecular mechanisms that drive the evolution of plant NIP2s.
We report experimental observations of the convection-driven fingering instability of an iodate-arsenous acid chemical reaction front. The front propagated upward in a vertical slab; the thickness of the slab was varied to control the degree of instability. We observed the onset and subsequent nonlinear evolution of the fingers, which were made visible by a pH indicator. We measured the spacing of the fingers during their initial stages and compared this to the wavelength of the fastest growing linear mode predicted by the stability analysis of Huang et. al. [Phys. Rev. E, 48, 4378 (1993), and unpublished].
Hydrodynamic instability arising in horizontally propagating vertical chemical fronts leading to the formation of a single stable convection roll is investigated experimentally in the iodate–arsenous acid reaction for various stoichiometry. In the presence of a free surface, the tilted reaction front becomes more elongated due to the evaporation of the surface active iodine and the decrease in the surface tension during the reaction. The experimental conditions are then identified where Marangoni instability represents the driving force for the distortion of the reaction front at the surface.
Abstract The feasibility of simultaneous speciation of arsenic and selenium compounds after ion chromatographic separation was investigated using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) as multielement specific detector. Separation conditions were optimized. Under the optimized conditions, six arsenic species: arsenous acid [As (III)], methylarsonic acid (MA), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), arsenic acid [As(V)], arsenobetaine (AsB), arsenocholine (AsC), and four selenium species: selenous acid [Se(IV)], trimethylselenonium cation (TMSe+), selenocystine (SeCys), selenomethionine (SeMet), can be separated in the same injection within 8 minutes and determined at environmental concentration levels. The detection limits are estimated in the range of 0.04–0.6 μg/L for arsenic compounds and 0.18–0.35 μg/L for selenium compounds.
The study population consisted of 6677 U.S. adults (≥20yr) in the 2003-2010 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), who were randomly selected for urine arsenic analysis. Arsenic species were separated using high performance liquid chromatography. Because inorganic arsenic, i.e., arsenous acid and arsenic acid, had low detection rates (<5%), we derived inorganic arsenic excretion by subtracting most abundant organic arsenic, i.e., arsenobetaine, from the total arsenic concentration (4). We calculated average white rice and brown rice intake of these two nonconsecutive 24-hour recalls. The first recall was done during the in-person interview, and the second recall was conducted through a telephone interview 3-10 days later (5). In statistical analysis, we log-transformed excretion of arsenic and used generalized linear models to compare the urinary arsenic concentration in white-rice and brown-rice eaters. We took into account the sampling weights specifically for participants included in the arsenic assessments. We used SAS 9.3 (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC) to perform statistical analysis.
CE with indirect UV and mass-spectrometric detection was used for the simultaneous determination of arsenic acid (As(\/)), arsenous acid (As(lll)), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO), tetramethylarsonium ion (TMA + ), arsenobetaine (AB), and arsenocholine (AC). In the CE-indirect UV analysis, a baseline separation of arsenic species was successfully achieved by using a basic background solution (BGS) for anions and an acidic BGS for cations, respectively. The LOD values in CE-indirect UV for the individual analytes were 7.8, 12.5, 7.8, 12.5, 62.5, 125, 250, and 62.5 ppm, respectively. To achieve sensitive and selective analysis, CE coupled with ESI-MS was applied to the determination of arsenic compounds. The organic arsenic species were successfully separated with a higher sensitivity by CE-MS using the acidic BGS. The LODs in CE-MS for MMA, DMA, TMAO, TMA + , AB, and AC were 1.0, 0.1, 0.01, 0.1, 0.01, and 0.01 ppm, respectively. In contrast, the analysis of inorganic arsenic species (As(V) and As(lll)) resulted in a lower detectability in CE-MS compared to that obtained with the CE-indirect UV analysis. However, the speciation of eight arsenics by CE-MS was successfully achieved in a single run by switching the ESI polarity during MS detection.
Abstract Background Very few studies exist on urinary arsenic exposure in Spain. Objective To evaluate total and speciated urinary arsenic (As) levels in a Spanish population sample. Methods Demographic, lifestyle and dietary data was collected for 124 volunteers (aged 20–76 years; 88 women and 36 men), who were tested for total arsenic and five arsenic species using high-performance liquid chromatography-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. Results Arsenobetaine (AB) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) were detected in 96.8% of the study participants (limit of detection (LOD) 1.0 μg/L for AB and 1.9 μg/L for DMA). Monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) and arsenous acid (As(III)) were detected in 5.6% (LOD 1.8 μg/L) and 1.6% (LOD 1.4 μg/L) of the participants, respectively; arsenic acid (As(V)) was not detected (LOD 1.4 μg/L). AB and DMA (geometric mean (GM) 29.1 μg/L and 7.5 μg/L, respectively) were the main contributors to total urinary arsenic levels. Urinary DMA was positively associated with AB. Conclusion Total arsenic levels observed in the Spanish population sample were higher than those reported by other European studies. The most recurrent urinary arsenic species was AB, followed by DMA, probably attributable to the high Spanish consumption of seafood. We recommend using inorganic As + MMA as the two main urinary biomarkers for inorganic As exposure. Our results provide reference data for analysing arsenic speciation results and assessing human exposure.
The aqueous solutions of arsenous acid with the meso and racemic forms of 1,4-dithiol-butane-2,3-diol, namely, dithioerythritol (dte) and dithiothreitol (dtt), respectively, were titrated pH-metrically in different molar ratios. The p K a values determined for As(OH) 3, and dtt were in good accordance with the literature data, and we determined for the first time the p K a value of dte. The deprotonation steps of both M (As(OH) 3 considered as a central metal ion) and H 2L components dte and dtt (considered as ligands) appeared at a higher pH in the titration curves of the ternary systems (M, H 2L, H (+)) than in the individual component. This unusual observation is explained by the condensation reactions between the reagents taking place in the pH < 8 range. In the solutions of c As(III) > 5.10 (-3) M, the precipitate formed upon mixing the arsenous acid and H 2L solutions in neutral medium, and the formation of the precipitate shifted toward acidic pH on the increase of the total concentrations. This indicated that pH-metry can follow the reactions only in an indirect way. Useful, but not satisfactory, information can be obtained by means of this method alone. Combined with NMR and UV spectroscopic measurements it is revealed that depending on the As(III)/H 2L molar ratio, different complexes form in the solutions. In the species with 1:2 composition, one of the ligands is strongly bound to the arsenic(III) probably via its two thiolate, while the second one is attached only weakly. The crystal structure of an As(III)-dte crystal of 1:1 composition, grown from ethanolic solution, shows that As(III) binds the ligand through its three p-orbitals in a manner similar to that expected in aqueous solution. While the uptake of the second ligand cannot be detected by pH-metry, the decomposition of thioether bonds above pH approximately 10 is confirmed by the change in UV spectra at approximately 265 nm to be a base-consuming process. In such alkaline solutions, most probably, rearrangement of the bonding scheme occurs, resulting in ligands being bound to the arsenic(III) through the oxygen donor atoms.
Abstract Arsenic metabolism in living organisms is dependent on the ability of different arsenic species to traverse biological membranes. Simple diffusion provides an alternative influx and efflux route to mediated transport mechanisms that can increase the amount of arsenic available for metabolism in cells. Using octanol–water and liposome–water partition coefficients, the ability of arsenous acid, arsenate, methylarsonate, dimethylarsinate, thio-methylarsonate, thio-dimethylarsinic acid, arsenotriglutathione and monomethylarsonic diglutathione to diffuse through the lipid bilayer of cell membranes was investigated. Molecular modelling of arsenic species was used to explain the results. All arsenic species with the exception of arsenate, methylarsonate and thio-methylarsonate were able to diffuse through the lipid bilayer of liposomes, with liposome–water partition coefficients between 0.04 and 0.13. Trivalent arsenic species and thio-pentavalent arsenic species showed higher partition coefficients, suggesting that they can easily traverse cell membranes by passive simple diffusion. Given the higher toxicity of these species compared to oxo-pentavalent arsenic species, this study provides evidence supporting the risk associated with human exposure to trivalent and thio-arsenic species.
Two lichens and 12 green plants growing at a former arsenic roasting facility in Austria were analyzed for total arsenic by ICP–MS, and for 12 arsenic compounds (arsenous acid, arsenic acid, dimethylarsinic acid, methylarsonic acid, arsenobetaine, arsenocholine, trimethylarsine oxide, the tetramethylarsonium cation and four arsenoriboses) by HPLC–ICP–MS. Total arsenic concentrations were in the range of 0.27 mg As (kg dry mass)−1 (Vaccinium vitis idaea) to 8.45 mg As (kg dry mass)−1 (Equisetum pratense). Arsenic compounds were extracted with two different extractants [water or methanol/water (9:1)]. Extraction yields achieved with water [7% (Alectoria ochroleuca) to 71% (Equisetum pratense)] were higher than those with methanol/water (9:1) [4% (Alectoria ochroleuca) to 22% (Deschampsia cespitosa)]. The differences were caused mainly by better extraction of inorganic arsenic (green plants) and an arsenoribose (lichens) by water. Inorganic arsenic was detected in all extracts. Dimethylarsinic acid was identified in nine green plants. One of the lichens (Alectoria ochroleuca) contained traces of methylarsonic acid, and this compound was also detected in nine of the green plants. Arsenobetaine was a major arsenic compound in extracts of the lichens, but except for traces in the grass Deschampsia cespitosa, it was not detected in the green plants. In contrast to arsenobetaine, trimethylarsine oxide was found in all samples. The tetramethylarsonium cation was identified in the lichen Alectoria ochroleuca and in four green plants. With the exception of the needles of the tree Larix decidua the arsenoribose (2′R)-dimethyl[1-O-(2′,3′-dihydroxypropyl)-5-deoxy-β-D-ribofuranos-5-yl]arsine oxide was identified at the low μg kg−1 level or as a trace in all plants investigated. In the lichens an unknown arsenic compound, which did not match any of the standard compounds available, was also detected. Arsenocholine and three of the arsenoriboses were not detected in the samples. Copyright © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Reactions occurring at ferric oxyhydroxide surfaces play an important role in controlling arsenic bioavailability and mobility in natural aqueous systems. However, the mechanism by which arsenite and arsenate complex with ferrihydrite (Fh) surfaces is not fully understood and although there is clear evidence for inner sphere complexation, the nature of the surface complexes is uncertain. In this work, we have used periodic density functional theory calculations to predict the relative energies, geometries and properties of arsenous acid (H3AsO3) and arsenic acid (H3AsO4), the most prevalent form of As(III) and As(V), respectively, adsorbed on Fh(110) surface at intermediate and high pH conditions. Bidentate binuclear (BB(Fe–O)) corner-sharing complexes are shown to be energetically favoured over monodentate mononuclear complexes (MM(Fe–O)) for both arsenic species. The inclusion of solvation effects by introducing water molecules explicitly near the adsorbing H3AsO3 and H3AsO4 species was found to increase their stability on the Fh surface. The adsorption process is shown to be characterized by hybridization between the interacting surface Fe-d states and the O and As p-states of the adsorbates. Vibrational frequency assignments of the As–O and O–H stretching modes of the adsorbed arsenic species are also presented.
We study the effect of Marangoni flow on a dynamic contact line formed by a propagating reaction front and a liquid–air interface. The self-sustained iodate–arsenous acid reaction maintains the production of the weakly surface active iodine leading to an unbalanced surface force along the tip of the reaction front. The experiments, performed in microgravity to exclude the contribution of buoyancy, reveal that the fluid flow generated by the surface tension gradient is localized to the contact line. The penetration depth of the surface stress is measured as 1–2 mm; therefore, with greater fluid height the liquid advancement on the upper surface does not lead to enhanced mixing in the bulk. Because the propagation velocity of the reactive interface remains at that of reaction–diffusion, the leading edge consists of two straight lines; a tilted segment connects the contact line on the surface with the vertical segment on bottom. Modeling calculations of the reaction–diffusion–advection system in three dimens...
The study involves the analysis of total arsenic (As) in metallic form, and organic and inorganic As species from seaweeds and dietary supplements. The analysis provides data for dietary exposure estimates of inorganic species that are considered more toxic to humans than organic and total As. Total As was determined by acid digestion followed by inductively coupled plasma (ICP)-MS. To characterize the As species, solvent extraction with sonication and microwave extraction using various aqueous and aqueous/organic solvent mixtures were initially evaluated. The optimum As speciation method was determined to be water extraction followed by anion exchange HPLC coupled with ICP-MS. Optimization of chromatographic conditions led to baseline separation for six As species, including As acid, arsenous acid, monomethylarsonic acid, dimethylarsinic acid, arsenobetaine, and arsenocholine, in approximately 8 min using gradient elution. Detection limits for all six compounds were in the range of 10-15 ng/mL. The data presented here will be valuable for the QA of analytical method development and surveys of total As and As species in dietary supplements. The most abundant As species found were arsenite [As(III)] and arsenate [As(V)]. The sum of inorganic As species present in the dietary supplements ranged from 1.2 to 31 μg/day. In addition, the dietary supplements purported to contain fucoxanthin, a carotenoid having pharmacological activities, were analyzed using ultra-performance LC-UV/MS.
HPLC-ICP-MS, employing a silica-based LC-SCX cation-exchange column, styrene-divinylbenzene copolymer-based PRP-X100 anion exchange column, an ODS reversed-phase and gel-permeation (polyvinyl alcohol-based resin) GS-220 columns, has been used for the separation, identification, and quantification of arsenic compounds, particularly arsenobetaine (AB), present in NIES candidate certified reference material (CRM) no. 18 human urine. AB is the predominant arsenic species, followed by dimethylarsinic acid, methylarsonic acid and arsenic acid. The peak of each arsenic compound has been validated by spiking of the authentic standard solution to the urine sample and by using the above chromatographic systems. The high concentration of chloride that co-elutes with the arsenic acid from the LC-SCX and with the AB from the GS-220 columns has interfered with the ion signals of arsenic acid and AB, by forming the molecular ions 40 Ar 35 Cl and 38 Ar 37 Cl + in the plasma. Thus, the concentration of AB has been carefully estimated on the GS-220 after extracting the chloride interference ( 37 Cl: 35 Cl = 1:3.1271) by measuring the 40 Ar 37 Cl + . The peak of AB overlapped with the peak of arsenous acid and hindered the estimation of AB on the ODS and PRP-X100 columns. But AB has been baseline separated from the other arsenic compounds and also from the chloride with 20 mM pyridine at pH 2.60 on the LC-SCX. So, the LC-SCX column has been proven and used for the determination of AB in NIES candidate CRM no. 18 human urine. The concentrations of AB, estimated by the standard addition method and found using the LC-SCX and GS-220 columns, are 70.5 ± 5.5 (n = 20) and 71.5 ± 4 μgl -1 (n = 9). The concentration of AB thus found has been applied as the baseline value for the collaborative study to certify the AB in the NIES candidate CRM no. 18 human urine.
Reactions occurring at ferric oxyhydroxide surfaces play an important role in controlling arsenic bioavailability and mobility in natural aqueous systems. However, the mechanism by which arsenite and arsenate complexes with ferrihydrite (Fh) surfaces is not fully understood and although there is clear evidence for inner sphere complexation, the nature of the surface complexes is uncertain. In this work, we have used periodic density functional theory calculations to predict the relative energies, geometries and properties of arsenous acid (H3AsO3) and arsenic acid (H3AsO4), the most prevalent form of As(III) and As(V), respectively, adsorbed on Fh (110) 
The entropy-driven affinity of trivalent (in)organic arsenicals for closely spaced dithiols has been exploited to develop a novel route to peptide/protein-polymer conjugation. A trivalent arsenous acid (As(III)) derivative (1) obtained from p-arsanilic acid (As(V)) was shown to readily undergo conjugation to the therapeutic peptide salmon calcitonin (sCT) via bridging of the Cys(1)-Cys(7) disulfide, which was verified by RP-HPLC and MALDI-ToF-MS. Conjugation was shown to proceed rapidly (t < 2 min) in situ and stoichiometrically through sequential reduction-conjugation protocols, therefore exhibiting conjugation efficiencies equivalent to those reported for the current leading disulfide-bond targeting strategies. Furthermore, using bovine serum albumin as a model protein, the trivalent organic arsenical 1 was found to demonstrate enhanced specificity for disulfide-bond bridging in the presence of free cysteine residues relative to established maleimide functional reagents. This specificity represents a shift toward potential orthogonality, by clearly distinguishing between the reactivity of mono- and disulfide-derived (vicinal or neighbors-through-space) dithiols. Finally, p-arsanilic acid was transformed into an initiator for aqueous single electron-transfer living radical polymerization, allowing the synthesis of hydrophilic arsenic-functional polymers which were shown to exhibit negligible cytotoxicity relative to a small molecule organic arsenical, and an unfunctionalized polymer control. Poly(poly[ethylene glycol] methyl ether acrylate) (PPEGA480, DPn = 10, Mn,NMR = 4900 g·mol(-1), Đ = 1.07) possessing a pentavalent arsenic acid (As(V)) α-chain end was transformed into trivalent As(III) post-polymerization via initial reduction by biological reducing agent glutathione (GSH), followed by binding of GSH. Conjugation of the resulting As(III)-functional polymer to sCT was realized within 35 min as indicated by RP-HPLC and verified later by thermodynamically driven release of sCT, from the conjugate, in the presence of strong chelating reagent ethanedithiol.
Although it has been widely known that arsenic poses great threat to organisms and arsenic species account for the toxic effect of the metalloid, relatively little attention has been given to the arsenic toxicity to different organisms at different pH values. Three kinds of aquatic organisms including Photobacterium phosphoreum, Daphnia magna, and Danio rerio were used to study the effects of pH on the toxicity of arsenic. Toxicity test results were analyzed by calculating EC50 values and for arsenic species at five different pH values (5.0, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, and 9.0). As a result, As(III) is more toxic to the tested organisms than As(V), and P. phosphoreum was more sensitive to the toxicity of arsenic than D. magna and D. rerio. The toxicity of As(III) species is different for different organisms: dihydrogen arsenite, H2AsO3–, is more toxic to P. phosphoreum and D. rerio than arsenous acid, H3AsO3, while H3AsO3 is more toxic to D. magna. As for As(V), arsenate, HAsO42−, is the most toxic to P. phosphoreum, whereas dihydrogen arsenate, H2AsO4–, may be responsible for the toxicity to D. magna and D. rerio. As(III) and As(V) are more toxic to P. phosphoreum in an alkaline environment, while for D. magna in an acidic environment and As(III) is more toxic to D. rerio in an alkaline environment and As(V) in an acidic environment.
Total arsenic concentrations and the concentrations of individual arsenic compounds were determined in liver samples of pinnipeds [nine ringed seals (Phoca hispida), one bearded seal (Erginathus barbatus)] and cetaceans [two pilot whales (Globicephalus melas), one beluga whale (Deliphinapterus leucus)]. Total arsenic concentrations ranged from 0.167 to 2.40 mg As kg -1 wet mass. The arsenic compounds extracted from the liver samples with a methanol/water mixture (9:1, v/v) were identified and quantified by anion- and cation-exchange chromatography. An ICP-MS equipped with a hydraulic highpressure nebulizer served as the arsenic-specific detector. Arsenobetaine (0.052-1.67 mg As kg -1 wet mass) was the predominant arsenic compound in all the liver samples. Arsenocholine was present in all livers (0.005-0.044 mg As kg -1 wet mass). The tetramethylarsonium cation was detected in all pinnipeds (<0.009 to 0.043 mg Askg -1 ) but not in any of the cetaceans. The concentration of dimethylarsinic acid ranged from < 0.001 to 0.109mgAskg -1 wet mass. Most of the concentrations for methylarsonic acid (<0.001 to 0.025 mg As kg -1 wet mass) were below the detection limit. Arsenous acid and arsenic acid concentrations were below the detection limit of the method (0.001 mg As kg -1 ). An unknown arsenic compound was present in all liver samples at concentrations from 0.002-0.027 mg As kg -1 .
Arsenic as a cause of exfoliative dermatitis was recognized soon after the advent of arsenical preparations in the treatment for syphilis. It is the opinion of Throne, Van Dyck, Marples and Myers 1 that arsenic is either a contributing or an exciting cause in at least 30 per cent of all cases diagnosed as eczema. The sources of arsenic in exfoliative dermatitis due to arsenic poisoning are: medication, food contamination, absorption through the skin of susceptible persons and contact with the drug either in surroundings or through occupation. The industrial preparations containing arsenic are: arsenic trioxide (as 206), often called arsenous acid or white arsenic, which forms the basis of most of the industrial preparations; liquid or solid weed killers, wood preservers, sprays containing arsenic and arsenical sheep dips in solid or liquid preparations; fly paper, flykilling solution (arsenic trioxide), arsenical powders, pastes and various liquids for destroying insects and
The binding of arsenic to proteins plays an important role in various biological processes. 1 For example, the well-characterized arsenic resistance system in Escherichia coli R773 involves several proteins that bind to arsenic. 2 When arsenic enters the living prokaryotic cells, the resistance system in the cells utilizes several specific proteins, such as ArsA, ArsB, and ArsC (a reductase), to enhance arsenic efflux. 3 These proteins act through their cysteine thiolates, which have the ability to bind to arsenic. Fig. 1 presents a typical coordination of arsenic with E. coli ArsA ATPase. The oxidation states of arsenic include À3 in AsH 3 , 0 in elemental arsenic, +2 in As 4 S 4 , +3 in arsenous acid, and +5 in arsenic acid. Although most of the more than 50 arsenic compounds encountered in the environment are known to be pentavalent arsenicals, trivalent arsenicals are the main focus of this review because trivalent arsenicals have a high affinity for thiols. It is the interaction between thiols and the trivalent arsenicals that gives rise to arsenic binding to proteins. The amino acid cysteine is the only source of thiol groups in proteins, and is the main binding site for trivalent arsenicals.
The influence of pressure on the dissociation of arsenous acid H3AsO3 was studied at 298.15 K by the potentiometric method. In the pressure interval from 0.1 to 100 MPa the values of logK 1 o = −9.32 + 0.00246P. The change in the molar volume of the reaction of the dissociation of H3AsO3 from the first step (ΔV 1 o = −15.4 ± 1 cm3/mol) and the partial molar volume of its dissociation product, H2AsO 3 − (V o = 32.1 ± 1 cm3/mol) were determined.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO), dissolved in water as arsenous acid or inorganic arsenite (As(III)), is an effective chemotherapeutic agent against acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). It has been under investigation as a potential treatment for a variety of solid tumors although with much poorer efficacy than for APL. The toxicity of As(III) and its derivatives is a common concern that has limited its use. The objective of the current study was to develop a polymeric micelle drug delivery system for efficient and controlled delivery of trivalent arsenicals to solid tumor cells. A polymeric micelle-based drug delivery system can potentially extend the duration of drug circulation in blood, restrict access of encapsulated drug to normal tissues, achieve tumor targeted drug delivery, enhance drug accumulation in the tumor area, and trigger drug release at tumor sites if designed properly. These, in turn, can lead to an improved therapeutic index for the polymeric micellar formulation of arsenic species compared to their free form. Towards this goal, a biodegradable block copolymer with pendent thiol groups on the hydrophobic block, i.e., methoxy poly(ethylene oxide)-block-poly[α-(6-mecaptohexyl amino)carboxylate-ε-caprolactone] [PEO-b-P(CCLC6-SH)], was synthesized and used for conjugation of a trivalent arsenical, phenylarsine oxide (PAO), to free thiol groups on the polymer backbone. PAO-loaded micelles had refined size distribution with an average diameter of 150 nm as evidenced by dynamic light scattering (DLS) in water. Prepared polymeric micelles were characterized for the level of PAO conjugation using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The results showed 65% of total free thiols were conjugated to PAO providing an arsenic/polymer loading content of ~2.5 wt%. In vitro release study suggests prolonged release of PAO from its polymeric micellar carrier, which was accelerated in the presence of glutathione (GSH). Cytotoxicity studies against MDA-MB-435 cells show that the IC50 of PEO-b-P(CCLC6-S-PAO) is not significantly different from that of free PAO. The results indicate that PEO-b-P(CCLC6-SH) is a promising carrier for successful arsenic delivery for cancer therapy.
Objective To investigate the role of borneol in improving permeability of arsenic through blood brain barrier (BBB).Methods Male Wistar rats were treated with intragastric administration of borneol. After arsenous acid was injected via femoral artery, arsenic concentration in serum and brain were tested by atomic absorption spectrometer.Results Borneol can improve permeability of As2O3 through BBB.Conclusion Borneol is a promising useful adjuvant, which can improve permeability of drug through BBB, and accordingly provide a novel pathway to the treatment of certain central nervous system diseases.
Average concentrations of arsenic in the earth's crust reportedly range from 1.5 to 5 mg/kg. Higher concentrations are found in some igneous and sedimentary rocks, particularly in iron and manganese ores. Common minerals containing arsenic are shown in Table. Arsenopyrite, realgar, and orpiment are the most important of these minerals, and they are commonly present in the sulfide ores of other metals, including copper, lead, silver, and gold. Arsenic may be released from these ores to the soil, surface water, groundwater, and the atmosphere. ::: ::: ::: ::: Natural concentrations of arsenic in soil typically range from 0.1 to 40 mg/kg; an average concentration is 5 to 6 mg/kg. Arsenic can be released to ground or surface water by erosion, dissolution, and weathering. Geothermal waters can be sources of arsenic in groundwater. ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: arsenic; ::: As; ::: natural waters; ::: arsenic acid; ::: arsonate; ::: arsenous acid; ::: arsenite; ::: arsines; ::: methylarsonic acid; ::: dimethylarsinic acid; ::: geochemistry; ::: natural distribution; ::: regulation; ::: anthropogenic sources; ::: removal mechanisms
Poiseuille flow between parallel plates advects chemical reaction fronts, distorting them and altering their propagation velocities. Analytical solutions of the cubic reaction-diffusion-advection equation resolve the chemical concentration for narrow gaps, wide gaps, and small-amplitude flow. Numerical solutions supply a general description for fluid flow in the direction of propagation of the chemical reaction front, and for flow in the opposite direction. Empirical relations for the velocity agree with numerical solutions to within a few percent, and agree exactly with the analytical limits. Chemical waves generally alter the mass densities of the aqueous solutions through which they propagate. These density changes can lead to buoyancy-driven convection. When bounded by parallel no-slip plates, such convection has a local velocity profile which peaks at the gap center and is zero at the walls. Such nonuniform "Poiseuille" flow distorts chemical reaction fronts and alters their velocities of propagation. The purpose of the study is to investigate these effects using the Navier-Stokes equations and the cubic reaction-diffusion-advection equation pertinent to the iodate-arsenous acid reaction. In contrast with previous assumptions, the propagation velocity is found to exceed the sum of the velocity of a planar front in a static fluid and the average flow velocity. Velocity results preclude the need for the reaction-diffusionadvection equation in future studies of nonlinear fingering.
AQP9 is an aquaglyceroporin with a very broad substrate spectrum. In addition to its orthodox nutrient substrates, AQP9 also transports multiple neutral and ionic arsenic species including arsenic trioxide, monomethylarsenous acid (MAsIII) and dimethylarsenic acid (DMAV). Here we discovered a new group of AQP9 substrates which includes two clinical relevant selenium species. We showed that AQP9 efficiently transports monomethylselenic acid (MSeA) with a preference for acidic pH, which has been demonstrated in Xenopus laevis oocyte following the overexpression of human AQP9. Specific inhibitors that dissipate transmembrane proton potential or change the transmembrane pH gradient, such as FCCP, valinomycin and nigericin did not significantly inhibit MSeA uptake, suggesting MSeA transport is not proton coupled. AQP9 was also found to transport ionic selenite and lactate, with much less efficiency compared with MSeA uptake. Selenite and lactate uptake via AQP9 is pH dependent and inhibited by FCCP and nigericin, but not valinomycin. The selenite and lactate uptake via AQP9 can be inhibited by different lactate analogs, indicating that their translocation share similar mechanisms. AQP9 transport of MSeA, selenite and lactate is all inhibited by a previously identified AQP9 inhibitor, phloretin, and the AQP9 substrate arsenite (AsIII). These newly identified AQP9 selenium substrates imply that AQP9 play a significant role in MSeA uptake and possibly selenite uptake involved in cancer therapy under specific microenvironments.
Abstract Three milliliters of arsenous acid were effective in causing walleye to regurgitate their stomach contents into the throat. Determinations using fluorescent dye in the arsenous acid indicated that 80% of the solution was expelled during the first 5 minutes. Residual arsenic in the fish flesh was well below recommended safe levels. Three milliliters of tartar emetic caused projectile vomiting in largemouth bass. In identical situations, tartar emetic would be more effective than arsenous acid. Apomorphine was not as effective as tartar emetic or arsenous acid.
We have used the density functional theory to make a predictive toxicity model of water soluble arsenicals. The structures are optimized for the minimum energy of the Schrodinger equation. From this optimized structure, we obtain the bond distance and angles of the stable structures. We have calculated vibrational frequencies, Ionization potential, atomic charges, electrophilicity and electron affinity of those arsenicals. The calculated vibrational frequencies and other physical properties are compared with those found from the different experiment. The mode of vibrational frequencies, electrophilicity and atomic charges (Mulliken) calculated for MMA(III) , DMA(III) ,arsenic acid, arsenous acid, MMA(V) and DMA(V) that follows acute toxicity of those arsenicals in laboratory animals. Raman micro-spectroscopy might also be showed its potential applications in the toxicology screening of chemicals and new biomaterials, with a range of cell types. Applying the model one could predict toxicity level of unknown water soluble arsenicals in future. Keywords : DFT; Raman spectroscopy; toxicity; Water soluble arsenicals; LD 50 DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.3329/bjsir.v46i2.6052 Bangladesh J. Sci. Ind. Res. 46(2) , 177-182, 2011
We have used the density functional theory to make a predictive toxicity model of water soluble arsenicals. The structures are optimized for the minimum energy of the Schrödinger equation. From this optimized structure, we obtain the bond distance and angles of the stable structures. We have calculated vibrational frequencies, Ionization potential, atomic charges, electrophilicity and electron affinity of those arsenicals. The calculated vibrational frequencies and other physical properties are compared with those found from the different experiment. The mode of vibrational frequencies, electrophilicity and atomic charges (Mulliken) calculated for MMA(III) , DMA(III) ,arsenic acid, arsenous acid, MMA(V) and DMA(V) that follows acute toxicity of those arsenicals in laboratory animals. Raman micro-spectroscopy might also be showed its potential applications in the toxicology screening of chemicals and new biomaterials, with a range of cell types. Applying the model one could predict toxicity level of unknown water soluble arsenicals in future.
In the case of environment exposure, toxicologist is primarily concerned with arsenic in the trivalent and pentavalent oxidation state. Fig-1 shows the structure of several water soluble arsenicals of toxicological relevance. The more commonly known arsenic compounds, arsenate and arsenite are the anionic forms of arsenic acid and arsenous acid, respectively. Monomethylarsenic acid (MMA v ) and dimethylarsenic acid (DMA v ) are stable methylated mammalian metabolites of inorganic arsenic and are primarily exerted in the urine (ToxFAQs   TM   , 2007 ).
OBJECTIVE ::: To examine the growth-inhibitory, apoptosis- and necrosis-inducing effects of realgar nano-particles (RNP) in human chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line K562 and acute myeloid leukemia cell line HL-60, and to find out the chemical species with efficacy. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: A "solvent-relay" strategy was used for the preparation of RNP suspension. Cell viability was determined by MTT assay. Cell apoptosis and necrosis were characterized with Annexin V-PI double staining in association with flow cytometry and with morphological examination with Hoechst 33258 staining. Parallel experiments with arsenous acid (H3AsO3), the dominant form of arsenic trioxide in the solution, were conducted for comparison. ::: ::: ::: RESULT ::: The mean diameter of RNP was 159.0 nm. RNP showed growth-inhibitory effect on both cell lines. The double staining test indicated that RNP induced both apoptosis and necrosis, and this was further confirmed by morphological examination. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: RNP induced both apoptosis and necrosis in leukemia cell lines K562 and HL-60. Thioarsenite species with both As-O and As-S bonds may be the active intermediates in the RNP.
Compared with other cereal crops, paddy rice is about 10-fold more efficient at accumulating As (Williams et al., 2007) . This is caused by the mobilization of arsenite [As(III)] in flooded paddy soil (Xu et al., 2008) and the highly efficient uptake of As(III) by the silicon (Si) pathway in rice . Due to the similarity in the physiochemical properties between arsenous acid and silicic acid, the rice Si transporters Lsi1 and Lsi2 are able to transport As(III) as well . Lsi1 and Lsi2 act as the influx and efflux transporters, respectively, which are polarly localized on the distal and proximal sides of both exodermis and endodermis in rice roots and form a one-way transport system (Ma et al., , 2007 . This localization pattern facilitates the transport of the substrates such as Si(OH) 4 and As(III) through the Casparian band into the stele for xylem loading.
Traveling waves in an extended reactor, whose width cannot be neglected, represent a three-dimensional (3D) reaction-diffusion-convection system. We investigate the effects of buoyancy-driven convection in such a setting. The 3D waves traveled through horizontal layers of the iodate-arsenous acid (IAA) reaction solution containing excess of arsenous acid. The depth of the reaction solution was the examined parameter. An increase in the intensity of buoyancy-driven flow caused an increase of the traveling wave velocities. Convection distorted the front of the chemical waves. For layers deeper than h>13 mm, heat release became smaller than heat production causing the emergence of Rayleigh-Bénard convection cells. At the interface, a dependency of wave shape on solution depth was observed. For h<7 mm, the waves adopted a stable V-like shape, while for h>13 mm a parabolic shape dominated. For 7<h<13 mm, both shapes were realized with the same probability. Finally, an intermittent switch between stoichiometric regimes is observed as an unexpected effect of the buoyancy-driven convection. The switch is expressed by iodine enrichment in the product. Hence, the experiments demonstrate that the buoyancy-driven convective flow can cause long-lived, but nevertheless transient, changes in the chemical composition by inducing a local transition between different regimes of the IAA reaction.
Instabilities in propagating fronts of the iodate‐arsenous acid reaction are predicted by an empirical rate‐law model. The planar front loses stability when the ratio of the reactant diffusivity to the autocatalyst diffusivity exceeds a critical value. The relative diffusivities can be altered by introducing a reagent that reacts specifically with the autocatalyst to form an immobile complex. Experiments were carried out using a convection‐free gelled medium, loaded with reaction mixture containing complexing agent at different concentrations. Instabilities were found above a critical concentration, with the appearance of cellular fronts much like those predicted by the empirical rate‐law model.
We present a numerical analysis of solutal buoyancy effects on the shape and the velocity of autocatalytic reaction fronts, propagating in thin tilted rectangular channels. We use two-dimensional 2D lattice BathnagarGross-Krook BGK numerical simulations of gap-averaged equations for the flow and the concentration, namely a Stokes-Darcy equation coupled with an advection-diffusion-reaction equation. We do observe stationary-shaped fronts, spanning the width of the cell and propagating along the cell axis. We show that the model accounts rather well for experiments we performed using an Iodate Arsenous Acid reaction propagating in tilted Hele-Shaw cells, hence validating our 2D modelization of a three-dimensional problem. This modelization is also able to account for results found for another chemical reaction chlorite tetrathionate in a horizontal cell. In particular, we show that the shape and the traveling velocity of such fronts are linked with an eikonal equation. Moreover, we show that the front velocity varies nonmonotonically with the tilt of the cell, and nonlinearly with the width of the cell.
Plumes are typically formed when a continuous source of buoyancy is supplied at a localized source. We studied laminar plumes where buoyancy is supplied by an autocatalytic chemical reaction: The iodate-arsenous acid (IAA) reaction. The nonlinear kinetics of the IAA reaction produces a sharp propagating front at which buoyancy is produced by exothermicity and compositional change. When the reaction is initiated in an unconfined volume of reactant, a starting plume with a mushroom shaped head connected to the initiation point by a long conduit is formed. After the initial transient during the ascent of the head, we observed the emergence of a steady state in the conduit morphology and flow. Autocatalytic plumes were compared to nonreacting, compositionally buoyant plumes using the Gradient Echo Rapid Velocity and Acceleration Imaging Sequence (GERVAIS), an MRI velocimetric technique. Autocatalytic conduits had axisymmetric bimodal velocity profiles and cone-shaped morphologies, in contrast to the Gaussian profiles and cylindrical shapes of nonreacting conduits. The bimodal distribution for autocatalytic plumes is a consequence of the unique effect of entrainment in this system. Rather than the usual effect of entrainment in nonreacting plumes, where less buoyant fluid is incorporated into the plumes, entrainment in autocatalytic plumes provides a buoyancy flux along the entire conduit by means of chemical reaction, thereby delocalizing the buoyancy source.
Instabilities in propagating fronts of the iodate-arsenous acid reaction are predicted by an empirical rate-law model. The planar front loses stability when the ratio of the reactant diffusivity to the autocatalyst diffusivity exceeds a critical value. The relative diffusivities can be altered by introducing a reagent that reacts specifically with the autocatalyst to form an immobile complex. Experiments were carried out using a convection-free gelled medium, loaded with reaction mixture containing complexing agent at different concentrations. Instabilities were found above a critical concentration, with the appearance of cellular fronts much like those predicted by the empirical rate-law model.
We present a numerical analysis of solutal buoyancy effects on the shape and the velocity of autocatalytic reaction fronts, propagating in thin tilted rectangular channels. We use two-dimensional ͑2D͒ lattice BathnagarGross-Krook ͑BGK͒ numerical simulations of gap-averaged equations for the flow and the concentration, namely a Stokes-Darcy equation coupled with an advection-diffusion-reaction equation. We do observe stationary-shaped fronts, spanning the width of the cell and propagating along the cell axis. We show that the model accounts rather well for experiments we performed using an Iodate Arsenous Acid reaction propagating in tilted Hele-Shaw cells, hence validating our 2D modelization of a three-dimensional problem. This modelization is also able to account for results found for another chemical reaction ͑chlorite tetrathionate͒ in a horizontal cell. In particular, we show that the shape and the traveling velocity of such fronts are linked with an eikonal equation. Moreover, we show that the front velocity varies nonmonotonically with the tilt of the cell, and nonlinearly with the width of the cell.
Plumes are typically formed when a continuous source of buoyancy is supplied at a localized source. We studied laminar plumes where buoyancy is supplied by an autocatalytic chemical reaction: the iodate -arsenous acid (IAA) reaction. The nonlinear kinetics of the IAA reaction produces a sharp propagating front at which buoyancy is produced by exothermicity and compositional change. When the reaction is initiated in an unconfined volume of reactant, a starting plume with a mushroom shaped head connected to the initiation point by a long conduit is formed. After the initial transient during the ascent of the head, we observed the emergence of a steady state in the conduit morphology and flow. Autocatalytic plumes were compared to non-reacting, compositionally buoyant plumes using GERVAIS, an MRI velocimetric technique. Autocatalytic conduits had axisymmetric bimodal velocity profiles and cone-shaped morphologies, in contrast to the Gaussian profiles and cylindrical shapes of non-reacting conduits. The bimodal distribution for autocatalytic plumes is a consequence of the unique effect of entrainment in this system. Rather than the usual effect of entrainment in non-reacting plumes, where less buoyant fluid is incorporated into the plumes, entrainment in autocatalytic plumes provides a buoyancy flux along the entire conduit by means of chemical reaction, thereby delocalizing the buoyancy source.
1. ::: ::: The spectral characteristics of the dioxaarsolane ring were discussed. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The structure of the complete cyclic ethylene glycol ester of arsenous acid was refined. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Signs of different stress of the dioxaphospholane and dioxaarsolane rings were noted.
Relaxation half‐times have been measured in the bistable iodate‐arsenous acid reaction near a hysteresis limit and the critical point. A one‐variable empirical rate law model is used to examine the apparent divergence in the relaxation times at these points. Relaxation behavior very close to, and exactly at the critical point and hysteresis limits is considered.
An investigation of relaxation behavior in the bistable iodate–arsenous acid reaction is presented. Relaxations from the unstable steady state and separatrix to a stable steady state are compared to model predictions. Relaxations from the unstable steady state are analyzed with a linearized model and relaxations from near the separatrix are explained in terms of a computed phase portrait.
The bond distances in hydrated arsenic oxyacid species in aqueous solution have been studied by EXAFS spectroscopy and large angle X-ray scattering, LAXS. These results have been compared to structures in the solid state, as found in an extensive survey of available crystal structures. Protonated oxygen atoms can be distinguished with a longer As-O distance for both arsenic(V) and arsenic(III) species in the crystalline state. However, the average As-O distance for the H(n)AsO(4)((3-n)-) species (0 ≤n≤ 3) remains the same. These average values are slightly shorter, ca. 0.02 Å, than in aqueous solution due to the hydration as determined by EXAFS and LAXS. The K absorption edges for arsenic(V) and arsenic(III) species are separated by 4.0 eV, and the shape of the absorption edges differs as well. Small but significant differences in the absorption edge features are seen between the neutral acids and the charged oxyacid species. The most important arsenic species from an environmental point of view is arsenous acid, As(OH)(3). In addition to arsenous acid, we have used orthotelluric acid, Te(OH)(6), for comparison with arsenous acid and for detailed studies of the hydration of covalently bound hydroxo groups. Arsenous acid cannot be studied with the same accuracy as orthotelluric acid, due to a relatively low solubility of As(2)O(3)(s) in neutral to acidic aqueous solution. The results from the DDIR studies support the assignment of As(OH)(3) as a weak structure maker analogous to Te(OH)(6), both being neutral weak oxyacids.
Human milk and urine samples were collected from 84 healthy volunteer nursing mothers living in Kano, Nigeria. The samples were analyzed for their Iodine content using the Iodine-catalyzed reduction of Ceric ion by Arsenous acid. Separating the Iodine by solvent extraction eliminated interferences. Physiological concentrations of iodine were determined in milk and urine. Recovery studies are reported along with results for the analysis of milk and urine samples. Iodine contents ranged from 10 - 110 (mean 52.88 ± 22.60mg/l) and 10 - 90 (mean 27.64 ±16.70) g/l in milk and urine respectively. A significant difference is indicated between the mean iodine in milk and urine. Iodine in milk and urine show a progressive decrease from 60±19.35mg/l in colostrums to 45±21.21mg/l in the mature milk. Key words: Iodine, human milk, urine, catalytic determination. Ife Journal of Science Vol.6(1) 2004: 79-83
The present work aims at studying the coupling between hydrodynamic fingering instabilities and chemical reactions at the interface between two miscible solutions. Hydrodynamic deformations of interfaces between two reactive fluids as well as flows induced by chemical reactions at the front between two initially steady fluids are encountered frequently in combustion, petroleum, chemical and pharmaceutical engineering. Most of the time, concrete applications imply a very large number of variables so that an understanding of the fundamental processes of chemo-hydrodynamic coupling is out of reach. Our goal is here to analyze a much simpler model system in which only one mechanism of hydrodynamic instability is at play and for which the chemical reactions can be modeled by a one or two-variable model. Buoyantly unstable, autocatalytic chemical fronts, are one such model system, which can be used as prototype to study the effects of the coupling between chemical reactions and hydrodynamic fingering instabilities. Fingering processes occur whenever a fluid of high mobility displaces a less mobile one in a porous medium. The initially planar interface looses then stability and a cellular fingering deformation of the interface is observed. Such an instability has been observed, for instance, in the iodate-arsenous acid and chlorite-tetrathionate reactions, autocatalytic redox reactions known to produce a change of density across a traveling front. Fingering happens there when the heavier solution lies on top of the lighter one in the gravity field. Our theoretical contribution to the analysis of fingering of chemical fronts focuses on different points which we detail in this thesis along the following outline. In chapter 2, we introduce fingering phenomena occurring in porous media and distinguish the situation of viscous and density fingering of pure non reactive fluids. Chapter 3 reviews the literature on coupling between fingering and chemical reactions before studying the linear stability conditions as well as nonlinear dynamics of density fingering of isothermal iodate-arsenous acid fronts. This prototype nonlinear redox reaction is the first one on which experimental results on fingering in spatially extended set-ups have been obtained. We next analyze in chapter 4 the density fingering of another front producing autocatalytic system i.e. the chlorite-tetrathionate reaction in order to address the influence of the chemical kinetics on the dynamics observed. The influence of the exothermicity of the reaction is then presented in chapter 5. Eventually, chapter 6 analyzes what happens if the kinetics is now bistable and further compares the situation of both viscous and density fingering of bistable fronts. We then conclude and present suggestions for future work in this subject at the frontier between nonlinear chemistry, hydrodynamics and engineering.
The propagation of arsenous acid−iodate reaction fronts of different net stoichiometries in externally applied dc electric fields is studied for a range of both electric field intensities and initial compositions of the reacting mixture (represented by the stoichiometric factor S0). Regions of three different types of net stoichiometry in the parametric space ℰ/V vs S0, where ℰ is the intensity of the applied electric field and V the reaction front propagation velocity, are determined both experimentally and by analyzing a reaction−diffusion−migration model that includes a realistic kinetic scheme of the reaction studied. Both agreement with and discrepancies between the theoretical predictions and experimental findings are discussed.
Introduction Following a community report of unexplained sporadic deaths in immigrants of a particular Nationality X in Ajah- Ilaje Community, an investigation was conducted to determine the extent and cause. Methods Descriptive study and laboratory analyses were done, Caregivers interviewed and hospital records reviewed. Community search and tracing was conducted. A suspect was defined as any person with Abdominal pains and vomiting resulting in death within 72 h of symptoms onset, with any of the following: impaired vision, breathlessness, spasm, foaming in the mouth, coma. Samples of suspected alcoholic gins were collected and tested for potential contaminants. Results Between 3rd and 23rd July 2008, 21 deaths were reported to have occured among persons of Nationality X. However, only 16 were identified. Mean age was 48 years (range 27–65). Of these, 14 victims had clinical history documented; the major symptoms were Abdominal pains (11, 79%), Vomiting (6, 43%), Impaired vision (4, 36%). All 16 (100%) identified cases had consumed alcohol prior to their illness and all (100%) died. Laboratory analyses of the illicit (local) gin consumed by the victims showed presence of a number of harmful chemicals including Chloroform, 1,1,1, Trichloroethane, Cyclohexanol, Arsenous acid, Pentanol and 1,2,2 Trichloro- 1,1, Difluoro ethane. Conclusion The source of outbreak was local illicit gin contaminated with varying concentrations of toxic agents. The outbreak was interrupted by confiscation and destruction of sources, closure of sales outlets and mass enlightenment campaigns to dissuade consumption. Indiscriminate preparation and sale of illicit gins must be disallowed.
An automated method for the determination of arsenic acid (AsV), arsenous acid (AsIII), monomethylarsonic acid (MMAA) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMAA) was developed using a commercial available flow injection hydride generation system. By carrying out the hydride generation in selected acid media the determination of As(III) alone, of MMAA and DMAA by sum and by different sensitivities, and of all four species is possible.
Arsenoplatins are adducts of two chemically important anticancer drugs, cisplatin and arsenic trioxide, that have a Pt(II) bond to an As(III) hydroxide center. Screens of the NCI-60 human tumor cell lines reveal that arsenoplatin-1 (AP-1), [Pt(μ-NHC(CH3)O)2ClAs(OH)2], the first representative of this novel class of anticancer agents, displays a superior activity profile relative to the parent drugs As2O3 or cisplatin in a majority of cancer cell lines tested. These activity profiles are important because the success of arsenic trioxide in blood cancers (such as APL) has not been seen in solid tumors due to the rapid clearance of arsenous acid from the body. To understand the biological chemistry of these compounds, we evaluated interactions of AP-1 with the two important classes of biomolecules—proteins and DNA. The first structural studies of AP-1 bound to model proteins reveal that platinum(II) binds the Ne of His in a manner that preserves the Pt–As bond. We find that AP-1 readily enters cells and bind...
A novel method, incompletely suppressed conductometric detection, has been developed for the determination of anions of very weak acids. The principle of the method is discussed. The advantages of the method over the suppressed and nonsupressed methods for the determination of anions of very weak acids are also discussed theoretically. Results showed that the detection limits of the method for arsenous acid and boric acid were lower than those of nonsuppressed conductometric method. Being compared with suppressed conductometric method, the sensitivity was improved greatly. For 250 mg/L boric acid, 261- and 1002-fold increases in peak height and peak area were obtained, respectively. Within the linear range of the detection, the linear correlation coefficients of the peak areas of two weak acids were 0.9991 and 0.9985, respectively.
A method for the determination of total arsenic (As) in human urine by hydride generation atomic fluorescence spectrometry (HG-AFS) is described. Total As includes the four toxic species; arsenous acid, i.e., As(III), arsenic acid, i.e., As(V), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) and the three major dietary species trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO), arsenobetaine (AsB), and arsenocholine (AsC). It is necessary to normalize signals from all As compounds present beforehand because the HG reaction is dependent on the species. We evaluated three on-line oxidation systems designed to convert As into As(V): (1) microwave-assisted heating (MW); (2) UV-photooxidation (UV-1); and (3) UV-photooxidation with post-reaction heating (UV-2). Each system was used with K2S2O8/NaOH as the oxidant, and was coupled to a commercial HG-AFS instrument for As detection. The efficiencies of the three on-line oxidation systems were compared. Under optimal conditions, all three achieved a signal (normalized to As(V)) within a range of 90–110% at a given concentration, for each of the six As species studied. Calibration using aqueous As(V) standards was achieved for the two UV systems while matrix-matched calibration, i.e., base urine spiked with As(V), was mandatory for the MW system. The requirement for matrix matching with the MW is a key difference compared to the UV systems making the former less suitable for routine analyses. Method detection limits (3 SD) for MW, UV-1, and UV-2 were 9.4, 6.0, and 2.7 μg L−1 respectively, detected as As(V). The performance of each system was evaluated by analysis of certified reference materials and archived urine proficiency testing (PT) materials from three different External Quality Assessment (EQA) schemes. Values obtained for archived PT materials with all three methods were within the acceptable ranges established by each EQA scheme. However, the UV-2 arrangement had some advantages with respect to a lower detection limit and shorter analysis times compared to the other systems.
7055 Background: Arsenic (As) has significantly increased survival for APL patients. As and its metabolites’ effects on cell proliferation, apoptosis, and methylation, especially long term, remain largely unknown. It is imperative to study the pharmacokinetics of As at therapeutic doses in order to limit untoward effects resulting from treatment. Arsenic trioxide (ATO), available as arsenous acid (iAsIII), is readily metabolized through sequential methyl group additions and electron reduction steps: iAsIII →MAsV →MAsIII →DMAsV →DMAsIII →TMAsVO →TMAsIII. iAsIII, MAsIII and DMAsIII are more biologically active and more toxic than pentavalent forms. The key enzyme involved is arsenic methyltransferase, and polymorphisms contribute to metabolic differences between individuals. Methods: Cancer patients not treated with ATO (controls) had one collection of blood and urine samples, while APL patients receiving therapeutic doses of ATO had collections immediately prior to and at 1, 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours, days 4, ...
The complex [Cp′′2Zr(CO)2] (Cp′′ = C5H3tBu2) was used to transform the nortricyclane type cage compounds E4Q3 (E = P, Q = S, Se; E = As, Q = S) resulting in unprecedented complexes [(Cp′′2Zr)2(μ,η1:1:1:1-E2Q4)] possessing bridging ligands that represent the anions of the so far unknown tetrachalcogenohypodiphosphorous acid (HQ)2PP(QH)2 and tetrathiohypodiarsenous acid (HS)2AsAs(SH)2, respectively.
During 1952 I treated a 54-year-old man who presented an extensive and very pruriginous dermatitis herpetiformis which was of six years' duration. It involved the scalp, the shoulders, the buttocks, the arms, and the legs. In spite of the recognized form of treatment, which included autohemotherapy, sulfapyridine, superficial x-ray radiations, and topical mentholized lotion applications, no improvement was noted. (Elsewhere previously he was given arsenic by mouth, both in the form of potassium arsenite [Fowler's solution] and the Asiatic pill [containing arsenous acid and black pepper] to the point of toleration, without relief.) When 12 weeks of the above treatment produced no significant change, I stopped it. Everything was discontinued. The patient was vaccinated with smallpox vaccine. The vaccination caused a severe local and a general reaction, and it was followed by a dramatic amelioration of the itching and also of the objective symptoms. At the end of two
In our own search for alternate methods of As−C bond formation, we turned our attention to seminal work by Blicke with arylarsine(III) oxides 1 (Scheme 1) [10] . In contrast to the noxious arsenous chlorides, oxides 1 are generally bench-stable, non-hygroscopic solids that can be safely handled in the laboratory and are resistant to atmospheric oxidation [11] . These compounds (arsenous acid anhydrides) were shown to react with aryl Grignard reagents at ambient temperature to yield dimers 2 after addition of the carbanion (Scheme 1a) [10a] . Attempts to achieve a second Grignard addition were carried out with phenylarsine oxide 3 at elevated temperature (Scheme 1b) [10a] . In the two examples reported (both shown), the product ratio was highly dependent on the concentration of the Grignard regent: a large excess (8 equiv) was required to favour the second addition, enabling triphenylarsine to be obtained in near quantitative yield. Scheme 1. Previous organoarsine syntheses using arylarsine oxides as electrophiles [10a] .
The well known Belousov-Zhabothinsky reaction 10 was the first exhibiting both oscillatory and excitable behavior in the form of target patterns or spirals. Various Landolt-type reactions, like the thiourea-iodate-sulfite reaction, 11 and the bromatesulfite-ferrocyanide, 12 the ferrocyanide-iodate-sulfite, 13 and the halogen-free hydrogen-peroxide-sulfite systems, 14 have been able to produce intriguing labyrinthine and Turing structures. The iodate-arsenous acid 15, 16 and the chlorite-tetrathionate reaction 17 served as models to study the buoyancy effects on simple chemical fronts. 18 The properties of these reactions have also been studied in different structured media to elicit their particular mechanism. 19, 20 One of the model reactions giving rise to pH-fronts reproducibly is the chlorite-tetrathionate (CT) reaction. The reaction is an autocatalytic process in which hydrogen ions play the role of an autocatalyst. which provides the same amount of the autocatalyst with respect to the limiting reactant tetrathionate i.e., 6[S 4 O 6 2À ] 0 . 24, 25 Using a highly viscous or gelled, elastic reaction medium like gelatin, polyacrylamide or agarose, where convection is negligible, pure reaction-diffusion fronts develop, so the effect of diffusion as a sole transport process can be investigated. [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] Typically an initially planar front retains its shape during propagation unless the mobility of the autocatalyst is significantly lower than that of the reactants. If the autocatalyst is reversibly immobilized, the initial planar symmetry can be lost and a cellular structure may appear. [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] In this work, our aim is to study how a self-assembly with a nanometer length scale can influence a macroscopic selforganizing system of a millimeter size. Namely, the influence of hollow inorganic nanospheres (HINS) [31] [32] [33] on the pH reactiondiffusion front arising from the CT model reaction is investigated experimentally. Furthermore the impact is quantified by determining the characteristics of the reaction-diffusion fronts such as front velocity or width.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a rare complication observed after liver transplantation and only a handful of cases have been reported until now. We report a case of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) after liver transplantation in a 50-year-old man. The case presentation was postodontectomy bleeding with an associative abnormal coagulation test 85 months after liver transplantation. A routine blood test, bone marrow test, chromosome analysis and examination of PML/RARα chimeric gene confirmed the diagnosis of APL and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Induction chemotherapy with all-trans retinoic acid, arsenic trioxide and daunorubicin was given to this patient and complete remission was achieved. The patient was subjected to DA (daunorubicin combined with cytarabine) and MA (mitoxantrone combined with cytarabine) regimens after remission induction to consolidate the chemotherapy for two courses of treatment, and subsequently subjected to arsenous acid chemotherapy on a periodic basis. Twenty-two months into the follow-up, sustained bone marrow remission was observed with the adapted treatment regimen.
While somewhat difficult to handle due to its corrosive character, arsenic trichloride has certain solvent properties which make it a useful addition to the list of spectroscopic solvents. Conductiometric titrations have been made using this halide as a solvent (2). The hydrolysis of this chloride to arsenous acid is a reversible reaction unlike the behavior of such a related halide as phosphorus trichloride. It is possible to steam distill arsenic trichloride and it forms no basic salt on hydrolysis. We have found that a clear solution in water can be formed with the halide up to 0.5 per cent by volume of water. Concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions in arsenic trichloride have been found to give spectra similar to that of water in the halide.
In this study, we developed a micellar platform composed of terpolymers for the encapsulation of inorganic arsenite or arsenous acid (AsIII). For this purpose, a series of terpolymers composed of poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO, block A), poly(α-carboxylate-ε-carprolactone) (PCCL, block B), and poly(ε-caprolactone) (PCL, block C) with either a blocked, i.e., BC or CB, or random, i.e., (B/C)ran block copolymer sequence in the polyester segment was synthesized. The COOH groups on block B were further modified with mercaptohexylamine for AsIII encapsulation. We then investigated how sequence of terpolymers can affect the stability and surface charge of micelles as well as the cellular uptake of their cargo, i.e., AsIII, by MDA-MB-435 cancer cells. 1H NMR spectroscopy in D2O and CDCl3 was also used to study the structure of different terpolymer micelles. Our results showed micelles with ABC sequence to have better stability over those of ACB and A(B/C)ran as reflected by a lower critical micellar concentration. The AsIII-loaded ABC micelles were less negatively charged on the surface than the other two types of terpolymer micelles. In line with this observation, ABC micelles showed a substantially enhanced uptake of AsIII by MDA-MB-435 cancer cells. Stability and surface charge are key parameters that can influence the performance of polymeric micelles as nanodrug carriers. Based on these results, we suggest ABC micelles to have improved characteristics for AsIII delivery compared to ACB and A(B/C)ran micelles.
The use of high-pressure liquid chromatography coupled directly or by a hydride generation system to an inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer for the unambiguous measurement of 13 arsenic species in marine biological extracts is described. The use of two chromatography systems; a Supelcosil LC-SCX cation-exchange column eluted with a 20 mM pyridine mobile phase adjusted to pH 2.2 and 2.6 with formic acid, with a flow rate of 1.5 mL min−1 at 40°C, and a Hamilton PRP-X100 anion-exchange column eluted with 20 mM NH4H2PO4 buffer at pH 5.6, with a flow rate of 1.5 mL min−1 at 40°C, was required to separate and quantify cation and anion arsenic species. Under these conditions, arsenous acid could not be separated from other arsenic species and required the use of an additional hydride generation step. Arsenic species concentrations in a locally available Tasmanian kelp (Durvillea potatorum), a certified reference material (DORM-2), and a range of commercially available macroalgae supplements and sushi seaweeds have been measured and are provided for use as in-house quality control samples to assess the effectiveness of sample preparation, extraction, and measurement techniques.
The use of high-pressure liquid chromatography coupled directly or by a hydride generation system to an inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer for the unambiguous measurement of 13 arsenic species in marine biological extracts is described. The use of two chromatography systems; a Supelcosil LC-SCX cation-exchange column eluted with a 20 mM pyridine mobile phase adjusted to pH 2.2 and 2.6 with formic acid, with a flow rate of 1.5 mL min −1 at 40 • C, and a Hamilton PRP-X100 anion-exchange column eluted with 20 mM NH 4 H 2 PO 4 buffer at pH 5.6, with a flow rate of 1.5 mL min −1 at 40 • C, was required to separate and quantify cation and anion arsenic species. Under these conditions, arsenous acid could not be separated from other arsenic species and required the use of an additional hydride generation step. Arsenic species concentrations in a locally available Tasmania kelp (Durvillea potatorum), a certified reference material (DORM-2), and a range of commercially available macroalgae supplements and sushi seaweeds have been measured and are provided for use as in-house quality control samples to assess the effectiveness of sample preparation, extraction, and measurement techniques.
In the last decade, high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HPLC-ICP-MS) has been extensively used to determine arsenic species concentrations in biological extracts from terrestrial and aquatic environments. [1] [2] [3] [4] This technique has gained widespread acceptance because of its high selectivity (especially when analyzing complex matrixes) and low detection limits (µg L −1 to ng L −1 ). There are, at present, 13 arsenic species that are commonly identified and quantified using HPLC-ICP-MS (i.e., arsenobetaine, arsenocholine, trimethylarsine oxide, trimethylarsoniopropionate, tetramethylarsonium cation, arsenous acid, arsenic acid, methylarsonic acid, dimethylarsinic acid, glycerol-arsenoribose, phosphate-arsenoribose, sulfonatearsenoribose, and sulfate-arsenoribose). [1, [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] The successful quantification of all these arsenic species in biological extracts has not been achieved using one chromatography run but requires the use of complimentary separation techniques such as reverse-phase, anion-and cation-exchange chromatography, and column eluting conditions incorporating different buffer compositions and pH. [7, [9] [10] [11] The continuing research into understanding the biogeochemical cycling of arsenic in terrestrial and aquatic environments has lead to the discovery of new (e.g., trimethylated arsenoriboses) and as yet unidentified arsenic species in biological tissues. [1, 5, 9, 12] These new and unidentified arsenic species have the potential to interfere during HPLC-ICP-MS analysis, with the identification of known species by co-elution as unresolved overlapping peaks. Potential problems because of co-elution can be reduced by gaining an understanding of the retention behaviour of known arsenic species and manipulating column elution conditions (e.g., buffer pH and concentration) to achieve peak resolution.
Abstract Platinum drugs (cisplatin, oxaliplatin, and carboplatin) and arsenic trioxide are the only commercial inorganic non-radioactive anticancer drugs approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. Numerous efforts are underway to take advantage of the synergy between the anticancer activity of cisplatin and arsenic trioxide - two drugs with strikingly different mechanisms of action. These include co-encapsulation of the two drugs in novel nanoscale delivery systems as well as the development of small molecule agents that combine the activity of these two inorganic materials. Several of these new molecular entities containing Pt-As bonds have broad anticancer activity, are robust in physiological buffer solutions, and form stable complexes with biopolymers. This review summarizes results from a number of preclinical studies involving the combination of cisplatin and As2O3, co-encapsulation and nanoformulation efforts, and the chemistry and cytotoxicity of the first member of platinum anticancer agents with an arsenous acid moiety bound to the platinum(II) center: arsenoplatins.
The iodate oxidation of sulfite and ferrocyanide when carried out in a continuous flow stirred tank reactor exhibits large-amplitude oscillations in pH accompanied by an almost constant concentration of iodide. A description of the reaction in terms of component processes and associated empirical rate laws is used to model the dynamical behavior. Limitations and potential refinements of the empirical rate law model are discussed. A detailed mechanism consistent with the component process description is presented. Just over one hundred years ago, Landolt reported on his studies of the iodate oxidation of sulfite.2 His careful investigation yielded an empirical expression for the time of appearance of molecular iodine upon complete consumption of sulfite as a function of reactant concentrations and temperature, which is still used for the "Landolt clock reaction" classroom dem~nstration.~ A detailed study published in 1921 by Eggert and Scharnow4 extended Landolt's investigation of the oxidation of sulfite and also reported on the oxidations of ferrocyanide and arsenous acid. Their study was the first to recognize the autocatalytic nature of these reactions. More recently, the reaction with arsenite has served as a model system for the study of bistability5-I0 and propagating reaction-diffusion fronts.I'-l4 In a recent dramatic discovery, Edblom, OrbBn, and EpsteinIs (EOE) found oscillatory behavior in the iodate oxidation of sulfite in a stirred flow reactor (CSTR) when ferrocyanide was also (1 ) Permanent address: Department of Physical Chemistry, Kossuth Lajos (2) Landolt, H. Be?. Dtsrh. Chem. Ges. 1886, 19, 1317. (3) Schroeter, L. C. Sulfur Dioxide; Pergamon Press: New York, 1966; (4) Eggert, J.; Scharnow, B. Z . Elektrochem. 1921, 27,455. (5) De Kepper, P.; Epstein, I. R.; Kustin, K. J . Am. Chem. SOC. 1981, 103, ( 6 ) Papsin, G. A.; Hanna, A.; Showalter, K. J . Phys. Chem. 1981, 85, (7) Ganapathisubramanian, N.; Showalter, K. J . Phys. Chem. 1983.87, (8) Ganapathisubramanian, N.; Showalter, K. J . Chem. Phys. 1984, 80, University, H-4010 Debrecen, Hungary.
Linear hydrodynamics yields the onset of convection for ascending autocatalytic reaction fronts in laterally bounded geometries. The system is studied in the limit of infinite and zero thermal diffusivity. For convection in a vertical slab of thickness a or a long vertical cylinder of radius a, the appropriate dimensionless driving parameter scrS=\ensuremath{\delta}${\mathit{ga}}^{3}$/\ensuremath{\nu}${\mathit{D}}_{\mathit{c}}$ involves the fractional density difference \ensuremath{\delta} between the unreacted and reacted fluids, the acceleration of gravity g, the kinematic viscosity \ensuremath{\nu}, and the catalyst molecular diffusivity ${\mathit{D}}_{\mathit{c}}$. Calculated critical values ${\mathit{scrS}}_{\mathit{c}}$ for onset of convection agree with recent experiments on iodate\char21{}arsenous acid systems. We also show that, compared with the unbounded system, the sidewalls tend to suppress convection.
There is considerable evidence that toxicity and physiological behavior of arsenic depends on its chemical forms. Arsenic speciation became therefore the subject of increasing interest in recent years. A sensitive method for the determination of arsenic species has been developed. The proposed procedure involves the use of high-performance liquid chromatography and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HPLC-ICP-MS). Six arsenic compounds were separated by anion-exchange chromatography with isocratic elution using tartaric acid as mobile phase with an elution order: arsenocholine, arsenobetaine, dimethylarsinic acid, methylarsonic acid, arsenous acid and arsenic acid. The chromatographic parameters affecting the separation of the arsenic species were optimized. Analytical characterization of the method has been realized with standard solutions. The detection limits for six arsenic compounds were from 0.04 to 0.6 μg/L as As element. The repeatability (expressed by R.S.D) was better than 7% for all investigated compounds. The HPLC-ICP-MS system was successfully applied to the determination of arsenic compounds in environmental and biological samples in μg/L level.
Different extraction procedures were applied to improve the extraction efficiency of arsenic compounds from lichens. Two lichen species were chosen from an arsenic-contaminated environment: epiphytic Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. and terricolous Cladonia rei Schaer. Samples were extracted with water at temperatures of 20, 60 and 90 degrees C, using mixtures of methanol/water (9:1, 1:1 and 1:9), Tris buffer and acetone and the extracts speciated. Water and Tris buffer showed the best extraction efficiency of all extractants used; however, the extraction efficiency was still less than 23%. Since a major fraction of arsenic appeared to be associated with trapped soil particles, a sequential extraction procedure originally designed for soils (extraction steps: (1) 0.05 mol l(-1) (NH(4))(2)SO(4); (2) 0.05 mol l(-1) (NH)(4)H(2)PO(4); (3) 0.2 mol l(-1) NH(4)-oxalate buffer, pH 3.25; (4) mixture of 0.2 mol l(-1) NH(4)-oxalate buffer and 0.1 mol l(-1) ascorbic acid, pH 3.25; (5) 0.5 mol l(-1) KOH) was applied and found to remove 45% of the total arsenic from H. physodes and 83% from C. rei. The lipid-soluble fraction of arsenic was estimated by k(0)-INAA analysis of diethylether extracts and was found to be negligible. An HPLC-UV-HGAFS system was used to determine the arsenic compounds extracted. In both lichen species, arsenous acid, arsenic acid, monomethylarsonic acid, dimethylarsinic acid, arsenobetaine, trimethylarsine oxide and glycerol-ribose were detected. In addition, phosphate-ribose was found in H. physodes.
Observations of steady nonaxisymmetric chemical wave fronts are reported for upward propagation in iodate- arsenous acid solutions within vertical capillary tubes. These observations confirm a recent prediction of hydrodynamic stability theory that the onset of convection in such fronts should be nonaxisymmetric. The nonaxisymmetric waveform reflects the presence of a single convective roll in the vicinity of the moving front.
An analytical method for simultaneous determination of five arsenic speciations(arsenous acid radical, arsenate, arsenobetaine, MMAA,DMAA) in Chinese rice wine was developed by HPLC-ICP-MS. Samples were purified by carbon black amino column, 10% methanol aqueous solution elution. The HPLC separation was performed on Hamilton PRP-XI00 negative ion analytical column(4.1 mm×250 mm, 10 μm) utilizing a gradient elution program of 60 mmol/L ammonium nitrate as the mobile phase. Identification and quantification were achieved by ICP-MS. In the range of0.5-20.0 μg/L, good linearity of 5 arsenic speciations was observed with correlation coefficients above 0.999. The adding standard recovery ranged from 85% to 92% with the relative standard deviations of 1.4%-5.2%. The quantification limits of five arsenic speciations were 0.10 μg/L, and the detection limits were 0.03 μg/L. The proposed method was applied to the simultaneous determination of five arsenic speciations in different types of Chinese rice wine from different years and different companies, and results showed that the method was suitable for arsenic residues determination in Chinese rice wine.
We present a theory for the transition from nonaxisymmetric to axisymmetric convection in iodatearsenous acid reaction fronts propagating in a vertical slab. The transition takes place away from the onset of convection, where a convectionless flat front becomes unstable to a nonaxisymmetric convective front. The transition is studied by numerically solving a reaction-diffusion equation coupled with nonlinear hydrodynamics in a two-dimensional slab. PACS number(s): 47.20.Bp, 47.70.Fw, 82.20.Mj 
Objective:To investigate the efficacy, side effect of combination therapy of subcutaneous implant of 5-fluorouracil sustained-release plus intravenous infusion of arsenous acid in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. Methods: The study enrolled 79 patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma,some of them relapse postoperatively. 33 patients were treated with a combination regimen of a subcutaneous implant of 5-fluorouracil sustained-release(400mg-480mg)plus intravenous infusion of arsenous acid (10mg per day )for a course of treatment (14 days) .Another course of treatment would be repeated in 4-6 weeks later. The other 46 patients got symptomatic treatment. The efficacy, side effect, scores of Karnofsky PS (KPS) was observed. Results: 33 patients treated with a combination regimen were tolerant, 7 of them(21.21%)got 3 courses of treatment, 14(42.42%)got 2 courses of treatment, 12(36.36%)got 1 course of treatment, 12 of them (36.36%)had side effects of alimentary canal, such as abdominal distention, nausea and emesis, 10(30.30%)had hepatic function deterioration or aggravated jaundice, 9(27.27%)had bone marrow depression(Ⅰ°-Ⅱ°), 22(66.67%)had dermatitis caused by subcutaneous implant, 4(12.12%)had infected dermatitis,17 (51.52%)improved their KPS, 7(21.21%)had on change, 9(27.27%)decreased their KPS, all the patients were evaluated by CT or MRI:CR 0,PR 8(24.24%),NC 13(39.39%),PD 12(36.36%),(CR+PR+NC)21(63.36%), median lifespan:6.7months in the patients treated with a combination regimen compared to 3.4 months in patients with symptomatic treatment, P0.01. Conclusion: The effective power of patients treated with a combination regimen was 63%. Combination regimen could prolong average life over 3 months and had synergism, efficacy, low side effect and high survivability.
In groundwater, As mainly exists as arsenate (As V ) or arsenite (As III ) depending on the redox environment. Arsenous acid (H3AsO3) is a very weak acid (pK1 = 9.2) and, thus, arsenite is weakly dissociated at normal pH predominating in anoxic environment. Arsenate, in turn, is the anion of a stronger arsenic acid H3AsO4 (pK1 = 2.3) that predominates in aerobic environment (Jeong et al., 2007) . Mukherjee and Bhattacharya (2001) reported that in Bangladesh the redox conditions in groundwater vary from slightly oxidizing to strong reducing. Therefore, most of As in groundwater is in reduced form As III that is more detrimental to human health than is As V (Raven et al., 1998) . Furthermore, in problem areas pH of the groundwater is predominantly near neutral to slightly alkaline (pH 6.5 -7.6) and the concentration of phosphate is very high (Mukherjee and Bhattacharya, 2001 ).
The incidence of lung cancer for workers who had been exposed to insoluble arsenic in four mines was found to be 290/10(5). A dose-dependent decrease in the incidence was associated with a reduction in the concentration of insoluble arsenic in the air. The content of arsenic (expressed as the geometric mean) in the lung of subjects exposed to insoluble arsenic was 51.4 micrograms/g per dry lung tissue which was 17 times higher than the value of 3.0 micrograms/g per day lung tissue found in control groups. Moreover, the content of arsenic was found to correlate with the number of years working in the mine and with the incidence of lung cancer. Metabolic studies of arsenopyrite showed that it is converted to products such as arsenous acid, arsenic acid, methyl arsenate and dimethyl arsenate, which are identical to those generated from As2O3. Although these metabolic products are formed at a lower rate, they nonetheless show that arsenopyrite should be considered a carcinogen. Potential carcinogens such as As, Cr, Ni, Be, and Cd were evaluated in lung specimens of miners with lung cancer and compared with values obtained in controls using logistic regression analysis. Only As was found to be significantly associated with lung cancer. The concentration of As in lung tissues correlated well with the amount found in the air of the mining environment. A retrospective/prospective interference epidemiological investigation performed over a 40-year period showed that the risk of radon had been overestimated. After regulatory measures were implemented in the mines to control for exposure to Rn, the risk of exposure to Rn was found to be RR/WLM (relative risk per working level month) = 0.17%, which was 9 times lower than the values previously estimated.
Caffeine and arsenous acid were administered per os to pregnant and nonpregnant rats for a period of 15 to 19 days to induce gastric ulcer. The ulcerative process developed in 100% of the control, nonpregnant female rats; severe lesions with coalescence of small superficial ulcers into large, and involvement of all the gastric layers in the process, were observed in 60% of the animals. In some cases, adhesions to the adjacent organs, or perforation of the stomach wall were noted. An insignificant superficial affection of the gastric mucosa, with no lesions of the serous membrane, was noted only in 16.6% of the pregnant rats.
In a series of previous articles, we have theoretically investigated the separate role of either pure buoyancy or pure Marangoni solutal contributions in the fluid motions around autocatalytic fronts. The front dynamics was first considered in a thin closed reactor under isothermal conditions, where the different composition between the reacted and non-reacted solutions initiates buoyancy-driven flows due to horizontal gradients in density. 35 The deformation of the resulting chemohydrodynamic structures, with respect to the associated reactiondiffusion solution, depends on the direction and the magnitude of the density gradient Dr = r products À r reactants . In the presence of such pure solutal buoyancy effects, the set of possible dynamics is limited to asymptotically steady solutions. If the exothermicity of the reaction is taken into account, more complicated behaviours arise when both thermal and solutal contributions to the density variation come into play. 39, 41 The two sources of buoyancy convection can indeed act cooperatively or in a competing way. As the autocatalytic reactions involved in chemical fronts are typically exothermic, traveling products are hotter than the reactants and therefore rise up to the top of the reactor, generating a clockwise vortex at the propagating interface. When the solute products are less dense than fresh reactants, the solutal and thermal contributions coherently deform the chemical structure, which results in a larger deformation. In contrast, if the solute products are denser than the reactant, the antagonism between thermal and solutal components can lead to oscillatory spatio-temporal structures so-called rolling chemical fronts. Dynamical behaviours obtained in numerical simulations for these various regimes are in good agreement with the experimental observations for the Iodate-Arsenous Acid (IAA) and the Chlorite-Tetrathionate (CT) reaction in closed reactors. 41 Numerical studies have also analyzed pure Marangoni effects. In this case the front evolution is followed in thin solution layers open to the air and in the absence of any density gradient. As the front propagates, it supports a surface tension gradient, Dg = g products À g reactants , generating a net force at the air-solution interface. The resulting surface flow is oriented towards the region with larger surface tension and, as the incompressible fluid is bounded, it also affects the bulk dynamics. Concentration and temperature changes can both singularly or cooperatively contribute to such surface tension gradients. When the autocatalytic front is coupled to the pure solutal Marangoni effect (i.e. under isothermal conditions), it leads to steady asymptotic dynamics, characterized by a flow vortex traveling at a constant speed with the front and deforming it. 33, 34, 36 After a transient period, which can also be oscillatory, the deformed front attains an asymptotic constant shape. Again, the introduction of the thermal contribution can induce a double-diffusive interplay and the emergence of complex spatio-temporal dynamics such as oscillatory patterns. 42 While the separate role played by pure buoyancy-driven and pure surface-driven flows in chemical traveling fronts has thus been successfully understood, the combined effect of these two contributions still remains unexplored from a theoretical point of view, though this is a genuine situation encountered for fronts propagating in thin layers open to the air.
BACKGROUND ::: Very few studies exist on urinary arsenic exposure in Spain. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: To evaluate total and speciated urinary arsenic (As) levels in a Spanish population sample. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Demographic, lifestyle and dietary data was collected for 124 volunteers (aged 20-76years; 88 women and 36 men), who were tested for total arsenic and five arsenic species using high-performance liquid chromatography-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Arsenobetaine (AB) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) were detected in 96.8% of the study participants (limit of detection (LOD) 1.0μg/L for AB and 1.9μg/L for DMA). Monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) and arsenous acid (As(III)) were detected in 5.6% (LOD 1.8μg/L) and 1.6% (LOD 1.4μg/L) of the participants, respectively; arsenic acid (As(V)) was not detected (LOD 1.4μg/L). AB and DMA (geometric mean (GM) 29.1μg/L and 7.5μg/L, respectively) were the main contributors to total urinary arsenic levels. Urinary DMA was positively associated with AB. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Total arsenic levels observed in the Spanish population sample were higher than those reported by other European studies. The most recurrent urinary arsenic species was AB, followed by DMA, probably attributable to the high Spanish consumption of seafood. We recommend using inorganic As+MMA as the two main urinary biomarkers for inorganic As exposure. Our results provide reference data for analysing arsenic speciation results and assessing human exposure.
Starting in ancient China and Greece, arsenic-containing compounds have been used in the treatment of disease for over 3000 years. They were used for a variety of diseases in the 20th century, including parasitic and sexually transmitted illnesses. A resurgence of interest in the therapeutic application of arsenicals has been driven by the discovery that low doses of a 1% aqueous solution of arsenic trioxide (i.e., arsenous acid) lead to complete remission of certain types of leukemia. Since Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) for treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia in 2000, it has become a front-line therapy in this indication. There are currently over 100 active clinical trials involving inorganic arsenic or organoarsenic compounds registered with the FDA for the treatment of cancers. New generations of inorganic and organometallic arsenic compounds with enhanced activity or targeted cytotoxicity are being developed to overcome some of the shortcomings of arsenic therapeutics, namely, short plasma half-lives and a narrow therapeutic window.
Autocatalytic reaction between reacted and unreacted species may propagate as solitary waves, namely, at a constant front velocity and with a stationary concentration profile, resulting from a balance between molecular diffusion and chemical reaction. The effect of advective flow on the autocatalytic reaction between iodate and arsenous acid in cylindrical tubes and Hele-Shaw cells is analyzed experimentally and numerically using lattice Bhatnagar-Gross-Krook simulations. We do observe the existence of solitary waves with concentration profiles exhibiting a cusp and we delineate the eikonal and mixing regimes recently predicted.
While arsenous acid, As(OH)3, has been the subject of a plethora of studies due to its worldwide ubiquity and its toxicity, pentavalent As in the form of arsenic acid, AsO(OH)3, has recently been found in rivers in central Mexico as the most abundant naturally occurring arsenic species. To better understand the solvation patterns of both toxic acids at the molecular level, we report the results of Born-Oppenheimer molecular dynamics simulations on the aqueous solvation of the AsO(OH)3 and As(OH)3 molecules at room temperature using the cluster microsolvation approach including 30 water molecules at the B3LYP/6-31G** level of theory. We found that the average per-molecule water binding energy is ca. 1 kcal mol-1 larger for the As(v) species as compared to the As(iii) one. To account for the asymmetry of both molecules, the hydration patterns were studied separately for a "lower" hemisphere, defined by the initially protonated oxygens, and for the opposite "upper" hemisphere. Similar lower hydration patterns were found for both As(iii) and As(v), with the same coordination number CN = 7. The upper pattern for As(iii) was found to be of a hydrophobic type, whereas that for As(v) showed the fourth oxygen to be hydrogen-bonded to the water network, yielding CN = 3.7; moreover, a proton "hopped" from the lower to the upper side, through the Grotthuss mechanism. Theoretical EXAFS spectra were obtained that showed good agreement with experimental data for As(iii) and As(v) in liquid water, albeit with somewhat longer As-O distances due to the level of theory employed. Proton transfer processes were also addressed; we found that the singly deprotonated H2AsO3- species largely dominated (99% of the simulation) for the As(iii) case, and that the deprotonated H2AsO4- and HAsO42- species were almost equally present (45% and 55%, respectively) for the As(v) case, which is in line with the experimental data pKa1 = 2.24 and pKa2 = 6.96. Through vibrational analysis the features of the Eigen and Zundel ions were found in the spectra of the microsolvated As(iii) and As(v) species, in good agreement with experimental data in aqueous solutions.
The autocatalytic iodate-arsenous acid reaction was investigated by a stopped-flow instrument under strongly acidic medium (pH ≤ 1) by monitoring the absorbance-time profiles at 468 nm. The kinetic traces were found to exhibit a perfect sigmoidal shape in stoichiometric excess of iodate with a well-defined and reproducible induction period that depends on the initial concentration of the reactants as well as on the pH. All the experimental curves can be globally fitted by a simple kinetic model involving the direct reaction between the reactants to produce iodide ion, the Dushman and the Roebuck reactions, and two rapid equilibria. Our measurements along with simultaneous evaluation of the kinetic traces clearly support that indeed the initiation reaction exists at strongly acidic conditions and contributes to the overall kinetics. The measured traces cannot be described adequately by the iodide ion impurity-driven Dushman and Roebuck reactions with assuming no direct reaction at all.
Autocatalytic reaction between reacted and unreacted species may propagate as solitary waves, namely, at a constant front velocity and with a stationary concentration profile, resulting from a balance between molecular diffusion and chemical reaction. The effect of advective flow on the autocatalytic reaction between iodate and arsenous acid in cylindrical tubes and Hele-Shaw cells is analyzed experimentally and numerically using lattice Bhatnagar-Gross-Krook simulations. We do observe the existence of solitary waves with concentration profiles exhibiting a cusp and we delineate the eikonal and mixing regimes recently predicted. DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.90.128302 PACS numbers: 82.40.Ck, 47.54.+r, 47.70.Fw The motion of interfaces and the propagation of fronts resulting from chemical reactions occur in a number of different areas [1] , including population dynamics [2, 3] and flame propagation [4] . It is known that autocatalytic reaction fronts between two reacting species propagate as solitary waves, namely, at a constant front velocity and with a stationary concentration profile [5, 6] . The important issue of the selection of the front velocity was addressed earlier on, but only a few cases are well understood, such as the pioneering works of Fisher [2] and Kolmogorov-Petrovskii-Piskunov (FKPP) [3] on a reaction diffusion equation with second-order kinetics [1, 4, 7] . The effect of advective flow (inviscid and/or turbulent) on reacting systems was analyzed extensively in the propagation of flames in the context of combustion [4, 8] . On the other hand, advective effects on the behavior of autocatalytic fronts have been only recently addressed [9] [10] [11] . Edwards [11] studied theoretically the effect of a 2D laminar flow on an autocatalytic reaction front between two infinite planes separated by a gap b. In this geometry, the velocity profile is unidirectional in the direction z of the flow and is given by Poiseuille's equation,Ũ U U M 1 ÿ 2 z z where U M 1:5U is the maximum velocity, U is the mean velocity, 2x=b is the transverse normalized coordinate, andz z is the unit vector parallel to the flow, chosen as the direction of the front propagation in the absence of flow (see below). Consider the iodatearsenous acid reaction described by a third-order autocatalytic reaction kinetics [1, 5, 6] :
Arsenic trioxide (ATO, As2O3) is emerging as a front line agent for treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia with giving a complete remission rate of 83−95%. ATO also shows significant activity in relapsed/refactory multiple myeloma; however, efforts to expand clinical utility to other cancers have been limited by its toxicity profile at higher doses. New bioavailable, liposome encapsulated As(III) materials exhibit a significantly attenuated cytotoxicity that undergoes pH-triggered release of an active drug. The arsenic drugs are loaded into 100-nm-scale liposomes at high concentration (>270 mM) and excellent retention (shelf life > 6 months at 4 °C), as determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP−OES), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) diffraction. In the loading mechanism, arsenous acid crosses the bilayer membrane in exchange for acetic acid and an insoluble transitional metal (e.g., Ni2+, Co2+) arsenite salt is formed. The resul...
Abstract Novel fixed-bed adsorption investigations applying carbon nanotube (CNT) coated poly-amidoamine dendrimer (PAMAM) as an adsorbent have been studied for the adsorption of As(III) as arsenous acid, Co 2+ , and Zn 2+ from aqueous solution. FTIR, SEM, 1 H NMR, TGA, TEM, Raman Spectra and zeta potential measurements have been employed for characterizing the synthetic nanocomposite and these techniques indicated that the dendrimer functionalized CNTs have been favorably synthesized. The effects of process parameters including flow rate, initial concentration and bed height on the duration of the breakthrough time, mass transfer zone, adsorption capacity and exhaustion time at breakthrough were investigated. Decreasing initial concentration and flow rate, and increasing bed height, increased the exhaustion and breakthrough times. In addition, the removal capacity at breakthrough was enhanced with decreasing flow rate, initial ion concentration and increasing bed height. The notably high maximum adsorption capacities at fixed bed breakthrough of the studied ions were 432 mg/g for As(III) as arsenous acid, 494 mg/g for Co 2+ , and 470 mg/g for Zn 2+ at bed height of 12.0 cm, influent concentration of 100 mg/L and flow rate of 0.5 mL/min. Almost no previous fixed bed data for PAMAMS exist. Adsorption results were correlated using the Thomas, Yoon-Nelson, and Bohart-Adams models. Empirical breakthrough curves were found to be best fitted with the predicted curves produced by the Thomas and Yoon-Nelson equations. This study illustrates the efficiency of PAMAM/CNT nanocomposite for the adsorption of As(III), Co 2+ , and Zn 2+ from aqueous solution.
We report a new synthesis of the seleno-bis (S-glutathionyl) arsinium anion, [(GS)2AsSe]−. An aqueous solution of bis-glutathionylarsenous acid, (GS)2AsOH, prepared from stoichiometric glutathione and arsenite, was reacted in situ with a solution of sodium hydrogen selenide, prepared from elemental selenium and sodium borohydride. Analysis of the arsenic and selenium K-edge X-ray absorption spectra indicated virtually quantitative formation of [(GS)2AsSe]−, with AsSe and AsS distances of 2.31 and 2.25 A, respectively, and the concentrated sample allowed a definitive X-ray spectroscopic characterization. Size-exclusion chromatography was used to separate [(GS)2AsSe]− from residual borate in the reaction mixture.
The effects of applying an electric field to an ionic autocatalytic reaction with a cubic rate law are discussed. The constant field strength approximation is made and the resulting equations for the model examined by first considering the corresponding travelling wave equations. These show ranges of field strength over which travelling waves do not exist, these ranges being dependent on whether D< 1 or D< 1, where D is the ratio of diffusion coefficients of autocatalyst and substrate. Numerical simulations of the full system are obtained and these show that, when travelling waves exist, these are formed as the long time behaviour of the system. When travelling waves do not exist, complete electrophoretic separation of the reacting ionic species results, forming separate fronts in autocatalyst and substrate, their direction of propagation depending on D. Comparisons with a related problem with a quadratic rate law are made and the implications for experiments based on the iodate–arsenous acid reaction assessed.
Density differences across an autocatalytic chemical front traveling horizontally in covered thin layers of solution trigger hydrodynamic flows which can alter the concentration profile. We theoretically investigate the spatiotemporal evolution and asymptotic dynamics resulting from such an interplay between isothermal chemical reactions, diffusion, and buoyancy-driven convection. The studied model couples the reaction-diffusion-convection evolution equation for the concentration of an autocatalytic species to the incompressible Stokes equations ruling the evolution of the flow velocity in a two-dimensional geometry. The dimensionless parameter of the problem is a solutal Rayleigh number constructed upon the characteristic reaction-diffusion length scale. We show numerically that the asymptotic dynamics is one steady vortex surrounding, deforming, and accelerating the chemical front. This chemohydrodynamic structure propagating at a constant speed is quite different from the one obtained in the case of a pure hydrodynamic flow resulting from the contact between two solutions of different density or from the pure reaction-diffusion planar traveling front. The dynamics is symmetric with regard to the middle of the layer thickness for positive and negative Rayleigh numbers corresponding to products, respectively, lighter or heavier than the reactants. A parametric study shows that the intensity of the flow, the propagation speed, and the deformation of the front are increasing functions of the Rayleigh number and of the layer thickness. In particular, the asymptotic mixing length and reaction-diffusion-convection speed both scale as square root Ra for Ra>5. The velocity and concentration fields in the asymptotic dynamics are also found to exhibit self-similar properties with Ra. A comparison of the dynamics in the case of a monostable versus bistable kinetics is provided. Good agreement is obtained with experimental data on the speed of iodate-arsenous acid fronts propagating in horizontal capillaries. We furthermore compare the buoyancy-driven dynamics studied here to Marangoni-driven deformation of traveling chemical fronts in solution open to the air in the absence of gravity previously studied in the same geometry [L. Rongy and A. De Wit, J. Chem. Phys. 124, 164705 (2006)].
Arsenic exists in organic and inorganic forms and in different oxidation or valence states. The valence states of arsenic compounds relevant to human health are the trivalent (AsIII) and pentavalent (AsV) states. These arsenic species include arsenates (compounds containing AsO 4 3− ), arsenites (compounds containing AsO 3 3− ), and the mono-methyl (MMA) and di-methyl (DMA) metabolites. Arsenic species in the trivalent (III) state including arsenous acid (commonly arsenite), dimethylarsinous acid (DMAIII), and monomethylarsonous acid (MMAIII) are estimated more toxic at lower doses than those of other arsenic species (ATSDR 2007; Drobna et al. 2009 ). Results from animal and epidemiological studies have shown that inorganic arsenic (iAs) compounds can be categorized as carcinogens (group 1) or potential carcinogens (group 2B) such as DMA and MMA, while arsenobetaine and other organoarsenicals have not been categorized as carcinogens (group 3) (IARC 2012a (IARC , 2012b .
Density differences across an autocatalytic chemical front traveling horizontally in covered thin layers of solution trigger hydrodynamic flows which can alter the concentration profile. We theoretically investigate the spatiotemporal evolution and asymptotic dynamics resulting from such an interplay between isothermal chemical reactions, diffusion, and buoyancy-driven convection. The studied model couples the reaction-diffusion-convection evolution equation for the concentration of an autocatalytic species to the incompressible Stokes equations ruling the evolution of the flow velocity in a two-dimensional geometry. The dimensionless parameter of the problem is a solutal Rayleigh number constructed upon the characteristic reaction-diffusion length scale. We show numerically that the asymptotic dynamics is one steady vortex surrounding, deforming, and accelerating the chemical front. This chemohydrodynamic structure propagating at a constant speed is quite different from the one obtained in the case of a pure hydrodynamic flow resulting from the contact between two solutions of different density or from the pure reaction-diffusion planar traveling front. The dynamics is symmetric with regard to the middle of the layer thickness for positive and negative Rayleigh numbers corresponding to products, respectively, lighter or heavier than the reactants. A parametric study shows that the intensity of the flow, the propagation speed, and the deformation of the front are increasing functions of the Rayleigh number and of the layer thickness. In particular, the asymptotic mixing length and reaction-diffusion-convection speed both scale as ͱ Ra for RaϾ 5. The velocity and concentration fields in the asymptotic dynamics are also found to exhibit self-similar properties with Ra. A comparison of the dynamics in the case of a monostable versus bistable kinetics is provided. Good agreement is obtained with experimental data on the speed of iodate-arsenous acid fronts propagating in horizontal capillaries. We furthermore compare the buoyancy-driven dynamics studied here to Marangoni-driven deformation of traveling chemical fronts in solution open to the air in the absence of gravity previously studied in the same geometry ͓L. Rongy and A. De Wit, J. Chem. Phys. 124, 164705 ͑2006͔͒.
Abstract The incidence of lung cancer for workers who had been exposed to insoluble arsenic in four mines was found to be 290/105. A dose-dependent decrease in the incidence was associated with a reduction in the concentration of insoluble arsenic in the air. The content of arsenic (expressed as the geometric mean) in the lung of subjects exposed to insoluble arsenic was 51.4 μg/g per dry lung tissue which was 17 times higher than the value of 3.0 μg/g per dry lung tissue found in control groups. Moreover, the content of arsenic was found to correlate with the number of years working in the mine and with the incidence of lung cancer. Metabolic studies of arsenopyrite showed that it is converted to products such as arsenous acid, arsenic acid, methyl arsenate and dimethyl arsenate, which are identical to those generated from As2O3. Although these metabolic products are formed at a lower rate, they nonetheless show that arsenopyrite should be considered a carcinogen. Potential carcinogens such as As, Cr, Ni, Be, and Cd were evaluated in lung specimens of miners with lung cancer and compared with values obtained in controls using logistic regression analysis. Only As was found to be significantly associated with lung cancer. The concentration of As in lung tissues correlated well with the amount found in the air of the mining environment. A retrospective/prospective interference epidemiological investigation performed over a 40-year period showed that the risk of radon had been overestimated. After regulatory measures were implemented in the mines to control for exposure to Rn, the risk of exposure to Rn was found to be RR/WLM (relative risk per working level month) = 0.17%, which was 9 times lower than the values previously estimated.
Buoyancy produced by autocatalytic reaction fronts can produce fluid flows that advect the front position, giving rise to interesting feedback between chemical and hydrodynamic effects. In a large diameter, extended cylinder that is relatively free of boundary constraints, localized initiation of an iodate-arsenous acid (IAA) reaction front on the bottom boundary generates a rising autocatalytic plume. Such plumes have several differences from their non-reactive counterparts. Using numerical simulation, we have found that if reaction is initiated using a spherical ball of product solution well above the bottom boundary, the subsequent flow can evolve much like an autocatalytic plume: the ball develops a reacting head and tail that is akin to the head and conduit of an autocatalytic plume, except that the tail is disconnected from the boundary. In the limit of large initial autocatalytic balls, however, growth of a reacting tail is suppressed and the resemblance to plumes disappears. Conversely, very small balls of product solution fail to initiate sustained fronts and eventually disappear.
We examine a prototypical ionic reaction-diffusion system involving the well-known iodate-arsenous acid reaction in an electric field at a constant current density. By taking into consideration of the spatial inhomogeneities in electric field intensity and charge density due to ionic migration and diffusion using charge balance condition, we look for the different instability regions in the appropriate parameter space. We show that the model admits of both absolute and convective instability resulting in the development of propagating waves and also stationary spatial patterns at times.
In this paper, we show experimentally that inside a microfluidic device, where the reactants are segregated, the reaction rate of an autocatalytic clock reaction is accelerated in comparison to the case where all the reactants are well mixed. We also find that, when mixing is enhanced inside the microfluidic device by introducing obstacles into the flow, the clock reaction becomes slower in comparison to the device where mixing is less efficient. Based on numerical simulations, we show that this effect can be explained by the interplay of nonlinear reaction kinetics (cubic autocatalysis) and differential diffusion, where the autocatalytic species diffuses slower than the substrate. Fig. 2 Clock reaction in a microfluidic environment. (A) Layout of the channel junction in the upstream part of the chip. Iodate (inlet A), arsenous acid (inlet B), and iodide (inlet C) were pumped via separate inlets into the chip and merged inside the main channel. (B) The induction time of the clock inside the microchannel was determined by measuring the distance of the dark iodine band to the baseline along the center line, see also (A). (C) Induction period of the clock reaction for different flow speeds compared to induction period under batch conditions in a microtiter plate. Concentration of the inducer KI is 50 mM and the pH value is 5.2 in all cases. Under flow conditions, the induction period is clearly shortened. (D)
The concentration profiles along the feeding direction of a one side fed gel reactor are analyzed for the iodate-arsenous acid reaction. Multiplicity of inhomogeneous stationary solutions is derived. It is also shown that such profiles may undergo oscillatory bifurcations under long range activation conditions. The bifurcation diagram is analyzed using a Galerkin approximation, the asymptotic validity of which is discussed.
In order to determine the chemical species of arsenic(As) in tobacco samples,a method combining ultrasonic solvent extraction and high performance liquid chromatography(HPLC) with inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry(ICP-MS) was developed to separate and analyze six species of arsenic,including arsenous acid [As(III)],arsenic acid [As(V)],dimethylarsinic acid(DMA),monomethylarsonic acid(MMA),arsenobetaine(AsB),and arsenocholine(AsC).The result showed that the baselines of the six species of arsenic mentioned above were separated within 15 mins by Hamilton PRPX-100(250×4.1 mm,10 μm) anion exchange column and using 15 mmol/L(NH4)2HPO4(pH6.0) as the mobile phase.The linear ranges were no less than two orders of magnitude.The detection limit ranged from 0.44 to 0.98 μg/L and the recoveries were from 85.19% to 87.31% with the RSD(n=5) of 2.45% to 3.56%.The content of As in tobacco was low,and some arsenic species existed in the forms of DMA and MMA were of lower toxicity.Ultrasonic solvent extraction could extract the organic and inorganic As in tobacco simultaneously and reflect the distribution of As species in tobacco samples objectively.This method is accurate,reliable,and suitable for the speciation analysis of As in tobacco,and can provide a reference for the safety evaluation of tobacco.
Abstract Primary alkenyl esters of arsenous acid have been synthesized by heating a mixture of arsenic (III) oxide and alkenol in benzene. We have previously shown that arsenic and antimony esters of primary, secondary and tertiary alkenols could be prepared by ester exchange. These esters could also be prepared by direct interaction of arsenic or antimony trichloride and alkenol in the presence of dry ammonia as hydrogen chloride acceptor. Out of the compounds so synthesized, ten alkenyl esters of the formula M(OR)3 [where, m = As and Sb; R = -CH2C(CH3)=CH2, -CH2CH2CH=CH2, -CH2CH2CH2CH=CH2, -CH(CH3)CH2CH=CH, -C(CH3)(C2H5)CH=CH2] are being reported for the first time. All the compounds have been characterized by elemental analyses (As and Sb), molecular weight determinations and ir and pmr spectral studies.
Spinodal decomposition and the emergence of dissipative transient periodic spatio-temporal patterns in acentrosomal microtubule multitudes of different morphology Chaos 23, 023120 (2013) The concentration profiles along the feeding direction of a one side fed gel reactor are analyzed for the iodate-arsenous acid reaction. Multiplicity of inhomogeneous stationary solutions is derived. It is also shown that such profiles may undergo oscillatory bifurcations under long range activation conditions. The bifurcation diagram is analyzed using a Galerkin approximation, the asymptotic validity of which is discussed. © 2006 American Institute of Physics. ͓DOI: 10.1063/1.2219703͔
1-3 Of particular physical interest is the observation that, when the diffusion coefficient of the autocatalyst becomes larger than that of the inhibitor, one of the profiles may undergo a time dependent bifurcation leading to oscillatory profiles. 4, 5 This instability is a consequence of the nonuniform concentration profile of the steady state which results from the fixed boundary conditions. We examine this bifurcation problem by considering the iodate-arsenous acid (IAA) chemical reaction, a prototypic clock reaction. 6 The bifurcation diagram of the steady and time-periodic solutions is first examined numerically from the reaction-diffusion equations. Our results then motivate a one-mode Galerkin approximation of the reaction-diffusion equations. The resulting ordinary differential equations are studied in detail both analytically and numerically. They correctly predict the Hopf bifurcation instability and emphasize the role of key parameters. Finally, we discuss the asymptotic validity of the one-mode Galerkin approximation by exploring the conditions for a bifurcation from infinity (infinite width of the reactor).
A combined ion chromatography (IC) with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) system as an element-selective detector has been used for the determination of arsenic compounds. Seven arsenic compounds were separated by cation-exchange chromatography. Subsequently, the separated arsenic compounds were directly introduced into the ICP-MS and were detected at m/z=75. Detection limits for the seven arsenic compounds ranged from 0.8 to 3.8 μg AS/l. The IC-ICP-MS system was applied to the determination of arsenic compounds in the urine of dimethylarsinic acid (DMAA)-exposed rats. DMAA was the most abundant arsenic compound detected. Arsenous acid, monomethylarsonic acid and trimethylarsine oxide were also detected.
Buoyantly unstable 3D chemical fronts were seen traveling through an iodate-arsenous acid reaction solution. The experiments were performed in channel reactors with rectangular cross sections, where the top of the reaction solution was in contact with air. A concave or convex meniscus was pinned to reactor lateral walls. Influence of the meniscus shape on front development was investigated. For the concave meniscus, an asymptotic shape of fronts holding negative curvature was observed. On the other hand, fronts propagating in the solution with the convex meniscus kept only positive curvature. Those fronts were also a bit faster than fronts propagating in the solution with the concave meniscus. A relation between the meniscus shape, flow distribution, velocity, and shape is discussed.
Objective To discuss the treatment and prognosis of multifocal osteosarcoma. Methods Between January 1998 and June 2005, nine patients(seven males and two females), six with synchronous multifocal osteosarcoma and three with metachronous multifocal osteosarcoma were treated in our department. The diagnosis of multifocal osteosarcoma was confirmed by clinical presentation, radiology and pathology. Eight of the nine patients received chemotherapy with adriamycin(60 mg/m2), cisplatinum(100 mg/m2), high-dose methotrexate(8-12 g/m2), vincristine(1.4 mg/m2), ifosfamide(12.5 g/m2), and G-CSF. Based on the response to primary chemotherapy, further chemotherapy plans were made, and different operations were done to control local lesions or to relieve symptoms. Arsenous acid, paclitaxel and VP-16 were used in patients who responded poorly to primary chemotherapy. Results One patient who given up remedy was died in systematic fail due to the cancer after 5 month, five patients who were diagnosed synchronous multifocal osteosarcoma died from progressive disease in 3.5 to 17 months (mean time was 9.8 months). Only two of them had a good response to chemotherapy and had finished at least four cycles of chemotherapy,and they had a better survival time of 15 and 17 months respectively. Three patients with metachronous multifocal osteosarcoma had a better prognosis. After a two-year follow-up, two lived with disease and one lived without disease. Conclusion The prognosis of patients with multifocal osteosarcoma is poor, and patients with metachronous multifocal osteosarcoma have a relatively better prognosis. To improve the prognosis of patients with multifocal osteosarcoma, aggressive chemother-apeutics are needed.
Arsenic (As) speciation in muscle tissues of freshwater fish was investigated with special emphasis on extraction yields and mass balances. For the quantification of water-soluble As compounds, samples were extracted using a 1:1 (v/v) methanol/water mixture. Various extraction parameters, such as extraction volume, number of additional extractions, intermediate and final volume in sample preconcentration were optimized so as to improve the extraction efficiency. Arsenic compounds were determined by HPLC with online ICP-MS, using both cation and anion exchange separation. The species studied were eel (Anguilla anguilla L.), flathead grey mullet (Mugil cephalus L.), chub (Leuciscus cephalus L.), and carp (Cyprinus carpio L.). Mean total As concentrations ranged from 354 microg kg(-1) dry weight (carp) to 1804 microg kg(-1) dry weight (mullet). Under optimized conditions, the percentage of total As extracted ranged from 64% for carp, to 82%, 84%, and 89% for grey mullet, eel and chub, respectively. Extraction of lipid-rich eel with n-hexane recovered some additional 3% of total As. The sizeable effect of sample matrix on HPLC retention time of some organoarsenicals in gradient elution cation exchange chromatography was exploited to achieve separation of coeluting compounds by analysing the same sample at different dilutions. The recovery of As from chromatographic columns was 101%, 102%, 103% and 104% for carp, chub, mullet and eel, respectively, indicating that no As was retained during chromatography. Arsenobetaine (AB) was the dominating As compound, but several other arsenicals, including arsenous acid (Asiii), arsenic acid (Asv), methylarsonic acid (MMA), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO), arsenocholine ion (AC), tetramethylarsonium ion (TETRA), oxo-arsenosugar-glycerol (AS1), oxo-arsenosugar-phosphate (AS2), oxo-arsenosugar-sulfate (AS4), thio-arsenosugar-phosphate (ThioAS2), and three unknown As compounds, were found. Arsenic speciation in carp was different compared to the other fish species, and a lower proportion of AB along with a high contribution of AS2 and ThioAS2 was found. DMA and TMAO were noteworthy minor compounds in eel and carp, respectively. Arsenic speciation and the chemical composition of fish muscle both appeared to affect the extraction yield.
In the poisonous incident case occurred in Japan, clarification of the identity between seized poisons and retrieved from crime scene is strictly required from the court. In this case, arsenous acid was used as a poisonous material and, seized one from suspect's house was only twenty particles. The synchrotron X-ray fluorescence spectrometry by comparing the intensity ratios of L(alpha) line of four heavy metal, such as Bi, Sn, Sb, Se to K(beta) line of As was performed to overcome this problem. In this paper, the evaluation of this new method using 13 authentic arsenous acid samples, 4 of 13 were refined by Chinese method, 7 of 13 were refined by Japanese method (Sumitomo mining Co. Ltd. method), 2 of 13 were refined by German and Swiss method. As a result, by the comparison of the ratios of these four elements to As, these 13 samples were clearly classified to three products classes produced by different refining methods.
The effects of the addition of a starch indicator to propagating reaction fronts in the iodate–arsenous acid system are considered, both experimentally and by the analysis of a model based on the Dushman–Roebuck kinetic scheme equipped with the complexation reaction between starch, I2 and I3−. Both the experiments and the model show that the starch affects front propagation by slowing the waves down, with an increasing reduction in speed as the starch concentration is increased. This changes the magnitude of the electric field that has to be applied in order to achieve changes in the local stoichiometry. Contrary to the experimental observations, the model shows that the boundaries between the different reaction outcomes are the same, when expressed in terms of the dimensionless parameter ψ = E/v ::: (where E and v are dimensionless versions of the field ::: strength and propagation velocity), as in a previous study by Forstova ::: et al. ::: (J. Phys. Chem., 2000, 104, 9136) where the effects of starch were not included.
A localized source of buoyancy flux in a nonreactive fluid medium creates a plume. The flux can be provided by either heat, a compositional difference between the fluid comprising the plume and its surroundings, or a combination of both. For autocatalytic plumes produced by the iodate-arsenous acid reaction, however, buoyancy is produced along the entire reacting interface between the plume and its surroundings. Buoyancy production at the moving interface drives fluid motion, which in turn generates flow that advects the reaction front. As a consequence of this interplay between fluid flow and chemical reaction, autocatalytic plumes exhibit a rich dynamics during their ascent through the reactant medium. One of the more interesting dynamical features is the production of an accelerating vortical plume head that in certain cases pinches-off and detaches from the upwelling conduit. After pinch-off, a new plume head forms in the conduit below, and this can lead to multiple generations of plume heads for a single plume initiation. We investigated the pinch-off process using both experimentation and simulation. Experiments were performed using various concentrations of glycerol, in which it was found that repeated pinch-off occurs exclusively in a specific concentration range. Autocatalytic plume simulations revealed that pinch-off is triggered by the appearance of accelerating flow in the plume conduit.
A viscous lock-exchange gravity current corresponds to the reciprocal exchange of two fluids of different densities in a horizontal channel. The resulting front between the two fluids spreads as the square root of time, with a diffusion coefficient reflecting the buoyancy, viscosity, and geometrical configuration of the current. On the other hand, an autocatalytic reaction front between a reactant and a product may propagate as a solitary wave, namely, at a constant velocity and with a stationary concentration profile, resulting from the balance between molecular diffusion and chemical reaction. In most systems, the fluid left behind the front has a different density leading to a lock-exchange configuration. We revisit, with a chemical reaction, the classical situation of lock-exchange. We present an experimental analysis of buoyancy effects on the shape and the velocity of the iodate arsenous acid autocatalytic reaction fronts, propagating in horizontal rectangular channels and for a wide range of aspect...
Objective To compare the curative effects and safety between Liushen Pills and arsenous acid as endodontic sealer in mummification of baby tooth. Method The children with pulpitis (n=80) were randomly divided into the treatment group (n=40) and the control group (n=40). The two groups were given endodontic treatment and then the treatment group was given Liushen Pills as endodontic sealer and the control group was given arsenous acid. The relief of tooth pain, devitalization, long-term effect and complications were observed in two groups before and after the treatment. Result In the treatment group the relief rate of tooth pain was much higher (P0.05) and the complications were less (P0.05) than those in the control group. The two groups had the same devitalized rate and long-term effect (P0.05). Conclusion Liushen Pills has a good effect on relieving tooth pain and reducing complications as the endodontic sealer applied in the mummification of baby tooth.
Objective: To provide levels of total and speciated urinary arsenic in a representative sample of the US population. Methods: For the first time, total arsenic and seven inorganic and organic arsenic species were measured in the urine of participants (n ¼ 2557) for the [2003][2004] National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Data were compiled as geometric means and selected percentiles of urinary arsenic concentrations (mg/l) and creatinine-corrected urinary arsenic (mg/g creatinine) for total arsenic, dimethylarsinic acid, arsenobetaine, and a sum of the inorganic related species. Results: Arsenic acid, arsenous acid, arsenocholine, and trimethylarsine oxide were detected in 7.6%, 4.6%, 1.8%, and 0.3% of the participants, respectively (the limits of detection of 0.6-1.2 mg/l). Monomethylarsonic acid was detected in 35% of the overall population. For all participants aged Z6 years, dimethylarsinic acid (geometric mean of 3.71 mg/l) and arsenobetaine (geometric mean of 1.55 mg/l) had the greatest contribution to the total urinary arsenic levels. A relatively greater percentage contribution from arsenobetaine is seen at higher total urinary arsenic levels and from dimethylarsinic acid at lower total urinary arsenic levels. For all participants aged Z6 years, the 95th percentiles for total urinary arsenic and the sum of inorganic-related arsenic (arsenic acid, arsenous acid, dimethylarsinic acid, and monomethylarsonic acid) were 65.4 and 18.9 mg/l, respectively. For total arsenic and dimethylarsinic acid, covariate-adjusted geometric means demonstrated several slight differences due to age, gender, and race/ethnicity. Conclusions: The data reflect relative background contributions of inorganic and seafood-related arsenic exposures in the US population. Arsenobetaine and dimethylarsinic acid are the major arsenic species present with arsenobetaine, accounting for a greater proportion of total arsenic as total arsenic levels increase. Keywords: speciated arsenic, human, urine, biomonitoring, NHANES.
As was monitored in single ion mode as described previously (Jarrett et al., 2007) . Signal data were collected and analyzed using TotalChromt chromatography data processing software (PerkinElmer SCIEX) and Microsoft Excel 2003 (Microsoft Corporation, Richmond, WA, USA). An electronically activated six-port switching valve with a 200 ml sample loop installed between the column and the ICP-MS was programmatically switched to the inject position at 30 s after the autosampler's sample injection. This introduced an arsenic internal standard peak that appeared on the chromatogram before the column void volume. Figure 1 illustrates a typical patient sample and one of our bench quality control samples containing all seven arsenic species. The integrated peak area ratios (analyte areas divided by internal standard area) were used to calculate the concentration of each arsenic species against calibration curves constructed using the human urine-based calibrators that contained arsenocholine, arsenobetaine, trimethylarsine oxide, dimethylarsinic acid, monomethylarsonic acid, arsenic acid, and arsenous acid. The limits of detection were as follows: arsenic acid 1.0 mg/l, arsenous acid 1.2 mg/l, Levels of urinary total and speciated arsenic Caldwell et al.
A localized source of buoyancy flux in a non-reactive fluid medium creates a plume. The flux can be provided by either heat, a compositional difference between the fluid comprising the plume and its surroundings, or a combination of both. For autocatalytic plumes produced by the iodate-arsenous acid reaction, however, buoyancy is produced along the entire reacting interface between the plume and its surroundings. Buoyancy production at the moving interface drives fluid motion, which in turn generates flow that advects the reaction front. As a consequence of this interplay between fluid flow and chemical reaction, autocatalytic plumes exhibit a rich dynamics during their ascent through the reactant medium. One of the more interesting dynamical features is the production of an accelerating vortical plume head that in certain cases pinches-off and detaches from the upwelling conduit. After pinch-off, a new plume head forms in the conduit below, and this can lead to multiple generations of plume heads for a single plume initiation. We investigated the pinch-off process using both experimentation and simulation. Experiments were performed using various concentrations of glycerol, in which it was found that repeated pinch-off occurs exclusively in a specific concentration range. Autocatalytic plume simulations revealed that pinch-off is triggered by the appearance of accelerating flow in the plume conduit.
A viscous lock-exchange gravity current corresponds to the reciprocal exchange of two fluids of different densities in a horizontal channel. The resulting front between the two fluids spreads as the square root of time, with a diffusion coefficient reflecting the buoyancy, viscosity, and geometrical configuration of the current. On the other hand, an autocatalytic reaction front between a reactant and a product may propagate as a solitary wave, namely, at a constant velocity and with a stationary concentration profile, resulting from the balance between molecular diffusion and chemical reaction. In most systems, the fluid left behind the front has a different density leading to a lock-exchange configuration. We revisit, with a chemical reaction, the classical situation of lock-exchange. We present an experimental analysis of buoyancy effects on the shape and the velocity of the iodate arsenous acid autocatalytic reaction fronts, propagating in horizontal rectangular channels and for a wide range of aspect ratios (1/3 to 20) and cylindrical tubes. We do observe stationary-shaped fronts, spanning the height of the cell and propagating along the cell axis. Our data support the contention that the front velocity and its extension are linked to each other and that their variations scale with a single variable involving the diffusion coefficient of the lock-exchange in the absence of chemical reaction. 
Publisher Summary ::: Environmental ubiquity of arsenic (As) has provided pressure for the evolution of detoxification mechanisms in organisms from Escherichia coli to man. The metalloid arsenic has two oxidation states of biological relevance: Arsenic (As)(V) and As(III). In solution, these are found as oxyacids, arsenic acid (H3AsO4) or arsenous acid, also called arsenic trioxide (As2O3). At neutral pH, arsenic acid ionizes to the arsenate oxyanion, which is a substrate analogue of phosphate for many enzymes. In clinical settings, arsenite is also an effective cancer chemotherapeutic agent. Its anhydrous form, arsenic trioxide (trisenox) is a highly effective and safe drug in treating acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Differences in expression of AQP7 or AQP9 can lead to variability in response to drug therapy in different patients. Rapid examination of expression of the aquaglyceroporin genes or the levels of their protein products in APL patients may be of value in tailoring treatment strategies of an individual.
The influence of dc electric fields (EFs) on the development of buoyancy-driven instabilities of reaction fronts is investigated experimentally in a modified Hele-Shaw cell for the arsenous acid-iodate system. Assessment of effects of external EFs is made both visually and through dispersion curves. It is shown that density fingering, observed on ascending fronts, is suppressed by the EF if the front propagates towards the positive electrode and is enhanced when the front propagates towards the negative electrode. The stabilizing (destabilizing) effects include slower (faster) development of fingers and the decrease (increase) in their numbers. The descending front, stable under no EF conditions, remains stable when an EF is applied with the positive electrode facing the approaching front. When the descending front faces the negative electrode, the tiny fingerlike structure develops after quite a long time.
The iodate–arsenous acid reaction was reported to be able to exhibit hysteresis bistability, including mushrooms and isolas, in a continuous flow stirred tank reactor (CSTR) when an additional flow of solvent is introduced [N. Ganapathisubramanian and K. Showalter, J. Chem. Phys. 80, 4177 (1984)]. Based on their kinetic data and the empirical rate law, it is shown that the reaction may also exhibit pitchfork‐type and winged cusp‐type singularities if additional flows of the reactants are introduced to the CSTR.
The article contains sections titled: ::: ::: ::: ::: 1. Arsenic ::: 1.1. Introduction ::: 1.2. Physical Properties ::: 1.3. Chemical Properties ::: 1.4. Occurrence ::: 1.5. Production ::: 1.5.1. Production of Arsenic Trioxide ::: 1.5.1.1. Ore Dressing ::: 1.5.1.2. Pretreatment of Arsenical Materials ::: 1.5.1.2.1. Roasting ::: 1.5.1.2.2. Alternative Pretreatments of Arsenical Materials ::: 1.5.1.3. Production of Refined As2O3 ::: 1.5.2. Production of the Metal ::: 1.6. Treatment of Arsenic-Containing Byproducts ::: 2. Arsenic Compounds ::: 2.1. Arsenic Trioxide ::: 2.2. Arsenous Acid ::: 2.3. Arsenic Pentoxide ::: 2.4. Arsenic Acid ::: 2.5. Arsenic Sulfides ::: 2.6. Arsenic Halides ::: 2.7. Arsenic Hydride and Arsenides ::: 2.8. Organoarsenic Compounds ::: 2.8.1. Aliphatic Organoarsenic Compounds ::: 2.8.2. Aromatic Organoarsenic Compounds ::: 3. Uses and Economic Aspects ::: 4. Stabilization of Arsenic for Safe Disposal ::: 5. Recycling ::: 6. Safety Measures ::: 7. Toxicology
Earthworms and soil collected from six sites in Styria, Austria, were investigated for total arsenic concentrations by ICP-MS and for arsenic compounds by HPLC−ICP-MS. Total arsenic concentrations ranged from 3.2 to 17.9 mg/kg dry weight in the worms and from 5.0 to 79.7 mg/kg dry weight in the soil samples. There was no strict correlation between the total arsenic concentrations in the worms and soil. Arsenic compounds were extracted from soil and a freeze-dried earthworm sample with a methanol/water mixture (9:1, v/v). The extracts were evaporated to dryness, redissolved in water, and chromatographed on an anion- and a cation-exchange column. Arsenic compounds were identified by comparison of the retention times with known standards. Only traces of arsenic acid could be extracted from the soil with the methanol/water (9:1, v/v) mixture. The major arsenic compounds detected in the extracts of the earthworms were arsenous acid and arsenic acid. Arsenobetaine was present as a minor constituent, and traces ...
Objective: To develop a method of assaying microdose iodine in hair. Methods: Iodine could catalyze the reduction reaction between arsenous acid and cerium quadrivalence ion, and The effect was direct ratio to the concentration of iodine ion. So it could test indirectly the content of iodine ion. Results: The method has good precision and accuracy and the linear range was 0～8.0 μg. Conclusion: The method can be used in assaying the microdose iodine in hair and applied in the analysis of large number of samples. 
British anti-Lewisite (2,3-dimerkaptopropan-1-ol, dimercaprol, BAL) is one of the best-known chelator-type therapeutic agents against toxic metal ions and metalloids, especially arsenicals. Surprisingly, the mechanisms of action at the molecular level, as well as the coordination features of this traditional drug toward various arsenicals, are still poorly revealed. The present study on the interaction of arsenous acid (H3AsO3) with BAL, involving UV and NMR titrations, electrospray ionization mass spectrometry, and 2D NMR experiments combined with MP2 calculations, demonstrates that the reaction of H3AsO3 with BAL at pH = 7.0 results in a more complex speciation than was assumed before. The three reactive hydroxyl groups of H3AsO3 allow for interaction with three thiol moieties via condensation reaction, leading to the observed AsBAL2 and As2BAL3 complexes besides the AsBAL species. This indicates the strong propensity of inorganic As(III) to saturate its coordination sphere with thiolate groups. The alc...
In the present paper, we examine how arsenic species accumulate in fish liver and explore the hypothesis that sublethal arsenic concentrations in fish hepatic tissue interfere with stress-mediated gene expression. We exposed killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus) to 787 or 0 μg/L arsenic in tank water for 2 weeks. Arsenic exposure elevated total liver arsenic from 3.4 μg/g wet weight (control fish) to 9.6 μg/g wet weight, and resulted in a higher relative proportion of toxic (e.g. monomethylarsenous acid, dimethylarsenous acid, arsenic V) versus benign (arsenobetaine) arsenic species in this tissue. Following the exposure period, arsenic-treated and control fish were then subjected to a stress protocol: confinement and mechanical chasing for 15 min every 3 h. Liver tissue and blood were sampled from fish not exposed to the stressor at time 0, and at 8, 12, 24 and 40 h following the first stressor. Concentrations of the stress hormone cortisol increased significantly, and glucocorticoid receptor mRNA levels increased and then decreased in both groups, but patterns were nearly identical between arsenic pre-treated and arsenic untreated fish. Prior arsenic exposure prevented the stress-induced increases in stress-responsive LDH-B mRNA levels and enzyme activity observed in fish that had not been exposed to arsenic. However, in another stress-responsive gene, PEPCK, arsenic did not interfere with the stress-induced increase in gene expression, suggesting that the effects of arsenic on stress-mediated gene expression are complex and may involve regulatory pathways that differ between these two genes.
Horizontally propagating chemical fronts leading to the formation of a single stable convection roll are investigated in the iodate–arsenous acid reaction with arsenous acid stoichiometrically limiting, leaving the surface active iodine present in the product mixture. In sufficiently thin solution layers with open upper surface, the contribution of Marangoni instability is significantly enhanced. Acting in the same direction as buoyancy driven instability, it distorts the entire tilted reaction front that becomes 50% more elongated. The corresponding three-dimensional calculations based on the empirical rate-law of the reaction corroborate the experimental findings.
Abstract Typical clinical symptoms of acute arsenic poisoning have been detected in 1000 residents near a factory in P.N. Mitra Lane, Behala, South Calcutta, located in a thickly populated area manufacturing copper acetoarsenite (Paris-Green) an arsenical pesticide for the past 25 years. Soil around the effluent dumping point of the factory was exceptionally contaminated, with arsenic, copper and chromium concentrations of 20 100–35 500 mg kg −1 , 33 900–51 100 mg kg −1 and 5300–5510 mg kg −1 . Arsenic and copper concentrations in bore-hole soils collected up to a depth of 24.4 m at the effluent dumping point, decreased with depth. Arsenous acid, arsenic acid, methlarsonic acid (MA) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) were detected in bore-hole soils up to a depth of 1.37 m, after which only inorganic arsenical compounds were present. A positive correlation was established between arsenic and copper authenticated the Paris-Green waste disposal site as the source of contamination. Mechanism of ground water contamination from this disposal site had been probed by a systematic hydrogeological survey and the arsenic content of the tube-well waters in the surrounding areas. Hydraulic conductivity was maximum in the central part. The site for disposal of the effluent was a ditch located in the zone of discharge. Sparingly soluble Paris-Green cumulatively deposited in the waste disposal site is decomposed by micro-organisms to water-soluble forms and finally percolated to underground aquifers along with rain water through the discharge zone. The contaminant is currently moving towards WNW with ground water flow and the residents in the direction of encroaching contamination are insecure due to penetration of the contaminant.
AIM: To evaluate the effectiveness of arsenous acid (As 2O 3) injectable solution in the treatment of relapsed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). METHODS: Twenty_five relapsed APL patients were enrolled (M 15, F 10, 34 a±s 12 a), 10 mL of 0.1% arsenous acid solution+5% glucose 500 mL was injected iv, drip, daily for 28_56 d. Bone marrow examination was performed each week and/or at the time of response evaluation. Peripheral blood was counted at least twice a week. The coagulation and fibrinolysis were measured during the treatment. RESULTS: Twenty_five patients were treated with arsenous acid. Among them, 24 reached CR (CR rate 96%), 1 no remission (NR). All patients were followed up. Eight relapsed again. Four of 8 achieved CR again after receiving arsenous acid therapy; however, another 4 patients died. No significant adverse reaction was observed. CONCLUSION: Arsenous acid solution is an effective drug for the treatment of relapsed APL which was resistant to tretinoin.
From cell toxic action,inducing cell apoptosis of hepatic carcinoma,inhibiting the multiplication of hepatoma carcinoma cell to promote cancer cell differentiation,inhibiting vascularization of hepatic carcinoma,the paper reviewed current situation on foundmental and clinical studies that arsenous acid injection treated hepatic carcinoma,that supplied some referred information for this studies.
OBJECTIVE ::: To explore the clinical value of arsenious acid (H3AsO3) for treating patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: A total of 86 patients with APL were randomly divided into experimental group (43 cases) and control group (43 cases). The control group was treated by all trans retinoic acid combined with chemotherapy, the experimental group were treated by arsenous acid on the basis of the control group. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The overall response rate (ORR) in experimental group (100.00%) was significantly higher than that in control group (88.37%) (P < 0.05). The time of returm to complete remission in experimental group (30.86 ± 4.34) was better than that in control group (42.42 ± 7.10) d (P < 0.05). The time of return to normal levels of peripheral WBC count (20.86 ± 9.28) × 10⁹/L, hemoglobin count (68.62 ± 14.97) g/L and thrombocyte count in experimental group obviously less than that in control group (P < 0.05). The rates of high white blood syndrome (HWBS), disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in experimental group were lower than that in control group (P < 0.05). The survival rates of 2 and 3 years in experimental group were higher than that in control group (P < 0.05). The recurrence rate after treatment in experimental group was lower than that in control group (P < 0.05). The application of arsenious acid was main factor for patients survival (P < 0.05). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Arsenious acid can improve the clinical efficacy for the patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia, and reduce the complication, therefore it is worthy of application in clinic.
Arsenic is a common environmental contaminant from both naturally-occurring and anthropomorphic sources and human exposure can be detected in various tissues. Its toxicity depends on many factors including the chemical form, valence state, bioavailability, metabolism and detoxification within the human body. Of paramount concern, particularly with respect to health effects in children, is the timing of exposure as the prenatal and early life periods are more susceptible to toxic effects. The Maternal-Infant Research on Environmental Chemicals (MIREC) cohort was established to obtain national-level biomonitoring data for approximately 2,000 pregnant women and their infants between 2008 and 2011 from 10 Canadian cities. We measured total arsenic (As) in 1st and 3rd trimester maternal blood, umbilical cord blood, and infant meconium and speciated arsenic in 1st trimester maternal urine. Most pregnant women had detectable levels of total arsenic in blood (92.5% and 87.3%, respectively, for 1st and 3rd trimester); median difference between 1st and 3rd trimester was 0.1124µg/L (p<0.0001), but paired samples were moderately correlated (Spearman r=0.41, p<0.0001). Most samples were below the LOD for umbilical cord blood (50.9%) and meconium (93.9%). In 1st trimester urine samples, a high percentage (>50%) of arsenic species (arsenous acid (As-III), arsenic acid (As-V), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), and arsenobetaine (AsB)) were also below the limit of detection, except dimethylarsinic acid (DMA). DMA (>85% detected) ranged from <LOD to 64.42 (95th percentile: 11.99)µgAs/L. There was a weak but significant correlation between total arsenic in blood and specific gravity-adjusted DMA in urine (Spearman r=0.33, p<0.0001). Among this population of pregnant woman and newborns, levels of arsenic measured in blood and urine were lower than national population figures for Canadian women of reproductive age (20-39 years). In general, higher arsenic levels were observed in women who were older, foreign-born (predominantly from Asian countries), and had higher education. Further research is needed to elucidate sources of exposure and factors that may influence arsenic exposure in pregnant women and children.
The reactivity of arsenite and selenite with biological thiols plays an important role in the toxicity of these elements. However, toxic effects are eliminated when the species are coadministered, due to the antagonistic relationship between selenium and arsenic. The reduction of arsenous acid and selenious acid by thiol and the formation of an As–Se species have been modeled using density functional theory (DFT) and solvent-assisted proton exchange (SAPE), a microsolvation technique that uses a network of water molecules to mimic the participation of bulk solvent in proton transfer processes. Activation barriers and relative energies were calculated for the stepwise thiol reduction of arsenite to form As(SR)3 and selenious acid to first form a selenotrisulfide (Se(SR)2) and then H2Se. Several pathways were explored for the formation of an As–Se bond: the nucleophilic attack of selenide or selenopersulfide on As(OH)3, (RS)As(OH)2, and (RS)2AsOH to form (RS)2AsSeH. On the basis of the lower activation barr...
The aqueous solutions of arsenous acid with thiolate containing organic ligands such as the meso and racemic forms of 1,4-dithiol-butane-2,3-diol, (dithioerythritol – dte and dithiothreitol - dtt) as well as 2,3-dimercaptopropanol (called also British anti-Lewisite (BAL) or Dimercaprol) were investigated. pH-mertric titrations were performed in solutions with different molar ratios of As(III) and the ligands. The pKa values for As(OH)3, and the ligands determined from these data were in good agreement with the literature data. In all investigated systems containing both As(OH)3 and one of the ligands, the deprotonation steps appeared at a higher pH in the titration curves, than in those of the individual components. This unusual observation was explained by the condensation reactions between the reagents taking place in the pH < 8 range. In some of these systems the pH-metry was combined with NMR and UV spectroscopic measurements. We observed the complexes with 1:1 As(III):ligand composition as being the major species in aqueous solutions. In the case of As(III)-dte system we could crystallize the complex of 1:1 composition from ethanolic solution.
Speciation of arsenic is very important as the toxicity and the bioavailability are related to the chemical form. The inorganic species, As III (arsenite) and As V (arsenate), are considered carcinogenic, whereas the toxicity of the organic species is variable. The methylated forms, monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), are much less toxic. More complex forms as arsenobetaine (AB) and arsenocholine (AC) are considered non-toxic [1]. Arsenic speciation analysis was performed in nine dietary supplements where total arsenic was found to be high. The samples were analyzed using gradient elution anion exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Solvent extraction with sonication and microwave extraction using various aqueous and aqueous/solvent mixtures was initially evaluated. Six arsenic species, including arsenic acid (As III), arsenous acid (As V), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), arsenobetaine (AB), and arsenocholine (AC) were determined. The speciation data presented here may be valuable for the quality assurance of analytical method development and surveys of arsenic in dietary supplements. The three most abundant arsenic species found were arsenite, arsenate and dimethylarsinic acid. Total arsenic species concentrations in the commercial products analyzed ranged from 0.1 to 31µg/day. By using HPLC-ICP-MS, the relative amount of inorganic arsenic in the samples ranged from 59 to 89% of the sum of the arsenic species detected in each sample. The maximum tolerable daily intake of inorganic arsenic of 150µg/day for an average body weight of 70kg was established by the Joint FAOWHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA). All samples analyzed are within limits of JECFA. Acknowledgements: This research is supported in part by „Science Based Authentication of Dietary Supplements“ and „Botanical Dietary Supplement Research“ funded by the Food and Drug Administration grant numbers 5U01FD002071–10 and 1U01FD003871–02, and the United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Specific Cooperative Agreement No. 58–6408–2-0009 and the authors would like to thank Dr. Mei Wang for the extractions of plant samples. References: [1] Caroli S, et al, (1996) Element Speciation in Bioinorganic Chemistry, Wiley, Chapter 13.
Objective: To provide levels of total and speciated urinary arsenic in a representative sample of the US population. Methods: For the first time, total arsenic and seven inorganic and organic arsenic species were measured in the urine of participants (n ¼ 2557) for the [2003][2004] National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Data were compiled as geometric means and selected percentiles of urinary arsenic concentrations (mg/l) and creatinine-corrected urinary arsenic (mg/g creatinine) for total arsenic, dimethylarsinic acid, arsenobetaine, and a sum of the inorganic related species. Results: Arsenic acid, arsenous acid, arsenocholine, and trimethylarsine oxide were detected in 7.6%, 4.6%, 1.8%, and 0.3% of the participants, respectively (the limits of detection of 0.6-1.2 mg/l). Monomethylarsonic acid was detected in 35% of the overall population. For all participants aged Z6 years, dimethylarsinic acid (geometric mean of 3.71 mg/l) and arsenobetaine (geometric mean of 1.55 mg/l) had the greatest contribution to the total urinary arsenic levels. A relatively greater percentage contribution from arsenobetaine is seen at higher total urinary arsenic levels and from dimethylarsinic acid at lower total urinary arsenic levels. For all participants aged Z6 years, the 95th percentiles for total urinary arsenic and the sum of inorganic-related arsenic (arsenic acid, arsenous acid, dimethylarsinic acid, and monomethylarsonic acid) were 65.4 and 18.9 mg/l, respectively. For total arsenic and dimethylarsinic acid, covariate-adjusted geometric means demonstrated several slight differences due to age, gender, and race/ethnicity. Conclusions: The data reflect relative background contributions of inorganic and seafood-related arsenic exposures in the US population. Arsenobetaine and dimethylarsinic acid are the major arsenic species present with arsenobetaine, accounting for a greater proportion of total arsenic as total arsenic levels increase. Keywords: speciated arsenic, human, urine, biomonitoring, NHANES.
As was monitored in single ion mode as described previously (Jarrett et al., 2007) . Signal data were collected and analyzed using TotalChromt chromatography data processing software (PerkinElmer SCIEX) and Microsoft Excel 2003 (Microsoft Corporation, Richmond, WA, USA). An electronically activated six-port switching valve with a 200 ml sample loop installed between the column and the ICP-MS was programmatically switched to the inject position at 30 s after the autosampler's sample injection. This introduced an arsenic internal standard peak that appeared on the chromatogram before the column void volume. Figure 1 illustrates a typical patient sample and one of our bench quality control samples containing all seven arsenic species. The integrated peak area ratios (analyte areas divided by internal standard area) were used to calculate the concentration of each arsenic species against calibration curves constructed using the human urine-based calibrators that contained arsenocholine, arsenobetaine, trimethylarsine oxide, dimethylarsinic acid, monomethylarsonic acid, arsenic acid, and arsenous acid. The limits of detection were as follows: arsenic acid 1.0 mg/l, arsenous acid 1.2 mg/l, Levels of urinary total and speciated arsenic Caldwell et al.
Arsenic is a common environmental contaminant from both naturally-occurring and anthropomorphic sources and human exposure can be detected in various tissues. Its toxicity depends on many factors including the chemical form, valence state, bioavailability, metabolism and detoxification within the human body. Of paramount concern, particularly with respect to health effects in children, is the timing of exposure as the prenatal and early life periods are more susceptible to toxic effects. The Maternal-Infant Research on Environmental Chemicals (MIREC) cohort was established to obtain national-level biomonitoring data for approximately 2,000 pregnant women and their infants between 2008 and 2011 from 10 Canadian cities. We measured total arsenic (As) in 1st and 3rd trimester maternal blood, umbilical cord blood, and infant meconium and speciated arsenic in 1st trimester maternal urine. Most pregnant women had detectable levels of total arsenic in blood (92.5% and 87.3%, respectively, for 1st and 3rd trimester); median difference between 1st and 3rd trimester was 0.1124 µg/L (p <0.0001), but paired samples were moderately correlated (Spearman r=0.41, p <0.0001). Most samples were below the LOD for umbilical cord blood (50.9%) and meconium (93.9%). In 1st trimester urine samples, a high percentage ( >50%) of arsenic species (arsenous acid (As-III), arsenic acid (As-V), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), and arsenobetaine (AsB)) were also below the limit of detection, except dimethylarsinic acid (DMA). DMA ( >85% detected) ranged from <LOD to 64.42 (95th percentile: 11.99) µg As/L. There was a weak but significant correlation between total arsenic in blood and specific gravityadjusted DMA in urine (Spearman r=0.33, p <0.0001). Among this population of pregnant woman and newborns, levels of arsenic measured in blood and urine were lower than national population figures for Canadian women of reproductive age (20-39 years). In general, higher arsenic levels were observed in women who were older, foreign-born (predominantly from Asian countries), and had higher education. Further research is needed to elucidate sources of exposure and factors that may influence arsenic exposure in pregnant women and children.
Thirteen arsenous acid samples of known origins and refining methods were collected. Each sample was subjected to quantitative analysis of any impurity elements present using synchrotron radiation X-ray fluorescence spectrometry (SR-XRF) and inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES). The trace elements selected were Sn, Sb and Bi for the reasons that they were considered not to be changed by their circumstances and that they showed high sensitivity to SR-XRF. These results obtained by both methods were compared and the correlation between these two methods was determined. The quantification of trace impurities obtained by SR-XRF using As as an internal standard showed good agreement with the results obtained by ICP-AES. The discrimination of refining method became possible by the comparison of these impurities' contents measured with non-destructive SR-XRF using several arsenous acid particles.
Arsenic (As) is a metalloid listed in group Va of the periodic chart. It exists in nature in the oxidation states +V (arsenate), +III (arsenite), 0 (arsenic) and −III (arsine). In the aqueous environment inorganic arsenic appears commonly in the oxidation states +V and +III as arsenous acid (As (III)), arsenic acid (As (V)), and their salts. Chronic and acute exposures of arsenic leads to cancer, cardiovascular disease (hypertension and atherosclerosis), neurological disorders, gastrointestinal disturbances, liver disease and renal disease, reproductive health effects, dermal changes and other health disorders and also affects the antioxidant system in the body. Furthermore, reactive oxygen species (ROS) - mediated oxidative damage is a common denominator in arsenic pathogenesis. Formation of free radical such as superoxide radical due to cascade mechanism, combined with glutathione - depleting agents, increases the sensitivity of cells to arsenic toxicity. Formation of ROS/RNS, including peroxyl radicals (ROO • ), the superoxide radical, singlet oxygen, hydroxyl radical (OH • ) via the Fenton reaction, hydrogen peroxide, the dimethylarsenic radical, the dimethylarsenic peroxyl radical and/or oxidant - induced DNA damage, when both humans and animals are exposed to arsenic. In addition, arsenic induces the formation of oxidized lipids which in turn generate several bioactive molecules (ROS, peroxides and isoprostanes), of which aldehydes [malondialdehyde (MDA) and 4 - hydroxy - nonenal (HNE)] are the major end products. Various traditional antidotes are recommended for the present study such as DMSA (meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid), DMPS(2,3-dimercapto-1-propanesulfonic acid) DMPA ( N -(2,3-dimercaptopropyl)-phthalamidic acid) BAL (2,3-dimercapto-1-propanol), Taurine (2-aminoethaesulfonic acid) against arsenic-induced toxicity. Recently, such phyto-antidotes like silibinin, arjunolic acid, vitamin C (ascorbic acid), vitamin E (α - tocopherol) and curcumin have played a major role in arsenic toxicity. Glutathione and antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase showed the protective role against arsenic - induced oxidative stress.
Bifurcation or limit point problems with slowly varying parameters are of interest in many research areas. Typically, the time dependency of the bifurcation parameter introduces a delay in the transition from one type of solution to the other. In this article, we study both theoretically and experimentally the bistable iodate–arsenous acid reaction when subjected to a time‐dependent bifurcation parameter. This problem is tractable analytically and allows us to derive an expression for the transition delay with respect to the static bifurcation point as a function of the dimensionless ramping rate e. For small and moderate values of e, we predict that the delay is proportional to ep where the exponent p=2/3≈0.67. For the experimental conditions considered in this paper, our experimental data yield p=0.63±0.10.
A specific aquaglyceroporin, TbAQP2, is required for high-affinity uptake of pentamidine into human African trypanosomiasis parasites, Trypanosoma brucei [1] [2] [3] . Additionally, a trypanosome adenosine transporter mediates pentamidine transport, albeit at lower efficiency [2] . Aquaglyceroporins represent a subfamily of the aquaporin water channel proteins and conduct small, uncharged solutes, mainly glycerol and urea [4] . However, at a molecular weight of 340 Da and with two strongly basic, positively charged amidine moieties (pK a 12.1), pentamidine is not a physiological substrate analog and differs from previous examples of drug uptake involving aquaglyceroporins [5, 6] . In the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia, the human aquaglyceroporin AQP9 [7] serves as an entry site for the drug arsenic trioxide, As 2 O 3 [8] , which dissolves into weak arsenous acid, As(OH) 3 (126 Da), resembling the glycerol molecule (92 Da). The analogous antimonous acid, Sb(OH) 3 (173 Da), derived from the antimonial drug pentostam, is the first-line treatment of leishmaniasis and enters Leishmania major parasites via LmAQP1 [9] . The antineoplastic agent hydroxyurea (N-hydroxylated urea, 76 Da) is a permeant of PfAQP, i.e. the single aquaglyceroporin of the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum, and of TgAQP from the toxoplasmosis parasite Toxoplasma gondii [10] .
Lead (Pb), cadmium (Cd), mercury (Hg), and arsenic (As) are among the top 10 pollutants of global health concern. Studies have shown that exposures to these metals produce severe adverse effects. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects, particularly joint toxicities, are poorly understood in humans. The objective of this investigation was to identify and characterize prevalent combinations of these metals and their species in the U.S. NHANES population to provide background data for future studies of potential metal interactions. Exposure was defined as urine or blood levels ≥ medians of the NHANES 2007-2012 participants ≥6 years (n = 7408). Adjusted-odds ratios (adj-OR) and 95% confidence intervals were determined for covariates (age, gender, and race/ethnicity, cotinine and body mass index). Species-specific analysis was also conducted for As and Hg including iAs (urinary arsenous acid and/or arsenic acid), met-iAs (urinary monomethylarsonic acid and/or dimethylarsinic acid), and oHg (blood methyl-mercury and/or ethyl-mercury). For combinations of As and Hg species, age- and gender-specific prevalence was determined among NHANES 2011-2012 participants (n = 2342). Data showed that approximately 49.3% of the population contained a combination of three or more metals. The most prevalent unique specific combinations were Pb/Cd/Hg/As, Pb/Cd/Hg, and Pb/Cd. Age was consistently associated with these combinations: adj-ORs ranged from 10.9 (Pb/Cd) to 11.2 (Pb/Cd/Hg/As). Race/ethnicity was significant for Pb/Cd/Hg/As. Among women of reproductive age, frequency of oHg/iAs/met-iAS and oHg/met-iAs was 22.9 and 40.3%, respectively. These findings may help prioritize efforts to assess joint toxicities and their impact on public health.
The equations describing travelling waves in the iodate–arsenous acid reaction are discussed, with kinetics based on the Dushman–Roebuck scheme. These equations are used to show how the structure of the wave (its propagation speed and final reaction products) depends on the stoichiometry factor S0, the initial concentration of arsenous acid relative to iodate. Different forms are seen in the ranges 0 3. An asymptotic analysis, based on a large parameter arising in the system, is undertaken. This shows that wave structures and propagation speeds are different in these three ranges of S0.
DERMATITIS herpetiformis has challenged the therapeutic ingenuity of physicians since it was first described by Duhring 1 in 1884. Until the advent of sulfonamide drugs the therapeutic endeavors of dermatologists consisted of giving some form of inorganic arsenic, such as solution of potassium arsenite and "Asiatic pills". (contain arsenous acid and black pepper) by mouth and sodium arsenate by subcutaneous injection. Other measures, such as the application of sulfur ointment, autohemotherapy, intestinal antisepsis by high colonic irrigation, catharsis and the removal of foci of infection were attended with indifferent results. For many years dermatitis herpetiformis was thought by many to be the cutaneous expression of bacterial allergy. It was with this in mind that physicians welcomed the opportunity to try the sulfonamide drugs in the treatment of this inveterate dermatosis. Dostrovsky and his associates 2 concluded from experimental work on animals that dermatitis herpetiformis was caused by some filterable virus
A study was made of gastric ulcer development in young rats; it was related to the absence in young animals of the vasomotor component of the inflammatory reaction, and on the failure of trophic ulcers to develop. We used a modification of K. A. Meshcherskaya's method in which caffeine and arsenous acid were given by mouth; ulces were induced in 90–100% of adult rats [16, 19]. In young rats which received the preparation for 14–21 days, starting at the 5th–9th day after birth, no gastric ulcers formed. When these substances were given to rats from the 18–24th day after birth onwards gastric ulcers developed occasionally. However the incidence was very low.
In an unstirred thin film of solution containing iodate and arsenous acid, a single propagating wave of chemical reactivity may be exhibited. The wave converts the solution from colorless to blue in reaction mixtures containing iodate in stoichiometric excess and starch indicator. The wave appears as a narrow blue band propagating through a colorless solution in reaction mixtures containing arsenous acid in stoichiometric excess. Waves were electrochemically initiated and propagation velocity was measured as a function of reactant concentrations. Iodide concentration was measured with an iodide selective microelectrode as a wave passed through the electrode position. The reaction-diffusion behavior is explained with a simple reaction mechanism autocatalytic in iodide. The coupling of chemical reaction with diffusion may give rise to propagating chemical waves, provided the reaction contains some appropriate form of kinetic feedback such as autocatalysis. Two fundamentally different types of reaction-diffusion waves have been observed in isothermal chemical systems: propagating pulses and propagating fronts.' The chemical waves in the excitable Belousov-Zhabotinsky2 (BZ) reaction are propagating pulses of reactivity. As a pulse passes through a point, the reaction intermediates undergo a concentration excursion which returns to its original state. In the BZ reaction, reactants are little depleted in an excursion and the pulse therefore effectively regenerates the kinetic state of the solution it passes thr~ugh.~ Propagating pulses have also been observed in the recently discovered oscillating iodate-chlorite- malonic acid rea~tion.~ Propagating fronts of chemical reactivity were observed in the iodate oxidation of arsenous acid over 25 years ago by Epik and Sh~b.~ In a recent study of this system,6 the wave behavior was confirmed and a qualitative explanation was proposed. In addition, an electrochemical method for initiating the waves in a thin film of solution was developed. As a front passes through a point the chemical species undergo a concentration excursion; however, instead of returning to their original concentrations, a new kinetic state is generated. A propagating front therefore converts a reaction mixture from one kinetic state to another. In the io- datearsenous acid reaction, the front converts the reaction mixture from an initial state where very little reaction has occurred to the state of thermodynamic equilibrium. Propagating fronts have also been studied in the bromate oxidation of ferroin.' Net reaction I describes the iodate-arsenous acid reaction when arsenous acid is in stoichiometric excess to iodate ((As(III)), > 3(10,-),). When iodate is in stoichiometric excess to arsenous IO3- + 3H3As03 = I- + 3H3As04
Adsorption is the preferred technique for removal of toxic arsenous acid (As(OH)3) from groundwater. The method can be made more economically feasible by the use of magnetically recyclable adsorbents. Given this, there are a few reports on the successful use of magnetite as an adsorbent of arsenous acid. However, none of these investigations attempt to give any mechanistic insight into the molecular-level interactions between the magnetite surface and arsenous acid in the presence of solvent molecules. Understanding the mechanism involved is critical for the development of better adsorbents of As(OH)3. The present paper investigates this issue by employing classical molecular dynamics simulations for adsorption of arsenous acid in the water on the magnetite (311) surface. Radial distribution function analysis reveals that interactions between (a) Fe (of magnetite) and O (of arsenous acid) and (b) O (of magnetite) and H (of arsenous acid) dominate the adsorption interactions at the molecular level. The ads...
Abstract Background Nephrotoxic metals of arsenic, cadmium, lead and mercury exposures are common environmental pollutants. The associations between arsenic, cadmium, lead and mercury exposures and the risk of kidney stones are unclear. Objective To explore the associations between biomarkers of arsenic, cadmium, lead and mercury exposures and the odds of kidney stones. Methods Adult participants (≥20 years) from the 2007–2016 NHANES were included. Restricted cubic splines were adopted. Results The odds ratio (95% confidence interval) of kidney stones increased with increasing blood cadmium and reached the maximum at 1.00 μg/L [1.38 (1.02–1.88) overall, 1.62 (1.11–2.32) for women and 1.53 (1.06–2.22) for non-Hispanic white]. The odds of kidney stones increased with increasing urinary cadmium and reached the maximum at 1.50 μg/L [2.56 (1.17–5.59) overall, 5.57 (1.88–16.49) for women, 4.31 (1.75–10.63) for obese individuals and 3.75 (1.60–8.78) for non-Hispanic white]. The odds of kidney stones increased with increasing total urinary arsenic and urinary dimethylarsinic acid in women, and reached the maximum of 1.69 (1.08–2.67) at 40 μg/L and 1.71 (1.07–2.72) at 10.00 μg/L, respectively. Inverse associations were found between the odds of kidney stones and blood lead within 5.00 μg/dL [0.64 (0.46–0.90) overall, 0.53 (0.33–0.84) for men and 0.58 (0.37–0.92) for non-Hispanic white], methyl mercury within 3.00 μg/L [non-obese individuals: 0.71 (0.51–0.99)] and urinary arsenous acid within 1.20 μg/L [individuals other than non-Hispanic white: 0.63 (0.41–0.95)]. No association was found with other biomarkers. Conclusions Several biomarkers of arsenic, cadmium, lead and mercury exposures were associated with the odds of kidney stones in adults.
Horizontally propagating fronts in the iodate-arsenous acid reaction are investigated experimentally in a vertically oriented Hele-Shaw cell by varying the height of liquid layer for various stoichiometry. At the preset conditions, a stable pattern develops which can be characterized by its mixing length defined as the standard deviation of the front position in the direction of propagation. The mixing length scales with the height of the reaction vessel, and although the exponent significantly changes by varying the ratio of the reactants, it has a universal value when the reaction front is thin and simple convection arises.
Horizontally propagating fronts in the iodate-arsenous acid reaction are investigated experimentally in a vertically oriented Hele-Shaw cell by varying the height of liquid layer for various stoichiometry.
As an element with no essential function in plants, As gains entry via the transport systems of essential 19 nutrients phosphorus (P) and silicon (Si)-the phenomenon of molecular mimicry, based on similar 20 chemical properties such as charge and ionic radius [19]. Inorganic As(III) present as arsenous acid 21 (H3AsO3) in flooded rice paddies [20] and enters rice root cell symplast via the silicic acid transporter,
A number of experimental and theoretical constructs utilizing networks of chemical reactions to implement computation have been described. These chemical systems act as simple models for networks of coupled oscillators such as neurons, circadian pacemakers, and other biological systems [28] . Over 30 years ago the construction of logic gates in a bistable chemical system was described by Rossler [36] . Ross and coworkers [18, 19] produced a theoretical construct suggesting the use of ''chemical'' reactor systems coupled by mass flow for implementing logic gates, neural networks, and finite-state machines. In further work Hjelmfelt et al. [17, 20] simulated a pattern recognition device constructed from large networks of mass-coupled chemical reactors containing a bistable iodatearsenous acid reaction. They encoded arbitrary patterns of low and high iodide concentrations in the network of 36 coupled reactors. If the network is initialized with a pattern similar to the encoded one, then errors in the initial pattern are corrected, bringing about the regeneration of the stored pattern. However, if the pattern is not similar, then the network evolves to a homogeneous state signaling nonrecognition.
The toxicity of As varies according to type, whether inorganic or organic. Inorganic As includes arsenous acid (As(III)) and arsenic acid (As(V)), while organic As includes MMA, DMA, arsenobetaine (AsB), and arsenocholine (AsC). Generally, inorganic As has a stronger toxicity than that of organic As (Tseng. 2007) . However, methylated trivalent species, MMA III and DMA III produced as intermediate in the metabolic processing of inorganic As may be responsible for carcinogenic effects (Yamanaka et al. 2004) . As(III) has a particularly strong toxicity since it has better reactivity with cells than As(V) (Naranmandura et al. 2006 ) (Liu et al. 2013) . AsB and AsC are generally considered to be non-toxic. Therefore, the toxicity and carcinogenicity of As depend not only on the total concentration but also on the different As species (Pizarro et al. 2003 ) (Liu et al. 2013) .
The ingestion of contaminated food has become a well-known source of human exposure to toxic metals [2] . For instance, consumption of seafood has been associated with exposure to considerable amounts of methyl-mercury (especially in the consumption of predatory fish that are higher in the aquatic food chain [17] ) and arsenic in adult populations [18, 19] . Second only to smoking [20] , dietary sources are considered the most significant route of non-occupational cadmium exposure; cereals, tubers, pulses, and rice are among the most recognized dietary sources of cadmium [21] [22] [23] . Contamination can occur if crops are grown in tainted soil or treated with metal-contaminated pesticides [2, 24] . For example, arsenic contamination has been reported in rice, grains, fruits, and juices; presumably from both naturally occurring arsenic found in soil as well as use of arseniccontaining pesticides [25] [26] [27] [28] . The exact mechanism of crop contamination differs based on both the specific environmental metal and crop. For instance, arsenic accumulates in rice [29] through the silicon transport system [30] because, to the rice plant, arsenous acid (the major form of arsenic in flooded rice paddies) is indistinguishable from silicic acid.
Arsenic is a trace element which can be found in the earth's crust with an abundance of 54 and average concentration of about 5 mg L −1 . Some processes such as mining, well drilling, and weathering [1] could increase the released amount of this heavy metal to the environment, especially into ground waters, putting people's health at risk of cancer (mostly bladder, lung. and skin) and related diseases. [1b,2] Ground water contamination can also lead to agriculture products contamination, such as in rice. [3] Inorganic forms of arsenic which are toxic include As(V) and As(III). As(V) mainly exist predominantly under oxidizing conditions as arsenate (e.g., first ionized and second ionized products of arsenic acid H 2 AsO 4 − and HAsO 4 2− ) while As(III) naturally exists as arsenous acid (H 3 AsO 3 ) predominantly under reducing conditions in a pH range of 2-9. [4] Below the Krafft temperature, the surfactant becomes insoluble rather than self assembles. Micelles are one type of aggregates and the formation of other types of aggregations or self-assemblies depends on some parameters, such as physical constraints that normally arise from hydrocarbon chain volume and head-group area. The flexibility of the chains and the intermolecular forces are also other effective parameters.
Convective instabilities may arise in the batch, non-stirred reactors, where the reaction proceeds in the form of a front converting reactants ahead of the front into products behind the front. Due to chemical change not only the gradients of species concentration are set across the front but also the gradient of the density may arise. Buoyant forces then evoke convective flows that can destroy the shape of the front and cause the mixing of products and reactants. The onset of buoyancy instability has been studied in the arsenous acid-iodate reaction system in the narrow, vertical reactor (Hele-Shaw cell, cf. Fig. 1.) Two reaction fronts, initiated at the negative electrode (a conductive stripe of indium-thin-oxide on the glass wall), convert the denser unreacted solution into the less dense reacted solution. The buoyancy forces then destabilise the ascending front that forms fingers. This paper investigates the possibility of influencing the stability of arsenous acid-iodate fronts by external d.c. electric fields (U = 10 or 20 V) applied on the cell. It is shown that the buoyancy instability, observed on ascending fronts, can be suppressed by EF if the ascending front propagates towards the positive electrode and can be facilitated if the ascending front propagates towards the negative electrode. The descending fronts, stable under no EF conditions, stay stable if the positive electrode faces the approaching front but become unstable when the polarity of d.c. EF applied is reversed. The stabilising (destabilising) effects increase with the increasing strength of EFs and include slower (faster) development of fingers and the decrease (increase) of their number.
Objective To discuss the effects of arsenous acid in combination with ionizing radiation on apoptosis and cycle of hepatocellular carcinoma HepG2 cells. Methods The effect of 5 mg /ml arsenous acid in the hepatocellular carcinoma HepG2 cells was observed. The cell apoptosis and cell cycle distribution by flow cytometer were analyzed. Results 48 h after irradiated,cell cycle redistributed inthe control group,the irradiation group,arsenous acid group and arsenic acid + irradiation groups. The G0 /G1 phase cell proportion reduced,S phase and G2 /M phases increased. The cell apoptosis rates( %,珋x ± s) were 5. 96 ± 0. 27,9. 07 ± 0. 59,15. 12 ± 1. 61 and 21. 01 ± 2. 32,respectively. There were statistical differences between each groups( F = 63. 41,P = 0. 000),and have statistically significant between any two groups( P 0. 05). Conclusion Arsenous acid can block HepG2 cells of hepatocellular carcinoma on S phase and G2 / M phase. Aresnous acid also can induce cell apoptosis.
The partitioning of As and Au between rhyolite melt and low-salinity vapor (2 wt% NaCl eq.) in a melt–vapor–Au metal ± magnetite ± pyrrhotite assemblage has been quantified at 800 °C, 120 MPa and fO2=NNOfO2=NNO. The S-bearing runs have calculated values for the fugacities of H2S, SO2 and S2 of logfH2S=1.1logfH2S=1.1, logfSO2=-1.5logfSO2=-1.5, and logfS2=-3.0logfS2=-3.0. The ratio of H2S to SO2 is on the order of 400. The experiments constrain the effect of S on the partitioning behavior of As and Au at magmatic conditions. Calculated average Nernst-type partition coefficients (±1σ ) for As between vapor and melt, DAsv/m, are 1.0 ± 0.1 and 2.5 ± 0.3 in the S-free and S-bearing assemblages, respectively. These results suggest that sulfur has a small, but statistically meaningful, effect on the mass transfer of As between silicate melt and low-salinity vapor at the experimental conditions. Efficiencies of removal, calculated following Candela and Holland (1986), suggest that the S-free and S-bearing low-salinity vapor can scavenge approximately 41% and 63% As from water-saturated rhyolite melt, respectively, during devolatilization assuming that As is partitioned into magnetite and pyrrhotite during second boiling. The S-free data are consistent with the presence of arsenous acid, As(OH)3 in the vapor phase. However, the S-bearing data suggest the presence of both arsenous acid and a As–S complex in S-bearing magmatic vapor. Apparent equilibrium constants, logKAs′(±1σ), describing the partitioning of As between melt and vapor are −1.3 (0.1) and −1.1 (0.1) for the S-free and S-bearing runs, respectively. The increase in the value of KAs′ with the addition of S suggests a role for S in complexing and scavenging As from the melt during degassing. ::: ::: The calculated vapor/melt partition coefficients (±1σ ) for Au between vapor and melt, DAuv/m, in S-free and S-bearing assemblages are 15 ± 2.5 and 12 ± 0.3, respectively. Efficiencies of removal (Candela and Holland, 1986) for the S-free melt, calculated assuming that magnetite is the dominant Au-sequestering solid phase during crystallization (Simon et al., 2003), suggest that magmatic vapor may scavenge on the order of 72% Au from a water-saturated melt. Efficiencies of removal calculated for the S-bearing assemblage, assuming pyrrhotite and magnetite are the dominant Au-sequestering solid phases, indicate that vapor may scavenge on the order of 60% Au from the melt. These model calculations suggest that the loss of pyrrhotite and magnetite from a melt, owing to punctuated differentiation during ascent and emplacement, does not prohibit the ability of a rhyolite melt to generate a large-tonnage Au deposit. Apparent equilibrium constants describing the partitioning of Au between melt and vapor were calculated using the mean DAuv/m values for the S-free and S-bearing assemblages; only S-bearing data from runs longer than 400 h were used as shorter runs may not have reached equilibrium with respect only to vapor/melt partitioning of Au. The values for logKAu′(±1σ) are −4.4 (0.1) and −4.2 (0.2) for the S-free and S-bearing runs, respectively. These data suggest that the presence of S does not affect the mass transfer of Au from degassing silicate melt to an exsolved, low-salinity vapor in a low-fS2fS2 assemblage (i.e., pyrrhotite–magnetite at NNO) at the experimental conditions reported here. Efficiencies of removal are calculated and used to model the mass transfer of Au from a crystallizing silicate melt to an exsolved, low-salinity vapor phase. The calculations suggest that the model, absolute tonnage of Au scavenged and transported by S-free and S-bearing vapors, from a crystallizing melt, would be comparable and that the time-integrated flux of low-salinity vapor could be responsible for a significant quantity of the Au in magmatic-hydrothermal ore deposits.
Objective To study the short period effect and the side effects of Injectio arsenous acid when used to treat middle or advanced primary liver cancers.Methods From February 2001 to October 2001,10 cases of middle or advanced primary liver cancers were infused only with Injectio arsenous acid for 28 days.Results 80 per cent of the cases had stable life quality;3 cases right superior abdominal pain remission;4 cases relief and 2 cases no improvement.There was no Ⅲ degree or more severe side effects found.Conclusions Only using Injectio arsenous acid to treat middle or advanced liver cancer might be effective,especially for the initial treament.The stabilization of life quality,the improvement of clinical symptom and little side effects suggested that Injectio arsenous acid become a new drug or a new adjuvant for liver cancer.
Arsenic in drinking water is one of the most serious environmental health hazards faced by millions of people in many areas of the world, such as Bangladesh, India, USA, China, Taiwan, Mexico, Argentina, Poland, Canada, Hungary, New Zealand, Japan, and Chile (Knobeloch et al. 2006; Mohan and Pittman 2007; Kim et al. 2011) . Arsenic is highly toxic and can lead to a wide range of health problems, being carcinogenic, mutagenic, and teratogenic (NRC 1999; Smedley and Kinniburgh 2002) . Arsenic exists in the environment in four oxidation states [?V(arsenate) , ?III(arsenite), 0(arsenic), and -III(arsine)], and in different forms, such as inorganic (arsenous acid, arsenite, arsenic acids, or arsenate), organic (MMAA, DMAA, trimethylarsine oxide, etc.), biological (arsenobetaine, arsenocholine, glycerophosphatidylarsenocholine, etc.) , and others (Ng 2005, Rahman and Hasegawa 2011) . Arsenic is very sensitive to mobilizing at pH 6.5-8.5 (typically found in ground water) in both oxidizing and reducing conditions. Inorganic forms of As are mainly found in natural waters as oxyanions of trivalent arsenite [As(III)] or pentavalent arsenate [As(V)], but organic As may be produced by biological activity (bacteria, yeasts, and algae), mostly in surface waters. However, organic forms may also occur where waters are significantly impacted by industrial pollution (Smedley 2008 ). In oxic seawater, As is typically dominated by As(V), though some As(III) is invariably present and becomes increasingly abundant in anoxic bottom waters. Ratios of As(V)/As(III) are typically in the range of 10-100 in open seawater (Andreae 1979; Pettine et al. 1992) . Increases in organic As species have also been recorded in these zones as a result of methylation reactions by phytoplankton (Cullen and Reimer 1989) . As such, naturally contaminated surface water contains increasing amounts of organic As species. Hasegawa et al. (1997) reported that DMAA and MMAA were the dominant organic As species in Lake Biwa, Japan, during summer. Application of As-containing herbicides is another source of organic As in both the terrestrial and aquatic environment. Giacomino et al. (2010) found that over 40 % of As species present in soil were organic, and the remainder were inorganic As(V) and As(III). In the southern USA, both inorganic and organic As are found in rice that is now grown in As-contaminated fields (Rosen et al. 2008) . Arsenite (iAsIII) is usually more toxic than arsenate (iAsV). Recent studies have shown that MMA(III) and DMA(III) were more acutely toxic and more genotoxic than their parent compounds (Petrick et al. 2000; Mass et al. 2001) . These trivalent arsenicals are more toxic than iAs(V), MMA(V), and DMA(V) in vitro (Styblo et al. 2000; Mass et al. 2001) . Recently, LC 50 values for human cells were calculated as 571, 843, 5.49, and 2.16 lM for iAsV, DMA(V), iAs(III), and DMA(III), respectively (Naranmandura et al. 2007 ). This study also showed that dimethylmonothioarsenic [DMMTA(V)] was much more toxic than other pentavalent nonthiolated arsenicals (Naranmandura et al. 2007 ). Therefore, the daily accumulation of organic As species in oxic water, soil, and plants, as well as food products, is of particular concern. There are several remediation processes of contaminants from the environment. Among them phytoremediation is a wellknown ecologically friendly technology and inexpensive alternative to chemoremediation or other processes, to remediate contaminants from water environment. Uptake and accumulation of inorganic As species by aquatic macrophytes have been studied extensively (Mkandawire and Dudel 2005) ; however, few studies have examined the uptake of organic As species. Moreover, arsenate and DMAA are the major As species in oxic aquatic systems (Hasegawa et al. 1999 ). In our previous study, we found that M. umbrosum could uptake more than 1000 lg g inorganic As (added from sodium arsenite) from the water environment (Islam et al. 2015) . Current research focuses on the potential of M. umbrosum to phytofiltrate organic As species from oxic water environments.
(1) Substitution of dithiocarboxymethyl or dithiocarboxyphenyl groups (in p-carbamidophenylarsenous acid) did not appreciably alter amebacidal activity, in vitro or in vivo. (2) Toxicity and tolerance tests in mice, rats, rabbits and monkeys indicated that the dithiocarboxyphenyl derivative was the least toxic. (3) Reaction of the gastric mucosa and peritoneum to the direct application of dithio derivatives was less severe than to the arsenoxide. The liver, lungs and kidneys were appreciably damaged after single toxic doses of the arsenoxide. (4) Within the range of therapeutic activity, the short-term (11 day) chronic toxicity test in rats and the 30-day chronic tolerance test in monkeys resulted in minimal damage to tissues after the dithio derivatives. (5) After carbarsone oxide (p-carbamidophenyl arsenous oxide), distribution studies revealed exceptionally high levels of arsenic in the bile, blood and urine, moderate amounts in the feces, and contents of the stomach and small intestine, and in the colon, kidneys and liver, and smaller amounts in the lungs, heart and spleen. Appreciable tissue levels persisted for at least 9 days in rats after chronic intragastric therapy. (6) Dithio derivatives (C.C. 914 and 1037) also accumulated in large amounts in bile, feces, urine, liver, kidneys, cecum and colon, with moderate amounts in contents of the stomach, cecum, and small intestine, blood, lungs, heart and spleen, and small amounts in brain, pleural and peritoneal fluids and thymus. The levels attained in these tissues in rats and rabbits after short-term chronic toxicity tests, were appreciably higher than in monkeys, on the 30-day chronic tolerance test. (7) As with other arsenoxides, the arsenic of carbarsone oxide and its dithio derivatives, was bound by tissues roughly in proportion to the toxicity of each drug. Higher concentrations in intestinal tissue and in bile have been reported following injection of phenyl arsenoxides than after proportional doses of arsonic acids (10). This observation was confirmed and is believed to be significant. (8) The suggestion of Voegtlin (2) that protozoa contain and are dependent upon smaller absolute amounts of -SH groups than mammalian tissue cells agrees with the experimental evidence presented.
Objective:To observe invasion inhibiting effect of Hpa small-interfering RNA(siRNA) combined with arsenous acid on pancreatic cancer cells,so as to provide the theoretical foundation for further clinical use in the cancer treatment.Methods:Target gene(Hpa1-siRNA,Hpa2-siRNA,Hpa3-siRNA) fragments were diluted,annealed and connected with linear plasmid expression vector pGenesil-1.1,then pGenesil1.1/Hpa1-siRNA,pGenesil1.1/Hpa2-siRNA and pGenesil1.1/Hpa3-siRNA were reconstructed.The Hpa-siRNA was transfected into SW1990 pancreatic cancer cell by DOTAP Liposomes meanwhile the empty control and negative control group were designed.Those target genes were respectively transfected into Hpa-mRNA and Hpa protein expression was detected by RT-PCR and Western blot respectively.Transwell cab model was employed to test the ability of SW1990 cell.Results:Expression of Hpa-mRNA and Hpa-protein in SW1990 were obviously suppressed by Hpa1-siRNA,Hpa2-siRNA,and Hpa3-siRNA,and efficacy in Hpa2-siRNA better than in Hpa1-siRNA and Hpa3-siRNA(P0.05).With the improvement of arsenous acid concentration from 0.5,1.0,to 2.0mg/mL,the invasive inhibitory rates in pancreatic cancer increased from 7.78%,46.8%,to 76.8%,respectively,the differences had statistics significance(χ2=71.633,P0.001).Invasive ability of pancreatic cancer cells were completely inhabited by Hpa2-siRNA combined with arsenous acid(invasive inhibitory rates reached 100%).Conclusion:Hpa-siRNA and arsenous acid have co-inhibition effect on pancreatic cancer invasion.
Arsenic, especially inorganic trivalent species, is one of the most important poisons in the field of forensic toxicology. There are many reports on the speciation analysis of arsenic species in biological specimens by liquid chromatography–inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (LC–ICP-MS). The aim of this study was to develop a rapid and robust analytical method for speciation/quantitative analysis of arsenic species in serum by LC–ICP-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). An analytical method for arsenous acid and its metabolites, dimethylarsinic acid, monomethylarsonic acid, and arsenic acid in serum was tested through the analysis of serum samples by an LC–ICP-MS/MS system consisting of different anion exchange columns and different mobile phases. Rapid pretreatment of serum samples by ultrafiltration was also tested. Robust speciation/quantitative analysis of arsenic in serum samples with LC–ICP-MS/MS was achieved by using a mildly acidic mobile phase. The limits of detection for the four arsenic species were in the range 0.19–0.68 ngAs/mL, and the well-known interference by argon chloride ion was removed by the MS/MS apparatus. This method was precise enough for quantitative analysis of four arsenic compounds in serum (0.24–3.68% precision; 97.0–104% accuracy; and 101–112% recovery for all analytes at 5 and 50 ngAs/mL). The total analytical time was 30 min (20-min pretreatment and 10-min analysis), and multiple serum samples could be pretreated simultaneously. A rapid, sensitive, interference-free and robust speciation/quantitative analysis of toxic arsenous acid and related metabolites in serum by LC–ICP-MS/MS was developed. To our knowledge, this is the first report to use LC–ICP-MS/MS for analysis of arsenic species in human blood/serum samples.
Arsenous acid, dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), methylarsonic acid (MA), arsenic acid, arsenobetaine bromide (AB), trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO), arsenocholine iodide (AC), and tetramethylarsonium iodide (TETRA) were heated in a microwave autoclave with nitric acid to 100-300 degrees C. The arsenic compounds in the digests were separated with anion- and cation-exchange chromatography and determined with an inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer as arsenic-specific detector. Arsenous acid was completely oxidized to arsenic acid at 100 degrees C. For a complete oxidation of MA and DMA to arsenic acid temperatures > 220 degrees C and > 280 degrees C were necessary. AB decomposed to arsenic acid via TMAO. Complete conversion was only obtained after heating the sample for 90 min to 300 degrees C. For a complete conversion of TMAO similar harsh conditions were necessary. AC was already substantially degraded to TMAO, TETRA and two unknown compounds at 100 degrees C. The unknown arsenic compounds were found only in the digests up to 160 degrees C. Quantitative conversion of AC to arsenic acid went also via TMAO. At temperatures above 220 degrees C TETRA started to convert to TMAO, which then was further converted to arsenic acid. To investigate whether the results obtained for the arsenic standards are transferable to real samples, the certified reference material DORM-2 was also heated in nitric acid with variable digestion temperatures and times. For an almost complete conversion of the AB present in DORM-2 90 min at 300 degrees C were necessary. Total organic carbon (TOC) was less < 0.2% when DORM-2 was heated at temperatures > or = 260 degrees C for 60 min. UV photo-oxidation of DORM-2 was investigated as an alternative sample decomposition. Only 6% of AB was converted to arsenic acid when DORM-2 was irradiated for 2 h at 1000 W. In contrast to microwave heating substantial amounts of MA were observed as degradation product.
Results and Discussion NIP Transporters Mediate Arsenite Influx in Rice Roots. Plant aquaporins transport neutral molecules such as water, glycerol, and urea. These transporters are classified into four major subfamilies based on their homology and localization: plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs), tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs), nodulin 26-like intrinsic membrane proteins (NIPs), and small and basic intrinsic proteins (SIPs) (19). Arsenite, with a pK a of 9.2, is present predominantly as uncharged molecules of arsenous acid [As(OH) 3 ] at pH Ͻ 8. Recently, a NIP transporter (Lsi1) for silicic acid, which is also uncharged at pH Ͻ 8, has been identified in rice (20) . Furthermore, arsenous acid [diameter 4.11 Å; As(OH) 3 is a tetrahedron with the largest dimension being between the two neighboring OH groups, modeled using WebLab Viewer, www.marcsaric. de/index.php/WebLabViewerLite] has a molecular size similar to that of silicic acid (diameter 4.38 Å). Therefore, we hypothesized that arsenite transport is mediated by the transporters for silicic acid.
Arsenic species occur naturally in surface water such as rivers, lakes, reservoirs, and ponds by the natural processes of soil erosion, mineral leaching, volcanic deposits, and geochemical weathering processes [1] . Anthropogenic inputs to the atmosphere through mineral smelting operations, fossil-fuel combustion, and consumption of organo-arsenicals by poultry contribute to the overall fate and distribution of arsenic: geological and anthropogenic activities (e.g., (CH 3 ) 3 As, As 4 O 6(s) , As 4 O 10(s) ) → water pollution → soil and sediments → bioaccumulation [2] . Arsenic has variable oxidation states in the environment (3−, 0, 3+, and 5+), particularly in aquatic environments where the speciation depends on the relative redox potential and the pH conditions [3] . Common occurring forms of arsenic are its oxyanions (arsenite (As 3+ ) or arsenate (As 5+ )) [3] , where the latter is the most thermodynamically stable form in surface water environments. Arsenite is relatively stable under mild reducing conditions in anoxic ground waters and is considered the more thermodynamically stable form [3] . In most natural waters, arsenic (III) occurs as the non-ionized form of arsenous acid (H 3 AsO 3 , pK a = 9.22) and may interact weakly with most solid surfaces [4] . Depending on the pH and oxidizing conditions, the efficient isolation of various protolytic forms of arsenic (III) species with traditional treatment methods such as adsorption, precipitation, etc., represent a technical challenge [4] . Roxarsone (4-hydroxy-3-nitrobenzene arsonic acid) shown in Figure 1 is an aryl-arsenical feed additive for swine and poultry which promotes weight and serves as an anti-microbial agent. Roxarsone may contaminate soil and surface water supplies through the uncontrolled use of poultry litter as a fertilizer additive [5, 6] . Roxarsone partially degrades via metabolic pathways in poultry and in soil environments which may yield more toxic inorganic forms of arsenic (i.e., arsenite and arsenate) [7] [8] [9] [10] . Arsenic contamination of drinking water has been highlighted because of its toxicity and variable occurrence [11] . Several countries such as Bangladesh, New Zealand, USA, Italy, and Malaysia are facing serious water security due to high-arsenic levels in their source drinking water supplies [12] [13] [14] . The World Health Organization (WHO) has established international health standards for arsenic in drinking water at <10 ppb to minimize the risks of arsenic exposure. The importance of arsenic in wastewater was recognized in Canada by the establishment of guidelines in the mining industry, as evidenced by the Metal Mining Effluent Regulations (MMER) [15] . As of 2010, Canadian mining industries are required to adhere to the release limits on various species; arsenic, copper, cyanide, lead, nickel, zinc, radium-226, and total suspended solids. In northern Saskatchewan, reports indicate that metals such as As, Mo, Ni and Se are found in the liquid and solid tailings of various mine sites [16] .
I. General Nonlinear Behavior.- Phenomenes nonlineaires de la dynamique chimique: allocution d'ouverture.- La Chimie a la croisee des disciplines traditionnelles. Comportements identiques de populations differentes.- Dynamical Systems Described by Discrete Maps with Noise.- Thermokinetic Oscillations and Multistability in Gas-Phase Oxidations.- II. Weak Turbulence.- Chemical Kinetics and Differentiable Dynamical Systems.- Topology of Chaos in a Chemical Reaction.- Experiments on Chaos in a Continuous Stirred Reactor.- Chemical Kinetics as an Experimental Field for Studying the Onset of Turbulence.- Transition vers la turbulence par intermittence.- Bifurcation of Motifs in Families of Mixed Two-Vector Fields.- Bifurcations elementaires-successions et interactions.- Chaos and Chemistry.- Evolution of Chaos and Power Spectra in One-Dimensional Maps.- Tests of the Period-Doubling Route to Chaos.- III. Stochastic Analysis.- Thermal Fluctuations in Nonlinear Chemical Systems.- Fluctuations in Non-Equilibrium Phase Transitions: Critical Behavior.- Critical Exponents of a Pure Noise Induced Transition, Nonlinear Noise and Its Effect on an Electrohydrodynamic Transition in Nematics.- IV. Critical Phenomena.- Critical Slowing Down of Chemical Reactions Near Thermodynamic Critical Points.- Metastability and Nucleation in Chemical Systems with Multiple Steady States.- V. Coupling of Oscillators.- Synchronization of a Chemical Oscillation by Periodic Light Pulses.- Electrically Coupled Belousov-Zhabotinsky Oscillators: A Potential Chaos Generator.- VI. Reaction-Diffusion Problems.- The Rotor as a Phase Singularity of Reaction-Diffusion Problems and Its Possible Role in Sudden Cardiac Death.- Chemical Waves in the Iodate-Arsenous Acid System.- Mecanisme reactionnel fonde sur une etude experimentale expliquant des instabilites interfaciales liees a des reactions chimiques.- VII. Biochemical Processes.- Complex Dynamic Structures.- Two Topics in Chemical Instabilities: I. Periodic Precipitation Processes II. Resonances in Oscillatory Reactions and Glycolysis.- VIII. From Bistability to Oscillations.- Bistability in a C.S.T.R. : New Experimental Examples and Mathematical Modeling.- Chlorite Oscillators: A Result of the Cross-Shaped Phase Diagram Technique.- A New Type of Chemical Oscillator: Potential Oscillation and Bistability on a Platinum Electrode in some Aqueous Hydrogen-Halogen (ATE) Pumped Systems.- Constrained and Continuously Pumped Chemical Systems with Emphasis on Conditions for Bistability.- Perturbation of Bromate Oscillators.- Periodic Reactions with Bromate II: Verification of Selection Criteria of Organic Radicals Oscillating Without Catalysts.- IX. Mathematical Modeling.- On Scaling the Oregonator Equations.- The Behaviour of a Multistable Chemical System Near the Critical Point.- Recent Developments in the Theory of Stoichiometric Networks and Application to the Belousov-Zhabotinsky System.- X. Poster Abstracts.- Stratification Phenomena in Corrosion Scales: Towards a Nonlinear Interpretation.- Nucleation Process in the Two-Dimensional X3 Schlogl Model.- From Bistability to Oscillations: A Phase Diagram Approach. Application to the Belousov-Zhabotinsky Reaction.- Numerical Simulations of Surface Reactions.- On the Preoscillatory Period of the Belousov-Zhabotinsky Reaction: A Search for Intermediates.- Non-Equilibrium Phase Transition of the Intercalation Process.- Pseudo-Steady States in Solid-Liquid Systems.- A + 2B = 3B Kinetics Producing all or Flip or None Stimulus Response in a Cell Model, and Strategies for a Chemical Implementation of such Kinetics.- Topological Order in 2D Chemical Systems.- Bifurcation of Multiple Limit Cycles in Plane Quadratic Mass-Action Systems.- Belousov-Zhabotinsky System: Mechanism of the Ce3+/Bromate Reaction.- The Legitimacy of the Quasi-Steady State Approximation in Enzyme Kinetics: A Singular Perturbation Approach.- Nonlinear Phenomena in Stirred Flow Systems of Mn2+ and Acidic Bromate.- On Phase Transitions in Schlogl's Second Model.- A Nonlinear Phenomenon of Chemical Dynamics in Geology: The Case of Skarns.- The Prepattern Theory of Mitosis: Spatial Dissipative Structures in the 3-Dimensional Sphere.- Mechanistic Study of the Briggs-Rauscher Reaction.- Multiwavelength Analysis of Linear and Nonlinear Kinetics in the CSTR.- Inhomogeneous Fluctuations and Bifurcations in Nonlinear Chemical Systems.- Temperature-Compensated Epigenetic Oscillations: Timing of Cell Division Cycles and Circadian Rhythms?.- Chaotic Behavior of E.H.D. Instability for an Insulating Liquid Subjected to Unipolar Injection.- Effect of Light Intensity Fluctuations on a Real Photochemical Reaction: The Thermoluminescence of Fluorescein in Boric Acid Glass.- Bifurcation Theoric Approach for Strong Field Photodissociation Phenomenon.- A Linear Method to Analyze a Nonlinear Oscillator: Driving the Glycolytic Oscillator by Sinusoidal Temperature Cycles.- Bursting Phenomena in the Belousov-Zhabotinsky Reaction.- Experimental Investigations and Model Simulations for Studying the Influence of Noise and External Disturbances on the Behavior of the Belousov-Zhabotinsky Reaction.- Linearization Procedure and Nonlinear Systems of Differental and Difference Equations.- Reversible and Non-Reversible Modifications of Enzyme Systems Activity by Electric Field.- A Dynamic Regime with Structured Fourier Spectrum.- Index of Contributors.
Arsenic compounds have been used as medicinal agents for many centuries. Arsenic over time has been used in many preparations including external pastes for the treatment of skin and breast cancers, inhaled as vapor, injected hypodermically or intravenously, taken orally in liquid or solid form (usually as arsenous acid) and even given as enemas. In the 18 th century, Dr. Thomas Fowler developed a therapeutic agent by mixing As 2 O 3 (1 g) with potassium bicarbonate (1%, w/v, 100 mL). This oral agent was known as Fowler's Solution (1) , and was used to treat various malignant diseases such as leukemia, Hodgkin's disease, and pernicious anemia, as well as non-malignant diseases such as eczema, asthma, pemphigus, and psoriasis. Until the introduction of chemotherapy and radiation therapy in the mid-1900's, arsenic was used as one of the standard treatments for chronic myeloid leukemia and other leukemias. Trivalent arsenic is much more cytotoxic than pentavalent arsenic and is, therefore, mostly responsible for the biological effects of this metalloid. In humans, it has been clearly demonstrated that arsenic interacts with the nervous system at several levels (2) . However, with the development of chemotherapy and in conjunction with toxicity concerns of arsenical compounds, the use of arsenic diminished through the 20 th century and was eventually abandoned.
Arsenic speciation analysis was performed in two human urine certified reference materials (NIES No. 18 and NIST SRM2670a) and three human urine control materials (Seronorm, Medisafe and Lyphocheck). The samples were diluted 1 + 3 prior to analysis by gradient elution anion or cation exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Nine arsenic species, including arsenic acid, arsenous acid, monomethylarsonic acid, dimethylarsinic acid, arsenobetaine, trimethylarsine oxide, dimethylarsinoylacetic acid, trimethylarsoniopropionate and dimethylarsinoylethanol, were determined in the urines. Additionally, several unknown arsenicals were detected. This is the first time that dimethylarsinoylacetic acid and trimethylarsoniopropionate have been reported in human urine. The sums of the species concentrations determined by the chromatographic approaches were identical with the reference values given for total arsenic. The obtained values for arsenobetaine and dimethylarsinic acid were identical with the values certified for the NIES No. 18 urine CRM. The speciation data presented here may be valuable for the quality assurance of analytical method development and surveys of arsenic in urine samples.
The second mechanism identified was inhibition. An inhibitor chemical C removes the clock chemical, e.g. B þ C ! D, keeping the concentration of B low. Simultaneously, clock chemical is produced upstream from a precursor, e.g. via the reaction P ! B. Provided that the supply of precursor is sufficiently large relative to the initial concentration of inhibitor, the inhibitor will eventually be depleted, allowing the clock chemical concentration to rise. Billingham & Needham [8] then applied this framework to the iodate-arsenous acid system, characterizing the process as involving a combination of inhibition (B þ C ! 2A) of the clock chemical and indirect autocatalysis in one of the reactants A. The catalysis is indirect because it is through the combination of this reaction with (P þ 5A ! 3B) results in A effectively catalysing its own production (5A produce 6A). For the iodate-arsenous acid system, the clock chemical B is iodine (I 2 ), the inhibitor C is arsenite ion AsO 3À 3 , the precursor P is iodate (IO À 3 ) and the other reactant A is the iodide ion (I 2 ). Further mathematical development can be found in [9, 10] , application of this approach to systems of industrial importance [11] and biochemistry [12] . Further discussion on the appropriateness of the term 'clock reaction' for various processes involving induction periods can be found in [13] .
Identification and quantification of arsenic compunds was performed with high- performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) as element-specific detector. Arsenous acid, methylarsonic acid, dimethylarsinic acid, arsenic acid, arsenobetaine, and arsenocholine were separated on two anion-exchange columns (Synchropak Q 300 and PRP-X 100) with different binary organic acids as mobile phases. The infleunce of chromatographic parameters, such as pH and the concentration of the mobile phase were investigated. An unusual chromatographic behavior of arsenous acid was observed when tartaric acid was used as mobile phase.
A method for determination of 2-chlorovinylarsenous acid (CVAA) and 2-chlorovinylarsonic acid (CVAOA), which are degradation compounds of the chemical warfare agent Lewisite, was examined by high-performance liquid chromatography/inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (HPLC/ICP-MS). Inertsil C 8 was suitable as the column and the mobile phase was consisted of 0.1% formic acid-acetonitrile (80:20). These compounds were detected sensitively in a short time and separated from inorganic arsenicals and diphenylarsinic acid (DPAA) and phenylarsonic acid (PAA), which are degradation compounds of diphenylchloroarsine and phenyldichloroarsine, respectively. The detection limits of CVAA and CVAOA were 0.2 and 0.1 ngAs/ml, respectively. In addition, a dynamic reaction cell and oxygen as the reaction gas were applied, and then arsenic was detected as AsO + (m/z 91) in order to prevent interference by ArCl + (m/z 75). This method was applied to the analysis of urine obtained from a CVAA-administered mouse and CVAOA was detected as the main metabolite. Thus, the speciation analysis of arsenic compounds derived from chemical warfare agents was achieved by HPLC/ICP-MS.
Abstract The ionization constants of thioarsenous acid have been determined at 22 °C by measuring the ultraviolet and visible spectra of thioarsenite species in dilute, aqueous sulfide solutions having S/As = 4.18, As = 1.1 × 10 −4 mol/dm 3 and pH ≈ 6–10.4. No oxidized species such as arsenate, thioarsenate or polysulfides were detected in the experimental solutions. The equilibrium constants for the thioarsenous acid ionization reactions were obtained from a principal component analysis treatment of the spectra and are as follows: H 3 AsS 3 = H + + H 2 AsS 3 - for which p K a 1 = 3.77 ( ± 0.15 ) H 2 - AsS 3 2 - = H + + H 2 AsS 3 - for which p K a 2 = 6.53 ( ± 0.08 ) H AsS 3 2 - = H + + AsS 3 3 - for which p K a 3 = 9.29 ( ± 0.08 ) The p K a ’s for the oxythioarsenous ionization reactions have also been estimated by analogy with those for the end member arsenous and thioarsenous acids. The data emphasize the important role of the simple arsenic(III) thioanions in defining the transport and redox chemistry of arsenic in sulfide-containing natural waters.
A simple and robust LC-ICP-MS/MS method is described for quantitative analysis of human urine for (2-chlorovinyl)arsonic acid (CVAOA), a metabolite of Lewisite. This method oxidizes (2-chlorovinyl)arsenous acid (CVAA) with the addition of hydrogen peroxide to measure total Lewisite-1 metabolites as CVAOA, with m/z 75 → 91 detection specific for arsenic. The percentage of CVAA to CVAOA is clinically insignificant, because the amount of CVAA conversion to CVAOA is dependent upon residence time in the body. Once excreted into the urine, conversion of CVAA to CVAOA is dependent upon temperature and oxidative potential of the urine. The method also allowed for qualitative analysis for bis(2-chlorovinyl)arsinic acid (BCVAOA) and (1-chlorovinyl)arsonic acid (gem-CVAOA), minor Lewisite metabolites. Traditional methods have ignored these minor metabolites; the bis-metabolites can comprise ∼30% of total Lewisite metabolites from chemical munitions and must be accounted for in the exposure measurement. The ion-pairing chromatography method results in a 5.73 min injection-to-injection cycle time with adequate retention (k′ = 2.9) of CVAOA. The weighted (1/x2) linear least squares regression results have correlation coefficients (r2 > 0.998) for the clinically relevant calibration range of 50–3500 μg L−1. The selectivity of the method is measured by chromatographic resolution from other common arsenic compounds that may interfere with the analysis. The 96-well plate preparation of 0.1 mL sample of human urine results in a method detection limit of 2.2 μg L−1. Quantitative results from proficiency testing specimens demonstrate the accuracy (−7.1 to +4.3%) of the method. Quality control data demonstrate inter-analyst precise (3.1 to 3.3%) quantitative results of the method. An accelerated Arrhenius matrix-matched stability study demonstrates Lewisite metabolites are stabile in urine far greater than a year. The trivalent arsenic, CVAA oxidation half-life is estimated at normal body temperature in vitro at 6.2 days. The combined sample preparation and analysis portions of this emergency response method have a throughput of 250 samples per day.
Abstract Arsenic compounds including arsenous acid (As(III)), arsenic acid (As(V)), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) and monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and detected by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). A Hamilton PRX-100 anionic-exchange column and a pH 8.5 K 2 HPO 4 /KH 2 PO 4 5.0 × 10 −3 mol L −1 mobile phase were used to achieve arsenic speciation. The separation of arsenic species provided peaks of As(III) at 2.75 min, DMA at 3.33 min, MMA at 5.17 min and As(V) at 12.5 min. The detection limits, defined as three times the standard deviation of the lowest standard measurements, were found to be 0.2, 0.2, 0.3 and 0.5 ng mL −1 for As(III), DMA, MMA and As(V), respectively. The relative standard deviation values for a solution containing 5.0 μg L −1 of As(III), DMA, MMA and As(V) were 1.2, 2.1, 2.5 and 3.0%, respectively. This analytical procedure was applied to the speciation of arsenic compounds in drinking (soft drink, beer, juice) samples. The validation of the procedure was achieved through the analysis of arsenic compounds in water and sediment certified reference materials.
Based on this approach, As(III) is also a conjugated base of arsenous acid with a low acid dissociation constant (Ka) and so is believed to potentially behave like the hydrocyanic acid under similar conditions. Therefore, this work aims to develop a new colorimetric method that is simple, rapid, low cost and applicable for field analysis for the determination of As(III) in water samples by BF2-curcumin solution and BF2-curcumin-coated resin.
Abstract : It was established that by reacting ethylene glycol with arsenic trichloride in an absolute ether medium in the presence of pyridine, the chloroanhydride of ethylene-glycol-arsenous-acid and the full ethylene glycol ester of arsenous acid may be obtained. A simple and convenient method was worked out for producing the ethylene-glycol ester of arsenous acid by way of the reaction of ethylene glycol with arsenous oxide. The bromination of the ethylene-glycol ester of arsenous acid was studied. By this reaction, the bromoanhydride, with structure (-CH2OAsBr2)2, and diethylene-glycol-arsenous acid were isolated. Cyclic mixed esters were synthetized, and their properties and reactions described.
The 'retention analysis method', which is based on size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) in conjunction with an arsenic-specific detector (graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometer, GFAAS), was used to study the effect of pH (range 2.0-10.0), temperature (4, 25 and 37 degrees C), and the concentration of glutathione in the mobile phase (0.5-7.5 mM) on the formation of arsenic-glutathione species after injection of sodium arsenite using phosphate-buffered saline solutions as mobile phases. The formation of arsenic-GSH species was facilitated by low temperatures (4 degrees C), pH 6.0-8.0 and high concentrations of glutathione (7.5 mM) in the mobile phase. Simulating the physicochemical parameters found inside human red blood cells (approximately 3.0 mM glutathione, 37 degrees C, pH 7.4) and hepatocytes (approximately 7.5 mM glutathione, 37 degrees C, pH 7.4), SEC-GFAAS provided evidence for the formation of arsenic-glutathione species under these conditions. In addition, the 'chelating agent', sodium DL-2,3-dimercapto- -propanesulfonate (1.0 and 2.0 mM) was demonstrated to bind arsenous acid stronger in the presence of glutathione (7.5 mM) under these conditions (PBS buffer, pH 7.4, 37 degrees C).
We present a theory for the transition to convection for flat chemical wave fronts propagating upward. The theory is based on the hydrodynamic equations and the one‐variable reaction‐diffusion equation that describes the chemical front for the iodate–arsenous acid reaction. The reaction term involves the reaction rate constants and the chemical composition of the mixture. This allows the discussion of the effects of the different chemical variables on the transition to convection. We have studied perturbations of different wavelengths on an unbounded flat chemical front and found that for wavelengths larger than a critical wavelength (λ≳λc) the perturbations grow in time, while for smaller wavelengths the perturbations diminish. The critical wavelength depends not only on the density difference between the unreacted and reacted fluids, but also on the speed and thickness of the chemical front.
The NRCC standard reference material DORM-2 and the marine brown alga Hijiki fuziforme were extracted with water, methanol/water (9 + 1), and 1.5 M orthophosphoric acid. The extracts from DORM-2 were analyzed by HPLC–ICP-MS for arsenobetaine, arsenocholine, trimethylarsine oxide, and the tetramethylarsonium cation and the extracts from H. fuziforme for arsenous acid, arsenic acid, dimethylarsinic acid, methylarsonic acid, and four arsenoriboses. Almost no differences between the three extractants were observed when DORM-2 was investigated. Only arsenobetaine was slightly better extracted with 1.5 M orthophosphoric acid or methanol/water (9 + 1) than with water. The sum of all extractable compounds (arsenobetaine, the tetramethylarsonium cation, and a formerly unknown compound recently identified as the trimethyl(2-carboxyethyl)arsonium ion) accounted for 94% of the total arsenic when 1.5 M orthophosphoric acid was used, for 92% when methanol/water (9 + 1) was used, and for 87% when water was used. Significant differences in the extraction yields obtained for the alga were observed for arsenic acid and one of the arsenoriboses (‘glycerol-ribose’). Orthophosphoric acid removed twice as much of this ribose from the algal material than water and three times more than methanol/water (9 + 1). Arsenic acid was 1.2 times better extracted with orthophosphoric acid than with water and ten times better than with methanol/water (9 + 1). Almost no differences in the extraction yields were found for dimethylarsinic acid and the other three riboses. Orthophosphoric acid extracted 76%, water 65%, and methanol/water 33% of the total arsenic from H. fuziforme. Copyright © 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The iodine-arsenous acid (Roebuck), iodide-iodate (Dushman), and iodate-arsenous acid reactions have been studied simultaneously by a stopped-flow technique by monitoring the absorbance-time profiles at the isosbestic point of the I2/I3(-) system (468 nm). Using the well-accepted rate coefficients of iodine hydrolysis, we have proven that iodine is the kinetically active species of the iodine-arsenous acid reaction. Strong iodide inhibition of this system is explained by a rapidly established equilibrium between iodine and arsenous acid to produce an iodide ion, a hydrogen ion, and a short-lived intermediate H2AsO3I, which is shifted far to the left. Taking into consideration the generally accepted kinetic model of the Dushman reaction where I2O2 plays a key role to account for all of the most important observations in this subsystem and a sequence of simple formal oxygen-transfer reactions between arsenous acid and iodic acid as well as iodous acid and hypoiodous acid, we propose a 13-step comprehensive kinetic model, including seven rapidly established equilibria with only six fitted parameters, that is able to explain all of the most important characteristics of the kinetic curves of all of the title systems both individually and simultaneously.
We present a theory for the transition to convection for flat chemical wave fronts propagating upward. The theory is based on the hydrodynamic equations and the onevariable reaction-diffusion equation that describes the chemical front for the iodate-arsenous acid reaction. The reaction term involves the reaction rate constants and the chemical composition of the mixture. This allows the discussion of the effects of the different chemical variables on the transition to convection. We have studied perturbations of different wavelengths on an unbounded flat chemical front and found that for wavelengths larger than a critical wavelength (A> Ac) the perturbations grow in time, while for smaller wavelengths the perturbations diminish. The critical wavelength depends not only on the density difference between the unreacted and reacted fluids, but also on the speed and thickness of the chemical front.
Autocatalytic fronts resulting from the interplay between diffusion and an autocatalytic reaction are well-known examples of out-ofequilibrium self-organization. They usually propagate with a constant shape and at a constant speed in gels. [1] [2] [3] However, if the reaction takes place in a solution, the gradients of concentrations and temperature across the front can result in a modification of the physical parameters of the fluid, such as density or surface tension. These changes can trigger natural convection, which has long been experimentally evidenced to, in turn, deform autocatalytic fronts and accelerate their propagation. [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] In vertically-oriented closed systems where the reactor is entirely filled with the reacting solution and the front travels parallel to the gravity field, convective flows can be induced by density differences only. The resulting density fingering of the front has been well characterized both experimentally and theoretically. [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] If the front propagates in a horizontal solution layer open to the air, the situation is, however, more complex since both Marangoni (surface tension-driven) and buoyancy (densitydriven) effects can come into play. To try to clarify this situation, numerous theoretical works have been devoted to the study of chemically-driven flows around horizontally propagating fronts and to the effect the flow has on the shape and speed of these fronts. These theoretical studies can be classified depending on the type of flow considered: buoyancy-driven, 12, [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] Marangoni-driven, [40] [41] [42] [43] [44] [45] [46] [47] or a combination of both flows. 12, 19, 48, 49 In the case of pure buoyancy-driven flows, a good agreement exists between numerical simulations and experiments in closed reactors, both for isothermal 31, 35, 38, 39 and exothermic fronts. 37, 38, 50 On the other hand, such a comparison is not available yet in the case of pure surface tension-driven flows because of the difficulty to isolate Marangoni effects from gravity effects on earth. In this context, studies under micro-gravity conditions are crucial to understand the role of both types of convective flows in the front dynamics. They have already proven very helpful in explaining the dynamics of A + B -C reactions in immiscible two-layer systems. 51, 52 A combination of parabolic flight experiments and numerical simulations of modulated gravitational acceleration has recently allowed to highlight the role of buoyancy-driven vortices in the behavior of A + B -C fronts. 53 In the case of chemical waves, the effect of density gradients across fronts of the Belousov-Zhabotinsky reaction were shown to die out under micro-gravity conditions in drop towers. 54, 55 In the present paper, we study the dynamics of autocatalytic fronts of the iodate-arsenous acid (IAA) reaction in horizontal a Department of Physical Chemistry and Materials Science, University of Szeged, solution layers with a combination of experiments in parabolic flights and numerical simulations. The IAA reaction possesses rich dynamic behaviors and can give rise to traveling conversion fronts when coupled to diffusion in spatially extended systems. 1, 2 This autocatalytic reaction can be described quantitatively by a one-variable cubic kinetics in some concentration ranges of the reactants. The reaction can be treated as isothermal as Martin et al. 50 could not detect any heat pulse around traveling IAA fronts using a quantitative IR measurement technique with a 10 mK resolution. They have further computed density variations due to either solutal or thermal effects and concluded that the latter ones are negligible so that the dynamics of IAA fronts are unaffected by temperature effects.
The cycling of arsenic through the environment is accomplished by a combination of many different processes that are occurring simultaneously and continuously. In recent years, it has been shown that large quantities of arsenic in various chemical forms and oxidation states are released into water bodies via mining operations. Once released into bodies of water, most of these chemical species of arsenic enter into the methylation/demethylation cycle, but some are bound to sediments, or taken up by biota where they may undergo further metabolic conversion to other organoarsenicals and depending on a number of interactive factors, exert biological toxicity (Fowler, 1983) . To appreciate the role of arsenic in post-mining lake, it is necessary to consider its environmental reactions. The environmental chemistry of arsenic is essentially that of inorganic arsenic and its simpler methylated forms. Arsenic is found to a large extent in ores and in aquatic systems as the inorganic As (III) and As (V) acids. Arsenous acid and arsenic acid are reasonably water soluble and depending upon pH, can be present in a number of ionic forms (Braman, 1983) .
However, the anticancer effect of arsenic trioxide has not been proven in solid tumors or other hematologic malignancies [4] . KML001 (NaAsO2, Sodium metaarsenite, KOMINOX), a sodium salt of arsenous acid, is a water-soluble, therefore, orally bioavailable, trivalent arsenical compound. KML001 has shown a potent anticancer effect on various human cancers, including solid tumors such as prostate cancer, ovarian cancer and hematologic malignancy like acute myeloid leukemia (AML) [5] [6] [7] . In addition, its half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) has been found much lower than arsenic trioxide in various NHL cell lines, which may make it more suitable for clinical applications [8] .
Buoyantly unstable chemical fronts, which propagated in the iodate arsenous acid reaction system, were studied experimentally in 3D space and numerically in vertical 2D space. The fronts invaded the reaction solution from the left top corner in horizontal and vertical directions. Before the starch effects were examined condition under which friction did not influence the front propagation were found both experimentally and numerically. The critical solution depth and the critical distance between lateral walls, above which the front speed is not influenced by friction, were determined. Moreover, the results also show that the 2D simulations correspond to a vertically oriented plane placed the 3D experiments in 1/2 of the walls distance and along the x axis of the reactor. Importantly, those results also show that friction caused by the presence of solid side walls exclude pseudo 2D experiments to be compared with 2D simulations, when flow is involved. The effects of starch on the IAA fronts were studied experimentally at conditions, at which the friction did not influence the front propagation. Although the starch is used in very low concentrations as an iodine indicator, the experimental results show that starch presence strongly affects the dynamics of the liquid IAA reaction system. The presence of starch decreases the front velocity independently on the direction of the front propagation. Starch also affects the pattern formation. A possible mechanism is discussed.
Propagating fronts can be generated in solution by combining diffusion and chemical reactions with an autocatalytic feedback mechanism. Front propagation is usually analyzed in terms of the rate equations for the chemical reactions and Fick’s laws of molecular diffusion. In practice, however, reaction-diffusion fronts are known mainly for aqueous electrolyte solutions. A more accurate description of front propagation in these systems is developed by using Nernst–Planck (NP) transport equations. This treatment includes diffusion fluxes driven by the concentration gradients and, for the ionic species, the migration fluxes driven by the electric field which is generated internally by the diffusion of ions of different mobility. NP equations are used to describe propagating fronts for the iodate oxidation of aqueous arsenous acid. The analysis provides a detailed picture of front structure and propagation, including concentration profiles, reaction rate profiles and velocity profiles for the solution species. After a short induction period, fully-developed fronts reach steady velocities and the profiles across the fronts transformed from laboratory coordinates to the frame of reference moving with the front become time-independent. The velocities of the autocatalytic I− ions ahead of the fronts are nearly identical to the steady front velocities. Electric fields generated by ionic diffusion across the fronts reach maximum strengths of about 0.4 V cm−1, producing ion migration velocities as large as 50% of the front velocities.
We study the response diagram of the bistable iodate–arsenous acid reaction and investigate analytically and experimentally the jump transitions due to a time‐dependent parameter. This parameter is changed linearly in time and its rate of change is characterized by a dimensionless parameter e. We observe that the jump transition does not occur at a limit point of the steady states but is delayed. Asymptotic studies predict that this delay is proportional to an O(e2/3) quantity as e→0. The e2/3 law is in agreement with the experimental observations of the transition between the lower and upper branches of steady states even if e is not a small quantity [T. Erneux and J. P. Laplante, J. Chem. Phys. 90, 6129 (1989)]. In this paper, we investigate experimentally the second transition of the iodate–arsenous acid reaction, namely, the transition between the upper and lower branches of the steady states. We have found that the delay does not satisfy the e2/3 law but rather is following an e law. By comparing the...
PURPOSE ::: Arsenic, in the form of As(2)O(3), has gained therapeutic importance because it has been shown to be very effective clinically in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Via numerous pathways arsenic induces cellular alterations such as induction of apoptosis, inhibition of cellular proliferation, stimulation of differentiation, and inhibition of angiogenesis. Responses vary depending on cell type, dose and the form of arsenic. GSTO1, a member of the glutathione S-transferase superfamily omega, has recently been shown to be identical to the rate-limiting enzyme, monomethyl arsenous (MMA(V)) reductase which catalyzes methylarsonate (MMA(V)) to methylarsenous acid (MMA(III)) during arsenic biotransformation. In this study, we investigated whether arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) induces apoptosis in both chemosensitive and chemoresistant cell lines that varied in their expression of p28 (gsto1), the mouse homolog of GSTO1. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The cytotoxicity of arsenic in the gsto1- and bcl-2-expressing chemoresistant and radioresistant LY-ar mouse lymphoma cell line, was compared with that of the LY-ar's parental cell line, LY-as. LY-as cells are radiosensitive, apoptotically permissive, and do not express gsto1 or bcl-2. Cell survival, glutathione (GSH) levels, mitochondrial membrane potential, and stress-activated kinase status after arsenic treatment were examined in these cell lines. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: As(2)O(3) induced an equivalent dose- and time-dependent increase in apoptosis in these cell lines. Cellular survival, as measured after a 24-h exposure, was also the same in each cell line. Reduced GSH was modulated in a similar time- and dose-dependent manner. Apoptosis was preceded by loss of mitochondrial membrane potential that triggered caspase-mediated pathways associated with apoptosis. With a prolonged exposure of As(2)O(3), both cell lines showed decreased activation of ERK family members, ERK1, ERK2 and ERK5. As(2)O(3) enhanced the death signals in LY-ar cells through a decrease in GSH, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and abatement of survival signals. This effect is similar to that seen when LY-ar cells are treated with thiol-depleting agents or by the removal of methionine and cysteine (GSH precursor) from the growth medium. This response is also completely contrary to that seen for radiation, actinomycin D, VP-16 and other agents, where LY-ar cells do not succumb to apoptosis. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The overexpression of gsto1 in normally chemoresistant and radioresistant LY-ar cells renders them vulnerable to the cytotoxic effects of As(2)O(3), despite the 30-fold overexpression of the survival factor bcl-2. Gsto1 and its human homolog, GSTO1, may serve as a marker for arsenic sensitivity, particularly in cells that are resistant to other chemotherapeutic agents.
Coupling between continuous‐flow, stirred tank reactors (CSTR’s), each having multiple steady states, can produce new steady states with different concentrations of the chemical species in each of the coupled tanks. In this work, we identify a kinetic potential ψ that governs the deterministic time evolution of coupled tank reactors, when the reaction mechanism permits a single‐variable description of the states of the individual tanks; examples include the iodate‐arsenous acid reaction, a cubic model suggested by Noyes, and two quintic models. Stable steady states correspond to minima of ψ, and unstable steady states to maxima or saddle points; marginally stable states typically correspond to saddle‐node points. We illustrate the variation in ψ due to changes in the rate constant for external material intake (k0) and for exchange between tanks (kx). For fixed k0 values, we analyze the changes in numbers and types of steady states as kx increases from zero. We show that steady states disappear by pairwise...
A theoretical investigation is presented of the relaxation dynamics of a simple model which gives a near-quantitative description of the iodate-excess arsenous acid systems (1). Near the hysteresis limits (K≳ K1, K≲ K2, K= input flow rate) and near the critical point K an exact expression is obtained for the nonlinear response to a sudden change of the concentration. As a result, the critical exponents characterizing the lengthening of the relaxation time near K1, K2 and Kc (critical slowing down) and the long time tails at K1, K2 and K are derived. Long-lived unstable modes (“dynamic metastability”) are also found near the bistability limits (K ≲ K1, K ≳ K2). The duration of these concentration plateaus is very sensitive to the distance to the hysteresis limits (K1, K2). They could therefore explain the distribution of the lifetimes of the metastable states (2) (cf.Fig.).
Benzidine (B, p-diaminodiphenyl) has been used in analytical laboratories for many years in assays for plasma hemoglobin [l], inorganic cyanide, and thiocyanate ]2,3]. The chemistry involved in the two assays for the inorganic anions is the same, but quite different from the hemoglobin assay. In the classical assay for plasma hemoglobin, the hemoglobin functions as a pseudoperoxidase and B, in the presence of hydrogen peroxide, is converted to a quinoid chromophore, B blue, and eventually to other quinoid forms [I]. In the assay for cyanide and thiocyanate, both are converted to cyanogen bromide by excess elemental bromine. Arsenous acid is used to destroy the excess bromine. Cyanogen bromide is then reacted with pyridine to generate glutaconic aldehyde which in turn reacts with B to form a Schiff base chromophore [4]. Because B is an established carcinogen, there is increasing reluctance to permit its use for these analytical applications and severe restrictions have been placed on its production [S]. A non-carcinogenic derivative of B, 3,3’,5,5’-tetramethylben~dine (TMB), has been successfully substituted in the plasma hemoglobin assay without loss of sensitivity, precision, or accuracy [6]. Here we show that the same is true for the assay of cyanide and thiocyanate. This new technique has been applied to measurements of cyanide released in vitro from sodium nitroprusside (SNP) during incubations with human red blood cells, platelets, and plasma.
The relaxation behavior of the bistable iodate–arsenous acid reaction near a hysteresis limit has been investigated. Outside the bistability region, relaxations to the unique stable steady state may exhibit a plateau in concentration as a function of time, corresponding to a local minimum in rate of reaction. Very close to the saddle‐node bifurcation defining the bistability limit, the relaxing system remains in the plateau for long periods of time. Experimental measurements of plateau behavior are compared to behavior predicted by a one‐variable model of the iodate–arsenous acid system.
Objective To study the effects of arsenous acid at different concentrations on NB 4 cell apoptosis. Methods Flow cytometry and DNA gel eletrophoresis and immunoblot were used to determine the degree of NB 4 cells apoptosis. Results 1. After treatment for 16 h with arsenic acid at the concentration of 0.8～8 μmol·L -1 , viability of NB 4 cells was above 95.0% with typical “DNA ladder” on argarose gel, progressive blockage of the cells in G 2 phase, gradual increment of apoptotic NB 4 cells to 48.6% in the presence of bcl 2 expression;2. At the concentration of 10～80 μmol·L -1 , although extensive apoptosis was induced in NB 4 cells and expression of bcl 2 was down regulated, the viability of NB 4 cells significantly reduced to 31.2%. 3. At concentration of 400 μmol·L -1 , the viability of NB 4 cells reincreased to 80.3% without typical “DNA ladder”, cell cycle arrest and down regulation of Bcl 2. Althought 76.6% NB 4 cells were labeled with dUTP FITC the intensity of fluoreseence was very low.Conclusion These results suggest the arsenous acid can not only induce appoptosis of NB 4 cells but also can inhibit its apoptosis. The effects of arsenous acid on the induction of NB 4 cell apoptosis is stronger than its inhibition effects at low doses, while high doses can give a reverse effect. Therefore, low doses of arsenic acid may be helpful to improve the curative effect of leukemia.$$$$
The association between chronic human exposure to arsenicals and bladder cancer development is well recognized; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms have not been fully determined. We propose that inflammatory responses can play a pathogenic role in arsenic-related bladder carcinogenesis. In previous studies, it was demonstrated that chronic exposure to 50 nM monomethylarsenous acid [MMA(III)] leads to malignant transformation of an immortalized model of urothelial cells (UROtsa), with only 3 mo of exposure necessary to trigger the transformation-related changes. In the three-month window of exposure, the cells over-expressed pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8), consistent with the sustained activation of NFKβ and AP1/c-jun, ERK2, and STAT3. IL-8 was over-expressed within hours after exposure to MMA(III), and sustained over-expression was observed during chronic exposure. In this study, we profiled IL-8 expression in UROtsa cells exposed to 50 nM MMA(III) for 1 to 5 mo. IL-8 expression was increased mainly in cells after 3 mo MMA(III) exposure, and its production was also found increased in tumors derived from these cells after heterotransplantation in SCID mice. UROtsa cells do express both receptors, CXCR1 and CXCR2, suggesting that autocrine cell activation could be important in cell transformation. Supporting this observation and consistent with IL-8 over-expression, CXCR1 internalization was significantly increased after three months of exposure to MMA(III). The expression of MMP-9, cyclin D1, bcl-2, and VGEF was significantly increased in cells exposed to MMA(III) for 3 mo, but these mitogen-activated kinases were significantly decreased after IL-8 gene silencing, together with a decrease in cell proliferation rate and in anchorage-independent colony formation. These results suggest a relevant role of IL-8 in MMA(III)-induced UROtsa cell transformation.
The retention behavior of four naturally occurring dimethylarsinoylribosides with –CH2-CHOH-CH2X (X = OH, HO3POCH2CHOHCH2OH, SO3H, OSO3H) as aglycones, of arsenous acid, arsenic acid, methylarsonic acid, and dimethylarsinic acid was investigated on a Hamilton PRP-X100 anion-exchange column with aqueous solutions of ammonium dihydrogen phosphate (20 mmol/L) in the pH range of 3.8–9.0 as mobile phase. A HP 4500 inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer (ICP-MS) served as arsenic-specific detector. The influence of pH, temperature, and the concentration of methanol in the mobile phase on the retention times of these arsenic compounds was explored. An aqueous 20 mM ammonium dihydrogen phosphate solution at pH 5.6 at a column temperature of 40 °C was considered optimal as it allowed ¶the separation of seven of the arsenic compounds within 16 min. Only arsenous acid and the ribose with the glycerol aglycone have overlapping signals with both migrating almost with the solvent front. At a concentration of 0.50 ng As mL–1 the relative standard deviations (n = 3) of the signal areas of the eight arsenic compounds was in the range from 3.5 to 8.1%. The linear calibration curves (peak areas) from 0.5 to 10 ng/mL had correlation coefficients ¶> 0.997. Extracts obtained from the brown algae Fucus spiralis and Halidrys siliquosa were chromatographed under the optimized conditions. Both species contained the sulfate riboside as the major arsenic compound (∼55% of total extractable arsenic) together with the sulfonate- and phosphate riboside. Arsenic acid was a significant constituent of Halidrys siliquosa (∼6.5%), but was not detected in Fucus spiralis.
Fingertip splitting may be observed at chemical reaction fronts subject to buoyancy-induced Rayleigh-Taylor fingering, as investigated in ascending fronts of the iodate-arsenous acid reaction in vertical Hele-Shaw cells. We study the properties of the flow-field evolution during a tip-splitting event both experimentally and theoretically. Experimental particle-image velocimetry techniques show that the flow field associated to a finger displays a quadrupole of vortices. The evolution of the flow field and the reorganization of the vortices after a tip-splitting event are followed experimentally in detail. Numerical integration of a model reaction-diffusionconvection system for an exothermic reaction taking into account possible heat losses through the walls of the reactor shows that the nonlinear properties of the flow field are different whether the walls are insulating or conducting. In insulating systems, the flow field inside one finger features only one pair of vortices. A quadrupole of flow vortices arranged around a saddle-node structure similar to the one observed experimentally is obtained in the presence of heat losses suggesting that heat effects, even if of very small amplitude, are important in understanding the nonlinear properties of fingering of exothermic chemical fronts.
Abstract A series of experimental observations of the effects of applying electric fields to propagating reaction fronts in the iodate–arsenous acid system are presented. These demonstrate that changes in the local concentrations of reaction components due to ionic migration result in profound changes of selectivity of reactions within the front reflected in variations of front concentration profiles and velocities of propagation. The controlled switching on/off of the electric field leads to the formation of a variety of complex spatio-temporal concentration patterns. Results are obtained from a mathematical model having the generic features of the basic kinetic mechanism. These agree with the experimental observations and provide an explanation for variations in reaction selectivity.
Objective To explore the curative effects of small dose arsenous acid in treating recurrent acute promyelocytic leukemia(APL) and its functional mechanism.Methods Retrospective analyses were made in the cases of recurrent APL from 1997 to 2001. In the treatment group, 18 adult cases received intravenous injection of 5mg/d arsenous acid with 28 days as a course of treatment and the other 2 cases received 2～3mg/d.In the contrast group, 21 cases received intravenous injection of 10mg/d arsenous acid.Results In the treatment group, 16 cases got remission,2cases got curative effects and 2 cases died early. In the contrast group, 17 cases got remission and 4 cases died early.The existed no significant difference between the two groups(χ 2=0.021,P= 0.886 ). Lower dose arsenous acid resulted in less toxic and side effects.Peripheral and marrow cell morphological studies showed that the main functions of low dose arsenous acid were induction and differentiation.Conclusion Low dose arsenous acid can be safely and effectively used to treat recurrent APL and its main mechanisms are induction and differentiation.
A high performance liquid chromatography -inductively coupled plasma -mass spectrometry (WLC-ICP-MS) method has been developed at Argonne National Laboratory to identify and quantify lewisite degradation products in soil and water samples. This method distinguishes among A s O , As(V), 2-chlorovinyl arsenous acid (CVAA), and other lewisite degradation products. Soil samples were analyzed to support the thermal desorption treatability studies for agents and pesticides being conducted for Rocky Mountain Arsenal. These data demonstrate that this technique is useful for the sensitive determination of lewisite degradation products. It is applicable to the analyzing a variety of materials.
Fingertip splitting may be observed at chemical reaction fronts subject to buoyancy-induced Rayleigh-Taylor fingering, as investigated in ascending fronts of the iodate-arsenous acid reaction in vertical Hele-Shaw cells. We study the properties of the flow-field evolution during a tip-splitting event both experimentally and theoretically. Experimental particle-image velocimetry techniques show that the flow field associated to a finger displays a quadrupole of vortices. The evolution of the flow field and the reorganization of the vortices after a tip-splitting event are followed experimentally in detail. Numerical integration of a model reaction-diffusionconvection system for an exothermic reaction taking into account possible heat losses through the walls of the reactor shows that the nonlinear properties of the flow field are different whether the walls are insulating or conducting. In insulating systems, the flow field inside one finger features only one pair of vortices. A quadrupole of flow vortices arranged around a saddle-node structure similar to the one observed experimentally is obtained in the presence of heat losses suggesting that heat effects, even if of very small amplitude, are important in understanding the nonlinear properties of fingering of exothermic chemical fronts.
Autocatalytic reactions may propagate as solitary waves, namely, at a constant front velocity and with a stationary concentration profile, resulting from a balance between molecular diffusion and chemical reaction. When the reaction is exothermic, a thermal wave is linked to the chemical front. As the thermal diffusivity is nearly two orders of magnitude larger than the molecular one, the temperature profile spreads over length scales (mm) two orders of magnitude larger than the concentration one. Using an infrared camera, we measure the temperature profiles for a chlorite-tetrathionate autocatalytic reaction. The profiles are compared quantitatively to lattice Bhatnagar-Gross-Krook (BGK) numerical simulations. Our analysis also accounts for the lack of observation of the thermal wave for the iodate arsenous acid reaction.
A novel method, incomplete suppressed conductimetric detection, has been developed for the determination of anions of very weak acids. The principle of the method was discussed. Theoretical considerations involved the choice of background conductance and its effect on linearity and detection limits. Results showed that for both arsenous acid and boric acid, the sensitivity was improved greatly with low background conductance, compared with the suppressed conductimetric method. With 250 mg/l boric acid, there were 261- and 1002-fold increases in peak height and peak area, respectively. Within the linear range of the detection, quantified by peak areas, the linear correlation coefficients were 0.9991 and 0.9985 for arsenous acid and boric acid, respectively.
Autocatalytic reactions may propagate as solitary waves, namely, at a constant front velocity and with a stationary concentration profile, resulting from a balance between molecular diffusion and chemical reaction. When the reaction is exothermic, a thermal wave is linked to the chemical front. As the thermal diffusivity is nearly two orders of magnitude larger than the molecular one, the temperature profile spreads over length scales ͑mm͒ two orders of magnitude larger than the concentration one. Using an infrared camera, we measure the temperature profiles for a chlorite-tetrathionate autocatalytic reaction. The profiles are compared quantitatively to lattice Bhatnagar-Gross-Krook ͑BGK͒ numerical simulations. Our analysis also accounts for the lack of observation of the thermal wave for the iodate arsenous acid reaction. DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.80.055101 PACS number͑s͒: 82.40.Ck, 44.35.ϩc, 47.55.pb The motion of interfaces and the propagation of fronts resulting from chemical reactions occur in a number of different areas ͓1͔, including population dynamics ͓2,3͔, flame propagation ͓4͔, and catalysis ͓5͔. It is known that autocatalytic reaction fronts between two reacting species may propagate as solitary waves, namely, at a constant front velocity and with a stationary concentration profile ͓6-8͔. For the latter systems, the fluid left behind the front has a different density from the reactant leading to possible buoyancydriven instabilities ͓8͔. As these reactions are exothermic, a thermal wave front is usually associated with the concentration one ͓9-12͔. Therefore, autocatalytic reaction fronts can produce solutal and thermal density variations due to concentration and temperature variations, respectively. As thermal diffusion is much faster than concentration diffusion ͑the ratio of the two is the Lewis number, Leϳ 100͒, the thermal front spreads over a much larger length scale, typically a few mm compared to hundreds of m for concentration. Depending on the overall density profile, the solutal and thermal effects, conjugated or antagonist, may lead to various buoyancy-driven chemohydrodynamic instabilities ͓12͔: this issue has been addressed with numerical simulations without heat loss ͓10͔ and by taking into account the conducting walls ͓11͔. It is worth noting that a "counterintuitive" chemically driven instability ͓12͔ has been predicted for a solutal and thermal stable situation due to the difference between the diffusions of heat and mass. However, testing such a prediction requires a good knowledge of the concentration and of the thermal profiles. If concentration measurements have been routinely used, the access to the temperature field is more difficult due to the small exothermicity of the reactions. Yet such a measurement has been recently obtained with a sophisticated optical method ͓13͔ during the occurrence of buoyant instabilities. But, the complexity of the twodimensional pattern formation made it difficult to analyze the data.
In the present work, we address the issue of determining quantitatively the "base state" of these instabilities, namely, the one-dimensional temperature profile of a stable propagating front, for which the overall effect of solutal and thermal density changes does stabilize the front. For that purpose, we use a sensitive infrared ͑IR͒ camera to measure accurately the temperature profile. We first recall the basic equations on exothermic diffusion reaction processes. Then we measure the temperature profile for the chlorite-tetrathionate ͑CT͒ autocatalytic reaction ͓14,15͔. We compare quantitatively our data with the basic equations, using lattice Bhatnagar-GrossKrook ͑BGK͒ numerical simulations ͓17,18͔. A quantitative extrapolation of our data to the iodate arsenous acid ͑IAA͒ reaction explains why the temperature profile in the IAA reaction is not observable within the accuracy of our device.
The aim of this study was to establish a process for deriving a chemical-specific mode of action (MOA) from chemical-agnostic adverse outcome pathway (AOPs), using inorganic arsenic (iAs) as a case study. The AOP developed for this case study are related to disruption of cellular signaling by chemicals that strongly bind to vicinal dithiols in cellular proteins, leading to disruption of inflammatory and oxidative stress signaling along with inhibition of the DNA damage responses. The proposed MOA for iAs incorporates this AOP, overlaid on a background of increasing oxidative stress and/or co-exposure to mutagenic chemicals or radiation. The most challenging aspect of developing a MOA from AOP is the incorporation of metabolism and dose-response, neither of which may be considered in the development of an AOP. The cellular responses to relatively low concentrations (below 100 parts per billion) of iAs in drinking water appear to be secondary to binding of trivalent arsenite and its trivalent metabolite, monomethyl arsenous acid to key cellular vicinal dithiols in target tissues, resulting in a co-carcinogenic MOA. The proposed AOP may also be applied to non-cancer endpoints, enabling an integrated approach to conducting a risk assessment for iAs.
Simple analytical results for the critical wavelength A, , for onset of convection, the growth rate near onset of convection, and the maximum growth rate are found. Agreement with experiments on iodatearsenous acid solutions in vertical tubes motivates linear and nonlinear calculations in cylin00 drical geometries.
Primary alkenyl esters of arsenous acid have been synthesized by heating a mixture of arsenic (III) oxide and alkenol in benzene. We have previously shown that arsenic and antimony esters of primary, secondary and tertiary alkenols could be prepared by ester exchange. These esters could also be prepared by direct interaction of arsenic or antimony trichloride and alkenol in the presence of dry ammonia as hydrogen chloride acceptor. Out of the compounds so synthesized, ten alkenyl esters of the formula M(OR) 3 [where, m = As and Sb; R = -CH 2 C(CH 3 )=CH 2 , -CH 2 CH 2 CH= ::: CH 2 , -CH 2 CH 2 CH 2 CH=CH 2 , -CH(CH 3 )CH 2 CH=CH, -C(CH 3 )(C 2 H 5 ) CH=CH 2 ] are being reported for the first time. All the compounds have been characterized by elemental analyses (As and Sb), molecular weight determinations and ir and pmr spectral studies.CH, -CHCHCHCH=CH, -CH(CH)CHCH=CH, -C(CH)(CH) CH=CH] are being reported for the first time. All the compounds have been characterized by elemental analyses (As and Sb), molecular weight determinations and ir and pmr spectral studies.
Reactive mineral-water interfaces exert control on the bioavailability of contaminant arsenic species in natural aqueous systems. However, the ability to accurately predict As surface complexation is limited by the lack of molecular-level understanding of As-water-mineral interactions. In the present study, we report the structures and properties of the adsorption complexes of arsenous acid (As(OH)3) on hydrated mackinawite (FeS) surfaces, obtained from density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The fundamental aspects of the adsorption, including the registries of the adsorption complexes, adsorption energies, and structural parameters are presented. The FeS surfaces are shown to be stabilized by hydration, as is perhaps to be expected because the adsorbed water molecules stabilize the low-coordinated surface atoms. As(OH)3 adsorbs weakly at the water-FeS(001) interface through a network of hydrogen-bonded interactions with water molecules on the surface, with the lowest-energy structure calculated to be an As-up outer-sphere complex. Compared to the water-FeS(001) interface, stronger adsorption was calculated for As(OH)3 on the water-FeS(011) and water-FeS(111) interfaces, characterized by strong hybridization between the S-p and O-p states of As(OH)3 and the surface Fe-d states. The As(OH)3 molecule displayed a variety of chemisorption geometries on the water-FeS(011) and water-FeS(111) interfaces, where the most stable configuration at the water-FeS(011) interface is a bidentate Fe-AsO-Fe complex, but on the water-FeS(111) interface, a monodentate Fe-O-Fe complex was found. Detailed information regarding the adsorption mechanisms has been obtained via projected density of states (PDOS) and electron density difference iso-surface analyses and vibrational frequency assignments of the adsorbed As(OH)3 molecule.
A combined system of inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) with ion chromatography (IC) has been used for the determination of arsenic compounds. Arsenous acid (AsIII), monomethylarsonic acid (MMAs), dimethylarsinic acid (DMAs), trimethylarsine oxide (TMAsO) and arsenobetaine were separated by anion-exchange chromatography. Subsequently eluates were directly introduced into ICP-MS and detected at m/z 75. Separation parameters were optimized for the arsenic compounds as follows: column, two Excelpak ICS-A35 columns (150 mm × 4.6 mm I.D. each) packed with polymer-based hydrophilic anion-exchange resin (ion-exchange capacity: 0.15 mequiv. /g dry); mobile phase, 10 · 10−3M tartaric acid; flow-rate, 1.0 ml/min; column temperature, 50°C; injection volume, 20 μl. The detection limits for the five arsenic compounds were from 0.22 to 0.44 μ/l as an As element. The repeatability was better than 5% (relative standard deviation) for all arsenic compounds. The IC-ICP-MS system was applied to the determination of arsenic compounds in the urine of DMAs-exposed rats. AsIII, MMAs, DMAs and TMAsO were detected in the urine.
ABSTRACT: Reactive mineral−water interfaces exert control on the bioavailability of contaminant arsenic species in natural aqueous systems. However, the ability to accurately predict As surface complexation is limited by the lack of molecular-level understanding of As−water−mineral interactions. In the present study, we report the structures and properties of the adsorption complexes of arsenous acid (As(OH) 3 ) on hydrated mackinawite (FeS) surfaces, obtained from density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The fundamental aspects of the adsorption, including the registries of the adsorption complexes, adsorption energies, and structural parameters are presented. The FeS surfaces are shown to be stabilized by hydration, as is perhaps to be expected because the adsorbed water molecules stabilize the low-coordinated surface atoms. As(OH) 3 adsorbs weakly at the water−FeS(001) interface through a network of hydrogen-bonded interactions with water molecules on the surface, with the lowest-energy structure calculated to be an As−up outer-sphere complex. Compared to the water−FeS(001) interface, stronger adsorption was calculated for As(OH) 3 on the water−FeS(011) and water−FeS (111) interfaces, characterized by strong hybridization between the S-p and O-p states of As(OH) 3 and the surface Fe-d states. The As(OH) 3 molecule displayed a variety of chemisorption geometries on the water−FeS(011) and water−FeS(111) interfaces, where the most stable configuration at the water−FeS(011) interface is a bidentate Fe−AsO−Fe complex, but on the water− FeS(111) interface, a monodentate Fe−O−Fe complex was found. Detailed information regarding the adsorption mechanisms has been obtained via projected density of states (PDOS) and electron density difference iso-surface analyses and vibrational frequency assignments of the adsorbed As(OH) 3 molecule.
Prompted by interest in reaction-diffusion waves in arsenous acid−iodate and Belousov−Zhabotinsky systems, mutual diffusion coefficients (D) are measured for binary aqueous solutions of arsenous, arsenic, and malonic acids at 25 °C and concentrations from (0.00012 to 0.020) mol·dm-3. Arsenous acid, a relatively weak acid (pK1a 9.2), diffuses in molecular form in this composition range with D ≈ 1.11·10-5 cm2·s-1. Arsenic and malonic acids (pK1a 2.3 and 2.8, respectively) dissociate appreciably, causing D to increase sharply with increasing dilution due to the unusually large mobility of aqueous H+ ions. Differential D values for solutions of these acids are determined by extrapolating diffusion coefficients measured from Gaussian dispersion peaks to zero concentration difference between the injected solution and the flow solution. Using a simple modification of conventional dispersion equipment, differential diffusion coefficients are measured directly from small-Δc error-function dispersion profiles gener...
Arsenic is one of the most environmentally significant pollutants and a great global health concern. Although a growing body of evidence suggests that reactive oxygen species (ROS) mediate the mechanism of arsenic toxicity, the exact mechanism remains elusive. In this study, we examine the capacity of trivalent arsenic species arsenous acid (iAs(III)), monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)), and dimethylarsinous acid (DMA(III)) to generate ROS through a theoretical analysis of their structures, redox properties, and their reactivities to various ROS using a density functional theory (DFT) approach at the B3LYP/6-31+G**//B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory and by employing electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spin trapping studies using 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO) as a spin trap. Results show that the oxidized forms (As(IV)) are structurally more stable compared to the reduced forms (As(II)) that impart elongated As-O bonds leading to the formation of As(III) and hydroxide anion. Enthalpies of one-electron reduction and oxidation indicate that increasing the degree of methylation makes it harder for As(III) to be reduced but easier to be oxidized. The order of increasing favorability for arsenical activation by ROS is O2 < O2(•-) < HO(•), and the oxidation of DMA(III) to DMA(V) is highly exoergic in multiple redox pathways with concomitant generation of radicals. This is followed by MMA(III) and by iAs(III) being the least favorable. Spin trapping studies showed a higher propensity for methylated arsenicals to generate radicals than iAs(III) upon treatment with H2O2. However, in the presence of Fe(II,III), all showed radical generation where MMA(III) gave predominantly C-centered adducts, while acidified iAs (III) and DMA(III) gave primarily HO-adducts, and their formation was affected in the presence of SOD suggesting a As(III)-OO/OOH radical intermediate. Therefore, our results suggest a basis for the increased redox activity of methylated arsenicals that can be applied to the observed trends in arsenic methylation and toxicity in biological systems.
Catalytic kinetic methods for determining osmium are reviewed. It is shown that almost all indicator reactions used for catalytic kinetic determination of osmium are redox ones. As oxidizers, Ce (IV) ion, bromate, periodate, and iodate ions, and hydrogen peroxide are used, as a rule. As reducers, organic dyes are used in most cases; inorganic reducers, mainly arsenous acid and its salts, are used slightly less often. It is found that the pyrogallolphthalein oxidation reaction in the presence of polyoxyethylene glycol dodecyl ether is characterized by the best sensitivity for determining Os (VIII) (the detection limit is 5 × 10−5 ng/cm3). Techniques based on the reactions of As (III) oxidation by bromate, iodate, and periodate ions and N-methyl-n-aminophenol oxidation by hydrogen peroxide are very sensitive and selective. The most promising ways to improve the catalytic kinetic techniques for determining osmium are found.
We simulate a pattern recognition device constructed from mass-coupled chemical reactors. Each reactor is an open system containing a bistable (iodate-arsenous acid) reaction. We store arbitrary patterns of high and low iodide concentrations in the network using a Hebb type rule. When the network is initialized with a pattern which is similar to a stored pattern, errors in the initial pattern are corrected and the similar stored pattern is recalled. When the network is initialized with a pattern which is not similar to a stored pattern, the network evolves to a homogeneous state which signals nonrecognition. The network is a programmable parallel computational device
It is clearly demonstrated that the arsenous acid-periodate reaction displays crazy-clock behavior when a statistically meaningful number of kinetic runs are performed under "exactly the same" conditions. Both extensive experimental and numerical simulation results gave convincing evidence that the stochastic feature of the title reaction originates from the imperfection of the mixing process, and neither local random fluctuation nor initial inhomogeneity alone is capable of explaining adequately the observed phenomena. Imperfect mixing is manifested-in practice-in the unintentional and inherent formation of dead volumes where the concentration of the reactants may even significantly differ from the ones measured in the case of a completely uniform concentration distribution, and the system may spend enough time there under imperfectly mixed conditions to complete the nonlinear chemical process. Furthermore, it is also shown that a more efficient mixing, i.e. a smaller dead volume size and shorter residence time being spent in the dead volume, does not necessarily mean Landolt times are smaller than the one measured under completely homogeneous conditions. Evidently, the "initial" concentration of the reagents in the dead volume-and of course in the rest of the solution-greatly influences the Landolt time to be measured in the case of an individual kinetic run and may therefore show either positive or negative deviation from the Landolt time for the completely homogeneous state. As a result, less efficient mixing may either accelerate or decelerate the rate of a nonlinear autocatalytic reaction at a macroscopic volume level.
A method for the determination of sulfa drugs by inhibitory catalytic spectrophotometry is proposed based on inhibiting effect of sulfadiazine and sulfamethazie on oxidation of arsenous acid with sulfate cerium(Ⅳ) catalyzed by iodide anion.The linear ranges of the determination are 2.25～3.75 and 2.0～3.5 mg/L,the detection limit is 2.1×10~(-4) and 2.7×10~(-4) g/L,the apparent molar absorptivities are 3.44×10~4 L·mol~(-1)·cm~(-1) and 2.76×10~4 L·mol~(-1)·cm~(-1).This method has been applied to the determination of the sulphonamides with satisfactory results.
Abstract The dissociation constant of meta -arsenous acid (HAsO 2 ) was accurately determined from spectrophotometric measurements, combined with volumetric methods. The measurement of pH of the analyte solution containing HAsO 2 , which was titrated with sodium hydroxide, was achieved by the spectrophotometric method using thymol blue as a pH indicator. Acetic acid and aqueous ammonia were used as primary standards. The p K a of HAsO 2 was determined to an accuracy of ± 0.005 p K a units at temperatures between 25 and 65°C, and ionic strengths between 0 and 3 M. The standard enthalphy change of HAsO 2 , Δ H °, which was calculated from its dissociation constants, was 29.59 ± 0.78 kJ/mol. Determination of the p K a values is necessary for the characterization of As 2 O 3 as a dual purpose acid-base and oxidation-reduction primary standard reagent under various conditions.
Objective To explore the effects of selenium on arsenic-induced DNA binding activity of nuclear factor κB(NF-κB) and apoptosis in mouse skin JB6-CI41 cells in vitro.Methods Mouse skin JB6-CI41 cells(cell density was 1×105/well) were exposed to selenium and arsenic alone as well as joint action of selenium and arsenic in vitro.The experiment included nine groups,included one control group treated with physical saline,one selenium treatment group at the dose of 2.5 μmol/L sodium selenite,three arsenic treatment groups at the doses of 3.125,6.25 and 12.5 μmol/L arsenous acid respectively,and three joint action groups of selenium and arsenic combined selenium at the dose of 2.5 μmol/L sodium selenite with arsenic at the doses of 3.125,6.25 and 12.5 μmol/L arsenous acid.Meanwhile,diethyldithiocarbamate(DTTC,100 μmol/L),a specific inhibitor of NF-κB,was used to treat mouse skin JB6-CI41 cells 2 h previously,and then treated with arsenous acid(6.25 μmol/L) together in order to further investigate the relationship between arsenic-induced DNA binding activity of NF-κB and apoptosis.The DNA binding activity of NF-κB was analyzed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay(EMSA) and apoptosis was measured by flow cytometry.Results Sodium selenite(2.5 μmol/L) showed no obvious effects on DNA binding activity of NF-κB and apoptosis in mouse skin JB6-CI41 cells.Arsenous acid at 6.25 and 12.5 μmol/L increased DNA binding activity of NF-κB significantly(P0.01) with dose-dependent manner(relative coefficient was 0.942 6).Arsenous acid at the doses of 3.125,6.25 and 12.5 μmol/L could significantly induced apoptosis(relative coefficient was 0.991 8).DNA binding activity of NF-κB had close positive relationship with apoptosis treated by arsenic in mouse skin JB6-CI41 cells,relative coefficient was 0.977 5(P0.01).Compared with corresponding dose of arsenic groups,2.5 μmol/L sodium selenite co-exposed with 6.25 and 12.5 μmol/L arsenous acid to mouse skin JB6-CI41 cells,the DNA binding activity of NF-κB was decreased significantly(P0.01).2.5 μmol/L sodium selenite combined with arsenous acid at the doses of 3.125,6.25 and 12.5 μmol/L,apoptosis rates were lower than those of corresponding arsenic group(P0.01).Mouse skin JB6-CI41 cells co-exposed to 100 μmol/L DTTC and 6.25 μmol/L arsenous acid,DNA binding activity of NF-κB and apoptosis were decreased compared with corresponding arsenic group(P0.01).Conclusion Arsenic at doses of 6.25-12.5 μmol/L arsenous acid may promote DNA binding activity of NF-κB and induce apoptosis in mouse skin JB6-CI41 cells,selenium at the dose of 2.5 μmol/L sodium selenite have inhibitive effects on DNA binding activity of NF-κB and apoptosis caused by arsenic in vitro.
Abstract Arsenic(III) oxide and arsenous acid in water or aqueous ethanolic solutions react, at room temperature, with a variety of lipophilic and hydrophilic thiols giving quantitatively triaryl and trialkyl trithioarsenites, (ArS)3As and (RS)3As. Aqueous solutions of arsenic acid react with certain thiols giving quantitatively mixtures of trithioarsenites and disulfides, RSSR. These reactions may help towards the elucidation of the biochemistry of arsenous and arsenic acids.
Objective To investigate the effects of trivalent arsenicals on ce ll proliferation and induction of apoptosis in human epidermal keratinocytes. Me thods Human benign epidermal keratinocytes (cell line HaCaT), human epidermal ca rcinoma cells(cell line A431) were cultured. After treatment with arsenous acid, inhibition of cellular growth was determined by measuring MTT dye absorption of living cells.Apoptosis was assessed with respect to morphological changes by li ght and electron microscopy and to cell cycle distribution by flow cytometry. An nexin-ⅴbinding assay was used to detect the early stage of apoptosis. Results With concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 10 imol/L, arsenous acid significantly inhibited the proliferation of HaCaT cells in a dose-and time-dependent manner . By light and electron microscopy, morphological changes revealed characteristi cs of apoptosis. But A431 cells showed no obvious change. DNA flow cytometric an alysis indicated that arsenous acid induced an arrest in G2M phase and sub-G1 p hase in HaCaT compared with A431 cells. The green flurorescence indicated early stage of apoptosis in HaCaT cells by annexin-V binding assay. Conclusion Arseno us acid may inhibit the proliferation of HaCaT cells and induce apoptosis, but d oes not affect A431 cell line obviously, which suggests that HaCaT cells are mor e sensitive to arsenous acid compared with A431 cells.
It is unambiguously demonstrated that in the case of an autocatalytic reaction, initial inhomogeneities induced by the imperfectly mixed part of the overall volume may result in a serious irreproducibility of the individual kinetic runs. A statistically meaningful number of repetitions, however, gives rise to a reproducible cumulative probability distribution curve often referred to as a support of the stochastic feature. The iodate–arsenous acid reaction being autocatalytic with respect to both iodide and hydrogen ions displays clock behavior. However, the time lag necessary for the appearance of iodine, even in buffered solution, varies in an apparently random manner. Careful analysis of the variation of the different parameters like stirring rate, overall volume, geometry of the reactor and the way of mixing the reactants led us to conclude that the fate of the individual samples is determined at the initial stage when the reacting system is per se inhomogeneous. The place, the size of the so-called ignition volume, where the reacting system is imperfectly stirred, as well as the residence time spent there by the imperfectly mixed reactants all seem to depend on external factors.
BACKGROUND AND AIM: To explore the effect of selenium on arsenic-induced cell cycle changes by regulation of activator protein-1(AP-1).MATERIALS AND METHODS: JB6-CI41 cells were exposed to sodium selenite alone at the concentrations of 2.5 μmol/L or combined with arsenous acid at the concentrations of 3.125,6.25,and 12.5 μmol/L.The AP-1 DNA binding activity and cell cycle were analyzed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay(EMSA) and flow cytometry.Meanwhile,curcumin(20 μmol/L),a specific inhibitor of AP-1,was used to treat JB6 cells together with arsenous acid(12.5 μmol/L) in order to understand the relationship between arsenic-induced cell cycle changes and AP-1 DNA binding activity.RESULTS: Compared with solvent control,arsenous acid(3.125,6.25 and 12.5 μmol/L) could significantly up-regulate AP-1 DNA binding activity and reduce G1 phase cells(P0.01,P0.01),and higher concentrations of arsenous acid(6.25 and 12.5 μmol/L) increased G2 phase cells(P0.05,P0.01).Sodium selenite(2.5 μmol/L) showed no effect on AP-1 DNA binding activity and cell cycle(P0.05,P0.05).Compared with corresponding concentrations of arsenous acid,co-exposure of JB6-CI41 cells to sodium selenite(2.5 μmol/L) and arsenous acid(3.125,6.25 and 12.5 μmol/L) down-regulated AP-1 DNA binding activity(P0.01),increased G1 phase cells(P0.01),and decreased G2 phase cells(P0.05).Co-exposure of JB6-CI41 cells to curcumin and arsenous acid could significantly down-regulate AP-1 DNA binding activity,increased G1 phase cells and decreased G2 phase cells compared with corresponding concentrations of arsenous acid(all P0.01).CONCLUSION: Arsenic may change cell cycle by activating AP-1 signal pathway.Certain concentration of selenium could down-regulate arsenic-induced AP-1 DNA binding activity,which may be one of the mechanisms that selenium could antagonize the carcinogenetic property of arsenic.
The ultraviolet spectra of dilute, aqueous arsenic (III)-containing solutions have been measured from 25 to 300 °C at the saturated vapour pressure. From these measurements, the equilibrium constant was obtained for the reaction ::: ::: H3AsO3⇄H++H2AsO3-; ::: ::: for which pK1 (arsenous acid) decreases from 9.25 to 7.11 over a temperature range from 25 to 300 °C. In addition, electrospray mass spectrometric measurements support the conclusion that the arsenous acid moeities in low density aqueous media are HAsO2 and AsO2−.
The iodate oxidation of arsenous acid exhibits single‐hysteresis bistability in a continuous flow stirred tank reactor. Other patterns of multiple stationary states including mushrooms and isolas are exhibited by this system when a constant flow of solvent is introduced to the CSTR in addition to the usual flow of reactants. A simple empirical rate law model provides a near quantitative description of the behavior. This model is analyzed and compared to other model systems.
Chemical waves induce density gradients in fluids which may lead to convection. This paper studies the convective effects on chemical waves propagating in porous media or in fluids confined between two parallel vertical walls. Chemical waves in the iodate–arsenous acid system are modeled with a one variable reaction‐diffusion equation. The fluid flow is modeled using Darcy’s law. A linear stability analysis on convectionless fronts shows a transition to convection. The full nonlinear equations describing the convective front are solved numerically on a vertical slab. Convective fronts propagate faster than convectionless fronts. Near the onset of convection, the fronts are raised on one side of the slab and lowered on the opposite side. Away from the onset, the fronts are raised at the middle of the slab with the opposing sides at the same height.
Six arsenic compounds including arsenocholine, arsenobetaine, dimethylarsinic acid, methylarsonic acid, arsenous acid and arsenic acid were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on a Hamilton PRP-X100 anion-exchange column using isocratic elution and detected by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). This analytical procedure was applied to the speciation of arsenic compounds in human urine. The influence of urine matrix on the separation of arsenic compounds was evaluated and the determination of arsenic compounds was not hampered by the ArCl interference which has often been encountered in ICP-MS. Three human urine reference materials, SRM 2670 normal level, SRM 2670 elevated level and Lyphocheck urine metal control 1, were analyzed with respect to arsenic compounds by HPLC-ICP-MS. The results were found to be in good agreement with the certified total arsenic concentration in the reference materials. Six arsenic compounds were detected. Arsenobetaine was found to be present in all of the investigated human urine reference materials.
Chemical waves induce density gradients in fluids which may lead to convection. This paper studies the convective effects on chemical waves propagating in porous media or in fluids confined between two parallel vertical walls. Chemical waves in the iodate-arsenous acid system are modeled with a one variable reaction-diffusion equation. The fluid flow is modeled using Darcy's law. A linear stability analysis on convectionless fronts shows a transition to convection. The full nonlinear equations describing the convective front are solved numerically on a vertical slab. Convective fronts propagate faster than convectionless fronts. Near the onset of convection, the fronts are raised on one side of the slab and lowered on the opposite side. Away from the onset, the fronts are raised at the middle of the slab with the opposing sides at the same height.
Such chemical systems have been thoroughly investigated in the past few decades by both numerical studies and experimental studies. Notably in the early 1990s, stationary Turing patterns 1 were first observed and since then well-designed experimental methods 2, 3 have been developed to produce these phenomena in various systems. Numerical simulations have shown that a rich variety of complex spatiotemporal patterns can be created using simple models with autocatalytic chemical reactions influenced by diffusion. 4 The resulting patterns may be e.g. spirals, stripes, hexagons, lamellae, and self-replicating spots which have also been reproduced experimentally in acid auto-activated reactions in hydrogel media. 5 Such intriguing acid auto-activated systems including, among others, the thioureaiodate-sulfite reaction which exhibited Turing bifurcation, the clock reaction bromate-sulfite system, 6 the mixed Landolt-type pH-oscillator bromate-sulfite-ferrocyanide reaction, 7 and other halogen-free hydrogen-peroxide driven reactions 8 are all examples where phenomena like stationary patterns, spatial bistability, travelling acid-base fronts or spatiotemporal oscillations have been observed. Propagating fronts have been studied in e.g. the iodate-arsenous acid 9 or the chlorite-tetrathionate reactions as well. 10, 11 In other systems, the diffusion of hydroxide ions plays an important role regarding the macroscopic patterns. 12 A common feature of these systems is that the pattern formation is essentially controlled by the diffusion rate of the chemical species present in the system, particularly regarding the autocatalyst that is often the hydrogen ion. Its fast hopping mechanism in water results in a high diffusion coefficient value and a longrange activation process that can significantly influence the nonlinear behavior of the system -e.g. oscillatory states -as shown by numerical studies. 13 Hydrogels such as agarose, gelatin or polyacrylamide are fundamentally used as reaction media for chemical pattern formation for the purpose of eliminating macroscopic convection. In addition, pH-sensitive hydrogels are also applied to make artificial molecular motors which are able to contract and collapse depending on the actual pH of the medium. 14, 15 In the electrolyte diodes developed for analytical purposes, hydrogels are commonly utilized as connecting elements between the acidic and alkaline reservoirs. 16, 17 Environmental-sensitive hydrogels are frequently used materials not only in chemistry and physics but also in biomedical applications, such as tissue engineering and drug delivery. 18, 19 For those kinds of applications, the improvement of shear-thinning and self-healing properties together with a reduced response time is essential and may be tuned by changes in pH or temperature. [20] [21] [22] The case of pH change links again the diffusion properties of hydrogen ions in the actual gel.
Studies concerning the association between arsenic exposure and hepatitis B virus (HB V) infection have been lacking. The present study aimed to examine the association between total urinary arsenic (TUA) and infection of HBV. A total of 5186 participants from National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2003–2014 were included in the analysis. We used logistic regression to evaluate the association. We defined two measures of TUA. TUAI was the sum of arsenous acid, arsenicacid, monomethylarsonic acid and dimethylarsenic acid. TUA2 was defined as TUA minus arsenobetaine and arsenocholine. The results showed that the weighted overall prevalence of HBV infection was 6.08%. For NHANES 2003–2014, the medians (interquartile range) of TUAI and TUA2 were 5.60 μg/L (3.97–8.09 μg/L) and 4.91 μg/L (2.36–9.11 μg/L), respectively. Comparing the highest quartile to the lowest quartile after multivariable adjustment showed that the odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for TUAI and TUA2 were 2.44 (1.40–4.27) and 2.84 (1.60–5.05), respectively. In conclusion, elevated urinary arsenic was associated with the risk of HBV infection. Further studies, especially prospective studies, are needed to confirm the causal relationship between arsenic exposure and HBV infection.
In the entire world, about 200 million populations are exposed to arsenic poisoning in groundwater. Arsenic is a very poisonous metalloid and has three allotropic forms. The toxic inorganic arsenic is converted and utilized metabolically into organic form. It is primarily eliminated out from the human body through metabolic wastes like urine and is also deposited in the hair, nails and skin of the affected ones. Arsenic is known to be a carcinogen as Carcinogen category 1 in the forms of arsenic trioxide, arsenic pentoxide, arsenous acids, arsenic acid and their salts. The arsenic also affects the epidermal system, the nervous system and the vascular system of humans. In the present investigation for toxicological evaluation of arsenic Liver Function Tests & Kidney Function Tests have been considered. It is presumed that medicinal plants have significance in the present day in view of the lethal diseases like AIDS, cancer, hepatitis, nephritis sterility too for which no effective drugs are found till today in modern system of medicine. Medicinal plant based drugs generally have no side effects or the least side effect. Thus to evaluate an ameliorating effect, if any, to mitigate the arsenic toxicity in mice, for which Cucumis sativus (cucumbers) has been taken as curative measure. Sodium arsenite at the dose of 3 mg/kg body weight was administered for 4 weeks followed by the administration of Cucumis sativus (cucumbers) for 4 and 6 weeks at dose of 500 mg/kg body weight. Their biochemical levels like liver and kidney function tests were assayed and were found with elevated levels. But, after administration of aqueous extract of Cucumis sativus (cucumbers), there was significant amelioration in the biochemical levels. The protective effect of Cucumis sativus (cucumbers) was shown in the form of normalization of enzymatic and non-enzymatic activities represented by normalization of liver and kidney functions.
Objective To explore anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects of arsenous acid (AA) injection.Methods Measurement of mouse ear swelling caused by dimethylbenzene ,of rat posterior peri-metatarsal swelling in Freund's complete adjuvant arthritis and of relative weight of rat spleen,thymus,adrenal gland,iliac lymph nodes to the whole body,to assess the anti-inflammatory effects of AA injection;observation of the analgesic effects of AA injection on acetic acid-caused mouse writhing.Results AA injection markedly inhibited acute inflammatory ear swelling following dimethylbenzene stimulation on mouse ear;therapeutic use of AA injection (4mg/kg) significantly decreased the swlling of adjuvant arthritis foot(right) and left(control) foot,s delayed allergic swelling on rat on the 5th and 8th treatment day;AA injection showed evident protective effects in adjuvant arthritis in scoring method,and markedly alleviated mouse's writhing after acetic acid stimulation.Conclusion AA injection has anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects.
Arsenic and its compounds are extremely fatal and carcinogenic to all living organisms. Arsenic in exceeding amounts, once ingested, can cause severe nausea and gastrointestinal symptoms, and thus, the toxicity of arsenic is an established and scientic fact. 1, 2 During glycolysis, due to the chemical analogy with phosphate, arsenate As(V) reacts with glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, eliminating 1,3-diphosphoglycerate formation and preventing ATP generation, leading to several adverse effects to living organisms. [2] [3] [4] As(III), on the other hand, has a tendency to bind to the sulydryl (-SH) groups of dehydrogenase enzymes, i.e. pyruvate, dihydrolipoate and a-ketoglutarate, causing severe metabolic complications, and at times, cellular mutagenesis. 5 Arsenic is naturally found on the Earth's crust, mostly in the common mineral arsenopyrite (FeAsS). 3 The arsenic concentration in soil may vary from 1.0 mg kg À1 (apatite, calcite and uorite samples) to 77 000-126 000 mg kg À1 (pyrite or arsenopyrite samples). 6 Chemical industries, especially those related to electronic devices, 7, 8 use small amounts of arsenic and its compounds to manufacture components for cosmetics, wood preservatives, laser equipment, pesticides and glasses. Mineral and metallurgical industries contribute to arsenic containing wastes. The contaminated solid and liquid waste is a potential source of surface and groundwater pollution. Arsenic contaminated groundwater has been reported worldwide, and especially Canada, the USA, Chile, Argentina, India and Bangladesh are places where the natural leaching of As-enriched soil and rock has been the main cause of arsenic contamination. 3, 6, 7 India and Bangladesh are worst in terms of high levels of arsenic contamination affecting thousands of people in South Asia. [9] [10] [11] Statistical data show that more than 25 million people have been exposed to water with elevated arsenic concentrations, i.e. $50 mg L À1 in Bangladesh and the West Bengal province of India. 12 The variable oxidation state of arsenic species inuences its stability and immobilization in natural environments or under rectifying measures. It mainly exists in two water soluble oxidation states of As(III) and As(V) derived from arsenous acid (H 3 AsO 3 ) and arsenic acid (H 3 AsO 4 ), respectively. Of these two states, As(III) not only shows considerably higher toxicity and solubility in water but is also important with regard to its increased mobility in soils. Arsenical mobility in natural waters is dependent on the pH, Eh conditions and presence of other chemical species. 6 It has been determined experimentally that the oxidation of As(III) to As(V) is kinetically very slow, which results in the co-existence of both species even under oxic conditions. 13 Bacterial activity causes the reduction of As(V) species, which causes toxicity in biological environments. 1, 14 Apart from inorganic forms, arsenic also exists as organic species such as dimethyl arsenic acid at very low concentrations in natural waters. 15 Over the years, conventional technologies based on coagulation, occulation, reverse osmosis, ion exchange, precipitation and surfactant enhanced ultraltration have been developed to remove arsenic from natural waters. [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] These processes have, however, numerous drawbacks, which include selective or partial metal removal, and high capital and operational cost with increased disposal of residual metal sludge, making them unsuitable and unsustainable for small scale industries. Adsorption techniques have long been used in water and waste water industries, but the real challenge in such techniques is the employment of inexpensive, excessively available and effective adsorbents. More commonly, powdered or granular activated charcoal or alumina (Al 2 O 3 ), and more recently nanoscale zero-valent iron particles, have been employed as adsorbents to remove arsenic species from an aqueous stream. [24] [25] [26] [27] However, the high price for the preparation and regeneration of these adsorbents encouraged the application of biosorbents for arsenic removal from water. An unspe-cic ion exchange reaction mechanism is usually involved in the biosorption uptake. For instance, negatively charged arsenate or arsenite species are potentially attracted by reactive sites of amino groups to form adsorptive complexes. 28 The continuous and sustainable growth of the poultry industry and an ever increasing demand for poultry consumption is leading to an oversupply of byproducts. The efficient utilization of byproducts is a challenge, but one which is extremely important to overcome with this crucial worldwide industrial waste. It is estimated that over 65 million tonnes of feather waste are produced worldwide. [29] [30] [31] Poultry feathers contain about 90% protein (keratin) and are a cheap and renewable source of protein bers. There is very limited use of feathers in industrial applications. At present, in addition to animal feed 32 and a few applications in composites and other products, 33, 34 the majority of the poultry feathers are disposed of in landlls. Recently, researchers employed chicken feathers to remove organic dyes and heavy metal ions from wastewaters on account of their high surface area and several reactive functional groups. [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] Adsorption results show that aer chemical modication, CF have a higher dye/ion uptake as compared to their unmodied form. 38 We studied structural changes during modication and exclusively extended the use of modied CF by designing arsenic removal lters. Chemically, several modications of CF were generated by treatment with different doping agents. The extent of modication of the lter containing material was evaluated by characterization techniques such as SEM, FTIR, DSC, TGA and XRD, and the adsorption efficiency was evaluated using kinetic and isothermal studies of the biosorption.
In the entire world, about 200 million populations are exposed to arsenic poisoning in groundwater. Arsenic is a very poisonous metalloid and has three allotropic forms. The toxic inorganic arsenic is converted and utilized metabolically into organic form. It is primarily eliminated out from the human body through metabolic wastes like urine and is also deposited in the hair, nails and skin of the affected ones. Arsenic is known to be a carcinogen as Carcinogen category 1 in the forms of arsenic trioxide, arsenic pentoxide, arsenous acids, arsenic acid and their salts. The arsenic also affects the epidermal system, the nervous system and the vascular system of humans. In the present investigation for toxicological evaluation of arsenic Liver Function Tests & Kidney Function Tests have been considered. It is presumed that medicinal plants have significance in the present day in view of the lethal diseases like AIDS, cancer, hepatitis, nephritis sterility too for which no effective drugs are found till today in modern system of medicine. Medicinal plant based drugs generally have no side effects or the least side effect. Thus to evaluate an ameliorating effect, if any, to mitigate the arsenic toxicity in mice, for which Cucumis sativus (cucumbers) has been taken as curative measure. Sodium arsenite at the dose of 3 mg/kg body weight was administered for 4 weeks followed by the administration of Cucumis sativus (cucumbers) for 4 and 6 weeks at dose of 500 mg/kg body weight. Their biochemical levels like liver and kidney function tests were assayed and were found with elevated levels.
We have used the density functional theory to make a toxicity prediction model of water-soluble arsenicals (WSA). The structures have been optimised for the minimum energy of the Schrodinger equation. In the present work, the usefulness of electrophilicity and charge transfer in predicting the toxicity of WSA, namely, monomethylarsenic acid (MMA) (III), dimethylarsenic acid (DMA) (III), arsenic acid, arsenous acid, MMA (V) and DMA (V), is assessed. It is demonstrated that the toxicity of arsenicals (both electron donors and acceptors) in gas and solution phases can be adequately explained in terms of electrophilicities. Amount of charge transfer between the WSA and the biosystem, simulated as nucleic acid (NA) bases and DNA base pairs, indicates the importance of charge transfer in experimental toxicity. Interaction of arsenicals with NA bases/selected base pairs is determined using Paar's charge-transfer formula. The experimental toxicity (LD50) of arsenicals are taken as dependent variables and the ener...
An improved analytical procedure is presented for the separation and simultaneous determination of hydride-forming (toxic) and not hydride-forming (non-toxic) arsenic species in human urine. Separation was performed by cation-exchange chromatography using a new solid phase type based on the continuous bed chromatography (CBC) technology. This column permits by a factor of 4 higher flow rates than conventional columns resulting in a drastical reduction of retention times without any loss of resolution. Using this type of column, arsenobetaine (AsBet), arsenocholine (AsChol), and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) were separated from the more toxic arsenic species arsenous acid (As(III)), arsenic acid (As(V)), and methylarsonic acid (MA) within only 4 min. The HPLC system was coupled via a flow injection system and either a UV or a microwave (MW) reactor to the HG-AAS instrument. UV photolysis and MW digestion were used to transform AsBet and AsChol to hydride-forming species and to make them accessible to HG-AAS. UV photolysis turned out to be more suitable for this application than MW digestion, because the latter technique led to peak broadening and poorer performance. The described procedure was applied to the determination of arsenic species in urine samples of non-occupationally exposed persons before and 12 h after seafood consumption. Detection limits were about 1 μg/L for each arsenic species. After consumption, the AsBet and DMA excretion increased by at least a factor of 150 for AsBet and by a factor of 6 for DMA, respectively, while the excretion of the other species did not increase significantly. This invalidates the use of total urinary arsenic as well as total hydride-forming arsenic as an indicator for exposure to inorganic arsenic.
This work presents a hybrid ab initio quantum mechanical/molecular mechanical simulation at the RI-MP2 level of theory investigating the hydrolysis process of arsenic(III), ultimately leading to arsenous acid (H3AsO3). A newly implemented dissociative water model has been applied to treat the interactions in the classical region, which is capable of describing non-neutral water species such as hydroxide and oxonium ions. Three stages of hydrolysis have been observed during the simulation and besides profound dynamical considerations, detailed insights into structural changes and atomic partial charge shifts are presented. In particular, the geometrical properties of H-bonds involved in each of the three proton transfer events and subsequent proton hopping reactions are discussed. A Laguerre tessellation analysis has been employed to estimate the molecular volume of H3AsO3. Estimations of pKa values of the arsenic(III)-aquo-complexes have been obtained at the G4 and CBS-Q//B3 levels of theory using a therm...
Objective:To investigate the effect of arsenous acid in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia. Method:30 patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia were in the study from Jan 2011 to Dec 2012 of our department and randomly divided into objective group(n=15)and control group(n=15). The control group used tretinoin,the observation group used arsenous acid treatment on the basis of control group. The clinical therapeutic effect,the incidence of adverse reactions and the score of subjective experience between the two groups were compared. Result:Clinical effect observation group was better than that of control group(P0.05);patients in the treatment of the subjective experience during the scoring and treatment adherence was higher than the control group(P0.05);the incidence of adverse reactions compared between the two groups had no statistical significance(P0.05).Conclusion:It can get a satisfactory results to use the arsenous acid in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia,with the same level of clinical therapeutic effect,and the lower of incidence of adverse reactions.
We report the experimental measurement of a stochastic potential in a bistable chemical system, the iodate–arsenous acid reaction. The reaction, run in a continuous flow stirred tank reactor, is driven by a fluctuating reactant flow which causes the system to move randomly between the two stable steady states. We calculate the probability of the system being in a particular state, and the probability distributions depend on the average flow rate. The experimental results are in agreement with predictions of the Fokker–Planck equation.
Bistable chemical reactions are the object of increasing interest from the experimental and theoretical points of view. The simplest abstract example is the Schlogl model; well known experimental cases of bistability are the chlorite-iodide reaction or the iodate oxydation of the arsenous acid.
Abstract Sodium arsenite (SA) is a compound with formula NaAsO2. It is the sodium salt of arsenous acid which was tested for its clastogenic effect alone and in combination with gamma rays on the whole blood culture and on isolated lymphocyte culture. The results showed a significant difference in the yield of aberrations induced with respect to the culture time of 48 hours. Whole blood culture showed significant increase in gaps and breaks, whereas isolated lymphocytes culture showed significant inhibition of cell cycle and 75 percent of the lymphocytes were in their first cell cycle at 72 hours. Arsenite showed co-mutagenicity with different doses of gamma rays delivered immediately or few hours after treatment of the culture with SA. The results suggest that SA also is mutagenic at the dose level used and provide support for the indispensability of whole blood culture for evaluation of the in vivo effect of any suspected mutagen. Using isolated lymphocytes appear to have problems leading to extensive c...
Arsenic is occurring in the environment in many chemical forms. Distinguishing between these different compounds is essential, because arsenic's toxicity strongly depends on the element's species. In water, the main arsenic compounds are the two inorganic species arsenous acid [As (III)] and arsenic acid [As(V)] [1] , which possess high acute and also chronic toxicity [2] . As (III) and As(V) are also the main arsenic species in soil extracts, using water (with or without small amounts of salts, for example phosphate) and/or methanol as extracting solution [3] . Additionally, small amounts of organic arsenic compounds such as methylarsonic acid (MA), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), arsenobetaine (AB), or trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO) can sometimes also be found in soils [4] . The extractable arsenic from plants is in most cases predominantly inorganic arsenic [5] , although there are also reports on MA and DMA as major arsenical in plant extracts [6, 7] . Significant amounts of other arsenicals like TMAO are found in plants only very rarely [8] . The main arsenic metabolites of terrestrial mammals are MA and DMA [9, 10] . In rare occasions, small amounts of the trivalent methylated arsenic species methylarsonous acid [MA(III)] and dimethylarsinous acid have also been detected in urine of terrestrial mammals [11] . Apart from urine, MA(III) has Parts of this work were presented at Anakon 2017 in Tübingen, Germany.
The distribution ratios and the compositions of extraction compounds in arsenic(III) extraction to dibutyl ether (DBE) and diisoamyl ether (DIAE) from hydrochloric solutions have been studied. As the HCl concentration increases, arsenic is extracted to the organic phase in the form of compounds progressively enriched in chlorine, from partially hydrolyzed species [As(OH) 2 Cl, AsOHCl 2 ) to chloroarsenous acids [HAsCl 4 , H 2 AsCl 5 , H 3 AsCl 6 ]. The composition of extraction compounds at low HCl concentrations remains constant over a wide range of aqueous arsenic concentrations. At high acidities, the arsenic extraction compounds become deficient in chlorine as the arsenic concentration increases. When DIAE is used, the distribution ratio versus HCl concentration plot is a typical S-shaped curve. The curve for DBE shows a repeated, abrupt increase in the distribution ratio at acidities higher than 10 mol/l. The reason for this increase may be superextraction caused by the approach to the critical separation point of the organic phase.
The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition and methods for the treatment of urogenital diseases and bone metastasis in a human, said pharmaceutical composition effective alkaline arsenous acid or alkaline earth amounts metal salts and / or pharmaceutical comprising an adjuvant capable of upper acceptable. According to the present invention, the alkaline arsenous acid metal salt is sodium meta arsenite (AsO Wherein the effective amount of arsenous acid alkaline or alkaline earth metal salts, 0.0001-1500 mg / kg of body weight per day, preferably 1-1000 mg / kg, more preferably 1-150 mg / kg, more preferably is 50-100 mg / kg. Preferably the administration of the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are orally, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, with a diluent or excipient, such as tablets, capsules, a powder, and / or solutions.
We present density functional theory calculations of the adsorption of arsenic acid (AsO(OH)3) and arsenous acid (As(OH)3) on the Al(III)-modified natural zeolite clinoptilolite under anhydrous and hydrated conditions. From our calculated adsorption energies, we show that adsorption of both arsenic species is favorable (associative and exothermic) under anhydrous conditions. When the zeolite is hydrated, adsorption is less favourable, with the water molecules causing dissociation of the arsenic complexes, although exothermic adsorption is still observed for some sites. The strength of interaction of the arsenic complexes is shown to depend sensitively on the Si/Al ratio in the Al(III)-modified clinoptilolite, which decreases as the Si/Al ratio increases. The calculated large adsorption energies indicate the potential of Al(iii)-modified clinoptilolite for arsenic immobilization.
