Abstract A high-pressure liquid chromatography method has been developed for the analysis of a number of purines (adenine, 6,8-dihydroxypurine, 2-hydroxypurine, hypoxanthine, purine, uric acid, xanthine) and their anaerobic and aerobic degradation products (4-ureido-5-imidazolecarboxylic acid, 4-amino-5-imidazolecarboxylic acid, 4-aminoimidazole, formiminoglycine, allantoin, ureidoglycolate) using a reversed-phase column. The mobile phases consisted of potassium phosphate buffers in a pH range from 2.7 to 3.7. Rapid separation of the compounds was achieved within 18 min. The decomposition of adenine by cell-free extracts of Clostridium purinolyticum was found to proceed via hypoxanthine, xanthine, and the imidazole derivatives mentioned above.
A series of EWG-substituted primary ketene N,O-acetals were reacted with tetrazine-3,6-dicarboxylate yielding, by [4+2] cycloaddition, tetrafunctionalized pyridazines, which possess an EWG group, a primary amino function and two ester moieties. Reductive ring contraction of pyridazines gave aminopyrrole derivatives. Treatment of cyanamide with tetrazine-3,6-dicarboxylate led to a 5-amino-1,2,4-triazine derivative, which was rearranged to 4-aminoimidazole-2,5-dicarboxylic acid dimethyl ester.
Abstract 4-Aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide (AIC) may be isolated from urine by absorption on Dowex 50 and elution with aqueous pyridine. The resulting extract is then analysed colorimetrically for non-acetylatable diazotisable amines using the Bratton-Marshall (α-naphthylethylenediamine) reagent. Data for normal subjects are compared with those of other workers. AIC excretion is increased following surgical stress.
There is much evidence suggesting that hydrogen cyanide was important in prebiotic synthesis. Here we discuss the relevant aqueous solution chemistry, since we believe it to be pertinent to prebiotic synthesis. In mildly alkaline solutions (pH 7 to 10) two modes of destruction compete. Hydrolysis to formamide and formic acid is first-order in HCN, while polymerization involving the formation of C C bonds is quadratic in HCN. Within the pH range 8 to 9 and the temperature range 0 to 60°C, the two reactions become equally important for concentrations between 0·01 M and 0·1 M ; hydrolysis dominates in more dilute and polymerization in more concentrated solutions. Concentration of HCN in the liquid phase by freezing out ice permits efficient polymerization from initially very dilute solutions. Intermediates in the polymerization proceBS include a very reactive trimer, aminomalononitrile, and a relatively stable tetramer, diaminomaleonitrile. The latter is converted to 4-aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile and related compounds either by photochemical rearrangement or by reaction with formamidine. The imidazole derivatives are then readily converted to purines including adenine, guanine and hypoxanthine. We have also made some observations on the formation of ex-amino acids from HCN oligomers and polymers. Various theories of prebiotic purine formation are considered in the light of the quantitative kinetic data. We conclude that the arguments for a photochemical step are persuasive and that polymerization subsequent to concentration in a eutectic phase is an attractive posiibility.
Abstract 1. The formation of formylglycinamide ribonucleotide (FGAR), which accumulated in azaserine-treated cells, was strongly inhibited by adenine, hypoxanthine, 6-mercaptopurine and 6-thioguanine in sensitive murine and human neoplasms in cell culture and in murine leukemia cells in vivo . 2. Hypoxanthine, guanine and their analogs were inactive as inhibitors of FGAR formation in thiopurine-resistant cells lacking IMP pyrophosphorylase (EC 2.4.2.8) and GMP pyrophosphorylase activities and therefore incapable of converting these bases to ribonucleotides. 3. 6-Mercaptopurine did not inhibit the incorporation of 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide into purine nucleotides in sensitive cells at concentrations that strongly inhibited FGAR formation. 6-Mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine and several other purine analogs inhibit an early step on the purine biosynthetic pathway, which is probably the site of end-product inhibition by purine ribonucleotides.
Publisher Summary This chapter deals with the chemistry of 4 and 5-aminoimidazoles, the compounds of recently recognized biological importance. In most living systems, 5-amino-1-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)-imidazole-5’-monophosphate (AIR) is an intermediate in the de novo biosynthesis of purine ribonucleotides. It is also used as a biosynthetic precursor of thiamin in some lower organisms. This important aminoimidazole derivative is also used as a synthetic intermediate for the chemistry of simple 5-aminoimidazoles and the isomeric 4-aminoimidazoles. The stabilities and reactivities of monoaminoazoles vary considerably, and are related to the number of nitrogen atoms in the heterocyclic ring. Nitrogen atoms stabilize dipolar canonical forms that contribute significantly to the electronic structure. The chapter also describes the physical properties and theoretical studies of aminoimidazoles that includes studies concerning spectroscopic methods, 13 C and I5 N NMR spectroscopy, ultraviolet spectroscopy, and infrared and mass spectroscopy. The chapter considers the imidazoles with the absence of a substituent on the ring carbon atom adjacent to the amino substituent.
Abstract The potential energy surface (PES) for guanine formation from 4-aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile (AICN) after adding H2O and cyanogen (NCCN) was determined from quantum chemical calculations using the CBS-QB3 method. Its activation energy was too high for the reaction to occur in the interstellar medium. The PES for the formation of a protonated guanine from AICN by adding H3O+ and NCCN was also determined. Although its overall activation energy was zero, its occurrence in the interstellar gas phase is not likely due to unstable intermediates. When H2O was added to some reaction steps as a catalyst, their activation barriers were significantly reduced.
In chapter 2, a novel and atom-economical synthesis of fully substituted 4-aminoimidazoles via gold-catalyzed selective [3+2] annulation of 1,2,4-oxadiazoles with ynamides is achieved. This protocol represents a new strategy to access α-imino gold carbenes, which corresponds to an unprecedented intermolecular transfer of N-acylimino nitrenes to ynamides. Moreover, the reaction proceeds with 100% atom economy, exhibits good functional group tolerance, and can be conducted in gram scale. ::: ::: Chapter 3 describes a novel, short, and flexible approach to diverse N-doped polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) through gold-catalyzed π-extension of anthranils with o-ethynylbiaryls as reagents. This strategy uses easily accessible starting materials, is simple due to high step and atom economy, and shows good functionalgroup compatibility as well as scale-up potential. Mechanistically, the tandem reaction is proposed to involve a nucleophilic addition/ring opening/regiospecific C–H annulation/protodeauration sequence terminated by a ::: Friedel-Crafts-type cyclization. Photophysical studies of the products indicated violetblue fluorescence emission with quantum yields up to 0.45. ::: ::: In chapter 4, a facile, site-selective and divergent approach to construct 2-aminopyrroles and quinoline-fused polyazaheterocycles is enabled by a simple gold(III) catalyst from ynamides and anthranils under mild reaction condition. This one-pot strategy uses readily available starting materials, proceeds in a highly stepand ::: atom-economical manner, with broad substrate scope and scale-up potential. Notably, the key element of success in the present tandem reaction is a catalyst-directed preferable quenching of the in-situ generated gold carbene ::: intermediates by a nucleophilic benzyl/2-furanylmethyl moiety on the ynamides as an alternative to the known C–H annulation leading to indoles. ::: ::: In chapter 5, a gold-catalyzed regioselective cyclocarboamination of ynamides with 1,3,5-triazinanes provides facile and modular access to valuable ::: 5-aminotetrahydropyrimidines in good to excellent yields. It constitutes an unprecedented yet challenging annulation of ynamides with unstrained saturated heterocycles. This new protocol is distinguished by easy operation, readily available starting materials, stable four-atom building units, good functional-group compatibility and scaling-up potential. The preliminary mechanistic studies indicate ::: that the present intermolecular cyclocarboamination arises from a pseudo-threecomponent ::: [2+2+2] cycloaddition.
Some esters of 1-alkyl(1,2-dialkyl)-4-nitro-5-imidazolylmalonic,-acetoacetic, and-cyanoacetic acids have been synthesized by the reaction of 5-chloro(bromo)-1-alkyl(1,2-dialkyl)-4-nitroimidazoles with ethyl esters of carboxylic acids indicated. Some conversions of the compounds obtained have been studied, including ketone and acid decomposition, synthesis of derivatives at the COOH and CO groups, and hydrogenation to 4-aminoimidazole derivatives.
1. The pattern of distribution on the purine pathway of mutants of Salmonella typhimurium LT2 that had the double growth requirement for a purine plus the pyrimidine moiety of thiamine (ath mutants) indicated that purines and the pyrimidine moiety of thiamine share the early part of their biosynthetic pathways, and that 4-aminoimidazole ribonucleotide (AIR) is the last common intermediate. Two mutants that at first appeared anomalous were further investigated and found not to affect this deduction. 2. The ribonucleoside form of AIR (AIR(s)) satisfied the requirements both for a purine and for the pyrimidine moiety of thiamine of an ath mutant. 3. Methionine was required for the conversion of AIR into the pyrimidine moiety. 4. Radioactive AIR(s) was converted into radioactive pyrimidine moiety by an ath mutant without significant dilution of specific radioactivity. 5. Possible mechanisms for pyrimidine-moiety biosynthesis from AIR are discussed.
Homofolic acid and H4-homofolic acid were almost equally potent in inhibiting the in vitro growth of Sarcoma 180 and of an amethopterin-resistant subline with a 100-fold greater cellular content of dihydrofolate reductase. The growth inhibitions by these analogs were prevented competitively by folic acid and by folinic acid with inhibitor to vitamin ratios of 2 to 5 and 500 to 1000, respectively. The inhibition by each of the analogs was prevented when the growth medium was supplemented with either hypoxanthine or 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide, while thymidine had no effect. ::: ::: These studies indicate that ( a ) the site of the growth inhibitory action for the extracellularly applied analogs is the same, and ( b ) the analogs primarily inhibit the introduction of the C-8 carbon to the purine precursor to form 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide ribotide. A second site of inhibition, 20 times less sensitive, appears to be unrelated to folate metabolism.
The chemical evolution of biomolecules such as nucleobases and their analogues from simple, one carbon containing molecules under abiotic conditions is a puzzle closely connected to the origin of life. Theoretical elucidation of the abiotic reaction routes leading from basic molecules cyanide acid (HCN) and formamide (H2NCHO) to the formation of purine and adenine is reviewed here. The mechanism of three pathways: from formamide dimer via pyrimidine to purine, from AICN (4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamidine) to adenine, and from formamide to purine and adenine, are discussed. Based on the comparison of step-by-step mechanism of the reaction pathways, in the addition reaction formamide is suggested to be more reactive than HCN. Beside its simplicity, the formamide self-catalyzed mechanism is energetically more viable than either water-catalyzed mechanism or non-catalyzed process. Moreover, this self-catalyzed mechanism is able to explain the ratio of purine to adenine observed in experiments. The formamide self-catalyzed mechanism for the route leading from formamide to purine and/or adenine is most likely for the formation of adenine (and purine) in the formamide solutions in the early stage of the earth.
Summary Between pH 0 and 13 purine-2,6-disulfonic acid (P-2,6-DSo) shows a total of 8 polarographic waves at the DME. The nature of these waves and the products were investigated by polarography, cyclic voltammetry at the pyrolytic graphite electrode, coulometry, macroscale electrolysis, and u.v. absorption spectra. At low pH (0–3.5), P-2,6-DSo is reduced polarographically in 3 steps: the first, a 2 e process (wave Ia) to give 1,6-dihydropurine-2,6-disulfonic acid; the second, a 4 e reduction (wave III) of the wave Ia product to 1,6-dihydropurine; and the third, a 2 e reduction (wave IVa) of 1,6-dihydropurine to 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropurine, which hydrolyzes to a 4-aminoimidazole. A small kinetic wave (wave II), corresponding to the reduction of purine -2-sulfonic acid which is produced via slow chemical and electrochemical reactions of the wave Ia product, is also observed at low pH. Under coulometric conditions at low pH (0–3.7), P-2,6-DSo is reduced initially in a 5 e process (wave Ia) involving loss of H 2 S and sulfurous acid to give purine-2-sulfonic acid which is reduced in a 7 e step (wave II), again with loss of H 2 S and sulfurous acid, to 1,6-dihydropurine, which is reduced as before (wave IVa, 2 e ) to 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropurine. Between pH 3.8 and 4.8, waves II and III merge to give wave V. Coulometric reduction of P-2,6-DSo on the crest of wave V requires 11 e and the product is 1,6-dihydropurine, which can be further reduced in a 2 e process as before. At intermediate pH (5.1–6.6) only one large (12 e coulometric, 8 e polarographic) wave (wave VI), involving the reduction of P-2,6-DSo to a 4-aminoimidazole, is observed. Between pH 6.8 and 13, identical 2-step reductions occur under both polarographic and coulometric conditions: the first, a 2 e reduction (wave Ib) to purine-2-sulfonic acid with loss of sulfurous acid; the second, a 6 e reduction (wave IVb) of purine-2-sulfonic acid to the 4-aminoimidazole.
The synthesis of purines and pyrimidines using Oparin-Urey-type primitive Earth atmospheres has been demonstrated by reacting methane, ethane, and ammonia in electrical discharges. Adenine, guanine, 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide (AICA), and isocytosine have been identified by UV spectrometry and paper chromatography as the products of the reaction. The total yields of the identified heterocyclic compounds are 0.0023%. It is concluded that adenine synthesis occurs at a much lower concentration of hydrogen cyanide than has been shown by earlier studies. Pathways for the synthesis of purines from hydrogen cyanide are discussed, and a comparison of the heterocyclic compounds that have been identified in meteorites and in prebiotic reactions is presented.
Abstract A number of compounds including 2,4-dinitrophenol, adenine, indole acetic acid and anthranilamide have been found to protect against the cytotoxicity of CB 1954 [5-(1-aziridinyl)-2,4-dinitrobenzamide] against the Walker tumour. Investigation of a number of anti-inflammatory compounds structurally related to these protectors has shown that only an aryl derivative of a previously described protector, AIC (4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide), is a more potent protector. This compound, 2-phenyl AIC (4-amino-2-phenylimidazole-5-carboxamide), has been found to be thirty times as potent a protector as AIC and exhibited a dose reduction factor of almost 90 in an antitumour test. However, it does not reverse (post-protect against) the cytotoxicity of CB 1954. The mechanism of protection does not appear to be via an effect upon cellular energetics nor upon uptake of CB 1954 into the cell.
Purine auxotrophs of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli CFN42 elicit uninfected pseudonodules on bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Addition of 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide (AICA) riboside to the root medium during incubation of the plant with these mutants leads to enhanced nodule development, although nitrogenase activity is not detected. Nodules elicited in this manner had infection threads and anatomical features characteristic of normal nodules, such as peripheral vasculature rather than the central vasculature of the pseudonodules that were elicited without AICA riboside supplementation. Although 105 to 106 bacteria could be recovered from these nodules after full development, bacteria were not observed in the interior nodule cells. Instead, large cells with extensive internal membranes were present. Approximately 5% of the normal amount of leghemoglobin and 10% of the normal amount of uricase were detected in these nodules. To promote the development of true nodules rather than pseudonodules, AICA riboside was required no later than the second day through no more than the sixth day following inoculation. After this period, removal of AICA riboside from the root medium did not prevent the formation of true nodules. This observation suggests that there is a critical stage of infection, reached before nodule emergence, at which development becomes committed to forming a true nodule rather than a pseudonodule.
Methods are described for the cleavage, extraction, and subsequent gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric analysis of the pyrimidine moiety of thiamin as 2-methyl-4-amino-5-[(ethylthio)methyl]pyrimidine. The methods are of a general nature and can be applied to any system. Using these methods to evaluate the incorporation of 13C-, 15N-, and 2H-labeled glycines into the pyrimidine moiety of thiamin by Escherichia coli, we established that the nitrogen and carbon atoms of glycine are incorporated as a unit into the pyrimidine. 13C- and 15N-labeled glycines are incorporated at greater than 60% but deuterium from [2-(2)H2]glycine was incorporated at only 18%. A detailed analysis of the mass fragmentation pattern of the pyrimidine derivative has established that the glycine nitrogen atom supplies the N-1 of the pyrimidine and that the C-1 and C-2 of the glycine supplies the C-4 and C-6 of the pyrimidine, respectively. This evidence is consistent with the substitution of a C2 unit between the C-5 and C-4 of the 4-aminoimidazole ribonucleotide precursor during the biosynthesis of the pyrimidine moiety of thiamin in E. coli.
Abstract We report on the preparation of 4-aza-5,6-dimethylbenzimidazolylcobamide and 5,6-dimethyl-7-azabenzimidazolylcobamide. These vitamin B12-analogs were required as reference compounds for comparison with a corrinoid previously isolated in small amounts from Eubacterium limosum grown in the presence of 4(5)-aminoimidazole. 4(7)-Aza-5,6-dimethylbenzimidazole was synthesized from N-1-benzyl-4-nitroimidazole which was reduced to N-1-benzyl-4-aminoimidazole and condensed with 1-dimethylamino-2-methylbutan-3-one to yield N-1-benzyl-4-aza-5,6-dimethylbenzimidazole. The benzyl group of this compound was split off by catalytic hydrogenation to form 4(7)-aza-5,6-dimethylbenz-imidazole. 4(7)-Aza-5,6-dimethylbenzimidazole was transformed by a growing culture of Propionibacterium shermanii into 4-aza-5,6-dimethylbenzimidazolylcobamide and 5,6-dimethyl-7-azabenz-imidazolylcobamide. Both vitamin B 12-analogs were almost as active as Vitamin B12 in a growth test with the vitamin B12-dependent Escherichia coli-mutant DSM 4261.
The photochemical rearrangement of a tetramer of hydrogen cyanide to 4-aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile, a critical step in the proposed prebiotic synthesis of purines, proceeds in high yield in the absence of oxygen without photodestruction of the reaction product. The mechanism of the rearrangement involves the conversion of the excited singlet of the hydrogen cyanide tetramer to 2-imino-3-cyano-4-aminoazetine, which then rearranges to the imidazole product. The photolysis of the vinylogous enaminonitrile 1,3-dicyano4-amino-1,3-butadiene yields 6-aminonicotinonitrile. The latter reaction affords an efficient route to a nicotinamide derivative from cyanoacetylene.
Since Ramsden and his group (Lythgoe and Ramsden, 1994) showed that 5-unsubstituted 4-aminoimidazoles are well suited for reactions in Reprint requests to Prof. Renz. Fax: 0711-459-2283. position 5, we tried to synthesize 4(7)-aza-5,6-dimethylbenzimidazole from N-l-benzyl-4-aminoimidazole forming the pyridine ring as last step.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the synthesis and effects of intermediates in purine breakdown. Xanthine is quantitatively degraded to formiminoglycine by extracts of lyophilized cells of Clostridium cylindrosporum . The enzymatic degradation of 4-ureido-5-imidazolecarboxylic acid requires either Mn ++ or Fe ++ . This intermediate can, therefore, be formed quantitatively from xanthine by unpurified cell extracts incubated with xanthine in the presence of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. 4-ureido-5-imidazolecarboxylic acid may be synthesized by treating 4-amino-5-imidazolecarboxylic acid with potassium cyanide. A solution containing 7 millimoles of 4-amino-5-imidazolecarboxylic acid, 14 millimoles of potassium cyanide, and 14 millimoles of hydrochloric acid in 420 ml of water is stored at room temperature overnight. 4-amino-5-imidazolecarboxylic acid is not degraded enzymatically in media of pH above 8.0. 4-aminoimidazole accumulates briefly as the main diazotizable amine incubated at pH 7 containing xanthine and extracts of C. cylindrosporum . It is found that 4-aminoimidazole is quantitatively converted to formiminoglycine by extracts of C. cylindrosporum at pH 7.0.
The fates of photochemically formed πσ* states are one of the central issues in photobiology due to their significant contribution to the photostability of biological matter, formation of hydrated electrons, and the phenomenon of photoacidity. Nevertheless, our understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms in aqueous solution is still incomplete. In this paper, we report on the results of nonadiabatic photodynamics simulations of microhydrated 2-aminooxazole molecule employing algebraic diagrammatic construction to the second order. Our results indicate that electron-driven proton transfer along H2O wires induces the formation of πσ*/S0 state crossing and provides an effective deactivation channel. Because we recently have identified a similar channel for 4-aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile [Szabla, R.; Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2014, 16, 17617-17626 ], we conclude this mechanism may be quite common to all heterocyclic compounds with low-lying πσ* states.
On treatment with boiling H2O for 5-6h, 1-alkoxy-7-alkyladenines (13) underwent hydrolytic cleavage at the N(1)-C(2) and the N(1)-C(6) bonds to produce the imidazole-5-carboxamidines (14) in 53-60% yields and the imidazole-5-carboxamides (18) in 5-7% yields, respectively. The Dimroth rearrangement of 13 to N6-alkoxy-7-alkyladenine (15) was found to proceed through 14 more slowly than that of the 9-alkyl analogues 1 at pH 7 and above, being accompanied by hydrolysis to give the deformylated product (16) and by deamination through 18 leading to 7-alkylhypoxanthine (12), 1-alkoxy-7-alkylhypoxanthine (19), and 1-alkyl-4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide (20). Interestingly, the N(1)-C(6) bond fission product 17a was obtained from 13a by treatment with 0.01N aqueous NaOH at 4°C for 35d, but in only 2% yield, or more efficiently (in 56% yield) by pyrolysis at 150°C for 1h. On the other hand, 13 underwent acid hydrolysis faster than 1, providing the deformylated product 16 in 85-96% yields on treatment with 1-2N aqueous HCl at room temperature for 2-5h. 4-amino-N'-methoxy-1-methyl-5-carboxamidine (16a) was alternatively obtained in 59% yield by treatment of 1-methoxy-7-methyladenine (13a) with boiling 2N aqueous NaOH for 10min. Efficient preparations of the rearranged products 15 (80-86%) were accomplished by treating 13 with boiling 0.1N aqueous NaOH for 20-30min.
Protein kinases have emerged as crucial targets for cancer therapy over the last decades. Since 2001, 40 and 39 kinase inhibitors have been approved by FDA and EMA, respectively, and the majority are antineoplastic drugs. Morevoer, many candidates are currently in clinical trials. We previously reported a small library of 4-aminoimidazole and 2-aminothiazole derivatives active as Src family kinase (SFK) inhibitors. Starting from these results, we decided to perform an optimization study applying a mix and match strategy to identify a more potent generation of 4-aminoimidazoles. Firstly, a computational study has been performed, then compounds showing the best predicted docking scores were synthesized and screened in a cell-free assay for their SFK inhibitory activity. All the new chemical entities showed IC50s in the nanomolar range, with 2–130 fold increased activities compared to the previously reported inhibitors. Finally, the most active compounds have been tested on three cancer cell lines characterized by Src hyperactivation. Compounds 4k and 4l showed an interesting antiproliferative activity on SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma (NB) cell line. In this assay, the compounds resulted more potent than dasatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of leukemias and in clinical trials for NB.
Abstract: Protein kinases have emerged as crucial targets for cancer therapy over the last decades. Since 2001, 40 and 39 kinase inhibitors have been approved by FDA and EMA, respectively, and the majority are antineoplastic drugs. Morevoer, many candidates are currently in clinical trials. We previously reported a small library of 4-aminoimidazole and 2-aminothiazole derivatives active as Src family kinase (SFK) inhibitors. Starting from these results, we decided to perform an optimization study applying a mix and match strategy to identify a more potent generation of 4-aminoimidazoles. Firstly, a computational study has been performed, then compounds showing the best predicted docking scores were synthesized and screened in a cell-free assay for their SFK inhibitory activity. All the new chemical entities showed IC 50 s in the nanomolar range, with 2-130 fold increased activities compared to the previously reported inhibitors. Finally, the most active compounds have been tested on three cancer cell lines characterized by Src hyperactivation. Compounds 4k and 4l showed an interesting antiproliferative activity on SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma (NB) cell line. In this assay, the compounds resulted more potent than dasatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of leukemias and in clinical trials for NB.
From an extensive literature study, the 4-aminoimidazole and the 2-aminothiazole rings emerged as interesting starting entities for the development of new ATP pocket binders. The 4-aminoimidazole moiety has been first explored by AstraZeneca [25] , who highlighted the ability of this scaffold to bind the Janus kinase hinge region. The authors compared their clinical candidate AZD1480 (a Jak2 inhibitor with an IC 50 of 58 nM, Figure 2 ), containing the 3-aminopyrazole moiety, with the related 4-aminoimidazole derivative (IC 50 value of 120 nM towards Jak2), and found that this bioisosteric substitution could be an effective replacement for the 3-aminopyrazole ring. The subsequent modulation of this first hit led to the discovery of the potent and orally bioavailable Jak2 inhibitor 1 (IC 50 < 3 nM, Figure 2 ) [25] . and, despite the initial concerns about the possibility to identify potent and selective kinases inhibitors, significant advances have been made over the past two decades [21] [22] [23] .
From an extensive literature study, the 4-aminoimidazole and the 2-aminothiazole rings emerged as interesting starting entities for the development of new ATP pocket binders. The 4-aminoimidazole moiety has been first explored by AstraZeneca [25] , who highlighted the ability of this scaffold to bind the Janus kinase hinge region. The authors compared their clinical candidate AZD1480 (a Jak2 inhibitor with an IC50 of 58 nM, Figure 2 ), containing the 3-aminopyrazole moiety, with the related 4-aminoimidazole derivative (IC50 value of 120 nM towards Jak2), and found that this bioisosteric substitution could be an effective replacement for the 3-aminopyrazole ring. The subsequent modulation of this first hit led to the discovery of the potent and orally bioavailable Jak2 inhibitor 1 (IC50 < 3 nM, Figure 2 ) [25] . On the other hand, the 2-aminothiazole represents the hinge binder moiety of dasatinib, the potent SFK inhibitor already reported.
In a previous work, we described the synthesis and the biological evaluation of a set of 4-aminoimidazole and 2-aminothiazole derivatives as SFK inhibitors [26] . The 4-aminoimidazole ring was demonstrated to be an effective hinge binder for c-Src kinase, suggesting that this moiety, properly functionalized, is a good replacement for the aminothiazole ring [26] . Indeed, the most active compound 2 ( Figure 3) showed IC50 values of 220, 689, 1300, and 167 nM for the isolated enzymes Src, Fyn, Lyn, and Yes, respectively (Table 1) , and resulted active on SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma (NB) cell line with an IC50 of 25 μM. On the other hand, 2 showed a weak activity on K562 CML cell line, possessing an IC50 > 25 μM. As a continuation of our work, herein we present an optimization study aimed at obtaining a new generation of (1H-imidazol-4-yl)-pyrimidin-4-ylamines endowed with a higher affinity towards SFKs and a stronger activity on cells compared to compounds previously reported by us. On the other hand, the 2-aminothiazole represents the hinge binder moiety of dasatinib, the potent SFK inhibitor already reported.
In a previous work, we described the synthesis and the biological evaluation of a set of 4-aminoimidazole and 2-aminothiazole derivatives as SFK inhibitors [26] . The 4-aminoimidazole ring was demonstrated to be an effective hinge binder for c-Src kinase, suggesting that this moiety, properly functionalized, is a good replacement for the aminothiazole ring [26] . Indeed, the most active compound 2 ( Figure 3) showed IC 50 values of 220, 689, 1300, and 167 nM for the isolated enzymes Src, Fyn, Lyn, and Yes, respectively (Table 1) , and resulted active on SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma (NB) cell line with an IC 50 of 25 µM. On the other hand, 2 showed a weak activity on K562 CML cell line, possessing an IC 50 > 25 µM. As a continuation of our work, herein we present an optimization study aimed at obtaining a new generation of (1H-imidazol-4-yl)-pyrimidin-4-yl-amines endowed with a higher affinity towards SFKs and a stronger activity on cells compared to compounds previously reported by us.
Cyano complexes (NEt4[M(CN)(CO)5], MCr, Mo, W), isocyanides (CNR1, R1Me, But, Cy, TolP), aldehydes (R2CHO, R2=e.g. Ph, TolP, C6H4NMe2-p, C6H4Cl-p) and amine hydrochlorides (R3NH3+Cl−, R3H, Pri, Ph, Bz) undergo one-pot, four-component condensation type reactions (4CCs) to give the 4-aminoimidazolin-2-ylidene complexes [M(CO)5{CN(H)C(NHR1)C(R2)NR3}] (1–24). These include species which have further been functionalized in the 5-position by employing heteroaromatic (2-furanyl, 2-pyrrolyl, 2-thienyl, 2-pyridyl, 2-indenyl) and S-functional (2-thiomethoxyethyl) aldehydes, as well as dinuclear bisheterocycle-bridged ones obtained from dialdehydes (propanedial-1,3) or diamines (e.g. 1,2-diaminoethane, 1,4-diaminobenzene), respectively. Hydrazine in the place of amine gives rise to the carbenoid 1-(N-imino)-4-aminoimidazoles 25–28, products of the incorporation into the heterocycle of in situ formed hydrazones as fourth components. The claimed nature of the complexes 1–28 is confirmed by an X-ray structure analysis of 28 which reveals a largely planar five-membered heterocycle with little delocalization between the MoC1(N1)N2-carbene and C7–C8 π-systems. Mechanistically, the organometallic 4CCs proceed according to their organic analogues which lead to hydantoin-4-imides; with H[Co(CN)2(dmgH)2] as acid component, however, a salt-like product was obtained, the X-ray structure analysis of which revealed the presence of an amidinium type cation made up from the carbonyl, isocyanide and two amine components, and of an unchanged complex cyanocobalt counteranion. Detachment of the heterocyles from the complex has been achieved either oxidatively with KMnO4/Fe(NO3)3 to give the 4-amino-5-hydroxo-imidazolin- 2-one 33, or through substitution with pyridine to give the corresponding C2-H imidazole 34.
A formamide self-catalyzed mechanistic pathway that transforms formamide to purine through a five-membered ring intermediate has been explored by density functional theory calculations. The highlight of the mechanistic route detailed here is that the proposed pathway represents the simplest and lowest energy reaction pathway. All necessary reactants, including catalysts, are generated from a single initial compound, formamide. The most catalytically effective form of formamide is found to be the imidic acid isomer. The catalytic effect of formamide has been found to be much more significant than that of water. The self-catalytic mechanism revealed here provides a pathway with the lowest energy barriers among all reaction routes previously published. Several important reaction steps are involved in this mechanistic route: formylation-dehydration, Leuckart reduction, five- and six-member ring-closing, and deamination. Overall, a five-membered ring-closing is the rate-determining step in the present catalytic route, which is consistent with our previous mechanistic investigations. The activation energy of this rate-controlling step (ca. 27 kcal/mol) is significantly lower than the rate-determining step (ca. 34 kcal/mol) in the pathway from 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamidine described by Schleyer's group (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2007, 104, 17272-17277) and in the pyrimidine pathway (ca. 44 kcal/mol) reported by Sponer et al. (J. Phys. Chem. A 2012, 116, 720-726). The self-catalyzed mechanistic pathway reported herein is less energetically demanding than previously proposed routes.
The synthesis and properties of 13 nucleosides derived from 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide and from 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide are described. The isomers were oriented by comparison of their spectra and colour reactions. All compounds were tested for anticancer activity. 4-Amino-1-(alpha-D-arabinopyranosyl)-imidazole-5-carboxamide significantly inhibits the growth of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (fluid form) in mice.
The mechanism of action of 5-(3,3-dimethyl-1-triazeno)-imidazole-4-carboxamide (DIC) was studied by following the uptake of the drug by monolayer cultures of Chinese hamster cells. DIC was dramatically more inhibitory in the light than in the dark. Uptake of the ring moiety, as measured with DIC-2-14C, was also greater in the light than in the dark. The appearance of small amounts of 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide and 2-azahypoxanthine in cells incubated in the dark suggests the activity of two pathways of DIC degradation. The greater uptake of DIC in the light may be attributable in part to efficient uptake of 2-azahypoxanthine by these cells.
Abstract Double-13C-labeled imidazole-4-carboxamide (ICA: 13C2-1) and 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-riboside (AICAr: 13C2-5) were synthesized from stable isotope-labeled sodium cyanide and triethyl orthoformate. The key intermediate, 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide (AICA: 13C2-4), should also provide access to double-13C-labeled histidine and adenosine derivatives via reported methods.
SUMMARY: The killing of conidia of Verticillium albo-atrum by ultraviolet irradiation followed first-order kinetics; about 0.5 % of the conidia which survived a 97 % lethal dose were nutritionally deficient mutants. This percentage of mutants among survivors was constant for different wild-type isolates for the first-, second- and third-order irradiations. This regularity implies that most conidia exposed at the first irradiations contained a single haploid nucleus. Adenine-requiring mutants formed pionnotes when grown on an agar medium containing low concentrations of adenine, and the extent of pionnotal formation depended on the position at which adenine synthesis had been blocked by the irradiation. 4-Aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide apparently did not act as an extracellular intermediary in adenine synthesis. An acriflavine-resistant mutant arose spontaneously in one of the mutants selected for nutritional deficiency, but mutants resistant to certain other growth inhibitors were not found.
The killing of conidia of Verticillium albo-atrum by ultraviolet irradiation followed first-order kinetics; about 0.5 yo of the conidia which survived a 97 yo lethal dose were nutritionally deficient mutants. This percentage of mutants among survivors was constant for different wild-type isolates for the first-, second-and third-order irradiations. This regularity implies that most conidia exposed a t the first irradiations contained a single haploid nucleus. Adenine-requiring mutants formed pionnotes when grown on an agar medium containing low concentrations of adenine, and the extent of pionnotal formation depended on the position a t which adenine synthesis had been blocked by the irradiation. 4-Aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide apparently did not act as an extracellular intermediary in adenine synthesis. An acriflavine-resistant mutant arose spontaneously in one of the mutants selected for nutritional deficiency, but mutants resistant to certain other growth inhibitors were not found.
Basic processes for the ionic chemistry of 1,3-azoles (protonation, nitration, hydride addition, and deprotonation) have been studied by analyzing B3LYP/6-311++G(2d,2p) 6d electron densities using the Quantum Theory of Atoms in Molecules (QTAIM) and delocalization indices in the gas phase and in aqueous solution modeled with the Polarizable Continuum Model (PCM) method. The most stable protonation site is N3 in all cases, and this takes place without a significant change in electron delocalization, whereas C5 is the preferred site for electrophilic substitution. Activating and deactivating effects on the carbon atoms of the imidazole ring were tested by analyzing the variation of atomic properties introduced by amino and nitro substituents, respectively. The largest activation was observed for C5 in 4-aminoimidazole. C2 is the most favored site for hydridation in all 1,3-azoles, which always results in loss of ring planarity and reduced electron delocalization in the ring. PCM calculations allow the experimentally observed preferred deprotonation C-site in water for these compounds to be modeled and reproduced. In all anions, QTAIM charges do not keep in line with the resonance forms; whereas QTAIM describes deprotonated carbon atoms as positive or nearly neutral in the gas phase, they should display negative charge according to the resonance model.
Catalytic reduction of 5-nitroimidazoles 4 in dioxane solution gives 5-aminoimidazoles 2 in good yield. The derivatives 2d–f were isolated as stable, crystalline compounds which undergo slow decomposition on exposure to air. In a similar manner, solutions of 4-aminoimidazoles 1 were generated from the corresponding 4-nitroimidazoles 3 but attempts to isolate the amines were unsuccessful. The amines 1 and 2 are conveniently generated in situ and are used preparatively without isolation. With aryl isocyanates, aryl isothiocyanates, and diketene, 4- and 5-aminoimidazoles, 1 and 2, give N-addition products whereas with dimethyl acetylenedicarboxylate, the C-addition products 11 and 15 are obtained. Thermal cyclisation of these adducts 11 and 15 gives imidazo[4,5-b]pyridin-5(4H)-one derivatives 12 and 16. AM1 calculations for simple 4- and 5-aminoimidazoles, 1 and 2 and 4- and 5-nitroimidazoles, 3 and 4 are reported. Molecular geometries, enthalpies of formation, dipole moments, and ionisation potentials are analysed and compared with experimental values. A Frontier Orbital Analysis of electrophilic addition reactions of 5-aminoimidazoles 2 is described and used to rationalise the preference of reagents for N- or C-addition.
A novel and atom-economical synthesis of fully substituted 4-aminoimidazoles via gold-catalyzed selective [3 + 2] annulation of 1,2,4-oxadiazoles with ynamides is reported. This protocol represents a new strategy to access α-imino gold carbenes, which corresponds to an unprecedented intermolecular transfer of N-acylimino nitrenes to ynamides. Moreover, the reaction proceeds with 100% atom economy, exhibits good functional group tolerance, and can be conducted in gram scale.
A gold-catalyzed formal [3 + 2] cycloaddition of ynamides with 4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazoles has been developed. The reaction provides a concise and regioselective access to highly functionalized 4-aminoimidazoles likely via the formation of an α-imino gold carbene intermediate followed by cyclization. 4,5-Dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazole was found to act as an efficient N-iminonitrene equivalent in these reactions.
4-Aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile (AICN) was suggested as a prebiotically plausible precursor of purine nucleobases and nucleotides. Although it can be formed in a sequence of photoreactions, AICN is immune to further irradiation with UV-light. We present state-of-the-art multi-reference quantum-chemical calculations of potential energy surface cuts and conical intersection optimizations to explain the molecular mechanisms underlying the photostability of this compound. We have identified the N-H bond stretching and ring-puckering mechanisms that should be responsible for the photochemistry of AICN in the gas phase. We have further considered the photochemistry of AICN-water clusters, while including up to six explicit water molecules. The calculations reveal charge transfer to solvent followed by formation of an H3O(+) cation, both of which occur on the (1)πσ* hypersurface. Interestingly, a second proton transfer to an adjacent water molecule leads to a (1)πσ*/S0 conical intersection. We suggest that this electron-driven proton relay might be characteristic of low-lying (1)πσ* states in chromophore-water clusters. Owing to its nature, this mechanism might also be responsible for the photostability of analogous organic molecules in bulk water.
Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) belong to the CMGC subfamily of protein kinases and play crucial roles in eukaryotic cell division cycle. At least seven different CDKs have been reported to be implicated in the cell cycle regulation in vertebrates. These CDKs are highly homologous and contain a conserved catalytic core. This makes the design of inhibitors specific for a particular CDK difficult. There is, however, growing need for CDK5 specific inhibitors to treat various neurodegenerative diseases. Recently, cis-substituted cyclobutyl-4-aminoimidazole inhibitors have been identified as potent CDK5 inhibitors that gave up to 30-fold selectivity over CDK2. Available IC50 values also indicate a higher potency of this class of inhibitors over commercially available drugs, such as roscovitine. To understand the molecular basis of higher potency and selectivity of these inhibitors, here, we present molecular dynamics simulation results of CDK5/p25 and CDK2/CyclinE complexed with a series of cyclobutyl-substituted imidazole inhibitors and roscovitine. The atomic details of the stereospecificity and selectivity of these inhibitors are obtained from energetics and binding characteristics to the CDK binding pocket. The study not only complements the experimental findings, but also provides a wealth of detailed information that could help the structure-based drug designing processes.
Abstract The synthesis of 4-aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile and its derivatives from HCN has been discussed in a preceding paper. It is shown here that these imidazoles are readily cyclized to mono- and di-substituted purines. Since the photochemical synthesis of 4-aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile from HCN is considered to be a particularly plausible prebiotic pathway, the conversion of 4-aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile and of its hydrolysis product 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide to adenine and guanine are examined in some detail
Quite interestingly it turned out that in the Cambridge Structural Database [5] there are only a few examples of 4-aminoimidazoles. Among those there is only one iminederivative, ethyl 5-(4-methyl-3-phenyl-3H-thiazol-2-ylideneamino)-3-propyl-3H-imidazole-4-carboxylate [6] , seven diaza-compounds (e.g., series of phenylazoimidazoles [7] ), and one primary, six secondary, and 12 tertiary amines. During our studies on imidazole derivatives we have determined the structures of some imidazole-4-imines. 
Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) belong to the CMGC subfamily of protein kinases and play crucial roles in eukaryotic cell division cycle. At least seven different CDKs have been reported to be implicated in the cell cycle regulation in vertebrates. These CDKs are highly homologous and contain a conserved catalytic core. This makes the design of inhibitors specific for a particular CDK difficult. There is, however, growing need for CDK5 specific inhibitors to treat various neurodegenerative diseases. Recently, cis-substituted cyclobutyl-4-aminoimidazole inhibitors have been identified as potent CDK5 inhibitors that gave up to 30-fold selectivity over CDK2. Available IC 50 values also indicate a higher potency of this class of inhibitors over commercially available drugs, such as roscovitine. To understand the molecular basis of higher potency and selectivity of these inhibitors, here, we present molecular dynamics simulation results of CDK5/p25 and CDK2/CyclinE complexed with a series of cyclobutyl-substituted imidazole inhibitors and roscovitine. The atomic details of the stereospecificity and selectivity of these inhibitors are obtained from energetics and binding characteristics to the CDK binding pocket. The study not only complements the experimental findings, but also provides a wealth of detailed information that could help the structure-based drug designing processes.
There is a particular demand for CDK5 specific inhibitors to treat various neurodegenerative diseases [20] . However, it is difficult to design the inhibitor specific to a particular CDK due to the structural homology among number of CDKs [4] . Very recently, Helal et al. have identified novel cis-substituted cyclobutyl-4-aminoimidazole inhibitors that gave improved enzyme and cellular potency against CDK5/p25 with up to 30-fold selectivity over CDK2/Cyclin E [21] . To understand the molecular basis of higher potency of these inhibitors, here we carry out all-atom molecular dynamics simulations of active CDK5/p25 and CDK2/ CyclinE bound to a series of cyclobutyl-substituted imidazole inhibitors. The atomic details of the stereospecificity and selectivity of these inhibitors are obtained from energetics and binding characteristics to the CDKs.
4-Aminoimidazoles 1 undergo addition–elimination reactions with the electrophilic reagents 5–12 to give exclusively N-adducts, which are useful intermediates for further synthetic transformations to novel heterocyclic systems. Diethyl ethoxymethylenemalonate 5 and 4-amino-1-benzylimidazole 1g give the adduct 13g and subsequent acid-catalysed cyclisation gives the imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine 25 and the heterocyclic mesomeric betaine 26 which undergoes 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition with di-methyl acetylenedicarboxylate to give two products 29 and 30. When the 2-alkyl-4-aminoimidazoles 1b–d are generated in situ in the presence of the reagent 5, significant products are the 5,5′-diimidazoles 15 and a mechanism for this novel transformation is proposed. 4-Amino-3-cyano-imidazo[1,5-a]pyrimidines 40 and 41 are formed by cyclisation of the N-adducts prepared using ethoxymethylenemalononitriles 6 and 7. Ethoxymethyleneurethane 9 gives the adducts 66 and cyclisation of the parent adduct 66a gives the novel imidazo[1,5-a]-1,3,5-triazin-4-one 68a, the potassium salt of which undergoes N-alkylation. The use of the reagents 10–12 leads to novel 4-aminoimidazo[1,5-a]-1,3,5-triazine derivatives 72 whose chemical reactions with both electrophilic and nucleophilic reagents are reported. 5-Aminoimidazoles 3 undergo addition–elimination reactions with the electrophilic reagents 5–12 to give N-adducts and/or C-adducts, depending upon the structure of the reagent. These stable addition–elimination products are usually obtained in good yield and are useful intermediates for further synthesis. Reaction of the amines 3 with diethyl ethoxymethylenemalonate 5 gives mainly N-adducts 17 which can be cyclised using phosphoryl chloride to give the versatile 7-chloroimidazo[4,5-b]pyridines 31. With ethoxymethylenemalononitrile 6 the amines 3 give C-adducts 42. Thermal cyclisation of these adducts 42 gives 5-amino-6-cyanoimidazo[4,5-b]pyridines 43 which are transformed into novel heterocyclic systems including the tricyclic imidazo[4′,5′:5,6]pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidines 55. Cyclisation of the adducts obtained using ethoxymethyleneurethane 9 and the N-cyano analogues 10 and 12 provides new synthetic routes to amino-purine derivatives 86 and 87 and hypoxanthines 70. The preference of electrophilic reagents for N- or C-addition to 5-aminoimidazoles 3 is rationalised using Frontier Molecular Orbital theory.
Aminoacetonitrile (1) reacted with acetamidinium chloride to give 4-aminoimidazole (4), which reacted with DMFDMA to yield imidazole derivative 7 and with benzylidinemalononitrile and ethoxymethylene malononitrile to give imidazo[1,5-a]pyrimidine derivatives 12 and 15. Compound 1 reacted with β-crotononitrile to yield pyridine derivative 20. Imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine derivative 23 could be obtained via the reaction of 20 with DMFDMA. © 2003 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Heteroatom Chem 14:503–508, 2003; Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com). DOI 10.1002/hc.10178
Dilute (0.1 M) solutions of HCN condense to oligomers at pH 9.2. Hydrolysis of these oligomers yields 4,5-dihydroxypyrimidine, orotic acid, 5-hydroxyuracil, adenine, 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide and amino acids. These results, together with the earlier data, demonstrate that the three main classes of nitrogen-containing biomolecules, purines, pyrimidines and amino acids may have originated from HCN on the primitive earth. The observation of orotic acid and 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxyamide suggests that the contemporary biosynthetic pathways for nucleotides may have evolved from the compounds released on hydrolysis of HCN oligomers.
4-Aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide, a component of human urine derived from the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway, was evidenced to undergo in vivo diazotization in rats following its sequential administration with NaNO2. The diazotization product, 4-diazoimidazole-5-carboxamide, undergoes intramolecular cyclization to yield 2-azahypoxanthine, the urinary presence of which was confirmed mass spectrometrically. 4-Diazoimidazole-5-carboxamide demonstrated dose-related mutagenicity in Salmonella typhimurium TA 100 and represents a potent electrophilic reactant similar to the proposed ultimate carcinogenic forms of arylalkylnitrosamines and arylnitrosamides. It is suggested that aryl and heterocyclic diazo compounds, as a class, warrant further study as environmental electrophiles representing potential biological hazard.
AbstractPurpose. The aim of the present work is to describe the inhibitory properties of LY301875 and LY303336, two polysubstituted 4-aminoimidazole AT1 receptor antagonists, on CHO cells expressing human recombinant AT1 receptors. ::: Methods. The binding of [3H]-angiotensin II to intact cells as well as to angiotensin II induced inositol phosphate accumulation is measured. ::: Results. Both antagonists inhibit specific [3H]-angiotensin II binding to AT1 receptors in these cells, with IC50 values of 5.9 and 5.2 nM, respectively. Preincubation of the cells with LY301875 results in a decline of up to 80 % of the maximal angiotensin II-stimulated inositol phosphate (IP) production. A near complete decline of the maximal response is observed for LY303336. This insurmountable inhibition is attenuated for both antagonists when losartan is included during the preincubation of the cells. ::: Conclusions. Functional recovery experiments, in which antagonist-preincubated cells are washed and exposed to fresh media, suggest that the insurmountable inhibition by LY301875 and LY303336 is related to their relatively slow dissociation from the AT1 receptors. As already described for losartan and the derived insurmountable AT1 antagonists candesartan, EXP3174, and irbesartan, coincubation experiments reveal that LY301875 and LY303336 interact with the AT1 receptor in a manner that is competitive with angiotensin II.
Purine nucleotides are formed de novo by a widespread biochemical route that may be of monophyletic origin, or are synthesized from preformed purine bases and nucleosides through different salvage pathways. Three monophyletic sets of purine salvage enzymes, each of which catalyzes mechanistically similar reactions, can be identified: (a) adenine-, xanthine-, hypoxanthine- and guanine-phosphoribosyltransferases, which are all homologous among themselves, as well as to nucleoside phosphorylases; (b) adenine deaminase, adenosine deaminase, and adenosine monophophate deaminase; and (c) guanine reductase and inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase. These homologies support the idea that substrate specificity is the outcome of gene duplication, and that the purine nucleotide salvage pathways were assembled by a patchwork process that probably took place before the divergence of the three cell domains (Bacteria, Archaea, and Eucarya). Based on the ability of adenine PRTase to catalyze the condensation of PRPP with 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide (AICA), a simpler scheme of purine nucleotide biosynthesis is presented. This hypothetical route requires the prior evolution of PRPP biosynthesis. Since it has been argued that PRPP, nucleosides, and nucleotides are susceptible to hydrolysis, they are very unlikely prebiotic compounds. If this is the case, it implies that many purine salvage pathways appeared only after the evolution of phosphorylated sugar biosynthetic pathways made ribosides available.
Abstract By means of a countercurrent extraction technique, artificial kidney bath fluid, pre- and post-dialysis plasma and red cells from a patient with uremia were separated into 10 fractions, each of which was tested for its ability to inhibit rabbit-muscle or beef-heart lactate dehydrogenase. Of the 3 inhibitory peaks obtained from the bath fluid, the most hydrophilic contained urea. On treatment with urease in a current of air, this fraction lost its ability to inhibit the enzyme. The middle fraction appears to owe its inhibitory action to the presence of oxalate, since when this substance was removed, the inhibitory effect disappeared. The third peak was separated into acid, neutral, and basic fractions, and enzyme inhibitory action was found to be associated with the neutral fraction from which 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide was provisionally identified. This substance, however, proved to be a relatively feeble inhibitor of lactate dehydrogenase and is considered unlikely to account for the action of peak 3. Similar inhibitory peaks were obtained from plasma and red cells, but it is concluded that some other factor is involved in the first peak, since the inhibitory effects did not correlate with the urea content before and after dialysis.
Chemical investigation of a marine-derived actinomycete isolated from marine sediments collected off the coast of southern California and identified as a Nocardiopsis sp. (strain CNQ115) led to the isolation of two new 4-aminoimidazole alkaloids, nocarimidazoles A (1) and B (2). The chemical structures of nocarimidazoles A and B were assigned by interpretation of NMR spectroscopic data and through methylation to yield monomethyl and dimethyl derivatives. Nocarimidazoles A and B possess a 4-aminoimidazole ring combined with a conjugated carbonyl side chain, which is rarely found in microbial secondary metabolites.
Src family kinases (SFKs) are a family of non-receptor tyrosine kinases (TKs) implicated in the regulation of many cellular processes. The aberrant activity of these TKs has been associated with the growth and progression of cancer. In particular, c-Src is overexpressed or hyperactivated in a variety of solid tumors and is most likely a strong promoting factor for the development of metastasis. Herein, the synthesis of new 4-aminoimidazole and 2-aminothiazole derivatives and their in vitro biological evaluation are described for their potential use as SFK inhibitors. Initially, 2-aminothiazole analogues of dasatinib and 4-aminoimidazole derivatives were synthesized and tested against the SFKs Src, Fyn, Lyn, and Yes. Five hits were identified as the most promising compounds, with Ki values in the range of 90-480 nm. A combination of molecular docking, homology modeling, and molecular dynamics were then used to investigate the possible binding mode of such compounds within the ATP binding site of the SFKs. Finally, the antiproliferative activities of the best candidates were evaluated against SH-SY5Y and K562 cell lines. Compound 3 b [2-(4-{2-methyl-6-[(5-phenylthiazol-2-yl)amino]pyrimidin-4-yl}piperazin-1-yl)ethanol] was found to be the most active inhibitor.
Abstract Dilute (0.1 M) solutions of HCN condense to oligomers at pH 8–9. Hydrolysis of these oligomers at pH 8.5 or with 6 N HCl yields 4,5-dihydroxypyrimidine, as the most abundant pyrimidine product along with orotic acid and 5-hydroxyuracil. These results, together with the earlier data, demonstrate that the three major nitrogen-containing classes of biomolecules could have originated from HCN on the primitive earth. The observation of the formation of orotic acid and 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide by the hydrolysis of the HCN oligomers suggests that once the initially formed pyrimidines and purines were consumed, those life forms persisted which evolved enzymes for the conversion of these intermediates to the pyrimidines and purines present in contemporary RNA.
The X-ray structure analysis of what was believed to be a copper(II) complex of adenine N1-oxide showed that it was a complex of its degradation product, 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide oxime.
Reaction of adenosine with sulfuryl chloride gave two compounds, 5'-chloro-5'-deoxyadenosine 2', 3'-cyclic sulfate (I) and N3, 3'-cycloadenosine derivative (II). I was converted into 2'-sulfate (III) and 3'-sulfate (IV) by treatment with aqueous alkali and into N4, 3'-cyclo-4-aminoimidazole 5-carboxamidine nucleoside (V) by treatment in aqueous ethanol at an elevated temperature. 5'-Chloro-5'-deoxyadenosine (VI) derived from adenosine by reaction with thionyl chloride was readily converted into N3, 5'-cycloadenosine chloride (VIII). VIII was transformed into N4, 5'-cyclo-4-aminoimidazole 5-carboxamidine nucleoside (XII) via the unidentified characteristic compound (X) by reaction with diluted alkali. Characteristic changes of ultraviolet spectra of VIII were described.
The effects of 6-mercaptopurine on the incorporation of a number of C14-labeled precursors into soluble purines and into purines of DNA and of RNA have been studied in leukemia L1210 cells, Ehrlich ascites cells, and solid Sarcoma 180, with the purpose of determining which of the several sites at which 6-mercaptopurine may inhibit the biosynthesis of purine nucleotides is the most sensitive in the intact cell in vivo . ::: ::: 6-Mercaptopurine inhibited markedly the incorporation of formate and glycine and did not inhibit the utilization of adenine or 2,6-diaminopurine. There was no inhibition of the incorporation of 4-amino-5-imidazolecarboxamide into adenine derivatives and no consistent and marked inhibition of incorporation into guanine derivatives. In the ascites cell lines, the conversion of 4-amino-5-imidazolecarboxamide to purines was essentially uninhibited by levels of 6-mercaptopurine 8–20 times those that produced a 50 per cent or greater inhibition of synthesis de novo . ::: ::: These results suggest that, in these tumor systems in vivo , the principal site at which 6-mercaptopurine inhibits biosynthesis of purines is at a point prior to the formation of the ribonucleotide of 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide and that the interconversion of purine ribonucleotides is not a primary site of action.
The polyamides based on 4-amino-1-methylpyrrol-2-carboxylic acid, 4-amino-1-methylimidazole-2-carboxylic acid, and β-alanine that stabilize oligonucleotide duplexes consisting of G•C pairs through parallel packing in the minor groove were studied. The initial duplex TTGCGCp•GCGCAA melts at 28°C; the TTGCGCp[NH(CH2)3COPyImβImNH(CH2)3NH(CH3)2][NH(CH2)3COImβImPyNH(CH2)3N(CH3)2]•GCGCAA duplex (bisphosphoramidate with parallel orientation of ligands, where Py, Im, and β are the residues of 1-methyl-4-aminopyrrol-2-carboxylic and 1-methyl-4-aminoimidazole-2-carboxylic acids and β-alanine, respectively), at 48°C; and the TTGCGCp[NH(CH2)3COImβImPyNH(CH2)3COImβImPyNH(CH2)3N(CH3)2]•GCGCAA duplex (a hairpin structure with antiparallel orientation), at 56°C.
Publisher Summary This chapter provides a brief description of 4-Amino-1,2,3-triazoles. The 4-aminotriazoles are of special interest because of their properties. The amino group attenuates, by electronic release, the normally π-deficient character of the triazole nucleus. A strong bathochromic shift in the UV spectrum is evident. This 4-amino group introduces the possibility for ring opening, followed by the closure to isomers, often 4-alkylaminotriazoles that would be difficult otherwise to synthesize. This process, known as the Dimroth rearrangement, can advantageously be reversed to avoid the use of dangerous reagent methyl azide. In combination with a suitable group in 5 position, the 4-amino group permits annelation of a new ring on to the triazole ring. It is exceedingly useful to be able to make any 4,5-disubstituted triazole required for generating such bicyclic systems. 4-Amino-1,2,3-triazole analogs of 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide that is a necessary intermediate for the synthesis of purines in all forms of life have proved to be valuable inhibitors in experimental biology.
Abstract In addition to adenine, the supernatant solution from the product of the base-catalyzed condensation of hydrogen cyanide in aqueous ammonia contains several purine precursors such as 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamide, 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamidine, formamide, and formamidine. It also contains glycinamide, glycine, alanine, aspartic acid, and a large number of unidentified ultraviolet-absorbing and fluorescing compounds. The data obtained indicate that the mechanism of adenine synthesis occurs by formation of a hydrogen cyanide trimer, possibly aminomalonodinitrile, which either directly or after transformation to its mono- or diamidine condenses with formamidine to form 4-aminoimidazole-5-carboxamidine. This imidazole derivative condenses in the final step with another molar equivalent of formamidine to form adenine. Less likely alternative mechanisms of adenine synthesis are also described. These results are considered to be of significance in relation to the formation of imidazoles and other heterocyclic compounds on the abiotic earth. The fact that not only adenine, but also amino acids and polypeptides can be synthesized under similar conditions to the ones used in these experiments supports strongly the geochemical models with reducing conditions proposed by Oparin, by Urey, and, more recently, by Oro for the formation of biochemical compounds on the primitive earth.
The reaction pathways for the prebiotic formation of nucleobases are complex and lead to the formation of a mixture of products. In the past 50 years, there has been a concerted effort for identifying a unified mechanism for the abiotic origin of the biomolecules but with little success. In the present theoretical study, we identified two prominent precursors for the building up of RNA and DNA nucleobases under prebiotic conditions: (a) 1,2-diaminomaleonitrile (DAMN), which is a tetramer of hydrogen cyanide (HCN), and (b) formamide, a hydrolysis product of HCN; it is important to emphasize that HCN is the source of both precursors. We find that free radical pathways are potentially appropriate to account for the origin of nucleobases from HCN. The current study unites the formamide pathways with the DAMN pathways. The mechanisms for the formation of the RNA and DNA nucleobases (uracil, adenine, purine, cytosine) were studied by quantum chemical computations using density functional theory at the B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level. All the routes involved proceed with relatively low energy barriers (within the error margin of DFT methods). We showed that the radical mechanisms for the formation of nucleobases could be unified through common precursors. The results demonstrated that 4-aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile (AICN), which is a known precursor for nucleobases, is a product of DAMN. The overall mechanisms are internally consistent with the abiotic formation of the nucleobases, namely (a) under a meteoritic impact scenario on the early Earth's surface that generated high internal energy, and/or (b) in the (gas phase) interstellar regions without the presence of catalysts.
Diaminomaleonitrile (DAMN), a stable tetramer of HCN, has long been renowned as a precursor for the formation of nucleobases. DAMN which can be formed directly from HCN through the more reactive aminomalononitrile (trimer), 11 yields 4-aminoimidazole-5-carbonitrile (AICN) in photochemical reactions. 12 These studies suggested the following sequence of steps:
Utilizing structure-based drug design, a 4-aminoimidazole heterocyclic core was synthesized as a replacement for a 2-aminothiazole due to potential metabolically mediated toxicity. The synthetic route utilized allowed for ready synthesis of 1-substituted-4-aminoimidazoles. SAR exploration resulted in the identification of a novel cis-substituted cyclobutyl group that gave improved enzyme and cellular potency against cdk5/p25 with up to 30-fold selectivity over cdk2/cyclin E.
