In plants, Put can be synthesized directly from ornithine in a reaction catalysed by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) (EC 4.1.1.17) or from arginine after decarboxylation to agmatine by arginine decarboxylase (ADC) (EC 4.1.1.19) and subsequent conversion of agmatine into Put by agmatine iminohydrolase (EC 3.5.3.12) and N-carbamoylputrescine aminohydrolase (EC 3.5.1.53). Put is converted into Spd and subsequently into Spm by the addition of aminopropyl moieties from decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) in reactions catalysed by Spd synthase (EC 2.5.1.16) and Spm synthase (EC 2.5.1.22), respectively (Bais and Ravishankar, 2002) .
Putrescine, 1,4-diaminobutane, is an intermediate in the biosynthesis of more complexed polyamines, spermidine and spermine. Unlike other eukaryotes, plants have evolved a multistep pathway for putrescine biosynthesis that utilizes arginine. In the final reaction, N-carbamoylputrescine is hydrolyzed to putrescine by N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (CPA, EC 3.5.1.53). During the hydrolysis, consecutive nucleophilic attacks on the substrate by Cys158 and water lead to formation of putrescine and two by-products, ammonia and carbon dioxide. CPA from the model legume plant, Medicago truncatula (MtCPA), was investigated in this work. Four crystal structures were determined: the wild-type MtCPA in complex with the reaction intermediate, N-(dihydroxymethyl)putrescine as well as with cadaverine, which is a longer analogue of putrescine; and also structures of MtCPA-C158S mutant unliganded and with putrescine. MtCPA assembles into octamers, which resemble an incomplete left-handed helical twist. The active site of MtCPA is funnel-like shaped, and its entrance is walled with a contribution of the neighboring protein subunits. Deep inside the catalytic cavity, Glu48, Lys121 and Cys158 form the catalytic triad. In this studies, we have highlighted the key residues, highly conserved among the plant kingdom, responsible for the activity and selectivity of MtCPA towards N-carbamoylputrescine. Moreover, since, according to previous reports, a close MtCPA relative from Arabidopsis thaliana, along with several other nitrilase-like proteins, are subjected to allosteric regulation by substrates, we have used the structural information to indicate a putative secondary binding site. Based on the docking experiment, we postulate that this site is adjacent to the entrance to the catalytic pocket.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutants defective in agmatine utilization (agu) were isolated. The genes encoding agmatine deiminase (aguA) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidinohydrolase (aguB) were 98% cotransducible and mapped between gpu and ser-3 in the 30 min region of the chromosome. Constructed agu arc double mutants (blocked in the arginine decarboxylase and arginine deiminase pathways) used arginine efficiently as the sole carbon and nitrogen source. This suggests the existence of a further arginine catabolic pathway in P. aeruginosa. The mapping data of this study confirm that in P. aeruginosa the chromosomal genes with catabolic functions do not show supraoperonic clustering as found in P. putida.
Seed germination is a critical phase in the plant life cycle, but the specific events associated with seed germination are still not fully understood. In this study, we used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by mass spectrometry to investigate the changes in the proteome during imbibition of Oryza sativa seeds at optimal temperature with or without abscisic acid (ABA) and high temperature (germination thermoinhibition) to further identify and quantify key proteins required for seed germination. A total of 121 protein spots showed a significant change in abundance (1.5-fold increase/decrease) during germination under all conditions. Among these proteins, we found seven proteins specifically associated with seed germination including glycosyl hydrolases family 38 protein, granule-bound starch synthase 1, Os03g0842900 (putative steroleosin-B), N-carbamoylputrescine amidase, spermidine synthase 1, tubulin α-1 chain and glutelin type-A; and a total of 20 imbibition response proteins involved in energy metabolism, cell growth, cell defense and storage proteins. High temperature inhibited seed germination by decreasing the abundance of proteins involved in methionine metabolism, amino acid biosynthesis, energy metabolism, reserve degradation, protein folding and stress responses. ABA treatment inhibited germination and decreased the abundance of proteins associated with methionine metabolism, energy production and cell division. Our results show that changes in many biological processes including energy metabolism, protein synthesis and cell defense and rescue occurred as a result of all treatments, while enzymes involved in methionine metabolism and weakening of cell wall specifically accumulated when the seeds germinated at the optimal temperature.
Polyamines (PAs) regulate cell functions by promoting cell division, growth, differentiation or PCD, depending on the cell type and environmental signals (Wallace et al. 2003) . In plants, PAs frequently accumulated as a response to biotic and abiotic stresses (Kusano et al. 2008 , Alcázar et al. 2010 . The most common naturally occurring PAs are putrescine (Put), spermidine (Spd) and spermine (Spm), which are found in cells as free amines or as amide conjugates. In plants, Put is synthesized either directly by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC; EC 4.1.1.17) or during intermediate steps by arginine decarboxylase (ADC; EC 4.1.1.19), agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH; EC 3.5.3.12) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (CPA; EC 3.5.1.53). Spd and Spm are synthesized by the sequential addition of aminopropyl groups to Put via reactions involving S-adenosyl methionine decarboxylase (SAMDC; EC 4.1.1.50) as well as spermidine (SPDS; EC 2.5.1.16) and spermine synthases (SPMS; EC 2.5.1.22) (Tiburcio et al. 1997) . The characterized thermospermine synthase (TSPMS; EC 2.5.1.79) of Arabidopsis is closely related to SPMSs, which suggests that the synthesis of thermospermine (Tspm) resembles the formation of Spm (Knott et al. 2007 ). PA are catabolized by the action of amino oxidases, which include the copper-containing diamine oxidases (DAO; EC 1.4.3.6), oxidizing Put and the flavoproteincontaining polyamine oxidases (PAO; EC 1.5.3.3), which oxidize Spd and Spm (Tiburcio et al. 1997) . PA biosynthesis and catabolism pathways in plants are presented in Supplementary Figure  S1 available as Supplementary Data at Tree Physiology Online.
The polyamines (putrescine, cadaverine, spermine, spermidine) are found throughout all five kingdoms of living organisms and are attributed to diverse and frequently vital cellular processes. In most forms of life polyamine production is critical for cellular division and DNA synthesis. Polyamines are thought to stabilize DNA and RNA to allow for more efficient replication and transcription although the exact mechanism remains elusive [1, 2] . Generation of polyamines occurs through conserved pathways including the ornithine decarboxylase pathway (ODC) and arginine decarboxylase pathway (ADC). In the ODC pathway, ornithine is converted to putrescine whereas the ADC pathway converts arginine to agmatine. Agmatine can be converted to putrescine in one step through agmatinase or two steps through agmatine deiminase (AgDi) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase ( Figure 1 ). Agmatine is considered a "pre-polyamine" and has been shown to have a number of diverse roles in higher order eukaryotes. Agmatine functions as a neurotransmitter through interaction with α2-adrenergic, nicotonic, serotonin and imidazoline-receptors in the central nervous system, and has been putatively shown to selectively block NMDA receptor channels [3] [4] [5] . Agmatine has been shown to act as a neuroprotective molecule by inhibiting the NOS-2 protein, and consequently nitric oxide (NO), in macrophages and astroglial cells [6, 7] . It is a vasoactive mediator in endothelium, cytoprotective to cells undergoing oxidative stress, and neuroprotective in models of stroke and epilepsy [7] . A vast arena of potential therapeutic applications is being explored given these mechanisms of action [3] .
Agmatine is found in plants as well and the generation of polyamines may rely more on the ADC pathway than in animals as many plants have reduced or absent ODC [8] . Little is known about agmatine in plant physiology other than its precursor role as a polyamine. Agmatine expression was recently implicated as a mechanism of resistance to clubroot in Arabidopsis [9] . Polyamine metabolism is thoroughly described in the bacterial literature. ADC and ODC pathways are prevalent in most species described as most bacteria rely heavily on putrescine for cellular division [1] . The positively charged polyamines, putrescine and spermidine, have been observed to counter the effects of antibiotic and oxidative stressors by binding to the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. This restores membrane stability in negatively charged (i.e., Mg 2+ limited, DNA rich, etc.) environments and potentially suggests a relationship of polyamines with antibiotic resistance and the formation of biofilms [10, 11] . Agmatine is not implicated in many cellular processes in bacteria outside of metabolism, although our laboratory recently implicated exogenous agmatine in the enhancement of biofilm formation in P. aeruginosa [12] . An agmatine-induced transcriptosome has been studied in P. aeruginosa and most of the implied functions are metabolic and related to metabolism of related compounds and not higher order cellular functions [13] . In P. aeruginosa agmatine can be utilized as the sole carbon source via the ADC pathway when metabolized with the gene products of the aguBA operon: agmatine deiminase (coded by aguA) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (coded by aguB) [14] . Our lab discovered an alternate operon for agmatine metabolism (agu2ABCA') that appears to have little impact on agmatine levels compared to aguBA [12] . In this previously published work we also demonstrate the aguBA operon appears to be universally present in P. aeruginosa isolates whereas the agu2ABCA' isolate was present in ~20% of isolates when screened by PCR. The aguBA operon is regulated by a transcription suppressing protein, AguR, that binds the promoter between the -35 and -10 sites [15] . The product of aguR belongs to the TetR family of transcriptional regulators and remains bound to the aguBA promoter site, inhibiting transcription until agmatine binds to the protein, releasing it from the promoter. Disruption of the aguR gene results in constitutive expression of the aguBA operon.
Plants are unique eukaryotes that can produce putrescine (PUT), a basic diamine, from arginine via a three-step pathway. This process starts with arginine decarboxylase that converts arginine to agmatine. Then, the consecutive action of two hydrolytic enzymes, agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase, ultimately produces PUT. An alternative route of PUT biosynthesis requires ornithine decarboxylase that catalyzes direct putrescine biosynthesis. However, some plant species lack this enzyme and rely only on agmatine pathway. The scope of this manuscript concerns the structural characterization of AIH from the model legume plant, Medicago truncatula. MtAIH is a homodimer built of two subunits with a characteristic propeller fold, where five αββαβ repeated units are arranged around the fivefold pseudosymmetry axis. Dimeric assembly of this plant AIH, formed by interactions of conserved structural elements from one repeat, is drastically different from that observed in dimeric bacterial AIHs. Additionally, the structural snapshot of MtAIH in complex with 6-aminohexanamide, the reaction product analog, presents the conformation of the enzyme during catalysis. Our structural results show that MtAIH undergoes significant structural rearrangements of the long loop, which closes a tunnel-shaped active site over the course of the catalytic event. This conformational change is also observed in AIH from Arabidopsis thaliana, indicating the importance of the closed conformation of the gate-keeping loop for the catalysis of plant AIHs.
Polyamines are positively charged small organic compounds found in all living cells and play versatile roles in regulating fundamental cellular processes such as protein synthesis and post-translational modification (Tabor and Tabor 1999 , Igarashi and Kashiwagi 2000 , Wallace et al. 2003 ). One of the major polyamines, spermine, was discovered as a crystal in human semen by Van Leeuwenhoek in 1678 and named after its origin in the late 19th century. The crystal has now been identified as spermine phosphate. There are two pathways for the biosynthesis of the diamine putrescine from arginine, one via ornithine and the other via agmatine (Fig. 1) . In the former pathway, arginine is converted to ornithine by arginase. Then, ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) catalyzes the decarboxylation of ornithine to form putrescine. The ODC pathway is dominant in animals and fungi, and the ODC reaction is the first and rate-limiting step in polyamine biosynthesis. In the latter, arginine is decarboxylated by arginine decarboxylase (ADC) to agmatine, which is then hydrolyzed by agmatine ureohydrolase (agmatinase) or by a combination of agmatine iminohydrolase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase to form putrescine. The ADC pathway may be the main route for polyamine biosynthesis in some bacteria and plants. Indeed, the genes encoding ODC are absent in the genomes of some plant species including Arabidopsis thaliana (Hanfrey et al. 2001) . Putrescine is then successively converted to the triamine spermidine and the tetramine spermine by spermidine synthase (SPDS) and spermine synthase (SPMS), respectively ( Fig. 1) . These reactions involve the addition of aminopropyl groups supplied from decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine (dcAdoMet/dcSAM) that is converted from AdoMet/SAM by AdoMet/SAM decarboxylase (AdoMetDC/SAMDC). In addition to these three major polyamines, putrescine, spermidine and spermine, which are widely distributed in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes, certain uncommon polyamines have been found in some organisms. Extremely thermophilic bacteria and archaea are known to contain long-chain polyamines and branched polyamines, suggesting that these polyamines are important for life at temperature extremes (Oshima 2007) . In higher plants, norspermidine and norspermine have been detected in alfalfa and cotton (Rodriguez-Garay et al. 1989 , Kuehn et al. 1990 ). The diamine cadaverine, which is formed from lysine by lysine decarboxylase, may be required for the root growth of soybean seedlings (Gamarnik and Frydman 1991) . However, while physiological functions or effects of the three major polyamines have been extensively studied in the past, those of minor cellular polyamines remain to be explored in depth.
Recent molecular and genetic approaches have revealed that polyamines play critical roles in growth and development of higher plants. Studies on the Arabidopsis ADC2 gene indicate that putrescine plays a role in drought and wounding responses (Soyka and Heyer 1999 , Pérez-Amador et al. 2002 , Urano et al. 2004 . Putrescine is also required for the synthesis of tropane and nicotine alkaloids. The first key step of the biosynthesis of these alkaloids is catalyzed by putrescine Nmethyltransferase (PMT). Because the sequences of PMT and SPDS are similar to each other, the gene for PMT may have been derived from the gene for SPDS (Hibi et al. 1994 , Biastoff et al. 2009 ). The Arabidopsis genome contains two genes encoding SPDS, SPDS1 and SPDS2. The spds1 spds2 double mutant shows embryonic lethality, indicating the essential role of spermidine (Imai et al. 2004a) . It is possible that some roles of spermidine can be replaced by spermine. The absolute requirement for spermidine for survival has been shown in yeasts, and at least one of the reasons is because of the specificity of spermidine as a necessary substrate for the hypusine modification of the eukaryotic initiation factor 5A (eIF5A; Park et al. 2010) . The aminobutyl moiety of spermidine is transferred to a specific lysine in the eIF5A precursor by deoxyhypusine synthase (DHS). The deoxyhypusine residue is then hydroxylated to form hypusine. Hypusinated eIF5A is essential for growth and cell viability in yeasts. It is likely that this is also the case in plants and animals. In some plant species, the aminobutyl moiety of spermidine is also transferred to putrescine by homospermidine synthase (HSS) to form homospermidine, which is an essential precursor in the synthesis of pyrrolizidine alkaloids, defense compounds against herbivores (Ober and Kaltenegger 2009) . The tetramine spermine is known to regulate a number of ion channels and receptors, in particular the inward rectifying potassium channels in mammalian cells (Williams 1997) . In higher plants, a number of studies have shown that spermine functions as a signaling molecule in disease resistance mechanism (Kusano et al. 2008 , Alcázar et al. 2010 . Because degradation of spermine by polyamine oxidase (PAO) results in the production of H 2 O 2 , this oxidative degradation may trigger defense responses to biotic or abiotic stresses (Walters 2003 , Cona et al. 2006 ). The spms-1 mutant of Arabidopsis is defective in the synthesis of spermine and has been found to be more sensitive to high salt and drought stresses than the wild type (Yamaguchi et al. 2007) . However, this mutant shows no morphological aberrations under normal growth conditions (Imai et al. 2004b) . Fig. 1 Polyamine biosynthesis and catabolism networks in plants. ARG, arginase; ODC, ornithine decarboxylase; ADC, arginine decarboxylase, AIH, agmatine iminohydrolase; CPA, N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase; SPDS, spermidine synthase; PMT, putrescine N-methyltransferase; HSS, homospermidine synthase; DHS, deoxyhypusine synthase; SPMS, spermine synthase; TSPMS, thermospermine synthase; AdoMetDC, S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase; MTA, methylthioadenosine; PAO, polyamine oxidase; DAO, diamine oxidase; GABA, g-aminobutyric acid. Therefore, unlike mammals in which spermine deficiency results in an X-linked mental retardation disorder known as the Snyder-Robinson syndrome and in deafness (Wang et al. 2009 , Schwartz et al. 2011 ), higher plants do not always need spermine for growth. Spermidine is also converted to thermospermine, a structural isomer of spermine, by thermospermine synthase (TSPMS). In contrast to spermine, thermospermine has been shown to be required for normal growth and development by studies of thermosperminedeficient acaulis5 (acl5) mutants of Arabidopsis ( Fig. 2 ; Kakehi et al. 2008) . Furthermore, recent genome analyses in many organisms suggest widespread distribution of thermospermine in the plant kingdom (Fuell et al. 2010, Pegg and . In this review, we focus on thermospermine in terms of its homeostasis, physiological function, and the mode of action with reference to relevant information on other polyamines. More comprehensive reviews on plant polyamines are available elsewhere (Kusano et al. 2008 , Alcázar et al. 2010 .
Plants are unique eukaryotes that can produce putrescine (PUT), a basic diamine, from arginine via a three-step pathway. This process starts with arginine decarboxylase that converts arginine to agmatine. Then, the consecutive action of two hydrolytic enzymes, agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase, ultimately produces PUT. An alternative route of PUT biosynthesis requires ornithine decarboxylase that catalyzes direct putrescine biosynthesis. However, some plant species lack this enzyme and rely only on agmatine pathway. The scope of this manuscript concerns the structural characterization of AIH from the model legume plant, Medicago truncatula. MtAIH is a homodimer built of two subunits with a characteristic propeller fold, where five αββαβ repeated units are arranged around the fivefold pseudosymmetry axis. Dimeric assembly of this plant AIH, formed by interactions of conserved structural elements from one repeat, is drastically different from that observed in dimeric bacterial AIHs. Additionally, the structural snapshot of MtAIH in complex with 6-aminohexanamide, the reaction product analog, presents the conformation of the enzyme during catalysis. Our structural results show that MtAIH undergoes significant structural rearrangements of the long loop, which closes a tunnel-shaped active site over the course of the catalytic event. This conformational change is also observed in AIH from Arabidopsis thaliana, indicating the importance of the closed conformation of the gate-keeping loop for the catalysis of plant AIHs.
Abbreviations: ABA, abscisic acid; ADC, arginine decarboxylase; AIH, agmatine iminohydrolase; CPA, N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase; ODC, ornithine decarboxylase; Put, putrescine; qRT-PCR, quantitative RT-PCR; ROS, reactive oxygen species; SAMDC, S-adenosyl-methionine decarboxylase; SPD, spermidine synthase; Spd, spermidine; SPM, spermine synthase; Spm, spermine.
Agmatine deiminases (AgDs) catalyze the hydrolytic conversion of agmatine (decarboxylated arginine) to N-carbamoylputrescine with concomitant release of ammonia. These enzymes, which are encoded by some pathogenic bacterial species, confer a competitive survival advantage by virtue of energy production and acid tolerance through agmatine catabolism. Herein we report the development of a clickable activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) probe that targets the AgD encoded by Streptococcus mutans with high selectivity and sensitivity.
The relative contributions made by the l-arginine/agmatine/N-carbamoylputrescine/putrescine and the l-ornithine/putrescine pathways to hyoscyamine formation have been investigated in a transformed root culture of Datura stramonium. The activity of either arginine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.19) or ornithine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.17) was suppressed in vivo by using the specific irreversible inhibitors of these activities, dl-α-difluoromethylarginine or dl-α-difluoromethylornithine, respectively. It was found that suppression of arginine decarboxylase resulted in a severe decrease in free and conjugated putrescine and in the putrescine-derived intermediates of hyoscyamine biosynthesis. In contrast, the suppression of ornithine decarboxylase activity stimulated an elevation of arginine decarboxylase and minimal loss of metabolites from the amine and alkaloid pools. The stimulation of arginine decarboxylase was not, however, sufficient to maintain the same potential rate of putrescine biosynthesis as in control tissue. It is concluded that (i) in Datura the two routes by which putrescine may be formed do not act in isolation from one another, (ii) arginine decarboxylase is the more important activity for hyoscyamine formation, and (iii) the formation of polyamines is favoured over the biosynthesis of tropane alkaloids. An interaction between putrescine metabolism and other amines is also indicated from a stimulation of tyramine accumulation seen at high levels of dl-α-difluoromethylornithine.
Eukaryotic cells synthesize putrescine directly from ornithine through the activity of ODC. An aminopropyl group derived from decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine The Plant Journal (2001) 27(6), 551±560 ã 2001 Blackwell Science Ltd (dcSAM) is transferred to putrescine by spermidine synthase to form spermidine, and another aminopropyl group is added to spermidine by spermine synthase to form spermine ( Figure 1a ). The dcSAM is formed by the activity of AdoMetDC (also known as SAMDC). Plants and some bacteria possess an additional route to putrescine, indirectly from arginine, by the activity of the arginine decarboxylase (ADC) pathway. In plants, the product of ADC activity is agmatine, which is subsequently converted to N-carbamoylputrescine and putrescine by the successive activity of agmatine iminohydrolase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase.
N-Carbamoylputrescine (NCP), the final intermediate in putrescine synthesis from arginine in plants, is converted to putrescine by the enzyme NCP amidohydrolase. Published protocols for synthesizing NCP from cyanate and putrescine were found to yield NCP and a previously unsuspected side product which we identified as N-(4-aminobutyl)carbamic acid (NAC). NAC is formed from putrescine and carbonate arising from cyanate hydrolysis. Hydrochloric acid degrades NAC to putrescine but does not affect NCP. NCP was separated from putrescine by ion exchange, yielding a preparation of NCP without NAC. NCP without NAC, and radiopure NCP labeled with carbon-14 in the carbamoyl group were used to assay NCP amidohydrolase activity in crude extracts of grape callus tissue by trapping 14 CO 2 released by the extracts. NCP analogs with three to eight carbon side chains were prepared from the corresponding diamines with 14 C in the carbamoyl moiety. Crude grape callus extracts released 14 CO 2 from each of the analogs, and unlabeled N- carbamoyldiaminohexane reduced the amount of 14 CO 2 evolved from carbamoyl-labeled NCP. Crude extracts also liberated 14 CO 2 from substituted ureas with three to six carbon side chains prepared from labeled cyanate and the corresponding amine. The unlabeled substituted urea derivatives were not clearly inhibitory to labeled NCP breakdown, suggesting that another enzyme activity in the crude extracts might be responsible for their degradation.
Polyamines, such as putrescine, spermidine, and spermine, are ubiquitously present in plants and are involved in a number of physiological processes (Evans and Malmberg, 1989) . Generally, putrescine is synthesized from ornithine by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC; EC 4.1.1.19), and then converted into spermidine and spermine by spermidine synthase (SPDS; EC 2.5.1.16) and spermine synthase (SPMS; EC 2.5.1.22), respectively, with addition of aminopropyl groups generated from S-adenosylmethionine by S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC; EC 4.1.1.50). In plants, putrescine is also produced through an alternative arginine decarboxylase (ADC; EC 4.1.1.17) pathway, involving two intermediates, namely agmatine and N-carbamoylputrescine (Malmberg et al., 1998) . It is well known that the activities of ADC and ODC are regulated separately depending on physiological and developmental conditions. ADC appears to be the primary enzyme for cell extension, secondary metabolic processes and stress responses, whereas ODC activity seems to regulate cell division in actively growing tissues (Slocum et al., 1984; Tabor and Tabor, 1984; Evans and Malmberg, 1989) .
Recently, many genes encoding polyamine biosynthetic enzymes were isolated and characterized in different organisms, which makes it possible to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of polyamine biosynthesis. In plants, ADC genes have been isolated from many species including oat (Bell and Malmberg, 1990) , tomato (Rastogi et al., 1993) , pea (Pérez-Amador et al., 1995) , Arabidopsis (Watson and Malmberg, 1996) , soybean (Nam et al., 1997) , grape (Primikirios and Roubelakis-Angelakis, 1999) , and carnation (Chang et al., 2000) . In addition, genes encoding another two enzymes in the ADC pathway, namely agmatine iminohydrolase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase, were cloned in Arabidopsis Piotrowski et al., 2003) . Several lines of evidence indicate the involvement of ADC in the response of plants to environmental stresses. For example, ADC activity increases upon exposure to acid stress and is positively correlated with the ADC mRNA level in soybean (Nam et al., 1997) . Under salt stress, ADC activity and the accumulation of ADC transcripts are enhanced in a salt-tolerant rice cultivar, but are down-regulated in a salt-sensitive rice cultivar (Chattopadhyay et al., 1997) . In mustard, ADC transcripts are up-regulated in response to some stresses such as chilling, salt, and mannitol (Mo and Pua, 2002) . More recently, Urano et al. (2004) used a Ds insertion mutant of the AtADC2 gene (adc2-1) to prove that the Arabidopsis ADC gene (AtADC2) plays an important role in salt tolerance. Similarly, Arabidopsis mutants, spe1-1 and spe2-1 showed reduced ADC activity and decreased salt tolerance compared with the wild types (Kasinathan and Wingler, 2004) .
Aims: To elucidate and characterize the metabolic putrescine synthesis pathway from agmatine by Lactobacillus hilgardii X1B. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods and Results: The putrescine formation from agmatine by resting cells (the normal physiological state in wine) of lactic acid bacteria isolated from wine has been determined for the first time. Agmatine deiminase and N-carbamoylputrescine hydrolase enzymes, determined by HPLC and LC-Ion Trap Mass Spectrometry, carried out the putrescine synthesis from agmatine. The influence of pH, temperature, organic acids, amino acids, sugars and ethanol on the putrescine formation in wine was determined. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusions: Resting cells of Lact. hilgardii X1B produce putrescine in wine. The putrescine production was carried out from agmatine through the agmatine deiminase system. ::: ::: ::: ::: Significance and Impact of the Study: These results have significance from two points of view, wine quality and toxicological and microbiological aspects, taking account that putrescine, which origin is still controversial, is quantitatively the main biogenic amine found in wine.
Polyamines (PAs) play an important role in regulating plant morphology, growth, embryonic development and response to stress conditions [7] [8] [9] . In higher plants, putrescine (Put), spermine (Spm) and spermidine (Spd) are the main types of polyamines. In the process of PA synthesis, Put is firstly synthesized from arginine catalyzed by arginine decarboxylase, agmatine iminohydrolase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase. Then through spermidine synthase and spermine synthase, Put is converted to Spm and Spd with decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine (dcSAM) as a donor [10, 11] . dcSAM is synthesized from the decarboxylation of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) in a reaction catalyzed by SAM decarboxylase (SAMDC) [12] .
We functionally identified the last remaining step in the plant polyamine biosynthetic pathway by expressing an Arabidopsis thaliana agmatine iminohydrolase cDNA in yeast. Inspection of the whole pathway suggests that the arginine decarboxylase, agmatine iminohydrolase, N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase route to putrescine in plants was inherited from the cyanobacterial ancestor of the chloroplast. However, the rest of the pathway including ornithine decarboxylase and spermidine synthase was probably inherited from bacterial genes present in the original host cell, common ancestor of plants and animals, that acquired the cyanobacterial endosymbiont. An exception is S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase, which may represent a eukaryote-specific enzyme form.
The plant polyamine biosynthetic pathway is relatively simple [14] . Putrescine is derived either from ornithine catalyzed by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) or from arginine through several steps catalyzed by arginine decarboxylase (ADC), agmatine iminohydrolase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase. Spermidine and spermine are synthesized from putrescine through spermidine and spermine synthases (SPDS and SPMS) from the donor of decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine (dcSAM), which is produced from S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) by the action of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC).
The plant polyamine biosynthetic pathway is relatively simple [14] . Putrescine is derived either from ornithine catalyzed by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) or from arginine through several steps catalyzed by arginine decarboxylase (ADC), agmatine iminohydrolase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase. Spermidine and spermine are synthesized from putrescine through spermidine and spermine synthases (SPDS and SPMS) from the donor of decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine (dcSAM), which is produced from S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) by the action of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC).
Putrescine, one of the main biogenic amines associated to microbial food spoilage, can be formed by bacteria from arginine via ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), or from agmatine via agmatine deiminase (AgDI). This study aims to correlate putrescine production from agmatine to the pathway involving N-carbamoylputrescine formation via AdDI (the aguA product) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (the aguB product), or putrescine carbamoyltransferase (the ptcA product) in bacteria. PCR methods were developed to detect the two genes involved in putrescine production from agmatine. Putrescine production from agmatine could be linked to the aguA and ptcA genes in Lactobacillus hilgardii X1B, Enterococcus faecalis ATCC 11700, and Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579. By contrast Lactobacillus sakei 23K was unable to produce putrescine, and although a fragment of DNA corresponding to the gene aguA was amplified, no amplification was observed for the ptcA gene. Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 produces putrescine and is reported to harbour aguA and aguB genes, responsible for agmatine deiminase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase activities. The enzyme from P. aeruginosa PAO1 that converts N-carbamoylputrescine to putrescine (the aguB product) is different from other microorganisms studied (the ptcA product). Therefore, the aguB gene from P. aeruginosa PAO1 could not be amplified with ptcA-specific primers. The aguB and ptcA genes have frequently been erroneously annotated in the past, as in fact these two enzymes are neither homologous nor analogous. Furthermore, the aguA, aguB and ptcA sequences available from GenBank were subjected to phylogenetic analysis, revealing that gram-positive bacteria harboured ptcA, whereas gram-negative bacteria harbour aguB. This paper also discusses the role of the agmatine deiminase system (AgDS) in acid stress resistance.
The genome of Mtb includes transporters for arginine uptake, Rv0522 (gabP) and the rocE homologue [22, 23] . For arginine utilization, four major pathways have been described in other bacteria: the arginine deiminase-, arginase-, arginine decarboxylase-, and arginine succinyltransferase pathway [24, 25] . Mtb possesses homologues for the arginine deiminase pathway (arcA), the arginase pathway (rocD, rocA), and the arginine decarboxylase pathway (adi/ speA) [22] . Previously, we showed in Mtb that arcA, encoding for an arginine deiminase, cleaves arginine under anaerobic conditions in vitro, resulting in the release of ammonia. However, arcA did not mediate nitrogen assimilation from arginine under aerobic growth conditions [21] . At present, the other two pathways have not been studied in Mtb. In Bacillus subtilis (B. subtilis), the arginase pathway consists of the rocDEF as well as the rocABC gene cluster (arginine ornithine catabolism) and allows the conversion of arginine into glutamate, in three steps [26, 27] . Arginine is hydrolyzed by an arginase (rocF) to ornithine and urea. Ornithine is cleaved to glutamate semialdehyde (GSA) via rocD (ornithine aminotransferase). Glutamate semialdehyde (spontaneously cyclizes to form pyrroline-5-carboxylate, P5C) is converted into glutamate by pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase, which is encoded by rocA. Genes with homology to rocD and rocA but not to rocF and rocBC have been found on the chromosome of Mtb [22] . Studies in Yersinia showed that, the arginine decarboxylase pathway cleaves arginine into agmatine (Agma) via the arginine decarboxylase, speA. Decarboxylation of arginine follows the conversion of agmatine into N-carbamoylputrescine (CP) and putrescine (Put) providing ammonia (aguA, aguB, speB) [28] . The genome of Mtb includes a putative arginine decarboxylase (adi / speA) [22] .
by arginine decarboxylase (encoded by gene speA; Enzyme Commission number, E.C. 4.1.1.19) and then to putrescine either directly by agmatinase (speB gene; E.C. 3.5.3.11) or via N-carbamoylputrescine as catalyzed by agmatine deiminase (E.C. 3.5.3.12) and then N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (AguB gene; E.C. 3.5.1.53), or (ii) decarboxylation of ornithine to putrescine via ornithine decarboxylase (speC gene; E.C. 4.1.1.17) (Tabor and Tabor, 1985) (Figure 1 ). These two putrescine biosynthesis pathways have been shown to operate simultaneously in many bacteria (Tabor and Tabor, 1985; Craciun and Balskus, 2012) . Cadaverine and tyramine biosynthesis is less commonly described among bacterial species, although this could be a reflection of the relatively limited investigations in non-model species. E. coli synthesizes cadaverine during anaerobic growth at low pH in the presence of its precursor, lysine, as catalyzed by lysine decarboxylase (cadA gene; E.C. 4.1.1.18) (Watson et al., 1992) . Tyramine is synthesized by various Enterococcus species by the decarboxylation of tyrosine (Fernandez de Palencia et al., 2011) . Perhaps the best-studied BA in the context of BV is trimethylamine (TMA). TMA is most commonly produced by the reduction of trimethylamine oxide (TMAO), a reaction catalyzed by trimethylamine Noxide reductase (E.C. 1.7.2.3). TMA can also be synthesized from choline by choline trimethylamine-lyase (Craciun and Balskus, 2012) , N,N,N-trimethylglycine via betaine reductase (E.C. 1.21.4.4), and ergothioneine by ergothionase (Muramatsu et al., 2013) . A previous study showed strains of vaginal Mobiluncus species, including both M. mulieris and M. curtisii were able to produce TMA through the reduction of TMAO, and weakly through the reduction of choline (Cruden and Galask, 1988) . While various bacterial species have been shown to be capable of producing BAs, aside from Mobiluncus spp., and the vaginal parasite, Trichomonas vaginalis, which has been shown to encode an ornithine decarboxylase (Yarlett et al., 1993) , little is known about their production by the vaginal microbiome. In addition to their potential as biomarkers of BV, BAs may also be important to facilitating the outgrowth of BVassociated vaginal taxa. This hypothesis is based on the following observations: (i) amino-acid decarboxylation involves the consumption of intracellular hydrogen ions and is a welldescribed bacterial acid resistance and mitigation mechanism (Kanjee and Houry, 2013) ; and (ii) the growth and resistance to host immunological defenses of some bacteria, including the urogenital pathogen, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, has been shown to be improved in the presence of various BAs (Strøm et al., 1979; Goytia and Shafer, 2010; Nasrallah et al., 2011; Jelsbak et al., 2012) . It is also noteworthy that BAs have been correlated with numerous host disease states (Löser et al., 1990; Paik et al., 2006; Pegg, 2009; Brooks, 2013) . Here we put forward a novel conceptual hypothesis of vaginal dysbiosis via bacterial BAproduction (detailed in Figure 2 ) that precedes BV development.
Polyamine biosynthesis in plants differs from other eukaryotes because of the contribution of genes from the cyanobacterial ancestor of the chloroplast. Plants possess an additional biosynthetic route for putrescine formation from arginine, consisting of the enzymes arginine decarboxylase, agmatine iminohydrolase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase, derived from the cyanobacterial ancestor. They also synthesize an unusual tetraamine, thermospermine, that has important developmental roles and which is evolutionarily more ancient than spermine in plants and algae. Single-celled green algae have lost the arginine route and are dependent, like other eukaryotes, on putrescine biosynthesis from the ornithine. Some plants like Arabidopsis thaliana and the moss Physcomitrella patens have lost ornithine decarboxylase and are thus dependent on the arginine route. With its dependence on the arginine route, and the pivotal role of thermospermine in growth and development, Arabidopsis represents the most specifically plant mode of polyamine biosynthesis amongst eukaryotes. A number of plants and algae are also able to synthesize unusual polyamines such as norspermidine, norspermine and longer polyamines, and biosynthesis of these amines likely depends on novel aminopropyltransferases similar to thermospermine synthase, with relaxed substrate specificity. Plants have a rich repertoire of polyamine-based secondary metabolites, including alkaloids and hydroxycinnamic amides, and a number of polyamine-acylating enzymes have been recently characterised. With the genetic tools available for Arabidopsis and other model plants and algae, and the increasing capabilities of comparative genomics, the biological roles of polyamines can now be addressed across the plant evolutionary lineage.
The observation that N-carbamoylputrescine is quantitatively excluded on O-(carboxymethyl)-cellulose columns with simultaneous retention of putrescine and agmatine has been utilized to develop a sensitive radiometric assay for putrescine transcarbamoylase and a colorimetric assay for agmatine iminohydrolase. A simple procedure for obtaining bulk amounts of pure synthetic N-carbamoylputrescine by separation from putrescine and dicarbamoylputrescine on Dowex 50 (Na+) resin is described.
Three arginine catabolic pathways are known in Pseudomonas aeruginosa P A 0 (Fig. 1) . (I) The arginine deiminase pathway converts L-arginine to L-ornithine, with the formation of ATP. The enzymes of this pathway are inducible by energy depletion and by the presence of L-arginine. Mutants which are defective in one of the three enzymes involved (arcA, B, C mutants) cannot grow anaerobically with L-arginine as the energy source (Mercenier et al., 19806,1982; Vander Wauven et al., 1984) . (11) The arginine succinyltransferase pathway is used for aerobic L-arginine degradation. The products are L-glutamate and succinate, and L-arginine induces all enzymes of this route. Mutants blocked in the arginine succinyltransferase pathway (aru mutants) grow very poorly if at all on L-arginine as the only carbon and nitrogen source (Jann et al., 1986) . (111) The arginine decarboxylase pathway produces putrescine, which can be converted to spermidine, and permits good growth on agmatine and putrescine. The first enzyme, L-arginine decarboxylase (enzyme 12 in Fig. l) , is induced by L-arginine. The synthesis of agmatine deiminase and N-carbamoylputrescine hydrolase (enzymes 13 and 14 in Fig. 1 ) is switched on by agmatine. Putrescine is further catabolized to succinate and ammonia (Jakoby & Fredericks, 1959; Voellmy & Leisinger, 1976; Mercenier et al., 1980a 
Abstract A nitrilase-like protein from Arabidopsis thaliana (NLP1) was expressed in Escherichia coli as a His6-tagged protein and purified to apparent homogeneity by Ni2+-chelate affinity chromatography. The purified enzyme showed N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase activity, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of polyamines in plants and bacteria. N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase activity was confirmed by identification of two of the three occurring products, namely putrescine and ammonia. In contrast, no enzymatic activity could be detected when applying various compounds including nitriles, amines, and amides as well as other N-carbamoyl compounds, indicating the specificity of the enzyme forN-carbamoylputrescine. Like the homologousβ-alanine synthases, NLP1 showed positive cooperativity toward its substrate. The native enzyme had a molecular mass of 279 kDa as shown by blue-native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, indicating a complex of eight monomers. Expression of the NLP1 gene was found in all organs investigated, but it was not induced upon osmotic stress, which is known to induce biosynthesis of putrescine. This is the first report of cloning and expression of a plantN-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase and the first time that N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase activity of a recombinant protein could be shown in vitro. NLP1 is one of the two missing links in the arginine decarboxylase pathway of putrescine biosynthesis in higher plants.
A nitrilase-like protein from Arabidopsis thaliana (NLP1) was expressed in Escherichia coli as a His 6 -tagged protein and purified to apparent homogeneity by Ni 2؉ -chelate affinity chromatography. The purified enzyme showed N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase activity, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of polyamines in plants and bacteria. N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase activity was confirmed by identification of two of the three occurring products, namely putrescine and ammonia. In contrast, no enzymatic activity could be detected when applying various compounds including nitriles, amines, and amides as well as other N-carbamoyl compounds, indicating the specificity of the enzyme for N-carbamoylputrescine. Like the homologous ␤-alanine synthases, NLP1 showed positive cooperativity toward its substrate. The native enzyme had a molecular mass of 279 kDa as shown by blue-native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, indicating a complex of eight monomers. Expression of the NLP1 gene was found in all organs investigated, but it was not induced upon osmotic stress, which is known to induce biosynthesis of putrescine. This is the first report of cloning and expression of a plant N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase and the first time that N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase activity of a recombinant protein could be shown in vitro. NLP1 is one of the two missing links in the arginine decarboxylase pathway of putrescine biosynthesis in higher plants.
The term "C-N Hydrolases" was introduced by Bork and Koonin in 1994 (1) describing a protein superfamily whose members are all involved in the cleavage of C-N bonds but display only moderate homology (12-24% amino acid identity). Members of this family are found from bacteria to man and can be classified into 13 branches (2, 3). The family includes the following: (i) nitrilases (and cyanide hydratases) and aliphatic amidases, which hydrolyze nitriles (ϪCN) or amides (ϪCONH 2 ), respectively, to the corresponding carboxylic acids; (ii) ␤-alanine synthases (also called ␤-ureidopropionases), which produce ␤-alanine from N-carbamoyl-␤-alanine (␤-ureidopropionic acid); and (iii) other amidohydrolases whose natural substrates are largely unknown. The genome of Arabidopsis thaliana encodes eight C-N hydrolases: (i) four nitrilases, one of which (NIT4) was identified as ␤-cyanoalanine hydratase/ nitrilase (4); (ii) one ␤-alanine synthase involved in pyrimidine catabolism (5); and (iii) three other nitrilase-like proteins (NLPs) 1 whose function is yet unknown. One of these, provisionally called NLP1, shows high homology to a recently characterized protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the function of which was defined as N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase, involved in polyamine biosynthesis in this species (6).
Polyamines are low molecular mass polycations of vital function for all living organisms. A key intermediate in polyamine biosynthesis is putrescine (H 2 N(CH 2 ) 4 NH 2 ), which is already a polyamine and is further converted to higher polyamines like spermidine and spermine. In principle, two different biosynthetic pathways lead to the formation of putrescine: (i) the ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) pathway through the decarboxylation of ornithine by ODC; and (ii) the arginine decarboxylase (ADC) pathway through the successive reactions of arginine decarboxylase (producing agmatine from arginine), agmatine iminohydrolase (producing N-carbamoylputrescine from agmatine), and finally N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (producing putrescine from N-carbamoylputrescine). Both pathways are described as occurring in plants (reviewed in Ref. 7), but recently it was shown that in A. thaliana no ODC gene exists and that the ornithine decarboxylating activity found in extracts of this plant was non-enzymatic (8). This stresses the importance of the ADC-pathway for plants, at least with respect to A. thaliana. Many genes of plant polyamine biosynthesis have been cloned (for review see Ref. 9), but until now the genes of the ADC-pathway encoding agmatine iminohydrolase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase were not known. We will show here that the C-N hydrolase NLP1 of A. thaliana encodes a functional N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase.
Synthesis of N-Carbamoylputrescine-Synthesis of N-carbamoylputrescine⅐HCl was done according to Smith and Garraway (10). Purification of N-carbamoylputrescine was performed as follows. After removal of the side product N,N-dicarbamoylputrescine by filtration, the filtrate was evaporated to dryness. The residue was extracted with ethanol, and the extract again was evaporated to dryness. The residue was then dissolved in 50 ml of water, neutralized using 2 M HCl, and loaded on a column (25 cm ϫ 1.5 cm) of Dowex 50 X 8 (Li-form). Elution was done with 3-aminopropyl-1,3-diaminopropane (0.2 M, neutralized with 2 M HCl). The eluting fractions were tested by thin layer chromatography for ninhydrin-positive substances. Fractions showing only one ninhydrin-positive spot were combined, evaporated to dryness, and
Polyamines are generally synthesized from amino acids such as arginine, ornithine, and methionine (1, 5, 24) . In most eukaryotes, putrescine is synthesized directly from ornithine by ornithine decarboxylase. Plants and some bacteria possess additional or alternative putrescine biosynthesis pathways, in which putrescine is synthesized from arginine via agmatine (3, 25, 26) . In this pathway, agmatine is synthesized by arginine decarboxylase and then converted to putrescine by agmatine ureohydrolase or a combination of agmatine iminohydrolase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase. Spermidine and spermine are then produced by the addition of the aminopropyl group from decarboxylated Sadenosylmethionine (dcSAM). In contrast, thermophilic bacteria and archaea possess a unique polyamine biosynthetic pathway, in which spermidine is synthesized from agmatine via N 1 -aminopropylagmatine by aminopropyltransferase, followed by ureohydrolase (18, 20, 27) .
Plants are unique eukaryotes that can produce putrescine (PUT), a basic diamine, from arginine via a three-step pathway. This process starts with arginine decarboxylase that converts arginine to agmatine. Then, the consecutive action of two hydrolytic enzymes, agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase, ultimately produces PUT. An alternative route of PUT biosynthesis requires ornithine decarboxylase that catalyzes direct putrescine biosynthesis. However, some plant species lack this enzyme and rely only on agmatine pathway. The scope of this manuscript concerns the structural characterization of AIH from the model legume plant, Medicago truncatula. MtAIH is a homodimer built of two subunits with a characteristic propeller fold, where five αββαβ repeated units are arranged around the fivefold pseudosymmetry axis. Dimeric assembly of this plant AIH, formed by interactions of conserved structural elements from one repeat, is drastically different from that observed in dimeric bacterial AIHs. Additionally, the structural snapshot of MtAIH in complex with 6-aminohexanamide, the reaction product analog, presents the conformation of the enzyme during catalysis. Our structural results show that MtAIH undergoes significant structural rearrangements of the long loop, which closes a tunnel-shaped active site over the course of the catalytic event. This conformational change is also observed in AIH from Arabidopsis thaliana, indicating the importance of the closed conformation of the gate-keeping loop for the catalysis of plant AIHs.
Putrescine carbamoyltransferase (PutCT) has been postulated to function in the synthesis of putrescine (Put) from an N-carbamoylputrescine (NCPut) intermediate in plants. In pea, PutCT activity was associated entirely with ornithine carbamoyltransferase (OCT) protein, which was purified to homogeneity using an immobilized transition-state analog inhibitor (δN-(phosphonacetyl)-L-ornithine). No evidence for a separate PutCT enzyme, similar to that in Streptococcus [15], or PutCT activity associated with a ‘putrescine synthase’-type multifunctional enzyme [13] was found. OCT carried out the carbamoylation of Put and other diamine and polyamine substrates inefficiently and at non-physiological pH (Put carbamoylation: pH 10.8 optimum, Vmax 0.11 μkat/mg protein, Km=6.7 mM for Put and 1.0 mM for carbamoyl-P), when compared with ornithine carbamoylation (pH 8.5 optimum, Vmax=313.9 μkat/mg protein, Km=4.4 mM for ornithine and 0.6 mM for carbamoyl-P). Different subcellular compartmentation of PutCT activity (chloroplast) and the NCPut substrate (cytosol), coupled with a thermodynamically-unfavorable reverse reaction (i.e., Put synthesis from NCPut), suggest that the OCT-associated PutCT activity does not significantly contribute to in vivo Put synthesis in plants.
Plants are unique eukaryotes that can produce putrescine (PUT), a basic diamine, from arginine via a three-step pathway. This process starts with arginine decarboxylase that converts arginine to agmatine. Then, the consecutive action of two hydrolytic enzymes, agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase, ultimately produces PUT. An alternative route of PUT biosynthesis requires ornithine decarboxylase that catalyzes direct putrescine biosynthesis. However, some plant species lack this enzyme and rely only on agmatine pathway. The scope of this manuscript concerns the structural characterization of AIH from the model legume plant, Medicago truncatula. MtAIH is a homodimer built of two subunits with a characteristic propeller fold, where five αββαβ repeated units are arranged around the fivefold pseudosymmetry axis. Dimeric assembly of this plant AIH, formed by interactions of conserved structural elements from one repeat, is drastically different from that observed in dimeric bacterial AIHs. Additionally, the structural snapshot of MtAIH in complex with 6-aminohexanamide, the reaction product analog, presents the conformation of the enzyme during catalysis. Our structural results show that MtAIH undergoes significant structural rearrangements of the long loop, which closes a tunnel-shaped active site over the course of the catalytic event. This conformational change is also observed in AIH from Arabidopsis thaliana, indicating the importance of the closed conformation of the gate-keeping loop for the catalysis of plant AIHs.
Polyamines (PA) are positively charged low molecular weight aliphatic molecule having two or more amino groups, found in almost all living organisms . Due to polycationic nature, they have high affinity to different anionic cellular components such as DNA, RNA and protein. Major polyamines in plants are diamine putrescine (Put), triamine spermidine (Spd), tetraamine spermine (Spm) and thermospermine (TSpm). (Kusano et al., 2008; Fuell et al., 2010; Tiburcio et al., 2014) . Polyamine plays major role in plant growth, development as well as cell division. They are involved not only in fundamental cellular processes but also in various environmental stresses (Alcazar et al., 2006; Bagni et al., 2006; Kusano et al., 2008) . In plants, PA biosynthesis starts with the formation of Put, which is synthesized from ornithine by ornithine decarboxylase. Putrescine is also synthesized from arginine via agmatine by three sequential reactions catalyzed by arginine decarboxylase (ADC), agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH), and N-carbamoylputrescine aminohydrolase (CPA), respectively. Then, Put is converted to Spd and Spm via two sequential aminopropyl transferase reactions catalyzed by Spd synthase (SPDS) and Spm synthase (SPMS), respectively. In both cases, an aminopropyl residue is transferred from the decarboxylated Sadenosylmethionine which is synthesized by Sadenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) (see review, Kusano, et al., 2008) . The genome of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana does not contain an ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) gene (Hanfrey et al., 2001) . In this organism, it had been believed that two genes, Acaulis 5 (ACL5) and Spermine synthase (SPMS), encode SPMS. However, Knott et al. (2007) reported that the bacterially expressed recombinant ACL5 protein catalyzes the conversion of Spd to T-Spm, but not to Spm, indicating that ACL5 encodes T-Spm synthase. The above discussion indicates that Arabidopsis plants contain four major PAs including T-Spm. T-Spm was first discovered in the thermophilic bacterium Thermus thermophilus (Oshima, 1979) and then found in several plants including Pisum sativum, Vicia sativa and Malus sylvestris (Hamana et al., 1991; Kitashiba et al., 2005) . Recently, Naka et al. (2009) 
Put is synthesized either directly from ornithine by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC; EC 4.1.1.17) or indirectly from arginine via agmatine. The pathway is initiated by the arginine decarboxylase reaction (ADC; EC 4.1. 1.19) . Agmatine is sequentially converted to N-carbamoylputrescine by agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH; EC 3.5.3.12) and finally to Put by N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (CPA; EC 3.5.1.53). Spd and Spm are synthesized from Put by the transfer of aminopropyl groups from decarboxylated Sadenosylmethionine (SAM). These reactions are catalysed by Spd synthase (SPD; EC 2.5.1.16) and Spm synthase (SPM; EC 2.5. 1.22) . The decarboxylated SAM precursor is produced from SAM by S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC; EC 4.1.1.50). The details of polyamine biosynthesis have been reviewed (see e.g. [35, 36, 49, 50] for reviews). An integration of polyamine metabolic pathways into the surrounding metabolic network has been recently published for Arabidopsis [51] .
A number of putrescine-producing L. lactis strains of the subspecies L. lactis subsp. lactis and L. lactis subsp. cremoris isolated from artisanal cheeses have been shown to have a functional agmatine deiminase (AGDI) pathway. This catabolizes agmatine (a decarboxylated derivative of arginine) (11) into putrescine, yielding one molecule of ATP, one molecule of CO 2 , and two ammonium ions (2). The AGDI pathway increases the growth of L. lactis and causes the alkalinization of the culture medium, although it does not seem to be an acid stress resistance mechanism (12). The AGDI cluster of L. lactis is composed of five genes, aguR, aguB, aguD, aguA, and aguC, with the last four being responsible for the conversion of agmatine to putrescine (2, 13). Agmatine enters the cell via AguD (an agmatine-putrescine antiporter encoded by aguD) and is then hydrolyzed to N-carbamoylputrescine and an ammonium ion by AguA (an agmatine deiminase encoded by aguA). AguB is a putrescine carbamoyltransferase encoded by aguB that catalyzes the phosphorolysis of N-carbamoylputrescine, yielding putrescine and carbamoylphosphate. Finally, a phosphate group is transferred from carbamoylphosphate to ADP by AguC (a carbamate kinase encoded by aguC) to generate ATP, CO 2 , and a further ammonium ion. Putrescine is then exchanged for agmatine via the antiporter AguD (2). The protein encoded by aguR showed primary structure similarity to the AguR of Streptococcus mutans, a transcriptional activator of the agmatine deiminase system (14). The aim of the present work was to investigate whether aguR of L. lactis is involved in the transcriptional regulation of the AGDI cluster.
The effect of putrescine (Putr.) and N-carbamoylputrescine (N-CPutr.) fed to excised pea seedlings was studied. Contrary to great toxicity of higher than 0.5% Putr., N-CPutr. even at higher concentration was not toxic for the plants. The detoxication of plant cells by carbamoylation of Putr. was postulated. No differences were found in ornithine carbamoyltransferase (EC 2.1.3.3.) activity between plants fed with Putr. or N-CPutr. The most label from 14 C-putrescine was found in γ-aminobutyric acid. No labeled N-CPutr. was detected. The "oscillatory" mechanism of N-CPutr. synthesis in higher plants was postulated.
In the laboratory, dormant tubers are maintained at 4 C, under humid sand, in darkness and in CO 2 rich air. The natural programmed cell death can be reversed and dormancy can be broken by excising tuber-parenchyma explants and growing them in vitro [15] on culture media supplemented with hormones and PAs, together with mineral salts and sugars. When excised, the explants are subjected to many different environmental factors: increase of O 2 partial pressure, increase of temperature, decrease of CO 2 partial pressure, exposure to light, wounding of peripheral cells, change of mechanical pressure in internal cells, increase of water, hormones and nutrients availability and exposure to a different pH. Consequently, the cells abruptly change their fate and function allowing the identification of the metabolic and morphological parameters involved in the resumption of growth. Fig. 1 . Polyamine biosynthetic and catabolic pathways in plants (A). Abbreviations: ACC, aminocyclopropane-carboxylic acid; ACO, aminocyclopropane-carboxylic acid oxidase; ACS, aminocyclopropane-carboxylic acid synthase; ADC, arginine decarboxylase; AIH, agmatine iminohydrolase; ARGase, arginase; CDC, citrulline decarboxylase; DAO, diamine oxidase; dcSAM, decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine; GABA, g-aminobutyric acid; LDC, lysine decarboxylase; NCPAH, N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase; ODC, ornithine decarboxylase; OTC, ornithine transcarbamoylase; PAO, polyamine oxidase; PMT, putrescine methyltransferase; SAMDC, S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase; SPDS, spermidine synthase; SPMS, spermine synthase; SSAT, spermidine/spermine aminopropyltransferase. (B) Transglutaminase (TGase) catalyzed protein cross-linking between glutamyl-and lysyl-residues or PAs to produce mono-g-glutamyl or bis-g-glutamyl-PA derivatives.
Feeding studies were conducted with healthy Thompson Seedless leaves using compounds that are known to be putrescine precursors in plants. Feeding agmatine or N-carbamoylputrescine caused accumulation of putrescine in the leaves whereas arginine did not lead to increased putrescine levels. Likewise, citrulline, ornithine, and N,N-dicarbamoylputrescine did not lead to increased putrescine. These results indicate that healthy leaves have the enzymes necessary to convert agmatine to putrescine. Free and conjugated putrescine was measured in Cabernet Sauvignon leaves with symptoms of potassium deficiency and compared to the levels in leaves without symptoms. Leaves with symptoms had 26 times more free putrescine than healthy leaves, but the amount of insoluble-conjugated putrescine was the same. Results also suggest that neither the healthy nor the potassium-deficient Cabernet Sauvignon leaves contained soluble-conjugated forms of putrescine. Insoluble-conjugated putrescine was not increased in healthy Thompson Seedless leaves fed either arginine or agmatine, despite a large increase in the free putrescine pool in the leaves given agmatine. It is concluded that the large increase in free putrescine seen in leaves suffering potassium deficiency, or in healthy leaves fed agmatine, does not lead to a change in the insoluble-conjugated putrescine.
Polyamine precursors are ornithine and/or arginine. Ornithine is converted to Put by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), while arginine is converted to Put via agmatine by three steps of enzyme reactions; arginine decarboxylase (ADC), agmatine iminohydrolase, and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase. Put is converted to Spd by Spd synthase, in which another substrate, decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine (dcSAM), is required. dcSAM is synthesized by S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) from S-adenosylmethionine (SAM). Spd is further converted either to Spm by Spm synthase (SPMS) or to T-Spm by T-Spm synthase, also called ACAULIS5 (ACL5). SPMS and ACL5 also require dcSAM as another substrate FIGURE 1 | Exogenous Spm induces the expression of bZIP17, bZIP28, and bZIP60 and their target genes. qRT-PCR was performed using the cDNAs prepared from control-and Spm-treated Arabidopsis seedlings. (A) bZIP17; (B) HB-7; (C) bZIP28; (D) CNX1; (E) bZIP60; (F) Bip3. The transcript level in control Arabidopsis plant was set as 1 and relatively displayed. Values are mean (±SD) from three independent experiments. Asterisks indicate significant difference ( * * P < 0.01). (Kusano et al., 2008; Alcázar et al., 2010; Takahashi and Kakehi, 2010) . In Arabidopsis, the ODC gene is absent (Hanfrey et al., 2001 ). Thus Put is synthesized only by the ADC pathway in this organism. On the other hand, PA catabolism is governed by two enzymes: the one is copper-dependent amine oxidase (CuAO) and the other is polyamine oxidase (PAO; Kusano et al., 2015) . In Arabidopsis, there are more than 10 CuAOs and 5 PAOs. All the latter enzymes are characterized .
Putrescine is ubiquitous in plants as a critical component of primary metabolism (Tiburcio et al. 1997) . In most plants, putrescine is synthesized from ornithine via ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) except for the model plant A. thaliana which does not seem to contain a gene encoding ODC in its genome (Hanfrey et al. 2001 ). An alternate route to putrescine which involves arginine decarboxylation via arginine decarboxylase (ADC) has been identified (Kakkar and Sawhney 2002; Malmberg et al. 1998) . Biochemical studies have suggested that the ODC-mediated route to putrescine is particularly important in providing polyamines for normal cellular division, differentiation, and development. On the other hand, putrescine synthesized via the ADC-route is considered to be necessary for cell expansion and environmental stress responses (Malmberg et al. 1998) . Whether arginine or ornithine is the preferential route to putrescine in tobacco and other alkaloid-producing plants, has been the subject of debate (Chintapakorn and Hamill 2007) . Controversial results about the function of ODC and ADC in root cultures have been reported using difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) and difluoromethylarginine (DFMA) as suicide inhibitors of ODC and ADC, respectively. The biochemical interconversion of ornithine into arginine and vice versa via the urea cycle makes the interpretation of some of these results unclear. Experiments with Heliotropium angiospermum shoots (Birecka et al. 1987) and Senecio vulgaris root cultures (Hartmann et al. 1988 ) have shown that L-arginine is the only source of putrescine for pyrrolizidine alkaloid formation. Consistent with this, DFMO and DFMA experiments on transgenic D. stramonium root culture confirmed that the L-arginine/agmatine/N-carbamoylputrescine/putrescine pathway (involving ADC) is more important than the L-ornithine/putrescine pathway (involving ODC) for putrescine formation (Robins et al. 1990 ). Using suicide inhibitors combined with labeling experiments, Tiburcio and co-workers (Tiburcio et al. 1991) demonstrated that in Nicotiana tabacum cultures L-arginine was also the principal source of putrescine for tobacco alkaloids. However, more recently, the antisense mediated reduction of arginine decarboxylase activity in N. tabacum was shown to cause only minimal variation in the overall alkaloid profile (Chintapakorn and Hamill 2007) .
Senescence of Petunia hybrida L. flowers is accompanied by a climacteric pattern in ethylene production and a rapid decline in the levels of putrescine and spermidine during the preclimacteric phase. The decrease in spermidine is caused by the decline in the availability of putrescine which is initially synthesized from L-arginine via agmatine and N-carbamoylputrescine. Inhibition of putrescine and polyamine synthesis resulted in a rapid drop in the levels of putrescine and spermidine without resulting in a concomitant increase in ethylene production. These results indicate that polyamine synthesis is not involved in the control of ethylene synthesis through its effect on the availability of S-adenosylmethionine, and is confirmed by the results obtained with pollinated flowers. Treatment with polyamines may stimulate or suppress ethylene production in the corolla, depending on the concentrations applied. In unpollinated flowers the onset of the climacteric rise in ethylene production was accelerated after treatment with polyamines. However, in pollinated flowers this process was delayed as a result of treatment with low concentrations of polyamines. The effects of exogenous polyamines on ethylene production in both pollinated and unpollinated flowers indicate that ethylene synthesis in these flowers is not regulated by a feedback control mechanism. Although polyamines do not play a key role in the control of ethylene production during the early stages of senescence through their effect on the availability of S-adenosylmethionine, it appears that they play an important role in some of the other processes involved in senescence.
Putrescine can be synthesized either directly from ornithine by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC; the speC product) or indirectly from arginine via arginine decarboxylase (ADC; the speA product). The authors identified the speA and speC genes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1. The activities of the two decarboxylases were similar and each enzyme alone appeared to direct sufficient formation of the polyamine for normal growth. A mutant defective in both speA and speC was a putrescine auxotroph. In this strain, agmatine deiminase (the aguA product) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (the aguB product), which were initially identified as the catabolic enzymes of agmatine, biosynthetically convert agmatine to putrescine in the ADC pathway: a double mutant of aguAB and speC was a putrescine auxotroph. AguA was purified as a homodimer of 43 kDa subunits and AguB as a homohexamer of 33 kDa subunits. AguA specifically deiminated agmatine with K(m) and K(cat) values of 0.6 mM and 4.2 s(-1), respectively. AguB was specific to N-carbamoylputrescine and the K(m) and K(cat) values of the enzyme for the substrate were 0.5 mM and 3.3 s(-1), respectively. Whereas AguA has no structural relationship to any known C-N hydrolases, AguB is a protein of the nitrilase family that performs thiol-assisted catalysis. Inhibition by SH reagents and the conserved cysteine residue in AguA and its homologues suggested that this enzyme is also involved in thiol-mediated catalysis.
The cloning, expression and characterization of plant agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH, also known as agmatine deiminase, EC 3.5.3.12) is described. Recombinant AIH of Arabidopsis thaliana forms dimers and catalyzes the specific conversion of agmatine to N-carbamoylputrescine and ammonia. Biochemical data suggested that cysteine side chains are involved in catalysis. However, site-directed mutagenesis of the two highly conserved cysteine residues of AIH showed that these cysteines are important but not essential for activity, arguing against a thioester substrate–enzyme intermediate during catalysis. This work represents the completion of the cloning of the arginine decarboxylase pathway genes of higher plants.
Abstract ::: Putrescine transcarbamoylase, EC 2.1.3.x (carbamoylphosphate:putrescine transcarbamoylase), has been purified from Streptococcus faecalis 10C1 grown on agmatine as primary energy source. The formation of N-carbamoylputrescine from putrescine and carbamoylphosphate serves as a convenient and sensitive assay for this enzymatic activity. The enzyme catalyzes both the phosphorolysis arsenolysis of N-carbamoylputrescine. Arginine does not induce the synthesis of putrescine transcarbamoylase in S. faecalis. Furthermore, the putrescine transcarbamoylase activity is easily separated from ornithine transcarbamoylase activity by gel filtration on Sephadex G-100 indicating that the two activities are associated with different proteins. The significance of this new enzyme in the fermentation of agmatine and its relation to the other known transcarbamoylases are discussed.
Summary ::: ::: ::: We have identified gene fusions of polyamine biosynthetic enzymes S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (AdoMetDC, speD) and aminopropyltransferase (speE) orthologues in diverse bacterial phyla. Both domains are functionally active and we demonstrate the novel de novo synthesis of the triamine spermidine from the diamine putrescine by fusion enzymes from β-proteobacterium Delftia acidovorans and δ-proteobacterium Syntrophus aciditrophicus, in a ΔspeDE gene deletion strain of Salmonella enterica sv. Typhimurium. Fusion proteins from marine α-proteobacterium Candidatus Pelagibacter ubique, actinobacterium Nocardia farcinica, chlorobi species Chloroherpeton thalassium, and β-proteobacterium D. acidovorans each produce a different profile of non-native polyamines including sym-norspermidine when expressed in Escherichia coli. The different aminopropyltransferase activities together with phylogenetic analysis confirm independent evolutionary origins for some fusions. Comparative genomic analysis strongly indicates that gene fusions arose by merger of adjacent open reading frames. Independent fusion events, and horizontal and vertical gene transfer contributed to the scattered phyletic distribution of the gene fusions. Surprisingly, expression of fusion genes in E. coli and S. Typhimurium revealed novel latent spermidine catabolic activity producing non-native 1,3-diaminopropane in these species. We have also identified fusions of polyamine biosynthetic enzymes agmatine deiminase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase in archaea, and of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase and ornithine decarboxylase in the single-celled green alga Micromonas.
Two highly similar genes (At2g22910 and At4g37670) have been predicted as NAGS in the Arabidopsis genome. They share structural similarity to the E. coli argA gene, in terms of exhibiting an N-terminal N-acetylglutamate kinase (NAGK) domain and a C-terminal GAT domain (Slocum, 2005) . Using the massively-parallel signature sequencing expression profiles for Arabidopsis genes involved in arginine synthesis and degradation, Slocum found that At4g37670 is more transcriptionaly active than At2g22910 (Slocum, 2005) . To date, the sequences of a number of putative NAGS expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from various plant species, Fig. 1 . The L-arginine biosynthetic pathway and its association to proline and polyamine biosynthesis. NAGS, N-acetylglutamate synthase; NAGK, N-acetylglutamate kinase; NAGPR, Nacetylglutamate 5-phosphate reductase; NAOAT, N-acetylornithine transaminase; GAT, glutamate N-acetyltransferase; NAOD, N 2 -acetylornithine deacetylase; OCT, ornithine carbamoyltransferase; ASSY, argininosuccinate synthase; ASL, argininosuccinate lyase; d-OAT, ornithine-d-aminotransferase; P5CR, D 1 pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase; P5CD, D 1 pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase; ODC, ornithine decarboxylase; ADC, arginine decarboxylase; ADI, agmatine deiminase; CPA, N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase; SPDS, spermidine synthase; SPMS, spermine synthase. In plants, NAGS and mainly NAGK present the possible regulation points of arginine biosynthesis since they are feedbackinhibited by arginine and alleviated by glutamate. Steps i-iv, the ornithine pathway; step v, the cyclic pathway; step vi: the linear pathway, steps vii-ix, the arginine pathway.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 utilizes agmatine as the sole carbon and nitrogen source via two reactions catalyzed successively by agmatine deiminase (encoded by aguA; also called agmatine iminohydrolase) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (encoded by aguB). The aguBA and adjacent aguR genes were cloned and characterized. The predicted AguB protein (M(r) 32,759; 292 amino acids) displayed sequence similarity (< or =60% identity) to enzymes of the beta-alanine synthase/nitrilase family. While the deduced AguA protein (M(r) 41,190; 368 amino acids) showed no significant similarity to any protein of known function, assignment of agmatine deiminase to AguA in this report discovered a new family of carbon-nitrogen hydrolases widely distributed in organisms ranging from bacteria to Arabidopsis. The aguR gene encoded a putative regulatory protein (M(r) 24,424; 221 amino acids) of the TetR protein family. Measurements of agmatine deiminase and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase activities indicated the induction effect of agmatine and N-carbamoylputrescine on expression of the aguBA operon. The presence of an inducible promoter for the aguBA operon in the aguR-aguB intergenic region was demonstrated by lacZ fusion experiments, and the transcription start of this promoter was localized 99 bp upstream from the initiation codon of aguB by S1 nuclease mapping. Experiments with knockout mutants of aguR established that expression of the aguBA operon became constitutive in the aguR background. Interaction of AguR overproduced in Escherichia coli with the aguBA regulatory region was demonstrated by gel retardation assays, supporting the hypothesis that AguR serves as the negative regulator of the aguBA operon, and binding of agmatine and N-carbamoylputrescine to AguR would antagonize its repressor function.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is known to break down arginine by the arginine deiminase pathway. An additional pathway has now been found whereby arginine is converted to putrescine with agmatine and N-carbamoylputrescine as intermediates. The following enzyme activities belonging to this pathway were detected in crude extracts: arginine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.19), which catalyses the release of CO2 from arginine to give agmatine; agmatine deiminase (EC 3.5.3.12), which degrades agmatine to N-carbamoylputrescine; and N-carbamoylputrescine amidinohydrolase (EC 3.5.3.-), which then removes the ureido group of carbamoylputrescine. In crude extracts, arginine decarboxylase activity was stimulated by pyridoxal phosphate, Mg2+ and by the products of the catabolic pathway, putrescine and spermidine. Growth of P. aeruginosa on arginine as the sole carbon and nitrogen source markedly increased the activity of arginine decarboxylase. Agmatine and N-carbamoylputrescine induced the synthesis of agmatine deiminase and N-carbamoylputrescine hydrolase. Addition of succinate or citrate to medium containing arginine or agmatine led to repression of the enzymes involved in the arginine decarboxylase pathway. Moreover, the repression of agmatine deiminase and N-carbamoylputrescine hydrolase was further increased when P. aeruginosa was grown in media with agmatine plus glutamine or agmatine plus succinate and ammonia. This suggests that the expression of the agmatine pathway may be regulated by carbon catabolite repression as well as nitrogen catabolite repression.
Abstract Two genes encoding the putative polyamine biosynthetic enzymes agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (CPA) were cloned from the chloroviruses PBCV-1, NY-2A and MT325. They were expressed in Escherichia coli to form C-terminal (His)6-tagged proteins and the recombinant proteins were purified by Ni2+-binding affinity chromatography. The biochemical properties of the two enzymes are similar to AIH and CPA enzymes from Arabidopsis thaliana and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Together with the previously known virus genes encoding ornithine/arginine decarboxlyase (ODC/ADC) and homospermidine synthase, the chloroviruses have genes that encode a complete set of functional enzymes that synthesize the rare polyamine homospermidine from arginine via agmatine, N-carbamoylputrescine and putrescine. The PBCV-1 aih and cpa genes are expressed early during virus infection together with the odc/adc gene, suggesting that biosynthesis of putrescine is important in early stages of viral replication. The aih and cpa genes are widespread in the chlorella viruses.
Two genes encoding the putative polyamine biosynthetic enzymes agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH) and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (CPA) were cloned from the chloroviruses PBCV-1, NY-2A and MT325. They were expressed in Escherichia coli to form C-terminal (His) 6 -tagged proteins and the recombinant proteins were purified by Ni 2+ -binding affinity chromatography. The biochemical properties of the two enzymes are similar to AIH and CPA enzymes from Arabidopsis thaliana and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Together with the previously known virus genes encoding ornithine/arginine decarboxlyase (ODC/ADC) and homospermidine synthase, the chloroviruses have genes that encode a complete set of functional enzymes that synthesize the rare polyamine homospermidine from arginine via agmatine, N-carbamoylputrescine and putrescine. The PBCV-1 aih and cpa genes are expressed early during virus infection together with the odc/adc gene, suggesting that biosynthesis of putrescine is important in early stages of viral replication. The aih and cpa genes are widespread in the chlorella viruses.
Polyamines are small cationic organic molecules of vital importance for all living organisms. The primary polyamines in eukaryotes are putrescine and the putrescine-derived spermidine and spermine (Fig. 1A) . Putrescine is formed either directly by the decarboxylation of ornithine by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) or indirectly from arginine by the sequential action of arginine decarboxylase (ADC), agmatine iminohydrolase (AIH, also known as agmatine deiminase), and N-carbamoylputrescine amidohydrolase (CPA). Both pathways occur in plants although the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana lacks an ODC gene (Hanfrey et al., 2001) and is therefore completely dependent on the ADC pathway.
The genes for the polyamine biosynthetic enzymes AIH and CPA from A. thaliana were recently identified (Illingworth et al., 2003; Janowitz et al., 2003; Piotrowski et al., 2003) . This identification was due to their similarity to the corresponding enzymes from Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1, which were identified previously (Nakada et al., 2001; Nakada and Itoh, 2003) . Database searches revealed that homologs of both enzymes are also encoded by PBCV-1. Here we report the characterization of these genes and their products from PBCV-1, as well as from chlorella viruses NY-2A and MT325. Our results establish that chlorella viruses encode a complete polyamine biosynthetic pathway that allows the formation of homospermidine from arginine via agmatine, N-carbamoylputrescine, and putrescine.
