The mevalonate pathway is an essential part of isoprenoid biosynthesis leading to production of a diverse class of >30,000 biomolecules including cholesterol, heme, and all steroid hormones. In trypanosomatids, the mevalonate pathway also generates dolichols, which play an essential role in construction of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) molecules that anchor variable surface proteins (VSGs) to the plasma membrane. Isoprenoid biosynthesis involves one of the most highly regulated enzymes in nature, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), which catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonic acid. The enzyme mevalonate kinase (MVK) subsequently converts mevalonic acid to 5-phosphomevalonic acid. Trypanosoma evansi is a flagellate protozoan parasite that causes the disease "Surra" in domesticated large mammals, with great economic impact. T. evansi has only a trypomastigote bloodstream form and requires constant modification of the variant surface glycoprotein (VSG) coat for protection against the host immune system. We identified MVK of T. evansi (termed TeMVK) and performed a preliminary characterization at molecular, biochemical, and cellular levels. TeMVK from parasite extract displayed molecular weight ~36 kDa, colocalized with aldolase (a glycosomal marker enzyme) in glycosomes, and is structurally similar to Leishmania major MVK. Interestingly, the active form of TeMVK is the tetrameric oligomer form, in contrast to other MVKs in which the dimeric form is active. Despite lacking organized mitochondria, T. evansi synthesizes both HMGCR transcripts and protein. Both MVK and HMGCR are expressed in T. evansi during the course of infection in animals, and therefore are potential targets for therapeutic drug design.
Abstract 1. 1. Metabolism of mevalonic acid (MVA) to phosphorylated derivatives has been studied in 1–3 day chicks kidneys. In all experiments only 5-phosphomevalonic acid (MVAP) and 5-pyrophosphomevalonic acid (MVAPP) were observed as phosphorylated derivatives of [2- 14 C]MVA. 2. 2. Properties of mevalonate-activating enzymes from neonatal chick kidney have been established. Supplementation of Mg 2+ or Mn 2+ strongly increased the MVA phosphorylation. The enzymes require ATP as nucleotide for optimal activity. ITP can also be utilized less effectively. 3. 3. Addition of 0.1 mM Hg 2+ or 0..01 mM p -hydorxymerucibenzoate inhibited MVA phosphorylation, thus suggeting that thiol groups may participate in the active site of mevalonate kinase from chick kidney. However, unlike other mevalonate kinases, the enzyme from chick kidney did not require thiol group protectors as activators. 4. 4. Phosphomevalonae kinase was completely inactivated after 5–10 min treatment at 50°C, whereas mevalonate kinase was found to retain its activity in the same conditions. Exposure to 65°C for 5–15 min resulted in the inactivation of mevalonate kinase.
Abstract Isolated needles of Pinus radiata incorporate radioactive orthophosphate into ATP, pyrophosphomevalonic acid, and isopentenyl pyrophosphate. Radioactivity from 2-C 14 -labeled mevalonic acid was found in the last two compounds and in phosphomevalonic acid when an extract from Pinus seedlings was used.
Mevalonic kinase activity has been demonstrated in extracts from several plant species. Pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo) seedlings had the highest activity of the various plant materials tested, and they were therefore used as a source of the enzyme for further investigations. Mevalonic kinase from pumpkin seedlings was partially purified, and its properties were investigated. Maximum activity is obtained with ATP as the phosphate donor, though several other nucleotides can also be utilized. A divalent metal ion is required: Mn2+ is the most effective, but several others, including Mg2+, can replace it. The optimum pH for the enzyme is about 5.7. The enzyme remains in the supernatant solution after fractionation of the cell components by centrifugation, suggesting that it is associated with the soluble cytoplasm. The product of the enzymic reaction contains by analysis one mole of phosphate per mole of mevalonate, and gives RF values in paper chromatography which agree with published values for 5-phosphomevalonic acid. With crude enzyme extracts this product is partly converted into a second derivative, which is tentatively identified, from RF values, as 5-pyrophosphomevalonic acid.
Abstract An enzyme preparation from yeast is described which catalyzes the phosphorylation of 5-phosphomevalonic acid to 5-pyrophosphomevalonic acid in the presence of ATP. The new product was identified, isolated, and demonstrated to participate in the back reaction as well in the further reactions leading to squalene. A procedure is described for the enzymic synthesis of (+)mevalonic acid-1-C 14 . With this labeled compound it was shown that the decarboxylation of 5-pyrophosphomevalonic acid to isopentenylpyrophosphate is catalyzed by a partially purified enzyme preparation which requires ATP.
The LH receptor (LHR) plays an essential role in mediating LH actions in the steroidogenic cells of the ovary (theca, granulosa, and luteal cells) and testis (Leydig cells). It belongs to the G protein-coupled superfamily of receptors with seven transmembrane domains (1) and it is one of the most studied peptide hormone receptors. After extensive characterization of its hormone binding properties in the early to mid 1970s (2–10), in the ensuing 40 years or so, tremendous progress has been made in understanding various functions of the LHR, including the regulation of cellular signaling (11–14), expression of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), the protein that transports cholesterol to the inner mitochondrial membrane for side-chain cleavage (P450scc, CYP11A) (14–17), endocytic and selective delivery of exogenous cholesterol to the steroidogenic cells mediated by low-density lipoprotein receptor, and scavenger receptor class B, type, respectively (18–21), and the events connected with the mobilization of cholesterol from the intracellular stores (22, 23) and the cellular cholesterol trafficking (17, 24). However, relatively less is known about the molecular and cellular regulation of LHR expression (11, 12). Until recently, based on the available data, it was generally believed that LHR expression is primarily regulated at the level of gene transcription (1, 11). In recent years, however, the seminal studies carried out by Dr Jerry Menon's laboratory at the University of Michigan have led to the realization that LHR is also subject to posttranscription (25, 26). In fact, the overwhelming evidence now suggests that these mechanisms are major contributors to the LH-induced down-regulation of LHR. Initial studies reported by Menon and colleagues demonstrated that the expression of mevalonate kinase (MVK), a key enzyme involved in cholesterol biosynthesis, that catalyzes the conversion of mevalonic acid to 5-phosphomevalonic acid, is up-regulated under the conditions that promote the repression of the LHR expression (27–29). The follow-up studies demonstrated that MVK can directly bind to the coding region of LHR mRNA and inhibits its translational capacity (27–31); because of this specialized function, MVK was renamed by the Menon laboratory as “LHR mRNA binding protein (LRBP).” Both rat and human granulosa cells also express high levels of LRBP and the functional studies demonstrated that it interferes with the LHR expression in a manner similar to that seen in the luteinized ovary (32–34). The presence to MVK (LRBP) activity has been demonstrated in the interstitial cells of rat testis (35) but so far no functional studies have been carried out in LH responsive Leydig cells. Recent evidence suggests that in addition to gonadotropin, MVK/LRBP, a member of the oxysterol responsive gene family, is also regulated transcriptionally by the cholesterol responsive transcription factors, sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1a (SREBP-1a) and SREBP-2 (36). These various findings can be interpreted to suggest that ovarian steroid hormone biosynthesis, which is under LH regulation via LHR and is dependent on the cholesterol metabolism for the availability of cholesterol substrate, are integrated through a common regulatory mechanism acting at the level of LHR mRNA expression.
Homogenates and subcellular fractions of the intimamedia of hog aorta have been prepared and examined for the presence of the enzymes catalyzing the conversion of acetyl CoA to squalene. Enzyme activities effecting the conversion of acetyl CoA to 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutarate (HMG); HMG CoA to mevalonic acid; mevalonic acid to 5-phosphomevalonic acid, 5-pyrophosphomevalonic acid, and isopentenyl pyrophosphate; isopentenyl pyrophosphate to farnesyl pyrophosphate; and farnesyl pyrophosphate to squalene have been demonstrated in these homogenates. The overall conversion of mevalonate to squalene has also been demonstrated with recombined fractions of hog aorta homogenates. Data are also presented that suggest that phosphatases present in the crude homogenates act to cleave farnesyl pyrophosphate to farnesol, and phospho- and pyrophosphomevalonate to mevalonate.
Phospho-MVA (P-MVA) is efficiently converted to squalene and appears to be the first product in the over-all transformation. Evidence has been presented that P-MVA is a phosphate ester4 and, as will be shown later, can be assumed to be 5-phosphomevalonic acid. We have also reported briefly6 that ATP is still required for the further metabolism of P-MVA, suggesting the existence of additional phosphorylation steps. We now wish to describe a second and a third phosphorylated intermediate (II and III) which are formed during the conversion of MVA to squalene. 
Mevalonate phosphorylation was studied in neonatal chick brain. Formation of phosphorylated derivatives of mevalonic acid increased with the pH in the range assayed (5.5–9.5). Phosphomevalonate kinase was completely inactivated after treatment at 50°C for 5–10 min, whereas mevalonate kinase was found to retain its activity under the same conditions. Exposure to 65°C for 5 min resulted in the inactivation of mevalonate kinase. Both mevalonate-activating enzymes from chick brain were located primarily in the soluble fraction. The amounts of phosphomevalonic acid and pyrophosphomevalonic acid did not show a significant diurnal variation to suggest the presence of a circadian rhythm in either kinase. Cholesterol feeding and fasting had no effect on mevalonate phosphorylation by neonatal chick brain.
The quantitative role of the brain and the kidney of the chick the phosphorylation of mevalonic acid was studied in the early steps of development. In both tissues no significant differences were found in the amount of phosphomevalonic acid formed until 4 days, but a sharp decrease between 4 and 6 days was observed. The amount of pyrophosphomevalonic acid formed showed some change with age, but this change was relatively small when compared with the changes in the phosphomevalonic acid formed. According to the function of the brain and the kidney in the sterol and nonsterol pathways in the metabolism of mevalonic acid during neonatal development of chick, an important role for the mevalonate kinase during myelination can be suggested.
Abstract Cell-free extracts and acetone powder preparations from Agave americana phosphorylated mevalonic acid (MVA) to phosphomevalonic acid (MVAP) and pyrophosphomevalonic acid (MVAPP) through reactions catalyzed by mevalonate kinase and phosphomevalonate kinase. Both activities are maximal at pH 7·0. Glutathione and mercaptoethanol increase the activity. The formation of MVAP and MVAPP reaches its maximal level after 0·5 hr of incubation. Flowers of the Agave show more activity than leaves and scape. The addition of NAF prevents the dephosphorylation of the compounds formed.
Abstract The stimulation by β-ionone of carotenoid and ergosterol biosynthesis in Phycomyces blakesleenus was studied. [914C-]-β-ionone was synthesized and its utilization by growing cultures of P. blakesleeanus was investigated. The results demonstrate that β-ionone stimulates general isoprenoid biosynthesis in a catalytic manner. Experiments with specific inhibitors of protein synthesis indicated that β-ionone does not act via an enzyme induction mechanism. The incorporation of labelled intermediates indicated that the biochemical site of action of β-ionone very likely lies in an area between 5-phosphomevalonic acid and γ,γ-dimethylallypyrophosphate. In addition, kinetic studies show that β-ionone does not serve as a diverting agent capable of channeling sterol intermediates into the production of carotenoids.
Abstract 1. 1. Mevalonate phosphorylation has been studied in neonatal chick kidneys. All mevalonate-activating enzymes were essentially located in the soluble fraction. 2. 2. Formation of phosphorylated derivatives of mevalonic acid increased with the pH in the range assayed (5.5–9.5). 3. 3. The amounts of phosphomevalonic acid and pyrophosphomevalonic acid did not show a significant diurnal variation to suggest the presence of a circadian rhythm in both kinases. 4. 4. Cholesterol feeding and fasting had no effect on mevalonate phosphorylation by neonatal chick kidney.
In phytoene biosynthesis from mevalonic acid and 5-phosphomevalonic acid by the enzyme preparation from the mutant of Staphylococcus aureus, a phosphorus-containing substance has been isolated as an intermediate compound. After purification by paper chromatography, column chromatography and paper electrophoresis, this substance has been shown to contain phosphorus and mevalonic acid in the molar ratio of 2:1. From its behavior with regard to prostatic phosphomonoesterase, together with the above-mentioned results, this substance has been concluded to be 5-pyrophosphomevalonic acid.
• Mevalonate kinase forming 5-phosphomevalonic acid from mevalonic acid • Phosphomevalonate kinase forming 5-pyrophosphomevalonic acid from 5-phosphomevalonic acid • Pyrophosphomevalonate decarboxylase forming 3-isopentyl-pyrophosphate from 5-pyrophosphomevalonic acid • Isopentyl-pyrophosphate isomerase forming 3,3-dimethyl-pyrophosphate from 3-isopentylpyrophosphate • Dimethylallyltransferase forming in a two-step process geranyl pyrophosphate from 3,3-dimethylpyrophosphate • Farnesyl pyrophosphate from geranyl pyrophosphate • Squalene synthetase forming squalene from farnesyl pyrophosphate • Squalene epoxidase forming 2,3-oxidosqualene from squalene • 2,3-Oxidosqualene cyclase forming lanosterol from 2,3-oxidosqualene
