A method for the determination of methyl mercury, ethylmercuric and phenylmercury residues in fish were developed using HPCL-AFS method. Sample was defatted by acetone, digested by HCl, extracted by dichloromethane and then water-ealing treated with blowing nitrogen, before HPLC-AFS detection. Results showed that, within the ranges of concentration of 2~50 μg/kg, the recoveries of the three compounds ranged from 75.8% to 84.2%, and the coefficients of variation were between 3.5% and 7.8%. The limits of method for methyl mercury, ethylmercuric and phenylmercury residues were 1 μg/kg, 2 μg/kg and μg/kg, respectively (S/N=3). This method was simple, sensitive and precise, which could be used for qualification and quantification analysis requirement for methylmercury, ethylmercuric and phenylmercury residues in fish.
Pentafluorophenylmercuric carboxylates, C6F5HgOCOR (R = CF3, CHF2, CH2F, or CH3), have been prepared by reaction of pentafluorobenzene with the appropriate mercuric carboxylate. The compounds are monomeric in toluene, and their infrared spectra suggest the presence of unidentate carboxylate groups. Mercuration of pentafluorobenzene with mercuric trifluoroacetate, followed by reaction of the crude product with sodium iodide in aqueous ethanol, gives a good yield of bispentafluorophenylmercury.
The ultrafast dynamics of the photochromic reaction of dithizonatophenylmercury(II) was recently reported. For purpose of investigating the effect of electronically different substituents (X = o-F, m-F, p-F, p-Cl, o-CH3, m-CH3, p-CH3, m,p-diCH3, p-OCH3, o-SCH3, and p-SCH3) on this reaction, a series of phenyl-substituted dithizones were synthesized and complexed with phenylmercury(II). A variation of more than 3 ps in ground state repopulation times was observed, with the o-methyl derivative absorbing both at shortest wavelength and having the fastest repopulation time, while the p-S-methyl derivative lies at the opposite extremity. An increase in both decay times and λmax values is generally reflected by an increase in electron density in the chromophore. Ultrafast rates also proved to be dependent on solvent polarity, while a profound solvatochromic effect was observed in the transition state absorbance. Density functional theory realistically simulated isomer stabilities, electronic spectra and molecular orbitals. Increased electron density enhances stability in the photoexcited blue isomer relative to the orange resting state, as seen from a comparison between orange and blue isomer total bonding energies. A linear trend between computed HOMO energies and experimental λmax of related aliphatic substituted derivatives was found.
The broad-spectrum mercurial-resistance plasmid pDU1358 was analyzed by cloning the resistance determinants and preparing a physical and genetic map of a 45-kilobase (kb) region of the plasmid that contains two separate mercurial-resistance operons that mapped about 20 kb apart. One encoded narrow-spectrum mercurial resistance to Hg2+ and a few organomercurials; the other specified broad-spectrum resistance to phenylmercury and additional organomercurials. Each determinant governed mercurial transport functions. Southern DNA X DNA hybridization experiments using gene-specific probes from the plasmid R100 mer operon indicated close homology with the R100 determinant. The 2153 base pairs of the promoter-distal part of the broad-spectrum Hg2+-resistance operon of pDU1358 were sequenced. This region included the 3'-terminal part of the merA gene, merD, unidentified reading frame URF1, and a part of URF2 homologous to previously sequenced determinants of plasmid R100. Between the merA and merD genes, an open reading frame encoding a 212 amino acid polypeptide was identified as the merB gene that determines the enzyme organomercurial lyase that cleaves the C--Hg bond of phenylmercury.
The processing of culture medium of rabbit synovial fibroblasts led to the isolation of three stromelysin-1 (MMP-3) cleavage products: A 31-kDa protein, which represents a C-truncated latent stromelysin-1, an active stromelysin-1 of 21 kDa, that originates from the 31-kDa proform by activation. A third protein had a molecular mass of 25 kDa representing the C-terminal part of prostromelysin-1 and is missing in the C-truncated latent stromelysin-1. The activation process of human prostromelysin-1 in vitro is known to lead to an active stromelysin-1 with a relative molecular mass of 45 kDa by removing the N-terminal prodomain. This active stromelysin-1 is further processed to a lower molecular mass active form of 28 kDa. Our results obtained for the highly homologous rabbit stromelysin-1 indicate that another activation pathway is possible. In a first step prostromelysin-1 is hydrolysed between Met261-Glu generating a C-truncated latent stromelysin-1, which is activated by cleavage of the Thr83-Phe bond to the 21-kDa stromelysin-1. The latent C-truncated stromelysin-1 is slowly converted even at 4 degrees C into the active form. In the presence of 50 microM ZnCl2 this activation was prevented for at least three weeks. The activation rate is largely enhanced by aminophenylmercury acetate and especially by trypsin. The differences of the 21-kDa stromelysin-1 to a 28-kDa stromelysin-1 isolated from human rheumatoid synovial fluids described earlier are discussed.
The effect of ingestion of phenylmercury acetate (PhMA), a fungicide of wide agricultural application, on the histoenzymatic pattern of the thalamic nuclei was investigated. It has been shown that in rats administered via a gastric tube with 8 mg of PhMA for 10 consecutive days, a considerable drop of AChE, BuTJ, acP and ATPase activities in many thalamic nuclei was found. Beside the inhibition of many enzymes, TPPase and NsE activities were increased. The histoenzymatic response of the individual thalamic nuclei to PhMA intoxication was highly differentiated. A detailed list of results obtained are presented in tables I and II.
A single crystal of phenylmercury chloride (PhHgCl) was obtained by serendipity from a solution of diphenylmercury (HgPh2) and dihydrolipoic acid in tetrahydrofuran / carbon tetrachloride. The crystal structure of PhHgCl is pseudotetragonal. It is best described in the orthorhombic space group Cmma with a = 6.856(1), b = 6.882(1), c = 14.309(2) Å (at 193 K), and Z = 4. The Cl-Hg-C moiety of the PhHgCl molecule is exactly linear. The bond lengths at the Hg atom are Hg-Cl 2.345(2) and Hg-C 2.044(9) Å. In the crystal, the molecules are arranged in double layers parallel to the a,b plane. In a model medium for the gastric juice (0.1 M DCl in D2O / [D8]dioxan, 37 °C), HgPh2 reacts to form PhHgCl. HgCl2, which would result from complete dearylation, cannot be isolated from the reaction mixture. However, it appears that a small equilibrium concentration of HgCl2 may be present, because on addition of 1,4,7-trithiacyclononane (ttcn) and diethyl ether, the dichloride can be trapped as solid [Hg(ttcn)2][HgCl4]. We estimate that after oral uptake of HgPh2 20 -90% are transformed into PhHgCl in the stomach after 30 min
The measured distortion polarizations of a group of bis-arylmercury compounds show that they do not exhibit exalted atom polarizations. The apparent orientation polarization of each is appreciable. Two of them, which are substituted symmetrically with methoxyl or nitro, exhibit moments expected from the rotation which is generated in such substances. By comparison of bis-4-bromophenylmercury202 with the analogue containing the ordinary isotopic mixture of mercury the apparent moments are shown to be unrelated to nuclear asymmetry. The conclusion is unaltered that the apparent moments of bis-arylmercury compounds are due to effective non-linearity in the C—Hg—C bond.
Mercury exists in two forms in environment, inorganic salts and organic compounds. Determination of mercury is very important, due to its health effects. In the present research, diphenylation of mercury using phenylboronic acid as a derivatization reagent was used for the determination of Hg(II) in real water samples. A simple, rapid and cheap method named dispersive liquid–liquid microextraction was used for the extraction of analyte under the following conditions: extraction solvent 16 μL of carbon tetrachloride, disperser solvent 1 mL of ethanol and sample volume 5 mL. Under the optimal conditions, the enrichment factor for diphenylmercury was 931 and the limit of detection calculated on the basis of five replicates was 0.004 μg mL−1. The repeatability of the method expresses as relative standard deviation was 5.1 (n = 6). The linear range was between 0.01 and 10 μg mL−1. The performance of the proposed technique was evaluated for the determination of mercury in different environmental water samples.
Benzyl radicals, generated by the pyrolysis of dibenzylmercury, do not appear to react with phenanthrene or 9,10-dihydrophenanthrene. No products derived from either of the solvents were detected.Phenyl radicals, generated by the pyrolysis of diphenylmercury, abstracted hydrogen from 9,10-dihydroanthracene to give benzene and anthracene.
Two methods are proposed for determining the vapours of certain organomercury compounds in air, at concentrations in the region of 10 µg of mercury per cu.m. The mercurial vapours are collected either on a glass-fibre pad treated with cadmium sulphide, or on a fluidised bed of active carbon. Mercury vapour is released by heating, and is determined by comparing the colour produced on selenium sulphide test-papers with a range of standard colours. The cadmium sulphide method is applicable to the determination of ethylmercury chloride, ethylmercury phosphate, diphenylmercury and methylmercury dicyandiamide; the fluidised-bed method is also applicable to this range of compounds and, in addition, to diethyl mercury. Mercurial dusts can be determined by the cadmium sulphide method, and mercury vapour by a slight modification of the fluidised-bed technique. In both methods the apparatus used is simple to manipulate and the time needed for a complete determination is less than 30 minutes.
Abstract A direct visual titration of mercury (II) with sodium tetraphenylboron (“Kalignost”) is described Phenylmercurie salts are formed and the end-point is indicated by a turbidity of insoluble diphenylmercury.
A sensitive method for simultaneous determination of organic and inorganic mercury species has been developed and is presented in this study. The method is based on complex formation of mercury species with the emetine dithiocarbamate (emetine-CS2) ligand, HPLC separation, and tris(2,2′-bipyridine)ruthenium(III) chemiluminescence detection. The complexation reactions of the mercury species and emetine-CS2 ligand occurred instantaneously upon the addition of emetine-CS2 solution to the solution containing the mercury species. The complete separation of these complexes was achieved using an ODS column with 20 mM NaH2PO4-acetonitrile (52:48, v/v) containing 30 mM NaClO4 as an ion-pair reagent. The calibration graphs of these complexes were linear in the range from 1–100 µg/L. The detection limits were 0.27 µg/L, 0.33 µg/L, 0.39 µg/L, and 0.17 µg/L for methylmercury, ethylmercury, phenylmercury, and the mercury ion, respectively, at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3. The developed technique was validated by analyz...
Abstract The preparation, spectroscopic characterization, and X-ray structures of a number of phenylmercury dithiolates (xanthate and dithiocarbamate) are reported. The solid state structures feature monodentate dithiolate ligands and approximate linear geometries about the mercury atoms. The HgS distances fall within the relatively narrow range of 2.374(4)–2.388(2) A in these compounds. The presence of additional Hg ⋯ S contacts also characterize these structures; the number and strength of these interactions depending on the nature of the dithiolate ligand. Crystals of PhHg(S 2 COMe) are monoclinic, space group C 2/ c with unit cell dimensions a 37.73(2), b 4.825(1), c 12.686(1) A, β 101.21(2)° with Z = 8; PhHg(S 2 CO i Pr) crystallizes in the monoclinic space group P 2 1 / a with a 13.678(5), b 21.347(7), c 14.570(6) A, β 114.99(2)° and Z = 12; and crystals of PhHg(S 2 CNEt 2 ) are triclinic, P 1, with cell parameters a 9.959(2), b 12.359(4), c 13.098(2) A, α 65.53(2), β 65.81(2), γ 81.26(2)° and Z = 4. Refinement on 777 reflections [with I ≥ 3.0σ( I )] converged with final R 0.096 and R w 0.090 for PhHg(S 2 COMe); 2888 reflections [ I ≥ 2.5 σ( I )], R 0.033, R w 0.038 for PhHg(S 2 CO i Pr); 2675 reflections [ I ≤ 2.5 σ ( I )], R , 0.033, R w 0.038 for PhHg(S 2 CNEt 2 ).
Humans may be exposed to organic forms of mercury by either inhalation, oral, or dermal routes, and the effects of such exposure depend upon both the type of mercury to which exposed and the magnitude of the exposure. In general, the effects of exposure to organic mercury are primarily neurologic, while a host of other organ systems may also be involved, including gastrointestinal, respiratory, hepatic, immune, dermal, and renal. While the primary source of exposure to organic mercury for most populations is the consumption of methylmercury-contaminated fish and shellfish, there are a number of other organomercurials to which humans might be exposed. The antibacterial and antifungal properties of organomercurials have resulted in their long use as topical disinfectants (thimerosal and merbromin) and preservatives in medical preparations (thimerosal) and grain products (both methyl and ethyl mercurials). Phenylmercury has been used in the past in paints, and dialkyl mercurials are still used in some indust...
Reaction of phenylmercury(II) thiocyanate with triphenylphosphine in ethanol formed a product of unusual stoicheiometry, HgPh2·2[Hg(SCN)2(PPh3)2] which has been characterised by X-ray crystallography. The complex crystallises in the triclinic space group P with unit-cell parameters a= 10.426(1), b= 19.576(3), c= 9.821(2)A, α= 94.26(3), β= 97.00(4), and γ= 87.08(2)°. Four-co-ordinate Hg(SCN)2(PPh3)2 molecules represent a new crystalline modification of the previously reported monoclinic form. The adduct HgPh2·2[Hg(SCN)2(PPh3)2] represents an unusual case of the existence of two-co-ordinate linear HgII and distorted tetrahedral HgII in the same unit cell.
Diphenylmercury and di-isobutenylmercury react with chloro-(exo-3-acetoxy-endo-5-nortricyclyl)dipyridinepalladium to afford endo,endo-3-phenyl-, or -3-isobutenylnortricyclyl-5-mercuric chloride, respectively.
The progelatinase A-TIMP-2 complex behaves like a Janus. Like TIMP (tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases) it inhibits active matrix metalloproteinases, and activation with 4-aminophenylmercury acetate leads to a gelatinolytic activity. This activity, however, amounts only to less than 10% of that of free gelatinase A not complexed with TIMP-2. When the progelatinase A-TIMP-2 complex inhibits an active matrix metalloproteinase, a ternary complex is generated. After activation with 4-aminophenylmercury acetate this ternary complex displays a more than tenfold proteolytic activity compared to activated gelatinase A-TIMP-2 complex, thus reaching the activity of free gelatinase A. The activity of the ternary complex is nearly independent from the bound matrix metalloproteinase. When the progelatinase A-TIMP-2 complex is activated at first with 4-aminophenylmercury acetate the generation of the ternary complex is made impossible and not such a significant enhancement of activity is observed. These results suggest that gelatinase A-TIMP-2 complex may be a matrix metalloproteinase of the 'second step': It starts its proteolytic attack after it has switched off the activity of other matrix metalloproteinases.
Pulse polarograms for reduction of diphenyliodonium halides in dimethylformamide containing tetramethylammonium perchlorate exhibit either three or four waves, depending on the concentrations of supporting electrolyte and starting material. In the presence of 0.1 M tetramethylammonium perchlorate, diphenyliodonium bromide exhibits three waves (I, II, and III) when the concentration of starting material is lower than 0.74 mM; for higher concentrations of diphenyliodonium bromide, the first wave splits and the pulse polarogram consists of four waves (Ia, Ib, II, and III). For electrolyses of diphenyliodonium bromide at potentials corresponding to either wave Ia or wave Ib, diphenylmercury and iodobenzene are obtained and the coulometric n value is unity. At potentials on wave II, diphenylmercury and benzene are formed and the n value is three. For electrolyses done at potentials on wave III, the yields of benzene and diphenylmercury as well as the n value are potential dependent. At a sufficiently negative potential, benzene is the only product of a four-electron reduction of the diphenyliodonium cation. Wave Ia for a diphenyliodonium halide is attributed to reduction of the phenyl mercuric halide resulting from reaction of starting material with mercury, whereas wave Ib is caused by reduction of solution-soluble diphenyliodonium cations. Wave II arises from reduction of iodobenzene (a product formed by processes associated with the appearance of waves Ia and Ib), and wave III is due to reduction of adsorbed phenylmercury radicals (the other species formed by reactions responsible for waves Ia and Ib). These conclusions have been substantiated by independent pulse polarographic, cyclic voltammetric, and coulometric studies of phenyl mercuric halides.
Abstract The effect of the size of the dose on the distribution and excretion of mercury in rats after single intravenous injections of each of four mercury compounds has been investigated. The mercury compounds were methylmercury hydroxide, methoxyethylmercury hydroxide, phenylmercury hydroxide, and mercuric nitrate. These compounds labeled with 203 Hg were injected at doses corresponding to about 0.1, 1, and 10% of the LD50. The concentrations of mercury in the organs were analyzed by scintillation technique at different times after injection. The principle of superposition, which is usually followed by stable compounds in the bodies of experimental animals, states that concentrations in the various organs should be proportional to the dose at any given time after the injection. It was found that, except for methylmercury hydroxide, the investigated compounds deviated from this simple relationship. The relations between the concentrations in the organs at different doses indicated a saturation phenomenon and an increase in the rate of excretion when the size of the dose was increased.
Benzene, toluene, tert-butylbenzene, or biphenyl virtually do not react with NdI2 (1) or DyI2 (2) in THF at –20 °C but appreciably accelerate the reactions of these salts with solvents, resulting in LnI3 and intractable mixtures of products of the general composition [LnI(H)(R)(THF)] (R are fragments of the THF molecule). The same effect is induced by the addition of diphenylmercury or tetraphenyltin to solutions of 1 or 2. Phenol easily oxidizes 1 and 2 to give at 0 °C the PhOLnI2(THF) x complexes (x = 3, 4) in 55—95% yields. At –90 °C, iodide 2 is converted into a similar complex PhODyI2(THF)4, whereas 1 gives a mixture of PhONdI2(THF)4, (PhO)2NdI(THF)5, NdI3(THF)3, and [NdI(H)R(THF)]. A plausible pathway of the reactions including the intermediate formation of extremely reactive monovalent lanthanide iodides LnI is discussed.
A method for the structural confirmation of mercury (II) chloride and organomercury (II) chlorides (monomethylmercury chloride, monoethylmercury chloride and monophenylmercury chloride) employing liquid chromatography coupled to atmospheric pressure ionization mass spectrometry was developed. The chromatographic system comprised a Kromasil 100-5C18, 5μm (250 × 4.6 mm) column and a mobile phase of 2-mercaptoethanol (0.01% v/v) in methanol: water (1:1 v/v), at a flow rate of 1 mL min−1. The optimization of the API-MS conditions is discussed, together with the fragmentation patterns observed for standards. No peaks due to the molecular ion were present and the most intense peaks were due to [M + mercaptoethanol]+ or [M + 2 mercaptoethanol − H]+. The qualitative analysis of fish tissue spiked with methylmercury (II) chloride, using selected ion monitoring (SIM), is discussed. © 1998 LGC (Teddington) Ltd.
Abstract Haloacetic acids cleave one of the two Ph-Hg bonds of diphenylmercury under mild conditions providing thereby a direct synthetic route to a number of phenylmercury(I1) haloacetates, PhHgOOCR (R = CH2I, CH2Br, CH2C1, CC13 or CF3) in nearly quantitative yield. Interaction of these arylmercuric haloacetates with ligands having atoms of Group VB elements (N, P, As or Sb) as donors, gives rise to molecular adducts of 1:l or 2 : l (in case of diphos) stoichiometry which are monomeric and non-electrolytesin nitrobenzene.
1-Octanol/water partition coefficients, [HgII]octanol/[HgII]water, provide a simple but limited model system for aspects of the biological behavior of methylmercury(II) and commonly used organomercury(II) medicinal compounds. In an octanol/water system some widely studied antidotes for mercury poisoning at least partly displace the biological thiols L-cysteine and glutathione from binding to MeHgII at pH 6.9. Addition of the antidote meso-dimercaptosuccinic acid to MeHgII in the presence of glutathione results in formation of metallic mercury. For RHgII derivatives of L-cysteine and glutathione, octanol/water partition coefficients follow the order Ph greater than Et greater than Me. An exceptionally high value for diphenylmercury, compared with PhHgII derivatives of L-cysteine and glutathione, is consistent with reported results of the distribution of mercury compounds in rats. Ethylmercury(II) is partly displaced from thimerosal by L-cysteine and glutathione in the octanol/water system, indicating that the active form of thimerosal in vivo may involve binding of EtHgII to biological ligands.
An apparently unrecorded but devastating bud-rot and twig-canker disease of cultivated hazel (Corylus avellana L.) was investigated in a Kent orchard. Etiological studies established the causal organism as a possibly undescribed species of Gloeosporium. Spores released in spring and early summer from dead buds and twig cankers are inactive on most of the new buds over a long period, and the fully developed buds are killed only immediately before foliation in the following spring. A small proportion of immature buds may be infected and killed in early summer, but most bud invasion occurs after leaf-fall. The disease is widely distributed in wild and cultivated hazel in this country, and the causal fungus is pathogenic to apple fruit.Virtually complete control was given by a single high-volume spray, applied in October before leaf-fall, of a phenylmercury chloride wettable powder at 0∙005% p.m.c. ; a similar spray delayed until after leaf-fall gave partial control. Cropping was greatly improved by the Octob...
A secondary waste stream from the Defense Waste Processing Facility at the Savannah River Site will contain benzene and entrained higher boiling organic derivatives of benzene, Cs-137, and diphenylmercury. This stream constitutes a mixed waste that will have to be decontaminated before disposal. Removal of both diphenylmercury and Cs-137 represents the optimum decontamination of the mixture. Decontamination studies have been conducted on this organic product waste stream to remove both Cs-137 and diphenylmercury. Cesium can be effectively removed by conventional ion exchange techniques using zeolite as the ion exchange medium. It can also be extracted from the benzene phase by washing with water or dilute caustic solution. Diphenylmercury is much more difficult to separate from the benzene. Treatment of the benzene waste with Tru Clear{trademark}, a stabilized ferrate (FeO{sub 4}{sup 2{minus}}) system in dilute KOH, allowed extraction of nearly all of the cesium ion and 1--2% of dissolved mercury into an aqueous phase where they can be more easily managed. 3 refs., 1 fig., 3 tabs.
Capillary electrophoresis has been used to separate inorganic (Hg2+) and organic (methyl-, ethyl-, and phenylmercury) mercury compounds as their cysteine complexes. The optimized electrophoretic separation was performed in fused-silica capillary tubing at 25 kV with 25mm sodium borate buffer (pH 9.3). Identification and quantification of the mercury species at mg L−1 levels was achieved by use of UV detection at 200 nm. The relative standard deviation (n=10) ranged from 0.38 to 0.51% for migration times and from 0.43 to 2.94% for corrected peak areas. Good recovery (>90%) was obtained for all four mercury species in surface waters, and for inorganic mercury and methylmercury in five- to tenfold diluted biofluids (urine, saliva, and cerebrospinal fluid). TheLOQ values obtained were too high to be useful for determination of mercury species in real samples.
An analytical method is described for the detection of inorganic mercury, alkylmercury, alkoxyethylmercury, and phenylmercury dithizonates on commercially available Avical SF thin-layers coated with liquid paraffin. The compounds examined were distinctly separated with high reproducibility of Rf values. From biological samples to which mercuric compounds were added as a chloride, the compounds were isolated as the dithizonates by extraction of the samples with dithizone-carbon tetrachloride solution and subsequently the dithizonates were purified by column chromatography using alumina. When the dithizonates were applied to reverse-phase thin-layer chromatography, the compounds were detected even at a low level.
An automatic system, based on the on-line coupling of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) separation, post column microwave digestion, and cold-vapor atomic fluorescence spectrometry (CVAFS) detection, was proposed for the speciation analysis of four mercury compounds. Post column microwave digestion, in the presence of potassium persulfate (in HCl), was applied in the system to improve the conversion efficiency of three organic mercury compounds into inorganic mercury. Parameters influencing the on-line digestion efficiency and the separation effect were optimized. To avoid water vapor and methanol entering into the atomic fluorescence detector, ice-water mixture bath was used to cool the rnicrowave-digested sample solution. Four mercury species including inorganic mercury chloride (MC), methylmercury chloride (MMC), ethylmercury chloride (EMC) and phenylmercury chloride (PMC) were baseline separated within 13 min by using RP C 18 column with a mobile phase of 50% (v/v) methanol containing 10 mmol 1(-1) tetrabutyl ammonium bromide and 0.1 mol 1(-1) sodium chloride pumped at 1.2 ml min(-1). Seafood samples, composed of three gastropod species and two bivalve species from Yantai port, China, have been analyzed by the proposed method. Dogfish muscle (DORM-2) was analyzed to verify the accuracy of the method and the result was in good agreement with the certified value. (C) 2002 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.
Abstract Aminophenylmercury acetate, dibutyltin dichloride, tributyltin chloride, and triphenyltin chloride, all metal—organic, antimicrobially active substances were covalently bound to cellulose as a carrier without and with a spacer. Analytical and microbiological studies showed that all compounds possess both microbistatical and microbicidal properties in chemically bound state. Release of antimicrobial-active substance by hydrolysis as a preceding step for the antimicrobial effect hence is not necessary. Spacer molecules used do not influence the antimicrobial effectiveness of the carrier-bound substances. Maximum contact times necessary for the inactivation of microorganisms are in the range up to one hour.
A new series of organotellurium compounds [i.e. 2-HOCH 2 C 6 H 4 TeBr 3 (1), (2-HOCH 2 C 6 H 4 ) 2 TeBr 2 (2), (2-HOCH 2 C 6 H 4 ) 2 Te (3), (2-HOCH 2 C 6 H 4 Te-) 2 (4), 4-HOCH 2 C 6 H 4 TeBr 3 (5), (4-HOCH 2 C 6 H 4 ) 2 TeBr 2 (6), (4-HOCH 2 C 6 H 4 ) 2 Te (7), and (4-HOCH 2 C 6 H 4 Te-) 2 (8)] were prepared by reacting hydroxy-methylphenylmercury chlorides with tellurium tetrabromide in dry dioxane. Bis(2-hydroxymethylphenyl) telluride (3), bis(2-hydroxymethylphenyl) ditelluride (4) and bis(4-hydroxymethylphenyl) telluride (7) were polymerized by a solution polycondensation technique with toluene diisocyanate and terephthaloyl chloride, leading to new organic tellurium polyurethanes and polyesters. All the new compounds were characterized by elemental analysis and spectroscopic data.
A recent DOE-Savannah River review of the results and data from the Late Washing Crossflow Fitter assessment identified the fate of biphenyl as a concern in the Late Washing material balance. The concern arose because after the late washing operation only about 40% of the biphenyl remained in the irradiated precipitate and analyses of the spent wash water stream did not account for the missing biphenyl [2]. This document summarizes the results of subsequent filtration studies on the behavior and fate of all known organic precipitate feed components including biphenyl. The study employed a statistically designed material balance across a laboratory crossflow fitter. Data from two separate experiments are presented here. Results of the first study indicated no statistically significant loss of biphenyl, diphenylmercury, 0-terphenyl, diphenylamine, or aniline. Results did indicate minor losses of phenylboric acid, M-terphenyl, P-terphenyl, and a significant production of phenol, believed to be due to the way in which the experiment was performed. A second experiment demonstrated no statistically significant lose of any of the organic compounds.
The electron transfer from the photosynthetic system in cyanobacteria, Synechococcus sp. PPC7942 to exogenous electron acceptors was examined using several electrochemical techniques. 1,4-Benzoquinone (BQ) and 2,6-dimethyl-1,4-benzoquinone (DMBQ) were found to function as good exogenous electron acceptors for the photosystem. Kinetic analysis with rotating disk amperometry revealed that the photoreduction of these quinones proceeds in Michaelis–Menten type kinetics for the concentration of the quinones and the light intensity. The electron transfer rate of the BQ reduction was as high as 68% compared with that of the photosynthetic oxygen evolution. Synechococcus sp. cell-entrapped and DMBQ-embedded carbon paste electrodes provided steady-state current ascribed to the photoelectrochemical oxidation of water. Although several inhibitors against the photosynthetic system suppressed the photoelectrochemical response, phenylmercury acetate, which inhibits ferredoxin and ferredoxin–NADP oxidoreductase, was found to enhance the photocurrent. Some electrochemical aspects of this system are discussed.
The rates of the reaction of phenyl phenylmercury sulphide with picryl halides to give phenyl 2,4,6-trinitrophenyl sulphide have been measured in various aprotic solvents (benzene, chlorinated hydrocarbons, nitromethane, dioxan, tetrahydrofuran, and acetone). The rate increases on passing from picryl chloride to bromide and to iodide. The reaction rate is only slightly affected by solvent change. Very large negative activation entropy values were found and there is a satisfactory linear relationship between ΔH‡ and ΔS‡. A four-centre, concerted mechanism is suggested for the reaction.
Several approaches to the determination of seleno-methionine, selenocystine, selenite and selenate by high-performance liquid chromatography with online detection by atomic absorption spectrometry are described. The N-2,4-dinitrophenyl derivatives of selenomethionine, selenoethionine, selenocystine and phenylmercury(II) cystineselenoate were recovered from aqueous solution, separated on a Nucleosil 5-NO 2 reversed-phase HPLC column with a methalonic mobile phase containing acetic acid and triethylamine, and detected with a quartz thermochemical hydride-generating interface-atomic absorption spectrometry (AA) system. The restriction of having to perform chromatography with an organic mobile phase (to support the combusion process) was overcome with a new interface design capable of operation with either organic or aqueous HPLC mobile phases. Using aqueous acetic acid (0.015% v/v) containing 0.1% (w/v) ammonium acetate delivered at 0.5 cm 3 min -1 , selenate, selenite, selenomethionine, selenocystine and selenoethionine were separated virtually to baseline on a cyanopropyl-bonded phase HPLC column. Other selenium compounds which were investigated included methane seleninic and methane selenonic acids as well as the crude oxidation product mixtures resulting from the treatment of selenomethionine and selenocystine with hydrogen peroxide. A procedure for extracting selenate, selenite, selenomethionine, selenocystine and selenoethionine from spiked water or ground feed supplement into liquefied phenol resulted in acceptable recoveries for the latter four analytes but was unacceptably low for selenate
The title compound (PCP) Ir(HgPh) Cl (1), (PCP = η3-2,6-( t Bu2PCH2)2C6H3), is obtained by the reaction of (PCP) IrHCl and Ph2Hg in toluene solution. Purple crystals of 1 were grown by slow evaporation of benzene solution of 1 and have been studied by X-ray crystallography. The space group is P21/n, a = 13.9384(8) A, b = 15.1095(8) A, c = 15.8148(9) A, β = 111.005(1)°, V = 3109.3(3) A3, Z = 4. The geometry at the iridium center is quasi-square pyramidal with Hg at the apical position; the Cl–Ir–C(PCP) angle is 175.87(8)°. The Ir–Hg–C(Ph) angle is 175.90(9)°. The Hg–Ir bond is unusually short: 2.5251(2) A. This short distance is likely attributable to the absence of a ligand trans to the phenylmercury group. The resulting strong metal–mercury bond may explain the unusual stability of the complex and the failure to eliminate mercury as is commonly observed with organomercury–transition-metal complexes.
Abstract Extraction chromatography and dithizone extraction were found to be the most promising methods to preconcentrate phenylmercury, methylmercury and inorganic mercury from 100-500 ml aqueous samples. By this manner the sensitivity of previously developed radioanalytical methods was increased down to 0.01 p.p.b. A number of potable and river water samples, beer, wine, fruit juices etc. have been analysed for their content of individual mercury species.
Abstract A new phenylmercury(II) dithiocarbamate complex [PhHg(S 2 CN(CH 2 ) 4 CH(OH)], ( 1 ) has been synthesized and characterized by elemental analyses, IR, 1 H and 13 C NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography. The crystal structure of 1 shows a linear arrangement at the Hg(II) centre of the molecule through bonding of the sulphur atom of the dithiocarbamate ligand and the carbon atom of the aromatic ring. Weak intermolecular thiophilic Hg···S interactions lead to a “head-to-tail” dimer and the presence of a hydroxyl group at the periphery of piperidine moiety generates a 1D-chain network through intermolecular O···H interactions. The nature of weak intra- and intermolecular Hg···S, H···S and intermolecular O···H interactions have been assessed with the help of ab initio calculations and atoms-in-molecules (AIM) approach.
Phenylmercuric acetate, an organomercurial that has been widely used as a fungicide and slimicide, was found to be metabolized quickly by soil and aquatic microorganisms. One of the major metabolic products was identified to be diphenylmercury. In none of the cases has a methylmercury derivative been found among the microbial metabolic products of phenylmercuric acetate.
The structural basis for induction of the mercury resistance operon with inorganic mercury and with the organomercurial compound phenylmercuric acetate was addressed by DNA sequencing analysis and by lac fusion transcription experiments regulated by merR in trans from broad-spectrum-resistance plasmid pDU1358 (Hg2+ and phenylmercury responding). The lac fusion results were compared with those from a narrow-spectrum-resistance (Hg2+ responding but not phenylmercuric responding) operon and the pDU1358 merR deleted at the 3' end. The nucleotide sequence of the beginning region of the broad-spectrum mer operon of plasmid pDU1358 was determined, including that of the merR gene, the operator-promoter region, the merT and merP genes, and the first 60% of the merA gene. Comparison of this sequence with DNA sequences of narrow-spectrum mer operons from transposon Tn501 and plasmid R100 showed that a major difference occurred in the 3' 29 base pairs of the merR gene, resulting in unrelated C-terminal 10 amino acids. A hybrid mer operon consisting of the merR gene from pDU1358, a hybrid merA gene (determining mercuric reductase enzyme), and lacking the merB gene (determining phenylmercury lyase activity) was inducible by both phenylmercury and inorganic Hg2+. This shows that organomercurial lyase is not needed for induction by organomercurial compounds. A mutant form of pDU1358 merR missing the C-terminal 17 amino acids responded to inorganic Hg2+ but not to phenylmercury. Thus, the C-terminal region of the MerR protein of the pDU1358 mer operon is involved in the recognition of phenylmercury.
1. ::: ::: The low-frequency IR and Raman spectra (150–400 cm−1) of the phenylmercury derivatives of a series of aliphatic and aromatic thiols have been studied in the condensed phase and in solution. The influence of intermolecular coordination interactions on the frequency and half-width of the stretching vibrations of S-Hg has been examined. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The capacity for self-association of phenylmercury derivatives of aliphatic thiols is lower than for substituted thiophenol, and for substituted aliphatic thiols the capacity for self-association falls with increase in the carbon chain length, and especially with branching. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Phenylmercury derivatives of aromatic and aliphatic thiols are more prone to selfassociation than to coordination with pyridine.
Abstract The formation of complexes between bis(trichlorovinyl)mercury and a series of monodentate and bidentate nitrogen, phosphorus and sulphur bases has been studied. Adducts (Cl 3 C 2 ) 2 HgL (L = phen dmp, tmp, bipy, diphos)** have been isolated in the solid state. These are the first reported bis(alkenyl)mercurial complexes and their thermal behaviour and spectral characteristics (infrared, 1 H NMR, 35 Cl NQR and mass spectra) have been examined. No complexes of the monodentate ligands selected could be isolated, but 1 H NMR studies indicated the presence of weak ligand—mercury interaction in solution for triphenylphosphine, thiophene, pyridine as well as for the bidentate N,N,N′,N′ ,-tetramethylethane-1,2-diamine and 2,5-dithiahexane ligands. The acceptor properties of bis(trichlorovinyl)mercury appear to be intermediate between that of diphenylmercury and that of bis(pentafluorophenyl)mercury.
Sediments of the rivers Rhine and Yssel and sewage sludge samples showed high mercury contents (5–30 ppm). Usually less than 1% — in one sludge sample 5% — of the mercury was in the form of methylmercury. Incubation of these samples, under varied aerobic and anaerobic conditions, with or without HgCl2 or phenylmercuryacetate added, gave no or only very slight formation of methylmercury.
A novel method by combining hollow fiber-liquid–liquid–liquid microextraction (HF-LLLME) with HPLC-ICP-MS was developed for the speciation of inorganic mercury (Hg2+) and organomercury including methylmercury (MeHg+), ethylmercury (EtHg+) and phenylmercury (PhHg+), in the micro-ecosystem of East Lake (Wuhan, China). The factors affecting HF-LLLME were systematically investigated. Under the optimized conditions, the limits of detection for four mercury species were in the range of 2.9–5.6 ng L−1 with the relative standard deviations (c = 0.5 μg L−1, n = 7) ranging from 5.6 to 10.6%. The developed method was validated by analyzing a certified reference material of DORM-2, and the determined values were in good agreement with the certified values. The method has been applied for the speciation of mercury in five representative samples from the micro-ecosystem of East Lake including atmospheric particles, lake water, fish, plant and sediment.
The structural basis for induction of the mercury resistance operon with inorganic mercury and with the organomercurial compound phenylmercuric acetate was addressed by DNA sequencing analysis and by lac fusion transcription experiments regulated by merR in trans from broad-spectrum-resistance plasmid pDU1358 (Hg2+ and phenylmercury responding). The lac fusion results were compared with those from a narrowspectrum-resistance (Hg2+ responding but not phenylmercuric responding) operon and the pDU1358 merR deleted at the 3' end. The nucleotide sequence of the beginning region of the broad-spectrum mer operon of plasmid pDU1358 was determined, including that of the merR gene, the operator-promoter region, the merT and merP genes, and the first 60% of the merA gene. Comparison of this sequence with DNA sequences of narrow-spectrum mer operons from transposon TnSOI and plasmid R100 showed that a major difference occurred in the 3' 29 base pairs of the merR gene, resulting in unrelated C-terminal 10 amino acids. The regulatory protein MerR of the narrow-spectrum mer operons from TnS01 and R100 binds to the operator-promoter region of the operon (9, 22, 23) , possibly acting as a repressor by precluding access to RNA polymerase and repressing transcription. However, when Hg2+ ions are present, a complex is formed at the operator-promoter region of the DNA between MerR, RNA polymerase, and Hg2 . The complex activates transcription of the downstream structural genes (6, 9, 22 In this report, we present the DNA sequence of the region of the broad-spectrum organomercury resistance determinant of plasmid pDU1358, starting with the merR gene and continuing beyond the operator-promoter region through the merT and merP genes for 1,029 base pairs (bp) into the ,nerA gene. (The sequence has been submitted to the GenBank data base under accession number M24940.) Together with the previously published sequence of the distal region of this mer operon (7), this completes the mer operon sequence of
[100-56-1] C6H5ClHg (MW 313.15) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C6H5.ClH.Hg/c1-2-4-6-5-3-1;;/h1-5H;1H;/q;;+1/p-1 ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = AWGTVRDHKJQFAX-UHFFFAOYSA-M ::: ::: ::: ::: (phenylating agent for allylic halides3 and alkenes;4-8 converts primary and secondary allylic alcohols into 3-phenyl alcohols and 3-phenyl aldehydes;9 reacts with carbon monoxide to give ketone10-13) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: mp 250–252 °C. 1H NMR:16, 17 δ (DMSO, ppm) Ho 7.46 (3JHo–Hg = +203 Hz); Hm 7.37 (4JHm–Hg = +49 Hz); Hp 7.46. 13C NMR:18, 19 δ (DMF + (CD3)2CO (20%) at 340 K (ppm)) Cα 150.5, (1JHg–C = 2530 Hz), Cβ 136.4 (2JHg–C = 117 Hz); Cγ 128.0 (3JHg–C = 205 Hz); Cδ 127.9 (4JHg–C = 35 Hz). 199Hg NMR:18 (CH2Cl2) −1192, ((CD3)2SO) −1182 ppm. MS:20 mass of ions observed: C6H5HgCl+, C6H5Hg+, HgCl+. IR: ν(Hg–Cl) 331–332 cm−1.15 ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sparingly sol H2O; sol C6H6, ether, pyridine; slightly sol hot ethanol.2 ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: white satiny leaflets; stable in air; widely available. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Method: by mercuration of benzene21 with Mercury(II) Chloride (eq 1) or red Mercury(II) Oxide. ::: ::: (1) ::: ::: ::: ::: Copper or Copper(I) Chloride22 promotes facile displacement of nitrogen from double salts of Benzenediazonium Chloride and mercury(II) chloride in good yield (eq 2). ::: ::: (2) ::: ::: ::: ::: Phenylmercury(II) chloride can also be prepared by the Peters reaction23 involving mercury(II) chloride and sulfinic acid (eq 3), by the decomposition of the phenyl–tin bond in PhSn(alkyl)3 with mercury(II) chloride (eq 4),24 by mixing equimolar mercury(II) chloride and Diphenylmercury (eq 5),25 or by photolysis of diphenylmercury in CCl4 (eq 6).26 ::: ::: (3) ::: ::: (4) ::: ::: (5) ::: ::: (6) ::: ::: ::: ::: In PhHgCl the PhHg bond is less polar than the HgCl bond. The PhHg bond is weak and undergoes homolytic cleavage. ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: highly toxic irritant; LD50 orally in rats 60 mg kg−1. Use in a fume hood.
Abstract Solid-phase micro-extraction (SPME), has advantages of simplicity, low cost, ease of use and rapid pre-concentration and extraction compared to other sample preparation techniques. The technique has found limited use in high performance liquid chromatographic applications because of the unavailability of fibers that are stable and durable in strong organic solvents. This study describes the preparation of fibers that are stable in strong organic solvents (xylene and methylene chloride) as well as acidic and basic solutions (pH 0.3 and 13) using the sol–gel process. The hydrolytic stability of these sol–gel-prepared SPME fibers towards organic solvents and high and low pH solutions can be attributed to the fact that the coating is chemically bonded to the surface of the fused silica substrate. These fibers have been subsequently used to extract organo-arsenic, organo-mercury and organo-tin compounds from aqueous solutions followed by separation using HPLC with UV absorbance detection. Under experimental conditions used, detection limits of 80, 412 and 647 μgl −1 for triphenylarsine (Ph 3 As), diphenylmercury (Ph 2 Hg) and trimethylphenyltin (TMPhT), respectively, were obtained after extraction and HPLC separation. While these detection limits were comparable and/or slightly better than those obtained using commercial SPME fibers, the thinner coatings (resulting in faster extraction time) and the hydrolytic stability of the sol–gel fibers, towards strong organic solvents and high and low pH solutions, gave them superior characteristics when compared to commercially available fibers.
A novel approach for preconcentration and speciation analysis of trace amount of mercury from water samples was proposed by dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction (DLLME) coupled to high performance liquid chromatography with diode array detection (HPLC-DAD). Mercury species (Hg(2+), methylmercury (MeHg(+)) and phenylmercury (PhHg(+))) were complexed with dithizone (DZ) to form hydrophobic chelates and then extracted into the fine drops of extraction solvent dispersed in the aqueous sample by dispersive solvent. After extraction, the sedimented phase was analyzed by HPLC-DAD. Some important parameters affecting the DLLME such as extraction solvent and dispersive solvent type and volume, concentration of dithizone solution, sample pH, extraction time and salt effect were investigated. Ionic liquid 1-hexyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate ([HMIM][PF(6)]) was found to be a suitable extractant for the chelates. Under the optimized conditions (extraction solvent: 70 μL of ionic liquid 1-hexyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate ([HMIM][PF(6)]); dispersive solvent: 0.75 mL of methanol containing dithizone (0.02%, m/v); pH: 4; extraction time: 5 min; and without salt addition), the limits of detection for Hg(2+), MeHg(+) and PhHg(+) were 0.32, 0.96 and 1.91 μg L(-1) (SN(-1)=3) respectively, and the relative standard deviation (RSD) was between 4.1 and 7.3% (n=5). Three real water samples (tap water, river water and lake water) spiked with mercury species were detected by the developed method, and the relative recoveries obtained for Hg(2+), MeHg(+) and PhHg(+) were 89.6-101.3%, 85.6-102.0% and 81.3-97.6%, respectively.
Abstract The effect of organomercury compounds (methyl-, ethyl- and phenylmercury) on the activity of immobilized peroxidase was studied. Peroxidase was immobilized in chitosan films in wells on a polystyrene plate and on chromatography paper. The oxidation reactions of o -dianisidine, o -phenylenediamine and 3,3′, 5,5′-tetramethylbenzidine by H 2 O 2 were used as indicators. The rate of all the indicator reactions was monitored visually by measuring the time of appearance of the colour of the oxidation product. The liberating effect of organomercury compounds on peroxidase immobilized on both the above mentioned supports using o -dianisidine oxidation in the presence of the inhibitor phenylthiourea and the effect of organomercury compounds on the duration of an induction period of 3,3′, 5,5′-tetramethylbenzidine oxidation in the presence of diethyldithiocarbamate catalysed by paper-immobilized peroxidase were used for the development of enzymatic test procedures for the determination of organomercury compounds at concentrations of 0.02–1000 μM. The relative standard deviation ( n = 3) at the lower limits of their analytical concentration ranges in the proposed test procedures using o -dianisidine are 18–23% ( n = 3).
The characteristics of bacteria take up mercury into cells via membrane potential-dependent sequence-divergent members of the mercuric ion (Mer) superfamily, i.e., a periplasmic mercuric ion scavenging protein (MerP) and one or more inner membrane-spanning proteins (MerC, MerE, MerF, and MerT), which transport mercuric ions into the cytoplasm, have been applied in engineering of bioreactor used for mercurial bioremediation. We engineered bacteria to express MerC, MerE, MerF, or MerT with or without MerP to clarify their individual role and potential in transport of mercurial. By immunoblot analysis using specific polyclonal antibody, the proteins encoded by merC, merE, merF, merT or merP, were certainly expressed and identified in the membrane fraction. Bacteria expressing MerC, MerE, MerF or MerT in the absence of MerP transported significantly more C6H5Hg(I) and Hg(II) across bacterial membrane than their isogenic strain. In vivo expression of MerP in the presence of all the transporters did not cause apparent difference to the C6H5Hg(I) transport, but gives an apparently higher Hg(II) transport than that did by MerE, MerF or MerT but not by MerC. Among the four transporters studied, MerC showed more potential to transport Hg(II) across bacterial membrane than MerE, MerF and MerT. Together these findings, we demonstrated for the first time that in addition to MerE and MerT, MerF and MerC are broad-spectrum mercury transporters that mediate both Hg(II) and phenylmercury transport into cells. Our results suggested that MerC is the most efficient tool for designing mercurial bioremediation systems, because MerC is sufficient for mercurial transport into cells.
The reaction of methyl and phenylmercury ions with the ligand tris(2-diphenylphosphinoethyl)phosphine, pp 3 , allowed the isolation of the complexes [(pp 3 )HgR]BF 4 (R=Me, Ph). The X-ray crystal structure of the methyl derivative established that in the cation the metal atom is coordinated to the central phosphorus atom of the tripod pp 3 ligand and to the methyl group. Two terminal phosphorus atoms of the ligand are additionally linked to the metal throught secondary bonding interactions. 31 P- and 199 Hg-NMR spectra indicated that the coordination of terminal phosphorus atoms of pp 3 to the mercury atom occurs also in solution.
Nature Reserve (FNNR), respectively. Atmospheric deposition of heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, 20 Pb, Hg, Co, Cu, Zn, Mn and Ni) and POPs at SWARC was higher than at FNNR. Soil 21 concentrations of the aforementioned heavy metals other than As and Zn also were 22 2 significantly higher at SWARC than at FNNR. We conclude that efforts to conserve the 23 Qinling subspecies of panda may be compromised by air pollution attendant to China's 24 economic development. Improvement of air quality and reductions of toxic emissions are 25 urgently required to protect China's iconic species. 26 27 203 This work was supported by funds from the IEECAS. 204 Author's contributions 205 Yi-ping Chen conceived the study and wrote the initial draft. Qiang Liu and Ying-juan Zheng 206 performed the experiments, Yi Song performed statistical analysis, Zhi-sheng An contributed 207 significantly to discussion, Qing-yi Ma performed sample collection, Aaron M. Ellison 208 discussed results and their interpretation, and edited the manuscript. 209 Literature Cited 210 Buchet, J. P., and R. R. Lauwerys. 1989. Influence of 2, 3 dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate and 211 dimercaptosuccinic acid on the mobilization of mercury from tissues of rats pretreated 212 with mercuric chloride, phenylmercury acetate or mercury vapors. Toxicology 213 54:323-333.
Two-component spectrophotometric method of analysis using 2 wavelengths, the method of least squares using absorbances, the method using 2-orthogonal function coefficients, and the method of least squares using orthogonal function coefficients have been applied to the determination of atropine sulfate in the presence of phenylmercury (II) acetate, compounds whose spectra overlap. The first method gave erroneous results; the second method gave satisfactory results for synthetic mixtures. The fourth method was superior, especially in the presence of irrelevant absorption. It has been successfully used for determining atropine sulfate in injection solutions in which a cubic irrelevant absorption was present. Results were in good agreement with those obtained by the official method.
1. ::: ::: The rate of the reaction of phenylmercury bromide with HCl in aqueous dioxane is inhibited by the mercuric chlorobromide formed. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The kinetics of protolysis was studied in the presence of sodium iodide in 90% aqueous dioxane. From the temperature dependence of the reaction, the parameters of the Arrhenius equation were found. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The catalytic effect of NaI is very great and is explained by interaction of NaI with phenylmercury bromide, forming a complex. The reaction rate is a linear function of the concentration of the complex.
The phenylmercury(II) complexes having composition [C 6 H 5 Hg{S(S)P(OCH 2 CH 2 OCH 3 ) 2 }], [C 6 H 5 Hg{S(S)POCH 2 C(CH 3 ) 2 CH 2 Q}] and [C 6 H 5 HgS(S)POCH 2 C(CH 3 ) 2 CH{CH(CH 3 ) 2 }O] were prepared by the reaction of phenylmercury(II) acetate with NH 4 salt of O,O'-dialkyl/alkylene dithiophosphate in absolute methanol at room temperature. The complexes were characterized by their analytical data, IR, 1 H and 31 P NMR spectra. Ligation behaviour of the complexes has been established by reacting them with CdI 2 , AgOCOCF 3 , AgOCOCCl 3 , AgSCN, HgCl 2 , Hg(OCOCCl 3 ) 2 , Hg(OCOCF 3 ) 2 and Hg(SCN) 2 . The bimetallic adducts were formed through the coordination of the sulfur atom of phenylmercury(II) O,O'-dialkyl/alkylene dithiophosphate to the soft metal acceptors.
Intestinal flora plays important roles in the decomposition and excretion of organomercurial methylmercury, and these roles in decomposition and excretion of organomercurial phenylmercury were examined in mice given antibiotics orally. Female ICR mice were given antibiotic neomycin and chloramphenicol in drinking water for 2 d before phenylmercury administration in order to decrease intestinal flora, and the antibiotics were given throughout the experiment. Phenylmercuric acetate (2mg Hg/kg body weight) was administered to mice intraperitoneally, and feces and urine were collected daily for 4 d. Mice were sacrificed 5 d after phenylmercury administration. There were no differences between the control and the antibiotic-treated mice in the percentage of inorganic mercury to total mercury in feces, urine, liver or kidney. Total mercury excreted in feces and urine did not differ between the antibiotic-treated mice and the control mice. These results suggest that intestinal flora does not play a role in the decomposition and excretion of phenylmercury in mice.
SummaryThere is evidence to suggest that the eradication of Monilinia fructicola in infected peach peduncles in winter may reduce brown rot during the subsequent season. In a series of experiments, in which treatments were applied in the field and the results assessed in the laboratory, benomyl and arsenic or mercury compounds were more effective in suppressing sporulation from overwintering infections than any of the other materials tested. Benomyl effectively suppressed sporulation from infected peach peduncles and mummified peach fruits and was not phytotoxic. Sodium arsenite was an effective eradicant of M. fructicola in peach peduncles and mummified peach fruit at 0·1% and 0·3%, but it was phytotoxic to both peach and apricot trees at rates as low as 0·01% whether applied in mid-winter or at early bud-swell. Phenylmercury chloride (PMC), mercury acetimide at 0·06% Hg and phenylmercury dimethyldithiocarbamate at 0·015% Hg were effective eradicants. At lower rates the mercurials were unsatisfactory. No...
1. ::: ::: Organometallic derivatives of mercury, tin, lead, and antimony were synthesized for a number of hydroxy and mercapto-N-heterocycles. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The structures of the indicated compounds in solution were established on the basis of the UV spectra. Organometallic derivatives of 4-thiopyridone are S-derivatives in solution, phenylmercury derivatives of hydroxy-N-heterocycles have a lactam structure, while compounds of tin and lead exist in the lactime form. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The absence of the band of the amide carbonyl group in the region of 1600–1700 cm−1 cannot serve as a reliable criterion of a lactime structure in the crystal of metallic and Organometallic derivatives of hydroxy-N-heterocycles.
A study was performed to examine compounds that might improve the selectivity of the primary isolation medium for Haemophilus ducreyi. The susceptibility of 40 H. ducreyi strains to 34 antimicrobial agents, including 10 antibiotics, 3 quaternary ammonium compounds, 3 phenolic derivatives, 3 acridines, and 15 heavy metal compounds, was investigated by using an agar plate dilution technique. Results were compared with the susceptibilities of other gram-negative rods which may be contaminants on isolation media. The minimal inhibitory concentration range for colistin (16 to 128 micrograms/ml) indicated that this antibiotic might be of use as a selective agent. H. ducreyi was susceptible to spectinomycin (minimal inhibitory concentration range, 16 to 64 micrograms/ml), thiamphenicol (0.12 to 1 microgram/ml), chloramphenicol (0.12 to 0.5 micrograms/ml), and streptomycin (4 to 32 micrograms/ml) and moderately susceptible to kanamycin (2 to 8 micrograms/ml). For the heavy metal compounds, a high susceptibility was seen with copper(II) chloride (2 to 8 micrograms/ml, corresponding to a concentration of 0.75 to 3 micrograms of Cu2+ ions per ml), sodium selenite (1 to 4 micrograms/ml, or 0.45 to 1.83 micrograms of Se- ions per ml), and phenylmercury acetate (0.12 to 0.5 micrograms/ml). The minimal inhibitory concentrations of quaternary ammonium compounds, acridines, and phenolic derivatives were between 1 and 32 micrograms/ml, 8 and 32 micrograms/ml, and 8 and 250 micrograms/ml, respectively.
The pentachlorobenzoates, NaOCOC6Cl5,2H2O, KOCOC6Cl5,H2O, MOCOC6Cl5 (M = Cs or Tl), Hg(OCOC6Cl5)2, RHgOCOC6Cl5 (R = Ph or p-MeOC6H4), and R3SnOCOC6Cl5 (R = Ph or Me) have been prepared by neutralization, metathesis, or cleavage reactions. Vibrational assignments have been made for infrared absorption frequencies of, these compounds, pentachlorobenzoic acid, bispenta-chlorophenylmercury, and pentachlorophenylmercuric chloride. The carboxylate stretching frequencies indicate that Hg(OCOC6Cl5)2, RHgOCOC6Cl5, and R3SnOCOC6Cl5 (in chloroform) have unidentate pentachlorobenzoate ligands, whereas crystalline R3SnOCOC6Cl5 compounds have bridging pentachlorobenzoate groups. Pentachlorobenzoic acid is dimeric in the solid state, and in toluene, carbon tetrachloride, and benzene there are both monomeric and dimeric species.
Diphenylmercury has been used as a model to show that t he electron and atom parts of the distortion polarization cannot reliably be evaluated by optical methods. The measured electron polarization extrapolated to infinite wavelength is larger than the combined electron and atom polarization measured at radio frequency. The difference has been defined as the "phenyl effect9'and has been attributed to the mobility at radio frequencies of electrons in the resonancehybridized orbitals of the aromatic nucleus. It has been suggested that the effect is general for aromatic compounds. The total electric polarization of diphenylmercury has been mea'sured or discussed by a number of workers (1-8). There is a discrepancy between this total polarization and the calculated electron polarization. It has been postulated (2) that this discrepancy is due to an abnormally high atom polarization. This postulatio~l has been proven to be false on the basis of a direct measurement of the combined electron and atom polarization (6). Therefore the discrepancy is still in question. It has been shown (6) that the total polarization of diphenylinercury in a number of solvents is strongly temperature dependent. Any dependence of atom polarization on temperature is so slight (9) that the discrepancy cannot be explained in this way. The atom polarization of the mercury atom does not seen1 to be involved in any abnormality because for at least one substance, dicyclol~exyln~ercury (lo), the measured distortion polarization is not abnormal. The direct method for measurement of distortion polarization from the dielectric constant of randomly oriented compressed solids has been developed (11) to give good precision and nlally substances have been examined (10, 12). Among these substances some give the expected values on the basis of a calculated electronic polarization (13, 14). Other substances give values which are higher than the calculated P, and these are of two types. The structures of one type have features such as conjugated linltages which ought to give high polarizations due to exaltation of P, which would not be predicted from at0111 or bond polarizabilities. The other type contains highly polar groups which would be expected to contribute to high PA. Thus distortion polarizatioils (P, and PA) which are equal to or greater than the calculated electron polarizations are not unexpected. On the other hand, there is another type of substance for which the measured distortion polarization is lower than the calculated P, according to Eisenlohr (13) or Vogel (the additive P,). This is the type in which aroinatic groups, especially phenyl groups, are present. Diphenylmercury is one of the substances for which the distortion polarizations measured at 5 nlc are lower than the additive P,. Since this is one of the substances for which the postulations (2) of high atom polarization have been proven to be in error by actual experimental determination, it has seemed worthwhile to try to evaluate experinentally the parts (P, and PA) of the distortion polarization separately. By this procedure some insight toward the underlying discrepancy inight be found, together with an explanation for low distortion polarization and its relation to substances containing aromatic groups.
Abstract Phenylmercuric acetate is converted into diphenylmercury via a symmetrization process, in the absence of an auxiliary ligand, when the reaction is carried out at 6.5 ≥ pH > 4.0. Arylmercuric salts, in which the aromatic rings contain more than one electron donating group, symmetrize in the absence of an auxiliary ligand when the reaction is carried out at a basic pH. Both processes can be carried out in water or in mixtures of organic solvents and water. The factors influencing the symmetrization at different pH values are discussed.
1. ::: ::: An investigation is described of the reaction of organomercury compounds with stannous salts in an inert solvent, i.e., a solvent which does not contain a mobile hydrogen atom. It was shown that under these conditions no side reaction occurs with formation of (RO)2SnX2, which is formed when acetone or alcohol is used as solvent. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Reaction between dipropenylmercury and stannous bromide gave dipropenyltin dibromide, whereas in the corresponding reaction of diisopropenylmercury we isolated diisopropenyltin dibromide, tetraisopropenyltin and isopropenylmercury bromide. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The reactions of diphenylmercury, di-p- and di-o-tolylmercurys, di-1-naphthylmercury, and diethylmercury with stannous chloride, and also with stannous bromide in the case of diphenylmercury, gave the normal products.
1.The reaction of PhHgOAc with N–NHCO-2-C4H3S-Htpp (5) and N–p-HNSO2C6H4tBu-Htpp (4) gave a mercury (II) complex of (phenylato) (N-2-thiophenecarboxamido-meso-tetra phenylporphyrinato)mercury(II) 1.5 methylene chloride solvate [HgPh(N–NHCO-2-C4H3S-tpp)•CH2Cl2•0.5C6H14; 6•CH2Cl2•0.5C6H14] and a bismercury complex of bisphenylmercury(II) complex of 21-(4-tert-butyl-benzenesulfonamido)-5,10,15,20,- tetraphenylporphyrin, [(HgPh)2 (N–p-NSO2C6H4tBu-tpp); 7], respectively. The crystal structures of 6•CH2Cl2•0.5C6H14 and 7 were determined. The coordination sphere around Hg(1) in 6•CH2Cl2•0.5C6H14 and Hg(2) in 7 is a sitting-atop derivative with a seesaw geometry, whereas for the Hg(1) in 7, it is a linear coordination geometry. Both Hg(1) in 6•CH2Cl2•0.5C6H14 and Hg(2) in 7 acquire 4-coordination with four strong bonds [Hg(1)-N(1) = 2.586(3) A, Hg(1)-N(2) = 2.118(3) A, Hg(1)-N(3) = 2.625(3) A, and Hg(1)-C(50) = 2.049(4) A for 6•CH2Cl2•0.5C6H14; Hg(2)-N(1) = 2.566(6) A, Hg(2)-N(2) = 2.155(6) A, Hg(2)-N(3) = 2.583(6) A, and Hg(2)-C(61) = 2.064(7) A for 7]. The plane of the three pyrrole nitrogen atoms [i.e., N(1)-N(3)] strongly bonded to Hg(1) in 6•CH2Cl2•0.5C6H14 and to Hg(2) in 7 is adopted as a reference plane 3N. For the Hg2+ complex in 6•CH2Cl2•0.5C6H14 , the pyrrole nitrogen bonded to the 2-thiophenecarboxamido ligand lies in a plane with a dihedral angle of 33.4° with respect to the 3N plane, but for the bismercury(II) complex in 7, the corresponding dihedral angle for the pyrrole nitrogen bonded to the NSO2C6H4tBu group is found to be 42.9°. In the former complex, Hg(1)2+ and N(5) are located on different sides at 1.47 and -1.29 A from its 3N plane, and in the latter one, Hg(2)2+ and N(5) are also located on different sides at -1.49 and 1.36 A form its 3N plane. The Hg(1)•••Hg(2) distance in 7 is 3.622(6) A. Hence, no metallophilic Hg(II)•••Hg(II) interaction may be anticipated. NOE difference spectroscopy, HMQC and HMBC were employed to unambiguous assignment for the 1H and 13C NMR resonances of 6•CH2Cl2•0.5C6H14 in CD2Cl2 and 7 in CDCl3 at 20°C. The 199Hg chemical shift δ for a 0.05 M solution of 7 in CDCl3 solution is observed at -1074 ppm for Hg(2) nucleus with a coordination number of four and at -1191 ppm for Hg(1) nucleus with a coordination number of two. The former resonance is consistent with that chemical shift for a 0.01 M solution of 6 in CD2Cl2 having observed at -1108 ppm for Hg(1) nucleus with a coordination number of four. 2.The crystal structures of diamagnetic N-p-tert-butylbenzenesulfonylimido- meso-tetraphenylporphyrinatonickle(II) [Ni(N-p-NSO2C6H4tBu-tpp); 8] and paramagnetic acetato-[N-p-tert-butylbenzenesulfonylimido-meso- tetraphenylporphyrinato]manganese(III) [Mn(N-p-NSO2C6H4 tBu-tpp)(O2CCH3); 9] were determined. The coordination sphere around Ni2+ in 8 is described as four-coordinated distorted square planar, whereas, for the Mn3+ ion in 9, it is a five-coordinate distorted square-based pyramid in which the unidentate CH3COO- ligand occupied the axial site. By the ‘‘degree of trigonality’’ principle ,the penta-coordinated Mn(III) complex is best described as a distorted trigonal bipyramid (or a squarebased pyramidal distorted trigonal bipyramid, SBPDTBP) The magnetic moment of 9 clearly shows a plateau equal to 4.57 mB, which is close to the expected value of 4.90 mB for a quintet high-spin state (S = 2).The g value of 12.6 (or 8.8) measured from the parallel polarization (or perpendicular polarization) of X-band EPR spectra at 77 K is consistent with a high spin manganese(III) (S = 2) in 9. The magnitude of axial (D) zero-field splitting (ZFS) in 9 were determined approximately as –1.1 cm-1, by paramagnetic susceptibility measurements and EPR spectroscopy.
Clinical formulations of the antiarthritic drug aurothiomalate sometimes contain phenylmercury(ll) compounds as antimicrobial preservative agents and, in the presence of para-chloromercuri-benzoate, aurothiomalate is a potent inhibitor of collagenase. By H1 NMR spectroscopy, para-hydroxymercuribenzoate and para-hydroxymercuriphenylsulphonate were shown to react with aurothiomalate by complexing only with the terminal thiomalate of aurothiomalate oligomers, thereby converting them to ring complexes. The reaction was also detected by UV spectroscopy. The arylmercury complexes produced no change in the bulk of the thiomalate residues of aurothiomalate indicating considerable stability of the polymeric structure of aurothiomalate in which each gold is bound to two thiolate residues. The potent inhibition of the mercurial induced collagenase activity may be due either to aurothiomalate or to a complex formed between the terminal thiomalate residues with the arylmercurial. The arylmercury complexes may be unsuitable as antimicrobials in solutions of aurothiomalate because of complexation with the terminal thiomalate residues.
Performance of commercial Trace Mercury Analyser (TMA) originally devoted to total mercury content analyses in solid and liquid samples was tested in off-line combination with HPLC technique for speciation purposes. RPHPLC system optimized for baseline separation of mercury(II), methylmercury and phenylmercury rendered fractions with volumes directly acceptable by TMA. The main problems of this combination via off-line interfacing i.e. volatility of organomercurials and lost of fractions due to overflow from porous nickel and/or platinum transfer boats were solved by addition of wetting agent (cetyltrimethylammonium bromide) and stabilizing agent (dithizone) into the vessels prior to fractions collection. Calibration curves were measured for Hg(II) and methylmercury within range from 25 ppb to 500 ppb and were linear with correlation coefficients better than 0.9997. Detection limits achieved were around 0.3 ng for both mercury species. No matrix effects were observed during analyses of tap and surface water samples spiked at low ppb levels.
Abstract The determination of mercury and phenylmercury in the ppb concentration range using polyurethane foam (PUF) thin-layer spectrophotometry has been described. Sorption of mercury and phenylmercury into foam parallepiped loaded with diphenylthiocarbazone (dithizone) contributed to considerable improvement in the absorbance value of the colored species, being concentrated about 140 times. The method allowed the achievement of satisfactory results, the detection limits are 5 and 10 μg per litre for mercury and phenylmercury, respectively, for 100ml sample volume. The average recovery from tap water amounts to 100% for mercury and 96.6% for phenylmercury.
An electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometric based method is described for the determination of total mercury in human whole blood. The blood is first treated with dilute hydrochloric acid to free the mercury species bound to protein thiol groups, then a pH buffer and a complexing agent (diethyldithiocarbamate) are added and the mercury species are extracted into toluene. In initial experiments, total mercury was determined in the toluene extract by electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometry. Recoveries of methyl-, ethyl- and phenylmercury chloride and mercury(II) chloride added to blood were better than 95% at concentrations up to about 30 µg dm–3. However, problems with excessive background absorbance were frequently observed, which could be overcome by back-extraction into dilute hydrochloric acid; this modification being adopted in the proposed method. The accuracy of the method was confirmed by the determination of total mercury in three lyophilized, human whole blood samples (Seronorm), the results demonstrating good agreement with the reference values.
Experiments were performed in order to gain further information on the mercury retention of two strains of chickens, the reciprocal crosses of these lines and sex differences in retention. White Leghorns were selected for resistance and susceptibility to the avian leukosis complex. Approximately 6 males and 6 females from each of the strains and reciprocal crosses were injected in the breast muscle with phenylmercury acetate at the rate of 3.0 mg. mercury per kg. body weight. The kidneys were excised and analyzed for total mercury. Results indicate that the first generation cross chicks resembled the parent that retained mercury poorly more closely than they did the one retaining large amounts of mercury. There was no significant differences between sexes in mercury retention. 4 references, 1 table.
Arylmercury compounds, such as phenylmercury acetate and 8-phenyl-mercurioxyquinoline, have been used for some years in this country in fungicidal sprays for the control of apple scab, Venturia inaequalis Wint. In 1958 the Scientific Subcommittee on Poisonous Substances used in Agriculture and Food Storage reviewed this use of organo-mercury compounds. At the time a certain amount of residue data was available but without further information the Subcommittee was reluctant to accept that an interval of less than eight weeks between the last application of a spray and harvest of the crop was sufficient to ensure that residues of mercury reaching the consumer were not harmful. The work described here provided further independent data on the mercury spray residues likely to be encountered at harvest.
In the case of (la), arylation occurred rather facilely in the presence both of a Pd(ll) complex and a Pt(IV) derivative. However, the reaction with (Ib) afforded the arylation product of styrene only when the Pd(ll) complex was used. The use of a Pt(IV) complex in this reaction gave only free pentamethylbenzene in 35% yield. The difference in the behavior of (la) and (Ib) may be because the pentamethylphenyl radical exerts a stronger screening effect and is a stronger electron donor. Thus, the reaction of (Ib) with Pt(IV) in the presence of styrene affords the same product as in its absence [5]. It is of interest that the direction of the reaction in the presence of Pd(ll) depends on the presence of an olefin. Thus, whereas the reaction of (Ib) with Pd(ll) gave only the free arene and dimerization products were not formed~ in the presence of styrene the corresponding substituted stilbene was obtained in 40% yield. We also found that arylation of the stilbene with mercury derivative (Ib) occurred neither when a Pt(IV) complex was used nor in the presence of a Pd(ll) compound. In both cases, the free arene was formed from the mercury compound. Experimental Reaction of 2,4-Dimethylphenylmercury Acetate (la) with Styrene in the Presence of PtCI6 =-. A solution of 0.182 g (0.5 mmole) of (la), 0.5 ml (4.5 mmoles) of styrene, and Q.281 g (0.5 mmole) of Na2PtCI6.6H~O in 14 ml of acetone was boiled for 3.5 h and then evaporated at lowered pressure. We recovered isomeric substituted stilbenes by thinlayer chromatography on Silufol UV-254 plates (the eluent was hexane). The yield of trans-l-phenyl-2-(2',4'-dimethylphenyl)-ethylene was 0.08 g (38%); mp 40-41~ Found, %: C 92.56, H 7.77. C16HI~. Calculated, %: C 92.26, H 7.74. Proton NMR spectrum (in CDCI3, 8, ppm): 7.15 multiplet (aromatic and olefinic protons), 2.31 singlet (CHs)~ 2.26 singlet (CH3). The yield of the cis isomer was 0.003 g (2%). Proton NMR spectrum: 6.97 multiplet (aromatic protons), 5.70 doublet and 5.12 doublet (olefinic protons), 2.36 singlet and 2.02 singlet (CHs). During irradiation by light from a high-pressure mercury lamp in an alcoholic solution, the cisisomer was converted to the trans derivatives.
The full127I NQR spectra of a series of iodo-substituted phenols and phenylmercury phenoxides have been studied. The quadrupole coupling constants and asymmetry parameters have been determined. The character of the OH...Hal hydrogen bond has been found to depend on the nature of substituents in the ring. Correlation dependences of the asymmetry parameters on the sum of the substituents resonance constants have been found for both coordinated as well as for non-coordinated iodine atoms.
Abstract In the present study, the frequency of sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs) was assayed to evaluate the genotoxic effects of mercury nitrate (Hg 2+ ), methylmercury chloride (CH 3 HgCl) and phenylmercury acetate (PMA) on human lymphocytes. The free radical scavengers, catalase (CA) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were tested for their antigenotoxic effects toward PMA. PMA (1–30 μM) increased SCE frequency in a concentration-dependent manner. However, CH 3 HgCl significantly increased SCE frequency only at a concentration of 20 μM, and all concentrations treated with Hg 2+ did not induce a positive effect. On the other hand, we first reported that 30 μM Hg 2+ , 20 μM CH 3 HgCl and (3–30 μM) PMA significantly increased the frequency of endoreduplicated mitosis. PMA was about 3- or 5-fold more effective in inducing endoreduplication than CH 3 HgCl or Hg 2+ at equivalent toxic concentrations, respectively. However, neither CA nor SOD in concentrations of 75 and 150 μg/ml showed antagonistic action on the genotoxic effects of PMA. The results suggest that the mechanism of PMA-induced genotoxicity is not mediated by superoxide anion nor H 2 O 2 . It is concluded that PMA, which was more effective in inducing the elevation of both SCEs and endoreduplication, may be especially hazardous of the three mercury compounds tested.
The determination of mercury(II) ions can be achieved by monitoring the decrease in the oxidation peak of the tetraphenylborate ion in the presence of this metal ion at a carbon paste electrode. The reaction between mercury(II) and the tetraphenylborate ion results in the formation of diphenylmercury, thus providing the method with good selectivity over other metal ions. Using anodic stripping voltammetry in a neutral electrolyte, a linear dependence of the decrease of peak height was observed on increasing the mercury(II) concentration in the range 1 x 10(-6)-8 x 10(-9)M mercury(II). Zinc(II), cadmium(II), lead(II), nickel(II), cobalt(II), tin(II), potassium(I) and ammonium(I) ions did not interfere at a 1000-fold concentration excess. Iron(III) and chromium(III) did not interfere at a 250-fold and 50-fold concentration excess, respectively. Following masking procedures, copper(II), bismuth(III) and silver(I) did not interfere at a 100-fold concentration excess. The method can be used to determine the concentration of mercury(II) in natural waters contaminated by this metal.
The synthesis and characterization of a series­of 4 - (4′- n -alkoxybenzylideneimino)phenyl-­mercury (II) dithizonates, [CnH2n+1OC6H4CH­NC6H4Hg (Hdptc)] (H2dptc = 1,5-diphenylthiocarbazone = dithizone; n = 1, 4, 12, 14 or 18), is described. The intermediate long-chain organomercury(II) acetates were obtained by condensation of 4-aminophenylmercury(II) acetate with the appropriate 4-n-alkoxybenzaldehydes. The thermal behaviour of the complexes was studied by polarized optical microscopy and differential scanning calorimetry but revealed no mesophases. All of the complexes, however, were reversibly photochromic (yellow ⇌ blue) upon irradiation of chloroform solutions with visible light, and the half-lives of the metastable blue forms were substantially increased relative to that of the parent mercury(II) bis(dithizonate). The compounds were not photochromic in the solid state. Copyright © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The initial velocity of coagulation of human oxyhemoglobin in tris-HCl buffer measured by turbidimetric method, pH 7.2 in the presence of phenylmercuryacetate made it possible to estimate the amount of moles of this reagent stechiometrically binding with hemoglobin without coagulation of the latter. At 15-30 degrees C this amount is 30-34 mole per hemoglobin-tetramer. At temperature increase from 30 to 42.5 degrees C the amount of the reagent necessary for protein coagulation sharply decreases. A model is proposed assuming that oxyhemoglobin coagulation proceeds only during binding of the reagent with specific protein sites.
Abstract In this work, a hybrid method for the rapid speciation of mercury compounds by cation exchange chromatographic separation and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) detection is reported. Effective separation of inorganic mercury (Hg 2+ ), methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg) and phenylmercury (PhHg) within 2–2.5 min was achieved on two consecutive 12.5-mm strong cation exchange guard columns with 2.0 mM l -cysteine or thiourea (pH 2.0) as the mobile phase. This separation met the requirements of green analytical chemistry such as the prevention of toxic waste, safer HPLC mobile phases, and short separation times to reduce operating costs. The detection limits for Hg 2+ , MeHg, EtHg and PhHg were 0.019, 0.027, 0.031 and 0.022 μg L −1 , each, and the repeatabilities of peak height and peak area (5.0 μg L −1 for each Hg species) were all lower than 3%. Contents of Hg species and total mercury in certified reference materials of seawater (GBW(E) 080042) and fish tissue (GBW 10029) were in good accordance with the certified values, and satisfactory recoveries (96–102% for GBW(E) 080042 and 94–101% for GBW 10029) validated the developed method. The developed method was applied for the speciation of mercury in five seawater sample and five marine fish samples. The concentrations of mercury species in all analyzed fish samples did not exceed the permissible levels of the National Standard of China.
Abstract A new series of 2-(2-hydroxynaphthylazo)arylmercury chlorides (Ia–Ib) were prepared by azo coupling of diazonium salts of 2-aminophenyl-, 2-amino-5-bromophenyl-, 2-amino-5-methylphenyl-, and 2-amino-5-nitrophenylmercury chlorides with 2-naphthol. Reactions of compounds Ia–Ib with tellurium tetrabromide in 1:1 and 2:1 molar ratios in dry dioxane gave 2-(2-hydroxynaphthylazo)aryltellurium tribromides (IIa–IId) and bis(2-(2-hydroxynaphthylazo)aryl)tellurium dibromides (IIIa–IIId), respectively, in good yields. Reduction of compounds IIa–IIc and IIIc–IIId by ethanolic hydrazine hydrate gave the corresponding ditellurides (IVa–IVc) and tellurides (Vc–Vd), respectively, in moderate to good yields. Treatment of compounds IIIb and IIId with [Pd(PPh3)4] in acetonitrile gave new symmetrical biaryls containing azo groups. All compounds were characterized by spectroscopic data and elemental analysis. GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT
Abstract By combining radio-gas chromatography with liquid scintillation counting and with thin-layer chromatography-autoradiography, the conversion of symmetrical phenylmercury(II) compounds into phenylmercury(II) chloride and mercury(II) chloride in gas chromatography in the nanogram range has been demonstrated. The chlorine atoms necessary for this reaction are supplied by the SiCl groups of chlorosilanized materials. The composition of the eluates depends on the concentration of the SiCl groups.
An electrothermal atomisation procedure using a carbon rod atomiser is described for the determination of mercury after its extraction with dithizone (diphenylthiocarbazone) into chloroform. The increased stability of mercury after extraction allows drying and ashing to be carried out adequately without loss prior to atomisation. The sensitivity to mercury in the carbon rod atomiser is 1.1 × 10–10 g to give 1% absorption at 253.7 nm. Calibration graphs are linear over the range 0.2–2.0 µg ml–1 of mercury. The method can be applied directly, without a preliminary digestion procedure, to solutions containing organic mercurial preservatives or bactericides [phenylmercury(II) acetate or nitrate or thiomersal (sodium ethylmercurithiosalicylate)], and to trace determination in basic and some neutral and acidic compounds, soluble in water or in dilute acids. A standard additions procedure is recommended to overcome possible matrix effects, and to allow the detection of contamination errors. The results compare favourably with those obtained by the conventional cold vapour technique.
Photocatalytic degradation of phenylmercury was studied using TiO2 in aqueous suspension assisted by UV-A irradiation. Reaction conditions, such as pH and amount of TiO2 were set using a factorial design of experiments resulting in a greater influence of pH on phenylmercury degradation. Hg (II) reduction and simultaneous oxidation of aromatic group was observed. Optimum reaction conditions were obtained under nitrogen atmosphere at pH 10 and 0.35 g/L(-1) TiO2. Under these conditions almost 100% reduction of mercury was reached after 30 min UV irradiation. Total mercury reduction was achieved after 40 min reaction under saturated oxygen. Furthermore, phenol and diphenylmercury were identified as intermediate products of oxidation. It was observed that a major fraction of the reduced mercury was removed as metallic vapor by gas stripping, whereas a minor fraction was adsorbed on the catalyst surface, probably as Hg(OH)2. Under optimal conditions obtained by multivariable analysis, total mineralization of organic matter was achieved after about 60-min irradiation.
In two trials established between 1983 and 1990, copper oxychloride and prochloraz-manganese applied at 5 and 50% leaf-fall were as effective as phenylmercury nitrate, formerly used (but now banned) for the control of leaf-scar infection by Nectria galligena. However, prochloraz-manganese has not been developed for use on fruit. Autumn application of carbendazim gave inadequate control and thiophanate-methyl, bitertanol and fenpropimorph were ineffective. Carbendazim applied as a spring-summer treatment reduced canker development to a similar level to a spring-summer dodine scab programme plus autumn copper oxychloride. Summer carbendazim + captafol was an outstandingly effective treatment, but since this trial the use of captafol as a fungicide in the UK has been prohibited. In the absence of an effective autumn treatment, penconazole alone or with captan, and myclobutanil preblossom with myclobutanil alone or with mancozeb post-blossom tended to be less effictive than the standard programme (dodine pre- and dithianon post-blossom). Carbendazim mixed with an effective scab fungicide such as dithianon therefore remains the recommended treatment in an orchard with a serious canker problem. In orchards where there is a limited risk of canker, a spring-summer scab fungicide programme should prevent N. galligena infection at this time of year, with copper oxychloride applied at leaf-fall, particularly after wet weather, to prevent leaf-scar infection.
By the organomercurial column: chromagel or Sephadex coupled to p-aminophenylmercury chloride, 4- and 2-thiouridine were selectively separated from the mixtures with major nucleotides. Oligonucleotides containing 4-thiouridilic acid were also separated from the ribonuclease-T1 digests of unfractionated transfer ribonucleic acid of E. coli.
A method for the speciation of mercury in gas condensates is reported. Mercury(II) chloride (HgCl2), methylmercury chloride (MeHgCl), phenylmercury acetate (PhHgAc) and diphenylmercury (Ph2Hg) are separated by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using gradient elution. Prior to the determination, the organic ligands and the matrix were destroyed by oxidation with K2Cr2O7. Mercury is detected with cold-vapor atomic absorption spectrometry (CVAA), where the mercury compounds are reduced to metallic mercury by a treatment with NaBH4. In a continuous-flow system the concentrations of the reagents used are optimized using a modified simplex algorithm. Detection limits for mercury are at the 10 ng ml−1 level. Analysis of multi-compound mixtures indicates that chemical reactions between HgCl2 and Ph2Hg and between MeHgCl and Ph2Hg take place. The method developed was applied to the speciation of mercury in gas condensates and did not require use of any solvent extraction or chemical derivatization steps. In the gas condensates, mercury(II) compounds were found to be present at the 100 ng ml−1 level.
Bacterial plasmids contain genetic determinants for resistance systems for Hg2+ (and organomercurials), Cd2+, AsO2, AsO4 3-, CrO4 2-, TeO3 2-, Cu2+, Ag+, Co2+, Pb2+, and other metals of environmental concern. In some cases, there is the potential for using genetically engineered microbes for bio-remediation. Recombinant DNA analysis has been applied to mercury, cadmium, zinc, cobalt, arsenic, chromate, tellurium and copper resistance systems. The eight mercury resistance systems that have been sequenced all contain the gene for mercuric reductase, the enzyme that converts toxic Hg2+ ions to less toxic volatile metallic Hg°. Four of these systems also determine the enzyme organomercurial lyase, which cuts the HgC bond and thus detoxifies methylmercury and phenylmercury. Two sequenced Cd2+ resistance determinants govern cellular efflux of Cd2+ assuring a low level of intracellular Cd2+: not an obvious candidate for bioremediation. Cadmium accumulation by bacterial metallothionein or phytochelatin is a potentially useful process, but only preliminary reports have appeared on bacteria producing polythiol polypeptides. For arsenic resistance, a unique efflux ATPase maintains low intracellular As levels. A bacterial AsO2- oxidase has been reported, with the potential of converting more toxic As(III) into less toxic As(V), but this system has not been studied in recent years. For chromate, resistance results from reduced cellular uptake. However, both soluble and membrane-bound Cr(VI) reductase bacterial activities convert more toxic Cr(VI) to less toxic Cr(III) in different bacteria.
Fenton's reagent (Fe(II) + H2O2) is utilized for the digestion of environmental water samples and urine. Following the digestion, which converts organic forms of Hg to inorganic Hg(II), Hg(0) is liberated by borohydride reduction and measured by a conductometric gold film sensor. Quantitative recovery of Hg from samples spiked with mercuric chloride, methylmercury(II) chloride, and phenylmercury(II) acetate was attainable in the presence of naturally occurring suspended matter and humic and fulvic acids as well as 3% NaCl. The digestion is performed at moderate pH (3-4) and temperature (less than or equal to 50 degrees C) and does not use large amounts of any reagent. Excellent agreement is shown for reference water, wastewater, and urine standards. The limit of detection, facilitated by the low blank value, is 500 pg of Hg or 10 ng/L for a 50-mL sample.
Phenylmercury acetate (PMA), which not only causes an elevation of sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs) but also induces high frequency of endoreduplication in human lymphocytes, may be genotoxic to humans. The major aim of our study was to investigate the effects of germanium oxide (GeO2), D-penicillamine (D-PA), dimercaprol (BAL), and diltiazem (DTM) on PMA-induced genotoxicity as quantified by SCEs. All concentrations of the four chemical compounds tested alone did not induce genotoxicity in cultured human lymphocytes. However, GeO2 significantly inhibited PMA-induced genotoxicity in a concentration-dependent manner. Similarly, D-PA at concentrations of 3 microM and 10 microM, and BAL at a concentration of 30 microM produced the antigenotoxic effects. In addition, GeO2 (1.5 microM) significantly reversed an increase of endoreduplication frequency caused by PMA. In a cell cycle kinetic study, GeO2 (0.5-5.0 microM) reversed the inhibition of PMA on the proliferating rate index (PRI) of lymphocytes. On the contrary, both D-PA and DTM at concentrations of 30-300 microM markedly potentiated PMA-induced inhibition of PRI. These findings show that GeO2, D-PA and BAL could antagonize PMA-induced genotoxicity, and GeO2 appears to be the most effective.
[3294-60-8] C7H5Br3Hg (MW 529.41) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C6H5.CBr3.Hg/c1-2-4-6-5-3-1;2-1(3)4;/h1-5H;; ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = PLHSKXBFZPAQOD-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (precursor for the generation of dibromocarbene under neutral conditions) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: mp 119–120 °C (dec). ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: commercially available. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Method: readily prepared from Phenylmercury(II) Chloride and Bromoform using Potassium tert-Butoxide in THF.2 ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: highly toxic; should be handled in an efficient fume cupboard with caution. Best stored as a solid below 5 °C.
Abstract Lung N-oxidase enzyme activity was about three times higher than liver N-oxidase at the pH optimum, about pH 8.9, whereas the activities were nearly the same at more physiological ranges of pH. The lung N-oxidase was also stimulated about 2-fold by 100 mM Mg2+ and by 0.1 mM Hg2+, whereas liver N-oxidase activity was inhibited by these concentrations of ions. The difference in response of liver and lung enzymes to Mg2+ and Hg2+ was not altered by preparing the microsomes in the presence of 50 mM ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) in 0.1 M Tris (hydroxymethyl) amino methane (Tris) buffer or 50 mM EDTA in 0.1 M KPO4 buffer, both at pH 7.6, indicating that the differences are probably not due to the presence of endogenous metals. The difference between the liver and lung N-oxidase systems may be due to the tissue environment rather than to the enzyme itself since mercury stimulation of lung N-oxidation began to disappear upon partial purification of the N-oxidase enzymes. In contrast to the effects of Hg2+ and Mg2+, 1 mM Ni2+ enhanced liver N-oxidase activity about 30% and 5 mM Ni2+ stimulated lung enzyme activity about 30% whereas concentrations above 10 mM were inhibitory to both N-oxidases. Both liver and lung demethylase activities were inhibited by these concentrations of Mg2+, Hg2+ and Ni2+. Various suifhydryl reagents were also tested for their effects on these enzymes. The mercurials, para-chloromercurybenzoate (pCMB) and phenylmercuryacetate (PMA) at concentrations of 0.1 mM had the same effect as HgCl2 inhibiting both demethylases and liver N-oxidase, but stimulating lung N-oxidase activity. However, 0.1 mM to 1 mMN-ethylmaleimide (NEM) and iodoacetamide had little if any effect on either liver or lung N-oxidase. It was also shown that Hg2+ effects on N-oxidase activity could be overcome by dilution. Changes in N,N-dimethyl aniline (DMA) metabolism with age were followed in rabbits from 4 days old to adult. There was a steady increase in lung demethylase activity and N-oxidase activity in the liver and lung to adult levels. However, the liver demethylase had a sharp increase in activity between 2 weeks and 1 month much like that seen with benzphetamine demethylase in rabbit liver. Activities of N-demethylase in liver and lung, and N-oxidr.se in liver from new-born rabbits were from 10 to 20 % of adult levels. However, in lung, N-oxidase activities in the newborn were about 50 % of adult levels. Microsomal N-oxidation in lungs from 2-day-old rabbits was stimulated by 0.1 mM mercury just as in the adult.
A series of magnesium, aluminum, and zinc complexes of imidazol-2-ylidene-, imidazolin-2-ylidene-, and tetrahydropyrimidin-2-ylidene-derived N-heterocyclic carbenes (NHCs) was prepared. In addition, both symmetrical and unsymmetrical CO2-protected imidazol-2-ylidenes and imidazolin-2-ylidenes were prepared. Selected single-crystal X-ray structures are reported. All compounds were investigated for their catalytic behavior in (poly)urethane (PUR) synthesis. Out of nine different compounds, the dimeric complex [Zn(CH3COO)2(1,3-dimesitylimidazol-2-ylidene)]2 (7) proved to be the most active one, rivaling the industrially most relevant catalyst dibutyltin dilaurate in terms of catalytic activity. Even more important, the Mg- and Zn-derived NHC complexes as well as the CO2-protected imidazol-2-ylidenes displayed pronounced latent behavior combined with high catalytic activity in selected cases, rivaling and exceeding the industrially relevant latent catalyst phenylmercury neodecanoate. This allows for creating one-component PUR systems with significant pot lives. Pseudo-second-order kinetics were found for all Mg- and Zn-based NHC complexes as well as for all CO2-protected NHCs indicating fast precatalyst decomposition prior to (poly)urethane formation. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2009)
A convenient procedure for the determination of organomercuric compounds in soils from orchards and wheat fields is described based on the aqueous derivatization of the polar organomercuric halides in 0.1 M HAc-NaAc (pH 4) buffer into their hydrides by addition of 1 mL of 6% KBH4 with subsequent headspace solid phase microextraction (SPME) of the volatile derivatives. The volatile derivatives are separated by gas chromatography (GC) with a Supelco SPB-1 capillary column and on-line detected by electric heated quartz furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS). The relative standard deviations for ten replicate measurements are 2.1%, 2.8% and 3.5% for methyl-, ethyl- and phenylmercury with absolute detection limits of 16 ng, 12 ng and 7 ng, respectively. This method is applied to the analysis of organomercuric compounds in soil samples and 0.04–0.64 μg/g of organomercuric species are detected in soils from different sites. The recoveries after standard addition are between 93–106%.
The addition of lead tetraacetate to diphenylmercury in chloroform leads to the rapid formation of a solution of phenyllead triacetate, which has been used directly for the C-phenylation of ethyl 2-oxocyclopentanecarboxylate (1) and 2-nitropropane in good yield. This method of arylation has been examined for a range of diorganolead compounds and the β-keto ester (1), and the results indicate that the method should be widely applicable.
Properties of cysteinyl residues in the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) of synaptic vesicles isolated from Torpedo californica were probed. Cysteine-specific reagents of different size and polarity were used and the effects on [3H]vesamicol binding determined. The vesamicol dissociation constant increased 1,000-fold after reaction with p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate or phenylmercury acetate, but only severalfold after reaction with relatively small methylmercury chloride or methylmethanethiosulfonate (MMTS). Methylmercury chloride, but not MMTS, protected binding from phenylmercury acetate. Thus, two classes of cysteines react to affect vesamicol binding. Class 1 reacts with only organomercurials, and class 2 reacts with both organomercurials and MMTS. Quantitative analysis of the competition between p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate and VAChT ligands was possible after defining second-order reaction conditions. The results indicate that each cysteinyl class probably contains a single residue. Acetylcholine protects cysteine 1, but apparently does not protect cysteine 2. Vesamicol, which binds to a different site than acetylcholine does, apparently protects both cysteines, suggesting that it induces a conformational change. The relatively large reagent glutathione removes a substituent from cysteine 1, but not cysteine 2, suggesting that cysteine 2 is deeper in the transporter than cysteine 1 is. The complete sequence of T. californica VAChT is given, and possible identities of cysteines 1 and 2 are discussed.
Reactions of (C5H5)2Yb(MeOCH2)2 with R2Hg (R = C6F5, C6Cl5, or PhCC) yield mercury metal and (C5H5)2YbR, but diphenylmercury fails to react significantly. Bis(trans-2-chlorovinyl)mercury reacts with (C5H5)2Yb(MeOCH2)2 to give (C5H5)2YbCl. Ligand exchange occurs between (C5H5)2YbC6F5 and phenylacetylene and with succinimide to give (C5H5)2YbCCPh and (C5H5)2YbNC(O)CH2CH2C(O), respectively.
Abstract The electrochemical oxidation of mono- and disaccharides at various copper-modified electrodes is reported: glassy carbon modified at open circuit or by electrochemical deposition of copper, gold modified by electrochemical deposition, and at bulk copper electrodes. A comparative study of these four electrodes was made by linear sweep voltammetry and amperometry. The maximum oxidation peak separation between disaccharides and monosaccharides is about 200 mV. After optimization, amperometric determination of monosaccharides was done at +0.30 versus Ag/AgCl in 0.15 M NaOH at the copper-modified gold electrode. Using the developed method, the enzymatic activities of invertase and β-galactosidase were determined through their reaction with sucrose and lactose, respectively. Validation was carried out by a spectrophotometric method based on 3,5-dinitrosalicylic acid, and it was shown that the proposed electrochemical method is more sensitive. The analytical utility of the copper-modified gold electrode was tested for the determination of organic mercury. Addition of phenylmercury standards to the invertase solution caused a decrease in the enzyme activity, and allowed the determination of phenylmercury in pharmaceutical samples. The concentration has been determined in the 10–55 ng ml−1 range.
Antifungal activity of phenylmercury nitrate was studied on fungi from keratitis. Important deterioration and bursting were observed with 2 mg/100 ml phenylmercury nitrate concentration on Aspergillus flavus, Scedosporium and Candida albicans spores.
Abstract Methoxymercuration of methyl 3,4-di- O -benzoyl-6-deoxy-2- O -toluene- p -sulphonyl-α- d - xylo -hex-5-enopyranoside (5) at room temperature with mercury(II) acetate afforded the direct product of addition (8) with mercury bonded to the exocyclic carbon atom. Acetylation of 8 gave the acyclic vinyl ether 11 , from which the methyl ketone 12 was prepared. On the other hand, treatment of the alkene 5 with phenylmercury acetate in boiling methanol gave the bis(glycos-6-yl)mercury compound 13 with inverted stereochemistry at the anomeric centre. This compound, on acetylation, gave the C-1 epimer (15) of compound 11 , together with the anomer (14) of the initial alkene 5 . Compounds 11 and 15 underwent methoxymercuration to give the acyclic adducts 16 and 17 , and these, together with the methyl ketone 12 , were tested as sources of functionalised cyclopentanes.
Susceptibility to inorganic mercuric ions and to organomercurials of 237 Pseudomonas aeruginosa clinical strains isolated in Mexico was determined by agar dilution tests. Resistant strains fell into two classes: i) narrow-spectrum resistant strains (27% of total isolates) resistant only to mercuric ions and to merbromin, and most grouped in pyocin type 1; and ii) broad-spectrum resistant strains (5%) with additional resistances to thimerosal, phenylmercury, methylmercury and p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, that belonged mostly to pyocin type 10. Mercurial resistant isolates showed a higher proportion of resistance to antibiotics and metals than did mercurial sensitive isolates, and broad-spectrum resistant strains had the highest frequency of resistance to antibiotics and to tellurite and arsenate.
Bis(trimethylsilyl)mercury, prepared in improved yield by reaction of sodium amalgam with iodotrimethylsilane, reacts with aryl bromides at 190° to give the diarylmercury, bromotrimethylsilane, aryltrimethylsilane, and hexamethyldisilane as the major products. The formation of the diarylmercury, followed by its relatively slow decomposition, accounts satisfactorily for the formation of biaryls without the need to postulate free trimethylsilyl radicals. The slower reactions of bis(trimethylsilyl)mercury with aryl chlorides, and the rapid room temperature reaction with iodobenzene to give diphenylmercury, iodotrimethylsilane, trimethylphenylsilane, and phenyl mercuric iodide are also consistent with initial formation of aryl(trimethylsilyl)mercury. Free trimethylsilyl radicals, which are involved in the main reactions to a much less extent than postulated by earlier workers, are probably responsible for the formation of trimethylsilane in the high temperature reactions.
The effects of methylmercury chloride and other mercury compounds on cholinergic parameters were studied in vitro. Methylmercury chloride (MMC) and phenylmercury acetate inhibited choline acetyltransferase (ChA) with 20 microM of I50, and mercury nitrate (MN) with 100 microM of I50. All the three compounds had little effect on cholinesterase activity. MMC inhibited a high affinity choline uptake with 41 microM of Ki, as well as a low affinity choline uptake with 250 microM of Ki. MMC did not affect a spontaneous and potassium-stimulated ACh release from brain tissue slices incubated in eserinized Krebs-Ringer's solution up to the concentration of 100 microM. It was shown that the organic mercury compounds, such as methylmercury, were potent inhibitors of the choline uptake systems, as well as ChA activity.
Abstract The reactions between dithizone (H 2 Dz, ( 1 )) or potassium dithizonate (K + HDz − , ( 2 )) and phenylmercury(II) chloride gives PhHg(HDz), ( 3 ). Complex ( 3 ) is photochromic. In dichloromethane, the blue photo-exited state of ( 3 ) exhibits a first order relaxation process to regenerate the orange ground state with rate constant 0.00053 s −1 . The half life of this relaxation is ca. 1300 s. Electrochemically, on cyclic voltammetry time scale, the oxidations of ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) are different. A comparative voltammetric and spectro-electrochemical study of ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) in CH 2 Cl 2 containing 0.1 mol dm −3 [N( n Bu) 4 ][B(C 6 F 5 ) 4 ] revealed that the mercapto group of ( 1 ) can be oxidised in two one-electron transfer steps. A disulphide is first produced and then in a second oxidation step, HDz + is formed. In contrast, complex ( 3 ) shows only one ligand-based oxidation step. Upon complexation with phenylmercury the free mercaptan group of ( 1 ) becomes a stable “metal thioether”, Hg–S–C, which effectively prevents disulphide formation in ( 3 ) upon electrochemical oxidation. Both ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) shows two reduction steps. The electrochemical fingerprint of blue photo-excited ( 3 ) is identical to that of the orange ground state as no new functional groups are introduced upon irradiation; only bond rotation occurs. The different electronic spectra for each of the redox states of ( 3 ), obtained from spectro-electrochemical measurements, revealed that only the ( 3 )/( 3 − ) couple exhibits electrochromic properties.
In this study, a method of pretreatment and speciation analysis of mercury by dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction along with CE was developed. The method was based on the fact that mercury species including methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), phenylmercury (PhHg), and Hg(II) were complexed with 1-(2-pyridylazo)-2-naphthol to form hydrophobic chelates and l-cysteine could displace 1-(2-pyridylazo)-2-naphthol to form hydrophilic chelates with the four mercury species. Factors affecting complex formation and extraction efficiency, such as pH value, type, and volume of extractive solvent and disperser solvent, concentration of the chelating agent, ultrasonic time, and buffer solution were investigated. Under the optimal conditions, the enrichment factors were 102, 118, 547, and 46, and the LODs were 1.79, 1.62, 0.23, and 1.50 μg/L for MeHg, EtHg, PhHg, and Hg(II), respectively. Method precisions (RSD, n = 5) were in the range of 0.29-0.54% for migration time, and 3.08-7.80% for peak area. Satisfactory recoveries ranging from 82.38 to 98.76% were obtained with seawater, lake, and tap water samples spiked at three concentration levels, respectively, with RSD (n = 5) of 1.98-7.18%. This method was demonstrated to be simple, convenient, rapid, cost-effective, and environmentally benign, and could be used as an ideal alternative to existing methods for analyzing trace residues of mercury species in water samples.
Abstract Zirconium-based metal−organic frameworks, namely Zr-based MOF, was employed as adsorbent material in the miniaturized solid phase extraction of organic mercury compounds in food prior to capillary electrophoresis-diode array detector analysis. The synthesized adsorbent was characterized by different spectroscopic techniques. Parameters influencing the extraction and complexation of methylmercury chloride, ethylmercury chloride and phenylmercury chloride such as type of eluent solvent, type and amount of adsorbent were investigated. In addition, linear ranges contained 2.00–300.00 ng mL−1 for MeHg+, 5.00–500.00 ng mL−1 for EtHg+ and PhHg+, and the established method presented good linearity (R2 ≥ 0.998). Under the optimized experimental conditions, the ranges of detection limit and quantitation limit were 0.022–0.067 ng mL−1 and 0.073–0.220 ng mL−1, respectively. The relative standard deviations of intra- and inter-day analysis were less than 3.2 and 3.1%, respectively. Trueness of the present method was successfully accomplished by means of the recovery assays (81.4–98.5%) in the blank samples with two concentration levels. The repeatability %RSD of the method was lower than 2.7%. Overall, the developed approach proved to have the latent capability to be utilized in routine analysis of organic mercury compounds in fish and Dendrobium officinale.
The enzyme solution was prepared from the heparynized serum of Wister rat diluted into 25-fold with Sorensen buffer (pH 7.0). p-Nitrophenylacetate was used as substrate, and the effect of phenylmercury acetate (PMA) and ethylmercury phosphate (EMP) on this enzyme was studied. The enzymic activities were examined by the colorimetrical determination of the amount of p-nitrophenol liberated from substrate. It was proved that both organic mercuric compounds inhibit this enzyme competitively.
A simple and rapid nonaqueous capillary electrophoresis method for simultaneous separation of four kinds of mercury species, namely inorganic mercury, methylmercury, ethylmercury, and phenylmercury, is reported. The effective mobilities of organomercury in aqueous and nonaqueous electrolytes were compared. Imidazole was confirmed not only as a co-ion for the separation but also as an online complexing reagent for mercury species. The optimum conditions for separation were achieved by using methanol solvent containing 0.15 M acetic acid and 15 mM imidazole as electrolyte. The sensitive detection of mercury species was accomplished at 191 nm.
In this study, a method of pretreatment and speciation analysis of mercury by dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction along with CE was developed. The method was based on the fact that mercury species including methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), phenylmercury (PhHg), and Hg(II) were complexed with 1-(2-pyridylazo)-2-naphthol to form hydrophobic chelates and L-cysteine could displace 1-(2-pyridylazo)-2-naphthol to form hydrophilic chelates with the four mercury species. Factors affecting complex formation and extraction efficiency, such as pH value, type, and volume of extractive solvent and disperser solvent, concentration of the chelating agent, ultrasonic time, and buffer solution were investigated. Under the optimal conditions, the enrichment factors were 102, 118, 547, and 46, and the LODs were 1.79, 1.62, 0.23, and 1.50 g/L for MeHg, EtHg, PhHg, and Hg(II), respectively. Method precisions (RSD, n = 5) were in the range of 0.29-0.54% for migration time, and 3.08-7.80% for peak area. Satisfactory recoveries ranging from 82.38 to 98.76% were obtained with seawater, lake, and tap water samples spiked at three concentration levels, respectively, with RSD (n = 5) of 1.98-7.18%. This method was demonstrated to be simple, convenient, rapid, cost-effective, and environmentally benign, and could be used as an ideal alternative to existing methods for analyzing trace residues of mercury species in water samples.
The dithiols 2,3-dimercapto-l-propanol (British anti-Lewisite) and 1,3-dimercapto-2propanol form complexes RHgS-SHgR (R = Me, Ph). The PhHg(II) complexes decompose in benzene and methanol at ambient temperature to form diphenylmercury. A 1:1 complex of Hg(II) with 1,3 dimercapto-2-propano1 is dimeric in pyridine. Infrared, Raman, and 1H NMR spectra of RHg(II) and Hg(II) dithiol complexes are compared with those of PhHgSR (R = Me, Et, H, ::: But, Ph, CH,CH20H) and Hg(SR')2 (R’ = Me, Et, But, Ph, CH2CH20H). Phenylmercury(II) thiolates have the coupling constant J(orthoH-199Hg) within the range 144-155 Hz. The complexes PhHgSR and Hg(SR”)z (R” = Et, But, Ph) are monomeric in chloroform; the chloroform insoluble complexes Hg(SR”')2 (R”’ = Me, CH,CH20H) and organomercury ::: (II) dithiolates are monomeric in pyridine. Aspects of ::: the use of British anti-Lewisite as an antidote for mercury poisoning are discussed.
Phenylmercury acetate reacts with tributylphosphine in benzene solution to form a 3-coordinate 1:1 adduct of high stability with a large negative enthalpy of formation (K>104 l mol−1, †H = −66 kJ mol−1). Similar adducts of lower stability (K<50) are formed by triphenylphosphine, unidentate aliphatic amines and heterocylic bases and pyridine-N-oxide. The bidentate bases tetramethyl-1,2-diaminoethane and 1,10-phenanthroline form chelate, 4-coordinate 1:1 adducts of greater stability than the unidentate N-bases, but no reaction is evident with 2,2′-bipyridine. The reuslts show the ‘soft’ character of the mercury atom and its reluctance to adopt a coordination number greater than three.
: Reactions of C 6 H 5 HgOH with CS 2 and 2-alkyl amino ethanol at -20 °C yield neutral two coordinate unsymmetrically substituted phenylmercury(n) N-alkyl, N-hydroxyethyl dithiocarbamate complexes, [C 6 H 5 HgS(S)-CN(R)CH 2 CH 2 OH] [R =CH 3 (1), C 2 H 5 (2), n-C 4 H 9 (3)]. Few bimetallic derivatives of compound 1 and 2 with Hg", Cd" and Ag I salts have also been prepared. The products have been characterised using analytical and spectroscopic (IR, UV, 1 H and 13 C NMR) data. The bimetallic adducts 4-13 are formed through the coordination of the sulfur atom of phenylmercury(ll) N-alkyl, N-hydroxyethyl dithiocarbamate to the soft metal acceptors.
Several authors have also proposed off-line enrichment of mercury species on complexing resins. Emteborg et al. [10] [11] [12] introduced in natural water samples the complexing resin, prepared by immobilization of dithiocarbamate functional groups on macroporous hydroxyethylmethacrylate spheres, and the suspension was stirred, whereafter the samples were filtered. Mercury species were extracted with acidified thiourea. Determination of inorganic mercury and organomercury compounds was also carried out after preconcentration on dithizone-anchored poly(ethylene glycol dimethacrylate-hydroxyethylmethacrylate) microbeads, when the desorption medium was a mixture of copper sulphate and acidic potassium bromide for organomercury species or dilute nitric acid for inorganic mercury [13] . However, the possibility of direct determination of mercury compounds adsorbed on solid sorbent by slurry sampling (SS) has been investigated. One of the most important advantages of the SS technique is the elimination of the desorption step. So, total mercury was determined in natural gas liquid and condensate using activated carbon by electrothermal (ET)AAS [14] . Phenylmercury was selectively preconcentrated from water samples by living Escherichia coli and the amount of organomercury specie retained was determined directly in the biomass slurry by CVAAS [15] .
The preparation and characterization of phenylmercury(II) complexes of L-cysteine and DL-penicillamine are reported. Infrared and Raman spectra of the new complex μ-cysteinato-S,N-bis[phenylmercury(n)] monohydrate and of previously reported complexes of L-cysteine and DL- penicillamine are compared. The complexes decompose to form diphenylmercury when stirred as suspensions in benzene at ambient temperature.
The separation of ethylmercurithiosalicylic acid and diphenylmercury in cosmetics was analyzed with high performance liquid chromatography-inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry(HPLC-ICP-MS).The method used a SB C18 column(4.6×150 mm,5 μm) and methanol-60 mmol/L ammonium acetate as the mobile phase to separate the mercury species,and the contents of these two kinds of mercury species were carried out by external standard method using plasma mass spectrograph.The line range was 0~100 μg/mL,and the detection limits of ethylmercurithiosalicylic acid and diphenylmercury were 5.76 μg/L and 4.41 μg/L,respectively.Sample recoveries in spiked cosmetics matrix ranged from 82.0% to 118.7%.The method was suitable for simultaneous determination of ethylmercurithiosalicylic acid and diphenylmercury in cosmetics.
Abstract Several gas chromatographic columns were evaluated for the determination of methylmercury in aqueous solution. The goal of the study was to further decrease the detection limit of the recently developed method of head space gas chromatography with microwave-induced plasma detection (HS-GC-MIP) for the determination of methylmercury in biological samples. The columns were first evaluated using gas chromatography with electron-capture detection (ECD). At the same time, the column efficiencies for the determination of ethyl- and phenylmercury were also studied. Of the packed columns the stationary phase used previously in HS-GC-MIP, AT-1000, yielded the best results. Better results were obtained with two wide-bore thick-film fused-silica open tubular (FSOT) columns, one of which was suitable for aqueous injections (Superox-FA) and the other for benzene or toluene (RSL-300). With these FSOT columns, absolute detection limits at the sub-picogram level were reached. A new HS-GC-MIP system was then constructed, which was adapted for the use of FSOT columns. As more sensitive measurements were obtained with a Superox-FA FSOT column than with an AT-1000 packed column using the GC-ECD system in the first part of this study, the FSOT column was evaluated in this HS-GC-MIP system for the determination of methylmercury in real tissue samples. It was demonstrated that the use of an FSOT column gives only a small decrease in the detection limit compared with a packed column; reconditioning of the FSOT column is, however, a disadvantage in routine measurements.
Removal of the green colour of butyryl-CoA dehydrogenase by reagents specific for nucleophilic sulphur is shown to involve chemical modification of the tightly bound CoA persulphide. 5,5′-Dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (Ellman9s reagent) de-greens the enzyme essentially irreversibly, with a stoicheiometry of approx. 1 mol/mol of FAD. A compound separated by subsequent gel filtration is eluted at the same position as a CoA-thionitrobenzoate standard. The 35S-labelled distal sulphur atom of CoA persulphide is separated from this material. The enzyme remains fully active. Phenylmercuric acetate also de-greens the enzyme. The extent to which thiols restore the green colour declines with time. Gel filtration of mercurial-treated enzyme separates low-Mr material containing a CoA moiety, an extra S atom and a phenylmercury moiety. This material, added to yellow butyryl-CoA dehydrogenase with an excess of thiol, re-forms green enzyme, but it loses this ability on storage. The results are explicable if it is assumed that the thionitrobenzoate derivative of CoA persulphide loses the extra sulphur atom much more readily than does the phenylmercury derivative.
The precise characterization of the behavior of individual microorganisms in the presence of increased mercury contents in soil is necessary for better elucidation of the fate of mercury in the soil environment. In our investigation, resistant bacterial strains isolated from two mercury contaminated soils, represented by Paenibacillus alginolyticus, Burkholderia glathei, Burkholderia sp., and Pseudomonas sp., were used. Two differently contaminated soils (0.5 and 7mg kg(-1) total mercury) were chosen. Preliminary soil analysis showed the presence of methylmercury and phenylmercury with the higher soil mercury level. Modified rhizobox experiments were performed to assess the ability of mercury accumulating strains to deplete the mobile and mobilizable mercury portions in the soil by modification; microbial agar cultures were used rather than the plant root zone. A sequential extraction procedure was performed to release the following mercury fractions: water soluble, extracted in acidic conditions, bound to humic substances, elemental, and bound to complexes, HgS and residual. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and a single-purpose atomic absorption spectrometer (AMA-254) were applied for mercury determination in the samples and extracts. Gas chromatography coupled to atomic fluorescence spectrometry (GC-AFS) was used for the determination of organomercury compounds. The analysis of the microbial community at the end of the experiment showed a 42% abundance of Paenibacillus sp. followed by Acetivibrio sp., Brevibacillus sp., Cohnella sp., Lysinibacillus sp., and Clostridium sp. not exceeding 2% abundance. The results suggest importance of Paenibacillus sp. in Hg transformation processes. This genus should be tested for potential bioremediation use in further research.
Mercuration of boiling 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with mercuric trifluoroacetate yields complex species, which were shown to contain mainly µ-(2,5,6-trichloro-1,3-phenylene)dimercury bridging units and 2,3,6-trichlorophenylmercury terminal groups by halogenodemercuration reactions, and bis(2,3,6-tri-chlorophenyl)mercury, which was independently synthesized from 2,3,6-trichlorophenyllithium and mercuric chloride. The organolithium compound was formed regiospecifically on reaction of 1,2,4-tri-chlorobenzene with butyllithium. Mercuration of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with mercuric trifluoroacetate (mole ratio 1 : 1) in trifluoroacetic acid results in regiospecific monomercuration giving 2,4,5-trichlorophenylmercuric trifluoroacetate. This compound undergoes rearrangement in boiling 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to give a 2,3,6-trichlorophenylmercurial, and is considered to be an intermediate in the mercuration synthesis of bis(2,3,6-trichloropheny1)mercury. Thus, in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, the kinetically and thermodynamically favoured mercuration positions differ by contrast with the reported behaviour of 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene. Formation of the complex mercuration products is considered to involve µ-(2,5,6-trichloro-1,3-phenylene)bis(trifluoroacetato)dimercury and bis(2,3,6-trichlorophenyl)mercury as intermediates. The new mercurials, bis(2,3,5-trichloro-phenyl)-, bis(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)- and bis(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-mercury, have been prepared from the appropriate polychloroanilines by the diazonium route.
The reaction of phenylmercury(II) chloride with acetophenonethiosemicarbazone (Hatsc) in ethanol in 1:1 mole ratio undergoes symmetrisation forming the products, HgCl2(Hatse)2 and Ph2Hg instead of the anticipated compound PhHgCl(Hatse). The analytical data, some physical properties, IR and NMR (1H, 11C, 199Hg) spectroscopy all support the formation of HgCl2(Hatse)2, 199Hg NMR of the solid obtained from the filtrate of the reaction provides evidence for Ph2Hg. This reaction represents the first example of a symmetrisation phenomenon observed in organomercury (II)-thiosemicarbazone chemistry.
Abstract The abandonment of Hg–As mining and metallurgy sites, together with long-term weathering, can dramatically degrade the environment. In this work it is exemplified the complex legacy of contamination that afflicts Hg–As brownfields through the detailed study of a paradigmatic site. Firstly, an in-depth study of the former industrial process was performed to identify sources of different types of waste. Subsequently, the composition and reactivity of As- and Hg-rich wastes (calcines, As-rich soot, stupp, and flue dust) was analyzed by means of multielemental analysis, mineralogical characterization (X-ray diffraction, electronic, and optical microscopy, microbrobe), chemical speciation, and sequential extractions. As-rich soot in the form of arsenolite, a relatively mobile by-product of the pyrometallurgical process, and stupp, a residue originated in the former condensing system, were determined to be the main risk at the site. In addition, the screening of organic pollution was also aimed, as shown by the outcome of benzo(a) pyrene and other PAHs, and by the identification of unexpected Hg organo-compounds (phenylmercury propionate). The approach followed unravels evidence from waste from the mining and metallurgy industry that may be present in other similar sites, and identifies unexpected contaminants overlooked by conventional analyses.
1. ::: ::: Comparison of electronic spectra has brought out the effect of polar and conformational factors in the behavior of the organometallic derivatives of the nitrophenols and nitrothiophenols. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Interaction of these compounds with DMSO does not lead to the formation of ion pairs, but rather results in the establishment of equilibria between molecular complexes and ions. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The values of the constants for complexing with DMSO fall off in the order: ArSHgPh > ArSH, ArSSbPh2 > ArSPbPh3 > ArSSbPh4 > ArSSnPh3. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: The dissociation constants for the various compounds fall off in the order: ArSSbPh4 > ArSSnPh3 > ArSH > ArSPbPh3, ArSSbPh3. The nitrothiophenolate of phenylmercury does not dissociate in DMSO.
1. ::: ::: The bridge group N(SO2C6H5) in compounds C6H5HgN(SO2C6H5)Ar is less capable of conducting the influence of the effect of conjugation of substituents in the aryl ring on the chemical shifts of199Hg in comparison with the -CH2- and -OC(O)- groups in the corresponding benzyl derivatives and phenylmercury benzoates. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Intramolecular coordinatation of o substituents in the N-aryl ring with the mercury atom leads to a strong unshielding of the199Hg nuclei. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The chemical shifts of the199Hg are sensitive to the steric effects of the alkyl groups at the N atoms in the compounds C6H5HgN(SO2C6H5)Alk.
S-nitrosothiols (SNOs) are a family of molecules produced by the reaction of nitric oxide (NO) with -SH thiol groups present in the cysteine residues of proteins and peptides caused by a posttranslational modification (PTM) known as S-nitrosylation (strictly speaking S-nitrosation) that can affect the cellular function of proteins. These molecules are a relatively more stable form of NO and consequently can act as a major intracellular NO reservoir and, in some cases, as a long-distance NO signal. Additionally, SNOs can be transferred between small peptides and protein thiol groups through S-transnitrosylation mechanisms. Thus, detection and cellular localization of SNOs in plant cells can be useful tools to determine how these molecules are modulated under physiological and adverse conditions and to determine their importance as a mechanism for regulating different biochemical pathways. Using a highly sensitive chemiluminescence ozone technique and a specific fluorescence probe (Alexa Fluor 488 Hg-link phenylmercury), the methods described in this chapter enable us to determine SNOs in an nM range as well as their cellular distribution in the tissues of different plant species.
A highly selective and sensitive method was developed for preconcentration of inorganic and organic mercury compounds followed by reversed-phase column high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) with UV-visible detection. The method was based on the reaction of mercury with 6-mercaptopurine and solid-phase extraction (SPE) of the complex on an octadecylsilane (C18) cartridge. The complex was then treated with ammoniacal dithizone solution, and the complexes of inorganic and organic mercury with dithizone were eluted by methanol. The speciation analysis of methylmercury (MeHg), phenylmercury (PhHg), and inorganic Hg (II) was carried out by RP-HPLC. Some experimental variables that influence the SPE and derivatization, such as pH, chelating and derivatizing agent concentration, and surfactant addition, were investigated. The calibration graphs of MeHg, PhHg, and Hg (II) were linear [correlation coefficient (r) > 0.999] from the detection limits (0.12, 0.16, and 0.14 ng) to 8.5, 6.0, and 6.7 ng Hg, respectively. By applying the SPE procedure, a 100-fold concentration of the sample was obtained. The procedure was applied to sea water and tuna fish samples. The method's accuracy was investigated by using tuna fish certified reference material BCR 464 and by spiking the samples with different amounts of MeHg, PhHg, and Hg (II). The average recoveries of MeHg, PhHg, and Hg (II) from spiked samples (0.1-2.0 microg/L Hg) were 96 +/- 4, 98 +/- 3, and 104 +/- 4%, respectively.
Reaction of phenylmercury(II) nitrate with triphenylphosphine in dry ethanol gives the adduct [HgPh(PPh3)]NO3 whose structure has been determined by X-ray crystallography. The complex crystallizes in the monoclinic space group P21/n with unit-cell parameters a= 13.119(5), b= 10.529(2), c= 16.233(4)A, and β= 102.79(1)°. The geometry about mercury(II) is nearly T-shaped with P–Hg–C(Ph) 167.5(2)°. The Hg–P distance of 2.431(2)A indicates strong interaction and there is weak interaction between mercury and the nitrate oxygen atoms. This complex represents the first structurally characterized organomercury(II) complex with a tertiary phosphine.
Abstract The vibrational spectrum (IR and Raman) of the dimeric phenylmercurythiocyanate, [(C 6 H 5 )HgSCN] 2 , was registered and assigned. The compound formes a four-membered Hg 2 S 2 -ring with symmetry D 2 h .
Human rheumatoid synovial cells in culture secrete both 72-kDa progelatinase and a complex consisting of 72-kDa progelatinase and a 24-kDa inhibitor of metalloproteinases, TIMP-2. In addition, the culture medium contains TIMP-1, the classical inhibitor of metalloproteinases, with a molecular mass of 30 kDa. TIMP-1 does not form a complex with free 72-kDa progelatinase. ::: ::: ::: ::: Free progelatinase and progelatinase complexed with TIMP-2 can be activated with the organomercury compound p-aminophenylmercury acetate. The activated complex shows less than 10% the enzyme activity of activated free gelatinase. ::: ::: ::: ::: The progelatinase – TIMP-2 complex could be shown to be an inhibitor for other metalloproteinases, such as gelatinase and collagenase secreted by human rheumatoid synovia fibroblasts, as well as for the corresponding enzymes from human neutrophils.
Abstract Phenylation of dichloro-μ4-norbornadienepalladium either with diphenylmercury or, more conveniently, with sodium tetraphenylborate gave di-μ-chlorobis(2:5.6-μ-3- endo -phenylnorbornen-2-yl- endo -palladium) (IV). This reaction provides the first definitive evidence for a cis addition of Pd-R to a coordinated double bond. By contrast phenylation of dichloro-μ4-norbornadieneplatinum gave first [Pt(Ph)(Cl)(nor-C7H8)] and then [PtPh2(nor-C7H8)] and no phenylation of the norbornadiene could be induced. Complex (IV) underwent a reversible ring-closure to give the nortricyclenyl complex (VI), [PdCl(py)2(C7H8)], on reaction with pyridine. In the solid state (IV) is bonded in a σ,π-form but the homoallylic form for (IV) and for related complexes is probably easily accessible.
A new concept is presented for green analytical applications based on coupling on-line high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) with a sequential injection/flow injection analysis (SIA/FIA) system. The potential of the SIA/HIFU/FIA scheme is demonstrated by taking mercury as a model analyte. Using inorganic mercury, methylmercury, phenylmercury, and diphenylmercury, the usefulness of the proposed methodology for the determination of inorganic and total mercury in waters and urine was demonstrated. The procedure requires low sample volumes and reagents and can be further applied to all chemical reactions involving HIFU. The inherent advantages of SIA, FIA, and HIFU applications in terms of high throughput, automation, low reagent consumption, and green chemistry are accomplished together for the first time in the present work.
The rare earth aryloxide complexes, [Yb(OArtBu)3(THF)]·THF, [Sc(OArtBu)3(THF)]·THF, [Yb(OArMe)3(THF)], and [Sm(OArPh)3(THF)2] (OArR = 2,6-diphenyl-3,5-di-R-phenolate), have been prepared by redox transmetallation/ligand exchange between the rare earth metal, bis(pentafluorophenyl)mercury, and HOArR in tetrahydrofuran. This reaction also provided [Yb(OArPh)3(DME)]·3/2THF by incorporation of adventitious 1,2-dimethoxyethane. A similar reaction between Yb metal, diphenylmercury, and HOArMe gave [Yb(OArMe)2(THF)3]. The homoleptic complexes [Yb(OArPh)3] and [Sc(OArH)3] have been prepared by direct reaction of the rare earth element with HOArR in a sealed tube in the presence of mercury at elevated temperatures (200−250 °C) and the latter was converted into [Sc(OArH)3(THF)] by treatment with THF. X-ray crystal structure determinations of [Yb(OArtBu)3(THF)]·THF, [Sc(OArtBu)3(THF)]·THF, and [Yb(OArMe)3(THF)] show the complexes to be monomeric and four coordinate with a trigonal pyramidal stereochemistry. These structures provide clear evidence that groups meta to the phenolate donor can modify the coordination behaviour of the 2,6-diphenylphenolate ligand. In [Yb(OArPh)3(DME)]·3/2THF a distorted square pyramidal stereochemistry is observed. The divalent complex [Yb(OArMe)2(THF)3] exhibits a distorted trigonal bipyramidal arrangement of the oxygen donor atoms with apical THF ligands. The homoleptic scandium 2,6-diphenylphenolate has three oxygen atoms in a triangular array with additional π-η1-Ph···Sc interactions above and below the ScO3 plane [C−Sc−C = 154.2(8)°], providing a new type of binding of this aryloxide ligand.
A multi-element, element-specific detector for gas chromatography (GC) based on atomic emission spectroscopy (AES) with a microwave induced plasma (MIP) source was tested on some environmental samples. As derivatization procedure, direct aqueous phase ethylation and chelation/extraction followed by Grignard reaction were tested on the following ions: methylmercury, ethylmercury, phenylmercury, mercury(II), trimethyllead, dimethyllead, lead(II), trimethyltin, dimethyltin, triethyltin, tripropyltin, tributyltin, dibutyltin, butyltin, and tin(IV). For mercury species a direct aqueous phase phenylation was successfully tested. The different methods of derivatization are compared, and the performance (sensitivity, linearity) of the GC-MIP-AES system is discussed. Some examples of application to environmental samples (biological tissues) are given.
Cold vapour atomic absorption spectrometry was used to determine if bromine water extracts organic bound mercury quantitatively from liquid hydrocarbons. The method described is used for mercury determination by the oil industry but has not been previously published. It presents an extension to the existing standard ISO 6978: 1992 which deals with the determination of mercury in natural gases. The bromine oxidises the mercury to mercury(II)-ions. Then excess bromine is reduced by hydroxylammonium chloride to bromide. Finally the mercury(II)-ions are reduced by tin(II)-chloride to elemental mercury. The absorbance at 253.7 nm is measured spectrometrically and depends linearly on the mercury concentration. Quantitative tests of this method have been carried out previously on organic mercury compounds dissolved in water and living tissues. Test results on the validity of this method for organic mercury compounds dissolved in crude oils or condensates are presented in this communication. The recoveries of dimethylmercury and diphenylmercury dissolved in an organic solvent and in a liquid condensate–solvent mixture have been determined. For dimethylmercury it was found to be 98 ± 5% in heptane and 98 ± 6% in a condensate–heptane mixture. For diphenylmercury the recovery was found to be 93 ± 5% in a heptane–toluene mixture and 95 ± 5% in a heptane–toluene–condensate mixture.
Iron-grown Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans MON-1 cells are highly resistant to organomercurial compounds as well as mercuric chloride (HgCl2). Existence of a novel Hg2+-reducing enzyme system, in which mercury resistant aa3-type cytochrome c oxidase catalyzes the reduction of Hg2+ with reduced mammalian cytochrome c or Fe2+ as an electron donor to give Hg0, has been shown in iron-grown MON-1 cells. There has been no reports on the mechanism of Hg2+ reduction by sulfur-grown A. ferrooxidans cells. The level of mercury resistance in sulfur-grown A. ferrooxidans MON-1 cells was compared with that of iron-grown MON-1 cells. Strain MON-1 was able to grow in 1% elemental sulfur medium (pH 2.5) containing 10 μM of Hg2+ or 0.2 μM phenylmercury acetate (PMA), suggesting that the levels of mercury resistance to inorganic and organic mercurial compounds are nearly the same in iron- and sulfur-grown MON-1 cells. Activity levels of Hg0 volatilization from HgCl2, PMA, and methylmercury chloride (MMC) were also nearly the same in iron- and sulfur-grown cells and these activities were markedly activated by 100 mM of Fe2+, but strongly inhibited by 1 mM of sodium cyanide, indicating that sulfur-grown MON-1 cells has the activity of ferrous iron-dependent mercury reducing enzyme system containing aa3-type cytochrome oxidase. aa3-type cytochrome c oxidase purified partially from sulfur-grown MON-1 cells showed both the iron oxidase and mercury reductase activities in the presence, but not in the absence, of rusticyanin and c-type cytochromes (Cyc1 and Cyc2) partially purified from iron-grown MON-1 cells.
The experiment on determination of phenylmercury compound in water in the method of blow-off gathering and gas chromatography shows a better separation effect, with correlation coefficient between 0.9992-0.9994, relative standard deviation between 3.4%-4.6%.
One hundred six strains of aerobic bacteria were isolated from the Fiora River which drains an area of cinnabar deposits in southern Tuscany, Italy. Thirty-seven of the strains grew on an agar medium containing 10μg/ml Hg (as HgCl2) with all of these strains producing elemental mercury. Seven of the 37 strains also degraded methylmercury. None of 106 sensitive and resistant strains produced detectable monomethylmercury although 15 strains produced a benzene-soluble mercury species. Two strains of alkylmercury (methyl-, ethyl- and phenylmercury) degrading bacteria were tested for the ability to degrade several other analogous organometals and organic compounds, but no activity was detected toward these compounds. Mercury methylation is not a mechanism of Hg resistance in aerobic bacteria from this environment. Growth of bacteria on the agar medium containing 10μg/ml HgCl2 was diagnostic for Hg detoxification based on reduction.
Benzyl radicals, generated by the pyrolysis of dibenzylmercury, react with indene to give toluene, 1-benzylindene, 2-benzylindene, 3-benzylindene, 1,3-dibenzylindene, 1,1′-bi-indenyl, and 3,3′-bi-indenyl. Phenyl radicals, generated by the pyrolysis of diphenylmercury, react with indene to give benzene and 1,1′-bi-indenyl.
The reactions of mercuric carboxylates with bivalent sulfur compounds, such as aralkyl sulfides and mercaptoles, were investigated. When mercuric acetate and aralkyl sulfides were refluxed in benzene, mercury mercaptides and aralkyl acetates were obtained. It was made clear that the reactivity of the sulfides depends on the stability of carbonium ions given by elimination of the mercapto group. Next, it was found that acetic anhydride, benzophenone and mercury phenylmercaptide were obtained in high yields by the equimolar reaction of benzophenone diphenylmercaptole with mercuric acetate. Further, the reaction was extended to the preparative method of carboxylic acid anhydrides from free acids by treating the carboxylic acids with diphenylmercury and the mercaptole. On the other hand, S-phenyl thioacetate, benzophenone and mercury mercaptide were produced in good yields when benzophenone diphenylmercaptole (2 mol) was treated with mercuric acetate (1 mol). Further, it was established that thiolesters were ...
Abstract Phenylmercury(II) compounds containing Hg-S bonds of the general formulae [PhHgS[S)POGO] G = -CH2C(H)-CH3, -CH2(CH2)3CH2-and -C(CH3)2(CH3)2C- have been prepared by the reaction of PhHgOCOCH3 and the corresponding NH4 salt of O,O'-alkylene dithiophosphoric acids in aqueous ethanol. Their bimetallic derivatives with Hg(II), Cd(II) and Ag(I) salts have also been prepared. The products have been characterized using analytical and spectroscopic (IR and 1H NMR) data. Bimetallic derivatives are formed through the coordination of the sulfur atom of phenylmercury O.O'-alkylene dithiophosphate to the soft metal acceptors.
Seeds of Pisum sativum, varieties Little Marvel and Alaska, were planted in soils contaminated with radioactive ionic mercury, methylmercury or phenylmercury compounds. After saturation, stems, leaves, and pods were harvested and analyzed by gamma spectroscopy. Utilizing a least squares three-way analysis of covariance coupled with a Studentized Range Test, significant differences were noted among the levels of the three mercury compounds in the plants, between mercury levels in the two pea varieties and among mercury levels in the different pea tissues examined. Phenylmercury levels differed consistently from levels of ionic mercury and methylmercury suggesting a separate pathway for it in peas.
The reactions of pentafluorophenylmercury derivatives with organomagnesium compounds have been studied. The interaction of pentafluorophenylmercury chloride with RMgBr (R = Et, Ph) has afforded diphenyl- and diethylmercury or phenylmercury chloride, besides the expected product (C6F5HgR). The results have been explained by the transmetalation of C6F5HgR with the Grignard reagent, followed by the reaction of the resulting C6F5MgX (X = Br, C6F5) with pentafluorophenylmercury chloride. Transmetalation of (C6F5)2Hg with organylmagnesium bromides has led to the formation of C6F5MgX and R2Hg.
Abstract Phenyl(dihalomethyl)mercury compounds, PhHgCBr 2 H and PhHgCClBrH, have been found to transfer CHBr and CHCl, respectively, to organosilicon hydrides forming (bromomethyl)- and (chloromethyl)silanes. Such reactions appear to be of preparative utility only in the case of alkylsilicon hydrides. (Bromomethyl)triethylgermane also was prepared in moderate yield by this procedure. (Dibromomethyl)mercuric bromide by itself was not a CHBr transfer agent, but did become effective in this application when an equivalent of diphenylmercury was added to it. It was found that diphenylmercury “activates” (dibromomethyl)mercuric bromide by reacting with it to form phenylmercuric bromide and phenyl(dibromomethyl)mercury.
Treatment of 3-aryl-1-(tetrazol-5′-yl)triazenes (4) with lead tetra-acetate resulted in a fragmentation to aryl diazocyanides. The triazenes (4) and their monomethyl derivatives when treated with mercuric acetate and phenylmercury hydroxide gave stable mercuri compounds with mercury bonded at N-3 and the tetrazole N-2′. The reaction of the triazenes with acetic anhydride resulted in acetylation of the triazene unit with fragmentation to aryl diazonium ions and 5-acetamidotetrazoles. These reactions are discussed and the 13C n.m.r. spectra of the products are analysed.
Abstract A rapid method is proposed for the determination of thiol sulphur in petroleum oil fractions. The thiol is reacted with phenylmercury(II) acetate in a kerosene medium. By adjusting the sensitivity of the system the heat changes are usable over a wide range of concentrations of the analyte (from 0–10 to 50–100 mM thiol) in the oil.
Abstract Mercuric chloride reacts with orthomanganated aryl ketones or esters in refluxing methanol to give the corresponding arylmercury(II) chloride in good yields, with the mercury specifically ortho to the ketone function. Thus the manganated acetophenone 2-CH 3 C( O)C 6 H 4 M n(CO) 4 gives 2-CH 3 C(O)C 6 H 4 HgCl. Similarly prepared from the corresponding ketones were 2-acetyl-5-methoxyphenylmercury(II) chloride, 2-benzoylphenylmercury(II) chloride and 2-acetyl-3-thienylmercury(II) chloride. The 2-carbomethoxy-4,5,6-trimethoxyphenylmercury(II) chloride was also obtained in good yield from the orthomanganated aryl ester. X-ray crystallographic determination of the structure of 2-CH 3 C(O)C 6 H 4 HgCl shows only a very weak interaction between the mercury atom and the acyl oxygen atom.
An analytical method using cold vaporatomic fluorescence spectrometry was developed by the U.S. Geological Survey in 2001 for the determination of organic plus inorganic mercury in filtered and unfiltered natural water. This method was developed to eliminate the use of acid dichromate preservative and to provide capability to measure ambient mercury concentrations in natural water. Dissolved mercury includes all oxidizable mercury species present in natural water that has been filtered through a 0.45-micrometer pore size capsule filter. Wholewater recoverable mercury includes dissolved mercury species and mercury species adsorbed to particulate matter in unfiltered natural water. Mercury species can include elemental mercury, mercury (II), mercury (II) complexes, various alkyl-and phenylmercury compounds, and other forms of mercury. In this method, samples are collected and processed according to standard U.S. Geological Survey protocols. Samples are preserved onsite with 6N hydrochloric acid in a ratio of 1 to 100 in a borosilicateglass bottle with fluoropolymer-lined cap. Mercury species are oxidized to mercury (II) by using bromine monochloride; excess oxidation reagent is neutralized with hydroxylamine hydrochloride. Elemental mercury produced after adding stannous chloride is purged from the solution with ultrapure argon gas into a cell in which the mercury concentration is measured by atomic fluorescence emission at 253.7 nanometers. The analytical response is linear up to 125 nanograms per liter (ng/L) of mercury, and the short-term method detection limit is about 5 ng/L. The analytical variability at 50 ng/L is about 10 percent.
Abstract A highly sensitive and accurate method for preconcentration and determination of ultra trace amounts of inorganic mercury and organomercury compounds in different water samples is proposed. The preconcentration is achieved using octadecyl silica (C18) extraction disks modified with 1,3-bis(2-cyanobenzene)triazene (CBT). The retained analytes as their triazenide complexes on the solid phase was eluted with 10 ml acetonitrile and measured by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). Type and amount of eluent, pH, amount of CBT, flow rates of sample solution and eluent have been optimized in order to obtain quantitative recovery of the analytes. The effect of interfering ions, such as Cu2+, Mn2+, Fe2+, Al3+, Zn2+, Cd2+, Ca2+, Mg2+, Ba2+, Pb2+, K+ and Na+ usually present in water samples on the recovery of the analytes has also been investigated. The enrichment factor of 100 was obtained for all mercury species and the analytical detection limits of phenylmercury, methylmercury and Hg2+ were found as 0.8, 1.0 and 1.3 ng l− 1, respectively. Stability of mercury species after extraction on the modified disks was studied and the results showed that complexes collected on the disks were stable for at least 5 days. The proposed method has been applied to the quantitative determination of mercury species in natural and synthetic water samples with recoveries more than 90%.
The efficiency of the sodium salt of 2,3-dimercaptopropanesulfonic acid (DMPS) and meso-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) to mobilize mercury from tissues has been assessed in rats pretreated with different doses of HgCl2, phenylmercury acetate or exposed to different concentrations of mercury vapors. These pretreatments increase the mercury concentration in the kidney and to a lower extent in the liver. Only exposure to metallic mercury vapor leads to mercury accumulation in the brain. Both chelators mobilize mercury stored in the kidney and the amount of metal excreted in urine following a single administration of DMSA is a good indicator of the renal burden of mercury. The rate of removal is greater after DMPS administration than after DMSA but repeated administration of either agents eventually leads to the same total amount of mercury mobilized from the kidney. The loss of mercury from the liver can be slightly accelerated by repeated administration of the chelators. However, the chelators are inefficient in removing mercury from the brain.
Benzylphenylmercury decomposes in toluene between 140 and 170 °C to give bibenzyl, diphenylmercury, and mercury in a first-order reaction with log10(A/s–1) 16.8, E 41.0 kcal mol–1, and interpreted as involving Hg–CH2Ph bond fission in the rate-determining step. The effects of m-chloro and p-methyl substitution in the benzyl group on this decomposition have been determined.
In this study, 18 patients with oral lichen planus (OLP), adjacent to amalgam fillings, were tested in vitro with an optimized lymphocyte proliferation test, MELISA (memory lymphocyte immunostimulation assay) and with a patch test. Twenty subjects with amalgam fillings but without oral discomfort and 12 amalgam-free subjects served as controls. The results show that patients with OLP have significantly higher lymphocyte reactivity to inorganic mercury, a corrosion product of amalgam, compared to control groups. Removal of amalgam fillings resulted in the disappearance of oral mucosal changes, thus indicating a causal relationship. Positive responses to phenylmercury (phenyl-Hg), a bactericidal agent in root fillings and in pharmaceutical preparations, were also noted in the oral lichen group but not in the control groups. Thus, low-grade chronic exposure to mercury may induce a state of systemic sensitization as verified by Hg-specific lymphocyte reactivity in vitro.
A new whole-cell bacterial sensor for the detection of low concentration of mercury in environment was constructed by gene fusion between a mercury resistance (mer) operon from pMR26 of Pseudomonas strain K-62 and a promoterless luxAB gene from Vibrio harveyi. The luminescence-based biosensor was evaluated for the selectivity and sensitivity of the detection of mercury. Cadmium, lead, chromium and zinc ions did not interfere with the assay even at same concentration compared to Hg2+. Methylmercury, phenylmercury and mercuric sulfide also did not affect the biosensor. These results reveal that the specificity of the construct is restricted to bioavailable Hg2+. The sensitivity of the biosensor was improved by decreasing the cell density in the bioassay in addition to genetically expressing an Hg2+ transport system which was expected to increase the amount of mer operon-inducing mercury in the cytoplasm. In optimized assay conditions, the lowest detectable concentration of Hg2+ was 2 pM with 1 ml sample. This detection limit is enough to detect this compound in many contaminated and some pristine environmental samples.
A novel and extremely highly sensitive method for the speciation of organomercury in sea food and environmental water samples was developed by hollow fiber liquid-liquid-liquid microextraction (LLLME) coupled to high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with ultraviolet (UV) detection at 254 nm. By the use of toluene filled the pores of the hollow fiber wall as the organic phase and Na(2)S(2)O(3) aqueous solution in the lumen of hollow fiber as acceptor phase, the simultaneous preconcentration of methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), and phenylmercury (PhHg) could be realized, and the target mercury species in the post-extraction acceptor phase were directly injected into HPLC for their separation. The factors affecting on the liquid-liquid-liquid microextraction of three organomercury species, including organic solvent, the pH of donor phase, the concentration of complexing agent, extraction time and stirring rate were investigated and the optimal extraction conditions were established. With the consumption of 3.8 mL of sample solution, the enrichment factors were about 120, 215 and 350 for MeHg, EtHg, and PhHg, respectively. The limits of detection were in the range of 0.3-3.8 ng mL(-1) (as Hg) with precisions (RSDs (%), c=30 ng mL(-1) (as Hg), n=7) ranging from 6.4 to 8.9%. The developed technique was validated by analyzing a certified reference material (DORM-2, dogfish-muscle, NRCC) and an environmental water sample, and the analytical results were satisfactory.
The effects of different concentrations of 4 fungicides, Bavistin [carbendazim], Dithane M-45 [mancozeb], Agrosan G N [phenylmercury acetate] and PCNB [quintozene] and 2 antibiotics, griseofulvin and mycostatin, on the seed mycoflora and seed germination of 3 spices, fennel (Foeniculum vulgare), black caraway (Bunium persicum) and ammi (Trachyspermum ammi), were studied in vitro. All the fungicides and antibiotics were found to be effective in reducing the seed mycoflora both qualitatively and quantitatively. The percentage germination of all the fungicide treated seeds was higher than that of untreated ones except in the case of Agrosan G N, whereas both the antibiotics exhibited a phytotoxic effect on seed germination.
Following a previous study where 12 electronically altered dithizones were synthesized, here we report on attempts to synthesize 26 dithizones. The purpose was to explore the boundaries within which dithizones may be synthesized, explore spectral tuning possibilities, and investigate steric effects on the photochromic reaction of its mercury complexes. Contrary to expectation, large substituents like phenoxy groups increased the rate of the photochromic back-reaction. In the series H-, 2-CH3-, 4-CH3-, 3,4-(CH3)2-, 2-OC6H5-, and 4-OC6H5-dithizonatophenylmercury(II), the lowest rate of 0.0004 s(-1) was measured for the 2-CH3 complex, while the rate for the 2-OC6H5 derivative was 20 times higher. A solvent study revealed a direct relationship between dipole moment and the rate of the back-reaction, while the relationship between temperature and rate is exponential, with t1/2 = 2 min 8 s for the 4-phenoxy complex. The crystal structures of two dithizone precursors, 2-phenoxy- and 4-phenoxynitroformazan, are reported.
3,5-Dichlorophenylmercury cyanide (1) and phenylethynylmercury cyanide (2) dissolved in DMSO-d6 have been investigated using 13C, 15N and 199Hg NMR and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The longitudinal relaxation times of 13C and 199Hg nuclei of compounds 1 and 2 and of the 15N nucleus of 1 have been measured at two magnetic fields. On the basis of these data the rotational diffusion constants describing the reorientation rates of the investigated molecules in solution and the shielding anisotropy parameters for nuclei of atoms forming the –HgCN group have been determined. The available NMR characteristics of several other cyanomercury compounds and those containing the ethynylmercury fragment have also been collected. The experimental values of carbon and nitrogen shielding parameters for the cyanomercury and ethynylmercury groups have been compared with those calculated theoretically using the DFT GIAO method. This comparison has allowed an estimation of the size of the deshielding heavy atom effect experienced by the sp-hybridized mercury-bonded carbons atoms. Copyright © 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
A highly sensitive and precise procedure has been developed for the quantitative determination of total mercury in sediments and soils. Undried samples are treated with concentrated nitric and sulphuric acids, potassium permanganate and potassium persulphate in order to digest and oxidise all forms of mercury to mercury (II) ions, which are subsequently determined by flameless atomic-absorption spectrophotometry. Recovery of mercury, added as mercury(II) chloride, methylmercury chloride, phenylmercury hydroxide or phenylmercury acetate to a lake sediment, ranged from 98 to 105 per cent. The procedure developed by us resulted in the extraction of more mercury from sediments and soils than did extraction with concentrated nitric acid. Drying at 60 °C caused a significant loss of organomercury compounds from a lake sediment.
Conclusions1.The introduction of substituents into the meta and para positions of the thiophenol ring in phenylmercury derivatives of thiophenols results in an increase in mercury shielding.2.The presence of intramolecular coordination bonding between the metal atom and ortho substituents is demonstrated.3.Coordinating and polar solvents increase mercury shielding.
The authors have studied 116 Gram-negative strains, 27 of which were sensitive to antibiotics and 89 showed multiple resistance. The MIC of mercury chloride, mercuric nitrate and of an aqueous solution of mercuresceine were much higher in the case of the sensitive strains. The transfer of resistance to mercury, which has been achieved in 56% of cases, was always accompanied by transfer of resistance to the antibiotics. The MIC of phenylmercury borate, mercurothiolic acid and other heavy metals (such as: cobaltous nitrate, silver nitrate, cadmium nitrate, nickel nitrate, zinc nitrate, copper sulphate and sodium arsenate) are approximatively the same for all strains. The normal concentrations of mercury in nature are lower than the rate of microbial selection. But in areas of accumulation, particularly in biological chains or in hospitals, the mercury compounds could play a part in the selection of antibiotic resistant Gram-negative bacteria.
Radical cations of dibenzylmercury and its p-X derivatives (X = Me, MeS, MeO, Cl) and of diphenylmercury and its p-X derivatives (X = Cl, Et, Me, MeO) have been generated by γ-radiolysis of dilute solutions of the parent compounds in CFCl3 matrices at 77 K. The EPR results for the dibenzylmercury series show all members to be σu-radical cations with singly occupied molecular orbitals approximating to the form (I). The parallel and perpendicular |+½> components of the 199Hg spectrum are almost coincident, giving an intense low-field isotropic line: this shows a substructure typical of an anisotropic doublet coupling, and arises from a single solvent fluorine atom, but is unprecedentedly large for radical-cation superhyperfine couplings in freon matrices. These additional couplings were absent when the experiments were repeated using a CCl4 matrix which confirms the 19F assignment.The diphenylmercury radical cation is also of the σu-type, along with its dimethyl and diethyl derivatives, although the spin density on mercury is reduced to ca. 50% of that in the dibenzyl series. In contrast, the dimethoxy and dichloro derivatives are formed in π-states with apparently negligible spin density on the mercury atom. Thus the σu- and π-levels must be very close in energy, so that an electronic crossover can be induced by appropriate substitution.MNDO calculations were also performed on these radicals. While there is an overall accord with the experimental results, there are important differences: for instance, F-σ* complexes are not predicted to be stable ‘gas-phase’ energy minima. However, constraints placed on the geometry such that the R2Hg˙+ radical cation must be within ca. 2–4 Ă of a CFCl3 molecule, as would be the case in the solid matrix, can be modelled, and under these conditions appreciable 19F couplings are predicted.
Abstract Potassium peroxodisulfate (14 g l −1 , 25 ml) has been observed to readily oxidize water under UV irradiation (30 W mercury arc tube), even at room temperature. The reaction is complete in 20 min, producing oxygen in stoichiometric amounts. The reaction was applied to pretreatment for the determination of total mercury by cold vapor atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS). The response of mercury(II) chloride by the UV irradiation method was higher than that by the standard permanganate method (95 °C, 2 h). The conversion efficiency of mercury by the UV irradiation method, the standard method and by non-treatment was found to be 100, 93.6 and 85.0%, respectively. The study is also applied to methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury chlorides.
The fluorescence quenching of anthracene by dimethyl‐(DMM) and diphenylmercury (DPM) has been examined and compared in toluene and 95% ethanol as solvent. The rates of quenching by DMM and DPM are similar at room temperature. The application of the Arrhenius relationship shows that this is due to a fortuitous compensation of pre‐exponential and activation energy terms. It is shown that the fluorescence quenching by DPM results only from an increased rate of intersystem crossing induced by the heavy‐atom molecule. Copyright © 1975 Wiley‐VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
Abstract The reaction of phenylmercury hydroxide with chelating ligands such as salicylaldehyde, 8-hydroxyquinoline, benzoylphenyl hydroxylamine, 2-hydroxybenzophenones and some Schiff bases has been found to give chelated phenylmercury compounds. Stable phenylmercury titanoxanes containing the HgOTi group have been prepared by the reaction of chelated titanium diisopropoxides with phenylmercury hydroxide. Isopropyl titanate under similar conditions gave tetra-phenylmercury titanate.
Reactions of thioxanthylium ion with dimethyl-, dibenzyl-, diisopropyl-, and diphenylmercury in the air gave 9,9'-methylenedithioxanthene, 9-benzylthioxanthene, 9-acetonylthioxanthene, and 9-phenylthioxanthene, respectively, as a 9-substituted thioxanthene. In contrast with reactions with aromatics with an electron-donating group, large amount of thioxanthene and thioxanthone were obtained. However, only trace amounts of thioxanthene and thioxanthone were obtained from the reaction with dibenzylmercury under nitrogen atmosphere. In order to explain these reactions, one electron transfer between thioxanthylium ion and organomercurials was proposed.
1. ::: ::: Trichloromethylmercury bromide was synthesized by reaction between mercury and bromotrichloromethane in presence of radiation; the product was converted by the usual methods into trichloromethylmercury hydroxide, chloride, and iodide. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Phenyl(trichloromethyl)mercury was synthesized by reaction of trichloromethylmercury bromide with dichlorodiphenyltin in an alkaline medium. Reaction of the product with hydrogen chloride gave phenylmercury chloride, which indicates the high electronegativity of the trichloromethyl group, as compared with that of the phenyl group. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Trichloromethylmercury halides form complex compounds with pyridine. The double compound of pyridine with trichloromethylmercury bromide survives recrystallization and has the composition CC13HgBr · C5H5N. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: The complex-formers ammonia and hydrogen sulfide completely destroy trichloromethylmercury halides. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 5. ::: ::: 3,3-Dichloroallylmercury iodide was synthesized by reaction between 1,1-dichloro-3-iodopropene and mercury in presence of ultraviolet radiation; the product was converted by the usual methods into 3,3-dichloroallylmercury chloride and bromide.
Organomercury derivatives of dicyandiamide have been used in studies of the distribution and metabolism of mercury in animals and as fungicides for the protection of seed grain. Both methylmercury and phenylmercury compounds were present in grain that caused 459 deaths in Iraq. Phenylmercuric acetate reacts with dicyandiamide,(H2N)2CNCN, in ethanol in the presence of sodium ethoxide to give complexes whose structures are shown to be PhHgN(H)C(NH2)NCN and (PhHgNH)2CNCN from analysis of 1H NMR and IR spectra. The 2:1 complex is also formed on heating an ethanol solution of PhHgN(H)C(NH2)NCN, and on neutralization of an acidic solution of phenylmercuric acetate and dicyandiamide in water, and on neutralization of an acidic solution of PhHgN(H)C(NH2)NCN in water.
Abstract We report here on the degradation of diphenylmercury and monophenylmercury chloride in air-equilibrated aqueous solutions by heterogeneous photocatalysis over α-Fe2O3. Photocatalysis proceeded via sequential de-phenylation leaving inorganic mercury. GC-MS analysis of the products revealed that photocatalytic degradation involved hydroxylation of the phenyl rings. Mechanistic features and photocatalytic activity were also studied and are reported upon.
A series of new phenylmercury(II) dithio complexes [PhHg(Bun2dtc)] (; Bun2dtc-=di-n-butyldithiocarbamate), [PhHg(morphdtc)] (; morphdtc-=morpholinedithiocarbamate), [PhHg(Bz2dtc)] (; Bz2dtc-=dibenzyldithiocarbamate), [PhHg(methoxethxant)] (; methoxethxant-=2-methoxyethylxanthate) [(PhHg)2NED] (; NED2-=1-nitroethylene-2,2-dithiolate) and [(PhHg)2CDC] (; CDC2-=cyanodithioimidocarbonate) have been prepared and characterized by elemental analysis, UV-Vis, IR, 1H and 13C NMR spectra and mass spectrometry. The crystal structures of , and showed a linear Hg(II) core at the center of the molecules. The weak intra- and intermolecular HgS interactions provide a molecular chain framework. The reaction of PhHgO2CCH3 with Bun2dtcH gave the known dimeric complex Hg(Bun2dtc)2 while the Ni(O2CCH3)2 mediated reaction gave instead of the expected heterobimetallic complex [PhHgNi(Bun2CS2)2]O2CCH3 which has been corroborated by natural charges at each atom obtained at the density functional level (DFT) of theory. Upon excitation at 358 nm exhibited a medium strong photoluminescence emission at 420 nm as a consequence of intraligand pi-->pi* transitions. The electronic absorption bands of were assigned from time dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) calculations. Geometrical configurations of , and have been optimized using the DFT method. All of the complexes are weakly conducting (sigmart approximately 10(-12) S cm(-1)). However and exhibited semiconductivity with band gaps of 0.39 and 0.94 eV respectively.
Binding of metal ions to the heteroatomic sites of proteins is undoubtedly fundamental to their observed physiological effects. In this paper, the interactions of inorganic mercury (Hg2+), methylmercury (MeHg+), ethylmercury (EtHg+), and phenylmercury (PhHg+) with human serum albumin (HSA) were studied from the electrophoretic behaviors, stoichiometry, thermodynamics, and kinetics by using a new hybrid technique, capillary electrophoresis on-line coupled with electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometry (CE-ETAAS), together with the consequent structural information from circular dichroism and Raman spectroscopy. The stoichiometry (mercurial species to HSA) for the interactions of Hg2+, MeHg+, EtHg+, and PhHg+ with HSA was found to be 6:1, 4:1, 4:1, and 3:1, respectively. Two types of binding sites in HSA were observed for the binding of mercurial species with the orders of magnitude of binding constants of 107 and 106 L mol-1, respectively, showing strong affinity of mercurial species for HSA. The inter...
Hg is a wide-spread contaminant in the environment and is toxic in all of its various forms. Organomercurials (RHg+) and mercuric ion (Hg2+) directly inactivate proteins by binding to their cysteine or selenocysteine residues. In our previous collaborative project involving the Summers, Miller and Lipton laboratories, we developed a high-throughput, mass spectrometry-based global proteomics approach using the 7 stable isotopes of Hg to identify proteins from phenylmercury-exposed E. coli cells that form stable PhHg-adducts. The two overall objectives of this subsequent collaborative project were (1) to expand our novel organomercury-proteomics capability for use with inorganic ionic (HgX2) exposure and (2) to use this new capability to identify Hg-protein adducts in methylating and non-methylating Desulfovibrio exposed to inorganic ionic HgX2 and test whether those identified uniquely in methylating bacteria are involved in the methylation pathway. The specific objectives and accomplishments of the Miller lab in this project included: Development of algorithms for analysis of the Hg-proteomic mass spectrometry data to identify and quantify Hg-adducted peptides and other trends in the data.
A simple and rapid method for determining inorganic and organic mercury in urine was developed by improving the method of flameless atomic absorption spectrophotometry introduced by Littlejohn et al. (1976). In the present method, more than 1ml of 60% KOH solution (final concentration 7.1%; 1.8M) was added to 5ml of urine for atomizing mercury after the addition of stannous chloride as the reductant for inorganic mercury. In the determination of organic mercury reduced by a mixture of stannous chloride and cadmium chloride, more than 11ml of 60% KOH solution (final concentration 34.7%; 8.7M) was needed. In the inorganic mercury determination procedure, the reduction of ethylmercury was not completely inhibited by the addition of acidic L-cysteine solution.The patterns of calibration curves for mercury determination were the same for mercury (II) chloride, methylmercury (II) chloride, ethylmercury (II) chloride and phenylmercury (II) acetate. The detection limit of all types of mercury used was 0.5ppbHg. The recoveries of mercury (II) chloride, methylmercury (II) chloride, ethylmercury (II) chloride and phenylmercury (II) acetate, which were added to urine, were 95.7%, 98.9%, 121.8% and 90.8%, respectively.
Abstract A procedure for the gas chromatographic (GC) determination of trace amounts of inorganic mercury is described. Hg 2+ is converted into diphenylmercury (DPM) with tetraphenylborate and the DPM is extracted with toluene. The derivatization yield was measured radiochemically and by GC and was found to be between 95 and 100% for amounts of Hg 2+ in the range 50 ng–10 μg, and was not affected by K + and Cl − ions or matrix effects due to decomposed tissue. At the nanogram level, derivatization at a low pH is advisable, which may be restricted by the instability of the reagent in acidic medium. DPM was determined by GC on specially pre-treated columns with OV-17 or ethylene glycol succinate as the liquid phase. The detection limit was 45 pg of Hg 2+ (absolute) using a tritium electron-capture detector.
Abstract Dithizone is one of the most well-known trace-metal analysis reagents, however, its S-alkylated derivatives received very little attention up to date. Synthesis, kinetic studies of its photo- and chronochromic reactions, as well as DFT and TDDFT results are presented here. For comparitive purposes the corresponding phenylmercury complex was also synthesized and included in this study. Blue-shifts in λmax of the S-methylated compounds are in excess of 60 nm as compared to the metal complex. Relative geometry optimized energies, atomic charge distribution in conjunction with 1H NMR, as well as TDDFTs all point to the pink syn geometry of S-methyldithizone as the prevalent isomer, with the yellow anti geometry only of slightly higher (3.8 kJ/mol) energy. B3LYP provides significantly better UV–visible spectrum approximation than LC-BLYP, OLYP and PW91. At 20 °C the rate of the chronochromic reaction is 0.0073 s−1 in chloroform, and that of the photochromic return reaction is 0.0023 s−1 in ethanol.
Complex formation between mercury compounds and thiols, e.g. cysteine, is believed to play a major role in the biological chemistry of mercury. The greater affinity of Hg(II) and MeHg(II) for thiols than other possible biological donor ligands has been well documented by stability constant studies in aqueous solution. Our interest in mercury(II) thiolates stems from studies of the chemistry of the antidote British anti-Lewisite which indicated that the structure and reactivity of simple thiolate complexes was little understood. In this review our recent work on the interaction of inorganic and organomercury compounds with British anti-Lewisite, simple thiols and sulphur containing amino acids is discussed, followed by an account of animal studies of the distribution and metabolism of phenylmercury compounds. In discussing the implications of chemical results, e.g. reactivity of thiolates, for the biological behaviour of mercury compounds it is assumed here that chemical studies provide only plausible pathways for biological behaviour.
A number of phenylmercury derivatives of 3-hydroxymethylene- and 3-aminomethylene-substituted 1-methyloxindoles, 1-indanones, and 1,3-indanediones were synthesized. It is shown that the preferred tautomeric structures of the potentially metallotropic and prototropic hydroxymethylene keto (hydroxy vinyl aldehyde) derivatives of the indicated compounds and 3-hydroxybenzo[b]-2-formylthiophene coincide precisely. An aminomethylene structure with an N-H bond is realized for the phenylmercury derivatives of the corresponding azomethines in all cases.
Oxidation of oleic acid with atmospheric oxygen in the presence of HgCl2 and various organo- mercury compounds (methylmercury iodide, isopropylmercury bromide, n-hexylmercury bromide, phenylmercury bromide, diphenylmercury, p-tolylmercury bromide, bis-p-tolylmercury) was studied. Mercury compounds exert a dual effect on accumulation of oleic acid hydroperoxide in the temperature range 20-90°C. Below 50°C, the concentration of the hydroperoxides formed in the presence of mercury compounds is lower, and at higher temperatures, higher than in the experiments performed without mercury compounds. Comparison of the concentrations of oleic acid hydroperoxides with those of their transformation products, carbonyl compounds, determined spectrophotometrically, shows that actually organomercury compounds and HgCl2 accelerate peroxide oxidation at all the studied temperatures. Decreased accumulation of peroxides below 50°C is apparently due to the fact that the rate of their reaction with organomercury compounds is higher than the rate of their formation.
Abstract The lithium-tellurium exchange is among the fastest of the lithium-metalloid exchange reactions; only the lithium-iodine exchange is slightly faster. Tellurium, iodine and mercury ate complexes are formed when diphenyl telluride, iodobenzene or diphenylmercury are treated with phenyllithium in THF. The mechanism of the lithium-tellurium exchange, (as well as the Li/I and Li/Hg) proceeds through such ate complex intermediates. Monomeric phenyllithium is the reactive form of phenyllithium (the dimer does not participate detectably). Tetraphenyltellurium and triphenyliodine also form hypervalent ate complexes under suitable conditions.
1. ::: ::: The kinetics of the electrophilic bimolecular reaction of phenylmercury bromide with bromine in the presence of ammonium bromide and with iodine in the presence of cadmium iodide were studied in a number of polar solvents. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: In their influence on the reaction rate, the solvents are arranged in the following series; CH3OH>80% aqueous dioxane>DMF, obtained earlier for other organomercury compounds. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: In all the solvents we studied the temperature dependence of the rates of the two reactions. The parameters of the Arrhenius equation were found. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: The kinetics of the photochemical reaction of phenylmercury bromide with bromine and iodine in benzene was studied. The reaction possesses a summary first order.
The acute renotoxicity of HgCl2 and phenylmercuric acetate (PhHgAc) was compared at two intraperitoneal dose levels: 0.5 and 1.0 mg Hg/kg. There was no difference in the type of proximal tubular damage caused by the two mercurials, but 1.0 mg Hg/kg as PhHgAc produced approximately the same degree of damage as 0.5 mg Hg/kg as HgCl2. At the selected dose levels only HgCl2, but not PhHgAc increased the urinary excretion of alkaline phosphatase. At 12 and 24 h after PhHgAc the content of mercury was higher in blood and lower in the kidneys and urine than after the administration of equimolar doses of HgCl2. As the difference in the rectal mercury contents of HgCl2 and PhHgAc treated groups declined with time, difference in renotoxicity seems to relate only to renal mercury taken up within 24 h of administration. It is suggested that the slower renal extraction of mercury - as in regenerating kidneys (Tandon and Magos 1980) - was responsible for the lower degree of renotoxicity in phenylmercury treated rats.
EDITORIAL In certain ocular pathologies, ophthalmic formulations need to be chronically administered in order to guarantee their efficacy. Typical examples of such pathologies are dry eye and glaucoma. Nevertheless, although preservatives have been frequently used in eye drops, its frequent use has been associated with alterations in the precorneal film, while in patients suffering from dry eye they tend to aggravate the already existing problem. On the other hand, in glaucoma patients the prolonged use of eye drops with preservatives has been associated with changes in the ocular surface accompanied by inflammation. In fact, conjunctival byopsies in patients suffering from glaucoma have revealed an increased number of immune cells and fiberblasts (1,2). Thanks to the experience garnered so far, we can say that the successive administration of formulations with preservatives has a toxic effect in the ocular surface and in particular in those patients whose surface is compromised. However, as stated by the Real Farmacopea Espanola (RFE), the use of preservatives is mandatory in the case of multidose formulations, since bacterial contamination takes place when handling containers twice a day for two weeks. As quoted by the RFE (3): Aqueous formulations in multidose containers shall include the appropriate antimicrobial preservative at adequate concentrations in order to prevent tampering of preparations during the time of use, except in those instances when preparations feature sufficient antimicrobial properties. A wide number of preservatives is used in the formulation of eye drops, among them benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride and cetyl pyridinium chloride, benzyl bromide, EDTA, phenylmercury nitrate, phenylmercury acetate, thimerosal, merthiolate, acetate and phenylmercury borate, polymyxin B sulphate, chlorhexidine, methyl and propyl parabens, phenylethyl alcohol, quaternary ammonium chloride, sodium benzoate, sodium propionate and sorbic acid. Progress in the treatment of dry eye has been linked to the emergence of new preservatives in the market based on stabilized chloride and oxygen compounds (Purite ® ) as well as sodium perborate (4). These agents have raised enormous interest since they were effective and apparently did not entail epithelial damage as other conventional drugs did. In any case, one of the most significant advances in the treatment of dry eye was the development of preservative-free artificial tears in monodose containers or else the inclusion of a sterilizing filter in multidose containers (Sistema Abak ® ).
The key findings from this study can be summarized as follows: (1) palladium appears to be capable of catalyzing the degradation in the absence of mercury; (2) when mercury was added to the palladium system in the form of mercuric nitrate or phenylmercuric nitrate basic, the rate of TPB degradation was roughly the same as the rate without mercury present; (3) when mercury was added to the system in the form of diphenylmercury, the rate of TPB degradation was greatly accelerated; (4) no TPB degradation was observed for a system which contained phenylmercuric nitrate basic alone with no palladium present; (5) the distribution of lower phenylborates (1 PB, 2PB, and 3PB) varied as a function of the catalyst system; (6) no lower phenylborates were observed during the first 17 hours of reaction indicating that an ''induction period'' may be necessary; and (7) the appearance of precipitates in the reaction mixture varied with the catalyst system, possibly indicating that the active catalyst that is formed may vary with the chemical form of mercury added.
1. ::: ::: The DTA method was used to study the thermal behavior of diphenylmercury and bis (phenylchromium tricarbonyl)mercury in the presence of finely dispersed Pd and Cr, and also without a catalyst. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The thermal decomposition of bis(phenylchromium tricarbonyl)mercury bears an autocatalytic character. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The behavior of the phenylchromium tricarbonyl radical, which is formed during the decomposition of the bis(phenylchromium tricarbonyl)mercury, was studied.
Abstract Bis(1-bromo-2-methylpropenyl)mercury, prepared via Me 2 CC(Br)Li, was treated with mercuric bromide to give Me 2 CC(Br)HgBr. The latter transferred Me 2 CC: to olefins, giving isopropylidenecyclopropanes, in sealed tube reactions carried out at 150°C in the presence of an equimolar quantity of diphenylmercury. The Me 2 CC(Br)HgBr/Ph 2 Hg reagent also reacted with triethylsilane at 150°C to give Et 3 SiCHCMe 2 in nearly quantitative yield.
Namprai, O*., Saiwan, C*., Bunyakiat, K*., Chaiyavech, P*., and Jullian, S** ::: ::: * The Petroleum and Petrochemical College, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok 10330, Thailand ::: ** Institut FranA§ais du PA©trole, B.P. 311, 92506 Rueil Malmaison, France ::: ::: ::: Abstract ::: ::: Heavy metals that is elemental mercury and organomercury have been detected and reported in petroleum fluids from a number of locations. It is well known that condensates from the South East Asian region containing high level of mercury. Various forms of mercury can be present such as elemental, inorganic and organic species. When such condensates processed as a feedstock, it can cause serious problems not only in operations and productions, i.e. corrosion of heat exchanger equipment, reduction of catalyst life, reduction of product quality, but also environmental impact. Very high cost of prevention is paid for technology to remove mercury species at the production well and also before entering to the petrochemical plant. To protect the process equipment and environment, it is desirable to remove mercury to as lowest level as possible. Nowadays, the effective technology existing to remove mercury in gaseous hydrocarbons is based on adsorption of elemental mercury, but it is not most effective with some other species of organic mercury especially in liquid hydrocarbons. In this study, adsorption of organomercury (diphenylmercury, DPM) in n-heptane on the commercially available zeolite molecular sieves, NaX and NaY was carried out. The effects of temperature, water content and other hydrocarbons normally presented in condensates on adsorption selectivity were studied. The selected hydrocarbons were cyclohexane as representative of naphthene contents, toluene and ethylbenzene as representatives of aromatic contents were introduced one by one into n-heptane substituted condensates and concentrations of mercury adsorbed was analysed by classical cold-vapor atomic absorption spectroscopy (CVAAS) technique. ::: ::: Keyword: organomercury; condensates; diphenylmercury; molecular sieves; adsorption selectivity
SUMMARY ::: ::: Mercury residues have been measured in apples from trees receiving experimental applications of phenylmercury chloride in the previous autumn and/or in the dormant season. In the absence of organomercurial sprays in the succeeding summer, mercury could not be found in the fruit at harvest. Even when post-harvest or dormancy applications preceded conventional summer schedules of an organomercurial fungicide, residues of mercury at harvest were not increased.
Newly synthesized mRNA from hamster cells was labeled in vivo with the thionucleoside analogs 4-thiouridine (4-TU) and 6-thioguanosine (6-TG). The thio-substituted RNA was selectively recovered by Affi-Gel 501 phenylmercury affinity chromatography. Following a 1-h labeling period, enrichment for newly transcribed RNA after a single round of chromatography ranged between 10- and 15-fold when compared with total RNA. Exposure of CHO UrdA- cells, a uridine auxotrophic line, to 50 microM 4-TU allowed for optimal recovery of newly transcribed RNA. Increasing the concentration of 4-TU to 100 microM or labeling with 6-TG at concentrations of 3 microM or greater resulted in similar recoveries from uridine-prototrophic hamster cell lines. For shorter term labeling, exposure of prototrophic cells to 500 microM 4-TU or 100 microM 6-TG for 15 min allowed newly synthesized RNA to be selectively recovered. As a specific test case, enrichment for histone H3.2 mRNA was analyzed after hamster cells were labeled with 4-TU under conditions in which the gene was highly transcriptionally active. Northern blot analysis and the specific activity of thio-substituted RNA revealed a 15-fold enrichment when compared to total RNA. In vivo labeling of cellular RNA with 4-TU or 6-TG should provide a useful method for studying inducible gene expression and for isolating and cloning specific mRNAs from mammalian cells.
Abstract In the United States, aquatic mercury contamination originates from point and non-point sources to watersheds. Here, we studied the contribution of mercury in urban runoff derived from historically contaminated soils and the subsequent production of methylmercury in a stream–wetland complex (Durham, North Carolina), the receiving water of this runoff. Our results demonstrated that the mercury originated from the leachate of grass-covered athletic fields. A fraction of mercury in this soil existed as phenylmercury, suggesting that mercurial anti-fungal compounds were historically applied to this soil. Further downstream in the anaerobic sediments of the stream–wetland complex, a fraction (up to 9%) of mercury was converted to methylmercury, the bioaccumulative form of the metal. Importantly, the concentrations of total mercury and methylmercury were reduced to background levels within the stream–wetland complex. Overall, this work provides an example of a legacy source of mercury that should be considered in urban watershed models and watershed management.
Mercury (Hg) is present in the marine environment as a natural metal often enhanced through human activities. Depending on its chemical form, Hg can cause a wide range of immunotoxic effects. In this study, the influence of methyl-, ethyl- and phenylmercury as well as mercurychloride on immune functions was evaluated. Two parameters of cellular immunity, proliferation and mRNA cytokine expression of interleukin-2, -4, and transforming growth factor beta, were investigated in harbor seal lymphocytes after in vitro exposure to Hg compounds. While all Hg compounds had a suppressive effect on proliferation, differences between juvenile and adult seals were found. Lymphocytes from juveniles showed a higher susceptibility to the toxic effect compared to lymphocytes from adults. Furthermore, the degree of inhibition of proliferation varied among the four Hg compounds. The organic compounds seem to be more immunotoxic than the inorganic compound. Finally, for the cytokine expression of methylmercury-incubated lymphocytes, time-dependent changes were observed, but no dose-dependency was found. Marine mammals of the North Sea are burdened with Hg, and lymphocytes of harbor seals may be functionally impaired by this metal. The present in vitro study provides baseline information for future studies on the immunotoxic effects of Hg on cellular immunity of harbor seals.
New phenylmercury(II) complexes of the form [PhHg(L1), PhHg(L2) and PhHg(L3)] (L1 = methyl-3-hydroxy-3-(p-methoxyphenyl)-2-propenedithioate (1), L2 = methyl-3-hydroxy-3-(p-bromophenyl)-2-propenedithioate (2) and L3 = methyl-3-hydroxy-(3-pyridyl)-2-propenedithioate (3)) have been synthesized and characterized by elemental analysis, IR, UV-Vis, 1H and 13C NMR. The crystal structures of 1–3 reveal a linear geometry about the mercury atom via ipso-C and S11 atoms. 1 and 2 exhibited O,S-coordination whereas 3 preferred S,S-coordination. Intramolecular Hg∙∙∙O bonding interactions are also observed in 1 and 2 at distances of 2.638(14), 2.644(10) Å respectively. However in 3, incorporation of the 3-pyridyl substituent on the ligand enhanced the proximity of S13 and N14, giving rise to significant intramolecular Hg∙∙∙S and intermolecular Hg∙∙∙N interactions at 3.141(5) Å and 2.77(2) Å respectively generating a 1-D polymeric chain motif. The O,S- or S,S-coordination preference and Hg∙∙∙N interactions have been assessed by DFT calculations. All the complexes show metal perturbed ligand-centred luminescence characteristics in solution and in the solid phase. The band gap values 2.54, 2.66 and 2.61 eV for 1, 2 and 3, respectively, evaluated from the diffuse reflectance spectroscopy show the semiconducting nature of the complexes.
Abstract A new tetrazolium–triiodomercurate-modified carbon paste electrode has been described for the sensitive and selective determination of mercury. The electrode shows a stable, near-Nernstian response for 1×10 −3 to 6×10 −6 M [HgI 3 ] − at 25 °C over the pH range of 4.0–9.0, with an anionic slope of 55.5±0.4 mV. The lower detection limit is 4×10 −6 M with a fast response time of 30–50 s. Selectivity coefficients of a number of interfering anions and iodo complexes of some metal ions have been estimated. The interference from many of the investigated ions is negligible. The determination of 1–200 μg/ml of mercury in aqueous solutions shows an average recovery of 98.5% and a mean relative standard deviation of 1.6% at 50.0 μg/ml. The direct determination of mercury in spiked wastewater, metal amalgams and dental alloy gave results that compare favorably with those obtained by the cold vapor atomic absorption spectrometric method. Potentiometric titration of mercury and phenylmercury acetate with standard potassium iodide has been monitored using the developed triiodomercurate–carbon paste electrode (CPE) as an end point indicator electrode.
A simple and rapid method for in situ preconcentration of inorganic and organic mercury compounds in water samples, based on solid phase extraction using dithizone immobilised on a reversed-phase C18 cartridge, has been developed. The adsorbed complexes were stable on the cartridge for at least 2 weeks. The speciation analysis of methylmercury (MeHg), phenylmercury (PhHg) and inorganic mercury (Hg (II)) were done by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography. The calibration graphs of MeHg, PhHg and Hg (II) were linear (r>0.999) from the detection limits (0.58, 0.66 and 0.54 ng) to 38, 25 and 26 ng of Hg, respectively. The average recoveries of MeHg, PhHg and Hg (II) from spiked samples (0.3-48.0 mug l(-1) Hg) were 98+/-3, 99+/-1 and 100+/-7%, respectively. By applying SPE procedure a 200-fold concentration of the sample was obtained.
Four gilts, sisters from one litter, aged 70 days and weighing 20-24 kg, were used for a trial. Two experimental gilts (P) were administered an experimental feed mixture containing phenylmercury chloride (40 mg/kg). Two control gilts (K) were fed the same mixture but without phenylmercury chloride. P gilts began to lag behind in their growth from day 60 of the experiment, they manifested nonphysiological postures (dog's sitting posture), paresis of hind limbs and uncoordinated movements. P gilts had cloudy, orange-brown urine from day 70 and from day 75 they began to suffer from diarrhoea. Mercury (Hg) contents in urine and blood serum of P gilts were irregularly variable: urine 0.58-2.15 mg/l, blood serum 0.02-0.37 mg/l. Hg content in excrements of P gilts fluctuated from 23 to 26 mg/kg. Vitamin A concentrations in blood serum and liver decreased in P gilts. Phenylmercury chloride feeding caused mutagenic changes in peripheral lymphocytes of P gilts (an increase in the number of aberrant cells from 2-3% to 8-9%) and reduced IgA, IgM and IgG immunoglobulin levels in blood serum. Pathological lesions were observed in the colon, kidneys and liver. None of the above-mentioned changes were observed in K gilts. Increased resistance to the negative effects of Hg was found in one experimental gilt. In comparison with K gilts, Hg concentrations in P gilts after 130 days of the experiment increased as follows: 427 times in kidneys, 333 times in liver, 106 times in guts, 71 times in pancreas, 53 times in ovaries, 50 times in muscles, 47 times in bristles and 16 times in the brain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Phenylmercury derivatives of 3-hydroxy-2-acetyl(benzoyl)benzo[b]thiophene and 3-hydroxy-1-methyl-2-carbaldehyde N-aryl- and N-alkylimines, to which a keto enamine structure with strong intramolecular coordination of the mercury atom and the carbonyl oxygen atom was assigned on the basis of the electronic and vibrational spectra, were synthesized. Compounds of the indole series fluoresce intensely with the usual values of the Stokesian shifts.
Hot water (50degC for 2 h) plus fungicide treatment eliminated red rot infection (Colletotrichum falcatum [Glomerella tucumanensis]) in 2-bud sugarcane seed-pieces. The fungicides evaluated were Bavistin [carbendazim], Benlate [benomyl], Aretan [2-methoxyethylmercury chloride], Brestan [fentin], Ceresan [phenylmercury acetate], Duter [fentin hydroxide], Topsin [thiophanate-methyl] and aureofungin. 2-Methoxyethylmercury chloride was the most effective as it eradicated red rot infection and stimulated bud germination and shoot emergence.
Mercury (Hg) is present in the marine environment as a natural metal often enhanced through human activities. Depending on its chemical form, Hg can cause a wide range of immunotoxic effects. In this study, the influence of methyl-, ethyl-and phenylmercury as well as mercurychloride on immune functions was evaluated. Two parameters of cellular immunity, proliferation and mRNA cytokine expression of interleukin-2, -4, and transforming growth factor β, were investigated in harbor seal lymphocytes after in vitro exposure to Hg compounds. While all Hg compounds had a suppressive effect on proliferation, differences between juvenile and adult seals were found. Lymphocytes from juveniles showed a higher susceptibility to the toxic effect compared to lymphocytes from adults. Furthermore, the degree of inhibition of proliferation varied among the four Hg compounds. The organic compounds seem to be more immunotoxic than the inorganic compound. Finally, for the cytokine expression of methylmercury-incubated lymphocytes, timedependent changes were observed, but no dose-dependency was found. Marine mammals of the North Sea are burdened with Hg, and lymphocytes of harbor seals may be functionally impaired by this metal. The present in vitro study provides baseline information for future studies on the immunotoxic effects of Hg on cellular immunity of harbor seals.
Four independently isolated plasmids of S. aureus contain genes conferring resistance to ionic mercury (Hg/sup 2 +/) and the organomercurials phenylmercury acetate (PMA), p-hydroxymeribenzoate (pHMB), and florescein mercuric acetate (FMA), but not merbromin, thiomerosal, methyl- or ethyl-mercury to which broad-range plasmids from other species confer resistance. The mechanism of resistance to PMA involves enzymatic hydrolysis (hydrolase) to benzene plus Hg/sup 2 +/ which is reduced (reductase) to Hg/sup 0/ and lost from the system by volatilization. The organomercurials, FMA, and pHMB are not degraded and resistance involves some other mechanism. Resistance to mercury and all organomercurials is inducible. The range of inducers includes mercury, PMA, and several organomercurials including merbromin which is not a substrate. Mercury-sensitive mutants have been isolated from plasmids pII147 and pI258 and they fall into three classes: (i) strains devoid of both hydrolase and reductase activities; (ii) strains with normal hydrolase activity, and no reductase; and (iii) strains with normal hydrolase activity and low and variable levels of reductase. The mutants were sensitive to all organomercurials as well as mercury.
The fragmentation of various mercury compounds of the types HgR2, HgXR and HgX2 is reported where R = Me, C6H5, mFC6H4, p-FC6H4, Me3MCH2 (M = Si, Ge) and X = halide. Their behaviour, especially that of the organomercury halides, varies considerably with the nature of the R group whilst changing the halide has little effect. For diarylmercurials and arylmercuric halides the base peak is the carbonium ion R+ whereas in the methylmercury halides the base peak is HgXMe+·. In compounds containing the grouping Me3MCH2Hg the fragmentation is dominated by cleavage of the MeM rather than HgC bonds. For the mercury(II) dihalides variations in electron voltage give evidence for two routes to the X+ ion. Attempts to prepare (o-FC6H4)2Hg resulted in the isolation of 2, 2′-(o-fluorophenyl)diphenylmercury. Some ionization and appearance potentials are reported.
Synopsis The sporicidal activity of a solution of phenylmercury dinaphthylmethane disulphonate (PMDD) containing between 11 and 13 p.p.m. mercury was proved both in the laboratory and in field finals. It is suggested that PMDD is suitable for the control of egg transmitted aspergillosis.
A 7.9-kilobase (kb) chromosomal fragment was cloned from a mercury-resistant Bacillus sp. In Escherichia coli, in the presence of a second plasmid carrying functional transport genes, resistance to HgCl2 and to phenylmercury acetate (PMA) was expressed. Shortening the cloned fragment to 3.8 kb abolished resistance to PMA but not to HgCl2. In Bacillus subtilis, the 3.8-kb fragment produced mercuric reductase constitutively but did not produce resistance to HgCl2 or to PMA.
The crystal and molecular structures of the organomercury(II) complexes [Hg(C6H5)(chtsc)], 1, and [Hg(C6H5C5H4N)(btsc)], 2, obtained from the reaction of phenylmercury(II) acetate with cyclohexanone thiosemicarbazone (Hchtsc) and that of [2-(pyridin-2′-yl)]phenyl]mercury(II) acetate with benzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (Hbtsc), respectively, are described. Both 1 and 2 are monoclinic, space group C2/c. Complex 1 has a distorted T-shaped geometry {C-Hg-S, 161.91(10)°} and 2 can be considered to have a distorted seesaw geometry {C-Hg-S, 171.2(10)°}. In both complexes the ligands act as bidentate chelating anions bonding through azomethine N1 and thiolato S atoms.
1. ::: ::: The sequence of changes in the electron-donor properties of the following groups in p-nitroanilines and their PhHg derivatives was established from the positions of the long-wave bands in the electron spectra and the νasNO2 frequencies and integral intensities of the νAr and νsNO2 bands in the IR spectra: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The electron-donor properties of the XHgPh groups in phenylmercury derivatives of p-nitrothiophenol, p-nitrophenol, and p-nitroaniline change in the following order: SHgPh < OHgPh <NHHgPh. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The H atom is the coordination center with DMSO in the PhHg derivatives of p-nitroaniline; the Hg atom, in the o-nitroaniline derivative. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: A quantitative evaluation of the complexing process with DMSO and dissociation in DMSO is given for the compounds studied.
Penicillinase plasmids of Staphylococcus aureus often contain genes conferring resistance to inorganic mercury (Hg2+) and the organomercurial phenylmercury acetate. The mechanism of resistance was found to be the enzymatic hydrolysis of the organomercurial phenylmercury to benzene plus inorganic ionic mercury, which was then enzymatically reduced to metallic mercury (HgO). The Hg°was rapidly volatilized from the medium into the atmosphere. After the mercurial was degraded and the mercury was volatilized, the resistant cells were able to grow. These plasmids also conferred the ability to volatilize mercury from thimerosal, although the plasmid-bearing strains were equally as thimerosal sensitive as the S. aureus without plasmids. None of the plasmids conferred the ability to volatilize mercury from several other organomercurials, however: methylmercury, ethylmercury, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, merbromin, and fluorescein mercuric acetate. (Organomercurial resistance-conferring plasmids of Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa that we have been studying confer the ability to degrade two or three of these organomercurials.) Although mercury was not volatilized from p-hydroxymercuribenzoate or fluorescein mercuric acetate, the plasmid-bearing strains were resistant to these organomercurials. The ability to volatilize mercury from Hg2+ and phenylmercury was inducible. The range of inducers included Hg2+, phenylmercury, and several organomercurials that were not substrates for the degradation system. Mercury-sensitive mutants have been isolated from the parental plasmids pI258 and p11147. Thirty-one such mercury-sensitive strains fall into three classes: (i) mercury-sensitive strains totally devoid of the phenylmercury hydrolase and Hg2+ reductase activities; (ii) mutants with normal hydrolase levels and no detectable reductase; and (iii) mutants with essentially normal hydrolase levels and low and variable (5 to 25%) levels of reductase activities. The mercurysensitive strains were also sensitive to phenylmercury, including those with the potential for hydrolase activity.
Antibiotic resistance plasmids of a wide variety of bacteria, including Staphylococcus aureus, contain genes' conferring resistance to heavy-metal cations, and anions including mercury (Hg2+) (1, 3, 4, 16, 24, 36) . Some of the "mercury resistance" plasmids also confer resistance to a variety oforganomercurials, including methylmercury, ethylmercury, phenylmercury, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate (pHMB), fluorescein mercuric acetate, thimerosal, and merbromin (20, 21, 25, (33) (34) (35) . In every case studied the mechanism of mercury resistance has involved the reduction of Hg2+ to volatile Hg. With some of the organomercurial-resistant strains, the mercury in organomercurials was also volatilized. Although the staphylococcal plasmids have been thoroughly studied genetically (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) 25) , and, indeed, the locus for mercury resistance has been mapped by transduction and deletion analysis in a couple of cases, the metabolic basis for mercury resistance has been little studied previously. A brief note from our laboratory (27) reported volatilization of mercury from Hg2+ with S. aureus plasmidbearing cells. We have since found that the same plasmids confer resistance to phenylmercury (R. P. Novick, personal communication). In this report we present detailed studies of the volatilization process and its inducibility at the whole-cell level. We also present more limited subcellular studies that indicate a basic similarity to the enzyme systems in other bacteria that have been more thoroughly studied. In addition, we report findings from a series of mutants characterized as mercury-sensitive variants from mercury-resistant plasmid-bearing strains and negative findings with S. aureus-Escherichia coli chimeric plasmids (2, 32).
A 7.9-kilobase (kb) chromosomal fragment was cloned from a mercury-resistant Bacillus sp. In Escherichia coli, in the presence of a second plasmid carrying functional transport genes, resistance to HgCl2 and to phenylmercury acetate (PMA) was expressed. Shortening the cloned fragment to 3.8 kb abolished resistance to PMA but not to HgCI2. In Bacillus subtilis, the 3.8-kb fragment produced mercuric reductase constitutively but did not produce resistance to HgCI2 or to PMA.
In gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus (14, 24) and in gram-negative bacteria (6, 20), mercury resistance is extrachromosomally encoded. The mer operon subcloned from S. aureus plasmid pI258 resides on a 6.4-kilobase (kb) BglII fragment which expresses mercury resistance in Bacillus subtilis but not in Escherichia coli (lOa). On the other hand, the resistance factors in the mercury-resistant (Hgr) Bacillus spp. which we previously isolated from heavymetal-polluted aquatic sites are chromosomal (11). We now report the cloning of the mercuric reductase and organomercurial lyase genes from Bacillus sp. strain RC607, isolated from Boston Harbor. Expression of resistance to HgCI2 and to phenylmercury acetate (PMA) was obtained in E. coli transformed with a recombinant plasmid carrying the cloned RC607 DNA and a second compatible plasmid carrying a mer operon, derived from a gram-negative bacterium and functional for mercury transport but not for mercuric reductase activity.
Abstract Ethylmercuric chloride was given to chicks and rats intramuscularly and orally. The compound is apparently absorbed unchanged. Metabolism of ethylmercury is much slower than of phenylmercury. Intact ethylmercury is detectable in the liver and kidneys for 21 days after dosing. The ethylmercury is present to a much greater extent in the chick liver than in the kidney, whereas in the rat, the ethylmercury is predominantly in the kidney and blood.
1. ::: ::: Equilibrium constants have been obtained for deprotonation and dimerization of phenylmercury aqua ions in aqueous solution. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Thermodynamic parameters have been calculated for the reactions of phenylmercury with Cl−, Br−, I−, SCN−, CN−, N3−, NO2−, p-NH2C6H4SO3− anions in aqueous solution.
Development of the brine shrimp is influenced by low concentration of several metals with the extent of disruption, determined by hatching inhibition after seventy two hours of metal exposure, depending on the type of metal and its concentration. Mercury toxicity is generally enhanced by organic derivation, however larger mercury compounds such as diphenylmercury exert less effect on Artemia development. The decline of toxicity in relation to increased size of organic mercury compounds may reflect reduced movement of the toxic compounds through cell membranes. All metals examined enter the developing organisms upon rupture of the cyst shell and may, if in sufficient concentration, delay or prevent emergence and hatching. In some cases, incompletely emerged organisms hatch while still enclosed in the cyst shell, demonstrating that completion of early developmental processes is not a prerequisite for later events. The delayed reversion of metal poisoning suggests brine shrimp are able to sequester intracellular metals, perhaps by induced synthesis of metal-binding proteins such as the metallothioneins. We have tested cloned metallothionein genes from mouse, Neurospora and Drosophila for their ability to hybridize to Southern blots of restriction-digested Artemia DNA. Our preliminary results reveal that the Drosophila metallothionein gene, cDM51, binds to Artemia DNA under moderately stringent conditions. We are just beginning to clone the Artemia genes for metallothionein or other metal-binding proteins as one approach to develop a bioassay for metals in the marine environment.
1. ::: ::: The isotopic exchange of phenylmercury chloride with mercuric chloride, labeled with Hg203, was studied in anhydrous toluene. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The kinetics of the isotopic exchange of phenylmercury chloride with mercuric chloride was studied in anhydrous toluene. The reaction possesses a total second order, and is first order with respect to each of the components. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The activation energy of the reaction was determined at 6093 cal/mole. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: A mechanism was proposed for the reaction studied.
Catalytic rivals: Both CO(2)-protected tetrahydropyrimidin-2-ylidene-based N-heterocyclic carbenes (NHCs) and Sn(II)-1,3-dimesitylimidazol-2-ylidene, as well as Sn(II)-1,3-dimesitylimidazolin-2-ylidene complexes (example displayed), have been identified as truly latent catalysts for polyurethane (PUR) synthesis rivaling all existing systems both in activity and latency.A series of CO(2)-protected pyrimidin-2-ylidenes as well as 1,3-dimesitylimidazol-2-ylidene and dimesitylimidazolin-2-ylidene complexes of Sn(II) have been prepared. Selected single-crystal X-ray structures are reported. The new compounds were investigated for their catalytic behavior in polyurethane (PUR) synthesis. All compounds investigated showed excellent catalytic activity, rivaling the industrially most relevant catalyst dibutyltin dilaurate. Even more important, all compounds displayed pronounced latent behavior, in selected cases rivaling and exceeding the industrially relevant latent catalyst phenylmercury neodecanoate both in terms of latency and catalytic activity. This allows for creating one-component PUR systems with improved pot lifetimes. Pseudo-second-order kinetics were found for both CO(2)-protected tetrahyropyrimidin-2-ylidenes and for [SnCl(2)(1,3-dimesityldihydroimidazol-2-ylidene)], indicating a fast pre-catalyst decomposition prior to polyurethane formation. 1,3-Di(2-propyl)tetrahydropyrimidin-2-ylidene was additionally found to be active in the cyclotrimerization of various isocyanates, offering access to a broad variability in polymer structure, that is, creating both urethane and isocyanurate moieties within the same polymer.
The following mercury compounds are most frequently found under environmental conditions: mercuric salts HgS, HgCl, Hg(OH) and HgS; the methylmercury ion (HgCH 3 + ) and its compounds methylmercuric chloride (CH 3 HgCl) and methylmercuric hydroxide (CH 3 HgOH); and, in small fractions, other organomercurics (for example, dimethylmercury and phenylmercury) (MADEP, 1996; US EPA, 1997a) Methylmercury is formed when mercury enters soil or sediments and is acted on by anaerobic microorganisms (US EPA, 2011). The solubility of mercury compounds ranges from negligible (HgCl, HgS) to very soluble (HgCl 2 ) (MADEP, 1996) . Table 1 shows some characteristics of the main mercury compounds (US EPA, 2007;
Several industrial sites in Germany and a mining area in Slovenia were studied for the occurrence of organic mercury compounds. These sites included a former fungicide plant, a chlor alkali plant, an acetaldehyde plant, and a warehouse for phenylmercury chloride-treated seeds. Besides methylmercury compounds, which have been found at all the above-mentioned locations, various organomercury species have been detected. Among them were ethylmer-cury, methoxyethylmercury, and phenylmercury compounds. In addition, three organomercury species were found that have not been identified yet. Analyses were carried out by a newly developed HPLC/AFS method, which allows the determination of CH 3 Hg + and organomercury species other than methylmercury.
Sir .—We were interested in the article by Krowchuk et al 1 in the November 1988 issue of AJDC about the occurrence of exanthem limited to the diaper area in a 21-month-old male child diagnosed as having Kawasaki disease. We were disappointed that the authors failed to note the type of diapers used by this child. This case brings to mind a 1981 report 2 of acrodynia, or "pink disease," in thousands of infants in Buenos Aires, Argentina, who were poisoned by mercury from commercially laundered diapers. The causative compound was phenylmercury, which was added to the laundering process because it is such an effective fungicide and reduces the odors produced during washing and storing. A causal relationship of Kawasaki disease and inorganic mercury poisoning was first suggested by Cheek, 3 following observations that acrodynia has many symptoms similar to mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome (MLNS). Acrodynia, or "pink disease," was
Abstract The photochemical degration of diphenylmercury and monophenylmercury compounds in water—acetonitrile (1:1) media in an air-equilibrated atmosphere was studied. The photoprocess involves sequential dephenylation to inorganic forms of mercury, with the subsequent formation of several organic products, most of them pollutants. The ecological impact of this photoprocess is emphasized.
that one of the enzymes controlling growth of the Avena coleoptile is probably of sulfhydryl nature, and that its apparent concentration decreases with increasing age of the coleoptile. The growth inhibition caused by the combination of iodoacetate with this enzyme (or co-enzyme) is prevented by several organic acids, and these acids also promote growth when administered alone. It was deduced that the oxidation of the organic acids, probably through a modified form of the Krebs cycle, in some way yields energy for growth through a process inhibited by iodoacetate, or possibly provides a system alternative to that inhibited by iodoacetate, and independent of it. Since iodoacetate is generally regarded as a reagent for sulfhydryl groups, although not strictly 1 Received for publication September 22, 1948. This work was made possible through a grant from the Committee on Growth of the National Research Council, acting for the American Cancer Society, to whom we are much indebted. Acknowledgment is made to Miss Virginia Reardon, Mrs. Jane Behnke Rogers and Mr. Paul Mangelsdorf, Jr., for technical assistance given during this work. specific for them, it was felt desirable to obtain further evidence for the role of a sulfhydryl enzyme in growth. The present paper therefore reports experiments with arsenite and with some phenylmercury compounds, which are considered to be specific for sulfhydryl enzymes. In this connection the effects of certain sulfhydryl compounds and also that of arginine have been studied. To ensure that the growth phenomena studied are not peculiar to the coleoptile, parallel experiments have been carried out on etiolated pea stems. In general the results show that there is little about the oat coleoptile which cannot be generalized to a dicotyledonous stem. MATERIALS AND METHIODS.-The growth of Avena coleoptiles was measured as reported in the previous paper. The sections were held on combs, in most experiments arranged so as to break the surface of the solution. For comparison, a few experiments were carried out with the combs lying on the bottom of the Petri dish, so that the sections were about 1 mm. below the surface ("submerged sections"). All solutions for coleoptile sections contained 1 per cent sucrose and 1 mg. per 1. indoleacetic acid. Where pea stems were used, these were from 7-day old Alaska plants raised in alkaliwashed maple sawdust, or in water, in the dark. The apical 15 or 20 mm. from the third internode was taken just before the next internode had begun extending, and floated on the surface of the solutions studied. Since sucrose has little effect on the growth of pea sections, it was omitted from these solutions. Slit pea curvatures were carried out in the usual way (Went, 1934; Thimann and Schneider, 1938) with six stems (twelve curvatures) in each Petri dish, the curvatures being allowed to develop in the dark room for about 30 hr., and measured by both "stem reference" and "inflection" methods. The curvatures and the straight growth measurements were thus made on exactly comparable material. All plants were raised, and experiments carried out, at 250C. and 85 per cent relative humidity, with red light for the manipulations and darkness at other times. Solutions for test were brought to pH 6.0 in all cases. The arsenite was prepared by dissolving As203 in KOH and neutralizing with H2SO4. RESULTS.-The effect of arsenite on coleoptile sections.-Arsenite is a powerful inhibitor of growth. Its action is exerted at considerably lower concentrations than iodoacetate. Fig. 1, which is from one of many experiments, shows the time course of growth of coleoptile sections with and without arsenite. Inhibition becomes apparent at
The reaction of diphenylmercury with chromium hexacarbonyl in a boiling diglyme/octane mixture results in the formation of bis(phenyltricarbonylchromium)mercury in 70% yield. This compound reacts with mercuric chloride, iodine, hydrochloric acid and LiAlH4 producing (phenyltricarbonylchromium)mercury chloride, iodobenzene chromium tricarbonyl and benzene chromium tricarbonyl, respectively, all in high yield.
Curvularia was predominantly associated with seed, followed by Alternaria, Fusarium and Verticillium spp. In plot tests at Indore, among the 9 treatments tested, thiram + carbofuran gave the highest stand and yield followed by Agrosan GN[phenylmercury acetate + ethylmercury chloride] + carbofuran and captan + carbofuran
Nine polymorphic mer loci carried by 185 gram-negative fecal bacterial strains from humans and nonhuman primates are described. The loci were characterized with specific intragenic and intergenic PCR primers to amplify distinct regions covering approximately 80% of the typical gram-negative mer locus. These loci were grouped phylogenetically with respect to each other and with respect to seven previously sequenced mer operons from gram-negative bacteria (the latter designated loci 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, and delta 8 by us here for the purpose of this analysis). Six of the mer loci recovered from primates are similar either to these previously sequenced mer loci or to another locus recently observed in environmental isolates (locus 4), and three are novel (loci 5, 9, and 10). We have observed merC, or a merC-like gene, or merF on the 5' side of merA in all of the loci except that of Tn501 (here designated mer locus 6). The merB gene was observed occasionally, always on the 3' side of merA. Unlike the initial example of a merB-containing mer locus carried by plasmid pDU1358 (locus 8), all the natural primate loci carrying merB also had large deletions of the central region of the operon (and were therefore designated locus delta 8). Four of the loci we describe (loci 2, 5, 9, and 10) have no region of homology to merB from pDU1358 and yet strains carrying them were phenylmercury resistant. Two of these loci (loci 5 and 10) also lacked merD, the putative secondary regulator of operon expression. Phylogenetic comparison of character states derived from PCR product data grouped those loci which have merC into one clade; these are locus 1 (including Tn21), locus 3, and locus 4. The mer loci which lack merC grouped into a second clade: locus 6 (including Tn501) and locus 2. Outlying groups lacked merD or possessed merB. While these mer operons are characterized by considerable polymorphism, our ability to discern coherent clades suggests that recombination is not entirely random and indeed may be focused on the immediate 5' and 3' proximal regions of merA. Our observations confirm and extend the idea that the mer operon is a genetic mosaic and has a predominance of insertions and/or deletions of functional genes immediately before and after the merA gene. chi sites are found in several of the sequenced operons and may be involved in the abundant reassortments we observe for mer genes.
1. ::: ::: A study was made of the absorption bands In the 1500–1750-cm−1 region of the spectra of o-carbonylcontaining phenols, and their phenylmercury and triethyltin derivatives, in polar and nonpolar solvents. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: It has been shown that the carbonyl groups in these compounds coordinate with the phenylmercury and triethyltin groups. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The stability of chelate rings with formyl groups is characterized by the degree of breakdown of their coordinational bonding in coordinating solvents, decreasing with the acceptor capacity for the unshare delectron pair, i.e., in the order H>PhHg>Et3Sn. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: In the case of competing substituents, the carbonyl group preferentially coordinates with the halide atom.
A new HPLC method to detect mercurial species, useful in the treatment of phenylmercuric acetate and chloride by TiO2-heterogeneous photocatalysis under UV irradiation, has been developed. The method uses simple mercury complexation with 2-mercaptopropionic acid and UV detection. The initial phenylmercury salt, together with inorganic mercury (II) and phenol, products of the photocatalytic process, as well as other organomercurials such as methylmercury, and ethylmercury, were detected and quantified. The method is rapid and can be used for general mercury speciation. Linearity was observed in the 0.1-50 mg L -1
Abstract Mercuric halides have been shown to reach readily at room temperature with bis(triphenyltin) oxide to produce phenylmercury halides, triphenyltin halide and polymeric diphenyltin oxide, together with small amounts of tetraphenyltin. The action of mercuric chloride on the sodium salt of triphenyltin hydroxide has also been studied, and has provided evidence for the instability of compounds containing SnOHg-system. Mercuric oxide has been show to react with triphenyltin chloride in boiling benzene to give phenylmercuric chloride and polymeric diphenyltin oxide. Possible mechanisms are suggested for the reactions observed.
Phenylmercury (II) derivatives of chloride, bromide, iodide, sulphide and thiocyanate are obtained by treating aqueous acidic anion solutions with aqueous phenylmercury (II) nitrate, and are readily extractable into various organic solvents. Thermogravimetric and gas chroamtography analyses show their potential usefulness for the determination of the halides, notably chloride, at the sub-microgram level after a solvent extraction step. The gas chromatographic resolution obtainable between individual phenylmercurials also indicates the possibilities for simultaneous determination of these anions.
The reaction of diphenylmercury and vanadium oxide trichloride in cyclohexane solution at 25° initially yielded phenylmercuric chloride and the unstable phenylvanadium oxide dichloride whose decomposition has been studied. When a diphenylmercury/vanadium oxide trichloride ratio > 1 was employed, the biphenyl formation rate was accelerated and more than one chlorine on the vanadium was replaced by a phenyl group. When this ratio was < 1, the rate of biphenyl appearance was retarded and, on acid hydrolysis, benzene, phenol and biphenyl were recovered. It was shown that all cyclohexane-soluble, phenyl-bearing species (e.g. PhnVOCl3-n, Ph2Hg) interchanged phenyl groups very rapidly. The appearance of biphenyl was thought to be due to the concerted decomposition of an unstable di-σ-phenylvanadium intermediate.
Activation barriers for fast 1,3-N,N' migrations of phenylmercury groups in the corresponding derivatives of N,N'-di(p-tolyl)form(benz)amidines have been calculated by density functional theory B3LYP/Gen, 6-311++G(d,p)/SDD to be ΔE ZPE ≠ = 4.5 and 3.0 kcal/mol. The results correspond to the data of dynamic NMR, which have shown the upper limit of activation barriers of these rearrangements (ΔG≠) to be below 8 kcal/mol. The calculations have shown that the most stable is the E-syn form of N-phenylmercury-N,N'-di(p-tolyl)form(benz)amidines stabilized by supplementary intramolecular coordination of mercury atom with imine nitrogen atom of the amidine triad.
Many patients attribute their health problems to amalgam and other dental metals. In genetically susceptible indviduals, mercury and gold may function as haptens and elicit allergic and autoimmune reactions. The frequency of metalinduced lymphocyte responses was examined in 3,162 patients in three European laboratories using MELISA ® , an optimized lymphocyte proliferation test. The patients suffered from local and systemic symptoms attributed to dental restorations. The effect of dental metal removal was studied in 111 patients with metal hypersensitivity and symptoms resembling Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS). After consultation with a dentist the patients decided to replace their metal restorations with non-metallic materials. The changes in health and in vitro lymphocyte reactivity were studied by inquiries and follow-up MELISA ® . Lymphocyte reactivity was also analyzed in 116 healthy subjects with no complaints of metal allergy. A signifi cant number of patients had metalspecifi c lymphocytes in the blood. Nickel was the most common sensitizer, followed by inorganic mercury, gold, phenylmercury, cadmium and palladium. As compared to lymphocyte responses in healthy subjects, the CFS group had signifi cantly increased responses to several metals, especially to inorganic mercury, phenylmercury and gold. Following dental metal removal, 83 patients (76%) reported long-term health improvement. Twenty-four patients (22%) reported unchanged health and two (2%) reported worsening of symptoms. Following dental metal replacement, the lymphocyte reactivity to metals decreased as well. We propose that an infl ammatory process induced by metals may modulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA axis) and trigger multiple non-specifi c symptoms characterizing CFS and other chronic conditions like myalgic encephalitis (ME) and multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS).
Speciation of mercury was accomplished by using a simple interface with photo-induced chemical vapour generation in a high performance liquid chromatography—atomic fluorescence spectrometry (HPLC-AFS) hyphenated system. Acetic acid and 2-mercaptoethanol in the mobile phase were used as photochemical reagent. The operating parameters were optimized to give limits of detection of 0.53 µg L−1, 0.22 µg L−1, 0.18 µg L−1 and 0.25 µg L−1 for inorganic mercury, methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury, respectively. The method was validated with the certified reference material DORM-2 and applied to the analysis of seafood samples. The HPLC-AFS hyphenated system is simple, environmentally friendly, and represents an attractive alternative to the conventional peroxothiosulfate-borohydride method.
A cloud point extraction methodology was developed for simultaneous preconcentration of Hg(II), methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), and phenylmercury (PhHg) prior to reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on-line coupled with cold vapor atomic fluorescence spectrometry for speciation analysis of mercury in fish. The four mercury species were taken into complexes with ammonium pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (APDC) in aqueous nonionic surfactant Triton X-114 medium and concentrated in the surfactant-rich phase by bringing the solution to the temperature of 40 degrees C. Baseline separation of the enriched complexes was achieved on an RP-C(18) column with a mixture of methanol, acetonitrile, and water (65:15:20, v/v) containing 200 mmol L(-1) HAc (pH 3.5) as the mobile phase. An on-line postcolumn oxidation of the effluent from HPLC, in the presence of K2S2O8 in HCl, was applied in the system followed by an optimal cold vapor generation of mercury species. The variables affecting the complexation and extraction steps were examined. The preconcentration of 10 mL of solution with 0.08% w/v Triton X-114 and 0.04% w/v APDC at pH 3.5 gave enrichment factors of 29, 43, 80, and 98 for MeHg, EtHg, PhHg, and Hg(II), respectively. Low detection limits (S/N = 3) were obtained, ranging from 2 to 9 ng L(-1) (as Hg) for all species. The developed method was successfully applied to the speciation of mercury in real fish samples.
Abstract S-Methyldithizone(5-methylmercapto-1,5-diphenylformazan) reacts with the chlorides of copper(II), mercury(II) and phenylmercury(II) to give the 1:1 chelates [CuCl(MeDz), HgCl(MeDz) and C 6 H 5 Hg(MeDz)] and with nickel(II) and palladium(II) to give the 1:2 chelates, M(MeDz) 2 . All these complexes are intensely coloured in chloroform solution. No complexes are formed from cobalt(II), manganese(II) or zinc(II) or from the nitrates or acetates of copper and mercury. Coordination increases the reactivity of the sulphur atom in dithizone. Whereas dithizone is unaffected by methyl iodide, nickel dithizonate, Ni(HDz) 2 , gives Ni-(MeDz) 2 when heated with methyl iodide in ethanol in the presence of sodium acetate; palladium dithizonate behaves similarly. The 1:1 adduct of nickel dithizonate with 2,2'-bipyridyl gave only Ni(MeDz) 2 on treatment with methyl iodide, and this complex would not form an adduct with bipyridyl. On standing in the light, Ni(MeDz) 2 reacted photochemically to give the yellow isomer of S-methyl-dithizone.
Abstract The effects of cupric citrate, phenylmercury acetate, and triethyltin sulfate on the metabolism of [U- 14 C]glucose and [2- 14 C]acetate were investigated by exposing barnacles to concentrations of these antifouling compounds which were lethal after 30–36 hr. The changes in metabolism observed suggested that pyruvate utilization was restricted via pyruvate dehydrogenase with all three agents, phenylmercury acetate additionally inhibiting lactate dehydrogenase.
A multiinjection strategy has been developed to increase the sampling throughput of the high-performance liquid chromatography determination of inorganic-mercury, methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury. The method involves the injection of samples each 3.5min, in spite of the fact that phenylmercury retention time corresponds to 9.04min. In the selected conditions, the sampling frequency was 11h(-1) in front of that of 6h(-1), obtained by conventional injection of each sample after the complete elution of Hg species. Additionally, the analytical reagents consumption was reduced drastically in almost 50%. The main characteristics of the chromatographic separation were maintained and only the resolution of phenylmercury was reduced from 10.3 to 1.7 and that of ethylmercury from 4.6 to 3.1.
Abstract Three new phenylmercury(II) dithiocarbamate complexes incorporating the furyl moiety, namely (N,N-difurfuryldithiocarbamato-S,S′)phenylmercury(II) ( 1 ), (N-furfuryl-N-(4-chlorobenzyl)dithiocarbamato-S,S′)phenylmercury(II) ( 2 ), and (N-furfuryl-N-(2-phenylethyl)dithiocarbamato-S,S′)phenylmercury(II) ( 3 ) have been prepared and characterized by elemental analysis, IR, 1 H, and 13 C NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography. The crystal structures of 1 , 2 and 3 show a linear mercury(II) core at the centre of the molecules. Weak intermolecular Hg⋯S interactions in 2 and 3 lead to the formation of linear chain and head to tail dimers, respectively. The Hirshfeld surface analysis and the associated 2D fingerprint plots of 1 – 3 have been also studied to evaluate intermolecular interactions. Theoretical calculations of isolated molecules of 1 – 3 have been performed using DFT method at B3LYP-LANL2DZ basis set. The geometrical parameters of 1 – 3 are in a good agreement with those obtained from the XRD experiment. The energy gap between E HOMO and E LUMO have been calculated. The molecular electrostatic potential (MEP) analysis support the substantial contribution of the resonance structure R 1 R 2 N + = CS 2 2− to the description of their structures. Complex 1 has been utilized as single source precursor to afford mercury sulfide nanoparticles via solvothermal decomposition in ethylenediammine. The as-prepared HgS nanoparticles were characterized using powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD), Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Energy dispersive X-ray spectra (EDS) and Diffuse reflectance spectra(DRS). The band gap energy calculated from DRS spectrum shows evidence of quantum confinement.
Mercury and organomercurial resistance determined by genes on ten Pseudomonas aeruginosa plasmids and one Pseudomonas putida plasmid have been studied with regard to the range of substrates and the range of inducers. The plasmidless strains were sensitive to growth inhibition by Hg2+ and did not volatilize Hg0 from Hg2+. A strain with plasmid RP1 (which does not confer resistance to Hg2+) similarly did not volatilize mercury. All 10 plasmids determine mercury resistance by way of an inducible enzyme system. Hg2+ was reduced to Hg0, which is insoluble in water and rapidly volatilizes from the growth medium. Plasmids pMG1, pMG2, R26, R933, R93-1, and pVS1 in P. aeruginosa and MER in P. putida conferred resistance to and the ability to volatilize mercury from Hg2+, but strains with these plasmids were sensitive to and could not volatilize mercury from the organomercurials methylmercury, ethylmercury, phenylmercury, and thimerosal. These plasmids, in addition, conferred resistance to the organomercurials merbromin, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, and fluorescein mercuric acetate. The other plasmids, FP2, R38, R3108, and pVS2, determined resistance to and decomposition of a range of organomercurials, including methylmercury, ethylmercury, phenylmercury, and thimerosal. These plasmids also conferred resistance to the organomercurials merbromin, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, and fluorescein mercuric acetate by a mechanism not involving degradation. In all cases, organomercurial decomposition and mercury volatilization were induced by exposure to Hg2+ or organomercurials. The plasmids differed in the relative efficacy of inducers. Hg2+ resistance with strains that are organomercurial sensitive appeared to be induced preferentially by Hg2+ and only poorly by organomercurials to which the cells are sensitive. However, the organomercurials p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, merbromin, and fluorescein mercuric acetate were strong gratuitous inducers but not substrates for the Hg2+ volatilization system. With strains resistant to phenylmercury and thimerosal, these organomercurials were both inducers and substrates.
Abstract A new method for the determination of low levels of chloride is proposed. Chloride in aqueous solution is readily converted to phenylmercury(II) chloride by treatment with phenylmercury(II) nitrate at ca . pH 1.5 and the covalently bound chloride is quantitatively extracted into chloroform. This solution is concentrated by distillation and analysed by gas chromatography. The method is suitable for 0.4–7.0 μg Cl ml −1 of the chloroform extract. As little as 0.008 p.p.m. of chloride in aqueous solutions can be determined when a flame ionization detector is used.
Abstract A new reaction between diphenylmercury and carbon tetrachloride on a mercury surface leading to phenylmercuric chloride has been identified. The process has been investigated using labelled metallic mercury and the results confirm the existence of an S E i transition state similar to that previously postulated for heterogeneous exchange reactions of mercury.
Abstract Simultaneous separation and detection of three organomercury species, namely methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), and phenylmercury (PhHg), was performed by using capillary electrophoresis (CE) with UV detection. Pre-column derivatization with thiosalicylic acid and on-line salt-induced stacking significantly improved the detection performance. Buffer pH, ion strength, and additive were optimized for CE separation, concentration of NaCl in sample solution and injection time were optimized for on-line stacking. The limits of detection were 76.9, 83.0 and 76.4 μg/L for PhHg, EtHg and MeHg, respectively. The developed method was validated by certified reference material and liquid chromatography-atomic fluorescence spectroscopy, which suggests this method could be useful in the speciation of organomercury compounds in biological samples.
A novel method for speciation analysis of mercury was developed by on-line hyphenating capillary electrophoresis (CE) with atomic fluorescence spectrometry (AFS). The four mercury species of inorganic mercury Hg(II), methymercury MeHg(I), ethylmercury EtHg(I), and phenylmercury PhHg(I) were separated as mercury-cysteine complexes by CE in a 50-cm x 100-microm-i.d. fused-silica capillary at 15 kV and using a mixture of 100 mmol L(-1) of boric acid and 12% v/v methanol (pH 9.1) as electrolyte. A novel technique, hydrostatically modified electroosmotic flow (HSMEOF) in which the electroosmotic flow (EOF) was modified by applying hydrostatical pressure opposite to the direction of EOF was used to improve resolution. A volatile species generation technique was used to convert the mercury species into their respective volatile species. A newly developed CE-AFS interface was employed to provide an electrical connection for stable electrophoretic separations and to allow on-line volatile species formation. The generated volatile species were on-line detected with AFS. The precisions (RSD, n = 5) were in the range of 1.9-2.5% for migration time, 1.8-6.3% for peak area response, and 2.3-6.1% for peak height response for the four mercury species. The detection limits ranged from 6.8 to 16.5 microg L(-1) (as Hg). The recoveries of the four mercury species in the water samples were in the range of 86.6-111%. The developed technique was successfully applied to speciation analysis of mercury in a certified reference material (DORM-2, dogfish muscle).
The arylmercuric arenesulphinates, PhHg(SO2Ph), p-MeC6H4Hg(SO2-p-MeC6H4), PhHg(SO2-p-MeC6H4), p-MeC6H4Hg(SO2Ph), and C6F5Hg(SO2Ph), have been prepared by reaction of mercuric benzenesulphinate or p- toluenesulphinate with the appropriate diarylmercury compound in chloroform or methanol, and the first three compounds have also been obtained by reaction of liquid sulphur dioxide with diphenylmercury, di-p-tolylmercury, or phenyl-p-tolylmercury. Linkage isomers of phenylmercuric benzenesulphinate have been prepared. Isomer A, obtained from chloroform-pentane, is considered to be a monomeric O-sulphinato complex, and isomer B, obtained from cold acetone, methyl ethyI ketone, or methanol, to be an S-sulphinato complex. The isomers are readily interconverted. In chloroform, deuterochloroform, and acetone, at room temperature, only the O-sulphinato complex can be detected. The other arylmercuric arenesulphinates have the same structure as isomer A. Linkage isomers could not be isolated for these derivatives. However, there is evidence that p-MeC6H4Hg(SO2Ph) slowly isomerizes in the solid state to give the corresponding S-sulphinato complex. Thermal decomposition of PhHg-(SO2Ph) (both isomers), p-MeC6H4Hg(SO2-p-MeC6H4), PhHg(SO2-p-MeC6H4), and p-MeC8H4Hg(SO2Ph) gives sulphur dioxide and the corresponding diarylmercurycompound.
1. ::: ::: Electronic spectroscopy has been used to show the similarity of the reactions of the nitrophenols and their phenylmercury and triphenyltin derivatives with triethylamines and diethylamines. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Increasing the electron-acceptor activity of the aromatic ring substituent in the nitrophenol or the donor activity of the amine, or altering the polar properties and coordinating ability of the solvent, will shift the complexing equilibrium toward ion pair formation, and by promoting ionization, bypass the stage of molecular complex formation. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Data has been obtained on these reactions, and it has been shown that the formation constants for ion pairswith triethylamine fall off in the order: H > SnPh3 > HgPh.
Total mercury (T-Hg), elemental mercury (Hg0), methylmercury (MeHg+), phenylmercury (PhHg+), and gaseous elemental mercury (GEM) species were determined in soils formerly contaminated by different processes from two sites in the Czech Republic. Analytical methods involved atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS) using a single-purpose Advanced Mercury Analyser AMA-254 and radiochemical neutron activation analysis (RNAA) for T-Hg determination, a thermal desorption method was used for Hg0 determination, gas chromatography coupled with atomic fluorescence spectrometry (GC-AFS) was employed for assay of MeHg+ and PhHg+, while GEM measurement was carried out using a portable Zeeman–AAS device Lumex RA-915+. The first sampling site was in the surroundings of a former PhHgCl-based fungicide processing plant next to Přibram (central Bohemia). Although the use of Hg-based fungicides as seed mordant have been banned, and their production stopped at the end of 1980s, highly elevated Hg contents in soil are still observed in the vicinity of the former plant, reaching T-Hg values 13 mg kg-1. The second sampling site was an abandoned mining area named Jedova hora Hill near Hořovice (central Bohemia), where cinnabar (HgS) was occasionally mined as by-product of Fe ores hematite and siderite. Mining activities have been stopped here in 1857. Very high contents of T-Hg are still found at this site, up to 144 mg kg-1. In most cases we found a statistically significant correlation between T-Hg and Hg0 values regardless of the pollution source. On the contrary, insignificant correlation was observed neither between T-Hg and GEM values, nor between GEM and Hg0. Concentrations of the investigated organomercury species were above a limit of detection (LOD) only in the most contaminated samples, where their levels were about two to three orders of magnitude lower compared to those of T-Hg.
Reactions of [(HgR)(CF3SO3)] (R = CH3 or C6H5) with tris(2-dimethylaminoethyl)amine (trenMe6) give the complexes [(trenMe6)HgR][CF3SO3). These have been characterized by 1H and 13C{1H} NMR spectroscopy and the complex formation equilibria in aqueous solution between methylmercury(II) ion and trenMe6 have been investigated. A complete X-ray analysis of the phenylmercury derivative has been carried out. The complexes appear to be five-coordinate both in the solid state and in organic solvents; potentiometric investigations also support strongly the total coordination of trenMe6 to methyl-mercury(II) in aqueous solution.
Post-column derivatization detection system based on dithizone solubilized in cetyltrimethyl-ammonium hydrogenesulfate micellar media at pH 2.0 was devised and evaluated for selective detection of mercury(II), methylmercury and phenylmercury in reversed-phase HPLC system with photometric detection at 500 nm. This reagent solution is fully compatible with acidic organo-aqueous mobile phases generally used in RPHPLC. With the aid of the detection systematic study of the retention behaviour of three mercury species on octadecylsilica sorbent was carried out. Influence of pH, acetonitrile volume fraction, complex forming additives was investigated in detail. In mobile phase consisting of 5–30% of acetonitrile in water at pH 2.0 and 2·10−4 mol·I−1 DCTA linear calibration curves were measured in range 20–1000 ppb with correlation coefficient better than 0.99. Detection limits were 1–5 ng for this three mercury species. Interferences of copper(II) and silver(I) are negligible.
The structures of mercuric benzenesulphinate and p-toluenesulphinate have been investigated by infrared spectroscopy, and it has been shown that the arylsulphinate ions are coordinated to mercury through sulphur and not through oxygen. Thermal decomposition of the benzenesulphinate, at the melting point or in toluene, gives good yields of diphenylmercury. No di-p-tolylmercury is obtained from pyrolysis of the p-toluenesulphinate in absence of a solvent, but a moderate yield is obtained when the compound is decomposed in boiling toluene.
Abstract The complex formation of phenylmercury and methylmercury with penicillamine and some sulfur- or nitrogen-coordinating ligands was studied by means of preparative, infrared spectral and proton magnetic resonance spectral measurements and potentiometric titration. In various ligands, 1:1 (metal: ligand) organomercury complexes containing one HgS or HgN bond were isolated. Penicillamine and phenylmercury reacted to form 1:1 dimer complex containing bridging sulfur atom. The formation of 2:1 complexes was observed in penicillamine, cysteine, glutathione and 2,3-dimercapto-1-propanol. Mercury-proton coupling constant, J199Hg1H showed that the strength of HgS bond was greater than that of HgN bond in the methylmercury complex of penicillamine. The values of log K1 decreased in the order, MeHgS > PhHgN ≥ PhHgS > MeHgN ⪢ PhHgO, MeHgO. From the results, the contribution of the σ-covalent and π-back bonding between organomercury and ligand donors S and N, respectively, in these complexes is discussed.
Photo-induced chemical vapour generation (CVG) with formic acid in mobile phase as reaction reagent was developed as interface to on-line couple HPLC with atomic fluorescence spectrometry for the separation and determination of inorganic mercury, methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg) and phenylmercury (PhHg). In the developed procedure, formic acid in mobile phase was used to decompose organomercuries and reduce Hg(2+) to mercury cold vapour under UV irradiation. Therefore, no post-column reagent was used and the flow injection system in traditional procedure is omitted. A number of operating parameters including pH of mobile phase, concentration of formate, flow rate of mobile phase, length of PTFE reaction coil, flow rate of carrier gas and Na(2)S(2)O(3) in sample matrix were optimized. The limits of detection at the optimized conditions were 0.085, 0.033, 0.029 and 0.038 microg L(-1) for inorganic mercury, MeHg, EtHg and PhHg, respectively. The developed method was validated by determination of certified reference material DORM-2 and was further applied in analyses of seafood samples from Yantai port, China. The UV-CVG with formic acid simplifies the instrumentation and reduces the analytical cost significantly.
Electrometric behavior of tetraphenylboron (TPB) on mercury electrode was investigated, Potentiometric titration of Hg2++ with TPB− showed that TPB− reacted with Hg2++ with stoichiometric ratios (equivalent) of 1:3 and 1:8 (TPB: Hg2++) to form diphenylmercury, Hg(C6H5)2, and phenylmercuric ion, C6H5—Hg+. Only 1:3 stoichiometry was found in the reverse titration. Potential response of TPB− on mercury assumed the same result, and furthermore, if the concentration of TPB− was around 10−3 M or higher, another stoichiometry of 1:1 with formation of Hg(I)-tetraphenylborate might be possible. Controlled potential oxidation of TPB− on mercury gave Hg(C6H5)2 and C6H5Hg+ which were identified by m. p. measurements and elementary analyses.
The synthesis and characterization of zinc(II), cadmium(II), lead(II), mercury(II) and phenylmercury(II) complexes of 4-amino-6-hydroxy-2-mercapto pyrimidine (AHMP) are reported. The stoichiometry of the complexes was found to be 1:2 except for the phenylmercury(II) complex where the ratio is 1:1. Characterization of these complexes was carried out by means of elemental analyses, IR and 1H NMR measurements. In these complexes the ligand is bonded to the metal through its sulfur atom. The potentiometric results showed the formation of 1:1 and 1:2 complexes and the corresponding stability constants were determined for both Zn(II) and Cd(II) ions. The high insolubility of mercury(II), phenylmercury(II) and lead(II) complexes prevented the determination of their stability constants. The concentration distribution of the complexes in solution was evaluated. The effect of temperature on the dissociation constant of AHMP and the formation constants of both the Zn-AHMP and Cd-AHMP complexes were studied and the thermodynamic parameters were calculated.
Information on the light output of a group of organic solutes in polyvinyltoluene has been obtained. The primary solutes studied are p‐terphenyl and 2‐phenyl‐5‐(4‐biphenylyl)‐1,3,4 oxadiazole (PBD), the latter being the most efficient. Of the secondary solutes studied, 4,4′‐diphenylstilbene and 2,5‐dibiphenylyl oxazole (BBO) are the most efficient. The best plastic scintillator developed contains a combination of 2‐phenyl‐5‐(4‐biphenylyl)‐1,3,4 oxadiazole (PBD) and 4,4′‐diphenylstilbene.The fluorescence spectra of these plastic scintillators were determined. When a secondary solute is added to a plastic scintillator the emitted light is mainly that of the secondary solute.The effect on the light output of the plastic scintillator upon addition of diphenylmercury was also investigated. Regardless of which combination of solutes was used, the mercury compound proved to be a serious quencher of light output.
Capillary electrophoretic separation of four mercury species (inorganic Hg(2+), methyl-, ethyl-, and phenylmercury) was achieved in less than 8 min with an electrolyte consisting of 150 mM 2-amino-2-methyl-propanol (AMP) at pH 11.6. The analytes were complexed with 0.1% mercaptopropionic acid (MPA), separated in counter-EOF as anionic complexes, and detected by a contactless conductometric detector. Ion exchange preconcentration with on-column formation of MPA-mercury complexes was developed. Preconcentration factors of 25-150 were achieved and LODs in the range of 2.9-6.9 ng/mL were feasible. This method may prove to be applicable as a rapid screening method for mercury speciation in environmental samples.
The study of metal-based drugs represents an important branch of modern bioinorganic chemistry. The growing importance of this field is linked to the large success in medicine of a few metal based drugs, either in clinical use or still experimental. Moreover, these metal-based drugs are frequently used as reference compounds to assess comparatively the behavior of newly synthesized metallodrugs. For the convenience of researchers working in this area we report here a compilation of the relevant analytical and spectroscopic data of ten representative metallodrugs based on Platinum, Ruthenium, Gold and Mercury. The selected compounds, namely Cisplatin, Oxaliplatin, Carboplatin, Auranofin, Sodium Aurothiomalate, NAMI-A, KP1019, Thimerosal, Merbromin and Phenylmercury Acetate, were chosen owing to their importance in the field. We believe that this compilation may turn very helpful to researchers as these data are difficult to find and generally scattered over a large number of (old) publications.
Mercury and its organic compounds, especially methylmercury, are hazardous compounds that concentrate in biota via biomagnification and cause severe neurological disorders in animals. In this paper, a recombinant whole-cell bacterial sensor for the detection of the organic compounds of mercury was constructed. The sensor carries firefly luciferase gene as a reporter under the control of the mercury-inducible regulatory part of broad spectrum mer operon from pDU1358. In addition, a gene-encoding organomercurial lyase (an enzyme necessary for cleavage of the mercury−carbon bond) was coexpressed in the sensor strain. The sensitivity of the sensor was evaluated on some environmentally important organomercurial compounds. The lowest detectable concentrations were 0.2 nM (50 ng/L), 1 nM (0.34 μg/L), and 10 μM (2.3 mg/L) for methylmercury chloride, phenylmercury acetate, and dimethylmercury, respectively. The sensor responded also to inorganic mercury and, therefore, using the sensor described here together with...
The treatment of phenylmercury(II) acetate with several pyrimidine-2-thiones (RpymSH) results in the formation of the corresponding pyrimidine-2-thionato complexes [PhHg(RpymS)]. The crystal structure of [PhHg(4,6-Me 2 pymS)] shows a nearly lineal coordination environment for the mercury atom, with the ligand using the exocyclic sulfur atom to bind the metal; a weak interaction between mercury and one of the heterocyclic nitrogens is also observed. Vibrational and 1 H, 13 C and 199 Hg NMR spectroscopic data of the complexes are discussed and related to the structure.
Four new organotin thiotetrazoles 1,4-(R3SnSCN4)2C6H4 (R = Me, Et, Bu or Ph), along with their triphenyllead, diphenylthallium and phenylmercury analogues, have been synthesized. The supramolecular structure of 1,4-(Bu3SnSCN4)2C6H4 has been found to consist of a 2-D sheet arrangement containing 32-membered (C4NCSSnN2CSSnN3)2 rings. In contrast, 1,4-(Me3SnSCN4)2C6H4 crystallises as a bis(methanol) solvate in which 14-membered (SnSCN2HO)2 rings are linked through hydrogen bonds into a 1-D polymer.
A fungicide containing phenylmercury chloride (o.6% w/w mercury) and copper oxychloride was sprayed on to potato foliage at the normal rate of 3 lb. formulated wettable powder/100 gal./acre. Four and eight applications were made at 7–10-day intervals although it is normal practice in this country to make not more than four applications. In the flesh of potatoes 0.02 p.p.m. of mercury was found half-way through the growing season after four applications and 0.03 p.p.m. at the end of the growing season, whether four or eight sprays had been put on. Similar residues were found in the peel. Unsprayed controls contained less than 0.005 p.p.m. of mercury. Potatoes grown on ground where phenylmercury chloride had been sprayed the previous year were not contaminated. Pot experiments suggested that traces of mercury compounds can be both translocated from the foliage and taken up from soil into tubers.
Abstract Phenylmercury(II) acetate crystallizes in the monoclinic system, the space group P2 1 /c, with four molecules per unit cell. The unit cell dimensions are: a=5.24±0.01 A, b=24.20±0.04 A, c=7.50±0.02 A, β = 114.0±0.4°, the measured and calculated densities are 2.54 and 2.57 g/cm 3 , respectively. The structure has been solved using 551 independent reflections collected about c-axis on integrated equiinclination Weissenberg photographs and refined by least-squares method to R = 0.111. The structure is built up of the discrete C 6 H 5 HgOCOCH 3 molecules. The mercury atom is covalently bound to the phenyl ring in one side and to one acetate-oxygen atom on the other to give the characteristic digonal co-ordination. The HgC and HgO bond lengths are 1.92±0.06 and 2.11±0.04 A, respectively. The CHgO bond angle amounts to 170±2°.
Plasmid PI258 of S. aureus has separate genes determining resistance to cadmium and to mercury and the organomercurial phenylmercury acetate. Mercury(ial) resistance is due to the inducible synthesis of a mercury volatilization system. Hg/sup 2 +/ and mercury in phenylmercury acetate is enzymatically reduced to Hg/sup 0/, which is insoluble in water and highly volatile. PI258 differs from most enteric or pseudomonad plasmids which have been studied which determine resistance only to inorganic Hg/sup 2 +/. Cadmium resistance has been found only with staph plasmids. Cadmium resistance is constitutive and is associated with a lower accumulation of cadmium by the plasmid-bearing resistant cells. Cadmium accumulation by sensitive cells is energy-dependent and has those characteristics usually associated with a transmembrane active transport system. There is a specific interrelationship between cadmium accumulation and manganese accumulation and retention. Cd/sup 2 +/ competitively inhibits the uptake of Mn/sup 2 +/ and accelerates the loss of intracellular Mn/sup 2 +/ by the sensitive but has no effect on the resistant S. aureus. Under similar conditions there is no differential effect of Cd/sup 2 +/ on Mg/sup 2 +/, Zn/sup 2 +/, Co/sup 2 +/ or Rb/sup +/ accumulation or exchange between the sensitive and themore » resistant strains.« less
1. ::: ::: The structure of phenylmercury derivatives of substituted 4-phenylsulfonylaminopyridines in solution was studied by a spectral method. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The influence of the nature of the solvent and substituent in the phenylsulfonyl group upon the position of tautomeric equilibrium of the indicated compounds was determined.
The purpose of the present work is to develop a simple, rapid, sensitive and accurate method for the derivatization and subsequently preconcentration of Hg(II) and the determination of its derivative, diphenylmercury, in natural water samples using gas chromatography-flame ionization detection. The method is based on the diphenylation using phenyl boronic acid, subsequent extraction of phenylmercury into a single drop of an organic solvent (toluene), followed by gas chromatography-flame ionization detection GC-FID analysis of the extract. The pH of the feed solution was kept in pH 5 with acetate buffer solution. Thus, the optimized conditions are: organic solvent, toluene; derivatization time, 10 min; extraction time, 15 min; microdrop volume, 1.6 μL; stirring rate, 600 rpm; sample volume, 5 mL. The limit of detection (LOD), calculated on the basis of five replicates was 0.02 μg mL−1. The relative standard deviation of the method (RSD%, n = 5) was 3.0. Linear range was between 0.05 and 5 μg mL−1 and preconcentration factor obtained for phenyl-mercury was 105.
1. ::: ::: On the basis of the data obtained for nonsymmetrical phenyl derivatives of mercury, it was hypothesized that the ionic character of the C-Hg bond increases in the series C6H5HgBr ≈ C6H5HgCl < C6H5HgOAc < C6H5HgNO3. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: In the study of the PMR spectrum of 2,4, 6-trideuterophenylmercury chloride we determined the values of\(\delta _{{\rm H}_m } \) and\(J_{{\rm H}_m - {\rm H}_g ^{199} } \). ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: An investigation of the PMR spectra of substituted phenyl derivatives of mercury indicated that the influence of the substituents on the spectral parameters is in good agreement with the modern concepts of the electronic properties of the substituents.
Abstract The reaction of phenylmercuric nitrate with diethylamine-dithiocarbamate in the presence of disodium edetate has been investigated. Under these conditions the derivatisation reaction does not proceed cleanly but a portion of the phenylmercuric ion is converted to diphenylmercury with an equimolar amount of derivatised mercuric ion being produced. This reaction is independent of the disodium edetate concentration beyond a 1:1 mole ratio of phenylmercuric ion to edetate ion.
(Recelv~2SN~ember|968~ On the basis of oscillometric titrations, it has been suggested that diphenylme~cury farms complexes with some neutral unidentate ligands (e.g. triphenylphosphine, pyridine, or scatone) in benzene (I). However, complexes of dialkyland diaryl-mercury compounds have not been isolated (2) except for organomercurials in which the organic groups have electronegative substituents (3-6). In particular, diphenylmercury does not give an isolable complex with 2,2'-bipyridyl (3) or ethylenediamine (7). We now report the isolation cf adducts o¢ diphenylmercury with 2,9-dimethyl-1,10-pPenanthroline (dmp), 1,10-phenanthroline (phen), and 2,4,7,9-tetramethyl-1,10-phenanthroline ( t e t ) . On mixing solutions of 2,9-dimethyl-1,10-phenanthroline hemihydrate and diphenylmercury in hot hexane (using mole ratios of 5:1, 2:1, or 1:1), immediate precipitation of the adduct Ph2Hg(dmP)2, m.p. 202 ° (Found: C, 62.1; H, 4.55; Hg, 26.4; N, 7.3. C40H34HgN 4 requires C, 62.3; H, 4.4; Hg, 26.0; N, 7.3%), I occurred. The &bsence of free diphenylmercury or of dmp.~20 [the ligand crystallises from petrol as the hemihydrate (~)] in the product was established by X-ray pounder photography and infrared spectroscopy (e.g. the product showed no water absorption and in the region 260-240 cm -I had strong sh~irp bands at -I 255 and 247 cm , whereas diphenylmercury (9) or a mixture of diphenylmercury I and dmp.~20 gave a strong broad band centred at 252 cm-1). The adducts Pb2Hg(phen)2, m.p. 121 ° , and Ph2Hg(tet)2, m.p.(dec.) 230-233 °, were obtained flcm simil~,r preparations. These adducts differ from ccmplexes of bisperfluoroalkyl(6) or bisperfluoroaryl-mercurials (3, 5) with bidentata ligands
Crystalline 1 : 1 adducts (PhHgNR·CO2R1) are formed by reaction of phenylmercury(II) methoxide (R1= Me), t-butoxide (R1= But), or oxide (R1= HgPh) with equimolar quantities of alkyl or aryl isocyanates. Phenylmercury(II) hydroxide gives 1 : 1 adducts (HNR·CO2HgPh) with ethyl and t-butyl isocyanates but with methyl isocyanate a high melting, poorly soluble material of stoicheiometry [PhHgOH,(PhHg)2O,MeNCO] is obtained. Aryl isocyanates and phenylmercury(II) hydroxide react with loss of carbon dioxide to yield NN′-diaryl-N-phenylmercurioureas (PhHgNAr·CO·NHAr) mixed with phenylmercury arylcarbamates (HNAr·CO2HgPh) and/or N-phenylmercurio-arylamines (PhHgNHAr). The latter compounds have been synthesised by azeotropic dehydration of arylamine–phenylmercury(II) hydroxide mixtures and characterised as adducts with phthalic anhydride.
Abstract A useful new method of preparation of phenyl(trihalomethyl)mercury compounds has been elaborated. It consists of the reaction of haloforms (chloroform, bromoform, and mixed trihalomethanes) with phenylmercury chloride in the presence of aqueous NaOH/KF solution with a quaternary ammonium compound, triethylbenzylammonium chloride, as a catalyst.
The reactions of phenylmercury(II) acetate with a series of alkyl, aryl and heterocyclic thiosemicarbazones in ethanol formed novel phenylmercury(II) derivatives of stoichiometry [HgPhL] [HL = RN3N2HC1(S)N1H2 = cyclopentanone 1, cyclohexanone 2, benzaldehyde 3, 2-hydroxybenzaldehyde 4, 4-methoxybenzaldehyde 5, pyrrole-2-carbaldehyde 6, thiophene-2-carbaldehyde 7 or furan-2-carbaldehyde 8 thiosemicarbazone], characterised with the help of analytical data, physical properties, IR, far-IR, multinuclear NMR (1H, 13C, 199Hg) spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography of complexes 1, 5 and 6. The 1H and 13C NMR data suggest that the N2H group is deprotonated during reaction with phenylmercury(II) acetate and co-ordination occurs via the N3,S atoms in a chelating mode. The 199Hg NMR data suggest symmetrisation phenomenon for complexes 3 and 5, 2[HgPhL] ⇌ HgPh2 + [HgL], which is supported also by 1H and 13C NMR data. The δ(Hg) values reveal that shielding of Hg with the change of organic group in the thiosemicarbazones decreases in the order: 2-hydroxybenzene ⋙ furan > benzene > 4-methoxybenzene thiophene ≈ cyclohexanone ≈ cyclopentanone > pyrrole and the Lewis basicity of the thiosemicarbazones varies in the opposite order. The 1H and 13C NMR data reveal that 7 and 8 show isomerism. There are two strong [Hg–C 2.063(7) 1, 2.069(10) 5, 2.049(11) 6; Hg–S 2.382(2) 1, 2.357(3) 5, 2.377(3) A 6] and one weak bond [Hg–N3 2.489(6) 1, 2.611(7) 5, 2.492(9) A 6], with CPh–Hg–S bond angles of 162.9(2), 174.2(3), 165.8(3)° respectively. The weak intermolecular interactions via Hg · · · N2 [3.001(6) A] in 1 and via Hg · · · S in 5 [3.518(3) A] and 6 [3.528(3) A] form centrosymmetric dimers and Hg formally acquires four-co-ordination with two strong (Hg–C, Hg–S), one weak (Hg · · · N3) and one secondary (Hg · · · N2 or S) bonds. The preferred dimer formation via N2 nitrogen in 1, rather than via sulfur atoms (5 and 6) despite Hg · · · S affinity represents an unusual bonding mode. From the low-temperature 1H NMR studies of some selected complexes, the energy barrier (ΔGTc*, Tc is coalescence temperature) to rotation of the amino group about the C1–N1 bond was calculated and correlated with bonding parameters of the thioamide group in the solid state.
CONTENTS I. Introduction 164 II. Bimolecular electrophilic substitution (SE2) at a saturated carbon atom 164 III. Symmetrisation of organomercury compounds with the aid of diphenylmercury 166 IV. Stereochemistry of the SE2 reactions 166 V. Unimolecular electrophilic substitution at a saturated carbon atom 166 VI. Anionic catalysis of one-alkyl isotopic exchange 168 VII. Halodemercurations 169 VIII. Protodemercuration 170 IX. "Internal catalysis" in SE reactions of organomercury compounds 171 X. The reactivity of organomercury compounds of the alkene and aromatic series 173
Abstract A new method for the determination of chloride ion is based on the formation of phenylmercury(II) chloride, its extraction into chloroform and reaction with sodium diethyldithiocarbamate to form phenylmercury(II) diethyldithiocarbamate. This complex has spectral maxima at 257 and 297 nm. either of which can he used for quantitative purposes. The molar absorptivities are 21.3·10 3 and 6.5·10 3 respectively. referred to the chloride ion. The method is especially suitable for the determination of trace amounts of chloride in aqueous solution and has been applied to samples of drinking water. Amounts of chloride in the range 0.04 0.32 p.p.m. can be determined in 250-ml aqueous samples with an average relative mean error of 12%. The method can be used also for bromide and iodide, and for organomercury(11) compounds. Interferences are minimal and the method compares favourably with the standard mercury(II) thiocyanate procedure.
Mercury occurs as elemental mercury and as inorganic and organic compounds (mercury vapor, mercury liquid, mercury salts, short-chain alkylmercury compounds, alkoxyalkylmercury compounds, and phenylmercury compounds), all with different toxicological properties. Total mercury can be analyzed in water, air, and biological material by cold vapor atomic absorption methods and by neutron activation analysis, and can be detected down to concentrations of a tenth of a nanogram per gram in biological material. Methylmercury (MeHg) can be detected in biological material at levels of a few nanograms by extraction with benzene after strong acidification with hydrochloric acid, followed by gas chromatographic analysis of MeHg chloride. Other analytical methods for speciating inorganic mercury and several of the organomercurial forms have also been published. These methods include isotope dilution mass spectrometry, time-of-flight mass spectrometry, high performance liquid chromatography inductively coupled (ICP) plasma mass spectrometry, capillary electrophoresis-ICP, gas chromatography-ICP, and X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy. ::: ::: Mercury is circulated naturally in the biosphere, with 30,000-50,000 tons being released into the atmosphere by degassing from the Earth’s crust and the oceans. In addition, 20,000 tons of mercury is released into the environment each year through human activities such as combustion of fossil fuels and other industrial releases. Approximately 2000 tons of mercury per year is produced for industrial use, a small part of which is used for synthesizing organic mercury compounds. The world production of mercury for commercial uses has been slowly declining over the past 20 years. There is now a ban on the export of mercury from the European Union. ::: ::: In nature, MeHg is produced from inorganic mercury as a consequence of microbial activity. In mammals, oxidative demethylation occurs in vivo to produce inorganic mercury. In fish, most mercury is present as MeHg. Factors determining the MeHg concentration in fish are the mercury content in water and bottom sediments, the pH and redox potential of water, and the species, age, and size of the fish. ::: ::: The toxic properties of mercury vapor are a consequence of mercury accumulation in the brain causing neurological signs involving an unspecific psychoasthenic and vegetative syndrome (micromercurialism). At high exposure levels, mercurial tremor is seen, accompanied by severe behavioral and personality changes, increased excitability, loss of memory, and insomnia. Mercurials may also affect other organ systems, such as the kidney. On a group basis, exposure levels are likely to be reflected in mercury concentrations in the blood and urine. Occupational exposure to mercury concentrations in air of > 0.1 mg/m3 may produce mercurialism. Micromercurialism has not been reported at concentrations < 0.01 mg/m3. Exposure to mercury vapor inhibits brain development in primates and in humans with certain genotypes. The exact dose-response relationship in humans is not known. Inorganic mercury but not MeHg has been found to induce and bind to the low molecular weight metal-binding protein, metallothionein. ::: ::: The acute and long-term actions of mercuric salts, phenylmercury compounds, and alkoxyalkylmercury compounds are likely to be gastrointestinal disturbance and renal damage appearing as tubular dysfunction, with tubular necrosis in severe cases. The lethal dose in humans is approximately 1 g mercuric salt. The mercury load on the kidney is best determined by analysis of renal biopsy. Mercury concentrations in the kidney of between 10 and 70 mg/kg have been reported in poison cases with renal injury. Levels < 3 mg/kg may be found in normal cases. Occasionally, mercuric compounds may cause idiosyncratic skin symptoms, which may develop into severe exfoliative dermatitis or cause glomerular nephritis. Animal and clinical observations have shown that mercuric mercury stimulates and MeHg inhibits the immune system. A specific form of idiosyncrasy, called acrodynia or pink disease, is seen in children. Most cases are associated with mercury exposure in which increased levels of mercury in urine are observed. ::: ::: Hazards involved in the long-term intake of food containing MeHg or ethylmercury (EthylHg) and in occupational exposure to MeHg are a result of the efficient absorption (90%) of alkylmercury in humans and the long retention time (half-life of 70 days for MeHg and shorter for EthylHg) leading to accumulation of alkylmercury in the brain. Chronic poisoning results in degeneration and atrophy of the sensory cerebral cortex, paresthesia, ataxia, hearing, and visual impairment, and implies an increased risk for cardiovascular disease such as cardiac infarction and stroke. The latter effects are attenuated by the intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) through fish consumption. Prenatal exposure causes cerebral palsy and, in less severe cases, psychomotor retardation. MeHg concentration in the blood and hair reflects the body burden and the brain concentration of MeHg. Intake resulting in body burdens of < 0.5 mg/kg body weight is not likely to give rise to detectable neurological signs in adults. This intake corresponds to blood values of < 200 μg/L and mercury levels in the hair of < 50 mg/kg. However, this level of MeHg exposure in pregnant women may result in inhibited brain development of the fetus, with psychomotor retardation of the child. This effect also appears to be reduced by intake of PUFAs through fish consumption. The highest level of MeHg load in pregnant women that is not associated with inhibition of fetal brain development is not known. Recent epidemiological studies have revealed that genetic polymorphisms can modify mercury metabolism and susceptibility to mercury exposure. Specific genotypes have been associated with increased susceptibility to mercury exposure in humans. ::: ::: A general overview of mercury from a historical perspective has been reviewed by Goldwater (1972). The pharmacology and toxicology of mercury was previously reviewed by Clarkson et al. (1972), the chemistry of mercury in biological systems by Carty and Malone (1979), the toxicology of MeHg by a Swedish Expert Group (1971), and the toxicology and epidemiology of mercury by Friberg and Vostal (1972), the Task Group on Metal Accumulation (1973), the Task Group on Metal Toxicity (1976), and the World Health Organization (WHO (World Health Organization), 1976; WHO, 1980; WHO., 1990 ; WHO., 1991). The toxicology of mercury has been reviewed in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Report to Congress (EPA, 1997), the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR, 1999), National Academy of Sciences National Research Council (NAS/NRC, 2000), and Institute of Medicine Report on Mercury in Vaccines (IOM, 2004).
Improved biocatalysts for mercury (Hg) remediation were generated by random mutagenesis of Pseudomonas putida with a minitransposon containing merTPAB, the structural genes specifying organomercury resistance. Subsequent selection for derivatives exhibiting elevated resistance levels to phenylmercury allowed the isolation of strains that constitutively express merTPAB at high levels, conferring the ability to cleave Hg from an organic moiety and reduce the freed Hg(II) to the less toxic elemental form, Hg, at greater rates. Constitutive overexpression of merTPAB had no apparent effect on culture growth rates, even when Hg(II) was initially present at otherwise toxic concentrations. These properties were also combined with benzene and toluene catabolism, allowing detoxification of the metal component of phenyl mercuric acetate, as well as degradation of its aromatic moiety.
Abstract Reverse phase chromatography (RPC) coupled on-line with UV–vis diode array detector (DAD) and cold vapour generation atomic fluorescence spectrometry (CVGAFS) is proposed for the speciation and determination of inorganic and organic mercury (methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury) in the form of cysteine, penicillamine and glutathione complexes. The mercury–thiol complexes are separated on a C 18 Reverse Phase column and oxidized on-line with bromine, generated in situ by KBr/KBrO 3 in HCl medium, in order to fast convert organic mercury species to inorganic mercury in less than 2.5 s, at room temperature, in a 30 cm knitted coil. Hg(II) is selectively detected by AFS in a Ar/H 2 miniaturized flame after sodium borohydride reduction to Hg 0 . Under optimized conditions, on-line bromine treatment gives recoveries of thiol-complexed methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury with respect to inorganic mercury ranging between 79 and 85%, 80 and 85%, 63 and 76%, respectively, depending on the complexing thiol employed. Optimized elution conditions were provided in the three complexing agents. The detection limits (LODc) for inorganic mercury, methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury, in the optimized conditions complexed with thiols were about 16, 18, 18 and 20 pg (as mercury), respectively, a relative standard deviation (R.S.D) ranging between 1.5 and 2.0%, and a linear dynamic range between 0.1 and 100 ng injected. LC–DAD–CVGAFS method has been validated by analysing two certificate reference material, DORM-2 and NIES CRM 13, obtaining 98 ± 6 and 97 ± 5% of methylmercury recovered, respectively.
We report the complete nucleotide sequence of plasmid pMR68, isolated from Pseudomonas strain K-62, two plasmids contribute to broad-spectrum mercury resistance and that the mer operon from one of them (pMR26) has been previously characterized. The plasmid was 71,020 bp in length and contained 75 coding regions. Three mer gene clusters were identified. The first comprised merR-orf4-orf5-merT1-merP1-merF-merA-merB1, which confers bacterial resistance to mercuric ions and organomercury. The second and third clusters comprised merT2-merP2, which encodes a mercury transport system, and merB2, which encodes an organomercurial lyase, respectively. The deduced amino acid sequences for the proteins encoded by each of the mer genes identified in pMR68 bore greater similarity to sequences from Methylobacterium extorquens AM1 than to those from pMR26, a second mercury-resistance plasmid from Pseudomonas strain K-62. Escherichia coli cells carrying pMKY12 (containing merR-orf4-orf5-merT1-merP1-merF-merA-merB1 cloned from pMR68) and cells carrying pMRA114 (containing merR-merT-merP-merA-merG-merB1 cloned from plasmid pMR26) were more resistant to, and volatilized more, mercury from mercuric ions and phenylmercury than the control cells. The present results, together with our earlier findings, indicate that the high phenylmercury resistance noted for Pseudomonas strain K-62 seems to be achieved by multiple genes, particularly by the multiple merB encoding organomercurial lyase and one merG encoding cellular permeability to phenylmercury. The novel mer gene identified in pMR68 may help us to design new strategies aimed at the bioremediation of mercurials.
We report the complete nucleotide sequence of plasmid pMR68, isolated from Pseudomonas strain K-62, two plasmids contribute to broad-spectrum mercury resistance and that the mer operon from one of them (pMR26) has been previously characterized. The plasmid was 71,020 bp in length and contained 75 coding regions. Three mer gene clusters were identified. The first comprised merR-orf4-orf5-merT1-merP1-merF-merA-merB1, which confers bacterial resistance to mercuric ions and organomercury. The second and third clusters comprised merT2-merP2, which encodes a mercury transport system, and merB2, which encodes an organomercurial lyase, respectively. The deduced amino acid sequences for the proteins encoded by each of the mer genes identified in pMR68 bore greater similarity to sequences from Methylobacterium extorquens AM1 than to those from pMR26, a second mercury-resistance plasmid from Pseudomonas strain K-62. Escherichia coli cells carrying pMKY12 (containing merR-orf4-orf5-merT1-merP1-merF-merA-merB1 cloned from pMR68) and cells carrying pMRA114 (containing merR-merT-merP-merA-merG-merB1 cloned from plasmid pMR26) were more resistant to, and volatilized more, mercury from mercuric ions and phenylmercury than the control cells. The present results, together with our earlier findings, indicate that the high phenylmercury resistance noted for Pseudomonas strain K-62 seems to be achieved by multiple genes, particularly by the multiple merB encoding organomercurial lyase and one merG encoding cellular permeability to phenylmercury. The novel mer gene identified in pMR68 may help us to design new strategies aimed at the bioremediation of mercurials.
Pseudomonas strain K-62, a bacterial strain isolated from phenylmercury-polluted soil, is about 1,000 times more resistant to phenylmercury than sensitive strains of Escherichia coli (Tonomura et al. 1968) . A study performed about 40 years ago showed that the biochemical mechanism underlying this mercurial resistance is based on the enzymatic degradation of organomercurials and the subsequent reduction of the resulting mercuric ions to the less toxic and more volatile metallic mercury (Tonomura et al. 1968 ). Two separate organomercurial lyases, designated S-1 and S-2, each showing somewhat different physical properties and substrate specificities, are thought to be responsible for the resistance of P. K-62 to phenylmercury (Tezuka and Tonomura 1976; Tezuka and Tonomura 1978) . The organomercurial resistance of this soil strain is encoded by two plasmids, pMR26 and pMR68 (Kiyono et al. 1995b ). In addition, pMR26 contains two mer operons that map about 1 kb apart . One comprises merR-o/p-merT-merP-merA-merG-merB1. The other is a defective mer operon comprising merR-o/p-merB2-merD (Kiyono and Pan-Hou 1999a) .
Studies suggest that merR is a regulatory gene that both negatively and positively controls the transcription of merTPABD (Ansari et al. 1995; Brown et al. 2003) , whereas MerD is a transcriptional co-regulator (Hobman and Brown 1997; Kiyono et al. 1995a; Lund and Brown 1987) . MerT, merP, merA, and merB encode a membrane Hg 2+ -transport protein (Hobman and Brown 1997; Kiyono et al. 1995a; Lund and Brown 1987) , a periplasmic Hg 2+ -binding protein (Hobman and Brown 1997; Kiyono et al. 1995a; Kiyono et al. 2000; Lund and Brown 1987) , a mercuric reductase (Hobman and Brown 1997; Schiering et al. 1991; Silver and Phung 1996) , and a organomercurial lyase (Griffin et al. 1987; Lafrance-Vanasse et al. 2009; Miller 1999) , respectively. merG, identified in pMR26, is a newly-identified mer-gene involved in phenylmercury resistance, which is thought to act by reducing cell permeability to phenylmercury (Kiyono and Pan-Hou 1999b) . Taken together, these findings suggest that the high resistance to phenylmercury shown by P. K-62 is mediated by the two functional organomercurial lyase enzymes encoded by pMR26 merB1 and merB2 (Kiyono et al. 1995b; Kiyono and Pan-Hou 1999a) , by changes in cellular permeability to phenylmercury mediated by merG (Kiyono and Pan-Hou 1999b) , and by an presumptive mer operon located on plasmid pMR68 (Kiyono et al. 1995b ) However, no mercurial-resistance loci have been identified in pMR68; indeed, a previous study shows that removal of pMR26 from strain K-62 does not alter its mercurial-resistant phenotype nor prevent it from volatilizing Hg 2+ and organomercurials (Kiyono et al. 1995b) .
To fully explain the high resistance to phenylmercury observed in this strain of soil bacteria, it is essential to understand the mer genes expressed by pMR68. The aim of the present study was to completely identify the mercury resistance genes of plasmid pMR68 isolated from strain K-62. The mer genes encoded by pMR68 were then cloned and analyzed.
Phenylmercury(II) replaces a proton of creatine, H2NC+(NH2)NMeCH2C02-, in basic solution to form the zwitterionic ::: complex PhHgNHC+(NH2)NMeCH2CO2-. Creatine and creatinine (C4H7N30) react with PhHg((OH)N03)I/2 in aqueous ethanol to form a 2:l complex [(PhHg)2(C4H6N30][N03] which exists in two crystalline forms. Creatinine forms a 1:l ::: complex [PhHg(C4H7N30)][N03].1/2H20 at pH 1.4 on reaction with PhHg((OH)N03)l/2 in the presence of nitric acid. ::: The 1:l and 2:l complexes may be interconverted. Creatinine hydronitrate, [H2NCNMeCH2CONH][NO3], and the PhHg(II) complexes of creatinine have similar infrared (including deuterated derivatives) and 1H NMR spectra, consistent with retention of the creatinine ring and presence of a guanidinium group in the complexes. An X-ray structural analysis of one crystalline form of the 2:l complex shows bonding of PhHg(II) groups to the exocyclic and ring nitrogens of creatinine to form the cation ::: [PhHgNHCNMeCH2CONHgPh]+.
Abstract Polyurethane foam discs (7 mg cm −2 thick) loaded with diethylammonium diethyldithiocarbamate sob traces of mercury, methylmercury and phenylmercury ions quantitatively from aqueous solution. Matrix effects of the loaded polyurethane sorbent on the final measurement are low. Impurities in the foam do not interfere. The procedure is suitable for 0.3–2 μg cm 3 mercury with 25-cm 3 samples.
Doses of 0.5 mg/kg body weight, 1.5 mg/kg, 3.0 mg/kg, 7.5 mg/kg, and 15.0 mg/kg of phenylmercury acetate (PMA), as a model substance, were administered to Ico:WIST rats, over periods of 1, 5, 20, and 40 days, for the purpose of studying time-dependent and dose-related buildup of adaptive alterations in kidney. Substance-related damage to kidneys was assessed with reference to functional and morphological parameters. Application of organic PMA resulted exclusively in accumulation in kidneys of inorganic Hg, as had been shown by determination of residues. One single application of a toxic dose of phenylmercury acetate caused severe structural and functional necrobiotic damage. Repetitive applications caused renal damage in response to lower daily doses but caused also adaptation of kidneys to effect of higher doses. Adaptation was characterised by unambiguous reduction in necrosis, increase in regenerative cells in tubular epithelium, limited enzyme excretion in urine as well as restitution of impaired functional parameters and proteinuria. These findings are discussed in some detail, with reference being made to effects of other Hg compounds and possible mechanisms of adaptation.
Environmental contamination of mercury (Hg) has caused public health concerns with focuses on the neurotoxic substance methylmercury, due to its bioaccumulation and biomagnification in food chains. The goals of the present study were to examine: (i) the transformation of methylmercury, thimerosal, phenylmercuric acetate and mercuric chloride by cultures of Pseudomonas putida V1, (ii) the presence of the genes merA and merB in P. putida V1, and (iii) the degradation pathways of methylmercury by P. putida V1. Strain V1 cultures readily degraded methylmercury, thimerosal, phenylmercury acetate, and reduced mercuric chloride into gaseous Hg(0). However, the Hg transformation in LB broth by P. putida V1 was influenced by the type of Hg compounds. The merA gene was detected in P. putida V1, on the other hand, the merB gene was not detected. The sequencing of this gene, showed high similarity (100%) to the mercuric reductase gene of other Pseudomonas spp. Furthermore, tests using radioactive (14)C-methylmercury indicated an uncommon release of (14)CO2 concomitant with the production of Hg(0). The results of the present work suggest that P. putida V1 has the potential to remove methylmercury from contaminated sites. More studies are warranted to determine the mechanism of removal of methylmercury by P. putida V1.
The reactions of the tert-butylates of n-propylmercury, isopropylmercury and phenylmercury with diethylamine are accompanied by the formation of compounds that contain the Hg-N bond. As a result, we were the first to obtain diethylaminophenylmercury. The latter reacts with chloroform at room temperature to give phenyl(trichloromethyl)mercury.
Abstract Reactions between hindered silicon-containing phenols and C 6 H 5 HgOH have been studied. These reactions, as shown by ESR-spectra, proceed via the intermediate formation of phenoxyls ansing from an electron transfer from the phenol to the phenylmercury cation. In the reactions of C 6 H 5 HgOH with silicon-containing phenols [2,6-bis(trimethylsilyl)-4-tert-butyl-, 2,4-bis(trimethylsilyl)-6-tert-butyl-, and 2-phenyldimethylsilyl-4,6-di-tert-butyl-phenols] which have ortho -triorganosilyl group capable of migrating to the phenoxyl oxygen, mercurated products have been formed. In the interaction between C 6 H 5 HgOH and 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-trimethylsilylphenol, which has a para -trimethylsilyl group which is unable to migrate to the oxygen, no mercurization occurs; phenol oxidation only was observed.
A quick method has been developed for the analysis of phenylmercury compounds and mixtures of phenylmercury compounds with inorganic mercury compounds.
Reaction of diphenylmercury with dichloronorbornadiene)palladium gave di-µ-chloro-bis(endo-3-phenylnorbornen-2-yl-endo-palladium) which was characterised by a crystal structure determination; a mechanism for its formation is suggested by analogy with the reactions of dichloro(norbornadiene)platinum and Ph2Hg.
Rats were exposed to nitrate (NO3-) in drinking water, to phenylmercuryacetate (PMA) by gavage and to NO3- and PMA together during 4 different experiments. PMA impaired kidneys, NO3- thyroid gland, and NO3- and PMA together both organs. In the last case a synergistic effect on the thyroid gland was shown. The lowest effective concentration of NO3- was 40 mg/l. It resulted in histomorphological changes of the thyroid epithelial cells. That low effective dose of NO3- and possible synergistic effects should give a further impulse to take into consideration not only a low iodide intake but also goitrogenic environmental chemicals when evaluating the endemic goitre prevalence.
Trispentafluorophenylindium has been prepared by heating iodopentafluoro-benzene with an excess of indium metal, but was obtained mixed with iodobispenta-fluorophenylindium when the stoicheiometric amount was used. An attempted synthesis by thermal decomposition of indium trispentafluorobenzoate was un-successful. Reaction of indium with bispentafluorophenylmercury and subsequent treatment with ether gave (C6F5)3In,OEt2. The complex (C6F5)3In,diox (diox = 1,4-dioxan) has been obtained by reaction of indium trichloride with pentafluorophenyl-magnesium chloride or with an excess of bispentafluorophenylmagnesium, and C6F5InCl2,diox from bispentafluorophenylmagnesium and an excess of indium trichloride.
Abstract A method for determination of inorganic and total mercury by flow injection-cold vapor atomic absorption spectrometry (FI-CVAAS) with on-line oxidation was developed. Potassium peroxodisulphate and sulphuric acid were used as oxidizing agents so that decomposition of organomercury compounds could be achieved. Depending on the temperature selected, inorganic or total mercury could be determined with the same FI manifold. In order to assess the method performance, synthetic wastewater, wastewater, urine and saline water samples were spiked with inorganic mercury, methylmercury and phenylmercury. Quantitative recoveries were obtained for the three mercury species, except with the synthetic wastewater when the chemical oxygen demand value was higher than 1000 mg l −1 . In most cases, the standard addition method was usually needed for calibration. LODs calculated as 3 σ/m were 0.47 μg l −1 for inorganic mercury and 0.45 μg l −1 for total mercury. R.S.D. values corresponding to peak height measurements were 1.5 and 2.2% for inorganic mercury and total mercury, respectively. The accuracy of the method was tested by analyzing 5 mol l −1 hydrochloric acid extracts of seven biological and environmental CRMs. LODs in the solid CRMs ranged from 0.032 to 0.074 μg g −1 .
The reaction between 2 mol equiv. of [Hg(SiMe3)2] and [PtCl2{(Ph2P)2CH2}] gives the complex [Pt(SiMe3)2{(Ph2P)2CH2}](I), whilst with a deficiency of [Hg(SiMe3)2] a bright red air-sensitive platinum(IV) complex can be isolated having the composition [Pt(HgSiMe3)2(SiMe3)2{(Ph2P)2CH2}](II); this slowly decomposes in solution to give (I), mercury, and Si2Me6. Under different experimental conditions the reaction produces a yellow air-stable platinum(I) complex, [Pt2Cl2{(Ph2P)2CH2}2](III). Diphenylmercury also combines with [PtCl2{(Ph2P)2CH2}] forming [Pt(HgPh)2Ph2{(Ph2P)2CH2}].
A variety of silica-based solid phases, whose surfaces are functionalized with ligands containing sulfur and nitrogen elements, are used as self-supporting adsorbents for environmental remediation evaluation and potential separation application. Each adsorbent is tested for its ability to scavenge five metallic ions: Hg2+, Cu2+, Cd2+, Mn2+, Pb2+, and two organometallic ions: ethylmercury and phenylmercury, from independent homoionic solutions at both neutral and acidic pH values. The results indicate that the percentage of these ions scavenged by a given adsorbent varies, and is found to be highly related to the structural environment in the vicinity of the sulfur and nitrogen elements on the ligand. It is believed that the scavenging of metallic ions is a result of the complexation formation between the metallic ions and the ligands containing sulfur and nitrogen elements, and is not due to the irreversible association chemistry with the sulfur or nitrogen element itself. In the case of organometallic ions, a π-π interaction is thought to be involved in the adsorption with ligands containing an aromatic moiety in addition to the aforementioned forces. The time needed to reach the maximum percent of adsorption decreases as the amount of adsorbent increases. The longer the adsorption time, the higher percent of ion is removed. Other factors, such as the temperature and the acidity in the liquid phase of the matrix affect the percentage of ions scavenged as well.
The complexes [Yb(bind)2(DME)2], [Yb(MePhpz)2(DME)2], [Yb(azin)2(DME)2], and [Eu(Ph2pz)2(DME)2] (bindH = 4,5-dihydro-2H-benz[g]indazole; MePhpzH = 3-methyl-5-phenylpyrazole; azinH = 7-azaindole; Ph2pzH = 3,5-diphenylpyrazole; DME = 1,2-dimethoxyethane) have been prepared by redox transmetallation between ytterbium or europium metal and the corresponding thallium(I) pyrazolate in tetrahydrofuran (THF) in the presence of mercury metal, followed by work up with DME. The thallium reagents were obtained by treatment of the appropriate pyrazole with thallium(I) ethoxide. Both [Yb(Ph2pz)2(DME)2] and [Sm(Ph2pz)2(DME)2] have been prepared by metathesis from LnI2(THF)2 and K(Ph2pz) in THF, whilst the former has also been obtained by redox transmetallation from [Hg(Ph2pz)2] and ytterbium metal and by reaction of 3,5-diphenylpyrazole with Yb(C6F5)2, and the latter from protolysis of [Sm{N(SiMe3)2}2(THF)2] with Ph2pzH, followed in each case by crystallisation of the crude product from DME. Europium(II) 3,5-di-tert-butylpyrazolate was synthesised by a redox transmetallation/ligand exchange reaction between europium metal chunks, diphenylmercury(II), and 3,5-di-tert-butylpyrazole (tBu2pzH) in the presence of mercury metal in THF, and [Eu(tBu2pz)2(DME)2] was isolated on crystallisation of the crude product from DME. The X-ray crystal structures of [Ln(L)2(DME)2] (Ln =Yb, L = bind or azin; Ln = Eu or Sm, L = Ph2pz; Ln = Eu, L = tBu2pz), each of a different crystallographic form, reveal eight-coordinate lanthanoid complexes with two η2-pyrazolate and two chelating DME ligands, but the structures differ in the relationship (cisoid or transoid) between the pyrazolate ligands. Thus cen–Ln–cen (cen = centre of the N–N bond) angles of 106.7° [Yb(bind)2(DME)2] (3a), 141.4° [Yb(azin)2(DME)2] (3c), 142.2° [Eu(Ph2pz)2(DME)2] (4a), 107.4° [Eu(tBu2pz)2(DME)2] (4b), and 102.1° [Sm(Ph2pz)2(DME)2] (5) are observed.
Three new phenylmercury(II) and one mercury(II) dithiocarbamate complexes viz.PhHg S2CN(PyCH2)Bz (1), PhHg S2CN(PyCH2)CH3 (2), PhHg S2CN(Bz)CH3 (3), and [Hg (NCS2(PyCH2)Bz)2] (4) (Py = pyridine; Bz = benzyl) have been synthesized and characterized by elemental analyses, IR, electronic absorption, 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy. The crystal structures of 1, 2 and 3 showed a linear S–Hg–C core at the centre of the molecule, in which the metal atom is bound to the sulfur atom of the dithiocarbamate ligand and a carbon atom of the aromatic ring. In contrast the crystal structure of 4 showed a linear S–Hg–S core at the Hg(II) centre of the molecule. Weak intermolecular Hg⋯N (Py) interactions link molecules into a linear chain in the case of 1, whereas chains of dimers are formed in 2 through intermolecular Hg⋯N (Py) and Hg⋯S interactions. 3 forms a conventional face-to-edge dimeric structure through intermolecular Hg⋯S secondary bonding and 4 forms a linear chain of dimers through face-to-face Hg⋯S secondary bonding. In order to elucidate the nature of these secondary bonding interactions and the electronic absorption spectra of the complexes, ab initio quantum chemical calculations at the MP2 level and density functional theory calculations were carried out for 1–3. Complexes 1 and 2 exhibited photoluminescent properties in the solid state as well as in the solution phase. Studies indicate that Hg⋯S interactions decrease and Hg⋯N interactions increase the chances of photoluminescence in the solid phase
Addition of a sodium hypochlorite solution (9.2% (w/v)) was effective to reduce a sulfide interference in determination of organic mercury, including methylmercury and phenylmercury, as well as a previously reported determination of inorganic mercury by cold vapor atomic absorption spectrometry (CVAAS) in an alkaline medium. Total mercury ranging from 0.17 to 33mugL(-1) in 15mL of sample solutions containing up to 200mgL(-1) of sulfide can be determined without any serious interference by sulfide when 1mL of the sodium hypochlorite solution was added after dilution of the sample solution to 25mL. The proposed method was simple and rapid because no digestion processes were required for the determination of total mercury; the time required for the determination was only about 5min. The proposed method was applicable to the analysis of treated waste water.
Abstract Crystalline adducts, Ph 2 Hg·2L (L = 1,10-phenanthroline, 2,9-dimethyl-1,10-phenanthroline, and 2,4,7,9-tetramethyl-1,10-phenanthroline), have been prepared by reaction of diphenylmercury and the appropriate ligands in hexane, but derivatives of the mercurial with a range of ligands having nitrogen, phosphorus, arsenic and oxygen donor atoms could not be prepared. No definite evidence for coordination of the phenanthroline ligands in the solid adducts could be obtained by infrared or ultraviolet spectroscopy. Molecular weights of the adducts in benzene or chloroform showed them to be completely dissociated in solution. Similar measurements for mixtures of the mercurial and a range of ligands in benzene showed no evidence for complex formation. Thus, any acceptor properties of diphenylmercury appear to be very weak.
Liquid-liquid distribution method has been applied for the determination of the composition and stability constants of mercury species with L-cysteine /H2L/. In the pH range 2–8, mercury /II/ forms a complex Hg/HL/2 with very high stability constant /lg β2 = 40.0/, whereas methylmercury and phenylmercury form complexes CH3HgHL /lg β1 = 15.56/ and C6H5HgHL /lg β1 = 16.5/. At pH≥13, anionic complexes HgL 2 2− /lg β2 = 42.7/, CH3HgL− /lg β1 = 16.58/ and lg β1 = 17.7 are formed.
Phenylmercury absorbed through the skin from contaminated diapers affected urinary excretion in infants in Buenos Aires. The effects were reversible and quantitatively related to the concentration of urinary mercury. Excretion of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, an enzyme in the brush borders of renal tubular cells, increased in a dose-dependent manner when mercury excretion exceeded a "threshold" value. Urine volume also increased but at a higher threshold with respect to mercury. The results support the threshold concept of the systemic toxicity of metals. gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase is a useful and sensitive marker for preclinical effects of toxic metals.
The purpose of this study is to determine the antidotal effects of thiamine in phenylmercury poisoning rats. Sixty-six rats were divided into six groups the control group, the thiamine-only-dosed group, the 6 ppm phenylmercury-only-dosed group, the simultaneously-dosed-group with 6 ppm mercury & thiamine, and with 6 ppm mercury & thiamine, and with 6 ppm mercury & thiamine. The thiamine was put into pellet by various concentrations, and phenylmercury was mixed in drinking water by 6 ppm concentration. The rats were sacrificed for observing the histopathological changes of brain, liver and kidney. The remits summarized are as follows 1. In the group dosed with only thiamine, the tissues of brain, liver and kidney did not show any abnormal architecture. 2. The phenyhnercury-only-dosed group and the simultaneoulsy-dosed group with mercury and thiamine showed remarkable degenerative or necrotic hepatic cells. In addition, a remarkable swelling and necrosis on epithelium of proximal tubules in kidney were found. 3. The simultaneously-dosed group with mercury and thiamine showed moderate degeneration and necrosis of Purkinje cells in cerebellum. A moderate necrosis and swelling on epithelium of proximal tubules and a large amount of tubular casts were found as well. 4. The simultaneously-dosed group with mercury and thiamine showed a slight degenerative change of Purkinje cells. A slight degenerative change on epithelium of proximal tubules and a small amount of tubular casts were also found.
In this paper, Fe3O4@SiO2@γ-mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane (γ-MPTS) magnetic nanoparticles was prepared and a new method of magnetic solid phase extraction (MSPE)-high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) was developed for the speciation of mercury including inorganic mercury (Hg2+), methylmercury (MeHg+) and phenylmercury (PhHg+) in environmental water, wastewater, tap water and fish samples. A rapid separation of three target mercury species was achieved in 8min by employing relatively high ratio of methanol in HPLC mobile phase. Various parameters affecting Fe3O4@SiO2@γ-MPTS-based MSPE of target mercury species have been investigated. Under the optimized conditions, the limits of detection for Hg2+, MeHg+ and PhHg+ were in the range of 0.49-0.74ngL-1. The intra- and inter-day relative standard deviations (n=5) were less than 9.0% and 12%, respectively. The developed MSPE-HPLC-ICP-MS method was validated by the speciation of mercury in the Certified Reference Material of DORM-2 dogfish as well as real-world samples including environmental water, wastewater, tap water and fish samples, and it has the advantages of simple operation, rapid separation, high sensitivity, high enrichment factor and is suitable for the analysis of mercury species in samples with complex matrix.
Exchange reactions with the participation of triarylphosphinegold and phenylmercury 4-fluorothiophenoxides, 4-nitrophenoxides, and acetates were studied by19F NMR spectroscopy. The data on the comparative chemical hardness of Ar3PAu+ and PhHg+ cations were obtained based on the data on the equilibrium constants. The chemical hardness of Ar3PAu+ cations increases as the electron-donating ability of triarylphosphine ligands increases. The effect of these ligands is described by the δ or δ° constants of substituted phenyl groups and by ionization potentials of their electron pairs or the pKa values.
1. ::: ::: Employing the method of a jump in the temperature, a study was made of the reaction kinetics of replacing the OH in phenylmercury hydroxide by Cl−, Br−, SCN−, N 3 − , and NO 2 − ions, both in the direct and reverse directions, in aqueous solution at 25°. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The reactions of the phenylmercury derivatives proceed more rapidly than do the analogous reactions of the methylmercury derivatives, but the values of the Bronsted coefficients for the elementary act of the reactions are close to each other in both cases.
The results of molecular identification showed that isolate STG-1 had a 99% level of similarity with Pseudomonas brenneri strain CFML 97-391 and isolate OOH -1 had a 99% level of similarity with Enterobacter xiangfangensis strain 10-17. The results of this study showed that STG-1 isolate produced antibiotic compounds belong to steroid group and had an LC 50 of 0.01-0.02% against the microbial indicator of Fusarium oxysporum. Based on the study of antibiotics toxicity from endophytic microbe was known that amphoterisin-B and voriconazole with Fusarium oxysporum and LC 50 was 250 µg/ml (Wiyakrrutta et al., 2004) , whereas fluconazole was 64 µg/ml and mancozeb with phenylmercury acetate was effective to kill Fusarium oxysporum pathogen. The results were compatible with other finding that the toxicity of antibiotics isolates from STG -1 can be used as a reference in determining new antibiotics with similar compounds.
Polarographic behavior of o-hydroxyphenylmercury chloride was examined in aqueous nitric acid medium. An abnormal first wave and a peculiar angular-shaped second wave were observed. Equations of the current-potential curves of the first and second waves are derived on the following assumptions: the first wave is inhibited by a reduction product adsorbed on the surface of the dropping mercury electrode as solid particles, the adsorbed precipitate being reduced at the second wave. The equations agree well with the observed results.
Abstract A series of phenyl-substituted dithizones were synthesized, and preparation of the corresponding series of photochromic phenylmercury(II) complexes is for the first time reported. Adaption of previous methods enhanced synthesis convenience and product yields. A single crystal X-ray data collection of the ortho-S-methyl nitroformazan reaction intermediate was done. ADF computed molecular orbitals of the title compound show the HOMO and LUMO orbitals stretching along the entire ligand. The spontaneous back reaction kinetics of dithizonatophenylmercury(II) was studied at varied concentrations, temperatures and in different solvents. An exponential correlation was found between the rate of reverse isomerization and temperature, while increased solvent polarity and decreased molar mass facilitate higher return rates. The kinetic study of the series of twelve electronically altered complexes yielded a lowest rate of 0.0002 s−1 for the ortho-methyl derivative, while the highest rate of 0.0106 s−1 was measured for the meta-methoxy derivative.
The preparations of some mercury derivatives of pentafluorobenzoic acid and their decarboxylation to give pentafluorophenylmercury compounds are described. Mercuric pentafluorobenzoate and C6F5CO2HgR (R = Ph, p-MeC6H4, or p-MeOC6H4) have been prepared by reaction of pentafluorobenzoic acid with mercuric acetate and RHgOAc, respectively, and methylmercuric pentafluorobenzoate has been made from methylmercuric iodide and silver pentafluorobenzoate. The complexes (C6F5CO2)2HgL (L = 2,2′-bipyridyl, 1,10-phenanthroline, or 1,2-bisdiphenylphosphinoethane) were obtained from reactions of these ligands with mercuric pentafluorobenzoate. The pentafluorobenzoates are monomeric and have low conductances in acetone. Conductances of representative compounds in methanol and pyridine have also been measured. Infrared data suggest that the compounds may contain unidentate pentafluorobenzoate groups.Mercuric pentafluorobenzoate and 2,2′-bipyridylmercuric pentafluorobenzoate decarboxylate at their melting points and the other pentafluorobenzoates decarboxylate on heating in dry pyridine to give the corresponding pentafluorophenylmercury compounds. In acetone and benzene, the complexes (C6F5)2HgL dissociate into L and and bispentafluorophenylmercury.
Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) is a nitric oxide (•NO) donor in vitro and in vivo. In this paper the time variation of the intracellular water proton nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) effective relaxation time T'(2a) in SNP-treated human erythrocyte suspensions, containing 10 mM membrane impermeable paramagnetic MnCl2, has been measured. The observed T'(2a) time-course was analyzed in terms of the two mechanisms by which released •NO affects T'(2a). These are, respectively, enhancement of the intracellular water proton intrinsic NMR relaxation rate 1/T(2a) by paramagnetism of •NO subsequently bonded to iron atoms of intracellular deoxyhemoglobin, and suppression of diffusional water permeability P(d) as a consequence of nitrosylation of aquaporin-1 (AQP1) channel Cys189, either by direct reaction with •NO or with one of the •NO oxidation products, such as N2O3. The bound •NO on the Cys189 thiol residue appears to impose a less efficient barrier to water permeation through AQP1 than the larger carboxyphenylmercuryl residue from p-chloromercuribenzoate. The effect of •NO on P(d) is discussed in terms of NO-induced vasodilation.
The method presented for the determination of zinc dialkyldithiophosphate, bis(dialkoxythiophosphinoyl) disulfide and elemental sulfur in the presence of each other is based on thiomercurimetric titrations. Zinc dialkyldithiophosphate is determined by titration with p-dimethylaminophenylmercury(II) acetate with Michler's thioketone as indicator. The sulfur and bis(dialkoxythiophosphinoyl) disulfide are determined after their reduction. Bis(dialkoxythiophosphinoyl) disulfide is reduced by using tributylphosphine and titration as for zinc dialkyldithiophosphate. The sulfur is treated with bis(2-methoxyethoxy) dihydride and titrated with o-hydroxymercuribenzoic acid in the presence of dithiofluorescein as indicator. The method is simple, rapid, reproducible and accurate and samples do not require separation or other preliminary stages prior to their analysis. The method is suitable for monitoring changes in thiophosphorus lubricating oil additives during engine runs.
Capillary electrophoresis (CE) was directly interfaced to flame-heated furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (FHF-AAS) via a laboratory-made thermospray interface for nanoliter trace element speciation. The CE-FHF-AAS interface integrated the superiorities of stable CE separation, complete sample introduction, and continuous vaporization for AAS detection without the need of extra external heat sources and any post-column derivation steps. To demonstrate the usefulness of the developed hybrid technique for speciation analysis, three environmentally significant and toxic forms of methylmercury (MeHg), phenylmercury (PhHg), and inorganic mercury (Hg(II)) were taken as model analytes. Baseline separation of the three mercury species was achieved by CE in a 60 cm long x 75 microm inner diameter fused-silica capillary at 20 kV and using a mixture of 100 mM boric acid and 10% v/v methanol (pH 8.30) as running electrolyte. The precision (relative standard deviation, RSD, n = 7) of migration time, peak area and peak height for the mercury species at 500 microg x L(-1) (as Hg) level were in the range of 0.9-1.2%, 1.5-1.9%, and 1.4-2.0%, respectively. The detection limit (S/N = 3) of three mercury species was 3.0 +/- 0.15 pg (as Hg), corresponding to 50.8 +/- 2.4 microg x L(-1) (as Hg) for 60 nL sample injection, which was almost independent on specific mercury species. The developed hybrid technique was successfully applied to the speciation analysis of mercury in a certified reference material (DORM-2, dogfish muscle).
• NO on the Cys189 thiol residue appears to impose a less efficient barrier to water permeation through AQP1 than the larger carboxyphenylmercuryl residue from p-chloromercuribenzoate. The effect of
• NO, can react with the SHgroups (as does PCMB) of the Cys189 residues located near the constriction of the erythrocyte membrane AQP1 channels and form labile RS−NO products, with the bound • NO imposing a less effective barrier to water permeation than the larger carboxyphenylmercuryl residue from PCMB.
Reaction of phenylmagnesium halides with aluminium chloride affords a good route to triphenylaluminium etherate and hence to triphenylaluminium, diphenylaluminium chloride, and phenylaluminium dichloride. The molecular weights of these compounds were determined ebulliometrically. Diphenylaluminium chloride and phenylaluminium dichloride form mono-etherates. Possible reactions with benzene, toluene, chloroform, mercuric chloride, and organic halides were examined. A convenient preparation of diphenylmercury is described.
A method for the determination of trace amounts of chloride ion in aqueous solution is described. The chloride is converted into phenylmercury(II) chloride which is extracted into chloroform and subsequently determined in ethyl acetate solution by means of atomic-absorption spectrophotometry. Alternatively, but less conveniently, the phenylmercury(II) chloride can be extracted into isopropyl acetate and this solution, after concentration, is sprayed into the spectrophotometer. As little as 0·015 p.p.m. of chloride can be detected in a 250-ml sample of water, and 0·1 p.p.m. of chloride can be determined with a relative mean error of 4·6 per cent. Interferences are minimal but bromide, iodide, thiocyanate and cyanide must be absent from the solution. The present method compares favourably with a previously described gas-liquid chromatographic method, and is only slightly less sensitive.
A capillary electrophoretic method for the separation of four mercury species with amperometric detection was developed. Inorganic Hg2+, methyl-, ethyl-, and phenylmercury were complexed with L-cysteine and separated in a counterelectroosmotic mode in an electrolyte solution comprised of 20 mM sodium tetraborate at pH 9.5. Amperometric detection of separated species was achieved at passivated copper electrode under electrocatalytic oxidation conditions. The four mercury species were separated in less than 8 min with LODs ranging from 170 to 450 μg/L. Cation exchange preconcentration was used to decrease the LODs down to 1.7 μg/L.
The current output of the biofuel cells containing a marine alga, Synechococcus sp. and an electron transport mediator, 2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone (HNQ) was increased under illumination and in the presence of CO 2 . The inhibitory effects of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP), 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea (DCMU), 2,5-dibromomethylisopropyl-p-benzoquinone (DBMIB), phenylmercury acetate (PMA) and N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCCD) on the output current of fuel cells run in the light suggested that HNQ accepts electrons mainly at the site of ferredoxin-NADP + reductase (FNR) in the electron transfer chain.
Ozone was tested as an alternative digestion/oxidation system to the permanganate/peroxidisulfate currently used in the cold vapor mercury method. The results indicate that the digestion of comparable size samples to the 'Standard Method' was complete in less than 2 min. A 0.5 ml (10 ppb) sample size was completely oxidized in less than 30 s. The batch system used produced a limit of detection (LOD) for mercury(II) chloride, methylmercury chloride, and phenylmercury acetate of about 0.5 ppb.
The thermal desorption behaviour of metallic mercury and some organomercury compounds (methylmercury chloride, dimethylmercury and diphenylmercury) from a gold column has been studied. However, none of the mercury compounds investigated could be quantitatively released from the gold column by a single desorption. This memory effect leads to an increase in the detection signal for consecutive injections. Obtaining a blank signal for the gold column between measurements was thus necessary, although for metallic mercury the blank signal was not measurable. The percentage of mercury released for the different mercury compounds depends on the heating temperature and the type of carrier gas used. Under optimum conditions, a ratio of the signal peak to the signal peak plus blank peak of 100% was found for metallic mercury and of 80% for methylmercury chloride. The release of organomercury compounds is controlled by the decomposition process as well as by diffusion in the gold metal at low temperatures, but from a given temperature onwards diffusion becomes the limiting factor. The occurrence of methylmercury chloride can also be checked qualitatively.
The initial photochromic reaction of dithizonatophenylmercury(II) in solution was investigated by femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy. Ultrafast excitation within less than 100 fs caused a radiationless photoreaction with a time constant of 1.5 ps, which is interpreted as CN isomerization through a conical intersection. The orthogonally twisted intermediate state was observed through its excited-state absorption. Bifurcation along pathways towards the ground states of the orange cis and blue trans configurations occurs below the funnel of the conical intersection. The photochromism of the title compound in a very polar solvent such as methanol is observed for the first time.
To investigate the role of aromatic amino acids of MerT protein in phenylmercury transport, two merT variants (pMRTm1P and pMRTm2P) with specific site-directed mutations were constructed and examined their effects on C6H5Hg+-transport. Substitution of Phe-36 and Trp-40 residues located on the periplasmic loop of MerT in turn with Ala and Val, respectively, did not affect the Hg2+-uptake, but caused a significant reduction in the C6H5Hg+-uptake by bacterial cells with intact merT gene. Introduction of specific mutations changing Phe-108, 114, 115 to Ala, and Tyr-110, 116 to Ser in the C-terminal region of the third transmembrane of MerT also caused large reduction in the uptake of C6H5Hg+, but had no effect on the Hg2+-uptake. In addition, both mutations caused a significant reduction in the hypersensitivity to C6H5Hg+, but without affecting the Hg2+-hypersensitive phenotype. Together these results suggest that the aromatic amino acids of MerT protein may play an important role in the transport of C6H5Hg+ across the cell membrane.
Workers handling dressing machines for seed treatment with the product Agronal, containing a phenylmercury chloride fungicide, were exposed to high concentrations of phenylmercury dust in the working environment. Urine analyses for mercury result in concentration of up to 0.1 mg Hg/l of urine. After administration of a complex-forming substance-Unitol (2,3-dimercapto-1-propane sodium sulfonate)-a higher urinary excretion of mercury occurred. The amount of mercury excreted confirmed its deposit in the organism. It was speculated that subjective complaints by workers handling dressing machines could be caused by high exposure to phenylmercury. This suggestion cannot, however, be fully accepted because the complaints were not necessarily specific for mercury only, but could also have been caused by factors of nontoxic origin, such as stress at the workplace, discontent with work and environmental hygiene conditions, conflicts and alcoholism. Most probably, it was a case of interpotentiation of the effects of toxic and non-toxic nature.
ABSTRACT The argument is presented that organo-transition metal complexes also containing phosphines and similar ligands are often too kinetically inert to act as good models for catalytic processes. A new generation of ‘lightly stabilized’ complexes are needed to probe these reactions more deeply. Some novel palladium complexes of this type, derived from the reactions of acetylenes with either Pd 0 or Pd 11 , are described and the mechanisms of acetylene oligomerization are discussed. For Pd 0 electronic factors seem to be of greatest importance while steric factors play a greater role with Pd 11 . The structure and properties of a new complex, (Ph 3 P) 2 Pd(Br)[(CCOOMe) 4 H], derived from dimethyl acetyl-enedicarboxylate, are reported as well as that of [C 5 Me 5 CHPhCH 2 PdCl] 2 , derived from but-2-yne, PdCl 2 , and diphenylmercury. The latter is a dihapto-cyclopentadiene complex which shows stereochemical non-rigidity in solution. Since this complex also possesses a Pd-alkyl bond it is an ideal ‘lightly-stabilized’ model and its reactions with acid, base, hydrogen, CO, and triphenylphosphine have been investigsted. This work sheds important new light on the chemistry of the Pd—C σ-bond.
A method for the rapid speciation analysis of four mercury species by high performance liquid chromatography( HPLC) hyphenated with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry( ICP-MS) was established. Effective separation of inorganic mercury( Hg2 +),methylmercury( Me Hg),ethylmercury( Et Hg)and phenylmercury( Ph Hg) within 3 min was achieved on the reversed phase C18 column with 0. 1% L-cysteine,2 mmo L ammonium acetate and Me OH( p H 6. 8) as the mobile phase in gradient elution mode. The detection limits for Hg2 +,Me Hg,Et Hg and Ph Hg were 0. 06,0. 05,0. 08 and 0. 06 μg /L,respectively. The linear relationship of the four mercury species was good in with the linear range from 0. 5 μg / L to 10 μg / L. Correlation coefficients of four mercury species were higher than 0. 9995. Contents of Hg species and total mercury in certified reference materials of human hair( GBW 07601),yellow croaker( GBW 08573) and tuna fish( ERMCE464) tested by this method were in good accordance with the certified values. The developed method was applied to the speciation analysis of mercury in two water samples and three fish samples. Recoveries ranged from95% to 122% when two water samples were tested at two spiked levels( 0. 5 μg / L,5 μg / L). The relative standard deviation( RSD)( 5. 0 μg / L for each Hg species) were all lower than 5%. The contents of the mercury species in the two fish samples were compared to the data from other Food Laboratory was gained.
The structure of pentachlorocyclopentadienylphenylmercury(II), Hg(C5Cl5)Ph, has been determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The cyclopentadienyl ring is σ bonded, and the ring and the vinylic chlorine atoms are essentially coplanar. The structure provides no evidence for secondary Cl→Hg bonding. The 13C n.m.r. spectrum shows that, in solution, the cyclopentadienyl ring is fluxional; the sequence of mobilities is Hg(C5H5)2 > Hg(C5H5)Cl ∼ Hg(C5Cl5)Ph > Hg(C5Me5)2.
Abstract Cyclometallated derivatives of 2-phenylpyridine (HL) are readily obtained by transmetallation reactions of 2-(2′-pyridyl)phenylmercury(II) chloride, [Hg(L)Cl], with labile transition metal compounds. The products of these reactions are cyclometallated, containing metalcarbon bonds. The yields are high, and comparable with or better than those obtained from direct reactions with 2-phenylpyridine. The products are easily isolated, and are unequivocally metallated. The metal exchange reaction may be used to prepare cyclometallated complexes which are not available by direct reaction with 2-phenylpyridine. The use of the mercury(II) complex enables the use of kinetically inert chloro complexes in the transmetallation.
The argument is presented that organo-transition metal complexes also containing phosphines and similar ligands are often too kinetically inert to act as good models for catalytic processes. A new generation of 'lightly stabilized' complexes are needed to probe these reactions more deeply. Some novel palladium complexes of this type, derived from the reactions of acetylenes with either Pd 0 or Pd 11 , are described and the mechanisms of acetylene oligomerization are discussed. For Pd 0 electronic factors seem tobe of greatest importance while steric factors play a greater role with Pd 11 • The structure and properties of a new complex, (Ph 3 P) 2 Pd(Br)[(CC00Me) 4 H], deriyed from dimethyl acetylenedicarboxylate, are reported as weil as that of [C 5 Me 5 CHPhCH 2 PdCl] 2 , derived from but-2-yne, PdC1 2 , and diphenylmercury. The latter is a dihaptocyclopentadiene complex which shows stereochemical non-rigidity in solution. Since this complex also possesses a Pd-alkyl bond it is an ideal 'lightly-stabilized' model and its reactions with acid, base, hydrogen, CO, and triphenylphosphine have been investigsted. This work sheds important new light on the chemistry ofthe Pd--C cr-bond.
A novel, green and efficient post-column oxidation method using Fe3O4 magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) was developed to on-line convert hydride generation/cold vapor generation (HG/CV) inactive species to their active species without microwave/UV irradiation. It was applied to high performance liquid chromatography HG/CV atomic fluorescence spectrometry (HPLC-HG/CV-AFS) to enable sensitive speciation analysis of both HG/CV inactive and active species. Inorganic mercury (Hg2+), methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg) and phenylmercury (PhHg) were selected as model compounds to validate the methodology. Separation of these mercury species was accomplished on a RP-C18 column with a mixture of acetonitrile and water (10:90) at pH 6.8 containing 0.12% (m/v) L-cysteine as the mobile phase. In the presence of 0.6% (v/v) H2O2, on-line conversion of the organomercury species eluted from the HPLC column to Hg2+ was obtained using the advanced oxidation method at pH 2.0. Optimum conditions for the separation, oxidation and cold vapor generation were carefully investigated. The limits of detection (LODs) were 0.7, 1.1, 0.8 and 0.9 μg L−1 (as Hg) for Hg2+, MeHg, EtHg and PhHg, respectively, corresponding to 14, 22, 16 and 18 pg absolute detection limits for Hg2+, MeHg, EtHg and PhHg by using a 20 μL sample loop, which are comparable to or better than those previously reported. National Research Council Canada DORM-2 fish muscle tissue and several real water samples were analyzed to validate the accuracy of the proposed method.
Abstract Reactions of diphenylmercury with R′ 2 Hg (where R′ = CN, CCl 3 , CCPh) in dimethylformamide were studied by a polarographic method and have been found to yield PhHgR′, obeying the second-order kinetics. Addition of iodide displays negligible effect on the reaction rates. When R′ = CFClCOOEt, CF 2 COOEt, CH 2 COOCH 3 , CH 2 C 6 H 5 , the reaction of Ph 2 Hg with R′ 2 Hg does not occur. p -OCH 3 groups in Ph 2 Hg increase the reaction rates. The results obtained are discussed in terms of the S E 2 mechanism.
Mercury and organomercurial resistance determined by genes on four Pseudomonas aeruginosa plasmids (pMG1, pMG2, FP2+, and R3108) and one Pseudomonas putida plasmid (MER) have been studied with regard to the range of substrates and the range of inducers. The two plasmid-less strains are sensitive to growth inhibition by Hg/sup 2 +/ and do not volatilize Hg/sup 0/ from Hg/sup 2 +/. All five plasmids determine mercury-resistance by way of an inducible enzyme system. Hg/sup 2 +/ is reduced to Hg/sup 0/ which is insoluble in water and rapidly volatilizes from the growth medium. Plasmids pMG1 and pMG2 in P. aeruginosa and MER in P. putida have a narrow substrate range of Hg/sup 2 +/ but are sensitive to and cannot volatilize Hg/sup 0/ from organomercurials. The other two plasmids FP2+ and R3108 determine resistance to and reductive decomposition of a range of organomercurials including methylmercury chloride, phenylmercury acetate, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, fluoromercuriacetate, merbromin, and thimerosal. In all cases, mercury and organomercurial resistance is induced by exposure to mercury or organomercurials. The plasmids differ in the relative efficacy of inducers. MER Hg/sup 2 +/ resistance appears to be induced only by Hg/sup 2 +/ and not by organomercurials. With pMG1 and pMG2, organomercurialsmore » are gratuitous inducers but not substrates for the Hg/sup 2 +/ reduction system. With FP2+ and R3108 organomercurials are both inducers and substrates.« less
Currently, phenylmercury neodecanoate (PMND) and mercury-based catalysts are considered as suitable delayed-action PUR catalysts. However, these catalysts do not satisfy the requirements for delayed PUR polymerization because of their environmental issues and heavy metal content. 12, 13 Alternatives such as organic bases, N-heterocyclic carbenes (NHC), organic acids, and organic-metal complex catalysts have been studied as polyurethane catalysts. 1, [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] The organic base catalysts of 3-caprolactone and d-valerolactone have been used as ringopening polymerization catalysts. 20, 23 Alsarraf et al. investigated the polymerization performance using bicyclic pentaalkylated guanidine and a conventional tin catalyst. 22 In addition, in pursuit of effective synthetic processes, organic acid catalysts have been used for polyurethane polymerization. However, the performance of acid catalysts is lower than that of commonly used metal catalysts. 24 As an example, the polymerization activity of isocyanate and alcohols with the organic acid was lower than that of metal-based tin catalyst. 25 Alsarraf et al. developed a new type of polyurethane delay guanidine catalyst, but it showed inferior PUR polymerization activity at room temperature and the same performance as commercial catalysts in terms of thermal activity. 8 Tertiary amine blocks have also been used as polyurethane polymerization retardant. During the PUR process, the amine catalyst gradually dissociates during urethane to polyurethane polymerization with heating, which improves the owability of the RIM system.
Abstract Pulse polarograms for reduction of diphenyliodonium halides in dimethylformamide containing tetramethylammonium perchlorate exhibit either three or four waves, depending on the concentrations of supporting electrolyte and starting material. In the presence of 0.1 M tetramethylammonium perchlorate, diphenyliodonium bromide exhibits three waves (I, II, and III) when the concentration of starting material is lower than 0.74 m M ; for higher concentrations of diphenyliodonium bromide, the first wave splits and the pulse polarogram consists of four waves (Ia, Ib, II, and III). For electrolyses of diphenyliodonium bromide at potentials corresponding to either wave Ia or wave, Ib, diphenylmercury and iodobenzene are obtained and the coulometric n value is unity. At potentials on wave II, diphenylmercury and benzene are formed and the n value is three. For electrolyses done at potentials on wave III, the yields of benzene and diphenylmercury as well as the n value are potential dependent. At a sufficiently negative potential, benzene is the only product of a four-electron reduction of the diphenyliodonium cation. Wave Ia for a diphenyliodonium halide is attributed to reduction of the phenyl mercuric halide resulting from reaction of starting material with mercury, whereas wave Ib is caused by reduction of solution-soluble diphenyliodonium cations. Wave II arises from reduction of iodobenzene (a product formed by processes associated with the appearance of waves Ia and Ib), and wave III is due to reduction of adsorbed phenylmercury radicals (the other species formed by reactions responsible for waves Ia and Ib). These conclusions have been substantiated by independent pulse polarographic, cyclic voltammetric, and coulometric studies of phenyl mercuric halides.
Phenyl(trifluoromethyl)mercury, a useful difluorocarbene precursor, is conveniently prepared by the sequence: HgO→Hg(O2CCF3)2→CF3HgO2CCF3→ CF3HgBr→PhHgCF3. The last step involves a substituent exchange reaction between CF3HgBr and diphenylmercury. Similar substituent exchanges between CF3HgI, CF3HgCl and CF3HgO2CCF3 and diphenylmercury are described. A recent report (J. Organometal. Chem., 36 (1972)227) that fluorophenyl(trifluoromethyl)mercury compounds can be prepared by decarboxylation of the respective fluorophenylmercuric trifluoroacetates in 1,2-dimethoxyethane at 60–70° is shown to be incorrect by comparison of the claimed products with authentic m- and p-FC6H4HgCF3 and FC6H4HgO2CCF3. 19F NMR data for a number of CF3—Hg compounds are reported.
Several amide and imide compounds of phenylmercury were prepared and their stability studied polarographically under different conditions. The half-wave potentials of these compounds were found to be identical, within experimental error, to the decomposition potential of phenylmercuric hydroxide, suggesting a ready hydrolysis in each case. Other characteristics of the polarograms were also compared. Polarograms of mixtures of the coordinating compounds with phenylmercuric hydroxide in molar ratios greater than 1:1 were obtained. An increase in the half-wave potentials to greater negative values in the case of the amides of higher molecular weight and also succinimide indicates a greater binding of these compounds with phenylmercury as contrasted with the amides of lower molecular weight which did not shift the half-wave potentials under the conditions employed.
Very dilute solutions of diphenylmercury in carbon tetrachloride have been found not to have orientation polarization, but in not-so-dilute carbon tetrachloride or in dioxane and benzene at any concentration there is evidence of moment. Moreover, these moments vary negatively in carbon tetrachloride and dioxane and positively in benzene with respect to temperature. The angular C—Hg—C linkage responsible for orientation polarization is also demonstrated by appreciable moments for para methylmercuri-bis-benzene and the homologous durene. Magnitudes comparable with the aryl analogues are found for several alkyl-bis-mercurials, but the similarity in the moments of trifluoromethyl and methyl-bis-mercury as well as a temperature coefficient for moment of the latter compound indicates that the C—Hg—C linkage may vary widely and easily. However, a lower limit may be set by the moments of mercuracyclohexane and mercuracycloheptane in which the mercury angle is fixed by the cyclic structure.
A DNA probe labeled with a 4-([4-(dimethylamino)phenyl]azo)benzoic acid (DABCYL) quencher and a carboxyfluorescein (FAM) donor at its 5′- and 3′-termini can be used for the detection of Hg2+ ions and phenylmercury ions (PhHg+). This DNA probe possesses a random coil structure that changes into a hairpin-like structure upon binding Hg2+ and PhHg+ ions. As a result, the fluorescence of the FAM unit decreased through quenching between the donor and the quencher. In the presence of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), the DNA probe allowed the selective detection of PhHg+ ions at concentrations as low as 70.0 nM, mainly as a result of T–Hg2+–T coordination and π–π stacking between the Ph unit and DNA bases. A linear correlation existed between the fluorescence intensity and the concentration of PhHg+ ions over the range from 0.10 to 1.0 μM (R2 = 0.99). After acid hydrolysis and neutralization of the samples, all of the mercury species are converted to Hg2+ ions, allowing us to use the DNA-based probe to determine the concentrations of total mercury species at the nM level. The practicality of this probe has been validated by the analyses of pond water and fish samples, showing its advantages of sensitivity, selectivity, and simplicity.
Abstract In this paper, we report the synthesis and application of enzyme-like DNA-copper oxide/platinum nanoparticles for the separate quantification of inorganic and organomercury species in various real samples. We synthesized a series of poly(thymine) (T60)–copper oxide/metal nanocomposites (T60–CuxO/M NCs; M = Au, Ag or Pt) that exhibited enzyme-like activities [oxidase (OX), peroxidase (POX), and catalase (CAT)]. The enzyme-like activities are tunable due to the incorporation of various metals into the NCs. Among a series of synthesized CuxO/M NCs, T60–copper oxide-platinum nanocomposites (T60–CuxO/Pt NCs) exhibited the highest OX-like activity via the O2-mediated oxidation of substrates, such as Amplex Red (AR), 2,2′-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS), o-phenylenediamine (OPD), and 3,3′,5,5′-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB), to form fluorescent or colored products. Interestingly, inorganic mercury ions (Hg2+) and organomercury species, such as methylmercury (MeHg+), ethylmercury (EtHg+), and phenylmercury (PhHg+), significantly inhibited the OX-like activity of T60–CuxO/Pt NCs. For the selective detection of mercury species, we used ABTS in the T60–CuxO/Pt NCs system, and the ABTS/T60–CuxO/Pt NCs-based assay allowed for the detection of mercury ions at nanomolar concentrations based on the decrease in the catalytic activity caused by the mercury ions. To separately quantify the inorganic and organomercury species in a sample, we employed selenium nanoparticles (Se NPs) as a masking agent, as they preferentially bind with inorganic mercury species. The ABTS/T60–CuxO/Pt NCs-based assay with the masking agent of Se NPs further provided specificity for the detection of organomercury species in environmental water samples (tap water, river water, and seawater) and fish muscle samples (dogfish muscle DORM-II).
Pentafluorophenyl radicals from the photolysis of pentafluoroiodobenzene react with benzene and toluene to give high yields of pentafluorobiphenyls. Much slower reactions occur with nitrobenzene, hexafluorobenzene, and pentafluorobenzene. Photolysis with carbon tetrachloride yields chloropentafluorobenzene, formed in much higher yield from the same reactants in the dark at 290°. The thermal decomposition of pentafluoroiodobenzene is not a satisfactory route to the pentafluorophenyl radical, but reactions of the iodo-compound with copperbronze and with mercury at 300° give high yields of decafluorobiphenyl and bispentafluorophenylmercury, respectively.
[3294-57-3] C7H5Cl3Hg (MW 396.06) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C6H5.CCl3.Hg/c1-2-4-6-5-3-1;2-1(3)4;/h1-5H;; ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = MVIAEGXPYBMVPT-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (transfers :CCl2 to many unsaturated systems, to heteroatoms, and to several σ-bonds) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: mp 117–118 °C. ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sol ether, benzene, chloroform. ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: colorless solid; commercially available. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Methods: prepared from PhHgBr either by reaction with Potassium tert-Butoxide–Chloroform in benzene at 10 °C in 66% yield,2 or by treatment with Sodium Methoxide–Ethyl Trichloroacetate in 62% yield.3 Phenylmercury(II) Chloride furnishes PhHgCCl3 by reaction with Sodium Trichloroacetate in refluxing DME (65%).4 A two-phase approach from PhHgCl and CHCl3 using aqueous Sodium Hydroxide–Potassium Fluoride and small amounts of Benzyltriethylammonium Chloride furnishes PhHgCCl3 in 72% yield.5 ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: recrystallization from chloroform. ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: flame-dried glassware and an atmosphere of dry nitrogen are used for the reactions. Organomercury(II) compounds should be carefully handled and skin contact and inhalation should be particularly avoided. All reactions must be conducted in a well-ventilated fume hood. The reagent is light sensitive and should be stored under nitrogen at 4 °C.
A pretreatment method of dispersive solid-phase extraction (DSPE) along with back-extraction followed by CE-UV detector was developed for the determination of mercury species in water samples. Sulfhydryl-functionalized SiO2 microspheres (SiO2 -SH) were synthesized and used as DSPE adsorbents for selective extraction and enrichment of three organic mercury species namely ethylmercury (EtHg), methylmercury (MeHg), and phenylmercury (PhHg), along with L-cysteine (L-cys) containing hydrochloric acid as back-extraction solvent. Several main extraction parameters were systematically investigated including sample pH, amount of adsorbent, extraction and back-extraction time, volume of eluent, and concentration of hydrochloric acid. Under optimal conditions, good linearity was achieved with correlation coefficients over 0.9990, in the range of 4-200 μg/L for EtHg, and 2-200 μg/L for MeHg and PhHg. The LODs were obtained of 1.07, 0.34, and 0.24 μg/L for EtHg, MeHg, and PhHg, respectively, as well as the LOQs were 3.57, 1.13, and 0.79 μg/L, respectively, with enrichment factors ranging from 109 to 184. Recoveries were attained with tap and lake water samples in a range of 62.3-107.2%, with relative standard deviations of 3.5-10.1%. The results proved that the method of SiO2 -SH based DSPE coupled with CE-UV was a simple, rapid, cost-effective, and eco-friendly alternative for the determination of mercury species in water samples.
Abstract The binuclear ytterbium complex Ph 2 Yb(THF)(μ-Ph) 3 Yb(THF) 3 ( 1 ) was obtained in reactions of naphthaleneytterbium C 10 H 8 Yb(THF) 2 with diphenylmercury or triphenylbismuth in THF. An X-ray crystallographic study ( a = 11.099(2), b = 19.876(4), c = 19.723(4) A, β = 103.33(3)°, Z = 2, space group P 2 1 ) showed that the molecule of 1 has two Yb atoms coupled by three bridging Ph groups, which are linked with the first Yb atom by an η 1 bond and with the second one by an unsymmetrical η 2 bond. In addition the first Yb atom has an η 1 bond with two terminal Ph groups and one coordinated THF molecule whereas the second Yb atom is linked with three THF molecules. The coordination of both Yb atoms is a distorted octahedron. In the crystal, there are two symmetrically independent molecules of 1 with a similar structure. The YbC (terminal Ph) bond length is 2.388–2.463 A. The η 1 - and η 2 -YbC (bridging Ph) bond distance varies in the ranges 2.475–2.584, 2.547–2.751 and 2.877–3.250 A. The magnetic moment μ eff (per Yb III atom) is 4.0±0.05 μ B . Reactions of 1 with water, HCl, Br 2 , MeI and CO 2 give benzene, bromobenzene, toluene and PhCOOH, respectively.
Abstract The reactions of phenylmercury(II) acetate with N-phenyl-5-(pyridin-4-yl)-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-amine (Hppt) (1) and potassium N(4-methylpiperazine)-1-carbodithioate [K(mpcdt)] yielded [PhHg(ppt)] (2) and [PhHg(mpcdt)] (3). The complexes have been characterized by elemental analyses, IR, UV–Vis, 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy. The ligand Hppt (1)- and complexes 2 and 3 crystallize in the triclinic, monoclinic and orthorhombic system, space group P 1 ¯ , C 2/c and Pbca, respectively. The crystal X-ray studies revealed that complexes 2 and 3 both form a one dimensional metal–organic structure, with a linear N–Hg–Ph and S–Hg–Ph core respectively. The most noteworthy features in complex 2 is that the ligand bound phenylmercury cation is stabilized via intramolecular as well as intermolecular weak Hg⋯N secondary interactions. Crystal structure of complex 2 is also stabilized via weak π⋯π and C–H⋯π interactions. The crystal structure of complex 3 is stabilized by intermolecular/intramolecular Hg⋯S interactions and C–H⋯π interactions. The ligands Hppt and [K(mpcdt)] exhibit green emissions and complex 2 shows photoluminescence due to the presence of Hg⋯N interactions, whilst complex 3 does not show photoluminescence because Hg⋯S interactions show quenching behaviour in the solid state. The solution state photoluminescence properties of complex 2 indicate that intermolecular as well as intramolecular Hg⋯N interactions persist even in very dilute solution. The geometrical optimization of Hppt (1), [K(mpcdt)] and complexes 2 and 3 was calculated in the gas phase using density functional theory (DFT) with the B3LYP hybrid functional, and was used to predict their molecular properties. The electronic excitation energies and intensities of the six lowest-energy spin allowed transitions were calculated using time dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT).
The effect of phenylmercury and methylmercury on rat liver glutathione peroxidase (GSH X Px) is investigated and compared with that of Hg(II) and with some previously reported results for Cd(II). Analysis of the kinetics of metal binding to the enzyme gives apparent inhibition rate constants: kc = 9.7 mM-1 min-1 for all three mercury compounds and 75 mM-1 min-1 for CdCl2. Glutathione (0.2 mM) protects the enzyme from metal inhibition, decreasing the apparent inhibition rate constants (kc) by 3.6 times for mercury compounds and 4.4 times for CdCl2. KI for the three mercury compounds is found to be 53 microM. It is unexpected that the same value of KI exists for all three forms of mercury studied and that inhibition of the enzyme by the metals is a relatively slow process. For Cd(II) the value of KI is 8.5 microM. It is suggested that inhibition of GSH X Px enzyme activity by cadmium, mercury, and organic mercury salts may not be due to simple complexation of the active site selenium moiety but may be due to a slower process, e.g., an alteration of the enzyme tertiary or quaternary structure.
A novel nonchromatographic speciation technique for ultratrace methylmercury in biological materials was developed by flow injection microcolumn displacement sorption preconcentration and separation coupled on-line with electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometry (ETAAS). In the developed technique, Cu(II) was first on-line complexed with diethyldithiocarbamate (DDTC), and the resultant Cu−DDTC was presorbed onto a microcolumn packed with the sorbent from a cigarette filter. Selective preconcentration of methylmercury (MeHg) in the presence of Hg(II), ethylmercury (EtHg), and phenylmercury (PhHg) was achieved at pH 6.8 through loading the sample solution onto the microcolumn due to a displacement reaction between MeHg and the presorbed Cu−DDTC. The retained MeHg was subsequently eluted with 50 μL of ethanol and on-line determined by ETAAS. Interferences from coexisting heavy metal ions with lower stability of their DDTC complexes relative to Cu−DDTC were minimized without the need of any masking reagent...
The reactivity of immobilized functional groups in thin layers of (3-aminopropyl)triethoxysilane (APS), (3-mercaptopropyl)trimethoxysilane, (3-bromopropyl)trimethoxysilane, and (8-bromooctyl)trimethoxysilane on oxidized aluminum substrates was studied with reflection-adsorption infrared spectroscopy (RAIR), optical ellipsometry and contact-angle measurements. Mass changes on the surface associated with the surface-confined reactions were measured with the quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). Single layers of (3-aminopropyl)triethoxysilane on oxidized aluminum react with chlorodimethylsilane to give [(-O)[sub 3]Si(CH[sub 2])[sub 3]NH[sub 2][sup +]SiMe[sub 2]H]Cl[sup [minus]] and single layers of (3-mercaptopropyl)trimethoxysilane on oxidized aluminum react with phenylmercury hydroxide to give [(-O)[sub 3]Si(CH[sub 2])[sub 3]SHgPh], while no substitution reaction of (3-bromopropyl)trimethoxysilane and (8-bromooctyl)trimethoxysilane monolayers occurred with cyanide. Films of APS were further utilized to immobilize pepsin. It is discussed to which extent known reactions from solution can be transferred to interface reactions. 50 refs., 8 figs., 5 tabs.
Treatment of an alkaline earth metal (Ca, Sr, Ba) with 2,4,6-trimethylphenol (HOmes) at elevated temperatures in the presence of mercury under solvent-free conditions, followed by extraction of the reaction mixture with 1,2-dimethoxyethane (dme), afforded dinuclear alkaline earth aryloxo complexes [Ae2(Omes)4(dme)4] (Ae = Ca 1, Sr 3, Ba 6). Extraction of the Ca metal and HOmes reaction mixture with thf afforded [Ca3(Omes)6(thf)] 2. In contrast, redox transmetallation ligand exchange reactions between an alkaline earth metal, diphenylmercury and HOmes in dme yielded solely 1 for Ca metal, a mixture of 3 and the methoxide bridged cage [Sr5(Omes)5(OMe)5(dme)4] x 2dme 4 for Sr metal, and solely [Ba5(Omes)5(OMe)5(dme)4] x dme 7 for Ba metal. The methoxide ligands originate from the C-O activation of the dme solvent. Treatment of liquid ammonia activated Sr or Ba metal with HOmes in thf afforded the linear species [Ae3(Omes)6(thf)6] (Ae = Sr 5, Ba 8), and 8 was also obtained from barium metal and HOmes in refluxing thf. The structures of 1 and 3, determined by X-ray crystallography, consist of two six coordinate Ae metal atoms, to each of which is bound a terminal aryloxide ligand, two bridging aryloxide ligands, and chelating and unidentate dme ligands. The structures of 4 and 7 contain five Ae metal atoms arranged on the vertices of a distorted square based pyramid. The Ae atoms are linked by four mu3-OMe ligands and a mu4-OMe ligand. Four bridging aryloxide ligands and four chelating dme ligands complete the coordination spheres of the four seven coordinate Ae atoms at the base of the pyramid, and a terminal aryloxide ligand is bound to the five coordinate apical Ae atom. The structures of 5 and 8 consist of a trinuclear linear array of Ae metal atoms, and contain solely bridging aryloxide ligands. Three thf ligands are bound to each terminal Ae atom, giving all Ae atoms a coordination number of six.
Abstract The distribution of methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury species between aqueous phases and pure carbon tetrachloride or dithizone solutions in carbon tetrachloride has been studied in detail. The stability constants of the chloride complexes and the extraction constants are reported. The influence of 16 masking agents at various pH values has been investigated; the distribution data found experimentally are compared with the calculated results.
The reactivity of immobilized functional groups in thin layers of (3-aminopropy1)triethoxy~ilane (APS), (3-mercaptopropyl)trimethoxy~ilane, (3-bromopropyl)trimethoxysilane, and (8-bromoody1)trimethoxysilane on oxidized aluminum substrates was studied with reflection-adsorption infrared spectroscopy (RAIR), optical ellipsometry and contact-angle measurements. Mass changes on the surface associated with the surface-confined reactions were measured with the quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). Single layers of (3-a~ninopropy1)triethoxysilane on oxidized aluminum react with chlorodimethylsilane to give [(-0)3Si(CH2)3NH2+SiMe2HICl-and single layers of (3-mercaptopropy1)trimethoxysilane on oxidized aluminum react with phenylmercury hydroxide togive [(-0)fii(CHz)aSHgPh] , while no substitution reaction of (3-bromopropy1)trimethoxyailane and (8-bromoodyl)trimethoxyailaue monolayers occurred with cyanide.
In this article we report about the reactions of monolayers of (3-aminopropy1)triethoxysilane (APS) with chlorodimethylsilane, (3-mercaptopropyl)trimethoxysilane (MPS) with phenylmercury hydroxide, and the reactions of (&bromopropyl) trimethoxysilane (BPS) and (8bro-moocty1)trimethoxysilane (BOS) with cyanide. We have found that reproducible formation of very thin films is possible by vapor adsorption of the SCA on the substrate at room temperature.12 The functional groups chosen offer a diverse chemistry for further interface modification^.'^ Both amines and mercaptans play an important role in the surface attachment of biological molecules, such as enzymes.14 The immobilization of enzymes has gained considerable attention for technical processes and commercial applications of biochemically catalyzed rea~ti0ns.l~ Recently, immobilized antibodies have shown great potential as biochemical sen8ors.l6 The simulation of in vivo conditions in model systems of immobilized enzymes in surfaceanchored lipid membranes opens new ways toward elucidating the diversity of structure and reactivity in such systems. We wish to report the immobilization of pepsin on monomolecular layers of APS via the carbodiimide method (DCC).
Abstract Hydrochloric acid—potassium permanganate and bromine monochloride are examined for the decomposition of methylmercury(II) chloride, Ceresan, phenylmercury(II) borate and thiomersal added to waters. Both procedures give quantitative recovery of mercury. Bromine monochloride has many advantages: blanks are low, the limit of detection (3σ) is 0.06 μg Hg l −1, routine work is simplified because only two reagents are needed and the reaction time is 5–10 min. The reagent also acts as a preservative. Common contaminants (chloride, bromide, sulphide, alcohols, benzene) do not interfere.
A simple, sensitive analytic method for measuring to differentiate inorganic mercury and phenylmercury acetate has been developed. The method is found useful for analysis of mercurials used extensively as drug in medical and agricultural fields. An acidified sample solution was extracted with dithizone-carbon tetrachoride solution, the carbon tetrachloride layer was chromatographed on an alumina column, and the separated dithizonate solutions were measured by photoelectric colorimeter. By means of the method here reported, organic and inorganic mercury can be separately determined at levels to 0.02 p.p.m. with an error not exceeding 5%, using a minute amounts of materials and without subjecting it to the tedious procedure of preliminary oxidative degradation. This method is not disturbed by other metal ions. Stabilization of dithizonates is described.
Abstract : The annotated bibliography was compiled from Soviet open sources published in 1964. It is the second in a series and entries are arranged alphabetically by author. Articles dealing with electron microscopy were not included. 53 entries contain brief annotations indicating the method of investigation, equipment used, etc. Materials investigated include: dinitronaphtalene, quasiaromatic copper complexes, alpha-pinene molecules, polyacrylonitrile, diacidodiethylenediamine compounds, viscose cord fiber, pepsin, liquid crystals, Rochelle salt, polytrifluorochloroethylene, 1-phenylalanine hydrochloride, biferrocenyl structure, polybenzimidazoles, pentaerythritol, dinitroalkanes, diurenes, diguanidines, cellulose nitrates, dicyandiamide, cellulose ethers, polypropylene spherulites, ferrocenedisulfonyl chloride, stearates of Co(II) and Ni(II), and diphenylmercury. There are two Appendixes: 1. Author index, and 2. Association index. (Author)
Mercuration of pentafluorobenzene under basic conditions in aqueous tertbutanol by tetrabromomercurate(II) ions, phenylmercuric chloride, and p-tolylmercuric chloride yields bis(pentafluorophenyl)mercury, (pentafluorophenyl)-phenylmercury, and (pentafluorophenyl)-p-tolymercury respectively, in a single simple preparative step. Cleavage of bis(pentafluorophenyl)mercury with iodide or bromide ions in alcohols or aqueous alcohols gives pentafluorobenzene, tetrahalogenomercurate(II) ions, and base. Under alkaline conditions, tetrahalogenomercurate(II) ions are reduced to mercury by ethanol or methanol. Decomposition of (pentafluorophenyl)phenylmercury by iodide ions has also been studied.
The complex adducts [M(acac)2(PhHgOHgPh)]2 (M = Co, Ni) have been obtained by incorporation of PhHgOH into the coordination sphere of M(acac)2 at ambient temperature. The X-ray crystal structure of [Ni(acac)2(PhHgOHgPh)(Et2O)]2 (1c) reveals a dimeric nickel complex coordinated by the acetylacetonate oxygen and the bridging oxygen of bis(phenylmercuric) oxide. Refluxing a THF solution of compound 1c gave diphenylmercury, HgO, and Ni(acac)2(THF)2. With PhHgOH or PhHgSH the symmetrization reactions also occurred when catalytic amounts of Ni(acac)2 were used. In contrast, triphenyltin derivatives (hydroxide, acetate, oxide) on treatment with M(acac)2 in aqueous THF gave the stable complexes [M(acac)2(Ph3SnOH)]2 (M = Co, Ni). The structure of [Ni(acac)2(Ph3SnOH)]2 (2) was also determined by X-ray crystallography.
Wild edible mushrooms can accumulate significantly elevated levels of mercury from the surrounding environment, which could be harmful to consumers' health. Speciation analysis of mercury in wild edible mushrooms aids in understanding the human exposure to these toxic compounds. In this study, we developed a high-performance liquid chromatography hyphenated to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HPLC-ICP-MS) method for the simultaneous determination of inorganic mercury (Hg(II)), methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), and phenylmercury (PhHg) in wild edible mushrooms. A rapid separation of four target mercury species was achieved within 11 min by a C8 column without utilizing high proportion of organic phase in HPLC. The parameters affecting the extraction efficiency of mercury in samples have been investigated. The proposed method showed good linearity within 0-50 μg/L with the detection and quantification limits of 0.6-4.5 μg/kg (S/N = 3), and 2.0-15 μg/kg (S/N = 10), respectively. This proposed method was successfully applied to the mercury speciation analysis in 7 varieties (95 samples) of wild edible mushrooms. The results indicated that in most mushroom samples, mercury mainly occurred as inorganic mercury. But there were two Tricholoma matsutakes, one contained 0.14 mg/kg of methylmercury, another contained 1.05 mg/kg of phenylmercury, which were higher than the maximum allowable content of total mercury in edible mushrooms in China. Graphical abstract.
A simple and cost-effective method for speciation analysis of trace mercury in seafood was developed by on-line coupling flow injection microcolumn displacement sorption preconcentration to high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with UV detection. The methodology involved the presorption of the Cu-PDC (pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate) chelate onto a microcolumn packed with a cigarette filter sorbent, simultaneous preconcentration of Hg(II), methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), and phenylmercury (PhHg) onto the microcolumn through a displacement reaction with the presorbed Cu-PDC, and their subsequent elution from the microcolumn for on-line HPLC separation. Interferences from heavy metal ions with lower stability of their PDC chelates relative to Cu-PDC were minimized without the need of any masking agents. With the consumption of 4.0 ml of sample solution, the enrichment factors were about 80. The detection limits were 10-25 ng g(-1) (as Hg) in fresh tissue. Precision (R.S.D. (%), n = 5) ranged from 2 to 3% at the 500 microg l(-1) (as Hg) level. The developed technique was validated by analyzing a certified reference material (DORM-2, dogfish-muscle), and was shown to be useful for mercury speciation in real seafood samples.
Abstract Capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) has been used to separate inorganic (Hg2+) and organic mercury (methyl-, ethyl- and phenylmercury) compounds. In order to achieve the proper CZE separation and UV detection of mercury compounds, their different complexes had to be formed. The advantages of four different complexing agents having thiol group (cysteine, glutathione, 2-mercaptonicotinic acid and mercaptoacetic acid) were studied. In the case of all four agents the optimized electrophoretic separation was achieved in fused silica capillary at 25 kV using 25 mM sodium borate buffer (pH 9.3). Identification and quantification of the mercury species at mg/l levels was carried out by the use of UV spectrophotometric detection at 200, 260 and 300 nm depending on the used complexing agent.
A gret number of children (1507) were seriously affected by the use of diapers processed with phenylmercury acetate, in order to obtain bacteriostatic effect. The cytogenetic study was performed in 38 children whose age ranged from 1 month to 5 years. Sister chromatid exchange (SCE) was analysed in peripheral blood. The exposed children were classified in groups taking into account the period in which they were in touch with diapers and the time elapsed from the interruption of the diapers used until cytogenetic study. The value of SCE in the control group (presurgical children) was: Mean n SE = 5.9 n 0.6. Exposed children from 3 to 15 months with 9 months of interruption lapse of the use of diapers showed a significative increase in SCE frequency (Mean n SE = 7.9 n 1.8) respect to the group of children with a period of interruption was more than 9 months (Mean n SE = 5.9 n 0.9) and the controls (p
Abstract β-hydroxyalkylselenides possessing two alkyl substituents on the carbon bearing the selenenyl moiety react with dihalocarbenes generated from haloforms and thallous ethoxide or under phase transfer catalysis to produce ring enlarged ketones as the sole product in the first case, as the main product in the second. The reaction takes another course when the dihalocarbenes generated from haloforms and tBuOK or from trihalomethylphenylmercury are employed and leads inter alias to dihalocyclopropanes.
Previous work had demonstrated that organomercurial-mediated modification of two cysteine residues in the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) from Torpedo californica inhibits binding of vesamicol. The cysteines are protected by acetylcholine and vesamicol (Keller et al. 2000. J. Neurochem. 74:1739–1748). Modified “cysteine 1” is accessible to glutathione from the cytoplasmic surface, whereas modified “cysteine 2” is not. Different organomercurials and aqueous environments were used here to characterize diffusion pathway(s) leading to the cysteines. para-Chloromercuriphenylsulfonate modifies VAChT much more slowly than do more hydrophobic p-chloromercuribenzoate and phenylmercury chloride. Permeabilization of vesicles with cholate detergent increases the rate of modification by p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate. Permeabilization does not affect the ability of glutathione to reverse modification by p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate. Higher ionic strength causes about four-fold increase in the rate of modification. The results suggest that hydrophobic and electrostatic barriers inhibit modification of Torpedo VAChT by negatively charged organomercurials and glutathione cannot reach cysteine 2 from either side of the membrane.
The in vitro inhibitory activity of the rice Bowman-Birk inhibitor (rBBI) or soybean Bowman-Birk inhibitor (sBBI) against trypsin-catalyzed activation of pro-matrix metalloproteinase 1 or 9 (pro-MMP-1 or pro-MMP-9), respectively, was investigated using electrophoresis with silver staining, heparin-enhanced zymography, biotinylated gelatin, Biotrak assay, and fluorescence quenched substrate hydrolysis. rBBI at concentrations of 0.08-0.352 mg/mL dose-dependently inhibited the in vitro activation of 45 microg/mL pro-MMP-1 by trypsin. Heparin-enhanced zymography analysis of pro-MMP-1, trypsin-activated MMP-1, and a mixture of pro-MMP-1-trypsin-rBBI showed clear zones associated with trypsin-activated MMP-1 and the absence of clear zones in lanes containing pro-MMP-1 or a mixture of pro-MMP-1, trypsin, and rBBI. The results of the Biotrak assay also indicated that rBBI dose-dependently suppressed the activation of pro-MMP-1 by trypsin. sBBI dose-dependently inhibited the activation of 100 microg/mL of pro-MMP-9 by trypsin. Biotinylated gelatin assays demonstrated that pro-MMP-9 or pro-MMP-9 in the presence of trypsin and BBI did not hydrolyze gelatin, whereas p-aminophenylmercury acetate (APMA)-activated MMP-9 and trypsin-activated MMP-9 caused significant hydrolysis of gelatin. Quenched fluorescence substrate hydrolysis for total MMP activity showed that pro-MMP-1 or pro-MMP-9 did not hydrolyze the substrate Mca-Pro-Leu-Gly-Leu-Dpa-Ala-Arg-NH2; active MMP-1 or MMP-9 hydrolyzed the substrate, but lower substrate hydrolysis was obtained when pro-MMP-1 or pro-MMP-9 was incubated with trypsin in the presence of increasing concentrations of rBBI. The results are discussed in light of the role of MMP-1 and MMP-9 in the process of angiogenesis and the potential of rBBI or sBBI as a functional food ingredient.
Abstract Cysteine S-nitrosylation is a post-translational modification regulating protein function and nitric oxide signaling. Herein the selectivity, reproducibility, and sensitivity of a mass spectrometry-based proteomic method for the identification of endogenous S-nitrosylated proteins are outlined. The method enriches for either S-nitrosylated proteins or peptides through covalent binding of the cysteine sulfur with phenylmercury at pH = 6.0. Phenylmercury reacts selectively and efficiently with S-nitrosocysteine since no reactivity can be documented for disulfides, sulfinic or sulfonic acids, S-glutathionylated, S-alkylated or S-sulfhydrylated cysteine residues. A specificity of 97 ± 1% for the identification of S-nitrosocysteine peptides in mouse liver tissue is achieved by the inclusion of negative controls. The method enables the detection of 36 S-nitrosocysteine peptides starting with 5 pmol S-nitrosocysteine/mg of total tissue protein. Both the percentage of protein molecules modified as well as the occupancy by S-nitrosylation can be determined. Overall, selective, sensitive and reproducible enrichment of S-nitrosylated proteins and peptides is achieved by the use of phenylmercury. The inclusion of appropriate negative controls secures the precise identification of endogenous S-nitrosylated sites and proteins in biological samples. Biological significance The current study describes a selective, sensitive and reproducible method for the acquisition of endogenously S-nitrosylated proteins and peptides. The acquisition of endogenous S-nitrosoproteomes provides robust data that is necessary for investigating the mechanism(s) of S-nitrosylation in vivo, the factors that govern its selectivity, the dependency of the modification on different isoforms of nitric oxide synthases (NOS), as well as the physiological functions of this protein modification. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Posttranslational Protein modifications in biology and Medicine.
Pentafluorophenylaluminium dibromide and bis(pentafluorophenyl)aluminium bromide have been prepared by cleavage of methylpentafluorophenylmercury with aluminium tribromide. The bromides are both essentially dimeric in benzene and the stability of the compounds, formally three-covalent, is attributed to a combination of bromine bridging and internal p–π bonding; the latter is indicated by 19F n.m.r. measurements. Pentafluorophenyl-aluminium dibromide can be sublimed, with some disproportionation, but no Al–F bonds are formed, although at higher temperatures explosive decomposition occurs. Some reactions of pentafluorophenylaluminium dibromide are described, as well as unsuccessful attempts to prepare tris(pentafluorophenyl)aluminium.
Nature Reserve (FNNR), respectively. Atmospheric deposition of heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, 20 Pb, Hg, Co, Cu, Zn, Mn and Ni) and POPs at SWARC was higher than at FNNR. Soil 21 concentrations of the aforementioned heavy metals other than As and Zn also were 22 2 significantly higher at SWARC than at FNNR. We conclude that efforts to conserve the 23 Qinling subspecies of panda may be compromised by air pollution attendant to China's 24 economic development. Improvement of air quality and reductions of toxic emissions are 25 urgently required to protect China's iconic species. 26 27 203 This work was supported by funds from the IEECAS. 204 Author's contributions 205 Yi-ping Chen conceived the study and wrote the initial draft. Qiang Liu and Ying-juan Zheng 206 performed the experiments, Yi Song performed statistical analysis, Zhi-sheng An contributed 207 significantly to discussion, Qing-yi Ma performed sample collection, Aaron M. Ellison 208 discussed results and their interpretation, and edited the manuscript. 209 Literature Cited 210 Buchet, J. P., and R. R. Lauwerys. 1989. Influence of 2, 3 dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate and 211 dimercaptosuccinic acid on the mobilization of mercury from tissues of rats pretreated 212 with mercuric chloride, phenylmercury acetate or mercury vapors. Toxicology 213 54:323-333.
The compounds [HgR(L)](R = Me or Ph, L = pyridine-2-thiolate) have been isolated by reaction of HL with methylmercury(II) hydroxide and phenylmercury(II) acetate, respectively. The crystal structure of the methyl derivative has been determined at 190 K. The compound crystallizes in the monoclinic space group P21/n with a= 10.834(5), b= 4.206(3), c= 17.144(2)A, β= 101.91(1)° and Z= 4. Refinement converged to R= 0.036 for 1 676 independent observed reflections. The pyridine ligand is co-ordinated to mercury by the thiolate sulphur atom [Hg–S 2.374(2)A]. The intramolecular mercury–nitrogen distance of 2.980(5)A is shorter than the sum of the van der Waals radii. The vibrational spectra of the compounds are discussed. The 13C n.m.r. spectra in chloroform and a dipole-moment study in benzene suggests that the secondary mercury–nitrogen interaction is maintained in these solutions.
The oxygen-flask technique has been adapted to the determination of low levels of chlorine by employing gas-liquid chromatography. Following combustion and dissolution, chloride in aqueous solution was converted into phenylmercury(II) chloride by treatment at low pH with phenylmercury(II) nitrate. The phenylmercury(II) chloride was extracted quantitatively into toluene and determined by gas-liquid chromatography with an electron-capture detector. The method has been applied successfully to the analysis of rat and mouse adipose tissue, the chloride concentrations of which ranged from 10 to 2800 mg kg–1.
Abstract A high-pressure microwave digestion was applied for microwave-assisted extraction (MAE) of mercury species from sediments and zoobenthos samples. A mixture containing 3 mol L −1 HCl, 50% aqueous methanol and 0.2 mol L −1 citric acid (for masking co-extracted Fe 3+ ) was selected as the most suitable extraction agent. The efficiency of proposed extraction method was better than 95% with R.S.D. below 6%. A preconcentration method utilizing a “homemade” C18 solid phase extraction (SPE) microcolumns was developed to enhance sensitivity of the mercury species determination using on-column complex formation of mercury-2-mercaptophenol complexes. Methanol was chosen for counter-current elution of the retained mercury complexes achieving a preconcentration factor as much as 1000. The preconcentration method was applied for the speciation analysis of mercury in river water samples. The high-performance liquid chromatography-cold vapour atomic fluorescence spectrometric (HPLC/CV-AFS) method was used for the speciation analysis of mercury. The complete separation of four mercury species was achieved by an isocratic elution of aqueous methanol (65%/35%) on a Zorbax SB-C18 column (4.6 mm × 150 mm, 5 μm) using the same complexation reagent (2-mercaptophenol). The limits of detection were 4.3 μg L −1 for methylmercury (MeHg + ), 1.4 μg L −1 for ethylmercury (EtHg + ), 0.8 μg L −1 for inorganic mercury (Hg 2+ ), 0.8 μg L −1 for phenylmercury (PhHg + ).
Abstract A simple non-chromatographic method for the determination of mercury (Hg 2+ ), methylmercury (MeHg + ), dimethylmercury (Me 2 Hg), and phenylmercury (PhHg + ) employing atomic fluorescence spectrometry (AFS) as detection technique was developed. Mercury species showed a particular behavior in the presence of several reagents. In a first stage SnCl 2 was employed for Hg 2+ determination; in a second step, [Hg 2+ + PhHg + ] concentration was determined using SnCl 2 and UV radiation. MeHg + decomposition was prevented adding 2-mercaptoethanol. In a third stage, [Hg 2+ + PhHg + + MeHg + ] concentration was determined using K 2 S 2 O 8 . Finally, the four species were determined employing NaBH 4 . Reagents concentration and flow rates were optimized. The extraction technique of mercury species involved the use of 2-mercaptoethanol as ion-pair reagent. The limits of detection for Hg 2+ , PhHg + , MeHg + , and Me 2 Hg were 1, 40, 68, and 99 ng L −1 with a relative standard deviation of 1.5, 3.1, 4.7 and 5.8%, respectively. Calibration curve was linear with a correlation factor equal to 0.9995. The method was successfully applied to the determination of the mercury species in two Antarctic materials: IRMM 813 ( Adamussium colbecki ) and MURST-ISS-A2 ( Antarctic Krill ).
A fully automated system for the direct determination of methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), phenylmercury (PhHg), and inorganic mercury (Hg(II)) at the ng/L level is described. It is based on solid phase extraction preconcentration incorporated in a flow injection (FI) system, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) separation, reduction combined with thermolysis and determination by cold vapour atomic absorption spectrometry (CVAAS). For preconcentration a microcolumn of bonded silica with octadecyl functional groups (C18 reversed phase material) was used as a sorbent for the mercury complexes formed on-line with ammonium pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate. Retained mercury species are eluted with a methanol-acetonitrile-water mixture and subjected to separation on an octadecylsilane (ODS) column before determination by CVAAS. The sensitivity of organo-mercury determination could be improved by using NaBH4 as a reductant combined with a thermolysis step. In order to perform on-line measurements the preconcentration microcolumn was mounted in a pressure-tight casing. Limits of detection for MeHg, EtHg, PhHg and Hg(II) employing a sample volume of 58.5 mL were 9, 6, 10 and 5 ng/L, respectively. The relative standard deviation (RSD) calculated from 9 repeated measurements was found to be 3.6%, 5.5%, 10.4% and 7.6% for MeHg, EtHg, PhHg and Hg(II), respectively. Finally, the application of this method for speciation of mercury in fish and human urine is described.
In the radiolysis of cyclohexane in presence of 4×10−3M diphenylmercury (Hg φ3) three isomers of hexane, methylcyclopentane (G=0.018), benzene (G=0.42) and cyclohexene (G=0.047) were detected. Addition of benzene in the mixture of cyclohexane and Hg φ3 formed two isomers of pentane, hexene and one isomer of hexane as additional products, while cyclohexene was eliminated completely. Normally, eight products were detected in presence of 10 to 50% benzene. Total radiolytic yield of products increased in presence of 15 to 25% benzene but in presence of 35 to 50% benzene G values became very low. Considerable amount of hexene is formed in a mixture of benzene and cyclohexane but neither benzene nor cyclohexane in presence of Hg φ2 formed this compound. In the presence o. benzene and φ2Hg hexane yield is very much reduced. Protection is observed in presence of 10% as well as 35 to 50% benzene in this system. The plot of benzene concentration in moles/litre versus methylcyclopentane is linear and from the slope of the straight line, the values of rate constants were found to be 2.65×10−2 litre/mole sec., 5.25×10−3 litre mole sec., 9×10−7 litre/mole sec. for methylcyclopentane, cyclohexane and benzene respectively. A plot of G(–c-C6H12) versus 1/[C6H6] also gave a straight line which confirms the sponge type protection in this multicomponent system.
The synthesis of metal-containing polymers is of considerable theoretical and practical interest (organotin rubbers, etc.). We investigated the polymerization and copolymerization capacities of various allyl and vinyl derivatives of tin and lead, of tin, lead and mercury methacrylates and of a number of metal-containing styrenes. The allyl derivatives of tin and lead and the vinyl derivatives of tin do not polymerize under conditions of radical polymerization and have an inhibiting effect on polymerization of vinyl monomers (styrene, methyl methacrylate). The inhibiting effect increases with the number of allyl and vinyl groups in the organometal molecule, the allyl compounds of tin being more effective than the corresponding vinyl derivatives. The inhibiting action on the polymerization of vinyl monomers of the compounds decreases in the order: tetraallyltin > tetravinyltin > allyltrimethyltin > diallyldiphenyltin > allyltriphenyltin > vinyltriphenyltin > vinyltrimethyltin. Another relation is found in the case of organometallic compounds where the vinyl group is bound to the metal atom through a polar group or benzene ring. The acrylates and methacrylates of aryl and alkyl derivatives of tin, lead and mercury easily polymerize and copolymerize with vinyl monomers. New compounds also are the metal-containing styrenes. We synthesized for the first time, under the conditions of a Leebrick-Ramsden reaction, mercury- and lead-containing styrenes. We investigated for the first time the polymerization and copolymerization as well as some properties of the following metallated styrenes: p-phenylmercurostyrene, p-styrenetriphenyllead, p-styrenetriphenyltin. The compounds polymerize easily and copolymerize with vinyl monomers under conditions of radical reaction. A study of the reaction kinetics showed that the metallated styrenes polymerize at greater rates than unsubstituted styrene. The thermal stability of the metal-containing styrenes decreases in the order: Sn > Pb > Hg. In studies on the polymerization of p-vinylphenylmercury disproportionation was found to take place, leading to the formation of the symmetric divinyl derivative of diphenylmercury (I) and of diphenylmercury (II). Specially synthesized p-vinylphenyl phenylmercury (I) was found to polymerize easily with the formation of an insoluble three-dimensional polymer, not melting up to 250° and decomposing above this temperature with the liberation of metallic mercury. The polymer of (I) evidently has the structure ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: The investigation shows that there is a considerable difference in the polymerization capacity of unsaturated organometal compounds and in the properties of the polymers and copolymers formed, depending upon the nature of the bond between the vinyl group and the metal atom.
Each of the five Pseudomonas plasmids tested that confer resistance to inorganic Hg/sup 2 +/ also confer resistance to organomercurials. P. aeruginosa plasmids pMG1, pMG2, FP2/sup +/ and R3108 and P. putida plasmid MER confer resistance to p-hydroxymercuribenzoate (pHMB), florescein mercuric acetate (FMA) and merbromin (MBR). Plasmids FP2/sup +/ and R3108 confer, in addition, resistance to the organomercurials phenylmercury acetate and thimerosal. Atomic absorption spectroscopy measurements showed that the three organomercurials to which all of the plasmids confer resistance were not reductively decomposed; whereas the organomercurials phenylmercury, thimerosal and also methylmercury and ethylmercury were decomposed by the resistant bacteria, first by hydrolysis of the C-Hg bond followed by reduction of Hg/sup 2 +/ to volatile Hg/sup 0/. While the Pseudomonas plasmids conferred resistance to pHMB, FMA and MBR, a series of 19 plasmids in E. coli conferred resistance to MBR and FMA but not to pHMB and a series of four S. aureus plasmids conferred resistance to FMA and pHMB but not MBR. Several genetic determinants (all on plasmids) must be responsible for resistance to organomercurials and two mechanisms must be involved: deductive decomposition and one limiting access of the organomercurials to the mercurial-sensitive cellular sites.
Abstract The reaction of 2- S -methylthiobarbituric acid (H 2 TbSMe) with phenylmercury(II) acetate in ethanol afforded the title complex, which crystallizes in the space group P 2 1 / c (No. 14). The asymmetric unit consists of two independent [(HgPh) 2 TbSMe] molecules: in molecule 1, the two organometallic moieties are bound primarily to the nitrogen atoms of the ligand ring (N(1) and N(3)); in molecule 2, one phenylmercury(II) is N(1)-bound but the other is bound to the exocyclic oxygen contiguous to N(3). Hence molecules 1 and 2 are linkage isomers. Several weak intra- and intermolecular interactions are also observed. In DMSO solution, 1 H, 13 C and 199 Hg NMR measurements suggest fast exchange of phenylmercury(II) between N- and O-coordination, with prevalence of the former.
1,1,3,3-Tetramethyl-1,3-disilacyclobutane. (I), reacts with halogens, hydrogen halides, sulphuric acid, lithium tetrahydridoaluminate, phenyl-lithium, phenylmagnesium bromide, ethanolic silver(I) nitrate, ethanolic mercury(II) chloride, and ethanolic mercury(II) acetate to give ring-opened products in high yields; (I) is unaffected by trifluoroiodomethane, N-bromosuccinimide, benzenethiol, heptan-1-ol, basic alumina, sulphur, phenylmercury chloride, or mercury(II) acetate in benzene. Photochemical reaction of t-butyl hypochlorite with (I) gives comparable amounts of 1 -chloromethyl-1,3,3-trimethyl-, 2-chloro-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl-, and 2,2-dichloro-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl-1,3-disilacyclobutane, together with lesser amounts of the ring-opened hydrogen chloride and chlorine 1 : 1 adducts.
A number of phenylmereury derivatives of 3-hydroxymethylene- and 3-aminomethylene-substituted l-methyloxindoles, l-indanones, and 1,3-indanediones were synthesized. It is shown that the preferred tautomeric structures of the potentially metallotropic and prototropic hydroxymethylene keto (hydroxy vinyl aldehyde) derivatives of the indicated compounds and 3-hydroxybenzo[b]-2-formylthiophene coincide precisely. An aminomethylene structure with an N--H bond is realized for the phenylmercury derivatives of the corresponding azomethines in all cases. We have previously synthesized and investigated organomercury derivatives of N-alkyland N-arylamines of 2- and 3-hydroxy(mercapto)benzo[b]-formylfurans and benzo[b]-2-formylthiophenes [2]. The present research was devoted to the synthesis and study of the structures of phenylmercury derivatives of 3-sminomethyleneand 3-hydroxymethylene-l-methyloxindoles (I, II), 2-aminomethyleneand 2-hydroxymethylene-l-indanones (III), and 1,3-indanediones (IV, V).
Diphenylberyllium is formed in high yield by exchange between diethylberyllium and either triphenylborane or diphenylmercury. Other diaryls R2Be (R =o-tolyl, m-tolyl, p-xylyl, p-chlorophenyl, and 1-naphthyl) have been prepared by exchange with appropriate triarylboranes. The first three listed are dimeric in benzene, the others being practically insoluble. The diethylberyllium–R3B exchange procedure did not yield the desired beryllium compounds when R was benzyl, mesityl, isopropyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, or pentafluorophenyl.Co-ordination complexes described include the N,N,N′,N′-tetramethylethylenediamine complexes of di-o-tolyl-, di-m-tolyl-, di-p-xylyl-, and bispentafluorophenyl-beryllium, the bispyridine complexes of di-o-tolyl-, di-m-tolyl-, di-1-naphthyl-, and bispentafluorophenyl-beryllium, dibenzylberyllium–diethyl ether, di-o-tolylberyllium–tri-methylamine, dimesitylberyllium–trimethylamine, and di-m-tolylberyllium–1,2-dimethoxyethane. Lithium tri-o-tolylberyllate has been prepared.
Abstract Phenylmercury chelates take up one molecule of sulphur dioxide from a medium of liquid sulphur dioxide to form mono insertion products. Phenylmercury chelates of salicylaldehyde, 8-hydroxyquinoline, benzoylphenyl hydroxylamine, substituted benzophenones and some Schiff bases were studied for the sulphur dioxide insertion reaction. IR studies show that the products are O-sulphinates, the insertion taking place between mercury and the phenyl group.
A simultaneous microwave-assisted extraction-derivatization procedure was developed and optimized for methylmercury analysis from biological samples. The analyte was derivatized with sodium tetraphenylborate forming a more hydrophobic compound, methylphenylmercury, which was extractable in toluene. The microwave extraction-derivatization procedure was optimized using experimental design, 2(5-1) fractional factorial. This chemometrical approach considers main effects as well as interactions of the influential parameters, indicating that temperature and its interaction with NaBPh4 and acetic acid volumes were the variables that significantly affected methylmercury recoveries.
An improved hollow fiber supported liquid–liquid–liquid membrane microextraction (HF-LLLMME) method is described for the simultaneous extraction of inorganic and organic mercury species with high efficiency prior to speciation analysis by capillary electrophoresis. The HF-LLLMME was developed by filling cyclohexane and L-cysteine aqueous solution in the pores of the hollow fiber wall and its lumen as organic liquid membrane and acceptor phase, respectively. Inorganic mercury (Hg2+), methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg) and phenylmercury (PhHg) firstly formed hydrophobic complexes with 1-(2-pyridylazo)-2-naphthol in donor solutions, wherein the hollow fiber was immersed. The complexes were then extracted into the organic liquid membrane and further transferred into the lumen of the hollow fiber to form hydrophilic complexes with L-cysteine. The factors affecting the extraction efficiency were carefully investigated. With the consumption of 50 mL of sample solution, the enrichment factor was 103, 265, 511 and 683 for Hg2+, MeHg, EtHg and PhHg, respectively. The limits of detection were in the range of 0.07–1.0 ng mL−1 (as Hg) with precisions (RSDs, n = 6) ranging from 1.7 to 4.4%. The proposed method was validated by analyzing a certified reference material (DORM-2, dogfish-muscle) and an environmental water sample with satisfactory results.
A metalloproteinase with a specificity for gelatin was isolated from serum-free medium of cultures of rheumatoid synovial fluid. The enzyme showed all the properties of a leukocyte gelatinase. In addition to gelatin this proteinase cleaved the synthetic Substrate dinitrophenyl-Pro-Gln-Gly-Ile-Ala-Gly-Gln-jD-Arg (Dnp-peptide) rapidly, while casein was a müch poorer Substrate. This proteinase showed no enzymatic activity against collagen type I, was secreted in a latent form and could be activated by trypsin or organomercurial compounds, such äs mersalylic acid or 4-aminophenylmercury acetate. The latent enzyme had an apparent molecular mass of 130000 -150000 estimated by gel filtration or 97000 by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel containing sodium dodecyl sulphate. When analysed by immunoblotting the enzyme was recognized by antibpdies raised against human polymorphonuclear leukocyte gelatinase. Although we found synovial fibroblasts to be largely present in the cell cultures we could not detect any fibroblast gelatinase activity.
SummaryEven low concentrations of mercury compounds in agar media strongly decreased the number of soil microbes that could be isolated on these media.Mercury compounds added to the soil in very high concentrations inhibited CO2-evolution, dehydrogenase activity, and nitrification. In contrast, the number of microbes increased somewhat in a clay soil treated with HgCl2. Phenylmercury acetate had a stronger inhibiting effect than HgCl2. In sandy soil the microbial processes were inhibited more strongly than in clay soil.Mercury compounds present in the soil or added in low concentrations are not expected to seriously disturb organic-matter breakdown, nitrogen mineralization, or the soil-microbe numbers.
A new carbon paste electrode (CPE) for the determination of iodide ion based on a cetyltrimethylammonium iodide (CTMAI) ion pair as an electroactive material is described. The electrode shows a linear response for iodide ion over the concentration range of 4 x 10(-5) M to 1 x 10(-1) M with a lower detection limit of 4 x 10(-5) M at 25 degrees C. The electrode has a Nemstian slope of -55.0 +/- 0.4 mV/decade and a fast potential response of 45 s, which is almost constant over a pH range of 5.0 - 9.0. Selectivity coefficient data of the CTMAI-CPE for some common ions show negligible interference, and the electrode has high selectivity towards the iodide ion. An average recovery of 101.83% with a relative standard deviation of 1.53% has been achieved for the determination of iodide in Flaxedil (gallamine triethiodide) ampoules, a muscle relaxant drug. The electrode has been examined for the determination of iodide in saline water; the results were found to compare favorably with those obtained using Metrohm iodide ISE. The electrode has been utilized as an end-point indicator electrode for the determination of Hg(II) and phenylmercury(I) in their aqueous solutions using potentiometric titration with a potassium iodide standard solution.
A sensitive determination method for mercury speciation analysis was developed. Four mercury species, mercury ion, methylmercury, ethylmercury, and phenylmercury, were complexed with emetine-dithiocarbamate (emetine-CS(2)), and then injected onto a HPLC instrument coupled with a tris(2,2'-bipyridine)ruthenium(III) chemiluminescence detection system. The emetine-CS(2) complexing agent was effectively used to measure the concentration in addition to serving as a separation and detection reagent. The calibration curves for these mercury complexes were linear in the range of 0.050 - 10 μg L(-1) (as Hg). The limit of detection for (emetine-CS(2))(2)Hg, emetine-CS(2)-methylmercury, emetine-CS(2)-ethylmercury, and emetine-CS(2)-phenylmercury were 30, 17, 21, and 22 ng L(-1), respectively. The sensitivity of this method enables the determination of mercury species in water samples at sub-ppb levels. Furthermore, the method was applied to biological samples in combination with acid leaching and liquid-liquid extraction using emetine-CS(2) as an extraction reagent. The determination results were in good agreement with the values of the certified reference materials.
Methylphenylmercury reacts with two normally inaccessible cysteine residues in crystals of carbonmonoxyhaemoglobin, but not with the third, normally reactive one. It may, therefore, be useful in the preparation of new heavy atom derivatives for protein crystallography.
Mercury generally adopts one of three common forms: elemental mercury (Hg 0 ), ionic mercury (Hg   2+   ) , and organic mercury complexes. Organic mercury complexes mainly include methylmercury, dimethylmercury and phenylmercury, with methylmercury (CH 3 Hg + ) being the most toxic of all forms to living systems. Depending on environmental conditions, mercury can transform among the different forms, so the existence of any form of mercury is potentially harmful to human health. Unfortunately, research results indicate that mercury emissions have increased relative to natural sources since the beginning of the industrial era [1] [2] [3] . Average mercury levels in the atmosphere are 3-6 fold higher than the pre-industrial estimates. The increase in environmental mercury is best attributed to anthropogenic sources [3] . Industrial processes tend to release geologically bound mercury from mercury reservoirs into the atmosphere as elemental mercury. Once in the atmosphere, elemental mercury oxidizes into ionic mercury and deposits in the environment, possibly causing elevated mercury levels.
The use of the borate buffer (pH 8.35) enabled the separation of the three organomercurials to be achieved as shown in Fig. 4 . In alkaline media the (1:2) mercury(II)-cysteine complex had two negative charges which meant that inorganic mercury appeared to the right of the free cysteine peak in the electrophoregram. The order of elution was ethyl, methyl and phenylmercury. Decreasing the applied potential (up to 10 kV) did not improve the resolution of ethyl-methyl mercury pair. For phenylmercury, the contribution of the aromatic ring to the absorbance led to a greater sensitivity as compared to the others.
A sensitive determination method for mercury speciation analysis was developed. Four mercury species, mercury ion, methylmercury, ethylmercury, and phenylmercury, were complexed with emetine-dithiocarbamate (emetine-CS2), and then injected onto a HPLC instrument coupled with a tris(2,2′-bipyridine)ruthenium(III) chemiluminescence detection system. The emetine-CS2 complexing agent was effectively used to measure the concentration in addition to serving as a separation and detection reagent. The calibration curves for these mercury complexes were linear in the range of 0.050 -10 μg L -1 (as Hg). The limit of detection for (emetine-CS2)2Hg, emetine-CS2-methylmercury, emetine-CS2-ethylmercury, and emetine-CS2-phenylmercury were 30, 17, 21, and 22 ng L -1 , respectively. The sensitivity of this method enables the determination of mercury species in water samples at sub-ppb levels. Furthermore, the method was applied to biological samples in combination with acid leaching and liquid-liquid extraction using emetine-CS2 as an extraction reagent. The determination results were in good agreement with the values of the certified reference materials.
Quantum crystallographic refinement of heavy-element-containing compounds is a challenge, because many physical effects have to be accounted for adequately. Here, the impact and magnitude of relativistic effects are compared with those of electron correlation, polarization through the environment, choice of basis set and treatment of thermal motion effects on the structure factors of diphenylmercury(II) [Hg(Ph)2] and dicyanomercury(II) [Hg(CN)2]. Furthermore, the individual atomic contributions to the structure factors are explored in detail (using Mulliken population analysis and the exponential decay of atomic displacement parameters) to compare the contributions of lighter atoms, especially hydrogen atoms, against mercury. Subsequently, relativistic Hirshfeld atom refinement (HAR) is validated against theoretical structure factors of Hg(Ph)2 and Hg(CN)2, starting from perturbed geometries, to test if the relativistic variant of HAR leads to multiple solutions. Generally, relativistic HAR is successful, leading to a perfect match with the reference geometries, but some limitations are pointed out.
Abstract Cold Vapour Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (CVAAS) and Gas-Liquid Chromatography (GLC) have been used for determination and speciation of mercury. Total mercury, methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury concentrations in urine samples taken from students and staff of a dental work-place were investigated. Air samples were also analyzed. Detection limits, as three times the standard deviation, and in units of ng analyte per ml urine were found to be 1.7, 12, 2.4 and 21 for total mercury, methylmercury chloride, ethylmercury chloride and phenylmercury chloride, respectively.
In this study we report a method for direct vapor generation of mercury species on nano TiO2 under UV irradiation in the presence of a formic acid and sodium formate mixture as a hole scavenger. A novelly designed UV/TiO2 photocatalysis reaction device (UV/TiO2 PCRD) was used as an effective sample introduction unit and an interface for mercury species determination by atomic fluorescence spectrometry (AFS) and speciation by HPLC-AFS for the first time. The detection limits of 10, 20, 30 and 70 pg mL � 1 of mercury chloride, methylmercury chloride, ethylmercury chloride and phenylmercury chloride, respectively, were achieved by AFS using flow injection mode. Compared with the traditional KBH4/NaOH-HCl system, UV/TiO2 PCRD is a superior alternative for online vapor generation of Hg species.
The effect of experimental poisoning by organic compounds, frequently used in agriculture as fungicides, on the histochemical and histoenzymic pattern of the hypothalamic neurosecretory system has been studied. The experimental rats were fed by means of a gastric tube with the following compounds: Phenylmercuryacetate, 0.1 g daily, for 10 days; Aethylmercury-p-toluenesulphanilide, 0.2 g daily, for 10 days, and Methoxyethylmercurychloride (Ceresan), 0.1 g daily, for 6 days. The histochemical and histoenzymic investigations have shown that ingestion of Phenylmercuryacetate brought about an increase in the release of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) with a concomitant enhancement of production of neurosecretory substances. The peroral administration of Aethylmercury-p-toluenesulphanilide and of Methoxyethylmercury chloride instead, resulted in the accumulation of the neurosecretion within the hypothalamic-hypophyseal system with a parallel inhibition of ADH release. The experimental poisoning of Ceresan had also a stimulatory effect on the activity of many enzymes in the neurosecretory nuclei of the rat hypothalamus. Morphological changes resulting from the experimental intoxication were only rarely observed in the neurosecretory cells of the investigated hypothalamic nuclei.
The authors describe a dithizone method for the determination of phenylmercury salts that yields easily reproducible results on examining the stability of these preserving agents. Aqueous solutions of phenylmercury salts are instable already in glass bottles, but they are instable to a much greater extent in low-density polyethylene bottles. Their degradation is accelerated in the presence of chloride ions. When stored under nitrogen, the phenylmercury salt solutions show lower losses of preserving agents than when stored under normal air. The ultra-violet extinction of phenylmercury salt solutions increases during storage in glass bottles, and decreases during storage in plastic bottles. In plastic bottles, the degradation is associated with sorption.
A former mercury plant, where mercury salts and organomercurials for pesticide use were produced, caused soil contamination in high concentrations. Typical organomercurial products included ethylmercury, phenylmercury, methoxyethylmercury and ethoxyethylmercury compounds. Risk assessment of these sites must be carried out before any major clean-up processes can be planned. A sensitive speciation technique for the various organomercury species in environmental matrices is a prerequisite for toxicity investigations. In this connection, a high-performance liquid chromatography-atomic fluorescence spectrometry (HPLC-AFS) technique has been developed to differentiate between and determine the presence of eight organomercury compounds in environmental samples. Using this technique, methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury and some unknown organomercury species were found in soil samples collected from the sites of an old mercury products producing plant. With regard to risk assessment, it is necessary to assess the toxicity of the organomercurials. As different microbial metabolic pathways react differently to mercury and its compounds, batteries of bioassays are, therefore, useful to evaluate the toxicity of pollutants. To describe the toxicity and genotoxicity of MeHg+, MeOEtHg+, EtHg+, EtOEtHg+ and PhHg+, p-tolymercury chloride, nitromersol and Hg2+ six bioassays were used: resazurin reduction method, Spirillum volutans test, nematode toxicity assay Panagrellus redivivus, Toxi-Chromotest and SOS-Chromotest. A ranking of the toxicity of the organomercurial is shown. The SOS-Chromotest indicated genotoxicity for 5-7 organomercurials.
A carbon paste electrode modified with a liquid anion exchanger (Amberlite LA2) was used for the voltammetric determination of mercury(II). Mercury is preconcentrated, as tetrachloromercurate(II), onto the surface of the modified electrode only by the ion-exchange effect of the modifier without application of potential. After exchange of the medium the accumulated amount of mercury(II) is determined by differential pulse anodic stripping voltammetry in a blank electrolyte solution. The response depends on the concentration of mercury in the bulk solution, preconcentration time, and other parameters. The detection limit was 1 μg Hg(II)/l when a suitable time for preconcentration was chosen. Preconcentration for 5 min yields a linear calibration graph for concentrations up to 1000 μg Hg(II)/l. The effect of other ions on the determination of mercury and the applicability of the method to the analysis of phenylmercury compounds in pharmaceutical preparations were investigated.
Abstract 199 Hg spin-lattice relaxation times ( T 1 ) have been measured for diphenylmercury at magnetic fields of 2.35 and 7.05 T. T 1 was nine times shorter at the higher field (0.033 sec at 310 K) than at the lower field (0.30 sec), showing relaxation by chemical shift anisotropy (CSA) to be the dominant mechanism even at the lower field. Variable-temperature 13 C T 1 measurements at 6.35 T made it possible to determine a value for the correlation time for motion perpendicular to the axis of the molecule (50 psec at 300 K), which with the 199 Hg data allowed a value of 6800 ± 680 ppm to be calculated for the mercury chemical shift anisotropy. The activation energy for rotational motion was 13.3 kJ · mole −1 . Previous data on dimethylmercury have been reassessed and the importance of the CSA mechanism for 199 Hg at high fields is pointed out.
SummaryStudies made with 3 strains of chicks showed one strain to be significantly different in retention of mercury in liver and kidneys, following intramuscular injections of phenylmercury acetate or mercuric chloride. Differences following injection of equivalent amounts of mercury as ethylmercury chloride or Salyrgan were much less. Mercury retention was greater in the strain selected for resistance to lymphomatosis than in the 2 susceptible strains which showed little difference.
[22060-04-4] C9H8Br2HgO2 (MW 508.56) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C6H5.C3H3Br2O2.Hg/c1-2-4-6-5-3-1;1-7-3(6)2(4)5;/h1-5H;1H3; ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = SOUMWCMUFPESSZ-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (by thermolysis, transfers :CBrCO2Me to alkenes, giving cyclopropanes,2 and to silanes, inserting into SiH bond2, 3) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: mp 154–156 °C (dec). ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sol THF, CHCl3, chlorobenzene, benzene. ::: ::: ::: ::: Analysis of Reagent Purity: spectroscopic data: IR,3 1H NMR.3 ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Method: reaction of HCBr2CO2Me with Phenylmercury(II) Chloride and Potassium t-Butoxide in THF at −60 °C,2, 3 according to the general method to prepare phenyl(trihalomethyl)mercurials.4 The yield, though typically in the range of 55%, can be as high as 68%. ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: recrystallization from chloroform/hexane (1∶1). ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: flame-dried glassware and an atmosphere of dry nitrogen are used for the reactions. Organomercury compounds should be carefully handled, and skin contact and inhalation should be particularly avoided. All reactions must be conducted in a well-ventilated fume hood.
The organomercurials RC(HgR')(CN)2 (R = Me, Ph; R1 = Ph, CH2Ph) have been obtained by the action of organomercury hydroxides R'HgOH or acetates R'HgOAc on substituted malonodinitriles RCH(CN)2- (Ph3PAu3O+BF4 reacts with the same nitriles to give organogold derivatives RC(AuPPh3)(CN)2. The study of the structures of organomercury and -gold compounds by1H,31P and199Hg NMR spectra as well as by IR spectra show that these compounds exist mainly in the C-form. The degenerated exchange reaction involving the cleavage of C-Hg bond takes place in the phenylmercury derivative of methylmalonodinitrile. Organomercury derivatives of substituted malonodinitriles are stable with respect to symmetrization in solution, in contrast to PhCH(HgPh)CN studied previously.
Abstract Methyl- and phenylmercury(II) diphenylphosphinothioates [HgR{SOPPh2}] (R = Me and Ph) were synthesized. In HgMeOPPh2} the mercury atom is coordinated to the methyl carbon atom and to the ligand sulfur atom. Intermolecular Hg... O interactions form a supramolecular ribbon structure along the b-axis. The IR and NMR (1H, “C, 3’P and 199Hg) spectra of the two compounds are discussed.
Environmental pollutants and other chemicals may have increasing impact on the immune system of human beings. Disregulation of the immune system by chemicals may be one of the reasons why the frequency of allergies and autoimmune diseases increases. Human hapten-specific memory lymphocytes can be detected in the blood of patients with druginduced immunologic side effects but not in similarly exposed healthy individuals. The immune reactivity of human lymphocytes in vitro to white coloring agent—titanium dioxide (TiO2), and mercurial conservatives thimerosal and phenylmercury—has been studied. It was found that out of 650 patients tested, 3% reacted to titanium dioxide. The percentages for phenylmercury and thimerosal were 14% and 7%, respectively. Human memory cells can be used as markers of susceptibility in future choices of appropriate additives in pharmaceutic products.
Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans MON-1 which is highly resistant to Hg2+ could grow in a ferrous sulfate medium (pH 2.5) with 0.1 microM p-chloromercuribenzoic acid (PCMB) with a lag time of 2 d. In contrast, A. ferrooxidans AP19-3 which is sensitive to Hg2+ did not grow in the medium. Nine strains of A. ferrooxidans, including seven strains of the American Type Culture Collection grew in the medium with a lag time ranging from 5 to 12 d. The resting cells of MON-1, which has NADPH-dependent mercuric reductase activity, could volatilize Hg0 when incubated in acidic water (pH 3.0) containing 0.1 microM PCMB. However, the resting cells of AP19-3, which has a similar level of NADPH-dependent mercuric reductase activity compared with MON-1, did not volatilize Hg0 from the reaction mixture with 0.1 microM PCMB. The activity level of the 11 strains of A. ferrooxidans to volatilize Hg0 from PCMB corresponded well with the level of growth inhibition by PCMB observed in the growth experiments. The resting cells of MON-1 volatilized Hg0 from phenylmercury acetate (PMA) and methylmercury chloride (MMC) as well as PCMB. The cytosol prepared from MON-1 could volatilize Hg0 from PCMB (0.015 nmol mg(-1) h(-1)), PMA (0.33 nmol mg(-1) h(-1)) and MMC (0.005 nmol mg(-1) h(-1)) in the presence of NADPH and beta-mercaptoethanol.
The phenyl-(3)-1,2-dicarbollylmercury anion is formed by the action of phenylmercury chloride on disodium (3)-1,2-dicarbollide.
The13C shieldings and13C199Hg coupling constants of fourteen phenyl- and seven alkyl- and alkenyl-mercury compounds have been obtained. Substituent effects on the13C shieldings are similar to those in nonmercurated phenyl compounds, with a similar relationship between13C shieldings and Hammett σ+ values of para substituents. For phenylmercuric salts of carboxylic acids, the shieldings are insensitive to the particular anion. Trends in13C shieldings for a given compound type parallel199Hg shielding trends. Directly-bonded13C199Hg coupling constants range from 1186 to 3196 Hz, two-bond coupling constants from 72 to 126 Hz and three-bond coupling constants from 101 to 221 Hz in the phenylmercury compounds. An alternation in the magnitude of JCHg, with the number of intervening bonds is apparent. The dihedral angle dependence of 3JChg in 2-norbornylmercury compounds is confirmed. No correlation was observed between the directly-bonded carbon-mercury coupling constant 1JCHg and the shielding of the mercury-bonded carbon, but this coupling increases significantly with increases in the 199Hg shielding.
Mofl0 /?fl/?/0 cyclopentadienyl metal compounds, V-CjXsMRn, show fluxional behavior -rapid re location of the carbon-metal bond among the five ring positions as in Fig. 1 , each relocation generat ing an equivalent structure [2, 3] . To date fluxional behavior in such compounds has been detected only by NMR spectroscopy, the time scale of which 7/ Perchlorination of the cyclopentadienyl ring gen erates difficulties for the use of N M R spectroscopy; 'H NM R cannot be used, and 13C NM R signals are weakened, so that the limited solubilities of this type of compound at low tem peratures usually preculde the observation of the low-temperature limiting spectra showing three kinds of ring carbon atoms [5] . Such spectra have been obtained for the very soluble phenylmercury derivative C5Cl5HgC6H 5 (I) [6 ]; we have confirmed these spectra. However, partial overlap of one of the three ring carbon signals with phenyl signals prevents determ ination of whether the two vinylic carbon NM R signals collapse unsymmetrically with increasing tem pera ture. Since 13C -199Hg coupling constants were also not observed either in the fast or slow exchange limiting spectra, the possibility remains that the five C 5CI5 carbon atoms are rendered equivalent by mtermolecular exchange.
SUMMARY ::: ::: The ascospore productivity of severely scabbed apple leaves was reduced by 93.7–99.9% by a single autumn application of phenylmercuric chloride (PMC) over a concentration range of 0.0025–0.1%. Phenylmercury dimethyl-dithiocarbamate (PMD) was slightly less effective at equivalent concentrations of mercury. Of the non-mercury compounds tested, only high concentrations of didecyldimethylammonium bromide and the herbicide diuron approached PMC in effectiveness. Low concentrations of PMC applied in the spring reduced the numbers of ascospores released from leaves bearing mature perithecia. ::: ::: ::: ::: A new technique for estimating the ascospore productivity of overwintered apple leaves is described.
Bis(pentafluorophenyl)ytterbium, prepared from reaction of bis(pentafluorophenyl)mercury with ytterbium metal in tetrahydrofuran (THF), has been isolated as the highly air-sensitive, thermally unstable complex (C6F5)2Yb(THF)4, which yielded pentafluorobenzene on acidolysis. The 19F NMR, IR, and UV/Vis spectra of the complex are discussed. A tetrahydrofuran complex of bis(2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)ytterbium has been prepared in a similar manner and was identified spectroscopically, thermal instability preventing satisfactory analytical characterization. Reaction was observed between ytterbium and bis(2,3,4,5-tetrafluorophenyl)mercury, but the product decomposed too rapidly for isolation. Ytterbium metal failed to react with diphenylmercury or bis(Dentachlorophenyl)mercury.
When garlic (Allium sativum) was administered to rat per os simultaneously with cadmium, methylmercury and phenylmercury to detect the protective effect against the heavy metal poisoning, accumulation of heavy metals in liver, kidneys, bone and testes were decreased, and histopathological damages and the inhibition of serum alkaline phosphatase activities by heavy metals were reduced. Such effect of garlic was not shown in the 1.7% garlic treated group and most remarkable in the 6.7% garlic treated group. The protective effect of garlic was superior to those of 2,3 dimercapto-1-propanol (BAL) and D-penicillamine (PEN), and nearly similar to those of 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) and N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine (APEN), the current remedies, while garlic was not effective as a curative agent for heavy metal poisoning. The excretion of cadmium was enhanced, more through feces than urine by garlic but the effect to the urinary excretion of cadmium was not significant comparing with DMSA or APEN when cadmium was ip injected in the first 3 days during the 12 days of oral administration of DMSA, APEN or garlic.
With excess of potassium iodide in 0.05 M tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.2) phenylmercury acetate forms singly charged and doubly charged anionic complexes with lambda/sub max/ 296 and 324 nm respectively. The conversion of phenylmercury acetate into the singly charged anionic complex with an iodide ion ensures the practically complete prevention of the interaction of the mercury reagent with the nonthiol groups of the protein, influencing the rate of the oxidation of oxyhemoglobin with ferricyanide at pH 7.2. The phenylmercury cation interacts actively with the nonthiol groups of oxyhemoglobin, but the influence of this cation on the kinetics of the oxidation of oxyhemoglobin is limited by the interaction of the cation with a smaller number of binding centers in comparison with phenylmercury chloride
The physiological function of a new gene, hereby designated merG, located between merA and merB on the broad-spectrum mer operon of Pseudomonas strain K-62 plasmid pMR26 was investigated. The 654-bp merG gene encodes a protein with a canonical leader sequence at its N terminus. The processing of the signal peptide of this protein was dose-dependently inhibited by sodium azide, a potent inhibitor of protein export. These results suggest that the mature MerG protein (ca. 20 kDa) may be located in the periplasm. Deletion of the merG gene from the broad-spectrum mer operon of pMR26 had no effect on the inorganic mercury resistance phenotype, but rendered the bacterium more sensitive to phenylmercury than its isogenic wild-type strain. Escherichia coli cells bearing pMU29, which carries a deletion of the merG gene, took up significantly more phenylmercury than the bacteria with the intact plasmid pMRA17. When the merG gene in a compatible plasmid was transformed into the E. coli strain carrying pMU29, the high uptake of and high sensitivity to phenylmercury were almost completely restored to their original levels. These results demonstrate that the merG gene is involved in phenylmercury resistance, presumably by reducing in-cell permeability to phenylmercury.
Reaction of the activated cluster [Os3(CO)10(NCMe)2] with [PhHgS(C5H4N)] afforded two new Os–Hg clusters cis-[Os(CO)4{Os3(CO)10(µ-η2-SC5H4N)(µ-Hg)}2] 1 and [{Os3(CO)10(µ-η2-SC5H4N)}2(µ4-Hg)] 2 in 25 and 30% yields, respectively. Cluster 1 consists of two {Os3(CO)10(µ-η2-SC5H4N)(µ-Hg)} subunits bonded to a central Os(CO)4 moiety in a cis configuration. Cluster 2 comprises two skewed Os–Hg metal butterflies sharing a common wingtip Hg atom. Treatment of the same organomercurial with [Ru3(CO)10(NCMe)2] produced the cluster compound cis-[Ru(CO)4{Ru3(CO)9(µ-η3-SC5H4N)(µ-Hg)}2] 3 (48%). This has a metal skeleton similar to that of 2 with the {S(C5H4N)} ligand moiety bonding to the ruthenium atoms in a µ-η3 fashion. Treatment of [Os3(CO)10(NCMe)2] with [PhHg(mbt)] (Hmbt = 2-mercaptobenzothiazole) afforded [{Os3(CO)10(µ-η2-mbt)}2(µ4-Hg)] 4 (35%) and [Os3(CO)10(µ-η2-mbt)(µ-η2-Hg(mbt)] 5 (20%). Cluster 4 is very similar to 2, but the S(C5H4N) ligand is replaced by the mbt ligand, while 5 consists of an Os3 triangle having one edge spanned by both [µ-η2-mbt] and [µ-η2-Hg(mbt)] moieties. The reaction of [Os5C(CO)15] and [Ru3(CO)12] with another class of organomercurial (diphenylthiocarbazono)phenylmercury reagent [PhHgL′] [L′ = SC(NNPh)(NNHPh)] containing a NN functionality under thermal conditions produced [{Os5C(CO)14(µ-η2-SPh)}2(µ4-Hg)] 6 (26%) and [{Os5C(CO)14(µ-η2-L′)}2(µ4-Hg)] 7 (34%) and [Ru2(CO)4Ph{µ-η2-C(O)Ph}(µ2-S)(µ-η2-L′)] 8 (15%), [Ru2(CO)4{C(O)Ph}{µ-η2-C(O)Ph}(µ2-S)(µ-η2-L′)] 9 (15%) and [{Ru(CO)2Ph}2(µ-η2-L′)] 10 (45%), respectively. In clusters 6 and 7, two {Os5C(CO)14} subunits linked by a common wingtip mercury atom, are bonded with both µ-η2-SPh in 6 and µ-η2-L′ in 7. However, in the case of complexes 8, 9 and 10, only binuclear ruthenium carbonyl complexes formed instead of the expected formation of mixed-metal clusters. Complexes 1–10 result from the cleavage of both Hg–C and Hg–S bonds in the parent organomercury species. All these complexes have been fully characterized by both spectroscopic and crystallographic techniques.
Methylmercury labelled with mercury-203 was used for the investigation of the uptake and the release of methylmercury in fish. It has been found that methylmercury compounds adsorbed on fish food remain completely in fish and that they are released with the biological half-time of 110 +/- 20 days. The cumulation of methylmercury from water is very rapid: the cumulation constant is 237 +/- 67 days-1. Equations for the calculation of the concentration of methylmercury in fish were derived and compared with the uptake of phenylmercury and inorganic mercury.
[24925-18-6] C7H5F3Hg (MW 346.6) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C6H5.CF3.Hg/c1-2-4-6-5-3-1;2-1(3)4;/h1-5H;; ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = BTVXEPISDXWGON-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (reagent used for the generation of difluorocarbene in benzene) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: mp 139–141 °C. ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: soluble in benzene, hexane. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Method: phenyltrifluoromethyl mercury can be prepared in a three-step process beginning with HgO (eq 1). The HgO is stirred in water while 2 equiv of trifluoroacetic acid are slowly added. After addition of the trifluoroacetic acid is complete, the water is gently warmed and evaporated. The colorless viscous liquid is heated to decarboxlyate the diacetate compound and then the trifluoroacetotrifluoromethyl mercury is distilled. The first step of the distillation is to collect and remove everything that comes over under 220 °C. The distillation is then continued and trifluoroacetotrifluoromethyl mercury is collected between 220 and 230 °C. The distance between the distilling pot and the collection flask should be kept to a minimum and heated at this point to avoid formation of solid in the tube. This solid will plug the tube and block the distillation. The collection condenser is attached to a second neck in an ice-cooled collection flask. White smoke (more product) comes over with the colorless liquid product. Gray smoke indicates that elemental mercury is distilling and the distillation should be stopped. ::: ::: ::: ::: The trifluoroacetotrifluoromethyl mercury (1.0 equiv), without further purification, is then mixed with diphenylmercury (1.05 equiv) in benzene and heated to reflux for 10 h. (Diphenylmercury can be purchased or made from the reaction of HgCl2 with 2 equiv of phenyl Grignard in THF.) After the 10 h reflux, saturated aq NH4Cl solution is added. After cooling, the phenylmercury chloride is filtered off and the layers separated. The benzene solution is dried over MgSO4 and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. ::: ::: (1) ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: column chromatography on silica (2% ethyl acetate/hexanes) or recrystallization from hexane affords product of high purity. ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: extreme caution and quality gloves should be used when handling these reagents. All reactions should only be done in a well-ventilated fume hood. All the mercury compounds employed are extremely toxic. ::: ::: ::: ::: Diphenylmercury has the ability to absorb into the blood stream directly through the skin.
1. ::: ::: The pyrolysis of mercury trifluoroacetate and phenylmercury trifluoroacetate in the presence of K2CO3 respectively gave bis(trifluoromethyl)mercury and phenyltrifluoromethylmercury in high yields. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Bis(trifluoromethyl)mercury can serve as a source of difluorocarbene.
Abstract The protolysis of some symmetrical and asymmetrical mercury derivatives of ferrocene and cyclopentadienylmanganese tricarbonyl in 90% dioxane has been described. In this reaction the ferrocenyl radical was found to be more electron-attracting than the p -anisyl radical, while the cyclopentadienylmanganese-tricarbonyl radical behaved as a weak acceptor with respect to the phenyl radical. The protodemercuration of diferrocenylmercury proceeds about 130 times more rapidly than that of ferrocenylmercury chloride, and the protolysis of bis(cyclopentadienylmanganese-tricarbonyl)mercury is 30 times faster than the protolysis of cyclopentadienylmanganese-tricarbonylmercury chloride. The protodemercuration of diferrocenylmercury with perchloric acid is about half that with hydrochloric acid As in the case of diphenylmercury, the addition of potassium chloride increases the reaction rate in the protolysis with both perchloric and hydrochloric acids. It was shown that the sensitivities of the mercury atoms in diferrocenylmercury and in diphenylmercury to nucleophilic assistance are approximately equivalent. The effect of the water content of dioxane on the rate of protodemercuration of diferrocenylmercury, bis-(cyclopentadienylmanganese-tricarbonyl)mercury and diphenylmercury has been studied. The rates of decompositions of all three compounds were found to decrease with increase in the water content of dioxane. It was also shown that the mechanisms of protodemercuration of diferrocenylmercury and bis(cyclopentadienylmanganese-tricarbonyl)mercury do not differ in principle from that of diphenylmercury and the explanation does not require the participation of the metal atom in any form in the stage determining the reaction rate.
The highly toxic methyl-, ethyl- and phenylmercury species that may exist in the three main anatomical parts - the adductor muscle, the mantle and the visceral mass - of bay scallops (Argopecten irradias) were quantitatively released by cupric chloride, zinc acetate, sodium chloride and hydrochloric acid (HCl) under ultrasonic extraction. After centrifugation, the mercury species in the supernatant were concentrated by thio (SH)-bearing chelating resins, eluted with HClO4 and HCl and extracted with toluene. Separation was achieved by capillary GC equipped with programmed temperatures, a constant nitrogen flow and detected by a micro-electron capture detector (μECD). Under optimised conditions, the LODs for methyl-, ethyl- and phenylmercury in bay scallop samples were 1.1, 0.65 and 0.80 ng g(-1), respectively. The maximum RSD for three replicate determinations of methyl-, ethyl- and phenylmercury in bay scallop samples were 13.7%, 14.0% and 11.2%, respectively. In the concentration range of 4-200 ng g(-1) in bay scallop samples, the calibration graphs were linear with correlation coefficients not less than 0.997. Recoveries for spiked samples were in the range of 92.7-103.5% (methylmercury), 87.5-108.3% (ethylmercury) and 91.6-106.0% (phenylmercury), respectively. The method was verified by the determination of methylmercury in a CRM GBW10029 (Total Mercury and Methyl Mercury in Fish Tissue), with results in good agreement with the certified values. Methylmercury - the only existing species in bay scallops - was successfully determined by the method.
Methylmercury chloride, mercuric chloride and phenylmercury acetate were respectively administered subcutaneously to roosters with 600μg/day as Hg for several months consecutively, and each of these roosters was raised in a cage with a hen. The rate of hatching from fertilized eggs of a hen mated with a rooster which was administered with mercuric chloride was significantly inhibited as compared with the rate of hatching from control eggs. However, rates of hatching from eggs of hens mated with roosters administered with methylmercury chloride or phenylmercury acetate were not significantly inhibited.
We describe eight patients suffering from Mercurochrome allergy. Patch and prick tests were carried out with the following organic and inorganic mercury compounds: thimerosal, Mercurochrome, phenylmercuric acetate, phenylmercuric nitrate, metallic mercury, and mercuric chloride, and with sodium fluorescein. Two patients had an anaphylactic reaction a few minutes after application of Mercurochrome. The prick tests with Mercurochrome were positive and they were negative with the other tested products. All patch tests were negative. In the other six patients, the clinical picture was local eczema, and the patch tests were all positive with Mercurochrome and the inorganic mercuric derivatives. Positive patch tests with thimerosal were found only in two patients, and only one had a positive patch test with salts of phenylmercury. In four patients, the prick test with Mercurochrome, negative in immediate reading, gave a late eczematous reaction.
Two new heterobimetallic phenylmercury(ii) dithiocarbamate complexes incorporating the ferrocenyl moiety (C(5)H(5))Fe(C(5)H(4)) (Fc), namely PhHgS(2)CN(CH(2)Fc)CH(2)C(5)H(4)N, (1) and PhHgS(2)CN(CH(2)Fc)CH(2)C(4)H(3)O, (2) have been prepared and characterized by elemental analysis, UV-Vis, IR, (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopies. The crystal structures of 1 and 2 showed a linear core at the Hg(ii) centre of the molecule, bound by the sulfur atom of the dithiocarbamate ligand and carbon atom of the aromatic ring. Weak intermolecular HgS interactions form "head-to-tail" dimers in the cases of 1 and 2. The observed quasi-reversible cyclic voltammograms of the complexes have been corroborated by calculating gross natural electron population and gross natural electron spin population at each atom for the neutral as well its oxidized species obtained at density functional level (DFT) of theory, which suggests that the delocalization of electron spin population can affect the magnitude of ΔE(p). The electronic absorption bands of both the complexes were assigned with the help of time dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) calculations. The light harvesting properties of both 1 and 2 in conjunction with our previously reported compound PhHgS(2)CN(CH(2)Fc)CH(2)C(6)H(5) (3) have been reported.
Abstract The specific stimulation of alpha-amanitin-sensitive RNA synthesis in isolated nuclei by methyl mercury (Frenkel, G. D., and Randles, K. (1982) J. Biol. Chem. 257, 6275-6279) has been further investigated. Using the method of alkaline hydrolysis/uridine analysis to determine the number of RNA chains growing in vitro, it was found that the stimulation could not be accounted for by an increase in the number of growing chains. The stimulatory effect of heparin (Coupar, B. E. H., and Chesterton, C. J. (1977) Eur. J. Biochem. 79, 525-533), was found to be additive with that of methyl mercury at saturating concentrations of the latter. Various detergents were found to affect RNA synthesis per se and to modify the stimulatory effect of methyl mercury, suggesting that the stimulation by methyl mercury requires a degree of structural integrity of some nuclear components. The ability of a number of other mercury compounds to stimulate RNA synthesis was investigated. None of the inorganic compounds examined, i.e. HgCl2, HgSO4, and Hg(ClO4)2, stimulated synthesis. Among the alkyl organic compounds tested in addition to methyl mercury, ethyl mercury also stimulated RNA synthesis, but dimethylmercury did not. Among the aryl compounds tested, phenylmercury did not stimulate synthesis whereas p-hydroxymercuribenzoate and p-hydroxymercuribenzenesulfonate did. N-Ethylmaleimide, a nonmercurous sulfhydryl reagent, was found to have only weak ability to stimulate RNA synthesis, compared to a comparable mercury-containing sulfhydryl reagent, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate. The stimulatory effect of the latter was, however, effectively competed out by the former, indicating that sulfhydryl binding is necessary for the stimulation but not sufficient. This conclusion was reinforced by experiments which utilized a model system to measure the ability of various mercury compounds to compete with N-ethylmaleimide in binding to cysteine. The results showed that even compounds such as phenylmercury and the inorganic mercurials, which are unable to stimulate RNA synthesis, are able to bind to a sulfhydryl group.
The [(4-methoxycarbonylthiazolidino)carbonyl-dihalomethyl]phenylmercury compounds 2a,b and 5a,b have been synthesized. When heated in refluxing bromobenzene they form halogenated penicillin analogs. (--)-Methyl 6-epi-6-bromobisnorpenicillinate (3a) and methyl 6-epi-6-bromopenicillinates (6a,b) have been prepared and isolated.
Abstract A novel method for determination of methylmercury (MeHg) and phenylmercury (PhHg) by liquid–liquid–liquid microextraction (LLLME) coupled with capillary electrophoresis (CE) with ultraviolet (UV) technique was developed. The method based on MeHg and PhHg was complexed with 1-(2-pyridylazo)-2-naphthol (PAN) to form hydrophobic complexes. When the sample solution was stirred, analytes were extracted into the organic layer (200 μL toluene) and back-extracted simultaneously into the 4.0 μL 0.1% (w/v) l -cysteine microdrop. The factors affecting on the LLLME of two mercury species, including sample pH, complex reagent concentration, extraction time, volume of organic solvent, stirring rate and phase volume ratio, were investigated. Under the optimized conditions, the detection limits (S/N = 3) of MeHg and PhHg were 0.94 and 0.43 ng mL −1 (as Hg), respectively. The precisions (RSDs, c = 10 ng mL −1 , n = 7) were in the range of 3.3–3.4% for migration time, 6.1–7.2% for peak area response, and 6.7–7.5% for peak height response for the two mercury species. The enrichment factors of 324 for MeHg and 210 for PhHg were obtained with 40 min LLLME. The developed method was successfully applied to the determination of trace amounts of MeHg and PhHg in water samples.
Abstract The electrochemical behaviour of triphenyl-lead acetate in 50% (v/v) ethanol has been investigated using various electrochemical techniques including polarography, cyclic voltammetry and controlled potential coulometry. It has been found to give three/four polarographic waves. The first normal wave involves an one-electron irreversible reduction of triphenyl-lead ions giving triphenyl-lead free radicals which are strongly adsorbed at the DME giving rise to an adsorption prewave. The triphenyl-lead free radicals produced in the normal reduction step immediately react with mercury of the DME producing phenylmercury radicals and metallic lead. Wave II has been ascribed to the simultaneous reduction of triphenyl-lead free radicals and phenylmercury free radicals. The metallic lead produced in these processes undergoes oxidation at the electrode and “distorts” the “normal” adsorption prewave of step I. A mechanism of reduction is proposed and polarographic methods have been developed for determining triphenyl-lead compounds at ordinary level and down to submicromolar level.
Plasmids in bacterial cells carry genes that govern resistances to various toxic heavy metals as well as genes for resistances to antibiotics (1-3). Indeed, there are plasmids that affect only antibiotic or heavy metal resistances as well as those that affect both (4, 5). For both heavy metals and antibiotics, there appears to be a great specificity of the mechanism for each resistance (2, 6). Mercury resistance is genetically and biochemically distinct from cadmium resistance which in turn is distinct from arsenic resistance. The mechanism ofmercuric and organomercurial resistance is the enzymatic cleavage of several organomercurials to Hg2+ plus methane from methylmercury, ethane from ethylmercury, or benzene from phenylmercury, followed by the reduction of toxic Hg2+ to less toxic and volatile Hg0 (2, 3) . Cadmium resistance in Staphylococcus aureus, however, is not due to detoxification but rather to reduced accumulation of Cd2' by plasmid-containing resistant cells (7, 8) . The reduced net uptake has recently been shown to result from an energydependent Cd2' efflux process (9) coded for by plasmid genes.
The frequency of resistance to Hg2+ in 1980 to 1981 collections from Barnes Hospital, St. Louis, Mo., was only 2% for Staphylococcus aureus and 9% for Escherichia coli. The frequency of Hg2+ resistance in E. coli isolates from Jikei University Hospital, Tokyo, Japan, was 57% during 1972 to 1977 and decreased to 29% in 1979 to 1982; for S. aureus the frequency of Hg2+ resistance dropped from 36% in 1972 to 1977 to 10% in 1979 to 1982. Frequencies of resistances to cadmium (S. aureus) and arsenic (S. aureus and E. coli) remained approximately constant during this time. The decrease in frequency of mercurial resistance is attributed to the termination of the use of organomercurials (largely phenylmercury and thimerosal) in hospital liquid detergents and disinfectants. It is proposed that selection for mercurial resistance occurred within the hospital setting when there was widespread use of mercurials. The resistance patterns and phage types for each of four new mercurial-resistant S. aureus isolates from St. Louis were distinct, indicating that no single type of "hospital staph" predominates. Furthermore, resistance to thimerosal, merbromin, and methylmercury and the ability to volatilize 14C from [14C]methylmercury were found with the new isolates and never with previously known mercurial resistance plasmids in S. aureus.
Pseudomonas strain K-62 was found to contain six plasmids. A mutant derivative cured of the 26-kb plasmid showed a higher sensitivity to mercurials; however, the strain was still able to volatilize them. Loss of the 68-kb plasmid.in addition to the 26-kb plasmid abolished the ability of mercury volatilization in this strain and led to a further decrease in the level of mercurial resistance. These results are the first to demonstrate that the organomercurial resistance of Pseudomonas strain K-62 is plasmid-based, and that both the 26- and 68-kb plasmids are required for full expression of the mercurial resistance. Probes specific for the mer genes merA, merB, and merR strongly hybridized with the 26-kb plasmid, but not with the 68-kb plasmid. Two fragments of the 26-kb plasmid that hybridized with the mer genes were cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. One recombinant plasmid (pMRA17) inducibly encoded a typical broad-spectrum mercurial resistance, whereas the other recombinant plasmid (pMRB01) constitutively conferred hypersensitivity to phenylmercury in the absence of mercuric reductase activity. The results suggest that the two organomercurial lyases in the cells are transcribed from different operator-promoters.
Abstract The reaction of CoAA 3 with i-Bu 3 Al in aromatic hydrocarbons under hydrogen leads to the formation of a mixture which catalyses the hydrogenation of olefines. Reactions of this mixture with benzyl bromide, diphenylmercury and styrene were carried out. On the basis of the results of these reactions the following formulae of cobalt compounds present in the mixture have been proposed: [Co 2 H] x for molar ratios CoAA 3 /i-Bu 3 Al  1 1 to 1 5 and [CoH] y for molar ratios 1 5 to 1 10 . these compounds exist in solution when x and y are small and in the form of a precipitate whe x and y are large.
Abstract Compounds [HQ]2[Hg(L)2] and [HQ][PhHg(L)] [where HQ = diisopropylammonium cation; L = pspa, fspa, tspa, where p = 3-(phenyl), f = 3-(2-furyl), t = 3-(2-thienyl), and spa = 2-sulfanylpropenoato] have been prepared by the reaction of mercury(II) acetate or phenylmercury(II) acetate with the corresponding acid in the presence of diisopropylamine in ethanol. The compounds have been characterized by elemental analysis, FAB mass spectrometry and IR and NMR (1H, 13C) spectroscopy. The crystal structures of the [HQ]2[Hg(L)2] compounds show the presence of diisopropylammonium cations and [Hg(L)2]2− anions. In each anion the Hg atom is in an HgO2S2 environment and this can be described as nido-tbp. The crystal structures of the [HQ][PhHg(L)] compounds show the presence of diisopropylammonium cations and [PhHg(L)]− anions in which the Hg atom adopts an HgCOS distorted T-environment. The NMR data suggest that the coordination mode of the ligand L2− determined by X-ray diffractometry in the solid remains in solution.
Methylmercury(II) and phenylmercury(II) dithiophosphinates [HgR(S2PR′2)] (R  Me or Ph; R′  Et or Cy) were synthesized. In [HgPh(S2PEt2)] the mercury atom is coordinated to a phenyl carbon atom and to one S atom of the dithiophosphinate (HgC, 2.07(2) A, HgS, 2.375(3) A). The other sulphur atom of the dithiophosphinate forms two weak Hg ⋯ S interactions, one intramolecular and other intermolecular (HgS, 3.182(3) A and 3.183(3) A respectively). The mass, IR, Raman and 1H, 13C, 31P and 199Hg nuclear magnetic resonance spectra of the compounds are discussed.
Solutions in organic solvents of 1 : 1 complexes between organomercury(II) cations and dithizone (and its p-tolyl analogue) undergo reversible photo-isomerisation (yellow ⇌ blue) at conveniently measurable rates; the structure of the crystalline yellow form of phenylmercury(II) dithizonate involves irregular three-co-ordination about the mercury atom, that of the blue form being deduced from spectroscopic measurements on irradiated solutions.
The reaction of diarylmercurials and arylmercuric halides with methylidynetricobalt nonacarbonyl in benzene or THF at reflux results in formation of benzylidynetricobalt nonacarbonyl complexes, ArCCo3(CO)9, in good yield, especially when the reactions are carried out under an atmosphere of carbon monoxide. The alkylation of HCCo3(CO)9 with dialkylmercurials or alkylmercuric halides proceeds much more slowly and in much lower yields. Similar reactions of (α-haloalkyl)mercurials, (RCHX)2Hg, with HCCo3(CO)9, gives reduced products, RCH2CCo3(CO)9, rather than the expected RCHXCCo3(CO)9. Similar arylation of the apical carbon atom of the CCo3 cluster occurred in the reactions of XCCo3(CO)9 (X = Cl, Br, I) with diphenylmercury, and in reactions of tetraphenyltin and tetraphenyllead with HCCo3(CO)9.
A novel plasma jet desorption atomization (PJDA) source was developed for atomic fluorescence spectrometry (AFS) and coupled on line with thin layer chromatography (TLC) for mercury speciation. An argon dielectric barrier discharge plasma jet, which is generated inside a 300 μm quartz capillary, interacts directly with the sample being analyzed and is found to desorb and atomize surface mercury species rapidly. The effectiveness of this PJDA surface sampling technique was demonstrated by measuring AFS signals of inorganic Hg(2+), methylmercury (MeHg), and phenylmercury (PhHg) deposited directly on TLC plate. The detection limits of the proposed PJDA-AFS method for inorganic Hg(2+), MeHg, and PhHg were 0.51, 0.29, and 0.34 pg, respectively, and repeatability was 4.7%, 2.2%, and 4.3% for 10 pg Hg(2+), MeHg, and PhHg. The proposed PJDA-AFS was also successfully coupled to TLC for mercury speciation. Under optimized conditions, the measurements of mercury dithizonate (Hg-D), methylmercury dithizonate (MeHg-D), and phenylmercury dithizonate (PhHg-D) could be achieved within 3 min with detection limits as low as 8.7 pg. The combination of TLC with PJDA-AFS provides a simple, cost-effective, relatively high-throughput way for mercury speciation.
Abstract The influx and reflux of inorganic mercury(II), methylmercury and phenylmercury species have been radiometrically investigated under different experimental conditions. It has been found that methylmercury and phenylmercury can be transported through cell membranes in the form of neutral halogenide complexes or hydrophobic chelates such as oxinate or thiooxinate. Intracellular ligands, containing probably sulphhydryl groups, form very stable hydrophilic complexes with mercury species which cannot pass through cell membranes. The mean degree of intracellular complexation for methylmercury and phenylmercury cations is of order 108‐1010.
Both pentafluorophenylmercury chloride and trimeric perfluoro-ortho-phenylene mercury interact with phenanthrene to form phosphorescent adducts which exhibit extended binary stacks in the solid state.
Abstract Reaction of diphenylmercurybis(π-chromium tricarbonyl) with dicobalt octacarbonyl in THF gave benzophenonebis(π-chromium tricarbonyl). Reduction of the latter with NaBH 4 in methanol resulted in formation of the expected alcohol which was treated with hexafluorophosphoric acid in propionic anhydride to give the title carbonium ion salt as a blue solid. This salt was found to alkylate ethanol, diethylamine and pyrrole.
pMRA17 cloned from Pseudomonas K-62 plasmid pMR26 specified the resistance to both organic and inorganic mercurials. DNA sequence of this broad-spectrum resistant mer operon was determined. The 5504-bp sequence includes six open reading frames (ORFs), five of which were identified as merR, merT, merP, merA and merB in order by analysis of deletion mutants and by comparison with the DNA and amino acid (aa) sequences of previously sequenced mer operons. The merB encoding organomercurial lyase showed a less identity than the other mer genes with those from other broad-spectrum resistance operons. The remaining ORF named merE, located between merA and merB, had no significant homology with the published mer genes and seemed to be a new gene which may involve in phenylmercury resistance. Induction experiments and maxicell analyses of the mer-polypeptides revealed that pMRA17 mer operon expressed mercurial-inducible phenotype and the merB and merE as well as the merA were under the control of MerR which could activate not only by mercuric ion but also by organomercurials.
Abstract Triphanylmethyt-1-thio-α- D -galactoside was obtained in good yield by treatment of β-acetochlorogalactose with the tetrabutylammonium salt of triphenylmethanethiol. This protecting group of the thiol function is stable under both basic and acidic conditions and may be selectively removed by reaction with phenylmercury(II) acetate, followed by hydrogen sulfide.
An experimental approach basedon theassembly ofgenes ofa catabolic pathway was usedtodetect transconjugants inaquatic communities. Resistance tophenylmercury acetate was established intransconjugants whenwide-host-range conjugal plasmids containing merB,thegeneencoding organomercurial lyase, weretransferred tostrains fromaquatic communities thathadbeenacclimated toinorganic mercury andthus enriched forpopulations containing merA,thegeneencoding mercuric reductase (T.Barkay, Appl.Environ. Microbiol. 53:2725-2732, 1987). Conjugation was confirmed byusingtheplasmids' encodedantibiotic resistance patterns andbyhybridization withaeukaryotic gene.ThreemerB-conjugal plasmids, belonging to incompatibility groupsW (pGTE16), P1(pGTE26), andN (pGTE25), were prepared. Transfers byfilter matings ofpGTE16andpGTE26fromPseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1toindigenous strains were atefficiencies of4.5x 10-2and4.8x 10-3 transconjugant perpotential recipient, respectively. Theseefficiencies were from 1to2orders ofmagnitude belowthose observed forintraspecies matings withgenetically markedrecipients. Thethird plasmid, pGTE25, was notstably maintained inP.aeruginosa donors, anditstransfer from Escherichia coli donors was belowthelevel ofdetection. Characterized transconjugant strains were shownto bePseudomonas spp.Potential applications ofthedescribed experimental approach inthecreation ofbacterial populations withnew catabolic capabilities inhazardous wastesites andinthedetection oftransfer of recombinant DNA fromengineered microorganisms toindigenous bacteria arediscussed.
Four new complexes [Ag2(4-mpipdtc)2(PPh3)2] (1), [Cu(4-mpipdtc)2] (2), [Co(4-mpipdtc)3]·CHCl3 (3) and [PhHg(4-mpipdtc)] (4) and two new products, bis(4-methyl piperidinethiocarbonyl) disulfide {(4-mpipdtc)2} (5) and (4-methyl-piperidin-1-yl) carbothioylsulfanyl-methyl (4-methyl)-piperidine-1-carbodithioate {CH2(4-mpipdtc)2} (6) have been obtained in this study. The syntheses of compounds 5 and 6 were assisted by Mn(II) and Ag(I) ions, respectively, and were obtained from potassium 4-methyl-piperidine-carbodithioate {K+(4-mpipdtc)−} {where, 4-mpipdtc− = 4-methyl piperidine carbodithioate}. All new compounds have been characterized by elemental analyses, IR, NMR, magnetic susceptibility and single X-ray crystallography techniques. These compounds are stabilized by intermolecular C–H⋯S, S⋯S, C–H⋯π and C–H⋯N interactions. The most interesting feature in complex 4 is that the ligand bound phenylmercury cation is stabilized via intermolecular as well as intramolecular Hg⋯S secondary interactions. Compounds 3 and 5 are highly fluorescent in a solution when compared to the free ligand and emit violet/violet-blue light at 372 and 413 nm upon excitation at 328 and 300 nm, respectively. The course of the thermal degradation of complexes 1–4 have been investigated by TG-DTA, which indicates that metal sulphide is formed as the final residue. The results obtained from the electronic structure calculations at the density functional theory level corroborate our experimental findings obtained from the IR data. Frontier molecular orbital analysis reveals that complexes 1 and 3 are softer and more reactive than complexes 2 and 4. Cyclic voltammetry shows that complex 2 exhibits a reversible Cu(II)/Cu(I) redox process at 0.515 V, whereas the ligand and complexes 1, 3 and 4 show irreversible redox behaviour.
Abstract Improved sensitivity of the cold-vapour atomic absorption method for mercury can be obtained by equilibrating the reduced sample with a small volume of air at 90°C. An automated system has been developed that has a detection limit of 1 ng Hg l -1 . By changing the reducing conditions three species of mercury can be differentiated and determined, inorganic mercury, arylmercury compounds such as phenylmercury(II) chloride, and alkylmercury compounds such as methylmercury(II) chloride. Speciation of mercury in natural waters is possible.
199/201 ::: Hg ‘satellite’ features have been resolved in electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra recorded from radical cations of diphenylmercury and its bis-ortho-allyloxy derivatives as isolated in solid freon matrices at 77 K. In accord with our previous work, we confirm that the parent radical cation of diphenylmercury is a σ-species with substantial electron loss from the C–Hg–C bonding region of the molecule: studies of the perdeuteriated analogue reveal a complex superhyperfine structure which persists in CFCl3 and CCl4 matrices, and is assigned to coupling from a single matrix chlorine atom.In marked contrast, the allyloxy derivatives are π-radicals, and show well resolved, nearly isotropic, mercury satellite features that are of the magnitude expected for this assignment. Thus the electron-releasing power of the oxygen atom is sufficient to stabilise the π-state over the σ-state.The relationship of these results to the mechanism of reactions involving the single-electron oxidation of these organomercurials is discussed.
The reaction of thianthrene cation radical perchlorate with thioxanthene in acetonitrile gave thianthrene and dark reddish thioxanthylium ion instead of thioxanthene cation radical. Addition of aromatic nucleophiles such as anisole, aniline, N,N-diethylaniline, catechol, ethylbenzene, to the above mixture yielded the corresponding thioxanthenes with substituent at 9 position. Reactions with dibenzo-18-crown-6-ether, diphenylmercury, and triphenylphosphine gave similar products. However, reactions with aromatics with electron-withdrawing group were either too slow or inert to such a reaction.
GBq; New England Nuclear) per ml. After incubation for 10 min at 30'C with shaking, purified natural a factor (9) (gift of H. Liao) in 0.1 M NaOAc (pH 5) was added to one culture at a final concentration of 0.3-0.4 AM (-50 units/ml); an equal volume of 0.1 M NaOAc (pH 5) was added to the second (control) culture. After 30 min, the cells were chilled and collected by centrifugation. Total RNA fractions of the control and a-factor-treated cells were purified immediately by phenol extraction (10). Poly(A)+ RNA was selected by chromatography on oligo(dT)-cellulose (Collaborative Research, Waltham, MA) (11) and concentrated by ethanol precipitation. Poly(A)+ RNA (up to 150 ,ug) was redissolved in 10 ml of 0.1% NaDodSO4/0.15 M NaCl/50 mM NaOAc, pH 5.5, heated to 65°C for 5 min, cooled rapidly in ice, and applied to a bed (1 ml) of phenylmercury agarose (12) (Affi-Gel 501, Bio-Rad) in a column (0.5 x 2 cm) at a flow rate of 5 ml/hr.
When crystallized from DMSO or DMF, pentafluorophenylmercury chloride (1) forms the Lewis acid−Lewis base adducts 1·DMSO (2) and (1)2·DMF (3), respectively. These adducts have been characterized by elemental analysis, IR spectroscopy, 13C CP/MAS NMR (3) and X-ray single-crystal structure analysis. Compound 2 is a T-shaped complex. In the crystal, the individual molecules of 2 aggregate through formation of Hg2Cl2 bridges to form a ladder polymer. Compound 3 crystallizes with four independent molecules of 1 and two independent molecules of DMF in the asymmetric unit. While all molecules are part of a complex framework formed by Hg2Cl2 bridges, three molecules of 1 are involved in the binding of two formamide molecules, which form bridges between adjacent mercury centers.
Bacterial resistance to mercury has been studied in two different strains from animal origin, Salmonella typhimurium 9205 and Escherichia coli 467. These two strains are resistant to mercuric chloride but sensitive to phenylmercury, and thus belong to the group of bacteria that possess a "narrow" spectrum resistance. The presence of plasmids within the cells has been demonstrated through conjugation experiments and direct detection of extrachromosomal DNA in transconjugants. These plasmids, termed p9205-1 and p467-30, differ from each other by both their size (100 and 50 Kbp, respectively) and structure, as shown by the restriction patterns arising from digestion by nucleases BamHI, HindIII, PstI and EcoRI. Each plasmid has been treated with enzyme SalI to yield DNA fragments that have been cloned into pBR322. Two recombinant plasmids, p9205-1/Sal and p467-30/Sal, have thus been constructed, each of them harboring a 2 Kbp fragment that appears to contain the merA gene coding for mercuric reductase. From the analysis of the restriction maps of these recombinant plasmids as well as the functional behaviour of the bacteria that they are able to transform, it can be concluded that they are identical.
Zinc-65 and cadmium-115 m were used for the investigation of the uptake and the release of zinc and cadmium in fish. It has been found that the uptake of these elements directly from water is relatively low. Zinc and cadmium, consumed by fish in food, are released with the biological half-time 0.25 +/- 0.05 days (94%) and 65 +/- 9 days (6%) for zinc, 0.25 +/- 0.05 days (98.5%) and 36 +/- 6 days (1.5%) for cadmium. The comparison with data obtained for mercury species shows that the cumulation of these elements in fish increases in the order cadmium, zinc, inorganic mercury (II), phenylmercury and methylmercury.
A simple, relatively low-cost interface is investigated for high-performance liquid chromatography using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) detection. The interface consists of a one-piece micronebulizer (direct injection high efficiency nebulizer, DIHEN), positioned in the ICP torch for the direct nebulization of solution into the base of the argon plasma. Microcolumn separations were performed in two modes: one, reverse-phase separation of three naturally occurring cobalamin species (hydroxocobalamin, cyanocobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin); and two, ion-pairing reverse-phase separation of five organolead and organomercury species [triethyllead (Et3Pb+), triphenyllead (Ph3Pb+), methylmercury (MeHg+), ethylmercury (EtHg+) and phenylmercury (PhHg+)]. For a 10 µL ::: injection, absolute sensitivity in the ion pairing mode ranged from 2430 counts pg−1 ::: (EtHg+) to 35880 counts pg−1 ::: (Ph3Pb+) and peak area reproducibility (%RSD, n = 5) ranged from 0.7% ::: (EtHg+) to 5.1% ::: (PhHg+). Absolute detection limits were in the low- to sub-picogram range. Importantly, no plasma instability or carbon deposition on the nebulizer tip was observed using organic modifiers in the mobile phase of up to 20%.
Oxidation of aromatic aldehyde p-tolylsulphonylhydrazones with mercury(II) acetate gave NN″-mercuriobis-(N′-arylmethylenetoluene-p-sulphonohydrazide)s. Treatment of aromatic aldehyde 4-nitrophenylhydrazones with mercury(II) acetate resulted in acetoxymercuriation at the 2-position of the 4-nitrophenyl ring. Treatment of both types of hydrazone with phenylmercury(II) hydroxide gave N-phenylmercurio-derivatives.
Abstract Reaction of PhHgOAc with N -NHCOC 6 H 5 –Htpp gave a bismercury(II) complex [((benzamido-κ N )phenylmercury-κ Hg –N 21 ,N 22 )- meso -tetraphenylporphyrinato-N 23 ,N 24 ]phenylmercury(II) toluene solvate [Hg(Ph)(N 21 ,N 22 –(Ph)–Hg–N(COPh)tpp · C 6 H 5 CH 3 ; 3 · C 6 H 5 CH 3 ] with Hg(1)–N(5) as N 21 ,N 22 -bridged atoms. The crystal structure of 3 · C 6 H 5 CH 3 was determined. The Hg(1)⋯Hg(2) distance is 3.611(7) A. Hence, no metallophilic Hg(II)⋯Hg(II) interaction is present. 3 in CDCl 3 was characterized by 1 H, 13 C, and 199 Hg NMR. The 199 Hg NMR spectrum for 3 in CDCl 3 solution 20 °C clearly reveals that there are two different Hg nuclei, i.e. Hg(1) and Hg(2) and this NMR data provides an evidence that 3 remains as a bismercury species in CDCl 3 solution. The 199 Hg NMR spectrum for a 0.2 M solution of 3 in CDCl 3 at 20 °C is observed at −1088 ppm for Hg(2) nucleus with 3 J (Hg–H) = 188 Hz and an effective coordination number of five and at −1119 ppm for Hg(1) nucleus with 3 J (Hg–H) = 177 Hz and an effective coordination number of four. The proton and 199 Hg NMR spectra clearly show 3 J (Hg–H) coupling and these NMR data indicate no ligand exchange for 3 in CDCl 3 .
Abstract ::: Biophysical and genetic properties of six independently isolated plasmids encoding the degradation of the herbicides 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 4-chloro-2-methylphenoxyacetic acid are described. Four of the plasmids, pJP3, pJP4, pJP5, and pJP7, had molecular masses of 51 megadaltons, belonged to the IncP1 incompatibility group, and transferred freely to strains of Escherichia coli, Rhodopseudomonas sphaeroides, Rhizobium sp., Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Pseudomonas putida, Pseudomonas fluorescens, and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus. In addition, these four plasmids conferred resistance to merbromin, phenylmercury acetate, and mercuric ions, had almost identical restriction endonuclease cleavage patterns, and encoded degradation of m-chlorobenzoate. The two other plasmids, pJP2 and pJP9, did not belong to the IncP1 incompatibility group, had molecular masses of 37 megadaltons, encoded the degradation of phenoxyacetic acid, and possessed identical restriction endonuclease cleavage patterns.
Abstract The Reaction of phenylmercury(II) acetate with salicylaldehyde morpholine N-thiohydrazone (H2smth) and 2-hydroxyacetophenone morpholine N-thiohydrazone (H2apmth) in dry ethanol under gentle refluxing condition form light yellow complexes [PhHg(Hsmth)] (1) and [PhHg(Hapmth)] (2) involving formation of Hg-S bond from the thiol form of the ligands after deprotonation of the SH proton. The structures of the complexes as determined by X-ray crystallography shows that the complex (1) has a distorted T-shaped geometry while the complex (2) adopts familiar linear coordination geometry. Complex (2) has two independent molecules comprising the asymmetric unit. Both the complexes form two-dimensional supramolecular assemblies due to a combination of weak intermolecular Hg····π and Hg····Hg interactions. The Hg····π and Hg····Hg distances are 3.937 and 4.0216(10) A, respectively, possibly indicating weak mercuriophilic interactions. The luminescent properties of the complexes in solution and in the solid state at room temperature are also described.
Abstract The reaction of phenylmercury(II) acetate and cadmium(II) acetate with a refluxed solution of diacetylmonoxime and morpholine N-thiohydrazide formed a novel phenylmercury(II) complex, [PhHg(Hdammthiol)] (1) and a cadmium(II) complex, [Cd(Hdammthiol)2] (2), respectively (where H2dammthiol is the thiol form of diacetylmonoximemorpholine N-thiohydrazone (Hdammth) formed by the condensation of diacetylmonoxime and morpholine N-thiohydrazide in the presence of phenylmercury(II) and cadmium(II) ions). The complexes were characterised by elemental analyses and spectral data (electronic, infrared and 1H NMR) and also by X-ray crystal structure analysis. The X-ray crystallography shows that the phenylmercury(II) complex attained a tricoordinated distorted T-shaped structure, while the cadmium(II) complex attained a trapezoidal bipyramidal geometry. The phenylmercury(II) complex forms a two-dimensional sheet via C–H⋯O and O–H⋯N hydrogen bonding and also forms a two-dimensional supramolecular dimer, having C–H⋯π synthons. Intermolecular C–H⋯O and O–H⋯O hydrogen bonding of the cadmium(II) complex forms a two-dimensional supramolecular sheet along the bc plane and posses an impressively short intermolecular C(sp3)⋯O(sp3) contact.
Two improved analytical methods for the determination of chloride (hydrogen chloride) in the ppb-range are presented. One method combines a derivatization of chloride with 7-oxabicyclo(4.1.0)heptane with gaschromatographic separation and detection. The other one uses a derivatization with phenylmercury nitrate. Reagent and product are separated by extraction with trichloromethane or benzene and the product is determined by atomic absorption spectrometry. The detection limit for the gaschromatographic method is 10 ng Cl -/ml or 0.5 ng Cl- per sample, for the atomic absorption spectrometric method 0.2 ng Cl -/ml or 0.3 ng Cl- per sample.
Abstract The silicon-substituted organomercurials (Me 3 SiCCl 2 ) 2 Hg, (Me 3 SiCBr 2 ) 2 Hg and (Me 3 SiCHBr) 2 Hg have been evaluated as potential divalent carbon transfer agents. (Me 3 SiCCl 2 ) 2 Hg, in combination with an equimolar quantity of diphenylmercury, was found to react with olefins at ca 120–130° to give x -chloro- x -trimethylsilylcyclopropanes in moderate to good yield. Me 3 SiCCl 2 Hg bond homolysis, which is a minor side reaction at 120°, became the major process at 220°, and evidence indicates that the trimethylsilyldichloromethyl radicals formed couple and abstract hydrogen and chlorine. (Me 3 SiCBr 2 ) 2 Hg reacted with cyclohexene at 95° in the presence of diphenylmercury to give 7-bromo-7-trimethylsilylnorcarane in moderate yield, but (Me 3 SiCHBr) 2 Hg is too stable, even at 160°, to serve as a divalent carbon transfer agent.
ICO:WIST rats were pretreated over 20 days, using oral administration of subtoxic doses of 1.5 mg/kg body weight of phenylmercury acetate (PMA) 15 mg/kg of CdCl2 and 15 mg/kg of CuCl2, to investigate correlations between nephrotoxic effects of PMA, on the one hand, and buildup through various extraneous substances of adaptive reactivity, on the other. This was followed by application of an acutely toxic dose of 15 mg/kg of PMA. Its effect was compared by morphological and functional investigations with conditions in unchallenged animals. The method, according to all findings, did not cause major renal damage, on completion of PMA, CdCl2, and CuCl2 pretreatment. Nephrotoxic effects induced to pretreated animals (1.5 mg/kg of PMA) by 15 mg/kg of PMA were clearly below those induced to untreated animals. However, PMA effectiveness on kidneys was much higher in animals which had received CdCl2 or CuCl2 pretreatment. Such possible controllability of toxic PMA efficacy through adaptation to various extraneous substances is likely to underline the need for differentiated assessment of progressive and regressive elements related to adaptive reaction.
The preparation and characterization of phenylmercury(II) complexes of L-cysteine and DL-penicillamine are reported. Infrared and Raman spectra of the new complex ,mu-cysteinato-S,N-bis[phenylmercury(II)] monohydrate and of previously reported complexes of L-cysteine and DL-penicillamine are compared. The complexes decompose to form diphenylmercury when stirred as suspensions in benzene at ambient temperature.
The 13C chemical shifts of the methyl carbon in a wide range of compounds of methylmercury(II) and of the phenyl-ring carbons in several phenylmercury(II) compounds (HgRX) have been observed and rationalised. Direct carbon-13–mercury-199 couplings, 1J(C–Hg), have also been observed in most of the compounds and are strongly dependent on the solvent as wall as on the nature of the unidentate ligand X, as are the corresponding two-bond proton-mercury couplings, 2J(H–Hg). Some very large values of 1J(C–Hg) have been observed, {e.g. 2 661.1 Hz for phenylmercury(II) acetate in [2H6]dimethyl sulphoxide}. The observed variations of coupling constant are explicable either by a rehybridisation scheme or by a departure from strict molecular linearity in nucleophilic solvents.
Abstract [Pt(pp 3 -P,P′,P″,P‴)H]O 3 SCF 3 and [Pt(np 3 -N,P,P′,P″)H]O 3 SCF 3 (pp 3 = P[CH 2 CH 2 PPh 2 ] 3 , np 3 = N[CH 2 CH 2 PPh 2 ] 3 ) have been shown to react with phenylmercury hydroxide to give [PhHgPt(pp 3 -P,P′,P″,P‴)]O 3 SCF 3 and [PhHg(np 3 -N,P,P′,P″)]O 3 SCF 3 , which have been characterized by 31 P, 195 Pt and 199 Hg NMR spectroscopy.
Abstract The reactions of 5-(4′-dimethylaminobenzylidene)rhodanine (HDABRd) and 5-(2′-thiophenomethylene)rhodanine (HTRd) with methyl- and phenylmercury(II) acetate yielded [HgR(DABRd)] and [HgR(TRd)] (R=Me, Ph), respectively. These complexes were characterized and studied by IR and NMR (1H, 13C{1H} and 199Hg) spectroscopy, and X-ray diffractometry, respectively. In both structures the rhodanine ligand coordinates to the mercury atom via its N(3) atom, and HgC(13) and HgN(3) are almost collinear. The mercury atom also forms intra- and intermolecular secondary bonds. In particular, an Hg⋯S bond associates the [HgPh(DABRd)] molecules in zig-zag chains parallel to the b axis, and an Hg⋯O bond links the [HgMe(TRd)] molecules in centrosymmetric dimers.
Phenylmercury acetate was administered subcutaneously to hens for several months consecutively, and these hens were respectively raised in a cage in pair with a rooster, and the rate of egg-laying, the transfer of mercury to eggs and the toxicity of the mercurial on chick-embryo were studied. Egglaying of hen administered with 600μg/day as Hg of phenylmercury acetate was gradually inhibited, and that of a hen administered with 300μg/day as Hg of the mercurial was not inhibited. Mercury concentration in eggs of these hens increased gradually during the period of administration, and after about twenty days of administration reached a stationary state. About thirty per cent of the daily dose of the mercurial administered to hens were transferred into the eggs, and almost all of the mercury in the eggs were found in the yolk. Distribution in organs of hens administered with phenylmercury acetate and in organs of chicken hatched from eggs of the above hens was similar to those of hens and their chicken administered with mercuric chloride.
Abstract Mercury-pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate complexes are first time used for speciation of aquatic mercury with high-performance liquid chromatographic/ion trap-mass spectrometric method utilizing atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI). The separation of the four mercury species was achieved in less than 5 min with a linear gradient profile of aqueous methanol from 70 up to 100% (v/v) in 4th min, isocratic elution at 100% up to 5th min and followed by a negative gradient to 70% in 6th min. The best separation was achieved on a reverse phase Zorbax Eclipse XDB C18 column (50 mm × 2.1 mm i.d., 1.8 μm particle size). The on-column limits of detection (injection volume 1 μL) were 370 pg for methylmercury (MeHg + ), 280 pg for ethylmercury (EtHg + ), 250 pg for phenylmercury (PhHg + ) and 90 pg for inorganic mercury (Hg 2+ ) when the data were collected in selective ion monitoring (SIM) mode. A method of isolation and preconcentration of the mercury species using a “home-made” C18 solid phase extraction (SPE) microcolumns was developed to enhance sensitivity of the method. The preconcentration factor as much as 2500 was achieved with on-column complex formation of mercury-pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate. Methanol (100%) was chosen for elution of preconcentrated mercury species. The method was applied for the determination of mercury species in river water samples.
The reactions of di(2-thienyl)mercury, 2-thienylmercury chloride and 2-furylmercury chloride with a variety of nitrogen- and phosphorus-containing ligands have been studied. The presence of the electron-withdrawing heteroatoms results in these mercurials being stronger acceptors than the corresponding phenylmercury compounds. The complexes have been characterized by elemental analysis, melting points, infrared, and 199Hg NMR spectroscopy. 2,9-Dimethyl- and 3,4,7,8-tetramethyl-phenanthroline form 1:1 chelate complexes, as does 1,2-bis(diphenylphosphino)ethane, whereas ethylenediamine and 2,2′-bipyridyl do not form complexes. Though non-chelating ligands such as 2,4′- and 4,4′-bipyridyl do not form complexes, bis(diphenylphosphino)methane forms 1:2 complexes in which the ligand bridges two mercury atoms. Monodentate ligands, such as triphenylphosphine, cause disproportionation of the organomercury chloride. 2-Thienylmercury chloride forms a 4:1 complex with 4,4′-dipyridyl disulfide in which it is believed that a molecule of the organomercurial is coordinated to both of the nitrogen and both of the sulfur atoms. Copyright © 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The heavy metal-resistant model bacterium Cupriavidus metallidurans strain CH34 harbors two large plasmids, pMOL28 and pMOL30, which carry genetic determinants for heavy metal resistance [27] . Each plasmid contains a merRTPADE operon that confers a narrow-spectrum mercury resistance. To improve inorganic and organic mercury resistance of strain C. metallidurans CH34, the IncP-1b plasmid pTP6 was introduced into strain CH34 in this study. The transconjugant strain Cupriavidus metallidurans MSR33 showed a broad-spectrum mercury resistance and was able to efficiently remove mercury from polluted water. 3 Hg + (100 mg ml 21 ) were prepared. NaBH 4 solution (0.25%) was prepared in NaOH (0.4%) solution. High purity hydrochloric acid was used for mercury dilutions before quantification by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer (ICP-OES). Sodium succinate and salts for media preparation were obtained from Merck (Darmstadt, Germany). Taq DNA polymerase and bovine serum albumin for PCR were obtained from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA, USA). RNA was extracted using an RNeasy Protect Bacteria Mini kit from Qiagen (Hilden, Germany). For RNA quantification the QuantiT TM RNA Assay kit from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA, USA) was used. RT-PCR was performed using SuperScriptTM III One-Step Figure 1 . Bacterial mechanisms for organic and inorganic mercury detoxification and regulation of the mer genes. MerA, mercuric reductase; MerB, organomercurial lyase; MerP, periplasmic mercury-binding protein; MerT, membrane mercury transport protein; MerG, periplasmic protein involved in cell permeability to phenylmercury; MerE membrane protein that probably acts as a broad mercury transporter; MerR, transcriptional activator or repressor of the transcription of mer genes (black pentagon); MerD, co-represor of transcriptional activation; Pt, promoter of merT and merB2 genes. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0017555.g001
The germanium—sulphur bond in Bu3GeSAr is cleaved by electrophilic reagents. Thus halogens and nitrosyl chloride react to give the disulphide, ArSSAr; sulphenyl chlorides, Ar′SCl, give ArSSAr′; sulphur chlorides, SCl2 and S2Cl2, give tri- and tetrasulphides, ArSSSAr and ArSSSSAr, respectively. Metathetic reactions also occur with triphenylmethyl chloride and phenylmercury chloride. The germanium sulphides appear to be less reactive than the corresponding tin sulphides.
The phenylmercury(II) derivatives PhHgS2P(OR)2 (R=C2H5, C6H11 and C6H5) have been synthesized. (O,O′-diethyldithiophosphate) phenylmercury(II), C10H15HgO2PS2, crystallizes in the monoclinic space groupP21/c (n° 14) witha=7.330(5),b=18.085(2),c=11.552(4)A,β=105.96(5)°,V=1472.3(6)A3,Z=4,D=2.088 g.cm−3. The mercury atom is coordinated to the phenyl carbon atom and to a ligand sulphur atom in an almost linear arrangement (C-Hg-S angle, 176.0(2)°. The ligand is almost monodentate, its second sulphur atom only being involved in a weak secondary intermolecular bond.IR and Raman studies of the other two compounds suggest the same coordination scheme. Positive ion FAB and13C,31P and199Hg NMR spectra are also discussed.
BACKGROUND ::: Patients with certain autoimmune and allergic diseases, such as systemic lupus, multiple sclerosis, autoimmune thyroiditis or atopic eczema, often show increased lymphocyte stimulation by low doses of inorganic mercury in vitro. The patients often report clinical metal hypersensitivity, especially to nickel. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE AND METHODS ::: In this study we examined the health impact of amalgam replacement in mercury-allergic patients with autoimmunity. The suitability of MELISA, an optimized lymphocyte stimulation test, for the selection of susceptible patients and monitoring of sensitization was also examined. Amalgam fillings were replaced with composites and ceramic materials. Follow-up health status and lymphocyte reactivity were assessed and evaluated half a year or later following amalgam removal. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Results of lymphocyte reactivity measured with MELISA indicate that in vitro reactivity after the replacement of dental amalgam decreased significantly to inorganic mercury, silver, organic mercury and lead. Out of 35 patients, 25 patients (71%) showed improvement of health. The remaining patients exhibited either unchanged health (6 patients, 17%) or worsening of symptoms (4 patients, 11%). The highest rate of improvement was observed in patients with multiple sclerosis, the lowest rate was noted in patients with eczema. The initial mercury-specific lymphocyte reactivity was significantly higher in the responder group, than in the non-responders, whose health was not improved by amalgam removal. All patients with health improvement after amalgam replacement showed reduced proliferation to inorganic mercury in follow-up MELISA. In vitro responses to phenylmercury and nickel did not differ between the groups. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Mercury-containing amalgam may be an important risk factor for patients with autoimmune diseases. MELISA is a valuable tool for selection of patients for amalgam replacement and also for monitoring of metal allergies.
In seed treatment tests with 9 fungicides, thiram performed best followed by captan and Ceresan wet (phenylmercury acetate)
Abstract With the aim of improving water-solubility and providing anchor points for follow-up reactions, the well-known intensely colored green analytical reagent, dithizone (H2Dz), was functionalized by two carboxylic acid substituents. Similarly, sulfacetamide and sulfonyl substituents were also employed, but its dithizone products decomposed in aqueous medium. The crystal structure of the nitroformazan carboxylic acid intermediate is reported. Its bent conformation is maintained by intramolecular hydrogen-bonding. Together with the two added dithizone carboxylate end groups the three spatially removed points are now available for complexation, eg. with phenylmercury(II) moieties. As opposed to the otherwise single-metal PhHgHDz(COOH)2 complex, added heavy mercury atoms in PhHgHDz(COOHgPh)2 inhibit photochromism in the tri-metallic complex. Kinetic studies of the photochromic return reaction of PhHgHDz(COOH)2 show the reaction rate to be linearly dependant on concentration and exponentially dependant on temperature, with rate constant of 0.0084 s−1 at 0 °C, i.e. four times faster than observed for the unsubstituted complex, PhHgHDz.
The UV spectra of 19 symmetrically disubstituted phenylmercurials and di (β-naphthyl)mercury were measured in ethanolic solution. The E bands of the symmetrical disubstituted phenylmercurials undergo red-shifts with respect to the diphenylmercury and even greater red shifts were observed with respect to the corresponding arylmercuric chlorides. ::: It has been shown that a good linear relationship exists between △λ_p=λ_(p-XC_6H_4)_2Hg-λ(C_6H_5)_2Hg for the E bands and the Hammett σ_p constants, which may be regarded as a measure of shifts in λ_(max) values caused by various para-substituents for the E and B bands. The differences △λ could be considered as a measure of the conjugative effect of various substituents. The plots of △λ_p against △σ or σ_R gave straight lines, therefore the conjugative effect of substituents increases with the increasing of electron-releasing or electron-withdrawing abilities of the substituents. ::: The energies of the HOMO and LUMO for the compounds investigated have been calculated by HMO method. The △λ_(max) values for para-and ortho- substituted compounds calculated from △E(E_(LUMO)-E_(HOMO)) deviate from the experimental values within 10 and 5 nm respectively. The CO_2Et and NO_2 substituted compounds were exceptions in both para- and ortho-derivatives. These results are in agreement with the conclusion that the vacant p orbitals of the mercury atom can conjugated with the p orbitals of two phenyl groups.
Abstract The suitability of HPLC (normal and reversed phase adsorption) with UV or post-column reaction detection for the analysis of organomercurials was investigated systematically. The separation of organomercurials is best carried out on a reversed phase system with a C-8 bonded phase material as the stationary phase and acetonitrile-aqueous sodium bromide mixtures as the mobile phase. The precision and detection limit of the method and the efficiency of the extraction procedure were established. For the alkylmercury compounds the lowest limit of detection (80ppb) was obtained with the dithizone reaction detection and for the phenylmercury compounds with UV detection (60ppb). A chromatogram of a spiked fish (2ppmHg) and a river water sample (50ppbHg) is shown.
Monomethyl and dimethylmercury are potent neurotoxins subject to biomagnification in food webs. This fact was tragically demonstrated by the Minamata and Niigata poisoning incidents in Japan in which 168 persons who ate seafood from mercury polluted waters were poisoned, 52 fatally. Shortly after these two incidents, work conducted in freshwater environments demonstrated the microbial conversion of inorganic and phenylmercury compounds to mono- and di-methylmercury. Consideration of some fragmentary evidence from the literature, however, indicates that the rate and the significance of microbial methylation of mercury in freshwater and saltwater environments may not be the same. A demonstrated relationship between mercury methylation rates and water salinity would greatly influence our thinking about mercury pollution effects in marine versus freshwater environments. Since we were unable to locate published reports on this subject, we are investigating the influence of salinity on the rate of mercury methylation in an estuarine sediment.
Abstract The percentage extraction of organomercurials and inorganic mercury on polyurethane foam loaded with diethylammonium diethyldithiocarbamate is high over a wide pH range, particularly when a plasticizer is added to the foam. Flow rates up to 120 ml min -1 give quantitative extraction of inorganic mercury. Mercury(II), methylmercury and phenylmercury ions at 1 μg l -1 levels can be almost quantitatively preconcentrated from tap and saline water, and eluted from the foam with acetone.
To investigate the individual role of MerT and MerP encoded by Pseudomonas K-62 pMR26 in the transport of phenylmercury, a series of mutants with a specific point mutation in merT and/or genetic deletion in merP were constructed and transformed into Escherichia coil XL-1-Blue. Transport of phenylmercury across the cytoplasmic membrane of E. coli mediated by MerT and MerP was inhibited by NaCN and by cold temperatures. Deletion of merP reduced, but did not completely abolish the C6H5Hg+-hyperuptake and -hypersensitive phenotypes suggesting that transport of phenylmercury into the cytoplasm of E. coli is still occurring. Mutations of the vicinal cysteine residues (Cys24 and Cys25) in the first transmembrane region of MerT to serine caused complete loss of Hg2+-hyperuptake and -hypersensitivity, whereas the mutations did not affect the C6H5Hg+-hyperuptake and -hypersensitive phenotypes. In addition, no additive effect on the C6H5Hg+-hyperuptake and -hypersensitive phenotypes was found, when mutations of the two cysteines in MerT to serine were further introduced in the merP-deleted mutants. These results clearly demonstrated that the vicinal cysteine residues of MerT are not involved in the transport of C6H5Hg+, but indeed are involved in the transport of Hg2+ as previously reported.
SUMMARY ::: ::: Dilutions of various fungicides were compared on potted MM 109 clonal rootstocks in the glasshouse for protective (pre-infection) and curative (post-infection) activity against apple scab. The materials, as commercial preparations, included captan, copper (as ‘dry’ Bordeaux mixture), dichlofluanid, didecyldimethylammonium bromide (DDAB), dispersible sulphur, dithianon, dodine acetate, lime-sulphur (LS), phenylmercury chloride (PMC), and thiram; they were assessed on the basis of percentage active ingredient in the dilutions. ::: ::: ::: ::: When acting at normal rates of use, many of the fungicides were much more effective protectively than curatively, but this contrast was less applicable to DDAB, dodine acetate, LS, and dichlofluanid. PMC, however, was an especially notable exception in proving curatively superior at unusually low rates. In addition, it was particularly active in vapour form, and was effectively translocated not only from one leaf surface to the other, but, especially at 0.005%, from sprayed to younger unsprayed leaves on the same shoots. Other standard fungicides showed little or no translocated activity, but isobutyl-o-coumarate was effective at the growing shoot-tips in spring from a spray applied to the lower leaves. ::: ::: ::: ::: PMC reduced infection when applied once at any time during the scab-incubation period, and especially 24 hr. after infection, when the control was almost complete. Longer intervals before spraying reduced the curative action, but not in proportion to the intervals; the infection pattern showed multi-peak fungicidal activity and, after the later sprays, many lesions were practically infertile. The curative properties of PMC were matched by several other formulated phenylmercury salts compared at equivalent percentage mercury content, but the dimethyldithiocarbamate proved rather less effective. A preliminary attempt to supplement the curative properties of PMC with the protective properties of LS, by mixing these fungicides at low rates, showed evidence of fungicidal antagonism, and this needs further investigation. ::: ::: ::: ::: Several fungicides, notably the inorganic sulphurs, thiram, the phenylmercury compounds, dichlofluanid, and DDAB showed incidental activity against natural infection by powdery mildew.
— Analytical methods have been developed which enable phenylmercuric nitrate, mercuric ion and diphenylmercury to be measured in sulphacetamide drops. Application of these methods demonstrate that during heat sterilization of both 10 and 30% sulphacetamide drops containing phenylmercuric nitrate, together with disodium edetate and sodium metabisulphite, there is a 20–30% overall loss of phenylmercuric nitrate. This loss occurs mainly due to the phenylmercuric ion establishing an equilibrium with equimolar amounts of mercuric ion and diphenylmercury.
As used clinically, Myocrisin appears to contain largely polymeric (Autm)n, in which thiomalate (tm) sulphurs bridge between Au(I) ions, together with small amounts of a more reactive gold-bound thiomalate, and free thiomalate, as well as glycerol, unidentified yellow-products from autoclaving and phenylmercury adducts. Solganal usually contains thioglucose sulphinic acid as an impurity. Auranofin, on the other hand, has been crystallised. It is monomeric and Au(I) is almost linearly coordinated by P and S from triethylphosphine and tetraacetyl-β-D-thioglucose, the latter adopting the chair conformation in the solid state and in solution. The major reaction of auranofin in acidic aqueous solutions appears to be hydrolysis of the sugar acetyl groups but other products arise if methanol is also present in the medium. NMR methods are used to examine in vitro the partition of auranofin between plasma and blood cells. The displacement of the thioglucose ligand and release of PEt3 from gold as OPEt3 are discussed.
1. ::: ::: In 65–80% aqueous dioxane, the protolysis of phenylmercury bromide in the presence of sodium iodide by trichloroacetic, chloroacetic, and phosphoric acids proceeds according to an SE1 mechanism, the rapid step of which is attack of a proton upon the ionized organomercury complex. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: In 70% dioxane, CH2ClCOOH and H3PO4 manifest acid catalysis on account of coordination with the phenylmercury bromide. CCl3COOH exerts no catalytic effect. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: In 90–95% dioxane, protolysis by phosphoric acid proceeds accordingto an SE2 mechanism. Chloroacetic acids react extremely slowly in this medium. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: In the case of an SE2 mechanism, additions of water inhibit protolysis, while in the case of SE1 mechanism, they accelerate protolysis.
Chemical aspects of the toxicity of mercury compounds and the use of British anti-Lewisite [BALH₃ , CH₂(SH)CH(SH)CH₂OH] as an antidote for mercury poisoning have been investigated. ::: Assignments of vas(SMS) and vs(SMS) for the complexes M(SR)₂ (M = Zn , Cd , Hg ; R = Et , But) and Hg(SRI)₂ (R' = me , Ph CH₂CH₂0H) are reported. Comparison of frequencies for the complex Hg(SBut)₂ containing four-coordinate mercury with those of Hg(SR")₂ (R" = Me , Et) containing two-coordinate mercury allows assignment of a polymeric structure with linear coordination, (-Hg-S-S-)n (n > 1), rather than the cyclic, monomeric structure usually drawn for the 1 : 1 complex of Hg(II) with BALH₃, Hg(BALH). An analogous derivative of 1,3-dimercapto-2-propanol (DMPH₃),Hg(DMPH), adopts a similar polymeric structure in the solid state and is dimeric in pyridine. Crystalline Hg(DMPH).py1.5, which rapidly loses pyridine at ambient temperature, is obtained from a pyridine solution of Hg(DMPH). ::: The dithiols BALH₃ and DMPH₃ form complexes RHgS-SHgR (R = Me , Ph). Infrared, Raman, and ¹H NMR spectra of RHg(II) and Hg(II) dithiol complexes are compared with those of PhHgSR (R = Me , Et , Pr' , But , Ph , CH₂CH₂0H) and Hg(SR1)₂ (Rs = Me , ::: Et , But , ph , CH₂CH₂0H). Mercury-sulphur stretching frequencies have been assigned for most of these complexes. Phenylmercury(II) ::: , thiolates have the coupling constant J(orthoH-199 Hg) within the range 144-155 Hz. ::: The complexes PhHgSR and Hg(SR")₂ (R" = Et , But , Ph) ere monomeric in chloroform; the chloroform insoluble complexes ::: Hg(SR"')₂ (R'" = Me , CH₂CH₂OH) and organomercury(II) dithiolates (RHg)₂LH (R = Ph , LH = BALH; R = Me , Ph , LH = DMPH) are monomeric in pyridine. The PhHg(II) dithiolate (PhHg)₂DMPH crystallizes as an adduct (PhHg)₂DMPH.py from pyridine. ::: The PhHg(II) dithiolates decompose in benzene and methanol at ambient temperature to form diphenylmercury. ::: The preparation and characterization of Hg(II), PhHg(II) and MeHg(II) complexes of L-cysteine and DL-penicillamine ::: are reported. Infrared and Raman spectra of the new complex p-cysteinato-S,N-bis[phenylmercury(M]monohydrate and of previously reported complexes of L-cysteine and DL-penicillamine are compared. The complexes decompose to form diphenylmercury when stirred as suspensions in benzene at ambient temperature. ::: The complexes RSHgX (R = Me , Et, But ; X = Cl , Br) form non-conducting solutions in pyridine, and either crystallize from pyridine [MeSHgBr and EtSHgX(X = Cl , Br)] or form pyridine mplexes[MeSHgCl.py,(BuSHgC1)₂.py, and Bu SHgBr.py]. ::: An X-ray crystal structure analysis of (ButSHgC1)₂.py has been determined by Drs. A.H. White and C.L. Raston. The structure is based on a zig-zag polymer chain of mercury and sulphur atoms of bridging Bu S groups (-Hg-S-). Every alternate mercury is bonded to chlorine and nitrogen of pyridine to give distorted tetrahedral geometry; and the other mercury atoms are bonded to one chlorine and more weakly to an equivalent chlorine of an adjacent chain. The two different mercury environments correspond to the moieties 'ButSHgCl.py' and 'ButSHgC1', respectively, of (ButSHgC1)2.py. ::: The relevance of this work to the biological behaviour of mercury compounds and to the use of British anti-Lewisite as an antidote for mercury poisoning are discussed.
A new and simple technique for the determination of total mercury in gas condensate was developed which eliminates the use of chemicals/additives and complicated digestion procedures. The determinations are carried out by vaporisation of the samples at 400 °C with adsorption of mercury species on a gold trap (Amasil) maintained at 200 °C. The trap is then heated at 900 °C to release metallic mercury, which is determined by atomic fluorescence spectrometry. The mercury recoveries from seven species, dimethylmercury (DMM), diethylmercury (DEM), diphenylmercury (DPM), methylmercury chloride (MMC), ethylmercury chloride (EMC), phenylmercury chloride (PMC) and mercury(II) chloride (MC) spiked individually into gas condensate were found to be in the range 80–100%. The mercury recoveries for mixtures of the seven species added in equal amounts to gas condensate were in the range 88–97%. For Conostan mercury standard added to the condensate, the recovery was 88%. The instrumental precision from 10 measurements of a toluene control was 4% RSD. For three mercury species. DEM, MC and EMC, added to condensate, the precision was between 2 and 5% RSD (n = 10). The limit of detection (3ςn–1 criterion) for the procedure was calculated to be 180 pg Hg in toluene and 270 pg in condensate. For three mercury species added to a condensate sample, the absolute detection limits were 270 pg Hg for DEM, 450 pg Hg for MC and 630 pg Hg for EMC. Total mercury measurements in five real condensate samples from two sites at different stages of production covered the range 7–50 ng ml–1 with uncertainties in the range 4–7% RSD. The total mercury concentration of two commercial heavy gas oil samples were found to be 22.2 ± 0.6 µg ml–1 with RSD 3% (n = 4) and 2.3 ± 0.1 µg ml–1 of mercury with RSD 3% (n = 7).
A reversed-phase liquid chromatographic method is described for the determination of inorganic mercury and organomercury in aqueous solution. Using an eluent of methanol-10 mM sodium acetate buffer (80:20, pH 6.2) containing 0.1 mM 2-mercaptobenzothiazole (MBT), methylmercury, ethylmercury, phenylmercury and inorganic mercury can be separated on a C18 column in less than 9 min. UV detection was carried out at 285 nm. Calibration graphs were linear (r ⩾ 0.997) over three orders of magnitude of concentration for the three organomercury species. The linear range of inorganic mercury was smaller. Detection limits (3σ) ranged from 0.3 ng of Hg for methylmercury to 0.5 ng of Hg for inorganic mercury. Interference due to metal ions can be eliminated by inclusion of a low concentration (ca. 50 μM) of EDTA in the eluent.
Abstract A system for on-line treatment of liquid samples in a microwave oven and determination of mercury by cold-vapour atomic absorption spectrometry was designed and evaluated. The system consisted of an atomic absorption spectrometer, equipped with a mercury-hydride system and amalgamation accessory, a flow-injection system, an autosampler and a mircowave digestor. Urine and environmental water samples were stabilized with potassium dichromate-nitric acid and were mixed with a bromination reagent. The recoveries of eight mercury compounds from aqueous solutions and five compounds from dilute urine were studied. At an applied microwave power of 75 W, the recoveries of mercury(II) nitrate, methylmercury chloride, amidomercury chloride, phenylmercury chloride and diphenylmercury were between 92 and 102% for 1 + 2-diluted urine without amalgamation and between 94 and 111% for 1 + 5-diluted urine with amalgamation, respectively. The sample throughput was 30–40 h −1 without amalgamation and 24 h −1 in the amalgamation mode. Good agreement with certificate values was obtained for urine samples. A limit of detection (3σ) of 10 ng l −1 was obtained using 10-ml sample volumes of environmental waters (river, lake, rain) and the amalgamation technique. The results compared well with those from an external laboratory with correlation coefficients of 0.9302 and 0.9028 ( n = 22) for integrated absorbance and peak-height absorbance, respectively.
The homoleptic rare-earth pyrazolate complexes [Sc(tBu2pz)3], [Ln2(tBu2pz)6] (Ln = La, Nd, Sm, Lu), [Eu4(tBu2pz)8] and the mixed oxidation state species [Yb2(tBu2pz)5] (tBu2pz = 3,5-di-tert-butylpyrazolate) have been prepared by a simple reaction between the corresponding rare-earth metal and 3,5-di-tert-butylpyrazole, in the presence of mercury, at elevated temperatures. In addition, [Yb2(tBu2pz)6] was prepared by redox transmetallation/ligand exchange between ytterbium, diphenylmercury(II) and tBu2pzH in toluene, whilst the same reactants in toluene under different conditions or in diethyl ether gave [Yb2(tBu2pz)5]. The complexes of the trivalent lanthanoids display dimeric structures [Ln2(tBu2pz)6] (Ln = La, Nd, Yb, Lu) with chelating eta2-terminal and eta2:eta2-bridging pyrazolate coordination. The considerably smaller Sc3+ ion forms monomeric [Sc(tBu2pz)3] of putative D3h molecular symmetry, with pyrazolate ligands solely eta2-bonded. [Eu4(tBu2pz)8] is a structurally remarkable tetranuclear EuII complex with two types of europium centres in a linear array. The outer two are bonded to one terminal and two bridging pyrazolates, and the inner two are coordinated by four bridging ligands. Unprecedented mu-eta5:eta2 pyrazolate ligation is observed, with each outer Eu2+ sandwiched between two eta5-bonded pyrazolate groups, which are also eta2-linked to an inner Eu2+. The two inner Eu2+ ions are linked together by two equally occupied components of each of two symmetry related, disordered pyrazolate groups with one component eta4:eta2 bridging and one eta3:eta2 bridging. [La2(tBu2pz)6] has also been shown to be a Tishchenko reaction catalyst with several organic substrates.
UV/TiO(2) photocatalysis of phenylmercury salts in aqueous solutions has been performed starting from both acetate (C(6)H(5)HgCH(3)CO(2), PMA) and chloride (C(6)H(5)HgCl, PMC) salts, in the presence or the absence of oxygen at acidic pH. Removal of Hg(II) in solution took place with the simultaneous deposit of dark or pale gray solids on the photocatalyst, identified as metallic Hg (when starting from PMA) or mixtures of Hg(0) and Hg(2)Cl(2) (when starting from PMC). Partial mineralization of the organic part of both compounds has also been achieved. Hg(II) removal and mineralization were enhanced in the absence of oxygen. PMA photocatalysis followed a saturation kinetics, going from first order at low concentration to zero order at higher concentrations (>0.5mM). For PMA, reaction was faster at high pH (11) with formation of mixtures of Hg and HgO. Phenol was detected as a product of the reaction in both cases, PMA and PMC, and no formation of dangerous methyl- or ethylmercury species was observed in the first case. A mechanism for the photocatalytic reaction has been proposed. The fact that calomel was found as a deposit when starting from PMC under nitrogen suggests that the mechanism of Hg(II) transformation proceeds through successive one-electron transfer reactions passing by mercurous forms.
A series of alkaline earth metallocene complexes carrying the diphenylphosphanocyclopentadienyl ligand, [Ae(L)(x)(η(5)-C(5)H(4)PPh(2))(2)] (Ae = Ca, L = thf, x = 1 (6a); Ae = Ca, L = dme, x = 1 (6b); Ae = Sr, L = thf, x = 1 (7); Ae = Ba, L = thf, x = 1 (8a); Ae = Ba, L = dme, x = 2 (8b)), were prepared by redox transmetallation/protolysis from the free metals, diphenylmercury and diphenylphosphanocyclopentadiene. These complexes were characterised using multinuclear NMR spectroscopy and two by single crystal X-ray diffraction. [Ca(dme)(η(5)-C(5)H(4)PPh(2))(2)] (6b) is a discrete neutral monomeric eight coordinate molecule in which the phosphorus atoms are not coordinated to the calcium ion and the larger barium analogue, ten-coordinate [Ba(dme)(2)(η(5)-C(5)H(4)PPh(2))(2)] (8b), has an extremely bent sandwich structure due to the two dme ligands attached to the metal. Bimetallic complexes, [Ae(thf)(x)(η(5)-C(5)H(4)PPh(2))(2)Pt(Me)(2)].(solv) (Ae = Ca, L = thf, x = 2, solv = 1.5thf (9); Ae = Sr, L = thf, x = 3, solv = 1.5thf (10); Ae = Ba, L = thf, x = 3, solv = thf (11)) were obtained by reaction of the homometallic complexes with [Pt(cod)(Me)(2)]. The crystal structures of [Ca(thf)(2)(η(5)-C(5)H(4)PPh(2))(2)Pt(Me)(2)].1.5thf (9), [Sr(thf)(3)(η(5)-C(5)H(4)PPh(2))(2)Pt(Me)(2)].1.5thf (10) and [Ba(thf)(3)(η(5)-C(5)H(4)PPh(2))(2)Pt(Me)(2)].thf (11) show the eight (calcium) and nine coordinate (strontium and barium) fragments acting as a chelating metalloligand attached to the square planar platinum through the phosphorus donor atoms. The solution chemistry of these bimetallic complexes has been investigated by NMR spectroscopy, electro-spray ionisation mass spectrometry and conductivity experiments which indicate that the bimetallic compounds persist in solution.
We report a new adsorbent for removal of mercury species. By mixing Au nanoparticles (NPs) 13 nm in diameter with aluminum oxide (Al(2)O(3)) particles 50-200 μm in diameter, Au NP-Al(2)O(3) adsorbents are easily prepared. Three adsorbents, Al(2)O(3), Au NPs, and Au NP-Al(2)O(3), were tested for removal of mercury species [Hg(2+), methylmercury (MeHg(+)), ethylmercury (EtHg(+)), and phenylmercury (PhHg(+))]. The Au NP adsorbent has a higher binding affinity (dissociation constant; K(d) = 0.3 nM) for Hg(2+) ions than the Al(2)O(3) adsorbent (K(d) = 52.9 nM). The Au NP-Al(2)O(3) adsorbent has a higher affinity for mercury species and other tested metal ions than the Al(2)O(3) and Au NP adsorbents. The Au NP-Al(2)O(3) adsorbent provides a synergic effect and, thus, is effective for removal of most tested metal ions and organic mercury species. After preconcentration of mercury ions by an Au NP-Al(2)O(3) adsorbent, analysis of mercury ions down to the subppq level in aqueous solution was performed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The Au NP-Al(2)O(3) adsorbent allows effective removal of mercury species spiked in lake water, groundwater, and seawater with efficiencies greater than 97%. We also used Al(2)O(3) and Au NP-Al(2)O(3) adsorbents sequentially for selectively removing Hg(2+) and MeHg(+) ions from water. The low-cost, effective, and stable Au NP-Al(2)O(3) adsorbent shows great potential for economical removal of various mercury species.
A series of thiomercuric derivatives of mono- and disaccharides 1–7, in which methylmercury or phenylmercury is covalently attached to anomeric thioglycosides, were synthesized for structure—function studies of glycosidases. Thiomethylmercuryl xylobiosides 5 and 6 were found to inhibit intracellular xylanase-T6 in a competitive manner, with Ki values of 0.35 mM and 0.01 mM, respectively. These inhibitors have been co-crystallized with the enzyme and are being used for X-ray analysis. 1-(Thiomethylmercuric)-s-D-xyloside (3) affords crystals belonging to the orthorhombic space group P212121 and at 293(2) K: a = 6.7510(2), b = 9.7140(2), c = 29.4770(9) A, V = 1933.08(9) A, Z = 8, R(F2) = 0.0329, and Rw(F2) = 0.0626. There are two molecules (A and B) in the asymmetric unit, and each one shows an almost linear S–Hg–C arrangement. Biological tests on 1–7 indicated that they exhibit potent fungicidal and herbicidal activities.
We developed a gold nanoparticle (Au NP)-based fluorescence sensor for the detection of mercury ions in aqueous solutions. After introducing bovine serum albumin (BSA) to a solution of rhodamine 6G (R6G) and 3-mercaptopropionic acid (MPA)-modified Au NPs, the as-prepared BSA@R6G/MPA-Au NP probe could sense mercury ions under high salt conditions. This probe operated through a mechanism involving mercury species depositing onto the surfaces of the Au NPs and releasing R6G molecules into the solution, causing the fluorescence intensity of the BSA@R6G/MPA-AuNP solution to increase. We improved the selectivity of the nanosensor by adding masking agents (ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) and Na2S) or tellurium nanowires (Te NWs) to the sample solutions. In the presence of 1.0 mM EDTA and 10 μM Na2S, the selectivities of this system toward phenylmercury (PhHg(I)) over other metal ions and mercury species were greater than 200- and 10-fold, respectively. The limit of detection (LOD), at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3, for PhHg(I) was 20 nM. Selective detection of the total organic mercury (methylmercury (MeHg(I)), ethylmercury (EtHg(I)), and PhHg(I)) was possible when using the BSA@R6G/MPA-Au NPs in conjunction with Te NWs (3.0 nM). The selectivity of this nanosensor system for the total organic mercury over Hg(II) was remarkably high (100-fold) with an LOD for organic mercury of 10 nM. We also demonstrated the feasibility of using the developed nanosensor for rapid determination of mercury species in river, sea, and tap water as well as in fish samples.
Rapid, reliable and highly selective detection of mercury species, including Hg2+ ions and organomercury, is of significant importance for environmental protection and human health. Herein, a new fluorescent dye 1,1,2,2-tetrakis[4-(3-methyl-1H-benzimidazol-1-yl)phenyl ethylene tetraiodide (Tmbipe) with aggregation-induced emission (AIE) potential was prepared and characterized. The presence of four positively charged methylated benzimidazole groups endows Tmbipe with excellent water solubility and almost undetectable background fluorescence. However, it can coordinate with two Hg2+ ions or two organomercury molecules (e.g. methylmercury and phenylmercury) to form a planar dinuclear HgII tetracarbene complex, which can then self-aggregate to turn on AIE fluorescence. Such a fluorescence turn-on process can be completed in 3 min. In addition, synergic rigidification of the tetraphenylethylene-bridged Tmbipe molecule by mercury-mediated chelate ring formation and subsequent aggregation results in obviously higher fluorescence enhancement than that given by the single aggregation-induced one. Low background, high fluorescence enhancement and rapid response time make Tmbipe a good fluorescent probe for reliable, sensitive and highly selective quantitation of both inorganic and organic mercury species. This probe was also demonstrated to work well for identification of mercury species accumulation in living cells.
This work demonstrated the feasibility of mercury speciation analysis by anion exchange chromatographic separation with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry detection. For the first time, by complexing with the mobile phase containing 3-mercapto-1-propanesulfonate into negatively charged complexes, fast separation of inorganic mercury (Hg(2+)), monomethylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg) and phenylmercury (PhHg) was achieved within 5 min on a 12.5-mm strong anion exchange column. The detection limits for Hg(2+), MeHg, EtHg and PhHg were 0.008, 0.024, 0.029 and 0.034 μg L(-1), respectively. The relative standard deviations of peak height and peak area (5.0 μg L(-1) for each Hg species) were all below 3%. The determined contents of Hg(2+), MeHg and total Hg in a certified reference material of fish tissue by the proposed method were in good accordance with the certified values with satisfactory recoveries. The relative errors for determining MeHg and total mercury were -2.4% and -1.2%, respectively, with an acceptable range for spike recoveries of 94-101%. Mercury speciation in 11 fish samples were then analyzed after the pretreated procedure. The mercury contents in all fish samples analyzed were found compliant with the criteria of the National Standards of China.
The metabolism of [U-(14)C]phenylmercury acetate was studied in the rat. After a single subcutaneous dose a small proportion is excreted unchanged in urine, and a larger amount in bile with some resorption from the gut. The greater part of the dose is broken down in the tissues to yield inorganic mercury which is excreted mainly in faeces, and conjugates of phenol and quinol are excreted in urine. In experiments in vitro phenylmercury is broken down by liver homogenates to release inorganic mercury and benzene; this reaction is effected by the soluble, but not the microsomal, fraction and does not require NADPH or NADH. No elemental mercury is formed under these conditions. It is probable that this reaction occurs in vivo and the benzene produced is rapidly converted into phenol and quinol by microsomal enzymes.
Baeyer's synthesis of nitroso benzene reported in 1874. 1 Since then, not only have the methods of synthesis improved substantially (Baeyer reacted diphenylmercury with nitroso bromide), but the range of nitroso species accessible and their range of reactions has increased substantially. 2 Indeed, the heteroDiels-Alder reaction has been widely used not only to derive oxazine systems, 2 but also for a widerange of synthetic applications, 3 including asymmetric synthesis 4 and recently in flow chemistry.
The preparation of solid derivatives from thiols and thioethers was investigated in order to discover a method of concentrating extremely dilute solutions of these compounds and to analyse them by thin-layer chromatographyIt was found that thiols could be separated from thioethers by reaction with phenylmercury acetate and a method was developed for the analysis of mixtures of thiols by the thin-layer chromatography of the phenylmercury mercaptides formed by this reaction.A method used by earlier workers for the preparation of dialkylsulphinimines from thioethers and chloramine-T was improved to make it suitable for use with microgram amounts of thioethers, and the derivatives were separated successfully by thin-layer chromatography.
Abstract ::: An experimental approach based on the assembly of genes of a catabolic pathway was used to detect transconjugants in aquatic communities. Resistance to phenylmercury acetate was established in transconjugants when wide-host-range conjugal plasmids containing merB, the gene encoding organomercurial lyase, were transferred to strains from aquatic communities that had been acclimated to inorganic mercury and thus enriched for populations containing merA, the gene encoding mercuric reductase (T. Barkay, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 53:2725-2732, 1987). Conjugation was confirmed by using the plasmids' encoded antibiotic resistance patterns and by hybridization with a eukaryotic gene. Three merB-conjugal plasmids, belonging to incompatibility groups W (pGTE16), P1 (pGTE26), and N (pGTE25), were prepared. Transfers by filter matings of pGTE16 and pGTE26 from Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA01 to indigenous strains were at efficiencies of 4.5 × 10-2 and 4.8 × 10-3 transconjugant per potential recipient, respectively. These efficiencies were from 1 to 2 orders of magnitude below those observed for intraspecies matings with genetically marked recipients. The third plasmid, pGTE25, was not stably maintained in P. aeruginosa donors, and its transfer from Escherichia coli donors was below the level of detection. Characterized transconjugant strains were shown to be Pseudomonas spp. Potential applications of the described experimental approach in the creation of bacterial populations with new catabolic capabilities in hazardous waste sites and in the detection of transfer of recombinant DNA from engineered microorganisms to indigenous bacteria are discussed.
Abstract When diphenyltin dibenzoate is subjected to pyrolysis at 300°, almost exactly two moles of benzene (plus a small amount of biphenyl) are recovered and a non-volatile residue is left behind: (C 6 H 5 ) 2 Sn(O 2 CC 6 H 5 ) 2 → 2 C 6 H 6 + Sn(O 2 CC 6 H 4 ) 2 Chemical degradation of this residue shows that the benzene originated from the tin-bound phenyl groups, that the hydrogen is abstracted from the benzoic acid residue, and that new SnC bonds had formed between the metal and the benzoate group. There is no significant reduction of Sn IV . When this pyrolysis is carried out in cumene, no interaction products of phenyl radicals and cumene are observed. It appears that this reaction is probably not of the classical homolytic type. Triphenyltin benzoate, on pyrolysis at 350°, loses two phenyl groups almost exclusively as benzene. Diphenylantimony benzoate loses two phenyl groups as benzene (400°) and phenylmercury benzoate loses one phenyl group (as benzene), as well as a molecule of carbon dioxide (300°), leaving a residue of (C 6 H 4 Hg) n . Neither diphenylarsenic benzoate nor triphenylsilyl benzoate decompose at 400°.
Abstract The structures of the title compounds were determined. The structure of 2-(2-pyridyl)phenyltellurium(II) chloride ( 1 ) is triclinic and consists of discrete molecules with average bonding distances over six independent molecules TeCl 2.606(11), TeC 2.077(7) A and a short Te…N interaction distance of 2.205(11) A. The structure of the molecule in the ‘pure’ compound is compared with that previously reported in which it forms a 2:1 inclusion compound with p -ethoxyphenylmercury(II) chloride. One form of the related iodide ( 2 ) is triclinic and isomorphous with the above chloride; selected bond distances are TeI 2.937(1), TeC 2.095(18) and TeN 2.260(10) A. A second form of the iodide ( 3 ) is monoclinic ( Z = 4) and yields more accurate parameters: TeI 2.917(11), TeC 2.112(6), TeN 2.268(5) A. The synthesis of the new organyltellurium(II) iodides are given together with those of ‘RTeI’, where R = 2-(2-pyridyl) phenyl- or 2-phenylazophenyl-: it is suggested on the basis of spectroscopic examination (NMR and Raman) that the oxidation state of tellurium in these ‘triiodide’ species is (II).
Treatment of diphenylmercury with an excess of trimethylgallium at higher temperatures resulted in the formation of dimethyl(phenyl)gallium (1). Similarly, reaction of 1-chloromercurio(4-methylbenzene) and 1-chloromercurio(4-tert-butylbenzene) with an excess of trimethylgallium gave dimethyl(4-methylphenyl)gallium (2) and dimethyl(4-tert-butylphenyl)gallium (3), respectively. Treatment of diphenylmercury with an equivalent amount of trimethylgallium resulted in the formation of methyl(diphenyl)gallium (4). The X-ray crystallographic studies of compounds 1, 2, 3, and 4 revealed the presence of trigonal planar coordinate gallium atoms in monomeric molecules, which associate to polymeric strands by additional intermolecular gallium π-aryl contacts, thus leading to an overall trigonal bipyramidal coordination geometry at gallium. Compounds 1−4 are stable in the solid state and in solution. Substituent redistribution reactions take place at higher temperatures and at room temperature in the presence of THF. Co...
An efficient ambient temperature post-column oxidation system was developed for high-performance liquid chromatography online coupled with cold vapor atomic fluorescence spectrometry for mercury speciation analysis in seafood. The developed system does not require an external heat source, such as a hot water bath, microwave heating or UV irradiation, to decompose organomercury compounds into inorganic mercury ion (Hg(II)). Methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), phenylmercury (PhHg) and Hg(II) were baseline separated on an RP-C18 column with a mixture of methanol, acetonitrile and water (75 ∶ 5 ∶ 20) containing 0.01% m/v ammonium pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (APDC) ::: (pH 3.5) as the mobile phase. Online ambient temperature post-column oxidation of organomercury species eluted from the HPLC column was achieved by mixing the effluent with a 3% m/v K2S2O8 in 10% v/v HCl solution in a knotted reactor made of a 0.5 mm id × 200 cm long PTFE tube. The developed oxidation approach enhanced sensitivity for organomercury by a factor of 4 for MeHg, 3 for EtHg and 6 for PhHg, compared with that obtained without post-column oxidation. The detection limits for 100 μl injection were 0.19–0.27 μg l−1 ::: (as Hg) in extract, corresponding to 4.75–6.75 μg kg−1 ::: (as Hg) in fish tissue for a 50 ml final extract of 2 g tissue. The precision (RSD, n ::: = 5) ranged from 1.8 to 2.8% for peak area, and from 1.7% to 2.9% for peak height at the 1 μg l−1 ::: (as Hg) level. The method was validated by determination of methylmercury in a certified reference material (DORM-2, dogfish muscle) and applied to the speciation analysis of mercury in local seafood samples.
Abstract A series of phenylmetal compounds, selected for their differing structures, have been allowed to react with a labelled mercury surface. Where the structure approximates to linear or planar, substitution of the metal has been shown to occur. The reactions may be explained in terms oran SEi transition state similar to that previously postulated for mercury/diphenylmercury exchange reactions.
Method previously employed by Westoo for the determination of alkylmercury compounds was producing very wide picks during G.C. analyses. Changing the column temperature, carrier gas flow and pressure did not supersede the problem. Therefore change in packing materials was experienced. 5% DC-200 on Gas-Chrom did not work. A packing material used for chlorinated hydrocarbons W, 80-100 mesh. As the result, the modified method showed very high sensitivities in determining alkyimercury compounds and phenylmercury in less than 4 minutes, employing simplest extraction and cleanup procedures, while indicating gook percentages of recoveries. This method was completed in 1974 during a research about biotransformation of mercury in sediments.
The endocarp of the fresh pea pod incubated with solution or suspension of agricultural fungicides, phytotoxic metabolites of plant pathogenic fungi formed the pea phytoalexin, pisatin. Among the compounds tested, cycloheximide, triazine, dichlone, phenyimercury acetate, UV degradation product of phenylmercury acetate, triphenyltin fungicides, and 3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole induced pisatin. Ophiobolin, a toxin from Cochliobolus mtyabeanus, and ascochitine, a toxic metabolite from Ascochyta fabae, also induced pisatin. The possibilities of the development of harmless plant disease control agents was discussed in relation- to the induced synthesis of phytoalexins.
Abstract It has been found that the reaction of diphenylmercury with an equimolar amount of thio- or dithio acids gave the corresponding phenylmercury thio- (1) or dithiocarboxylates (2), quantitatively, which further react with thio- or dithio acids to give mercury bis (thio-) (3) or bis(dithiocarboxylates) (4). The phenylmercury dithio salts (2) were found to be the very useful thioacylating agents for primary and secondary amines. The reaction of mercury bis(thiocarboxylates) (3) with dithiocarboxylic acids gave the unsymmetrical thio- and dithiocarboxylic acid mercury salts [RC(O)SHgS(S)CR′]j (5) in good yields.
Treatment of (diphenylthiocarbazono)phenylmercury [PhHg{SC(NNPh) 2 }] with the triosmium cluster [Os 3 (CO) 10 (NCMe) 2 ] produced two structural isomers 1a and 1b of formulae [{Os(CO) 2 Ph} 2 {μ-η 2 -SC(NNPh) 2 } 2 ] in 35 and 20% yield, respectively. The complexes were fully characterised by IR, 1 H-NMR, mass spectroscopies and X-ray crystallography. The isomers 1a and 1b show no significant metal–metal interaction and are different in the arrangement of the organic ligand. Complex 1a was found to undergo a complete conversion to 1b in the presence of excess reducing agent Co(Cp) 2 . The electrochemical and spectroelectrochemical (UV–vis) properties of these two complexes are described.
Abstract Complex formation between organomercury and a series of polymethylenediamines was investigated by means of elemental analyses, proton magnetic resonance and potentiometric titration. In addition to 2:1 (metal:ligand) and 2:1 hydrolyzed complexes, chelating ligands such as ethylenediamine, trimethylenediamine and EDTA formed new 1:1 chelate complexes. On the other hand, non-chelating agents such as tetra-, penta-, hexa- and dodecamethylenediamines formed 1:1 non-chelate and 2:1 complexes. The stability constant of the 1:1 chelate decreased in the order, EDTA > ethylenediamine > trimethylenediamine and those of 1:1 non-chelate and 2:1 complexes increased with increase of the methylene chain length. In the conversion of the 1:1 chelate into the 2:1 complex, the structures of intermediates were presumed. The stability constants in each ligand increased linearly with increase of Taft's polar substituent constant ( σ ∗ ) of the organic moiety in organomercury, namely in the order phenylmercury > methylmercury > chlormerodrin > ethylmercury > n-propylmercury. It was suggested that the σ ∗ value can be used as a measure of the relative stability constant of organomercury complexes and that the nitrogen-mercury bond is of the σ-covalent character.
Thermally unstable tetraphenyltitanium has been obtained by the interaction of 4 moles of phenyllithium with titanium tetrachloride in benzene solution at −70°. It reacts with mercuric chloride at the same temperature with quantitative formation of phenylmercury chloride. In ether-cyclopentadiene solution, because of the replacement of two phenyl groups, dicyclopentadienyldiphenyltitanium is formed. At −10° tetraphenyltitanium decomposes, 1 mole of biphenyl is formed, and black pyrophoric diphenyltitanium, stable at room temperature and in an inert atmosphere, has been isolated. ::: ::: The oxidation of diphenyltitanium in benzene labelled with 14C shows that both products of the oxidation, phenol and biphenyl, do not contain the label. A chloroform solution of diphenyltitanium decomposes at room temperature with the formation of benzene, titanium tetrachloride and biphenyl. A black crystalline precipitate of diphenyltitanium ammine has been obtained by the action of ammonia on a solution of diphenyltitanium in benzene. It is easily oxidised in air. ::: ::: Only about 40% of the theoretical yield of phenylmercury chloride is obtained by the action of mercuric chloride on a solution of diphenyltitanium in either. Phenylmercury chloride reacts with the organotitanium compound with formation of benzene, metallic mercury, calomel and ethylmercury derivatives. The formation of ethylmercury chloride was the result of a homolytical procedure with the solvent, diethyl ether.
Abstract Solid-state activation energies for fluxional behavior in three aryl-subsituted (pentachlorocyclo-pentadienyl)phenylmercury compounds RHgC5 Cl5 : (pentachlorocyclopentadienyl)(pentamethyl-phenyl)mercury (I, R = C6 (CH3)5 , Eact = 19.3 kJ mol-1); (pentachlorocyclopentadienyl)(2,4,6-tris-(terf-butyl)phenyl)mercury (II, R = 2,4,6-C 6 H 2 (C(CH3)3)3 , Eact = 59.5 kJ mol-1); and (pentachloro-cyclopentadienyl)(phenyl)mercury (III, R = C6H5 , E act = 62.8 kJ mol-1) have beeb obtained from 35Cl NQR spin-lattice relaxation-time measurements. II has also been shown to be fluxional in solution by 13C NMR spectra. II was prepared by an exchange reaction between Hg(C5Cl5)2 and Hg(2,4,6-C6H2(C(CH3)3)3)2 , which reacted readily despite the great steric hindrance present in the latter reagent.
Many capillary electrophoresis (CE)- [6, 7] , gas chromatography (GC)-, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-related [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] separation techniques associated with preconcentration extraction methods had, in some cases, been developed prior to the analysis of inorganic mercury or oganomercury present in the environment or in biological samples. The extraction mechanism leading to the analyte's preconcentration was involved in either the complexation or exchanging of mercury species with a sulfur-containing agent. An extraction efficiency higher than 95.0% has been reported. On the other hand, numerous direct spectroscopic approaches for detecting these mercury species in aqueous solution have been reported [17, 18] . However, the removal of organophenylmercury species from polluted sites has rarely been reported, except for phenylmercuric chloride. In the present study,
It has been found that the reaction of diphenylmercury with an equimolar amount of thio-or dithio acids gave the corresponding phenylmercury thio-(1) or dithiocarboxylates (2), quantitatively, which further react with thio-or dithio acids to give mercury bis (thio-) (3) or bis(dithiocarboxylates) (4). The phenylmercury dithio salts (2) were found to be the very useful thioacylating agents for primary and secondary amines. The reaction of mercury bis(thiocarboxylates) (3) with dithiocarboxylic acids gave the unsymmetrical thio-and dithiocarboxylic acid mercury salts [RC(0)SHgS(S)CR'j (5) in good yields.
Solid-state activation energies for fluxional behavior in three aryl-subsituted (pentachlorocyclopentadienyl)phenylmercury compounds RHgC 5 Cl 5 : (pentachlorocyclopentadienyl)(pentamethylphenyl)mercury (I, R = C 6 (CH 3 ) 5 , £ act = 19.3 kJ mol ); (pentachlorocyclopentadienyl)(2,4,6-tris-(terf-butyl)phenyl)mercury (II, R = 2,4,6-C 6 H 2 (C(CH 3 ) 3 ) 3 , £ acl = 59.5 kJ mol" *); and (pentachlorocyclopentadienyl)(phenyl)mercury (III, R = C 6 H 5 , £ act = 62.8 kJ mol -1 ) have beeb obtained from 3 *C1 NQR spin-lattice relaxation-time measurements. II has also been shown to be fluxional in solution by 13 C NMR spectra. II was prepared by an exchange reaction between Hg(C 5 Cl 5 ) 2 and Hg(2,4,6-C 6 H 2 (C(CH 3 ) 3 ) 3 ) 2 , which reacted readily despite the great steric hindrance present in the latter reagent.
One of the most fascinating properties of many mono/iapro-cyclopentadienyl metal compounds, r] 1 -C 5 X 5 MR", is fluxionality, the rapid relocation of the carbon-metal sigma bond to involve in turn each of the five cyclopentadienyl ring carbons, each relocation generating an equivalent structure [1] . Because of the time scale of this process, it is normally studied by solution NMR, but recently it has been possible to study it in the solid state by wide-angle or magic-anglespinning NMR techniques [2] . Most studies have been limited to demonstrating that fluxional motion is occurring in certain temperature ranges; only a few studies have been able to assign activation energies to the process. Such data would help answer many interesting questions about fluxional behavior, such as how it is affected by changing the cyclopentadienyl ring substitution, how it is affected by the presence of steric hindrance or of solid-state bonding of ring substituents to mercury atoms in adjacent molecules, and how it is affected on going from solution to the solid state. Recently we have begun applying 35 C1 NQR, which has long been used to study molecular motion in the solid state [3] , to the study of fluxional behavior in the solid state [4, 5] . The continuous-wave (CW) NQR technique we used was capable of locating "fade-out" temperatures for fluxional compounds, above which no NQR signals could be located due to reorientation at a rate comparable to or greater than the linewidth, but since the CW-NQR technique does not give true linewidths, nothing could be deduced about the activation energy for the process. In this paper we report additional studies using pulse-Fourier transform (FT) NQR spectroscopy to measure true linewidths and spin-lattice relaxation times T x , which enabled us to obtain activation energies (£ act ) for fluxional reorientation in three aryl-substituted (pentachlorocyclopentadienyl)phenylmercury compounds RHgC 5 Cl 5 :
We investigated the reactions of phenylmercury(II) acetate with 3-(substituted phenyl)-2-sulfanylpropenoic acids H2L [L = xspa, where spa = 2-sulfanylpropenoato and x ∈ {o-mp = 3-(2-methoxyphenyl)-}, p-mp = 3-(4-methoxyphenyl)-, o-tfmp = 3-(2-trifluoromethoxyphenyl)-, p-tfmp = 3-(4-trifluoromethoxyphenyl)-] in the presence of diisopropylamine in ethanol. The 1:1:1 reactions gave compounds of type [HQ][PhHg(L)] [where HQ = diisopropylammonium cation]. All the new compounds were isolated and characterized by elemental analysis, FAB mass spectrometry and IR, and NMR (1H, 13C, 199Hg) spectroscopy. The crystal structures of the [HQ][PhHg(L)] compounds show the presence of diisopropylammonium cations and [PhHg(L)]− anions, in which the Hg atom adopts a HgCOS distorted T-environment. For the o-mpspa derivative, a symmetrization process, followed in solution by NMR spectroscopy, was detected and crystals of [HQ][PhHg(o-mpspa)]·0.5HgPh2 were isolated and studied by X-ray diffraction.
Abstract α-sulfanuric chloride(I) reacts with diphenylmercury to form diphenylsulfanuric chloride, N3S3O3Cl(C6H5)2(II). Diphenylsulfanuric fluoride, N3S3O3F(C6H5)2(III), is readily produced by the reaction of (II) with potassium fluoride. Results of pyrolysis studies and of thermogravimetric and differential thermal analyses for compounds I, II and III are presented. Infrared and mass spectral data are also given.
Abstract In 2-(2′-pyridyl)phenyltellurium(II) bromide ( 1 ) the coordination about tellurium may be described as pseudo -trigonal bipyramidal wth bromine (TeBr = 2.707(11) A) and nitrogen (TeN) = 2.236(11) A) atoms occupying axial positions. The equatorial plane comprises a carbon atome (TeC = 2.111(6) A) and two lone pairs of electrons. There are no significant intermolecular interactions between the six independent molecules in the unit cell. Bis[2-2′-pyridyl)phenyltellurium(II) chloride]· p -ethoxy-phenylmercury(II) chloride ( 2 ) may be regarded as an “inclusion compound” obtained by replacement of two RTeX (X = Cl or Br) molecules by two p -ethoxyphenylmercury(II) chloride entities. There is approximately linear coordination about mercury (CHgCl = 179.2°(4), Hg-C = 2.044(14) and HgCl = 2.328(4) A) and 2-(2′-pyridyl)phenyltellurium(II) chloride, with a structure similar to that of ( 1 ) above (TeN = 2.2366(6), TeCl = 2.558(1), TeC = 2.080(25) A). There are no significant intermolecular contacts.
The uptake of inorganic mercury and phenylmercury by fish directly from water as well as sorbed on food and the release of both forms of mercury has been investigated in order to determine the cumulation and release constants. The radiochemical analysis of different forms of mercury has shown that phenylmercury is rapidly transformed in fish into inorganic mercury, which is slowly transformed into methylmercury.
A photometric titration, using p-dimethylaminophenylmercury(II) acetate with Michler's thioketone as indicator, is described for the determination of zinc dialkyldithiophosphates in lubricating oils. The method is simple, rapid, reproducible and accurate and samples do not require separation or other preliminary stages prior to their analysis. The method is suitable for determining additives in oils at concentrations above 0.01%.
A new heterobimetallic phenylmercury(II) dithiocarbamate complex having the ferrocenyl moiety (C5H5)Fe(C5H4) (Fc), PhHgS2CN(CH2Fc)CH2CH2OH, (1) has been prepared and characterized by elemental analyses, UV–vis, IR, 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopies and X-ray crystallography. The crystal structure of 1 showed a linear core at the Hg(II) centre of the molecule bounded by the sulfur atom of the dithiocarbamate ligand and carbon atom of the aromatic ring. Weak intermolecular Hg···S interactions lead to “head to tail” dimer in this compound and presence of hydroxyl group generates one-dimensional chain network. This ferrocenyl-based organomercury(II) dithiocarbamate complex compound comprising of a –OH moiety showed improved light-harvesting properties as a photosensitizer in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs). The short-circuit current and open-circuit potential obtained with this compound were 6.95 mA/cm2 and −0.645 V, respectively, resulting in the enhanced overall conversion efficiency of 3.2 %.
A series of new heterobimetallic phenylmercury(II) dithiocarbamate complexes incorporating the ferrocenyl moiety (C(5)H(5))Fe(C(5)H(4)) (Fc), namely PhHgS(2)CN(CH(2)Fc)CH(2)C(6)H(5), (1), PhHgS(2)CN(CH(2)Fc)CH(CH(3))(2), (2), PhHgS(2)CN(CH(2)Fc)(CH(2))(3)CH(3), (3) and [PhHgS(2)CN(CH(2)Fc)](2)(CH(2)C(6)H(4)CH(2)), (4) have been prepared and characterized by elemental analysis, UV-Vis, IR, (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopies. The crystal structures of 1, 2 and 4 showed a linear core at the Hg(II) centre of the molecule, bound by the sulfur atom of the dithiocarbamate ligand and carbon atom of the aromatic ring. Weak intermolecular Hg...S interactions form "head-to-tail" dimers in the cases of 1 and 2. 4 forms a similar dimeric structure, forming two pairs of Hg...S interactions to generate a tetrametallic unit. The observed quasi-reversible cyclic voltammograms of the complexes have been corroborated by calculating gross electron population at each atom for the neutral as well its oxidized species obtained at the density functional level (DFT) of theory, which suggests an electron withdrawing effect from the organomercury(ii)-dithiocarbamate group. The electronic absorption bands of all the four complexes were assigned with the help of time dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) calculations. Upon excitation at approximately 440 nm 1, 3 and 4 exhibited a medium strong photoluminescence emission at approximately 500 nm as a consequence of MLCT intraligand charge transfer. 1, when excited at 256 nm exhibits photoluminescence emission at 398 nm.
This report gives preliminary data on methodology for two groups of compounds: organometallics and other organic compounds difficult to measure by the generalized methods. Previous work (Contract 68-02-2685, Task 111, and Task 1 of this contract) involved the evaluation of generalized GC/FID, GC/MS, and HPLC/UV methods for determining approximately 170 compounds from the approximately 400 compounds in Appendix VIII, Part 261, 40 CFR. However, the survey analysis portion of waste characterization often targets specific compounds for determination in incinerator effluent that are not amenable to previously developed methods. Therefore current research involves the development of specific GC/FID, GC/MS, and HPLC/UV methods for the determination of several of these compounds. Organometallic compounds such as benzenearsonic acid, hydroxydimethylarsine oxide (cacodylic acid), phenylmercury acetate, selenourea, and tetraethyl lead were selected as candidate POHCs for this study. In support of the destruction and removal efficiency requirement, generalized GC/FID, GC/MS, and HPLC/UV analysis methods were evaluated and, when necessary, modified for the detemiination of 33 additional candidate POHCs.
Variations in the electromagnetic wavelengths of absorption and reflection of molecules do not only make life colorful but also are often of central importance in solar energy conversion and optoelectronic information processing and transfer. Dithizone and its derivatives and complexes are, to our knowledge, probably the most "colorful" compound, being responsive to no less than seven different external stimuli that effect color change. Apart from a more detailed discussion of the cyclic voltammetry and observed electrochromism in the SCH3-substituted free ligand and mercury complex, concentratochromism, solvatochromism, halochromism, thermochromism, and chronochromism in the ligand, and photochromism in the carboxy-functionalized phenylmercury(II) complex are also presented here. Color changes are either associated with proton transfer or loss, or isomerization.
Most of analytical community is focused on reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) for mercury speciation by employing mobile phases comprising of high salts and moderate amounts of organic solvents. This study aims at rapid mercury speciation analysis by ion-pairing RP-HPLC with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) detection only using low salts for the sake of green analytical chemistry. Two ion-pairing HPLC methods were developed on individual usage of positively and negatively charged ion-pairing reagents (tetrabutylammonium hydroxide -TBAH and sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate -SDBS), where sodium 3-mercapto-1-propysulfonate (MPS) and l-cysteine (Cys) were individually added in mobile phases to transform mercury species into negative and positive Hg-complexes for good resolution. Addition of phenylalanine was also utilized for rapid baseline separation in combination of short C18 guard columns. Optimum mobile phases of 2.0mM SDBS+2.0mM Cys+1.0mM Phe (pH 3.0) and 4.0mM TBAH+2.0mM MPS+2.0mM Phe (pH 6.0) both achieved baseline separation of inorganic mercury (Hg2+), methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg) and phenylmercury (PhHg) on two consecutive 12.5-mm C18 columns. The former mobile phase was selected for mercury speciation in freshwater fish because of short separation time (3.0min). Detection limits of 0.015 for Hg2+, 0.014 for MeHg, 0.028 for EtHg and 0.042μgL-1 for PhHg were obtained along with satisfactory precisions of peak height and area (1.0-2.8% for 5.0μgL-1 Hg-mixture standard). Good accordance of determined values of MeHg and total mercury in certified reference materials of fish tissue (GBW 10029) and tuna fish (BCR-463) with certified values as well as good recoveries (91-106%) proved good accuracy of the proposed method. An example application to freshwater fish indicated its potential in routine analysis, where MeHg was presented at 3.7-20.3μgkg-1 as the dominate species.
A method for labeling antibodies with p-aminophenylmercurylacetate (pAPMA) was applied to the study of the synthesis and transport of the S-antigen of Sendai virus in cells in tissue cultures. It was shown that synthesis of S-antigen begins in nucleoli 3–4 hours after infection and as it accumulates it is transported through the nucleus into the cytoplasm. Mature virus particles appear at the edge of the cell wall in 9–12 hours after infection. The evidence given indicates that the inner component of Sendai virus (ribonucleoprotein) is formed in the nucleolus. Some peculiarities of messenger RNA of Sendai virus are discussed.
The chromatographic behaviour of Hg(II), methylmercury, phenylmercury and Cu(II) on three different sorbents, strong acidic sulfobutyl cation-exchanger, weak basic aminopropyl anion-exchanger and silicagel has been studied. A dithizone solution in cetyltrimethylammonium hydrogensulfate water micellar medium was found as a useful post-column derivatization reagent for UV-VIS detection. The detection limits 1.1 ng, 2.2 ng, 6.2 ng and 1.6 ng were found in silicagel chromatographic system and dithizone detection system for Hg(II), methylmercury, phenylmercury and respectively for Cu(II).
Mercury compounds were first used in Germany as seed dressings to control seed-borne diseases of cereals about 1914. ‘Uspulun’, described as a ‘chlorophenolmercury’ compound was placed on the market in 1915 by Bayer A.G. as a liquid dressing and was soon widely used. Dusts, such as ‘Ceresan’, at first having phenylmercury acetate as the active ingredient and, subsequently, a methoxyethylmercury compound, and ‘Agrosan’, a tolylmercury acetate formulation, became more widely used ten years later. Liquid treatments, using alkylmercury active ingredients, were reintroduced about the time of World War II because of the reduced hazards and inconvenience to operators dressing the grain in specially designed machines, although alkylmercury compounds are more toxic than arylmercurials. In Sweden it has recently been found that the extensive use of alkylmercury compounds can lead to harmful contamination of the environment and there they have been replaced by other organomercury compounds. In most countries both liquid and dust treatments are commonly used. Formulations containing organo- mercurials have been found to give a better control of fungal diseases of grain than non-mercurial formulations.
Although mercury and its compounds are toxic to all living organisms, certain bacteria possess resistance genes to mercurials. Mercury resistance occurs in various Gramnegative and Gram-positive bacterial species from a wide variety of clinical and environmental sources [1] . The mercury resistance mechanism is based on the enzymatic reduction of divalent mercuric ions (Hg 2þ ) to less toxic elemental mercury (Hg 0 ). The mechanism is conferred by a set of operon genes for the resistance. Many mer systems are known where the genes are linked in an operonic structure. The mer operons consist of a cluster of linked genes that encode proteins with functions related to regulation, transport, decomposition, and reduction of mercurial compounds [1^3] . Although mer operons determining the same mechanisms have been identi¢ed from various Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, the component genes of the mer operons are not uniform, and genetic variation within each gene also exists [1^3] . In general, merR (regulatory gene), merT (mercury transport gene), merP (extracellular mercury-binding gene) and merA (mercury reductase gene) are commonly conserved as core mer operon genes, while additional genes such as merB (for organomercury lyase) [4] , merC (for mercury transport) [5] , merD (a second regulatory gene) [6] , merE (another mercury transport gene) [7, 8] , merF (still another mercury transport gene) [9] , or merG (phenylmercury resistance gene) [10] are optional [11] . Furthermore, whereas more studies have been done about the genetic diversity within mer genes from Gram-negative bacteria [11^14], fewer are available for mer genes of Gram-positive bacteria and Hg R Bacillus strains have been isolated in the USA [15] , Japan [16, 17] , Russia [18, 19] , and England [20] . Based on poly-merase chain reaction^restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR^RFLP) analysis, merA genes of Bacillus strains isolated from River Mersey, England, were classi¢ed into 22 distinguishable groups [20] . Less genetic diversity of mer operon was seen with Bacillus strains from the sediment of Minamata Bay, Japan [16] . Recently, a broadspectrum mercury resistance module was studied from chromosomal DNA of a Minamata Bay isolate Bacillus megaterium MB1 [17] . It is basically identical to the mer genes of a previously found USA strain, Bacillus cereus RC607 [17, 21, 22] , and an Exiguobacterium sp. strain, TC38-2b isolated in Ukraine [18, 23] . These genes are encoded in a class II transposon [17, 23] . Evidence indicates that the class II transposon is involved in the horizontal dissemination of mercury resistance among the Gram-positive bacterial world. As Minamata Bay sediment provides a source related to severe methylmercury poisoning [16] , the previous observation of low genetic diversity in this area may re£ect a peculiarity of this site and this has interested us to make a further study for the molecular diversity of the Minamata Bay Bacillus population.
We have determined the structure of [PhHg(C4H7N30)][N03].H20. The crystal is made up of [PhHgNC(NH2)(Me)CH2CO]+ cations containing the phenylmercury group bonded to the ring N atom, nitrate ions, and water molecules. The creatinine and phenyl rings in the cation are almost coplanar, and the cations are stacked with phenyl and creatinine rings of adjacent ions almost parallel and 3·372 A apart. Bond lengths within the creatinine ring indicate delocalization of the carbonyl C(1)O with the guanidinium moiety as the C(1)-N(3) distance, 1·38 (4) A, is appropriate for multiple-bond character.
The crystal structures of two adducts of diphenylmercury with neutral bidentate nitrogen donor atom ligands have been determined, showing very weak interactions between mercury and nitrogen atoms. The crystals are disordered in a manner giving rise to diffuse reflexions for which k is odd. The crystal of diphenylbis-(2,4,7,9-tetramethyl-l,10-phenanthroline)mercury(lI) studied has a=21.09, b= 14.54, c= 14.65 A, beta = 120°34', Z=4, and space group Cm. Crystals of diphenylbis(2,9-dimethyl-l,1O-phenanthroline)mercury(II) have a= 15.42, b= 14.28, c= 14.55 A, alpha~beta~gamma 90°, Z=4,and spacegroup PI with approximate Pm symmetry. Both adducts have their planar ligands in (040) with the C-Hg-C units of Ph2Hg moieties aligned in the [010] direction. Each diphenylmercury moiety has one ligand adjacent to it with Hg-N distances of 2.8-3.0 A, and one-half of the ligands in the crystals do not have a mercury atom adjacent to their nitrogen atoms. Within the unit cell of each adduct every second (040) plane has 0·5 occupancy for two Ph2Hg moieties with mercury atoms in those planes, and every other (040) plane has 0·8 and 0.2 occupancy for two Ph2Hg moieties in those planes, giving one Ph2Hg for every two ligands.
Abstract Treatment of tetra- O -acetyl-β- d -glucopyranosyl N , N -dimethyldithiocarbamate ( 1 ) with phenylmercury(II) acetate gives tetra- O -acetyl-1-phenylmercury(II)thio-β- d -glucopyranose ( 3 ), which can also be made in high yield from other dithiocarbamates, from tetra- O -acetyl-1-thio-β- d -glucopyranose, and from its S -acetyl derivative. The p -diethylamino derivative ( 7 ) of compound 3 displays significantly different properties and is readily convertible into bis(tetra- O -acetyl-1-thio-β- d -glucopyranosyl)mercury(II) ( 8 ), which is also obtainable by treatment of tetra- O -acetyl-1-thio-β- d -glucopyranose with mercury(II) acetate. Aspects of the chemistry of compounds 3 , 7 , and 8 are reported; demercuration of 3 affords a convenient synthesis of 2,3,4,6-tetra- O -acetyl-1-thio-β- d -glucose.
An Escherichia coli strain was generated by fusion of a merA-deleted broad-spectrum mer operon from Pseudomonas K-62 with a bacterial polyphosphate kinase gene (ppk) from Klebsiella aerogenes in vector pUC119. A large amount of the ppk-specified polyphosphate was identified in the mercury-induced bacterium with the fusion plasmid designated pMKB18 but not in the cells without mercury induction. These results suggest that the synthesis of polyphosphate as well as the expression of the mer genes is mercury-inducible and regulated by merR. The E. coli strain with pMKB18 was more resistant to both Hg2+ and C6H5Hg+ than its isogenic strain with cloning vector pUC119. The recombinant strain accumulated more mercury from Hg2+- and C6H5Hg+-contaminated medium. Hg2+ transported into the cytoplasm appeared to be bound by chelation with the polyphosphate produced by the recombinant cells. The transported phenylmercury was degraded to Hg2+ before the chelation since polyphosphate did not directly chelate with C6H5Hg+. These results indicate that polyphosphate is capable of reducing the cytotoxicity of the transported Hg2+ probably via chelation between polyphosphate and Hg2+.
Abstract Reaction of phenylmercury (II) acetate with HPyTd (HPyTd= (5- (2-pyridinylmethylene)-2-thiohydantoin) yields [HgPh (PyTd )]. The complex has been characterized by elemental analysis and IR and NMR (1 H, 13 C and 199 Hg) spectroscopy. The crystal structure of [HgPh (PyTd )]·DMSO has been established by X-ray analysis. The mercury atom is coordinated to a phenyl carbon, the thiohydantoin N(1) and the pyridine N in a T-shaped arrangement and is additionally involved in weak Hg···S interactions (one intra- and one intermolecular).
Bacterial chromosomes have genes for transport of inorganic nutrient cations (such as NH4+, K+, Mg2+, Co2+, Fe3+, Mn2+, Zn2+ and other trace cations) and oxyanions (such as PO43- and SO42- and less abundant oxyanions). Together these account for sometimes several hundred genes in many bacteria. Bacterial plasmids encode resistance systems for toxic metal and metalloid ions including Ag+, AsO2-, AsO43-, Cd2+, Co2+, CrO42-, Cu2+, Hg2+, Ni2+, Pb2+, Sb3+, TeO32-, Tl+, and Zn2+. Most resistance systems function by energy-dependent efflux of toxic ions. A few involve enzymatic (mostly redox) transformants. Some of the efflux resistance systems are ATPases and others are chemiosmotic ion/proton exchangers. Mercury resistance is due to enzymatic detoxification with organomercurial lyase (cutting the C-Hg bond of compounds such as methylmercury and phenylmercury) and mercuric reductase (Hg2+→Hg0). The Cd2+-resistance cation P-type ATPases of Gram-positive bacteria drives Cd2+ (and Zn2+) efflux from resistant cells. The genes defective in the human hereditary diseases of copper metabolism, Menkes syndrome and Wilson's disease, encode Cu-specific P-type ATPases that are similar to bacterial Cd2+ ATPases. The arsenic resistance system transports arsenite [As(III)], alternatively with the ArsB protein functioning as a chemiosmotic efflux transporter or with two proteins, ArsB and ArsA, functioning as an ATPase transporter. The third protein of the arsenic resistance system is an enzyme that reduces intracellular arsenate [As(V)] to arsenite [As(III)], the substrate of the efflux system. In Gram negative cells, a three polypeptide complex functions as a chemiosmotic cation/proton exchanger to efflux Cd2+, Zn2+, and Co2+. This pump consists of an inner membrane (CzcA), an outer membrane (CzcC) and a membrane-spanning (CzcB) protein that function together.
Abstract 1,2-Ethanedithiol was firstly involved in preparing sulfur-containing functional magnetic polymer material of Fe3O4@SiO2@ glycidyl methacrylate (GMA)-S-SH. The prepared Fe3O4@SiO2@GMA-S-SH magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) show better adsorption capacity and adsorption/desorption dynamics for mercury species than other -SH functional materials due to the high affinity of both thioether and thiol group towards mercury. A new method of magnetic solid phase extraction (MSPE) using Fe3O4@SiO2@GMA-S-SH as sorbents combined with high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) was developed for the analysis of trace Hg2+, methylmercury (MeHg+) and phenylmercury (PhHg+). Variables affecting the simultaneous extraction of three target mercury species were investigated. It was found that Hg2+, MeHg+ and PhHg+ in 200 mL of water sample could be quantitatively adsorbed within 5 min and eluted by 0.5 mL 0.1 mol L−1 nitric acid and 4% thiocarbamide in 2 min. The developed method has high actual enrichment factors of 367, 380, 329-fold for Hg2+, MeHg+ and PhHg+, respectively. The detection limits were 0.40, 0.49 and 1.4 ng L−1 with the relative standard deviations (n = 5, inter-day) of 7.4, 8.1 and 8.3% for Hg2+, MeHg+ and PhHg+, respectively. The accuracy of the method was validated by the analysis of the Certified Reference Materials of GSS-11 soil, GSS-13 soil, GSB21 rice and DORM-2 fish. The established method was successfully used for the mercury speciation in farmland water, soil and rice samples collected from Wanshan, China, and satisfactory recoveries (84.3–116%) were obtained for the spiked samples.
Three environmentally and agrochemicaly important mercury species: methylmercury, phenylmercury and mercury(II) are separated within 4 minutes as bromocomplexes by micellar liquid chromatography using very short reversed-phase (RP) C18 columns (up to 30 mm). The micellar mobile phase containig 0.05M cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTMA+Br−), 1% (v/v) 2-propanol, 0.001M cyclohexylenediaminetetraacetic acid (DCTA) and sulfuric acid (pH 2) showed good selectivity in mixed reversed-phase and anion-exchange mode. The above mentioned separation order in which organomercurials are cluted far behind the void volume of the column, but before the mercury(II) peak is advantageous in all instances where mercury(II) is present in real samaples in great excess. Environmental and agrochemical samples contain humic material which does not interfere in this particular system. The low cost photometric detection at 500 nm after post-column derivatization by CTMA+Br− micellized dithizone is almost free from interferences and enables detection limits at the 1–3 ng level (e.g., 0.1 ppm Hg) for 20 μl samples.
Essentially all bacteria have genes for toxic metal ion resistances and these include those for Ag+, AsO2-, AsO4(3-), Cd2+ Co2+, CrO4(2-), Cu2+, Hg2+, Ni2+, Pb2+, TeO3(2-), Tl+ and Zn2+. The largest group of resistance systems functions by energy-dependent efflux of toxic ions. Fewer involve enzymatic transformations (oxidation, reduction, methylation, and demethylation) or metal-binding proteins (for example, metallothionein SmtA, chaperone CopZ and periplasmic silver binding protein SilE). Some of the efflux resistance systems are ATPases and others are chemiosmotic ion/proton exchangers. For example, Cd2+-efflux pumps of bacteria are either inner membrane P-type ATPases or three polypeptide RND chemiosmotic complexes consisting of an inner membrane pump, a periplasmic-bridging protein and an outer membrane channel. In addition to the best studied three-polypeptide chemiosmotic system, Czc (Cd2+, Zn2+, and Co2), others are known that efflux Ag+, Cu+, Ni2+, and Zn2+. Resistance to inorganic mercury, Hg2+ (and to organomercurials, such as CH3Hg+ and phenylmercury) involve a series of metal-binding and membrane transport proteins as well as the enzymes mercuric reductase and organomercurial lyase, which overall convert more toxic to less toxic forms. Arsenic resistance and metabolizing systems occur in three patterns, the widely-found ars operon that is present in most bacterial genomes and many plasmids, the more recently recognized arr genes for the periplasmic arsenate reductase that functions in anaerobic respiration as a terminal electron acceptor, and the aso genes for the periplasmic arsenite oxidase that functions as an initial electron donor in aerobic resistance to arsenite.
Benzyl radicals, generated by the pyrolysis of dibenzylmercury, react with fluorene to give 9-benzylfluorene, 9,9-dibenzylfluorene, and 9,9′-bifluorenyl. Phenyl radicals, generated by the pyrolysis of diphenylmercury, react with fluorene to give 9-phenylfluorene and 9,9′-bifluorenyl. Homolytic benzylation of pyrene gives 1-benzylpyrene and 1,1′-bipyrenyl.The mechanisms of the formation of the products are discussed.
Abstract The aim of the investigation was to show how different mercury compounds are absorbed and distributed in a model of a food chain: animals preyed upon to predatory animals. Near-lethal doses of methylmercury hydroxide, methoxyethylmercury hydroxide, phenylmercury hydroxide, or mercury nitrate were injected subcutaneously into rats. Their organs or muscles were fed to other rats. When the rats in the second series had consumed the intended quantities of the organs or muscles (between 1 and 2 weeks) they were killed, and their organs were taken for analysis. The typical distribution pattern of methylmercury compounds, with the rather even distribution among the organs, was observed in the second series of animals, which were fed with organs and muscles containing methylmercury compounds. It is therefore probable that the methylmercury compound remains unchanged in the transport from one animal to another. The distribution of mercury among the organs in the other groups of the second series was rather similar in each case, being both less typical and more complex; consequently conclusions could not be drawn regarding the chemical form in which the mercury existed. The rate of excretion was of the greatest importance. Although the period of feeding was relatively short, the animals that were given organs containing methylmercury hydroxide obtained lethal doses in the course of the experiment, while all other animals were found to have concentrations in the organs that were sublethal. Methylmercury hydroxide was found to have the lowest rate of excretion in earlier experiments.
The Raman spectra of phenylmercuric chloride, phenylmercuric bromide, phenylmercuric iodide and diphenylmercury, and the infrared and Raman spectra of diphenylmercury in solution are reported. Using the previously reported infrared spectra of these compounds, vibrations were assigned, normal coordinate analyses were performed and frequencies were calculated using a valence force field. Good agreement was achieved between observed and calculated frequencies. The structure of diphenyl-mercury in solution is discussed.
Abstract The use of the ring oven technique in enzymatic analysis is described. The “segment technique” for catalyzed reactions is applied for the determination of enzymes, inhibitors and substrates. Three different methods have been worked out for this purpose, none of them needs a stable standard scale. These methods are illustrated by various examples: determinations of the enzymes acid and alkaline phosphatase, hyaluronidase, acetylcholinesterase, lipase and alcohol dehydrogenase; indirect determinations of the inhibitors copper, beryllium, molybdenum, the insecticides carbaryl and paraoxon, the herbicides 2, 4-D, mecoprop and bentazcn, and the fungicide phenylmercury acetate; and determinations of the substrates ethanol and glucose.
Peterka M., M. Tu~ek, D. Vesely: EmbryotoxicityoJNineSeedMordants in the Chick Embryo - the CHEST Method. Acta vet. Bmo 1996, 65:213-217. The seed mordants Agronal Super, which contains the organic mercury (5.4% phenylmercurychloride), has appeared to induce poisoning and even death of many people and animals. Minimal single embryotoxic doses of Agronal Super were estimated in 2-4-day old chick embryos using the CHEST method and compared with the minimal embryotoxic doses of other g seed mordants without mercury. Minimal embryotoxic doses (the beginning of the embryotoxicity range) of Agronal Super were between 0.1-1.0 JLglembryo. The seed mordants without mercury appeared to be less toxic: The minimal embryotoxic doses of Bay tan Combi, Bay tan Universal, Fundasol, Quinolate and Wolfen Thiuram were between 1-10 JLg/embryo. Novozir and Sibutol had minimal embryotoxic doses within the range 10-100 JLglembryo. The least dangerous appeared the seed mordant Vincit, which produced no embryotoxic effect, even after administration of the highest doses (100 JLg/embryo). Our results demonstrated the difference of several orders of magnitude between embryotoxic doses of Agronal Super and other g seed mordants. Replacement of seed mordants containing organic mercury (e.g. Agronal Super) by new ones with minimal or no embryotoxic effect (e.g. Vincit) is advisable. Embryotoxicity, chick embryo, mercury, seed mordant, Agronal
Abstract The reaction of PhHgOAc with N-NHCO-2-C4H3S-Htpp (5) and N-p-HNSO2C6H4tBu-Htpp (4) gave a mercury (II) complex of (phenylato) (N-2-thiophenecarboxamido-meso-tetra phenylporphyrinato)mercury(II) 1.5 methylene chloride solvate [HgPh(N-NHCO-2-C4H3S-tpp) · CH2Cl2 · 0.5C6H14; 6 · CH2Cl2 · 0.5C6H14] and a bismercury complex of bisphenylmercury(II) complex of 21-(4-tert-butyl-benzenesulfonamido)-5,10,15,20-tetraphenylporphyrin, [(HgPh)2(N-p-NSO2C6H4tBu-tpp); 7], respectively. The crystal structures of 6 · CH2Cl2 · 0.5C6H14 and 7 were determined. The coordination sphere around Hg(1) in 6 · CH2Cl2 · 0.5C6H14 and Hg(2) in 7 is a sitting-atop derivative with a seesaw geometry, whereas for the Hg(1) in 7, it is a linear coordination geometry. Both Hg(1) in 6 · CH2Cl2 · 0.5C6H14 and Hg(2) in 7 acquire 4-coordination with four strong bonds [Hg(1)–N(1) = 2.586(3) A, Hg(1)–N(2) = 2.118(3) A, Hg(1)–N(3) = 2.625(3) A, and Hg(1)–C(50) = 2.049(4) A for 6 · CH2Cl2 · 0.5C6H14; Hg(2)–N(1) = 2.566(6) A, Hg(2)–N(2) = 2.155(6) A, Hg(2)–N() = 2.583(6) A, and Hg(2)–C(61) = 2.064(7) A for 7]. The plane of the three pyrrole nitrogen atoms [i.e., N(1)–N(3)] strongly bonded to Hg(1) in 6 · CH2Cl2 · 0.5C6H14 and to Hg(2) in 7 is adopted as a reference plane 3N. For the Hg2+ complex in 6 · CH2Cl2 · 0.5C6H14, the pyrrole nitrogen bonded to the 2-thiophenecarboxamido ligand lies in a plane with a dihedral angle of 33.4° with respect to the 3N plane, but for the bismercury(II) complex in 7, the corresponding dihedral angle for the pyrrole nitrogen bonded to the NSO2C6H4tBu group is found to be 42.9°. In the former complex, Hg(1)2+ and N(5) are located on different sides at 1.47 and −1.29 A from its 3N plane, and in the latter one, Hg(2)2+ and N(5) are also located on different sides at −1.49 and 1.36 A form its 3N plane. The Hg(1)⋯Hg(2) distance in 7 is 3.622(6) A. Hence, no metallophilic Hg(II)⋯Hg(II) interaction may be anticipated. NOE difference spectroscopy, HMQC and HMBC were employed to unambiguous assignment for the 1H and 13C NMR resonances of 6 · CH2Cl2 · 0.5C6H14 in CD2Cl2 and 7 in CDCl3 at 20 °C. The 199Hg chemical shift δ for a 0.05 M solution of 7 in CDCl3 solution is observed at −1074 ppm for Hg(2) nucleus with a coordination number of four and at −1191 ppm for Hg(1) nucleus with a coordination number of two. The former resonance is consistent with that chemical shift for a 0.01 M solution of 6 in CD2Cl2 having observed at −1108 ppm for Hg(1) nucleus with a coordination number of four.
Abstract Exchange reactions involving 2′-methylbenzenesulphonanilide, substituted diaryltriazenes and their C 6 H 5 Hg derivatives have been studied by the PMR method in chlorobenzene solution. On the basis of the data obtained, values of equilibrium constants for the exchange reactions involving substituted diaryltriazenes and their C 6 H 5 Hg derivatives have been calculated. Analysis of the finding has shown that the position of equilibrium is governed by the polar and steric effects of the substituents and the relative intensity of intramolecular coordination of hydrogen and the phenylmercury group with the substituent in the 2-position of the diaryltriazene system. Consideration of the results obtained suggests a non-mesomeric structure for C 6 H 5 Hg derivatives of diaryltriazenes undergoing rapid metallotropic rearrangement.
The toxicities of five systemic fungicides [benomyl, carbendazim, methyl 4-(2- aminophenyl)-3-thioallophanate (NF48), thiabendazole and thiophanate-methyl] and of two non-systemic fungicides (guazatine and phenylmercury acetate) against Fusarium culmorum were compared on agar plates; their performance as seed treatments was measured by inoculating the shoot bases of wheat seedlings with F. culmorum in pot experiments. The two most effective compounds, benomyl and thiabendazole, and the less effective thiophanate-methyl, were evaluated in further seed treatment experiments in which leaf sheaths and roots of slightly older plants were infected. The three fungicides protected the first leaf sheath for more than 5 weeks, but thiophanate-methyl was least effective. Against root disease, they were effective when infection was mild, but only thiabendazole significantly controlled severe infection. Bioautography confirmed that fungicide levels in shoots were greater after benomyl and thiabendazole, than after carbendazim and thiophanate-methyl treatments, and that concentrations of fungicide after benomyl, carbendazim and thiophanate-methyl treatments generally declined between 5-13 weeks after treatment. Thiabendazole produced a second fungitoxic component detectable in plants after 34 days.
The protean chemical properties of the toxic metal mercury (Hg) have made it attractive in diverse applications since antiquity. However, growing public concern has led to an international agreement to decrease its impact on health and the environment. During a recent proteomics study of acute Hg exposure in E. coli, we also examined the effects of inorganic and organic Hg compounds on thiol and metal homeostases. On brief exposure, lower concentrations of divalent inorganic mercury Hg(II) blocked bulk cellular thiols and protein-associated thiols more completely than higher concentrations of monovalent organomercurials, phenylmercuric acetate (PMA) and merthiolate (MT). Cells bound Hg(II) and PMA in excess of their available thiol ligands; X-ray absorption spectroscopy indicated nitrogens as likely additional ligands. The mercurials released protein-bound iron (Fe) more effectively than common organic oxidants and all disturbed the Na(+)/K(+) electrolyte balance, but none provoked efflux of six essential transition metals including Fe. PMA and MT made stable cysteine monothiol adducts in many Fe-binding proteins, but stable Hg(II) adducts were only seen in CysXxx(n)Cys peptides. We conclude that on acute exposure: (a) the distinct effects of mercurials on thiol and Fe homeostases reflected their different uptake and valences; (b) their similar effects on essential metal and electrolyte homeostases reflected the energy dependence of these processes; and (c) peptide phenylmercury-adducts were more stable or detectable in mass spectrometry than Hg(II)-adducts. These first in vivo observations in a well-defined model organism reveal differences upon acute exposure to inorganic and organic mercurials that may underlie their distinct toxicology.
proteins, but stable Hg(II) adducts were only seen in CysXxx(n)Cys peptides. We conclude that on acute exposure: (a) the distinct effects of mercurials on thiol and Fe homeostases reflected their different uptake and valences; (b) their similar effects on essential metal and electrolyte homeostases reflected the energy dependence of these processes; and (c) peptide phenylmercury-adducts were more stable or detectable in mass spectrometry than Hg(II)-adducts. These first in vivo observations in a well-defined model organism reveal differences upon acute exposure to inorganic and organic mercurials that may underlie their distinct toxicology.
The molecular structure and electronic spectra of the orange and blue isomers of the photochromic compound dithizonatophenylmercury(II) were theoretically studied utilizing density functional (DFT) methods. Computed structural results are in agreement with previously reported X-ray crystal data of the orange resting state. The herewith newly proposed geometrical structure of the blue photoexcited state is favored by more than 35 kJ x mol-1 relative to the historically hypothesized geometry of the blue isomeric form. The key difference lies in the position of the backbone amine proton, being situated on the N4 position in the newly proposed structure, rather than on the N2 position as in the previously hypothesized geometry. Time dependent density functional theory as implemented in the Amsterdam Density Functional (ADF) and Gaussian 03 (G03) program systems yielded excitation energies for the blue isomer exhibiting bathochromic shifts, as observed in the experimentally determined UV/visible spectrum. B3LYP calculated excitation energies and oscillator strengths gave the best approximation of the experimentally observed electronic spectra of both isomers.
Abstract The reactions of benzaldehyde-4,4-dimethylthiosemicarbazone ( LH ) with methyl and phenylmercury (II) chlorides in different conditions were investigated. From the methyl derivative, two complexes [HgMeClLH] ( 1 ) and [HgMeL] ( 2 ), were obtained working in ethanol in the absence or the presence of basic medium respectively. However, in the same conditions only the complex [HgPhL] ( 3 ) was isolated. The corresponding complex containing the neutral ligand [HgPhClLH] ( 4 ) was prepared in refluxing dicloromethane. Furthermore, in the presence of hydrochloric acid, HgPhCl undergoes a symmetrization reaction to afford HgPh 2 and [Hg(LH) 2 (μ-Cl) 2 HgCl 2 ], reported previously from the reaction with HgCl 2 . Spectroscopic studies and X-ray structural analysis showed that the thiosemicarbazone is always SN coordinated, giving a distorted tetrahedral arrangement in complexes 1 and 4 and a distorted T-shaped stereochemistry around the mercury centre in complexes 2 and 3 .
Phenylmercury(II) alkoxides have been prepared in high yields by the reaction of phenylmercury(II) oxide or hydroxide with dialkyl carbonates, and by the reaction of phenylmercury(II) methoxide with higher boiling alcohols. Molecular weights indicate that in boiling benzene these compounds are associated, and that the degree of association decreases with dilution and with increasing size of the alkoxy-group. A previous report describing phenyl-mercury(II) alkoxides is re-evaluated.
Liquid-liquid distribution method has been applied for the investigation of the complex formation of phenylmercury cation with different amino acids. It has been found that the stability constant of phenylmercury cysteinate is eight order higher in comparison with those of phenylmercury complexes with other amino acids which enables to develop a selective radioreagent method for the determination of submicrogram amounts of cysteine. The method is very simple because it consists in one minute shaking of labelled phenylmercury bromide in an organic solvent with an aqueous sample of cysteine and in the measuring of the radioactivity of the aqueous phase.
Abstract Pentafluorophenylmercury chloride has been shown to react with both 4-thiouridine residues in tRNATyr to give a derivative with a covalent Hg-S bond. This tRNA derivative appears to be stable in solution under conditions used for crystallising and also for aminoacylating tRNA. Neither the derivative can be aminoacylated nor can unmodified tRNATyr be aminoacylated when in the presence of the tRNA-mercury derivative, suggesting that a stable complex is formed between the tRNA-mercury derivative and the amino acid synthetase.
A simple method for the separation of methylmercury, phenylmercury and mercury(II) in biological sample was developed. The novel method was targeted on extraction of mercury species using a 3-mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane coated capillary, and determined by capillary electrophoresis with ultraviolet absorption detection. The effects of pH, sample volume and flow rate, eluent volume and flow rate on the efficiency of micro-extraction were investigated. Under the optimized conditions, the detection limits (S/N = 3) of MeHg, PhHg and Hg2+ were 0.012, 0.007 and 0.003 µg mL−1, respectively. The precisions (RSDs) of the peak area and the migration time for five replicate injections of the three species after capillary micro-extraction were 6.4%, 8.3%, 5.3% and 1.2%, 1.3%, 1.8%, respectively. The method was successfully applied to the determination of mercury species in biological sample.
Essentially all bacteria with 2000 or more genes have genes for toxic metal ion resistances that include those for Ag+, AsO2−, AsO43−, Cd2+Cd2+, Co2+Co2+, CrO42−, Cu2+Cu2+, Hg2+Hg2+, Ni2+Ni2+, Pb2+Pb2+, TeO32−, Tl+Tl+, and Zn2+Zn2+. The largest group of resistance systems functions by energy-dependent efflux of toxic ions. Others involve enzymatic transformations (reduction, oxidation, methylation, and demethylation) or metal-binding proteins. Some of the efflux resistance systems are ATPases and others are chemiosmotic ion/proton exchangers. Resistance to inorganic Hg2+ and to organomercurials (such as CH3Hg+ and phenylmercury) involves a series of metal-binding and membrane transport proteins that pass Hg2+ to the enzymes mercuric reductase and organomercurial lyase, which overall convert them from more toxic to less toxic forms. Arsenic resistance and metabolizing systems occur in three patterns: the widely found ars operon that is present in most bacterial genomes, the arr genes for the periplasmic arsenate reductase that functions in anaerobic respiration as a terminal electron acceptor, and the aox genes for the periplasmic arsenite oxidase that functions as an initial electron donor in aerobic resistance to arsenite.
A study was performed toexamine compoundsthatmightimprovethe selectivity oftheprimary isolation mediumforHaemophilus ducreyi. The susceptibility of40H.ducreyi strains to34antimicrobial agents,including 10 antibiotics, 3quaternary ammoniumcompounds, 3phenolic derivatives, 3acridines, and15heavymetal compounds, was investigated byusing an agarplate dilution technique. Results werecompared with thesusceptibilities ofother gramnegative rodswhichmay becontaminants on isolation media. Theminimal inhibitory concentration rangeforcolistin (16to128p.g/ml) indicated thatthis antibiotic might beofuse as a selective agent. H. ducreyi was susceptible to spectinomycin (minimal inhibitory concentration range,16to64t.g/ml), thiamphenicol (0.12 to1pug/ml), chloramphenicol (0.12 to0.5ig/ml), andstreptomycin (4to32,g/ml) andmoderately susceptible tokanamycin (2to8,ug/ml). Forthe heavy metal compounds, ahigh susceptibility was seenwith copper(II) chloride (2 to8p,g/ml, corresponding toaconcentration of0.75 to3,ug of Cu2+ions perml), sodiumselenite (1to4 ,ug/ml, or 0.45to1.83p.gofSe-ions per ml),and phenylmercury acetate (0.12 to0.5 ,ug/ml). Theminimal inhibitory concentrations ofquaternary ammoniumcompounds, acridines, andphenolic derivatives were between 1and32pg/ml, 8and32,ug/ml, and8and250,ug/ml, respectively.
When vanillin (4-hydroxy-3-methoxbenzaldehyde) and syringaldehyde (4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzaldehyde) react with Hg(OAc)2, selective monomercuration occurs on the aromatic ring. The three 3J, 4J and 5(199Hg,1H) coupling constants of phenylmercury acetate were used as 1/2J delays in the 1D inverse 1H 199Hg, sequence applied to 5-acetoxymercuriovanillin and 2-acetoxymercuriosyringaldehyde, the edited proton spectra obtained for each nJ(199Hg, 1H) coupling gave the value of n and the J(199Hg, 1H) coupling constants, and therefore yielded information about the position of the mercury substitution on the aromatic ring. A 2D 199Hg,1H shift correlation with 1H detection was applied in the case of phenylmercury acetate, using the mean value of the three J couplings; the 3J and 4J couplings were clearly resolved. As vanillin and syringaldehyde are representative monomer models of lignin, the indirect detection of 199Hg is then an appropriate method to determine the aromatic substitution pattern, which is a key point in lignin structural elucidation.
Thin-layer chromatographic methods for the separation and identification of organomercury compounds have been developed and applied to the examination of commercial-quality organomercurials and seed-dressing formulations. The organomercury compounds, in the form of their chlorides, are separated on silica gel by continuous development with cyclohexane-acetone (4 + 1), and detected as orange-brown spots by spraying the plate successively with copper sulphate and sodium sulphite-potassium iodide reagents. If organomercury salts other than chlorides are present, they must be converted into the chlorides by adding aqueous sodium chloride solution to the spotting solvent.A method for the semi-quantitative assay of inorganic mercury [as mercury(II)] in the compounds, at levels between 1 and 14 per cent., is also described. The inorganic mercury [as mercury(II) chloride] is separated by using carbon tetrachloride-acetone (7 + 3) as the developing solvent and is determined by visual comparison with standards.Little or no mercury-containing impurity was found in samples of phenylmercury nitrate, phenylmercury acetate and phenylmercury chloride examined, but methoxyethylmercury chloride and ethoxyethylmercury chloride samples contained as many as five mercury-containing impurities and up to 12 per cent. of inorganic mercury compounds.
Abstract The arylation of carbonylgold chloride with diarylzinc compounds yields either triarylgoldzinc or diarylgoldzinc chlorides, depending on the reactant ratio and the nature of the aryl group. The same reactions with diphenylcadmium and diphenylmercury yield exclusively diphenylgoldcadmium chloride and diphenylgoldmercury chloride, respectively. The reactions of the products with N , N , N ′, N ′-tetramethylethylenediamine and triphenylphosphine were studied. Phenylgold has been obtained as a very unstable solid from diphenylgoldzinc chloride and diphenylgoldmercury chloride.
The method presented for the determination of zinc, lead dialkyldithiocarbamates in the presence of tetraalkylthiuram disulfides is based on thiomercurimetric titration. Zinc, lead dialkyldithiocarbamates are determined by titration with p-dimethylaminophenylmercury(II) acetate with Michler's thioketone as indicator. Tetraalkylthiuram disulfides are reduced by using tributylphosphine and titrating as for metal dialkyldithiocarbamates. The method is simple, rapid, reproducible and accurate and samples do not require separation or other preliminary stages prior to their analysis. The method is suitable for the determination of metal dithiocarbamates and thiuram disulfides in fresh and used lubricants, and in additive concentrates and also may be adapted for the determination of dithiocarbamates in fungicides, rubber and plastics formulations.
Abstract A novel dual-cloud point extraction (dCPE) technique is proposed in this paper for the sample pretreatment of capillary electrophoresis (CE) speciation analysis of mercury. In dCPE, cloud point was carried out twice in a sample pretreatment. First, four mercury species, methylmercury (MeHg), ethylmercury (EtHg), phenylmercury (PhHg), and inorganic mercury (Hg(II)) formed hydrophobic complexes with 1-(2-pyridylazo)-2-naphthol (PAN). After heating and centrifuging, the complexes were extracted into the formed Triton X-114 surfactant-rich phase. Instead of the direct injection or analysis, the surfactant-rich phase containing the four Hg species was treated with 150 μL 0.1% (m/v) l -cysteine aqueous solution. The four Hg species were then transferred back into aqueous phase by forming hydrophilic Hg– l -cysteine complexes. After dCPE, the aqueous phase containing the Hg– l -cysteine complexes was subjected into electrophoretic capillary for mercury speciation analysis. Because the concentration of Triton X-114 in the extract after dCPE was only around critical micelle concentration, the adsorption of surfactant on the capillary wall and its possible influence on the sample injection and separation in traditional CPE were eliminated. Plus, the hydrophobic interfering species were removed thoroughly by using dCPE resulted in significant improvement in analysis selectivity. Using 10 mL sample, 17, 15, 45, and 52 of preconcentration factors for EtHg, MeHg, PhHg, and Hg(II) were obtained. With CE separation and on-line UV detection, the detection limits were 45.2, 47.5, 4.1, and 10.0 μg L −1 (as Hg) for EtHg, MeHg, PhHg, and Hg(II), respectively. As an analysis method, the present dCPE–CE with UV detection obtained similar detection limits as of some CE–inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS) hyphenation technique, but with simple instrumental setup and obviously low costs. Its utilization for Hg speciation was validated by the analysis of the spiked natural water and tilapia muscle samples.
Published data on the toxicity of phenylmercurials for man and lower animals are examined in detail. Also, some new data are recorded on human exposure by studying three groups of persons whose occupational exposure has been to a single phenylmercurial; in two groups to phenylmercury benzoate (PMB) and in the third to phenylmercuric acetate (PMA). Results of these studies indicate that PMA and PMB have a high degree of toxicity for man. The fact that measurements of atmospheric mercury in one of the plants where exposure to PMB was involved, showed that most or all of the mercury in the air was in the form of mercury vapor suggests that the toxicity of PMB is actually that of the mercury vapor that is liberated. This hypothesis is supported by other studies. Various other miscellaneous phenylmercurials were reviewed. Phenylmercuric oleate (PMO) was found to be highly toxic to man. As a result of this literature review, it is suggested that phenylmercurials lack unanimity as to the relative toxicity of various compounds in this group. Additional observations on human exposures are needed before definite conclusions can be drawn.
In this study, we found that the photoluminescence (PL) of 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid (11-MUA)-protected gold nanodots (Au NDs; ca. 2.0 nm) was highly dependent on the capping ligands and the ligand density. Deposition of 11-MUA onto the surfaces of as-prepared gold nanoparticles (Au NPs; ca. 3.0 nm) yielded luminescent 11-MUA-capped Au NDs (11-MUA-Au NDs). The PL intensity (excitation/emission: 375/525 nm) of the Au NDs decreased dramatically after purification through centrifugation (purified Au NDs are denoted herein as p11-MUA-Au NDs) as a result of a decrease in the 11-MUA ligand density on the Au NDs. Moreover, the PL intensity of the purified Au NDs was recovered after introducing new mercaptoaliphatic acid ligands (the ligand-recapped Au NDs are denoted as Au NDs@ligand; e.g., the 11-MUA recapped Au NDs are denoted as Au NDs@11-MUA). The PL intensity of the Au NDs@ligand species increased upon increasing the ligand density and chain length. Furthermore, using the Au NDs@11-MUA as a probe allowed us to detect the total concentration of mercury ions {inorganic mercury [Hg(II)] plus organic mercury (methylmercury [MeHg(I)], ethylmercury [EtHg(I)] and phenylmercury [PhHg(I)])} in aqueous solution. The selectivity of this nanosensor system for the total mercury over other metal ions is remarkably high (1000-fold), with a limit of detection (LOD, S/N = 3) for mercury ions of 2.0 nM. We have demonstrated the practicality of this approach for the determination of mercury ions in complicated biological urine and plasma samples, as well as in a fish sample (DORM II). This simple, sensitive and selective approach appears to have practical potential for use in the clinical screening of mercury ions in biofluids.
The toxicity of elements depends strongly on their chemical form. The separation of individual species must usually precede the determination by activation analysis or by other methods. The simple and rapid methods for the separation of inorganic mercury(II), methylmercury and phenylmercury compounds, arsenic(III) and arsenic(V) species including the separation of methylated forms, thallium(I) and thallium(III), chromium(III) and chromium(VI) using liquidliquid distribution reactions are presented.
Reaction of diphenylmercury(II) with 1,2-bis(diphenylphosphinothioyl)ethane in chloroform–n-hexane gives the molecular adduct HgPh2·Ph2P(S)(CH2)2(S)PPh2 which has been characterized by elemental analysis, i.r., u.v., 1H n.m.r. spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography. The crystals are triclinic, space group P, with unit-cell dimensions a= 9.532(3), b= 10.065(2), c= 10.113(3)A, α= 118.07(4), β= 96.29(3), and γ= 94.41(2)°. The angle C(1)–Hg–C(1′) is 180(–)°, while C(1)–Hg–S(1) and C(1′)–Hg–S(1) are 92.0(2) and 88.0(2)° respectively. The Hg ⋯ S(1) and Hg ⋯ S(1′) distances of 3.913(4)A indicate very weak interaction.
1. ::: ::: 2,4-Dimethylphenylmercury acetate arylates styrene in the presence of chloro complexes of Pd(II) and Pt(IV), but pentamethylphenylmercury acetate forms with styrene the corresponding substituted stilbene only in the presence of PdCl3−, and only the free arene is formed in the presence of PtCl62−. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: In the presence of Pd(II) or Pt(IV) complexes the trans-stilbene is not arylated by pentamethylphenylmercury acetate.
Averaged ERGs of rats treated with phenylmercury borate and methylmercury chloride were recorded. Amplitude differences were seen only with the latter treatment. A high Hg tot. level was found in eyes of animals treated with methylmercury.
Chapter 1 ::: The crystal structures of Tl(tpp-N-O)(OAc) 3 and acetato-N-p-tert-butylbenzensulfonylimido-meso-tetraphenylporphyrinatothallium(III) Tl(N-p-NSO2C6H4tBu-tpp)(OAc) 5 were determined. The coordination sphere around Tl3+ is a distorted square-based pyramid in which the apical site is occupied by a bidentate chelating OAc‾ group for 3 and 5. The plane of three pyrrole nitrogen atoms [i. e., N(1), N(2), and N(3)] strongly bonded to Tl3+ in 3 and 5 is adopted as a reference plane, 3N. The porphyrin ring is severely distorted and the pyrrole ring N(4) bonding to the oxygen and NSO2C6H4tBu group makes a dihedral angle of 46.5° and of 46.7° with the 3N plane for 3 and 5, respectively. In 3, Tl3+ and O(1) are located on the same side at 1.11 and 1.34 A from its 3N plane, while in 5, Tl3+ and N(5) are still located on the same side at 1.15 and 1.30 A from its 3N plane. The free energy of activation at the coalescence Tc for the intermolecular acetate exchange process of 3 and 5 in CD2Cl2 is found to be ΔG‡184 = 39.3 and ΔG‡208 = 44.1 kJ/mol, respectively, through 1H NMR variable temperature measurements. ::: An electronegative substituent, O(1), bonded to Tl in 3 causes a significant negative contribution up to 145 Hz for Δ3J(Tl-C, O) and 79 Hz for Δ2J(Tl-C, O) of OAc‾ in 3. ::: ::: ::: Chapter 2 ::: The crystal structures of the dimer form of copper(II) tetraphenylporphyrin N-oxide [Cu(tpp–N–O)]2 (3-dimer) and zinc(II) tetraphenylporphyrin N-oxide [Zn(tpp–N–O)]2 (4-dimer) were established. The geometry at the copper ion in 3-dimer is essentially square-pyramidal with one oxygen bridge [O(1A)] occupying the apical site giving much larger Cu–O bond distance compared to those at the basal plane. The Cu•••Cu distance and Cu–O–Cu angle in the core of 3-dimer lie at 3.987(4) A and 148.1(3)°. The Zn(1) atom in 4-dimer has a distorted square-pyramidal [4 + 1] coordination geometry that gives a τ value of 0.19. The Zn•••Zn distance and Zn–O–Zn angle in the dimeric unit of 4-dimer are 4.025(3) A and 148.1(2)°. The 3-dimer displays axial X-band EPR spectral features (Es = 0) in the powder state at 4 K giving g?? = 2.51 [A??, s = (9.6 ± 0.2) × 10–3 cm–1], g⊥= 2.11 and in the same powder state at 293 K giving Ds = 0.0731 cm–1 (as derived from ΔMs = 1 lines) or 0.0743 cm–1 (as derived from the ΔMs = 2 lines). In addition, 3-dimer displays a ΔMs = 2 transition at g = 4.17 indicating the presence of spin-exchange coupling. The anisotropic exchange interaction (Ds(ex)= 0.132 cm–1) gives the main contribution to Ds in 3-dimer. The theoretical fit of the susceptibility and effective magnetic moment data of 3-dimer in the temperature range 5 – 300 K gives 2J = 68 cm–1, g = 2.01, p = 0.06 and temperature independent paramagnetism TIP = 10–6 cm3/mol. This magnetic susceptibility data indicates that the copper(II) ions in 3-dimer are coupled in a ferromagnetic manner with the ground-spin triplet stabilized by 68 cm–1 with regard to the singlet. ::: ::: Chapter 3 ::: Reaction of PhHgOAc with N-NHCOC6H5-Htpp gave a bismercury(II) complex of [((benzamido-κN)phenylmercury-κHg-N21, N22)-meso-tetraphenylporphyrinato-N23, N24]phenylatomercury(II) toluene solvate [Hg(Ph)(N21, N22-(Ph)-Hg-N(COPh)tpp•C6H5CH3; 3•C6H5CH3] with Hg(1)-N(5) as a N21, N22 –bridged atoms. The crystal structure of 3•C6H5CH3 was determined. The Hg(1)· · · Hg(2) distance is 3.611(7) A. Hence, no metallophilic Hg(II)···Hg(II) interaction may be anticipated. 3 in CDCl3 was characterized by 1H, 13C, and 199Hg NMR. The 199Hg NMR for a 0.2 M solution of 3 in CDCl3 at 20°C is observed at -1088.3 ppm for Hg(2) nucleus with 3J(Hg-H) = 188 Hz and an effective coordination number of five and at -1118.6 ppm for Hg(1) nucleus with 3J(Hg-H) = 177 Hz and an effective coordination number of four. This fact explained that the 199Hg signal of the Hg(2) nucleus with an effective coordination number of five lies at a downfield of 30 ppm from that of the Hg(1) nucleus with a smaller effective coordination number of four. The 199Hg in CDCl3 solution clearly reveals that there are two different Hg nuclei, i.e. Hg(1) and Hg(2), in 3 and this NMR data provides an evidence that 3 remains as a bismercury species in CDCl3 solution. The proton and 199Hg spectra clearly show 3J(Hg-H) coupling and this coupling indicates a slow ligand exchange for 3 in CDCl3. ::: ::: Chapter 4 ::: The reaction of PhHgOAc with 2-NCH3NCTPPH (2) gave a mercury (II) complex of (phenylato)(4-aza-4-methyl-5, 10, 15, 20-tetraphenyl-2-carbaporphyrinato-N,N’,N” )-mercury(II), [HgPh(4-NCH3NCTPP); 6]. The crystal structure of 6 was determined and the coordination sphere around Hg(1) in 6 was a four-coordinate derivative with a seesaw geometry. Dipole-dipole (DD) interaction governs the longitudinal relaxation rate for Hg(1)-Ph-H2,6 of 6 in CDCl3 (0.01 M) at 599.95 MHz.
The reactions of phenylmercury(II) complexes with carbon monoxide have been investigated to establish whether ‘carbonylation’ reactions take place. The basic nitrate, (HgPh)2(OH,NO3), is the only complex that yields useful amounts of benzoic acid derivatives. The pattern of reactivity of the complexes, HgPhX is reminiscent of that of mercury(II) salts and follows the ‘hardness’ of X. In aqueous solution, oxyanion complexes are reduced either to diphenylmercury and mercury or to mercury alone; this is consistent with attack of HgPh+ or H+ on a mercurated formic acid derivative. Similar reactions occur in benzene but the reduction of nitric acid by carbon monoxide as it is formed has a buffer effect which prevents reductive cleavage of (HgPh)2(OH,NO3). Benzoato(phenyl)-mercury is formed together with decomposition products from the reaction intermediate, benzoyl nitrate. This decomposition is very pressure sensitive, yielding benzoic anhydride at high pressure and biphenyl derivatives at low pressure. Carbonylation of (HgPh)2(OH,ClO4) also gives a small yield of benzoic acid. In methanol solution HgPh(CO·OMe) is formed by addition reactions of carbon monoxide when X = OH– or AcO–. The basic nitrate yields, also, some diphenylmercury but mainly methyl benzoate and methyl benzoylformate. Phenylmercury(II) complexes also add ethylene forming HgPh(CH2CH2OMe).
The interactions of inorganic mercury Hg(II), methylmercury (MeHg(I)), ethylmercury (EtHg(I)), and phenylmercury (PhHg(I)) with DNA have been probed by capillary electrophoresis with on-line electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometric detection (CE-ETAAS) in combination with circular dichroism and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The CE-ETAAS assay allows sensitive probing of the level of DNA damage by mercury species, extraction of thermodynamic and kinetic information on the interactions of mercury species with DNA, and provides direct evidence for the formation of mercury species-DNA adducts. The binding affinity of mercury species to DNA increases in order of Hg(II) < EtHg(I) approximately PhHg(I) approximately MeHg(I). The interactions of mercury species with DNA follow a first-order kinetics for mercury species and zero-order kinetics for DNA. Mercury highly covalently coordinates to endocyclic and exocyclic N sites of DNA bases. However, the interactions of DNA with mercuric species cause no transition of the DNA original conformation. The results reveal that organomercuric species exhibit stronger affinity and faster binding to DNA and show more potential damage to DNA than Hg(II) in view of the kinetic and thermodynamic evaluations. Moreover, MeHg(I) exhibits the fastest binding to DNA, suggesting that MeHg(I) enjoys superiority over the other mercuric species for rapid formation of a stable complex with DNA, whereas Hg(II) shows the slowest binding to DNA. The present study provides new evidence and understanding of the binding modality of mercuric species to DNA.
OBJECTIVE ::: This study was carried out to evaluate the reproducibility, sensitivity, specificity, and reliability of the MELISA Test for detecting metal sensitivity in patients with clinical symptoms of a type IV hypersensitivity to metal. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN ::: Blood from 250 patients was tested in MELISA against up to 20 different metals in 2 to 3 concentrations. The frequency and distribution of metal reactivities, the sensitivity and specificity of nickel reactivity in patients with and without confirmed or suspected sensitivity to nickel, and the roles of lymphocyte concentration and concentration of inorganic mercury were analyzed. In addition, for reproducibility testing, 196 metal tests were performed in duplicate, and intra- and interassay variations of MELISA results were examined in patients patch-test positive for the relevant metal. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Among the 250 patients, reactivity to 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or > or = 5 metals was 26%, 36%, 15%, 12%, 6%, and 5%, respectively. Reactivity was most frequent to nickel (73%), followed by titanium (42%), cadmium (18%) gold (17%), palladium (13%), lead (11%), beryllium (9%), inorganic mercury (8%), tin (8%), and phenylmercury (6%). All patients (n=15) with confirmed or suspected nickel allergy were positive in MELISA, while patients with no suspicion of nickel allergy were either negative (n=6) or very low positive (n=4) in MELISA. MELISA reactivity is directly dependent on lymphocyte concentration: the higher the lymphocyte concentration per test, the stronger the reactivity. Concentrations of inorganic mercury > 0.5 microg/ml cause non antigen-specific (mitogenic) reactions in a majority of patients. The reproducibility rate was 94% using a cut-off of Stimulation Index > or = 3 or 99% using a cut-off of > or = 5. While the absolute intra- and interassay Stimulation Index values may vary, the qualitative results are highly reproducible. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The MELISA Test is reproducible, sensitive, specific, and reliable for detecting metal sensitivity in metal-sensitive patients.
Abstract Chemical models of freshwater and seawater (34‰ S) have been used to examine the effect of humic material on the analysis of mercury by flameless atomic absorption spectrometry. Solutions containing mercuric chloride (1 μg Hg 1 −1 ) and various concentrations of humic material were allowed to attain equilibrium under carefully controlled conditions. In both media, association between the inorganic and organic entities took place within 90 min at pH ≥ 7 and the organically bound mercury was not detected by an analytical method designed for inorganic mercury. The amount of detectable mercury was related to the quantity of humic material added to the solutions. In experiments involving changes of pH the model solutions showed three characteristics: (1) a flat response in the neutral and alkaline pH range, where the humates are apparently stable; (2) a minima in the pH range 2–4 where the formation of an acid flocculent appears to remove additional mercury from solution: (3) at pH = 1, some release of mercury occurs from the organic precipitate. Photolysis studies using the model freshwater solutions showed that total mercury measurements could be made after 2 h irradiation at pH = 1. Using the same technique methylmercury chloride and diphenylmercury decomposed within 1 h. These results are relevant to routine and analyses of total mercury in natural waters.
Abstract Intraperitoneal injection of diphenylmercury into rats results in a much higher initial concentration of mercury in the brain than that following injection of mercuric chloride or phenylmercuric acetate. The concentration in the brain then decreases, and after several days it is similar to that resulting from mercuric chloride and phenylmercuric acetate injection.
Abstract Mercury can be coupled to a wide variety of organic compounds but there is limited information concerning the influence of such substitutions on the toxicity of mercury within the marine environment. We therefore determined the effects of six organomercuries on the emergence and hatching of the brine shrimp, Artemia . The relative toxicities of the organic mercuries were un-affected by the ability of the compounds to ionize, whereas the sizes of the compounds appeared to be important. Thus, brine shrimp were equally sensitive to five of the organic mercuries while diphenylmercury, the largest of the organic mercuries tested, was the least toxic. In the presence of 0.1 μ M diphenylmercury the final amount of hatching was similar to that in the absence of metal but in this situation there was an easily measured reduction in the rate of development. By determining the rates of emergence and hatching it is apparent that Artemia are adversely affected by organic mercuries at concentrations less than 0.1 μ M , the lowest level examined in this study. The work extends our earlier findings with cadmium and zinc, supporting the proposal that Artemia is an excellent alternative to more complex, slow-growing animals for the study of biochemical/physiological aspects of marine pollution.
Protonproton, metalmetal and metalproton exchange type reactions have been studied for a number of substituted N-methylbenzenesulphonamides and their N-phenylmercury derivatives through the use of a PMR technique. It has been found that metalmetal type exchange processes proceed more readily than protonproton processes in some cases. The presence of substituents in the aromatic ring of the benzenesulphonamide moiety has been shown to affect the rate of the metalmetal exchange process to a smaller extent than that of hydrogen exchange. It has been demonstrated that transfer from a chlorobenzene to a pyridine solution accelerates exchange in N-methylbenzenesulphonamides but retards exchange in their phenylmercury derivatives, whereas intramolecular coordination inhibits exchanges in both types of compound. The differences in the influence of substituents and solvents upon the rates of the metalmetal and protonproton exchange processes are discussed in terms of the ease of formation of a transition state in such exchange reactions.
Abstract Further investigations into the properties of the mercury derivative formed by the reaction of 4-thiouridine-containing tRNAs and pentafluorophenylmercury chloride have been carried out. tRNA fMet (which contains only one 4-thiouridine residue) has been isolated by a one-step column Chromatographic procedure from unfractionated Escherichia coli tRNA and has been shown to react with the mercury compound to give a derivative which has similar properties to those previously reported for the corresponding mercury derivative of tRNA Tyr which contains two adjacent 4-thiouridine residues. The mercury derivative of tRNA Tyr appears to be a competitive inhibitor of tRNA Tyr in the aminoacylation reaction (tRNA Tyr K m = 0.42 μ M, mercury derivative of tRNA Tyr K i = 0.11 μ M). The mercury derivative of Tyr-tRNA Tyr can be made, but only by the reaction of the mercury compound with the aminoacylated tRNA.
A continuous flow analysis is described for the determination of total mercury by cold vapor atomic absorption spectrometry. Organic mercury compounds such as methylmercury(II) chloride, ethylmercury(II) chloride and phenylmercury(II) chloride were decomposed by potassium peroxodisulphate with addition of ferric chloride as catalytic reagent. The reducing reagent used was tin(II) chloride in sodium hydroxide solution. With 1,000 mg Fe/l added in the decomposition process, we found that methylmercury(II) chloride and ethylmercury(II) chloride gave response signals similar to those of mercury(II) chloride. The proposed method was applied to the analysis of total mercury in waste water.
Morinda citrifolia from the Rubiaceae family, collected in parish of St. Andrew, Jamaica, West Indies, was investigated for the presence of the Bromelain-like protein enzyme. In the process Bromelain from Morinda citrifolia was partially purified and characterized. Fresh plant material was extracted in buffer (sodium acetate-acetic acid (10mM), L-cysteine (1mM), and sodium chloride (0.1M), freeze dried and analyzed using column chromatography and assayed using spectrophotometry in a five step procedure. The major purification steps involved were ammonium sulphate precipitation, gel-filtration (Sephadex G200), ion exchange chromatography (CM sephadex C25) and (DEAE sephadex A25). The protein content was determined using the Bradford method. The enzyme displayed an optimum activity at pH 7.1 and a temperature optimum at 35 oC. A purification fold of 70.9 and percentage recovery of 3.3 was obtained. Inhibition studies using several different inhibitors of the enzyme revealed that the enzyme was susceptible to copper sulphate (0.1mM), mercury chloride (0.1mM), cobalt sulphate (0.1mM), zinc sulphate (0.1mM) and phenylmercury acetate (0.1mM). Both casein and p-Nitrophenylbenzyloxycarbonyl-L-lysinate (CLN) were used as substrates for the enzyme, with the enzyme displaying greater activity when using casein as substrate. Bromelain-like protein enzyme showed high affinity for the substrate casein with a Km of 48.5 µM. Key words: Morinda citrifolia; Bbromelain; Proteolytic enzyme. © 2012 JSR Publications. ISSN: 2070-0237 (Print); 2070-0245 (Online). All rights reserved. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.3329/jsr.v4i2.8125 J. Sci. Res. 4 (2), 445-456 (2012)
Morinda citrifolia from the Rubiaceae family, collected in parish of St. Andrew, Jamaica, West Indies, was investigated for the presence of the Bromelain-like protein enzyme. In the process Bromelain from Morinda citrifolia was partially purified and characterized. Fresh plant material was extracted in buffer (sodium acetate-acetic acid (10mM), L-cysteine (1mM), and sodium chloride (0.1M), freeze dried and analyzed using column chromatography and assayed using spectrophotometry in a five step procedure. The major purification steps involved were ammonium sulphate precipitation, gel-filtration (Sephadex G200), ion exchange chromatography (CM sephadex C25) and (DEAE sephadex A25). The protein content was determined using the Bradford method. The enzyme displayed an optimum activity at pH 7.1 and a temperature optimum at 35 ºC. A purification fold of 70.9 and percentage recovery of 3.3 was obtained. Inhibition studies using several different inhibitors of the enzyme revealed that the enzyme was susceptible to copper sulphate (0.1mM), mercury chloride (0.1mM), cobalt sulphate (0.1mM), zinc sulphate (0.1mM) and phenylmercury acetate (0.1mM). Both casein and p-Nitrophenylbenzyloxycarbonyl-Llysinate (CLN) were used as substrates for the enzyme, with the enzyme displaying greater activity when using casein as substrate. Bromelain-like protein enzyme showed high affinity for the substrate casein with a Km of 48.5 µM.
A nonaqueous capillary electrophoresis (NACE) method, 30 mM ammonium acetate in methanol as background electrolyte (BGE), was developed for separation of the organomercury species without complexing reagents. The effects of different solutes and solvents in BGE were studied. Three species of organomercury, methylmercury, ethylmercury and phenylmercury, were separated well and all the number of theoretical plates were over 106. The present NACE method was also coupled with sample stacking and electrokinetic injection techniques to enhance the detection sensitivity. Under the optimum conditions, the limit of detection (S/N = 3) is 18 ng mL−1 and the linear relation range from 40 to 750 ng mL−1 were obtained for methylmercury.
Abstract Investigations of the effect of various fungicides and antagonistic species on the radial growth in culture of three pathogens of oil palm and rubber showed only phenylmercury acetate and cycloheximide to be effective against Corticium salmonicolor Berk. & Br. below 10 μg a.i./ml. Other promising fungicides were examined and seven were effective against Rigidoporus lignosus (Klotzsch) Imazeki and eight against Ganoderma sp. Trichoderma spp. were antagonistic to all the pathogens. The practical application of these results in the field are discussed.
Abstract Seeds of two spices Coriandrum sativum and Foeniculum vulgare , were dressed separately with essential oil of Cedrus deodara as well as with five synthetic fungicides viz., phenylmercury acetate, 2-methoxyethyl mercury chloride, copper oxychloride, mancozeb and wettable sulphur. Treated seeds were stored in polythene bags for 12 months. On mycofloral analysis, the oil had checked the appearance of ten fungi, Absidia sp., Alternaria alternata, Aspergillus flavus, A. fumigatus, A. niger, A. ruber, A. versicolor, Cladosporium cladosporioides, Curvularia lunata , and Paecilomyces variotii on the seeds of C. sativum , and seven fungi, Absidia sp., A. flavus, A. fumigatus, A. niger, A. ruber, A. versicolor , and Rhizopus spp., on the seeds of F. vulgare . The oil proved to be more effective than the synthetic fungicides. Further, the oil did not show any adverse effect on seed germination and seedling growth of both spices.
Many patients attribute their health problems to amalgam and other dental metals. In genetically susceptible indviduals, mercury and gold may function as haptens and elicit allergic and autoimmune reactions. The frequency of metalinduced lymphocyte responses was examined in 3,162 patients in three European laboratories using MELISA®, an optimized lymphocyte proliferation test. The patients suffered from local and systemic symptoms attributed to dental restorations. The effect of dental metal removal was studied in 111 patients with metal hypersensitivity and symptoms resembling Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS). After consultation with a dentist the patients decided to replace their metal restorations with non-metallic materials. The changes in health and in vitro lymphocyte reactivity were studied by inquiries and follow-up MELISA®. Lymphocyte reactivity was also analyzed in 116 healthy subjects with no complaints of metal allergy. A signifi cant number of patients had metalspecifi c lymphocytes in the blood. Nickel was the most common sensitizer, followed by inorganic mercury, gold, phenylmercury, cadmium and palladium. As compared to lymphocyte responses in healthy subjects, the CFS group had signifi cantly increased responses to several metals, especially to inorganic mercury, phenylmercury and gold. Following dental metal removal, 83 patients (76%) reported long-term health improvement. Twenty-four patients (22%) reported unchanged health and two (2%) reported worsening of symptoms. Following dental metal replacement, the lymphocyte reactivity to metals decreased as well. We propose that an infl ammatory process induced by metals may modulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA axis) and trigger multiple non-specifi c symptoms characterizing CFS and other chronic conditions like myalgic encephalitis (ME) and multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS).
[Yb(OAr)2(µ-OMe)(DME)]2 (1) (OAr = 2,6-di-iso-propylphenolate) was synthesised via a redox transmetallation ligand exchange reaction between ytterbium metal, diphenylmercury and 2,6-di-isopropylphenol in DME. The source of the methoxy groups is from cleavage of DME, and the C-O bond activation is unexpected given that the reaction was undertaken at ambient temperature. Each Yb3+ metal ion in 1 is six coordinate, and the coordination arrangement around each metal ion is distorted trigonal antiprismatic with Yb-O(OMe) bond lengths (2.191(2) and 2.258(2) A) shorter than the Yb-O(aryloxide) bond distances (2.094(2) and 2.074(2) A).
A simple and fast method for the determination of arsenic (As) in sunflower oil by electrothermal atomic absorption (ETAAS) is described. The optimal instrumental parameters for ETAAS measurement of As species in stable and homogeneous soap emulsions prepared from oil samples with tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH) have been established. The limit of determination is 5 ng x g(-1) total As in sunflower oil. A second approach involving extraction of As and mercury from sunflower oil and consequent ETAAS measurement is also described. Simultaneous quantitative extraction of As(III), As(V), monomethylarsonate (MMA) and dimethylarsinate (DMA) as well as Hg(II), monomethylmercury(II)chloride (MMC), dimethylmercury (DMM), diethylmercury (DEM) and diphenylmercury (DPM) is achieved by using an extraction mixture comprising of 0.1M NH3/0.01 M EDTA. Pre-reduced palladium is applied as an effective modifier for the next ETAAS measurement of all extracted species. The method of standard addition is employed for calibration. The accuracy and reproducibly of the methods was established by spike and recovery experiments and parallel analysis of sunflower oils from the marketplace. Limits of determination of 2 ng x g(-1) for As and 3 ng x g(-1) for mercury were obtained.
1. ::: ::: A study was made of the reaction of phenylmercury hydroxide with a number of N-acids of general type RNHR', with an sp2-hybridization of the nitrogen atom. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: On the basis of the obtained results the theory was expressed that steric hindrance, created by groups with a fixed conformation due to conjugation, can prevent the formation of the arylmercury derivatives of N-acids.
