To reduce association or aggregation of dyes, several carboxylic acid derivatives have been studied. For example, there are several reports using 3-phenylpropionic acid [7] , deoxycholic acid [8] , chenodeoxycholic acid [9] , stearic acid [10] , 4-guanidinobutyric acid [11] , and hexadecylmalonic acid [12] .
The orally administered creatine analogue beta-guanidinopropionic acid (beta-GPA) decreases plasma glucose levels by increasing the sensitivity to insulin. This effect is based on a beta-GPA induced expression of mRNA and total protein content of the insulin-responsive glucose transporter GLUT4. Although the oral availability of beta-GPA is well established, the underlying uptake mechanism has not yet been studied. We investigated whether the H(+)-coupled amino acid transporter PAT1, which is expressed in the apical membrane of intestinal cells, accepts guanidine derivatives as substrates. Uptake of l-[(3)H]proline into Caco-2 cells expressing hPAT1 constitutively was strongly inhibited by beta-GPA and its derivatives guanidinoacetic acid (GAA) and 4-guanidinobutyric acid (4-GBA). Competition assays revealed apparent affinity constants of about 1.5 mM. Electrophysiological measurements at hPAT1-expressing Xenopus laevis oocytes unequivocally demonstrated that beta-GPA, GAA and 4-GBA are effectively transported by this transport system in an electrogenic manner. We conclude that hPAT1 might be responsible for the intestinal absorption of beta-GPA thereby allowing its oral administration. Moreover, with beta-GPA we identified a new high affinity hPAT1 substrate that might be an interesting starting point for future drug design-drug delivery strategies.
Figure l gives the different monosubstituted guanidino An unknown guanidino-positive compound peak was compounds in parallel with the amino acids, in urine of previously shown by liquid chromatography in the urine the patients. The concentrations of the guanidino comof three sisters affected with hyperargininaemia. This pounds in patients with hyperargininaemia are ten to compound peak was named compound X as shown in hundred times higher than in controls, except for guanithe previous publications (1) (2) (3) . This peak, having more dinosuccinic acid. There is much controversy about the than one shoulder, appears complex and is Sakaguchi biosynthesis of guanidinosuccinic acid (5, 6) . and -naphthol positive. This peak is unstable and can degrade to 4-guanidinobutyric acid. By using the same The neurological disturbances in the patients with hypercolor factor as the nearest eluted guanidino compounds, argininaemia could be caused by hyperammonaemia, concentration values up to 5000 /g creatinine were but the high guanidino levels could also play a patholofound. Only traces are found in the urines of controls. gical role. Indeed, some guanidino compounds have conIn our preliminary study, this unknown compound peak vulsive effects on rabbits and cats when administered inwas identified as 2-oxo-5-guanidinovaleric acid (4) . tracisternally (7). 
Abstract The formation of 2-guanidinoethanol (GEt) from L -arginine (Arg) and ethanolamine (EA) was studied using rat kidney homogenates. Maximum GEt formation was observed between pH 8.7 and 9.1, and the enzyme catalyzing the GEt synthesis was stable between pH 5.6 and 9.1. The rate of GEt formation from Arg and EA by rat kidney homogenates obeyed simple Michaelis-Menten type kinetics. L -Ornithine and glycine inhibited GEt formation by rat kidneys. Both of them inhibited GEt formation in a linear mixed-type inhibitory manner when Arg concentrations were varied at a fixed concentration of EA, while they showed competitive inhibition when EA concentrations were varied at a fixed concentration of Arg. L -Canavanine and guanidinoacetic acid as well as Arg acted as an amidine donor for GEt formation, but L -homoarginine, 3- guanidinopropionic acid and 4-guanidinobutyric acid did not. GEt synthesis was also observed in the rat pancreas. It had almost half of the activity of rat kidney to form GEt. This ratio of kidney to pancreas was approximately equal to that of L - arginine:glycine amidinotransferase (transamidinase, EC 2.1.4.1) in kidney and pancreas. These results suggest that GEt may be synthesized from Arg and EA by a transamidinase catalyzing reaction.
Abstract The structures and absolute proton affinities of several arginine (2-amino-3-guanidinopropionic acid, 2-amino-4-guanidinobutyric acid, homoarginine, citrulline and canavanine), histidine (1-methylhistidine and 3-methylhistidine) and lysine (2,3-diaminopropanoic acid, 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid, ornithine, 5-hydroxylysine, canaline and thialysine) homologues and analogues have been estimated using composite G3MP2B3 computational protocol. For a majority of here studied non-standard amino acids the gas-phase proton affinities were established for the first time, while for the others obtained values are used to improve the accuracy of the computational and experimental proton affinities reported previously. In addition, structures and proton affinities are discussed in order to rationalize their biological activity.
Abstract Larval tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens [Noctuidae]are aggressive, generalist feeders that tolerate high levels of dietary l -canavanine, an insecticidal l -arginine antimetabolite; the LC 50 for dietary canavanine is 300 mM. Arginine kinase (adenosine 5′ triphosphate: l -arginine phosphotransferase, EC 3.5.3.1), which mediates a phosphorylation of canavanine to yield the novel phosphagen, L-canavanine phosphate, was purified from larval gut. Kinetic parameters revealed an apparent K m value of 7.2 × 10 −4 and 2.13 × 10 −2 M for arginine and canavanine, respectively. These K m values suggest that arginine kinase's affinity for canavanine is substantially less than its affinity for arginine. The ability of arginine kinase to metabolize canavanine accounts for the enhancement in canavanine catabolism in the presence of ATP observed in canavanine-treated larvae. Canavanine is a more effective substrate for arginine kinase than homoarginine, 2-amino-4-guanidinobutyric acid, and 2-amino-3-guanidinopropionic acid. However, all the arginine analogs were more active substrates for arginine kinase than homocanavanine and 2-amino-3-guanidinooxypropionic acid, the higher and lower canavanine analogs, respectively. When arginine kinase reacted with N -tris[hydroxymethyllmethylglycine (tricine) massive amounts of an unidentified, but ninhydrin-positive product was formed. The larvae showed no detectable loss in their ability to deal with dietary canavanine in the presence of tricine buffer.
Dye-sensitized solar cells based on nanocrystalline TiO(2) have been fabricated with an amphiphilic ruthenium sensitizer [Ru (4,4'-dicarboxylic acid-2,2'-bipyridine) (4,4'-bis(p-hexyloxystyryl)-2,2'-bipyridine)(NCS)(2)], coded as K-19, and 4-guanidinobutyric acid (GBA) as coadsorbent. The cells showed a approximately 50 mV increase in open-circuit voltage and a similar current in comparison with cells without GBA cografting. The performance of both types of devices was evaluated on the basis of their photocurrent-voltage characteristics, dark current measurements, cyclic voltammetry, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and phototransient decay methods. The results indicate that GBA shifted the conduction band of TiO(2) toward a more negative potential and reduced the interfacial charge-transfer reaction from conduction band electrons to triiodide in the electrolyte (also known as the back reaction). In addition, the devices with GBA cografting showed an excellent stability with a power conversion efficiency of approximately 8% under simulated full sunlight (air mass 1.5, 100 mW cm(-2)) during visible light soaking at 60 degrees C.
This study examined the inhibitory effects of 4-guanidinobutyric acid (4GBA), an alkaloid, against gastric lesions by assessing the inhibition of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) and gastric cancer cells. Acute and chronic gastritis were also observed using HCl/ethanol (EtOH) and indomethacin-induced gastric lesion models, respectively. 4GBA inhibited the growth of H. pylori in a dose dependent manner, and showed acid-neutralizing capacity. In the pylorus ligated rats, 4GBA decreased the volume of gastric secretion and gastric acid output slightly, and increased the pH. 4GBA at a dose of 100 mg/kg reduced the size of HCl/EtOH-induced gastric lesions (70.8%) and indomethacin-induced gastric lesions (38.8%). The antigastritic action of 4GBA might be associated with the acid-neutralizing capacity, anti-H. pylori action, and decreased volume of gastric secretion. These results suggest that 4GBA might be useful in the treatment and/or protection of gastritis.
The complex between adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 4-guanidinobutyric acid (GBA) has been studied by infrared spectroscopy dry and hydrated (60% relative humidity). Partial nonenzymic hydrolysis has been detected, as deduced from characteristic bands of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic orthophosphate formation. An infrared continuum, which increases upon hydration, demonstrates that the hydrogen bonded system in this complex has a large proton polarizability due to collective proton fluctuation. On this basis, a mechanism for splitting of lytic water molecules is also discussed.
This study examined the inhibitory effects of 4-guanidinobutyric acid (4GBA), an alkaloid, against gastric lesions by assessing the inhibition of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) and gastric cancer cells. Acute and chronic gastritis were also observed using HCl/ ethanol (EtOH) and indomethacin-induced gastric lesion models, respectively. 4GBA inhibited the growth of H. pylori in a dose dependent manner, and showed acid-neutralizing capacity. In the pylorus ligated rats, 4GBA decreased the volume of gastric secretion and gastric acid output slightly, and increased the pH. 4GBA at a dose of 100 mg/kg reduced the size of HCl/EtOH-induced gastric lesions (70.8%) and indomethacin-induced gastric lesions (38.8%). The antigastritic action of 4GBA might be associated with the acid-neutralizing capacity, anti-H. pylori action, and decreased volume of gastric secretion. These results suggest that 4GBA might be useful in the treatment and/or protection of gastritis.
Thirty diketopiperazines were synthesized as analogs of cyclo (-Tyr-Arg-). The analgesic activities of these analogs were evaluated after intracerebral administration in mice. In the cyclo (-X-Arg-) series of analogs, cyclo [-Tyr (Et)-Arg-] showed the most potent activity. In the cyclo (-Tyr-Y-) series of analogs, the activity decreased in the order Y=homoarginine, p-guanidinophenylalanine, 2-amino-4-guanidinobutyric acid, Lys, Orn, His, α, γ-diaminobutyric acid and Pro. Among the analogs synthesized, cyclo-[-Tyr (Et)-Har-], which was designed on the basis of the above results, exhibited remarkably potent analgesic activity, being 17 times more potent than cyclo (-Tyr-Arg-) and nearly as potent as morphine on a molar basis. The structure-activity relation of cyclo(-Tyr-Arg-) is discussed in the light of these results.
Abstarct l -Arginine oxidase (AROD, EC 1.4.3.-) was discovered in newly discovered Pseudomonas sp. TPU 7192 and its characteristics were described. The molecular mass (MS) of the enzyme was estimated to be 528 kDa, which was accounted for by eight identical subunits with MS of 66 kDa each. AROD was identified as a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent enzyme with 1 mol of FAD being contained in each subunit. It catalyzed the oxidative deamination of l -arginine and converted l -arginine to 2-ketoarginine, which was non-enzymatically converted into 4-guanidinobutyric acid when the hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) formed by l -arginine oxidation was not removed. In contrast, 2-ketoarginine was present when H 2 O 2 was decomposed. AROD was specific to l -arginine with a K m value of 149 μM. It exhibited maximal activity at 55 °C and pH 5.5. AROD was stable in the pH range 5.5–7.5 and >95% of its original activity was below 60 °C at pH 7.0. Since these enzymatic properties are considered suitable for the determination of l -arginine, the gene was cloned and expressed in a heterologous expression system. We herein successfully developed a new simple enzymatic method for the determination of l -arginine using Pseudomonas AROD.
Abstract Chestnut fruits, being poor of simple sugars and consisting mainly of fibers and starch, are among the constituents of Mediterranean diet. While numerous studies report on content of proteins and amino acids in chestnut, no one has appeared so far on betaines, an important class of nitrogen compounds ubiquitous in plants for their protective action in response to abiotic stress. In this study, we analyzed by HPLC–ESI-tandem mass spectrometry, in fruits and flours of varieties of chestnut cultivated in Italy, the composition of betaines and ammonium compounds intermediates of their biosynthesis. Besides the parent amino acids, the compounds quantified were choline, glycerophosphocholine, phosphocholine, glycine betaine, N -methylproline, proline betaine (stachydrine), β-alanine betaine, 4-guanidinobutyric acid, trigonelline, N , N , N -trimethyllysine. Interestingly, some uncommon derivatives of pipecolic acid, such as N -methylpipecolic acid, 4-hydroxypipecolic acid and 4-hydroxy- N -methylpipecolic acid were identified for the first time in chestnut samples and characterized by MS n tandem mass spectrometry.
L-2-Amino-4-guanidinobutyric acid was prepared in a fairly good yield from L-2, 4-diaminobutyric acid by treatment with S-methylisothiourea sulfate after converting the acid to its copper salt and protecting the amino groups in 2-and 4-positions respectively with benzoyl and benzyloxycarbonyl group.
Summary 1. Because p -toluenesulfonyl- L -arginine methyl ester precipitates streptokinase and makes it unable to activate human plasminogen, guanidino compounds were tested to see whether they reacted with streptokinase, inhibited the activation process, or had any effects on the hydrolysis of TAME by plasmin (EC 3.4.4.14) or by Activator (plasmin plus 5000 units/ml streptokinase). All experiments were performed at 37° in 0.25 M Tris buffer (pH 8.0). No evidence was found for a reaction between these compounds and streptokinase, but they inhibited the activation process while not interfering with the formation of Activator. In addition, they produced complicated effects on the hydrolysis of TAME by plasmin, similar to those reported for 6-amino-caproic acid. 2. The effects of the compounds on the rates of hydrolysis of TAME by plasmin depended upon how the experiments were performed so that 1,1-dimethyl and methyl guanidine sulfates either inhibited or accelerated the rates and 4-guanidino-butyric acid, 6-aminocaproic acid and the other guanidino compounds either had no effect or had acceleratory effects. These results were interpreted as being due to a stabilizing reaction of the compounds with plasmin and this was shown to occur by measuring the ability of both plasmin and Activator to hydrolyze TAME after they were kept in the presence or absence of 0.05 M methyl or dimethyl guanidine sulfate or 0.1 M concentrations of the other compounds for 24 h at 37° (pH 8.0). 3. The ability of the compounds to stabilize plasmin was roughly of the same order as their ability to inhibit the activation of plasminogen. In low concentrations 6-aminocaproic acid was the most potent inhibitor and stabilizer but in higher concentrations dimethyl guanidine and 4-guanidinobutyric acid were equally potent. This concentration effect was explained as due to the different equilibrium constants for the reactions of plasmin with each compound. It was suggested that the compounds also react with Activator and with plasminogen and in all of these ways interfere with the activation process.
!-Aminoaldehydes arise from the degradation of polyamines (such as putrescine, spermidine or spermine), which is catalyzed by amine oxidases or polyamine oxidases. The oxidation products (hydrogen peroxide and aminoaldehydes) have been implicated in programmed cell death, induction of cytotoxicity and inhibition of cell division and cause apoptosis in several cell types (Agostinelli et al., 2004) . For instance, 3-aminopropionaldehyde (APAL) is considered to be cytotoxic to mammalian cells and causes apoptotic and necrotic death of both neurons and glial cells (Li et al., 2003) . Aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases (AMADHs) oxidize various primary !-aminoaldehydes, namely APAL, 4-aminobutyraldehyde (ABAL) and 4-guanidinobutyraldehyde, to the corresponding !-amino acids -alanine, 4-aminobutyric acid and 4-guanidinobutyric acid, respectively. To date, AMADHs have been purified from microorganisms, plants and animals. For historical reasons, they are classified separately as 4-aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenases (EC 1.2.1.19) and 4-guanidinobutyraldehyde dehydrogenases (EC 1.2.1.54) in the enzyme catalogue (Prieto et al., 1987; Matsuda & Suzuki, 1984) . AMADHs contain a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) coenzyme and a reactive cysteine at the active site. According to amino-acid sequence homology, AMADHs are related to betaine aldehyde dehydrogenases (BADHs; EC 1.2.1.8), which are enzymes that mediate the conversion of betaine aldehydes to betaines (Š ebela et al., 2000) .
A series of artificial peptides bearing cationic functional groups with different side chain lengths were designed, and their ability to increase the thermal stability of nucleic acid duplexes was investigated. The peptides with amino groups selectively increased the stability of RNA/RNA duplexes, and a relationship between the side chain length and the melting temperature (Tm) of the peptide-RNA complexes was observed. On the other hand, while peptides with guanidino groups exhibited a similar tendency with respect to the peptide structure and thermal stability of RNA/RNA duplexes, those with longer side chain lengths, such as L-2-amino-4-guanidinobutyric acid (Agb) or L-arginine (Arg) oligomers, stabilized both RNA/RNA and DNA/DNA duplexes, and those with shorter side chain lengths exhibited a higher ability to selectively stabilize RNA/RNA duplexes. In addition, peptides were designed with different levels of flexibility by introducing glycine (Gly) residues into the L-2-amino-3-guanidinopropionic acid (Agp) oligomers. It was found that insertion of Gly did not affect the thermal stability of the peptide-RNA complexes, but an alternate arrangement of Gly and Agp apparently decreased the thermal stability. Therefore, in the Agp oligomer, consecutive Agp sequences are essential for increasing the stability of RNA/RNA duplexes.
Abstract To improve early renal allograft function, it is important to develop a noninvasive diagnostic method for acute T cell-mediated rejection (TCMR). This study aims to explore potential noninvasive urinary biomarkers to screen for acute TCMR in kidney transplant recipients (KTRs) using untargeted metabolomic profiling. Urinary metabolites, collected from KTRs with stable graft function (STA) or acute TCMR episodes, were analyzed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Multivariate statistical analyses were performed to discriminate differences in urinary metabolites between the two groups. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was used to evaluate the diagnostic performance of potential urinary biomarkers. Statistical analysis revealed the differences in urinary metabolites between the two groups and indicated several statistically significant metabolic features suitable for potential biomarkers. By comparing the retention times and mass fragmentation patterns of the chemicals in metabolite databases, samples, and standards, six of these features were clearly identified. ROC curve analysis showed the best performance of the training set (area under the curve value, 0.926; sensitivity, 90.0%; specificity, 84.6%) using a panel of five potential biomarkers: guanidoacetic acid, methylimidazoleacetic acid, dopamine, 4-guanidinobutyric acid, and L-tryptophan. The diagnostic accuracy of this model was 62.5% for an independent test dataset. LC-MS-based untargeted metabolomic profiling is a promising method to discriminate between acute TCMR and STA groups. Our model, based on a panel of five potential biomarkers, needs to be further validated in larger scale studies.
Acyclovir (ACV) exposure is a common cause of acute kidney injury (AKI). The toxicity mechanism of ACV has always been a matter of debate. The present study investigated into the time-effect relationship and dose-effect relationship of ACV-induced nephrotoxicity in rats using metabonomics. Twenty-four rats were randomly divided into four groups: a 0.9% NaCl solution group, and 100, 300, and 600mg/kg ACV-treated groups; the ACV or vehicle solution was administered with a single intravenous injection. Urine was collected at different time periods (12h before administration, and 0-6h, 7-12h, and 13-24h after administration). Routine urinalysis was conducted by a urine automatic analyzer. Renal markers, including urine urea nitrogen, urine creatinine, and urinary N-acetyl-β-d-glucosaminidase (NAG) activity, were determined using established protocols. Urinary metabolites were evaluated using ultra performance liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (UPLC/MS). In the ACV-treated rats, increased levels of protein (PRO), occult blood (BLD), white blood cell (WBC), and NAG activity in urine were observed, while the urine creatinine and urea nitrogen levels showed a decrease compared with the control. Moreover, urine metabolites significantly changed after the treatment with ACV, and all the effects induced by ACV were dose-time dependent. Finally, 4 metabolites (guanine, 4-guanidinobutyric acid, creatinine, and urea) were identified, which can be used for further research on the mechanism of ACV-induced nephrotoxicity.
The compositions of free guanidine and polyamine pools of three marine bivalves, the oyster Crassostrea gigas, the japanese clam Ruditapes philippinarum and the common cockle Cerastoderma edule were investigated. The major arginine-related metabolites were 4-guanidinobutyric acid in the oyster C. gigas and octopine (N2-(1-d-carboxyethyl)-l-arginine) in the clam R. philippinarum. The diamine and polyamine pattern of the cockle C. edule showed the presence of unusual polyamines, norspermidine and norspermine. In the three bivalves studied, spermine appears to be the major polyamine and spermidine the second. The occurrence of the guanidine octopine and the presence of spermine as the major polyamines in bivalves is discussed in relation to the ecology of these organisms.
Arginine (Arg) has been used for recognizing negatively charged biological molecules, cell penetration, and oligosaccharide mass signal enhancement. The versatility of Arg has inspired the need to develop Arg analogs and to research the structural effects of incorporating Arg analogs. Accordingly, we investigated the effect of Arg side chain length on helix formation by studying 12 Ala-based peptides containing the Arg analogs (S)-2-amino-6-guanidino-hexanoic acid (Agh), (S)-2-amino-4-guanidinobutyric acid (Agb), and (S)-2-amino-3-guanidinopropionic acid (Agp). Solid phase guanidinylation with orthogonal protection strategies was necessary to synthesize Agb- and Agp-containing peptides using Fmoc-based chemistry. The fraction helix for the peptides was determined by circular dichroism spectroscopy, and used to derive the statistical mechanical parameters and energetics for N-capping, C-capping, and helix propagation (propensity). All four Arg analogs were unfavorable for N-capping. The C-cap parameter followed the trend Agp Agh, highlighting the uniqueness of the Arg side chain length in helix formation. Molecular mechanics calculations and a survey on protein structures were consistent with the experimental results. Furthermore, calculations and survey both showed that the g– conformation for the χ1 dihedral was present for the first two residues at the N-terminus of helices, but not favored in the center or C-terminus of helices due to sterics. These results should serve as the foundation for developing Arg-related bioactive compounds and technologies.
Novel guanidine alkaloids dopargimine ( 1 ) and mellpaladines A–C ( 2 – 4 ) were isolated from a Palauan Didemnidae tunicate. The structures of 1 – 4 were elucidated on the basis of spectral data along with chemical reactions. A putative biosynthetic building block of 1 – 4 , 4-guanidinobutyric acid ( 5 ), and dimeric polysulfur dopamine, as well as lissoclibadins 11 ( 6a ) and 12 ( 6b ) were also isolated. Compounds 1 – 3 bound to synaptic receptors, and modulated behavioral profiles of mice after intracerebroventricular injection.
The enzyme 4-guanidinobutyrase (GBase) catalyzes the hydrolysis of 4-guanidinobutyric acid (GB) to 4-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and urea. Here we describe methods to estimate urea and GABA that were suitably adapted from the published literature. The urea is determined by colorimetric assay using modified Archibald's method. However, the low sensitivity of this method often renders it impractical to perform fine kinetic analysis. To overcome this limitation, a high sensitive method for detecting GABA is exploited that can even detect 1 μM of GABA in the assay mixture. The samples are deproteinized by perchloric acid (PCA) and potassium hydroxide treatment prior to HPLC analysis of GABA. The method involves a pre-column derivatization with o-phthalaldehyde (OPA) in combination with the thiol 3-mercaptopropionic acid (MPA). The fluorescent GABA derivative is then detected after reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) using isocratic elution. The protocols described here are broadly applicable to other biological samples involving urea and GABA as metabolites.
Small metabolites and peptides in 17 snake venoms (Elapidae, Viperinae, and Crotalinae), were quantified using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Each venom contains >900 metabolites and peptides. Many small organic compounds are present at levels that are probably significant in prey envenomation, given that their known pharmacologies are consistent with snake envenomation strategies. Metabolites included purine nucleosides and their bases, neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, guanidino compounds, carboxylic acids, amines, mono- and disaccharides, and amino acids. Peptides of 2⁻15 amino acids are also present in significant quantities, particularly in crotaline and viperine venoms. Some constituents are specific to individual taxa, while others are broadly distributed. Some of the latter appear to support high anabolic activity in the gland, rather than having toxic functions. Overall, the most abundant organic metabolite was citric acid, owing to its predominance in viperine and crotaline venoms, where it chelates divalent cations to prevent venom degradation by venom metalloproteases and damage to glandular tissue by phospholipases. However, in terms of their concentrations in individual venoms, adenosine, adenine, were most abundant, owing to their high titers in Dendroaspis polylepis venom, although hypoxanthine, guanosine, inosine, and guanine all numbered among the 50 most abundant organic constituents. A purine not previously reported in venoms, ethyl adenosine carboxylate, was discovered in D. polylepis venom, where it probably contributes to the profound hypotension caused by this venom. Acetylcholine was present in significant quantities only in this highly excitotoxic venom, while 4-guanidinobutyric acid and 5-guanidino-2-oxopentanoic acid were present in all venoms.
Abstract: Small metabolites and peptides in 17 snake venoms (Elapidae, Viperinae, and Crotalinae), were quantified using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Each venom contains >900 metabolites and peptides. Many small organic compounds are present at levels that are probably significant in prey envenomation, given that their known pharmacologies are consistent with snake envenomation strategies. Metabolites included purine nucleosides and their bases, neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, guanidino compounds, carboxylic acids, amines, mono-and disaccharides, and amino acids. Peptides of 2-15 amino acids are also present in significant quantities, particularly in crotaline and viperine venoms. Some constituents are specific to individual taxa, while others are broadly distributed. Some of the latter appear to support high anabolic activity in the gland, rather than having toxic functions. Overall, the most abundant organic metabolite was citric acid, owing to its predominance in viperine and crotaline venoms, where it chelates divalent cations to prevent venom degradation by venom metalloproteases and damage to glandular tissue by phospholipases. However, in terms of their concentrations in individual venoms, adenosine, adenine, were most abundant, owing to their high titers in Dendroaspis polylepis venom, although hypoxanthine, guanosine, inosine, and guanine all numbered among the 50 most abundant organic constituents. A purine not previously reported in venoms, ethyl adenosine carboxylate, was discovered in D. polylepis venom, where it probably contributes to the profound hypotension caused by this venom. Acetylcholine was present in significant quantities only in this highly excitotoxic venom, while 4-guanidinobutyric acid and 5-guanidino-2-oxopentanoic acid were present in all venoms.
Benzylic rearrangement stable isotope labeling (BRSIL) was explored to quantify the guanidino and ureido compounds (GCs and UCs). This method employed a common reagent, benzil, to label the guanidino and ureido groups through nucleophilic attacking then benzylic migrating. The use of BRSIL was investigated in the analysis of five GCs (creatine, l-arginine, homoarginine, 4-guanidinobutyric acid, and methylguanidine) and two UCs (urea and citrulline). The labeling was found simple and specific. The introduction of bi-phenyl group and the generation of nitrogen heterocyclic ring in the benzil-d0/d5 labeled GCs and UCs improved the retention behaviors in liquid chromatography (LC) and increased the sensitivity of electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI MS) detection. The fragment ion pairs of m/z 182/187 and m/z 210/215 from the benzil-d0/d5 tags facilitated the discovery of potential GCs and UCs candidates residing in biological matrices. The use of BRSIL combined with LC-ESI MS was applied for simultaneously quantitation of GCs and UCs in thyroid tissues. It was demonstrated that nine GCs and UCs were detected, six of which were further quantified based on corresponding standards. It was concluded that five GCs and UCs (l-arginine, homoarginine, 4-guanidinobutyric acid, methylguanidine, and citrulline) were statistically significantly different (p < 0.05) between the para-carcinoma and carcinoma thyroid tissue samples.
Polyhexamethylene biguanide (PHMB), a biocide used in a wide variety of disinfection and preservation applications, is a polydisperse mixture in which the end-groups may be any combination of amine, guanidine and cyanoguanidine. Using PHMB model compounds (1,6-diaminohexane; 1,6-diguanidinohexane; 1,6-di(cyanoguanidino)hexane; 4-guanidinobutyric acid), we have determined the biodegradation characteristics of each end-group in several strains of bacteria isolated for their ability to utilise PHMB as a sole source of nitrogen. Bacteria were screened for growth at the expense of each model compound (at non-inhibitory concentrations) as sole nitrogen source. None of the isolated bacteria was capable of utilising a cyanoguanidine end-group as growth substrate, whereas several bacteria were shown to utilise amine or guanidine end-groups. In particular, a strain of Pseudomonas putida was capable of extensive growth with 1,6-diguanidinohexane as a sole nitrogen source, with complete removal of guanidine groups from culture medium within 2 days, and with concomitant formation of unsubstituted urea, which in turn was also utilised by the organism. We conclude that whilst amine and guanidine end-groups in PHMB are likely to be susceptible to biodegradation, cyanoguanidine end-groups are likely to be recalcitrant.
