Cell extracts of Eubacterium oxidoreducens, in the presence of dimethyl sulfoxide, catalyzed the conversion of pyrogallol to phloroglucinol with methyl sulfide as a product. The isomerization reaction also proceeded when 1,2,3,5-benzenetetrol was present rather than dimethyl sulfoxide. An assay to quantitate this activity was developed. The assay followed the disappearance of 1,2,4-benzenetriol as determined colorimetrically after incubation with sodium molybdate at neutral pH. The products of this reaction were resorcinol and 2,6-dihydroxyquinone. The enzyme(s) catalyzing this reaction was purified fivefold from cells grown on gallate plus H2. The purification procedure involved treatment with 40% acetone, precipitation with ammonium sulfate, DEAE-cellulose chromatography, concentration by ultrafiltration (molecular weight cutoff, greater than 100,000), and hydroxylapatite chromatography. This preparation had a specific activity of 14.7 mumol/min per mg of protein and a pH optimum of about 7.3. It was strongly inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzoate. The mechanism of the reaction involved oxidation of the pyrogallol followed by introduction of water. The benzenetetrol intermediate was then reduced and dehydrated to phloroglucinol. Images
Ceratiolin, a constituent of Ceratiola ericoides was synthesized by the methylation of 2′,3′,4′,6′-tetrahydroxydihydrochalcone, prepared by the Hoesch reaction of 1,2,3,5-benzenetetrol with 3-phenylpropionitrile. Furthermore, it was proved that ceratiolin easily forms by the oxidation of 2′,4′,6′-trihydroxy-3′,5′-dimethyldihydrochalcone.
The facile and efficient one-step synthesis and the full characterization of novel π-electron rich macrocycles, calix-[n]tetrolarenes (n = 4, 5), are described. The tetramer and the much rarer sized pentamer were easily prepared by reaction of the commercially available, partially methylated 1,2,3,5-benzenetetrol with paraformaldehyde under TFA catalysis, with a total isolated yield of 73%. The reaction is solvent sensitive, and the number of methylated oxygens also affects the tetramer/pentamer distribution. The compounds formed may be considered as “chimeric” macrocycles of calixarene and pyrogallol[n]arene that may serve as new building blocks in host–guest and supramolecular chemistry.
