4-[2H2]-L-glutamic acid was prepared in excellent yield by enzymatic reductive amination of 4-[2H2]-2-ketoglutaric acid. The synthesis of stereospecifically deuterated (4 R) and (4 S)-[4-2H2]-L-glutamic acids from (2 RS, 4 S) and (2 RS, 4 R)-4-hydroxyglutamic acids, involving a reduction step by sodium cyanoborodeuteride, was shown to proceed with 75% inversion of configuration.
Abstract Ion-exchange chromatography of acid hydrolyzed kidney bean seed fractions revealed two major non-nitrogenous ninhydrin-positive peaks. The larger of the two was isolated and characterized as levulinic acid. Its sensitivity to the ninhydrin reagent at 570 mμ is approximately 1 100 that of leucine while its 570:440 mμ absorption ratio resembles that of some imino acids. Behavior on the ion-exchange column was noted for the isomeric angelicalactones, acetyllevulinic acid, levulinamide, γ-chlorovalerolactone, 2-ketogluconic acid, 5-ketogluconic acid and 2-ketoglutaric acid. Each gave a low order ninhydrin-positive reaction.
Compounds with vitamin K activity, menaquinone and phylloquinone, are biosynthesized from shikimic acid (or a close relative) and either 2-ketoglutaric acid or glutamic acid. The mechanism of the condensation and the nature of possible intermediates are discussed. Flaviolin (produced by Aspergillus niger) and 2,7-dimethoxynaphthazarin (produced by Streptomycete 12396) are shown to be typical acetate polymalonate compounds. Other routes to naturally occurring naphthoquinones are briefly reviewed.
Compounds with vitamin K activity, menaquinone and phylloquinone, are biosynthesized from shikimic acid (or a close relative) and either 2-ketoglutaric acid or glutamic acid. The mechanism of the condensation and the nature of possible intermediates are discussed. Flaviolin (produced by Aspergillus niger) and 2,7-dimethoxynaphthazarin (produced by Streptomycete 12396) are shown tobe typical acetate polymalonate compounds. Other routes to naturally occurring naphthoquinones are briefly reviewed.
Microbial α-transaminases such as tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) and branched chain aminotransferase (BCAT) of Escherichia coli, are useful as industrial biocatalysts to prepare nonproteinogenic l-amino acids from α-keto acids and an amino donor. However, they typically yield only 50% product when l-glutamic acid, the preferred amino donor, is used due to accumulated 2-ketoglutaric acid. Accordingly, methods have been sought to increase the reaction yield by the recycle or removal of the keto acid by-product. In this report, we have investigated the biocatalytic coupling of δ-transamination with α-transamination to recycle 2-ketoglutaric acid, and thereby increase the yield of aminotransferase reaction products. Ornithine δ-aminotransferase (OAT) catalyses the reversible transfer of the δ-amino group of l-ornithine to 2-ketoglutaric acid forming l-glutamic acid semialdehyde and l-glutamic acid. The cyclisation of l-glutamic acid semialdehyde to form Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate under physiological conditio...
Dunaliella salina is the major commercial source of natural β-carotene. Limitation of key macronutrients, such as sulfur, in the late stages of D. salina cultivation is one of the main inducers of mass accumulation of β-carotene. In this study the nutritional changes and metabolic responses of D. salina to sulfur deprivation were investigated by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. A total of 82 significantly influenced metabolites were identified in cells cultured in either sulfur-deprived or sulfur-replete media, including 19 amino acids, 19 sugars, 26 organic acids, 12 alcohols, 5 amines, and phosphate. The metabolites were categorized into three groups by hierarchical clustering based on their change trends. Partial least squares and principal component analyses showed that a large number of metabolic pathways of D. salina cells cultured under sulfur deprivation conditions changed significantly. Twenty-one metabolites were identified as biomarkers that can be used to distinguish the cells cultivated under sulfur-replete and sulfur-depleted conditions. There was a decrease of total free fatty acid contents, accompanied by increased content of saturated and decreased content of unsaturated fatty acids. The increases of most amino acids, sugars, and 2-ketoglutaric acid, together with the decrease of total fatty acids, indicate that carbon units from protein metabolism were mainly diverted into starch biosynthesis, together with the products of photosynthesis. This study contributes to the elucidation of the metabolic mechanisms triggered in D. salina upon sulfur deprivation, offering insights into nutrition optimization for the cultivation of D. salina, with the aim of increasing the production of natural carotenoids.
The b-carboline skeleton is widely distributed among natural products including yohimbine (yohimbine and alloyohimbine), corynantheidine (corynantheidine), Rauwolfia (reserpine) and Vinca (vincamine) alkaloids. 1 (-)-Trypargine (1) is a b-carboline alkaloid which has been isolated from the skin of the African racophorid frog, Kassina senegalensis, by Akizawa et al. 2 in 1982 and more recently has also been isolated in nearly racemic form from the methanol extract of the ground ascidian Eudistoma sp. 3 The absolute configuration of natural (-)-trypargine (1) was initially assigned via resolution of its racemate, prepared via the Pictet-Spengler reaction between tryptamine and 4-guanidino butyraldehyde ethyleneacetal, followed by optical rotatory dispersion and circular dichroism studies. 4 Ishikawa and co-workers 4, 5 established its absolute configuration by total synthesis via the Pictet-Spengler reaction between (R)-N-benzyl tryptophan methyl ester and 2-ketoglutaric acid, followed by X-ray diffraction analysis of the corresponding methyl ester of the major diastereoisomer. Synthetic (-)-(S)-1-(3´-guanidinopropyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-bcarboline was shown to be identical to natural (-)-trypargine (1) thus establishing its absolute configuration.
The present application describes compositions and methods for generating an oxidoreductase for the enantioselective reaction. The present application describes a method for generating (R) -2- hydroxy acid compositions and methods of the new variant dehydrogenase enzyme capable of enzymatically converting a keto acid into 1-1- carboxy-2-carboxy - ( R) -2- hydroxy acid, or the reverse reaction. Illustrative examples include (A) (R) -2- hydroxy and adipic acid dehydrogenase used to convert 2-oxo-adipic acid into (R) -2- hydroxy use adipic acid or its reverse reaction ; and (B) (R) -2- hydroxy dehydrogenase and for converting 2-ketoglutaric acid into (R) -2- hydroxy glutaric acid or the use of the reverse reaction. The present application also describes a microbial organism to produce unnatural enzymatically converted into 2-oxo-adipic acid (E) -2- hexenedioic acid or adipic acid, or enzymatically 2- oxopentyl converted into acid compositions and methods of (E) -2- glutaconic acid or glutaric acid or the respective reverse reaction.
Rhizobium meliloti, like many bacteria, accumulates elevated levels of glutamate when osmotically stressed. The biochemical basis for this increase in glutamate production was investigated. Enzymes involved in glutamate synthesis, including glutamine synthetase, glutamate synthase, and glutamic dehydrogenase, were characterized in dialyzed crude cell-free extracts. A transaminase activity, which uses branched chain amino acids for the amination of 2-ketoglutaric acid, was also characterized. With the exception of glutamic dehydrogenase, the specific activity of the enzymes did not vary more than 4-fold in response to the available source of nitrogen or supplemental glutamate. Glutamic dehydrogenase activity was 13-fold greater when cells grew with 10 mM than when cells grew with 0.5 mM . Glutamate synthase was repressed 2-fold when cells grew with supplemental glutamate. Conversely, this enzyme was derepressed 2× when cells grew with 0.5 mM or nitrate. Growing cells in minimal defined medium with 400 mM N...
OBJECTIVE ::: To investigate the metabolic profiles of urine from APP/PS1 mice with early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Urine samples were collected from 13 APP/PS1 mice of 16 weeks and 15 wild-type mice. 1H-NMR spectroscopy was acquired with a one-dimensional NOESY pulse sequence, and the integral values were imported to SIMCA-P+12.0 software for analysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The metabonomic analysis showed that the metabolic profiles of the APP/PS1 mice were significantly different from that of age-matched wild-type mice. The levels of 3-hydroxybutyrate, 2-hydroxybutyrate, succinic acid, 2-ketoglutaric acid, citric acid, cis-aconitic acid, fumaric acid decreased, and those of acetic acid, trimethylamine, taurine, creatinine, hippuric acid, formic acid, trigonelline, urea increased (all P<0.05). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Metabolic pathways including glucose metabolism and methylamine metabolism may be involved in the pathogenesis of early AD.
Summary Azospirillum spp. were isolated from the roots of diverse plant species having C 3 , C 4 and CAM photosynthetic pathways. All the cultures showed identical morphological and physiological characters despite the diversity of their origin. Attempts to identify these cultures as A. brasilense or A. lipoferum based on detailed physiological studies were unsuccessful as they showed many overlapping characters. Like A. lipoferum all the strains could utilize glucose and 2-ketoglutaric acid as sole carbon source for growth, and acidify the media containing glucose, fructose, ribose and mannitol, but like A. brasilense they did not require biotin, exhibited dissimilatory nitrate reduction, and did not show pleomorphism. Further these isolates produced indole which was not reported in either of the species. Based on these studies, it was suggested that these cultures might represent a new species of Azospirillum .
Abstract Treatment of 2-ketoglutaric acid with diazomethane gave 2-(metoxycarbonyl)-oxiranepropanoic acid methyl ester (2) wich lead to 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-glutaric acid dimethyl ester (3) by catalytic hydrogenation, wich was further processed to the title compound.
The 13C resonances of the hydrate, keto and enol forms of oxaloacetic acid in aqueous solutions at low pH, at pH 4.3 and at pH 7.3 were assigned on the basis of the J(CH) values and the chemical shifts of reference compounds. At low pH the hydrate form predominated, while only small amounts of the keto and enol forms were detected. At pH 4.3 and 7.3 the keto form was the major form. In anhydrous dimethyl sulphoxide solution only the keto and enol forms were detected, whereas on addition of water the hydrate form became predominant. On prolonged recording of the spectra at the probe temperature (30°C) citroylformic acid was formed either at low pH or at pH 7–12, whereas only traces of pyruvic acid were detected. The aldol condensation product of oxalacetic acid was detected when the spectra were recorded at 7°C before its decarboxylation to citroylformic acid. In the spectra recorded at pH 3–7 pyruvic acid and its aldol condensation product, 4-hydroxy-4-methyl-2-ketoglutaric acid, were detected together with citroylformic acid. A complete assignment of the 13C resonances of these derivatives was made.
As the title indicates, this chapter comprises a mixed group of six individual organic acidurias. Two are disturbances of the citric acid cycle (2-ketoglutaric aciduria and fumaric aciduria). Two further organic acidurias are characterised by excretion of high levels of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid: D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. The other two organic acidurias described in this chapter are malonic aciduria and N-acetylaspartic aciduria (Canavan disease).
The purpose of this work is to characterize chemical compounds added to an ingested soda by 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H NMR) spectroscopy and by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in the electron impact mode. A second point was to highlight possible metabolic disturbances by considering urinary profile. Without any pretreatment, dimethylphtalate, 2-butanone, and 2,2,4-trimethylpentanediol diisobutyrate were found in the adulterated soda. Quantitative analysis was performed by relative integration of peak areas. Huge quantities of 2,2,4-trimethylpentanediol diisobutyrate and dimethylphtalate were found in the oily layer. 2-Butanone, which is miscible in water, was found in the two phases as well as small quantities of dimethylphtalate. The urine sample was collected on hospital admission and was also analyzed by 1 H NMR spectroscopy. The major abnormal compound found was 1,2-propanediol. Other disturbances concerned endogenous metabolites such as 2-ketoglutaric acid, lactic acid, and betaine.
The purpose of this work is to characterize chemical compounds added to an ingested soda by t H nuclear magnetic resonance (~H NMR) spectroscopy and by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in the electron impact mode. A second point was to highlight possible metabolic disturbances by considering urinary profile. Without any pretreatment, dimethylphtalate, 2-butanone, and 2,2,4-trimethylpentanediol diisobutyrate were found in the adulterated soda. Quantitative analysis was performed by relative integration of peak areas. Huge quantities of 2,2,4-trimethylpentanediol diisobutyrate and dimethylphtalate were found in the oily layer. 2-Butanone, which is miscible in water, was found in the two phases as well as small quantities of dimethylphtalate. The urine sample was collected on hospital admission and was also analyzed by tl-I NMR spectroscopy. The major abnormal compound found was 1,2-propanediol. Other disturbances concerned endogenous metabolites such as 2-ketoglutaric acid, lactic acid, and betaine.
Several decades ago, the list of key nutrients that may influence metabolic processes was limited studied. Currently, the list includes fatty acids, vitamins, microelements, nucleic acids and specific amino acids. Common research in nutrient support is beginning to investigate exerting organ-specific effects by modulating metabolic processes rather than by simply improving nutrition. Alpha-ketoglutarate (AKG), also referred to as 2-ketoglutaric acid, 2-oxoglutamate, 2-oxoglutaric acid, oxoglutaric acid and 2-oxopentanedioic acid (Harrison and Pierzynowski, 2008) , is a rate-determining intermediate in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) and has a crucial role in cellular energy metabolism. In cellular metabolism, the generation and decomposition of AKG involved in a variety of metabolic pathways. In the TCA cycle, AKG is decarboxylated to succinylCoA and CO2 by AKG dehydrogenase (encoded by ogdh-1), a key control point of the TCA cycle. Otherwise, AKG can be generated from isocitrate by oxidative decarboxylation catalysed by isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH). Also, AKG can be produced anaplerotically from glutamate by oxidative deamination using glutamate dehydrogenase, and as a product of pyridoxal phosphate-dependent trans-amination reactions in which glutamate is a common amino donor. AKG can dissolve well in water, does not show toxic properties and its water solutions characterize has high stability.
Abstract A high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for the detection and quantitation of acetaldehyde, glyceraldehyde, pyruvic acid, 2-ketoglutaric acid, and formaldehyde in wine, based on the formation of the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones, is presented. These carbonyl compounds often result from the chemical oxidation of major wine components, and are known to affect flavor and color stability. Their analysis in wine is complicated due to their instability and their tendency to react reversibly with bisulfite to form α-hydroxysulfonates. Published methods that break down the sulfonates for the quantitation of total carbonyls in wine involve alkaline hydrolysis of sulfite-bound carbonyls, but we show, for the first time, that this alkaline treatment step significantly increases the concentration of carbonyls during analysis. A solution based on oxygen exclusion is described. The technique offers good specificity, reproducibility (%RSD 0.45–10.6), and limits of detection (1.29–7.53 μg L −1 ). The method was successfully used to monitor concentration changes of these compounds in both white and red wines.
Oxidative stress triggers the peroxidation of ω-6-polyunsaturated fatty acids to reactive lipid fragments, including (2E)-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE). We previously reported two parallel catabolic pathways of HNE. In this study, we report a novel metabolite that accumulates in rat liver perfused with HNE or 4-hydroxynonanoic acid (HNA), identified as 3-(5-oxotetrahydro-2-furanyl)propanoyl-CoA. In experiments using a combination of isotopic analysis and metabolomics studies, three catabolic pathways of HNE were delineated following HNE conversion to HNA. (i) HNA is ω-hydroxylated to 4,9-dihydroxynonanoic acid, which is subsequently oxidized to 4-hydroxynonanedioic acid. This is followed by the degradation of 4-hydroxynonanedioic acid via β-oxidation originating from C-9 of HNA breaking down to 4-hydroxynonanedioyl-CoA, 4-hydroxyheptanedioyl-CoA, or its lactone, 2-hydroxyglutaryl-CoA, and 2-ketoglutaric acid entering the citric acid cycle. (ii) ω-1-hydroxylation of HNA leads to 4,8-dihydroxynonanoic acid (4,8-DHNA), which is subsequently catabolized via two parallel pathways we previously reported. In catabolic pathway A, 4,8-DHNA is catabolized to 4-phospho-8-hydroxynonanoyl-CoA, 3,8-dihydroxynonanoyl-CoA, 6-hydroxyheptanoyl-CoA, 4-hydroxypentanoyl-CoA, propionyl-CoA, and acetyl-CoA. (iii) The catabolic pathway B of 4,8-DHNA leads to 2,6-dihydroxyheptanoyl-CoA, 5-hydroxyhexanoyl-CoA, 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA, and acetyl-CoA. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments showed that HNE can be catabolically disposed via ω- and ω-1-oxidation in rat liver and kidney, with little activity in brain and heart. Dietary experiments showed that ω- and ω-1-hydroxylation of HNA in rat liver were dramatically up-regulated by a ketogenic diet, which lowered HNE basal level. HET0016 inhibition and mRNA expression level suggested that the cytochrome P450 4A are main enzymes responsible for the NADPH-dependent ω- and ω-1-hydroxylation of HNA/HNE.
The essential characteristics of photometric enzymatic analyses are discussed along with application of these techniques to the determination of pyruvic acid, 2-ketoglutaric acid, malic acid, and L(+) lactic acid in wines. These determinations have shown for the first time the presence in wines of keto acids at levels of some tens (and even in some cases hundreds) of milligrams per liter. These simple specific and rapid enzymatic techniques permit the study of numerous intermediate metabolites which exist in small quantities in a natural material, the precise determination of which is very difficult in complex media such as wines Thus, a new path is opened in the progress of analytical enology and understanding of fermentation.
This paper reports the activity of glutamic oxalacetic aminotransferase (GOT) from pig heart and bacteria for racemic 4-hyxoxy-, 4-methyl-, and 4-ethyl-2-ketoglutaric acids. These compound are good substrates for GOT with V max values of, respectively, 10, 90, and 130% relative to the natural substrate, 2-ketoglutaric acid. GOT displays high enantioselectivity toward 4-methyl-2-ketoglutaric acid and 4-ethyl-2-ketoglutaric acid; the synthesis of both diastereoisomers of the corresponding 4-substituted L-glutamic acids is thus possible
In response to low iron availability, Vibrio parahaemolyticus synthesizes and secretes a polyhydroxycarboxylate-type siderophore vibrioferrin which is composed of 1 mol each of 2-ketoglutaric acid, l-alanine, ethanolamine, and citric acid. We have previously reported the cloning and characterization of the pvuA gene, which encodes the 78-kDa outer membrane receptor protein for ferric vibrioferrin. In this study, nine genes involved in the biosynthesis and transport of vibrioferrin have been identified in the genomic regions surrounding the pvuA gene. The genes were sequenced, and gene disruptants were constructed by insertion mutation for phenotype analysis. Five of the genes, named pvsABCDE, constitute an operon that is expressed under iron-limiting conditions. Homology searches of their predicted protein products suggested that the four genes pvsABDE are implicated in the biosynthesis of the siderophore. Another gene in the same operon, pvsC, encodes a putative exporter that is homologous to members of the major facilitator superfamily of multidrug efflux pumps. The remaining four genes, named pvuBCDE, encode proteins strongly homologous to Escherichia coli FecBCDE, respectively, which are components of the ATP-binding cassette transporter system for ferric dicitrate. Reverse transcriptase PCR analysis revealed that these transport genes are transcribed as a single mRNA with the upstream genes, psuA and pvuA. Phenotypic comparison between the wild-type strain and its targeted gene disruptants supported the biological functions for the respective operons that were expected on the basis of the homology search.
OBJECTIVE ::: HPLC-MS/MS-based metabonomics method was used to find the possible biomarker of Rhizoma Coptidis in rat urine. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: Sprague-Dawley rats were successively administrated 7 g x kg(-1) aqueous extract of Rhizoma Coptidis for 30 days, urine were collected by metabolism cages and detected by using the HPLC-MS-MS. All dates were analyzed by the principal component analysis (PCA) through using the SIMCA-P 10.0 software. ::: ::: ::: RESULT ::: The PCA demonstrated that the metabolome between treated group and control group had difference in rat urine sample after of 22 days administrated, for treated group 169 kinds of biomarkers were found including oxalacetic acid, malic acid, 2-ketoglutaric acid, NE, arachidonic acid, 5-HIAA and other compounds, the result was consistent with pharmacological effects of R. coptidis, such as antiinflammatory, inhibiting biosynthesis of CA biosynthesis, anticentral nerve and energy metabolism inhibition. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Metabonomics may be available in pharmacological action evaluation of drugs.
The apparent Equilibrium Constants were determined at pH3 and 4 for the dissociation of the bisulphite compounds of acetaldehyde, pyruvic acid, 2-ketoglutaric acid, L-xylosone, D-threo-2,5-hexodiulose, 2,5-diketogluconic acid, 2-ketogluconic acid and galacturonic acid. Determinations were also made over a wider pH range for acetaldehyde (pH 1 to 13) and pyruvic acid (pH 1.5 to 8).
Cell-free extracts of various strains of Escherichia coli synthesize the menaquinone biosynthetic intermediate o-succinylbenzoic acid (OSB) when supplied with chorismic acid, 2-ketoglutaric acid, and thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP). To assay for OSB synthesis, 2-[U-14C]ketoglutaric acid was used as substrate, and the synthesized OSB was examined by radiogas chromatography (as the dimethyl ester). [U-14C]Shikimic acid also gave rise to radioactive OSB if the cofactors necessary for enzymatic conversion to chorismic acid were added. Use of 2-[1-14C]ketoglutaric acid does not give rise to labeled OSB. In the absence of TPP during the incubations, OSB synthesis was much reduced; these observations are consistent with the proposed role for the succinic semialdehyde-TPP anion as the reagent adding to chorismic acid. Extracts of cells from menC and menD mutants did not form OSB separately, but did so in combination. There was evidence for formation of a product, X, by extracts of a menC mutant incubated with chorismic acid, TPP, and 2-ketoglutaric acid; X was converted to OSB by extracts of a menD mutant. It appears that the intermediate, X, is formed by one gene product and converted to OSB by the second gene product.
Monatin is a naturally occurring, sweet amino acid comprising four stereoisomers due to its two asymmetric centers at C2 and C4. However, the characteristics of each stereoisomer have not yet been fully investigated. To obtain a sufficient amount of racemic monatin for optical resolution, a synthetic method was developed by modifying a possible biosynthetic pathway, i.e., a cross-aldol reaction and subsequent transamination. The key intermediate, 4-hydroxy-4-(3-indolylmethyl)-2-ketoglutaric acid, was obtained via the cross-aldol reaction of pyruvic acid and indole-3-pyruvic acid. Subsequently, the carbonyl group was converted to a hydroxyimino group through reaction with hydroxylamine and then to an amino group via hydrogenation to produce monatin. Next, the racemic monatin was divided into mixtures of two pairs of enantiomers through recrystallization. Finally, both enantiomers of the N-carbobenzoxy-γ-lactone derivatives of monatin were separated by preparative HPLC and deprotected. It was found that all optically pure stereoisomers exhibited a sweet taste. The isomer that displayed the most intense sweetness was the (2R,4R)-isomer, as determined by single crystal X-ray structure analysis of the monatin potassium salt, whereas the least sweet isomer was the (2S,4S)-isomer, which demonstrated a far lower sweetness than was previously reported.
A capillary zone electrophoresis-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (CZE-ESI-MS) method was developed to facilitate identification and determination of eleven low-molecular-mass (LMW) organic acids (i.e. oxalic, lactic, malonic, maleic, citric, tartaric, adipic, glutaric, gluconic, isosaccharinic and succinic acid) in different sample matrices. This CZE method was adapted to suit MS conditions. Sheath liquid, sheath flow and MS parameters were optimized to achieve high mass spectrometric sensitivity. The CZE-ESI-MS procedure showed good sensitivity (limit of detection of < 0.05-0.7 mg/l for all acids), linearity (r2 = 0.9925-0.9998) and reproducibility (2.09-5.34% RSD). The applicability of the CZE-ESI-MS was demonstrated on LMW organic acids in an ale sample. In addition the (here presented) method also provided quantification of fumaric, galacturonic and 2-ketoglutaric acid with high sensitivity.
To characterize metabolic profiles within the central nervous system in epilepsy, we performed gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GC-MS/MS)-based metabolome analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in pediatric patients with and without epilepsy. The CSF samples obtained from 64 patients were analyzed by GC-MS/MS. Multivariate analyses were performed for two age groups, 0-5 years of age and 6-17 years of age, to elucidate the effects of epilepsy and antiepileptic drugs on the metabolites. In patients aged 0-5 years (22 patients with epilepsy, 13 without epilepsy), epilepsy patients had reduced 2-ketoglutaric acid and elevated pyridoxamine and tyrosine. In patients aged 6-17 years (12 with epilepsy, 17 without epilepsy), epilepsy patients had reduced 1,5-anhydroglucitol. Valproic acid was associated with elevated 2-aminobutyric acid, 2-ketoisocaproic acid, 4-hydroxyproline, acetylglycine, methionine, N-acetylserine, and serine. Reduced energy metabolism and alteration of vitamin B6 metabolism may play a role in epilepsy in young children. The roles of 1,5-anhydroglucitol in epilepsy in older children and in levetiracetam and zonisamide treatment remain to be explained. Valproic acid influenced the levels of amino acids and related metabolites involved in the metabolism of serine, methionine, and leucine.
The present study investigated metabolomic and transcriptomic responses in the livers of pigs to evaluate the effects of resistant starch on the body's metabolism at the extraintestinal level. Thirty-six Duroc× Landrace × Large White growing barrows (70 d of age) were randomly allocated to either the corn starch (CS) group or the raw potato starch (RPS) group with a randomized complete block design; each group consisted of 6 replicates (pens), with 3 pigs per pen. Pigs in the CS group were offered a corn-soybean-based diet, whereas pigs in the RPS group were put on a diet in which 230 (growing) or 280 g/kg (finishing) purified CS was replaced with purified RPS during a 100-d trial. The livers of pigs were collected for metabolome and gene expression analysis. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis showed that compared with the CS diet, the RPS diet decreased ( < 0.05) cholesterol and palmitic acid as well as increased ( < 0.05) 3-hydroxybutyric acid, which indicated the reduction of adipose weight and fatty acid biosynthesis and the elevation of fatty acid β-oxidation. In addition, 2-ketoglutaric acid and glucose-6-phosphate were increased (< 0.05) although pyruvic acid was decreased ( < 0.05) in the RPS group, indicating the upregulated capacity of glucose phosphorylation and glycolysis. Microarray analysis showed that the mRNA expression of (), (), and () were downregulated ( < 0.05) whereas (), (), and () were upregulated ( < 0.05) in the RPS diet, indicating a decrease in fatty acid intake and synthesis and an increase in fatty acid oxidation and glycerophospholipid synthesis. The results demonstrated that the long-term consumption of RPS could modulate hepatic lipid metabolism by decreasing fatty acid synthesis as well as increasing lipid oxidation and glycerophospholipid synthesis.
1. A rapid method for estimating the activity of the first enzyme of lysine biosynthesis in yeasts (acetyl-coenzyme A: 2-ketoglutarate C-acetyl transferase, EC 4.1.3.21) is described. 2. In the wild type strain, the fixation of one substrate, S-acetyl coenzyme A, shows sigmoidal saturation kinetics. The initial rate experiments indicate that the reaction obeys an ordered mechanism, 2-ketoglutaric acid binding before S-acetyl coenzyme A. 3. The activity is completely inhibited in vitro by lysine and by some lysine analogs, which all show cooperative binding and have an heterotropic effect on 2-ketoglutaric binding sites. A second class of affectors is found, including 2-aminoadipic acid, pipecolic acid and dipicolinic acid, which all affect the cooperativity of S-acetyl coenzyme A binding sites. 4. Two types of mutations which modify these inhibition patterns without affecting the catalytic activity are described. One results in a desensitization towards lysine and lysine analogs only. The other entirely abolishes the susceptibility towards the second type of inhibitors, without affecting the susceptibility to lysine. 5. No variations of the specific activity could be detected in the wild type strain at all; mutants showing an increased or a reduced activity were isolated. 6. Our results do not support the existence of isoenzymes at the level of homocitrate synthetase in this yeast.
In this study, interaction of 2-ketoglutaric acid (GL) with anion surfactant, sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) in aqueous solution have been investigated using electric conductivity at different temperatures from 298.15-308.15 K. From the specific conductivity data, the critical micellar concentration, degree of counter ion association, degree of counterion dissociation, free energy of transfer of hydrophobic chain from the medium to interior of the micelle, and surface contribution, standard free energy of micellization, standard enthalpy of micellization, and standard entropy of micellization of sodium lauryl sulfate have been computed. The experimental data show that cmc values of SLS increase with increasing temperature. The thermodynamic parameters of micellization and the effect of additives on these parameters have been used to study the interactions between the 2-ketoglutaric acid and SLS in the micellar systems. Also, the dissociation constants (pKa's) of 2-ketoglutatic acid were studied in aqueous and aqueous micellar solution of sodium lauryl sulfate–water mixtures (0.01 to 0.30 mol·dm-3) at 298 ± 0.1 K, using a pH-metric technique. The protonation constants are calculated using computer program HYPERQUAD and the best fit chemical model is based on the statistical parameters. Based on the results obtained from the study, a charge of anionic surfactant leads to an electrostatic interaction between surfactant and the (GL) molecule. The electrostatic interactions can be attractive forces and influence of separation of protons and consequently decrease the acidity strength.
Fluorescent members of the rRNA homology group I of the bacterial genus Pseudomonas are characterized by the production of iron chelating metabolites, so-called pyoverdins. The pyoverdins consist of a dihydroxyquinoline chromophore bound amidically to the N-terminus of a peptide chain comprising 6 to 12 amino acids, L as well as D, and partially modified, and to a small dicarboxylic acid or its monoamide [2] , viz. succinic acid and succinamide, malic acid and malamide, Glu and 2-ketoglutaric acid. By now about 50 pyoverdins are known and for more than 40 complete or fairly complete structures have been established [3] . The peptide chain has a two-fold function. It provides two of the ligand sites for Fe 3+ , and it is responsible for the recognition of the iron complex at the surface of the producing cell. Pyoverdins can roughly be divided into four structural sub-groups:
(1) the most common variety has cOHOrn as the C-terminal amino acid (cf. [4] ); (2) the group second in number is characterized by a C-terminal cyclic part consisting of 3 or 4 amino acids, formed by an amide bond between the carboxyl group of the C-terminal amino acid and the ε-amino group of an in-chain Lys (cf. [5, 6] ); 1 Part XCVI of the series "Microbial metabolites". For part XCV see [1] . 2 Abbreviations used: Common amino acids, 3-letter code in the text, 1-letter code in the designation of fragments; Fho (O ) indicates N 5 -formyl-N 5 -hydroxy Orn; Chr, pyoverdin chromophore; Suc, Suca, Kgl, succinic acid, succinamide, 2-ketoglutaric acid side chain.
If a pure sample is available, the nature of the side chain does not play an important role for structural studies. If, however, several pyoverdins differing in their side chain are present in a culture extract, from the pairs differing by 1 u in mass (succinamide/succinic acid, malamide/malic acid, ketoglutaric acid/Glu) the lower one in mass has to be selected. Otherwise the 13 C-satellite of the ion of lower mass would coincide with the one one mass unit higher and the fragmentation patterns of the two species would be superimposed. 2-Ketoglutaric acid is less favorable since due to the facile loss of H 2 O + CO 2 two series of ions are obtained. The nature of the side chain can be deduced from the characteristic mass differences of the six varieties (see Introduction) since usually several of them co-occur. The presence of succinamide and of ketoglutaric acid discussed in this publication can be confirmed by abundant chromophore fragments in the octapole CA spectra. After loss of the entire peptide chain by a retroDiels-Alder (RDA) mechanism [27] (Fig. 15 ) the side chain is lost giving an ion at m/z 204 (a), that is abundant for succinic acid or succinamide. In the case of ketoglutaric acid the main fragmentation reaction is the elimination of H 2 O + CO 2 (b, m/z 270) (Fig. 16) . The characteristics for malamide and Glu will be discussed in a review under preparation [1] .
A new metabolic disorder characterized by severe congenital microcephaly, death within the first year, and severe 2-ketoglutaric aciduria has been found among the Old-Order Amish of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Amish lethal microcephaly segregates as an autosomal recessive disorder and has an unusually high incidence of at least 1 in 500 births. When the infants are well, the urine organic acid profiles show isolated, extreme elevations of 2-ketoglutaric acid. However, during otherwise simple viral illnesses, the infants often develop a metabolic acidosis, which may follow a lethal course. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging of a single patient showed a smooth, immature brain similar to that of a 20-week fetus except for a moderate degree of cerebellar vermal hypoplasia. Assay of 2-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase in cultured lymphoblasts of one patient showed normal activity. Amish lethal microcephaly maps to 17q25 and may be caused by a defect in a mitochondrial inner membrane protein functioning as a 2-ketoglutarate transporter.
The structure of vibrioferrin, a siderophore from Vibrio parahaemolyticus, was elucidated based on a combination of partial hydrolysis and spectroscopic techniques. HPLC of purified vibrioferrin showed two peaks with an area ratio of approximately 2:1. However, upon reinjection of each of those isolated compounds, the original chromatographic pattern was obtained, indicating an equilibrium between two compounds in aqueous solution. Consistent with this finding, most of the NMR signals of vibrioferrin were duplicated. The structure was determined as 1-(2-[2-(5-carboxy-5-hydroxy-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidinyl)propionamide]ethyl) citrate, which exists in two epimeric forms resulting from cyclization between an amidic nitrogen of the alanine residue and a keto group of the 2-ketoglutaric acid residue. Transport experiments with 55Fe-labeled vibrioferrin demonstrated the function of vibrioferrin as a siderophore in V. parahaemolyticus. Kinetic studies with mid-log phase cells revealed that the iron uptake system was receptor-mediated, with Km and Vmax values of 67 nM and 54 pmol Fe/mg cell protein/min, respectively. Moreover, iron uptake mediated by vibrioferrin was blocked both by uncouplers and by ATPase inhibitors.
Electrical stimulation (ES) of a beef carcass increases the content of free amino acids, which affects meat flavor. Levels of glutamic acid (Glu)-aminopeptidase activity were similar in both control and ES meat but decreased during storage to about 65% at 14 days. When 2-ketoglutaric acid (a substrate of transaminase) was added to the sarcoplasm, the level of Glu increased. Transaminase activity was unaffected by storage and was about 20% greater in ES than in the control. Transaminase activity in beef was confirmed when radioactive 2-ketoglutaric acid was added to the sarcoplasm. Results suggest that transaminase contributes to accumulation of some amino acids such as Glu in beef during conditioning.
The Rh(III) catalyzed oxidation of 2-ketoglutaric acid by bromamine-T in acidmediumhas been studied. The reaction is first order each in bromamine - T and acid, less than unity order in both substrate and catalyst. The reaction constant is positive and increase with increase in temperature. The mechanism is influenced by participation of the neighboring group of 2- ketoglutaric, and intermolecular catalysis of Rh(III) is proposed. Insignificant effect of þ- toluenesulphonamide was observed. The processes are controlled by electron withdrawing and electron releasing substituents.
Abstract An improved route has been devised which provides canthin-6-one in the highest yield from tryptamine to date. Tryptamine is converted to Nb -benzyltryptamine via reaction with benzoylchloride and reduction using LAH. Pictet-Spengler condensation with 2-ketoglutaric acid, removal of the protecting group by CTH, and aromatization with MnO2 affords canthin-6-one in 48% overall yield.
Recent findings suggest that during Chl biosynthesis in higher plants ALA3 may not be formed by the succinyl CoA glycine succinyltransferase reaction (EC 2.3. 1 .37) (3, 5). The most effective precursors of radioactive ALA were not labeled succinate and glycine-2 14C, but the 5-carbon dicarboxylic compounds, 2-ketoglutaric acid, glutamic acid, and glutamine. A pathway in which the whole 5-carbon skeleton of these compounds is converted to the 5-carbon skeleton of ALA has been postulated (5).
Abstract Tandem mass spectrometry based experiments on commercial oxalacetic acid (OAA) samples confirm the indirect evidence from the elegant study of Flint et al. (J. Org. Chem. 57 (1992) 7270) that solid OAA exists solely in the ( Z )-enol form of HOOCC(H)C(OH)COOH. It is further shown that: (1) the samples contain a minor impurity in the low percent range, assigned as a dehydration product of 4-hydroxy-4-methyl-2-ketoglutaric acid; (2) careful evaporation of solid OAA samples yields mass spectra representative of the ( Z )-enol form. The ( E )-enol is not present in the solid, nor is its ion generated in the gas phase via isomerization of the ionized ( Z )-enol form. However, even under gentle sample introduction conditions, a partial ketonization of the neutral ( Z )-enol takes place. The resulting keto OAA molecules are either ionized intact or decarboxylate to yield a mixture of α-hydroxyacrylic acid, CH 2 C(OH)COOH and its keto isomer pyruvic acid, CH 3 C(O)COOH. From computational quantum chemistry (CBS-4) and experimental data, ionic enthalpies of formation of 95 and 109 kcal/mol were derived for CH 2 C(OH)COOH ·+ and CH 3 C(O)COOH ·+ , respectively; and (3) under less controlled sample introduction conditions, thermal dehydration may take place to yield C 4 H 2 O 4 molecules whose mass spectral characteristics are indistinguishable from those of ionized hydroxymaleic anhydride.
In our previous paper on red wines [2] we needed to quantify all acid-base active substances in order to investigate the acid-base chemistry of red wine at a speciation level by way of a careful equilibrium analysis. A chemical model was proposed, based on the simulation of the alkalimetric titration curve of each wine. The simulated titration curve was obtained by way of a multicomponent equilibrium calculation made thanks to suitable values of protonation constants of significant pH-determining substances found in wines. An HPLC-RP separation of carboxylic acids and proline was executed, improving the method of Tusseau and Benoit [3] . Unfortunately, a coelution of acetic and 2-ketoglutaric acids was observed under the adopted experimental conditions. To ensure the separation of these two acids, we have now used an ion-exclusion chromatographic (HPLC/IEC) separation [4, 5] with photometric detection. We propose improvements in both analytical and equilibrium aspects of our study. Coupling the current HPLC-IEC method with previous HPLC-RP one, we are now able to quantify up to 12 carboxylic acids. Further protonation constants, with respect to those previously determined [2, 6] , were now refined (at 25
Quantification of 2-ketoglutaric acid in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid as its O-trimethylsilyl-quinoxalinol derivative by gas chromatography chemical ionization mass spectrometry is described with benzoylformic acid as internal standard. This technique, with ammonia as reactant gas, only detects the protonated molecular ions. The recovery of 2-ketoglutarate from perchloric-deproteinized plasmas is 99.7±1.2%. The normal value of 2-ketoglutarate in children is 8.6±2.6 μmol I−1 (Mean ± standard deviation) in plasma (n =25) and 4.8±1.4 μmol I−1 in cerebrospinal fluid (n 20). The plasma level of 2-ketoglutarte is correlated with urea concentration (r = 0.96; p < 0.001) in healthy subjects and in patients with chronic renal insufficiency. Increased values are found in one case of pyruvate carboxylase deficiency, and inconstantly in diabetes; physiological variations are described during tasting and after an oral glucose load.
Rhizobium strains (one each of Rh.japonicum, Rh. lupini, Rh. leguminosarum) take up 2-ketoglutaric acid in general much faster and from lower concentrations in the medium than strains of Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis and Chromobacterium violaceum. A strain of Enterobacter aerogenes, however, is more similar to some Rhizobium strains. The same strains of Rhizobium take up also phosphate much faster and from lower concentrations than the other bacteria tested. 4 strains of Rh. lupini proved to be significantly different from 4 strains of Rh. trifolii in taking up l-glutamic acid from three to ten times lower concentration within 5 h. A similar difference was noticed between 5 strains of Rh. leguminosarum and 2 strains of Rh. japonicum for the uptake of 2-ketoglutaric acid and of l-glutamic acid. Isolated bacteriods from nodules of Glycine max var. Chippeway have a reduced uptake capacity for glutamic acid and for 2-ketoglutaric acid during the first 10–12 h, but reach the same value after 24 h as free living Rh. japonicum cells. The differences in the uptake kinetics are independent of cell concentration. The group II Rhizobium strains (Rh. japonicum and Rh. lupini, slow growing Rhizobium) are characterized by a rapid uptake of glutamic acid to a lowremaining concentration of 1–3×10-7 M and an uptake of 2-ketoglutaric acid to a remaining concentration of 2–5×10-7 M. The group I Rhizobium strains (Rh. trifolii and Rh. leguminosarum, fast growing Rhizobium), can be characterized by a much slower uptake of both substances with a more than ten times higher concentration of both metabolites remaining in the medium after the same time.
Thiamine pyrophosphokinase (TPK) produces thiamine pyrophosphate, a cofactor for a number of enzymes, including pyruvate dehydrogenase and 2-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase. Episodic encephalopathy type thiamine metabolism dysfunction (OMIM 614458) due to TPK1 mutations is a recently described rare disorder. The mechanism of the disease, its phenotype and treatment are not entirely clear. We present two patients with novel homozygous TPK1 mutations (Patient 1 with p.Ser160Leu and Patient 2 with p.Asp222His). Unlike the previously described phenotype, Patient 2 presented with a Leigh syndrome like non-episodic early-onset global developmental delay, thus extending the phenotypic spectrum of the disorder. We, therefore, propose that TPK deficiency may be a better name for the condition. The two cases help to further refine the neuroradiological features of TPK deficiency and show that MRI changes can be either fleeting or progressive and can affect either white or gray matter. We also show that in some cases lactic acidosis can be absent and 2-ketoglutaric aciduria may be the only biochemical marker. Furthermore, we have established the assays for TPK enzyme activity measurement and thiamine pyrophosphate quantification in frozen muscle and blood. These tests will help to diagnose or confirm the diagnosis of TPK deficiency in a clinical setting. Early thiamine supplementation prevented encephalopathic episodes and improved developmental progression of Patient 1, emphasizing the importance of early diagnosis and treatment of TPK deficiency. We present evidence suggesting that thiamine supplementation may rescue TPK enzyme activity. Lastly, in silico protein structural analysis shows that the p.Ser160Leu mutation is predicted to interfere with TPK dimerization, which may be a novel mechanism for the disease.
Objective: HPLC-MS/MS-based metabonomics method was used to find the possible biomarker of Rhizoma Coptidis in rat urine.Method: Sprague-Dawley rats were successively administrated 7 g·kg-1 aqueous extract of Rhizoma Coptidis for 30 days,urine were collected by metabolism cages and detected by using the HPLC-MS-MS.All dates were analyzed by the principal component analysis(PCA) through using the SIMCA-P 10.0 software.Result: The PCA demonstrated that the metabolome between treated group and control group had difference in rat urine sample after of 22 days administrated,for treated group 169 kinds of biomarkers were found including oxalacetic acid,malic acid,2-ketoglutaric acid,NE,arachidonic acid,5-HIAA and other compounds,the result was consistent with pharmacological effects of R.coptidis,such as antiinflammatory,inhibiting biosynthesis of CA biosynthesis,anti-central nerve and energy metabolism inhibition.Conclusion: Metabonomics may be available in pharmacological action evaluation of drugs.
Employing lymphoblasts derived from two non related patients with L-2-HG aciduria, we examined the origin of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2-HG) through incubation with [(13)C6]glucose and [(2)H5]glutamic acid. Formation of labelled 2-ketoglutaric acid (2-KG), citric acid and L-2-HG was determined by GC-MS. The quantitative and qualitative isotopomer pattern following incubation with [(13)C6]glucose was identical for all end-products. Incubations with [(2)H5]glutamic acid as precursor revealed the formation of identical isotopomers for 2-KG and L-2-HG. Our data indicate that 2-KG is the metabolic precursor of L-2-HG, adding to previous studies which revealed that 2-KG is the metabolic precursor of D-2-HG. These data suggest that 2-KG has a pathophysiological role in combined D/L-2-HG aciduria.
Background: We developed a novel method for measuring the concentrations of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates in dried blood spots (DBS) using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/ MS). Analytes were derivatized before analysis using 4-[2-(N,N-dimethylamino) ethylaminosulfonyl]-7-(2-aminoethylamino)-2,1,3-benzoxa-diazole (DAABD-AE), a reagent that imparts powerful chromatographic and mass spectrometric properties onto carboxyl group-containing analytes. Methodology: Extraction and derivatization of TCA cycle intermediates were achieved in a single step by incubating a 3.2 mm circle of the DBS samples with DAABD-AE for 1 hour at 65°C. From the resultant mixture, 1.0 µl was injected into the LC-MS/MS. Results: Total analytical run time to separate target analytes from other interfering components in the sample was 8 minutes. The peaks corresponding to malic, fumaric, citric, succinic, and 2-ketoglutaric acid appeared at 3.55, 3.62, 3.64, 3.67, and 3.68 minutes, respectively. The method was adequately reproducible with a coefficient of variation for intraday (n = 15) and inter-day (n = 13) studies of 5.2%–18.4%. Reference intervals in DBS from controls (n = 125) were as follow (µmol/l): citric (36.6–126.4), 2-ketoglutaric (9.1–42.1), succinic (1.2–2.4), fumaric (2.4–9.0), and malic acid (15.9–39.3). Compared to controls, the levels of citric, succinic, and malic acids were statistically different in patients (n = 7) with a p-value of< 0.05. No statistically significant difference was detected in concentrations of 2-ketoglutaric and fumaric acids. Conclusion: We describe a simple, quick, and sensitive method to measure TCA cycle intermediates in DBS samples. That TCA cycle plays a central role in cellular metabolism; this method should be useful in studying these metabolites in health and disease.
Abstract Metabolomic studies constantly require high throughput screenings, and this drives development and optimization of methods that include more analytes in a single run, shorten the analysis time and simplify sample preparation. The aim of the study was to develop a new simple and fast liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry-based methodology for quantitative analysis of a panel of ten organic acids in urine. The metabolites selected for the study include ten molecules potentially associated with cancer development. Chromatographic separation involved a Phenomenex Synergi Hydro-RP column under gradient conditions. Quantitation of the analytes was performed in multiple reaction monitoring mode under negative ionization. Validation parameters were satisfactory and in line with the international guidelines. The methodology enabled us to analyze urine samples collected from prostate cancer (PC) (n = 49) and benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) (n = 49) patients. The obtained concentrations were normalized with urinary specific gravity (USG) prior to statistical analysis. Five analytes were quantified in all urine samples and we observed the following USG-normalized concentration ranges: citric acid (146.5–6339.8), 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid (22.5–431.7), 2-ketoglutaric acid (4.4–334.4), lactic acid (10.1–786.3), succinic acid (4.1–500.5). 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid significantly decreased between two groups of prostate cancer patients: ≥7 Gleason patients and
Have the ability to produce 2-ketoglutaric acid or a derivative thereof which is a target substance, having the ability to produce xylonic acid from xylose and xylo sulfonates dehydratase activity, 2-keto-3-deoxy-xylo sulfonates dehydratase activity, and, 2-imparted or enhanced bacterial ketoglutarate semialdehyde dehydrogenase activity, they are cultured in medium containing xylose as a carbon source, to produce and accumulate the target substance in said medium, and collecting the target substance from the medium it allows to produce the target substance.
Abstract We have compared a new isolation procedure for urinary organic acids using strong anion-exchange columns with a solvent partition (ethyl acetate) method. Urinary samples from two healthy children and from nine children with organic acidurias were analysed by both procedures. Although the solid-phase extraction is more efficient for polyhydroxy acids, some polar acids, and some glycine derivatives, clinically important compounds such as oxalic, methylcitric, pyruvic, glyoxylic and 2-ketoglutaric acids, are not recovered or are only poorly recovered. However, both procedures may be used as a routine method for the diagnosis of the organic acidurias included in this study.
Under thiamine-deficient, aerobic culture conditions, Yarrowia lipolytica was found to produce D-(+)-2-hydroxyglutaric acid extracellularly in amounts of about 5 mg per ml of the culture filtrate, together with pyruvic and 2-ketoglutaric acids, from glucose or glycerol in a chemically defined medium. Under similar conditions, however, only a small amount of the hydroxy acid was produced from odd- or even-numbered n-alkanes.
The ca. 2.2-kbp region upstream of the ddc gene encoding L-2,4-diaminobutyrate decarboxylase in Acinetobacter baumannii was sequenced and found to contain another open reading frame of 1,338 nucleotides encoding a protein with a deduced molecular mass of 47,423 Da. Analysis of the homologies observed from the deduced amino acid sequence indicated that the gene product is an enzyme belonging to subgroup II of the aminotransferases. This was first verified when examination of the crude extracts from Escherichia coli transformants led to detection of a novel aminotransferase activity catalyzing the following reversible reactions: L-2,4-diaminobutyric acid + 2-ketoglutaric acid L-glutamic acid + L-aspartic beta-semialdehyde. Further confirmation was obtained when the gene was overexpressed in E. coli and the corresponding protein was purified to homogeneity. It catalyzed the same reactions and its N-terminal amino acid sequence was consistent with that deduced from the nucleotide sequence. Therefore, the gene and its product were named dat and L-2,4-diaminobutyrate:2-ketoglutarate 4-aminotransferase (DABA AT), respectively. Feeding experiments of A. baumannii with L-[U-14C]aspartic acid resulted in the incorporation of the label into 1,3-diaminopropane. Apparent homologs of dat and DABA AT were detected in other Acinetobacter species by PCR amplification and Western blotting. These results indicate that the dat gene (as well as the ddc gene) participates in the synthesis of 1,3-diaminopropane, the only diamine found in this genus. However, the biological role, if one exists, of 1,3-diaminopropane synthesis is unknown.
2-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (KGD) deficiency is a rare disorder of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. To date, 7 patients have been reported with clinical symptoms suggesting a neurodegenerative disease. We report a new patient in whom urinary excretion of 2-ketoglutaric acid (KGA) was intermittently found to be within normal ranges. At birth, the male patient suffered from mild perinatal asphyxia due to meconium aspiration. During the first months of life, he developed an opisthotonus, hyperexcitability and truncal hypertonia. At the present age of 14 months, these neurological symptoms became less pronounced. A cranial MRI was normal. Urinary 2-KGA excretion was found to be intermittently increased in 3 of 6 analyses between 2 weeks and 14 months of age (5-1700 mmol/mol creatinine, controls: < 340 mmol/mol creatinine). 2-KGA was not increased in plasma and CSF. Diagnosis was confirmed by measurement of decreased 2-KGD activity in cultured skin fibroblasts. This report demonstrates that the diagnosis of 2-KGD deficiency can easily be missed. In case of doubt, 2-KGD activity should be measured in fibroblasts. The clinical and long-term outcome of patients with 2-KGD deficiency is unknown. Further reports and long-term evaluation are required
SUMMARY The metabolite 2-oxoglutarate (also known as α-ketoglutarate, 2-ketoglutaric acid, or oxoglutaric acid) lies at the intersection between the carbon and nitrogen metabolic pathways. This compound is a key intermediate of one of the most fundamental biochemical pathways in carbon metabolism, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. In addition, 2-oxoglutarate also acts as the major carbon skeleton for nitrogen-assimilatory reactions. Experimental data support the conclusion that intracellular levels of 2-oxoglutarate fluctuate according to nitrogen and carbon availability. This review summarizes how nature has capitalized on the ability of 2-oxoglutarate to reflect cellular nutritional status through evolution of a variety of 2-oxoglutarate-sensing regulatory proteins. The number of metabolic pathways known to be regulated by 2-oxoglutarate levels has increased significantly in recent years. The signaling properties of 2-oxoglutarate are highlighted by the fact that this metabolite regulates the synthesis of the well-established master signaling molecule, cyclic AMP (cAMP), in Escherichia coli.
We report here a second approach to obtaining large amounts of CT from moderately toxigenic strains: recycle fermentation. We use the terms "microbial cell recycle" and "100% biomass feedback" to describe a procedure for recovering cells from the effluent of an otherwise continuous culture fermentor and recycling them back into the culture. An excellent theoretical discussion and examples of its use in actual fermentations are provided in a recent paper by Bull and Young (2) on conversion of D-sorbitol to L-sorbose and of glucose to 2-ketoglutaric acid. In both cases, the use of cell recycle dramatically increased product formation.
A highly hydrophilic compound with siderophore activity has been isolated from the supernatant of Staphylococcus hyicus DSM 20459 grown under iron-restricted conditions. The metabolite, named staphyloferrin B, is strictly iron-regulated and produced by a large variety of staphylococci strains. In vivo iron transport measurements and the growth-promoting activity in a bioassay establish staphyloferrin B as the second siderophore for staphylococci besides the previously described staphyloferrin A. The structure elucidation revealed 2,3-diaminopropionic acid, citrate, ethylenediamine and 2-ketoglutaric acid as structural components of the compound. Thus, staphyloferrin B is a structurally new siderophore of the complexone type.
Carbonyl compounds are produced during fermentation and chemical oxidation during wine making and aging, and they are important to wine flavor and color stability. Since wine also contains these compounds as α-hydroxysulfonates as a result of their reaction with sulfur dioxide, an alkaline pre-treatment requiring oxygen exclusion has been used to release these bound carbonyls for analysis. By modifying the method to hydrolyze the hydroxysulfonates with heating and acid in the presence of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH), the carbonyl compounds are simultaneously and quickly released and derivatized, resulting in a simpler and more rapid method. In addition, the method avoids air exclusion complications during hydrolysis by the addition of sulfur dioxide. The method was optimized for temperature, reaction time, and the concentrations of DNPH, sulfur dioxide and acid. The hydrazones were shown to be stable for 10 h, adequate time for chromatographic analysis by HPLC-DAD/MS. This method is demonstrated for 2-ketoglutaric acid, pyruvic acid, acetoin and acetaldehyde, wine carbonyls of very different reactivities, and it offers good specificity, high recovery and low limits of detection. This new rapid, simple method is demonstrated for the measurement of carbonyl compounds in a range of wines of different ages and grape varieties.
Abstract I ndole acetic acid (IAA) production from tryptophan by cell suspensions of Rhizobium trifolii, R. leguminosarum, R. phaseoli and R. lupini was studied in the presence or in the absence of 2-ketoglutaric acid. In R. lupini , production of IAA was strongly enhanced by the ketoacid, but in fast growing rhizobia it was less enhanced or unaffected. On the other hand, glutamic acid inhibits IAA production by R. meliloti , but stimulates IAA production in both R. leguminosarum and R. phaseoli . A hypothesis is proposed to explain these results.
Decreasing fossil fuels and its impact on global warming have led to an increasing demand for its replacement by sustainable renewable biofuels. Microalgae may offer a potential feedstock for renewable biofuels capable of converting atmospheric CO2 to substantial biomass and valuable biofuels, which is of great importance for the food and energy industries. Parachlorella kessleri, a marine unicellular green alga belonging to class Trebouxiophyceae, accumulates large amount of lipids under nutrient-deprived conditions. The present study aims to understand the metabolic imprints in order to elucidate the physiological mechanisms of lipid accumulations in this microalga under nutrient deprivation. Molecular profiles were obtained using gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS) of P. kessleri subjected to nutrient deprivation. Relative quantities of more than 60 metabolites were systematically compared in all the three starvation conditions. Our results demonstrate that in lipid metabolism, the quantities of neutral lipids increased significantly followed by the decrease in other metabolites involved in photosynthesis, and nitrogen assimilation. Nitrogen starvation seems to trigger the triacylglycerol (TAG) accumulation rapidly, while the microalga seems to tolerate phosphorous limitation, hence increasing both biomass and lipid content. The metabolomic and lipidomic profiles have identified a few common metabolites such as citric acid and 2-ketoglutaric acid which play significant role in diverting flux towards acetyl-CoA leading to accumulation of neutral lipids, whereas other molecules such as trehalose involve in cell growth regulation, when subjected to nutrient deprivation. Understanding the entire system through qualitative (untargeted) metabolome approach in P. kessleri has led to identification of relevant metabolites involved in the biosynthesis and degradation of precursor molecules that may have potential for biofuel production, aiming towards the vision of tomorrow’s bioenergy needs.
Results: Molecular profiles were obtained using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) of P. kessleri subjected to nutrient deprivation. Relative quantities of more than 60 metabolites were systematically compared in all the three starvation conditions. Our results demonstrate that in lipid metabolism, the quantities of neutral lipids increased significantly followed by the decrease in other metabolites involved in photosynthesis, and nitrogen assimilation. Nitrogen starvation seems to trigger the triacylglycerol (TAG) accumulation rapidly, while the microalga seems to tolerate phosphorous limitation, hence increasing both biomass and lipid content. The metabolomic and lipidomic profiles have identified a few common metabolites such as citric acid and 2-ketoglutaric acid which play significant role in diverting flux towards acetyl-CoA leading to accumulation of neutral lipids, whereas other molecules such as trehalose involve in cell growth regulation, when subjected to nutrient deprivation.
A compound with siderophore activity was purified by successive column and thin layer chromatographic procedures from Dower 1 × 8 extracts of culture supernatants of Vibrio parahaemolyticus AQ 3354. The strain synthesized the compound in culture media containing less than 2 μM added FeCl3. Hydrolysis of the compound yielded alanine, ethanolamine, citric acid and 2-ketoglutaric acid. The 1H-NMR spectrum exhibited the presence of a residue from each of these components in the intact molecule. The fast-atom bombardment mass spectrum of the methyl ester derivative indicated a prominent ion at m/z 477, probably corresponding to [M + 1] ion. Other strains of V. parahaemolyticus were also found to produce this compound when grown in an iron-limited medium.
The present invention relates to a method for preparing racemic homocitric acid lactone by using 2-ketoglutaric acid as raw material. Said method includes the following steps: making 2-ketoglutaric acid (1) be reacted in one kind of alcohol in which the acryl chloride or chlorosilane is added to obtain compound 2; making the compound 2 be reacted with allyl bromide in mixed solvent under the regulation of metal indium to obtain compound 3; making the compound 3 be reacted with hydrated ruthenium trichloride-sodium periodate system in mixed solvent, then reacted in the alcohol in which the acryl chloride or chlorosilane is added, and undergone the process of column chromatography so as to obtain compound 4 and compound 5, making compound 4 or compound 5 produce refluxing reaction in one acid, so that the invented homocitric acid lactone can be obtained.
Abstract The origin of ethylene in Penicillium digitatum has been shown to be intimately associated with the Krebs cycle. 2-Ketoglutaric acid and glutamic acid are the most efficient precursors of ethylene, which is derived from carbons 3 and 4 of these substrates as a unit. However, which of these is the immediate precursor has not been established. Since 2-ketoglutaric acid is a very efficient precursor and succinic acid is an inefficient one, 2-ketoglutaric acid must be the branching point at which the pathway of ethylene biosynthesis leads away from the Krebs cycle. This conclusion is in full agreement with the following observations: Three of the four hydrogen atoms of the ethylene molecule were derived from protons of the medium; C-2 but not C-1 of acetate was incorporated into ethylene; and [2,3- 14 C]succinic acid but not [2,3- 3 H]succinic acid was incorporated.
The Belousov-Zhabotinsky (BZ) reaction of bromate ion with 2-ketoglutaric acid (KGA) in aqueous sulfuric acid catalyzed by Ce(III), Mn(II), or Fe(phen)32+ ion exhibits sustained barely damped oscillations under aerobic conditions. In general, the reaction oscillates without an induction period. Fe(phen)32+ ion behaves differently from Ce(III) and Mn(II) ions in catalyzing this oscillating system. The gem-diol form of KGA exhibits different behavior from that of the keto form of KGA in the BZ reaction. The kinetics and mechanism of the reaction of KGA with Ce(IV), Mn(III), or Fe(phen)33+ ion was investigated. The order of relative reactivities of metal ions toward reaction with KGA is Mn(III) > Ce(IV) ≫ Fe(phen)33+. Experimental results are rationalized. © 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 33: 101–107, 2001
Temperature and pH dual stimuli-responsive hydrogels were synthesized by compolymerization of acrylamide,acrylic acid,and diacetone acrylamide using UV polymerization method,in the presence of N,N'-methylene bisacrylamide as cross linker,and 2-ketoglutaric acid as initiator.The effects of the amount of the cross linker and the composition of hydrogel on swelling rate were investigated.The swelling properties were studied under various temperature and pH conditions.The results showed that swelling rate decreased with increasing cross linker.However,the swelling rate increased with an increase in AA content.The swelling properties of hydrogels can be significantly affected by varying the temperature and pH conditions.The resultant hydrogel showed temperature-,pH-sensitive features.
Abstract Mass spectra were obtained for the n -butylation products of 2-ketopropionic, 2-ketosuccinic and 2-ketoglutaric acids by combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The esterification reaction was accompanied by the formation of variable amounts of n-butyl ketals, which were resolved by GC and identified by MS. The fragment structures were further confirmed by means of the perdeuterated n -butyl derivatives.
The excretion of 2-(2'-octenyl)succinic acid (OSA) and several metabolites of OSA was studied by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry in 17 infants and children fed one of three proprietary elemental or protein-hydrolysate formulas that use OSA-modified cornstarch as an emulsifying agent. Variable but often large amounts (up to 2500 mg/g creatinine) of the fatty acid-like OSA and its metabolites were found in the urine of these children, and levels of OSA in their blood ranged from 9.5 to 57.9 mumol/L. Apparently secondary abnormalities, such as increased urinary levels of glutaric acid and 2-ketoglutaric acid, were also found in more than half of the urine specimens. The molecular weight and mass fragmentation patterns of the nine compounds associated with the excretion of OSA are consistent with the proposal that OSA is metabolized in human infants and children by a combination of omega-, omega-1-, and beta-oxidation steps, similar to the metabolism of another branched-chain fatty acid, valproic acid. The urinary organic acid pattern of children fed elemental formulas containing OSA-modified starch often was dominated by OSA and its metabolites, and in several children the OSA-related changes were mistaken for a primary metabolic disease. Physicians and laboratories evaluating children for suspected metabolic diseases should be aware of the possibility of abnormal organic acid studies associated with OSA-containing formulas.
AIM ::: The purpose of this research was to use metabolomics to investigate the cystic phenotype in the Lewis polycystic kidney rat. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Spot urine samples were collected from four male Lewis control and five male Lewis polycystic kidney rats aged 5 weeks, before kidney function was significantly impaired. Metabolites were extracted from urine and analysed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Principal component analysis was used to determine key metabolites contributing to the variance observed between sample groups. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: With the development of a metabolomics method to analyse Lewis and Lewis polycystic kidney rat urine, 2-ketoglutaric acid, allantoin, uric acid and hippuric acid were identified as potential biomarkers of cystic disease in the rat model. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The findings of this study demonstrate the potential of metabolomics to further investigate kidney disease.
With the development of a metabolomics method to analyse Lewis and Lewis polycystic kidney rat urine, 2-ketoglutaric acid, allantoin, uric acid and hippuric acid were identified as potential biomarkers of cystic disease in the rat model.
Reversibly-bound sulfites are formed when foods contain high amounts of glucose, xylose and L-xylose, arabinose, galacturonic acid, acetaldehyde, pyruvic acid and 2-ketoglutaric acid. Irreversibly-bound sulfites are formed when the matrix contains greater numbers of alkenes and aromatic compounds (Nisida, 1991; Swales & Wedzicha, 1992; World Health Drganization, 2009 ).
Organic acids (OAs) serve as metabolites that play pivotal roles in a host of different metabolic and regulatory pathways. The polar nature of many OAs poses a challenge to their measurement using widely practiced analytical methods. In this study, a targeted metabolomics method was developed using ion chromatography/triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (IC/MS) to quantitate 28 polar OAs with limits of quantitation ranging from 0.25 to 50 μM. The interday assay precisions ranged from 1% to 19%, with accuracies ranging from 82% to 115%. The IC/MS assay was used to quantitate OAs in quadriceps muscle from sedentary mice compared to fatigued mice subjected to either a low intensity, long duration (LILD) or high intensity, short duration (HISD) forced treadmill regimen. Among the OAs examined, significant differences were detected for hippuric acid, malic acid, fumaric acid, and 2-ketoglutaric acid between the sedentary and fatigued mice. In conclusion, the IC/MS method enabled the separation and quantitative survey of a broad range of polar OAs that are difficult to analyze by chromatographic techniques.
Viruses require energy and biosynthetic precursors from host cells for replication. An understanding of the metabolic interplay between classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and host cells is important for exploring the complex pathological mechanisms of classical swine fever (CSF). In the current study, and for the first time, we utilized an approach involving gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to examine the metabolic profiles within PK-15 and 3D4/2 cells infected with CSFV. The differential metabolites of PK-15 cells caused by CSFV infection mainly included the decreased levels of glucose 6-phosphate [fold change (FC) = -1.94)] and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (FC = -1.83) during glycolysis, ribulose 5-phosphate (FC = -1.51) in the pentose phosphate pathway, guanosine (FC = -1.24) and inosine (FC = -1.16) during purine biosynthesis, but the increased levels of 2-ketoisovaleric acid (FC = 0.63) during the citrate cycle, and ornithine (FC = 0.56) and proline (FC = 0.62) during arginine and proline metabolism. However, metabolite changes caused by CSFV infection in 3D4/2 cells included the reduced glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (FC = -0.77) and pyruvic acid (FC = -1.42) during glycolysis, 2-ketoglutaric acid (FC = -1.52) in the citrate cycle, and the elevated cytosine (FC = 2.15) during pyrimidine metabolism. Our data showed that CSFV might rebuild cellular metabolic programs, thus aiding viral replication. These findings may be important in developing targets for new biomarkers for the diagnosis and identification of enzyme inhibitors or metabolites as antiviral drugs, or screening viral gene products as vaccines.
Urinary organic acid and acylcarnitine profiles from a 2-month-old boy were studied by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry. The patient excreted large amounts of glutaric acid and significant amounts of 3-hydroxyglutaric acid, glutaconic acid and glutarylcarnitine, and his serum glutaric acid level was markedly elevated. Thus he was chemically diagnosed as having glutaric aciduria type I (GAI). In addition to the above metabolites previously described in GAI, significantly increased excretion of 2-ketoglutaric acid, succinic acid, adipic acid, adipylcarnitine, suberic acid and azelaic acid was found. 2-Ketoadipic acid methylsuccinic acid and ethylmalonic acid were also detectable, suberylcarnitine was not increased, and dehydroadipylcarnitine was decreased in his urine. These results suggest that excess glutaryl-CoA causes the competitive inhibition of the dehydrogenation of adipyl-CoA to dehydroadipyl-CoA and results in an increase of adipic acid and adipylcarnitine and a decrease of dehydroadipylcarnitine. It is also suggested that oxidative decarboxylation of 2-ketoglutaric acid to succinyl-CoA is inhibited by high levels of glutaryl-CoA, and that the dehydrogenation of succinic acid to fumaric acid is inhibited owing to the increased glutaric acid derived from excess glutaryl-CoA. These results indicate that gas chromatography-mass spectrometry is the most appropriate and accurate method for the differential chemical diagnosis of GAI and glutaric aciduria type II.
Viruses require energy and biosynthetic precursors from host cells for replication. An understanding of the metabolic interplay between classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and host cells is important for exploring the complex pathological mechanisms of classical swine fever (CSF). In the current study, and for the first time, we utilized an approach involving gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to examine the metabolic profiles within PK-15 and 3D4/2 cells infected with CSFV. The differential metabolites of PK-15 cells caused by CSFV infection mainly included the decreased levels of glucose 6-phosphate [fold change (FC) = −1.94)] and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (FC = −1.83) during glycolysis, ribulose 5-phosphate (FC = −1.51) in the pentose phosphate pathway, guanosine (FC = −1.24) and inosine (FC = −1.16) during purine biosynthesis, but the increased levels of 2-ketoisovaleric acid (FC = 0.63) during the citrate cycle, and ornithine (FC = 0.56) and proline (FC = 0.62) during arginine and proline metabolism. However, metabolite changes caused by CSFV infection in 3D4/2 cells included the reduced glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (FC = −0.77) and pyruvic acid (FC = −1.42) during glycolysis, 2-ketoglutaric acid (FC = −1.52) in the citrate cycle, and the elevated cytosine (FC = 2.15) during pyrimidine metabolism. Our data showed that CSFV might rebuild cellular metabolic programs, thus aiding viral replication. These findings may be important in developing targets for new biomarkers for the diagnosis and identification of enzyme inhibitors or metabolites as antiviral drugs, or screening viral gene products as vaccines.
A temperature-responsive water retaining agent based on bentonite was synthesized by compolymerization of acrylamide, acrylic acid, diacetone acrylamide, and adding the bentonite o the reaction system by UV polymerization method, in the presence of N, N'-methylene bisacrylamide as cross linker, and 2-ketoglutaric acid as initiator. The effects of the amount of the bentonite and the composition of water retaining agent on swelling rate were investigated. The results showed that swelling rate decreased with the increasing bentonite. However, the swelling rate increased with an increase in AA content and decreased with the increasing of temperature, which showed it was obviously temperature-sensitive.
High-level quantum chemistry calculations have been used to examine the catalytic reactions of adenosylcobalamin-dependent glutamate mutase (GM) with the natural substrate (S)-glutamic acid. We have also examined the rearrangement of (S)-2-hydroxyglutaric acid, (S)-2-thiolglutaric acid, and 2-ketoglutaric acid, all of which have previously been shown to react as substrates or inhibitors of the enzyme. Our calculations support the notion that the 100-fold difference in kcat between glutamate and 2-hydroxyglutarate is associated with the relatively high energy of the glycolyl radical intermediate compared with the glycyl radical. More generally, calculations of radical stabilization energies for a variety of substituted glycyl radical analogues indicate that modifications at the radical center can profoundly affect the relative stability of the resulting radical, leading to important mechanistic consequences. We find that the formation of a thioglycolyl radical, derived from (S)-2-thiolglutaric acid, is highly dependent on the protonation state of sulfur. The neutral radical is found to be of stability similar to that of the glycolyl radical, whereas the S- form of the thioglycolyl radical is much more stable, thus providing a rationalization for the inhibition of the enzyme by the substrate analogue 2-thiolglutarate. Two possible rearrangement pathways have been examined for the reaction of GM with 2-ketoglutaric acid, for which previous experiments had suggested no rearrangement took place. The fragmentation-recombination pathway is associated with a fragmentation step that is very endothermic (by 102.2 kJ mol-1). In contrast, the addition-elimination pathway has significantly lower energy requirements. An alternative possibility, namely, that 2-ketoglutaric acid is bound in its hydrated form, 2,2-dihydroxyglutaric acid, also leads to a pathway with relatively low energy requirements, suggesting that some rearrangement might be expected under such circumstances.
GC-MS profiles revealed that the CsMYBF1-overexpressing tomato fruits displayed substantial changes in the level of primary metabolites (Fig. 3e and Supplementary Table S3 ). Sugars were the predominant compounds in total detected primary metabolites. Of the 6 sugars measured, fructose, glucose, mannose, galactose and sucrose, with the exception of xylose, all showed significant reduced levels in the overexpression tomato fruits. For the organic acids, the increased amount of isocitric acid and glucuronic acid and decreased levels of 2-ketoglutaric acid were observed in transgenic fruits.
