The psychrotolerant foodborne pathogen Listeria monocytogenes withstands the stress of low temperatures and can proliferate in refrigerated food. Bacteria adapt to growth at low temperatures by increasing the production of fatty acids that increase membrane fluidity. The mechanism of homeoviscous increases in unsaturated fatty acid amounts in bacteria that predominantly contain straight-chain fatty acids is relatively well understood. By contrast the analogous mechanism in branched-chain fatty acid-containing bacteria, such as L. monocytogenes, is poorly understood. L. monocytogenes grows at low temperatures by altering its membrane composition to increase membrane fluidity, primarily by decreasing the length of fatty acid chains and increasing the anteiso to iso fatty acid ratio. FabH, the initiator of fatty acid biosynthesis, has been identified as the primary determinant of membrane fatty acid composition, but the extent of this effect has not been quantified. In this study, previously determined FabH steady-state parameters and substrate concentrations were used to calculate expected fatty acid compositions at 30oC and 10oC. FabH substrates 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, isobutyryl-CoA, and isovaleryl-CoA produce the primary fatty acids in L. monocytogenes, i.e., anteiso-odd, iso-even, and iso-odd fatty acids, respectively. In vivo concentrations of CoA derivatives were measured, but not all were resolved completely. In this case, estimates were calculated from overall fatty acid composition and FabH steady-state parameters. These relative substrate concentrations were used to calculate the expected fatty acid compositions at 10oC. Our model predicted a higher level of anteiso lipids at 10oC than was observed, indicative of an additional step beyond FabH influencing fatty acid composition at low temperatures. The potential for control of low temperature growth by feeding compounds that result in the production of butyryl-CoA, the precursor of SCFAs that rigidify the membrane and are incompatible with growth at low temperatures, is recognized.
Branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) have increasingly been studied as playing a role in diabetes, with the PubMed search string "diabetes" AND "branched chain amino acids" showing particular growth in studies of the topic over the past decade (Fig. ). In the Young Finn's Study, BCAA and, to a lesser extent, the aromatic amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine were associated with insulin resistance (IR) in men but not in women, whereas the gluconeogenic amino acids alanine, glutamine, or glycine, and several other amino acids (i.e. histidine, arginine, and tryptophan) did not show an association with IR. Obesity may track more strongly than metabolic syndrome and diabetes with elevated BCAA. In a study of 1302 people aged 40-79; higher levels of BCAA tracked with older age, male sex, and metabolic syndrome, as well as with obesity, cardiovascular risk, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and uric acid. Medium- and long-chain acylcarnitines, by-products of mitochondrial catabolism of BCAAs, as well as branched-chain keto acids and the BCAA themselves distinguished obese people having versus not having features of IR, and in a study of 898 patients with essential hypertension, the BCAA and tyrosine and phenylalanine were associated with metabolic syndrome and impaired fasting glucose. In a meta-analysis of three genome-wide association studies, elevations in BCAA and, to a lesser extent, in alanine tracked with IR, whereas higher levels of glutamine and glycine were associated with lesser likelihood of IR. Given these associations with IR, it is not surprising that a number of studies have shown higher BCAA levels in people with and prior to development of type 2 diabetes (T2D), although this has particularly been shown in Caucasian and Asian ethnic groups while not appearing to occur in African Americans. Similarly, higher BCAA levels track with cardiovascular disease. [Figure: see text] The metabolism of BCAA involves two processes: (i) a reversible process catalysed by a branched-chain aminotransferase (BCAT), either cytosolic or mitochondrial, requiring pyridoxal to function as an amino group carrier, by which the BCAA with 2-ketoglutarate produce a branched-chain keto acid plus glutamate; and (ii) the irreversible mitochondrial process catalysed by branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKDH) leading to formation of acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA), propionyl-CoA, and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA from leucine, valine, and isoleucine, respectively, which enter the tricarboxylic acid (Krebs) cycle as acetyl-CoA, propionyl-CoA, and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, respectively, leading to ATP formation. The BCAA stimulate secretion of both insulin and glucagon and, when given orally, of both glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), with oral administration leading to greater and more prolonged insulin and glucagon secretion. Insulin may particularly reduce BCAA turnover to a greater extent than that of other amino acids, and decreases the appearance and increases the uptake of amino acids. However, older studies of the effect of glucose or insulin on BCAA concentrations and rates of leucine appearance and oxidation showed no reduction in T2D, although the higher baseline levels of BCAA in obesity have long been recognized. Impaired function of BCAT and BCKDH has been posited, either as a primary genetic abnormality or due to effects of elevated fatty acids, proinflammatory cytokines, or insulin levels with consequent accumulation of branched-chain keto acids and metabolites such as diacylglycerol and ceramide, potentially contributing to the development of further insulin resistance, and decreased skeletal muscle BCAT and BCKDH expression has been shown in people with diabetes, supporting this concept. A Mendelian randomization study used measured variation in genes involved in BCAA metabolism to test the hypothesis of a causal effect of modifiable exposure on IR, showing that variants in protein phosphatase, Mg2+ /Mn2+ dependent 1K (PPM1K), a gene encoding the mitochondrial phosphatase activating the BCKDH complex, are associated with T2D, but another such study suggested that genetic variations associated with IR are causally related to higher BCAA levels. Another hypothesis involves the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), which is activated by BCAA, as well as by insulin and glucose via cellular ATP availability. If this is the relevant pathway, BCAA overload may cause insulin resistance by activation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), as well as by leading to increases in acylcarnitines, with mTOR seen in this scenario as a central signal of cross-talk between the BCAA and insulin. At this point, whether whole-body or tissue-specific BCAA metabolism is increased or decreased in states of insulin-resistant obesity and T2D is uncertain. Insulin action in the hypothalamus induces but overfeeding decreases hepatic BCKDH, leading to the concept that hypothalamic insulin resistance impairs BCAA metabolism in obesity and diabetes, so that plasma BCAAs may be markers of hypothalamic insulin action rather than direct mediators of changes in IR. A way to address this may be to understand the effects of changes in diet and other interventions on BCAA, as well as on IR and T2D. In an animal model, lowering dietary BCAA increased energy expenditure and improved insulin sensitivity. Two large human population studies showed an association of estimated dietary BCAA intake with T2D risk, although another population study showed higher dietary BCAA to be associated with lower T2D risk. Ethnic differences, reflecting underlying differences in genetic variants, may be responsible for such differences. In the study of Asghari et al. in the current issue of the Journal of Diabetes, BCAA intake was associated with the development of subsequent IR. Studies of bariatric surgery suggest lower basal and post-insulin infusion BCAA levels are associated with greater insulin sensitivity, with reductions in BCAA not seen with weight loss per se with gastric band procedures, but occurring after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, an intervention that may have metabolic benefits over and above those from reduction in body weight. The gut microbiota may be important for the supply of the BCAA to mammalian hosts, either by de novo biosynthesis or by modifying nutrient absorption. A final fascinating preliminary set of observations is that of the effects of empagliflozin on metabolomics; evidence of increased Krebs cycle activation and of higher levels of BCAA metabolites, such as acylcarnitines, suggests that sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibition may, to some extent, involve BCAA metabolism. Certainly, we do not yet have a full understanding of these complex associations. However, the suggestion of multiple roles of BCAA in the development of IR promises to be important and to lead to the development of novel effective T2D therapies.
2-Methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (MBD; coded by the ACADSB gene) catalyzes the step in isoleucine metabolism that corresponds to the isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase reaction in the degradation of leucine. Deficiencies of both enzymes may be detected by expanded neonatal screening with tandem-mass spectrometry due to elevated pentanoylcarnitine (C5 acylcarnitine) in blood, but little information is available on the clinical relevance of MBD deficiency. We biochemically and genetically characterize six individuals with MBD deficiency from four families of different ethnic backgrounds. None of the six individuals showed clinical symptoms attributable to MBD deficiency although the defect in isoleucine catabolism was demonstrated both in vivo and in vitro. Several mutations in the ACADSB gene were identified, including a novel one. MBD deficiency may be a harmless metabolic variant although significant impairment of valproic acid metabolism cannot be excluded and further study is required to assess the long-term outcome of individuals with this condition. The relatively high prevalence of ACADSB gene mutations in control subjects suggests that MBD deficiency may be more common than previously thought but is not detected because of its usually benign nature.
Abstract In Streptomyces fradiae L -threonine is catabolized by threonine dehydratase or threonine aldolase to 2-ketobutyrate or acetaldehyde and glycine, respectively. Threonine dehydratase synthesis is repressed and its activity is inhibited by NH 4 + ions. Threonine aldolase is not repressed by NH 4 + ions and its activity is slightly stimulated by these ions. The addition of threonine to the medium increased pronouncedly the fraction of non-branched fatty acids with an even carbon number under conditions when threonine dehydratase was repressed and inhibited. The results indicate that threonine serves as a source of propionyl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA and also of acetyl-CoA required for tylosin and fatty acid biosynthesis.
We report the identification of two new 7-year-old patients with 3-hydroxy-2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, a recently described inborn error of isoleucine metabolism. The defect is localized one step above 3-ketothiolase, resulting in a urinary metabolite pattern similar to that seen for deficiency of the latter. One patient has progressive neurodegenerative symptoms, whereas the clinical phenotype of the other patient is characterized by psychomotor retardation without loss of developmental milestones. A short-term biochemical response to an isoleucine-restricted diet was observed in both children.
Isovaleric acidemia (IVA), an inborn error of leucine catabolism, is caused by mutations in the isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IVD) gene, resulting in the accumulation of derivatives of isovaleryl-CoA including isovaleryl (C5)-carnitine, the marker metabolite used for newborn screening (NBS). The inclusion of IVA in NBS programs in many countries has broadened knowledge of the variability of the condition, whereas prior to NBS, two distinct clinical phenotypes were known, an “acute neonatal” and a “chronic intermittent” form. An additional biochemically mild and potentially asymptomatic form of IVA and its association with a common missense mutation, c.932C>T (p.A282V), was discovered in subjects identified through NBS. Deficiency of short/branched chain specific acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase), a defect of isoleucine degradation whose clinical significance remains unclear, also results in elevated C5-carnitine, and may therefore be detected by NBS for IVA. Treatment strategies for the long-term management of symptomatic IVA comprise the prevention of catabolism, dietary restriction of natural protein or leucine intake, and supplementation with l-carnitine and/or l-glycine. Recommendations on how to counsel and manage individuals with the mild phenotype detected by NBS are required.
BIOCHEMICAL SOCIETY TRANSACTIONS oxygenator containing 30p~-cytochalasin Band returned to the control oxygenator, and a further influx of glucose determined 4min later. The glucose concentration in both oxygenators was the same. The results (Table 2) show that the inhibition is completely reversed within 4min of perfusing the brain with cytochalasin-free blood. The rapid reversibility of the inhibition is in agreement with studies of effects of cytochalasin B on hexose transport in other cell systems (Zigmond & Hirsch, 1972; Czech et al., 1973 Hypoglycin (L-2-amino-3-methylenecyclopropylpropionic acid) is the toxic hypoglycaemic principle of the Jamaican ackee fruit, Blighia sapida (Sherratt et al., 1971) and is converted in vivo into methylenecyclopropylacetyl-CoA (von Holt, 1966) . This metabolite inhibits Boxidation in isolated mitochondria at the stage catalysed by butyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (EC 1.3.99.2), resulting in the incomplete oxidation of straight-chain fatty acids with butyrate as the main end product (Osmundsen & Sherratt, 1975a,b) . Inhibition of fatty acid oxidation in vivo by metabolites of hypoglycin is thought to cause hypoglycaemia indirectly Senior et al., 1975) . Hypoglycin, or a metabolite (most probably methylenecyclopropylacetyl-CoA), also interferes with the catabolism of leucine and isoleucine at the stage of dehydrogenation of isovaleryl-CoA and of 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, causing greatly increased plasma concentrations of isovalerate and 2-methylbutyrate respectively (Tanaka et al., 1972) . Smaller amounts of butyrate were also found (Tanaka et af., 1972). Here we confirm these observations and report more detailed studies on the changes in the concentrations of some volatile fatty acids in plasma after administration of hypoglycin, and we also show that hexanoate and propionate accumulate. Further, increased concentrations of all these compounds are associated with inhibition of some acyl-CoA dehydrogenases in vivo.
Abstract: Isovaleric acidemia (IVA), an inborn error of leucine catabolism, is caused by mutations in the isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IVD) gene, resulting in the accumulation of derivatives of isovaleryl-CoA including isovaleryl (C5)-carnitine, the marker metabolite used for newborn screening (NBS). The inclusion of IVA in NBS programs in many countries has broadened knowledge of the variability of the condition, whereas prior to NBS, two distinct clinical phenotypes were known, an "acute neonatal" and a "chronic intermittent" form. An additional biochemically mild and potentially asymptomatic form of IVA and its association with a common missense mutation, c.932C>T (p.A282V), was discovered in subjects identified through NBS. Deficiency of short/branched chain specific acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase), a defect of isoleucine degradation whose clinical significance remains unclear, also results in elevated C5-carnitine, and may therefore be detected by NBS for IVA. Treatment strategies for the long-term management of symptomatic IVA comprise the prevention of catabolism, dietary restriction of natural protein or leucine intake, and supplementation with L-carnitine and/or L-glycine. Recommendations on how to counsel and manage individuals with the mild phenotype detected by NBS are required.
Background: Deaths from inherited metabolic disorders may remain undiagnosed after postmortem examination and may be classified as sudden infant death syndrome. Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) may reveal disorders of fatty acid oxidation in deaths of previously unknown cause. ::: ::: Methods: We obtained filter-paper blood from 7058 infants from United States and Canadian Medical Examiners. Acylcarnitine and amino acid profiles were obtained by MS/MS. Specialized interpretation was used to evaluate profiles for disorders of fatty acid, organic acid, and amino acid metabolism. The analyses of postmortem blood specimens were compared with the analyses of bile specimens, newborn blood specimens, and specimens obtained from older infants at risk for metabolic disorders. ::: ::: Results: Results on 66 specimens suggested diagnoses of metabolic disorders. The most frequently detected disorders were medium-chain and very-long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiencies (23 and 9 cases, respectively), glutaric acidemia type I and II deficiencies (3 and 8 cases, respectively), carnitine palmitoyl transferase type II/translocase deficiencies (6 cases), severe carnitine deficiency (4 cases), isovaleric acidemia/2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiencies (4 cases), and long-chain hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase/trifunctional protein deficiencies (4 cases). ::: ::: Conclusions: Postmortem metabolic screening can explain deaths in infants and children and provide estimates of the number of infant deaths attributable to inborn errors of metabolism. MS/MS is cost-effective for analysis of postmortem specimens and should be considered for routine use by Medical Examiners and pathologists in unexpected/unknown infant and child death.
It was postulated previously that some of these FAs play a role in the complex life cycle of myxobacteria which culminates in the formation of fruiting bodies containing heat-and desiccation-resistant myxospores (11, 22) . The model organism for studying the development of and sporulation in myxobacteria is Myxococcus xanthus, for which different extracellular signals and regulators have already been described. These are required for M. xanthus to proceed through the developmental program (12). However, the underlying biochemistry is barely understood. It was shown previously by Toal et al. that disruption of the branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase (Bkd) complex results in a developmental phenotype with almost no aggregates or spores formed under starvation conditions (25). The Bkd complex is involved in the degradation of the branched-chain amino acids leucine, valine, and isoleucine to isovaleryl-coenzyme A (isovaleryl-CoA), isobutyryl-CoA, and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, respectively. These thioesters are the starting units for iso-and anteiso-fatty acids and for several secondary metabolites from different bacteria (e.g., avermectin from Streptomyces avermitilis [6] 
The dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA intermediates in the catabolism of fatty acids and branched-chain amino acids in humans is catalysed by the mitochondrial acyl-CoA dehydrogenase enzymes [1, 2] . Several inherited defects in this group of enzymes have been characterised. Defects in, or inhibition of, isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase result in the accumulation of C5-carnitine species [3] whilst defects in, or inhibition of, short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase and isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase result in the accumulation of C4-carnitine species [2] ( Figure 1 ).
The exact mechanism of inhibition that acetylsalicylic acid and/or its metabolites exert on fatty acid oxidation is not clear, since different studies indicate different sites of inhibition. These include an inhibitory effect on the activation (1) isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase, (2) 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, and (3) isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, will result in the accumulation of C4-carnitine and C5-carnitine species.
Abstract The potato cDNAs Solanum tuberosum isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenases 1 and 2 (St-IVD1 and St-IVD2) encode proteins that are 84% identical to each other and 65 and 64% identical to human IVD, respectively. St-IVD2 protein was previously partially purified from potato tubers and confirmed to be an IVD. The function of St-IVD1 is unknown. In these experiments, both proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified as intact homotetramers. The substrate preference profile of the St-IVD2 protein was similar to that of human IVD. However, recombinant St-IVD1 had maximal activity with 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, which in humans is dehydrogenated by short/branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SBCAD). Whereas molecular modeling predicts that the 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (2MBCD) and IVD substrate binding pockets are nearly identical, 2MBCD has amino acid substitutions at five residues that are invariant among all of the known and putative IVDs. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to match the human IVD active site with that of potato 2MBCD. The resulting mutant IVD had detectable activity with 2-methylbutyryl-CoA and no activity with isovaleryl-CoA. The 2MBCD active site was compared with that of human SBCAD using molecular modeling. Residues Met-361 and Ala-365 of 2MBCD appear to partially substitute for the function of Tyr-380 in human SBCAD, binding the methyl branch linked to C2 of 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, whereas residues Val-88, Val-92, and Val-96 appear to bind the distal C4 methyl group. The presence of a 2MBCD in potato that is highly homologous to IVD is an example of convergent evolution within the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, leading to the independent occurrence of two enzymes (SBCAD and 2MBCD) specific for 2-methylbutyryl-CoA.
The potato cDNAs Solanum tuberosum isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenases 1 and 2 (St-IVD1 and St-IVD2) encode proteins that are 84% identical to each other and 65 and 64% identical to human IVD, respectively. St-IVD2 protein was previously partially purified from potato tubers and confirmed to be an IVD. The function of St-IVD1 is unknown. In these experiments, both proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified as intact homotetramers. The substrate preference profile of the St-IVD2 protein was similar to that of human IVD. However, recombinant St-IVD1 had maximal activity with 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, which in humans is dehydrogenated by short/branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SBCAD). Whereas molecular modeling predicts that the 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (2MBCD) and IVD substrate binding pockets are nearly identical, 2MBCD has amino acid substitutions at five residues that are invariant among all of the known and putative IVDs. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to match the human IVD active site with that of potato 2MBCD. The resulting mutant IVD had detectable activity with 2-methylbutyryl-CoA and no activity with isovalerylCoA. The 2MBCD active site was compared with that of human SBCAD using molecular modeling. Residues Met-361 and Ala-365 of 2MBCD appear to partially substitute for the function of Tyr-380 in human SBCAD, binding the methyl branch linked to C 2 of 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, whereas residues Val-88, Val-92, and Val-96 appear to bind the distal C 4 methyl group. The presence of a 2MBCD in potato that is highly homologous to IVD is an example of convergent evolution within the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, leading to the independent occurrence of two enzymes (SBCAD and 2MBCD) specific for 2-methylbutyryl-CoA.
An 4-mo-old male was found to have an isolated increase in 2-methylbutyrylglycine (2-MBG) and 2-methylbutyrylcamitine (2-MBC) in physiologic fluids. In vitro oxidation studies in cultured fibroblasts using 13C- and 14C-labeled branched chain amino acids indicated an isolated block in 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (2-MBCDase). Western blotting revealed absence of 2-MBCDase protein in fibroblast extracts; DNA sequencing identified a single 778 C>T substitution in the 2-MBCDase coding region (778 C>T), substituting phenylalanine for leucine at amino acid 222 (L222F) and absence of enzyme activity for the 2-MBCDase protein expressed in Escherichia coli. Prenatal diagnosis in a subsequent pregnancy suggested an affected female fetus, supporting an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. These data confirm the first documented case of isolated 2-MBCDase deficiency in humans.
The branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) leucine, isoleucine, and valine are three essential amino acids that cannot be synthesized by animals and must be obtained from foods [1] [2] [3] . As a result of the stimulatory effect of BCAAs on protein synthesis and direct effects on glucose transport and insulin secretion, investigations into the metabolism of BCAAs have become a popular research area in recent years, with particular emphasis on the branched-chain keto acids (BCKAs) [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] . The BCKAs are derived from the initial step in the catabolism of BCAAs via BCAA amino transferase, which transfers the amino group of BCAAs to α-ketoglutarate to form the BCKAs (including α-ketoisocaproate (KIC, ketoleucine), α-keto-β-methylvalerate (KMV, ketoisoleucine) and α-ketoisovalerate (KIV, ketovaline)) in the muscle [11] [12] [13] . After BCAAs are catalyzed by amino transferase, BCKAs can be irreversibly oxidized to isovaleryl-CoA, isobutyryl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA via the enzyme branched-chainketo acid dehydrogenase (BCKDH) [14] [15] [16] . The effect of BCKAs on stimulating protein synthesis has been reported [17, 18] . And when the BCKDH complex is mutated and defective, the BCKAs will accumulate in tissues resulting in development of the maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) in animals [19] . Since BCKAs have such an important effect on the metabolic and nutritional state of animals, accurate determination of BCKAs in biological samples is highly valuable.
2-Methyl-branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase was purified to homogeneity from rat liver mitochondria. The native molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 170,000 by gel filtration. On sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis both with and without 2-mercaptoethanol, the enzyme showed a single protein band with Mr = 41,500, suggesting that this enzyme is composed of four subunits of equal size. Its isoelectric point was 5.50 +/- 0.2, and A1%280 nm was 12.5. This enzyme contained protein-bound FAD. The purified enzyme dehydrogenated S-2-methylbutyryl-CoA and isobutyryl-CoA with equal activity. The activities with each of these compounds were co-purified throughout the entire purification procedure. This enzyme also dehydrogenated R-2-methylbutyryl-CoA, but the specific activity was considerably lower (22%) than that for the S-enantiomer. The enzyme did not dehydrogenate other acyl-CoAs, including isovaleryl-CoA, propionyl-CoA, butyryl-CoA, octanoyl-CoA, and palmitoyl-CoA, at any significant rate. Apparent Km and Vmax values for S-2-methylbutyryl-CoA were 20 microM and 2.2 mumol min-1 mg-1, respectively, while those for isobutyryl-CoA were 89 microM and 2.0 mumol min-1 mg-1 using phenazine methosulfate as an artificial electron acceptor. The enzyme was also active with electron transfer flavoprotein. Tiglyl-CoA and methacrylyl-CoA were identified as the reaction products from S-2-methylbutyryl-CoA and isobutyryl-CoA, respectively. 2-Ethylacrylyl-CoA was produced from R-2-methylbutyryl-CoA. Tiglyl-CoA competitively inhibited the activity with both S-2-methylbutyryl-CoA and isobutyryl-CoA with a similar Ki. The enzyme activity was also severely inhibited by several organic sulfhydryl reagents such as N-ethylmaleimide, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, and methyl mercury iodide. The pattern and degree of inhibition were essentially identical for both substrates. The purified 2-methyl-branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase was immunologically distinct from isovaleryl-CoA-, short chain acyl-CoA-, medium chain acyl-CoA-, or long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase.
Fatty acid and alkyl compositions of 1-alkyl-2,3-diacylglycerols (ADG) in the Harderian gland of the golden hamster were determined. Fatty acids of male ADG consisted of straight chain saturated acids ranging from C12 to C22. Both even- and odd-numbered acids were observed, indicating that acetyl- and propionyl-CoAs were equally used as primers in the fatty acid synthesis. In female ADG a large amount of iso- and anteiso-branched fatty acids were detected. Odd-numbered acids (C15, 17, 19, and 21) contained iso- together with anteiso-branchings, and even-numbered acids (C16 and 18) contained iso-branchings. These findings suggested that isobutyryl-, isovaleryl-, and 2-methylbutyryl-CoAs were used as primers in addition to acetyl- and propionyl-CoAs in fatty acid synthesis in the female gland. Such unusual primers are catabolic intermediates of valine, leucine, and isoleucine, respectively. Male ADG contained straight chain saturated alkyl residues ranging from C14 to 21. In the case of female ADG, though the main component was C18:O, most alkyl components had branchings at the iso- and anteiso-positions. NMR data suggested the presence of propionic acid at the C3 position of glycerol in the male ADG and of isovaleric and 2-methylbutyric acids at the same position in the female ADG. These results suggest that the sexual differences of the lipids in the Harderian gland of the golden hamster are determined at the step of fatty acid synthesis depending on the available precursors in the male and female glands. We speculate that sex hormones affect the metabolism of branched chain amino acids and bring about the dramatic diversities of the lipid compositions in the male and female glands.
A boy now 8 years old presented at 21 months of age with developmental arrest, followed by regression, cortical blindness and myoclonic seizures. Urine organic acid analysis revealed 3-hydroxy-2-methylbutyric acid and tiglyglycine; 3-ketothiolase enzyme activity was normal and he was subsequently found to have 3-hydroxy-2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Sexual diversity of ADG in Harderian gland of golden hamster was demonstrated on TLC. Female ADG contained iso- and anteiso-branched acyl and alkyl components, but male ADG contained only straight chain ones, which suggested the hormonal control of the expression of acyl-CoA dehydrogenases in the catabolism of BCAA. Acyl-CoA dehydrogenases were not expressed in the absence of testosterone, and then isovaleryl-CoA, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, and isobutyryl-CoA accumulated, and acted as primers for the synthesis of iso- and anteiso-branched fatty acids. The incorporation of [U-14C] leucine into lipids was monitored by TLC. The cholesterol fraction was labeled in males but not in female, which means that cholesterol was not produced from BCAA in female gland due to the lack of expression of acyl-CoA dehydrogenases. We monitored the behavior of male hamsters toward female gland lipids, and found slightly greater attractiveness in female ones than that in male ones although the difference was not significant. Considering the lifestyle of golden hamster in nature, we propose a hypothesis that the lipids from the Harderian gland of golden hamster serve as a pheromone to declare their territory and to seek the mate with good congeniality.
Abstract Short-chain L-3-hydroxy-2-methylacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SC-HMAD), a soluble mitochondrial enzyme, was purified 6000-fold from rat Liver in 6% yield by a six-step purification procedure. The purified enzyme was homogenous as judged by gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate. The molecular mass of this protein was estimated to be 28 kDa under denaturing conditions. Under nondenaturing conditions, the enzyme behaved on Sephacryl S-200 like serum albumin with a molecular mass of 66 kDa. Thus, SC-HMAD seems to be a dimer composed of two, most likely identical 28-kDa subunits. Immunoblotting with antibodies to pig heart L-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (HAD) (EC 1.1.1.35) revealed that SC-HMAD and HAD are immunologically unrelated proteins. SC-HMAD, but not HAD, catalyzes the NAD + -dependent dehydrogenation of L-3-hydroxy-2-methybutyryl-CoA, a metabolite of isoleucine, to 2-methylacetoacetyl-CoA. Relative activities with 3-hydroxy-2-methylacyl-CoA thioesters having acyl chains with 4, 5, 10, and 16 carbon atoms are 88, 100, 16, and 0%, respectively. Unbranched 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA thioesters are also substrates of SC-HMAD, although poorer ones as evidenced by apparent K m values of 5 and 19 μM for L-3-hydroxy-2-methylbutyryl-CoA and L-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA, respectively. Maximal velocities observed with these two substrates were similar. It is concluded that SC-HMAD catalyzes the second dehydrogenation step during the β-oxidation of the isoleucine metabolite 2-methylbutyryl-CoA. This enzyme may also be involved in the β-oxidation of natural and xenobiotic branched chain carboxylic acids.
Electron-transfer flavoprotein:rhodoquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-RO) was purified to homogeneity from anaerobic mitochondria of the parasitic nematode, Ascaris suum. The enzyme has a subunit molecular mass of 64.5 kDa and is similar in many respects to the electron-transfer flavoprotein:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-UO) characterized in mammalian tissues. EPR spectroscopy of the purified enzyme revealed signals at g = 2.076, 1,936, and 1.883, arising from an iron-sulfur center, as well as signals attributable to a flavin semiquinone. Potentiometric titration on the enzyme with dithionite yielded an oxidation-reduction midpoint potential (Em) for the iron-sulfur center of +25 mV at pH 7.4. The reduction of flavin occurred in two distinct steps, with a flavin semiquinone radical detected as an intermediate. The Em values for the two steps in the complete reduction of flavin were +15 mV and -9 mV, respectively. Physiologically, the ascarid ETF-RO accepts electrons from a low potential quinone, rhodoquinone, and functions in a direction opposite to that of the ETF-UO. Incubations of A. suum submitochondrial particles with NADH, 2-methylcrotonyl-CoA, purified A. suum electron-transfer flavoprotein and 2-methyl branched-chain enoyl-CoA reductase resulted in significant 2-methylbutyryl-CoA formation, which was inhibited by both rotenone and antisera to the purified ETF-RO. Quinone extraction of the submitchondrial particles with dry pentane resulted in almost the complete loss of 2-MBCoA formation by the system. However, the reincorporation of rhodoquinone, but not ubiquinone restored over 50% of the NADH-dependent 2-MBCoA formation.
Abstract: Sexual diversity of ADG in Harderian gland of golden hamster was demonstrated on TLC. Female ADG contained iso-and anteiso-branched acyl and alkyl components, but male ADG contained only straight chain ones, which suggested the hormonal control of the expression of acyl-CoA dehydrogenases in the catabolism of BCAA. Acyl-CoA dehydrogenases were not expressed in the absence of testosterone, and then isovaleryl-CoA, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, and isobutyryl-CoA accumulated, and acted as primers for the synthesis of iso-and anteiso-branched fatty acids. The incorporation of [U-
Trehangelins are trehalose angelates discovered from endophytic actinomycete Polymorphospora rubra K07-0510. We identified the trehangelin biosynthetic gene cluster, including genes that encode a glycoside hydrolase-like protein (thgC), α-amylase (thgD), 3-ketoacyl-ACP synthase III (thgI), 3-ketoacyl-ACP reductase (thgK), enoyl-CoA hydratase (thgH) and acyl transferase (thgJ). Heterologous expression of thgH, thgI, thgJ and thgK confirmed the importance of these genes in the biosynthesis of trehangelin A. Enzymatic activity studies showed that ThgI catalyses the condensation of acetyl-CoA and methylmalonyl-CoA to 2-methylacetoacetyl-CoA (MAA-CoA), ThgK catalyses NADPH-dependent reduction of MAA-CoA to 3-hydroxy-2-methylbutyryl-CoA (HMB-CoA) and ThgH catalyses the dehydration of HMB-CoA to angelyl-CoA (AN-CoA). This is the first report on the elucidation of the enzymatic formation of AN-CoA.
Succinyl-CoA is an intermediate in the formation of the fermentation product, propionate, by Fasciola hepatica adults. Acyl-CoA transferase activities are present in crude homogenates of Fasciola, which could account for the synthesis of succinyl-CoA from succinate by the transfer of CoA from either propionyl-CoA or acetyl-CoA. No transferase activity was apparent from 2-methylbutyryl-CoA or 2-methylvaleryl-CoA as was previously reported for the nematode, Ascaris suum. Heat denaturation experiments indicate that all of the Fasciola transferase activities may result from a single protein.
The acyl-CoA dehydrogenases (ACDs) are a family of mitochondrial enzymes that oxidize straight chain or branched chain acyl-CoAs in the metabolism of fatty acids or branched chain amino acids. Deficiencies in members of this gene family are important causes of human disease. A cDNA encoding the human precursor for a novel member (gene symbol ACADSB) of the ACD gene family has been isolated and characterized. The open reading frame of 1.3 kb encodes a precursor protein of 431 amino acids, which is processed in vitro to yield a mature protein of 399 amino acids. The cDNA has significant sequence similarity to other members of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, with the greatest homology (38%) to the short chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase. The cDNA was expressed in eukaryotic (COS) and prokaryotic (Escherichia coli) cells, producing a protein of the expected size, with activity toward the short branched chain acyl-CoA derivatives ((S)-2-methylbutyryl-CoA, isobutyryl-CoA, and 2-methylhexanoyl-CoA), as well as toward the short straight chain acyl-CoAs (butyryl-CoA and hexanoyl-CoA).
The isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IBD) enzyme is involved in the degradation of valine. IBD deficiency was first reported in 1998 and subsequent genetic investigations identified acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (ACAD) 8, now IBD, as the gene responsible for IBD deficiency. Only three individuals homozygous or compound heterozygous for variations in the IBD gene have been reported. We present IBD deficiency in an additional four newborns with elevated C 4 -carnitine identified by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) screening in Denmark and the United States. Three showed urinary excretions of isobutyryl-glycine, and in vitro probe analysis of fibroblasts from two newborns indicated enzymatic IBD defect. T he acyl-CoA dehydrogenases (ACAD) (EC 1.3.99) are a family of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial enzymes involved in the metabolism of fatty acids and branched chain amino acids (1-3). Inherited deficiencies of the ACADs are important causes of metabolic disorders. During the catabolism of valine and isoleucine, the branched side chains are converted into isobutyryl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, respectively. These dehydrogenations were initially suggested to be carried out by one enzyme, the short branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SBCAD) (2,4). However, identification of the ACAD8 gene, which encodes isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IBD), and subsequent functional analysis, demonstrated that IBD is responsible for the conversion of isobutyryl-CoA to methacrylyl-CoA in the valine metabolism (5,6). The first patient with IBD deficiency was reported in 1998 (7) and genetic analysis revealed homozygosity for the IBD c.905GϾA (Ala302Gln) variation (3). Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) based newborn screening is established in several countries world wide, and allows early detection and intervention of a wide range of metabolic disorders (8). With the addition of IBD deficiency to the list of metabolic disorders, the number of metabolites that must be traceable to identify specific inborn errors of metabolism has increased. Acyl-carnitine profiles representing elevated C 4 -carnitine may either indicate IBD deficiency or short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD) deficiency, as the routine MS/MS analysis does not allow discrimination between the C 4 -metabolites, isobutyryl-carnitine and butyryl-carnitine, which accumulate in these enzyme defects (7,9). SCAD (EC 1.3.99.2) is a mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation enzyme involved in the dehydrogenation of butyryl-CoA into crotonylCoA. To discriminate between SCAD deficiency and IBD deficiency, the MS/MS analysis of newborns with elevated C 4 -carnitine requires further evaluation for follow-up. Gas Received January 11, 2006; accepted April 13, 2006 
Acyl coenzyme A (acyl-CoA) thioesters are important intermediates in cellular metabolism and being able to distinguish among them is critical to fully understanding metabolic pathways in plants. Although significant advances have been made in the identification and quantification of acyl-CoAs using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), separation of isomeric species such as isobutyryl- and n-butyrl-CoA has remained elusive. Here we report an ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC)-MS/MS method for quantifying short-chain acyl-CoAs including isomeric species n-butyryl-CoA and isobutyryl-CoA as well as n-valeryl-CoA and isovaleryl-CoA. The method was applied to the analysis of extracts of hop (Humulus lupulus) and provided strong evidence for the existence of an additional structural isomer of valeryl-CoA, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, as well as an unexpected isomer of hexanoyl-CoA. The results showed differences in the acyl-CoA composition among varieties of Humulus lupulus, both in glandular trichomes and cone tissues. When compared with the analysis of hemp (Cannabis sativa) extracts, the contribution of isobutyryl-CoAs in hop was greater as would be expected based on the downstream polyketide products. Surprisingly, branched chain valeryl-CoAs (isovaleryl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA) were the dominant form of valeryl-CoAs in both hop and hemp. The capability to separate these isomeric forms will help to understand biochemical pathways leading to specialized metabolites in plants.
Disorders of branched-chain amino/keto acid metabolism encompass diverse entities, including maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), the 'classical' organic acidurias isovaleric acidemia (IVA), propionic acidemia (PA), methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) and, among others, rarely described disorders such as 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MBDD) or isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (IBDD). Our focus in this review is to highlight the biochemical basis underlying recent advances and ongoing challenges of long-term conservative therapy including precursor/protein restriction, replenishment of deficient substrates, and the use of antioxidants and anaplerotic agents which refill the Krebs cycle. Ongoing clinical assessments of affected individuals in conjunction with monitoring of disease-specific biochemical parameters remain essential. It is likely that mass spectrometry-based 'metabolomics' may be a helpful tool in the future for studying complete biochemical profiles and diverse metabolic phenotypes. Prospective studies are needed to test the effectiveness of adjunct therapies such as antioxidants, ornithine-alpha-ketoglutarate (OKG) or creatine in addition to specialized diets and to optimize current therapeutic strategies in affected individuals. With the individual life-time risk and degree of severity being unknown in asymptomatic individuals with MBDD or IBDD, instructions regarding risks for metabolic stress and fasting avoidance along with clinical monitoring are reasonable interventions at the current time. Overall, it is apparent that carefully designed prospective clinical investigations and multicenter cohort-controlled trials are needed in order to leverage that knowledge into significant breakthroughs in treatment strategies and appropriate approaches.
Fatty-acid biosynthesis in bacteria is primarily carried out by the type II synthase system, in which FabH (-ketoacyl-ACP synthase III) catalyzes the key initiation step in acyl-chain formation: Claisen condensation of an acyl-CoA with malonyl-ACP to form a -ketoacyl-ACP. FabH plays an important role in mediating the fatty-acid composition of the cell by virtue of its acyl-CoA substrate specificity (Choi, Heath et al., 2000; Li et al., 2005) . The nature of the acyl-CoA primer used by FabH determines whether the resulting fatty acid will be straightchained (if acetyl-CoA is the primer, as is characteristic of most Gram-negative bacteria) or methyl-branched (as is characteristic of most Gram-positive bacteria). For methylbranched fatty acids, the primer is an acyl-CoA derived from a branched amino acid rather than acetyl-CoA. For anteisobranched fatty acids FabH uses 2-methylbutyryl-CoA (derived from isoleucine) as a primer, whereas for iso-branched fatty acids FabH uses isovaleryl-CoA or isobutyryl-CoA (derived from leucine or valine, respectively).
The catabolic pathways of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) consist of multiple steps including transamination, oxidative decarboxylation and dehydrogenation; inborn errors of these pathways are inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion. These disorders include maple syrup urine disease (MSUD, OMIM 248600), 'classical' organic acidurias (isovaleric acidemia, IVA, OMIM 243500, propionic acidemia, PA, OMIM 606054, methylmalonic acidemia, MMA, OMIM 609058), rarely described disorders in the pathways of BCAA degradation, such as 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MBDD, OMIM 610006) or isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (IBDD, OMIM 611283) and others (see Fig. 1 ). In this review we opt to provide an overview of distinctive amino and organic acidurias associated with BCAA metabolism, encompassing both mild and severe phenotypes. MSUD is caused by a metabolic block in the early degradation of the BCAA leucine, valine and isoleucine due to defective activity of the branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase multienzyme complex (BCKDH). The underlying genes are BckdhA (E1-alpha subunit gene), Bckdhb (E1-beta subunit gene), and DBT (E2 subunit Simon et al. 2006; Vockley and Ensenauer, 2006; Erdem et al. 2010 ). Historically, the term 'classical' refers to a severe phenotype but we have learned from tandem mass spectrometry-based newborn screening that the mildly affected individuals and patients detected early exhibit considerable overlap in their biochemical abnormalities and that diseases such as MSUD and IVA encompass heterogeneous conditions Ensenauer, 2006, Simon et al. 2006) .
In contrast, initiation in a type I multifunctional FAS involves a malonyl/acetyl transferase domain-catalyzed transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl-CoA to ACP (Fig. 1B) (27, 30) . Elongation of the resulting acetyl-ACP and all subsequent acyl-ACPs is catalyzed by the one KAS present in a type I FAS. A similar method for initiation is seen in some modular type I polyketide synthases (PKSs) (15). For the erythromycin PKS an acyltransferase (AT) domain catalyzes the transfer of propionyl-CoA onto an ACP in the loading module (6). Similarly an AT domain in the avermectin PKS loads branched-chain starters isobutyryl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA (12). In both cases a KAS domain in the first extension module catalyzes the first elongation step using the resulting acyl-ACP substrate.
Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (ACAD) defects in isoleucine and valine catabolism have been proposed in clinically diverse patients with an abnormal pattern of metabolites in their urine, but they have not been proved enzymatically or genetically, and it is unknown whether one or two ACADs are involved. We investigated a patient with isolated 2-methylbutyrylglycinuria, suggestive of a defect in isoleucine catabolism. Enzyme assay of the patient's fibroblasts, using 2-methylbutyryl-CoA as substrate, confirmed the defect. Sequence analysis of candidate ACADs revealed heterozygosity for the common short-chain ACAD A625 variant allele and no mutations in ACAD-8 but a 100-bp deletion in short/branched-chain ACAD (SBCAD) cDNA from the patient. Our identification of the SBCAD gene structure (11 exons; >20 kb) enabled analysis of genomic DNA. This showed that the deletion was caused by skipping of exon 10, because of homozygosity for a 1228G-->A mutation in the patient. This mutation was not present in 118 control chromosomes. In vitro transcription/translation experiments and overexpression in COS cells confirmed the disease-causing nature of the mutant SBCAD protein and showed that ACAD-8 is an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase and that both wild-type proteins are imported into mitochondria and form tetramers. In conclusion, we report the first mutation in the SBCAD gene, show that it results in an isolated defect in isoleucine catabolism, and indicate that ACAD-8 is a mitochondrial enzyme that functions in valine catabolism.
If you believe that digital publication of certain material infringes any of your rights or (privacy) interests, please let the Library know, stating your reasons. In case of a legitimate complaint, the Library will make the material inaccessible and/or remove it from the website. Please Ask the Library: http://uba.uva.nl/en/contact, or a letter to: Library of the University of Amsterdam, Secretariat, Singel 425, 1012 WP Amsterdam, The Netherlands. You will be contacted as soon as possible. Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (ACAD) defects in isoleucine and valine catabolism have been proposed in clinically diverse patients with an abnormal pattern of metabolites in their urine, but they have not been proved enzymatically or genetically, and it is unknown whether one or two ACADs are involved. We investigated a patient with isolated 2-methylbutyrylglycinuria, suggestive of a defect in isoleucine catabolism. Enzyme assay of the patient's fibroblasts, using 2-methylbutyryl-CoA as substrate, confirmed the defect. Sequence analysis of candidate ACADs revealed heterozygosity for the common short-chain ACAD A625 variant allele and no mutations in ACAD-8 but a 100-bp deletion in short/branched-chain ACAD (SBCAD) cDNA from the patient. Our identification of the SBCAD gene structure (11 exons; 120 kb) enabled analysis of genomic DNA. This showed that the deletion was caused by skipping of exon 10, because of homozygosity for a 1228GrA mutation in the patient. This mutation was not present in 118 control chromosomes. In vitro transcription/translation experiments and overexpression in COS cells confirmed the disease-causing nature of the mutant SBCAD protein and showed that ACAD-8 is an isobutyrylCoA dehydrogenase and that both wild-type proteins are imported into mitochondria and form tetramers. In conclusion, we report the first mutation in the SBCAD gene, show that it results in an isolated defect in isoleucine catabolism, and indicate that ACAD-8 is a mitochondrial enzyme that functions in valine catabolism.
The individual role of the different acyl-CoA dehydrogenases (ACADs) in isoleucine and valine catabolism is at present unclear, and the underlying enzymatic defects causing accumulation of metabolites derived from isobutyryl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA are poorly understood. In 1994, a cDNA encoding a human homologue of rat 2-methyl-branched-chain ACAD was cloned and characterized (Rozen et al. 1994 ). The enzyme was named "short/branched-chain ACAD" (SBCAD), because it differed from its rat homologue in that it exhibited highest activity with butyryl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA and low or no activity (Rozen et al. 1994; Binzak et al. 1999 ) with isobutyryl-CoA, sug-gesting a primary role in isoleucine catabolism and, perhaps, also in the catabolism of (short-chain) fatty acids, but not in valine catabolism. So far, none of the ACADs have been demonstrated to have significant enzyme activity with isobutyryl-CoA as substrate. However, the recently identified ACAD-8 (Telford et al. 1999) , with unknown substrate specificity, exhibits the highest degree of sequence similarity to SBCAD and to short-chain ACAD (SCAD). Therefore, it is a candidate enzyme for branched-chain amino acid catabolism.
Streptomyces avermitilis was grown in the presence of four inhibitors of fatty acid biosynthesis (p-chlorophenoxyacetic, DL-2-(p-chlorophenoxy)-propionic, 2-(p-chlorophenoxy)-2-methyl-propionic and p-fluorophenoxyacetic acids). The production of total lipids was inhibited and the cellular content of individual types of fatty acids was altered by these compounds. The anteiso-acid content decreased by up to one-half, whereas the content of iso-odd acids increased 10-fold in the presence of inhibitors. The decrease in anteiso-acids was accompanied by increased production of avermectins having a s-butyl group in the side chain (type 'a' avermectins). It was concluded that the common precursor, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, was diverted from the biosynthetic pathway of fatty acids to that of avermectins.
AVE biosynthetic gene cluster has been identified and the biosynthetic pathway was thoroughly elucidated [6, 7] . The polyketide skeleton was assembled by four polyketide synthases (PKS) AveA1/A2/A3/ A4 with one equal 2-methylbutyryl-CoA (or isobutyryl-CoA) as starter unit and 7 equal malonyl-CoA and 5 equal methylmalonyl-CoA as extending units. In the assembly line, beta-keto was selectively reduced by ketoreductase (KR) and dehydratase (DH) domains. It is wealthy to note that there is no enoylreductase (ER) domain in the AVE PKS. The PKS AveA1 loading module Acyl transferase domain (AveA1-LM-AT) was responsible for the selection of distinct starter units, which led to the divergence of C25 attached functional groups [6] . It was also proved that methyltransferase AveD determines the C5eO-methylation and bifunctional enzyme AveC involves in the spiroketal formation and optional dehydration at C22eC23 position [7] .
Following these common steps, the degradative pathways for each of the different BCAAs diverge and require the active participation of different enzymes which are specific for each of the BCAAs. Remarkably, the catabolic pathways of leucine, valine, and isoleucine show analogy to the fatty acid oxidation pathway, especially in the case of isoleucine which is degraded via a 4-step mechanism involving subsequent steps of dehydrogenation (via SBCAD), hydration (via crotonase), a second step of dehydrogenation catalyzed by the enzyme 3-hydroxy-2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, alternatively named SCHMAD, MHBD, or ERAB, as encoded by the HSD17B10 gene, and finally, thiolytic cleavage via the K + -dependent 2-methylacetoacetyl-CoA specific thiolase. Oxidation of the isovaleryl-CoA derived from leucine is completely different from that of the betaoxidation of acyl-CoAs except that the first step involves the dehydrogenation of the substrate isovaleryl-CoA to 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA via one of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenases (ACADs) named isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IVD).
Electron-transfer flavoprotein was purified to apparent homogeneity from mitochondria of the parasitic nematode, Ascaris suum. The native molecular weight of the enzyme was 70,000, as estimated by gel filtration, and it migrated as two bands with apparent subunit molecular weights of 37,000 and 31,500 during sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The enzyme exhibited an absorption coefficient for the bound FAD of 13.5 mM-1.cm-1 at 436 nm and a protein/flavin (270 nm/436 nm) ratio of 5.6. While the ascarid enzyme is similar to its mammalian counterpart, physiologically it functions in the reverse direction, shuttling reducing power from the electron-transport chain to a soluble 2-methyl branched-chain enoyl CoA reductase. Indeed, when A. suum submitochondrial particles were incubated with NADH, 2-methylcrotonyl-CoA and purified A. suum 2-methyl branched-chain enoyl-CoA reductase, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA formation was proportional to the amount of electron-transfer flavoprotein added.
Background2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency or short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SBCADD) is caused by a defect in the degradation pathway of the amino acid L-isoleucine.MethodsWe report a four-year-old mentally retarded Somali boy with autism and a history of seizures, who was found to excrete increased amounts of 2-methylbutyryl glycine in the urine. The SBCAD gene was examined with sequence analysis. His development was assessed with psychometric testing before and after a trial with low protein diet.ResultsWe found homozygosity for A > G changing the +3 position of intron 3 (c.303+3A > G) in the SBCAD gene. Psychometric testing showed moderate mental retardation and behavioral scores within the autistic spectrum. No beneficial effect was detected after 5 months with a low protein diet.ConclusionThis mutation was also found in two previously reported cases with SBCADD, both originating from Somalia and Eritrea, indicating that it is relatively prevalent in this population. Autism has not previously been described with mutations in this gene, thus expanding the clinical spectrum of SBCADD.
Background: 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency or short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SBCADD) is caused by a defect in the degradation pathway of the amino acid L-isoleucine.
Two Bacillus subtilis mutants defective in branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase can grow when 2-methylbutyrate is provided in trypticase soy medium. Both enantiomers of the acid supported growth of the mutants but the (S)-(+)-isomer (natural) was more active than the (R)-(-)-isomer (unnatural). The mutants utilized these isomers as primer to specifically synthesize either enantiomer of anteiso fatty acids. No racemization of the isomer primers was observed during the synthesis. Thus, cells grown with (-)-isomer possessed anteiso fatty acids (over 80%) of the total fatty acids, being entirely the unnatural enantiomer. The stereospecific synthesis was found to be controlled at the step of 2-methylbutyryl-CoA synthesis. In a wild strain, only (+)-specific acyl-CoA synthetase was detected. In the mutants, either enantiomer of 2-methylbutyrate could simultaneously induce both types, (+)-specific and (-)-specific, of acyl-CoA synthetase. (+)-Specific synthetase had a higher activity and affinity towards substrate than (-)-specific synthetase. The detailed preparative procedures for (R)-(-)- and 2-[3,4-3H]methylbutyric acid are described.
The application of tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) to newborn screening has led to the detection of patients with a wider spectrum of inborn errors of metabolism. A definitive diagnosis can often be established early enough to start treatment before symptoms appear. Here, we review common biochemical findings in disorders caused by deficiency of 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase, isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, 3-ketothiolase, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, and medium chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase. The diagnosis of these disorders requires biochemical confirmation by measurement of plasma acylcarnitine profile, urine organic acids, and urine acylglycine profiles followed by measurement of enzyme activity or detection of causative mutations. Early treatment can improve the outcome of these disorders.
ABSTRACT. Cultured fibroblasts from 13 patients with organic aciduria suggesting 3-oxothiolase deficiency were studied by measuring first the capacity of the isoleucine degradative pathways in whole cells, as the incorporation of 1-[I4C]-2-methylbutanoicacid into macromolecules, and, second, the activity of 3-oxothiolase in cell homogenates using specific 3-oxoacyl-CoA substrates to identify the different enzymes. Nine patient s showed low incorporation by the macromolecular labeling assa y, as well as deficiency of 2-methylacetoacetyl-CoA thiolase. In this group of patients, low activity by the macromolecular labeling assay was associated with clinically severe symptoms, and vice versa. Two patient s showed reduced macromolecular labeling, but apparently normal 3-oxothiolase. Finally, two patients showed normal acti vities by either test , the reason for their particular organic aciduria being unknown. In conclusion, occurrence of urinary 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid and/or tiglylglycine is not an unequivocal indicator of the absence of the thiolas e that metabolizes 2-methylacetoacetyl-CoA. Measurement of I-p4C]-2-methylbutanoic acid incorporation in cultured fibroblasts adds important information in stud ying possible defects of the isoleucine catabolic pathway. (Pediatr Res 28: 518-522, 1990) by Daum et al. ( I) , Since then , a number of cases have been reported, with a somewhat varying patt ern of organic aciduria, but genera lly excretion of 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid and tiglylglycine (2-15 ). In some of these cases, a defect in th e mit ochondrial short chain-length-specific thiolase (EC 2.3.1.9) (McKusick 20375) has been observed (7,9-12). Clinically, the patient s show a highly variable symptomatology, some cases presenting in the 1st year of life with severe ketoacidosis and lifethreaten ing disease, other cases present ing with mild attacks with lethargy and vomiting later in childhood. We are thu s faced with a syndrome of highly variable clinical severity, as well as biochemical heterogeneity with a varying degree of organ ic aciduria. To clarify this situation, we developed an MMLA that measure s the overall capacity of isoleucine degradation distal to 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, using [1-14 C]-2-methylbutan oic acid incorporation in cultured fibroblasts from skin biopsies. In parallel, we measured the fibroblast activities of 3-oxothiolase using 2-methylacetoacetyl-CoA as well as acetoacetyl-CoA and 3-oxohexano yl-CoA to give positive identification of an y decreased activities of the different cellular th iolases present. Som e of the results have been briefly reported elsewhere ( 16, 17) .
A sensitive method of continuous on-line radio-high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was used to detect the specific radio-labelled acyl-carnitine esters derived from the oxidation of [U-14C]3-methyl-2-oxopentanoate by rat liver and muscle mitochondrial fractions. The recoveries of carnitine, acetyl-carnitine, propionyl-carnitine, 2-methylbutyryl-carnitine, and hexanoyl-carnitine were 98.7% (+/- 5.4; SEM, n = 3), 91.4% (+/- 7.6), 89.4% (+/- 5.2), 84.6% (+/- 6.8), and 87.9% (+/- 7.8), respectively, from quenched mitochondrial incubations. This method demonstrated that rat liver and muscle mitochondria generate acetyl-carnitine, propionyl-carnitine and 2-methylbutyryl-carnitine when incubated with [U-14C]3-methyl-2-oxopentanoate in the presence of carnitine. The production of acetyl-carnitine was almost similar in the 2 tissues. Muscle mitochondria produced higher amounts of propionyl-carnitine and 2-methylbutyryl-carnitine than liver mitochondria. These observations suggest a limited utilization of propionyl-CoA by muscle mitochondria which, through a mechanism of feed-back inhibition, may have contributed to the accumulation of 2-methylbutyryl-CoA. This study provides further evidence for the importance of carnitine in the modulation of the mitochondrial [acyl-CoA/[CoA] pool.
OBJECTIVE ::: 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, also known as short/branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SBCAD) deficiency, is a recently described autosomal recessive disorder of L-isoleucine metabolism. Only 4 affected individuals in 2 families have been described. One patient developed athetoid cerebral palsy, and another had severe motor developmental delay with muscle atrophy. A sibling of the first patient is asymptomatic after prenatal diagnosis and early treatment. Family investigations in the second family revealed that the patient's mother was also affected but asymptomatic. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We report 8 additional patients identified by prospective newborn screening using tandem mass spectrometry. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Molecular genetic analysis performed for 3 of these patients revealed that all are homozygous for an 1165A>G mutation that causes skipping of exon 10 of the SBCAD gene. Although there was no obvious consanguinity, all patients belong to the Hmong, an ancient ethnic group that originated in China and constitutes only 0.8% and 0.6% of the Minnesota and Wisconsin population, respectively. Dietary treatment was initiated in the neonatal period. Except for 1 patient who developed mild muscle hypotonia, all patients remain asymptomatic at ages ranging from 3 to 14 months of age. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: These cases suggest that SBCAD deficiency is another inborn error of metabolism detectable by newborn screening using tandem mass spectrometry. The continued efficacy of long-term dietary therapy instituted presymptomatically remains to be established.
We report a one-day-old Korean boy with 2-Methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase(2-MBCDase) deficiency detected by urine organic acid and acylglycine analysis, plasma acylcarnitine analysis and confirmed by enzyme assay and Western blot. The patient was born at 35 weeks and three days with oligohydroamnios and premature rupture of membrane for 31 hours, as a second child of healthy non-consanguineous parents. There was no significant family history and spontaneous abortion. He was admitted at NICU under ventilator care due to prematurity, respiratory difficulty, and decreased generalized muscle tone. During the first week of hospitalization, he presented with disseminated intravascular coagulation and sepsis. A grade IV intraventricular hemorrhage on brain sonography was observed on the 7th day after birth with seizure. The clinical course of aggravation and recovery was repeated for one month. In laboratory tests, blood C5-acylcarnitines(isovaleryl/ methylbutyrylcarnitine) and urine 2-methylbutyrylglycine(2-MBG) were markedly elevated; butyrylglycine and isobutyrylglycine were also detected in small amounts in the urine. SBCAD(short branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase) enzyme activity was undetectable in cultured skin fibroblasts and Western blot showed no detectable immuno-reactive protein. Molecular analysis of the 2-MBCD gene revealed a polymorphism in the leader peptide region(38G>A; Arg13Lys) and homozygous for a non-coding polymorphism 639T>C. This is the first such case in Korea. This disorder is known to be relatively common in one other oriental ethnic group, the Hmong. The baby has been fed on a maple syrup urine disease(MSUD)-similar diet program, and is still alive and is 26-months-old now. However, he developed significant neurologic complications including communicating hydrocephalus, cerebral palsy, and blindness. Presumably the prematurity and its complications may also attribute to his severe neurologic problems. However, the clinical course was particularly severe, a finding in contrast with the observation from several asymptomatic Hmong cases. The clinical course of 2-MBCDase deficiency could be very variable and careful monitoring and follow up should be considered. (Korean J Pediatr 2004;47:100-105)
The principal fatty acids present whenArthrobacter globiformis is grown on a glycine medium free of normal fatty acids were found to be the C15 and C16 anteiso fatty acids; only a small amount of the normal fatty acids (C14 and C16) were present. Cells grown on the same medium but supplemented mented with 0.1 mg/ml [U-(2)H(15)]octanoic acid were found to contain an increased amount of the normal fatty acids and these fatty acids were found to be labeled with 7 deuteriums. I concluded that the octanoic acid is degraded by β-oxidation in these cells to [U-(2)H(7)] butyryl-CoA, which then competes with 2-methylbutyryl-CoA for the initiation of fatty acid biosynthesis.
Gram-positive bacteria, including Listeria monocytogenes, adjust membrane fluidity by shortening the fatty acid chain length and increasing the proportional production of anteiso fatty acids at lower growth temperatures. The first condensation reaction in fatty acid biosynthesis is carried out by beta-ketoacyl-acyl carrier protein synthase III (FabH), which determines the type of fatty acid produced in bacteria. Here, we measured the initial rates of FabH-catalyzed condensation of malonyl-acyl carrier protein and alternate branched-chain precursor acyl-CoAs utilizing affinity-purified His-tagged L. monocytogenes FabH heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli. Listeria monocytogenes FabH showed a preference for 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, the precursor of odd-numbered anteiso fatty acids, at 30 degrees C, which was further increased at a low temperature (10 degrees C), suggesting that temperature-dependent substrate selectivity of FabH underlies the increased formation of anteiso branched-chain fatty acids during low-temperature adaptation. The increased FabH preferential condensation of 2-methylbutyryl-CoA could not be attributed to a significantly higher availability of this fatty acid precursor as acyl-CoA pool levels were reduced similarly for all fatty acid precursors at low temperatures.
Bacteria synthesize fatty acids by using the type II, or dissociated, fatty acid synthase system. This biosynthetic pathway has been studied primarily in Escherichia coli, providing a fairly complete picture of the mechanisms that govern the synthesis of straight-chain saturated and unsaturated fatty acids (for reviews, see references 7, 24, and 25). The pathway consists of a collection of individual proteins encoded by unique genes that function in concert to produce the variety of fatty acid products found in bacteria. The genomes of a number of bacteria are now known, and all these organisms possess a highly related, and clearly identified, set of genes that carry out the reactions in the pathway. E. coli and many other gram-negative bacteria synthesize even-chain saturated and unsaturated fatty acids. Fatty acid synthesis is initiated by the condensation of acetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) with malonyl-acyl carrier protein (malonyl-ACP) by β-ketoacyl-ACP synthase III, the product of the fabH gene (14, 15, 31). However, other bacteria produce such a great variety of fatty acid structures that E. coli cannot be considered typical (25). ::: ::: Many gram-positive organisms, such as the bacilli, staphylococci, and streptomycetes, produce odd- and even-carbon-number branched-chain fatty acids (20). These branched-chain fatty acid structures have either iso- or anteiso-methyl branches, and it is tenable to hypothesize that the FabH component in organisms like B. subtilis would be able to accept isovaleryl-CoA, isobutyryl-CoA, and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA as primers to produce these fatty acids. Thus, earlier work by Butterwork and Bloch (5), showing that acyl-CoA:ACP transacylase activity, one of the reactions catalyzed by FabH (31), in Bacillus cell extracts was selective for branched-chain acyl-CoAs is consistent with the idea that bFabH prefers these primers. Genetic experiments with B. subtilis demonstrate that these CoA thioesters are essential intermediates in fatty acid synthesis and arise from iso- and anteiso-branched α-keto acids derived from the biosynthetic pathways for the amino acids valine, leucine, and isoleucine (33, 34). The enzyme responsible for the formation of these acyl-CoAs is a specialized branched-chain α-keto acid dehydrogenase complex, and mutations in the activity of this enzyme system result in strains that are auxotrophic for branched-chain acids (34). The Streptomyces glaucescens FabH enzyme efficiently utilizes both butyryl-CoA and isobutyryl-CoA and is thought to be responsible for initiating branched-chain fatty acid synthesis in this organism (10). eFabH is selective for acetyl-CoA (12, 14, 15, 31), and its low activity with butyryl-CoA (12) suggests that bulkier branched-chain CoA thioesters may not be substrates, although this idea has not been experimentally tested. In addition to the FabH component, it is also possible that all of the enzymes of the elongation cycle in gram-negative organisms (FabF, FabG, FabZ, and FabI) cannot utilize branched-chain intermediates. The goal of this study was to biochemically characterize the FabH enzymes of B. subtilis and determine if the FabH component is unique among the enzymes of type II fatty acid synthases in its selectivity toward branched-chain intermediates.
The acyl-CoA dehydrogenases (ACDs) are a family of related enzymes that catalyze the alpha,beta-dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA esters. Two homologues active in branched chain amino acid metabolism have previously been identified. We have used expression in Escherichia coli to produce a previously uncharacterized ACD-like sequence (ACAD8) and define its substrate specificity. Purified recombinant enzyme had a k(cat)/K(m) of 0.8, 0.23, and 0.04 (microM(-1)s(-1)) with isobutyryl-CoA, (S) 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, and n-propionyl-CoA, respectively, as substrates. Thus, this enzyme is an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase. A single patient has previously been described whose fibroblasts exhibit a specific deficit in the oxidation of valine. Amplified ACAD8 cDNA made from patient fibroblast mRNA was homozygous for a single nucleotide change (905G>A) in the ACAD8 coding region compared to the sequence from control cells. This encodes an Arg302Gln substitution in the full-length protein (position 280 in the mature protein), a position predicted by molecular modeling to be important in subunit interactions. The mutant enzyme was stable but inactive when expressed in E. coli. It was also stable and appropriately targeted to mitochondria, but inactive when expressed in mammalian cells. These data confirm further the presence of a separated ACD in humans specific to valine catabolism (isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, IBDH), along with the first enzymatic and molecular confirmation of a deficiency of this enzyme in a patient.
The acyl-CoA dehydrogenases (ACDs) are a family of related enzymes that catalyze the a,b-dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA esters. Two homologues active in branched chain amino acid metabolism have previously been identified. We have used expression in Escherichia coli to produce a previously uncharacterized ACD-like sequence (ACAD8) and define its substrate specificity. Purified recombinant enzyme had a k cat =K m of 0.8, 0.23, and 0.04 (lM À1 s À1 ) with isobutyryl-CoA, (S) 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, and n-propionylCoA, respectively, as substrates. Thus, this enzyme is an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase. A single patient has previously been described whose fibroblasts exhibit a specific deficit in the oxidation of valine. Amplified ACAD8 cDNA made from patient fibroblast mRNA was homozygous for a single nucleotide change (905G > A) in the ACAD8 coding region compared to the sequence from control cells. This encodes an Arg302Gln substitution in the full-length protein (position 280 in the mature protein), a position predicted by molecular modeling to be important in subunit interactions. The mutant enzyme was stable but inactive when expressed in E. coli. It was also stable and appropriately targeted to mitochondria, but inactive when expressed in mammalian cells. These data confirm further the presence of a separated ACD in humans specific to valine catabolism (isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, IBDH), along with the first enzymatic and molecular confirmation of a deficiency of this enzyme in a patient. Ó
Early studies of ACDs 1 isolated from rat liver mitochondria suggested the existence of a single enzyme (called 2-methyl-branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase) that could utilize both isobutyryl-and S-2-methylbutyryl-CoAs from the valine and isoleucine pathways, respectively, equally well as substrates [3] . More recently, Molecular Genetics and Metabolism 77 (2002) 68-79 www.academicpress.com the rat and human cDNAs for this enzyme have been cloned and the gene was named short-branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (ACADSB; see Table 1 for a summary of genetic nomenclature and protein designations) [6, 7, 11] . Recombinant rat SBCADH produced in Escherichia coli, like its native counterpart, could efficiently utilize both isobutyryl-and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA as substrate. In contrast, the recombinant human enzyme did not efficiently utilize isobutyryl-CoA as substrate, raising the possibility that another ACD specific to valine metabolism might exist in humans. Two patients with inactivating mutations in the ACADSB gene have recently been identified [12, 13] . In the first of these patients, valine metabolism was shown to be normal, while this was not examined in the second patient. Finally, a patient has been identified in whom metabolic loading studies in fibroblasts revealed decreased oxidation of labeled valine, with an increase in accumulation of isobutyryl carnitine. Metabolism of labeled isoleucine and leucine was normal and a defect in a valine specific ACD was proposed [14] .
A mapping study of human chromosome 11q25 has identified a novel gene that shares strong homology to other members of the human ACD gene family [15] . Initial studies of ACAD8 cDNA revealed that the protein expressed in an eukaryotic system had high activity towards both 2-methylbutyryl-CoA and isobutyryl-CoA in crude cellular extracts [13] . We now report expression of the cDNA for ACAD8 in E. coli, purification of the recombinant enzyme to homogeneity, and characterization of the kinetic properties and substrate specificity of the purified enzyme. We also report the gene structure of the human ACD gene. Mutation analysis of ACAD8 from the patient with a proposed defect in valine metabolism revealed a mutation in the ACAD8 coding region leading to loss of enzymatic activity. Our findings identify ACAD8 as an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IBDH) active in valine catabolism, as well as the first patient deficient in this enzyme.
A major disadvantage of fuels derived from biological sources is their undesirable physical properties such as high cloud and pour points and high viscosity. Here we report the development of an Escherichia coli strain that efficiently produces anteiso-branched fatty acids, which can be converted into downstream products with lower cloud and pour points compared to less heterogeneous mixtures produced via the native metabolism of the cell. This was achieved through the deletion of metA, tdh, ilvB, and ilvN and the overexpression of thrABC from E. coli, ilvA from Corynebacterium glutamicum, ilvGMCD from Salmonella typhimurium, as well as bFabH2 and the bkd operon from Bacillus subtilis, which together promote the synthesis of the 2-methylbutyryl-CoA and use this metabolite to prime fatty acid synthesis. When these genetic manipulations are coupled with those that promote free fatty acid synthesis and accumulation, 22% of the free fatty acids produced in the engineered E.coli cells were anteiso-branched. This work addresses a serious limitation that must be overcome in order to produce renewable biodiesel and oleochemicals that perform as well as their petroleum-based counterparts.
Abstract The 2-methyl branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase was purified to homogeneity from mitochondria of the parasitic nematode, Ascaris suum. The native molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 170,000 by gel filtration. The enzyme migrated as a single protein band with Mr = 42,500 during sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis suggesting that the enzyme is a tetramer composed of identical subunits. The enzyme exhibited absorbance maxima at 272, 375, and 452 with a ratio 7.9:0.8:1.0, respectively. FAD content was estimated to be 0.9 mol/mol of subunit and the absorption coefficient of FAD at 452 nm was 14.1 mM-1 cm-1. The purified enzyme dehydrogenated both 2-methylbutyryl-CoA and 2-methylvaleryl-CoA with apparent Km and Vmax values of 18 microM and 1.62 mumol/min/mg and 21 microM and 1.58 mumol/min/mg, respectively. This enzyme also appeared to dehydrogenate butyryl-CoA, valeryl-CoA, and octanoyl-CoA but at a much lower rate. The enzyme did not dehydrogenate propionyl-CoA, isobutyryl-CoA, isovaleryl-CoA, and palmitoyl-CoA. Tiglyl-CoA and 2-methyl-2-pentenoyl-CoA were identified as reaction products from 2-methylbutyryl- and 2-methylvaleryl-CoA, respectively. Dehydrogenating activity with both substrates was inhibited by tiglyl-CoA, acetoacetyl-CoA, and straight chain acyl CoAs of increasing chain length. N-Ethylmaleimide and p-hydroxymercuribenzoate had little effect on dehydrogenating activity but the heavy metals Hg2+ and Ag2+ were potent inhibitors. Physiologically, the dehydrogenase functions as a branched-chain enoyl-CoA reductase. Incubations of A. suum submitochondrial particles, NADH, tiglyl-CoA, purified A. suum electron-transfer flavoprotein, and the 2-methyl branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase resulted in the rotenone-sensitive, dehydrogenase-dependent formation of 2-methylbutyryl-CoA.
Eukaryotic cells contain different highly specialized cell organelles which are encased by at least one lipid bilayer membrane. These membranes are impermeable for most metabolites without assistance of specific solute transport proteins. These proteins are also called carriers and enable to maintain a functional metabolic network extending over different organelles inside the cell (Linka and Weber, 2010). This thesis contributes to the knowledge of peroxisomal transport proteins in plants. The main focus of this thesis was to extend the knowledge of the peroxisomal NAD Carrier (PXN) of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. The peroxisomal metabolism depends on the import of substrates and cofactors, but our knowledge of the transporters involved is very limited. PXN mutants exhibit a slowed mobilization of storage oils, linking PXN function to the peroxisomal β-oxidation of fatty acids (Bernhardt et al., 2012). In vitro studies showed PXN to be able to transport e.g., NAD, NADH, AMP, and CoA (Agrimi et al., 2012; Bernhardt et al., 2012). In our experiments we could confirm that PXN imports AMP into liposomes preloaded with CoA at a concentration of 10 mM, but also showed that it does not mediate the transport of CoA on lower concentrations (Manuscript 1). Based on these findings CoA import is unlikely to be the in vivo role of PXN. Phenotype suppression studies of yeast mutants impaired in peroxisomal β-oxidation were used to get additional results. We could demonstrate the ability of PXN to suppress the phenotype of mdh3Δ mutants. Mdh3p is part of the malate/oxaloacetate redox shuttle in yeast, which regenerates NAD in the peroxisomal matrix (van Roermund et al., 1995). Yeast cells deficient in Mdh3p function showed a β-oxidation activity of about 30% compared to wild-type cells when grown on oleate as sole carbon source. Expression of PXN in the mdh3Δ background raised this activity significantly to 73% of wild-type levels (Manuscript 1). Thereby we showed PXN to be able to supply peroxisomal β-oxidation with NAD independently of the malate/oxaloacetate shuttle. To identify the counter exchange substrate which is exported from the peroxisome upon NAD import we analyzed an mdh3Δ/npy1Δ double mutant. Npy1p is a peroxisomal NADH pyrophosphatase catalyzing the hydrolysis of NADH to AMP and NMNH (AbdelRaheim et al., 2001). PXN accepts both NADH and AMP as substrates in vitro and loss of Npy1p function results in higher intraperoxisomal NADH levels and less AMP. Expression of PXN in the yeast double mutant did not restore β-oxidation activity, making AMP the most likely counter substrate for NAD uptake in vivo. To verify these findings we targeted PXN to the mitochondria of ndt1Δ/ndt2Δ yeast cells. This mutant lacks the activity of both mitochondrial NAD carriers which import NAD against AMP and is unable to grow on ethanol as sole carbon source (Todisco et al., 2006). Expression of mitochondrial-targeted PXN in the ndt1Δ/ndt2Δ mutant partly suppressed the growth phenotype on ethanol. Thus the import of NAD against AMP is likely to be the in vivo function of PXN. In Manuscript 2 we investigated how the PXN-mediated import of NAD into plant peroxisomes is regulated. Thus we studied if PXN activity is regulated by phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 155 (S155) of the polypeptide chain. This phosphorylation site is located in an elongated hydrophilic loop region which is unique among MCF transporters but conserved in PXN homologues in different higher plant and algae species. Phosphorylation of S155 enhanced the speed of PXN mediated NAD/AMP exchange without altering the proteins affinity to NAD. Manuscript 3 elucidated the involvement of peroxisomal metabolism during the breakdown of small-chain fatty acids which for example arise from the catabolism of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs). BCAA breakdown is important during different stress conditions, where these amino acids serve as alternative energy source (Araujo et al., 2011). Based on our results peroxisomal metabolism is involved in BCAA degradation as well as in breakdown of exogenously supplied BCAA catabolites like propionate, isobutyrate, and acrylate. PXA1 activity is essential for the import of propionyl-CoA, isobutyryl-CoA, and possibly 2-methylbutyryl-CoA into peroxisomes during BCAA breakdown. Intraperoxisomal ATP provided by PNC1 and PNC2 is mandatory during these processes, while the role of PXN is less distinct.
Abstract Five urine samples were collected in clinically quiet periods over a period of one year from a patient suffering from D-glyceric acidemia, and investigated for presence or absence of glycine-conjugates. The findings of isovalerylglycine, 2-methylbutyrylglycine, isobutyrylglycine, and tiglylglycine are interpreted as indications of intracellular accumulations of isovaleryl-CoA, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA and isobutyryl-CoA. Similarly, the findings of elevated amounts of butyric acid and hexanoic acid together with butyrylglycine, hexanoylglycine, and suberic acid suggest intracellular accumulations of straight-chain acyl-CoA's. It is therefore suggested that this child has a common derangement in his acyl-CoA dehydrogenases (in addition to his primary defect). As possible secondary consequences of this, two points can be mentioned: firstly hyperglycinemia, from which the patient suffered, and secondly, diminished tendency to ketosis, a condition from which the child never suffered, not even in connection with severe intercurrent disease.
In April 2000, the Wisconsin Newborn Screening Program implemented tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) technology to expand the newborn screening panel from 13 to 48 disorders, the majority of which are inborn errors of metabolism. Among other tests, this technology measures the acylcarnitine profile from blood spots collected from infants at 24 to 48 hours of age. During the first 5.75 years of expanded screening, 27 infants were identified with elevated C5-acylcarnitine concentrations, an unexpectedly high number for any inborn error of metabolism. For these infants, elevated C5-acylcarnitines suggested a diagnosis of isovaleric acidemia (IVA), a metabolic defect of leucine metabolism. Subsequent testing showed that the infants did not have isovaleric acidemia, but did have 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency or 2-MBAD deficiency, a newly described defect of isoleucine metabolism. (An official abbreviation has not been established for this disorder. Other abbreviations include SBCADD, 2-MBG, and 2-MBCD deficiency.) All but 1 of the 27 infants identified with 2-MBAD deficiency are offspring of Hmong parents. To date, those diagnosed with the disorder in the Hmong community have been largely asymptomatic, though further research is needed to determine whether newborns with 2-MBAD deficiency are at risk for neurodevelopmental disorders.
Recently, we showed biochemically that LipPks1 uses isobutyrylCoA to catalyze the polyketide chain initiation reaction and methylmalonyl-CoA for a single elongation reaction in vitro. 3 Interestingly, several other acyl-CoAs were also accepted as starter substrates to produce the corresponding diketide intermediates. 3 The k cat and K m values for 2-methylbutyryl-CoA were comparable to those of isobutyryl-CoA, whereas the other starters showed significantly lower k cat /K m values. 3 These in vitro kinetic parameters suggested that an analog of a-lipomycin, where 2-methylbutyryl-CoA is used in the chain initiation reaction, could be produced if the intracellular concentration of 2-methylbutyryl-CoA was increased in S. aureofaciens Tü117. In this study, we grew S. aureofaciens Tü117 in HA medium (1% malt extract, 0.4% yeast extract, 0.4% glucose and 1 mM CaCl 2 ) in the presence of isoleucine, a well-known precursor of 2-methybutyryl-CoA. Here, we report a novel analog of a-lipomycin that was isolated from the host using the above growth conditions. Structural analysis determined the compound to be 21-methyl-a-lipomycin (Figure 1b) , which confirmed our prediction. We also report the antibiotic activity of the analog against Bacillus subtilis, a representative Gram-positive bacterium.
BACKGROUND ::: Metabolic screening including newborn screening requires further differentiation of C5-acylcarnitines in order to separate different metabolic disorders and to detect interferents like pivalic acid originating from antibiotics. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: For individual quantification of C5-acylcarnitine isoforms in dried blood spots we combined UPLC using a C18 column and gradient elution with tandem mass spectrometry in ESI+mode. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Results were linear, coefficients of determination (R(2))>0.9977, intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variations <5.2%, recovery 96.8-105.2%, limits of detection and quantitation <0.2 μmol/L. Out of 29.309 blood samples of the isolated population of the Faroe Islands 56 exceeded the cut-off of 0.5 μmol/L for C5-acylcarnitine; 45 of which could be retested using the method described. Pivaloylcarnitine was identified in 43 samples, isovalerylcarnitine was found in two samples. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The method was developed to allow direct re-analysis of samples showing elevated concentrations of C5-acylcarnitines in a metabolic screening program based on quantification of acylcarnitines after butylation. The technique should be especially useful in newborn screening for exclusion of false positives and for differentiation between isovaleric acidemia and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
A reverse-phase h.p.l.c. system for the resolution of the acyl-CoA intermediates of the degradation of 3-methyl-2-oxopentanoate is described. The validation of a method for the measurement of radioactive intermediates produced by the incubation of [U-14C]3-methyl-2-oxopentanoate with rat liver mitochondrial fractions is described. The absence of bicarbonate caused the accumulation of [14C]propionyl-CoA. The accumulation of [14C]2-methylbutyryl-CoA was observed in incubations with mitochondrial fractions derived from riboflavin-deficient animals. Studies of the accumulation of labelled intermediates with time suggest that there is regulation of the pathway of isoleucine degradation at methylmalonyl-CoA mutase, as suggested for valine [Corkey, Martin-Requero, Walajtys-Rode, Williams & Williamson (1982) J. Biol. Chem. 257, 9668-9676]. These studies demonstrate that h.p.l.c. with on-line continuous radiochemical detection is a powerful method for the investigation of the control of intermediary metabolism.
There are nine known members in the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (ACAD) family, including the recently identified ACAD-9, which is homologous to the very long chain acylCoA dehydrogenase [1] . Five members of the ACAD family are involved in fatty acid b-oxidation; these are short, medium, long and very long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD, MCAD, LCAD and VLCAD1, resepctively), and ACAD-9 (hereafter referred to as VLCAD2). The four other members are involved in amino acid oxidation pathways; they are iso(3)valeryl-CoA dehydrogenase (i3VD) for leucine, iso(2)valeryl-CoA dehydrogenase (i2VD, also known as short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase or 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase) for isoleucine, isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (iBD) for valine, and glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase (GD) for lysine and tryptophan. With the exception of VLCADs, all of these are soluble homotetramers with a subunit mass of approximately 43 kDa, with each subunit containing one FAD.
Short/branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SBCAD, also known as 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, EC 1.3.99.12) is a homotetrameric mitochondrial enzyme catalyzing the third step of the isoleucine S-pathway -the conversion of (S)-2-methylbutyryl-CoA into tiglyl-CoA -and the first oxidative step of L-2-methylated short acyl-CoA compounds, being likely implicated in valproate metabolism [1, 2] . SBCAD deficiency (OMIM 600301/610006) was first described in 2000 [3, 4] . Biochemically, increased urinary excretion of 2-methylbutyrylglycine (2MBG) and elevated blood concentrations of 2-methylbutyrylcarnitine are the hallmarks of this disorder. The latter can be detected at newborn screening by acylcarnitine analysis as C5-carnitine (i.e. isovalerylcarnitine, 2methylbutyrilcarnitine, or pivaloylcarnitine) elevation, requiring differential diagnosis from isovalerylcarnitine (a marker of isovaleric acidemia) and pivaloylcarnitine (a component of several antibiotics).
Addition of isoleucine or 2-methylbutyric acid to fermentations of S. paulus results in the production of paulomycin containing ca. 90 paulomycin A relative to paulomycin B. The addition of valine or isobutyric acid results in production of paulomycin containing roughly 90Y. paulomycin B relative to paulomycin A. Both valine and isoleucine are known to be metabolized via deamination to their a-keto acids. These acids are then decarboxylated and converted to their coenzyme A thioesters. In this reaction sequence, isobutyryl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA are formed respectively from valine and isoleucine10'. In addition, isobutyric acid and 2-methylbutyric acid are converted to their coenzyme A thioesters by microorganisms"). As the paulomycins A and B are esters of 2-methylbutyric and isobutyric acids, it is reasonable that they are formed selectively in the presence of these acids, as well as in the presence of isoleucine and valine.
The key reaction in the β-oxidation of fatty acids is the acyl-CoA dehydrogenation, catalyzed by short chain, medium chain, and long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenases. Acyl-CoA dehydrogenation reactions are also involved in the metabolism of the branched chain amino acids, where isovaleryl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenases are involved and in the metabolism of lysine, 5-hydroxylysine and tryptophan, where glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase functions. In all of these dehydrogenation systems reducing equivalents are transported to the main respiratory chain by electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) and electron transfer flavoprotein dehydrogenase (ETFDH), which are common to all the dehydrogenation systems. The acyl-CoA dehydrogenation enzymes are dependent on flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) as coenzyme, for which riboflavin is the precursor. Patients with multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenation deficiencies have been found in whom the defect has been located to ETF and/or ETFDH. A few patients with multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenation deficiencies have been described, in whom no defects in acyl-CoA dehydrogenases, ETF or ETFDH have been found but who respond clinically and biochemically to pharmacological doses of riboflavin. This indicates a defect related to the metabolism of FAD. An uptake defect of riboflavin or a synthesis defect of FAD from riboflavin have been excluded by in vivo and in vitro studies. A mitochondrial transport defect of FAD or a defect in the binding FAD to ETF and/or ETFDH remains possible.
Abstract Five distinct acyl-CoA dehydrogenases are currently known. These are short, medium, long and 2-methyl-branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenases, and isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase. We tested these five acyl-CoA dehydrogenases for their ability to dehydrogenase valproyl-CoA using pure enzyme preparations isolated from rat liver mitochondria. The activities of the pure human short-chain, medium-chain, and isovaleryl enzymes purified from post-mortem livers, and a long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase preparation partialy purified from placental mitochondria, were also tested. Valproyl-CoA was dehydrogenated at a significant rate (0.167 μmol/min per mg protein) only by rat 2-methyl-branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase. Human 2-methyl-branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase has not been purified; therefore, it could not be tested. Since four other human acyl-CoA dehydrogenases did not dehydrogenate isobutyryl-CoA, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA (obligatory intermediates from valine and isoleucine, respectively) nor valproyl-CoA, it is reasonable to assume that valproyl-CoA is dehydrogenated by 2-methyl-branch-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase in man as well. We identified 2-propyl-2-pentenoyl-CoA as the reaction product from valproyl-CoA by mass spectral analysis of the acyl moiety. Valproyl-CoA, at 0.3 mM, moderately inhibited human acyl-CoA dehydrogenases with the exception of the long-chain enzyme. 5 mM free valproic acid inhibited the activities of various acyl-CoA dehydrogenases only very weakly.
Quantitative analysis of urine acylglycines has shown to be a highly sensitive and specific method with proven clinical utility for the diagnosis of several inherited metabolic disorders including: medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, short chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, isovaleric acidemia, propionic academia, and isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. Here, a method that is currently performed using ultra-performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) is described. © 2016 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
2-Methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (2-MBCDase) deficiency: a new inborn error of L-isoleucine metabolism
Degradation of the branched-chain amino acid isoleucine in humans takes place in mitochondria via the concerted action of a series of enzymes, during which isoleucine first undergoes transamination to 2-keto-3-methylbutyrate, followed by oxidative decarboxylation to 2-methylbutyryl-CoA. Like any 2-methyl branchedchain fatty acid, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA undergoes further breakdown by b-oxidation via a four-step pathway involving dehydrogenation to tiglyl-CoA, hydration to 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA, dehydrogenation to 2-methylacetoacetyl-CoA, and finally, thiolytic cleavage to produce acetyl-CoA plus propionyl-CoA.
Prompted by the fact that the urinary excretion of organic acids in the riboflavin-deficient rat closely mimics that found in patients with inborn errors in the acyl-CoA dehydrogenation systems, the organelle localization and the apparent kinetic constants (Km and Vmax values) for the rat liver acyl-CoA:glycine-N-acyltransferase (glycine-N-acylase) toward isobutyryl-CoA, 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, isovaleryl-CoA, butyryl-CoA, hexanoyl-CoA, octanoyl-CoA, decanoyl-CoA, and benzoyl-CoA were determined. The studies on organelle localization demonstrated that the glycine-N-acylase is exclusively an intramitochondrial enzyme, and that no activity is present in peroxisomes, which also possess ability to produce Acyl-CoAs. The kinetic studies were done in order to elucidate whether the quantitative differences in excretion profile of acylglycines between riboflavin-deficient rats and patients with beta-oxidation defects are caused by differences in ability to conjugate the various acyl-CoAs. It was found that the Km values for the rat liver enzyme were generally somewhat lower than the values found in man, but with the same chain length profile. Consequently, the above-mentioned differences in excretion profile of acylglycines between riboflavin-deficient rats and patients with beta-oxidation defects cannot be explained by differences in affinity toward the glycine-N-acylase.
Low temperature has profound effects on all aspects of microbial cell structure and function, involving the structural integrity of macromolecules, macromolecular assemblies, protein synthesis and nutrient uptake (Panoff et al., 1998; Weber & Marahiel, 2002 Two Tn917 transposon-induced mutants (cld-1 and cld-2) have lost the ability to grow at 4 u C on solid media, but are not defective in the induction of cold-shock proteins (Bayles et al., 1996) . These mutants are deficient in the production of odd-numbered BCFAs, and exhibit atypical amounts of even-numbered straight-chain and iso-BCFAs (Annous et al. , 1997; Edgcomb et al., 2000) . The membranes of strain cld-1 are significantly less fluid than those of the parent strain (Edgcomb et al., 2000; Jones et al., 2002) . To further characterize this mechanism of psychrotolerance, it was important to identify the disrupted gene(s) that caused the cold-sensitive phenotype in the mutants. Based on the observations above, we speculated that the insertion of Tn917 into cld-1 and cld-2 may interrupt the gene(s) involved in BCFA biosynthesis (Annous et al., 1997). In bacteria, the branched-chain portion of fatty acids derives primarily from the branched-chain amino acids (Kaneda, 1991; de Mendoza et al., 2002) . Moreover, incorporation of a methyl branch can only be achieved by de novo biosynthesis of fatty acid (Suutari & Laakso, 1994) . Previous studies of BCFA biosynthesis have primarily focused on Bacillus subtilis (de Mendoza et al., 2002) . Two critical enzymes in the pathway from branched-chain amino acids to BCFA have been reported: branched-chain a-keto acid dehydrogenase (Bkd) and b-ketoacyl-acyl carrier protein synthase III (FabH) (Oku & Kaneda, 1988; Choi et al., 2000; Lu et al., 2004) . Isoleucine, valine and leucine are transaminated by branched-chain amino acid transaminase, and are subsequently oxidatively decarboxylated by the Bkd complex, resulting in production of the short branchedchain acyl-CoA derivatives 2-methylbutyryl-CoA, isobutyrylCoA and isovaleryl-CoA (Fig. 1 ). These acyl-CoA precursors are then utilized by FabH as starting units to initiate BCFA biosynthesis (Fig. 1) . Although the cold-regulated fatty acid adjustment is one universal adaptation to low temperature, the underlying mechanism of cold-regulated BCFA synthesis is not well characterized (de Mendoza et al., 2002; Lu et al., 2004) Here, we identified that the two L. monocytogenes cold-sensitive mutants (cld-1 and cld-2) had Tn917 inserted into the bkd cluster. We also attempted to determine the role of Bkd in biosynthesis and cold-regulation of BCFA.
The key reaction in the beta-oxidation of fatty acids is the acyl-CoA dehydrogenation, catalyzed by short chain, medium chain, and long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenases. Acyl-CoA dehydrogenation reactions are also involved in the metabolism of the branched chain amino acids, where isovaleryl-CoA and 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenases are involved and in the metabolism of lysine, 5-hydroxylysine and tryptophan, where glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase functions. In all of these dehydrogenation systems reducing equivalents are transported to the main respiratory chain by electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) and electron transfer flavoprotein dehydrogenase (ETFDH), which are common to all the dehydrogenation systems. The acyl-CoA dehydrogenation enzymes are dependent on flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) as coenzyme, for which riboflavin is the precursor. Patients with multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenation deficiencies have been found in whom the defect has been located to ETF and/or ETFDH. A few patients with multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenation deficiencies have been described, in whom no defects in acyl-CoA dehydrogenases, ETF or ETFDH have been found but who respond clinically and biochemically to pharmacological doses of riboflavin. This indicates a defect related to the metabolism of FAD. An uptake defect of riboflavin or a synthesis defect of FAD from riboflavin have been excluded by in vivo and in vitro studies. A mitochondrial transport defect of FAD or a defect in the binding FAD to ETF and/or ETFDH remains possible.
Short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SBCAD) deficiency, also known as 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, is a recently described autosomal recessive disorder of isoleucine metabolism. Most patients reported thus far have originated from a founder mutation in the Hmong Chinese population. While the first reported patients had severe disease, most of the affected Hmong have remained asymptomatic. In this study, we describe 11 asymptomatic non-Hmong patients brought to medical attention by elevated C5-carnitine found by newborn screening and one discovered because of clinical symptoms. The diagnosis of SBCAD deficiency was determined by metabolite analysis of blood, urine, and fibroblast samples. PCR and bidirectional sequencing were performed on genomic DNA from five of the patients covering the entire SBCAD (ACADSB) gene sequence of 11 exons. Sequence analysis of genomic DNA from each patient identified variations in the SBCAD gene not previously reported. Escherichia coli expression studies revealed that the missense mutations identified lead to inactivation or instability of the mutant SBCAD enzymes. These findings confirm that SBCAD deficiency can be identified through newborn screening by acylcarnitine analysis. Our patients have been well without treatment and call for careful follow-up studies to learn the true clinical impact of this disorder.
