Plasmodium falciparum triosephosphate isomerase (PfTIM) contains two tryptophan residues, W11 and W168. One is positioned in the interior of the protein, and the other is located on the active-site loop 6. Two single-tryptophan mutants, W11F and W168F, were constructed to evaluate the contributions of each chromophor to the fluorescence of the wild-type (wt) protein and to probe the utility of the residues as spectroscopic reporters. A comparative analysis of the fluorescence spectra of PfTIMwt and the two mutant proteins revealed that W168 possesses an unusual, blueshifted emission (321 nm) and exhibits significant red-edge excitation shift of fluorescence. In contrast, W11 emits at 332 nm, displays no excitation dependence of fluorescence, and behaves like a normal buried chromophore. W168 has a much shorter mean lifetime (2.7 ns) than W11 (4.6 ns). The anomalous fluorescence properties ofW168 are abolished on unfolding of the protein in guanidiniumchloride (GdmCl) or at low pH. Analysis of the tryptophan environment using a 1.1-A crystal structure established that W168 is rigidly held by a complex network of polar interactions including a strong hydrogen bond from Y164 to the indole NH group. The environment is almost completely polar, suggesting that electrostatic effects determine the unusually low emission wavelength of W168. To our knowledge this is a unique observation of a blue-shifted emission from a tryptophan in a polar environment in the protein. The wild-type and mutant proteins show similar levels of enzymatic activity and secondary and tertiary structure. However, the W11F mutation appreciably destabilizes the protein to unfolding by urea and GdmCl. The fluorescence of W168 is shown to be extremely sensitive to binding of the inhibitor, 2-phosphoglycolic acid.
Plasmodium falciparum triosephosphate isomerase (PfTIM) contains two tryptophan residues, W11 and W168. One is positioned in the interior of the protein, and the other is located on the active-site loop 6. Two single-tryptophan mutants, W11F and W168F, were constructed to evaluate the contributions of each chromophore to the fluorescence of the wild-type (wt) protein and to probe the utility of the residues as spectroscopic reporters. A comparative analysis of the fluorescence spectra of PfTIMwt and the two mutant proteins revealed that W168 possesses an unusual, blueshifted emission (321 nm) and exhibits significant red-edge excitation shift of fluorescence. In contrast, W11 emits at 332 nm, displays no excitation dependence of fluorescence, and behaves like a normal buried chromophore. W168 has a much shorter mean lifetime (2.7 ns) than W11 (4.6 ns). The anomalous fluorescence properties of W168 are abolished on unfolding of the protein in guanidinium chloride (GdmCl) or at low pH. Analysis of the tryptophan environment using a 1.1-Å crystal structure established that W168 is rigidly held by a complex network of polar interactions including a strong hydrogen bond from Y164 to the indole NH group. The environment is almost completely polar, suggesting that electrostatic effects determine the unusually low emission wavelength of W168. To our knowledge this is a unique observation of a blue-shifted emission from a tryptophan in a polar environment in the protein. The wild-type and mutant proteins show similar levels of enzymatic activity and secondary and tertiary structure. However, the W11F mutation appreciably destabilizes the protein to unfolding by urea and GdmCl. The fluorescence of W168 is shown to be extremely sensitive to binding of the inhibitor, 2-phosphoglycolic acid.
Photorespiration is an essential high flux metabolic pathway that is found in all oxygen-producing photosynthetic organisms. It is often viewed as a closed metabolic repair pathway that serves to detoxify 2-phosphoglycolic acid and to recycle carbon to fuel the Calvin-Benson cycle. However, this view is too simplistic since the photorespiratory cycle is known to interact with several primary metabolic pathways, including photosynthesis, nitrate assimilation, amino acid metabolism, C1 metabolism and the Krebs (TCA) cycle. Here we will review recent advances in photorespiration research and discuss future priorities to better understand (i) the metabolic integration of the photorespiratory cycle within the complex network of plant primary metabolism and (ii) the importance of photorespiration in response to abiotic and biotic stresses.
Previous genetic studies demonstrated that the LsrF and LsrG proteins are involved in terminating the AI-2-depent induction of the lsr operon. Mutants lacking LsrF or LsrG show increased transcription of the lsr operon, suggesting that these proteins process P-AI-2, thus reducing the concentration of P-AI-2 in the cell and restoring the repressor function of lsrR. Importantly, the increase in lsr transcription observed in the absence of LsrF or LsrG is AI-2 dependent, and over-production of LsrF or LsrG decreases the transcription of the operon to levels lower than in the wild type. The suggestion that LsrF plays a role in P-AI-2 processing is further supported by sequence homology with aldolase enzymes that process phosphorylated sugars [21] . Subsequent studies have shown that LsrG does, in fact, catalyze a reaction with P-AI-2 as a substrate, yielding 2-phosphoglycolic acid and an additional, as yet unidentified three-carbon fragment, raising the possibility that LsrF does not act directly upon P-AI-2 but rather a product of the LsrG reaction or another P-AI-2 adduct [20] .
The activation kinetics of purified Rhodospirillum rubrum ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase were analysed. The equilibrium constant for activation by CO(2) was 600 micron and that for activation by Mg2+ was 90 micron, and the second-order activation constant for the reaction of CO(2) with inactive enzyme (k+1) was 0.25 X 10(-3)min-1 . micron-1. The latter value was considerably lower than the k+1 for higher-plant enzyme (7 X 10(-3)-10 X 10(-3)min-1 . micron-1). 6-Phosphogluconate had little effect on the active enzyme, and increased the extent of activation of inactive enzyme. Ribulose bisphosphate also increased the extent of activation and did not inhibit the rate of activation. This effect might have been mediated through a reaction product, 2-phosphoglycolic acid, which also stimulated the extent of activation of the enzyme. The active enzyme had a Km (CO2) of 300 micron-CO2, a Km (ribulose bisphosphate) of 11--18 micron-ribulose bisphosphate and a Vmax. of up to 3 mumol/min per mg of protein. These data are discussed in relation to the proposed model for activation and catalysis of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase.
DNA oxidation plays a substantive role in the pathophysiology of human diseases, such as cancer. While the chemistry of nucleobase lesions has dominated studies of DNA damage, there is growing evidence that the oxidation of 2-deoxyribose in DNA plays a critical role in the genetic toxicology of oxidative stress. As part of an effort to define the spectrum of 2-deoxyribose oxidation products arising in vitro and in vivo, we now describe methods for quantifying products arising from 4' oxidation of 2-deoxyribose in DNA. The chemistry of 4' oxidation partitions between either of two pathways to form either a 2-deoxypentos-4-ulose abasic site (oxAB) or a strand break comprised of a 3'-phosphoglycolate (3PG) residue and a 5'-phosphate, with the release of either malondialdehyde and free base or a base propenal. Highly sensitive gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) methods were developed to quantify both lesions. The abasic site was converted to a 3'-phosphoro-3-pyridazinylmethylate derivative by treatment of the damaged DNA with hydrazine, which was released from DNA as 3-hydroxymethylpyridazine (HMP) by enzymatic hydrolysis. Similarly, 3PG was released as 2-phosphoglycolic acid (PG) by enzymatic hydrolysis. Following HPLC prepurification, both PG and HMP were silylated and quantified by GC/MS, with limits of detection of 100 and 200 fmol and sensitivities of 2 and 4 lesions per 10(6) nucleotides (nt) in 250 microg of DNA, respectively. Following validation of the methods with oligodeoxynucleotides containing the two lesions, the methods were applied to DNA damage produced by bleomycin and gamma radiation. As expected for an agent known to produce only 4' oxidation of DNA, the quantities of 3PG and oxAB accounted for all 2-deoxyribose oxidation events, as indicated by slopes of 0.8 and 0.3, respectively, in plots of the lesion frequency against total 2-deoxyribose oxidation events, with the latter determined by a plasmid-nicking assay. 3PG residues and oxAB were produced at the rate of 32 and 12 lesions per 10(6) nt per microM, respectively. For gamma radiation, on the other hand, 4' oxidation was found to comprise only 13% of 2-deoxyribose oxidation chemistry, with 3% oxAB (4 per 10(6) nt per Gy) and 10% 3PG (13 per 10(6) nt per Gy).
Quorum sensing is a process of chemical communication that bacteria use to assess cell population density and synchronize behavior on a community-wide scale. Communication is mediated by signal molecules called autoinducers. The LuxS autoinducer synthase produces 4,5-dihydroxy-2,3-pentanedione (DPD), the precursor to a set of interconverting molecules that are generically called autoinducer-2 (AI-2). In enteric bacteria, AI-2 production induces the assembly of a transport apparatus (called the LuxS regulated (Lsr) transporter) that internalizes endogenously produced AI-2 as well as AI-2 produced by other bacterial species. AI-2 internalization is proposed to be a mechanism enteric bacteria employ to interfere with the signaling capabilities of neighboring species of bacteria. We have previously shown that Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium binds a specific cyclic derivative of DPD. Here we show that following internalization, the kinase LsrK phosphorylates carbon-5 of the open form of DPD. Phosphorylated DPD (P-DPD) binds specifically to the repressor of the lsr operon, LsrR, consistent with P-DPD being the inducer of the lsr operon. Subsequently, LsrG catalyzes the cleavage of P-DPD producing 2-phosphoglycolic acid. This series of chemical events is proposed to enable enteric bacteria to respond to the presence of competitor bacteria by sequestering and destroying AI-2, thereby eliminating the competitors' intercellular communication capabilities.
