2-Oxo acids derived from amino acids, glucose, and fatty acids are key intermediates in energy production. During diabetes, energy production is known to be lower than in healthy individuals. However, it was unknown whether the production of 2-oxo acids is impacted by diabetes. In the present study, I compared the quantities of 2-oxo acids (pyruvic acid, oxaloacetic acid, 2-oxoglutaric acid, 2-oxoadipic acid, 2-oxoisovaleric acid, 2-oxo-3-methylvaleric acid, and 2-oxo-4-methylvaleric acid) excreted in the urine of normoglycemic control rats and rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes, which reflect the quantities of unused 2-oxo acids in the body. Greater urinary excretion of unused 2-oxo acids thus implies an impairment in energy production. The respective quantities of urinary pyruvic acid + oxaloacetic acid (measured together), 2-oxoglutaric acid, 2-oxoadipic acid, 2-oxoisovaleric acid, 2-oxo-3-methylvaleric acid, and 2-oxo-4-methylvaleric acid in the diabetic rats were 2.0- (p<0.0001), 2.5- (p<0.0001), 1.5- (p=0.008), 7.6- (p<0.0001), 6.1- (p<0.0001), and 2.1-fold (p<0.0001) greater than in the control rats per 1 g food intake. Thus, the biggest differences were observed in 2-oxoisovaleric acid (a catabolite of valine) and 2-oxo-3-methylvaleric acid (a catabolite of isoleucine). These findings indicate that energy production in the body is suppressed under diabetic conditions.
Summary 2-Oxo acids derived from amino acids, glucose, and fatty acids are key intermediates in energy production. During diabetes, energy production is known to be lower than in healthy individuals. However, it was unknown whether the production of 2-oxo acids is impacted by diabetes. In the present study, I compared the quantities of 2-oxo acids (pyruvic acid, oxaloacetic acid, 2-oxoglutaric acid, 2-oxoadipic acid, 2-oxoisovaleric acid, 2-oxo-3-methylvaleric acid, and 2-oxo-4-methylvaleric acid) excreted in the urine of normoglycemic control rats and rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes, which reflect the quantities of unused 2-oxo acids in the body. Greater urinary excretion of unused 2-oxo acids thus implies an impairment in energy production. The respective quantities of urinary pyruvic acid 1 oxaloacetic acid (measured together), 2-oxoglutaric acid, 2-oxoadipic acid, 2-oxoisovaleric acid, 2-oxo-3-methylvaleric acid, and 2-oxo-4-methylvaleric acid in the diabetic rats were 2.0-(p,0.0001), 2.5-(p,0.0001), 1.5-(p50.008), 7.6-(p,0.0001), 6.1-(p,0.0001), and 2.1-fold (p,0.0001) greater than in the control rats per 1 g food intake. Thus, the biggest differences were observed in 2-oxoisovaleric acid (a catabolite of valine) and 2-oxo-3-methylvaleric acid (a catabolite of isoleucine). These findings indicate that energy production in the body is suppressed under diabetic conditions.
DHTKD1 is a lesser-studied E1 enzyme belonging to the family of 2-oxoacid dehydrogenases. DHTKD1, in complex with the E2 (dihydrolipoamide succinyltransferase, DLST) and E3 (lipoamide dehydrogenase, DLD) components, is implicated in lysine and tryptophan catabolism by catalysing the oxidative decarboxylation of 2-oxoadipate (2OA) in the mitochondria. Here, we solved the crystal structure of human DHTKD1 at 1.9 Å resolution in binary complex with the thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) cofactor. Our structure explains the evolutionary divergence of DHTKD1 from the well-characterized homologue 2-oxoglutarate (2OG) dehydrogenase, in its preference for the larger 2OA substrate than 2OG. Inherited DHTKD1 missense mutations cause the lysine metabolic condition 2-aminoadipic and 2-oxoadipic aciduria. Reconstruction of the missense variant proteins reveal their underlying molecular defects, which include protein destabilisation, disruption of protein-protein interactions, and alterations in the protein surface. We further generated a 5.0 Å reconstruction of the human DLST inner core by single-particle electron microscopy, revealing a 24-mer cubic architecture that serves as a scaffold for assembly of DHTKD1 and DLD. This structural study provides a starting point to develop small molecule DHTKD1 inhibitors for probing mitochondrial energy metabolism.
DHTKD1, in complex with the E2 (dihydrolipoamide succinyltransferase, DLST) and E3 (lipoamide dehydrogenase, DLD) components, is implicated in lysine and tryptophan catabolism by catalysing the oxidative decarboxylation of 2-oxoadipate (2OA) in the mitochondria. Here, we solved the crystal structure of human DHTKD1 at 1.9 Å resolution in binary complex with the thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) cofactor. Our structure explains the evolutionary divergence of DHTKD1 from the well-characterized homologue 2-oxoglutarate (2OG) dehydrogenase, in its preference for the larger 2OA substrate than 2OG. Inherited DHTKD1 missense mutations cause the lysine metabolic condition 2-aminoadipic and 2-oxoadipic aciduria. Reconstruction of the missense variant proteins reveal their underlying molecular defects, which include protein destabilisation, disruption of protein-protein interactions, and alterations in the protein surface.
The aminoadipic acid pathway has previously been found to function as a biosynthetic route to lysine in higher fungi and as a catabolic pathway in mammals and higher plants. Results are now presented which suggest that in Pyricularia oryzae (fungi imperfecti), the aminoadipic acid pathway is important in both the biosynthesis and catabolism of lysine. In vivo experiments using L-[4-14C]aspartate showed that 98% of the radioactivity in protein-bound lysine and aspartate was in the latter, and with DL-amino[1-14C]adipic acid radioactivity was readily incorporated into saccharopine and free and protein-bound lysine. Endogenously supplied aminoadipic acid and saccharopine caused a rapid and substantial rise in the concentrations of free lysine in the mycelium. Cell-free extracts catalysed the conversion of aminoadipic acid to saccharopine and of saccharopine to lysine. Pyricularia oryzae and several other fungi were found to contain significant quantities of the intermediate saccharopine. The concentration of saccharopine increased when P. oryzae was supplied with lysine, and mycelia converted L-[14C]lysine into saccharopine and 2-amino-adipic acid. In addition, all of the enzyme activities necessary to break lysine down to 2-oxoadipic acid were demonstrated in extracts.
The human thiamin diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent 2-oxoadipate dehydrogenase (hE1a), also known as dehydrogenase E1 and transketolase domain-containing protein 1 (DHTKD1), is believed to be involved in the oxidative decarboxylation of 2-oxoadipate (OA) to glutaryl-CoA, a product on the final degradative pathway of L-lysine, Lhydroxylysine and L-tryptophan [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] . The glutaryl-CoA so formed serves as a substrate for glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase (GCDH: EC 1.3.99.7), which is located downstream of hE1a on the L-lysine degradative pathway and produces glutaconyl-CoA, the precursor for acetyl-CoA [8] . Glutaryl-CoA also serves as a precursor for neurotoxic metabolites such as glutaric acid and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid, which accumulate in glutaric aciduria type I, a metabolic disorder related to GCDH deficiency [9] [10] [11] . Recently, mutations were identified in the DHTKD1 gene that cause 2-aminoadipic and 2-oxoadipic aciduria, inborn disorders which have been associated with various neurological symptoms [2, 3, 5, 6] . The suppression of DHTKD1 in mitochondria led to a decreased level of ATP and reduced 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (OGDHc) activity, as well as to an increased production of reactive oxygen species, suggesting that the DHTKD1 encoded protein is essential for mitochondrial metabolism [4] . The pharmacological inhibition of the DHTKD1 was suggested as a promising strategy to treat glutaric aciduria type I [10] . However, the suppression of DHTKD1 in Dhtkd1-/Gcdh-double knockout mice did not rescue the clinical and biochemical phenotype of glutaric aciduria I, suggesting that an alternative route via the OGDHc may at least partially substitute for the loss of DHTKD1 function [10] . This hypothesis is in agreement with findings reported by our group recently, which suggested that hOGDHc behaves as a 2-oxoadipate dehydrogenase, in addition to its 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase activity in the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) [12] . At present, no studies on the hE1a are available from any source in the literature. Nor is there any information available about the presence of a specific dihydrolipoamide glutaryltransferase component that would suggest that the hE1a is the first component of a novel 2-oxoadipate dehydrogenase complex [13] , or evidence for OGDHc-like hybrid complex formation with function via the TCA.
Human complex I deficiency, the most common respiratory chain defect, has variable clinical presentation and can be difficult to diagnose. Although increased excretion of different citrate cycle metabolites is common in respiratory chain disorders, permanent and massive changes are rarely reported. This case seems to be unusual in this sense. A 2-months old girl was referred to us due to muscular hypertonia and absent visual contact. Brain MR showed agenesis of corpus callosum, severe cortical atrophy and dilated occipital parts of lateral ventricles. In the follow-up period microcephaly, controllable convulsions and almost absent development have been the most prominent clinical features. Blood lactate ranged from 3.1 to 4.1 mmol/l with normal lactate/pyruvate ratio. CSF lactate was 5.0 mmol/l. Organic acids analysis repeatedly showed massive excretion of 2-oxoglutaric acid ranging from 578 to 940 mmol/mol creatinine (normal <150). 2-oxoadipic acid was also always clearly elevated, although to a less extent. Other Krebs cycle metabolites were slightly and not constantly elevated as well as 2-OH-glutaric acid. Activity of 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase in lymphoblasts was normal. Measurement of muscle PDH complex and respiratory chain enzymes showed isolated deficiency of complex I, while the activity of all enzymes in fibroblasts was normal. No mtDNA mutations were found. This case points to permanent remarkable 2 oxoglutaric/2-oxoadipic aciduria as a possible additional biochemical marker of isolated complex I deficiency.
Agrobacterium tumefaciens (At) strain C58 contains an oxidative enzyme pathway that can function on both d-glucuronic and d-galacturonic acid. The corresponding gene coding for At keto-deoxy-d-galactarate (KDG) dehydratase is located in the same gene cluster as those coding for uronate dehydrogenase (At Udh) and galactarolactone cycloisomerase (At Gci) which we have previously characterized. Here, we present the kinetic characterization and crystal structure of At KDG dehydratase, which catalyzes the next step, the decarboxylating hydrolyase reaction of KDG to produce α-ketoglutaric semialdehyde (α-KGSA) and carbon dioxide. The crystal structures of At KDG dehydratase and its complexes with pyruvate and 2-oxoadipic acid, two substrate analogues, were determined to 1.7 Å, 1.5 Å, and 2.1 Å resolution, respectively. Furthermore, mass spectrometry was used to confirm reaction end-products. The results lead us to propose a structure-based mechanism for At KDG dehydratase, suggesting that while the enzyme belongs to the Class I aldolase protein family, it does not follow a typical retro-aldol condensation mechanism.
Exposures to ionizing radiation (IR) may either be accidental or intentional, for medical purposes or even through terrorist actions. As certain populations emerge to be more radiosensitive than others, it is imperative to assess those individuals and treat them accordingly. To demonstrate the feasibility of rapid identification of such cases, we utilized the highly radiosensitive mouse model Atm-/- in the C57BL/6 background, and evaluated the urinary responses in 8-10 week old male mice at early time points (4, 24, and 72 h) after exposure to their respective LD50/30 doses [4 Gy for Atm-/- , and 8 Gy for wild type (WT)]. Urinary profiles from heterozygous animals exhibited remarkably similar responses to WT before and after radiation exposure. However, genotypic differences (WT or Atm-/- ) were the primary driver to responses to radiation. Putative metabolites were validated through tandem mass spectrometry and included riboflavin, uric acid, d-ribose, d-glucose, pantothenic acid, taurine, kynurenic acid, xanthurenic acid, 2-oxoadipic acid, glutaric acid, 5'-deoxy-5'-methylthioadenosine, and hippuric acid. These metabolites mapped to several interconnected metabolic pathways which suggest that radiosensitive mouse models have underlying differences significantly impacting overall metabolism. This was further amplified by ionizing radiation at different time points. This study further emphasizes that genetically based radiosensitivity is reflected in the metabolic processes, and can be directly observed in urine. These differences in turn can potentially be used to identify individuals that may require altered medical treatment in an emergency radiological situation or modification of a regimen during a radiotherapy session. Environ. Mol. Mutagen. 59:576-585, 2018. © 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Exposures to ionizing radiation (IR) may either be accidental or intentional, for medical purposes or even through terrorist actions. As certain populations emerge to be more radiosensitive than others, it is imperative to assess those individuals and treat them accordingly. To demonstrate the feasibility of rapid identification of such cases, we utilized the highly radiosensitive mouse model Atm -/-in the C57BL/6 background, and evaluated the urinary responses in 8-10 week old male mice at early time points (4, 24, and 72 h) after exposure to their respective LD 50/30 doses [4 Gy for Atm -/-, and 8 Gy for wild type (WT)]. Urinary profiles from heterozygous animals exhibited remarkably similar responses to WT before and after radiation exposure. However, genotypic differences (WT or Atm -/-) were the primary driver to responses to radiation. Putative metabolites were validated through tandem mass spectrometry and included riboflavin, uric acid, D-ribose, D-glucose, pantothenic acid, taurine, kynurenic acid, xanthurenic acid, 2-oxoadipic acid, glutaric acid, 5 0 -deoxy-5 0 -methylthioadenosine, and hippuric acid. These metabolites mapped to several interconnected metabolic pathways which suggest that radiosensitive mouse models have underlying differences significantly impacting overall metabolism. This was further amplified by ionizing radiation at different time points. This study further emphasizes that genetically based radiosensitivity is reflected in the metabolic processes, and can be directly observed in urine. These differences in turn can potentially be used to identify individuals that may require altered medical treatment in an emergency radiological situation or modification of a regimen during a radiotherapy session. Environ. Mol. Mutagen. 00:000-000, 2018. V C 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Ten inborn errors of metabolism are described in this chapter.Four of them, hyperlysinaemia/saccharopinuria, hydroxylysinuria, 2-amino-/2-oxoadipic aciduria, and glutaric aciduria type III, may be devoid of clinical significance, but some patients are retarded and show variable neurological abnormalities.
2-Oxoadipic acid, a key metabolite of tryptophan and lysine, reacted with 1,2-diamino-4,5-methylenebenzene in an acidic solution to produce a fluorescent derivative. The reaction product was separated using a Tosoh ODS-80Ts column with 20 mmol/L of KH₂PO₄-K₂HPO₄ buffer (pH 7.0) containing 26% methanol at a flow rate 0.8 mL/min. The excitation wavelength of detection was 367 nm, and the emission wavelength was 446 nm. The limit of quantification was 1 pmol per injection, sufficiently sensitive for the determination of 2-oxoadipic acid in human and experimental animal urine.
2-Oxoadipic acid, a key metabolite of tryptophan and lysine, reacted with 1,2-diamino-4,5-methylenebenzene in an acidic solution to produce a fluorescent derivative. The reaction product was separated using a Tosoh ODS80Ts column with 20 mmol/L of KH 2 PO 4 -K 2 HPO 4 buffer (pH 7.0) containing 26% methanol at a flow rate 0.8 mL/min. The excitation wavelength of detection was 367 nm, and the emission wavelength was 446 nm. The limit of quantification was 1 pmol per injection, sufficiently sensitive for the determination of 2-oxoadipic acid in human and experimental animal urine.
Key words: 2-oxoadipic acid; 1,2-diamino-4,5-methylenebenzene; tryptophan; lysine; urine
6) Hence, we did quantitative analyses of 2-OAA, and learned that 2-oxoadipic aciduria, a rare congenital condition, was present, as first reported in 1975 by Przyrember et al. 7) Since that report, there have been seven reported cases, 8) found mainly by employing organic solvent extraction and GC-MS techniques, 9) but the GC-MS technique is not a practical measurement method for the detection of 2-OAA. Nakamura et al. 10) reported an attractive chemical derivatization method for 2-oxo acids with DMB. Although no examination of the reaction between 2-OAA and DMB was described in their report, we succeeded in producing a fluorescent compound by reacting 2-OAA with DMB, and we developed a separation method based on this fluorescent compound by HPLC.
.0 mmol/L, and 5.0 mmol/L). A total of 0.1 mL of each y To whom correspondence should be addressed. Tel: +81-749-28-8449; Fax: +81-749-28-8499; E-mail: kshibata@shc.usp.ac.jp Abbreviations: 2-OAA, 2-oxoadipic acid; DMB, 1,2-diamino-4,5-methylenebenzene; ACMS, -amino--carboxymuconate-"-semialdehyde Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem., 75 (1), [185][186][187] 2011 Communication concentration was then reacted with 0.1 mL of the DMB solution, 5 mL of the reacted mixture containing 0.5, 0.75, 1.25, 2.5, 7.5, and 12.5 pmol of 2-OAA was injected into the HPLC system, and fluorescent intensities corresponding to 2-OAA were measured.
DHTKD1, a part of 2-ketoadipic acid dehydrogenase complex, is involved in lysine and tryptophan catabolism. Mutations in DHTKD1 block the metabolic pathway and cause 2-aminoadipic and 2-oxoadipic aciduria (AMOXAD), an autosomal recessive inborn metabolic disorder. In addition, a nonsense mutation in DHTKD1 that we identified previously causes Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) type 2Q, one of the most common inherited neurological disorders affecting the peripheral nerves in the musculature. However, the comprehensive molecular mechanism underlying CMT2Q remains elusive. Here, we show that Dhtkd1-/- mice mimic the major aspects of CMT2 phenotypes, characterized by progressive weakness and atrophy in the distal parts of limbs with motor and sensory dysfunctions, which are accompanied with decreased nerve conduction velocity. Moreover, DHTKD1 deficiency causes severe metabolic abnormalities and dramatically increased levels of 2-ketoadipic acid (2-KAA) and 2-aminoadipic acid (2-AAA) in urine. Further studies revealed that both 2-KAA and 2-AAA could stimulate insulin biosynthesis and secretion. Subsequently, elevated insulin regulates myelin protein zero (Mpz) transcription in Schwann cells via upregulating the expression of early growth response 2 (Egr2), leading to myelin structure damage and axonal degeneration. Finally, 2-AAA-fed mice do reproduce phenotypes similar to CMT2Q phenotypes. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that loss of DHTKD1 causes CMT2Q-like phenotypes through dysregulation of Mpz mRNA and protein zero (P0) which are closely associated with elevated DHTKD1 substrate and insulin levels. These findings further indicate an important role of metabolic disorders in addition to mitochondrial insufficiency in the pathogenesis of peripheral neuropathies.
We have previously reported that dietary supplementation with up to 5.0 g/d of L-tryptophan (L-Trp) for 21 d has no adverse effects, judging from the levels of general blood variables, in healthy women. We performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover intervention study in 17 apparently healthy Japanese women. The subjects were randomly assigned to receive a placebo (0 g/d) or 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, or 5.0 g/d of L-Trp for 21 d each with a 5-wk washout period between trials. We examined the 24-h urine profiles on days -1 (1 d before starting L-Trp), 7, 14, and 21 to determine whether administration of L-Trp at doses of up to 5.0 g/d affects time-dependent urinary excretion of L-Trp or its metabolites in healthy women. The urinary excretion of L-Trp, kynurenic acid, 3-hydroxykynurenine, xanthurenic acid, 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid, quinolinic acid, N(1)-methylnicotinamide, N(1)-methyl-2-pyridone-5-carboxamide, and N(1)-methyl-4-pyridone-3-carboxamide increased in an L-Trp dose-dependent manner on day 7. The amount of urinary excretion of these compounds was unchanged on days 14 and 21. The urinary excretion of serotonin, 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid, 2-oxoadipic acid, and nicotinamide was unaffected by L-Trp at any of the doses tested. L-Trp doses had weak effects on the urinary excretion of kynurenine and anthranilic acid. Based on these findings, we conclude that there are no time-dependent effects of L-Trp administration in urinary excretion of L-Trp metabolites. Additionally, L-Trp and its metabolites do not accumulate in the body.
Abstract A patient with 2-oxoadipic aciduria and 2-aminoadipic aciduria presented at 2 years of age with manifestations typical of organic acidemia, episodes of ketosis and acidosis, progressive to coma. This resolved and the key metabolites disappeared from the urine and blood. At 9 years of age she developed typical Kearns–Sayre syndrome with complete heart block, retinopathy, and ophthalmoplegia. Southern blot revealed a deletion in the mitochondrial genome.
Only 9 (11.2%) out of 80 studied bacterial strains were able to utilize iron saturated 2-oxo acids and hydroxyacids and grow on o-phenantroline containing media. These strains belonged to Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium species and were isolated from clinical material. Iron sources utilized by all of these strains were Fe(III) complexes with pyruvic, 2-oxobutyric, 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyric, 2-oxo-3-methylvaleric, 2-oxoisocaproic and 2-oxoadipic acids. None of the nine strains released 2-oxoacids to environment during growth in iron excess Fe+ medium and iron deficient--Fe- (Chelex) medium. In Fe- (phenantroline) medium, when the growth was strongly inhibited, only pyruvic acid was released. Iron uptake from 59Fe(III)-pyruvate was depended on iron deficiency during growth: cells harvested from Fe- (phenantroline) medium have acquired the most amount of iron. 2,4-Dinitrofenol was a strong inhibitor of 59Fe(III) iron uptake. Release of pyruvic acid is not subject to negative derepression and does not require the presense of iron as its inductor. It appears in the environment as a response to growth inhibiting stress caused by the iron deficiency but contrary to siderophores are not specially synthesized for iron assimilation. Therefore, it is only primary metabolism products released by damaged, but metabolic active cells.
Organic acid (OAD) and fatty acid oxidation disorders (FAOD) are inborn errors of metabolism often presenting with life-threatening metabolic decompensation followed by (irreversible) organ failure, and even death during catabolic state. Most of these diseases are considered as treatable, and metabolic decompensations can be avoided by early diagnosis and start of therapy. Confirmation of suspected diagnosis currently relies on enzymatic and mutation analyses and in vitro loading of palmitic acid in human skin fibroblast cultures. Furthermore, in some cases potentially life-threatening in vivo loading or fasting tests are still performed. In this study, we established a standardized in vitro loading test in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) that allows reliable biochemical confirmation of a suspected diagnosis within 1 week. Patients with confirmed diagnosis of short-, medium-, very-long-chain, and long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiencies, methylmalonic, propionic, isovaleric acidurias, and glutaric aciduria type I were included in the study. PBMC, isolated from heparinized venous blood samples of these individuals were incubated for 5 days with palmitic acid or 2-oxoadipic acid (glutaric aciduria type I), respectively, and quantitative acylcarnitine profiling was subsequently performed in supernatants using electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. All patients were clearly identified, including those with mild biochemical phenotypes who, in particular, are at risk to be missed under balanced metabolic conditions. In glutaric aciduria type I, the same results were also obtained using lymphoblasts. In conclusion, our assay allows biochemical confirmation of a number of FAOD and OAD and could easily be implemented into the confirmatory diagnostic work-up.
Organic acid (OAD) and fatty acid oxidation disorders (FAOD) are inborn errors of metabolism often presenting with life-threatening metabolic decompensation followed by (irreversible) organ failure, and even death during catabolic state. Most of these diseases are considered as treatable, and metabolic decompensations can be avoided by early diagnosis and start of therapy. Confirmation of suspected diagnosis currently relies on enzymatic and mutation analyses and in vitro loading of palmitic acid in human skin fibroblast cultures. Furthermore, in some cases potentially life-threatening in vivo loading or fasting tests are still performed. In this study, we established a standardized in vitro loading test in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) that allows reliable biochemical confirmation of a suspected diagnosis within 1 week. Patients with confirmed diagnosis of short-, medium-, very-long-chain, and long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiencies, methylmalonic, propionic, isovaleric acidurias, and glutaric aciduria type I were included in the study. PBMC, isolated from heparinized venous blood samples of these individuals were incubated for 5 days with palmitic acid or 2-oxoadipic acid (glutaric aciduria type I), respectively, and quantitative acylcarnitine profiling was subsequently performed in supernatants using electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. All patients were clearly identified, including those with mild biochemical phenotypes who, in particular, are at risk to be missed under balanced metabolic conditions. In glutaric aciduria type I, the same results were also obtained using lymphoblasts. In conclusion, our assay allows biochemical confirmation of a number of FAOD and OAD and could easily be implemented into the confirmatory diagnostic work-up. Organic acids and fatty acids comprise a group of physiologically occurring intermediates in a variety of intracellular metabolic pathways, such as catabolism of amino acids, mitochondrial ␤-oxidation of fatty acids, tricarboxylic acid cycle, and cholesterol biosynthesis. Organic acid (OAD) and fatty acid oxidation disorders (FAOD) are caused by autosomal recessive inherited deficiencies of single enzymes (or in the metabolism of required coenzymes) in the outlined metabolic 
Adipic acid is an important monomer for the production of nylon-6,6 polyamide. One novel biological route for the synthesis of adipic acid, which combines the lysine synthetic pathway and glutaconic acid production pathway, has been suggested, but this route has suffered from the lack of an efficient 2-oxoadipate reductase connecting the two pathways or converting 2-oxoadipate to 2-hydroxyadipate. In this study, we report that the lactate dehydrogenase of Alcaligenes eutrophus H16 is a promising catalyst for this reaction. The lactate dehydrogenase gene (Ae-ldhO) was cloned, expressed in Escherichia coli, purified, and characterized. The recombinant enzyme, having a molecular weight of 36.7 kDa, exhibited broad substrate specificity for various 2-oxoacids. NADH was the preferred coenzyme over NADPH for all 2-oxoacids tested. The maximum specific activity of Ae-LdhO on 2-oxoadipate was 454.5 ± 20.1 U/mg protein at pH 7.0 and 30℃. The Km values for 2-oxoadipic acid and NADH were 0.32 ± 0.02 and 0.09 ± 0.002 mM, respectively. The activity of Ae-LdhO was enhanced in the presence of some metal ions, such as Mg2+, Co2+ or Ni2+, whereas it was completely inhibited by Hg2+, Ag+, Cu2+ and DTT.
Gallic acid (3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, GA) is widely distributed in nature, being a major phenolic pollutant and a commonly used antioxidant and building-block for drug development. We have characterized the first complete cluster (gal genes) responsible for growth in GA in a derivative of the model bacterium Pseudomonas putida KT2440. GalT mediates specific GA uptake and chemotaxis, and highlights the critical role of GA transport in bacterial adaptation to GA consumption. The proposed GA degradation via the central intermediate 4-oxalomesaconic acid (OMA) was revisited and all enzymes involved have been identified. Thus, GalD is the prototype of a new subfamily of isomerases that catalyses a biochemical step that remained unknown, i.e. the tautomerization of the OMAketo generated by the GalA dioxygenase to OMAenol. GalB is the founding member of a new family of zinc-containing hydratases that converts OMAenol into 4-carboxy-4-hydroxy-2-oxoadipic acid (CHA). galC encodes the aldolase catalysing CHA cleavage to pyruvic and oxaloacetic acids. The presence of homologous gal clusters outside the Pseudomonas genus sheds light on the evolution and ecology of the gal genes in GA degraders. The gal genes were used for expanding the metabolic abilities of heterologous hosts towards GA degradation, and for engineering a GA cellular biosensor.
The preference of the lipase Candida antarctica lipase B for dicarboxylic acids of a specific chain length has been demonstrated. The C6 adipic acid was found to be the preferred substrate as measured by the specificity constant for the esterification reaction. The effect of substitution on the substrate has been investigated and the carbonyl of 2-oxoadipic acid shown to stall the esterification reaction most probably by unfavourable hydrogen bonding within the active site of the enzyme.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE ::: To identify the biomarkers in early period of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in rat serum and reveal the effective mechanism of a Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) named Shexiang Baoxin Pill (SBP). ::: ::: ::: MATERIAL AND METHOD ::: A metabolomic approach using reversed-phase liquid chromatography/quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC-Q-TOF-MS) was developed. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Fourteen biomarkers in the early period of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in rat serum were identified. These biomarkers include 5-methylcytosine, cystathionine ketimine, 2-oxoadipic acid, thymidine, epinephrine, homocystine, uric acid, 12(S)-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12s-HPETE), 11-dehydrocorticosterone, 12(S)-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12s-HETE), deoxycorticosterone, corticosterone, aldosterone and cortisol. Through pathway analysis of these biomarkers, inflammation, hypertrophy and oxidative injury were considered the most relevant pathological changes in early period of AMI. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Identification of AMI biomarkers not only supplied a systematic view of the progression of AMI in the early period but also provided the theoretical basis for the prevention or treatment of AMI. The results demonstrated that SBP pretreatment could offer protective effects for AMI through regulating the pathway of steroid hormone biosynthesis.
Abnormalities in metabolite profiles are valuable indicators of underlying pathologic conditions at the molecular level. However, their interpretation relies on detailed knowledge of the pathways, enzymes, and genes involved. Identification and characterization of their physiological function are therefore crucial for our understanding of human disease: they can provide guidance for therapeutic intervention and help us to identify suitable biomarkers for monitoring associated disorders. We studied two individuals with 2-aminoadipic and 2-oxoadipic aciduria, a metabolic condition that is still unresolved at the molecular level. This disorder has been associated with varying neurological symptoms. Exome sequencing of a single affected individual revealed compound heterozygosity for an initiating methionine mutation (c.1A>G) and a missense mutation (c.2185G>A [p.Gly729Arg]) in DHTKD1. This gene codes for dehydrogenase E1 and transketolase domain-containing protein 1, which is part of a 2-oxoglutarate-dehydrogenase-complex-like protein. Sequence analysis of a second individual identified the same missense mutation together with a nonsense mutation (c.1228C>T [p.Arg410∗]) in DHTKD1. Increased levels of 2-oxoadipate in individual-derived fibroblasts normalized upon lentiviral expression of the wild-type DHTKD1 mRNA. Moreover, investigation of L-lysine metabolism showed an accumulation of deuterium-labeled 2-oxoadipate only in noncomplemented cells, demonstrating that DHTKD1 codes for the enzyme mediating the last unresolved step in the L-lysine-degradation pathway. All together, our results establish mutations in DHTKD1 as a cause of human 2-aminoadipic and 2-oxoadipic aciduria via impaired turnover of decarboxylation 2-oxoadipate to glutaryl-CoA.
The purpose of this study was to determine, using the high-performance liquid chromatographic methods recently modified by us, the fate of dietary tryptophan in 17 healthy female Japanese adults who ate self-selected food. The experimental period was 22 days. The habitual intake of tryptophan was 3328.4 μmol/day. 24-hour urine samples were collected at the beginning of the experiment and then once per week. Blood was collected at the beginning and end of the experiment. Levels of tryptophan and its metabolites were measured in blood and urine. Tryptophan, nicotinamide and 2-oxoadipic acid were the major compounds of the blood. The urinary excretion amounts of tryptophan, 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid, kynurenine, anthranilic acid, kynurenic acid, 3-hydroxykynurenine, xanthurenic acid, 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid and quinolinic acid were about 40, 20, 4, 1, 10, 4, 3, 5 and 20 μmol/day, respectively.
The purpose of this study was to determine, using the high-performance liquid chromatographic methods recently modified by us, the fate of dietary tryptophan in 17 healthy female Japanese adults who ate self-selected food. The experimental period was 22 days. The habitual intake of tryptophan was 3328.4 µmol/day. 24-hour urine samples were collected at the beginning of the experiment and then once per week. Blood was collected at the beginning and end of the experiment. Levels of tryptophan and its metabolites were measured in blood and urine. Tryptophan, nicotinamide and 2-oxoadipic acid were the major compounds of the blood. The urinary excretion amounts of tryptophan, 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid, kynurenine, anthranilic acid, kynurenic acid, 3-hydroxykynurenine, xanthurenic acid, 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid and quinolinic acid were about 40, 20, 4, 1, 10, 4, 3, 5 and 20 µmol/day, respectively.
Techniques that allow quantitative measurement of Trp metabolism have not been developed, but Trp metabolism has been investigated in various research studies. 22 In these studies, Trp was found to be degraded primarily through the kynurenine pathway. Ninety percent of the Trp that is degraded is converted to kynurenine, but ,1% of ingested Trp is used for serotonin synthesis, 23 and ≈2% of ingested Trp is used for nicotinamide synthesis. 24 Shibata and colleagues developed a reliable and straightforward high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for Trp 25 and its metabolites. These metabolites included kynurenin, 26 anthranilic acid (AnA), 27 KA, 28 3-HK, 29 xanthurenic acid (XA), 30 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid (3-HA), 32 5-HT, 33 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA) 33 and 2-oxoadipic acid (2-OAA). 34 Physiologically important intermediates are present in the Trp pathway, and metabolic disorders can be diagnosed through the urinary excretion of Trp metabolites. Recently, we modified the methods for pre-treatment of the HPLC samples to measure Trp and its metabolites. In the current study, we investigated the fate of Trp in young Japanese women using these techniques.
DHTKD1 is the E1 component of the 2-oxoadipic acid dehydrogenase complex (OADHc), which functions in the L-lysine degradation pathway. Mutations in DHTKD1 have been associated with 2-aminoadipic and 2-oxoadipic aciduria, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2Q (CMT2Q) and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE). A crystal structure and inhibitors of DHTKD1 could improve the understanding of these clinically distinct disorders, but are currently not available. Here we report the identification of adipoylphosphonic acid and tenatoprazole as DHTKD1 inhibitors using targeted and high throughput screening, respectively. We furthermore elucidate the DHTKD1 crystal structure with thiamin diphosphate bound at 2.1 Å. The protein assembles as a dimer with residues from both monomers contributing to cofactor binding. We also report the impact of ten DHTKD1 missense mutations on the encoded proteins by enzyme kinetics, thermal stability and structural modeling. Some DHTKD1 variants displayed impaired folding (S777P and S862I), whereas other substitutions rendered the enzyme inactive (L234G, R715C and R455Q) or affected the thermal stability and catalytic efficiency (V360A and P773L). Three variants (R163Q, Q305H and G729R) surprisingly showed wild type like properties. Our work provides a structural basis for further understanding of the function of DHTKD1 and a starting point for selective small molecule inhibitors of the enzyme, which could help tease apart the role of this enzyme in several human pathologies.
Glutaric aciduria type I (GA-I) is a rare organic aciduria caused by the autosomal recessive inherited deficiency of glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase (GCDH). GCDH deficiency leads to disruption of l-lysine degradation with characteristic accumulation of glutarylcarnitine and neurotoxic glutaric acid (GA), glutaryl-CoA, 3-hydroxyglutaric acid (3-OHGA). DHTKD1 acts upstream of GCDH, and its deficiency leads to none or often mild clinical phenotype in humans, 2-aminoadipic 2-oxoadipic aciduria. We hypothesized that inhibition of DHTKD1 may prevent the accumulation of neurotoxic dicarboxylic metabolites suggesting DHTKD1 inhibition as a possible treatment strategy for GA-I. In order to validate this hypothesis we took advantage of an existing GA-I (Gcdh-/-) mouse model and established a Dhtkd1 deficient mouse model. Both models reproduced the biochemical and clinical phenotype observed in patients. Under challenging conditions of a high lysine diet, only Gcdh-/- mice but not Dhtkd1-/- mice developed clinical symptoms such as lethargic behaviour and weight loss. However, the genetic Dhtkd1 inhibition in Dhtkd1-/-/Gcdh-/- mice could not rescue the GA-I phenotype. Biochemical results confirm this finding with double knockout mice showing similar metabolite accumulations as Gcdh-/- mice with high GA in brain and liver. This suggests that DHTKD1 inhibition alone is not sufficient to treat GA-I, but instead a more complex strategy is needed. Our data highlights the many unresolved questions within the l-lysine degradation pathway and provides evidence for a so far unknown mechanism leading to glutaryl-CoA.
Abbreviations AAA, 2-aminoadipic acid; DCPIP, 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol; DHTKD1, dehydrogenase E1 and transketolase domain-containing protein 1; DTT, dithiothreitol; GA1, glutaric aciduria type 1; GCDH, glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase; HTS, highthroughput screening; OA, 2-oxoadipic acid; OG, 2-oxoglutaric acid; OP, 2-oxopimelic acid; OS, 2-oxosuberic acid; OADHc, 2-oxoadipic acid dehydrogenase complex; OGDHc, 2-oxoglutaric acid dehydrogenase complex; OGDH, 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase. Abstract DHTKD1 is the E1 component of the 2-oxoadipic acid dehydrogenase complex (OADHc), which functions in the L-lysine degradation pathway. Mutations in DHTKD1 have been associated with 2-aminoadipic and 2-oxoadipic aciduria, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2Q (CMT2Q) and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE). A crystal structure and inhibitors of DHTKD1 could improve the understanding of these clinically distinct disorders, but are currently not available. Here we report the identification of adipoylphosphonic acid and tenatoprazole as DHTKD1 inhibitors using targeted and high throughput screening, respectively. We furthermore elucidate the DHTKD1 crystal structure with thiamin diphosphate bound at 2.1 Å. The protein assembles as a dimer with residues from both monomers contributing to cofactor binding. We also report the impact of ten DHTKD1 missense mutations on the encoded proteins by enzyme kinetics, thermal stability and structural modeling. Some DHTKD1 variants displayed impaired folding (S777P and S862I), whereas other substitutions rendered the enzyme inactive (L234G, R715C and R455Q) or affected the thermal stability and catalytic efficiency (V360A and P773L). Three variants (R163Q, Q305H and G729R) surprisingly showed wild type like properties. Our work provides a structural basis for further understanding of the function of DHTKD1 and a starting point for selective small molecule inhibitors of the enzyme, which could help tease apart the role of this enzyme in several human pathologies. a mouse reference population. Cell 158, 1415-1430 (2014). 8. J. Leandro et al., DHTKD1 and OGDH display in vivo substrate overlap and form a hybrid ketoacid dehydrogenase complex. bioRxiv https://doi.org/10.1101/645689 (2019).
DHTKD1 is the E1 component (E1a) of the 2-oxoadipate dehydrogenase complex (OADHc) that operates in L-lysine, L-hydroxylysine and L-tryptophan degradation and converts 2-oxoadipic acid (OA) into glutaryl-CoA ( Figure S1 ) (1-7). DHTKD1 is a homolog of 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase OGDH (~39% identity), the E1 component (E1o) of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (OGDHc) that functions in the citric acid cycle. In general, 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complexes have unique E1 and E2 components, but share the same E3 component. DHTKD1 and OGDH are an exception, because they share both the E2 (DLST) and E3 (DLD) components (4, 8) , which allows for functional and regulatory cross-talk between the citric acid cycle and L-lysine degradation (5, 8) .
Glutaric aciduria type 1 (GA1) is an inborn error of lysine degradation characterized by a specific encephalopathy that is caused by toxic accumulation of lysine degradation intermediates. Substrate reduction through inhibition of DHTKD1, an enzyme upstream of the defective glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase, has been investigated as a potential therapy, but revealed the existence of an alternative enzymatic source of glutaryl-CoA. Here we show that loss of DHTKD1 in GCDH-deficient HEK-293 cells leads to a 2-fold decrease in the established GA1 clinical biomarker glutarylcarnitine, and demonstrate that OGDH is responsible for this remaining glutarylcarnitine production. We furthermore show that DHTKD1 interacts with OGDH, DLST and DLD to form a hybrid 2-oxoglutaric and 2-oxoadipic acid dehydrogenase complex. In summary, 2-oxoadipic acid is a substrate for DHTKD1, but also for OGDH in a cell model system. The classical 2-oxoglutaric dehydrogenase complex can exist as a previously undiscovered hybrid containing DHTKD1 displaying improved kinetics towards 2-oxoadipic acid.
