SUMMARY ::: Aminoacetone was formed from D- or L-1-aminopropan-2-ol, or both, by a variety of micro-organisms. An oxidoreductase capable of oxidizing D-1-aminopropan-2-ol to aminoacetone was purified 38-fold from Escherichia coli. It was inactive with L-1-aminopropan-2-ol, L-threonine and DL-glycerol-1-phosphate. It was highly active with a variety of diols and hydroxyketones and not narrowly specific as reported by other workers (Decker & Swain, 1968). The effect of growth conditions on activity suggested involvement in mono- or di-hydroxyacetone metabolism. Although D-1-aminopropan-2-ol oxidation was demonstrated in crude extracts of a number of other bacteria, a relationship between L-threonine and D-1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenases and vitamin B12 biosynthesis does not appear likely.
1. Growth and manometric experiments showed that a Pseudomonas sp. P6 (N.C.I.B. 10431), formerly known as Achromobacter sp. P6, was capable of growth on both stereoisomers of 1-aminopropan-2-ol, and supported the hypothesis that assimilation involved metabolism to propionaldehyde, propionate and possibly 2-hydroxyglutarate. A number of alternative intermediary metabolites were ruled out. 2. Accumulation of propionaldehyde from 1-aminopropan-2-ol by intact cells occurred only during active growth, was transitory and was accompanied by morphological changes in the pseudomonad. 3. Enzymic and radioactive tracer evidence showed that 1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate was the intermediate between amino alcohol and aldehyde. The operation of an inducibly formed ATP-amino alcohol phosphotransferase was established by measuring substrate disappearance, ADP formation and amino alcohol O-phosphate formation. This novel kinase had two activity peaks at about pH7 and 9. It acted on both l- and d-isomers of 1-aminopropan-2-ol, and also on l-threonine and ethanolamine, but had only low activity towards choline. The enzyme was partially purified by ion-exchange chromatography. 4. An amino alcohol O-phosphate phospho-lyase (deaminating) produced propionaldehyde from dl- and d-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate, and also formed acetaldehyde less rapidly from ethanolamine O-phosphate. It had optimum activity at about pH8 in Tris-HCl buffers. The enzyme was partially purified and evidence was obtained that a single enzyme was responsible for both activities. Apparent K(m) values for the substrates were determined. Activity was inhibited by dl-threonine O-phosphate, dl-serine O-phosphate, choline O-phosphate and P(i). Enzyme formation was induced by growth with either amino alcohol substrate. 5. Radioactive tracer experiments with dl-1-amino[3-(14)C]propan-2-ol confirmed the operation of the amino alcohol kinase and demonstrated coupling with the phospho-lyase enzyme in vitro to produce [(14)C]-propionaldehyde. 6. An aldehyde dehydrogenase, found in extracts of the pseudomonad after growth on 1-aminopropan-2-ol, was characterized and concluded to be responsible for propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde oxidation. The enzyme was inactive with methylglyoxal. 7. Propionate and acetate were concluded to be metabolized via propionyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA, and studies were made of a CoA ester synthase found in extracts. 8. Studies of a strain of Pseudomonas putida N.C.I.B. 10558 suggested that 1-aminopropan-2-ols were metabolized via their O-phosphates, propionaldehyde and propionate. Amino alcohol kinase activity was detected and extracts contained a phospho-lyase showing higher activity with the 1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate than with ethanolamine O-phosphate.
Abstract Alkanolamines used for CO 2 -capture in natural gas (NG) may be released to the marine environment from coastal and offshore NG facilities. In this study biodegradation of alkanolamines in seawater was investigated. Screening of 20 alkanolamine candidates for ultimate biodegradability showed that biodegradation rates followed the order primary = secondary > tertiary > sterically hindered alkanolamines. Biodegradation studies of monoethanolamine (MEA), diethanolamine (DEA) and methyl-diethanolamine (MDEA) at seawater temperatures of 10–32 °C were performed with respirometric and chemical analyses, showing that temperature-related biodegradation was more pronounced for DEA than for MEA, while MDEA remained recalcitrant at all temperatures. No effect of concentration was detected when DEA and MDEA biodegradation was compared at initial concentrations of 2 and 5 mg/l. PCR-DGGE analyses of bacterial 16S rRNA gene fragments from seawater samples collected during the biodegradation experiments at 20 °C revealed one major band associated with DEA biodegradation. Analyses of the 16S rRNA gene fragments by cloning and sequencing showed predominance of the class Alphaproteobacteria in all samples, but biodegradation of DEA at 20 °C resulted in an increased fraction of Gammaproteobacteria . Sequence analyses of cloned inserts were performed after suppressive subtraction hybridization (SSH) cDNA PCR amplification of genes expressed during growth of the strain Pseudomonas sp. P6 on the alkanolamine 1-aminopropan-2-ol. The results of these analyses indicated that gene expression was associated with cobalamine (vitamin B 12 ) synthesis with 1-aminopropan-2-ol incorporation in the vitamin B 12 complex, and with putative enzymes involved in the glyoxylate and tricarboxylic acid cycles. In addition, the results suggested a general up-regulation of transcriptional and translational activities, including amino acid metabolism.
Isomers of aminopropanol react with Cu[CF3SO3]2 to form compounds of the general formula [Cu2(RS-ap)2(RS-Hap)2][CF3SO3]2, [Cu2(S-ap)2(S-Hap)2][CF3SO3]2, [Cu3(RS-pa)2(RS-Hap)6][CF3SO3]4, and [Cu2(S-pa)(S-Hpa)5][CF3SO3]3, where RS-Hap and S-Hap represent R,S- and S(+)-1-aminopropan-2-ol, respectively, and RS-Hpa and S-Hpa represent R,S- and S(+)-2-aminopropan-1 -ol; RS-ap, S-ap, RS-pa, and S-pa are the respective anions formed by ionisation of the acidic alcohol proton of the isomers. The structure of [Cu3(RS-pa)2(RS-Hpa)6][CF3SO3]4 has been determined by X-Ray crystallography. The compound crystallizes in space group P1 with unit-cell dimensions a= 10.345(2), b= 10.720(2), c= 13.619(2)A, α= 80.40(2), β= 71.41(2), γ= 85.14(2)°, and Z= 1. The structure was solved by Patterson methods and least-squares refinement converged at R 0.046 and R′0.046. The structure consists of unique O ⋯ H ⋯ O hydrogen-bonded trinuclear units. The central copper atom (C) has a tetragonal co-ordination and is linked to the other two copper atoms via two short oxygen–oxygen distances of 2.43(2) and 2.37(2)A. Copper atoms A and B are octahedrally co-ordinated by three chelating ligands and have the configurations Δ(δλλλ)[or Δ(λδδ)] and Δ(δδδ)[or Δ(λλλ)], respectively. The geometry of the CuN3O3 species for A and B is meridional. The magnetic behaviour of the four compounds is discussed. The magnitude of the magnetic exchange (J) is about –5 cm–1 for the dimeric 1-aminopropan-2-ol compounds. The J values for the trinuclear R,S-2-aminopropan-1 -ol compound and the dimeric S(+)-2-aminopropan-1 -ol compound are calculated to be +0.06 and –8.5 cm–1, respectively. The magnitude of the magnetic exchange in these compounds has been related to the co-ordination geometry around the copper ions.
Abstract Rat liver mitochondria contain an apparently substrate-specific 1-aminopropan-2-ol kinase activity. Indirect evidence also indicates the presence of a phosphoryl-1-aminopropan-2-ol cytidylyl transferase activity. A possible role for these two enzymes in the incorporation of 1-aminopropan-2-ol as a phospholipid base is considered in the light of this and other data.
Abstract The properties of the Redlich–Kister equation when expressed in power series of x 1 − x 2 are related to its alternative expression in terms of power series of x 2 − x 1 , where x 1 and x 2 are mole fractions of the components 1 and 2 of a binary liquid mixture. The simple relationship between both sets of coefficients is derived and shown to conceal pitfalls while using Redlich–Kister coefficients to estimate partial molar properties of the components. The zero-powered terms, which are the same for the alternative expansions, are shown to yield four-fold the excess molar property for the equimolar mixture. Literature data for the partial molar volume of water at infinite dilution in 15 neat aminoalkanols at different temperatures are collected and tabulated. These data generally show a positive dependence of that limiting value on the temperature, the only apparent exception being in the case of 1-aminopropan-2-ol. It is demonstrated that the recently published data for this aminoalkanol [S. Mokraoui, A. Valtz, C. Coquelet, D. Richon, Thermochim. Acta 440 (2006) 122–128] were ill-treated and recalculated limiting values are given, which increase with increasing temperature.
Several of the enzymes involved in the conversion of adenosylcobyric acid (AdoCby) to adenosylcobamide (AdoCba) are yet to be identified and characterized in some cobamide (Cba)-producing prokaryotes. Using a bioinformatics approach, we identified the bluE gene (locus tag RSP_0788) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 as a putative functional homolog of the L-threonine kinase enzyme (PduX, EC 2.7.1.177) of S. enterica. In AdoCba, (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate (AP-P) links the nucleotide loop to the corrin ring; most known AdoCba producers derive AP-P from L-Thr-O-3-phosphate (L-Thr-P). Here, we show that RsBluE has L-Thr-independent ATPase activity in vivo and in vitro. We used 31 P-NMR spectroscopy to show that RsBluE generates L-Thr-P at the expense of ATP and is unable to use L-Ser as a substrate. BluE from R. sphaeroides or Rhodobacter capsulatus restored AdoCba biosynthesis in S. enterica ΕpduX and R. sphaeroides ΕbluE mutant strains. R. sphaeroides ΕbluE strains exhibited a decreased pigment phenotype that was restored by complementation with BluE. Finally, phylogenetic analyses revealed that bluE was restricted to the genomes of a few Rhodobacterales that appear to have a preference for a specific form of Cba, namely Coᴽ-(ᴽ-5,6-dimethylbenzimidazolyl-Coᵦ-adenosylcobamide (a.k.a. adenosylcobalamin, AdoCbl; coenzyme B12 , CoB12 ).
Several of the enzymes involved in the conversion of adenosylcobyric acid (AdoCby) to adenosylcobamide (AdoCba) are yet to be identified and characterized in some cobamide (Cba)-producing prokaryotes. Using a bioinformatics approach, we identified the bluE gene (locus tag RSP_0788) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 as a putative functional homolog of the L-threonine kinase enzyme (PduX, EC 2.7.1.177) of S. enterica. In AdoCba, (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate (AP-P) links the nucleotide loop to the corrin ring; most known AdoCba producers derive AP-P from L-Thr-O-3-phosphate (L-Thr-P). Here, we show that RsBluE has L-Thr-independent ATPase activity in vivo and in vitro. We used 31 P-NMR spectroscopy to show that RsBluE generates L-Thr-P at the expense of ATP and is unable to use L-Ser as a substrate. BluE from R. sphaeroides or Rhodobacter capsulatus restored AdoCba biosynthesis in S. enterica pduX and R. sphaeroides bluE mutant strains. R. sphaeroides bluE strains exhibited a decreased pigment phenotype that was restored by complementation with BluE. Finally, phylogenetic analyses revealed that bluE was restricted to the genomes of a few Rhodobacterales that appear to have a preference for a specific form of Cba, namely Co-( -5,6 -dimethylbenzimidazolyl-Co  -adenosyl cobamide (a.k.a. adenosylcobalamin, AdoCbl; coenzyme B 12 , CoB 12 ).
Bacteria and archaea that synthesize cobamides (Cbas) use one of two pathways, the O 2 -dependent or O 2 -independent pathway (Blanche et al., 1993 , Roessner et al., 2001 [reviewed in (Escalante-Semerena and Warren, 2008) ]. There are several differences between these pathways, but the one that is most frequently used to distinguish one from the other is the timing of insertion of the cobalt ion into the tetrapyrrole ring. In the O 2 -dependent pathway, cobalt insertion occurs late in the branch of the pathway that assembles the corrin ring. In contrast, in the O 2 -independent pathway, cobalt insertion occurs at the second committed step of the corrin ring biosynthetic pathway (Fig. 1 ). For this reason, the pathways are also referred to as the late and early cobalt-insertion pathways. The early Co-insertion pathway has been extensively studied in Salmonella enterica sv. Typhimurium LT2 [reviewed in (Escalante-Semerena, 2007; EscalanteSemerena and Warren, 2008) ] and Bacillus megaterium (Beck et al., 1997; Raux et al., 1998; Leech et al., 2002; Biedendieck et al., 2010; Collins et al., 2013) . In this pathway, de novo synthesis of the corrin ring occurs only in the absence of oxygen due to the oxygen lability of precorrin 5B (Moore et al., 2013) , the product of the cobalt-precorrin 5A acylhydrolase (CbiG) enzyme (Schroeder et al., 2009) . The late Co-insertion pathway is functional under normoxic and anoxic conditions, and has been primarily studied in Pseudomonas denitrificans Thibaut et al., 1990; Blanche et al., 1991; Cameron et al., 1991a ,1991b Zumft, 1997) and Rhodobacter capsulatus (Biel, 1992; Pollich and Klug, 1995; Vlcek et al., 1997; Heldt et al., 2005; McGoldrick et al., 2005,) . Both pathways share several homologous enzymes; however, while most of the enzymes within the early Co-insertion pathway of S. enterica have been identified, the functional equivalents of some enzymes have not been identified in the late Co-insertion pathway. For example, it is not known which phosphatase dephosphorylates adenosylcobalamin-phosphate (AdoCbl-P) to produce the final product, adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl). Also unknown is the kinase that generates L-Thr-P, which is converted to (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate (a.k.a (R)-1-amino-2-propanol-O-2-phosphate, AP-P), which tethers the nucleotide loop to the corrin ring ( Fig. 1, highlighted  red) . In S. enterica, PduX (locus tag STM2058, hereafter SePduX) phosphorylates L-Thr (Fan and Bobik, 2008; Fan et al., 2009) . Notably, the functional equivalent of SePduX has not been identified in any organism that uses the late Co-insertion pathway.
The bluE gene was identified in R. capsulatus, BB1 as the second gene in an operon named bluFEDCB ( Fig. 1) because disruption of the operon resulted in a reduction of red pigmentation or a 'blush' phenotype (Pollich and Klug, 1995) . In R. capsulatus, precursor molecules of the initial steps for AdoCbl synthesis enter the bacteriochlorophyll (Bch) synthesis pathway and are incorporated into bacteriochlorophyll (Willows and Kriegel, 2009 ). In addition, AdoCbl is a required cofactor for enzymes that synthesize bacteriochlorophyll such as BchE/ChlE and is needed for transcriptional activation of genes that lead to carotenoid biosynthesis (Gough et al., 2000; Yin and Bauer, 2013) . Therefore, cells with incomplete AdoCbl production have a pigmentation phenotype (Yin and Bauer, 2013) . Disruption of the bluE gene by a Tn5 element blocked AdoCbl biosynthesis resulting in an auxotrophy and blush phenotype that was corrected by cobalamin (Cbl) but not by cobinamide (Cbi), a Cbl precursor ( Fig. 1) (Pollich and Klug, 1995) . BluD is homologous to the AdoCbi-P synthase (CbiB, EC 6.3.1.10) of S. enterica, (CobD in the late Co-insertion pathway), BluC is homologous to the L-Thr-P decarboxylase (CobD, EC 4.1.1.81) of S. enterica, (CobC in the late Co-insertion pathway) and BluB was later identified in Sinorhizobium meliloti and Rhodospirillum rubrum as a 5,6-dimethylbenzimidazole (DMB) synthase (Campbell et al., 2006; Gray and Escalante-Semerena, 2007; Taga et al., 2007) . BluB activity has not been identified in S. enterica. To date, the putative functions of the proteins encoded by the bluF and bluE genes have not been identified. BluF is likely the last missing enzyme in the late Co-insertion pathway (Pollich et al., 1996) , the AdoCbl-P phosphatase (CobC) of S. enterica A. Schematic depicting the early and late cobalt-insertion pathways of AdoCbl biosynthesis. B. Late steps of the AdoCbl biosynthetic pathway, with proteins in the early cobalt-insertion (a.k.a. O 2 -independent, blue rectangles) and late cobalt-insertion (a.k.a. O 2 -dependent, gray ovals) pathways. The BluE enzyme is shown in a black box with red trim. The (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate (AP-P) moiety is highlighted in red in the structure scheme. Exogenous Cbi (a.k.a (CN) 2 Cbi) enters the pathway as indicated. Exogenous Cby (a.k.a (CN) 2 Cby) enters the pathway at the location it appears on in the figure. Exogenous corrinoids, including complete Cbas such as Cbl, are adenylated by CobA/CobO upon transport into the cell and prior to entering the pathway. C. Genetic layout of the L-threonine kinase-encoding genes bluE in the late cobalt-insertion, AdoCbl-synthesizing bacteria R. sphaeroides and R. capsulatus, and pduX in S. enterica, an early cobalt-insertion, AdoCbl-synthesizing bacterium. Figure key: Ado, Adenosyl; Cby, cobyric acid; Cbi-P, cobinamide phosphate; Cbi-GDP, cobinamide-GDP; Cbl-P, cobalamin phosphate; Cbl, cobalamin; AP-P, (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate; AP, (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol; L-Thr-P, L-threonine-O-3-phosphate; L-Thr, L-threonine; -ribazole-P, -ribazole phosphate; DMB, 5,6-dimethylbenzimidazole; NaMN, nicotinic acid mononucleotide; Nm, Nicotinic Acid; PPi, pyrophosphate; Pi, orthophosphate; CbiK/CbiX, anaerobic cobaltochelatase; CobN/CobS/CobT, aerobic hydrogenobyrinic acid a,c-diamide cobaltochelatase; CobA/CobO, ATP:Co(I)rrinoid Adenosyltransferase; CbiB/CobD, AdoCbi-P synthase; CobS/CobV, AdoCba-5′P synthase; CobD/CobC, L-Thr-P decarboxylase; CobT/CobU, NaMN:DMB phosphoribosyltransferase; CobU/CobP, AdoCbi kinase/AdoCbi-P guanylyltransferase; PduX/BluE, L-Thr kinase; CobC/BluF, AdoCba-5′-P phosphatase; CbiZ, cobinamide amidohydrolase; pdu, genes of the Cba-dependent 1,2-propanediol degradation operon; cbi, genes of the early steps of the early Co-insertion cobalamin biosynthesis operon.
1. Analogues of ethanolamine and choline were incubated with different labelled precursors of phospholipids and isolated hepatocytes and the effects on phospholipid synthesis were studied. 2. 2-Aminopropan-1-ol and 2-aminobutan-1-ol were the most efficient inhibitors of [14C]ethanolamine incorporation into phospholipids, whereas the incorporation of [3H]choline was inhibited most extensively by NN-diethylethanolamine and NN-dimethylethanolamine. 3. When the analogues were incubated with [3H]glycerol and hepatocytes, the appearance of 3H in unnatural phospholipids indicated that they were incorporated, at least in part, via CDP-derivatives. The distribution of [3H]glycerol among molecular species of phospholipids containing 2-aminopropan-1-ol and 1-aminopropan-2-ol was the same as in phosphatidylethanolamine. In other phospholipid analogues the distribution of 3H was more similar to that in phosphatidylcholine. 4. NN-Diethylethanolamine stimulated both the conversion of phosphatidylethanolamine into phosphatidylcholine and the incorporation of [Me-14C]methionine into phospholipids. Other N-alkyl- or NN-dialkyl-ethanolamines also stimulated [14C]methionine incorporation, but inhibited the conversion of phosphatidylethanolamine into phosphatidylcholine. This indicates that phosphatidyl-NN-diethylethanolamine is a poor methyl acceptor, in contrast with other N-alkylated phosphatidylethanolamines. 5. These results on the regulation of phospholipid metabolism in intact cells are discussed with respect to the possible control points. They also provide guidelines for future experiments on the manipulation of phospholipid polar-headgroup composition in primary cultures of hepatocytes.
1. Analogues of ethanolamine and choline were incubated with different labelled precursors of phospholipids and isolated hepatocytes and the effects on phospholipid synthesis were studied. 2. 2-Aminopropan-1-ol and 2-aminobutan-1-ol were the most efficient inhibitors of ['4C]ethanolamine incorporation into phospholipids, whereas the incorporation of [3H]choline was inhibited most extensively by NN-diethylethanolamine and NN-dimethylethanolamine. 3. When the analogues were incubated with [3H]glycerol and hepatocytes, the appearance of 3H in unnatural phospholipids indicated that they were incorporated, at least in part, via CDP-derivatives. The distribution of [3H]glycerol among molecular species of phospholipids containing 2-aminopropan-1-ol and 1-aminopropan-2-ol was the same as in phosphatidylethanolamine. In other phospholipid analogues the distribution of 3H was more similar to that in phosphatidylcholine. 4. NNDiethylethanolamine stimulated both the conversion of phosphatidylethanolamine into phosphatidylcholine and the incorporation of [Me-14C]methionine into phospholipids. Other N-alkyl-or NN-dialkyl-ethanolamines also stimulated [14C]methionine incorporation, but inhibited the conversion of phosphatidylethanolamine into phosphatidylcholine. This indicates that phosphatidyl-NN-diethylethanolamine is a poor methyl acceptor, in contrast with other N-alkylated phosphatidylethanolamines. 5. These results on the regulation of phospholipid metabolism in intact cells are discussed with respect to the possible control points. They also provide guidelines for future experiments on the manipulation of phospholipid polar-headgroup composition in primary cultures of hepatocytes.
A series of 1-aminopropan-2-ols were synthesized and evaluated against two strains of malaria, Plasmodium falciparum FCR3 (chloroquine-resistant) and 3D7 (chloroquine-sensitive). Microwave-assisted ring opening of epoxides (aryl and alkyl glycidyl ethers, glycidol, epichlorohydrin) with various amines without catalysts generated the desired library of beta-amino alcohols rapidly and efficiently. Most of the compounds showed micromolar potency against malaria, with seven of them having IC50 values between 1 and 10 microM against both Plasmodium falciparum strains.
Recent observations on the emergence of artemisinin resistant parasites have highlighted the need for new antimalarial treatments. An HTS campaign led to the identification of the 1-(1-aminopropan-2-ol)carbazole analogues as potent hits against Plasmodium falciparum K1 strain. The SAR study and optimization of early ADME and physicochemical properties direct us to the selection of a late lead compound that shows good efficacy when orally administrated in the in vivo P. berghei mouse model.
1. The 120-fold purification of ethanolamine ammonia-lyase from Escherichia coli extracts, to apparent homogeneity, is described. Ethanolamine, dithiothreitol, glycerol and KCl protected the apoenzyme from inactivation. 2. At the optimum pH7.5, K(m) values for ethanolamine and coenzyme B(12) were 44mum and 0.42mum respectively. The K(m) for ethanolamine was markedly affected by pH, transitions occurring at pH7.0 and 8.35. 3. The enzyme was specific for ethanolamine as substrate, none of the 18 analogues tested being active. l-2-Aminopropan-l-ol (K(i) 0.86mum), dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol (K(i) 2.2mum) and dl-1,3-diaminopropan-2-ol (K(i) 88.0mum) inhibited competitively. 4. Enzyme activity was inhibited, irreversibly and non-competitively, by the coenzyme analogues methylcobalamin (K(i) 1.4nm), hydroxocobalamin (K(i) 2.1nm) and cyanocobalamin (K(i) 4.8nm). 5. Iodoacetamide inhibited in the absence of ethanolamine, but only slightly in its presence. p-Hydroxymercuribenzoate inhibited markedly even in the presence of ethanolamine. Dithiothreitol and 2-mercaptoethanol (less effectively) restored activity to the enzyme dialysed against buffer containing ethanolamine. 6. Although K(+) ions stabilized the enzyme during dialysis or storage, they were not necessary for activity. 7. Gel filtration showed the enzyme to be of high molecular weight, ultracentrifugal studies giving s(20,w) of 16.4 and an estimated mol.wt. 560400. The isoelectric point for the apoenzyme was approx. pH5.0. inhibited enzyme activity at concentrations above 1m (95% inhibition at 3m) and sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis indicated protein subunits of mol.wt. 61400. 8. Immunological studies showed that the E.coli enzyme was closely related to those of other enterobacteria, but only distantly to that of Clostridium sp. A double precipitin band suggested that the apoenzyme may be made up of two protein components.
1. A species of Arthrobacter (designated Arthrobacter 9759) was isolated from soil by its ability to grow aerobically on l-threonine as sole source of carbon atoms, nitrogen atoms and energy; the organism also grew well on other sources of carbon atoms including glycine, but no growth was obtainable on aminoacetone or dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol. 2. During growth on threonine, (14)C from l-[U-(14)C]threonine was rapidly incorporated into glycine and citrate, and thereafter into serine, alanine, aspartate and glutamate. 3. With extracts of threonine-grown cells supplied with l-[U-(14)C]threonine, evidence was obtained of the NAD and CoA-dependent catabolism of l-threonine to produce acetyl-CoA plus glycine. Short-term incorporation studies in which [2-(14)C]acetate and [2-(14)C]glycine were supplied (a) to cultures growing on threonine, and (b) to extracts of threonine-grown cells, showed that the acetyl-CoA was metabolized via the tricarboxylic acid cycle and glyoxylate cycle whereas the glycine was converted into pyruvate via the folate-dependent ;serine pathway'. 4. The threonine-grown organism contained ;biosynthetic' threonine dehydratase and a potent NAD-linked l-threonine dehydrogenase but possessed no l-threonine aldolase activity. 5. Evidence was obtained that the acetyl-CoA and glycine produced from l-threonine had their immediate origin in the alpha-amino-beta-oxobutyrate formed by the threonine dehydrogenase; the CoA-dependent cleavage of this compound was catalysed by an alpha-amino-beta-oxobutyrate CoA-ligase, which was identified with ;aminoacetone synthase'. A continuous spectrophotometric assay of this enzyme was developed, and it was found to be inducibly synthesized only during growth on threonine and not during growth on acetate plus glycine. 6. By using a reconstituted mixture of separately purified l-threonine dehydrogenase and alpha-amino-beta-oxobutyrate CoA-ligase (i.e. ;aminoacetone synthase'), l-[U-(14)C]threonine was broken down to [(14)C]glycine plus [(14)C]acetyl-CoA (trapped as [(14)C]citrate). 7. There was no evidence of aminoacetone metabolism by Arthrobacter 9759 even though a small amount of this amino ketone appeared in the culture medium during growth on threonine.
The effects of micelles of sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) on aminolysis of ionized phenyl salicylate (PS–) and methyl salicylate (MS–) have been studied at 35 °C. An increase in the total concentration of SDS ([SDS]T) from 0.0 to 0.2 mol dm–3 Results in a decrease in the observed nucleophilic second-order rate constants (kn) by a factor of ca. 3 for the reactions of PS– with propylamine and 1-aminopropan-2-ol. At high [SDS]T, plots of observed pseudo-first-order rate constants (kobs)versus total propylamine concentration ([Am]T) appear to exhibit smaller slopes at [Am]T 0.01 mol dm–3, while for 1-aminopropan-2-ol such deviations from linearity at [Am]T < 0.01 mol dm–1 could not be detected. These observations are attributed to the higher hydrophilicity of 1-aminopropan-2-ol compared with that of propylamine. The values of kn for hydrazinolysis of MS– are decreased ca. 1.7-fold and those for hydroxylaminolysis MS– are increased ca. 2-fold with an increase in [SDS]T from 0.0 to 0.2 mol dm–3. The values of kn for methylaminolysis of MS– are independent of [SDS]T within the limits 0.0-0.2 mol dm–3. Dimethylamine did not show any detectable nucleophilic reactivity toward MS– in the presence of 0.03 mol dm–3 SDS. This shows that the presence of SDS perhaps does not change the nucleophilic reaction mechanism of aminolysis of salicylate esters. The observed results of aminolysis of PS– and MS– are rationalized in the light of the proposal of a porous cluster micellar structure.
ALTHOUGH aminoacetone was first recognized as a microbial metabolite in 1958 (ref. 1), and found to be formed from L-threonine1–5, glycine plus a source of acetyl-CoA1,2,4,5, or isopropanolamine5,6 (1-aminopropan-2-ol) by a variety of micro-organisms, it has only recently been found that the amino ketone is further metabolized by resting cell suspensions of some bacteria7. The rapid utilization of aminoacetone by extracts free from cells has now been demonstrated and information of the enzyme mechanism of aminoacetone metabolism is available.
N-Protected L-phenylalanines 1a,b were transformed, via the corresponding Weinreb amides 2 and ethynyl ketones 3, into chiral enamino ketones 4 (Scheme 1). Similarly, L-threonine 6 was transformed in four steps into the enamino ketone 10. Cyclocondensations of 4 and 10 with pyrazolamines 11, benzenecarboximidamide (12), and hydrazine derivatives 18 afforded N-protected 1-heteroaryl-2-phenylethanamines 15a–e, 16, 17, and 21a–k and 1-heteroaryl-1-aminopropan-2-ols 23a,b in good yields (Schemes 2 and 3). Finally, deprotection by catalytic hydrogenation furnished free amines 22a–g and 24a,b (Scheme 3).
UNLABELLED ::: The tetrachloroethene (PCE)-respiring bacterium Sulfurospirillum multivorans produces a unique cobamide, namely, norpseudo-B12, which, in comparison to other cobamides, e.g., cobalamin and pseudo-B12, lacks the methyl group in the linker moiety of the nucleotide loop. In this study, the protein SMUL_1544 was shown to be responsible for the formation of the unusual linker moiety, which is most probably derived from ethanolamine-phosphate (EA-P) as the precursor. The product of the SMUL_1544 gene successfully complemented a Salmonella enterica ΔcobD mutant. The cobD gene encodes an l-threonine-O-3-phosphate (l-Thr-P) decarboxylase responsible for the synthesis of (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-2-phosphate (AP-P), required specifically for cobamide biosynthesis. When SMUL_1544 was produced in the heterologous host lacking CobD, norpseudo-B12 was formed, which pointed toward the formation of EA-P rather than AP-P. Guided cobamide biosynthesis experiments with minimal medium supplemented with l-Thr-P supported cobamide biosynthesis in S. enterica producing SMUL_1544 or S. multivorans Under these conditions, both microorganisms synthesized pseudo-B12 This observation indicated a flexibility in the SMUL_1544 substrate spectrum. From the formation of catalytically active PCE reductive dehalogenase (PceA) in S. multivorans cells producing pseudo-B12, a compatibility of the respiratory enzyme with the cofactor was deduced. This result might indicate a structural flexibility of PceA in cobamide binding. Feeding of l-[3-(13)C]serine to cultures of S. multivorans resulted in isotope labeling of the norpseudo-B12 linker moiety, which strongly supports the hypothesis of EA-P formation from l-serine-O-phosphate (l-Ser-P) in this organism. ::: ::: ::: IMPORTANCE ::: The identification of the gene product SMUL_1544 as a putative l-Ser-P decarboxylase involved in norcobamide biosynthesis in S. multivorans adds a novel module to the assembly line of cobamides (complete corrinoids) in prokaryotes. Selected cobamide-containing enzymes (e.g., reductive dehalogenases) showed specificity for their cobamide cofactors. It has recently been proposed that the structure of the linker moiety of norpseudo-B12 and the mode of binding of the EA-P linker to the PceA enzyme reflect the high specificity of the enzyme for its cofactor. Data reported herein do not support this idea. In fact, norpseudo-B12 was functional in the cobamide-dependent methionine biosynthesis of S. enterica, raising questions about the role of norcobamides in nature.
1. Washed-cell suspensions of Escherichia coli, incubated at the optimum pH of 6.4 and with a saturating substrate concentration of approx. 10mm, convert dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol into aminoacetone at a rate of approx. 4.0mmumoles/mg. dry wt. of cells/min. at 30 degrees . 2. Mg(2+), Mn(2+), Co(2+), Zn(2+), Ca(2+), K(+) and NH(4) (+), as sulphates, and EDTA have no effect on this rate, although Cu(2+) inhibits and Fe(2+) activates to some extent. 3. Conditions of growth markedly affect the rate of aminoacetone production by cell suspensions. 4. Dialysed cell-free extracts of E. coli exhibit 1-aminopropan-2-ol-dehydrogenase activity, the enzyme having optimum activity at pH7.0, a requirement for NAD(+) and K(+), and a K(m) for the amino alcohol substrate of 0.8mm, calculated for a single enantiomorph. 5. Under optimum conditions 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase forms aminoacetone at rate of approx. 3.0mmumoles/mg. of protein/min. at 37 degrees . The enzyme is only slightly inhibited by dl-3-hydroxybutyrate and dl-2-hydroxy-2-phenylethyl-amine. 6. l-Threonine-dehydrogenase activity is exhibited by both whole cells and cell-free extracts. Whole cells produce aminoacetone from l-threonine more slowly than they do from dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol, whereas the situation is reversed in cell-free extracts. Both kinetic evidence, and the fact that synthesis of 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase, but not of threonine dehydrogenase, is repressed by compounds such as glucose and pyruvate, provide evidence that the amino alcohol is oxidized by a specific enyme. 7. The metabolic role of 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase is discussed.
1. Rat tissue homogenates convert dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol into aminoacetone. Liver homogenates have relatively high aminopropanol-dehydrogenase activity compared with kidney, heart, spleen and muscle preparations. 2. Maximum activity of liver homogenates is exhibited at pH9.8. The K(m) for aminopropanol is approx. 15mm, calculated for a single enantiomorph, and the maximum activity is approx. 9mmumoles of aminoacetone formed/mg. wet wt. of liver/hr.at 37 degrees . Aminoacetone is also formed from l-threonine, but less rapidly. An unidentified amino ketone is formed from dl-4-amino-3-hydroxybutyrate, the K(m) for which is approx. 200mm at pH9.8. 3. Aminopropanol-dehydrogenase activity in homogenates is inhibited non-competitively by dl-3-hydroxybutyrate, the K(i) being approx. 200mm. EDTA and other chelating agents are weakly inhibitory, and whereas potassium chloride activates slightly at low concentrations, inhibition occurs at 50-100mm. 4. It is concluded that aminopropanol-dehydrogenase is located in mitochondria, and in contrast with l-threonine dehydrogenase can be readily solubilized from mitochondrial preparations by ultrasonic treatment. 5. Soluble extracts of disintegrated mitochondria exhibit maximum aminopropanol-dehydrogenase activity at pH9.1 At this pH, K(m) values for the amino alcohol and NAD(+) are approx. 200 and 1.3mm respectively. Under optimum conditions the maximum velocity is approx. 70mmumoles of aminoacetone formed/mg. of protein/hr. at 37 degrees . Chelating agents and thiol reagents appear to have little effect on enzyme activity, but potassium chloride inhibits at all concentrations tested up to 80mm. dl-3-Hydroxybutyrate is only slightly inhibitory. 6. Dehydrogenase activities for l-threonine and dl-4-amino-3-hydroxybutyrate appear to be distinct from that for aminopropanol. 7. Intraperitoneal injection of aminopropanol into rats leads to excretion of aminoacetone in the urine. Aminoacetone excretion proportional to the amount of the amino alcohol administered, is complete within 24hr., but represents less than 0.1% of the dose given. 8. The possible metabolic role of amino alcohol dehydrogenases is discussed.
1. Rat tissue homogenates convert DL-1-aminopropan-2-ol into aminoacetone. Liver homogenates have relatively high aminopropanol-dehydrogenase activity compared with kidney, heart, spleen and muscle preparations. 2. Maximum activity of liver homogenates is exhibited at pH 9 8. The Km for aminopropanol is approx. 15mm, calculated for a single enantiomorph, and the maximum activity is approx. 9mumoles of aminoacetone formed/mg. wet wt. of liver/hr. at 37°. Aminoacetone is also formed from L-threonine, but less rapidly. An unidentified amino ketone is formed from DL-4-amino-3-hydroxybutyrate, the Km for which is approx. 200mM at pH9*8. 3. Aminopropanol-dehydrogenase activity in homogenates is inhibited non-competitively by DL-3-hydroxybutyrate, the K, being approx. 200mM.
1. A wide range of intermediary metabolites and substrate analogues have no effect on the oxidation of dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol to aminoacetone by washed-cell suspensions of Escherichia coli. Only dl-2-hydroxy-2-phenylethylamine, dl-1,3-diaminopropan-2-ol, dl-serine and l-1-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-2-aminoethanol act as inhibitors. 2. Dialysed cell-free extracts of E. coli exhibit an NAD(+)-dependent dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol-dehydrogenase activity of approx. 8mmumoles of aminoacetone formed/mg. of protein/min. at the pH optimum of approx. 10. The K(m) values for the coenzyme and dl-amino alcohol are approx. 0.4 and 10.0mm respectively. A smaller peak of activity occurs at pH7.0-7.2, the K(m) for NAD(+) at pH7 being approx. 0.05mm. 3. Enzyme activity in cell-free extracts is inhibited by dl-2-hydroxy-2-phenylethylamine, dl-1-aminopropane-2,3-diol and dl-serine. dl-Phenylserine and dl-1-aminobutan-2-ol are oxidized to compounds reacting as amino ketones. 4. In fresh cell-free extracts l(+)-1-aminopropan-2-ol preparations are oxidized more rapidly than racemic or laevo-rotatory material, the d(-)-enantiomorph appearing to act as a competitive inhibitor. The K(m) for l(+)-1-aminopropan-2-ol appears to be approx. 1.5mm when highly resolved substrate preparations are used, either in the free base form or as the l(+)-tartrate salt. 5. l(+)-1-Aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase is a labile enzyme, and in appropriately treated extracts activity towards the d-enantiomorph is detectable and relatively higher than that towards the l-enantiomorph. 6. Optimum activity of l-threonine-dehydrogenase in cell-free extracts is exhibited at pH9.6 in the presence of NAD(+). The K(m) values for coenzyme and amino acid substrate are approx. 0.08 and 5.0mm respectively. This enzyme is distinct from 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenases on the basis of kinetic evidence, and the separation of activities by gel filtration. 7. Both l-threonine and dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenases are markedly inhibited by 8-hydroxyquinoline and p-chloromercuribenzoate, but only slightly by other chelating and thiol reagents. 8. E. coli is incapable of growth on simple synthetic media, containing a variety of carbon sources, when dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol is supplied as the sole source of nitrogen. It appears unlikely that the micro-organism can deaminate aminoacetone. 9. The metabolic roles of l-threonine dehydrogenase, aminoacetone and 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenases are discussed.
Porcine pancreatic lipase catalysed the enantioselective acylation of the amino group of 1-aminopropan-2-ol and the N- and O-acylation of 2-aminobutan-1-ol.
The bacterium Sulfurospirillum multivorans synthesizes the unusual cobamide norpseudo-B12 (Np-B12) as cofactor of the tetrachloroethene reductive dehalogenase PceA de novo. Np-B12 harbors an adenine as lower base and a unique ethanolamine O-phosphate (EA-P) as linker moiety (nor linker) in its nucleotide loop. Other microbial produced cobamides contain varies lower bases (mainly benzimidazoles (Bza)) and an (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-2-phosphate (AP-P) linker with an additional methyl group compared to EA-P. The nucleotide loop of Np-B12 was previously shown to be important for the binding to PceA. To investigate the norcobamide (NCba) biosynthesis and the specificity of PceA towards Np-B12, S. multivorans was amended with different benzimidazole derivatives during growth. The adenine moiety of Np-B12 was efficiently replaced by each of the tested compounds. An in vitro analysis of the lower ligand activating enzyme SmCobT revealed an unusual regioselectivity towards singly substituted benzimidazoles (i.e. 5-CH3-, 5-OH-, 5-OCH3-Bza). Most Bza-harboring NCbas efficiently replaced Np-B12 in PceA by capturing the same position in the active site. Due to a highly inefficient incorporation into PceA, the formation of 5,6-dimethyl-Bza-NCba had strong negative effects on the PCE metabolism of S. multivorans. The enzyme synthesizing the unique EA-P linker in S. multivorans was identified as novel L-serine O-phosphate (L-Ser-P) decarboxylase SmCobD. Besides L-Ser-P this enzyme additionally decarboxylated L-threonine O-3-phosphate (L-Thr-P) to AP-P in vitro with a significantly reduced conversion rate. At high exogenous concentrations of L-Thr-P S. multivorans predominantly synthesized the AP-P containing cobamide pseudo-B12 that was poorly incorporated into SmPceA affirming its specificity for NCba cofactors. This study investigated the unique cobamide biosynthesis pathway of S. multivorans and discovered an exceptional variability of cobamides producible by the organism.
The title compound was obtained as a major product from a three component reaction of 2-hydroxy-benzaldehyde (1 mmol, 122 mg), thiazolidine-2,4-dione (1 mmol, 117 mg) and 1-aminopropan-2-ol (1 mmol, 75 mg) under reflux. The reaction was monitored by TLC till completion. On cooling the solid product was collected by filteration, dried under vacuum and recrystallized from ethanol to afford yellow crystals in a sufficient quality for X-ray diffraction. M.p. 558 K.
We report a transferable force field to describe the interactions of alkanolamines based on the N–C–C–O backbone with water, derived from a comparison with experimental excess enthalpies. This force field is tested on 2-aminoethan-1-ol (MEA), 2-amino-2-methylpropan-1-ol, 2-aminobutan-1-ol (ABU), and 1-aminopropan-2-ol. These alkanolamines are derivatives of MEA obtained by substitution with methyl and ethyl groups on the carbon atoms of the N–C–C–O backbone. A specific cross interaction site corresponding to the hydrogen bond between the hydroxyl group of the alkanolamine and the oxygen atom of water was introduced in order to reproduce quantitatively experimental excess enthalpies. The transferability of this specific site was assessed by predictions on alkanolamines that were not included in the parametrization data set. New data on enthalpy of mixing for ABU with water are reported, since they were not available in the literature. From the molecular simulations, several microscopic quantities of the al...
Abstract The complexation properties of betaxolol, a member of the large family of β-adrenergic blocking agents, were studied towards copper and zinc in methanolic solution. From the potentiometric and spectrophotometric results, the constants for the species [CuL] 2 2+ and [CuOMeL] 2 have been calculated to be log β 202 = 22.51 and log β 2–2 = −0.26, respectively. The ligand, which contains an 1-aminopropan-2-ol moiety, forms a chelate via deprotonation and coordination of the alkoxide group. Furthermore, a second complex is formed by addition of a CH 3 O − ion to Cu 2+ . Near-UV and visible spectral parameters provide strong evidence for the presence of alkoxo-bridged binuclear species in solution, and it is likely that, as in the solid state, the complexes have a distorted square-planar structure. The zinc complexes are much less stable than those for copper, and without spectral characteristics; it is difficult to distinguish between the monomeric and dimeric model.
Abstract 1. 1. Distinct aminoacetone: NADH reductase and dl -1-aminopropan-2-ol: NAD + dehydrogenase activities have been identified in cell-free extracts of the aerobic microorganism Bacillus subtilis , grown on threonine as the sole carbon source. 2. 2. The dehydrogenase was active with a number of hydroxyl-substituted substrates. 3. 3. The reductase was inhibited 100% by AMP at 0.6 mM. 4. 4. The dehydrogenase and reductase had different induction profiles after growth on a number of carbon sources. 5. 5. No alternative aminopropanol-metabolising systems were detected in threonine-grown B. subtilis . 6. 6. The possible significance of the irreversible dl -1-aminopropan-2-ol:NAD + dehydrogenase and aminoacetone: NADH reductase activities has been discussed.
The CO2 post-combustion capture with aqueous solutions of amines is the most mature technology to reduce greenhouse gases emissions. However chemical absorption is suffering from the degradation of amines mainly due to the presence of O2 in flue gases. Formed products, which could be rejected to atmosphere, may be detrimental to environment and human health. The aim of this thesis was to identify as many degradation products as possible thanks to the development of different sampling and analytical methods especially for gas phase analysis. Thus more than sixty products issued from monoethanolamaine (MEA) degradation were observed in pilot plant samples. Thirty of them are novel, they often belong to the same family as pyrazines or oxazolines, or they could be characterized by the increase of carbon chain lengths (C2 between two heteroatoms to C5).Mechanisms such as alkylation/dealkylation, aldehydes/ketones formation, amidification, aldolisation, Eschweiler Clarke, pyridines formation were proposed to explain the formation of novel products and were, most of the time, validated by mixing the reactants proposed in the mechanism. Finally, it has been shown that the transposition of these reactions to three other amines (N-methylaminoethanolamine, 1-aminopropan-2-ol, 3-aminopropan-1-ol) enabled us to predict their degradation products.
Four neutral polynuclear magnetic clusters, (Mn6Mn2Na2I)-Mn-III-Na-II(N-3)(8)(mu(1)-O)(2)(L-1)(6)(CH3OH)(2)] (1), (Mn6Na2I)-Na-III(N-3)(4)(mu(4)-O)(2)(L-2)(4)(CH3COO)(4)] (2), Ni-5(II)(N-3)(4)(HL1)(4)(HCOO)(2)(CH3OH)(2)(H2O)(2)]center dot 2CH(3)OH (3) and (Ni4Na2I)-Na-II(N-3)(4)(HL2)(6)]center dot 2CH(3)OH (4) have been synthesized using tetradentate ligands H2L1-2 along with azide as a co-ligand. H2L1-2 are the products formed in situ upon condensation of 2-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzaldehyde with 1-aminopropan-2-ol and 1-aminopropan-3-ol, respectively. Single crystal X-ray diffraction and bond valence sum calculation showed that complex 1 is composed of both Mn-III and Mn-II. Complex 3 contains coordinated formate, which was formed upon in situ oxidation of methanol. The magnetic study over a wide range of temperatures of all the complexes (1-4) showed that 1 and 2 are antiferromagnetic whereas other two (3-4) are predominantly ferromagnetic. The estimated ground states of the complexes are S approximate to 3(1), S = 4(2), S = 5(3) and S approximate to 4(4), respectively. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cobamides (Cbas) are synthesized by many archaea, but some aspects of Cba biosynthesis in these microorganisms remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that open reading frame MM2060 in the archaeum Methanosarcina mazei strain Gö1 encodes a bifunctional enzyme with l-threonine- O-3-phosphate (l-Thr-P) decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.81) and l-Thr kinase activities (EC 2.7.1.177). In Salmonella enterica, where Cba biosynthesis has been extensively studied, the activities mentioned above are encoded by separate genes, namely, cobD and pduX, respectively. The activities associated with the MM2060 protein ( MmCobD) were validated in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, MmCobD used ATP and l-Thr as substrates and generated ADP, l-Thr-P, and ( R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate as products. Notably, MmCobD has a 111-amino acid C-terminal extension of unknown function, which contains a putative metal-binding motif. This C-terminal domain alone did not display activity either in vivo or in vitro. Although the C-terminal MmCobD domain was not required for l-Thr-P decarboxylase or l-Thr kinase activities in vivo, its absence negatively affected both activities. In vitro results suggested that this domain may have a regulatory or substrate-gating role. When purified under anoxic conditions, MmCobD displayed Michaelis-Menten kinetics and had a 1000-fold higher affinity for ATP and a catalytic efficiency 1300-fold higher than that of MmCobD purified under oxic conditions. To the best of our knowledge, MmCobD is the first example of a new class of l-Thr-P decarboxylases that also have l-Thr kinase activity. An archaeal protein with l-Thr kinase activity had not been identified prior to this work.
The structure of a new mononuclear nickel(II) complex with bis-azomethine [Ni(H2L)]+ · CH3COO– · H2O, resulting from condensation of 1,3-diaminopropan-2-ol with 2-amino-3-formylpyridine (H3L), was studied by X-ray diffraction (CIF files CCDC nos. 1562927, 1562928). Apart from the mononuclear complex, the reaction gave a minor amount of the trinuclear metal chelate [Ni3L'(H2O)2]+ · (CH3COO)– · CH3OH · H2O, where L' is N5O2-donor ligand containing two 3-(((2-aminopyridin-2-yl)methylene)amino)-1-aminopropan-2-ol moieties linked by a 2-aminopyridine-3-methylene group.
1. Washed-cell suspensions of Escherichia coli, incubated at the optimum pH of 6·4 and with a saturating substrate concentration of approx. 10mm, convert dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol into aminoacetone at a rate of approx. 4·0mμmoles/mg. dry wt. of cells/min. at 30°. 2. Mg2+, Mn2+, Co2+, Zn2+, Ca2+, K+ and NH4+, as sulphates, and EDTA have no effect on this rate, although Cu2+ inhibits and Fe2+ activates to some extent. 3. Conditions of growth markedly affect the rate of aminoacetone production by cell suspensions. 4. Dialysed cell-free extracts of E. coli exhibit 1-aminopropan-2-ol-dehydrogenase activity, the enzyme having optimum activity at pH7·0, a requirement for NAD+ and K+, and a Km for the amino alcohol substrate of 0·8mm, calculated for a single enantiomorph. 5. Under optimum conditions 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase forms aminoacetone at rate of approx. 3·0mμmoles/mg. of protein/min. at 37°. The enzyme is only slightly inhibited by dl-3-hydroxybutyrate and dl-2-hydroxy-2-phenylethyl-amine. 6. l-Threonine-dehydrogenase activity is exhibited by both whole cells and cell-free extracts. Whole cells produce aminoacetone from l-threonine more slowly than they do from dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol, whereas the situation is reversed in cell-free extracts. Both kinetic evidence, and the fact that synthesis of 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase, but not of threonine dehydrogenase, is repressed by compounds such as glucose and pyruvate, provide evidence that the amino alcohol is oxidized by a specific enyme. 7. The metabolic role of 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase is discussed.
1. Pseudomonas sp. N.C.I.B. 8858 grew well on d- and l-1-aminopropan-2-ol and on aminoacetone. 2. Cell-free extracts possessed high activities of inducibly formed l-1-aminopropan-2-ol-NAD(+) oxidoreductase, amino alcohol-ATP phosphotransferase, dl-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate phospho-lyase and aldehyde-NAD(+) oxidoreductase, but no 1-aminopropan-2-ol racemase or d-1-aminopropan-2-ol-NAD(+) oxidoreductase. 3. The amino alcohol kinase (activated by ADP) was non-stereospecific towards 1-aminopropan-2-ol and was one-third as active with ethanolamine. The phospho-lyase was active with l- and d-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate, but ethanolamine O-phosphate was only one-tenth as active as its higher homologues. The purified aldehyde dehydrogenase was active with propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde and also with methylglyoxal. The previously observed 2-oxo aldehyde dehydrogenase activity was considered to be due to the broadly specific aldehyde dehydrogenase. 4. Mutants of Pseudomonas sp. N.C.I.B. 8858 deficient in 1-aminopropan-2-ol kinase, 1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate phospho-lyase, aldehyde dehydrogenase or an enzyme involved in propionate metabolism were incapable of growth on aminoacetone or 1-aminopropan-2-ol as carbon source, although all except the kinase- or phospho-lyasedeficient mutants could use these compounds and ethanolamine as nitrogen sources. The aldehyde dehydrogenase-deficient mutants produced copious amounts of propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde during growth on the corresponding amino alcohols. 5. The path of aminoacetone metabolism in Pseudomonas sp. N.C.I.B. 8858 was concluded to involve l-1-aminopropan-2-ol, the O-phosphate ester of this compound, propionaldehyde and propionate as obligatory intermediates. d-1-Aminopropan-2-ol was metabolized by the same route as the l-isomer, gratuitously inducing formation of the stereospecific l-1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase. 6. Extracts of the pseudomonad grown with ethanolamine as the nitrogen source were devoid of 1-aminopropan-2-ol dehydrogenase, the kinase and the phospho-lyase, but exhibited cobamide coenzyme-dependent deaminase activity. Mutants deficient in kinase or phospho-lyase (deaminating) grew well on ethanolamine as the nitrogen source. Ethanolamine deaminase was inactive with, but inhibited by, 1-aminopropan-2-ol.
1. Growth of Erwinia carotovora N.C.P.P.B. 1280 on media containing 1-aminopropan-2-ol compounds or ethanolamine as the sole N source resulted in the excretion of propionaldehyde or acetaldehyde respectively. The inclusion of (NH(4))(2)SO(4) in media prevented aldehyde formation. 2. Growth, microrespirometric and enzymic evidence implicated amino alcohol O-phosphates as aldehyde precursors. An inducibly formed ATP-amino alcohol phosphotransferase was partially purified and found to be markedly stimulated by ADP, unaffected by NH(4) (+) ions and more active with ethanolamine than with 1-aminopropan-2-ol compounds. Amino alcohol O-phosphates were deaminated by an inducible phospho-lyase to give the corresponding aldehydes. This enzyme, separated from the kinase during purification, was more active with ethanolamine O-phosphate than with 1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphates. Activity of the phospho-lyase was unaffected by a number of possible effectors, including NH(4) (+) ions, but its formation was repressed by the addition of (NH(4))(2)SO(4) to growth media. 3. E. carotovora was unable to grow with ethanolamine or 1-aminopropan-2-ol compounds as sources of C, the production of aldehydes during utilization as N sources being attributable to the inability of the microbe to synthesize aldehyde dehydrogenase. 4. Of seven additional strains of Erwinia examined similar results were obtained only with Erwinia ananas (N.C.P.P.B. 441) and Erwinia milletiae (N.C.P.P.B. 955).
This chapter provides viscosity of the binary liquid mixture of water and 1-aminopropan-2-ol at various temperature and concentrations.
Vitamin B(12) and its coenzyme forms are cobalamins (i.e., cobamides, 'complete' with a 5,6-dimethylbenzimidazole nucleotide base), in which the particular corrinoid moiety of the cobinamides is conjugated to alpha-ribazole-3'-phosphate via a phosphate-diester group. Aside of being provided with their particular reactivity, required for their functions as organometallic cofactors in B(12)-dependent enzymes, the cobalamins also depend upon their specific three-dimensional buildup, to be able to adapt the unique constitution of 'base-on' corrinoids by intramolecular Co-coordination of the nucleotide base. We report rational partial syntheses and detailed spectral analyses of three close cobinamide isomers in their Co(alpha),Co(beta)-dicyano forms: of 13-epicobinamide (also called neocobinamide), of 176(S)-epicobinamide, and of 176-isocobinamide. Neocobinamide was obtained under acidic conditions as a degradation product of vitamin B(12). 176(S)-Epicobinamide and 176-isocobinamide were prepared by condensation of cobyric acid with (2S)-1-aminopropan-2-ol and with 3-aminopropan-1-ol, respectively. Natural cobinamide represents the corrinoid nucleus produced by proper microbial biosynthesis (as intermediate for the further assembly of the 'complete' corrinoid cofactors) or is required in some microorganisms, such as Escherichia coli, as an exogenously supplied unit for further biosynthetic buildup. The three compounds may thus be of use as structural probes for the biosynthetic capacity and tolerance in microorganisms, and (some of them) may serve as substrates as well, for further biosynthetic 'completion' of corrinoid cofactors or their analogues.
Synthesis and properties of new imines and bisimines derived from 2-phenyl-1H-imidazole-4-carbaldehyde and amines/diamines were studied. (2-Phenyl-1H-imidazole-4-yl)methanol was oxidized to 2-phenyl-1H-imidazole-4-carbaldehyde with better yield 55% by the modification of literature procedure. This aldehyde was condensed with the following achiral and chiral amines or 1,2-diamines: ethanamine, propan-1-amine, butan-1-amine, 2-methylpropan-1-amine, cyclohexanamine, (2R)- and (2S)-3-methylbutan-2-amine, (1R)- and (1S)-1-cyclohexylethanamine, (S)-1-aminopropan-2-ol, (S)-1-(2-phenyl-1H-imidazol-4-yl)ethanamine, (S)-1-(2-phenyl-1H-imidazol-4-yl)-2-methylpropan-1-amine, (S)-1-(2-phenyl-1H-imidazol-4-yl)-3-methylbutan-1-amine, ethane-1,2-diamine, and (1R,2R)- and (1S,2S)-cyclohexane-1,2-diamine. Sixteen condensation products, especially chiral imines and bisimines, were prepared by founded procedures in 45–99% of yields and characterized by the 1H NMR spectroscopy in solution, mass spectrometry, and elemental analyses. The optical rotation values in the case of chiral ones were also observed. Stability constants of Cu(II) complexes of selected prepared imines/bisimines were determined.
Structural diversity of natural cobamides (Cbas, B12 vitamers) is limited to the nucleotide loop. The loop is connected to the cobalt-containing corrin ring via an (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-2-phosphate (AP-P) linker moiety. AP-P is produced by the L-threonine O-3-phosphate (L-Thr-P) decarboxylase CobD. Here, the CobD homolog SMUL_1544 of the organohalide-respiring epsilonproteobacterium Sulfurospirillum multivorans was characterized as a decarboxylase that produces ethanolamine O-phosphate (EA-P) from L-serine O-phosphate (L-Ser-P). EA-P is assumed to serve as precursor of the linker moiety of norcobamides that function as cofactors in the respiratory reductive dehalogenase. SMUL_1544 (SmCobD) is a pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP)-containing enzyme. The structural analysis of the SmCobD apoprotein combined with the characterization of truncated mutant proteins uncovered a role of the SmCobD N-terminus in efficient L-Ser-P conversion. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Structural diversity of natural cobamides (Cbas, B 12 vitamers) is limited to the nucleotide loop. The loop is connected to the cobalt-containing corrin ring via an (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-2-phosphate (AP-P) linker moiety. AP-P is produced by the L-threonine O-3-phosphate (L-Thr-P) decarboxylase CobD. Here, the CobD homolog SMUL_1544 of the organohalide-respiring epsilonproteobacterium Sulfurospirillum multivorans was characterized as a decarboxylase that produces ethanolamine O-phosphate (EA-P) from L-serine Ophosphate (L-Ser-P). EA-P is assumed to serve as precursor of the linker moiety of norcobamides that function as cofactors in the respiratory reductive dehalogenase. SMUL_1544 (SmCobD) is a pyridoxal-5 0 -phosphate (PLP)containing enzyme. The structural analysis of the SmCobD apoprotein combined with the characterization of truncated mutant proteins uncovered a role of the SmCobD N-terminus in efficient L-Ser-P conversion.
