N-alpha-Cocoyl-L-arginine ethyl ester, DL-pyroglutamic acid salt (CAE), exhibited a strong inactivating effect on hepatitis B surface antigen. Concentrations of CAE required for 50 and 100% inactivation of the antigen were 0.01 to 0.025% and 0.025 to 0.05% respectively. CAE completely inactivated hepatitis B surface antigen at the lowest concentration compared with various compounds including about 500 amino acid derivatives, sodium hypochlorite, 2,4,49-trichloro-29-hydroxydiphenyl ether, and some detergents. Furthermore, CAE inactivated vaccinia virus, herpes simplex virus, and influenza virus, whereas poliovirus was not inactivated at all. The results suggest that the inactivating effects of CAE are related to interaction with lipid-containing viral envelopes.
Abstract The syntheses of γ-lactam analogues of the 1-acetoxy carbapenem esters, from dl-pyroglutamic acid are described. Attempted deprotection to provide the free carboxylic acids resulted in degradation. Whilst the free acid of the 1-hydroxy carbapenem analogue was chemically stable, it lacked antibacterial activity.
The effects of glutamate and aspartate antagonists were studied on limb-jerk frequency and EEG patterns in rats made epileptic by cobalt implantation in the sensorimotor cerebral cortex. The results of this study were as follows: (1) alpha-Amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (0.055--1.10 mM) decreased or completely prevented the epileptic manifestations. The effect was reversible 30 min after washing with artificial CSF solution. (2) DL-Pyroglutamic acid completely abolished the myoclonic jerks and EEG spikes. (3) alpha-Amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and alpha-D-amino-adipic acid significantly reduced the frequency of epileptic spikes and myoclonic jerks. (4) Other analogs, alpha-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid (0.6 mM), alpha-amino phosphonocaproic acid (0.95), and hydroxy-3-amino pyrrolidone-2 were without effect. (5) Glutamate itself did not decrease the epileptic manifestations.
The invention belongs to the field of chemistry, and discloses a method for preparing DL-glutamic acid. The method comprises the following steps: by using L-glutamic acid as a raw material, deionized water as a solvent and organic aldehyde as a catalyst, carrying out dewatering and racemization to obtain DL-pyroglutamic acid, hydrolyzing under acidic conditions to obtain DL-glutamic acid, and regulating the pH value of the reaction solution to the isoelectric point to obtain the DL-glutamic acid product. The method avoids using abundant organic acids or abundant industrial liquid alkalis, thereby lowering the environmental protection pressure. The salicylaldehyde used during dewatering can lower the racemization temperature. The reaction in the water solution system avoids carbonization of abundant glutamic acid due to high-temperature direct dewatering on the solid, and the product yield can reach 90% or above.
Conductivity measurements of DL-pyroglutamic acid and sodium pyroglutamate in dilute aqueous solutions were performed in the 288.15–323.15 K temperature range. The limiting molar conductances of pyroglutamate anion, λo(pGlu−, T) and the dissociation constants of pyroglutamic acid, K(T) were derived from the Onsager, and the Quint and Viallard conductivity equations. Densities of aqueous solutions with molalities lower than 0.5 mol-kg−1 were determined at 5 K intervals from T = 288.15 K to 333.15 K. Densities served to evaluate the apparent molar volumes, V2,φ(m, T), the cubic expansion coefficients, α (m,T) and the changes of the isobaric heat capacities with respect to pressure, (∂ C P /∂ P)T,m. They were correlated qualitatively with the changes in the structure of water when pyroglumatic acid is dissolved in it.
Abstract The low-frequency vibrational properties of D-, L- and DL-pyroglutamic acid (PGA) have been investigated with the terahertz time-domain spectroscopy (THz-TDS) from 0.5 to 4.5 THz. The enantiomers (D- and L-PGA) present similar absorption spectra, while the spectrum of racemate (DL-PGA) is obviously different. The temperature-dependent THz spectra of different PGA were recorded in the range of 293–83 K. The spectral changes during the cooling process suggest that D- and L-PGA undergo a structural phase transition, and no phase change of DL-PGA was found. The results indicate that THz spectroscopy is highly sensitive to the crystal structure of molecules. The density functional theory (DFT) calculations based on the crystal structures were performed to simulate the sample's THz spectra. It was demonstrated that the characteristic resonant absorption peaks of the enantiomeric and racemic PGA in the low-frequency THz region originate from the different vibrations, which corresponding to the specific structures and intermolecular interactions. The conformational diversity and fluctuation may help to understand the properties of PGA in biochemistry and functional material.
The effect ofl-pyroglutamic acid, a metabolite that accumulates in pyroglutamic aciduria, on different neurochemical parameters was investigated in adult male Wistar rats. Glutamate binding, adenylate cyclase activity and G protein coupling to adenylate cyclase were assayed in the presence of the acid.l-pyroglutamic acid decreased Na+-dependent and Na+-independent glutamate binding Basal and GMP-PNP stimulated adenylate cyclase activity were not affected by the acid. Furthermore, rats received unilateral intrastriatal injections of 10–300 nmol of bufferedl-pyroglutamic acid. Vehicle (0.25 M Tris-Cl, pH 7.35–7.4) was injected into the contralateral striatum. Neurotoxic damage was assessed seven days after the injection by histological examination and by weighing both cerebral hemispheres. No difference in histology or weight could be identified between hemispheres. These results suggest that, although capable of interfering with glutamate binding, pyroglutamate did not cause a major lesion in the present model of neurotoxicity.
