Acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS) is a thiamin diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent enzyme that catalyzes the first common step in the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids, condensation of pyruvate with a second 2-ketoacid to form either acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate. AHAS isozyme II from Escherichia coli is specific for pyruvate as the first donor substrate but exhibits a 60-fold higher specificity for 2-ketobutyrate (2-KB) over pyruvate as an acceptor substrate. In previous studies relying on steady state and transient kinetics, substrate competition and detailed analysis of the distribution of intermediates in the steady-state, we have identified several residues which confer specificity for the donor and acceptor substrates, respectively. Here, we examine the roles of active site polar residues Glu47, Gln110, Lys159, and His251 for elementary steps of catalysis using similar approaches. While Glu47, the conserved essential glutamate conserved in all ThDP-dependent enzymes whose carboxylate is in ...
Two groups of enzymes are classified as acetolactate synthase (EC 4. 1.3.18). This review deals chiefly with the FAD-dependent, biosynthetic enzymes which readily catalyze the formation of acetohydroxybutyrate from pyruvate and 2-oxobutyrate, as well as of acetolactate from two molecules of pyruvate (the ALS/AHAS group). These enzymes are generally susceptible to inhibition by one or more of the branched-chain amino acids which are ultimate products of the acetohydroxyacids, as well as by several classes of herbicides (sulfonylureas, imidazolinones and others). Some ALS/AHASs also catalyze the (non-physiological) oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate, leading to peracetic acid; the possible relationship of this process to oxygen toxicity is considered. The bacterial ALS/AHAS which have been well characterized consist of catalytic subunits (around 60 kDa) and smaller regulatory subunits in an alpha2beta2 structure. In the case of Escherichia coli isozyme III, assembly and dissociation of the holoenzyme has been studied. The quaternary structure of the eukaryotic enzymes is less clear and in plants and yeast only catalytic polypeptides (homologous to those of bacteria) have been clearly identified. The presence of regulatory polypeptides in these organisms cannot be ruled out, however, and genes which encode putative ALS/AHAS regulatory subunits have been identified in some cases. A consensus sequence can be constructed from the 21 sequences which have been shown experimentally to represent ALS/AHAS catalytic polypeptides. Many other sequences fit this consensus, but some genes identified as putative 'acetolactate synthase genes' are almost certainly not ALS/AHAS. The solution of the crystal structures of several thiamin diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent enzymes which are homologous to ALS/AHAS, together with the availability of many amino acid sequences for the latter enzymes, has made it possible for two laboratories to propose similar, reasonable models for a dimer of catalytic subunits of an ALS/AHAS. A number of characteristics of these enzymes can now be better understood on the basis of such models: the nature of the herbicide binding site, the structural role of FAD and the binding of ThDP-Mg2+. The models are also guides for experimental testing of ideas concerning structure-function relationships in these enzymes, e.g. the nature of the substrate recognition site. Among the important remaining questions is how the enzyme suppresses alternative reactions of the intrinsically reactive hydroxyethylThDP enamine formed by the decarboxylation of the first substrate molecule and specifically promotes its condensation with 2-oxobutyrate or pyruvate.
Acetohydroxyacid synthases (AHASs) are biosynthetic thiamin diphosphate- (ThDP) and FAD-dependent enzymes. They are homologous to pyruvate oxidase and other members of a family of ThDP-dependent enzymes which catalyze reactions in which the first step is decarboxylation of a 2-ketoacid. AHAS catalyzes the condensation of the 2-carbon moiety, derived from the decarboxylation of pyruvate, with a second 2-ketoacid, to form acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate. A structural model for AHAS isozyme II (AHAS II) from Escherichia coli has been constructed on the basis of its homology with pyruvate oxidase from Lactobacillus plantarum (LpPOX). We describe here experiments which further test the model, and test whether the binding and activation of ThDP in AHAS involve the same structural elements and mechanism identified for homologous enzymes. Interaction of a conserved glutamate with the N1' of the ThDP aminopyrimidine moiety is involved in activation of the cofactor for proton exchange in several ThDP-dependent enzymes. In accord with this, the analogue N3'-pyridyl thiamin diphosphate does not support AHAS activity. Mutagenesis of Glu47, the putative conserved glutamate, decreases the rate of proton exchange at C-2 of bound ThDP by nearly 2 orders of magnitude and decreases the turnover rate for the mutants by about 10-fold. Mutant E47A also has altered substrate specificity, pH dependence, and other changes in properties. Mutagenesis of Asp428, presumed on the basis of the model to be the crucial carboxylate ligand to Mg(2+) in the "ThDP motif", leads to a decrease in the affinity of AHAS II for Mg(2+). While mutant D428N shows ThDP affinity close to that of the wild-type on saturation with Mg(2+), D428E has a decreased affinity for ThDP. These mutations also lead to dependence of the enzyme on K(+). These experiments demonstrate that AHAS binds and activates ThDP in the same way as do pyruvate decarboxylase, transketolase, and other ThDP-dependent enzymes. The biosynthetic activity of AHAS also involves many other factors beyond the binding and deprotonation of ThDP; changes in the ligands to ThDP can have interesting and unexpected effects on the reaction.
Acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS, EC 4.1.3.18) isozyme III from Escherichia coli has been studied in steady-state kinetic experiments in which the rates of formation of acetolactate (AL) and acetohydroxybutyrate (AHB) have been determined simultaneously. The ratio between the rates of production of the two alternative products and the concentrations of the substrates pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate (2KB) leading to them, R, VAHB/VAL = R[( 2KB]/[pyruvate]), was found to be 40 +/- 3 under a wide variety of conditions. Because pyruvate is a common substrate in the reactions leading to both products and competes with 2-ketobutyrate to determine whether AL or AHB is formed, steady-state kinetic studies are unusually informative for this enzyme. At a given pyruvate concentration, the sum of the rates of formation of AL and AHB was nearly independent of the 2-ketobutyrate concentration. On the basis of these results, a mechanism is proposed for the enzyme that involves irreversible and rate-determining reaction of pyruvate, at a site which accepts 2-ketobutyrate poorly, if at all, to form an intermediate common to all the reactions. In the second phase of the reaction, various 2-keto acids can compete for this intermediate to form the respective acetohydroxy acids. 2-Keto acids other than the natural substrates pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate may also compete, to a greater or lesser extent, in the second phase of the reaction to yield alternative products, e.g., 2-ketovalerate is preferred by about 2.5-fold over pyruvate. However, the presence of an additional keto acid does not affect the relative specificity of the enzyme for pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate; this further supports the proposed mechanism. The substrate specificity in the second phase is an intrinsic property of the enzyme, unaffected by pH or feedback inhibitors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The branched chain amino acid (BCAA) biosynthesis pathway ( Fig. 1 ) leads to the formation of valine (Val), leucine (Leu) and isoleucine (Ile) 5 . Acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS) has a key position in the pathway, since the enzyme catalyzes not only the synthesis of acetolactate, the valine and leucine precursor from pyruvate, but also that of acetohydroxybutyrate, the isoleucine precursor from alpha-ketobutyrate and pyruvate 6 . Due to its relevance in the BCAA biosynthesis pathway, AHAS has been widely used as target point for herbicides 7 . There are five different chemical classes of AHAS-inhibitors: sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, triazolopyrimidines, sulfonylaminocarbonyl triazolinones and pyrimidinyl-oxy-benzoates 8 .
A novel synthetic route to heterogeneous acyloins was developed using benzothiazole/thiazolium species. The synthetic route mimics the biological action of thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) in acetohydroxyacid synthase, the first enzyme of the valine-isoleucine biosynthetic pathway. The synthetic intermediates were examined by x- ray crystallography. ::: ::: Racemic [3,4-13C2]-α-acetolactate was synthesised. Treatment of the 13C-labelled α-acetolactate with acetolactate decarboxylase and analysis of the subsequent reactions by Hnmr showed that the enzyme rapidly decarboxylated the S-isomer to give [l,2-13C2]-3-hydroxy-butan-2-one and the R-isomer underwent an enzyme catalysed tertiary ketol rearrangement and then decarboxylation to yield [3,4-13C2]-3- hydroxybutan-2-one. ::: ::: The stereochemistry of a base-catalysed tertiary ketol rearrangement was investigated. R-α-acetohydroxybutyrate was treated with alkali and the resulting products were analysed by reaction with acetolactate decarboxylase. It was found that there is a preference for a syn-conformation of the C-0 bonds during the carboxylate ion migration. ::: ::: A novel sixteen step synthesis of methyl α-acetolactate with a chiral methyl group at the α-position was developed. ::: ::: Chemical syntheses of intermediates of the valine-isoleucine biosynthetic pathway were developed, including the attempted synthesis of trifluoromethyl-analogues. ::: ::: High field ‘Hnmr techniques were used to investigate directly the reactions catalysed by AHAS isoenzyme 2 (Salmonella tvphimurium) and AHAS isolated from pea plants. The ‘Hnmr investigations permitted the analogous reactions catalysed by AHAS to be studied and gave an insight into the nature of the reactions occurring at the enzyme active site.
Acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS; EC 2.2.1.6) is a thiamin diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent decarboxylase-ligase that catalyzes the first common step in the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids. In the first stage of the reaction, pyruvate is decarboxylated and the reactive intermediate hydroxyethyl-ThDP carbanion/enamine is formed. In the second stage, the intermediate is ligated to another 2-ketoacid to form either acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate. AHAS isozyme I from Escherichia coli is unique among the AHAS isozymes in that it is not specific for 2-ketobutyrate (2-KB) over pyruvate as an acceptor substrate. It also appears to have a different mechanism for inhibition by valine than does AHAS III from E. coli. An investigation of this enzyme by directed mutagenesis and knowledge of detailed kinetics using the rapid mixing-quench NMR method or stopped-flow spectroscopy, as well as the use of alternative substrates, suggests that two residues determine most of the unique properties of AHAS I. Gln480 and Met476 in AHAS I replace the Trp and Leu residues conserved in other AHASs and lead to accelerated ligation and product release steps. This difference in kinetics accounts for the unique specificity, reversibility and allosteric response of AHAS I. The rate of decarboxylation of the initially formed 2-lactyl-ThDP intermediate is, in some AHAS I mutants, different for the alternative acceptors pyruvate and 2-KB, putting into question whether AHAS operates via a pure ping-pong mechanism. This finding might be compatible with a concerted mechanism (i.e. the formation of a ternary donor-acceptor:enzyme complex followed by covalent, ThDP-promoted catalysis with concerted decarboxylation-carboligation). It might alternatively be explained by an allosteric interaction between the multiple catalytic sites in AHAS.
Several ::: sytheses of a-acetolactate ::: analogues ::: (2-hydroxy-3-oxo ::: carboxylic esters) and related compounds were ::: developed. The ::: action of ::: the enzyme acetolactate ::: decarboxylase ::: upon these compounds was ::: studied. ::: A ::: synthesis of ::: 3-bromo-2-oxo ::: carboxylic acids, esters and amides ::: was ::: developed. Inhibition ::: studies using methyl ::: 3-bromo-3-methyl-2-oxo ::: butanoate ::: with pig ::: liver ::: esterase ::: indicated that the esters were not ::: suitable mechanism-based ::: inhibitors ::: of the enzyme. ::: A synthesis of ::: 3-hydroxy-2-oxo ::: carboxylic esters was ::: developed. ::: These ::: compounds were ::: found to isomerise, ::: via alkyl group migration, to ::: the corresponding ::: 2-hydroxy-3-oxo ::: carboxylic esters upon treatment ::: with catalytic quantities of ::: dibutyl tin oxide. ::: Cyclic ::: substrates gave ::: access to ::: 6,7 ::: and ::: 8-membered ::: ring-expanded products. ::: A one-step synthesis of ::: 2-hydroxy-3-oxo ::: carboxylic esters, ::: in ::: high ::: yield, ::: from the corresponding c43-unsaturated esters was ::: developed. This involved the use of acidic manganate ::: (VII) in ::: aqueous ::: acetone and was ::: found ::: to ::: be ::: superior to any synthesis of acyclic ::: 2- ::: hydroxy-3-oxo ::: carboxylic esters published to date. ::: ::: The ::: enzyme acetolactate ::: decarboxylase (ADC) ::: was ::: found to ::: decarboxylate ::: the ::: (S)-isomers ::: of CY-acetolactate ::: and ::: its ::: analogues to ::: give the corresponding ::: (R)-(-hydroxyketones ::: in high ::: optical purity. ::: The (R)-substrates ::: were ::: decarboxylated ::: to ::: (R)-s. 1'-hydroxyketones via ::: prior ::: isomerisation to ::: (S)-(-acetolactate ::: analogues ::: by ::: a tertiary ::: ketol ::: rearrangement ::: involving ::: carboxylate group migration. ::: As ::: a result ::: (-acetolactate ::: analogues with non-identical substituents at the ::: 2- ::: and ::: 3-positions ::: gave structurally ::: different OF-hydroxyketone ::: products upon ::: decarboxylation ::: with ::: ADC. In the case of ::: C-acetolactate, ::: a substrate ::: with identical ::: substituents at the ::: 2- ::: and ::: 3-positions, both ::: enantiomers were converted ::: into (R)-(-)-acetoin ::: with an enantiomeric ::: excess greater than 98%. This ::: represents an unusual example of the ::: enzymic conversion of ::: both ::: enantiomers of a racemic substrate ::: into ::: a ::: single enantiomer of product. ::: The behaviour ::: of the enzyme towards a ::: range of substrates gave some ::: insight into the nature of the enzyme ::: active site. ::: ::: ADC ::: was ::: found to catalyse, stereospecifically, the incorporation ::: of ::: deuterium into the ::: (R)-isomer ::: of racemic acetoin at ::: the methine ::: position. The chirality of the deuterated ::: and non-deuterated ::: components of the partially ::: deuterated ::: mixture was analysed in situ ::: by ::: vibrational circular ::: dichroism ::: measurements. ::: Acetolactate ::: synthase ::: isozyme II (ALS II) was used to generate ::: QE-acetolactate ::: and its homologues from ::: simple ::: 2-oxo ::: carboxylic acids. ::: These ::: were ::: decarboxylated in ::: situ ::: by ADC to give the corresponding ::: a-hydroxyketones ::: of ::: high optical purity. In one example ::: 01-acetohydroxybutyrate ::: was generated ::: by ::: the action of ::: ALS II ::: upon ::: 2- ::: oxobutanoate. The structure of the single ::: c-hydroxyketone ::: prepared ::: by ::: ADC-catalysed decarboxylation ::: of the 06-acetohydroxybutyrate indicated ::: that the ::: (S)-isomer ::: of ::: Qf-acetohydroxybutyrate had been ::: generated. ::: Model ::: studies were carried out on ::: 2-hydroxycyclohexanone for the ::: stereospecific reduction of the enzymatically produced ::: Ck-hydroxyketones ::: to 1,2-diols. No ::: signifiant chiral ::: induction ::: was ::: observed with sodium ::: borohydride in ::: a range of solvents or with ::: lithium ::: aluminium ::: hydride.
AHAS' (also known as acetolactate synthase; EC 4.1.3.18) catalyzes the first enzymic reaction leading to the biosynthesis of the branched chain amino acids valine, leucine, and isoleucine. The enzyme catalyzes two parallel reactions: condensation of 2 mol pyruvate to give rise to acetolactate, and condensation of pyruvate and a-ketobutyrate to yield acetohydroxybutyrate. Biochemical and genetic studies have shown that AHAS is the target site of several classes of structurally unrelated herbicides, which include the imidazolinones, the sulfonylureas, and the triazolopyrimidines (1, 11, 15) .
Acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS) and related enzymes catalyze the production of chiral compounds [(S)-acetolactate, (S)-acetohydroxybutyrate, or (R)-phenylacetylcarbinol] from achiral substrates (pyruvate, 2-ketobutyrate, or benzaldehyde). The common methods for the determination of AHAS activity have shortcomings. The colorimetric method for detection of acyloins formed from the products is tedious and does not allow time-resolved measurements. The continuous assay for consumption of pyruvate based on its absorbance at 333 nm, though convenient, is limited by the extremely small extinction coefficient of pyruvate, which results in a low signal-to-noise ratio and sensitivity to interfering absorbing compounds. Here, we report the use of circular dichroism spectroscopy for monitoring AHAS activity. This method, which exploits the optical activity of reaction products, displays a high signal-to-noise ratio and is easy to perform both in time-resolved and in commercial modes. In addition to AHAS, we examined the determination of activity of glyoxylate carboligase. This enzyme catalyzes the condensation of two molecules of glyoxylate to chiral tartronic acid semialdehyde. The use of circular dichroism also identifies the product of glyoxylate carboligase as being in the (R) configuration.
The group of herbicides belonging to the imidazolinone family targets acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) or acetolactate synthase (ALS), an octameric enzyme with four catalytic and four regulatory subunits [13] . The enzyme AHAS catalyses two parallel reactions in the synthesis of branched chain amino acids. The first reaction is condensation of two pyruvate molecules to yield acetolactate leading to the production of valine and leucine, and the other reaction is the condensation of pyruvate and aketobutyrate that give rise to acetohydroxybutyrate, which subsequently results in the synthesis of isoleucine [14] . The AHAS-inhibiting herbicides are known to bind at the substrate access channel, blocking the path of substrate to the active site. When AHAS is inhibited, deficiency of the amino acids (valine, leucine and isoleucine) causes a decrease in protein synthesis, which in turn slows down the rate of cell division. This process eventually kills the plant, with symptoms observed in meristematic tissues where biosynthesis of amino acids primarily takes place [12] . In most cases, resistant plants have a reduced sensitivity to these herbicides due to amino acid substitution(s) in AHAS that give rise to catalytically active isoforms of the enzyme. Most AHAS isoenzymes resistant to the herbicides carry substitutions for the amino acid residues Ala122, Pro197, Ala205, Asp376, Trp574 or Ser653 (amino acid numbering refers to the sequence in Arabidopsis thaliana) [13] . Amino acid substitutions at Ala122 and Ser653 confer high levels of resistance to imidazolinone herbicides, whereas substitutions at Pro197 endow high level of resistance against sulfonylureas and provide low-level resistance against imidazolinone and triazolopyrimidine herbicides. Likewise, substitutions at Trp574 provide high levels of resistance to imidazolinones, sulfonylureas and triazolopyrimidines, while substitutions at Ala205 confer resistance against all AHASinhibiting herbicides [15] .
IMI-resistance in oilseed rape was developed by exposing oilseed rape microspores to ethylnitrosourea resulting in mutation of the acetolactate synthase (ALS) (EC 4.1.3.18) gene (Swanson et al. 1989) . The target enzyme for IMI herbicides is ALS or acetohydroxyacid synthase (Shaner et al. 1984 , Stidham 1991 , Vaughn and Duke 1991 , Dekker and Duke 1995 . The enzyme catalyzes the production of the branched chain amino acids: valine, leucine and isoleucine (Umbarger 1978 , Shaner et al. 1984 . The reactions, which ALS catalyzes, are: 1) 2 pyruvate → acetolactate + CO 2 and 2) pyruvate + α-ketobutyrate → acetohydroxybutyrate + CO 2 (Singh et al. 1988) . The biosynthesis of branched chain amino acid occurs in chloroplasts (Monaco et al. 2002) . When valine, leucine and isoleucine production is inhibited by imidazolinones, plant growth decreases and is followed by plant death (Shaner et al. 1984, Dekker and Duke 1995) .
Acetohydroxyacid synthases (AHAS) catalyses the first step in de novo branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) biosynthesis, a pathway present in plants, fungi, algae and bacteria. It is the target for more than 50 commercial herbicides that are a foundation in weed control for all major crops. AHAS catalyses the condensation of pyruvate with another molecule of pyruvate, or with 2-ketobutyrate, to produce 2-acetolactate or 2-acetohydroxybutyrate, respectively (Fig 1) . Thiamin diphosphate (ThDP), flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), and a divalent metal ion are all essential co-factors in this reaction. ThDP plays a central role by forming covalent bonds with the reaction intermediates [1] (Fig 1) . FAD is also absolutely required by AHAS for catalysis, although its involvement in a redox reaction has not been established [1] [2] [3] [4] . Tittmann and co-workers 4 have shown that in a side-reaction of AHAS, the catalytic intermediate 2-
Acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS; EC 4.1.3.18) catalyzes the following two parallel, physiologically important reactions: condensation of two molecules of pyruvate to form acetolactate (AL), in the pathway to valine and leucine, and condensation of pyruvate plus 2-ketobutyrate to form acetohydroxybutyrate (AHB), in the pathway to isoleucine. We have determined the specificity ratio R with regard to these two reactions (where VAHB and VAL are rates of formation of the respective products) as follows: VAHB/VAL = R [2-ketobutyrate]/[pyruvate] for 14 enzymes from 10 procaryotic and eucaryotic organisms. Each organism considered has at least one AHAS of R greater than 20, and some appear to contain but a single biosynthetic AHAS. The implications of this for the design of the pathway are discussed. The selective pressure for high specificity for 2-ketobutyrate versus pyruvate implies that the 2-ketobutyrate concentration is much lower than the pyruvate concentration in all these organisms. It seems important for 2-ketobutyrate levels to be relatively low to avoid a variety of metabolic interferences. These results also reinforce the conclusion that biosynthetic AHAS isozymes of low R (1 to 2) are a special adaptation for heterotrophic growth on certain poor carbon sources. Two catabolic "pH 6 AL-synthesizing enzymes" are shown to be highly specific for AL formation only (R less than 0.1).
Acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS) is a thiamin diphosphate-dependent enzyme that catalyzes the condensation of pyruvate with either another pyruvate molecule (product acetolactate) or 2-ketobutyrate (product acetohydroxybutyrate) as the first common step in the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids in plants, bacteria, algae, and fungi. AHAS isozyme II from Escherichia coli exhibits a 60-fold higher specificity for 2-ketobutyrate (2-KB) over pyruvate as acceptor, which was shown to result from a stronger hydrophobic interaction of the ethyl substituent of 2-KB with the side chain of Trp464 in multiple, apparently committed steps of catalysis. Here, we have elucidated the molecular determinants conferring specificity for pyruvate as the sole physiological donor substrate. Structural studies and sequence alignments of the POX subfamily of ThDP enzymes that act on pyruvate indicate that a valine and a phenylalanine hydrophobically interact with the methyl substituent of pyruvate. Kinetic and thermodynamic studies on AHAS isozyme II variants with substitutions at these positions (Val375Ala, Val375Ile, and Phe109Met) were carried out. While Val375 variants exhibit a slightly reduced k(cat) with a moderate increase of the apparent K(M) of pyruvate, both substrate affinity and k(cat) are significantly compromised in AHAS Phe109Met. The specificity for 2-ketobutyrate as acceptor is not altered in the variants. Binding of acylphosphonates as analogues of donor substrates was analyzed by circular dichroism spectroscopy and stopped-flow kinetics. While binding of the pyruvate analogue is 10-100-fold compromised in all variants, Val375Ala binds the 2-KB analogue better than the wild type and with higher affinity than the pyruvate analogue, suggesting steric constraints imposed by Val375 as a major determinant for the thermodynamically favored binding of pyruvate in AHAS. NMR-based intermediate analysis at steady state reveals that a mutation of either Val375 or Phe109 is detrimental for unimolecular catalytic steps in which tetrahedral intermediates are involved, such as substrate addition to the cofactor and product liberation. This observation implies Val375 and Phe109 to not only conjointly mediate substrate binding and specificity but moreover to ensure a proper orientation of the donor substrate and intermediates for correct orbital alignment in multiple transition states.
Branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) are essential amino acids that play important roles in protein anabolism and neurotransmitter biosynthesis in animals [1, 2] . Because animals lack the ability to synthesize BCAAs, they must acquire them from their diet. Plants are the ultimate source of these essential amino acids for animals. ALS is the first enzyme in the pathway for the biosynthesis of BCAAs [3] ; ALS catalyzes the condensation of two pyruvate molecules to form acetolactate (a precursor of valine and leucine), and the condensation of pyruvate and α-ketobutyrate to yield acetohydroxybutyrate (a precursor of isoleucine) (Figure 1 ). Plant ALS is inhibited by all three BCAAs, with valine and leucine being particularly potent [4] .
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) is a thiamin diphosphate dependent enzyme that catalyses the decarboxylation of pyruvate to yield the hydroxyethyl-thiamin diphosphate (ThDP) anion/enamine intermediate (HEThDP(-)). This intermediate reacts with a second ketoacid to form acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate as products. Whereas the mechanism involved in the formation of HEThDP(-) from pyruvate is well understood, the role of the enzyme in controlling the carboligation reaction of HEThDP(-) has not been determined yet. In this work, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were employed to identify the aminoacids involved in the carboligation stage. These MD studies were carried out over the catalytic subunit of yeast AHAS containing the reaction intermediate (HEThDP(-)) and a second pyruvate molecule. Our results suggest that additional acid-base ionizable groups are not required to promote the catalytic cycle, in contrast with earlier proposals. This finding leads us to postulate that the formation of acetolactate relies on the acid-base properties of the HEThDP(-) intermediate itself. PM3 semiempirical calculations were employed to obtain the energy profile of the proposed mechanism on a reduced model of the active site. These calculations confirm the role of HEThDP(-) intermediate as the ionizable group that promotes the carboligation and product formation steps of the catalytic cycle.
Pyruvate and 2-oxobutanoate were incubated with acetolactate synthase [acetolactate pyruvate lyase (carboxylating, EC 4.1.3.18)] in the presence of acetolactate decarboxylase [(S)-2-hydroxy-2-methyl-3-oxobutanoate carboxy-lyase, EC 4.1.1.5)]. The exclusive production of 3-hydroxypentan-2-one showed that the α-acetohydroxybutyrate (2-ethyl-2-hydroxy-3-oxobutanoate) produced by acetolactate synthase had the (S)-configuration. The ability of acetolactate decarboxylase to catalyse rearrangement of the (R)-enantiomer of substrates via carboxylate migration was investigated using [3,4-13C2]-α-acetolactate, in which the degeneracy of the rearrangement of the normal substrate was broken by isotopic labelling. The predicted sequential formation of [1,2-13C2]- and [3,4-13C2]-acetoin was observed.
Acetolactate decarboxylase [EC 4.1.1.5] (ALDC) catalyzes the decarboxylation of (S)--acetolactate 1 (the natural substrate) and (S)--acetohydroxybutyrate 2 to (R)-acetoin 3 and (R)-3-hydroxypentan-2-one 4 respectively (Scheme 1).
1-11 As well as having significance in the brewing process, 5 ALDC has been used for the synthesis of enantiomerically-pure diols. 6 An interesting feature of this enzyme is that it also catalyses, at a lower rate, the decarboxylation of the corresponding (R)-enantiomer of 1 to give (R)-3, and also the conversion of (R)--acetohydroxybutyrate 2 to (R)-2-hydroxypentan-3-one 5 (Scheme 1). [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] Scheme 1. Decarboxylation reactions catalyzed by ALDC.
AHAS has been studied in steady state kinetic experiments in which the rates of formation of acetolactate (AL) Scheme 1 * To whom correspondence should be addressed. Tel: +82-2-2290-0946; Fax: +82-2-2299-0762; e-mail: myyoon@hanyang.ac.kr and acetohydroxybutyrate (AHB) have been determined simutaneously. 2, 5 The ratio between the rates of production of the two alternative products and the concentrations of the substrates pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate leads them to V AHB / V AL = R ([2-ketobutyrate]/[pyruvate]). Among the three enterobacterial enzymes, only AHAS I has a relatively low R factor of 2. However, AHAS II and III have high R-values of 65 and 40, respectively, suggesting a high specificity for acetohydroxybutyrate formation. This is consistent with the fact that the intracellular concentration of the major metabolic intermediate pyruvate is higher than that of 2-ketobutyrate, indicating that the mechanism involves an irreversible and rate-determining reaction of pyruvate. Lee et al. 6 carried out steady-state kinetic studies of recombinant tobacco AHAS using pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate as substrates. They proposed that recombinant tobacco AHAS catalyzes the reaction in the manner of a Uni Uni Ping Pong Bi Bi mechanism.
The ilvC gene encodes acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase (EC 1.1.1.89), the second enzyme in the parallel isoleucine-valine biosynthetic pathway. Expression of the ilvC gene is induced by acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase substrates, acetohydroxybutyrate or acetolactate. This substrate induction is mediated by a positive activator encoded by an adjacent gene, ilvY. The ilvY and ilvC genes are transcribed in opposite directions from promoters that are overlapping. In this paper we characterize the in vitro DNA binding properties of the ilvY-encoded activator protein. The ilvY product binds to two adjacent operator sites located in the divergent-overlapping ilvY and ilvC promoter region. One of these operators, designated O1 contains regions of dyad symmetry centered at position +17 relative to the ilvY transcriptional start site, and the second site, designated O2, contains an homologous inverted repeat sequence centered about the -35 region of the ilvC promoter. Binding of the ilvY product at the O1 and O2 operator sites is co-operative and this ilvY protein-DNA complex in the presence of acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase substrate is a prerequisite for RNA polymerase binding to the ilvC promoter as detected by DNase I protection experiments. Additionally, chromosomal galK transcriptional fusion assays were performed to characterize the regulation of the ilvY and ilvC promoters in vivo. Transcription of the ilvC gene is maintained at a basal level of activity which is elevated as much as 15-fold in the presence of ilvY product and acetohydroxybutyrate. The ilvY product represses ilvY transcription in a manner that does not appear to be dependent on acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase substrate. We discuss models in which activation of ilvC transcription results from a direct interaction of ilvY protein with RNA polymerase or an ilvY-mediated alteration of the DNA conformation of the ilvC -35 promoter region. Additionally, we discuss the role of acetohydroxybutyrate and acetolactate in ilvY transcriptional regulation.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS, EC4.1.3.18), also called acetolactate synthase (ALS, EC2.2.16), is a key enzyme which plays a vital role in the first step of the biosynthesis of the branched-chain amino acids valine, isoleucine and leucine. AHAS catalyzes two parallel reactions: the condensation of two pyruvates to generate acetolactate, and 2-ketoglutarate to generate acetohydroxybutyrate. Substantial research on Arabidopsis, barley and sunflower showed that some base substitution in resistant mutants led to changes in amino acids which resulted in interference with herbicides acting on AHAS enzymes [1, 2] . There are five chemical families of herbicides that inhibit the AHAS enzyme, including the imidazolinones (IMI), the sulfonylureas (SU), the pyrimidinylthiobenzoates (POB), the triazolinones (TZ, also known as sulfonylaminocarbonyltrazolinones) and the triazolopyrimidines (SCT), thus these herbicides could be called Acetohydroxyacid synthase-inhibiting herbicides (AHAS herbicieds). The SU and IMI herbicides have been in use over two decades [3] . SU herbicides (chlorosulfuron, metsulfuron-methyl and triasulfuron) are cheap, effective and safe herbicides that act against a wide spectrum of weeds at low rates of application, but their breakdown is very slow [4, 5] . They can inhibit the activity of AHAS through binding to a quinone-binding site. IMI herbicides are registered for use on non-pulse crops including rapeseed, sunflower, barley, spring wheat, oats, and pulse crops: lentil, dry bean, field pea and soybean [6] .
AHAS I is an isozyme of acetohydroxyacid synthase which is apparently unique to enterobacteria. It has been known for over 20 years that it has many properties which are quite different from those of the other two enterobacterial AHASs isozymes, as well as from those of “typical” AHASs which are single enzymes in a given organism. These include a unique mechanism for regulation of expression and the absence of a preference for forming acetohydroxybutyrate. We have cloned the two subunits, ilvB and ilvN, of this Escherichia coli isoenzyme and examined the enzymatic properties of the purified holoenzyme and the enzyme reconstituted from purified subunits. Unlike other AHASs, AHAS I demonstrates cooperative feedback inhibition by valine, and the kinetics fit closely to an exclusive binding model. The formation of acetolactate by AHAS I is readily reversible and acetolactate can act as substrate for alternative AHAS I-catalyzed reactions.
Addition of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) or an inhibitor of the BCAA biochemical pathways during fermentation of milk with a lac(-) mutant of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus and Streptococcus thermophilus strongly influenced the formation of two aroma-impact compounds, 2,3-butanedione and 2,3-pentanedione, as well as their direct precursors 2-acetolactate and 2-acetohydroxybutyrate. This suggests a connection between vicinal diketone formation and BCAA biosynthesis in yogurt bacteria. A recently developed static-and-trapped headspace technique combined with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry demonstrated incorporation of (13)C from [U-(13)C(6)]-D-glucose and [U-(13)C(4)]-L-threonine into both vicinal diketones. For 2,3-butanedione, glucose is the major precursor via pyruvate and activated acetaldehyde. For 2, 3-pentanedione, L-threonine is a precursor via 2-ketobutyrate, but glucose is the major contributor via activated acetaldehyde and, possibly, also via 2-ketobutyrate, which is a degradation product of 3-methylaspartate, an intermediate in glutamate synthesis.
Abstract The thiamin diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent bio-synthetic enzyme acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) catalyzes decarboxylation of pyruvate and specific condensation of the resulting ThDP-bound two-carbon intermediate, hydroxyethyl-ThDP anion/enamine (HEThDP-), with a second ketoacid, to form acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate. Whereas the mechanism of formation of HEThDP- from pyruvate is well understood, the role of the enzyme in control of the carboligation reaction of HEThDP- is not. Recent crystal structures of yeast AHAS from Duggleby's laboratory suggested that an arginine residue might interact with the second ketoacid substrate. Mutagenesis of this completely conserved residue in Escherichia coli AHAS isozyme II (Arg276) confirms that it is required for rapid and specific reaction of the second ketoacid. In the mutant proteins, the normally rapid second phase of the reaction becomes rate-determining. A competing alternative nonnatural but stereospecific reaction of bound HEThDP- with benzaldehyde to form phenylacetylcarbinol (Engel, S., Vyazmensky, M., Geresh, S., Barak, Z., and Chipman, D. M. (2003) Biotechnol. Bioeng. 84, 833-840) provides a new tool for studying the fate of HEThDP- in AHAS, since the formation of the new product has a very different dependence on active site modifications than does acetohydroxyacid acid formation. The effects of mutagenesis of four different residues in the site on the rates and specificities of the normal and unnatural reactions support a critical role for Arg276 in the stabilization of the transition states for ligation of the incoming second ketoacid with HEThDP- and/or for the breaking of the product-ThDP bond. This information makes it possible to engineer the active site so that it efficiently and preferentially catalyzes a new reaction.
The thiamin diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent biosynthetic enzyme acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) catalyzes decarboxylation of pyruvate and specific condensation of the resulting ThDP-bound two-carbon intermediate, hydroxyethyl-ThDP anion/enamine (HEThDP ؊ ), with a second ketoacid, to form acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate. Whereas the mechanism of formation of HEThDP ؊ from pyruvate is well understood, the role of the enzyme in control of the carboligation reaction of HEThDP ؊ is not. Recent crystal structures of yeast AHAS from Duggleby's laboratory suggested that an arginine residue might interact with the second ketoacid substrate. Mutagenesis of this completely conserved residue in Escherichia coli AHAS isozyme II (Arg 276 ) confirms that it is required for rapid and specific reaction of the second ketoacid. In the mutant proteins, the normally rapid second phase of the reaction becomes rate-determining. A competing alternative nonnatural but stereospecific reaction of bound Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) 1 belongs to a homologous family of thiamin diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent enzymes that catalyze reactions whose initial step is decarboxylation of pyruvate or another 2-ketoacid (1, 2). However, despite the similarity of AHASs to, for example, pyruvate decarboxylases and pyruvate oxidases (3-6), AHASs carry out a specific carboligation reaction in which the decarboxylation of pyruvate is followed by the condensation of the bound hydroxyethyl-ThDP anion/enamine (HEThDP Ϫ ) intermediate with a second aliphatic ketoacid to form an acetohydroxyacid (Fig. 1) . Whereas the role of the enzyme in the first steps in AHAS catalysis (i.e. activation of ThDP (7), decarboxylation of pyruvate, and formation of HEThDP Ϫ (step 1 in Fig. 1) ) is comparable with the function of other members of its homologous family (8), it has been difficult to suggest roles for specific protein residues in the final steps (2 and 3) of the reaction in which the product acetohydroxyacid is formed and released.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) 3 (E.C. 2.2.1.6) catalyzes the first step in de novo branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) biosynthesis, an anabolic pathway present in plants, fungi, and bacteria. AHAS catalyzes the condensation of pyruvate with another molecule of pyruvate, or with 2-ketobutyrate, to produce acetolactate or 2-acetohydroxybutyrate, respectively. In relationship to its essential role in anabolism, AHAS activity is highly regulated by cellular processes. For example, the activity of yeast AHAS (ScAHAS, catalytic subunit ilv2) is stimulated by a regulatory subunit (ilv6). The interaction between these two subunits confers sensitivity to feedback inhibition by valine, an inhibition that is partially reversed by ATP (1, 2) ( Fig. 1) .
Acetohydroxyacid synthase I (AHAS I) purified from Escherichia coli K-12 was irreversibly inactivated by incubation with 3-bromopyruvate. Inactivation was specific, insofar as bromoacetate and iodoacetate were much less effective than bromopyruvate. Inactivation was accompanied by incorporation of radioactivity from 3-bromo[2-14C]pyruvate into acid-insoluble material. More than 95% of the incorporated radioactivity coelectrophoresed with the 60-kilodalton IlvB subunit of the enzyme through a sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel; less than 5% coelectrophoresed with the 11.2-kilodalton IlvN subunit. The stoichiometry of incorporation at nearly complete inactivation was 1 mol of 14C per mol of IlvB polypeptide. These data indicate that bromopyruvate inactivates AHAS I by alkylating an amino acid at or near a single active site located in the IlvB subunit of the enzyme. We confirmed that this alkylation inactivated both AHAS reactions normally catalyzed by AHAS I. These results provide the first direct evidence that AHAS I catalyzes both acetohydroxybutyrate and acetolactate synthesis from the same active site. Images
We previously characterized a set of lambda dilv phages by genetic, restriction enzyme, and heteroduplex analyses and tentatively correlated isoleucine-valine gene products with specific ilv DNA segments by using cloned ilv segments in maxicells and lambda dilv phage infection of UV-irradiated cells. In this work, the identity of the ilvC gene product, alpha-acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase, was confirmed by demonstrating its induction by the physiological inducers alpha-acetolactate and alpha-acetohydroxybutyrate. The identity of the ilvE gene product, transaminase, B, was confirmed by antibody precipitation of the purified enzyme. Phage derivatives with ilv regulatory mutations were found to have the predicted effect upon the ilvGEDA and ilvC protein products. The distribution of the ilvGEDA and ilvC gene products in the soluble, periplasmic, inner membrane, and outer membrane fractions was examined, and no significant membrane association was observed. The expression of the ilv genes in the lambda dilv phage from ilv and phage lambda promoters was compared in order to determine the fractional contribution of each to ilv gene expression. An additional protein of 54,000 daltons that was not detected in the previous analysis was observed to be coded by a bacterial gene but was produced only by readthrough from phage promoters.
Previous studies on fusel alcohol and ester formation in continuous culture (Watson & Hough, 1969; Berry & Chamberlain, 1986) , have led to the suggestion that control of the production of branched-chain aldehydes lies in the supply of branched-chain keto acids (Watson & Hough, 1969) . Woodward & Cirillo (1977) have shown that large amounts of these keto acids accumulate in radioactive form in the medium if 14C-labelled branched-chain amino acids are administered to prolinegrown Saccharomyces cerevisiae in the presence of glucose, though few are formed if the yeast is grown on ammonium or if glucose is absent. In the formation of branched-chain keto acids from the corresponding amino acids, one or more branched-chain amino acid aminotransferases (Bode & Birnbaum, 1988 ) must play a key role, and during growth on ammonium where the branched-chain keto acids are synthesized de novo via acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate, the same aminotransferase(s) will compete with pyruvate decarboxylase for the keto acids. This competition might be controlled by subcellular compartmentation (Bigelis et al., 1983) . N o continuous culture studies have been performed on the distribution of branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase activity in yeasts.
The enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine have been shown to be present in cell-free extracts of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv. In addition to the known enzymes of the pathway, cell-free extracts of this organism contain a new enzyme. When cell-free extracts were incubated with acetolactate and Image -ascorbic acid, without reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, the isomer of acetolactate, viz., α-keto-β-hydroxyisovalerate, was found to accumulate and was identified by different methods. The reaction is enzymic, and Image -ascorbic acid cannot be replaced by other reducing agents such as hydroquinone, 2,6-dichlorophenol indophenol, or glutathione; by derivatives of Image -ascorbic acid such as dehydroascorbic acid or dimethyl ascorbic acid; or by cobamide coenzyme. Since the extracts also isomerize α-acetohydroxybutyrate to α-keto-β-hydroxy-β-methylvalerate, the enzyme catalyzing the reaction has been termed “acetohydroxy acid isomerase.” This is the first time that the presence of acetohydroxy acid isomerase has been reported in any biological system and that a specific metabolic role has been assigned for Image -ascorbic acid. The extract also possesses reductase activity to convert α-keto-β-hydroxyisovalerate to α,β-dihydroxyisovalerate in the presence of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate.
The enzyme acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS, EC 4.1.3.18) catalyzes two competing reactions of physiological importance: condensation of two molecules of pyruvate to form acetolactate (AL) or condensation of pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate to form acetohydroxybutyrate (AHB). The activity of AHAS is most frequently analyzed using the Westerfeld method, in which the acetoin formed upon decarboxylation of AL is determined by colorimetric reaction with creatine and alpha-naphthol. However, there has been confusion as to the interpretation of the results of this assay in the presence of both substrates, conditions which lead to formation of both AL and AHB. By applying this assay to enzymatically prepared samples of AL and AHB which have also been analyzed by two other independent methods, we show here that the color yield for AHB in the commonly used assay is 35-40% that for equivalent amounts of acetoin or AL. The relative color yield is not significantly affected by varying the time or temperature of various steps in the color-forming reaction. This information could in principle be used, together with an independent specific assay for AHB, to determine the composition of an AHAS product mixture; it would, however, be less accurate than a simultaneous chromatographic method.
Research has been conducted on understanding diacetyl formation and reducing diacetyl production, but the area still remains a challenge, especially in regard to new brewing technologies, such as continuous fermentation, high gravity brewing and, in particular, any process change which results in shorter fermentation time (Boulton and Quain 2001; Nienow et al. 2011; Verbelen et al. 2008 Verbelen et al. , 2009 . One promising method of decreasing diacetyl production during fermentation, without the use of GM strains (Blomqvist et al. 1991; Dillemans et al. 1987; Duong et al. 2011; Kronlöf and Linko 1992; Kusunoki and Ogata 2012; Lu et al. 2012; Mithieux and Weiss 1995; Wang et al. 2008) , is through the control of the valine content of the wort. Valine is involved in feedback inhibition of the enzyme acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS), which catalyses both the irreversible conversion of pyruvate to α-acetolactate (the precursor of diacetyl) and α-ketobutyrate to α-acetohydroxybutyrate, and is of importance regarding VDK production (Barton and Slaughter 1992; Magee and de Robichon-Szulmajster 1968) . Disruption of the AHAS-encoding ILV2 gene and/or the ILV6 gene, encoding its regulatory subunit, have produced yeast strains with lower diacetyl productions rates (Duong et al. 2011; Kusunoki and Ogata 2012; Wang et al. 2008) . Valine can thus be linked to the control of the formation of diacetyl precursors. The concentrations of other amino acids, especially branched-chain, in the wort may also indirectly affect diacetyl production, since they affect the uptake rate of valine into the cell and may also be involved in enzyme inhibition (Barton and Slaughter 1992; Didion et al. 1998; Kodama et al. 2001; Magee and de Robichon-Szulmajster 1968) . Higher wort valine concentrations and greater valine uptake result in decreased diacetyl production during fermentation (Cyr et al. 2007; Nakatani et al. 1984; Petersen et al. 2004) . However, no previous trials have been performed to determine the effects of alteration of background wort amino acid profile on the production of diacetyl during fermentation. Hence, the objective of this study was to investigate the influence of valine supplementation, wort amino acid profile and free amino nitrogen content on diacetyl formation and valine uptake rates during wort fermentation with the lager yeast Saccharomyces pastorianus.
Leavitt, Richard I. (Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass.) and H. E. Umbarger. Isoleucine and valine metabolism in Escherichia coli. XI. Valine inhibition of the growth of Escherichia coli strain K-12. J. Bacteriol. 83:624–630. 1962.—The inhibition of the growth of Escherichia coli strain K-12 by valine was shown to be due to the sensitivity of the acetohydroxybutyrate-forming system to valine. It was demonstrated that both E. coli strain W, a strain whose growth is unaffected by valine, and a valine-resistant mutant of strain K-12 have acetolactate- and acetohydroxybutyrate-forming systems which are less sensitive to valine than that of strain K-12. It was further shown that α-aminobutyrate accumulates in the culture fluid of the valine-sensitive strain when incubated in the presence of valine. The levels of valine in the “free amino acid pool” were examined and found to be related to the differences in valine sensitivity of the acetolactate-forming systems of the three strains.
Abstract Corynebacterium glutamicum acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS), composed of two subunits IlvB and IlvN, catalyzes the first reaction in the biosynthetic pathway of branched-chain amino acids. It either condenses two pyruvates to yield acetolactate, leading to the biosynthesis of L-valine and L-leucine, or condenses pyruvate with 2-ketobutyrate to yield acetohydroxybutyrate, leading to L-isoleucine biosynthesis. However, the mechanism for the substrate specificity of C. glutamicum AHAS remains unknown. In this study, AHASs from an L-valine-producing C. glutamicum VWB-1 and an L-isoleucine-producing C. glutamicum IWJ001 were analyzed. The amino acid sequence of IlvN from both strains are the same, but the 138th and 404th residues of IlvB from the two strains are different; they are alanine and valine in IWJ001 (IlvB138A404V), but valine and alanine in VWB-1 (IlvB138V404A). When IlvB138A404V and IlvB138V404A were overexpressed in wild type C. glutamicum ATCC14067 and its △alr△aceE△ilvA△leuA mutant YTW-104, the latter led to much more L-valine production than the former. AHAS activity studies also showed that the 138th valine was important for binding the 2nd substrate pyruvate but not the 404th alanine. YTW-104/pJYW4-ilvB138V404A-ilvNCE could produce 25.93 g/L L-valine. The results indicate that the 138th valine of IlvB in AHAS could play an important role, leading to the increased L-valine biosynthesis in C. glutamicum.
Abstract The ilvC gene of Escherichia coli K12 encodes acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase, the second enzyme in the parallel isoleucine-valine biosynthetic pathway. Previous data have shown that transcription of the ilvC gene is induced by the acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase substrates, acetohydroxybutyrate or acetolactate, and that this substrate induction of ilvC expression is mediated by a positive activator encoded by the ilvY gene. We report here the isolation and complete nucleotide sequence of the ilvY and ilvC genes. The ilvY and ilvC genes encode polypeptides of Mr 33,200 and 54,000, respectively. In vitro transcription-translation of these gene templates results in the synthesis of gene products of these identical molecular weights. The ilvC gene is transcribed in the same direction as the genes of the adjacent ilvGMEDA operon. The ilvY gene is transcribed in a direction opposite to the ilvC and ilvGMEDA genes. The in vivo transcriptional initiation sites of the ilvY and ilvC genes have been determined by S1 nuclease protection experiments. These transcriptional initiation sites are 45 nucleotides apart, and transcription of the ilvY and ilvC genes is initiated via divergent overlapping promoters. The nucleotide sequence of the ilvY and ilvC promoters and 5'-coding regions of Salmonella typhimurium LT2 have been determined. A comparison of these sequences with E. coli K12 suggests regions important in the promotion, regulation, and translation of the ilvY and ilvC genes. A model is presented in which the ilvY-encoded activator binds to an operator site in the overlapping promoter region and reciprocally regulates the transcription of the ilvY and ilvC genes. The carboxyl-terminal amino acid sequence of threonine deaminase encoded by the ilvA gene of the ilv-GMEDA operon of E. coli K12 has been identified by homology with the previously deduced threonine deaminase amino acid sequence encoded by the ilv1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Based on the deduced amino acid sequences of the ilvA and ilvY genes, the translational termination codons for both genes are shown to be separated by 52 nucleotides. The proximity of the ilvA and ilvY genes suggests that the 3'-ends of these transcripts overlap.
Summary: Acetolactate synthase from mitochondria of Euglena gracilis was markedly activated by ATP and feedback-inhibited by valine and, to a lesser extent, by other branched-chain amino acids. 2-Oxobutyrate, a substrate converted to acetohydroxybutyrate, had a much higher affinity for this enzyme than pyruvate and markedly inhibited the formation of acetolactate from pyruvate. The inhibition of growth of E. gracilis by threonine and the relief of this inhibition by valine are explained by these characteristic properties of E. gracilis acetolactate synthase, the key enzyme in the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids.
The properties of acetolactate and acetoin producing systems were studied using several plant species at different growth stages. The effects of herbicide chlorsulfuron on the correlation between these systems and plant growth were investigated, and the methods for determining acetolactate formed during the enzyme assay were evaluated.None of the plant species was inhibited in germination of seeds by chlorsulfuron. Growth and the acetolactate synthase (ALS) activity of rice and wheat were inhibited by chlorsulfuron, whereas growth of mungbean, soybean and azuki bean was not inhibited during the 4 days after germination. It was concluded that the chlorsulfuron-insensitivity of soybean depended on the contents of both ALS and acetoin forming enzyme: the content of ALS in soybean during the early days after germination was very low, whereas that of acetoin forming enzyme was very high. The enzyme which formed acetoin in soybean had optimum pH at 6 and this decreased with growth; ALS which had optimum pH at 7-8 began to increase from the 5 days after germination. The gas chromatographic method was used to determine acetolactate synthesized from pyruvate and acetohydroxybutyrate (AHB) synthesized from pyruvate and ketobutyrate during the enzyme assay. AHB synthesis in the enzyme assay was inhibited by chlorsulfuron at the same concentration as inhibited acetolactate synthesis. Acetolactate, acetoin and pyruvate were separated by high performance liquid chromatography using authentic compounds, but no acetolactate was present in a detectable amount in the enzyme reaction products.
Acetolactate synthase from mitochondria of Euglena gracilis was markedly activated by ATP and feedback-inhibited by valine and, to a lesser extent, by other branched-chain amino acids. 2-Oxobutyrate, a substrate converted to acetohydroxybutyrate, had a much higher affinity for this enzyme than pyruvate and markedly inhibited the formation of acetolactate from pyruvate. The inhibition of growth of E. gracilis by threonine and the relief of this inhibition by valine are explained by these characteristic properties of E. gracilis acetolactate synthase, the key enzyme in the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids.
None of the plant species was inhibited in germination of seeds by chlorsulfuron. Growth and the acetolactate synthase (ALS) activity of rice and wheat were inhibited by chlorsulfuron, whereas growth of mungbean, soybean and azuki bean was not inhibited during the 4 days after germination. It was concluded that the chlorsulfuron-insensitivity of soybean depended on the contents of both ALS and acetoin forming enzyme: the content of ALS in soybean during the early days after germination was very low, whereas that of acetomn forming enzyme was very high. The enzyme which formed acetoin in soybean had optimum pH at 6 and this decreased with growth; ALS which had optimum pH at 7-8 began to increase from the 5 days after germination. The gas chromatographic method was used to determine acetolactate synthesized from pyruvate and acetohydroxybutyrate (AHB) synthesized from pyruvate and ketobutyrate during the enzyme assay. AHB synthesis in the enzyme assay was inhibited by chlorsulfuron at the same concentration as inhibited acetolactate synthesis. Acetolactate, acetoin and pyruvate were separated by high performance liquid chromatography using authentic compounds, but no acetolactate was present in a detectable amount in the enzyme reaction products.
Enzyme acetolactate synthase (ALS) catalyzes synthesis of the branched-chain amino acids valine and leucine through production of 2-acetolactate from two molecules of pyruvate, and isoleucine by production of 2-acetohydroxybutyrate from pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate.
The stereochemistry of the alkali-catalysed rearrangement of α-acetohydroxybutyrate (2-ethyl-2-hydroxy-3-oxobutanoate) was studied. The rearrangement was found to proceed via a transition state in which a syn arrangement of the C–O bonds is preferred over the anti arrangement by a factor of ≥2:1.
Duckweed colonies were grown on 1 l of nutrient solution supplied with 10 μM L-[(14)C]leucine or with 25 μM L-[(14)C]valine. Under these conditions the exogenously supplied amino acid did not inhibit growth, but caused in the plants a moderately increased pool of that amino acid, which remained essentially constant during the culture period. The effect of the increased pool of valine or leucine on the biosynthesis of these amino acids was determined from isotope dilution in the protein-bound valine and-or leucine. An increase in the leucine pool from 1.1 to 5.0 nmol mg(-1) dry weight resulted in a 21% reduction of metabolite flow through the common part of the valine-leucine biosynthetic pathway; leucine synthesis was reduced by 35%, but valine synthesis by only 5% and isoleucine synthesis was apparently unaffected. An increase in the valine pool from 3.2 to 6.6 nmol mg(-1) dry weight reduced the metabolite flow through the valine-leucine pathway by 48%, valine synthesis by 70%, and leucine synthesis from pyruvate by 29%, which was compensated by leucine synthesis from exogenous valine, whereas the synthesis of isoleucine was not changed. It is concluded that the biosynthesis of valine and leucine is mainly controlled by feedback inhibition of acetohydroxyacid synthetase. In vivo, the feedback inhibition can be exerted in such a way that synthesis of acetolactate (the precursor of valine and leucine) is appreciably reduced, whereas synthesis of acetohydroxybutyrate (the isoleucine precursor) is not inhibited.
Ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI, EC 1.1.1.86) was purified to homogeneity from etiolated barley shoots (Hordeum vulgare) using anion exchange, Red-Sepharose, hydrophobic interaction, and chromatofocusing steps. Purification yielded 0.25 to 0.27 mg of pure KARI per 100 g fresh weight of starting material. The specific activity of the purified enzyme was 6 [mu]mol of NADPH oxidized min-1 mg-1 with acetohydroxybutyrate as substrate. The native enzyme had an apparent molecular weight of 115,000 as estimated by gel filtration and appeared to be a homodimer with a subunit molecular weight of 59,000, as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The Km values of the purified KARI for acetolactate, acetohydroxybutyrate, and NADPH (determined with acetohydroxybutyrate) were 11, 38, and 4.3 [mu]M, respectively. The Vmax obtained with acetohydroxybutyrate was 1.8 [mu]mol min-1 mg-1; the corresponding value for acetolactate was 0.16 [mu]mol min-1 mg-1. The enzyme showed optimum activity at pH 7.5. When either acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate was used as substrate, the experimental herbicidal compound 2-dimethyl-phosphinoyl-2-hydroxyacetic acid inhibited the purified KARI in a time-dependent and reversible manner. The initial inhibition was strictly competitive. The inhibition constant values were 0.46 (using acetolactate as substrate) and 0.19 [mu]M (acetohydroxybutyrate), respectively.
Abstract Methods for on-line monitoring of vicinal diketones and their precursors during beer fermentation have been developed. Vicinal diketones can be directly monitored using a gas membrane device connected to a GC-ECD system. Liquid phase heat conversion of their precursors into diketones, after automatic liquid sampling, proved to be the most satisfactory technique for the monitoring of α-acetolactate and acetohydroxybutyrate. The methods were successfully tested on beer fermentation.
Aims: To demonstrate the presence of an active alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase in Streptococcus thermophilus and to investigate its physiological function. Methods and Results: Streptococcus thermophilus CNRZ385 contains a gene encoding an alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase. Comparison of the production of alpha-acetolactate and its decarboxylation products, by the parent strain and an alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase-deficient mutant, demonstrated the presence of a control of the pool of alpha-acetolactate by valine, leucine and isoleucine. This control occurs via an allosteric activation of the alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase. Cell-free extracts of S. thermophilus were not able to decarboxylate the isoleucine precursor alpha-acetohydroxybutyrate. Conclusions: These results strongly suggest that one of the physiological functions of the alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase in S. thermophilus is to regulate leucine and valine biosynthesis by diverting the flux of alpha-acetolactate towards acetoin when the branched-chain amino acids are present at a high concentration. Significance and Impact of the Study: Regulation of branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis by alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase may occur in several other micro-organisms and explain some of their growth properties.
Aims: To demonstrate the presence of an active a-acetolactate decarboxylase in Streptococcus thermophilus and to investigate its physiological function. Methods and Results: Streptococcus thermophilus CNRZ385 contains a gene encoding an a-acetolactate decarboxylase. Comparison of the production of a-acetolactate and its decarboxylation products, by the parent strain and an a-acetolactate decarboxylase-deficient mutant, demonstrated the presence of a control of the pool of a-acetolactate by valine, leucine and isoleucine. This control occurs via an allosteric activation of the a-acetolactate decarboxylase. Cell-free extracts of S. thermophilus were not able to decarboxylate the isoleucine precursor a-acetohydroxybutyrate. Conclusions: These results strongly suggest that one of the physiological functions of the a-acetolactate decarboxylase in S. thermophilus is to regulate leucine and valine biosynthesis by diverting the flux of a-acetolactate towards acetoin when the branched-chain amino acids are present at a high concentration. Significance and Impact of the Study: Regulation of branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis by a-acetolactate decarboxylase may occur in several other micro-organisms and explain some of their growth properties.
William R. Belknap USDA-ARS-WRCC, Albany, CA 94706 Biochemical and physiological effects of target site resistance to herbicides inhibiting acetolactate synthase (ALS) were evaluated using sulfonylurea-resistant (R) and -susceptible (S) near isonuclear Lactuca sativa 'Bibb' lines derived by backcrossing the resistance allele from Lactuca serriola L. into L. sativa. Sequence data suggest that resistance in L. sativa is conferred by a single-point mutation that encodes a proline197 to histidine substitution in Domain A of the ALS protein; this is the same substitution observed in R L. serriola. Kmapp (pyruvate) values for ALS isolated from R and S L. sativa were 7.3 and 11.1 mM, respectively, suggesting that the resistance allele did not alter the pyruvate binding domain on the ALS enzyme. Both R and S ALS had greater affinity for 2-oxobutyrate than for pyruvate at the second substrate site. Ratios of acetohydroxybutyrate: acetolactate produced by R ALS across a range of 2-oxobutyrate concentrations were similar to acetohydroxybutyrate: acetolactate ratios produced by S ALS. Specific activity of ALS from R L. sativa was 46% of the specific activity from S L. sativa, suggesting that the resistance allele has detrimental effects on enzyme function, expression, or stability. ALS activity from R plants was less sensitive to feedback inhibition by valine, leucine, and isoleucine than ALS from S plants. Valine, leucine, and isoleucine concentrations were about 1.5 times higher in R seed than in S seed on a per gram of seed basis, and concentrations of valine and leucine were 1.3 and 1.6 times higher, respectively, in R leaves than in S leaves. Findings suggest that the mutation for resistance results in altered regulation of branched-chain amino acid synthesis.
The mechanism of ilvC expression in Escherichia coli was investigated. To carry out this work several different approaches were used. Firstly, sequencing of the ilvY2143 allele which carries a mutation that makes ilvC expression constitutive was completed. The location of the mutation was determined to be at the 5 end of the gene. It is a single base substitution (G to A) at position 87 (counted from the transcription startpoint of ilvY). This results in a change of the codon for one amino acid. Glutamine in wild-type ilvY protein is replaced by lysine in the constitutive one. This substitution in the polypeptide of the upsilon protein (product of the ilvY gene) was found to be solely responsible for making the up silon protein independent of the ilvC gene substrates (a-acetohydroxybutyrate or acetolactate) needed for ilvC induction. Two approaches were used to determine the direction of ilvY trancription. One of these employed a gene fusion technique which involves two DNA fragments of ilvY being fused separately to a promoterless lacZ gene, then monitoring the expression of lacZ. The other approach involved the labeling of the upsilon protein withes -methionine after expression of ilvY in a T7 RNA polymerase dependent promoter system. DNA-binding activity of upsilon protein was investigated. This was carried out in two assays, filter binding and gel retardation assays. These assays were employed to monitor purification of upsilon protein to near homogeneity. Upsilon protein has a subunit size of 35 kd and a native molecular weight of approximately 211 kd, suggesting upsilon exists as a hexamer. Finally, in vitro activities of the upsilon protein were tested using transcriptional and coupled transcription-translation assays. Upsilon protein was shown to cause elevation of ilvC transcription. Two models for the action of the upsilon protein in regulating the transcription of the ilvYC are proposed.
Abstract Under conditions that repress the formation of four of the five enzymes required for isoleucine and valine biosynthesis in Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium (growth in the presence of excess isoleucine, valine and leucine), the fifth enzyme, acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase, is induced by its substrates, acetohydroxybutyrate and acetolactate. Substrate induction appears to be the major if not the only means for regulating the formation of the isomeroreductase in these organisms. The same process seems to occur in Aerobacter aerogenes .
Abstract The valine sensitive acetolactate synthase (ALS) isozyme from Serratia marcescens ATCC 25419 was purified to homogeneity. Analysis of the native molecular weight of the purified enzyme by the native pore gradient polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicated the molecular weight of about 178 000 and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed the enzyme to be composed of two different types of subunits with molecular weights of 62 000 and 35 000. The molar ratio of the two peptides was estimated to be 1, suggesting that native enzyme is composed of two large subunits and two small subunits/ The enzyme exhibits homotropic allosterism with pyruvate unlike other enteric ALS isozymes. The specificity ratio R ( V [acetohydroxybutyrate]/ V [acetolactate] = R · [ α -ketobutyrate]/[pyruvate]), of the enzyme was found to be 0 suggesting that the Serratia ALS has very high specificity for pyruvate. The pH optimum was around 7.5, and the enzyme was stable at 50°C for 30 min. The p I value for the purified enzyme was 5.2. The concentration of branched chain amino acids for 50% inhibition of the enzyme was 0.1 mM for valine, and 1 mM for leucine and isoleucine, respectively.
Abstract Vicinal diketones produced during wine fermentation influence the organoleptic qualities of wine. Diacetyl and 2,3-pentanedione are well known for their contribution to butter or butterscotch-like flavours. We developed an analysis method to quantify vicinal diketones and their precursors, α-acetolactate and α-acetohydroxybutyrate, under oenological conditions. Five-fold dilution of the sample in a phosphate-citrate buffer (pH 7.0) strongly attenuated matrix effects between the beginning and end of alcoholic fermentation and protected the sample from spontaneous precursor decarboxylation. The use of diacetyl-d6 as an internal reference improved precision by eliminating differences in the derivatization and extraction yields between the internal standard and the analytes. We obtained unexpected results for alcoholic fermentation by Saccharomyces cerevisiae using this approach. Indeed, the level of diacetyl and 2,3-pentanedione throughout fermentation were very low. However, we observed a large quantity of both precursors. The production dynamics of α-acetolactate were unconventional and there were two distinct phases of accumulation. The first corresponded to the growth phase, and the second to glucose depletion. There was a rapid decrease of precursor levels at the end of fermentation, but there was still a significant amount of α-acetolactate. The amount of precursor remaining at the end of fermentation constitutes a potential source of diacetyl during wine maturation. α-Acetohydroxybutyrate accumulated during the growth phase followed by a continuous decrease of its concentration during the stationary phase. Residual quantities of α-acetohydroxybutyrate found in wine at the end of fermentation does not constitute a sufficient source of 2,3-pentanedione to affect the aromatic profile.
The rates of formation of the two alternative products of acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS) have been determined by a new analytical method (N. Gollop, Z. Barak, and D. M. Chipman, Anal. Biochem., 160:323-331, 1987). For each of the three distinct isozymes of AHAS in Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium, a specificity ratio, R, was defined: Formula: see text, which is constant over a wide range of substrate concentrations. This is consistent with competition between pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate for an active acetaldehyde intermediate formed irreversibly after addition of the first pyruvate moiety to the enzyme. Isozyme I showed no product preference (R = 1), whereas isozymes II and III form acetohydroxybutyrate (AHB) at approximately 180- and 60-fold faster rates, respectively, than acetolactate (AL) at equal pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate concentrations. R values higher than 60 represent remarkably high specificity in favor of the substrate with one extra methylene group. In exponentially growing E. coli cells (under aerobic growth on glucose), which contain about 300 microM pyruvate and only 3 microM 2-ketobutyrate, AHAS I would produce almost entirely AL and only 1 to 2% AHB. However, isozymes II and III would synthesize AHB (on the pathway to Ile) and AL (on the pathway to valine-leucine) in essentially the ratio required for protein synthesis. The specificity ratio R of any AHAS isozyme was affected neither by the natural feedback inhibitors (Val, Ile) nor by the pH. On the basis of the specificities of the isozymes, the known regulation of AHAS I expression by the catabolite repression system, and the reported behavior of bacterial mutants containing single AHAS isozymes, we suggest that AHAS I enables a bacterium to cope with poor carbon sources, which lead to low endogenous pyruvate concentrations. Although AHAS II and III are well suited to producing the branched-chain amino acid precursors during growth on glucose, they would fail to provide appropriate quantities of AL when the concentration of pyruvate is relatively low.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) is the first enzyme in the biosynthesis pathway of the branched-chain amino acids, catalyzing the condensation of pyruvate with another molecule of pyruvate or with 2-ketobutyrate, to produce 2-acetolactate or 2-acetohydroxybutyrate, respectively. The catalytic subunit of the dimeric enzyme has thiamin diphosphate (ThDP), a divalent metal ion, flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), and two molecules of oxygen (O-2(I) and O-2(II)) as cofactors. Here, crystal structures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae AHAS in complex with pyruvate provide novel insights into the mechanistic features of this enzyme including: i) The precise position taken by pyruvate molecules as they enter the active site (i.e. prior to catalysis occurring) with conformations suitable for the transfer of electrons to/from O-2(I) and FAD; ii) The formation of ternary donor-acceptor-O-2(I) complexes and iii) The location of O-2(II) relative to the substrate showing that it plays a critical role in the organization of substrate for catalysis. These structural data, accompanied by electron paramagnetic resonance evidence that a radical is produced during AHAS catalysis, lead to the proposal that FAD and O-2 are involved in an indirect one-electron redox cycle. In this mechanism, the spatial configurations of O-2 and FAD in the active site can allow electrons to be exchanged with the substrates and catalytic intermediates to satisfy and control the overall AHAS catalyzed reaction.
Most of the coding sequence for the IlvN polypeptide subunit of acetohydroxyacid synthase I was deleted from the ilvB+ ilvN+ plasmid pTCN12 by in vitro methods. Several ilvB+ delta ilvN derivatives of pTCN12 were identified among transformants of a strain otherwise lacking any acetohydroxyacid synthase. Deletion derivatives produced an enzymatically active IlvB polypeptide, as shown by the Ilv+ phenotype of transformed cells and by immunologic and enzymatic assays. However, whereas the growth of pTCN12 transformants was sensitive to valine inhibition, growth of the ilvB+ delta ilvN transformants was relatively resistant. Moreover, in vitro analyses confirmed that both acetolactate and acetohydroxybutyrate synthesis in extracts of the ilvB+ delta ilvN transformants was resistant to valine inhibition, in comparison with that in extracts of pTCN12 transformants or with that catalyzed by purified acetohydroxyacid synthase I. The IlvN polypeptide had a minimal effect, if any, on IlvB polypeptide accumulation as measured by immunoprecipitation, but its absence resulted in a greater than 10-fold reduction in enzyme specific activity.
By means of the general procedure of Casadaban (J. Mol. Biol. 104: 541-556, 1976), the lac genes carried on a lambda-Mu-1 hybrid phage were inserted into a temperature-inducible Mu-1 prophage that had earlier been inserted into a site near the beginning of the ilvC gene of Escherichia coli strain K-12. Selection of temperature-resistant derivatives of the lysogen resulted in a fusion of the lac genes to a region of deoxyribonucleic acid that is transcribed under the control of the ilvC regulatory elements. A strain bearing the fusion was shown to be inducible for beta-galactosidase by acetohydroxybutyrate, a natural inducer of acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase. Induction of the lysogen by mitomycin C led to the isolation of a plaque-forming lambda derivative carrying this ilvC-lac fusion.
IpOHA also causes the accumulation in bacterial growth media of a substrate of the enzyme which it inhibits, acetolactate (41). However, there are no reports in the literature on the intracellular concentrations of the KARI substrate acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate. In the enterobacteria, transcription of ilvC, the gene which encodes KARI, is induced by the enzyme's substrates (38). Thus, an increase in substrate concentrations due to partial inhibition of the enzyme should lead to a compensating enhancement of the rate of the reaction by increasing enzyme synthesis (as well as by mass action, if KARI normally works well below its K m ). It is also not clear whether IpOHA has any effect on the intracellular levels of ketobutyrate (the toxic metabolite).
Abstract Acetohydroxyacid synthetase has been extracted and partially purified from barley. The enzyme produces acetolactate with pyruvate as substrate and acetolactate and acetohydroxybutyrate with pyruvate and α-oxobutyrate as substrates. Negligible amounts of acetoin are produced. The rate of acetolactate production shows a sigmoidal relationship with substrate at low pyruvate concentrations. The enzyme is inhibited by leucine and valine singly, and cooperatively by the pairs leucine plus valine. Cooperative inhibition is defined as occurring when the total concentration of a combination of inhibitors required to cause 50% inhibition is less than that for the most effective single inhibitor. Certain other pairs of amino acids also appear to give a degree of cooperative inhibition. The results suggest that the enzyme has two inhibitor sites, one for leucine and one for valine. Maximum efficiency of inhibition is achieved when both sites are filled. Reagents which react with sulphydryl groups inhibit enzyme activity at millimolar concentrations. Iodosobenzoate, p -chloromercuribenzoate, and mercuric chloride desensitize the enzyme to leucine and valine inhibition. The enzyme is also desensitized by assaying at high pH values.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS), thefirst enzymeleading tothebiosynthesis ofvaline, leucine, andisoleucine, isinhibited bydifferent chemical classes ofherbicides. There isalossinthe extractable AHASactivity inimidazolinone-treated plants. Immunological studies usinga monoclonal antibody against AHAS revealed nodegradation ofAHASprotein inimidazolinone-treated maize(Zeamays)plants. Therefore, thelossinAHASactivity is notduetothelossofAHASprotein. Thefirst enzymatic step common tothebiosynthesis ofthe branched chain aminoacids (valine, leucine, andisoleucine) iscatalyzed byacetohydroxyacid synthase (also knownas acetolactate synthase; EC4.1.3.18). Theenzymecatalyzes two parallel reactions: condensation of2molofpyruvate togive rise toacetolactate, andcondensation ofpyruvate andaketobutyrate toyield acetohydroxybutyrate. AHAS'activity isinhibited bytheendproducts ofthepathway, i.e. valine, leucine, andisoleucine, whichprovides a mechanism for regulation ofthis pathway inhigherplants (2). Biochemical andgenetic studies haveshownthatAHASisthetarget site ofseveral classes ofstructurally unrelated herbicides, which include theimidazolinones, thesulfonylcarboxamides, the sulfonylureas, andthetriazolopyrimidines (8). Ifplants aretreated with an imidazolinone herbicide and AHASactivity isthenextracted fromthese plants andmeasuredinvitro, there isa loss inextractable AHAS activity compared withuntreated plants (5). Thisloss isspecific for AHASandisnotduetoageneral loss inenzymatic activity fromtheherbicidal action ofthechemical (3). Hawkes(1) speculated that this loss inextractable AHASactivity inplants treated withimidazolinones was theresult oftheformation ofanenzyme/inhibitor complex that destabilizes theenzyme andleads toits degradation. Alternatively, theloss inAHAS activity could beduetotheformation ofaninactive enzyme/ inhibitor complex that isnotreversed during extraction and
Acetohydroxyacid synthase, a thiamine diphosphate-dependent enzyme, can condense either two pyruvate molecules to form acetolactate for synthesizing L-valine and L-leucine or pyruvate with 2-ketobutyrate to form acetohydroxybutyrate for synthesizing L-isoleucine. Because the key reaction catalyzed by acetohydroxyacid synthase in the biosynthetic pathways of branched-chain amino acids exists in plants, fungi, archaea, and bacteria, but not in animals, acetohydroxyacid synthase becomes a potential target for developing novel herbicides and antimicrobial compounds. In this article, the evolution, structure, and catalytic mechanism of acetohydroxyacid synthase are summarized.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the assay, purification, and properties of α -acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase. The enzyme is assayed by measuring the decrease in optical density at 340 m μ due to the oxidation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) in the presence of an excess of α -acetolactate or α -acetohydroxybutyrate. The crystalline enzyme is specific for NADPH and α -acetolactate or α -acetohydroxybutyrate. At pH 7.5, with the enzyme saturated with substrate and coenzyme, the rate of the reaction with α -acetohydroxybutyrate is about five times greater than the rate with α -acetolactate as substrate. At pH values above 8.5, the enzyme can catalyze the reverse reactions. Enzymatic activity is absolutely dependent upon added Mg 2+ . The optimum concentration is 3 m M . The optimum pH for the forward reaction in phosphate, Tris or glycylgiycine buffer is 7.5; on the other hand, the optimum pH for the reverse reaction is pH 9.4 in bicarbonate buffer. The crystalline enzyme is homogeneous by sedimentation velocity analysis. The enzyme has also been partially purified from yeast, Phaseolus radiatus , and Neurospora crassa .
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS, also known as acetolactate synthase or ALS) is a group of biosynthetic enzymes found in all plants, fungi, and bacteria (but absent in animals and humans). AHAS is a key enzyme that catalyzes the formation of acetolactate and acetohydroxybutyrate from pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate [1, 2] . This is the first step in biosynthesis of the essential branched-chain amino acids (valine, leucine, and isoleucine), which are critical for all forms of life. AHAS has long been an attractive target in the development of herbicides, fungicides, and antimicrobials because its inhibitors have a low toxicity to mammals while still being highly selective and very potent [3] . AHAS-inhibiting herbicides are the largest site-ofaction group on the market, with more than 50 chemicals belonging to five classes (sulfonylaminocarbonyltriazolinones, triazolopyrimidines, pyrimidinyl(thio)benzoate, sulfonylureas, and imidazolinones) and sulfonylureas being the majority [4] . However, persistent use of herbicides has exerted intense selection pressure on a great variety of weed species and resulted in the evolution of resistance [5] . In the most common mechanism, resistance is conferred by alteration of amino acids in the target site that attenuates the sensitivity to target-specific herbicides [6, 7] . The magnitude of herbicide resistance depends on weed species, structural change induced by mutation, and the type of herbicide. For a specific herbicide, a given mutation may endow moderate to high resistance [7, 8] or, in rare instances, an increase in sensitivity to the herbicide in different species [5] . In the current practice of weed control, resistance mutations may be discovered only after repeated failure of herbicide application. Therefore, there is a strong and urgent demand for a reliable and systematic approach for determining resistance profiles of different herbicides that are in use or have been newly developed before commencing weed treatment. Compared to wet lab-based experiments and techniques, computational approaches provide a rapid and cost-effective solution to screen and detect resistance mutations.
Kerwar, Suresh S. (Oregon State University, Corvallis), Vernon, H. Cheldelin, and L. W. Parks. Valine-isoleucine metabolism in Acetobacter suboxydans and the inhibition of growth by valine. J. Bacteriol. 88:179-186. 1964.-Extracts of Acetobacter suboxydans can synthesize valine and isoleucine via acetolactate and acetohydroxybutyrate, respectively. The amounts of these amino acids synthesized from different intermediates were determined. The pathways appear to be identical to those described for yeast, Neurospora, and Escherichia coli. When exogenous valine was added to a synthetic growth medium inoculated with A. suboxydans, no growth of the culture was observed. The inhibitory effect of valine was reversed by the addition of isoleucine. The site and mechanism of valine inhibition were investigated. Threonine deaminase was inhibited by valine and isoleucine but not by leucine. Repression of the deaminase by isoleucine but not by valine was indicated. The data reported in this paper suggest that valine prevented growth of the organism through false feedback inhibition of threonine deaminase, thereby limiting isoleucine biosynthesis.
Diacetyl(acetoin)reductase catalyzes the reversible reduction of acetoin (acetylmethylcarbinol) to 2,3butanediol and the irreversible reduction of diacetyl to acetoin [ 1,2] . The enzyme has been characterized kinetically and found to follow an ordered bi-bi mechanism [3,4] . During work with the three enzymes leading from pyruvate to 2,3-butanediol, fig. 1, we have observed that the first enzyme, the pH 6 acetolactate-forming enzyme, in addition to forming acetolactate from pyruvate, is able to form acetohydroxybutyrate from pyruvate and 2-oxobutyrate [S] . This enzyme requires cocarboxylase and Mn2+ for its activity [6,7] . The second enzyme, acetolactate decarboxylase, decarboxylates acetolactate or acetohydroxybutyrate to yield acetoin or acetylethylcarbinol, respectively [8]. In the present report, we have shown that the substrates for diacetyl(acetoin)reductase, diacetyl, acetoin, and 2,3-butanediol, can be replaced by their respective analogues 2,3-pentanedione, acetylethylcarbinol, and 2,3-pentanediol.
In both Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium, the regulation of isoleucine, valine, and leucine biosynthesis is complicated by the existence of shared enzymes for the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine, the existence of a branch from the ilv pathway leading to leucine biosynthesis (Fig. 1) , and the usage of a multivalent control process dependent upon the supply of all three branched-chain amino acids, isoleucine, valine, and leucine (7, 17, 32) . The structural genes for the isoleucine and valine biosynthetic enzymes are organized into the ilvGEDA, ilvB, ilvC, and ilvHI operons (2, 15, 28). In S. typhimurium, the ilvG codes for valine-resistant acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS) II, which is not expressed in ilvG+ (lvG-ValS) E. coli K-12 strains due to a site of polarity within this gene (19, 32) . In both organisms, the ilvB gene specifies a valine-sensitive AHAS (AHAS I) and the ilvHI cluster encodes a second valine-sensitive AHAS (III) whose formation is controlled by leucine alone (13, 30) . Control of the expression of ilvC is achieved by induction by either of its substrates, alpha-acetolactate or alpha-acetohydroxybutyrate (1, 25) as mediated by the ilvY gene product (33). The results of several DNA sequencing and protein analysis studies indicate that the ilvGEDA operon is regulated by an attenuation mechanism requiring the participation of each of the aminoacylated branchedchain amino acid tRNAs in both E. coli and S.
Acetolactate decarboxylase has been highly purified from A. aerogenes. ::: ::: ::: ::: The purified enzyme does not need manganese for its activity as earlier described, and it is able to decarboxylate acetohydroxybutyrate, the second intermediate in the biosynthesis of isoleucine. The pH optimum in phosphate is 6.2–6.4.
Leavitt, Richard I. (Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass.) and H. E. Umbarger. Isoleucine and valine metabolism in Escherichia coli. XI. Valine inhibition of the growth of Escherichia coli strain K-12. J. Bacteriol. 83:624-630. 1962.-The inhibition of the growth of Escherichia coli strain K-12 by valine was shown to be due to the sensitivity of the acetohydroxybutyrate-forming system to valine. It was demonstrated that both E. coli strain W, a strain whose growth is unaffected by valine, and a valine-resistant mutant of strain K-12 have acetolactate- and acetohydroxybutyrate-forming systems which are less sensitive to valine than that of strain K-12. It was further shown that alpha-aminobutyrate accumulates in the culture fluid of the valine-sensitive strain when incubated in the presence of valine. The levels of valine in the "free amino acid pool" were examined and found to be related to the differences in valine sensitivity of the acetolactate-forming systems of the three strains.
An in vitro protein-synthesizing system has been developed to study the mechanism of induction of ilvC gene in Escherichia coli strain K-12. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from a lambda phage carrying an ilvC-lac fusion was employed as a template for the in vitro synthesis of beta-galactosidase under the control of the ilvC promoter. The use of this template allowed an investigation of the components required for induction of the ilvC gene and the kinetics of the induction. The in vitro synthesis of beta-galactosidase under the control of the ilvC promoter was found to be DNA, acetohydroxy acid, and guanosine-3'-diphosphate-5'-diphosphate dependent, and sensitive to rifampin, actinomycin D, and chloramphenicol. Uncoupling experiments indicate that the inducer, acetohydroxybutyrate, acts at the transcriptional level. Investigation of a proposed noninducible ilvC regulatory mutant has shown normal induction in vitro. It was also observed that an intact ilvA gene is not required for the induction of the ilvC gene.
Stereoisomers of the two substrates for the enzyme reductoisomerase of the valine-isoleucine pathway of biosynthesis have been synthesised in optically pure form. These compounds are (2S)-α-acetolactate (2-hydroxy-2-methyl-3-oxobutanoate) and (2R)- and (2S)-α-acetohydroxybutyrate (2-ethyl-2-hydroxy-3-oxobutanoate). The synthesis of (2S)-α-acetolactate represents the first synthesis in optically pure form of the substrate of the enzyme in the valine pathway. Only the (2S)-isomers of these compounds acted as substrates for the reductoisomerase of Salmonella typhimurium.
The isoleucine and valine biosynthetic pathway ( Fig. 1 ) consists of five enzymatic steps that are specified in Escherichia coli, and presumably in Salmonella typhimurium as well, by a cluster of five ilv genes designated A through E (18). Arfin et al. (1) showed that the expression of the iluC gene which encodes the a-acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase is not controlled directly by end-product repression by isoleucine, valine, and leucine, as are the other isoleucine-and valine-forming enzymes in E. coli and S. typhimurium (6, 7). Rather, the isomeroreductase is induced by its substrates, a-acetolactate and a-acetohydroxybutyrate, even when the levels of the other isolecuine-and valine-forming enzymes are repressed by the addition of all three branched-chain amino acids to the medium.
A quick headspace GC method for quantification of volatiles was developed, involving only minor sample preparation. Yogurt flavor compounds could be quantified in the micrograms per kilogram to milligrams per kilogram range without any difficulty, despite the complex matrix. Volatiles of traditional acidic and mild, less acidic yogurts were compared, and important differences were found for acetaldehyde, 2,3-butanedione, and 2,3-pentanedione. Concentrations of 2,3-butanedione and 2,3-pentanedione increased 2−3-fold in mild, less acidic yogurts compared to traditional acidic ones. This is due to accumulation of the precursors of the diketones, 2-acetolactate and 2-acetohydroxybutyrate, during fermentation in mild, less acidic yogurt. These precursors are subsequently converted to the corresponding diketones during storage. On the contrary, acetaldehyde formation was reduced in the mild yogurt, due to growth differences between the lactic acid bacteria used for fermentation of the milk. The quantitative res...
Abstract Formation of branched-chain amino acids in microorganisms is controlled mainly by end-product inhibition of the enzyme action but also by repression of enzyme synthesis. The two mechanisms may be interrelated. Regulation of the metabolite flow by end-product inhibition is realized by the inhibition of threonine deaminase by isoleucine; inhibition of acetohydroxy acid synthetase by valine and inhibition of alpha-isopropylmalate synthetase by leucine. Acetohydroxy acid synthetase has a key position in the pathway, since the enzyme catalyzes not only the synthesis of acetolactate, the valine and isoleucine precursor from pyruvate, but also that of acetohydroxybutyrate, the isoleucine precursar from alpha-ketobutyrate and pyruvate. Quenching of valine pathway by valine would be expected to be accompanied by a quenching of the isoleucine pathway as well. Nevertheless, aceto-hydroxybutyrate is formed rather than acetolactate, since alpha-ketobutyrate has a greater affinity to the enzyme than pyruvate and the inhibitory effect of valine is directly proportional to substrate concentration. It could completely reverse the inhibition. Regulation on the physiological level of the pathways to the branched-chain amino acids occurs by the repression of the leucine and isoleucine-valine biosynthetic enzymes. A phenotypic derepression caused by valine was detectable in the case of the latter biosynthetic enzymes. The idea that aminoacyl tRNA formation is a necessary reaction in the formation of the 'repressor" has been supported by numerous data. Indeed, some of the latest reports suggest that aminoacyl tRNA interaction with feedback sensitive enzyme may play an important role in the repression.
Acetohydroxy acid synthetase, which catalyzes the synthesis of α-acetolactate and α-acetohydroxybutyrate, the first 5- and 6-carbon precursors of valine and isoleucine, respectively, has been studied in extracts of Salmonella typhimurium. Required for enzyme activity are thiamine pyrophosphate, Mg2+ and an unidentified factor which can be supplied by boiled extracts of Salmonella or yeast. The activity of the enzyme is inhibited by l-valine and a group of related compounds. Valine inhibition is noncompetitive with respect to pyruvate and thiamine pyrophosphate and is rigidly dependent on pH. Inhibition is greatest at pH 8.0, also the optimal pH for activity, and is non-existent at values less than 6.5. The sensitivity of the enzyme to valine can be removed by heat, Hg2+ or urea treatments. Glutathione is effective in restoring valine sensitivity to the Hg2+-treated enzyme. These properties indicate that this enzyme belongs to the class of proteins recently described as “allosteric” in nature.
intoacid-insoluble material. Morethan95% oftheincorporated radioactivity coelectrophoresed withthe60-kilodalton HlvBsubunit oftheenzymethrough a sodiumdodecyl sulfatepolyacrylamide gel; less than5% coelectrophoresed withthe11.2-kilodalton IlvNsubunit. Thestoichiometry ofincorporation atnearly complete inactivation was1molof14CpermolofIlvBpolypeptide. Thesedata indicate thatbromopyruvate inactivates AHASIbyalkylating anaminoacidatornearasingle active site located inthellvB subunit oftheenzyme. Weconfirmed that this alkylation inactivated bothAHASreactions normally catalyzed byAHASI.Theseresults provide thefirst direct evidence thatAHASIcatalyzes both acetohydroxybutyrate andacetolactate synthesis fromthesameactive site. Theacetohydroxyacid synthases (AHASs)catalyze the condensation of2molofpyruvate toformacetolactate and CO2andthecondensation of1molofpyruvate and1molof 2-ketobutyrate toformacetohydroxybutyrate andCO2(10). Acetolactate isaprecursor tovaline andleucine; acetohy
Abstract Acetohydroxy acid synthetase catalyzes the formation of acetolactate and acetohydroxybutyrate, the first and second intermediates in the biosynthesis of valine and isoleucine, respectively ( Umbarger and Brown, 1958; Leavitt and Umbarger, 1961 ). Thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) and Mg ++ were early recognized as cofactors in both reactions. In addition, studies with extracts of Escherichia coli revealed the requirement for an unidentified factor which was present in boiled extracts ( Leavitt, 1961, 1964 ). More recently, using Salmonella typhimurium extracts, it was observed that the unknown factor was also required for maximal sensitivity to endproduct inhibition by valine ( Bauerle et al. 1964 ). In this paper, the isolation of the factor from bakers yeast and its identification as flavine adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are described.
The channeling behavior of acetohydroxy acid synthases I and III (EC 4.1.3.18; AHAS) was studied by computer simulation of activities over a wide range of concentrations for the substrates pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate. The ratios of reaction rates for both channels and three-dimensional plots of single-channel reaction rates versus substrate concentrations were introduced to compare the substrate channeling properties of the isozymes. Substrate ranges were identified in which AHAS I and III operated both channels, and in which they used only one. Kinetic constants were varied to simulate whether and how AHAS might be made channel-specific. Our study suggests that AHAS might be made channel-specific for acetolactate but not for acetohydroxybutyrate. We postulate specific physiological roles for AHAS I and III to support cell growth under conditions that vary the levels and balance of substrates.
The branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) and pantothenate biosynthetic network in bacteria ( Fig. 1 ) has many complex features which make an analysis of its regulation and control in whole cells interesting and challenging. These features include branching, homologous reactions catalyzed by single enzymes, multivalent regulation of both gene expression and allosteric enzymes, and the production of both amino acid building blocks and the critical cofactor molecule coenzyme A (67). Three enzymes, each with dual specificities, are common to the parallel pathways leading to the keto acid precursors of valine and isoleucine, 2-ketoisovalerate and 2-keto-3-methylvalerate, respectively (67). The first of these enzymes, acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS; EC 4.1.3.18; also called acetolactate synthase), can catalyze the decarboxylation of pyruvate and its condensation either with a second molecule of pyruvate, to produce acetolactate (a precursor of valine, leucine, and coenzyme A), or with 2-ketobutyrate, to produce acetohydroxybutyrate (a precursor of isoleucine). Any given AHAS catalyzes the formation of acetohydroxybutyrate and acetolactate at relative rates V AHB and V AL , respectively, which are proportional to the relative concentrations of 2-ketobutyrate and pyruvate, with a fixed specificity R characteristic of the enzyme (2, 28):
The genomes of Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium each encode three AHAS isozymes, which differ in their expression patterns, substrate specificity (R), sensitivity to feedback inhibition by valine, and other kinetic parameters (3, 18, 19, 67, 68) . S. typhimurium LT2 expresses only two of these, AHAS I, encoded by ilvBN, and AHAS II, encoded by ilvGM. AHAS II is sufficient by itself for prototrophic growth on glucose (15). The marked preference of this enzyme for 2-ketobutyrate over pyruvate suggests that AHAS II will produce comparable amounts of acetolactate and acetohydroxybutyrate in vivo despite the large difference in the concentrations of these substrates (3); while pyruvate is an abundant, widely used central metabolite, 2-ketobutyrate is present in cells at low concentrations. Normal growth on acetate or oleate, on the other hand, requires AHAS I (15). Such carbon sources were reported to lead to much lower intracellular pyruvate concentrations (46) and are expected to lead to increased levels of glyoxylate (52), which has been reported to inhibit AHAS (14, 28). The cyclic AMP-catabolite gene activator protein-mediated activation of ilvBN expression (27) leads to sufficient AHAS I for growth, even in the presence of an elevated glyoxylate titer (15). It has been suggested that AHAS I, with its low selectivity for 2-ketobutyrate, is particularly appropriate for low pyruvate concentrations (2, 14, 15, 29) . AHAS I is thus assumed to provide enterobacteria with the ability to adapt to a wider range of carbon sources and metabolic challenges. Despite this reasonable rationalization for the existence of multiple AHAS isozymes, the roles played by each isozyme in the partitioning of flux in the two parallel pathways have not been quantitatively assessed.
