Chlordecone potentiation of the hepatotoxic and lethal effects of CCL4 has been well established. Recent studies have shown that the suppression of hepatocellular regeneration results in an accelerated progression of liver injury leading to complete hepatic failure. Since polyamines are involved in cell division, these studies were designed to investigate the polyamine levels and associated enzymes in the livers of rats treated with a low-dose combination of CD and CCl4. For comparison, a large toxic dose of CCl4 was also employed. The extent of liver toxicity in rats fed 10 parts per million chlordecone (CD) for 15 days and subsequently injected with a single dose of CCl4 (100 microL/kg body weight) or a high dose of CCL4 alone (2.5 mL/kg body weight) was similar 6 and 24 hr later as assessed by plasma transaminase levels. There was significant elevation in liver ornithine decarboxylase, S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase, and putrescine at 24 hr and spermidine N1-acetyltransferase, N1-acetylputrescine, putreanine, putrescine, and N1-acetylspermidine at 6 hr in rats treated with the high dose of CCl4 alone compared to the combination treatment. Spermidine levels decreased up to 6 hr and then increased up to 24 hr for both treatments. Spermine continuously decreased up to 24 hr for the CD and CCl4 low-dose combination treatment compared to rats treated with a high dose of CCl4 alone. Spermidine levels were lower than in controls and rose towards control value between 6 and 24 hr after the combination treatment and the high dose of CCl4. Results indicate that the CD and CCl4 low-dose combination treatment increased liver toxicity, resulting in compromised polyamine metabolism that is coincidental with suppressed hepatocellular regeneration, which leads to an accelerated progressive phase of liver injury and culminates in complete hepatic failure.
The levels of polyamines, N-acetylpolyamines, and GABA in the cerebral cortex and brainstem of rat brain after completion of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced kindling were investigated. Pretreatment with the polyamine oxidase inhibitor MDL72527 caused an accumulation of N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine in normal rats. After a kindling seizure, the levels of N-acetylpolyamines were elevated, particularly in the cerebral cortex, indicating activation of polyamine interconversion. The levels of putrescine and GABA were lower in kindled rats pretreated with MDL72527. In addition, pretreatment with MDL72527 enhanced the seizure susceptibility to PTZ in normal rats. These results suggest that the polyamine interconversion pathway is involved in brain excitability, probably through the regulation of putrescine and GABA levels.
In Physarum flavicomum Berk., growing amoebae convert to dormant cysts under conditions of nutrient imbalance. Exogenous adenine inhibits the process and the cells produce an elevated intracellular concentration of S-adenosylmethionine. Evidence indicates that the increased level of S-adenosylmethionine is responsible for the disruption of the normal developmental process. One of the biological functions of S-adenosylmethionine is in polyamine synthesis and it is known that a well-controlled intracellular concentration of polyamines is essential for normal cell growth and differentiation. In this study, high-performance liquid chromatography was used to determine the intracellular polyamine patterns in growing cells, adenine-treated and normal encysting cells, and dormant cysts. Putrescine and spermidine were the most abundant polyamines found in the cells; growing cells had the highest level, adenine-treated cells had a 1.5 to 2.0 times higher level than normal encysting cells, while cysts had the lowest (only 3 and 12% of that of growing cells). Cadaverine and N1-acetylspermidine were found in all the cells and their levels decreased during encystment. Acetylputrescine was found in growing cells only and acetylspermine was found in all cells except cysts. Acetylcadaverine, N8-acetylspermidine, 1,3-diaminopropane, and spermine were not detected in any of the cells.
The acetyl derivatives of polyamines, N1-acetylspermine (N1-AcSPM) and N1-acetylspermidine (N1-AcSPD), are in vitro better substrates of tissue polyamine oxidase than the corresponding non-acetylated polyamines. Rat hepatoma tissue culture (HTC) cells, depleted of their putrescine (PUT) and spermidine (SPD) content by the use of DL-alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMeOrn), an irreversible inhibitor of L-ornithine decarboxylase, were used to study in situ the catabolism of these acetyl derivatives of polyamines. Normal intracellular spermidine content was restored by the addition of N1-acetylspermidine to polyamine-deficient cells. Addition of spermine (SPM) did not restore the spermidine content, although this polyamine elevated the spermine content of the cells. N1-Acetylspermidine reestablished normal spermidine levels of the cells and elevated the cellular putrescine content more efficiently and more rapidly than spermidine. Monoacetylputrescine and N1, N12-diacetylspermine (di-AcSPM) were ineffective in restoring putrescine and spermidine contents. These findings support the concept that N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine are natural substrates of tissue polyamine oxidase and suggest poor membrane permeability of monoacetylputrescine (AcPUT) and N1, N12-diacetylspermine. Furthermore, they indicate that acetylation of polyamines by the cytosolic acetyl CoA: polyamine N1-acetyltransferase is the rate-limiting step of polyamine catabolism in rat hepatoma cells. Growth inhibition by DL-alpha-difluoromethylornithine was reversed by N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine but not by monoacetylputrescine and N1, N12-diacetylspermine. These results suggest again that the antiproliferative effect of DL-alpha-dilfuoromethylornithine is related to inhibition of polyamine biosynthesis.
TLC and high-pressure liquid chromatographic examination of the dansyl derivatives obtained from human urine indicated the presence of N-[3-[4-aminobutyl)amino]propyl]acetamide (N1-acetylspermidine), N-[4-](3-aminopropyl)amino]buryl]acetamide (N8-acetylspermidine), N-(4-aminobutyl)acetamide (N-acetylputrescine), and N-(5-aminopentyl)acetamide (N-acetylcadaverine). The ratio of N1- to N8-acetylspermidine ranged from 10.3 in the urine of a patient with hepatoma to 1.1 in the urine of a normal subject. The three cancer patients had a considerably higher ratio of N1- to N8-acetylspermidine than did the three normal subjects. These findings indicate the ratio of N1- to N8-acetylspermidine in the 24-hr urine may serve as a biochemical marker for cancer.
Multiple lines of evidence implicate the polyamines, putrescine, spermidine, and spermine in the lung injury and hypertensive pulmonary vascular disease produced in rats by the pyrrolizidine alkaloid monocrotaline. While increases in lung polyamine content evoked by monocrotaline can be attributed in part to induction of the two rate-limiting enzymes in de novo polyamine synthesis, ornithine decarboxylase and S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase, little attention has been paid to the role that catabolic interconversion processes might play in lung polyamine accumulation. Accordingly, the present study evaluated dose (10-60 mg/kg)- and time (0-21 days)-dependent effects of monocrotaline on lung contents of acetylated polyamines and on the activity of spermidine/spermine acetyltransferase (SAT), the enzyme affecting spermidine acetylation. A single subcutaneous injection of monocrotaline produced dose- and time-dependent increases in the lung content of N1-acetylspermidine. Neither N1-acetylspermine nor N1-acetylputrescine could be detected in lungs from control rats or from rats treated with monocrotaline. SAT activity also was increased in monocrotaline-treated rat lungs in a dose- and time-dependent manner that was closely related to increases in the lung burden of N1-acetylspermidine. As expected, monocrotaline also caused dose- and time-dependent elevations in the lung contents of the primary polyamines, putrescine, spermidine, and spermine. Right ventricular hypertrophy, an index of sustained pulmonary hypertension, did not develop in animals treated with 10 or 20 mg/kg monocrotaline despite elevations in the lung contents of putrescine and N1-acetylspermidine and increases in the activity of SAT. In contrast, 30 and 60 mg/kg monocrotaline provoked right ventricular hypertrophy accompanied by elevations in the primary polyamines, N1-acetyl spermidine and SAT activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To understand the mechanism involved in the liver zonation of polyamines, we have studied the possible role of oxygen tension. When hepatocytes were cultured at 21% and at 5% oxygen in atmosphere to mimic periportal and perivenous conditions, polyamine content was modified. The observed modifications suggested an effect on the interconversion pathway. Spermidine acetyltransferase (SAT) activity and N1-acetylspermidine were therefore measured in the same conditions. SAT activity was markedly increased after 6 hours and N1-acetylspermidine was accumulated in the cells. This was caused by new enzyme synthesis. The higher expression of SAT was accompanied by an increase in the content of the specific messenger RNA (mRNA). When liver cells were depleted of polyamines, SAT activity and the specific mRNA content were not enhanced by oxygen deprivation, but they increased when polyamines were added again. Polyamines therefore appear to be necessary to promote the increase in SAT mRNA.
At optimum magnesium, the translation of rat heart mRNA in the nuclease treated rabbit reticulocyte lysate system was inhibited by low concentrations of spermidine or spermine but not of putrescine. Spermidine and spermine cause a general reduction in the translation of all the heart mRNAs since no differential effects were observed when the translation products were examined by gel electrophoresis. Spermine was a five times more potent inhibitor than spermidine but no inhibition was obtained with N1-acetylspermidine or N1-acetylspermine. Since analyses of endogenous polyamines demonstrate that the inhibitory concentrations of spermine could be obtained by converting a small fraction of the endogenous spermidine to spermine, these results indicate that interconversions of the polyamines might be a sensitive regulatory mechanism for protein synthesis.
UrinaryN1-acetylspermidine (N1SPD) andN8-acetylspermidine (N8SPD) were measured in 24-hr urine specimens from 42 patients with colon adenocarcinoma and 29 healthy controls to assess their use as markers for colon cancer screening. Serial spot urines in four controls demonstrated significant fluctuations in these polyamine levels throughout the day without a distinct circadian pattern and therefore all subsequent analyses were performed on 24-hr collections. Both N1SPD and N8SPD were significantly increased in colon cancer patients compared to controls. Neither test correlated with tumor stage or location, but N8SPD was elevated in patients with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma when compared to moderate or well-differentiated tumors. Using receiver operator characteristic (ROC) analysis, N1SPD had a higher information content than N8SPD, N1SPD+N8SPD, or the ratio of N1SPD/N8SPD and at a normal cut-off value of 4.0 nmol/mg creatinine, yielded a 95% specificity and 50% sensitivity for colon cancer.
BackgroundPolyamine oxidase enzymes catalyze the oxidation of polyamines and acetylpolyamines. Since polyamines are basic regulators of cell growth and proliferation, their homeostasis is crucial for cell life. Members of the polyamine oxidase gene family have been identified in a wide variety of animals, including vertebrates, arthropodes, nematodes, placozoa, as well as in plants and fungi. Polyamine oxidases (PAOs) from yeast can oxidize spermine, N1-acetylspermine, and N1-acetylspermidine, however, in vertebrates two different enzymes, namely spermine oxidase (SMO) and acetylpolyamine oxidase (APAO), specifically catalyze the oxidation of spermine, and N1-acetylspermine/N1-acetylspermidine, respectively. Little is known about the molecular evolutionary history of these enzymes. However, since the yeast PAO is able to catalyze the oxidation of both acetylated and non acetylated polyamines, and in vertebrates these functions are addressed by two specialized polyamine oxidase subfamilies (APAO and SMO), it can be hypothesized an ancestral reference for the former enzyme from which the latter would have been derived.ResultsWe analysed 36 SMO, 26 APAO, and 14 PAO homologue protein sequences from 54 taxa including various vertebrates and invertebrates. The analysis of the full-length sequences and the principal domains of vertebrate and invertebrate PAOs yielded consensus primary protein sequences for vertebrate SMOs and APAOs, and invertebrate PAOs. This analysis, coupled to molecular modeling techniques, also unveiled sequence regions that confer specific structural and functional properties, including substrate specificity, by the different PAO subfamilies. Molecular phylogenetic trees revealed a basal position of all the invertebrates PAO enzymes relative to vertebrate SMOs and APAOs. PAOs from insects constitute a monophyletic clade. Two PAO variants sampled in the amphioxus are basal to the dichotomy between two well supported monophyletic clades including, respectively, all the SMOs and APAOs from vertebrates. The two vertebrate monophyletic clades clustered strictly mirroring the organismal phylogeny of fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Evidences from comparative genomic analysis, structural evolution and functional divergence in a phylogenetic framework across Metazoa suggested an evolutionary scenario where the ancestor PAO coding sequence, present in invertebrates as an orthologous gene, has been duplicated in the vertebrate branch to originate the paralogous SMO and APAO genes. A further genome evolution event concerns the SMO gene of placental, but not marsupial and monotremate, mammals which increased its functional variation following an alternative splicing (AS) mechanism.ConclusionsIn this study the explicit integration in a phylogenomic framework of phylogenetic tree construction, structure prediction, and biochemical function data/prediction, allowed inferring the molecular evolutionary history of the PAO gene family and to disambiguate paralogous genes related by duplication event (SMO and APAO) and orthologous genes related by speciation events (PAOs, SMOs/APAOs). Further, while in vertebrates experimental data corroborate SMO and APAO molecular function predictions, in invertebrates the finding of a supported phylogenetic clusters of insect PAOs and the co-occurrence of two PAO variants in the amphioxus urgently claim the need for future structure-function studies.
The effect of polyamines on histone-mediated DNA compaction was examined in vitro with archaeal histone HpkA from Pyrococcus kodakaraensis KOD1. An agarose gel mobility-shift experiment indicated that histone-bound DNA (compacted DNA) was further compacted by addition of a polyamine (putrescine, spermidine, or spermine) or its acetylated form (N-acetylputrescine, N1-acetylspermidine, N8-acetylspermidine, or N1-acetylspermine) when the mixture was incubated at above 75 degrees C. Spermine was most effective in compaction enhancement among all the polyamines tested. A high concentration of potassium ion (1.0 M) did not stabilize the compacted form of DNA even though double-stranded DNA was stably maintained against thermal denaturation at elevated temperatures under this condition. It appears likely that multivalent polyamines have a nucleosome maintenance function in hyperthermophilic archaea in high-temperature environments.
Introduction Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is characterised by increasing incidence, late diagnosis and high mortality rates. Changes in liver metabolism during HCC development may alter circulating metabolite levels, which could be identified years before HCC diagnosis. Also, a detailed understanding of metabolic dysfunction in HCC may lead to the identification of better prevention strategies. In this context, we aimed to characterise pre-diagnostic circulating biomarkers of HCC risk using an LC-MS untargeted metabolomics approach. Methods A nested case-control study was conducted within the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) cohort of > 520,000 participants from 10 European countries. Extensive metabolic profiling was conducted using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and compared between serum samples of 129 HCC cases and their 1:1 matched controls. Multivariable univariate conditional logistic regression models adjusted for anthropometric factors, physical activity, alcohol intake, smoking status and education were used to estimate HCC risk associated with each biomarker and calculated as odds ratios (OR) per 1 standard deviation of log-transformed value. Results Out of 9206 detected metabolic features, 220 significantly discriminated HCC cases from controls after Benjamini-Hochberg correction for multiple testing. Among 37 key compounds that were annotated, 14 were identified with high confidence using authentic chemical standards. Among those, retinol, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, glycerophosphocholine, γ-carboxyethylhydroxychroman and creatine were inversely associated with HCC risk (ORs ranging from 0.27 to 0.56). Nine metabolites exhibited positive associations (OR = 6.78 to 2.04): 7-methylguanine, glycocholic acid, glycocheno-deoxycholic acid, L,L-cyclo(leucyl-prolyl), sphingosine, p-hydroxyphenyllactic acid, isatin, N1-acetylspermidine and tyrosine. The remaining 23 annotated metabolites were mainly represented by phospoholipids (mostly inverse associations) and two bilirubin metabolites (positive associations). Conclusions Our findings indicate that dietary factors, altered cholesterol and phospholipid metabolism, DNA damage, and gut bacterial metabolism appear to be involved in HCC development. If validated, these profile changes may be explored as markers of early HCC diagnosis.
It has previously been demonstrated that decarboxylation of ornithine in tumors, and the oxidative splitting of N1-acetylspermidine in tumor and normal tissues, are important sources of putrescine. Both these sources are utilised by tumors and other tissues with a high demand for polyamines to ensure their polyamine requirement. Consequently, combined treatment of tumor-bearing animals with an inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase (e.g. alpha-difluoromethylornithine) and polyamine oxidase (e.g. N,N'- bis-allenylputrescine) has an antitumoral effect superior to that of either drug alone. In the present work, it was demonstrated that the alimentary tract is a third important source of polyamines which maintains tumor growth. Gastrointestinal polyamines are of alimentary origin, and are also formed by aerobic and anaerobic microorganisms. They can be reduced by feeding a polyamine deficient diet together with antibiotics that are suitable for decontaminating the gastrointestinal tract. This treatment combined with the administration of the mentioned inhibitors of ornithine decarboxylase and polyamine oxidase completely prevents Lewis lung carcinoma from growing, and prolongs considerably the average life span of L1210 leukemia mice. The results of the polyamine analyses of tumors, leukemia cells and tissues are compatible with the notion that the effective blocking of the three main putrescine sources (intracellular decarboxylation of ornithine, formation of putrescine from N1-acetylspermidine, and the gastrointestinal tract) produces a very strong cytostatic effect. It is expected that the clinical efficacy of polyamine antimetabolites can be considerably improved by measures analogous to those applied in this pilot study.
Metabolism of N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine in rat liver and kidney was studied in vivo. N1-Acetylspermidine was metabolized primarily to putrescine while N8-acetylspermidine underwent deacetylation to yield spermidine. The rate of metabolism of these two compounds was much greater than that of spermidine. The rate of metabolism of N8-acetylspermidine exceeded that of N1-acetylspermidine in both liver and kidney. These rapid rates of metabolism could at least in part account for the low levels of these two compounds found in tissues. The differences in routes of metabolism of N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine may indicate differences in cellular functions of the two compounds.
Mammalian polyamine oxidases (PAOs) catalyze the oxidation of N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine to produce N-acetyl-3-aminopropanaldehyde and spermidine or putrescine. Structurally, PAO is a member of the monoamine oxidase family of flavoproteins. The effects of pH on the kinetic parameters of mouse PAO have been determined to provide insight into the protonation state of the polyamine required for catalysis and the roles of ionizable residues in the active site in amine oxidation. For N1-acetylspermine, N1-acetylspermidine, and spermine, the kcat/Kamine−pH profiles are bell-shaped. In each case, the profile agrees with that expected if the productive form of the substrate has a single positively charged nitrogen. The pKi−pH profiles for a series of polyamine analogues are most consistent with the nitrogen at the site of oxidation being neutral and one other nitrogen being positively charged in the reactive form of the substrate. With N1-acetylspermine as the substrate, the value of kred, the limi...
Abstract An assay procedure for polyamine oxidase in tissue homogenates was devised. The method is based on the degradation of N1,N12-diacetylspermine to N1-acetylspermidine and the determination using TLC of the latter. Polyamine oxidase activity is high in most tissues. Its activity is comparable to that of spermidine and spermine synthase. The independence of this enzyme from cellular proliferation rates and its relatively long biological half-life are indicative of a passive role of polyamine oxidase in the regulation of cellular polyamine levels.
In parotid, sublingual and submaxillary glands stimulated by continuous intravenous infusion of isoprenaline at various doses for 3 h, the concentrations of the polyamines putrescine, spermidine, spermine and N1-acetylspermidine as well as the activities of ornithine decarboxylase and spermidine/spermine-N1-acetyltransferase were determined. Ornithine decarboxylase is the enzyme that catalyses the formation of putrescine from ornithine. The most striking effect was observed in parotid glands. Here, the beta-adrenergic agonist increased the activity of spermidine/spermine-N1-acetyltransferase markedly, but only slightly (if at all) that of ornithine decarboxylase. It also increased the concentrations of N1-acetylspermidine and putrescine markedly. The result obtained in this gland indicates interconversion of higher polyamines to putrescine.
INTRODUCTION ::: Recently, illegal abuse of γ-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) has increased in drug-facilitated crimes, but the determination of GHB exposure and intoxication is difficult due to rapid metabolism of GHB. Its biochemical mechanism has not been completely investigated. And a metabolomic study by polyamine profile and pattern analyses was not performed in rat urine following intraperitoneal injection with GHB. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVES ::: Urinary polyamine (PA) profiling by gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was performed to monitor an altered PA according to GHB administration. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Polyamine profiling analysis by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry combined with star pattern recognition analysis was performed in this study. The multivariate statistical analysis was used to evaluate discrimination among control and GHB administration groups. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Six polyamines were determined in control, single and multiple GHB administration groups. Star pattern showed distorted hexagonal shapes with characteristic and readily distinguishable patterns for each group. N1-Acetylspermine (p < 0.001), putrescine (p < 0.006), N1-acetylspermidine (p < 0.009), and spermine (p < 0.027) were significantly increased in single administration group but were significantly lower in the multiple administration group than in the control group. N1-Acetylspermine was the main polyamine for discrimination among control, single and multiple administration groups. Spermine showed similar levels in single and multiple administration groups. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The polyamine metabolic pattern was monitored in GHB administration groups. N1-Acetylspermine and spermine were evaluated as potential biomarkers of GHB exposure and addiction.
We have previously shown that polyamines have profound effects on lymphocyte proliferation and function. We now report that the proliferative response of cultured lymphocytes from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia is abrogated by the addition of diacetyldiaminohexane (HMBA), the 6-carbon analogue of diacetylputrescine. In addition, this study demonstrates the post-translational modification of proteins by polyamines in CLL-lymphocytes, a decrease in the uptake of exogenous spermidine by CLL-lymphocytes which have been exposed to HMBA, and the significant conversion of spermidine to N1-acetylspermidine in CLL-lymphocytes.
have yet to be established. Fukushima et al. (18) have reported that sodium L-ascorbate (NaAsA) enhances the development of bladder tumors in male rats when fed after administration of the carcinogen N-butylAbbreviations: N1-AcSPD, N1-acetylspermidine; BrdU, bromodeoxyuridine; BBN, spermine NЈ-acetyltransferase (SAT) activities (20,21). Oral
A plasmid expression vector, pINSAT2, was constructed in order to express spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT) in Escherichia coli. Cells transfected with this vector produced large amounts of SSAT, amounting to up to 2% of the soluble protein when isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) was added and 0.3% of the soluble protein in the absence of inducer. The growth rate of cells expressing SSAT was reduced, and all of the cellular spermidine was converted to N1-acetylspermidine, much of which was excreted. Putrescine and 1-methylspermidine, which is not a substrate for SSAT, could reverse the effects of SSAT expression on growth, but spermidine was only effective when the amount of SSAT expression was limited by omitting the IPTG inducer. The lack of stimulation of growth by spermidine correlated with its complete conversion to N1-acetylspermidine. These results show that N1-acetylspermine is not able to substitute for the unmodified polyamines in supporting growth and suggest that acetylation is a physiological response to convert excess polyamines to a physiologically inert form which is readily excreted. Cells expressing large amounts of SSAT were much more sensitive to the growth inhibitory action of the antitumor agent N1,N12-bis(ethyl)spermine, supporting the hypothesis that the ability of such bis(ethyl) polyamines to induce SSAT contributes to their antiproliferative actions. SSAT was readily purified to homogeneity from extracts of DH5 alpha cells containing pINSAT2. The purified enzyme had a similar specific activity and Km values for spermine and spermidine as the enzyme purified from human colon cancer cells, suggesting that posttranslational modifications specific to eukaryotes are not needed for enzymatic activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recently, our laboratory has demonstrated that N1-acetylspermidine levels were increased in the distal colonic mucosa of rats administered 1,2-dimethylhydrazine for 15 and 26 weeks. In order to further explore the possible role of this acetylated polyamine in the malignant transformation process induced by this carcinogen, groups of rats were subcutaneously injected weekly with dimethylhydrazine (20 mg/kg body wt.) or diluent for 5, 10, 15 and 26 weeks +/- 1% 2-difluoromethylornithine in the drinking water. The latter agent, an irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, has previously been shown to inhibit colonic tumor formation in this experimental model. At each of these time periods, rats from each group were killed, their proximal and distal colonic mucosa harvested and examined, and compared with respect to polyamine levels, including N1-acetylspermidine, as well as the activities of ornithine decarboxylase, S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase, spermidine N1-acetyltransferase and polyamine oxidase. The results of these experiments demonstrated that: (1) N1-acetylspermidine levels in the proximal colonic segment of all animals were similar at each time point; (2) N1-acetylspermidine levels were also similar in the distal colons of all animals at 5 and 10 weeks. At 15 weeks, however, the level of N1-acetylspermidine was increased in the dimethylhydrazine-treated distal colonic segment secondary to increases in the activity of spermidine N1-acetyltransferase; and (3) at 26 weeks, the level of this acetylated polyamine remained higher in dimethylhydrazine-treated distal 'uninvolved' colonic mucosa and was markedly elevated in colonic tumors; (4) co-administration of difluoromethylornithine decreased the elevated levels of N1-acetylspermidine to control values in the distal colons of animals treated with carcinogen for 15 and 26 weeks; and (5) difluoromethylornithine markedly reduced the number of tumors induced by dimethylhydrazine in the distal but not proximal colonic mucosa at 26 weeks.
Spermidine is one of the simple polyamines found in cells of virtually all living organisms. It undergoes a metabolic conversion to N8-acetylspermidine catalyzed by an enzyme in cell nuclei and is converted back to spermidine by a deacetylase in the cytoplasm. In this study, two different mechanisms were used to produce an elevation in the level of N8-acetylspermidine in PC12 cells: inhibition of N8-acetylspermidine deacetylase and direct addition of N8-acetylspermidine to the cell culture. The increasing intracellular concentration of N8-acetylspermidine was accompanied by signs of PC12 cell differentiation including increased content of dopamine and morphological changes (neurite outgrowths), suggesting a strong and perhaps causal relationship among these effects. This effect on differentiation appears to be specific for N8-acetylspermidine as the addition of other polyamines including spermidine and N1-acetylspermidine did not elicit these changes. Nerve growth factor (NGF) and dexamethasone, commonly used inducers of differentiation in PC12 cells, produced differentiation without measurable changes in N8-acetylspermidine levels, suggesting that different (or multiple) mechanisms may be involved in these differentiation processes.
The Syrian hamster epididymis contains rather high levels of sym-homospermidine, N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine in addition to the common polyamines putrescine, spermidine, and spermine. In the present study two other polyamines were identified in adult hamster epididymis by gas chromatography; they are aminopropylhomospermidine [NH2(CH2)3NH(CH2)4NH(CH2)4NH2] and canavalmine [NH2(CH2)4NH(CH2)3NH(CH2)4NH2]. The molar ratio of the former to the latter was about 2:1. This is the first report to show that tetraamines other than spermine are present in mammalian tissues.
Normal tissues contain only trace amounts of monoacetylated polyamines. N1-Acetylpersmidine is present in high concentrations in mouse liver cells damaged by hepatotoxins and is also found in specialised cells of the hamster epididymis. In the present study human breast cancers were analysed for the presence of monoacetylated polyamines because the N1-acetylspermidine is selectively elevated in human colorectal cancers. Free and monoacetylated polyamines (N1-acetylspermidine, N8-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine), measured by high-performance liquid chromatography, were expressed as nmol/g wet wt of breast cancers (n = 54) or normal breast tissue (n = 15). Putrescine and monoacetylated polyamines were absent from normal breast tissue. Mean total content of monoacetylated polyamines in breast cancers 14.9 ± 5.3 (S.E.) exceeded the mean total content of free polyamines (8.3 ± 1.0) in normal breast tissue. Detectable levels of at least two of the monoacetylated polyamines were found in all brest cancers: N1-acetylspermidine was present in 51 (13.1 ± 6.3), N8-acetylspermidin in 32 (0.6 ± 0.1) and N1-acetylspermine in 28 tumours (1.2 ± 0.3). There was no correlation between monoacetylated polyamine content of breast cancers and factors known to affect survival, i.e. tumour size, histological grade, oestrogen receptors status and node status. Monoacetylated polyamines are present in human breast cancers but not in normal breast tissue, implying that polyamine catabolism in breast cancers differs from that in normal breast tissue.
Polyamines (putrescine, spermidine and spermine) play important roles in cell proliferation and differentiation, and have been established as tumors markers. We and other workers have confirmed that N1-acetylspermidine in tumor tissues, spermidine and spermine in erythrocytes, and N1,N12-diacetylspermine in urine might be the most sensitive indicators for various forms of tumors. Neopterin is a marker of cell-mediated immunostimulation, and may be a helpful marker in monitoring cancer patients. HPLC and immunological assays of neopterin, biopterin, and N2-(3-aminopropyl)biopterin(oncopterin) in urine might be useful in the clinical study of pteridines, as cancer markers. Serum 5-S-cysteinyldopa level is a useful and specific biochemical marker for malignant melanoma.
Abstract To determine whether supplemental dietary calcium and/or vitamin D deficiency are involved in modulating colon cancer induced by 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH), Sprague-Dawley rats were fed diets containing either: (a) a normal content of calcium (0.87%) and phosphorus (0.60%) with 2.2 IU of vitamin D3 per g of feed (group A); (b) the same diet as group A, but with calcium and phosphorus increased to 1.80 and 0.80%, respectively (group B); or (c) a vitamin D-deficient diet with supplemental calcium (1.80%) and phosphorus (0.80%) (group C). After 6 weeks on their respective diets, one-half the animals in each group were given s.c. injections of either vehicle or DMH (20 mg/kg body weight/week) for 26 weeks. Animals were then sacrificed and the incidence of tumors as well as the number of tumors per tumor-bearing rat were determined. Colonic mucosal polyamine levels were measured after 15 weeks of exposure to vehicle or DMH, before development of histologically recognizable neoplasms. The results of these experiments demonstrated that neither calcium supplementation alone nor supplemental calcium in conjunction with vitamin D deficiency altered the incidence of colonic cancer induced by this carcinogen. Supplemental calcium, however, significantly decreased the number of rats with multiple tumors and reduced tumor size. Moreover, vitamin D deficiency abolished these protective effects of calcium on colon cancer in this experimental model. DMH treatment increased polyamine levels in the premalignant colonic mucosa in group A rats. This carcinogen-induced effect was blunted by high dietary calcium. Vitamin D-deficient, calcium-supplemented rats (group C) showed an increase in N1-acetylspermidine, but not the other polyamines, with DMH treatment.
In an attempt to elucidate the effects of estrogen on polyamine metabolism in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated mice, we assayed polyamine content and the activity of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SAT) and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) in some organs. LPS elevated N1-acetylspermidine levels in the liver and lung and putrescine levels in the liver, lung and spleen. LPS increased the activity of ODC at 6 h and that of SAT at 12 h in the liver. When estradiol-17 beta was simultaneously administered with LPS, the maximum increase in hepatic N1-acetylspermidine levels was found 6 h earlier than in the LPS control. Likewise, the peak of the hepatic SAT activity after LPS-treatment was observed 6 h earlier in the estradiol-17 beta-treated mice than in the LPS control. No such effect of estradiol-17 beta was found in the lung and spleen. The LPS-induced ODC activity was not affected by estradiol-17 beta in the liver, lung or spleen. Estrone and 16 beta-ethylestradiol (an anti-estrogen) were also effective in enhancing the LPS-induced elevation of N1-acetyl-spermidine and putrescine in the liver, while both diethylstilbestrol, which has a potent estrogenic activity without steroid structure and estradiol-17 alpha (a non-estrogenic isomer of estradiol-17 beta) were without effect. Tamoxifen (an estrogen receptor antagonist) did not suppress the estrogen-induced increase in hepatic N1-acetylspermidine levels.
When the ability of T4-DNA ligase from E. coli NM 989 to form higher molecular weight polymers from linearized plasmid pJDB 207 was followed, it was observed that physiological concentrations (0.5 to 1.0 mM) of spermidine and spermine greatly stimulated the formation of these polymers. The effect had a strict specificity since 1,3-diaminopropane, putrescine (1,4-diaminobutane) and N1-acetylspermidine neither stimulated nor inhibited this activity of DNA ligase. The structural analogues of spermidine, methyl bis(guanylhydrazone) and 1,1'-[(methylethanediylidene)dinitrilo]bis(3-aminoguanidine) totally abolished the stimulatory effect of spermidine on T4-DNA ligase without affecting the enzyme's basal activity.
Treatment of rats with spermidine, spermine or sym-norspermidine led to a substantial induction of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase activity in liver, kidney and lung. The increase in this enzyme, which was determined independently of other acetylases by using a specific antiserum, accounted for all of the increased acetylase activity in extracts from rats treated with these polyamines. Spermine was the most active inducer, and the greatest effect was seen in liver. Liver spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase activity was increased about 300-fold within 6 h of treatment with 0.3 mmol/kg doses of spermine; activity in kidney increased 30-fold and activity in the lung 15-fold under these conditions. The increased spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase activity led to a large increase in the liver putrescine content and a decline in spermidine. These changes are due to the oxidation by polyamine oxidase of the N1-acetylspermidine formed by the acetyltransferase. Our results indicated that spermidine was the preferred substrate in vivo of the acetylase/oxidase pathway for the conversion of the higher polyamines into putrescine. The induction of the spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase by polyamines may provide a mechanism by which excess polyamines can be removed.
Summary We investigated the total, free, and acetylated polyamine concentrations in pancreatic tissue, serum, and urine of 20 patients with pancreatic cancer, 30 healthy volunteers, and 40 patients with nonmalignant, gastrointestinal diseases by reversed-phase liquid chromatography. Tissue concentrations in carcinoma compared to histologically unaffected pancreas were significantly higher for putrescine, elevated for cadaverine, and nearly identical for spermidine and spermine, while N1-acetylspermidine was detectable in cancer tissue only. With the exception of free spermine in urine and total spermine in serum, all other polyamines were significantly elevated in the urine and serum of cancer patients compared to healthy controls. These data support the concept that polyamines play an important role in rapidly growing tissues. However, nonmalignant gastrointestinal diseases partly showed similar elevations. Because of this low specificity, polyamines are of little value only as diagnostic markers of pancreatic carcinoma. Since polyamine concentrations normalized in patients after curative operation while they were further elevated in patients with tumor relapse or metastases, polyamines might play a clinical role in predicting therapeutic success or indicating relapse of the tumor. A significant linear correlation of polyamine concentrations and the size of the tumor was found while a significant correlation to CEA, CA 19–9, and CA 125 or the presence of organ metastases did not exist.
Radiation metabolomics has aided in the identification of a number of biomarkers in cells and mice by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-coupled time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-ESI-QTOFMS) and in rats by gas chromatography-coupled mass spectrometry (GCMS). These markers have been shown to be both dose- and time-dependent. Here UPLC-ESI-QTOFMS was used to analyze rat urine samples taken from 12 rats over 7 days; they were either sham-irradiated or γ-irradiated with 3 Gy after 4 days of metabolic cage acclimatization. Using multivariate data analysis, nine urinary biomarkers of γ radiation in rats were identified, including a novel mammalian metabolite, N-acetyltaurine. These upregulated urinary biomarkers were confirmed through tandem mass spectrometry and comparisons with authentic standards. They include thymidine, 2′-deoxyuridine, 2′deoxyxanthosine, N1-acetylspermidine, N-acetylglucosamine/galactosamine-6-sulfate, N-acetyltaurine, N-hexanoylglycine, taurine and, tentatively, isethionic acid....
The activity of two naturally occurring monoacetylated polyamines, N8-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermidine, as inducers of differentiation of HL60 human leukemia cells was assessed. Differentiation was quantified by morphological changes and the ability to reduce nitroblue tetrazolium. N8-Acetylspermidine produced 25-35 percent differentiation at 3 microM and 80-90 percent differentiation at 15 microM. Higher concentrations caused cell death. Cell growth was inhibited by N8-acetylspermidine at 3.8 microM. No differentiation activity or inhibition of cell growth was found with N1-acetylspermidine at concentrations up to 1.2 mM. The observed dependence of activity on the position of the acetyl group on monoacetylspermidine is in contrast to the broad structural specificity of known inducers of HL60 cell differentiation.
We developed a mouse monoclonal antibody (ASPM-29, mAb) against spermine (Spm) conjugated to human serum albumin (HSA) using glutaraldehyde-sodium borohydride, for applications in immunocytochemistry (ICC). The antibody specificity was evaluated by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) binding test, simulating the ICC of tissue sections. ASPM-29 showed an almost equal immunoreactivity to Spm and spermidine (Spd) but no reactivity to any of the other polyamine (PA)-related compounds tested. By use of this antibody, indirect immunoperoxidase staining was observed in different tissues fixed with glutaraldehyde in combination with borohydride reduction. In contrast, immunoreactivity was quite low in tissues fixed only with glutaraldehyde. Absorption controls indicated that the immunostaining could be completely inhibited by 50 μg/ml of Spm or Spd and partially inhibited by N-acetylspermine (Ac-Spm), N1-acetylspermidine (N1-Ac-Spd), or N8-acetylspermidine (N8-Ac-Spd), but was hardly inhibited at all by other PA-related compounds or amino acids. The reactivity of the antibody with Spm conjugated on wells in an ELISA plate was inhibited by micromolar concentrations of Spm, Spd, Ac-Spm, N1-Ac-Spd, or N8-Ac-Spd, in decreasing order, but not by other small molecules. Dense ICC staining was observed in the paranuclear and basal cytoplasm of acinar cells of rat pancreas, submandibular gland and paratid gland, these results being in complete agreement with our recent ICC methods using other mAbs produced against N-(γ-male-imidobutyryloxy) succinimide-conjugated Spm.
Abstract 1,2-Dimethylhydrazine (DMH) is a potent procarcinogen with selectivity for the colon. Recently, it has been demonstrated that levels of N1-acetylspermidine were elevated 2–3-fold in colonic tumors induced by this agent compared to control tissues. To determine whether alterations in the urinary levels of this acetylated polyamine or other polyamines were useful biochemical markers for colon cancer in this experimental model, rats were given s.c. injections of DMH (20 mg/kg body weight/week) or diluent for 26 weeks. One week after the last injection, control and DMH-treated animals were placed in separate metabolic cages and their urine was collected for 24 h. The urinary levels (expressed as nmol/mg creatinine) of putrescine, spermidine, spermine, N1-acetylspermidine, and N8-acetylspermidine were then analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Animals from each group were then sacrificed and their colons were examined for tumors. The results of these studies demonstrated that the urinary level of N1-acetylspermidine was an excellent biochemical marker for colonic tumors induced by DMH. At 18.3 nmol/mg creatinine, N1-acetylspermidine was 100% sensitive and specific for colon cancer. Moreover, urinary levels of N1-acetylspermidine were better for this purpose than the N1-acetylspermidine/N8-acetylspermidine molar ratio, a marker previously suggested to be more specific for certain cancers than free polyamines.
N1,N2-bis-(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine (MDL 72527) is an irreversible, specific inhibitor of polyamine oxidase, which allows one to completely inactivate this enzyme in all organs of an experimental animal. As a result one observes a linear increase of N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine concentrations in brain. The rate of accumulation seems directly proportional to the rate of spermidine, and spermine degradation respectively, and since no compensatory changes of the polyamine synthetic enzymes were induced by inhibition of polyamine oxidase, the rate of acetyl-polyamine accumulation is assumed to be a measure for polyamine turnover. The decrease of brain putrescine levels by 70 percent in the brains of MDL 72527-treated animals suggests the quantitative significance of putrescine reutilisation. Pretreatment of the animals with D,L-alpha-difluoromethylornithine, an irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase reduced both, polyamine turnover rate and the extent of putrescine reutilization. Inhibition of GABA-T produced a significant increase of polyamine turnover in brain, in agreement with the known induction of ornithine decarboxylase activity after treatment with inhibitors of GABA-T.
5084 The critical nature of polyamines in cell growth and the frequent dysregulation of their metabolism in cancer have led to the targeting of the polyamine metabolic pathway as an antitumor strategy. Importantly, recent molecular characterization of each of the polyamine catabolic enzymes and their potential to profoundly alter drug response has propelled considerable interest into understanding their role in modulating tumor cell sensitivity to the antitumor polyamine analogues. Analogue-induced oxidation of the natural polyamines by PAO and the newly discovered spermine oxidase, SMO(PAOh1), has been implicated in the cytotoxic response of solid tumor types to specific polyamine analogues. But the potential that oxidase activity may lead to drug resistance by detoxifying the antitumor analogues has received less attention. Here we examine the substrate specificity of recombinant human PAO with respect to the natural polyamines and various antitumor analogues and examine the effects of overexpression of human PAO in the analogue-sensitive A549 human lung adenocarcinoma cell line. The results indicate that PAO, in addition to effectively oxidizing N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine, also rapidly oxidizes several symmetrically and unsymmetrically substituted antitumor polyamine analogues, including N1, N11-bis(ethyl)norspermine (BENSpm), N1-ethyl-N11-(cyclopropyl)methyl-4,8,diazaundecane (CPENSpm), N1-ethyl-N11-(cycloheptyl)methyl-4,8,diazaundecane (CHENSpm), and (S)-N1-(2-methyl-1-butyl)-N11 -ethyl-4,8,diazaundecane (IPENSpm). When overexpressed in A549 cells, PAO oxidizes each of the analogues, reduces their intracellular accumulation, blocks the downstream apoptotic events common in response to treatment with these agents, and confers significant resistance to each of these compounds. By contrast, the response to representative oligoamine polyamine analogues that are not PAO substrates is not altered by PAO overexpression. These results suggest a mechanism of resistance to specific antitumor polyamine analogues and provide insight into means for improving the design and use of new agents with greater clinical potential.
In this report we show that recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae Fms1 protein is a polyamine oxidase that binds FAD with an FAD:Fms1 stoichiometry of 1:1. Biochemical characterization of Fms1 shows that it can oxidize spermine, N1-acetylspermine, N1-acetylspermidine, and N8-acetylspermidine, but not spermidine. The products of spermine oxidation are spermidine and 3-aminopropanal. A kinetic analysis revealed that spermine, N1-acetylspermine, and N1-acetylspermidine are oxidized with similar efficiencies, while N8-acetylspermidine is a poor substrate. The data support a previous report, suggesting that Fms1 is responsible for the production of β-alanine from spermine for the synthesis of pantothenic acid.
Administration of allylglycine to mice (.8 mmole/kg, i.p.) results in a depletion of GABA levels, and it is accompanied by a decrease in SAM-DC activity and spermidine and spermine levels (Pajunen et al., 1979). Here we describe a biphasic effect on the acetylation of putrescine and spermidine in mouse brain homogenate. There appears to be an inverse correlation between the initial decrease in spermidine levels at 2 hours and the increase in the acetylation of spermidine. This is suggestive of a conversion of spermidine, probably through N1-acetylspermidine to putrescine. The peak of putrescine acetylation observed by us at 4 hours may also reflect a conversion of putrescine, via acetylputrescine to GABA. The interconversion hypothesis is supported by the fact that putrescine levels remain essentially stable in spite of a significant depletion of spermidine and spermine. In addition, there is a decrease in putrescine and spermidine acetylation at 8 hours, which coincides with the increase in ODC activity and the increase towards control levels of GAD activity (Pajunen et al., 1979). Such inverse correlations suggest a mechanism for replenishment of polyamines once GAD activity returns to control levels.
Antiserum was produced in rabbits against the polyamine spermidine (Spd) conjugated to bovine serum albumin (BSA). The reactivity of the serum to Spd and a variety of structurally related compounds was quantified by a new immunocytochemical model system incorporating an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) binding test. This is based on the principle of coupling these compounds to the wells of microtiter plate activated with poly-l-lysine and glutaraldehyde and incubating the wells by the indirect immunoperoxidase method. The antiserum showed a 25% cross reaction with spermine (Spm), putrescine (Put), and cadaverine (Cad), and a 1% cross reaction with 1,3-diaminopropane (Dap), but no cross reaction with monoacetyl polyamines and amino acids. The antibody binding was inhibited most effectively by absorption of the antiserum with N1-acetylspermidine and Spd in the ELISA inhibition test. Also, immunoblot analysis of the antiserum with nitrocellulose paper gave completely identical results to the ELISA binding tests. Spd-like immunoreactivities in human melanoma BD and neuroblastoma IMR 32 cell lines are presented as examples of the staining pattern obtained with the antiserum. Absorption of the serum with N1-acetylspermidine and Spd was demonstrated to abolish the immunostaining reaction. The immunohistochemical model is simple: amines and amino acids are bound in the same way as in aldehyde-fixed tissues and, in comparison to immunoblot analysis, the immunoreactivity can be more easily and accurately quantified by assay with the antibody. The model should prove useful in assessing the specificity of other antisera.
The effects of α-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), radiation and the therapy of their combination were investigated in rats bearing G-XII glioma. DFMO treatment as well as radiation therapy prolonged the survival period when compared to the results in non-treated control rats. The combination therapy showed a greater effect on the survival rate than the single therapies, the effect being additive. The concentration of putrescine, spermidine, andN1-acetylspermidine in tumor tissues was lowered by DFMO, while that of spermine was slightly elevated. Radiation decreased the concentration of all the polyamines, putrescine, spermidine, spermine andN1-acetylspermidine. The concomitant treatment with DFMO and radiation further decreased the concentrations of putrescine andN1-acetylspermidine in tumor tissues. The survival period of glioma-bearing rats is inversely correlated with the tissue levels of putrescine plusN1-acetylspermidine.
The activity of cytosolic spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase and polyamine levels were measured in livers of rats killed at different times after partial hepatectomy. The enzyme activity, which showed an early increase a few hours after the operation, had significantly and persistently decreased by the time the liver mass had been regained (10 days) compared to intact rats or sham-operated rats, and up to 30 days after partial hepatectomy, compared to intact rats of the same age. The early induction of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase activity was also confirmed by the high level of N1-acetylspermidine, which normally is undetectable, and by a dramatic increase in putrescine content. Spermidine levels were increased during the first 10 days after partial hepatectomy, i.e., when the liver had regained its mass, and progressively decreased after this time until 30 days after the operation. The changes in spermine content were similar but not as marked as the changes in spermidine content at the different observation times.
The studies of urinary polyamine excretion in heart transplant patients reported in this article indicate that (1) total urinary polyamine excretion is increased one to three days before a biopsy-proved rejection in conventionally treated patients, (2) the acetylputrescine to N1-acetylspermidine ratio becomes elevated before rejection in cyclosporine-treated patients, and (3) the response to elevated ATG therapy during rejection can be evaluated by monitoring urinary polyamine concentrations. We conclude that daily monitoring of urinary polyamine levels may provide a noninvasive biochemical marker that precedes rejection and which parallels the extent of T lymphocyte suppression during the course of immunosuppressive drug therapy.
The tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle (or citric acid cycle) is responsible for the complete oxidation of acetyl-CoA and formation of intermediates required for ATP production and other anabolic pathways, such as amino acid synthesis. Here, we uncovered an additional mechanism that may help explain the essential role of the TCA cycle in the early embryogenesis of Caenorhabditis elegans. We found that knockdown of citrate synthase (cts-1), the initial and rate-limiting enzyme of the TCA cycle, results in early embryonic arrest, but that this phenotype is not because of ATP and amino acid depletions. As a possible alternative mechanism explaining this developmental deficiency, we observed that cts-1 RNAi embryos had elevated levels of intracellular acetyl-CoA, the starting metabolite of the TCA cycle. Of note, we further discovered that these embryos exhibit hyperacetylation of mitochondrial proteins. We found that supplementation with acetylase-inhibiting polyamines, including spermidine and putrescine, counteracted the protein hyperacetylation and developmental arrest in the cts-1 RNAi embryos. Contrary to the hypothesis that spermidine acts as an acetyl sink for elevated acetyl-CoA, the levels of three forms of acetylspermidine, N1-acetylspermidine, N8-acetylspermidine, and N1,N8-diacetylspermidine, were not significantly increased in embryos treated with exogenous spermidine. Instead, we demonstrated that the mitochondrial deacetylase sirtuin 4 (encoded by the sir-2.2 gene) is required for spermidine's suppression of protein hyperacetylation and developmental arrest in the cts-1 RNAi embryos. Taken together, these results suggest the possibility that during early embryogenesis, acetyl-CoA consumption by the TCA cycle in C. elegans prevents protein hyperacetylation and thereby protects mitochondrial function.
The recent cloning of the mammalian gene coding for N1-acetylpolyamine oxidase (PAO) provides the opportunity to directly examine the role of human PAO (hPAO) in polyamine homeostasis as well as its potential role in determining cellular response to antitumor polyamine analogues. To facilitate the study of this enzyme, the production, purification, and characterization of the recombinant hPAO is reported. hPAO oxidizes N1-acetylspermidine (Km=2.1 μM, Kcat=15.0 s−1) and has very high affinity for N1-acetylspermine (Km=0.85 μM, Kcat=31.7 s−1). The recombinant hPAO does not efficiently oxidize spermine, thereby demonstrating a significant difference in substrate specificity from the previously described human spermine oxidase PAOh1/SMO. Importantly, hPAO demonstrates the ability to oxidize a subset of antitumor polyamine analogues, suggesting that this oxidase activity could have a significant effect on determining tumor sensitivity to these or similar agents. Transfection of A549 human lung cancer cells with an hPAO-expressing plasmid leads to a profound decrease in sensitivity to those analogues which act as substrates, confirming its potential to alter drug response. One similarity that hPAO shares with human PAOh1/SMO, is that certain oligoamine analogues are potent inhibitors of its oxidase activity. The results of these studies demonstrate how changes in polyamine catabolism may affect drug response.
Two catabolic pathways exist for spermidine and spermine. One is responsible for the interconversion of the polyamines, a physiological intracellular event. The first and probably rate limiting step of the polyamine interconversion pathway is acetylation in the N1-position by a cytosolic enzyme. The reaction products N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine are substrates of the cytoplasmic polyamine oxidase. This enzyme transforms the N1-acetylpolyamines into spermidine and putrescine respectively. N1-Acetylspermidine is at the same time a major urinary excretion product. The factors which control the rates of N1-acetylspermidine degradation by polyamine oxidase versus its elimination via transport are not known. The second catabolic pathway forms putreanine from spermidine and N8-(2-carboxyethyl)-spermidine and spermic acid from spermine. It is catalyzed by the well known serum spermine oxidase. The second step in this reaction sequence, the dehydrogenation of the aldehydes formed by the serum spermine oxidase occurs intracellularly and is catalyzed either by specific or non-specific aldehyde dehydrogenases. The function of this "two compartment reaction sequence" is most probably to protect tissues from extracellular or exogenous (alimentary) polyamines. Its end-products appear to be physiologically indifferent urinary excretion products. Both catabolic pathways may have marked effects on the urinary polyamine pattern. Drugs as well as a variety of physiological and pathological states may influence polyamine catabolism and elimination at various levels, and may cause characteristic alterations in the urinary excretion of free and conjugated polyamines and of the amino acids deriving from the polyamines.
Total, free, and acetylated polyamine concentrations were measured simultaneously in colon tissue, serum, and urine of 50 patients with histologically proven colorectal cancer, 40 patients with nonmalignant gastrointestinal diseases, and 30 healthy volunteers. Compared with histologically unaffected colon tissue, concentrations were significantly (P less than 0.001) higher for putrescine, elevated for cadaverine, and nearly identical for spermidine and spermine in colon carcinoma, whereas N1-acetylated and N8-acetylated spermidine were detectable in cancer tissue only. Serum and urine concentrations of all polyamines except total cadaverine and spermine in serum and free spermine in urine were significantly elevated compared with healthy controls and highest sensitivity for colon cancer was found for total spermidine (89.15%) in serum and acetylputrescine (84.5%), total putrescine (84.0%), N1-acetylspermidine (79.3%), and total spermidine (92.1%) in urine. However, nonmalignant gastrointestinal diseases partly showed similar elevations which resulted in a low specificity for polyamines in colorectal cancer. Therefore, polyamines are of little value only as diagnostic markers in colorectal carcinoma. Since polyamine concentrations in serum and urine normalized in patients after curative operation while they were further elevated in patients with proven tumor relapse or metastases, these substances might play a clinical role in predicting therapeutic success or indicating relapse of the tumor. Although a significant dependency of polyamine concentrations in serum or urine to Dukes' classification, tumor localization, CEA, CA 19-9, or CA 125 did not exist, a significant linear correlation was found for tumor size.
In a single, rapid and precise analysis, monoacetylputrescine, N8-acetylspermidine, N1-acetylspermidine, putrescine, spermidine, and spermine can be separated using a five-buffer system on an automatic amino acid analyzer. This method allows, for the first time, the separation of all the known acetyl derivatives of putrescine and spermidine as well as the parent compounds in urine and tissues with a single automated procedure. The method has been applied to the analysis of biological samples from normal volunteers, cancer patients and a rat liver supernatant. Mass spectral confirmation was obtained for each compound.
A method is described for the determination of pmol quantities of monoacetylputrescine, N1-acetylspermidine, N8-acetylspermidine and related compounds. The method is based on the derivation of these compounds with 5-dimethylaminonaphthalene-1-sulphonylchloride, followed by thin-layer chromatographic separation. Cleanup steps allow the application of the method to urine analyses. From the repeated determination of acetylated polyamines in the urine of healthy individuals it can be concluded that these conjugates are the major excretory form of di- and polyamines. The cleanup steps used in this procedure and the method described for the stabilization of 5-dimethylaminonaphthalene-1-sulphonyl derivatives on thin-layer plates are advantageous also for the analyses of total polyamines in urine hydrolysates, and in related applications of the dansylation method.
In the RPMI mouse renal cell tumor, N1-acetylspermidine (N1AS) was found to be a constant and major component (18 to 25%) of the polyamine pool. Early i.m. growth induced urinary N1AS excretions up to tenfold normal, equivalent to a daily turnover of the entire tumor polyamine pool. N1AS excretion was correspondingly lower during more limited s.c. tumor growth. In nine other mouse tumors, N1AS pools were low or negligible, and correspondingly urinary N1AS or N8AS increased only in advanced growth, and less significantly. Urinary N1AS was elevated likewise in immature untumored mice. Thus, the enriched N1AS pool of the renal cell tumor was separately distinguishable as a direct source of elevation of urinary N1AS. N1AS was selectively abolished from the renal cell tumor by prolonged BCNU treatment, but was not rapidly depleted by the polyamine inhibitor DFMO. In cell culture, the RPMI renal cell tumor contained unusually high uninduced levels of sperm(id)ine N1-acetyltransferase, a potential source of N1AS. N1AS pools were also significantly elevated in human renal cell tumors.
1. ::: 1. Cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO) and their ornithine decarboxylase deficient mutant cells (C55.7) were found to excrete small amounts of N8-acetylspermidine and free polyamines, putrescine and spermidine into the culture medium. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. The concentration of N8-acetylspermidine in the control cells was 2–3% of that of spermidine. In the medium, however, the amount of N8-acetylspermidine was about 2-fold that of spermidine and 2- to 3-fold higher than the intracellular amount. N1-acetylspermidine or acetyled spermine were never detected in the cells or in the media. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. Confluent CHO cells treated with 2 mM difluoromethylornithine stopped the excretion when the intracellular spermidine concentration had decreased to 20% of control while there was no decrease in spermine concentration. At low cell density, neither polyamine depleted CHO cells nor the C55.7 cells excreted any polyamines into the culture media.
Simultaneous determination of putrescine, cadaverine, spermidine, spermine, N1-acetylputrescine, N1-acetylcadaverine, N1-acetylspermidine, N8-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine in aqueous samples was achieved as their N-ethoxycarbonyl-N-pentafluoropropionyl derivatives by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) in selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode. The overall GC-SIM-MS method was linear (r> or =0.9987), repetitive (% relative standard deviation=1.3-6.4), and accurate (% relative error=-2.1-8.6). As compared to normal subjects, the levels of putrescine, N1-acetylspermine and spermine were significantly elevated while the levels of N1-acetylputrescine, N1-acetylcadaverine and N1-acetylspermidine were markedly reduced in all four Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. When star symbol plotting was applied to the normalized levels of nine polyamines relative to the corresponding normal mean values, each star pattern of the AD patients was deformed, thus being readily distinguishable from the nonagon shape of the normal group average.
The synthesis of all three monoacetylated spermidines is reported. N4-Acetylspermidine was obtained in four steps from spermidine via the triacetylated intermediate by selective deacetylation after exhaustive t-butoxycarbonylation as well as directly from a previously described protected precursor. N1-Acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine were both obtained in four simple protection/deprotection steps from a common, selectively protected compound, thus illustrating the versatility of the latter.
The low molecular weight biologically active polyamines which include putrescine, spermidine and spermine are essential for cell multiplication and differentiation and in addition act as co-factors for the biosynthesis of macromolecules (Pegg and McCann, 1988). Polyamines metabolism has been studied in various organisms including the free living pathogenic amoebae, A. culbertsoni (Gupta et al., 1987) and A. castellanii (Poulin et al., 1984; Kim et al., 1987a). The polyamine contents of the free living amoebae measured at the stationary phase of the growth cycle revealed differences between strains. While Poulin et al. (1984) reported presence of only 1, 3 diaminopropane and possibly norspermidine in Neff strain of A. castellanii, spermidine and putrescine were additionally detected in A. culbertsoni (Kim et al., 1987b; Gupta et al., 1984; Srivastava and Shukla, 1982). In another report where polyamine contents of unidentified pathogenic Acanthamoeba isolates were measured in growing and quiescent cells, Zhu et al. (1989) detected relatively high levels of 1, 3 diaminopropane and spermidine in the growing cells. The polyamine levels decreased as the amoeba differentiated to cysts. N8 -acetylspermidine and acetylspermidine were found in both developmental stages while acetylcadaverine was detected only in growing amoebae and N1-acetylspermidine detected only in cysts.
Dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dibu-cAMP), N1-acetylputrescine and both N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine regularly induce ornithine decarboxylase activity in both a time- and a concentration-dependent manner when added to HTC cells in suspension culture. N,N'-Diacetyl-1,6-diaminohexane and N-acetyl-1,3-diaminopropane, aliphatic analogues of acetylated putrescine containing the carboxamide bond but not known to occur naturally in animal tissues, are also effective inducing agents. The addition of 10(-2)M putrescine to the cell culture at the time of maximal induction of ODC in HTC cells by dibu-cAMP causes a marked decrease in the apparent half-life of ODC in less than 10 minutes. Ten-fold concentration of HTC cells at the time of their maximal induction by dibu-cAMP also results in an immediate decrease both in the specific activity of ODC and in its apparent half-life. When the population density of induced HTC cells is increased the relative effect of exposure of cells to increasing levels of putrescine is lessened. Some of the implications of these observations are discussed.
N1-Acetylspermine oxidase (APAO) catalyzes the conversion of N1-acetylspermine or N1-acetylspermidine to spermidine or putrescine, respectively, with concomitant formation of N-acetyl-3-aminopropanal and hydrogen peroxide. Here we present the structure of murine APAO in its oxidized holo form and in complex with substrate. The structures provide a basis for understanding molecular details of substrate interaction in vertebrate APAO, highlighting a key role for an asparagine residue in coordinating the N1-acetyl group of the substrate. We applied computational methods to the crystal structures to rationalize previous observations with regard to the substrate charge state. The analysis suggests that APAO features an active site ideally suited for binding of charged polyamines. We also reveal the structure of APAO in complex with the irreversible inhibitor MDL72527. In addition to the covalent adduct, a second MDL72527 molecule is bound in the active site. Binding of MDL72527 is accompanied by altered conformations in the APAO backbone. On the basis of structures of APAO, we discuss the potential for development of specific inhibitors.
We have used High Performance Liquid Chromatography to determine metabolite characteristics of three recent isolates of Acanthamoeba which exhibit cultural characteristics consistent with those of established potential pathogens. Growing amoebae and dormant cysts of these isolates were explored in regard to their qualitative and quantitative intracellular levels of polyamine and S-adenosylmethionine metabolites. The polyamine found in the greatest concentration in the growing cells was 1,3-diaminopropane (DAP), followed by spermidine (SPD). A low level of putrescine was also found in the growing cells. These polyamines significantly decreased in concentration as the amoebae differentiated to cysts. N8-acetylspermidine and acetylspermine were found in both developmental stages while acetylcadaverine was found only in growing amoebae and N1-acetylspermidine only in cysts. Acetylputrescine was present in both stages of two isolates but only in the growing amoebae of the third isolate. Spermine was not detected in any of the isolates.
Increased levels of polyamines in rapidly growing tissues have been demonstrated, and recently rather high concentrations of conjugated polyamines such as N1-acetylspermidine have been found in certain malignant tumors. The purpose of this study is to analyze concentrations of free and conjugated polyamines in cyst fluids of brain tumors. Materials used were cyst fluids obtained in brain tumor surgery: 25 specimens were from cysts of benign brain tumors (acoustic neurinoma, 8 cases; craniopharyngioma, 7 cases; hemangioblastoma, 6 cases; meningioma, 2 cases; pituitary adenoma, 2 cases) and 17 specimens from malignant brain tumors (malignant astrocytoma, 2 cases; glioblastoma, 15 cases). After deproteinization of cyst fluids with 6N perchloric acid, polyamine levels were measured with the use of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using cation-exchange resin before and after acid hydrolysis. Polyamines separated in various fractions by HPLC were further analyzed before and after acid hydrolysis. The cyst fluids contained putrescine, spermidine, N1-acetylspermidine, and several other minor peaks. The levels of N1-acetylspermidine were much higher in cyst fluids of malignant brain tumors than in benign brain tumors. Higher concentrations of putrescine were also demonstrated in cyst fluids of malignant brain tumors. The increase in spermidine contents after acid hydrolysis was more than that which was derived from N1-acetylspermidine alone. In fact, some fractions other than the N1-acetylspermidine fractions yielded putrescine and/or spermidine upon acid hydrolysis. These data suggest that not only N1-acetylspermidine but also other polyamine conjugates are present in cyst fluids of brain tumors. Presumably N1-acetylspermidine and other conjugated forms are preferentially released into cyst fluids from malignant tumor tissues. The present study shows that not only putrescine but also N1-acetylspermidine in cyst fluids are promising markers of brain tumors.
Experiments were conducted to determine the relative growth-promoting potential and toxicity of dietary spermidine, a biogenic amine and polyamine. Week-old chicks were fed purified diets containing 0.0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, or 1.0% supplemental spermidine for 2 weeks. As little as 0.4% supplemental spermidine depressed growth and hepatic ornithine decarboxylase activity, while hepatic concentrations of putrescine, spermidine, and N1-acetylspermidine increased. In a second experiment, 0.00, 0.05, 0.10, 0.20, and 0.60% supplemental spermidine were fed. Low levels of supplemental spermidine tended to increase relative weights of the duodenum and pancreas. The temporal response to 0.00, 0.05, and 0.60% supplemental spermidine was determined in a third experiment when measurements were taken following 1, 2, 4, and 8 days of feeding. Chicks fed diets containing 0.05% supplemental spermidine had increased growth after only 1 day of feeding. Enlargement of the duodenum and pancreas was subsequently seen, although...
A monoclonal antibody (mAb), ASPM-2, produced against N-(gamma-maleimidobutyryloxy)-succinimide (GMBS)-conjugated polyamine spermine [Spm; Fujiwara et al. (1994) Histochemistry 102, 397-404] was used for the development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for acetylpolyamines (Ac-PAs) in human urine. The ELISA is based on the principle of competition between an analyte and Spm-glutaraldehyde-bovine serum albumin conjugate-coated polystyrene microtiter wells for the mAb, followed by immunoreaction with biotinylated anti-mouse immunoglobulin and horseradish peroxidase-streptavidin. The ASPM-2 mAb showed strong immunoreaction with N1,N12-diacetylspermine (2Ac-Spm), N-monoacetylspermine (Ac-Spm), and N1-acetylspermidine (N1-Ac-Spd), the EC50 values being 29, 50, and 51 microM, respectively, but no cross-reaction with other PA-related compounds or amino acids. The method was used to measure urinary Ac-PA levels in healthy subjects and cancer patients, without pretreatment of the specimens, mean concentrations of 3.25 and 2.80 mumol per 24-h urine, respectively (as N1-Ac-Spd), being found. The ASPM-2 ELISA for N1-Ac-Spd, which is the PA most relevant to the analysis of human urine among the three Ac-PAs mentioned above, is specific and accurate, and can easily be used to analyze large numbers of specimens in parallel. It should thus have potential for studying the relationship between urinary N1-Ac-Spd levels and cancer.
The D-R cell subline, an ornithine decarboxylase-overproducing variant of L1210 mouse leukemia cells, shows a growth advantage at low osmolality due to its high putrescine content. We tested the ability of spermidine to fulfill the role of putrescine under hyposmotic conditions. Although spermidine (1-30 microM) had no effect on growth under normosmotic conditions (325 mosm/kg), it was strongly inhibitory to D-R cell proliferation at 150 mosm/kg in a concentration-dependent manner. Hypotonic shock greatly increased the rate of spermidine uptake in D-R cells. The increased spermidine content enhanced total putrescine synthesis through a large induction of cytosolic spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase activity but also promoted the excretion of most of the putrescine synthesized by the cells. Delaying the addition of spermidine until 24 h after hypotonic shock resulted in a much sharper decrease in D-R cell viability and strongly depressed polyamine contents. These lethal effects occurred between 8 and 24 h after spermidine addition and followed a dramatic increase in the rate and extent of spermidine accumulation which overrode the metabolic capacity of the N1-acetyltransferase/polyamine oxidase (PAO) pathway. Inhibition of PAO partly reversed the effect of spermidine on growth when the polyamine was added at the time of hypotonic shock, but not 24 h later. Similar experiments performed with alpha-methylspermidine, a metabolically resistant analog, which can completely fulfill cellular requirements for spermidine in normosmotic media, suggested that the lethal effect of a delayed spermidine addition is caused predominantly by excessive accumulation with a minor contribution resulting from stress due to polyamine oxidase activity. In contrast, in hypotonically shocked L1210 cells, spermidine stimulated cell proliferation (albeit less effectively than putrescine), there was no lethal effect of a delayed addition of alpha-methylspermidine, and there was no time-dependent increase in the rate of alpha-methylspermidine uptake. Thus, the spermidine transport system is strongly enhanced by hyposmotic shock in D-R cells, which can result in extensive cell death from overaccumulation of the polyamine and, to a lesser extent, from stress related to the PAO-catalyzed degradation of N1-acetylspermidine. The absence of these effects in parental L1210 cells indicates that the acquisition of an ornithine decarboxylase-overproducing phenotype also involves major modifications in the expression and/or regulation of polyamine transport.
Tissue levels of N1-acetylspermidine, polyamines and CEA were measured in colorectal polyps, which had been either endoscopically polypectomized or surgically removed. The polyps examined were either adenomas with mild, moderate or severe dysplasia, or adenocarcinomas. Control mucosae were taken from macroscopically and microscopically normal regions of surgicallyremoved colorectal tissues.The colorectal polyps contained approximately 13-fold higher levels of CEA than control mucosae. The CEA levels of adenocarcinomas were twice as high as those of adenomas, though the difference was not statistically significant. The N1-acetylspermidine levels were significantly higher in severe dysplasia and adenocarcinomas than in control mucosae, and in adenomas with mild or moderate dysplasia. There was a significant positive correlation between the levels of N1-acetylspermidine and the size of colorectal polyps, whereas no significant correlation was found between the levels of N1-acetylspermidine and CEA. The results of the present study suggest that N1-acetylspermidine could be used as a more specific marker of colorectal adenocarcinoma than CEA.
N1-Acetylspermidine (N1AcSpd) accumulates in late exponential phase, or after certain stresses such as heat shock, in both human tumour (A549) and rodent (HTC, CHO) cells, grown in medium containing an inhibitor of the FAD-dependent polyamine oxidase (PAO). Inhibition of PAO has little effect on cell growth or on the cellular content of the major polyamines, putrescine, spermidine or spermine, found in proliferating cells in culture, but decreases cellular putrescine content in heat shocked cells. Putrescine and spermidine are generated when N1AcSpd or N1-acetylspermine (N1AcSpm) respectively is added to either human or rodent cells depleted of the former amines by alpha-difluoromethylornithine. N1AcSpm is formed in polyamine-depleted human A549 cells when N1AcSpd is added to cultures treated with the PAO inhibitor. This reaction does not occur in either rodent line, suggesting that N1AcSpd can be converted directly into N1AcSpm in human, but not rodent, cells under specific conditions. The data presented demonstrate that a variety of human and rodent cells express PAO activity and catabolize polyamines by a mechanism which includes PAO. PAO activity is of little consequence to proliferating A549, HTC or CHO cells in culture, but does produce new putrescine in both late-exponential-phase and heat-shocked cells. These findings suggest that polyamine catabolism is part of a general response of both rodent and human cells to a variety of environmental and physiological stresses.
Polyamine oxidase plays a key role in the catabolism of polyamines and regeneration of spermidine and putrescine. The mammalian enzyme utilises N1-acetylspermidine, and N8-acetylspermidine, although formed in the mammals, is not catabolised further. We have characterised an enzyme from Acanthamoeba culbertsoni which acts preferentially on N8-acetylspermidine. The highly unstable enzyme was stabilised in the presence of glycerol or dimethylsulphoxide together with spermine and purified 400-fold by a combination of DEAE-cellulose, CM-cellulose, spermine-Sepharose and Sephacryl S-300 chromatography. The enzyme has a pH optimum of 8 and a temperature optimum of 45 degrees C. The relative activities on different substrates are: N8-acetylspermidine 100%, N1-acetylspermine 40%, N1-acetylspermidine 1%, N1,8-diacetylspermidine 1% and N1,12-diacetylspermine 15%. Free polyamines and substrates of monoamine oxidase were not attacked. The enzyme yielded diaminopropane as an end product of catabolism and could be involved in the biosynthesis of this unusual polyamine present in large amounts in this organism.
"Polyamine patterns in plasma of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and fever" by Kim et al. provides insight into possible involvement of polyamines in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The authors report decreases in N1-acetylspermidine, spermidine, spermine, and N1-acetylcadaverine and increased cadaverine in SLE. Polyamine involvement in many cellular processes and their unique characteristics (high charge, length, flexibility, and ubiquity) give polyamines importance in health and disease. In this editorial, I describe a scenario, the "X chromosome-nucleolus nexus" hypothesis, in which polyamines could initially rise because of cellular stress. This rise in polyamines increases nucleolar size and activity. Polyamines are critical in the nucleolar assembly of ribonucleoprotein complexes, such as ribosomes. However, the expanding nucleolus could disrupt a neighboring inactive X chromosome (Barr body). This disruption opens additional polyamine genes that alter polyamine levels and types through wasteful synthesis and recycling of polyamines. This could include a decrease in the key polyamines spermidine and spermine, which are critical to nucleolar functioning. And this can decrease S-adenosylmethionine needed for cellular methylation leading to hypomethylation seen in SLE. As a result, the nucleolus can no longer respond properly to future stresses. With altered polyamine levels and types in the nucleolus, many RNA transcripts, proteins, and ribonucleoprotein complexes assembled in the nucleolus may be trapped in autoantigenic conformations. Many of the major autoantigens in SLE are, at least transiently, components of the nucleolus. Therefore, the observations of decreased polyamines reported by Kim et al. could be important in the formation of autoantigens.
A selective inhibitor of N8-acetylspermidine deacetylase has been employed to study the role of N8-acetylspermidine deacetylation in the regulation of L1210 cell growth. This inhibitor, 7-[N-(3-aminopropyl) amino] heptan-2-one (APAH), was found to stimulate the growth of L1210 cells at concentrations between 10 microM and 0.5 mM. Maximum stimulation was seen at 100 microM, resulting in significantly increased rates of cell division and maximum cell density. N8-Acetylspermidine levels in L1210 cells were shown to increase significantly after the APAH treatment as would be expected for deacetylase inhibition. The effects of deacetylase inhibition were mimicked by addition of N8-acetylspermidine to the culture medium at concentrations greater than 1 mM as indicated by a subsequent increase in rate of cell growth and maximum cell density. The magnitudes of the increases in growth observed were not large, but this might be expected in cells that are already in a rapid growth phase. Other exogenously added polyamines including N1-acetylspermidine, spermidine, putrescine, and spermine did not stimulate cell growth. These data suggest that stimulation of cell growth occurs as a consequence of N8-acetylspermidine accumulation and N8-acetylspermidine deacetylase inhibition.
''Polyamine patterns in plasma of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and fever'' by Kim et al. provides insight into possible involvement of polyamines in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The authors report decreases in N1-acetylspermidine, spermidine, spermine, and N1-acetylcadaverine and increased cadaverine in SLE. Polyamine involvement in many cellular processes and their unique characteristics (high charge, length, flexibility, and ubiquity) give polyamines importance in health and disease. In this editorial, I describe a scenario, the ''X chromosome-nucleolus nexus'' hypothesis, in which polyamines could initially rise because of cellular stress. This rise in polyamines increases nucleolar size and activity. Polyamines are critical in the nucleolar assembly of ribonucleoprotein complexes, such as ribosomes. However, the expanding nucleolus could disrupt a neighboring inactive X chromosome (Barr body). This disruption opens additional polyamine genes that alter polyamine levels and types through wasteful synthesis and recycling of polyamines. This could include a decrease in the key polyamines spermidine and spermine, which are critical to nucleolar functioning. And this can decrease S-adenosylmethionine needed for cellular methylation leading to hypomethylation seen in SLE. As a result, the nucleolus can no longer respond properly to future stresses. With altered polyamine levels and types in the nucleolus, many RNA transcripts, proteins, and ribonucleoprotein complexes assembled in the nucleolus may be trapped in autoantigenic conformations. Many of the major autoantigens in SLE are, at least transiently, components of the nucleolus. Therefore, the observations of decreased polyamines reported by Kim et al. could be important in the formation of autoantigens. Lupus (2018) 27, 877-879.
Previously, we have shown the close association between hepatic concentrations of N1-acetylspermidine and the radical-producing potency of several drugs. Since vitamin E, superoxide dismutase (SOD), and reduced glutathione (GSH) are known to scavenge free radicals, in this study we tested the effect of alpha-tocopherol, one of the most potent vitamin E isomers, and SOD on the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced increase in hepatic concentrations of N1-acetylspermidine. The LPS-induced increase in hepatic N1-acetylspermidine was more than twice as great in vitamin E-deficient mice as in vitamin E-supplemented mice. Pretreatment with alpha-tocopherol suppressed the LPS-induced increase in hepatic N1-acetylspermidine in vitamin E-deficient mice. Alpha-tocopherol and SOD given to mice maintained on a usual diet likewise suppressed the LPS-induced increase in hepatic N1-acetylspermidine and putrescine. The hepatic concentrations of alpha-tocopherol and GSH were lower in LPS-treated mice than in control animals. Diethyldithiocarbamate, an inhibitor of SOD, and diisopropylidene (phorone), a GSH-depleting agent, enhanced the LPS-induced increase in hepatic N1-acetylspermidine. These results suggest that the LPS-induced hepatic increase in N1-acetylspermidine is connected with radical-induced injury in vivo and that superoxide anion is produced in the liver of LPS-treated mice.
A recently generated transgenic mouse line having activated polyamine catabolism due to systemic overexpression of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT) was used to isolate primary fetal fibroblasts as a means to further elucidate the cellular consequences of activated polyamine catabolism. Basal levels of SSAT activity and steady-state mRNA in the transgenic fibroblasts were about approximately 20- and approximately 40-fold higher than in non-transgenic fibroblasts. Consistent with activated polyamine catabolism, there was an overaccumulation of putrescine and N1-acetylspermidine and a decrease in spermidine and spermine pools. Treatment with the polyamine analogue N1,N11-diethylnorspermine (DENSPM) increased SSAT activity in the transgenic fibroblasts approximately 380-fold, whereas mRNA increased only approximately 3-fold, indicating post-mRNA regulation. SSAT activity in the nontransgenic fibroblasts increased approximately 200-fold. By Western blot, enzyme protein was found to increase approximately 46 times higher in the treated transgenic fibroblasts than non-transgenic fibroblasts: a value comparable to 36-fold differential in enzyme activity. With DENSPM treatment, spermidine pools were more rapidly depleted in the transgenic fibroblasts than in nontransgenic fibroblasts. Similarly, transgenic fibroblasts were much more sensitive to DENSPM-induced growth inhibition. This was not diminished by co-treatment with an inhibitor of polyamine oxidase, suggesting that growth inhibition was due to polyamine depletion per se as opposed to oxidative stress. Since the two fibroblasts were genetically identical except for the transgene, the various metabolic and growth response differences are directly attributable to overexpression of SSAT.
Two acetyl analogues of spermidine and five analogues of spermine were used to determine the structural specificity of the polyamine transport system in Escherichia coli by measuring their ability to compete with [14C]putrescine or [14C]spermine for uptake, as well as to inhibit cell growth, and, finally, to affect the intracellular polyamine pools. Spermine uptake follows simple Michaelis-Menten kinetics (Kt = 24.58 +/- 2.24 microM). In contrast, the putrescine uptake system involves two saturable Michaelis-Menten carriers exhibiting different affinity towards putrescine (Kt = 3.63 +/- 0.43 microM, Kt' = 0.61 +/- 0.10 microM). From the Ki values, it is inferred that N1-5-amino-2-nitrobenzoylspermine is the most effective competitive inhibitor followed by N1-acetylspermine, and then N1,N12-diacetylspermine. N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine also inhibit competitively the uptake of spermine, the latter being the most effective inhibitor. In addition, the above-mentioned analogues inhibit identically one of the carriers of putrescine uptake, suggesting the existence of a common transporter for both putrescine and spermine. The order of analogue potency, regarding the other carrier of putrescine is as follows: N1,N12-diacetylspermine approximately N1-5-amino-2-nitro-benzoylspermine > N1-acetylspermine. Both N1-acetylspermidine (Ki = 753 +/- 25 microM, Ki' = 128 +/- 5 microM) and N8-acetylspermidine (Ki = 22.4 +/- 0.4 microM, Ki' = 279 +/- 3 microM) also cause competitive inhibition of putrescine uptake, however with inverse affinity towards the putrescine carriers. Neither N4,N9-diacetylspermine, nor N1,N4-bis(beta-alanyl)diaminobutane affect the uptake of any polyamine. Interestingly, none of the acetyl analogues of spermine has a measurable effect on cell growth and cellular polyamine pools, although some of them are accumulated in cells. Based on these findings, the relative significance of the primary and secondary amines and of the chain flexibility as determinants of cellular uptake are discussed.
A critical step in the cytotoxic action mechanism of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) involves, among mitochondrial dysfunctions, an early change of the inner membrane permeability displaying the characteristics of permeability transition. Cytosolic polyamines, especially spermine, are known to inhibit it. Our results show that spermine is only detectable in the TNF-alpha resistant C6 cells while N1-acetylspermidine is present in the TNF-alpha sensitive WEHI-164 cells, and putrescine and spermidine are found in both. TNF-alpha treatment does not change this distribution but only induces a quantitative alteration in TNF-alpha sensitive cells. Omission of glutamine (energetic substrate) from the culture media alters neither the TNF-alpha responsiveness of both cell lines nor their polyamine distributions, only their quantitative polyamine contents.
N1,N8-Diacetylspermidine (Ac2Spd) and N1,N12 diacetylspermine (Ac2Spm), the occurrence of which in healthy human urine was demonstrated recently, increased much more frequently and markedly than total polyamines, acetylputrescine, N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine in patients with urogenital malignancies. Ac2Spd was hardly elevated in cases of benign disease, while Ac2Spm only infrequently stayed within normal limits in patients with malignant disorders. Urine samples from more than 90% of healthy persons, but fewer than 10% of patients with malignancies, gave values within normal limits for both Ac2Spd and Ac2Spm. Simultaneous reference to these diacetylpolyamines is therefore useful in distinguishing patients with malignancies from healthy persons.
The present study was designed to investigate the effects of the carcinogenic agent azaserine on the induction of pancreatic and hepatic polyamine metabolism in rats. One single injection of 30 mg azaserine/kg body weight i.p. is known to induce adenoma and subsequently carcinoma, predominantly in the pancreas, after several months. Male Lewis rats were treated with either azaserine (30 mg/kg body weight i.p.) or saline and 5-10 animals per group were sacrificed 2, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, and 48 h later. Furthermore, animals were simultaneously treated with the ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) inhibitor alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) or the polyamine oxidase inhibitor MDL 72527 and killed 6 and 12 h after azaserine injection. The azaserine-induced significant increase in pancreatic putrescine concentrations was accompanied by an increase in spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase but unchanged ODC and was significantly inhibited by N, N'-bis(2,3-butadienyl)putrescine (MDL 72527) but not by DFMO. S-Adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAM-DC) activity was significantly decreased in the pancreata of azaserine-treated animals compared to controls. In contrast, the azaserine-induced significant increase in hepatic putrescine was lower and transient, was accompanied by an increase in ODC and SAM-DC, and was completely inhibited by simultaneous DFMO treatment but not by MDL 72527. These data show completely different patterns of activation of polyamine metabolism in the pancreas and in the liver: Azaserine treatment forms putrescine in the liver by de novo synthesis via ODC only, while azaserine-induced pancreatic putrescine is exclusively produced by the interconversion pathway via oxidation of N1-acetylspermidine.
Excretion of polyamines first increases and then decreases in patients with multiple trauma receiving total parenteral nutrition (TPN). To separate the effects of trauma and TPN on polyamine excretion, we studied 12 patients with multiple trauma and 14 patients after surgery for colorectal malignancy. Patients were randomized to receive either TPN or hypocaloric glucose infusion. Urinary excretion of total and free polyamines, putrescine (PU), spermidine (SPD), and spermine (SP), and their metabolites, N1-acetylspermidine (N1-AcSPD) and N8-acetylspermidine (N8-AcSPD), and energy and nitrogen balance were measured. Polyamine excretion, excluding SP, markedly increased after trauma and surgery, exceeding the normal values by twofold to 10-fold. In patients receiving TPN, the excretion of total polyamines was 48% higher (P < .01), PU was 34% higher (P < .05), SPD was 35% higher (P < .05), and SP was 350% higher (P < .05) than in patients receiving hypocaloric glucose. Urinary excretion of SP was only 17% of the reference value during hypocaloric glucose (P < .05), but was normal during TPN. The difference in polyamine excretion between nutrition groups was more pronounced when normalized for nitrogen or energy balance. Patients receiving TPN were more hypermetabolic than patients receiving hypocaloric glucose (resting energy expenditure, 1.36 ± 0.06 [SE] and 1.16 ± 0.04 times predicted values, respectively; P < .025). Statistically, energy expenditure could explain the difference in polyamine excretion between nutrition groups. Excretion of N1-AcSPD was 116% higher (P < .001), N8-AcSPD was 72% higher (P < .01), and total SPD was 123% higher (P < .001) in patients with multiple trauma than in patients who had undergone elective surgery, and the difference in N1-AcSPD and N8-AcSPD could be explained by differences in nitrogen and energy balance between patient groups. In conclusion, TPN enhanced the already increased polyamine excretion in posttrauma and postsurgical patients. Excretion of N1-AcSPD and N8-AcSPD reflected the catabolic response to injury within each nutrition group. Our results suggest that urinary excretion of polyamines reflects metabolic activity in general rather than a solitary effect of a specific disease or therapy.
Two monoclonal antibodies of types IgG2b and IgG2a, anti-spermine-(Spm)-1 (ASPM-1) and anti-Spm-2 (ASPM-2) respectively were found among five clones of murine monoclonal antibodies, which were raised against Spm conjugated with bovine serum albumin via the cross-linker N-(γ-maleimidobutyryloxy) succinimide (GMBS). Antibody specificity was evaluated by a recently developed ELISA binding test, and led to the study of tissue sections by immunocytochemistry (ICC). ASPM-1 showed exclusive immunoreactivity with Spm, with the exception of a negligible cross-reactivity (2.0%) with spermidine (Spd). ASPM-2, on the other hand, reacted almost equally with acetylspermine (Ac-Spm) and N1-acetylspermidine (N1-Ac-Spd) but with none of the other polyamine-related compounds tested. Complete agreement was obtained with the results of immunoblot analysis. Furthermore, results for antibody specificity obtained with the ELISA inhibition test and ICC model experiments using Sepharose gel beads strongly suggested that ASPM-1 recognizes the Spm molecule possessing at least a free terminal primary amino group, while ASPM-2 recognizes the Spm molecule acylated at both the terminal primary amino groups. An ICC method using ASPM-2 produced strong staining for polyamines (PAs) in the cytoplasm (but very few in the nuclei) of two different tumor cell lines and protein- or peptide-secreting cell systems, including exocrine and endocrine cell types; ASPM-1 showed immunoreactivity only with the tumor cell lines. These results strongly suggest that ASPM-2 may be useful for studies on actively proliferating and neoplastic cells, supporting our previously proposed idea that in immunocytochemistry PAs were converted to a variety of PA derivatives during the fixation process.
The enhanced activity of polyamine pathways in CRC is well known. For example, the first rate limiting enzyme, ODC, is negatively regulated by the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumor-suppressor gene in colonic mucosal tissue [6] . The loss of APC function would activate ODC enzyme, resulting in the activation of polyamine biosynthesis [7] . The schematic diagram of APC on polyamine metabolisms was described ( Figure 1 ). These metabolites were secreted from tumor tissue and spread to surrounding tissues and blood vessels [5] . Therefore, a combination of polyamine or metabolites have been used for the development of non-or low-invasive screening, such as blood, urine, and fecal-based tests [8, 9] , to identify patients with CRC or polyps, a precursor of CRC. Elevated concentrations of urinary N 1 ,N 12 -acetylspermine of CRC has been consistently observed in various studies [10, 11] . However, all reports claimed the change of a single polyamine is not enough to diagnose CRC, i.e., low specificity as a biomarker. Nowadays, we have various pattern recognition and machine learning algorithms, and the use of these method has the potential to show better accuracy. The naturally-occurring polyamines, spermidine and spermine, and their precursors, diamine and putrescine, are aliphatic polycations which are ubiquitously observed in mammalian cells. Their essential role in the proliferation and differentiation of prokaryotic and normal eukaryotic cells is well established [1] . Polyamines, such as spermidine and spermine, are produced in almost all cells but are particularly highly produced in rapidly growing cells. Arginine, one of the amino acids, is converted to ornithine by arginase (EC 3.5.3.1), and ornithine is catalyzed by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) (EC 4.1.1.17) to produce putrescine, which is a precursor metabolite of polyamines. Spermidine and spermine are synthesized from putrescine and decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine [5] . These polyamine metabolites constitute loops through spermine/spermidine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT), N1-acetylpolyamine oxidase (APAO), and spermine oxidase (SMO). These metabolize spermine to N1-acetylspermine, spermidine to N1-acetylspermidine, and spermine to spermidine, respectively [5] .
Polyamines, synthesized by all mammalian cells, are involved in protein and energy metabolism. We measured urinary excretion of polyamines, putrescine, spermidine, spermine, and their metabolites N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine, resting energy expenditure, and nitrogen excretion in 12 depleted patients with gastrointestinal malignancy during preoperative and postoperative parenteral nutrition and in 7 patients with multiple trauma receiving similar parenteral nutrition. During preoperative nutrition support, the excretion of putrescine (p less than .05) and total polyamines (p less than .01) increased by 420% and 60%, respectively. Increases in energy balance and resting energy expenditure during nutrition could entirely explain the observed changes in polyamine excretion. Preoperatively, the excretion of N1-acetylspermidine (p less than .05), N8-acetylspermidine (p less than .001) and total polyamines (p less than .05) was higher in patients with a surgically noncurable tumor than in those with a surgically curable tumor. The energy balance and resting energy expenditure could also explain the differences in polyamine excretion between patients with surgically curable and noncurable disease, excluding the increased N8-acetylspermidine. Postoperatively, the excretion of N8-acetylspermidine in patients with multiple trauma without malignancy and in patients with palliative operation was similar, and was higher than in patients with a totally resected malignancy (p less than .01). Our results suggest that the excretion of polyamines reflects the activity of energy metabolism in general and that polyamine excretion is not specific for any particular disease.
Urinary N1-acetylspermidine (N1SPD) and N8-acetylspermidine (N8SPD) were measured in 24-hr urine specimens from 42 patients with colon adenocarcinoma and 29 healthy controls to assess their use as markers for colon cancer screening. Serial spot urines in four controls demonstrated significant fluctuations in these polyamine levels throughout the day without a distinct circadian pattern and therefore all subsequent analyses were performed on 24-hr collections. Both N1SPD and N8SPD were significantly increased in colon cancer patients compared to controls. Neither test correlated with tumor stage or location, but N8SPD was elevated in patients with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma when compared to moderate or well-differentiated tumors. Using receiver operator characteristic (ROC) analysis, N1SPD had a higher information content than N8SPD, N1SPD + N8SPD, or the ratio of N1SPD/N8SPD and at a normal cut-off value of 4.0 nmol/mg creatinine, yielded a 95% specificity and 50% sensitivity for colon cancer.
Aspirin is a well-known analgesic, anti-inflammatory and antipyretic drug and is recognised as a chemopreventative agent in cardiovascular disease and, more recently, in colorectal cancer. Although several studies indicate that aspirin is capable of reducing the risk of developing cancers, there is a lack of convincing evidence that aspirin can prevent prostate cancer in man. In this study, aspirin was shown to be an effective inhibitor of the growth of human prostate cancer cells. In order to investigate the link between polyamine catabolism and the effects of aspirin we used a “Tet off” system that induced the activity of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT) in human prostate cancer cells (LNCap). Treatment with aspirin was found to decrease induced SSAT activity in these cells. A negative correlation was observed between increased polyamine catabolism via increased SSAT activity and the sensitivity to aspirin. In the presence of increased SSAT activity high amounts of N1-acetylspermidine and putrescine were observed. These cells were also found to grow more slowly than the non-induced cells. The results indicate that SSAT and its related polyamine metabolism may play a key role in sensitivity of cancer cells to aspirin and possibly other NSAIDs and this may have implications for the development of novel chemopreventative agents.
N-Acetylputrescine and N1-acetylspermidine were synthesized from putrescine in cultured human lymphocytes. They were identified by paper chromatography and t.l.c. Acetylputrescine was also identified by mass spectrometry. N-Acetylputrescine and N1-acetylspermidine were formed in untreated cells and in lectin-transformed cells.
Introduction Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a systemic autoimmune disease with various clinical manifestations and serologic markers. In this study, we analysed nine polyamine profiles of plasma from patients with SLE and healthy controls, and the relationship between the polyamine profiles and disease activity. Methods The alterations of the polyamine metabolome in the plasma of 44 patients with SLE and fever were investigated using gas chromatography mass spectrometry in selected ion monitoring mode using N-ethoxycarbonyl/N-pentafluoropropionyl derivatives, and compared with those of 43 healthy controls. Results Patients with SLE and healthy controls showed differences in five of nine polyamine metabolome profiles. Among five polyamines changed levels, four polyamines, namely N1-acetylcadaverine, spermidine, N1-acetylspermidine, and spermine, were dramatically decreased. However, the level of cadaverine was increased in patients with SLE. In the partial correlation with polyamine profiles and disease activity markers of SLE, several disease activity markers and nutritional markers were correlated with cadaverine, spermidine, and N8-acetylspermidine. Conclusion Thus, our results provide a comprehensive understanding of relationship between that polyamine metabolomes and disease activity markers in patients with SLE and fever.
Reactive oxygen species are known to induce strand breaks and/or base modifications in DNA. DNA strand breaks are associated with many pathologies and programmed cell death. We have examined the ability of the polyamines and their analogues to protect phi X-174 plasmid DNA from strand breakage induced by a oxygen-radical generating system. Spermine and several unsymmetrically substituted polyamine analogues reduced the amount of strand breakage at a physiologically relevant concentration of 1 mM. However, putrescine, spermidine, N1-acetylspermine, N1-acetylspermidine and symmetrically alkylated polyamine analogues were not able to reduce strand breakage at the same concentration. Thus, the unsymmetrically alkylated polyamine analogues and natural spermine can protect DNA against strand breakage induced by Cu(II)/H2O2 generated ROS similar to other more classical antioxidants.
Polyamines are required for optimal growth and function of cells. Regulation of their cellular homeostasis is therefore tightly controlled. The key regulatory enzyme for polyamine catabolism is the spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT). Depletion of cellular polyamines has been associated with inhibition of growth and programmed cell death. To investigate the physiological function SSAT, we generated a transgenic rat line overexpressing the SSAT gene under the control of the inducible mouse metallothionein I promoter. Administration of zinc resulted in a marked induction of pancreatic SSAT, overaccumulation of putrescine, and appearance of N1-acetylspermidine with extensive depletion of spermidine and spermine in transgenic animals. The activation of pancreatic polyamine catabolism resulted in acute pancreatitis. In nontransgenic animals, an equal dose of zinc did not affect pancreatic polyamine pools, nor did it induce pancreatitis. Acetylated polyamines, products of the SSAT-catalyzed reaction, are metabolized further by the polyamine oxidase (PAO) generating hydrogen peroxide, which might cause or contribute to the pancreatic inflammatory process. Administration of specific PAO inhibitor, MDL72527 [N1,N2-bis(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine], however, did not affect the histological score of the pancreatitis. Induction of SSAT by the polyamine analogue N1,N11-diethylnorspermine reduced pancreatic polyamines levels only moderately and without signs of organ inflammation. In contrast, the combination of N1,N11-diethylnorspermine with MDL72527 dramatically activated SSAT, causing profound depletion of pancreatic polyamines and acute pancreatitis. These results demonstrate that acute induction of SSAT leads to pancreatic inflammation, suggesting that sufficient pools of higher polyamine levels are essential to maintain pancreatic integrity. This inflammatory process is independent of the production of hydrogen peroxide by PAO.
1. Polyamine oxidase (PAO) activity was found in the brain, intestine, kidney and liver of the siluroid catfish using N1-acetylspermine as substrate. It was highest in the intestine and lowest in the brain. 2. Substrate specificity of the enzyme was tested in the intestine and liver and the highest activity was found with N1-acetylspermine, followed by N1-acetylspermidine and N1,N12-diacetylspermine. 3. The apparent Km values for N1-acetylspermine were 19.6 and 46.9 microM for the intestine and liver, respectively. 4. These results suggest the presence of a system of polyamine reutilization after their acetylation in fishes.
Activation of polyamine catabolism through the overexpression of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT) in transgenic rodents does not only lead to distorted tissue polyamine homeostasis, manifested as striking accumulation of putrescine, appearance N1-acetylspermidine and reduction of tissue spermidine and/or spermine pools, but likewise creates striking phenotypic changes. The latter include loss of hair, lipoatrophy and female infertility. Forced expression of SSAT modulates skin, prostate and intestinal carcinogenesis, induces acute pancreatitis and blocks early liver regeneration. Although many of these features are directly attributable to altered tissue polyamine pools, some of them are more likely related to the greatly accelerated flux of the polyamines caused by activated catabolism and compensatorily enhanced biosynthesis.
Abstract N1-Methyl-N2-(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine (MDL 72521) and N1,N2-bis(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4- butanediamine (MDL 72527) are specific, potent, enzyme-activated, irreversible inhibitors of polyamine oxidase in vitro. These compounds are also capable of completely inhibiting polyamine oxidase in mouse tissues at intraperitoneal doses greater than 20 mg/kg. Enzyme activity reappears in the various organs within 2–3 days to 50% of the control valuse. Irreversible inhibition of polyamine oxidase in mice led to decreased putrescine (30–40%) and spermidine (10–20%) levels in liver and some other organs. At the same time N1-acetylspermidine and, to a lesser extent, N1-acetylspermine were accumulating at rates which are assumed to be related to the rates of polyamine degradation. Even after treatment with polyamine oxidase inhibitors over a period of 6 weeks at doses which produced complete inhibition of polyamine oxidase in all organs, including the brain, neither toxic effects nor changes in body weight or behaviour were observed.
Agmatine has been proposed as the physiological ligand for the imidazoline receptors. It is not known whether it is also involved in the homoeostasis of intracellular polyamine content. To show whether this is the case, we have studied the effect of agmatine on rat liver cells, under both periportal and perivenous conditions. It is shown that agmatine modulates intracellular polyamine content through its effect on the synthesis of the limiting enzyme of the interconversion pathway, spermidine/spermine acetyltransferase (SSAT). Increased SSAT activity is accompanied by depletion of spermidine and spermine, and accumulation of putrescine and N1-acetylspermidine. Immunoblotting with a specific polyclonal antiserum confirms the induction. At the same time S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase activity is significantly increased, while ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and the rate of spermidine uptake are reduced. This is not due to an effect on ODC antizyme, which is not significantly changed. All these modifications are observed in HTC cells also, where they are accompanied by a decrease in proliferation rate. SSAT is also induced by low oxygen tension which mimics perivenous conditions. The effect is synergic with that promoted by agmatine.
Measurements of polyamines, polyamine conjugates and their metabolites in tissues, cells and extracellular fluids are used in biochemistry, (micro)biology, oncology and parasitology. Decarboxylation of ornithine yields putrescine. Aminopropylation of putrescine yields spermidine, and aminopropylation of spermidine yields spermine. Spermidine and spermine are retroconverted to putrescine and spermidine, respectively, by initial N-acetylation and subsequent polyamine oxidation. The intermediate N-acetylputrescine, N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine are the major urinary N-acetylpolyamines. Polyamines and N-acetylpolyamines are terminally degraded to non-α-amino acid metabolites by oxidative deamination and aldehyde dehydrogenation. Chromatography with on-line detection is the most commonly applied profiling method for polyamines, N-acetylpolyamines and their non-α-amino acid metabolites. Cation-exchange and reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography require pre- or post-column derivatisation, followed by UV-Vis spectrophotometric or fluorimetric detection. Isolation and derivatisation precedes gas chromatography with flame-ionisation, nitrogen-phosphorus, electron-capture or mass spectrometric detection. High-performance liquid chromatography and gas chromatography of polyamines are not competitive techniques, but rather supplementary.
The yeast Candida boidinii when grown on spermidine, diaminopropane, putrescine or cadaverine as sole nitrogen source contains an N-acetyltransferase capable of acetylating the primary amino groups of spermine, spermidine, acetylspermidines, acetylputrescine and alpha, omega-diaminoalkanes. In the case of spermidine, the products were N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine in the ratio 50:45 with traces of other unidentified products. The enzyme was partially purified and the stoichiometry determined, together with apparent Km and V values for a number of substrates. The pH optimum was about 8.8 for putrescine and 9.3 for spermidine. The unstable enzyme was partially stabilized by 10% (v/v) glycerol or bovine serum albumin (5 mg/ml). The kinetic parameters were determined with putrescine as substrate and the mechanism shown to be of the sequential type. The enzyme was shown to be located in the mitochondria of C. boidinii, in contrast to mammalian N-acetyltransferases. The enzyme was found in a number of other yeast species when grown on spermidine or putrescine, but was only present in those species that had previously been found to contain polyamine oxidase. It is suggested that in C. boidinii, as in mammals, acetylation of spermidine and putrescine must precede their catabolism.
Polyamine oxidase (PAO) is a FAD-dependent enzyme with a molecular mass of about 62 kDa, present with high activity in most tissues of vertebrates. Structural requirements of a substrate for PAO are two positively charged amino groups, separated by a short carbon chain and an alkyl substituent on one or both nitrogen atoms. Spermine and the monoacetyl derivatives N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine appear to be the natural substrates. Spermidine is only poorly oxidized by PAO. Using O2, the substrates are oxidatively cleaved by PAO to form equimolar amounts of an amine, an aldehyde and hydrogen peroxide. PAO is an integral part of the polyamine interconversion cycle, a major intracellular regulatory system, which contributes to the maintenance of polyamine homeostasis in non-proliferating cells, including brain cells. Selective inactivators were used as tools in the elucidation of the functions of PAO. Interestingly, even long-term inactivation of PAO did not provoke behavioral changes in experimental animals, despite considerable changes in polyamine metabolism. PAO inactivation, however, improves the growth-inhibitory effects of inhibitors of polyamine biosynthetic enzymes and the antitumoral effects of some structural analogs of the polyamines.
A capillary gas-chromatographic method with nitrogen-phosphorus detection is used to determine simultaneously urinary 1,3-diaminopropane, monoacetyl-1,3-diaminopropane, putrescine, monoacetylputrescine, cadaverine, monoacetylcadaverine, spermidine, N1-acetylspermidine, N beta-acetylspermidine, spermine, N1-acetylspermine, isoputreanine, N-(3-aminopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one, and putreanine. The compounds are isolated by adsorption onto silica and converted into their methyl-heptafluorobutyryl derivatives. We give quality-control data and age-dependent "normal" values for urinary excretion of these analytes from 51 apparently healthy control subjects. Normal values for 31 adults are compared with those reported in the literature. Monoacetyl-1,3-diaminopropane and N1-acetylspermine are identified by mass fragmentography. We applied the method to monitor chemotherapeutic treatment of a patient with advanced non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; we identified by mass spectrometry N1,N12-diacetylspermine in this patient's urine.
Isoprenaline treatment causes cardiac hypertrophy and an accumulation of N1-acetylspermidine in the rat heart. To determine whether the cardiac hypertrophy is the cause of the increase in N1-acetylspermidine, we produced cardiac hypertrophy by constriction of the aorta and analyzed polyamines in the hearts of these rats 1, 3, and 10 days after the aortic constriction. Our results show that compared to sham-operated animals, this treatment caused a 60% increase in putrescine and a 30% increase in spermidine by day 10, but not the expected increase in N1-acetylspermidine. We conclude that N1-acetylspermidine is not induced by a cardiac overload.
A transient increase in N1-acetylpolyamines and putrescine (PUT) was observed in hepatocytes at the early stage of primary culture of rat hepatocytes. After pre-culture for 36 hr when the polyamine content returned to constant levels, we tested the effects of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and alpha-tocopherol on the paraquat-induced increase in N1-acetylspermidine (N1-acetyl-SPD) and PUT in the culture. Paraquat increased (N1-acetyl-SPD in a dose-dependent manner. It also increased PUT at doses between 0.1 and 1.3 mM. Both SOD and alpha-tocopherol suppressed the increase in N1-acetyl-SPD and PUT induced by paraquat. These results suggested that superoxide anion is one of the factors which increase N1-acetyl-SPD and PUT in hepatocytes. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) little affected the polyamine concentration in the cultured hepatocytes, though it increases polyamine in mouse liver when given in vivo. These findings suggested that the formation of superoxide anion after administration of LPS in vivo is mediated by Kupffer cells.
Free polyamines and their acetylated derivatives, [putrescine (Put), spermine (Spm), spermidine (Spd), N1-acetylspermidine N1-AcSpd), N8-acetylspermidine N8-AcSpd)], were separated using ion-pair reversed-phase liquid chromatography after pre-column derivatization with dansyl chloride. Also 1,6-hexanediamine (1,6-Hda) and 1,7-diaminoheptane (1,7-Dah) which used as an internal standards were separated under the same chromatographic conditions. The reported method provided a good resolution between N1-AcSpd and N8 AcSpd (Rs = 0.86). This quality of resolution together with the very low detection limit obtained, (33.6, 8.33, 2.72, 2.67, 4.76, 4.27, and 2.27 fmoles/microliters for N1-AcSpd, N8-AcSpd, Put, 1,6-Hda, 1,7-Dah, Spm, and Spd, respectively), offer advantages to this method. Furthermore, a significant correlation coefficients were obtained as follows: 0.998 (N8-AcSpd), 0.996 N1-AcSpd), 0.997 (Put), 0.9995 (1,6-Hda), 0.9992 (1,7-Dah), 0.9996 (Spd), and 0.997 (Spm). The described method can be adapted for the separation of the free and acetylated polyamines in biological specimens.
Mouse Polyamine Oxidase (mPAO) is a mammalian flavoprotein that is necessary for the catabolism of polyamines. mPAO oxidizes the endo carbon nitrogen bonds of N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine when oxidized to spermine and spermidine respectively. It is known that normal levels of polyamines are important for cell growth, yet their actual function is not well understood. The structure of mammalian PAO has yet to be determined; however structures for maize and yeast PAO (Fms1) exist. Although the identity between mPAO, Fms1, and maize PAO is only 20%, it has been shown, through sequence comparison and mutational analysis, that a conserved histidine residue at position 67 of Fms1 and 64 of mPAO helps to properly position the amine substrate for oxidation. Determining the crystal structure of mPAO will help identify other residues that play a role in substrate binding and catalysis. mPAO was cloned into pAG8H, a modified pET19d vector that introduces a cleavable his-tag at the N-terminus of the prote...
BACKGROUND & AIMS ::: There are no robust noninvasive methods for colorectal cancer screening and diagnosis. Metabolomic and gene expression analyses of urine and tissue samples from mice and humans were used to identify markers of colorectal carcinogenesis. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Mass spectrometry-based metabolomic analysis of urine and tissues from wild-type C57BL/6J and Apc(Min/+) mice, as well as from mice with azoxymethane-induced tumors, was employed in tandem with gene expression analysis. Metabolic profiling was also performed on colon tumor and adjacent nontumor tissues from 39 patients. The effects of β-catenin activity on metabolic profiles were assessed in mice with colon-specific disruption of Apc. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Thirteen markers were found in urine associated with development of colorectal tumors in Apc(Min/+) mice. Metabolites related to polyamine metabolism, nucleic acid metabolism, and methylation, identified tumor-bearing mice with 100% accuracy, and also accurately identified mice with polyps. Changes in gene expression in tumor samples from mice revealed that derangement of metabolites were a reflection of coordinate metabolic reprogramming in tumor tissue. Similar changes in urinary metabolites were observed in mice with azoxymethane-induced tumors and in mice with colon-specific activation of β-catenin. The metabolic alterations indicated by markers in urine, therefore, appear to occur during early stages of tumorigenesis, when cancer cells are proliferating. In tissues from patients, tumors had stage-dependent increases in 17 metabolites associated with the same metabolic pathways identified in mice. Ten metabolites that were increased in tumor tissues, compared with nontumor tissues (proline, threonine, glutamic acid, arginine, N1-acetylspermidine, xanthine, uracil, betaine, symmetric dimethylarginine, and asymmetric-dimethylarginine), were also increased in urine from tumor-bearing mice. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Gene expression and metabolomic profiles of urine and tissue samples from mice with colorectal tumors and of colorectal tumor samples from patients revealed pathways associated with derangement of specific metabolic pathways that are indicative of early-stage tumor development. These urine and tissue markers might be used in early detection of colorectal cancer.
The contents of free and conjugated polyamines in cyst fluids of brain tumours were analysed. The putrescine and N1-acetylspermidine levels in cyst fluids of malignant brain tumours were significantly higher than those of benign tumours. The free spermidine levels in malignant and benign tumours were about the same, while the total spermidine levels were higher in malignant than those in benign tumours. These results suggest that polyamine levels in cyst fluids reflect the altered polyamine metabolism in brain tumours.
The pattern and concentration of urinary, free, monoacetylated and total polyamines were determined in 31 cirrhotic patients, divided into three classes according to Child's classification, and in 28 healthy subjects. Cirrhotic patients had increased levels of free, monoacetylated and total polyamines. They also showed a significant increase in N1-acetylspermidine to N8-acetylspermidine molar ratio. Urinary polyamine excretion was not related to the severity of liver disease nor to the values of laboratory liver function tests. Furthermore, polyamine excretion was not significantly different in cirrhotics with or without diabetes or IGT, while plasma insulin and glucagon levels were increased in all cirrhotic patients. The results suggest that enhanced polyamine biosynthesis and catabolism, particularly N1-acetylation, occur in cirrhotic patients, probably due to hepatic regeneration and/or increased levels of insulin and glucagon.
Recent findings on the control of putrescine and spermidine biosynthesis and interconversion in mammalian cells are described. ::: 1. ::: (a)|Ornithine decarboxylase, which is responsible for putrescine production, was also able to decarboxylase lysine but the Km for lysine was 100 times greater than the Km for ornithine rendering cadaverine production unlikely under physiological conditions. No other route to cadaverine was observed. Inactivation of ornithine decarboxylase by the suicide inhibitor, α-difluoromethylornithine, depleted SV-3T3 cells of putrescine and spermidine and prevented cell growth. Either putrescine, which was efficiently converted to spermidine, or cadaverine, which was converted to N-3-aminopropyl-cadaverine, was able to restore growth of these cells. ::: ::: 2. ::: (b)|Exposure to exogeous putrescine and other diamines prevented the induction of ornithine decarboxylase activity in mouse fibroblasts. The transformed SV-3T3 cell line was less sensitive to the inhibition than the control 3T3 cells. This difference correlated with a greater rate of uptake in the serum-stimulated 3T3 cells but accumulation of the diamine from the medium could not entirely account for the difference in sensitivity of ornithine decarboxylate. Therefore, it appears that this control mechanism is in some way altered in the transformed cells permitting greater accumulation of putrescine and spermidine. ::: ::: 3. ::: (c)|The rate limiting factor in the conversion of putrescine to spermidine is the supply of the tissue content of this nucleoside showed that it was present at levels of only 0.8–2.8 nmol/g. Production was regulated in liver after partial hepatectomy, in androgen stimulated ventral prostate and in cardiac hypertrophy via a change in the amount of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase protein and via changes in the content of putrescine which activates this enzyme. Inhibition of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase by 1,1′-[(methylethanediylidine)dinitrilo]-bis(3-aminoguanidine), an irreversible inactivation, prevented growth of SV-3T3 cells and led to an accumulator, or putrescine and decline in spermidine showing the essential role of this enzyme in spermidine production. Addition to spermidine reversed this growth inhibition. ::: ::: 4. ::: (d)|A novel spermidine acetylase has been isolated from rat liver. This enzyme forms N1-acetylspermidine and is quite different from the previously decribed polyamine acetylase which is chromatn-bound and also acts on histones. The N1-acetylspermidine synthase was induced in rat liver by treatment with the hepatotoins, carbon tetrachloride or thioacetamide, and to a smaller extent by partial hepatectomy and treatment with growth hormone. This enzyme appears to play an essential role in the conversion of spermidine to putrescine indicating that the physiological substrate for polyamine oxidase under these conditions is N1-acetylspermidine. After treatment with carbon tetrachloride, there was a 40-fold rise in hepatic putrescine levels within six hours. The rise was not prevented when increased ornithine decarboxylase was completely inhibited by the presence of α-difluoromethylornithine. These results emphasize that putrescine accumulation can be achieved either via ornithine decarboxylase or via degradation of psermidine according to the circumstances.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a systemic autoimmune disease with various clinical manifestations and serologic markers. In this study, we analyzed nine polyamine (PA) profiles of plasma from patients with SLE and healthy controls (HCs), and the relationship between the PA profiles and disease activity. PA alterations in plasma of 44 patients with SLE and fever were investigated using gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) in selected ion monitoring mode using N-ethoxycarbonyl/N-pentafluoropropionyl derivatives, and compared with those of 43 HCs. Patients with SLE and HCs showed differences in five of nine PA profiles. Among five changed PA levels, four PAs, namely N1-acetylcadaverine, spermidine, N1-acetylspermidine, and spermine, were dramatically decreased. However, the level of cadaverine was increased in patients with SLE. In the partial correlation with PA profiles and disease activity markers of SLE, several disease activity markers and nutritional markers were correlated with cadaverine, spermidine, and N 8 -acetylspermidine. Thus, our results provide a comprehensive understanding of the relationship between PA metabolomics and disease activity markers in patients with SLE.
In this study we investigated polyamine metabolism during inhibition of two polyamine-catabolizing enzymes. This was performed by treating rats with aminoguanidine [an inhibitor of Cu-dependent amine oxidase (CuAO)], NN'-bis(buta-2,3-dienyl)butane-1,4-diamine [MDL 72527, an inhibitor of FAD-dependent polyamine oxidase (PAO)], tetrachloromethane (hepatotoxic agent) and combinations of these compounds. Emphasis was laid on the origin and possible clinical usefulness of two polyamine metabolites: acetylisoputreanine-gamma-lactam and N1N12-diacetylspermine. Acetylisoputreanine-gamma-lactam is a normal constituent of human and rat urine. Treatment of rats with aminoguanidine led to undetectable urinary levels of acetylisoputreanine-gamma-lactam, whereas MDL 72527 treatment resulted in a 12-fold increase. Under normal conditions this compound represents a minor CuAO catabolite of N1-acetylspermidine, but may become of more importance under CuAO-induced conditions. N1N12-diacetylspermine was undetectable in urine samples from non-pregnant adults and rats, but became detectable after treating rats with MDL 72527. Additional tetrachloromethane poisoning resulted in a 35-fold increase of N1N12-diacetylspermine in urine and its appearance in liver. Hence urinary excretion of N1N12-diacetylspermine during PAO inhibition may serve as a sensitive marker for cell death. This was confirmed by myeloid-leukaemia-bearing rats treated with MDL 72527, which also excreted N1N12-diacetylspermine in urine in relatively high amounts from at least day 14 until spontaneous death.
The bovine keratin 6 gene promoter was used to target expression of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT) to epidermal keratinocytes in the hair follicle of transgenic mice. K6-SSAT transgenic mice appeared to be phenotypically normal and were indistinguishable from normal littermates until subjected to a two-stage tumorigenesis protocol. For such tumorigenesis studies, mice were bred for six generations onto a tumor promoter resistant C57BL/6 background strain. K6-SSAT transgenic mice showed a 10-fold increase in the number of epidermal tumors that developed in response to a single application of 400 nmol of the tumor initiator 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene followed by twice weekly applications of 17 nmol of the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate for 19 weeks. Tumor samples from transgenic animals showed marked elevations in SSAT enzyme activity and SSAT protein levels compared with tumors from non-transgenic littermates, and the accompanying changes in putrescine and N1-acetylspermidine pools indicated activation of SSAT-mediated polyamine catabolism in transgenic animals. An unusually high number of tumors were shown both grossly and histologically to have progressed to carcinomas in this model and these occurred with an early latency and only in mice carrying the K6-SSAT transgene. These results suggest that activation of polyamine catabolism leading to increases in putrescine and N1-acetylspermidine may play a key role in chemically induced mouse skin neoplasia.
FAD-dependent polyamine oxidase (PAO; EC 1.5.3.11) is one of the key enzymes in the catabolism of polyamines spermidine and spermine. The natural substrates for the enzyme are N1-acetylspermidine, N1-acetylspermine, and N1,N12-diacetylspermine. Here we report that PAO, which normally metabolizes achiral substrates, oxidized (R)-isomer of 1-amino-8-acetamido-5-azanonane and N1-acetylspermidine as efficiently while (S)-1-amino-8-acetamido-5-azanonane was a much less preferred substrate. It has been shown that in the presence of certain aldehydes, the substrate specificity of PAO and the kinetics of the reaction are changed to favor spermine and spermidine as substrates. Therefore, we examined the effect of several aldehydes on the ability of PAO to oxidize different enantiomers of alpha-methylated polyamines. PAO supplemented with benzaldehyde predominantly catalyzed the cleavage of (R)-isomer of alpha-methylspermidine, whereas in the presence of pyridoxal the (S)-alpha-methylspermidine was preferred. PAO displayed the same stereospecificity with both singly and doubly alpha-methylated spermine derivatives when supplemented with the same aldehydes. Structurally related ketones proved to be ineffective. This is the first time that the stereospecificity of FAD-dependent oxidase has been successfully regulated by changing the supplementary aldehyde. These findings might facilitate the chemical regulation of stereospecificity of the enzymes.
In parotid, sublingual and submaxillary glands stimulated by continuous intravenous infusion of the neuropeptides substance P or vasoactive intestinal peptide at various doses for 3 h, the concentrations of the polyamines putrescine, spermidine, spermine and N1-acetylspermidine as well as the activity of ornithine decarboxylase were determined. This enzyme catalyses the synthesis of putrescine and is the key enzyme in polyamine formation. Vasoactive intestinal peptide induced the most marked effects, and the most conspicuous findings were made in the sublingual glands, where the ornithine decarboxylase activity was found to have increased more than 100-fold, accompanied by an increased level of putrescine in those glands which were removed immediately after the end of the infusion. When, instead, the glands were removed 5 h after the end of the infusion there was no longer any increase in the activity of ornithine decarboxylase or in putrescine concentration, but now spermidine and spermine were found to be increased. Interestingly, the parasympathetic non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic regulation of polyamine metabolism in the major salivary glands of the rat is most predominant in the sublingual glands.
Recent studies of colon adenocarcinomas in humans and experimentally induced colonic tumors in rodents have demonstrated selective elevations in the level of N1-acetylspermidine in these malignant tissues. The exact relationship of these alterations in acetylated polyamine levels to the malignant transformation process, however, remains unclear. In order to clarify this issue, rats were given s.c. injections of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH; 20 mg/kg body wt/week) or diluent for up to 26 weeks. After 10 weeks of carcinogen treatment, one-half of the animals in each group were also concomitantly given i.p. injections of MDL 72527 (20 mg/kg body wt/week), a specific inhibitor of polyamine oxidase, until they were killed. Animals were killed after 15 weeks of DMH treatment and polyamine levels as well as the activities of polyamine oxidase, ornithine decarboxylase and spermidine-N1-acetyltransferase were measured and compared in rat proximal and distal colonic mucosa of each group. Polyamine levels were also assessed in each of these groups after 26 weeks of treatment with this carcinogen +/- MDL 72527. In addition, in view of recent studies that have indicated that polyamines may influence certain oncogenes in human colonic carcinoma cells, tumors from DMH +/- MDL 72527 were analyzed for K-ras mutations. The results of these experiments demonstrated for the first time that: (i) MDL 72527 was a specific inhibitor of polyamine oxidase in normal and malignant colonic tissue; (ii) concomitant administration of this agent with DMH enhanced the elevation of colonic N1-acetylspermidine and significantly reduced the mean colonic tumor burden, as assessed by total tumor area per rat, produced by this carcinogen alone; (iii) analysis of K-ras mutations revealed a similar incidence (62-69%) in adenocarcinomas for both groups (+/- MDL 72527); (iv) however, analysis of the K-ras-mutated and non-mutated tumors revealed that in both carcinogen-treated groups (+/- MDL 72527), tumors with such mutations were smaller than their counterparts without such genetic alterations. Moreover, MDL 72527 reduced the average size of tumors, with and without such mutations, to a similar extent.
In mammalian cells, the flavoprotein polyamine oxidase catalyzes a key step in the catabolism of polyamines, the oxidation of N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine to spermidine and putrescine, respectively. The mechanism of the mouse enzyme has been studied with N1,N12-bisethylspermine (BESPM) as a substrate. At pH 10, the pH optimum, the limiting rate of reduction of the flavin in the absence of oxygen is comparable to the k(cat) value for turnover, establishing reduction as rate-limiting. Oxidation of the reduced enzyme is a simple second-order reaction. No intermediates are seen in the reductive or oxidative half-reactions. The k(cat) value decreases below a pK(a) of 9.0. The k(cat)/K(m) value for BESPM exhibits a bell-shaped pH profile, with pK(a) values of 9.8 and 10.8. These pK(a) values are assigned to the substrate nitrogens. The rate constant for the reaction of the reduced enzyme with oxygen is not affected by a pH between 7.5 and 10. Active site residue Tyr430 is conserved in the homologous protein monoamine oxidase. Mutation of this residue to phenylalanine results in a 6-fold decrease in the k(cat) value and the k(cat)/K(m) value for oxygen due to a comparable decrease in the rate constant for flavin reduction. This moderate change is not consistent with this residue forming a tyrosyl radical during catalysis.
The enzyme spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (N1-SAT) is rapidly induced by heat shock in CHO and A549 cells, with activity declining by 24 h. Depletion of intracellular polyamines by alpha-difluoromethylornithine, an inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, blocks this induction. Re-addition of putrescine to these cultures restores the response to heat shock, with a concomitant increase in intracellular N1-acetylspermidine. Diaminopropane is more than twice as effective as the naturally occurring diamine putrescine, suggesting that the propylamine moiety of spermidine is involved in the regulation of N1-SAT induction. Inhibitor studies indicate transcriptional activation and that the enzyme has an apparent half-life of 30-60 min. A second heat shock rapidly inhibits induced N1-SAT activity, which decays with a half-life of 2-3 min. Despite its induction by heat, N1-SAT is not a stable enzyme, suggesting that the activity observed is not due to a modification of an existing peptide, but is due to a transcriptional event, which may justify the inclusion of this enzyme in the family of heat-shock proteins.
Treatment of rats with the glucocorticoid dexamethasone causes an increase in the activity of cytosolic spermidine N1-acetyltransferase both in the spleen and thymus, but not, however, in liver, kidney or lung. The induced spermidine N1-acetyltransferase activity in the spleen catalyses acetylation of spermidine as well as spermine and sym-norspermidine, but not of diamines and histones. The enzyme induction depends on the dose of dexamethasone, and is suppressed by cycloheximide, which suggests that de novo protein synthesis is required for the action of this glucocorticoid. N1-acetylspermidine accumulates in the spleen after dexamethasone treatment, while spermidine progressively decreases and is partly converted into putrescine, the content of which transiently increases. In accordance with previous reports, dexamethasone was found to cause a rapid and large fall in the activity of spleen ornithine decarboxylase which was effected via the appearance of an inhibitor of the enzyme. Glucocorticoids exert large catabolic effects on lymphoid tissues, and further selectively affect the activities of spermidine N1-acetyltransferase and ornithine decarboxylase in the thymus and spleen. These latter selective responses may represent an important early event in lymphoid tissue response to glucocorticoid hormones.
N1-Acetylspermine has been postulated to be an intermediate in the conversion of spermine to spermidine. This compound, together with N1-acetylspermidine has now been detected in the liver of mice which were pretreated with tetrachloromethane. The following methods were used for the identification of N1-acetylspermine: (a) High-pressure liquid-chromatography of the non-derivatized amines on a reversed-phase column, using octane sulfonate for ion-pairing. (b) Thin-layer chromatography of the dansyl derivatives. (c) Mass spectrometry of the dansyl derivatives. Both chromatographic methods allowed the quantitative estimation of N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine in the liver of tetrachloromethane-treated animals.
Isolated rat lens was punctured with a needle at a single point in the equatorial region and was incubated at 37 degrees C. Spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase activity was increased about 5-fold at 8 h after the puncture. Concomitantly, putrescine content in the lens increased markedly at 8-16 h after the puncture, while spermidine levels were slightly depressed. Pretreatment of the lens with actinomycin D or cycloheximide blocked the increases of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase activity and putrescine content. Ornithine decarboxylase, on the other hand, was not induced to a detectable degree by this stimulus and 5 mM difluoromethylornithine could not block the increase of putrescine content. Polyamine oxidase showed a relatively constant activity that was sufficient for the metabolism of newly formed N1-acetylspermidine. These results suggested that, in the punctured lens, the polyamine levels were regulated predominantly by the activity of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase, but not by the induction of ornithine decarboxylase.
Exposure of hairless mice to the light of a germicidal lamp (254 nm) under conditions which are known to induce epidermal DNA synthesis, cell proliferation, and polyamine metabolism produced a marked increase of polyamine excretion in the urine which lasted for many days. The increase was about the same for free and acetylated polyamines. Although the ratio of N1-acetylspermidine/N8-acetylspermidine increased somewhat in the urine of animals exposed to UV, the increase was not significant enough to be useful as a marker of enhanced cell proliferation. A single topical dose of α-difluoromethylornithine, a selective inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, prevented the UV-induced increase of polyamine excretion in agreement with its effect on UV-induced epidermal polyamine turnover.
Specific inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity prevents the formation of putrescine from ornithine and decreases spermidine levels of slow-growing organs by about 20%. However, spermidine levels of rapidly growing tissues, such as tumors, may under the same conditions be decreased by as much as 60%. Inactivation of polyamine oxidase prevents oxidative splitting of N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine and therefore the reutilization of putrescine for de novo polyamine biosynthesis. Prolonged inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase and polyamine oxidase activities leads in all normal tissues studied so far to a decrease of the spermidine concentration by 50% or more, demonstrating the general physiological significance of polyamine reutilization. In this work the role of polyamine reutilization in tumors was studied. Combined treatment with the inhibitors of ornithine decarboxylase, alpha-difluoromethylornithine or (2R, 5R)-6-heptyne-2,5-diamine, and N1, N4-bis-allenylputrescine, an inhibitor of polyamine oxidase, produced a more marked depletion of the polyamine contents of L1210 ascitic cells and of Lewis lung carcinoma, than treatment with either compound alone. Concomitantly, the proliferative activity of these tumors decreased significantly below the value that was observed after treatment with an ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor alone. Our results demonstrate that polyamines which are produced by the interconversion pathway are used by the tumors in order to cover their polyamine requirement.
N8-Acetylspermidine was coupled to mercaptosuccinylated BSA using a bifunctional cross-linker, N-(4-maleimidobutyryloxy)succinimide, and the resulting conjugate was used to raise N1,N8-diacetylspermidine (DiAcSpd)-specific antibodies in rabbits. DiAcSpd-specific antibodies were enriched from crude sera through a series of affinity-based fractionations using ligands with structures mimicking those of DiAcSpd and monoacetylspermidines. With the N8-acetylspermidine-BSA conjugate as a solid phase antigen in a competitive ELISA system, the selectivity for DiAcSpd over other polyamine species was high, but competition by DiAcSpd added to the fluid phase was too weak for the system to be applicable to measurement of the concentration of DiAcSpd in human urine. In contrast, with the N1-acetylspermidine-BSA conjugate adsorbed on the ELISA plate, DiAcSpd efficiently competed for the same antibody, thus yielding a sensitive competitive ELISA system for measuring DiAcSpd. The Ki value for DiAcSpd with the latter competitive ELISA system was 54 nM, and the cross-reactivity with DiAcSpd, N1,N12-diacetylspermine, N8-acetylspermidine, N1-acetylspermidine, and acetylputrescine was 100, 1.2, 0.74, 0.12, and 0.08%, respectively. The DiAcSpd-specific antibodies and the competitive ELISA system developed in this study will prove to be useful for analyzing the urinary level of DiAcSpd, that was recently shown to be a promising diagnostic and prognostic indicator of malignant disorders.
A procedure is described for the determination of monoacetylputrescine, N1-acetyl-spermidine and N8-acetylspermidine in human urine. The procedure is based on the high-performance liquid chromatographic separation of the 5-dimethylaminonaphthalene-1-sulfonyl (dansyl) derivatives of these amines using two different chromatographic modes. Monoacetyl-1,6-diaminohexane was used as an internal standard. The amines were extracted from urine using a silica gel cartridge. The dansyl monoacetylpolyamines were separated from the mixture of dansyl derivatives of urinary amines on a bonded-phase CN column using a programmed solvent gradient elution. The dansyl acetylpolyamines were rechromatographed on a silica gel column. This chromatographic procedure was used for the determination of the concentration of N1-acetylspermidine, N8-acetylspermidine and monoacetylputrescine in the urine of healthy volunteers and cancer patients.
The number of alveolar macrophages is decreased during Pneumocystis pneumonia (Pcp), partly because of activation of apoptosis in these cells. This apoptosis occurs in both rat and mouse models of Pcp. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids from Pneumocystis-infected animals were found to contain high levels of polyamines, including spermidine, N1-acetylspermine, and N1-acetylspermidine. These BAL fluids and exogenous polyamines were able to induce apoptosis in alveolar macrophages. Apoptosis of alveolar macrophages during infection, after incubation with BAL fluids from Pneumocystis-infected animals, or after incubation with polyamines was marked by an increase in intracellular reactive oxygen species, activation of caspases-3 and -9, DNA fragmentation, and leakage of mitochondrial cytochrome c into the cytoplasm. When polyamines were depleted from the BAL fluids of infected animals, the ability of these BAL fluids to induce apoptosis was lost. Interestingly, the apoptosis inducing activity of the polyamine-depleted BAL fluids was restored when polyamines were added back. The results of this study suggested that Pneumocystis infection results in accumulation of high levels of polyamines in the lung. These polyamines activate apoptosis of alveolar macrophages, perhaps because of the ROS that are produced during polyamine metabolism.
We have developed three mouse monoclonal antibodies (mAb) of types IgG1 and IgG2b, i.e. anti-acetylspermine (Ac-Spm)-1 and 2 (ACSPM-1 and 2), and anti-acetylspermine (Ac-Spm)-3 (ACSPM-3), respectively, against Ac-Spm conjugated to bovine serum albumin via a heterobifunctional cross-linker, N-(gamma-maleimidobutyryloxy)succinimide (GMBS). Among these mAbs, ACSPM-2 was the most useful for the development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for acetylpolyamines (Ac-PAs) with glutaraldehyde (GA)-conjugated N1,N12-diacetylspermine (2Ac-Spm) or acetylspermine (Ac-Spm) as the solid phase antigen. However, GMBS-conjugated Ac-Spm did not behave as a solid phase antigen in the competitive ELISA. The ELISA is based on the principle of competition between an analyte and the conjugated antigen for the mAb, followed by immunoreaction with biotinylated anti-mouse immunoglobulin and horseradish peroxidase-streptavidin. The ACSPM-2 mAb reacted with 2Ac-Spm to the highest degree, followed by Ac-Spm, N1-acetylspermidine (N1-Ac-Spd), N8,N8-diacetylspermidine (2Ac-Spd), and spermine (Spm), the EC50 values being 0.06, 0.25, 7.0, 10, and 60 microM, respectively, but exhibited almost no cross-reaction with other polyamine-related compounds or amino acids. The method was used to determine the urinary Ac-PA levels in healthy subjects, the average value of 0.36 microg of 2Ac-Spm/g creatinine (n = 16) being obtained. The ACSPM-2 ELISA for 2Ac-Spm, which was the PA most relevant to the analysis of human urine among the five PA analogs mentioned above, might have potential for elucidation of the correlation of urinary 2Ac-Spm levels in cancers.
N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced rat gliomas showed a stimulation of cytosolic spermidine N-acetyltransferase activity compared with normal brain, with an increased formation of N1 and N8-acetylspermidine, suggesting the activation of two enzymes acetylating the polyamine in N1 and N8 position, respectively. The enhancement in cytosolic spermidine N1-acetyltransferase was probably responsible for an activation of the polyamine interconversion pathway in gliomas, as indicated by an accumulation of N1-acetylspermidine and a marked increase in putrescine. Spermidine N8-acetyltransferase, although acetylating histones at a high rate, seemed distinct from the nuclear enzyme, as, unlike from the latter, it showed very low affinity for putrescine and was not inhibited by methylglyoxal bis(guanylhydrazone).
Two pathways exist for the formation of putrescine in rat liver. Putrescine can be produced by the action of L-ornithine decarboxylase, an inducible enzyme which can be irreversibly inhibited by the drug, alpha-difluoromethylornithine. A method for quantitating the amount of active ornithine decarboxylase protein present in the liver under various conditions by measuring the binding of [5-14C]alpha-difluoromethylornithine is described. The results indicated that, even when maximally induced, less than 0.0002% of the liver cytosol protein is ornithine decarboxylase. A second pathway for the production of putrescine occurs in the liver by means of the acetylation of spermidine to N1-acetylspermidine and its oxidation to putrescine and N-acetyl-3-aminopropionaldehyde by polyamine oxidase. This pathway is controlled by the activity of spermidine N1-acetyltransferase which is induced by hepatotoxins. Both ornithine decarboxylase and spermidine N1-acetyltransferase turn over rapidly as indicated by the loss of activity in response to cycloheximide. Following treatment with either carbon tetrachloride or thioacetamide, changes in spermidine N1-acetyltransferase activity precede those in ornithine decarboxylase and experiments with appropriate inhibitors indicate that the early enhancement of hepatic putrescine levels if brought about by the acetylase/oxidase pathway. Subsequently, enhanced ornithine decarboxylase activity maintains the putrescine levels and restores the depleted spermidine content of the liver.
N,N'-Bis(benzyl)polyamine analogs were found to be substrates for highly purified polyamine oxidase. Metabolism of these analogs was apparently dependent on molecular O2 and resulted in the formation of benzaldehyde, H2O2, and a polyamine analog with free terminal amines. The debenzylation reaction was optimal between pH 9 and 10, identical to the pH optimum for polyamine oxidase activity when N1-acetylspermine was used as the substrate. On a molecular sieve column the debenzylating activity co-eluted with N1-acetylspermine oxidizing activity, at an apparent molecular mass of approximately 65 kDa. The purified enzyme also appeared to have a molecular mass of approximately 65 kDa on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Debenzylation of the bis(benzyl)polyamines was competitively inhibited by N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine. The specific irreversible inhibitor of polyamine oxidase, N1,N4-bis(buta-2,3-dienyl)butanediamine also inhibited the debenzylation, whereas inhibitors of diamine and monoamine oxidases did not. The evolution of benzaldehyde from bis(benzyl)polyamine analogs by polyamine oxidase allowed the development of a simple rapid spectrophotometric assay for use in the measurement of polyamine oxidase activity in partially purified tissue or cell extracts. Further, metabolism of a bis(benzyl)polyamine analog by polyamine oxidase was found to be an important element in the growth inhibitory properties of the compound in a mouse model of malaria.
1. Polyamine oxidase was purified from the soluble fraction of porcine liver by more than 70,000-fold to electrophoretic homogeneity using N8-acetylspermidine-Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography. 2. The molecular weight and isoelectric point of this enzyme were 62,000 and pH 4.5, respectively. 3. Optimal pH for the catalytic activity was close to 10.0. 4. The enzyme activity was enhanced by 5 mM dithiothreitol or 5 mM benzaldehyde. 5. Preferential substrates for this cytoplasmic PAO were N1-acetylspermine, N1-acetylspermidine and spermine. 6. Spermidine was not virtually the substrate for this enzyme. 7. The present results suggested the physiological roles of cytoplasmic PAO, being coupled with the reaction of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase, in recycling the cellular polyamines to putrescine.
We recently generated a transgenic mouse line with activated polyamine catabolism through overexpression of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT). A detailed analysis of brain polyamine concentrations indicated that all brain regions of these animals showed distinct signs of activated polyamine catabolism, e.g. overaccumulation of putrescine (three- to 17-fold), appearance of N1-acetylspermidine and decreases in spermidine concentrations. In situ hybridization analyses revealed a marked overexpression of SSAT-specific mRNA all over the brain tissue of the transgenic animals. The transgenic animals appeared to tolerate subcutaneous injections of high-dose kainate substantially better as their overall mortality was less than 50% of that of their syngenic littermates. We used the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as a marker of brain injury in response to kainate. In situ hybridization analysis with GFAP oligonucleotide up to 7 days after the administration of sublethal kainate doses showed reduced GFAP expression in transgenic animals in comparison with their non-transgenic littermates. This difference was especially striking in the cerebral cortex of the transgenic mice where the exposure to kainate hardly induced GFAP expression. The treatment with kainate likewise resulted in loss of the hippocampal (CA3) neurons in non-transgenic but not transgenic animals. These results support our earlier findings indicating that elevated concentrations of brain putrescine, irrespective whether derived from an overexpression of ornithine decarboxylase, or as shown here, from an overexpression of SSAT, play in all likelihood a neuroprotective role in brain injury.
Abstract Acetylspermidine oxidase (ASOD) belongs to a family of FAD-containing amine oxidases and catalyzes the oxidation of N-acetylated spermidine in polyamine metabolism. ASOD was purified to apparent homogeneity from cells of the methylotrophic yeast Candida boidinii grown on spermidine as the sole nitrogen source. C. boidinii ASOD catalyzed the oxidation of only N1-acetylspermidine. Based on partial amino acid sequences, oligonucleotide primers were designed for polymerase chain reaction, and the ASOD-encoding gene, ASO1, was cloned. The open reading frame encoding ASO1 was 1530 bp long and corresponded to a protein of 509 amino acid residues (calculated molecular mass=57 167 Da). ASO1 contained a FAD-binding motif of G -A- G -I-A- G in the N-terminal region and carried an amino acid sequence of -S-K-L at the C-terminal, representing a typical peroxisome targeting signal 1. ASOD was localized in the peroxisomes in overexpressed C. boidinii. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the gene coding for ASOD that can catalyze the oxidation of N-acetylated polyamine as a substrate, from any type of organism.
N1-Acetylspermidine is not detectable in rat heart, but its content greatly increases after a single injection of isoprenaline (10 mg/kg), reaching a concentration of about 10 nmol/g of tissue 4 h after the treatment. Part of the accumulated N1-acetylspermidine was split to putrescine. Isoprenaline also caused an increase of N1-acetylspermidine in the spleen, where its concentration increased 3.5-fold 6 h after the catecholamine. The accumulation of N1-acetylspermidine was dependent on the dose of isoprenaline in both the heart and the spleen, and was strongly inhibited by beta-antagonists and inhibitors of protein synthesis.
Polyamine levels were determined by high-pressure liquid chromatography in the unhydrolyzed 24-hr urine obtained from 15 cancer patients and nine normal subjects. N1-Acetylspermine, N4-acetylspermine, N4-acetylspermidine, and N-(3-aminopropyl)acetamide were not detected in any samples. N1-Acetylspermidine, N8-acetylspermidine, acetylputrescine, and acetylcadaverine were present in all samples. Furthermore, acetylspermidine and acetylputrescine were excreted in much greater quantities than the respective amines in the urine of both cancer patients and normal subjects. The levels of N1-acetylspermidine were considerably higher than the levels of N8-acetylspermidine in the 24-hr urine of cancer patients, resulting in a ratio of N1- to N8-acetylspermidine in the urine of cancer patients significantly higher than that in normal subjects. The urinary levels of acetylputrescine were also significantly higher in cancer patients. The urinary polyamines in 13 of the 15 cancer patients were outside the 95% confidence limits of the normal mean for the ratio of N1- to N8-acetylspermidine and acetylputrescine. All cancer patients showed values outside the 95% confidence limits of the mean for either of these two parameters. Diurnal variation was observed in the urinary excretion of the acetyl polyamines but not for the free amines in two normal subjects.
Apple procyanidins have chemopreventive properties in a model of colon cancer, they affect intracellular signalling pathways, and trigger apoptosis in a human adenocarcinoma-derived metastatic cell line (SW620). In the present study we investigated relationships between procyanidin-induced alterations in polyamine metabolism and apoptotic effects. Apple procyanidins diminish the activities of ornithine decarboxylase and S-adenosyl-L-methionine decarboxylase, key enzymes of polyamine biosynthesis, and they induce spermidine/spermine N(1)-acetyltransferase, which initiates retroconversion of poly-amines. As a consequence of the enzymatic changes polyamine concentrations are diminished, and N(1)-acetyl-polyamines accumulate in SW620 cells. In contrast with expectations MDL 72527, an inactivator of polyamine oxidase (PAO), improved the anti-proliferative effect of procyanidins, and caused an increase of the proportion of apoptotic cells, although it prevented the formation of hydrogen peroxide and 3-acetamidopropanal, the cytotoxic products of PAO-catalysed degradation of N(1)-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine. Addition of 500 microM N1-acetylspermidine to the culture medium in the presence of procyanidins mimicked the effect of MDL 72527. Therefore we presume that the enhanced procyanidin-triggered apoptosis by MDL 72527 is mediated by the accumulation of N(1)-acetyl-polyamines. The observation that apple procyanidins enhance polyamine catabolism and reduce polyamine biosynthesis activity similar to known inducers of SSAT, without sharing their toxicity, and the potentiation of these effects by low concentrations of MDL 72527 suggests apple procyanidins for chemopreventive and therapeutic interventions.
Hepatic polyamines were assayed in 15 patients with liver diseases, 5 with fulminant hepatitis (FH); 3 with exacerbated liver cirrhosis (ELC); and 7 with liver cirrhosis (LC). Hepatic putrescine and N1-acetylspermidine as percentages of total polyamines, were elevated and spermine was decreased in all 15 patients. The increase in hepatic N1-acetylspermidine levels appeared to be greater in patients with FH and ELC than in those with LC. These results suggest that the production of N1-acetylspermidine in human liver is closely associated with the induction of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase activity in liver diseases.
Administration of large, but non-toxic doses of spermidine (0.4-1.25 mmol/kg) led to a substantial increase in putrescine in liver, kidney and a number of other tissues including muscle. The increase in putrescine peaked at 6 h after treatment and was completely prevented by administration of cycloheximide 3 h after the spermidine suggesting that the induction of a new protein was required. This protein is likely to be spermidine N1-acetyltransferase which was induced by the treatment with spermidine and increased 3-4-fold in liver and kidney within 6 h. N1-Acetylspermidine was detected in tissues at this time after spermidine treatment and experiments in which labeled spermidine was given indicated that a substantial fraction of the administered spermidine was converted into N1-acetylspermidine and into putrescine. These results suggest that the rise in putrescine after spermidine treatment is brought about by the production of N1-acetylspermidine which is converted into putrescine by the action of polyamine oxidase. The limiting step in this conversion is the activity of the acetylase which is induced in response to the rise in spermidine content. The acetylase/oxidase pathway, therefore, provides a means by which polyamine levels can be regulated and excess polyamine disposed of.
The mechanism by which chlordecone (CD) amplifies the hepatotoxicity of halomethanes such as CCl4, CHCl3, and BrCCl3 has been a subject of intense study. Recent work has shown that suppression of hepatocellular regeneration leads to accelerated progression of liver injury leading to complete hepatic failure due to an unusual interaction between individually nontoxic low-dose combination of CD and CCl4. Since polyamines are involved in cell division, their levels reflect the extent to which there is suppression of hepatocellular regeneration during CD and CCl4 interaction. The present studies were designed to investigate the polyamine levels and associated enzymes in livers of rats treated with BrCCl3 alone or CD and BrCCl3 low-dose combination in order to confirm whether the sequence of events of hepatotoxicity is similar to that seen in CCl4 toxicity or that seen during CD and CCl4 interaction. The extent of liver toxicity in rats fed 10 ppm chlordecone (CD) for 15 days prior to the injection of a single low dose of BrCCl3 (15 microL/kg body weight) or after exposure to a high dose of BrCCl3 (80 microL/kg body weight) without CD pretreatment, was similar 6 and 24 hr later as assessed by plasma transaminase levels. There was also an increase in transaminase levels, in rats exposed to a single low dose of BrCCl3 alone (15 microL/kg body weight) but this increase was far below the high-dose exposure alone or the combination treatment. Hepatic levels of ornithine decarboxylase, S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase, N1-acetylputrescine, N1-acetylspermidine, putrescine, spermidine, and spermine at the end of 24 hr increased after exposure to a low dose of BrCCl3 alone as compared to exposure to a high dose alone or the low-dose combination of CD and BrCCl3. Liver spermidine N1-acetyltransferase was elevated at 2, 6, and 24 hr after exposure to a high dose of BrCCl3 alone as compared to treatment with a low-dose combination of CD and BrCCl3 suggesting decreased synthesis of this enzyme, in spite of a greater need as seen from liver transaminase levels. In general, it was observed that there is significant elevation in some polyamines and related enzymes during toxicity of a low dose of BrCCl3 which seemed to stabilize within 24 hr. This was not observed with the other two groups of rats exposed either to BrCCl3 high dose alone or the low-dose combination of CD and BrCCl3.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Metabolic reprogramming within cancer cells is suggested as a potential barrier to chemotherapy. Additionally, metabolic tumor heterogeneity is one of factor behind discernible hallmarks such as drug resistance, relapse of tumor and the formation of secondary tumors. In this paper, cell based assays including PI/annexin V staining and immunoblot assay were performed to show the apoptotic cell death in MCF-7 cells treated with DOX. Further, MCF-7 cells were lysed in hypotonic buffer and whole cell lysate was purified by a novel and specifically designed metabolite (100 to 1000 Da) fractionation system as vertical tube gel electrophoresis (VTGE). Further, purified intracellular metabolites were subjected to identification by LC-HRMS technique. The authors show the presence of cleaved PARP 1 in MCF-7 cells treated with DOX. Concomitantly, data show the absence of active caspase 3 in MCF-7 cells. Novel findings are to identify key intracellular metabolites assisted by VTGE system that include lipid (CDP-DG, phytosphingosine, dodecanamide), non-lipid (N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, N1-acetylspermidine and gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteine) and tripeptide metabolites in MCF-7 cells treated by DOX. Interestingly, the authors report a first evidence of doxorubicinone, an aglycone form of DOX in MCF-7 cells that is potentially linked to the mechanism of cell death in MCF-7 cells. This paper reports on novel methods and processes that involve VTGE system based purification of hypotonically lysed novel intracellular metabolites of MCF-7 cells treated by DOX. Here, these identified intracellular metabolites corroborate to caspase 3 independent and mitochondria induced apoptotic cell death in MCF-7 cells. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Metabolic reprogramming in cancer cells is implicated in various tumor hallmarks. Interestingly, thousands of research have addressed the molecular basis of drug treatment and resistance in chemotherapy. But, there is a significant gap in the precise methodologies and approaches in addressing intracellular metabolite alterations. This paper reports on a novel approach that helped reveal new findings on intracellular metabolite changes in case of doxorubicin (DOX) induced cell death in MCF-7 cells. This paper highlights the additional insights on debatable findings available in literature in the contexts of DOX induced cell death mechanisms. In this paper, novel and specifically designed vertical tube gel electrophoresis (VTGE) system is claimed to purify intracellular metabolites and this method is compatible with other biological system.
Urinary excretion of polyamines increases in patients with trauma and infection. To separate the effect of infection from the general metabolic response to sepsis, we studied 7 patients with sepsis and 13 patients with multiple trauma in the intensive-care unit. Urinary excretion of total and free polyamines, putrescine, spermidine, spermine, and their metabolites N1-acetylspermidine (N1-AcSPD) and N8-acetylspermidine (N8-AcSPD), and energy and nitrogen balance were measured. The patients were randomized to receive either hypocaloric glucose alone or with amino acids for 2 days. The excretion of individual polyamines, except spermine, significantly exceeded normal values in both patient groups; the excretion of total polyamines was 530 and 323% higher than normal in patients with sepsis and trauma, respectively. The excretion of N1-AcSPD and total spermidine was 141 and 74% higher in patients with sepsis than in patients with trauma, respectively (p < 0.05), whereas the excretion of N8-AcSPD was equal in both patient groups. This was also reflected as a significantly increased urinary ratio of N1-AcSPD to N8-AcSPD in septic patients (6.37 +/- 1.61; mean +/- SE) compared with patients after injury (2.69 +/- 0.27, p < 0.01) or a healthy population (1.08 +/- 0.04, p < 0.001). Amino acid infusion had no effect on polyamine excretion. The mean energy balance was -17.0 +/- 1.1 and -19.1 +/- 1.1 kcal.kg-1.day-1, and the mean nitrogen balance was -0.17 +/- 0.03 and -0.15 +/- 0.02 g.kg-1.day-1 in patients with sepsis and trauma, respectively (NS).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Additionally, metabolic tumor heterogeneity is one of factor behind discernible hallmarks such as drug resistance, relapse of tumor and the formation of secondary tumors. In this paper, cell based assays including PI/annexin V staining and immunoblot assay were performed to show the apoptotic cell death in MCF-7 cells treated with DOX. Further, MCF-7 cells were lysed in hypotonic buffer and whole cell lysate was purified by a novel and specifically designed metabolite (100 to 1000 Da) fractionation system as vertical tube gel electrophoresis (VTGE). Further, purified intracellular metabolites were subjected to identification by LC-HRMS technique. The authors show the presence of cleaved PARP 1 in MCF-7 cells treated with DOX. Concomitantly, data show the absence of active caspase 3 in MCF-7 cells. Novel findings are to identify key intracellular metabolites assisted by VTGE system that include lipid (CDP-DG, phytosphingosine, dodecanamide), non-lipid (N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, N1-acetylspermidine and gamma-Lglutamyl-L-cysteine) and tripeptide metabolites in MCF-7 cells treated by DOX. Interestingly, the authors report a first evidence of doxorubicinone, an aglycone form of DOX in MCF-7 cells that is potentially linked to the mechanism of cell death in MCF-7 cells. This paper reports on novel methods and processes that involve VTGE system based purification of hypotonically lysed novel intracellular metabolites of MCF-7 cells treated by DOX. Here, these identified intracellular metabolites corroborate to caspase 3 independent and mitochondria induced apoptotic cell death in MCF-7 cells.
Cross-reactions with N1-acetylspermidine in the assay of DiAcSpm and with N8-acetylspermidine in the assay of DiAcSpd were as low as 0.26 and 0.6%, respectively, and were judged to be insignificant in clinical use for measuring urinary diacetylpolyamines.
The acetylation of putrescine, cadaverine, spermidine, and spermine was examined in different subcellular fractions and regions of the mouse brain. Acetylation activity was confined to nuclear and microsomal fractions, which can acetylate all of these compounds. These fractions catalyze the formation of N8 but not N1-acetylspermidine. For the nuclear fraction the Km for putrescine was 3.5 mM; for cadaverine, 4.0 mM; for spermidine, 1.0 mM; and for spermine, 2.5 mM. The Vmax obtained were (pmol/mg protein/10 min): putrescine, 424; cadaverine, 705; spermidine, 239; and spermine, 467. ::: ::: ::: ::: The acetylation of spermidine was highest in the olfactory bulb and cerebellum. Putrescine and cadaverine acetylation were high in these areas, as well as in the midbrain. Spermine acetylation was rather uniform in all areas examined, except in the brain stem (pons-medulla) where enzyme activity was very low.
Putrescine, spermidine and spermine levels were detected in the retina, visual cortex, cerebellum and parietal cortex of CD1 mice exposed to 36h continuous light or darkness. Retinal putrescine and polyamine concentrations were found to be highest in dark-adapted mice, and the stimulation of dark-adapted retina with flicker illumination was also accompanied by a significant decrease in putrescine, spermidine and spermine levels. In visual cortex as well as in cerebellum spermidine and spermine contents were higher in dark-adapted mice in comparison to light-exposed animals, while in parietal cortex no significant change was found neither in spermidine nor spermine levels. In the brain areas studied flicker illumination produced no significant decreases in putrescine and polyamine contents. The total polyamines expressed as putrescine equivalents were noticeably decreased in retina, visual cortex and cerebellum of light-adapted mice. In the retina spermine/spermidine molar ratio was significantly higher than in dark-adapted mice. The administration of N1, N2-bis-(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine (MDL 72527) produced a strong decrease of retinal putrescine and spermidine concentrations in both dark-adapted and light-exposed mice, and in the retina of mice exposed to continuous light a significant decrease in the spermine level was also observed. According to the influence on polyamine reutilization, after the irreversible inhibition of polyamine oxidase by MDL 72527, in the retina N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine accumulation was highest in light-adapted mice. On the contrary in visual cortex, cerebellum and parietal cortex the MDL 72527 administration produced a more marked decrease of putrescine and spermidine contents in mice kept in continuous darkness.
Abstract An acetylputrescine deacetylase was induced in Micrococcus luteus K-11, and was partially purified and characterized briefly. The enzyme was most active toward acetylputrescine, followed by N8-acetylspermidine and acetylcadaverine, but was inactive toward N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine. The Km value for acetylputrescine was 0.321 mM. It was almost unaffected by -SH blocking agents but was inhibited by metal ions such as Cu2+ and Ni2+. Its molecular weight estimated by Sephacryl S-200 column chromatography was 115000.
The association of N1-acetylspermidine with human colorectal adenocarcinomas has been evaluated in this study. Free polyamines and their monoacetylated forms in adenocarcinomas, adenomas, and apparently healthy mucosae were determined using high-performance ion-exchange chromatography. The N1-acetylspermidine levels in well- and moderately differentiated adenocarcinomas were 27.30 +/- 3.13 (S.E.) (n = 99) and 22.86 +/- 3.60 (n = 22) nmol/g, wet weight, respectively. These values were significantly higher than those of benign adenomas (5.38 +/- 0.85 nmol/g, n = 31) and of control mucosae. The N1-acetylspermidine levels in control mucosae on the oral and anal side of adenocarcinomas were 5.84 +/- 1.44 (n = 57) and 7.92 +/- 2.89 (n = 50) nmol/g, respectively; no significant difference was observed between control mucosae and adenomas. The mean levels of three polyamines, putrescine, spermidine, and spermine in both adenomas and adenocarcinomas were about twice as high as those of control mucosae. The molar ratios of spermidine to spermine were significantly greater in both adenomas and adenocarcinomas than in control tissues. There was no obvious correlation between the free polyamine concentrations and the degree of malignancy of the colorectal tumors. These results suggest that the metabolism of N1-acetylspermidine in colorectal adenocarcinomas is quite different from that in adenomas and in nonneoplastic mucosae and that N1-acetylspermidine can be a promising biochemical marker of cancer in the human large intestine.
Abstract Rat liver peroxisomal polyamine oxidase activity was determined under various physiological conditions by using the peroxidase method with phenol and 4-aminoantipyrine.N1-Acetylpolyamines such asN1-acetylspermine andN1-acetylspermidine were better substrates than the free polyamines. The polyamine oxidase activity in rat peroxisomes increased significantly when cell proliferation was high. The activity began to appear in fetal liver at the 16th≈18th day of pregnancy and peaked in neonatal liver on the first day (approx. 1.7-times higher than in adult liver). In regenerating rat liver, only polyamine oxidase activity among the peroxisomal enzymes tested was increased considerably 12 h after partial hepatectomy (approx. 2.8-fold over the control liver). Finally, the enzyme activity was significantly increased by administration of clofibrate, a peroxisome proliferator, which also causes hepatomegaly. In all cases, the increase in polyamine oxidase activity was not more than 3-fold. Since the level of polyamine oxidase activity in the normal liver is more than adequate in relation to the level of the substrates, the slight but significant increase under conditions of cell proliferation may have a role in modulating levels of polyamines in the proliferating liver tissue.
Polyamines and related monoacetyl derivatives were studied in chick embryo retina during development (6th-19th day). Putrescine, which is high in the first phase of retinogenesis, is necessary to sustain both tissue proliferation and via N-acetylputrescine, gamma-aminobutyric acid synthesis. A later increase in spermidine and particularly spermine may play a role in the last phase of development when the retina reaches maturation. The presence of N1-acetylspermidine already at the 8th day indicates that in chick embryo retina, putrescine synthesis can depend on two separate pathways. The first involves ornithine decarboxylase activity; the second, spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase and probably polyamine oxidase that converts spermidine to putrescine via N1-acetylspermidine.
We have reported that a single injection of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 into vitamin D-deficient chicks produces a marked accumulation of putrescine in the duodenum by an interconversion pathway. In the present study, we examined the effect of N1,N2-bis(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine, a specific irreversible inhibitor of polyamine oxidase, on the duodenal putrescine synthesis induced by 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. Addition of N1,N2-bis(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine to an assay mixture completely inhibited the activity of duodenal polyamine oxidase in vitro. Prior administration of N1,N2-bis(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine to chicks completely blocked the 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3-induced increase in duodenal accumulation of putrescine in vivo. The increase of the duodenal accumulation of putrescine by 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in vitamin D-deficient chicks coincided quantitatively with the amount of N1-acetylspermidine synthesized from spermidine after the injection of the vitamin into the chicks pretreated with the inhibitor of polyamine oxidase. These results clearly indicate that spermidine N1-acetyltransferase plays a preferential role in the increase in duodenal putrescine synthesis by 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. The rapidly proliferating and maturing epithelium of small intestines will provide a good model for investigating the role of the interconversion of polyamine metabolism in cell growth and differentiation.
Abstract The aminoacyl sequences of three regions of pure bovine N1-acetylated polyamine oxidase (PAO) were obtained and used to search GenBankTM. This led to the cloning and sequencing of a complete coding cDNA for murine PAO (mPAO) and the 5′-truncated coding region of the bovine pao (bpao) gene. A search of GenBankTM indicated that mpao maps to murine chromosome 7 as seven exons. The translated amino acid sequences of mpao and bpao have a –Pro-Arg-Leu peroxisomal targeting signal at the extreme C termini. A β-α-β FAD-binding motif is present in the N-terminal portion of mPAO. This and several other regions of mPAO and bPAO are highly similar to corresponding sections of other flavoprotein amine oxidases, although the overall identity of aligned sequences indicates that PAO represents a new subfamily of flavoproteins. A fragment of mpao was used as a probe to establish the relative transcription levels of this gene in various mature murine tissues and murine embryonic and breast tissues at different developmental stages. An Escherichia coli expression system has been developed for manufacturing mPAO at a reasonable level. The mPAO so produced was purified to homogeneity and characterized. It was demonstrated definitively that PAO oxidizes N1-acetylspermine to spermidine and 3-acetamidopropanal and that it also oxidizes N1-acetylspermidine to putrescine and 3-acetamidopropanal. Thus, this is the classical polyamine oxidase (EC 1.5.3.11) that is defined as the enzyme that oxidizes these N1-acetylated polyamines on the exo-side of their N4-amino groups. This enzyme is distinguishable from the plant polyamine oxidase that oxidizes spermine on the endo-side of the N4-nitrogen. It differs also from mammalian spermine oxidase that oxidizes spermine (but not N1-acetylspermine or N1-acetylspermidine) at the exo-carbon of its N4-amino group. This report provides details of the biochemical, spectral, oxidation-reduction, and steady-state kinetic properties of pure mPAO.
Polyamines are important for protein synthesis and tissue growth. In rat salivary glands, the activity of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), the enzyme catalysing the formation of putrescine, and the content of putrescine, spermidine, spermine and N1-acetylspermidine were assayed after parasympathetic or sympathetic nerve stimulation in the presence of various autonomic receptor blockers. Increases in ODC activity occurred on activation of non-adrenergic and non-cholinergic receptors in response to parasympathetic nerve stimulation and on activation of alpha(alpha 1)- as well as of beta(beta 1)-adrenoceptors in response to sympathetic nerve stimulation. Moreover, in parotid glands, a beta(beta 1)-adrenoceptor-mediated inverse pathway for putrescine formation seemed to exist: from spermidine via N1-acetylspermidine.
A high-pressure-liquid-chromatographic method suitable for the separation and sensitive detection of putreanine and isoputreanine is described. This method allowed us to study the formation of the metabolites of the oxidative deamination of spermidine and N1-acetylspermidine. Administration of spermidine trishydrochloride to mice causes a time-dependent accumulation of putreanine and N-(3-aminopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one in various organs. The latter compound yields isoputreanine by hydrolysis. It can be assumed that the analogous lactam. N-(3-acetamidopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one is formed from N1-acetylspermidine, since hydrolysis of tissue extracts of N1-acetylspermidine-treated mice produced isoputreanine. No putreanine is formed under these conditions. Pretreatment of the animals with 25 mg of aminoguanidine sulphate/kg body wt. completely inhibits the formation of putreanine and of the respective isoputreanine precursor from spermidine and N1-acetylspermidine. This suggests a role for a diamine oxidase-like enzyme in the oxidative deamination of spermidine and N1-acetylspermidine.
Complete inhibition of polyamine catabolism is possible by combined administration of two compounds. Aminoguanidine (25 mg/kg body wt., intraperitoneally) inhibits all reactions that are catalysed by copper-containing amine oxidases (CuAO). The products of the CuAO-catalysed reactions cannot be reconverted into polyamines (terminal catabolism) and therefore usually escape observation. N1-Methyl-N2-(buta-2,3-dienyl)butane-1,4-diamine (MDL 72521) is a new inhibitor of polyamine oxidase. It inhibits completely the degradation of N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine. The enhanced excretion of N1-acetylspermidine in urine after administration of 20 mg of MDL 72521/day per kg body wt. is a measure of the rate of spermidine degradation in vivo to putrescine, and thus of the quantitative significance of the interconversion pathway. From the enhancement of total polyamine excretion by aminoguanidine-treated rats, one can calculate that only about 40% of the polyamines that are destined for elimination are usually observed in the urine, the other 60% being catabolized along the CuAO-catalysed pathways. The normally observed urinary polyamine pattern gives, therefore, an unsatisfactory picture of the actual polyamine elimination. Although aminoguanidine alone is sufficient to block terminal polyamine catabolism, rats that were treated with a combination of aminoguanidine and MDL 72521 excrete more polyamines than those that received aminoguanidine alone. The reason is that a certain proportion of putrescine, which is formed by degradation of spermidine, is normally reutilized for polyamine biosynthesis. In MDL 72521-treated animals this proportion appears in the urine in the form of N1-acetylspermidine. Thus it is possible to determine polyamine interconversion and re-utilization in vivo and to establish a polyamine balance in intact rats by using specific inhibitors of the CuAO and of polyamine oxidase.
Spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (cSAT), a key enzyme in polyamine degradation, is induced by various hepatotoxins and liver tumor promoters. In this paper we demonstrate that physiological factors, such as cytokines, control cSAT expression in HepG2 human hepatocarcinoma cells. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) induced the cSAT mRNA precursor (3.5 kb) at 4 h. The mature form of mRNA (1.3 kb) increased 6-8-fold between 8 and 10 h, and remained elevated until 18 h. An increase in cSAT activity (2-fold) and high levels of N1-acetylspermidine were observed concomitantly. Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) enhanced cSAT expression (both mRNA and enzyme activity) similar to HGF, while tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) was less effective. This system also provides a useful means for examining the involvement of negative and positive changes of polyamines in the induction of cSAT and c-jun, a gene that participates in the control of cSAT expression. alpha-Difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) pretreatment, by lowering putrescine and spermidine in HGF- or IL-1 beta-treated cells, prevented the induction of cSAT. This effect was reversed by exogenous putrescine or spermidine. IL-1 beta induced c-jun mRNA more than HGF. DFMO prevented almost completely the enhancement of c-jun mRNA expression by IL-1 beta, and this effect was reversed by exogenous putrescine or spermidine. Therefore, we suggest that cSAT and c-jun expression is specifically regulated by polyamine-mediated mechanisms in IL-1 beta treated HepG2 cells. Since cSAT is inducibile by cytokines that control tumor metabolism and growth as well as tumor-host interaction, we hypothesize an involvement of cSAT in hepatoma growth.
Complete inhibition of polyamine catabolism is possible by combined administration of two compounds. Aminoguanidine (25mg/kg body wt., intraperitoneally) inhibits all reactions that are catalysed by copper-containing amine oxidases (CuAO). The products of the CuAO-catalysed reactions cannot be reconverted into polyamines (terminal catabolism) and therefore usually escape observation. N1-Methyl-N2-(buta-2,3-dienyl)butane-1,4-diamine (MDL 72521) is a new inhibitor of polyamine oxidase. It inhibits completely the degradation of N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine. The enhanced excretion of N1-acetylspermidine in urine after administration of 20mg of MDL 72521/day per kg body wt. is a measure of the rate of spermidine degradation in vivo to putrescine, and thus of the quantitative significance of the interconversion pathway. From the enhancement of total polyamine excretion by aminoguanidine-treated rats, one can calculate that only about 40% of the polyamines that are destined for elimination are usually observed in the urine, the other 60% being catabolized along the CuAO-catalysed pathways. The normally observed urinary polyamine pattern gives, therefore, an unsatisfactory picture of the actual polyamine elimination. Although aminoguanidine alone is sufficient to block terminal polyamine catabolism, rats that were treated with a combination of aminoguanidine and MDL 72521 excrete more polyamines than those that received aminoguanidine alone. The reason is that a certain proportion of putrescine, which is formed by degradation of spermidine, is normally reutilized for polyamine biosynthesis. In MDL 72521-treated animals this proportion appears in the urine in the form of N1-acetylspermidine. Thus it is possible to determine polyamine interconversion and re-utilization in vivo and to establish a polyamine balance in intact rats by using specific inhibitors of the CuAO and of polyamine oxidase.
Recently, our laboratory has demonstrated that elevations in the levels of N1-acetylspermidine could be detected in the colonic mucosa of rats after administration of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine for 15 weeks, i.e., before the development of colon tumors. Since prior studies have indicated that diets high in fat, particularly unsaturated fat, promote the development of dimethylhydrazine-induced tumors, it was of interest to examine the effect of a corn oil dietary regimen (20% by weight) on colonic N1-acetylspermidine levels in this model of colonic adenocarcinoma. Four groups of rats were used in these studies: chow, chow + carcinogen, corn oil and corn oil + carcinogen. The carcinogen groups received weekly s.c. injections of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (20 mg/kg body wt) for 15 weeks, while the control groups received diluent. 1 week after the last injection, animals from each group were killed, and their proximal and distal colons were resected, examined and compared with respect to polyamine levels, including N1-acetylspermidine, as well as the activities of ornithine decarboxylase, spermidine N1-acetyltransferase, and polyamine oxidase. In view of previous studies which suggested that N1-acetylspermidine levels may be elevated in the urine of patients with various malignancies, it was also of interest to examine and compare the urinary levels of this acetylated polyamine in animals from each group. The results of these experiments demonstrated that: (1) the levels of N1-acetylspermidine in the distal colonic segment were found to be increased approx. 25 and 80% in the chow + carcinogen and corn oil + carcinogen groups, respectively, compared to their control counterparts; (2) the activities of spermidine N1-acetyltransferase in the distal colonic segments of chow + carcinogen and corn oil + carcinogen animals were increased 1.5- and 2-fold, respectively, compared to control values; (3) dimethylhydrazine administration did not affect the levels of this acetylated polyamine or spermidine N1-acetyltransferase activities in the proximal colon, but, in general, did increase the levels of putrescine and spermidine as well as ornithine decarboxylase activities in both colonic segments of animals fed chow or corn oil diets; and (4) elevated urinary levels of N1-acetylspermidine did not appear to be a reliable 'premalignant' marker in this experimental model of colonic adenocarcinoma.
We have studied the urinary excretion of free and acetylated polyamines in hepatoma-bearing Buffalo rats during the period of linear growth of the tumor mass. The excretion of nonconjugated polyamines was unchanged. N1-Acetylspermidine excretion did not parallel the linear increase in tumor mass but increased exponentially. Enhancement of N8-acetylspermidine excretion above control levels was observed only at a time when the average tumor mass was 35 +/- 9 (S.D.) g. shortly before the period when necrosis is usually observed. These data taken together with the analysis of urinary acetylpolyamines in rats bearing mammary tumors and in two melanoma patients show that the determination of the N1-acetylspermidine/N8-acetylspermidine ratio in urine may be of only limited value as an indicator for the presence of tumors.
Putrescine, spermidine and spermine are low molecular polycations that play important roles in cell growth and cell cycle progression of normal and malignant cells. Agmatine (1-amino-4-guanidobutane), another polyamine formed through arginine decarboxylation, has been reported to act as an antiproliferative agent in several non-intestinal mammalian cell models. Using the human colon adenocarcinoma HT-29 Glc−/+ cell line, we demonstrate that agmatine, which markedly accumulated inside the cells without being metabolised, exerted a strong cytostatic effect with an IC50 close to 2 mM. Agmatine decreased the rate of l-ornithine decarboxylation and induced a 70% down-regulation of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) expression. Agmatine caused a marked decrease in putrescine and spermidine cell contents, an increase in the N1-acetylspermidine level without altering the spermine pool. We show that agmatine induced the accumulation of cells in the S and G2/M phases, reduced the rate of DNA synthesis and decreased cyclin A and B1 expression. We conclude that the anti-metabolic action of agmatine on HT-29 cells is mediated by a reduction in polyamine biosynthesis and induction in polyamine degradation. The decrease in intracellular polyamine contents, the reduced rate of DNA synthesis and the cell accumulation in the S phase are discussed from a causal perspective.
Polyamines are aliphatic amines with low molecular weight that are widely recognized as one of the most important cancer biomarkers for early diagnosis and treatment. The goal of the work herein presented is the development of a rapid and simple method for the quantification of free polyamines (i.e., putrescine, cadaverine, spermidine, spermine) and N-monoacetylated polyamines (i.e., N1-Acetylspermidine, N8-Acetylspermidine, and N1-Acetylspermine) in human urine. A preliminary derivatization with propyl chloroformate combined with the use of solid phase microextraction (SPME) allowed for an easy and automatable protocol involving minimal sample handling and no consumption of organic solvents. The affinity of the analytes toward five commercial SPME coatings was evaluated in univariate mode, and the best result in terms of analyte extraction was achieved using the divinylbenzene/carboxen/polydimethylsiloxane fiber. The variables affecting the performance of SPME analysis were optimized by the multivariate approach of experimental design and, in particular, using a central composite design (CCD). The optimal working conditions in terms of response values are the following: extraction temperature 40 °C, extraction time of 15 min and no addition of NaCl. Analyses were carried out by gas chromatography-triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (GC-QqQ-MS) in selected reaction monitoring (SRM) acquisition mode. The developed method was validated according to the guidelines issued by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The satisfactory performances reached in terms of linearity, sensitivity (LOQs between 0.01 and 0.1 μg/mL), matrix effect (68-121%), accuracy, and precision (inter-day values between -24% and +16% and in the range 3.3-28.4%, respectively) make the proposed protocol suitable to be adopted for quantification of these important biomarkers in urine samples.
SSAT-1 appears to be ubiquitous in mammalian tissues. While it is present in very small amounts in normal healthy cells, SSAT-1 can be induced by a number of factors, including toxic agents, hormones, drugs and growth factors [4, [10] [11] [12] . Indeed, in human prostate cancer, there is increased expression of SSAT-1 to prevent polyamine concentrations from reaching levels that would be toxic to the cell [13] . The increased production of polyamines in cancer results in increased levels of polyamines and N1-acetylspermidine, reflecting increased SSAT-1 activity [14, 15] . Indeed, an increase in monoacetylated polyamines has been detected in human and animal tumor cells/tissue [16] [17] [18] [19] .
Reports regarding the effect of all-trans-retinoic acid (RA) on the cell growth of retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE) have been contradictory. The aims of this study are to clarify the in vitro effect of RA on RPE cells and to examine polyamine metabolism after RA stimulation. A 4-day incubation of fetal-calf-serum (FCS)-stimulated RPE cells with 10 or 25 microM RA significantly increased both cell number and [3H]thymidine incorporation. RPE cells grown over an extended period for 8 days also increased in number and reached full confluency. However, if the incubation was further extended to 12 days, no further increase in cell number was detected. RA treatment of FCS-stimulated RPE cells shifted the peak of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity from 16 to 4 h. S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) activity and spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SAT) activity of RA-treated RPE cells were significantly greater until 8 and 16 h after incubation, respectively. The putrescine content was significantly increased in RA-treated RPE cells up until 24 h, while spermidine, spermine and N1-acetylspermidine contents were significantly increased until 16 h. Our findings suggest that RA treatment increases the intracellular polyamine concentration of RPE cells via activation of ODC, SAMDC and SAT and that this results in the promotion of RPE cell growth until the cells reach full confluency.
1,3-Diaminopropane has been identified as the major polyamine of Acanthamoeba culbertsoni. N-acetylputrescine and spermidine were present in appreciable amounts and putrescine as well as N-acetylspermidine were also detected, but spermine was absent. Changes in polyamine levels were observed during the growth of amoebae. Ornithine decarboxylase activity was detected in cell-free extracts but there was very low activity of arginine and lysine decarboxylases. A potent polyamine oxidase was demonstrated which preferentially acted on N8-acetyl-spermidine as the substrate while N1-acetylspermidine was a poor substrate; free polyamines did not serve as a good substrate for this enzyme. Active uptake of polyamines by the amoebae was also demonstrated.
Abstract FAD-dependent polyamine oxidase (PAO; EC 1.5.3.11) is one of the key enzymes in the catabolism of polyamines spermidine and spermine. The natural substrates for the enzyme are N1-acetylspermidine, N1-acetylspermine, and N1,N12-diacetylspermine. Here we report that PAO, which normally metabolizes achiral substrates, oxidized (R)-isomer of 1-amino-8-acetamido-5-azanonane and N1-acetylspermidine as efficiently while (S)-1-amino-8-acetamido-5-azanonane was a much less preferred substrate. It has been shown that in the presence of certain aldehydes, the substrate specificity of PAO and the kinetics of the reaction are changed to favor spermine and spermidine as substrates. Therefore, we examined the effect of several aldehydes on the ability of PAO to oxidize different enantiomers of α-methylated polyamines. PAO supplemented with benzaldehyde predominantly catalyzed the cleavage of (R)-isomer of α-methylspermidine, whereas in the presence of pyridoxal the (S)-α-methylspermidine was preferred. PAO displayed the same stereospecificity with both singly and doubly α-methylated spermine derivatives when supplemented with the same aldehydes. Structurally related ketones proved to be ineffective. This is the first time that the stereospecificity of FAD-dependent oxidase has been successfully regulated by changing the supplementary aldehyde. These findings might facilitate the chemical regulation of stereospecificity of the enzymes.
The oxidation of acetylpolyamines by an extracellular polyamine oxidase of Penicillium sp. No. PO-1 was investigated. The optimal pH value for oxidation of acetylpolyamines was 6.0. The purified enzyme oxidized spermidine, spermine, N1-acetylspermidine, N8-acetylspermidine, N1,8-diacetylspermidine, N1-acetylspermine and N1,12-diacetylspermine. The relative velocities for oxidation of acetylpolyamines were lower than those of spermidine and spermine. The Km values for oxidation of acetylpolyamines were higher than those of spermidine and spermine. The enzyme split N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine at the same position of the linkage as in spermidine oxidation. N1-Acetylspermine was changed to N1-acetylspermidine. This oxidation mechanism was different from that of rat liver polyamine oxidase. N1-Acetylspermine inhibited the oxidation of spermine. Putrescine, N8-acetylspermidine and N1,12-diacetylspermine also inhibited the N1-acetylspermidine oxidation by the enzyme.
We studied the effects of two N,N'-thiophene-substituted polyamine analogs (MDL 28302 and MDL 29431) on the capacities of Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiologic agent of Chagas' disease, to invade and multiply within a mammalian host cell. Both compounds inhibited infectivity significantly in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. This inhibition resulted from a selective effect on the parasite, because pretreatment of T. cruzi but not host cell cultures with either MDL 28302 or MDL 29431 reduced infectivity. The parasite gradually recovered its infective capacity after removal of unincorporated polyamine analog, denoting the reversible nature of the inhibitory effect. Some biochemical modification of MDL 28302 and MDL 29431 appeared to be required for their inhibitory activities to be exerted, since the effects of these drugs on T. cruzi infectivity were abrogated by MDL 72527, a drug known to inhibit polyamine oxidase (PAO) activity specifically. Supporting the notion of that products of MDL 28302 and MDL 29431 oxidation by PAO were involved in the activity of these compounds was the finding that PAO competitive substrates (N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine) also abolished the inhibition of T. cruzi infectivity mediated by MDL 28302 or MDL 29431. However, we can not rule out that MDL 72527 and the PAO competitive substrates might have altered an alternative mechanism because no significant polyamine oxidase activity could be demonstrated in preparations of lysed or intact T. cruzi in assays monitoring conversion of [14C]spermine to [14C]spermidine. When either MDL 28302 or MDL 29431 was added to infected cell cultures, a marked reduction in the rate of intracellular parasite growth ensued.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Long/branched-chain polyamines are unique polycations found in thermophiles. The hyperthermophilic archaeon Thermococcus kodakarensis contains spermidine and a branched-chain polyamine, N4-bis(aminopropyl)spermidine, as major polyamines. The metabolic pathways associated with branched-chain polyamines remain unknown. Here, we used gas chromatography and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analyses to identify a new acetylated polyamine, N4-bis(aminopropyl)-N1-acetylspermidine, from T. kodakarensis; this polyamine was not found in other micro-organisms. The amounts of branched-chain polyamine and its acetylated form increased with temperature, indicating that branched-chain polyamines are important for growth at higher temperatures. The amount of quaternary acetylated polyamine produced was associated with the amount of N4-bis(aminopropyl)spermidine in the cell. The ratio of acetylated to non-acetylated forms was higher in the stationary phase than in the logarithmic growth phase under high-temperature stress condition.
1. Berenil, administered to rats in vivo, promoted a decrease in liver SAMDC activity, but an increase in ODC and SAT activity. 2. Its effect on ODC was completely prevented by cycloheximide, that on SAT only partially. 3. Berenil had no effect on ODC activity in adrenalectomized rats. Adrenergic antagonists counteracted the effect of Berenil on ODC activity. 4. Polyamine content was increased. The maximum modification was observed for putrescine and N1-acetylspermidine.
The rates of synthesis and turnover of the rare amino acid hypusine [N6-(4-amino-2-hydroxybutyl)-2,6-diaminohexanoic acid] in protein were studied in relationship to polyamine metabolism and growth rates in rat hepatoma tissue-culture (HTC) cells. Hypusine is selectively formed in the eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF-4D, by a post-translational mechanism involving spermidine [Cooper, Park, Folk, Safer & Braverman (1983) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 80, 1854-1857]. The half-life of the hypusine-containing protein was longer than 24 h. In cells whose intracellular spermidine pools had been initially depleted, by using DL-alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), maximum synthesis rates of hypusine in protein were 5-10 times higher, on restoration of endogenous spermidine contents by exogenous addition, than those observed in untreated exponential-phase cultures. In cells pretreated with DFMO, the rate of hypusine synthesis was constant for up to 1 h after the addition of 5 microM-spermidine, whereas endogenous spermidine contents varied from less than 1 to more than 10 nmol/mg of protein. However, the overall amount of hypusine formed, during the first 1 h after the addition of various concentrations of spermidine (0.05-10 microM) to the culture medium, was markedly dependent on the final endogenous spermidine content achieved at the end of the 1 h measurement interval. Early in exponential-phase growth, protein-bound hypusine was synthesized at a rate of 1-2 pmol/h per mg of protein. This rate decreased to less than 0.5 pmol/h per mg of protein when cell growth rates decreased as cultures reached high cell densities. Analysis of the polyamine substrate specificity for hypusine formation showed that N1-acetylspermidine did not compete with spermidine in the reaction, nor did N1-(buta-2,3-dienyl)-N2-methylbutane-1,4-diamine, and irreversible inhibitor of polyamine oxidase, block the reaction. On the basis of comparative radiolabelling experiments, spermine was either a poor substrate, or not a substrate, for hypusine formation. These results confirm that spermidine is the likely precursor of the aminohydroxybutyl moiety of hypusine, and show that overall hypusine formation, but not necessarily the synthesis rate, is dependent on the endogenous spermidine concentration, especially under conditions where spermidine concentrations are initially low, as is the case after DFMO treatment, and then increase.
The effect of Mg2+, putrescine, diaminopropane, N1-acetylspermidine, N8-acetylspermidine, spermidine, and spermine on the thermal denaturation of calf thymus DNA was investigated. As in a previous study with magnesium [W.F. Dove and N. Davidson, (1962) J. Mol. Biol. 5, 467-478], these ligands were found to raise the thermal denaturation temperature of the DNA and to broaden the thermal denaturation curve dramatically at the point where 10 to 20% of the DNA charge had been neutralized. At higher levels of charge neutralization the curves became sharper again. This behavior was due to differential binding of the ligands to single- and double-stranded DNA. The broadening was used to determine the ratio of the association constants of each ligand to the two forms of DNA using either an independent sites model of binding or an excluded sites model. The results show that the primary mode of binding of the ligands to DNA is electrostatic but that important secondary, nonelectrostatic, effects are also present.
Normal human and rat urine contain N-(3-aminopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one. This compound was identified by its chromatographic behaviour on a reversed phase column, by thin-layer chromatography of its dansyl derivative, and by mass spectrometry. Evidence for the presence of conjugates of N-(3-aminopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one in urine was obtained by the fact that partial acid hydrolysis increases the amount of this compound, whereas prolonged hydrolysis leads to its transformation into isoputreanine (N1-(3-carboxypropyl)-1,3-diamino-propane). Although it is likely that the monoacetylderivative of N-(3-aminopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one is prominent among the conjugates, since this compound can be formed from N1-acetylspermidine, other types of conjugates are also likely. A method is reported suitable for the measurement of N-(3-aminopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one and of isoputreanine in urine and urine hydrolysates, respectively. Administration of spermidine enhances the amount of urinary excretion of N-(3-aminopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one. Of 0.1 mmol . kg-1 of spermidine administered intraperitoneally to rats around 12% are transformed into this compound and its conjugates. Treatment of rats with aminoguanidine sulfate, an inhibitor of diamine oxidase, causes a decrease in the excretion of N-(3-aminopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one and its derivatives. These findings are in agreement with the assumption that N-(3-aminopropyl)pyrrolidin-2-one, the gamma-lactam of isoputreanine, is a physiological degradation product of spermidine. Its formation is catalyzed by an aminoguanidine sensitive, diamine oxidase-like enzyme.
N1-Acetylnorspermidine [CH3CONH(CH2)3 NH(CH2)3NH3] was identified in Vibrio parahaemolyticus, which contains norspermidine as a major polyamine. This is the first example for the natural occurrence of monoacetylated unusual polyamine. The N1-acetylnorspermidine content was the highest 4 h after inoculation. Incubation of norspermidine and acetyl CoA with a cell extract from V. parahaemolyticus produced N1-acetylnorspermidine. A remarkable increase in specific activity of the acetyltransferase was observed at the exponential phase of growth. Spermidine also served as a substrate for the enzyme, with the formation of two isomers of the acetylspermidines (N1-acetylspermidine was predominant), but the reaction rate was less than 50% of that with norspermidine. These results suggest that norspermidine in V. parahaemolyticus may be associated with the cell growth and its role may be controlled through acetylation, as reported for spermidine in Escherichia coli.
The polyamine system is very sensitive to different pathological states of the brain and is perturbed after CNS injury. The main modifications are significant increases in ornithine decarboxylase activity and an increase in tissue putrescine levels. Previously we have shown that the specific polyamine oxidase (PAO) inhibitor N1,N4-bis(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine (MDL 72527) reduced the tissue putrescine levels, edema, and infarct volume after transient focal cerebral ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats and traumatic brain injury of Sprague-Dawley rats. In the present study, N1-acetyl-spermidine accumulation was greater in injured brain regions compared with sham or contralateral regions following inhibition of PAO by MDL 72527. This indicates spermidine/spermine-N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT) activation after CNS injury. The observed increase in N1-acetylspermidine levels at 1 day after CNS trauma paralleled the decrease in putrescine levels after treatment with MDL 72527. This suggests that the increased putrescine formation at 1 day after CNS injury is mediated by the SSAT/PAO pathway, consistent with increased SSAT mRNA after transient ischemia.
The cleavage efficiency of spermidine and its acetyl derivatives (N1-acetylspermidine and N8-acetylspermidine) at apurinic sites in DNA were examined by PAGE-urea analysis. The three polyamines induced different rates of cleavage when compared at 1 mM concentrations. The order of effectiveness were: spermidine greater than N8-acetylspermidine greater than N1-acetylspermidine. Thus a decrease in efficiency was observed when the first order amino-groups of spermidine were blocked. The N-8amino-group of spermidine was less effective in inducing cleavage at AP-sites than the N1-amino-group. Among several proposed models of polyamine-DNA interactions, our results can best be explained by the model postulated by Liquori et al.
Abstract A critical step in the cytotoxic action mechanism of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) involves, among mitochondrial dysfunctions, an early change of the inner membrane permeability displaying the characteristics of permeability transition. Cytosolic polyamines, especially spermine, are known to inhibit it. Our results show that spermine is only detectable in the TNF-α resistant C6 cells while N1-acetylspermidine is present in the TNF-α sensitive WEHI-164 cells, and putrescine and spermidine are found in both. TNF-α treatment does not change this distribution but only induces a quantitative alteration in TNF-α sensitive cells. Omission of glutamine (energetic substrate) from the culture media alters neither the TNF-α responsiveness of both cell lines nor their polyamine distributions, only their quantitative polyamine contents.
N-Acetyltransferase, which is suggested to be responsible for the production of N1-acetylspermidine in Leishmania amazonensis and to be involved in the process of inactivation and degradation of excessive polyamines, was partially purified and characterized. Among the substrates tested, sym-norspermidine, sym-norspermine, and 1,3-diaminopropane had the highest reaction rates, but the naturally occurring polyamines spermine and spermidine were also acetylated at considerable rates, whereas putrescine was a poor substrate. The Michaelis constants (Km values) for spermine and spermidine were 0.66 and 3.3 mM, respectively. The Km value for acetylcoenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) was determined to be 34 microM. CoA inhibited the reaction in a competitive manner; the inhibition constant was 5 microM. The enzyme showed an apparent relative molecular mass of 35,000.
Eleven urinary polyamine levels were determined in controls (32 cases) and 43 patients with varying stages of leukemia including initial, relapse and complete remission, using gas chromatography nitrogen-phosphorus detection. Also, to indirectly evaluate the possible involvement of enzymes, precursor to product concentration ratios were compared between controls and patients with each stage of leukemia. As a result, it is confirmed that the ratio of N1-acSpd/N8-acSpd could be used as a diagnostic marker and the level of N1,N12-diacetylspermine could be used for determining disease stage and as a malignancy marker for leukemia. An altered metabolic pathway related to leukemia is also proposed in which N1,N12-diacetylspermine can be produced directly from spermine and N1,N12-diacetylspermine is a major source of N1-acetylspermidine.
Human lymphocytes in culture loaded with radioactive polyamines slowly release radioactivity into the medium. N1-Acetylspermidine is mostly released from spermidine and spermine. Both ouabain and calcium ionophore A23187 increase the outward transport, but by different mechanisms. Ouabain inhibits the acetylation of spermidine, and free spermidine is released, whereas A23187 increases both acetylation of spermidine and the efflux of N1-acetylspermidine.
Treatment with thioacetamide (150 mg/kg) was used to enhance polyamine metabolism in rat liver. The increased uptake and catabolism of [14C]spermine and the changes of putrescine, spermidine and spermine concentrations indicated enhanced polyamine turnover rates. The increase of hepatic putrescine concentration was accompanied by an increase of monoacetylputrescine and N1-monoacetylspermidine concentration. In control animals, the latter compound was below detection levels. Thioacetamide treatment also enhanced putrescine excretion, which again was concomitant with an increased excretion of N1-acetylspermidine. The close time-dependent correlation between induced putrescine formation and enhanced formation of N1-acetylspermidine at a time when liver spermidine and spermine concentrations are not changed, favors the notion that acetylation is an essential step in polyamine degradation and elimination. The increase of polyamine oxidase and decrease of acetylpolyamine deacetylase activities in the liver of thioacetamide-treated rats is in line with an increased polyamine turnover, but these enzymes, although essential, are not rate-limiting in the catabolic reactions.
The regulation of putrescine/polyamine export out of the cell was investigated during activation of monocytic-leukemic RAW 264 cells with LPS and IFN-gamma. The RAW 264 cells exported putrescine constitutively at a significant rate into the culture medium. This export process appeared to be selective for putrescine in that only a small amount of other polyamines (spermidine and N1-acetylspermidine) was found in the culture medium. LPS and IFN-gamma alone and in combination markedly stimulated putrescine export and nitrite production throughout a 24-h period. The efflux of putrescine but not nitrite was further increased by the addition of ornithine (the amino acid precursor of putrescine) to the culture medium. LPS and ornithine also stimulated the intracellular accumulation of putrescine in primary inflammatory macrophages and the export of putrescine into the peritoneal exudate of the mouse. A detailed comparison of the steady state rates of accumulation of intracellular putrescine/polyamines and the rate of putrescine efflux from the cells constitutively and after LPS, IFN-gamma, and ornithine indicated that a surprisingly large fraction of total polyamine biosynthesis is comprised of exported putrescine. The observed dose-dependent inhibition of putrescine export with the drug verapamil implicated the involvement of a specific membrane transport system sensitive to calcium influx in this process. The data are discussed in regard to the potential involvement of putrescine export in the regulation of intracellular polyamine levels, cell differentiation, and macrophage-mediated cytotoxicity.
Polyamines and acetylpolyamines were analyzed in the liver, spleen, lung, kidney, serum and urine by high-performance liquid chromatography on a column of cation-exchange resin after administering various cytotoxic substances to male mice. All of the compounds tested more or less affected the tissue levels of polyamines, including putrescine, spermidine, spermine and acetylpolyamines (N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine). It was found that they were classified into two groups of substances: one group (including radical-producing drugs and lipopolysaccharide) which elevated the tissue levels of N1-acetylspermidine, especially in the liver, while another group of drugs (such as D-galactosamine and DL-ethionine) had little effect on the acetylpolyamine levels. When the acetylpolyamine levels rose, the levels of spermidine and spermine declined, and then putrescine levels were elevated. N1-Acetylspermine was detected only when N1-acetylspermidine levels were very high after treatment with radical-producing drugs and lipopolysaccharide. Halogenated carbon, such as carbon tetrachloride and halothane, elevated the levels of acetylpolyamines especially in the liver, while paraquat elevated them in all tissues examined.
Polyamines (putrescine, spermidine and spermine) play critical roles in cell growth and transformation. Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), key enzyme in polyamine biosynthesis, is considered a putative protooncogene crucial to the regulation of cell growth and transformation. Cancer patients have elevated levels of polyamines in their physiological fluids compared to normal counterparts. alpha-Difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), a specific suicide inhibitor of ODC, exhibits antitumor and antimetastasis activities, and displays effectiveness in many carcinogen-induced animal chemoprevention models. Therefore, we are using DFMO in a chemoprevention trial for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade III (CIN III), and evaluating patients for changes in polyamine metabolism as an intermediate marker of DFMO effect. A preliminary study showed that several milligrams of abnormal cervical biopsy tissue contained detectable levels of ODC activity and polyamines. Additionally, the presence of cadaverine suggested bacterial contamination of these tissues. For this reason, normal and abnormal biopsies collected during colposcopy were rinsed prior to frozen storage. In most patients, abnormal tissue showed greater ODC activities and lower spermidine/spermine ratios than normal tissues. Patients are now being treated with de-escalating doses of DFMO (1-0.06 g/m2/day) for one month. To study the effect of DFMO in patients with CIN III, we are collecting blood and cervical tissue specimens to measure the following parameters: plasma DFMO, ornithine and arginine levels; plasma N1-acetylspermidine levels; erythrocyte (blood polyamine carrier) free polyamine levels; cervical tissue free polyamine levels; cervical tissue N1-acetylspermidine levels; and cervical tissue ODC activities. N1-acetylspermidine will be examined as this compound is known to exist primarily in tumor tissues, not in normal tissues. We therefore established a high-performance liquid chromatography method for N1-acetylspermidine. We expect to find that polyamines are effective markers in analyzing DFMO effects in this chemoprevention trial, thus functioning as pharmacodynamic parameters as well as biomarkers for transformation.
Treatment of Chinese-hamster ovary (CHO) cells with N1N11-bis(ethyl)norspermine (BENSM) led to a very large increase in the activity of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SAT), which rose by about 600-fold within 48 h. Smaller, but still very large increases, were also produced in decreasing order of potency by 3,7,11,15,19-penta-azaheneicosane, N1N12-bis(ethyl)spermine and by N1N14-bis(ethyl)homospermine. The rise in acetyltransferase activity was due to an increase in enzyme protein, as indicated by immunoblotting using antibodies directed against rat liver SAT. There was an increase in the content of mRNA for SAT, indicating that BENSM regulates the level of enzyme protein partly by means of a change in transcription or stability of the mRNA. There was also a decreased rate of degradation of the protein in CHO cells trated with the drug. This may be due to the binding of BENSM, which is a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme with a Ki of 120 microM. Exposure to BENSM led to an increased conversion of spermidine into N1-acetylspermidine and putrescine, a rapid fall in the content of intracellular polyamines and the excretion from the cell of putrescine, N1-acetylspermidine and spermidine. When polyamine oxidase activity in the treated cells was blocked, increases in N1-acetylspermidine and N1-acetylspermine were much greater, and the formation of putrescine was prevented. These results indicate that the induction of SAT facilities the degradation of spermine and spermidine to putrescine and the subsequent excretion of putrescine from the cell. When the degradation of the N1-acetyl derivatives by polyamine oxidase is blocked, the cells excrete N1-acetylspermidine instead of putrescine. CHO cells also contained and excreted N8-acetylspermidine, but its synthesis was not increased in cells treated with BENSM, confirming data obtained in vitro that SAT does not produce this derivative.
The acetylation of polyamines was investigated in rat kidney as a function of age. The activity of cytosolic spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase, the rate-limiting enzyme in polyamine interconversion, increased from 3 to 36 months of age. The activity of cytosolic spermidine N8-acetyltransferase, an enzyme probably related to polyamine excretion, also increased. The activity of polyamine oxidase, which catalyzes the oxidative cleavage of polyamine N1-acetyl derivatives into putrescine, decreased until 24 months, when an accumulation of N1-acetylspermidine occurred. Subsequently, at 36 months, polyamine oxidase activity returned toward high values, in concomitance with the disappearance of N1-acetylspermidine, an increase in spermidine and putrescine, and a decline in spermine was observed. Our results show that in rat kidney during aging there is an activation of the acetylation and interconversion of higher polyamines into putrescine, which is considered an alternative pathway of spermidine and putrescine formation.
Abstract The effect of ethanol on polyamine acetylation was studied in rat liver. Animals were fed on nutritionally complete liquid diets with 36% or 12% of total calories supplied as ethanol or isocaloric carbohydrates for 4 months. The diet with 36% calories as ethanol significantly increased the activity of cytosolic spermidine/spermidine N1-acetyltransferase, the rate-limiting enzyme in polyamine interconversion. Such a stimulation did not appear in rats under the 12% ethanol regimen. The stimulation of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase was associated with increases in putrescine and spermidine concentrations, an appearance of N1-acetylspermidine, and a decrease in spermine. These results suggest that chronic ethanol intake stimulates the acetylation of polyamines and their interconversion in rat liver.
Mammary cancers were shown to contain large amounts of N1-acetylated derivatives of spermidine and spermine, whereas only small amounts of N1-acetylspermidine and no N1-acetylspermine were found in normal breast tissue. The elevated levels of monoacetylated polyamines were related to an increased activity of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase in the tumors. Acetylated polyamines can be excreted in the urine and the present study raises the question whether these conjugates may be of any value as biological markers for neoplastic growth.
An increased activity of spermidine N1-acetyltransferase was induced in bovine lymphocytes by stimulation with either sodium n-butyrate or phytohemagglutinin (PHA). The acetylase activity was elevated by 2- to 3-fold 24 h after the addition of butyrate, whereas a similar increase of the enzyme activity was found 48 h after stimulation with PHA. When butyrate and PHA were added to the lymphocyte suspensions simultaneously, the peak of enzyme induction was observed at 24 h after the addition and the increase (9-fold) was found to be more than additive. Since the increases in acetylase activity by both butyrate and PHA were markedly inhibited by actinomycin D or cycloheximide, they appear to have resulted from the synthesis of new protein rather than the release of the enzyme from a cryptic inactive form. The enzyme induced by the two agents was most active with spermidine as a substrate, but spermine was also acetylated to a smaller extent (25% of spermidine). Virtually no acetylation was observed with putrescine. Also, the product formed from spermidine and acetyl CoA was more than 90% N1-acetylspermidine. These results indicate that the acetylases induced by the two agents are similar. Although the addition of indomethacin or 8-bromocyclic AMP to PHA-stimulated lymphocytes caused an inhibition of the enzyme induction, no such inhibitory effect was found in the case of enzyme induction by butyrate. These results indicate that both sodium n-butyrate and PHA induce spermidine N1-acetyltransferase in bovine lymphocytes, but the induction mechanisms are different from each other.
Tissue polyamines were examined in 111 cases of breast cancer and 15 cases of benign breast tumor. Three common polyamines, i.e., putrescine, spermidine and spermine were found in all the tissue samples analyzed. The levels of the three polyamines were 5 to 7 times higher in breast cancer tissue than in normal breast tissue, and 2 to 4 times higher in cancer tissue than in benign breast tumors. Moreover, N1-acetylspermidine was detected in 89.2% of cancer tissue, 20.0% of benign tumor tissue and in only 2.0% of normal breast tissue.There was no significant difference in the polyamine levels of ER (estrogen receptor) -negative carcinomas and ER-positive carcinomas. The N1-Acetylspermidine levels of ER-negative tumors were higher than those of ER-positive tumors. Similar findings were found with respect to the PgR (Progesterone receptor) status of tumors. Putrescine levels of breast cancer tissue were significantly higher in pre-menopausal women than in the post-menopausal group. The spermidine levels of normal breast tissue were significantly higher in the pre-menopausal group than in the post-menopausal group.Besides the above three polyamines, two minor unknown polyamines, X-1 and X-2, were detected in about 9% of breast cancer tissue. The retention time of X-1 corresponded to that of homospermidine and the retention time of X-2 corresponded to that of aminopropylhomospermidine or canavalmine. The fraction containing X-1 was incubated with either putrescine oxidase or polyamine oxidase and the oxidation products were analyzed. Product analysis showed that X-1 was indeed identical to homospermidine.
The substrate specificity and kinetic mechanism of spermidine N1-acetyltransferase from rat liver was investigated using a highly purified (18 000-fold) preparation from the livers of rats in which the enzyme was induced by treatment with carbon tetrachloride (1.5 ml/kg body wt. 6h before death). The enzyme catalysed the acetylation of spermidine, spermine, sym-norspermidine, sym-norspermine, N-(3-aminopropyl)-cadaverine, N1-acetylspermine, 3,3′-diamino-N-methyldipropylamine and 1,3-diaminopropane, but was inactive with putrescine, cadaverine, sym-homospermidine and N1-acetylspermidine. These results suggest that the enzyme is highly specific for the acetylation of a primary amino group that is separated by a three-carbon aliphatic chain from another nitrogen atom (i.e. the substrates are of the type H2N[CH2]3NHR). The maximal rates of acetylation of 1,3-diaminopropane and 3,3′-diamino-N-methyldipropylamine were much lower than the maximal rates with spermidine or sym-norspermidine as substrates, suggesting a preference for a secondary amino group bearing the aminopropyl group that is acetylated. The best substrates for acetylation were sym-norspermidine and sym-norspermine, which had Km values of about 10 micrograms and Vmax. values of about 2 mumol of product/min per mg of enzyme compared with Km of 130 microM and Vmax. of 1.3 mumol/min per mg for spermidine. N1-Acetylspermidine (the product of the reaction) and N8-acetylspermidine were weak inhibitors and were competitive with spermidine, having Ki values of about 6.6 mM and 0.4 mM respectively. N1-Acetylspermidine was a non-competitive inhibitor with respect to acetyl-CoA. CoA was also inhibitory to the reaction, showing non-competitive kinetics when either [acetyl-CoA] or [spermidine] was varied. These results suggest that the reaction occurs via an ordered Bi Bi mechanism in which spermidine binds first and N1-acetyl-spermidine is the final product to be released.
A cDNA encoding the human spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (N1SSAT) was conditionally expressed in a strain of Escherichia coli deficient in spermidine-acetylating activity. Conditional expression of this cDNA was performed under the control of the lac promoter, by addition of the non-hydrolysable lactose analogue isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactoside. Expression of the N1SSAT cDNA oriented in the sense direction resulted in the acetylation of spermidine at the N1 but not the N8 position and a decrease in endogenous spermidine contents and growth rates in these bacteria. When this cDNA was expressed in the antisense orientation, spermidine acetylation was not detected and endogenous spermidine contents and growth rates were unaffected. Increasing the endogenous N1-acetylspermidine concentration by addition of this amine to the culture medium did not suppress growth, and increasing endogenous spermidine pools by exogenous addition was not sufficient to restore optimal growth in cells expressing the human N1SSAT. Exogenous spermidine, but neither N1- nor N8-acetylspermidine, stimulated cell growth in strains unable to synthesize spermidine. These results suggest that one physiological consequence of spermidine acetylation in E. coli is growth inhibition. The mechanism of this inhibition seems to involve the formation of acetylspermidine, and is not simply due to a decrease in the intracellular concentration of non-acetylated spermidine.
The substrate specificity and kinetic mechanism of spermidine N1-acetyltransferase from rat liver was investigated using a highly purified (18 000-fold) preparation from the livers of rats in which the enzyme was induced by treatment with carbon tetrachloride (1.5 ml/kg body wt. 6 h before death). The enzyme catalysed the acetylation of spermidine, spermine, sym-norspermidine, sym-norspermine, N-(3-aminopropyl)-cadaverine, N1-acetylspermine, 3,3'-diamino-N-methyldipropylamine and 1,3-diaminopropane, but was inactive with putrescine, cadaverine, sym-homospermidine and N'-acetylspermidine. These results suggest that the enzyme is highly specific for the acetylation of a primary amino group that is separated by a three-carbon aliphatic chain from another nitrogen atom (i.e. the substrates are of the type H2N[CH213NHR). The maximal rates of acetylation of 1,3-diaminopropane and 3,3'-diamino-Nmethyldipropylamine were much lower than the maximal rates with spermidine or sym-norspermidine as substrates, suggesting a preference for a secondary amino group bearing the aminopropyl group that is acetylated. The best substrates for acetylation were sym-norspermidine and sym-norspermine, which had Km values of about 10pM and Vmax values of about 2,umol of product/min per mg of enzyme compared with a Km of 130pM and Vmax of 1.3,umol/min per mg for spermidine. N1-Acetylspermidine (the product of the reaction) and N8-acetylspermidine were weak inhibitors and were competitive with spermidine, having K1 values of about 6.6 mm and 0.4 mm respectively. N'-Acetylspermidine was a non-competitive inhibitor with respect to acetyl-CoA. CoA was also inhibitory to the reaction, showing non-competitive kinetics when either [acetyl-CoAI or [spermidinel was varied. These results suggest that the reaction occurs via an ordered Bi Bi mechanism in which spermidine binds first and Nl-acetylspermidine is the final product to be released.
A transient increase in N1-acetylpolyamines and putrescine (PUT) was observed in hepatocytes at the early stage of primary culture of rat hepatocytes. After pre-culture for 36 hr when the polyamine content returned to constant levels, we tested the effects of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and α-tocopherol on the paraquat-induced increase in N1-acetylspermidine (N1-acetyl-SPD) and PUT in the culture. Paraquat increased N1-acetyl-SPD in a dose-dependent manner. It also increased PUT at doses between 0.1 and 1.3 mM. Both SOD and α-tocopherol suppressed the increase in N1-acetyl-SPD and PUT induced by paraquat. These results suggested that superoxide anion is one of the factors which increase N1-acetyl-SPD and PUT in hepatocytes. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) little affected the polyamine concentration in the cultured hepatocytes, though it increases polyamine in mouse liver when given in vivo. These findings suggested that the formation of superoxide anion after administration of LPS in vivo is mediated by Kupffer cells.
The in vivo effects of the single or combined administration of α-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), an inhibitor of polyamine synthesis, and cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (cisplatin) on the growth of GXII glioma cells inoculated subcutaneously in rats were tested. Treatment with DFMO or cisplatin significantly decreased the bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling index of tumor tissues. Combined treatment with DFMO and cisplatin achieved a further significant decrease in the BrdU labeling index. All treatments significantly reduced the tissue levels of N1-acetylspermidine and putrescine, and the ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity, but little affected the tissue levels of spermidine and spermine, and the activity of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase. The reduction of ODC activity by cisplatin treatment may be associated with the anti-tumor effect.
The administration of 17 beta-estradiol to ovariectomized rats stimulated in uterus the activity of spermidine N1-acetyltransferase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the polyamine interconversion pathway. Such a stimulation was largely prevented by cycloheximide and actinomycin D, which indicates that it was due to an enzyme induction. During the estrous cycle, uterine enzyme activity was highest at proestrus and lowest at estrus, when estrogen plasma levels are known to be high and low, respectively. The induction of the enzyme was associated with the appearance or an increase in N1-acetylspermidine in uterus. The results suggest that estrogens regulate spermidine N1-acetyltransferase activity in uterus.
We studied the relationship between tissue polyamine levels and malignancy in 146 primary brain tumors. Astrocytoma showed a consistent rise in levels of N1-acetylspermidine (N1-AcSpd) in tissue with increased grade of malignancy. Furthermore, in astrocytoma, the patients whose tumors contained high levels of N1-AcSpd (> or = 15 nmol/g) in tissue showed a far worse prognosis, a significantly lower recurrence-free survival rate, and a shorter survival rate than did the patients whose tumors contained lower levels of N1-AcSpd (< 15 nmol/g). High-grade astrocytoma contained N1-AcSpd at the level of 15 nmol/g or higher, and most of the benign brain tumors, including low-grade astrocytoma, meningioma, pituitary adenoma, and normal brain tissues contained much lower levels of N1-AcSpd. However, medulloblastoma, hemangiopericytoma, and neurinoma showed an inverse correlation between N1-AcSpd levels in tissue and biological malignancy. These results suggest that levels of N1-AcSpd in tissue can be a promising biochemical marker of malignancy in astrocytoma. In the other primary brain tumors, however, the relationship between levels of N1-AcSpd in tissue and biological malignancy should be examined in each histopathological type.
: The effect of glucocorticoids on polyamine metabolism has been elucidated further by measuring putres-cine, spermidine, and spermine levels as well as ornithine decarboxylase, S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase, and N1-acetylspermidine transferase activities in the hippocampus, cerebellar cortex, vermis, and deep nuclei of adre-nalectomized rats. At 6 h after corticosterone or dexameth-asone administration, the specific activities of ornithine decarboxylase and N1-acetylspermidine transferase showed the greatest increases in all brain tissues examined, and at 12 h, S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase activity was not increased significantly. The hippocampus and cerebellar regions displayed different responses to corticosterone and dexamethasone, corresponding to the distribution of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors. Corticosterone and dexamethasone increased ornithine decarboxylase and N1-acetylspermidine transferase activities in a dose-dependent manner, with dexamethasone being more active than corticosterone in all tissues. However, estradiol, progesterone, testosterone, and aldosterone were only active at doses >5 mg/kg. The great increases in ornithine decarboxylase and N1-acetylspermidine transferase activities were accompanied by a marked increase in putrescine level and a small decrease in spermidine level. Our data confirm that the hippocampus and cerebellum are glucocorticoid target tissues and suggest that the increase in the content of putrescine, following acute treatment with glucocorticoids, is dependent on ornithine decarboxylase as well as N1-acetylspermidine transferase induction.
We have previously described the presence of a protein containing intact, covalently bound spermidine during very early embryogenesis of the sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus purpuratus). Proteins containing other polyamine metabolites also appear as embryogenesis proceeds. These proteins which contain label derived from exogenous radioactive spermidine show a characteristic pattern which changes during the course of embryonic development. We document for the first time that hypusine, the polyamine metabolite which is a characteristic component of the eukaryotic protein translation initiation factor eIF-4D, is present in more than one species of macromolecule. In addition, N1-acetylspermidine has also been identified as a significant intracellular metabolite of spermidine during embryogenesis.
Previously we reported that administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to mice increased the hepatic levels of putrescine (PUT) and N1-acetylspermidine (N1-acetyl-SPD). In the current study, we examined the in vivo effects of some steroid hormones on the LPS-induced increase in PUT and N1-acetyl-SPD. Corticosterone, hydrocortisone and dexamethasone suppressed the LPS-induced increase in PUT and N1-acetyl-SPD in mouse liver in a dose-dependent manner, dexamethasone being the most effective among them. On the other hand, oestrone and oestradiol-17 beta enhanced the LPS-induced increase in PUT and N1-acetyl-SPD in a dose-dependent manner. Oestradiol-17 alpha and 16 beta-ethyl-oestradiol, as an inactive oestradiol isomer and an antioestrogen, respectively, likewise enhanced the increase in PUT and N1-acetyl-SPD concentrations induced by LPS. 16 alpha-hydroxy-oestradiol (oestriol), 16 alpha-hydroxyestrone, 2-hydroxyoestradiol, 2-hydroxyoesterone, progesterone, testosterone, diethylstilboestrol and nonsteroidal antioestrogens such as tamoxifen and nafoxidine had no effect on the increase. Oestradiol-17 beta enhanced and corticosterone had little effect on the carbon tetrachloride-induced increase in PUT and N1-acetyl-SPD. These results suggest that glucocorticoids suppress the increase by preventing the immunological injury by Kupffer cells on hepatocytes and that the stimulatory effect of oestrogens may not be associated with their oestrogenic activities mediated by the oestrogen receptor system.
Activity and messenger RNA levels of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase, the rate-limiting enzyme of the polyamine interconversion pathway, were investigated in host liver and in Yoshida AH-130 ascites hepatoma cells as a function of tumor growth phases. Enzyme activity reached maximal values at day 10 in host liver (2.0-fold increase) and at days 10 and 14 in hepatoma cells (4.2- and 5.4-fold increases)--that is, when the cellular growth was nearly arrested. At day 10 the messenger RNA levels of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase were augmented concomitantly; they were about two and four times higher, respectively, in host liver and tumor cells than in control liver. The in vitro transcription rate seemed to be constant during hepatoma cell growth. Treatment of the animals with N1,N2-bis-(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine (MDL 72527), a specific inhibitor of polyamine oxidase, caused large accumulation of N1-acetylspermidine in hepatoma cells and in the ascitic fluid; the maximal values were reached at day 14. The levels of putrescine in inhibitor-treated rats decreased in hepatoma cells (day 5) and in ascitic fluid (days 5 and 14), whereas values of spermidine and spermine remained unchanged. The proposed role for spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase-enhanced expression is to regulate the cellular polyamine pool by causing their excretion as acetylderivatives from tumor cells into the ascitic fluid, even if putrescine seems also to be excreted. Eventual repeat uptake of putrescine by hepatoma cells could contribute to the control of cellular polyamine levels.
