In Aspergillus nidulans methionine can be metabolized to cysteine. Mutants blocked in this pathway were selected and divided into three groups representing three separate loci: mecA, mecB and mecC. mecC13 mutant possesses a low level of methionine adenosyltransferase and shows a limited extent of methionine-caused repression of three enzymes of the methionine biosynthetic pathway: sulfate permease, sulfite reductase and 0-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase. Intracellular pools of methionine do not differ markedly in the mutant and in wild type, while the S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) pool is decreased in the mutant. Methionine adenosyltransferase was found to be inducible by methionine, SAM is postulated to be involved in regulation of methionine biosynthetic enzymes in A. nidulans. Differences in regulation of methionine biosynthesis in A. nidulans, Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae are discussed.
Abstract We here describe the synthesis of selenium amino acids with O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, partially purified from baker's yeast. The enzyme was found to catalyze the syntheses of L-selenocystine and L-selenohomocystine from sodium diselenide with the corresponding acetyl-derivatives of serine and homoserine, respectively. L-Serine O-sulfate also serves as a substrate of the β-replacement reaction. Sodium diselenide is less efficient as a substituent donor than the physiological substrate, sodium sulfide and inhibits the enzyme at high concentrations. Therefore, limited amounts of sodium diselenide were added to the reaction mixture to increase the yield (about 60%). This provides a facile method to produce optically active seleno-cystine and selenohomocystine. In addition, we developed a convenient method for the synthesis of a new selenium-containing amino acid, L-selenodjenkolic acid (3,3′-methyl-enediselenobis(2-amino-propionic acid)) from L-selenocystine thus prepared. This amino acid und...
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the synthesis of ­ O -Acetylhomoserine. Homoserine is acetylated with acetic anhydride in a strongly acidic medium that prevents N-acetylation. Homoserine lactone is formed as a side product, which is readily separated. The general method was described some years ago and applied to homoserine, but the isolation and properties of the product were not mentioned by the original authors. To 2 ml of glacial acetic acid in a glass-stoppered tube was added 0.17 ml of perchloric acid (1.5 millimoles of perchloric acid and 5.6 millimoles of water). With slight cooling (the mixture solidifies at 14°), 0.81 ml (8.5 millimoles) of acetic anhydride was added. Hydroxylamine assay showed that 2.1 millimoles of anhydride remained after the exothermic reaction with the water which had been added with the acetic and perchloric acids. A solution of 143 mg (1.2 millimoles) of DL -homoserine in 1 ml of glacial acetic acid was prepared and added dropwise to the anhydride solution while agitating the latter.
Some strains of Bradyrhizobium japonicum produce rhizobitoxine, a phytotoxin that causes foliar chlorosis on susceptible host plants. We have previously obtained Tn5-induced rhizobitoxine null mutants of B. japonicum. DNA sequence analysis of the region surrounding two Tn5 insertions identifies two overlapping open reading frames. The first open reading frame (rtxA) predicts a 54-kDa protein for which the N-terminal 280 residues have sequence similarity to serine: pyruvate aminotransferase. The sequence homology to aminotransferase is consistent with the involvement of this gene in serinol production, a likely intermediate in rhizobitoxine biosynthesis. Previously, a mutant in this open reading frame was shown not to make serinol. The predicted amino acid sequence of the second open reading frame (rtxB) has similarity to yeast O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrolase. This enzyme function is similar to that required for dihydrorhizobitoxine synthase. The DNA sequence shows that the rtxB open reading frame overlaps rtxA, suggesting that expression of rtxB requires a -1 translational frameshift. Protein expression experiments demonstrate production of an RtxAB fusion protein. The ability of the overlapping rtxA and rtxB sequences to promote a translational frameshift was confirmed in a heterologous expression system. In Escherichia coli, this frameshift appears to be unusually efficient, occurring at a frequency of 80-90%.
The gene encoding L-methionine gamma-lyase from Pseudomonas putida was cloned and the primary structure of the enzyme was deduced from its nucleotide sequence. The L-methionine gamma-lyase gene was expressed in Escherichia coli. The amino acid sequences of BrCN-digested peptides agreed with the corresponding parts of the L-methionine gamma-lyase sequence determined from the gene structure. The polypeptide is composed of 398 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular weight of 42,626, corresponding to the subunit of the homotetrameric enzyme. The deduced amino acid sequence of L-methionine gamma-lyase only showed extensive homology with other well known alpha,gamma-elimination and/or gamma-replacement pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzymes, such as cystathionine gamma-lyase, cystathionine gamma-synthase, and O-acetylhomoserine O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase, that participate in the biosynthesis of sulfur amino acids. However, the deduced essential cysteine residue of L-methionine gamma-lyase was not conserved in these enzymes. We confirmed the presence of a part of an open reading frame in the 3'-flanking region of the L-methionine gamma-lyase gene, which showed high homology with the N-terminal region of pyruvate dehydrogenase (lipoamide) from E. coli, suggesting that it participates in the degradative pathway for L-methionine together with L-methionine gamma-lyase.
A gene library of the Leptospira meyeri serovar semaranga strain Veldrat S.173 DNA has been constructed in a mobilizable cosmid with inserts of up to 40 kb. It was demonstrated that a Leptospira DNA fragment carrying metY complemented Escherichia coli strains carrying mutations in metB. The latter gene encodes cystathionine gamma-synthase, an enzyme which catalyzes the second step of the methionine biosynthetic pathway. The metY gene is 1,304 bp long and encodes a 443-amino-acid protein with a molecular mass of 45 kDa as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The deduced amino acid sequence of the Leptospira metY product has a high degree of similarity to those of O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylases from Aspergillus nidulans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A lower degree of sequence similarity was also found with bacterial cystathionine gamma-synthase. The L. meyeri metY gene was overexpressed under the control of the T7 promoter. MetY exhibits an O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase activity. Genetic, enzymatic, and physiological studies reveal that the transsulfuration pathway via cystathionine does not exist in L. meyeri, in contrast to the situation found for fungi and some bacteria. Our results indicate, therefore, that the L. meyeri MetY enzyme is able to perform direct sulfhydrylation for methionine biosynthesis by using O-acetylhomoserine as a substrate.
The biosynthetic pathway for rhizobitoxine has not been elucidated fully. obtained two Tn5-induced rhizobitoxine null mutants of B. elkanii USDA61 and isolated the rtxA gene, which is responsible for rhizobitoxine biosynthesis in culture and in planta. The N-terminal region of the amino acid sequence of rtxA has a motif that is homologous to an aminotransferase, whereas one similar to O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrolase is found in the C-terminal portion (43, 44); however, there is some confusion about frameshift in rtxA genes. Proposed as a precursor of rhizobitoxine, serinol is abundant in soybean nodules formed by B. elkanii (23, 26, 30) . A mutant with a Tn5 insertion in the portion of the rtxA gene corresponding to the N-terminal part of the protein was defective in serinol accumulation in soybean nodules, suggesting that the N-terminal part functions as an aminotransferase in serinol production, but this function has not yet been verified in pure culture.
Thiocarboxylated proteins are important intermediates in a variety of biochemical sulfide transfer reactions. Here we identify a protein thiocarboxylate-dependent methionine biosynthetic pathway in Wolinella succinogenes. In this pathway, the carboxy terminal alanine of a novel sulfur transfer protein, HcyS-Ala, is removed in a reaction catalyzed by a metalloprotease, HcyD. HcyF, an ATP-utilizing enzyme, catalyzes the adenylation of HcyS. HcyS acyl-adenylate then undergoes nucleophilic substitution by bisulfide produced by Sir to give the HcyS thiocarboxylate. This adds to O-acetylhomoserine to give HcyS-homocysteine in a PLP-dependent reaction catalyzed by MetY. HcyD-mediated hydrolysis liberates homocysteine. A final methylation completes the biosynthesis. The biosynthetic gene cluster also encodes the enzymes involved in the conversion of sulfate to sulfide suggesting that sulfate is the sulfur source for protein thiocarboxylate formation in this system.
The first unique step in bacterial and plant methionine biosynthesis involves the acylation of the γ-hydroxyl of homoserine. In Haemophilus influenzae, acylation is accomplished via an acetyl-CoA-dependent acetylation catalyzed by homoserine transacetylase. The activity of this enzyme regulates flux of homoserine into multiple biosynthetic pathways and, therefore, represents a critical control point for cell growth and viability. We have cloned homoserine transacetylase from H. influenzae and present the first detailed enzymatic study of this enzyme. Steady-state kinetic experiments demonstrate that the enzyme utilizes a ping-pong kinetic mechanism in which the acetyl group of acetyl-CoA is initially transferred to an enzyme nucleophile before subsequent transfer to homoserine to form the final product, O-acetylhomoserine. The maximal velocity and V/Khomoserine were independent of pH over the range of values tested, while V/Kacetyl-CoA was dependent upon the ionization state of a single group exhibiting a...
Abstract The properties and application of l -methionine γ-lyase [methioninase, l -methionine methanethiol-lyase (deaminating), EC 4.4.1.11], a pyridoxal 5′-phosphate enzyme, purified from Pseudomonas putida and Aeromonas sp. are presented. The enzyme has multicatalytic functions: it catalyses α,γ-elimination and γ-replacement reactions of l -methionine and its analogues (e.g. ethionine, homocysteine, O -acetylhomoserine and selenomethionine), α,β-elimination and β-replacement reactions of l -cysteine and its analogues (e.g. S -methylcysteine, O -acetylserine and Se -methylselenocysteine), deamination and γ-addition of vinylglycine, and deuterium labelling at the α and β positions of l -methionine and other straight-chain l -amino acids. These reactions are applicable to the synthesis of various optically active sulphur and selenium amino acids, preparation of deuterium or tritium labelled l -amino acids, and determination of sulphur amino acids. In addition, the enzyme shows potent anti-neoplastic activity .
Glutathione (γ-glu-cys-gly; GSH) is usually present at high concentrations in most living cells, being the major reservoir of non-protein reduced sulfur. Because of its unique redox and nucleophilic properties, GSH serves in bio-reductive reactions as an important line of defense against reactive oxygen species, xenobiotics and heavy metals. GSH is synthesized from its constituent amino acids by two ATP-dependent reactions catalyzed by γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase and glutathione synthetase. In yeast, these enzymes are found in the cytosol, whereas in plants they are located in the cytosol and chloroplast. In protists, their location is not well established. In turn, the sulfur assimilation pathway, which leads to cysteine biosynthesis, involves high and low affinity sulfate transporters, and the enzymes ATP sulfurylase, APS kinase, PAPS reductase or APS reductase, sulfite reductase, serine acetyl transferase, O-acetylserine/O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase and, in some organisms, also cystathionine β-synthase and cystathionine γ-lyase. The biochemical and genetic regulation of these pathways is affected by oxidative stress, sulfur deficiency and heavy metal exposure. Cells cope with heavy metal stress using different mechanisms, such as complexation and compartmentation. One of these mechanisms in some yeast, plants and protists is the enhanced synthesis of the heavy metal-chelating molecules GSH and phytochelatins, which are formed from GSH by phytochelatin synthase (PCS) in a heavy metal-dependent reaction; Cd2+ is the most potent activator of PCS. In this work, we review the biochemical and genetic mechanisms involved in the regulation of sulfate assimilation-reduction and GSH metabolism when yeast, plants and protists are challenged by Cd2+.
Mutants unable to grow on medium containing glutathione as a sole source of sulphur (GSH medium) were isolated from Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains carrying met17(deficiency of O-acetylserine and O-acetylhomoserine sulphydrylase). They were defective in the high-affinity glutathione transport system, GSH-P1. Newly acquired mutations belonged to the same complementation group, gsh11. However, it became apparent that gsh11 conferred the mutant phenotype not by itself but in collaboration with met17. Moreover, mutations conferring the defect in sulphate assimilation made the cell unable to grow on GSH medium in collaboration with gsh11. From this finding, we propose that the sulphate assimilation pathway acts as a sulphur-recycling system and that this function is especially vital to the cell when the supply of glutathione is limited.
Regulation of the two enzymes in reverse trans-sulfuration was investigated in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In wild-type strains, cystathionine gamma-lyase, but not cystathionine beta-synthase, was depressed nearly 15-fold if cells were starved for both inorganic and organic sulfur compounds. In a met17 strain which is defective of O-acetylserine and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, the same enzyme was derepressed if organic sulfur compounds were limited; the repressive effect was in the order of glutathione greater than methionine greater than cysteine. The repressive effect of methionine was not observed, however, in a cys2 cys4 strain which is deficient of serine O-acetyltransferase and cystathionine beta-synthase, indicating that methionine itself is not the effector. The weak repressive effect of cysteine was attributed to inefficient uptake of this amino acid. Our observations indicate that cystathionine gamma-lyase is the target of regulation in reverse trans-sulfuration and that cysteine is very likely to be the effector of this regulation.
Abstract Optimal conditions for biosynthesis of cystathionine with crude extracts of green plants were determined. The specific activities observed under these conditions are considerably higher than those initially detected (Giovanelli, J., and Mudd, S. H. (1966) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 25, 366), and compare favorably with those of bacterial extracts. At near saturating concentrations of homoserine esters, crude extracts of tissues representing most of the major phylogenetic divisions of green plants generally catalyze the highest rates of cystathionine synthesis in the presence of O-malonylhomoserine, intermediate rates in the presence of O-oxalyl-, O-succinyl-, and O-phosphorylhomoserine, and very low rates with O-acetylhomoserine. Green plants are unique among the organisms studied by us or other workers in their capacity to use O-phosphorylhomoserine in cystathionine synthesis. Enzymic assay systems permitting the detection of compounds capable of serving as α-aminobutyryl donors in the synthesis of cystathionine were developed, taking advantage of the fact that crude preparations of plant cystathionine γ-synthase are active with a wide range of compounds. An analogous system designed to detect O-acetylhomoserine with greater sensitivity was developed through the use of an enzyme preparation from Bacillus subtilis. An α-amino-butyryl donor was purified by ion exchange chromatography and paper electrophoresis from tissues of green plants ranging from the green alga Chlorella to the higher flowering plants. Only a single α-aminobutyryl donor was detected among these green plants. This compound was characterized as O-phosphorylhomoserine on the basis of its base stability, its behavior during ion exchange chromatography and paper electrophoresis, and a rate of hydrolysis by highly purified alkaline phosphatase that was indistinguishable from that of authentic O-phosphorylhomoserine. It is proposed that O-phosphorylhomoserine is the dominant physiological precursor of cystathionine in green plants. Some of the implications of this finding are discussed. During the course of this work, studies on the relative activity of cystathionine γ-synthase with various substrates were extended to a number of lower organisms. The patterns of substrate activity with crude extracts of a blue-green alga and Escherichia coli are very similar, and resemble the pattern for cystathionine γ-synthase of Salmonella typhimurium (Kaplan, M. M., and Flavin, M. (1966) J. Biol. Chem. 241, 4463). O-Succinylhomoserine is the most active substrate for all three organisms. Extracts of B. subtilis are most active with O-acetylhomoserine, a pattern not previously observed with bacterial cystathionine γ-synthases.
Two alternative pathways for methionine biosynthesis are known in Corynebacterium glutamicum: one involving transsulfuration (mediated by metB and metC) and the other involving direct sulthydrylation (mediated by metY). In this study, MetB (cystathionine gamma-synthase) and MetY (O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase) from C. glutamicum were purified to homogeneity and the biochemical parameters were compared to assess the functional and evolutionary importance of each pathway. The molecular masses of the native MetB and MetY proteins were measured to be approximately 170 and 280 kDa, respectively, showing that MetB was a homotetramer of 40-kDa subunits and MetY was a homohexamer of 45-kDa subunits. The Km values for the O-acetylhomoserine catalysis effected by MetB and MetY were 3.9 and 6.4 mM, and the maximum catalysis rates were 7.4 (kcat = 21 s(-1)) and 6.0 (kcat=28 s(-1)) micromol mg(-1) min(-1), respectively. This suggests that both MetB and MetY can be comparably active in vivo. Nevertheless, the Km value for sulfide ions by MetY was 8.6 mM, which was too high, considering the physiological condition. Moreover, MetB was active at a broad range of temperatures (30 and 65 degrees C) and pH (6.5 and 10.0), as compared with MetY, which was active in a range from 30 to 45 degrees C and at pH values from 7.0 to 8.5. In addition, MetY was inhibited by methionine, but MetB was not. These biochemical data may provide insight on the role of the parallel pathways of methionine biosynthesis in C. glutamicum with regard to cell physiology and evolution.
In order to ascertain the role of L-serine sulfhydro-lyase (L-serine hydro-lyase (adding homocysteine) EC 4.2.1.22) which also catalyzes sulfhydrylation of O-acetyl-L-serine (Yamagata, S. (1981) J. Bacteriol. 147, 688-690), the enzyme was partially purified from a wild-type strain and three cysteine auxotrophs of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and the molecular and enzymatic properties of these preparations were compared. The results showed no significant difference in properties investigated, indicating that cysteine synthesis is exclusively performed in this organism through sulfhydrylation of O-acetyl-L-serine, catalyzed not by serine sulfhydro-lyase but by O-acetylserine . O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydro-lyase (Yamagata, S., Takeshima, K. and Naiki, N. (1974) J. Biochem. 75, 1221-1229). Insensitivity of the former enzyme to L-methionine also supported this conclusion.
O-Acetylserine-O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase [EC class 4.2.99], catalyzing the sulfhydrylation of both O-acetyl-L-serine (OAS) and O-acetyl-L-homoserine (OAH) (O-acetyl-L-serine(O-acetyl-L-homoserine) + H2S leads to L-cysteine (L-homocysteine) + acetate), was extracted and purified from bakers' yeast by an improved method. The purified enzyme was shown to be homogeneous on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis both in the absence and presence of sodium dodecylsulfate and by ultracentrifugal analysis. The apo-enzyme was protected by pyridoxal phosphate (PALP) from inactivation by heat, urea, and trypsin [EC 3.4.21.4], suggesting that the binding of PALP to the apo-enzyme rendered the conformation of the protein more stable. The holo-enzyme showed absorption peaks at 420 and 330 nm due to bound PALP, in addition to a peak at 280 nm. Upon reduction with borohydride, the 420-nm peak disappeared and an increase in the 330-nm peak occurred concomitant with loss of the catalytic activity. Lysine appeared to be the pyridoxal binding site, based on identification of pyridoxyl-lysine in the hydrolyzate of the holo-enzyme. It was shown by both spectral and chemical determinations that 4 moles of PALP could bind to 200,000 g of apo-protein. The apo-enzyme showed a lower association constant with PALP than some other enzymes. Pyridoxal inhibited the activity competitively with respect to PALP. Based on these findings, it appears that the reaction mechanism of this enzyme is similar to those of other pyridoxal enzymes.
The O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAHS) gene was cloned from a Selenomonas ruminantium HD4 Lambda ZAP II genomic library by degenerative probe hybridization and complementation. Sequence analysis revealed an 869-bp ORF with a G + C content of 53%. The ORF had significant homology with enzymes involved in homocysteine biosynthesis. A CuraBLASTN homology search showed that the ORF has 63% nucleotide identity with the OAHS of Bacillus stearothermophilus, Corynebacterium glutamicum, and Acremonium chrysogenum, and has 58% identity with met25 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and metZ of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The deduced amino acid sequence exhibited 45% similarity with Met25 and MetZ. Further analysis predicted that the gene product was a member of the pyridoxal phosphate enzyme family. Complementation experiments with Escherichia coli metA, metB, and metC mutant strains showed that the S. ruminantium OAHS gene can complement the metC mutation and allow for growth on minimal media that contained sodium thiosulfate as the sole source of sulfur. When the OAHS was disturbed by inserting a EZ::TN pMOD-2(Apramycin) transposon, the complementation was lost. Therefore, these results suggest that the gene functions as OAHS in S. ruminantium HD4.
Four DNA fragments that could rescue the mutations of four Met- mutants were cloned from Thermus thermophilus HB27 and their complete nucleotide sequences were determined. Two of the four fragments respectively contained the greater parts of the metF and metH genes, the predicted amino acid sequences of which showed identities of 30.8% and 32.7% with 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (EC 1.7.99.5) and vitamin B12-dependent homocysteine transmethylase (EC 2.1.1.13) of Escherichia coli. The other two DNA fragments, which overlapped one another, contained two open reading frames whose predicted amino acid sequences were respectively similar to those of O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (EC 4.2.99.10, the product of the MET17 gene) and homoserine O-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.31, the product of the MET2 gene) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The metF, metH, MET2, and MET17 genes of T. thermophilus were disrupted by introducing the heat-stable kanamycin nucleotidyltransferase gene into the genome. Each transformant showed methionine auxotrophy. Both the MET2- and MET17-disrupted mutants could grow in a minimal medium containing homocysteine but not in the same medium containing succinylhomoserine or cystathionine. In contrast, the metF- and metH-disrupted mutants could not grow in the minimal medium containing homocysteine. These results suggest that in T. thermophilus, homoserine is directly converted to homocysteine via O-acetylhomoserine and that homocysteine is methylated to synthesize methionine.
An enzyme that can synthesize O-alkylhomoserine from alcohols and O-acetylhomoserine was purified from Corynebacterium acetophilum. The enzyme was found to be identical to O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase; a preparation that appeared homogeneous on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed both O-alkylhomoserine-synthesizing and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase activities. Its molecular weight was determined to be about 220,000, and it consisted of two subunits. Its pH and temperature optima for the two reactions were the same. Besides catalyzing the formation of homocysteine from O-acetylhomoserine and sulfide, it also catalyzed the syntheses of O-alkylhomoserines corresponding to the alcohols added form O-acetylhomoserine and ethyl alcohol, n-propylalcohol, n-butyl alcohol, methyl alcohol, and n-pentyl alcohol, its activities with these alcohols decreasing in that order. L-Homoserine, O-succinylhomoserine, and O-acetylserine reacted with sulfide. O-ethylhomoserine, O-acetylthreonine, O-succinylhomoserine, and O-acetylserine inhibited both enzyme activities. O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase purified from Saccharomyces cerevisiae also showed O-alkylhomoserine-synthesizing activity. Thus, O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase seems to catalyze O-alkylhomoserine synthesis in the presence of appropriate concentrations of alcohol and O-acetylhomoserine in microorganisms.
Publisher Summary The physiological function of O-acetylserine-O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the biosynthesis of both cysteine and homocysteine. The products of these reactions, cysteine and homocysteine, are determined after removing sulfide at an acidic pH by reaction with nitroprusside. Other spectrophotometric determinations of cysteine and homocysteine are also convenient. Use of radioactive sulfide ( 35 S) is recommended for an accurate determination of the activity in crude extracts. In the course of extraction by autolysis, Pressed yeast cake, 5 kg, is crumbled, spread to a thickness of 2-3 cm over stainless steel trays, and mixed with an equal quantity of powdered Dry Ice. Thus frozen the cells are thawed at 30° with the aid of an electric fan. The freezing-thawing procedure is repeated once. The resulting thick cell suspension is dried at room temperature in front of an electric fan and subsequently kept under reduced pressure over pellets of NaOH. The purification procedure has been found to be reproducible and yields one major protein band on disk gel electrophoresis. Electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate also yields a single band. Extraction of the enzyme can also be effectively carried out by agitating the cell suspension with glass beads in a Dyno Mill as described previously for extraction of low molecular weight O-ace-tylserine sulfhydrylase from a mutant-type strain of the same organism.
An enzyme that can synthesize O-alkylhomoserine from alcohols and 0-acetylhomoserine was purified from Corynebacterium acetophilum. The enzyme was found to be identical to O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase; a preparation that appeared homogeneous on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed both O-alkylhomoserine-synthesizing and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase activities. Its molecular weight was determined to be about 220,000, and it consisted of two subunits. Its pH and temperature optima for the two reactions were the same. Besides catalyzing the formation of homocysteine from O-acetylhomoserine and sulfide, it also catalyzed the syntheses of O-alkylhomoserines corresponding to the alcohols added from O-acetylhomoserine and ethyl alcohol, npropylalcohol, n-butyl alcohol, methyl alcohol, and n-pentyl alcohol, its activities with these alcohols decreasing in that order. L-Homoserine, O-succinylhomoserine, and O-acetylthreonine could not replace O-acetylhomoserine in either reaction, but O-acetylserine reacted with sulfide. O-ethylhomoserine, 0-acetylthreonine, O-succinylhomoserine, and O-acetylserine inhibited both enzyme activities. O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase purified from Saccharomyces cerevisiae also showed O-alkylhomoserine-synthesizing activity. Thus, O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase seems to catalyze O-alkylhomoserine synthesis in the presence of appropriate concentrations of alcohol and O-acetylhomoserine in microorganisms.
O-alkylhomoserines (ROCH2CH2CHNH2-COOH) are the first known naturally occurring amino acids containing an ether bond. 0-methyl-, O-ethyl-, 0-propyl-, 0-butyl-, and O-pentyl-L-homoserines accumulated in the media of cultures or cell reactions ofCorynebacterium ethanolaminophilum E17, containing methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, n-propyl alcohol, n-butyl alcohol, and n-pentyl alcohol, respectively (9, 23, 24) . Later, 0-3-hydroxybutyl-, 0-4-hydroxybutyl-(6), and 0-isobutyl-homoserines (31) were found in the cultures of bacteria that used 1,3-butanediol, 1,4-butanediol, and isobutyl alcohol. The alkylhomoserine O-ethylhomoserine was found to be formed by many strains of gram-positive bacteria (24), some strains of Pseudomonas (32), and yeast (10) . Moreover, we demonstrated that an 0-alkylhomoserine was involved in the biosynthesis of methionine from homoserine in Corynebacterium (12) and that O-alkylhomoserine was synthesized from O-acetylhomoserine and alcohols by a cell-free extract ofC. acetophilum A51 (28). This paper describes the purification and properties of an enzyme synthesizing 0-alkyl-62 homoserine from C. acetophilum and its identity with O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase.
Several species of Lolium and other cool-season grasses (Poaceae subfamily Pooideae) tend to harbor symbiotic, seed-transmitted, fungi that enhance their fitness by various means. These fungal endophytes – species of Neotyphodium or Epichloe ¨ (Clavicipitaceae) – are known for production of antiherbivore metabolites such as the bioprotective loline alkaloids. Lolines are saturated pyrrolizidines with an exo-1-amine and an ether bridge between C-2 and C-7. The ether bridge is an unusual feature for a biogenic compound in that it links two bridgehead carbon atoms. Much of the loline-biosynthetic pathway has been elucidated by administering isotopically labeled precursors to fungal cultures and by comparisons of loline biosynthesis genes to known gene families. The first step appears to be an unusual c-substitution reaction involving an enzyme related to O-acetylhomoserine (thiol) lyase, but which uses the secondary amine of L-proline rather than a sulfhydryl group as the nucleophile. The strained ether bridge is added after formation of the pyrrolizidine rings. Lolines with dimethylated or acylated 1-amines have insect antifeedant and insecticidal activities comparable to nicotine, but little or no toxicity to mammals. Considering the surprising abundance of lolines in some grass–endophyte symbiota, possible additional effects on plant stress tolerance and physiology are worth future consideration. In this review, we discuss the history of loline discovery, methods of analysis, biological activities and distribution in nature, as well as progress on the genetics and biochemistry of their biosynthesis, and on the chemical synthesis of these alkaloids. 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The metabolic pathway of O-alkylhomoserine in Corynebacterium acetophilum was determined using mutants with defects in methionine biosynthesis and purified O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase. The mutant strain M–74, defective in homoserine transacetylase, utilized O-alkylhomoserines and O-acetylhomoserine instead of methionine, but strain M–933, lacking cystathionine γ-synthase, did not. The incorporation of radioactive O-etbylhomoserine into cells was inhibited competitively by O-acetylhomoserine. Analysis of autoradiograms of two-dimensional thin-layer chromatograms showed that labeled O-ethylhomoserine was converted to O-acetylhomoserine by strain M–933 and finally metabolized to methionine by strain M–74. Furthermore, results showed that O-acetylhomoserine was synthesized from O-ethylhomoserine and acetic acid by a reversible side reaction of purified O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase of C. acetophilum. These findings show that O-alkylhomoserine is converted to O-acetylhomoserine and then metabolized to ...
In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the MET25 gene encodes O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase. Synthesis of this enzyme is repressed by the presence of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) in the growth medium. We identified cis elements required for MET25 expression by analyzing small deletions in the MET25 promoter region. The results revealed a regulatory region, acting as an upstream activation site, that activated transcription of MET25 in the absence of methionine or AdoMet. We found that, for the most part, repression of MET25 expression was due to a lack of activation at this site, reinforced by an independent repression mechanism. The activation region contained a repeated dyad sequence that is also found in the promoter regions of other unlinked but coordinately regulated genes (MET3, MET2, and SAM2). We show that the presence of the two dyads is necessary for maximal gene expression. Moreover, we demonstrate that in addition to this transcriptional regulation, a posttranscriptional regulation, probably targeted at the 5' region of mRNA, is involved in MET25 expression.
A gene (cgs) encoding cystathionine γ-synthase was cloned from Streptococcus anginosus, and its protein was purified and characterized. The cgs gene and the immediately downstream lcd gene were shown to be cotranscribed as an operon. High-performance liquid chromatography analyses showed that the S. anginosus Cgs not only has cystathionine γ-synthase activity, but also expresses O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase activity. These results suggest that S. anginosus has the capacity to utilize both the transsulfuration and direct sulfhydrylation pathways for homocysteine biosynthesis.
In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the MET25 gene encodes O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase. Synthesis of this enzyme is repressed by the presence of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) in the growth medium. We identified cis elements required for MET25 expression by analyzing small deletions in the MET25 promoter region. The results revealed a regulatory region, acting as an upstream activation site, that activated transcription of MET25 in the absence of methionine or AdoMet. We found that, for the most part, repression of MET25 expression was due to a lack of activation at this site, reinforced by an independent repression mechanism. The activation region contained a repeated dyad sequence that is also found in the promoter regions of other unlinked but coordinately regulated genes (MET3, MET2, and SAM2). We show that the presence of the two dyads is necessary for maximal gene expression. Moreover, we demonstrate that in addition to this transcriptional regulation, a posttranscriptional regulation, probably targeted at the 5' region of mRNA, is involved in MET25 expression.
A gene (cgs) encoding cystathionine Q-synthase was cloned from Streptococcus anginosus, and its protein was purified and characterized. The cgs gene and the immediately downstream lcd gene were shown to be cotranscribed as an operon. High-performance liquid chromatography analyses showed that the S. anginosus Cgs not only has cystathionine Q-synthase activity, but also expresses O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase activity. These results suggest that S. anginosus has the capacity to utilize both the transsulfuration and direct sulfhydrylation pathways for homocysteine biosynthesis.
Abbreviations : APS, adenosine 5'-phosphosulphate ; PAPS, 3'-phosphoadenosine 5 '-phosphosulphate. containing both a sirohaem and an iron-sulphur cluster, carries out the six-electron reduction of sulphite to sulphide. It is now clear that in yeast, sulphide is incorporated into a four-carbon chain yielding homocysteine (Cherest & Surdin-Kerjan, 1992) . Homocysteine synthase, which catalyses the synthesis of homocysteine from 0-acetylhomoserine and sulphide, is encoded by the MET25 gene (Kerjan et al., 1986; Fig. 1) .
Abstract An enzyme was purified 500-fold from Neurospora which catalyzes the formation of homocysteine from O-acetylhomoserine and sulfide or methionine from O-acetylhomoserine and methylmercaptan. The two activities were not separated by purification. The rate with methylmercaptan is 1.8 times that with sulfide. No cystathionine is formed from cysteine, and there is essentially no α-ketobutyrate formed from O-acetylhomoserine or cystathionine. The enzyme is highly specific for O-acetylhomoserine, having negligible activity with homoserine, serine, and several of their other acyl derivatives. The apparent Michaelis constants are 7 x 10-3 m for O-acetylhomoserine in both reactions, 7 x 10-4 m for sulfide, and 8 x 10-4 m for methylmercaptan. A requirement for pyridoxal phosphate can be shown after dialyzing the enzyme with cysteine. Moderate inhibition was observed with methionine, S-adenosylmethionine, and S-adenosylhomocysteine, but not with cystathionine. No repression by methionine was observed. No mutants were found which are defective in this activity. Previous evidence led to the conclusion that these reactions are not the primary mechanisms in vivo for homocysteine and methionine synthesis. A possible temporary function for this enzyme may be formation of methionine from methylmercaptan at times of exhaustion of an exogenous source of sulfur.
In the present work, methanethiol and dimethyldisulfide were investigated as sulfur sources for methionine synthesis in Corynebacterium glutamicum. In silico pathway analysis predicted a high methionine yield for these reduced compounds, provided that they could be utilized. Wild-type cells were able to grow on both methanethiol and dimethyldisulfide as sole sulfur sources. Isotope labeling studies with mutant strains, exhibiting targeted modification of methionine biosynthesis, gave detailed insight into the underlying pathways involved in the assimilation of methanethiol and dimethyldisulfide. Both sulfur compounds are incorporated as an entire molecule, adding the terminal S-CH3 group to O-acetylhomoserine. In this reaction, methionine is directly formed. MetY (O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase) was identified as the enzyme catalyzing the reaction. The deletion of metY resulted in methionine auxotrophic strains grown on methanethiol or dimethyldisulfide as sole sulfur sources. Plasmid-based overexpression of metY in the ∆metY background restored the capacity to grow on methanethiol or dimethyldisulfide as sole sulfur sources. In vitro studies with the C. glutamicum wild type revealed a relatively low activity of MetY for methanethiol (63 mU/mg) and dimethyldisulfide (61 mU/mg). Overexpression of metY increased the in vitro activity to 1,780 mU/mg and was beneficial for methionine production, since the intracellular methionine pool was increased 2-fold in the engineered strain. This positive effect was limited by a depletion of the metY substrate O-acetylhomoserine, suggesting a need for further metabolic engineering targets towards competitive production strains.
In the present work, methanethiol and dimethyldisulfide were investigated as sulfur sources for methionine synthesis in Corynebacterium glutamicum. In silico pathway analysis predicted a high methionine yield for these reduced compounds, provided that they could be utilized. Wild-type cells were able to grow on both methanethiol and dimethyldisulfide as sole sulfur sources. Isotope labeling studies with mutant strains, exhibiting targeted modification of methionine biosynthesis, gave detailed insight into the underlying pathways involved in the assimilation of methanethiol and dimethyldisulfide. Both sulfur compounds are incorporated as an entire molecule, adding the terminal S-CH 3 group to O-acetylhomoserine. In this reaction, methionine is directly formed. MetY (O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase) was identified as the enzyme catalyzing the reaction. The deletion of metY resulted in methionine auxotrophic strains grown on methanethiol or dimethyldisulfide as sole sulfur sources. Plasmid-based overexpression of metY in the ∆metY background restored the capacity to grow on methanethiol or dimethyldisulfide as sole sulfur sources. In vitro studies with the C. glutamicum wild type revealed a relatively low activity of MetY for methanethiol (63 mU/mg) and dimethyldisulfide (61 mU/mg). Overexpression of metY increased the in vitro activity to 1,780 mU/mg and was beneficial for methionine production, since the intracellular methionine pool was increased 2-fold in the engineered strain. This positive effect was limited by a depletion of the metY substrate O-acetylhomoserine, suggesting a need for further metabolic engineering targets towards competitive production strains.
Screening of a sugar beet (Beta vulgaris cv. Dita) cDNA library for clones able to confer osmotic tolerance to the osmosensitive gpd1 mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae identified a novel serine O-acetyltransferase (BvSAT; EC 2.3.1.30). This enzyme is involved in cysteine biosynthesis in plants and bacteria, producing O-acetylserine, which is converted into cysteine in a reaction catalysed by O-acetylserine sulphydrylase (EC 4.2.99.8). This pathway is not conserved in yeast, where cysteine is synthesized in a four-step pathway starting with homoserine and having O-acetylhomoserine, homocysteine and cystathionine as intermediates. Expression of BvSAT in yeast takes advantage of the activity of yeast O-acetylhomoserine sulphydrylase (MET15/MET17/MET25; EC 4.2.99.10) with O-acetylserine as substrate and induces an alternative cysteine biosynthesis pathway. Our results imply that the resulting increase in cysteine production confers enhanced resistance against osmotic stress in the osmosensitive yeast strain. These data demonstrate that cysteine biosynthesis is a limiting factor in osmotic stress tolerance in yeast. Copyright © 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Purification of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cystathionine gamma-lyase (gamma-CTLase) was hampered by the presence of a protein migrating very close to it in various types of column chromatography. The enzyme and the contaminant were nevertheless separated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. N-terminal amino acid sequence analysis indicated that they are coded for by CYS3 (CYI1) and MET17 (MET25), respectively, leading to the conclusion that CYS3 is the structural gene for gamma-CTLase and that the contaminant is O-acetylserine/O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAS/OAH SHLase). Based on these findings, we purified gamma-CTLase by the following strategy: (1) extraction of OAS/OAH SHLase from a CYS3-disrupted strain; (2) preparation of antiserum against it; (3) identification of a strain devoid of the OAS/OAH SHLase protein using this antiserum; and (4) extraction of gamma-CTLase from this strain. Purified gamma-CTLase had cystathionine gamma-synthase (gamma-CTSase) activity if O-succinylhomoserine, but not O-acetylhomoserine, was used as substrate. From this notion we discuss the evolutional relationship between S. cerevisiae gamma-CTLase and Escherichia coli gamma-CTSase.
O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) is a promising platform chemical for the production of l-methionine and other valuable compounds. However, the relative low titer and yield of OAH greatly limit its industrial production and cost-effective application. In this study, we successfully constructed an efficient OAH-producing strain with high titer and yield by combining protein and metabolic engineering strategies in E. coli. Initially, an OAH-producing strain was created by reconstruction of biosynthetic pathway and deletion of degradation and competitive pathways, which accumulated 1.68 g/L of OAH. Subsequently, several metabolic engineering strategies were implemented to improve the production of OAH. The pathway flux of OAH was enhanced by eliminating byproduct accumulation, increasing oxaloacetate supply and promoting the biosynthesis of precursor homoserine, resulting in a 1.79-fold increase in OAH production. Moreover, protein engineering was applied to improve the properties of the rate-limiting enzyme homoser...
Candida guilliermondii (teleomorph Meyerozyma guilliermondii) is an ascomycetous species belonging to the fungal CTG clade. This yeast remains actively studied as a result of its moderate clinical importance and most of all for its potential uses in biotechnology. The aim of the present study was to establish a convenient transformation system for C. guilliermondii by developing both a methionine auxotroph recipient strain and a functional MET gene as selection marker. We first disrupted the MET2 and MET15 genes encoding homoserine-O-acetyltransferase and O-acetylserine O-acetylhomoserine sulphydrylase, respectively. The met2 mutant was shown to be a methionine auxotroph in contrast to met15 which was not. Interestingly, met2 and met15 mutants formed brown colonies when cultured on lead-containing medium, contrary to the wild-type strain, which develop as white colonies on this medium. The MET2 wild-type allele was successfully used to transfer a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) gene-expressing vector into the met2 recipient strain. In addition, we showed that the loss of the MET2-containing YFP-expressing plasmid can be easily observed on lead-containing medium. The MET2 wild-type allele, flanked by two short repeated sequences, was then used to disrupt the LYS2 gene (encoding the α-aminoadipate reductase) in the C. guilliermondii met2 recipient strain. The resulting lys2 mutants displayed, as expected, auxotrophy for lysine. Unfortunately, all our attempts to pop-out the MET2 marker (following the recombination of the bordering repeat sequences) from a target lys2 locus were unsuccessful using white/brown colony colour screening. Nevertheless, this MET2 transformation/disruption system represents a new versatile genetic tool for C. guilliermondii.
Sulfuric volatile compounds derived from cysteine and methionine provide many dairy products with a characteristic odor and taste. To better understand and control the environmental dependencies of sulfuric volatile compound formation by the dairy starter bacteria, we have used the available genome sequence and experimental information to systematically evaluate the presence of the key enzymes and to reconstruct the general modes of transcription regulation for the corresponding genes. The genomic organization of the key genes is suggestive of a subdivision of the reaction network into five modules, where we observed distinct differences in the modular composition between the families Lactobacillaceae, Enterococcaceae, and Leuconostocaceae, on the one hand, and the family Streptococcaceae, on the other. These differences are mirrored by the way in which transcription regulation of the genes is structured in these families. In the Lactobacillaceae, Enterococcaceae, and Leuconostocaceae, the main shared mode of transcription regulation is methionine (Met) T-box-mediated regulation. In addition, the gene metK, encoding S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) synthetase, is controlled via the S(MK) box (SAM). The S(MK) box is also found upstream of metK in species of the family Streptococcaceae. However, the transcription control of the other modules is mediated via three different LysR-family regulators, MetR/MtaR (methionine), CmbR (O-acetyl[homo]serine), and HomR (O-acetylhomoserine). Redefinition of the associated DNA-binding motifs helped to identify/disentangle the related regulons, which appeared to perfectly match the proposed subdivision of the reaction network.
Methylmercury-resistant mutants were obtained from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. They were divided into two complementation groups, met2 (homoserine O-acetyltransferase deficiency) and met15 (enzyme deficiency unknown), as reported previously. It was found that met15 was allelic to met17 (O-acetylserine and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase deficiency). Methylmercury toxicity was counteracted by exogenously added HS-, and both met2 and met17 (met15) mutants overproduced H2S. On the basis of these results, we conclude that met2 and met17 (met15) cause accumulation of hydrosulfide ions in the cell and that the increased level of hydrosulfide is responsible for detoxification of methylmercury.
The molecular weight of O-acetylserine (OAS)-O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) sulfhydrylase purified from yeast was estimated to be about 200,000 by Sephadex G-200 gel chromatography in various buffers. The S20, w value of this protein was determined to be about 9.0 by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. The calculated molecular weight based on this value was similar to that estimated by gel chromatography. Treatment with 1% sodium dodesylsulfate (SDS) or 6 M urea dissociated the enzyme into 4 subunits; these had a molecular weight estimated to be 51,000 by SDS-poly-acrylamide gel electrophoresis and to be 57,000 by Sephadex G-100 gel chromatography in the presence of 6 M urea and 0.5% beta-mercaptoethanol. The 4 subunits appeared to be identical, based on the symmetric subunit elution pattern from a Sephadex column, a single peptide band on SDS-polyacrylamide gel, and the detection of histidine as the sole N-terminal amino acid in the native enzyme. Since dissociation into the subunits occurred without the use of reducing agents, the association of the subunits seems to require no disulfide linkage. One mole of the subunit contained one mole of sulfhydryl group which appeared to be buried inside the molecule. Partial restoration of the catalytic activity was observed when the urea-denatured enzyme was dialyzed to remove urea, especially in the presence of reducing agents such as dithiothreitol. The urea-denatured enzyme showed a tendency in the absence of reducing agents to form a subunit dimer linked by a disulfide bond between the cystine residues exposed by denaturation. The amino acid composition of the enzyme was determined; it contained one half-cystine residue per subunit, and the content of acidic residues was much higher than that of basic residues. Based on these findings, the subunit structure of the enzyme is discussed.
The regulatory mechanism of methionine biosynthesis in Corynebacterium glutamicum was analyzed at the protein and gene expression level. O-Acetylhomoserine sulfhydraylase (encoded by metY) was inhibited by 10 mM methionine to a residual activity of 10% level, whereas no such inhibition was found with cystathionine γ-synthase (encoded by metB) and cystathionine β-lyase (encoded by metC). The enzymatic activity of homoserine acetyltransferase (encoded by metX) was repressed to a residual activity of 25% level by 10 mM methionine which was added to the growth medium. Cystathionine γ-synthase and cystathionine β-lyase were also repressed by 10 mM methionine, but only to a residual activity of 50-70% level. O-Acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase was very sensitive to repression by 10 mM methionine, showing residual activity of 13%. In addition, homoserine acetyltransferase was also repressed by 10 mM cysteine to 50% of its original activity. No repression of the enzymes by S-adenosyl methionine was observed. The pattern of repression by methionine indicated that the metB and aecD genes might be regulated by a common mechanism, while the metA and metY genes are differently regulated.
Despite the availability of genome data and recent advances in methionine regulation in Corynebacterium glutamicum, sulfur metabolism and its underlying molecular mechanisms are still poorly characterized in this organism. Here, we describe the identification of an ORF coding for a putative regulatory protein that controls the expression of genes involved in sulfur reduction dependent on extracellular methionine levels. C. glutamicum was randomly mutagenized by transposon mutagenesis and 7,000 mutants were screened for rapid growth on agar plates containing the methionine antimetabolite D,L-ethionine. In all obtained mutants, the site of insertion was located in the ORF NCgl2640 of unknown function that has several homologues in other bacteria. All mutants exhibited similar ethionine resistance and this phenotype could be transferred to another strain by the defined deletion of the NCgl2640 gene. Moreover, inactivation of NCgl2640 resulted in significantly increased methionine production. Using promoter lacZ-fusions of genes involved in sulfur metabolism, we demonstrated the relief of L-methionine repression in the NCgl2640 mutant for cysteine synthase, o-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrolase (metY) and sulfite reductase. Complementation of the mutant strain with plasmid-borne NCgl2640 restored the wild-type phenotype for metY and sulfite reductase.
Abstract Despite the availability of genome data and recent advances in methionine regulation in Corynebacterium glutamicum, sulfur metabolism and its underlying molecular mechanisms are still poorly characterized in this organism. Here, we describe the identification of an ORF coding for a putative regulatory protein that controls the expression of genes involved in sulfur reduction dependent on extracellular methionine levels. C. glutamicum was randomly mutagenized by transposon mutagenesis and 7,000 mutants were screened for rapid growth on agar plates containing the methionine antimetabolite D,L-ethionine. In all obtained mutants, the site of insertion was located in the ORF NCgl2640 of unknown function that has several homologues in other bacteria. All mutants exhibited similar ethionine resistance and this phenotype could be transferred to another strain by the defined deletion of the NCgl2640 gene. Moreover, inactivation of NCgl2640 resulted in significantly increased methionine production. Using promoter lacZ-fusions of genes involved in sulfur metabolism, we demonstrated the relief of L-methionine repression in the NCgl2640 mutant for cysteine synthase, o-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrolase (metY) and sulfite reductase. Complementation of the mutant strain with plasmid-borne NCgl2640 restored the wild-type phenotype for metY and sulfite reductase.
Genes involved in methionine biosynthesis are scattered on the genome of C. glutamicum (Ruckert et al. 2003) , while genes involved in assimilatory sulfate reduction are clustered and at least partially organized in the cys-operon (Fig. 1 ). Sulfite reductase (NCgl2718) generates sulfide and is one of the genes under the control of the putative cysoperon promoter. Sulfide is then incorporated into oacetylhomoserine via direct sulfhydrylation (MetY), or into o-acetylserine to give cysteine via the transsulfhydrylation pathway (cysteine synthase CysK, NCgl2473; Fig. 1 ). C. glutamicum and related organisms use both pathways for methionine biosynthesis (Hwang et al. 2002; Lee and Hwang 2003) . A diversity of regulatory mechanisms controlling the metabolic flux through these pathways has been described (Lee and Hwang 2003) . Tight regulation avoids uneconomic depletion of cellular energy, but deregulation is indispensable for the overproduction of methionine. A detailed understanding of the regulatory mechanisms involved in sulfhydrylation is thus essential for the future rational design of methionine-producing strains.
In yeast and filamentous fungi, sulfide can be condensed either with O-acetylhomoserine to generate homocysteine, the precursor of methionine, or with O-acetylserine to directly generate cysteine. The resulting homocysteine and cysteine can be interconverted through transsulfuration pathway. Here, we systematically analyzed the sulfur metabolic pathway of the thermotolerant methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha, which has attracted much attention as an industrial yeast strain for various biotechnological applications. Quite interestingly, the detailed sulfur metabolic pathway of H. polymorpha, which was reconstructed based on combined analyses of the genome sequences and validation by systematic gene deletion experiments, revealed the absence of de novo synthesis of homocysteine from inorganic sulfur in this yeast. Thus, the direct biosynthesis of cysteine from sulfide is the only pathway of synthesizing sulfur amino acids from inorganic sulfur in H. polymorpha, despite the presence of both directions of transsulfuration pathway Moreover, only cysteine, but no other sulfur amino acid, was able to repress the expression of a subset of sulfur genes, suggesting its central and exclusive role in the control of H. polymorpha sulfur metabolism. 35S-Cys was more efficiently incorporated into intracellular sulfur compounds such as glutathione than 35S-Met in H. polymorpha, further supporting the cysteine-centered sulfur pathway. This is the first report on the novel features of H. polymorpha sulfur metabolic pathway, which are noticeably distinct from those of other yeast and filamentous fungal species.
Pyridoxal-5′-phosphate-dependent enzymes catalyze manifold reactions in the metabolism of amino acids. A comprehensive comparison of amino acid sequences has shown that most of these enzymes can be assigned to one of three different families of homologous proteins. The sequences of the enzymes of each family were aligned and their homology confirmed by profile analysis. Scrutiny of the reactions catalyzed by the enzymes showed that their affiliation with one of the three structurally defined families correlates in most cases with their regio-specificity. ::: ::: ::: ::: In the largest family, the covalency changes of the substrate occur at the same carbon atom that carries the amino group forming the imine linkage with the coenzyme. This family was thus named α family. It comprises glycine hydroxymethyltransferase, glycine C-acetyltransferase, 5-aminolevulinate synthase, 8-amino-7-oxononanoate synthase, all aminotransferases (with the possible exception of subgroup III), a number of other enzymes relatively closely related with the aminotransferases and very likely a certain group of amino acid decarboxylases as well as tryptophanase and tyrosine phenol-lyase which, however, catalyze β-elimination reactions. The β family includes L- and D-serine dehydratase, threonine dehydratase, the β subunit of tryptophan synthase, threonine synthase and cysteine synthase. These enzymes catalyze β-replacement or β-elimination reactions. The γ family incorporates O-succinylhomoserine (thiol)-lyase, O-acetylhomoserine (thiol)-lyase, and cystathionine γ-lyase, which catalyze γ-replacement or γ-elimination reactions, as well as cystathionine β-lyase. ::: ::: ::: ::: The α and γ family might be distantly related with one another, but are clearly not homologous with the β family. Apparently, the primordial pyridoxal-5′-phosphate-dependent enzymes were regio-specific catalysts, which first specialized for reaction specificity and then for substrate specificity. The following pyridoxal-5′-phosphate-dependent enzymes seem to be unrelated with the α, β or γ family by the criterion of profile analysis: alanine racemase, selenocysteine synthase, and many amino acid decarboxylases. These enzymes may represent yet other families of B6 enzymes.
In yeast and filamentous fungi, sulfide can be condensed either with O-acetylhomoserine to generate homocysteine, the precursor of methionine, or with O-acetylserine to directly generate cysteine. The resulting homocysteine and cysteine can be interconverted through transsulfuration pathway. Here, we systematically analyzed the sulfur metabolic pathway of the thermotolerant methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha, which has attracted much attention as an industrial yeast strain for various biotechnological applications. Quite interestingly, the detailed sulfur metabolic pathway of H. polymorpha, which was reconstructed based on combined analyses of the genome sequences and validation by systematic gene deletion experiments, revealed the absence of de novo synthesis of homocysteine from inorganic sulfur in this yeast. Thus, the direct biosynthesis of cysteine from sulfide is the only pathway of synthesizing sulfur amino acids from inorganic sulfur in H. polymorpha, despite the presence of both directions of transsulfuration pathway Moreover, only cysteine, but no other sulfur amino acid, was able to repress the expression of a subset of sulfur genes, suggesting its central and exclusive role in the control of H. polymorpha sulfur metabolism.
Sulfur plays important roles in a number of cellular processes, such as the redox cycle (thioredoxins, glutaredoxins), stress response (glutathione, phytochelatins), enzyme reactions (ironsulfur cluster as prosthetic group), and metabolism of secondary products (glucosinolates, sulfated compounds) [1, 2] . It is also essential in C1 metabolism as a source of reduced sulfur for the biosynthesis of S-adenosyl-methionine (AdoMet). Cellular requirements for sulfur can be fulfilled by the uptake of sulfur-containing amino acids, cysteine and methionine, or by the assimilation of inorganic sulfur into organic compounds such as cysteine and homocysteine, which are used for further biosynthesis of glutathione (GSH) and methionine, respectively [3] . Different from microorganisms and plants, animals do not have the assimilatory mechanisms for inorganic sulfur, and they require methionine as an essential amino acid for their source of sulfur nutrient. In the yeast and filamentous fungal species, cysteine biosynthesis from sulfide can be divided into two pathways [4, 5] . In one pathway, sulfide is condensed with O-acetylhomoserine to generate homocysteine, which can be converted to cystathionine and then to cysteine, as in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Fig.1A) . In the other pathway, sulfide is condensed with O-acetylserine to generate cysteine in a process catalyzed by cysteine synthase (OAS pathway), as in Schizosaccharomyces pombe (Fig.1B) . The filamentous fungi Aspergillus nidulans and Neurospora crassa employ both pathways for cysteine biosynthesis (Fig. 1C) . In S. cerevisiae, A. nidulans, and N. crassa, cysteine and homocysteine interconvert through forward and reverse transsulfuration pathways. In contrast, S. pombe lacks the reverse pathway for conversion of homocysteine to cysteine due to lack of required enzymes cystathionine b-synthase and cystathionine c-lyase [6, 7] .
Abstract Cell-free extracts of Bacillus subtilis catalyze the formation of O-acetylhomoserine from acetyl-CoA and L-homoserine, while a corresponding reaction with succinyl-CoA is not observed. The formation of O-acetylhomoserine is subject to multivalent feedback inhibition by L-methionine and S-adenosylmethionine, implicating it as a step in methionine biosynthesis. Thus, in Bacilli the biosynthesis of both lysine and methionine appears to involve acetylated intermediates, in contrast to Escherichia coli where the corresponding succinylated derivatives are used.
Several pathogenicity factors of soft-rot-causing Pectobacterium spp. have been found during the last decades (2-4). Of these, plant cell wall-degrading enzymes produced by Pectobacterium spp. have a large impact on the progress of the disease, as their production leads to the degradation of invaded plant tissue (2, 3). The production of these enzymes is dependent on cell density and regulated by quorum sensing through N-acetylhomoserine lactone (5) and intracellular regulators (6, 7). Motility and nutrient uptake are also factors influencing phytopathogenicity (4, (8) (9) (10) . Besides these general pathogenicity factors, phytopathogens have to overcome the toxicity of plant allelochemicals. Important allelochemicals of members of the family Brassicaceae (cabbages and mustards) are isothiocyanates that are liberated by the glucosinolate-myrosinase defense system (11-13). The antimicrobial effect of isothiocyanates has been mainly attributed to their reactivity with thiol groups in proteins observed in vitro, but there is a variety of metabolic functions that have been found to be negatively influenced by isothiocyanates in vivo (recently reviewed in reference 14). As a consequence, isothiocyanates can be used as food preservatives to prevent microbial growth and spoilage. In microorganisms, general allelochemical defense systems are efflux pumps that decrease the intracellular concentration of toxic substances. Several studies identified TolC as a pathogenicity factor related to the extrusion of phytochemicals (4, 15, 16) . TolC is an outer membrane protein that interacts with efflux pumps of the cytoplasmic membrane (17, 18). Although several phytochemicals have been tested as substrates of Pectobacterium TolC (4, 15, 16), none of the substrates tested included isothiocyanates. In addition to this, a transposon mutagenesis study of Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato revealed several multidrug efflux pumps (Sax proteins) that could be associated with TolC and be crucial for the survival of P. syringae pv. tomato on isothiocyanate-containing Arabidopsis extract (19). It seems that TolC, together with (multidrug) efflux pumps, may also play a role in the defense of pectobacteria against isothiocyanates (14, 19) . Another defense system against isothiocyanates may be their breakdown or chemical modification. Although the antimicrobial effects of isothiocyanates have been known for a long time, microbial isothiocyanate degradation pathways have not been described so far. In light of the use of isothiocyanates for food preservation and as antibiotic additives, a microbial enzymatic breakdown system may form the basis of microbial resistance or detoxification. There are indications that proteins from the Sax system identified in P. syringae pv. tomato degrade isothiocyanates (19) and that a distinct class of glutathione S-transferases may play a role in cyanobacteria (20, 21) and possibly in other microbes (14, 22) .
SummaryTwo unnatural and unwanted amino acids, norvaline (Nva) and O-ethylhomoserine (O-EH) are formed as by-products in l-isoleucine production by Brevibacterium flavum AB-07 using a new process named the living cell reaction process. Nva formation was depressed by using a leucine auxotrophic mutant (AB-07-Leu-2) derived from strain AB-07. It was found that Nva formation was closely related to leucine biosynthesis. O-EH formation was repressed by addition of l-methionine to the reaction mixture. However, the homoserine-O-acetyltransferase of AB-07-Leu-2 was not subject to either inhibition or repression by addition of l-methionine. Furthermore, the O-EH-forming enzyme, which converts O-acetylhomoserine to O-EH, was speculated to be repressed by l-methionine.
We examined how the activity of O-acetylserine and O-acetylhomoserine sulphydrylase (OAS/OAH) SHLase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is affected by sulphur source added to the growth medium and genetic background of the strain. In a wild-type strain, the activity was repressed if methionine, cysteine or glutathione was added to the growth medium. However, in a strain deficient of cystathionine γ-lyase, cysteine and glutathione were repressive, but methionine was not. In strains deficient of serine O-acetyltransferase (SATase), OAS/OAH SHLase activity was low regardless of sulphur source and was further lowered by cysteine and glutathione, but not by methionine. From these observations, we concluded that S-adenosylmethionine should be excluded from being the effector for regulation of OAS/OAH SHLase. Instead, we suspected that S. cerevisiae would have the same regulatory system as Escherichia coli for sulphate assimilation; i.e. cysteine inhibits SATase to lower the cellular concentration of OAS which is required for induction of the sulphate assimilation enzymes including OAS/OAH SHLase. Subsequently, we obtained data supporting this speculation.
Homoserine transacetylase (EC 2.3.1.31), the first enzyme of methionine biosynthesis, has been purified to near homogeneity from extracts of a methionine auxotroph of Bacillus polymyxa. The enzyme is subject to rapid irreversible inactivation. Its half-life at 0 degrees is 15 min and much less at higher temperatures, but ethylene glycol affords some protection. In addition, Zn2+ reversibly inhibits the enzyme with a K-I of 3 muM. The enzyme has a molecular weight of about 40,000 and consists of a single polypeptide chain. Besides catalyzing the acetyl transfer from acetyl-CoA to L-homoserine, homoserine transacetylase promotes a homoserine-O-acetylhomoserine exchange reaction in the absence of CoA, suggesting the formation of an acetyl-enzyme intermediate. The results of kinetic studies are consistent with a ping-pong mechanism. Homoserine transacetylase is subject to multivalent feedback inhibition by L-methionine and S-adenosylmethionine. Analysis of the inhibition data and specificity studies suggest that the inhibitors bind to separate sites on the enzyme which are distinct from the active site. Inhibition is competitive with respect to both substrates, and the saturation curves for the inhibitors, as well as substrate saturation curves in the absence or presence of the inhibitors, are hyperbolic. The absence of cooperativity is, in fact, a property which would be expected in a monomeric allosteric enzyme such as homoserine transacetylase.
The cysteine biosynthesis pathway differs between plants and the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The yeast MET25 gene encoded to O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (AHS) catalyzed the reaction that form homocysteine, which later can be converted into cystiene. In vitro studies show that this enzyme possesses also the activity of O-acetyl(thiol)lyase (OASTL) that catalyzes synthesis of cysteine in plants. In this study, we generated transgenic tobacco plants expressing the yeast MET25 gene under the control of a constitutive promoter and targeted the yeast protein to the cytosol or to the chloroplasts. Both sets of transgenic plants were taller and greener than wild-type plants. Addition of SO(2), the substrate of the yeast enzyme caused a significant elevation of the glutathione content in representative plants from each of the two sets of transgenic plants expressing the yeast gene. Determination of non-protein thiol content indicated up to four-folds higher cysteine and 2.5-fold glutathione levels in these plants. In addition, the leaf discs of the transgenic plants were more tolerant to toxic levels of sulphite, and to paraquat, an herbicide generating active oxygen species.
In this paper, we present a novel, "single experiment" methodology based on genetic engineering of metabolic pathways for direct intracellular production of non-canonical amino acids from simple precursors, coupled with expanded genetic code. In particular, we engineered the intracellular biosynthesis of L-azidohomoalanine from O-acetyl-L-homoserine and NaN3, and achieved its direct incorporation into recombinant target proteins by AUG codon reassignment in a methionine-auxotroph E. coli strain. In our system, the host's methionine biosynthetic pathway was first diverted towards the production of the desired non-canonical amino acid by exploiting the broad reaction specificity of recombinant pyridoxal phosphate-dependent O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase from Corynebacterium glutamicum. Then, the expression of the target protein barstar, accompanied with efficient L-azidohomoalanine incorporation in place of L-methionine, was accomplished. This work stands as proof-of-principle and paves the way for additional work towards intracellular production and site-specific incorporation of biotechnologically relevant non-canonical amino acids directly from common fermentable sources.
In this paper, we present a novel, "single experiment" methodology based on genetic engineering of metabolic pathways for direct intracellular production of non-canonical amino acids from simple precursors, coupled with expanded genetic code. In particular, we engineered the intracellular biosynthesis of L-azidohomoalanine from O-acetyl-L-homoserine and NaN 3 , and achieved its direct incorporation into recombinant target proteins by AUG codon reassignment in a methionine-auxotroph E. coli strain. In our system, the host's methionine biosynthetic pathway was first diverted towards the production of the desired non-canonical amino acid by exploiting the broad reaction specificity of recombinant pyridoxal phosphate-dependent O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase from Corynebacterium glutamicum. Then, the expression of the target protein barstar, accompanied with efficient L-azidohomoalanine incorporation in place of L-methionine, was accomplished. This work stands as proof-of-principle and paves the way for additional work towards intracellular production and site-specific incorporation of biotechnologically relevant non-canonical amino acids directly from common fermentable sources.
Among the bioorthogonal chemistries developed for specific chemoselective modifications, the copper(I)-catalyzed Huisgen cycloaddition reaction between azides and alkynes has found widespread application since its mild conditions allow full retention of the protein structure [10] [11] [12] . This chemistry requires production of recombinant proteins with site-or residue-specific incorporation of alkyne-or azide-containing amino acid analogs by insertion of suitable ncAAs; proteins labeled in this way can be used for reactions with ligands containing complementary azide-or alkyne derivatives. In a typical ncAAs incorporation experiment, the amino acid analog is added to the growth medium and uptaken by the cellular machinery. This is of course perfectly acceptable for small-scale experiments, though it provides no solution for large-scale fermentative production. Thus, the goal is to devise a system where the desired ncAAs are directly produced from medium nutrients, just as all other cell components, to prevent complicated feeding schemes and costly additional substrates. Indeed, many biosynthetic pathways can be identified from different microorganisms which, submitted to genetic engineering, may be exploited to generate novel compounds. For example, the E. coli methionine biosynthetic pathway can be diverted at the homoserine level to generate L-azidohomoalanine (Aha), by recombinantly expressing enzymes normally not present in E. coli, such as homoserine O-acetyltransferase and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase. Significantly, the intermediate of this modified pathway, O-acetyl-L-homoserine (Oahs), in not an E. coli intermediate and will be totally devoted to the newly engineered metabolism.
L-Methionine-1-14C was fed through the roots to 6-day-old pea seedlings. After 10 h over 80% of the absorbed radioactivity was recovered in the free amino acid fraction, 8% in the extracted proteins, 5% as carbon dioxide, and 2.2% in the organic acid fractions. Analysis of the amino acids revealed that only 24% of the total activity was recovered as methionine, 40% as homoserine, 10% as isoleucine, and smaller but significant amounts of aspartate, O-acetylhomoserine, and cystathionine. Dilution values strongly imply that aspartate is not an intermediate in the extensive conversion of methionine to homoserine; rather a more direct pathway is involved.
The oah1 gene of an extremely thermophilic bacterium, Thermus thermophilus HB8, was cloned, sequenced, and overexpressed in Escherichia coli cells. The gene product having a high O-acetyl-L-homoserine sulfhydrylase (EC 4.2.99.10) activity was purified to homogeneity, with a recovery of approximately 40% and a purification ratio of 81-fold, both calculated from the cell-homogenate. The protein showed molecular masses of approximately 163000 (for the native form) and 47000 (for the subunit). The isoelectric point was pH 6.0. The optimum temperature and pH for the activity were approximately 70 degrees C and pH 7.8, respectively. The enzyme was also shown to be very stable at high temperature (90% activity remaining at 90 degrees C for 60 min at pH 7.8) and in a wide range of pH (pH 4-12 at room temperature). The absorption spectrum showed a peak at 425 nm, and hydroxylamine hydrochloride (0.1 mM) inhibited approximately 90% of the activity, suggesting formation of a Schiff base with pyridoxal 5'-phosphate. The enzyme showed an apparent K(m) value of 6.8 mM for O-acetyl-L-homoserine, a V(max) value of 165 micromol/min per mg of protein at a fixed sulfide concentration of 5 mM, and also an apparent K(m) value of approximately 1.3 mM for sulfide (with 25 mM acetylhomoserine). L-Methionine (1 mM) inhibited the enzyme activity by 67%. Based on these findings, it was discussed that this enzyme might be inactive under ordinary conditions but might become active as an alternative homocysteine synthase in T. thermophilus HB8, only under such conditions as deficiency in transsulfuration, bringing about a sufficient amount of sulfide available in the cell.
A survey of a large number of commercial ales and lagers has revealed that most ales contain more than 200 μgL−1 of 3-Ethoxy-1-propanol. Most lagers contain less than 100 μgL−1 and the concentration of this compound produced by Saccharomyces sp. appears to be both strain- and species-dependent. Feeding studies suggest that 3-ethoxy-1-propanol is derived from homoserine via O-acetylhomoserine, the latter being a crucial intermediate on the biosynthetic pathway leading to methionine.
We previously demonstrated that periodic H2S production during aerobic continuous culture of Saccharomyces cerevisiae resulted in ultradian respiratory oscillation, and that H2S production was dependent on the activity of sulfate uptake and the level of sulfite. To investigate the mechanism of regulation of the sulfate assimilation pathway and of respiratory oscillation, several amino acids were pulse-injected into cultures during respiratory oscillation. Injection of sulfur amino acids or their derivatives perturbed respiratory oscillation, with changes in the H2S production profile. Four major regulators of H2S production in the sulfate assimilation pathway and respiratory oscillation were identified: (1) O-acetylhomoserine, not O-acetylserine, as a sulfide acceptor, (2) homoserine/threonine as a regulator of O-acetylhomoserine supply, (3) methionine/S-adenosyl methionine as a negative regulator of sulfate assimilation, and (4) cysteine (or its derivatives) as an essential regulator. The results obtained after the addition of DL-propargylglycine (5 microM and 100 microM) and cystathionine (50 microM) suggested that the intracellular cysteine level and cystathionine gamma-lyase, rather than methionine/S-adenosylmethionine, play an essential role in the regulation of sulfate assimilation and respiratory oscillation. Based on these results and those of our previous reports, we propose that periodic depletion of cysteine (or its derivatives), which is involved in the detoxification of toxic materials originating from respiration, causes periodic H2S production.
Nutritional strategies of a leaf fungal plant pathogen differ depending on the stage of infection. On the plant surface, M. oryzae uses nutrients stored in spores for germimation and appressorium differentiation [2, 6] . After penetration into host plant cells, M. oryzae infectious hyphae takes up and metabolizes sugar and nitrogen sources from the plant to support its growth and sporulation. However, some plant amino acids such as cysteine, methionine, tryptophan, histidine and arginine are only present in trace amounts in the leaf apoplast and are likely not available for fungal nutrition [6] [7] [8] . Infectious hyphae are expected to synthesize these amino acids from abundant apoplastic amino-acid such as glutamate or aspartate. Genetic studies in M. oryzae support this hypothesis for different amino-acids including methionine. A spontaneous M. oryzae met1-mutant, which is a leaky methionine auxotrophic mutant probably defective in cystathionine gamma-synthase (Cgs1 , Fig 1) , displayed a strong reduction in pathogenicity on rice plants [9] . In addition, a M. oryzae STR3 null mutant deficient for a cystathionine beta-lyase (Cbl1 , Fig 1) , was also a leaky methionine auxotrophic mutant with a strong reduction in pathogenicity on rice [10] . Recently, M. oryzae MET13 null mutant deficient for a methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (Mthfr, Fig 1) was reported as a methionine auxotrophic mutant displaying a strong reduction in pathogenicity on rice [11] . The residual growth of such methionine auxotrophic mutants on a sulfate minimal medium may result from metabolic bypasses. For example, homocysteine synthase (Hcs1, Fig 1) is involved in the biosynthesis of homocysteine from sulfide and O-acetylhomoserine in Aspergillus nidulans [12] . This enzyme can bypass the metabolic defects of met1-and str3-mutants. According to these possible metabolic bypasses, we hypothesized that a methionine synthase defective mutant (Met6, Fig 1) would be a real methionine auxotrophic mutant.The first fungal methionine synthase was described in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae Met6 [13] . Biochemical characterization of S. cerevisiae and C. albicans Met6 enzymes showed they have biochemical properties [14] similar to cobalamine-independent methionine synthases from plants [15] . This fungal enzyme (EC 2.1.1.14) catalyzes the irreversible methylation of homocysteine using a methyl derivative of tetrahydrofolate (CH3-TriGlu THF; Fig 1) . Met6 is also involved into the recycling of homocysteine produced from S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) dependent methylation of metabolites (Fig 1) .
SUMMARY: Methionine-requiring mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce large amounts of hydrogen sulphide from sulphate, sulphite or thiosulphate when grown in the presence of suboptimum concentrations of methionine. O-Acetylhomoserine and homocysteine act like methionine with a methionine-requiring mutant which can use them for growth. Wild-type strains of S. cerevisiae and S. carlsbergensis also form large amounts of hydrogen sulphide from inorganic sulphur sources when the yeast is deficient in either panto-thenate or vitamin B6. This excess sulphide production is inhibited by methionine or its immediate precursors, suggesting that both vitamins are required for methionine biosynthesis. O-Acetylhomoserine is a normal precursor of homocysteine and methionine in S. cerevisiae and S. carlsbergensis. The effect of pantothenate on sulphide production by these yeasts is probably due to its involvement in the formation of O-acetylhomoserine.
Plant infection is accompanied by an oxidative burst that produces free radicals of various natures. The approach that we exploited in this study was to increase the antioxidative potential of flax by genetic engineering. Overexpressing the yeast Met25 gene coding for O-acetylhomoserine-O-acetylserine (OAH-OAS) sulfhydrylase in flax resulted in a significant increase in cysteine and methionine biosynthesis. This overproduction of sulfur amino acids increases the synthesis of glutathione, a tripeptide containing cysteine. The increase in glutathione content in the transgenic plant increases its antioxidative potential, and thus improves the plant's protection against Fusarium infection.
O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAHS) is a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme involved in microbial methionine biosynthesis. In this study, we report gene cloning, protein purification, and some biochemical characteristics of OAHS from Clostridioides difficile. The enzyme is a tetramer with molecular weight of 185 kDa. It possesses a high activity in the reaction of L-homocysteine synthesis, comparable to reported activities of OAHSes from other sources. OAHS activity is inhibited by metabolic end product L-methionine. L-Propargylglycine was found to be a suicide inhibitor of the enzyme. Substrate analogue Nγ -acetyl-L-2,4-diaminobutyric acid is a competitive inhibitor of OAHS with Ki = 0.04 mM. Analysis of C. difficile genome allows to suggest that the bacterium uses the way of direct sulfhydrylation for the synthesis of L-methionine. The data obtained may provide the basis for further study of the role of OAHS in the pathogenic bacterium and the development of potential inhibitors.
The detection of both the activities of β-cystathionase and O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) sulfhydrylase showed the presence of two pathways for the synthesis of l-homocysteine in a facultative methylotroph, Pseudomonas FM518. l-Methionine, the following conversion product of l-homocysteine, inhibited the activities of both the enzymes competitively, and repressed β-cystathionase but not OAH sulfhydrylase. Activities of serine-O-transacetylase and O-acetylserine (OAS) sulfhydrylase which are involved in the biosynthesis of l-cysteine, the precursor of l-cystathionine, were also inhibited by l-methionine. The Ki value of OAS sulfhydrylase for l-methionine (1.6 m m) was small enough to consider that the l-cysteine biosynthesis was regulated by l-methionine in vivo . These results and regulatory features showed that the transsulfration pathway involving cystathionine might function for the biosynthesis of homocysteine in Pseudomonas FM518.
We examined the genetic basis and transfer for production of rhizobitoxine, an inhibitor of ethylene biosynthesis in plants, directed by the rtx genes of Bradyrhizobium elkanii . Comparison with genome sequences of Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Xanthomonas oryzae suggests that the rtx genes extend from the previously identified rtxAC genes through four additional genes rtxDEFG . Reverse transcription-PCR analysis showed that the rtxACDEFG genes are expressed as an operon. Mutational analysis indicated that rtxDEG mutants reduced rhizobitoxine biosynthesis, while the rtxA gene is essential for its synthesis. Introduction of the rtxACDEFG into Agrobacterium tumefaciens resulted in strong expression of rtxACDEFG and production of RtxA protein, but no rhizobitoxine was detectable. Addition of O -acetylhomoserine, a precursor of rhizobitoxine, to the Agrobacterium derivative, however, fostered production of rhizobitoxine in culture. The diluted culture supernatant inhibited the activities of β-cystathionase and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase, indicating that A. tumefaciens carrying rtxACDEFG genes excreted biologically active rhizobitoxine.
Considerable differences in the activities of cysteine and homocysteine synthase (EC 4.2.99.8), and in the ratio of these activities were observed in yeast strains representing different genera and species. This suggests that homocysteine synthesis directly from O-acetylhomoserine may predominate in some strains, whereas in the others homocysteine is formed from cysteine via cystathionine.
O-Acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAHS) is a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) dependent sulfide-utilizing enzyme in the L-cysteine and L-methionine biosynthetic pathways of various enteric bacteria and fungi. OAHS catalyzes the conversion of O-acetylhomoserine to homocysteine using sulfide in a process known as direct sulfhydrylation. However, the source of the sulfur has not been identified and no structures of OAHS have been reported in the literature. Here, the crystal structure of Wolinella succinogenes OAHS (MetY) determined at 2.2 Å resolution is reported. MetY crystallized in space group C2 with two monomers in the asymmetric unit. Size-exclusion chromatography, dynamic light scattering and crystal packing indicate that the biological unit is a tetramer in solution. This is further supported by the crystal structure, in which a tetramer is formed using a combination of noncrystallographic and crystallographic twofold axes. A search for structurally homologous proteins revealed that MetY has the same fold as cystathionine γ-lyase and methionine γ-lyase. The active sites of these enzymes, which are also PLP-dependent, share a high degree of structural similarity, suggesting that MetY belongs to the γ-elimination subclass of the Cys/Met metabolism PLP-dependent family of enzymes. The structure of MetY, together with biochemical data, provides insight into the mechanism of sulfur transfer to a small molecule via a protein thiocarboxylate intermediate.
Abstract Several species of Lolium and other cool-season grasses (Poaceae subfamily Pooideae) tend to harbor symbiotic, seed-transmitted, fungi that enhance their fitness by various means. These fungal endophytes – species of Neotyphodium or Epichloe (Clavicipitaceae) – are known for production of antiherbivore metabolites such as the bioprotective loline alkaloids. Lolines are saturated pyrrolizidines with an exo -1-amine and an ether bridge between C-2 and C-7. The ether bridge is an unusual feature for a biogenic compound in that it links two bridgehead carbon atoms. Much of the loline-biosynthetic pathway has been elucidated by administering isotopically labeled precursors to fungal cultures and by comparisons of loline biosynthesis genes to known gene families. The first step appears to be an unusual γ-substitution reaction involving an enzyme related to O -acetylhomoserine (thiol) lyase, but which uses the secondary amine of l -proline rather than a sulfhydryl group as the nucleophile. The strained ether bridge is added after formation of the pyrrolizidine rings. Lolines with dimethylated or acylated 1-amines have insect antifeedant and insecticidal activities comparable to nicotine, but little or no toxicity to mammals. Considering the surprising abundance of lolines in some grass–endophyte symbiota, possible additional effects on plant stress tolerance and physiology are worth future consideration. In this review, we discuss the history of loline discovery, methods of analysis, biological activities and distribution in nature, as well as progress on the genetics and biochemistry of their biosynthesis, and on the chemical synthesis of these alkaloids.
Abstract This communication reports several independent observations which suggest that O-acetylhomoserine is an intermediate in methionine biosynthesis in Neurospora. Indirect evidence has long implicated three unlinked genes (me-3, me-5, me-7) in a hypothetical series of reactions leading to the formation of cystathionine from homoserine and cysteine in Neurospora, but the metabolic defects associated with mutations in these genes have not been ascertained. It has now been shown that me-5 mutants, but not me-3 or me-7, will grow in the presence of O-acetylhomoserine. Second, when grown in the presence of methionine and labeled homoserine, me-5 mutants fail to accumulate two compounds which are formed by me-3, me-7, and wild type: O-acetylhomoserine, and a larger amount of 4-O-acetyl-2,4-dihydroxybutyrate. Third, me-5 mutants lack an enzyme catalyzing an exchange between labeled homoserine and O-acetylhomoserine.
O-Acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAHS) is a pyridoxal 5 0 -phosphate (PLP) dependent sulfide-utilizing enzyme in the l-cysteine and l-methionine biosynthetic pathways of various enteric bacteria and fungi. OAHS catalyzes the conversion of O-acetylhomoserine to homocysteine using sulfide in a process known as direct sulfhydrylation. However, the source of the sulfur has not been identified and no structures of OAHS have been reported in the literature. Here, the crystal structure of Wolinella succinogenes OAHS (MetY) determined at 2.2 Å resolution is reported. MetY crystallized in space group C2 with two monomers in the asymmetric unit. Size-exclusion chromatography, dynamic light scattering and crystal packing indicate that the biological unit is a tetramer in solution. This is further supported by the crystal structure, in which a tetramer is formed using a combination of noncrystallographic and crystallographic twofold axes. A search for structurally homologous proteins revealed that MetY has the same fold as cystathionine -lyase and methionine -lyase. The active sites of these enzymes, which are also PLPdependent, share a high degree of structural similarity, suggesting that MetY belongs to the -elimination subclass of the Cys/Met metabolism PLP-dependent family of enzymes. The structure of MetY, together with biochemical data, provides insight into the mechanism of sulfur transfer to a small molecule via a protein thiocarboxylate intermediate.
O-Acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAHS; EC 4.2.99.10) is a sulfide-utilizing enzyme in the l-cysteine and l-methionine biosynthetic pathways employed by various enteric bacteria and fungi. OAHS is known to catalyze the conversion of O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) to homocysteine (Hcy) using sulfide directly (Yamagata, 1989) . Recent biochemical studies (Krishnamoorthy & Begley, 2011) have suggested that the likely sulfur source in the methionine-biosynthetic pathway of W. succinogenes is a protein thiocarboxylate (Fig. 1) . The pathway was identified from a gene cluster encoding a putative sulfur-carrier protein (HcyS), a putative metalloprotease (HcyD), an adenylating enzyme (HcyF), sulfur-assimilating proteins and proteins for methionine biosynthesis found in this species. In this proposed pathway, sulfate is converted to adenosine 5 0 -phosphosulfate (APS), which is then phosphorylated at the 3 0 -hydroxyl group. The resulting 3 0phosphoadenosine 5 0 -phosphosulfate (PAPS) is reduced in two steps to sulfide, which is transferred to the C-terminal carboxylate of HcyS to form HcyS thiocarboxylate (HcyS-COSH). MetY then catalyzes the pyridoxal 5 0 -phosphate (PLP) dependent condensation of HcyS-COSH and OAH, followed by an S,N-acyl shift, to form HcyS-homocysteine (HcyS-Hcy), which is cleaved by HcyD to form homocysteine (Hcy). Finally, methylation of Hcy by MetE using 5methyltetrahydrofolate (5MeTHF) as the cofactor produces methionine. Thus, the S atom of methionine originates from sulfate and is incorporated by MetY using the sulfur-carrier protein HcyS rather than directly from sulfide as is the case for other OAHSs (Yamagata, 1989) .
Abstract l -aspartic acid, l -glutamic acid, γ-aminobutyric acid, l -alanine, l -valine and l -leucine were isolated from pea plants, crystallized and their identity established by comparison with authentic substances, and by analysis. Especial attention was also given to two others, l -homoserine and l - O -acetylhomoserine, which were also isolated in a pure state. The properties which confirm the occurrence of l -(−)-homoserine and the evidence which critically establishes the identity of l (+)- O -acetylhomoserine are described. Whereas l -homoserine and l - O -acetylhomoserine exist as though they were in dynamic equilibrium in the pea plants, asparagine behaves differently. This is shown by the effects of growth (during 77 days) at different night temperatures, from 4 to 26°, under 16-hr nights on the amino acid composition of pea shoots. The lower the night temperature, the higher was the concentration of homoserine and O -acetylhomoserine, but the night temperature had the opposite effect on asparagine. The significance of these results is discussed.
A cell extract of an extremely thermophilic bacterium, Thermus thermophilus HB8, cultured in a synthetic medium catalyzed cystathionine gamma-synthesis with O-acetyl-L-homoserine and L-cysteine as substrates but not beta-synthesis with DL-homocysteine and L-serine (or O-acetyl-L-serine). The amounts of synthesized enzymes metabolizing sulfur-containing amino acids were estimated by determining their catalytic activities in cell extracts. The syntheses of cystathionine beta-lyase (EC 4.4.1.8) and O-acetyl-L-serine sulfhydrylase (EC 4.2.99.8) were markedly repressed by L-methionine supplemented to the medium. L-Cysteine and glutathione, both at 0.5 mM, added to the medium as the sole sulfur source repressed the synthesis of O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase by 55 and 73%, respectively, confirming that this enzyme functions as a cysteine synthase. Methionine employed at 1 to 5 mM in the same way derepressed the synthesis of O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase 2.1- to 2.5-fold. A method for assaying a low concentration of sulfide (0.01 to 0.05 mM) liberated from homocysteine by determining cysteine synthesized with it in the presence of excess amounts of O-acetylserine and a purified preparation of the sulfhydrylase was established. The extract of cells catalyzed the homocysteine gamma-lyase reaction, with a specific activity of 5 to 7 nmol/min/mg of protein, but not the methionine gamma-lyase reaction. These results suggested that cysteine was also synthesized under the conditions employed by the catalysis of O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase using sulfur of homocysteine derived from methionine. Methionine inhibited O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase markedly. The effects of sulfur sources added to the medium on the synthesis of O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase and the inhibition of the enzyme activity by methionine were mostly understood by assuming that the organism has two proteins having O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase activity, one of which is cystathionine gamma-synthase. Although it has been reported that homocysteine is directly synthesized in T. thermophilus HB27 by the catalysis of O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase on the basis of genetic studies (T. Kosuge, D. Gao, and T. Hoshino, J. Biosci. Bioeng. 90:271-279, 2000), the results obtained in this study for the behaviors of related enzymes indicate that sulfur is first incorporated into cysteine and then transferred to homocysteine via cystathionine in T. thermophilus HB8.
1. (4R)-4[4alpha-(2-Carboxyethyl)-3aalpha-hexahydro-7abeta-methyl-5-oxoindan-1beta-yl]valeric acid (II) could not be utilized by Arthrobacter simplex, even though the acid was one of the metabolites formed from cholic acid (I) by this organism. Therefore the further degradation of the acid (II) by Corynebacterium equi was investigated to identify the intermediates involved in the cholic acid degradation. 2. The organism, cultured in a medium containing the acid (II) as the sole source of carbon, produced unexpected metabolites, the conjugates of this original acid (II) with amino acids or their derivatives, although the yield was very low. These new metabolites were isolated and identified by chemical synthesis as the Na-((4R)-4-[4alpha-(2-carboxyethyl)-3a alpha-hexahydro-7a beta-methyl-5-oxoindan-1 beta-yl]-valeryl) derivatives of L-alanine, glutamic acid, O-acetylhomoserine and glutamine, i.e. compounds (IIIa), (IIIb), (IIId) respectively. 3. The possibility that the bacterial synthetic reaction observed in the acid (II) metabolism with C. equi is analogous to peptide conjugation known in both animals and higher plants is discussed. A possible mechanism for this bacterial conjugation is also considered.
valeryl} derivatives of L-alanine, glutamic acid, O-acetylhomoserine and glutamine, i.e. compounds (lIIa), (IIIb), (IlIc) and (II1d) respectively. 3. The possibility that the bacterial synthetic reaction observed in the acid (II) metabolism with C. equi is analogous to peptide conjugation known in both animals and higher plants is discussed. A possible mechanism for this bacterial conjugation is also considered.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the determination of O- acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase from schizosaccharomyces pombe. In the course of assay method, the colorimetric determination of L-homocysteine is essentially the same as for the O -acetylserine- O -acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The major differences are in the higher concentration of amino acid substrates and the longer reaction times that are required to determine the activity accurately. Because the enzyme is very unstable, sucrose or glycerol is added in the reaction mixture as a “stabilizer,” particularly when a longer incubation period is required for the assay of a preparation with very low activity. In the course of extraction, Cells of S. pombe (700 g wet weight) are suspended in 1.2 liters of PEDP buffer (50 m M potassium phosphate at pH 7.0, containing 1 m M EDTA, 0.2 m M dithiothreitol, and 0.2 m M pyridoxal phosphate). The specific enzyme activity, about 4 units/rag of protein in the fractions obtained in the final step, are approximately 13% of those for the homogeneous O -acetylserine- O -acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Certain methionine auxotrophs of Arthrobacter paraffineus and Bacillus species produce large amounts of O-acetylhomoserine (OAH). The methionine requirement of these auxotrophs could be satisfied by either cystathionine or homocysteine but not by homoserine. The cell-free extacts from the auxotrophs were found to be deficient in cystathionine 㮳-synthase activity. OAH and O-succinylhomoserine (OSH) could replace methionine in the auxotrophs which are deficient in homoserine-O-transacetylase. A methionine auxotroph of Corynebacterium glutamicum also produced OAH, and the blocked step in the auxotroph appeared to be between cystathionine and homocysteine.Cell-free extracts of A. paraffineus, C. glutamicum and Bacillus species catalyzed the formation of OAH from acetyl-CoA and homoserine, while a corresponding reaction with succinyl-CoA was not detected. Cystathionine γ-synthases in extracts of C. glutamicum and Bacillus species were specific for OAH, while the enzyme in extract of A. paraffineus was rather s...
O-Alkylhomoserines are synthesized by an enzyme of Corynebacterium acetophilum A51 from O-acetylhomoserine and alcohols. The mutant strain me−74 which cannot from O-ethylhomoserine from homoserine, ethanol, ATP and Mg++ and O-acetylhomoserine from homoserine and acetyl-CoA, forms O-ethylhomoserine from O-acetylhomoserine and ethanol. Purified enzyme from this organism synthesizes O-alkylhomoserines corresponding to the alcohols added from O-acetylhomoserine and ethanol, n-propanol, n-butanol or methanol, activities decreasing in the above order. Labeled ethanol is incorporated into O-ethylhomoserine in the presence of O-acetylhomoserine. O-Succinylhomoserine, phosphohomoserine and homoserine cannot replace O-acetylhomoserine. Moreover, ATP, Mg++ and pyridoxal-5′-phosphate are not required for the enzyme reaction.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the methods of preparation of O -Acetylhomoserine Sulfhydrylase ( Neurospora ). Radioactive sulfide is converted to homocysteine, that remains nonvolatile in acid solution and is not removed by passage through a small anion-exchange column. After the first steps of purification the colorimetric method of Liddell and Saville, as modified by Kredich and Tomkins, is more convenient. Methionine may also be determined colorimetrically but the method is less sensitive and methyl mercaptan is less attractive to work with. A unit is the amount of enzyme that forms 1 micromole of homocysteine per minute. Specific activity is defined as units per milligram of protein. This method is well suited for use with crude extracts because it is sensitive and moderate amounts of thiol present in the extract do not interfere. Large amounts of thiol may interfere by forming polysulfides. A control without O -acetylhomoserine should be run routinely and subtracted from the assay.
The tested strain of Exobasidium vaccinii (Fuck.) Woron. required thiamine or its two moieties, thiazole and pyrimidine, for good growth. When grown on pyrimidine medium, rapid growth or thiazole synthesis appears after 600–1000 hours. As methionine, a supposed precursor in the biosynthesis of thiazole, stimulates this inductive growth, the influence of methionine precursors or metabolites stimulating methionine synthesis were tested for their ability to shorten the lag phase of E. vaccinii cultured on a thiamine-deficient synthetic medium. None of the tested methionine precursors replaced methionine or significantly stimulated the inductive growth. This result does not exclude acetylhomoserine as a central metabolite in methionine synthesis. ::: ::: ::: ::: Acetyl phosphate, alcohols and the fatty acids of Tween, possible deliverers of the active acetyl groups, induced growth in thiamine-free media. This growth seems to be possible by utilization of the compounds through a metabolic pathway not requiring thiamine. No evidence for participation of the glyoxylate cycle was found.
A crude extract of Schizosaccharomyces pombe cells catalyzed sulfhydrylation of both O-acetyl-L-serine and O-acetyl-L-homoserine with H2S, but did not synthesize cystathionine from O-acetyl-L-homoserine and L-cysteine. The O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase [EC 4.2.99.10] was very unstable; however, it could be stabilized by the addition of 25% (w/w) sucrose or glycerol. The optimal pH for activity was 8.0 and that for stability was 7.0. The enzyme was purified approximately 300-fold from an ammonium sulfate-precipitated fraction. L-Methionine was the most effective inhibitor among the amino acids examined. It inhibited the enzyme competitively with respect to OAH with a Ki value of 2.6 mM. Sulfhydrylase activity was inhibited to various extents by some carbonyl reagents, but sulfhydryl reagents such as p-chloromercuribenzoic acid, 5,5'-dithio-bis(2-nitrobenzoic acid), and monoiodoacetic acid had no inhibitory effect. The enzyme also reacted with O-succinylhomoserine and L-homoserine to synthesize homocysteine directly, but could not utilize cysteine as a co-substrate in place of H2S. In the sulfhydrylation reactions, Km values for the substrates ranged from 10.4-12.5 mM. The enzyme was resolved to the apoenzyme by incubation with phenylhydrazine and reactivated by the addition of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, whose Km value was 0.083 microM. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be approximately 186,000 by gel filtration and 170,000 by ultracentrifugation in sucrose density gradients. The isolectric point of the protein was pH 4.1. The characteristics of this enzyme are compared with those of physiologically functional sulfhydrylases reported for other organisms, and the possibility of the enzyme functioning as a homocysteine synthase is discussed.
Abstract The acetyl ester of homoserine was found to be an intermediate in methionine biosynthesis in fungi, where it plays the role that O-succinylhomoserine does in bacteria. The latter is formed from succinyl coenzyme A and homoserine, and is decomposed by the replacement of succinate by cysteine to yield cystathionine. When grown in the presence of labeled homoserine, Neurospora accumulated labeled O-acetylhomoserine as well as larger amounts of the α-hydroxy analogue. A methionine-requiring mutant, me-5, which could grow when given acetylhomoserine in place of methionine, failed to accumulate it or to form labeled cystathionine when grown with labeled homoserine. A sensitive assay for hydroxyamino acid-acylating enzymes was devised, utilizing the observation that these enzymes catalyze exchange between alcohol and ester. Extracts of yeast and Neurospora were shown to catalyze homoserine exchange only with acetylhomoserine; extracts of Salmonella, only with succinylhomoserine. Homoserine acetylase was purified 60-fold from Neurospora. Acetyl-CoA could not be replaced by acetyl derivatives of phosphate, carnitine, or acyl carrier protein. The exchange rate was not affected by end product methionine. Although not leaky nutritionally, the me-5 mutant appears to produce a modified enzyme able to catalyze net acetylation but not exchange. Extracts of both fungi and bacteria can utilize either the succinyl or the acetyl ester of homoserine for cystathionine synthesis. In Salmonella this is due to the low specificity of the cystathionine γ-synthetase, but cystathionine synthesis from succinylhomoserine in Neurospora appears to be catalyzed by γ-cystathionase.
A direct sulfhydrylation pathway for methionine biosynthesis in Corynebacterium glutamicum was found. The pathway was catalyzed by metY encoding O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase. The gene metY, located immediately upstream of metA, was found to encode a protein of 437 amino acids with a deduced molecular mass of 46,751 Da. In accordance with DNA and protein sequence data, the introduction of metY into C. glutamicum resulted in the accumulation of a 47-kDa protein in the cells and a 30-fold increase in O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase activity, showing the efficient expression of the cloned gene. Although disruption of the metB gene, which encodes cystathionine γ-synthase catalyzing the transsulfuration pathway of methionine biosynthesis, or the metY gene was not enough to lead to methionine auxotrophy, an additional mutation in the metY or the metB gene resulted in methionine auxotrophy. The growth pattern of the metY mutant strain was identical to that of the metB mutant strain, suggesting that both methionine biosynthetic pathways function equally well. In addition, an Escherichia coli metB mutant could be complemented by transformation of the strain with a DNA fragment carrying corynebacterial metY and metA genes. These data clearly show that C. glutamicum utilizes both transsulfuration and direct sulfhydrylation pathways for methionine biosynthesis. Although metY and metA are in close proximity to one another, separated by 143 bp on the chromosome, deletion analysis suggests that they are expressed independently. As with metA, methionine could also repress the expression of metY. The repression was also observed with metB, but the degree of repression was more severe with metY, which shows almost complete repression at 0.5 mM methionine in minimal medium. The data suggest a physiologically distinctive role of the direct sulfhydrylation pathway in C. glutamicum.
There are two major pathways for methionine biosynthesis in micro-organisms. Little is known about these pathways in Bacillus subtilis. The authors assigned a function to the metI (formerly yjcI) and metC (formerly yjcJ) genes of B. subtilis by complementing Escherichia coli metB and metC mutants, analysing the phenotype of B. subtilis metI and metC mutants, and carrying out enzyme activity assays. These genes encode polypeptides belonging to the cystathionine gamma-synthase family of proteins. Interestingly, the MetI protein has both cystathionine gamma-synthase and O-acetylhomoserine thiolyase activities, whereas the MetC protein is a cystathionine beta-lyase. In B. subtilis, the transsulfuration and the thiolation pathways are functional in vivo. Due to its dual activity, the MetI protein participates in both pathways. The metI and metC genes form an operon, the expression of which is subject to sulfur-dependent regulation. When the sulfur source is sulfate or cysteine the transcription of this operon is high. Conversely, when the sulfur source is methionine its transcription is low. An S-box sequence, which is located upstream of the metI gene, is involved in the regulation of the metIC operon. Northern blot experiments demonstrated the existence of two transcripts: a small transcript corresponding to the premature transcription termination at the terminator present in the S-box and a large one corresponding to transcription of the complete metIC operon. When methionine levels were limiting, the amount of the full-length transcript increased. These results substantiate a model of regulation by transcription antitermination.
In the present work, the metabolic consequences of the deletion of the methionine and cysteine biosynthesis repressor protein (McbR) in Corynebacterium glutamicum, which releases almost all enzymes of methionine biosynthesis and sulfate assimilation from transcriptional regulation (D. A. Rey, A. Pühler, and J. Kalinowski, J. Biotechnol. 103:51-65, 2003), were studied. C. glutamicum ATCC 13032 DeltamcbR showed no overproduction of methionine. Metabolome analysis revealed drastic accumulation of a single metabolite, which was not present in the wild type. It was identified by isotopic labeling studies and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry as L-homolanthionine {S-[(3S)-3-amino-3-carboxypropyl]-L-homocysteine}. The accumulation of homolanthionine to an intracellular concentration of 130 mM in the DeltamcbR strain was accompanied by an elevated intracellular homocysteine level. It was shown that cystathionine-gamma-synthase (MetB) produced homolanthionine as a side reaction. MetB showed higher substrate affinity for cysteine (Km = 260 microM) than for homocysteine (Km = 540 microM). The cell is able to cleave homolanthionine at low rates via cystathionine-beta-lyase (MetC). This cleavage opens a novel threonine-independent pathway for isoleucine biosynthesis via 2-oxobutanoate formed by MetC. In fact, the deletion mutant exhibited an increased intracellular isoleucine level. Metabolic flux analysis of C. glutamicum DeltamcbR revealed that only 24% of the O-acetylhomoserine at the entry of the methionine pathway is utilized for methionine biosynthesis; the dominating fraction is either stored as homolanthionine or redirected towards the formation of isoleucine. Deletion of metB completely prevents homolanthionine accumulation, which is regarded as an important step in the development of C. glutamicum strains for biotechnological methionine production.
There are two major pathways for methionine biosynthesis in microorganisms. Little is known about these pathways in Bacillus subtilis. The authors assigned a function to the metI (formerly yjcI) and metC (formerly yjcJ) genes of B. subtilis by complementing Escherichia coli metB and metC mutants, analysing the phenotype of B. subtilis metI and metC mutants, and carrying out enzyme activity assays. These genes encode polypeptides belonging to the cystathionine γ-synthase family of proteins. Interestingly, the MetI protein has both cystathionine γ-synthase and O-acetylhomoserine thiolyase activities, whereas the MetC protein is a cystathionine β-lyase. In B. subtilis, the transsulfuration and the thiolation pathways are functional in vivo. Due to its dual activity, the MetI protein participates in both pathways. The metI and metC genes form an operon, the expression of which is subject to sulfurdependent regulation. When the sulfur source is sulfate or cysteine the transcription of this operon is high. Conversely, when the sulfur source is methionine its transcription is low. An S-box sequence, which is located upstream of the metI gene, is involved in the regulation of the metIC operon. Northern blot experiments demonstrated the existence of two transcripts : a small transcript corresponding to the premature transcription termination at the terminator present in the S-box and a large one corresponding to transcription of the complete metIC operon. When methionine levels were limiting, the amount of the full-length transcript increased. These results substantiate a model of regulation by transcription antitermination.
The cell is able to cleave homolanthionine at low rates via cystathionine-␤-lyase (MetC). This cleavage opens a novel threonine-independent pathway for isoleucine biosynthesis via 2-oxobutanoate formed by MetC. In fact, the deletion mutant exhibited an increased intracellular isoleucine level. Metabolic flux analysis of C. glutamicum ⌬mcbR revealed that only 24% of the O-acetylhomoserine at the entry of the methionine pathway is utilized for methionine biosynthesis; the dominating fraction is either stored as homolanthionine or redirected towards the formation of isoleucine. Deletion of metB completely prevents homolanthionine accumulation, which is regarded as an important step in the development of C. glutamicum strains for biotechnological methionine production.
High hydrostatic pressure (HHP) is successfully applied in several industrial segments, as in vaccine production and food conservation. The response of microorganisms to HHP treatment resemble the responses of other stresses with industrial relevance, like osmotic, temperature and ethanol, which make the HHP a valuable tool in biotechnology research, as in the ethanol production [1]. Amino acids play a key role in central metabolism besides being the building blocks of proteins, and they are important to the HHP stress response. In this study, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae BT0510 was exposed to 50 MPa for 30 min at room temperature, followed by incubation at room pressure with aeration for 15 min. Samples of total RNA were collected every 5 min for transcriptional analysis by DNA microarray technique. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated the upregulation (≥ 2 fold) by HHP treatment of genes related to the sulfur amino acids synthesis, methionine and cysteine. The HHP treatment induced the genes MET3, MET10, MET14 and MET16, which are correlated with the conversion of intracellular sulfate in sulfide. MET2, related to the conversion of homoserine to O-acetylhomoserine, was also induced by HHP, as well as the gene that codes for Met17p, responsible for the incorporation of sulfide in O-acetylhomoserine to form homocysteine, that will be directed to methionine or cysteine synthesis. These amino acids are directly correlated with sulfur assimilation in yeast cells. Methionine is the S-adenosylmethionine precursor, which participates in the biosynthesis of lipids and polyamines, and is also involved in methylation reactions, being a methyl group donor [2,3]. Cysteine is part of iron-sulfur proteins and is the glutathione biosynthesis precursor. Glutathione maintain the redox state in cytoplasm, therefore, playing an important role in cell response to oxidative stress [2,3]. The key gene related to the biosynthesis of methionine (MET6) was upregulated by HHP, while the gene related to the biosynthesis of cysteine (CYS4) was unaffected. Five minutes after pressure release MET6 was repressed. The genes related to the conversion of methionine to S-adenosylmethionine, SAM1 and SAM2, were downregulated. Methionine residues are important against reactive oxygen species (ROS) [4], and genes associated with the reduction of methionine sulfoxide (MXR1 and MXR2) were induced by HHP treatment, suggesting that methionine plays an important role in the reduction of ROS resulting from stress caused by HHP [5]. Concerning the regulation of sulfur amino acids metabolism, MET28 was strongly induced during the entire HHP and post treatment. Other factors, such as the transcription factor encoded by MET4 were not affected by HHP, and also MET30 that negatively regulates Met4p. Met28p appears to play an important role in the biosynthesis of sulfur amino acids in response to HHP. It seems that this protein participates in the Met4 complexes-DNA stabilization. Methionine biosynthesis upregulation is not related to other stresses, such as heat and osmotic stresses, and appears to be specific to HHP, which reinforces the use of this treatment to study the stress response in microorganisms.
A novel regulatory gene, which performs an essential function in sulfur metabolism, has been identified in Corynebacterium ammoniagenes and was designated cmaR (cysteine and methionine regulator in C. ammoniagenes). The cmaR-disrupted strain (DeltacmaR) lost the ability to grow on minimal medium, and was identified as a methionine and cysteine double auxotroph. The mutant strain proved unable to convert cysteine to methionine (and vice versa), and lost the ability to assimilate and reduce sulfate to sulfide. In the DeltacmaR strain, the mRNAs of the methionine biosynthetic genes metYX, metB and metFE were significantly reduced, and the activities of the methionine biosynthetic enzymes cystathionine gamma-synthase, O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, and cystathionine beta-lyase were relatively low, thereby suggesting that the cmaR gene exerts a positive regulatory effect on methionine biosynthetic genes. In addition, with the exception of cysK, reduced transcription levels of the sulfur-assimilatory genes cysIXYZ and cysHDN were noted in the cmaR-disrupted strain, which suggests that sulfur assimilation is also under the positive control of the cmaR gene. Furthermore, the expression of the cmaR gene itself was strongly induced via the addition of cysteine or methionine alone, but not the introduction of both amino acids together to the growth medium. In addition, the expression of the cmaR gene was enhanced in an mcbR-disrupted strain, which suggests that cmaR is under the negative control of McbR, which has been identified as a global regulator of sulfur metabolism. DNA binding of the purified CmaR protein to the promoter region of its target genes could be demonstrated in vitro. No metabolite effector was required for the protein to bind DNA. These results demonstrated that the cmaR gene of C. ammoniagenes plays a role similar to but distinct from that of the functional homologue cysR of Corynebacterium glutamicum.
High hydrostatic pressure (HHP) is successfully applied in several industrial segments, as in vaccine production and food conservation. The response of microorganisms to HHP treatment resemble the responses of other stresses with industrial relevance, like osmotic, temperature and ethanol, which make the HHP a valuable tool in biotechnology research, as in the ethanol production [1]. Amino acids play a key role in central metabolism besides being the building blocks of proteins, and they are important to the HHP stress response. In this study, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae BT0510 was exposed to 50 MPa for 30 min at room temperature, followed by incubation at room pressure with aeration for 15 min. Samples of total RNA were collected every 5 min for transcriptional analysis by DNA microarray technique. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated the upregulation (≥ 2 fold) by HHP treatment of genes related to the sulfur amino acids synthesis, methionine and cysteine. The HHP treatment induced the genes MET3, MET10, MET14 and MET16, which are correlated with the conversion of intracellular sulfate in sulfide. MET2, related to the conversion of homoserine to O-acetylhomoserine, was also induced by HHP, as well as the gene that codes for Met17p, responsible for the incorporation of sulfide in O-acetylhomoserine to form homocysteine, that will be directed to methionine or cysteine synthesis. These amino acids are directly correlated with sulfur assimilation in yeast cells. Methionine is the S-adenosylmethionine precursor, which participates in the biosynthesis of lipids and polyamines, and is also involved in methylation reactions, being a methyl group donor [2, 3] . Cysteine is part of iron-sulfur proteins and is the glutathione biosynthesis precursor.
A novel regulatory gene, which performs an essential function in sulfur metabolism, has been identified in Corynebacterium ammoniagenes and was designated cmaR (cysteine and methionine regulator in C. ammoniagenes). The cmaR-disrupted strain (DcmaR) lost the ability to grow on minimal medium, and was identified as a methionine and cysteine double auxotroph. The mutant strain proved unable to convert cysteine to methionine (and vice versa), and lost the ability to assimilate and reduce sulfate to sulfide. In the DcmaR strain, the mRNAs of the methionine biosynthetic genes metYX, metB and metFE were significantly reduced, and the activities of the methionine biosynthetic enzymes cystathionine c-synthase, O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, and cystathionine b-lyase were relatively low, thereby suggesting that the cmaR gene exerts a positive regulatory effect on methionine biosynthetic genes. In addition, with the exception of cysK, reduced transcription levels of the sulfur-assimilatory genes cysIXYZ and cysHDN were noted in the cmaR-disrupted strain, which suggests that sulfur assimilation is also under the positive control of the cmaR gene. Furthermore, the expression of the cmaR gene itself was strongly induced via the addition of cysteine or methionine alone, but not the introduction of both amino acids together to the growth medium. In addition, the expression of the cmaR gene was enhanced in an mcbR-disrupted strain, which suggests that cmaR is under the negative control of McbR, which has been identified as a global regulator of sulfur metabolism. DNA binding of the purified CmaR protein to the promoter region of its target genes could be demonstrated in vitro. No metabolite effector was required for the protein to bind DNA. These results demonstrated that the cmaR gene of C. ammoniagenes plays a role similar to but distinct from that of the functional homologue cysR of Corynebacterium glutamicum.
Publisher Summary In Brevibacterium flavum, L-methionine is synthesized from L-homoserine via O -acetylhomoserine and L-homocysteine. The formation of L-homocysteine from O -acetyl-L-homoserine is catalyzed by O -acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, in contrast to enteric bacteria and Neurospora, in which L-homocysteine is synthesized through cystathionine formation. . The assay procedure, which uses the nitroprusside reaction to determine homocysteine in the presence of sulfide, is a slight modification of that for O -acetylserine sulfhydrylase described by Kredich and Becker. O -Acetyl-e-homoserine and sulfide are incubated with bacterial extract. The homocysteine formed is converted to a stable S -nitrosothiol derivative by adding nitrous acid, which also stops the reaction. Excess nitrous acid is removed by the addition of ammonium sulfamate, and then mercuric chloride, sulfanilamide, and N -l-naphthylethylenediamine are added. The S -nitrosothiol derivative of homocysteine decomposes in the presence of mercuric ion to give nitrous acid which diazotizes the sulfanilamide. The diazotized sufanilamide couples with naphthylethylenediamine to give the chromophore, an azo dye.
The gene encoding L-methionine gamma-lyase from Pseudomonas putida was cloned and the primary structure of the enzyme was deduced from its nucleotide sequence. The L-methionine gamma-lyase gene was expressed in Escherichia coli. The amino acid sequences of BrCN-digested peptides agreed with the corresponding parts of the L-methionine gamma-lyase sequence determined from the gene structure. The polypeptide is composed of 398 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular weight of 42,626, corresponding to the subunit of the homotetrameric enzyme. The deduced amino acid sequence of L-methionine gamma-lyase only showed extensive homology with other well known alpha,gamma-elimination and/or gamma-replacement pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzymes, such as cystathionine gamma-lyase, cystathionine gamma-synthase, and O-acetylhomoserine O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase, that participate in the biosynthesis of sulfur amino acids. However, the deduced essential cysteine residue of L-methionine gamma-lyase was not conserved in these enzymes. We confirmed the presence of a part of an open reading frame in the 3'-flanking region of the L-methionine gamma-lyase gene, which showed high homology with the N-terminal region of pyruvate dehydrogenase (lipoamide) from E. coli, suggesting that it participates in the degradative pathway for L-methionine together with L-methionine gamma-lyase.
There are differences in organization of sulfur assimilation between sulfur-assimilating organisms. The constituent steps, the enzymes catalysing reduction and the sulfur transfer are not the same among all organisms. The process of sulfur assimilation starts with sulfate uptake by the sulfate transporter being either member of a group of facilitating transporters (Kertesz 2001) or by active transport by high and low affinity sulfate transporter (Buchner et al. 2004; Marzluf 1997) . Since sulfate is an inert molecule, for reduction it has to be activated via adenylation to adenosine 5 0 phosphosulfate (APS) catalysed by ATP sulfurylase (ATPS). In some organisms, such as fungi and many bacteria, a second activation step is required-the phosphorylation of APS with use of APS kinase to form 3 0 phosphoadenosine 5 0 phosphosulfate (PAPS) (Kopriva and Koprivova 2004) . The reduction of activated sulfate consists of two steps. First, APS or PAPS is reduced to sulfite by APS or PAPS reductases, respectively. In the successive step, sulfite is reduced to sulfide by a sulfite reductase (SiR). In plants and bacteria, O-acetylserine-(thiol)lyase (OASTL) transfers sulfide to the amino acid skeleton of O-acetylserine (OAS) to form cysteine. In fungi and bacteria, O-acetylhomoserine and O-succinylhomoserine, respectively, can be directly sulfhydrylated to form homocysteine, the precursor of methionine (Rowbury and Woods 1964; Foglino et al. 1995; Park et al. 1998; Kerr and Flavin 1970) .
The predictions of genes encoding enzymes of the sulfate uptake, assimilation and methionine synthesis were used to set up a model proposing the diatomal assimilatory pathways of sulfate reduction. In the model, sulfate is Fig. 7 The model of sulfate assimilation and methionine synthesis in Thalassiosira pseudonana. Dashed lines are used to mark alternative pathways. The numbers correspond to diatomal enzymes: (1) sulfate transporter/ permease; (2) ATP sulfurylase; (3) APS reductase; (4) sulfite reductase; (5) OAS (thiol)lyase; (6) cystathionine c-synthase and/or -lyase; (7) cystathionine b-lyase and/or -synthase; (8) O-acetylhomoserine (thiol)lyase; (9) methionine synthase; (10) SAM synthetase transported into the diatomal cell via permease-like transporters (Fig. 7) which is subsequently transported into plastids. Sulfate is activated by adenylation performed by ATP sulfurylase (2AB). Whether the tripartite SKP enzyme catalyses phosphorylation of APS in plastids is not clear. APS is reduced by APS reductase, which contains thioredoxin domain at the C-terminus (3AB). Sulfite is then reduced by sulfite reductase (SiR) yielding sulfide (4AB). Cysteine (Cys) is synthesized by the co-operation of OASTL (5AB) and SAT, which delivers the other substrate, O-acetylserine. Sulfide can pass the membranes of plastids and therefore, to protect mitochondria from H 2 S toxicity, cysteine is also synthesized in other compartments (e.g. Krueger et al. 2009) . From this point onwards our models depict alternative pathways. In plastids, the sulfide moiety of cysteine reacts with a carbon backbone such as O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) or O-phosphohomoserine (OPH) as used in other organisms to finally form methionine. To prove the model, further biochemical studies have to be performed. Besides understanding the regulatory node of this pathway, the cross talk between different compartments with respect to exchange of metabolites such as pathway intermediates and synthesis of other S-containing compounds needs to be analyzed. Finally, although evidence is provided that in algae comparable sulfur metabolism occurs, the knowledge about the physiology is still unclear and need to be explored further.
Mutants defective in O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAH-SHLase) were obtained in five yeast strains representative of different yeast genera: Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Kluyveromyces lactis, Yarrowia lipolytica, Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Trichosporon cutaneum. In vitro, in all five strains, the enzyme also had O-acetylserine (OAS) sulfhydrylase activity so it is a ‘bifunctional’ OAH/OAS-SHLase (Yamagata, 1989). The enzyme was only found to be essential in S. cerevisiae (OAH SHLase-negative mutants are auxotrophs). Its impairment in K. lactis caused a slower growth rate and a decrease of the sulfur amino acid pool. In T. cutaneum only the pool was affected whereas in Y. lipolytica and S. pombe the lesion caused no change in the growth rate nor in the pool. In all strains where OAH SHLase-negative mutants were prototrophs, a monofunctional OAS sulfhydrylase was detected. The results indicate that OAH SHLase may play different physiological roles in various yeasts.
Pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent enzymes catalyze manifold reactions in the metabolism of amino acids. A comprehensive comparison of amino acid sequences has shown that most of these enzymes can be assigned to one of three different families of homologous proteins. The sequences of the enzymes of each family were aligned and their homology confirmed by profile analysis. Scrutiny of the reactions catalyzed by the enzymes showed that their affiliation with one of the three structurally defined families correlates in most cases with their regio-specificity. In the largest family, the covalency changes of the substrate occur at the same carbon atom that carries the amino group forming the imine linkage with the coenzyme. This family was thus named alpha family. It comprises glycine hydroxymethyltransferase, glycine C-acetyltransferase, 5-aminolevulinate synthase, 8-amino-7-oxononanoate synthase, all aminotransferases (with the possible exception of subgroup III), a number of other enzymes relatively closely related with the aminotransferases and very likely a certain group of amino acid decarboxylases as well as tryptophanase and tyrosine phenol-lyase which, however, catalyze beta-elimination reactions. The beta family includes L- and D-serine dehydratase, threonine dehydratase, the beta subunit of tryptophan synthase, threonine synthase and cysteine synthase. These enzymes catalyze beta-replacement or beta-elimination reactions. The gamma family incorporates O-succinylhomoserine (thiol-lyase, O-acetylhomoserine (thiol)-lyase, and cystathionine gamma-lyase, which catalyze gamma-replacement or gamma-elimination reactions, as well as cystathionine beta-lyase. The alpha and gamma family might be distantly related with one another, but are clearly not homologous with the beta family. Apparently, the primordial pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent enzymes were regio-specific catalysts, which first specialized for reaction specificity and then for substrate specificity. The following pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent enzymes seem to be unrelated with the alpha, beta or gamma family by the criterion of profile analysis:alanine racemase, selenocysteine synthase, and many amino acid decarboxylases. These enzymes may represent yet other families of B6 enzymes.
Background: Methanol is present in most ecosystems and may also occur in industrial applications, e.g. as an impurity of carbon sources such as technical glycerol. Methanol often inhibits growth of bacteria, thus, methanol tolerance may limit fermentative production processes. Results: The methanol tolerance of the amino acid producing soil bacterium Corynebacterium glutamicum was improved by experimental evolution in the presence of methanol. The resulting strain Tol1 exhibited significantly increased growth rates in the presence of up to 1 M methanol. However, neither transcriptional changes nor increased enzyme activities of the linear methanol oxidation pathway were observed, which was in accordance with the finding that tolerance to the downstream metabolites formaldehyde and formate was not improved. Genome sequence analysis of strain Tol1 revealed two point mutations potentially relevant to enhanced methanol tolerance: one leading to the amino acid exchange A165T of O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrolase MetY and the other leading to shortened CoA transferase Cat (Q342*). Introduction of either mutation into the genome of C. glutamicum wild type increased methanol tolerance and introduction of both mutations into C. glutamicum was sufficient to achieve methanol tolerance almost indistinguishable from that of strain Tol1. Conclusion: The methanol tolerance of C. glutamicum can be increased by two point mutations leading to amino acid exchange of O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrolase MetY and shortened CoA transferase Cat. Introduction of these mutations into producer strains may be helpful when using carbon sources containing methanol as component or impurity.
Sulfite plays an important role in beer flavor stability. Although breeding of bottom-fermenting Saccharomyces strains that produce high levels of SO2 is desirable, it is complicated by the fact that undesirable H2S is produced as an intermediate in the same pathway. Here, we report the development of a high-level SO2-producing bottom-fermenting yeast strain by integrated metabolome and transcriptome analysis. This analysis revealed that O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) is the rate-limiting factor for the production of SO2 and H2S. Appropriate genetic modifications were then introduced into a prototype strain to increase metabolic fluxes from aspartate to OAH and from sulfate to SO2, resulting in high SO2 and low H2S production. Spontaneous mutants of an industrial strain that were resistant to both methionine and threonine analogs were then analyzed for similar metabolic fluxes. One promising mutant produced much higher levels of SO2 than the parent but produced parental levels of H2S.
The Yeast Metabolic Model 7.6 [1] was chosen for this study because it is the most complete and up-to-date model available, and because it was shown to have equal or better prediction power when compared to other yeast models [2] (for a comparison between biomass pseudo-reactions from recent models, see SI Table A8 ). Due to the presence of knockouts in the strain used in the SD medium experiments (namely the proteomics and growth rate distribution experiments on which this work relies [3, 4] ), when simulated under these conditions the model was changed accordingly. The strain in question is BY4741 (or ATCC 201388) with the following genotype: MATa, his3∆1, leu2∆0, met15∆0, ura3∆0. In our model, the genes YCL018W, YLR303W, YEL021W were inactivated, leading to zero flux being allowed through five reactions: 3-isopropylmalate dehydrogenase (r 0061), cysteine synthase (r 0312), O-acetylhomoserine (thiol)-lyase (r 0812, and r 0813) and orotidine-5-phosphate decarboxylase (r 0821). The histidine biosynthesis knockout is recovered when GFP is tagged to any protein, so the gene YOR202W was kept active.
Out of 27 strains of methionine auxotrophs of Brevibacterium flavum, 14 strains did not grow on homoserine but grew on O-acetylhomoserine, and all were found to lack homoserine O-acetyltransferase [EC 2.3.1.31] alone. Another 3 strains did not grow on O-acetylhomoserine but grew on homocysteine, and the two strains tested were found to lack O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (AHS) alone, without any changes in the activities of cystathionine gamma-synthase [EC4.2.99.9] and beta-cystathionase [EC 4.4.1.8]. Prototrophic revertants of the AHS-lacking mutants showed concomitant reversion of AHS activity. None of the methionine auxotrophs grew on cystathionine. From these results it was concluded that the methionine biosynthetic pathway of this bacterium involves formation of O-acetylhomoserine from homoserine by the action of homoserine O-acetyltransferase, and direct formation of homocysteine from O-acetylhomoserine by the AHS reaction. AHS synthesis was strongly repressed by methionine. AHS was purified to 70% purity. The purified preparation was activated by pyridoxal phosphate after treatment with hydroxylamine. The enzyme showed a molecular weight of 360,000, an optimum pH of 8.7 for activity, and specifically reacted with O-acetyl-L-homoserine and showed with O-acetyl-L-serine one hundredth as much activity as that with O-acetylo -homoserine, but did not show activity with O-succinyl-L-homoserine, homoserine, or serine. The Km values for O-acetylhomoserine and H2S were 2.0 mM and 0.08 mM, respectively. The enzyme was inhibited 50, 23. and 29% by 10 mM L-methionine, l-homoserine, and O-acetyl-L-serine, respectively, but it was not inhibited by cystathionine or S-adenosyl-L-methionine.
Abstract Regulation of the two enzymes in reverse trans-sulfuration was investigated in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In wild-type strains, cystathionine gamma-lyase, but not cystathionine beta-synthase, was depressed nearly 15-fold if cells were starved for both inorganic and organic sulfur compounds. In a met17 strain which is defective of O-acetylserine and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, the same enzyme was derepressed if organic sulfur compounds were limited; the repressive effect was in the order of glutathione greater than methionine greater than cysteine. The repressive effect of methionine was not observed, however, in a cys2 cys4 strain which is deficient of serine O-acetyltransferase and cystathionine beta-synthase, indicating that methionine itself is not the effector. The weak repressive effect of cysteine was attributed to inefficient uptake of this amino acid. Our observations indicate that cystathionine gamma-lyase is the target of regulation in reverse trans-sulfuration and that cysteine is very likely to be the effector of this regulation.
Loline alkaloids (LA), which are 1-aminopyrrolizidines with an oxygen bridge, are produced by Epichloe (anamorph=Neotyphodium) species, endophytes of grasses. LA are insecticidal, thus, helping to protect host plants from insect herbivory. The objective of this study was to identify genes associated with LA biosynthesis. Suppression subtractive hybridization PCR was used to isolate transcripts up-regulated during LA production in cultures of Neotyphodium uncinatum. Subtracted cDNAs were cloned and a λ-phage cDNA library from an LA-expressing N. uncinatum culture was screened with subtracted cDNA. In BLAST searches, several cDNAs identified had sequence similarities to aspartate kinases and another with O-acetylhomoserine-(thiol)lyase. Differential expression of these two genes in LA-producing cultures of N. uncinatum was confirmed and in a survey of 23 isolates from 21 Neotyphodium and Epichloe species these two genes strictly correlated with LA production. These findings open up the possibility for detailed studies on genes and enzymes involved in LA production.
Cystathionine synthesis from O-acetylhomoserine and cysteine has been demonstrated in yeast extracts for the first time. The activity is less than that of O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, but it is higher than that reported for homoserine O-transacetylase and therefore should not be growth limiting. Cystathionine synthase seems to share the regulatory properties of the sulfhydrylase, and both activities are missing from the methionine auxotroph Saccharomyces cerevisiae EY9, suggesting that both reactions are catalyzed by the same enzyme. However, cystathionine synthase activity was lost during purification of the sulfhydrylase, suggesting that the two reactions may be catalyzed by separate enzymes. Since previous studies have shown that yeast extracts can catalyze the cleavage of cystathionine to homocysteine, our results show the existence of two complete alternate pathways for homocysteine biosynthesis in yeast. Which of these is the major physiological pathway remains to be determined.
We cloned the MET 17 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae by functional complementation after transformation of a yeast met 17 mutant. Restriction mapping and nucleotide sequencing of the MET 17 clones revealed that these were from the same genomic region as clones isolated previously and shown to contain the MET 25 gene encoding the enzyme O-acetylhomoserine, O-acetylserine sulphydrylase (OAH-OAS sulphydrylase). Transformation studies with MET 25 clones showed that the MET 17 and MET 25 functions were both endoced in a single transcription unit. We conclude that met 17 and met 25 are both mutations in the structural gene for the OAH-OAS sulphydrylase subunit and that each affects a different functional domain of the enzyme allowing subunit complementation in the met 17 X met 25 diploid. Enzyme assays indicated that the diploid, although not requiring methionine, had a low OAH-OAS sulphydrylase activity (10% of wild type). This is consistent with MET 17 and MET 25 being the same gene. We found that both met 17 and met 25 mutants were devoid of 3' phospho-adenosine 5' phospho-sulphite (PAPS) reductase activity and that this activity was fully restored in the met 17 X met 25 diploid. The possible interactions between OAH-OAS sulphydrylase and PAPS reductase are discussed.
Abstract An enzyme catalyzing the synthesis of l-cystathionine from the succinyl ester of l-homoserine and l-cysteine was isolated from a Salmonella mutant blocked in another step of methionine synthesis, and derepressed for cystathionine γ-synthetase formation. The approximate molecular weight of the enzyme was 155,000 and it was unchanged after removal of tightly bound pyridoxal phosphate. In the absence of cysteine the same enzyme catalyzed the formation of α-ketobutyrate from O-succinyl-l-homoserine. This γ elimination reaction was relatively slow, although the Km for succinylhomoserine was much lower than in the presence of cysteine. β-Mercaptopropionate inhibited elimination, as did other mercaptans with α-, β-, or γ-carboxyl group, without changing the Km for succinylhomoserine; none of the mercaptans tested could replace l-cysteine as substrate. Only O-acetylhomoserine was found able to replace succinylhomoserine. N-Ethylmaleimide had been shown to trap an intermediary precursor of α-ketobutyrate during decomposition of succinylhomoserine catalyzed by another enzyme. This trapping reaction was shown to occur to a much smaller extent when the same reaction was catalyzed by cystathionine γ-synthetase.
In this study, the phosphoproteome of Corynebacterium glutamicum, an industrially important soil bacterium of the Corynebacterium/Mycobacterium/Nocardia (CMN) group of Gram-positive bacteria, was investigated by two different detection methods: first, by in vivo radio-labeling using [(33)P]-phosphoric acid with subsequent autoradiography and second, by immunostaining with phosphoamino acid-specific monoclonal antibodies. After two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), around 60 [(33)P]-labeled protein spots were visualized and around 90 antibody-decorated protein spots detected; 31 of the protein spots were detected with both methods. By peptide mass fingerprinting, 41 different proteins were identified, namely 5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase, aconitase, acyl-CoA carboxylase, acyl-CoA synthetase, ATP (synthase alpha- and beta-chain), carbamoyl-phosphate synthase, citrate synthase, cysteine synthase, DnaK, the elongation factors G, P, Ts and Tu, enolase, fructose bisphosphate aldolase, fumarase, Gap dehydrogenase, glutamine synthetase I, glycine hydroxymethyltransferase, GroEL2, GTPase, heat-inducible transcriptional repressor DnaJ2, inorganic pyrophosphatase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, ketol-acid reductoisomerase, lactate dehydrogenase, leucine-tRNA ligase, lipoamide dehydrogenase, methionine synthase, O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, pyruvate carboxylase, pyruvate kinase, pyruvate oxidase, ribosomal protein S1, RNA polymerase (beta-subunit), succinyl-CoA:CoA transferase, transketolase and UDP-N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine ligase, besides a hypothetical 35k protein and a hypothetical glucose kinase. Both detection techniques were used to create a phosphoproteome map. Additionally, the influence of nitrogen deprivation on the phosphoproteome of C. glutamicum was investigated.
(AdoMet) inthegrowth medium.We identified ciselements required forMET25expression byanalyzing small deletions intheMET25promoter region. The results revealed aregulatory region, acting asanupstream activation site, thatactivated transcription of MET25intheabsence ofmethionine orAdoMet. We foundthat, forthemostpart, repression ofMET25 expression wasduetoalack ofactivation atthis site, reinforced byanindependent repression mechanism. The activation region contained arepeated dyadsequence thatisalsofoundinthepromoter regions ofother unlinked butcoordinately regulated genes (MET3, MET2,andSAM2).Weshowthatthepresence ofthetwo dyadsisnecessary formaximalgeneexpression. Moreover, we demonstrate thatinaddition tothis transcriptional regulation, aposttranscriptional regulation, probably targeted atthe5'region ofmRNA,is involved inMET25expression. Synthesis oftheenzymesofmethionine metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae isrepressed during growth inthe presence ofmethionine. Thisaminoacidistransformed rapidly intoS-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet), andwehave previously shownthatexternally addedAdoMetpromotes repression ofsynthesis ofthesameenzymes asdoesmethionine(5). Further studies haveshownthatintracellular AdoMetisthetrueeffector ofthisnegative regulation; therefore, itcanbeconsidered theendproduct ofthe methionine pathway (5,6,27). AsshownbyCantoni (2), AdoMetisaubiquitous metabolite involved inalmost asmanyreactions asATP.The precise balance oftheinternal poolofAdoMetistherefore probably crucial forthecell, andthis balance isevidently duetotheregulation ofAdoMetbiosynthesis. Aninteresting feature ofAdoMetmetabolism isthat S.cerevisiae isable to resynthesize methionine frommetabolites resulting from AdoMetutilization. Twopathways areknowntosynthesize methionione fromAdoMetinyeast cells; thefirst leads from S-adenosylhomocysteine (resulting fromthedemethylation ofAdoMet) tohomocysteine andthentomethionine, andthe second leads directly tomethionine from5'-methylthioadenosine (produced fromAdoMetmainly inthebiosynthesis of polyamines). Asemphasized byTaboretal.(26), inEscherichia coli about 90%ofintracellular AdoMetisinvolved in methylation. Ifthesamefigure applies inthecaseofS. cerevisiae, thecyclebacktomethionine fromAdoMet would gomainly bytheintermediary ofS-adenosylhomocysteine andhomocysteine. Thesesalvage pathways areof interest because theywouldallowthecell tobypass the sulfate assimilation pathway, whichrequires ahigh expenditure ofenergy. Thiswouldrequire thatthedenovo synthesis ofmethionine fromitsconstituents betightly regulated. Homocysteine isthebranch point ofthebiosynthesis ofmethionine andAdoMetfromO-acetylhomoserine on theonehandandofthemainsalvage pathway to methionine fromAdoMetontheother hand. Thedenovo formation ofhomocysteine fromO-acetylhomoserine
It is well established that in microorganisms other than a few enteric bacteria O-acetyl-L-homoserine is an essential member of the biosynthetic pathway from L-homoserine to L-methionine (9, 23). In many cases, O-acetylhomoserine synthesizes cystathionine with L-cysteine through the cystathionine y-synthase reaction. Cystathionine is then cleaved through the .-cystathionase reaction to produce L-homocysteine. Butin some microorganisms, O-acetylhomoserine can also be sulfhydrylated with H2S through catalysis by O-acetylhomnoserine sulfhydrylase, giving rise to Lhomocysteine directly (7, 17, 19, 20, 30, 31) .
The enzyme homoserine O-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3. 1.31), which catalyzes transfer of the acetyl group from acetyl coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) to the 0 atom of homoserine (see equation 1 below), also catalyzes the acetyl exchange reaction between O-acetylhomoserine and [14C]homoserine (see equation 2) (9, 23).
Chemicals and other materials. Synthesis of O-acetyl-Lamino acids (21) and purification of O-acetylserine-O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase of S. cerevisiae (29) were carried out as described elsewhere. DEAE-cellulose (DE-52; Whatman), Sephadex G-150 (Pharmacia Fine Chemicals), Phenyl-Sepharose C1-4B (Pharmacia), and carrier ampholite (pH 3.5 to 5.0; LKB Produkter) were obtained commercially. Bovine liver catalase,
Methylmercury-resistant mutants were obtained from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. They were divided into two complementation groups, met2 (homoserine O-acetyltransferase deficiency) and met15 (enzyme deficiency unknown), as reported previously. It was found that met15 was allelic to met17 (O-acetylserine and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase deficiency). Methylmercury toxicity was counteracted by exogenously added HS{sup {minus}}, and both met12 and met17 (met15) mutants overproduced H{sub 2}S. On the basis of these results, the authors conclude that met2 and met17 (met15) cause accumulation of hydrosulfide ions in the cell and that the increased level of hydrosulfide is responsible for detoxification of methylmercury.
Abstract We have previously reported ( Giovanelli and Mudd, 1967 ) the synthesis of homocysteine and cysteine by extracts of spinach via the following reactions: O-acetylhomoserine + sulfide → homocysteine + acetate (1) O-acetylserine + sulfide → cystein + acetate (2) In this communication the biosynthesis of methionine, ethionine, S-methylcysteine and S-ethylcysteine is shown to proceed when sulfide is replaced by methylmercaptan or ethylmercaptan: O-acetylhomoserine + methylmercaptan → methionine + acetate (1′) O-acetylhomoserine + ethylmercaptan → ethionine + acetate (1″) O-acetylserine + methylmercaptan →S-methylcystein + acetate (2′) O-acetylserine + ethylmercaptan →S-ethylcystein + acetate (1″) The term “sulfuration” is used to describe the general process of sulfur incorporation, as illustrated by the above reactions. It is further shown that two separable enzyme fractions (A and B) catalyze these reactions. At the stage of purification attained, fraction A is active with both O-acetylhomoserine and O-acetylserine. Fraction B is active with O-acetylserine only.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the methods of preparation of Homoserine Transacetylase ( Neurospora ). O -Acetylhomoserine is converted by mild alkaline treatment to N-acetylhomoserine. Starting with radioactive homoserine the resulting radioactive N-acetylhomoserine can readily be separated as it is not retained by Dowex 50-H. This method can be used to assay both activities of the enzyme: (1) synthesis of O-acetylhomoserine from radioactive homoserine and acetyl-CoA (reaction 1), and (2) exchange of radioactive homoserine into O -acetylhomoserine(reaction 2). The exchange reaction indicates that the overall synthesis included two partial reactions in which acetyl enzyme is the intermediate. The homoserine transsuccinylase of Salmonella can be assayed in the same way, substituting succinyl-CoA for acetyl-CoA or succinylhomoserine for acetylhomoserine. Serine transacetylase could also be assayed by this method, but at least in bacterial extracts it has been more readily assayed by disappearance of acetyl-CoA. One unit of enzyme catalyzes the acetylation of 1 micromole of homoserine per minute. Specific activity is expressed as units per milligram of protein, determined by a turbidimetric method.
Abstract "Activated" forms of l-homoserine have been shown to be more readily utilized as substrates than homoserine for the homocysteine synthetases (enzymes which catalyze the formation of homocysteine from homoserine and sulfide in the presence of pyridoxal phosphate) of Neurospora crassa, yeast, and Escherichia coli KB. This substrate preference is shown by the increased specific activities of the enzyme reactions. Specificity for the type of acylated derivative of homoserine is apparent. Enzymes from the fungi preferentially utilize O-acetyl-l-homoserine, and the enzyme from the bacterium requires O-succinyl-l-homoserine. Methionineless mutants of Neurospora contain homocysteine synthetases with specific activities nearly equivalent to those of the wild type when the substrate is O-acetylhomoserine. End product feedback inhibition by l-methionine on the homocysteine synthetases, when the substrates used were acyl derivatives of homoserine, is described for the enzymes from Neurospora and yeast, but was not demonstrated with the enzyme from E. coli. O-Acetyl-l-serine is a required substrate for cysteine synthesis by an enzyme from E. coli KB. Some preference for O-acetylserine was exhibited by the enzyme from yeast; however, cysteine synthetase from Neurospora showed no marked preference for this compound over serine.
In an effort to thwart bacterial pathogens, hosts often limit the availability of nutrients at the site of infection. This limitation can alter the abundances of key metabolites to which regulatory factors respond, adjusting cellular metabolism. In recent years, a number of proteins and RNA have emerged as important regulators of virulence gene expression. For example, the CodY protein responds to levels of branched-chain amino acids and GTP and is widely conserved in low G+C Gram-positive bacteria. As a global regulator in Staphylococcus aureus, CodY controls the expression of dozens of virulence and metabolic genes. We hypothesize that S. aureus uses CodY, in part, to alter its metabolic state in an effort to adapt to nutrient-limiting conditions potentially encountered in the host environment. This manuscript describes a method for extracting and analyzing metabolites from S. aureus using liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry, a protocol that was developed to test this hypothesis. The method also highlights best practices that will ensure rigor and reproducibility, such as maintaining biological steady state and constant aeration without the use of continuous chemostat cultures. Relative to the USA200 methicillin-susceptible S. aureus isolate UAMS-1 parental strain, the isogenic codY mutant exhibited significant increases in amino acids derived from aspartate (e.g., threonine and isoleucine) and decreases in their precursors (e.g., aspartate and O-acetylhomoserine). These findings correlate well with transcriptional data obtained with RNA-seq analysis: genes in these pathways were up-regulated between 10- and 800-fold in the codY null mutant. Coupling global analyses of the transcriptome and the metabolome can reveal how bacteria alter their metabolism when faced with environmental or nutritional stress, providing potential insight into the physiological changes associated with nutrient depletion experienced during infection. Such discoveries may pave the way for the development of novel anti-infectives and therapeutics.
It was found that in Aspergillus nidulans the enzymes of the sulfate assimilation pathway and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase are under cysteine- and/or homocysteine, but not methionine- or S-adenosylmethionine-mediated regulation. These enzymes are repressed when the cells are grown in the presence of cysteine or homocysteine even in conditions where cysteine cannot be a precursor of homocysteine and vice versa. This was demonstrated by using mutants with impaired cystathionine cleavage enzymes. Thus, these two amino acids can substitute each other as the regulatory effectors. The addition of methionine causes repression only in conditions when it can be metabolized to homocysteine. The mutant cysA1 with a block at the serine transacetylase step is a prototroph owing to the existence of an alternative pathway for cysteine synthesis involving the enzymes: homocysteine synthase, cystathionine β-synthase and γ-cystathionase. All the three enzymes as well as those of the sulfate assimilation pathway are derepressed in this mutant. CysA1 mutation supresses the meth55 mutant blocked at β-cystathionase owing to the derepression of homocysteine synthase, so that the cystathionine cleavage step is bypassed. The results indicate that the pathway involving cystathionine formation is the main one for methionine biosynthesis in A. nidulans. The pathway involving homocysteine synthase is an alternative-conditional one, physiologically effective only when this enzyme is derepressed.
We here describe enzymatic synthesis of various optically active amino acids from cheaply available starting materials with microbial pyridoxal 5′ - phosphate enzymes such as methionine γ-lyase, tryptophan synthase and O-acetylhomoserine(thiol)lyase.
O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAH SHLase) from Aspergillus nidulans is an oligomeric protein with a broad substrate specificity with regard to sulfhydryl compounds. As its Saccharomyces cerevisiae counterpart the enzyme also reacts with O-acetylserine and is inhibited by carbonyl reagents but not by antiserum raised against the yeast enzyme. In contrast to Saccharomyces cerevisiae the enzyme is not essential for Aspergillus nidulans as indicated by the completely prototrophic phenotype of OAH SHLase-negative mutants. Its major physiological role in Aspergillus nidulans seems to be recycling of the thiomethyl group of methylthio-adenosine but it is also a constituent of the alternative pathway of cysteine synthesis.
The fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe has a unique organization of sulfur amino acid metabolism: it has two distinct O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylases (homocysteine synthases). Similar to Enterobacteriaceae, S. pombe lacks cystathionine β-synthase and cystathionine γ-lyase - the enzymes of the reverse transsulfuration pathway, by which methionine is readily metabolized to cysteine - a likely effector in the sulfur metabolite repression system. Consequently no repression of sulfate assimilation is observed when methionine is added to the growth medium.
UNLABELLED ::: Proteomic analysis by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2D)-mass spectrometry was used to identify differentially expressed proteins in the Clostridium sp. native strain (IBUN 158B) in two phases of the 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) production (lag phase and exponential growth phase). Intracellular protein fraction extraction conditions were standardised, as well as the 2D electrophoresis. Differences were found between both of the growth phases evaluated here. Thirty-two of the differentially expressed proteins were chosen to be identified by tandem mass spectrometry (MALDI TOF/TOF). The presence of four enzymes implicated in the 1,3-PD metabolic pathway was recorded: one from the reductive route (1,3-propanediol dehydrogenase) and three from the oxidative route (3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, NADPH-dependent butanol dehydrogenase and phosphate butyryl transferase). The following enzymes which have not been previously reported for Clostridium sp., were also identified: phosphoglycerate kinase, glucose 6-phosphate isomerase, deoxyribose phosphate aldolase, transketolase, cysteine synthetase, O-acetylhomoserine sulphhydrylase, glycyl-tRNA ligase, aspartate-β-semialdehyde dehydrogenase, inosine-5-monophosphate dehydrogenase, aconitate hydratase and the PrsA protein. The foregoing provides a novel contribution towards knowledge of the native strain for the purpose of designing genetic manipulation strategies to obtain strains with high production of 1,3-PD. ::: ::: ::: BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE ::: The article "Protein identification in two phases of 1,3-propanediol production by proteomic analysis" provides a novel contribution towards knowledge regarding the Colombian Clostridium sp. native strain (IBUN 158B) because this is a new approximation in comparative proteomics in two phases of the bacterial growth and 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) production conditions. The proteomic studies are very important to identify the enzymes that are expressed at different stages of production and therefore genes of interest in the genetic manipulation strategies; the results can be taken into account in future studies in metabolic engineering when optimising 1,3-PD production, in a cost-effective process having direct industrial applications.
Purification of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cystathionine γ-lyase (γ-CTLase) was hampered by the presence of a protein migrating very close to it in various types of column chromatography. The enzyme and the contaminant were nevertheless separated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. N-terminal amino acid sequence analysis indicated that they are coded for by CYS3(CYI1) and MET17(MET25), respectively, leading to the conclusion that CYS3 is the structural gene for γ-CTLase and that the contaminant is O-acetylserine/O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAS/OAH SHLase). Based on these findings, we purified γ-CTLase by the following strategy: (1) extraction of OAS/OAH SHLase from a CYS3-disrupted strain; (2) preparation of antiserum against it; (3) identification of a strain devoid of the OAS/OAH SHLase protein using this antiserum; and (4) extraction of γ-CTLase from this strain. Purified γ-CTLase had cystathionine γ-synthase (γ-CTSase) activity if O-succinylhomoserine, but not O-acetylhomoserine, was used as substrate. From this notion we discuss the evolutional relationship between S. cerevisiae γ-CTLase and Escherichia coli γ-CTSase.
We elucidated a unique feature of sulfur metabolism in Cryptococcus neoformans. C. neoformans produces cysteine solely by the O-acetylserine pathway that consists of serine-O-acetyl transferase and cysteine synthase. We designated the gene encoding the former enzyme CYS2 (locus tag CNE02740) and the latter enzyme CYS1 (locus tag CNL05880). The cys1Δmutant strain was found to be avirulent in a murine infection model. Methionine practically does not support growth of the cys1Δ strain, and cysteine does not serve as a methionine source, indicating that the transsulfuration pathway does not contribute to sulfur amino acid synthesis in C. neoformans. Among the genes encoding enzymes catalyzing the reactions from homoserine to methionine, the gene corresponding to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae MET17 encoding O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (Met17p) had remained to be identified in C. neoformans. By genetic analysis of Met− mutants obtained by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated mutagenesis, we concluded that Cnc01220, most similar to Str2p (36% identity), cystathionine-γ-synthase, in the Saccharomyces genome, is the C. neoformans version of O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase. We designated CNC01220 as MET17. The C. neoformans met3Δ mutant defective in the first step of the sulfate assimilation pathway, sulfate adenylyltransferase, barely uses methionine as a sulfur source, whereas it uses cysteine efficiently. The poor utilization of methionine by the met3Δ mutant is most probably due to the absence of the transsulfuration pathway, causing an incapability of C. neoformans to produce cysteine and hydrogen sulfide from methionine. When cysteine is used as a sulfur source, methionine is likely produced de novo by using hydrogen sulfide derived from cysteine via an unidentified pathway. Altogether, the unique features of sulfur amino acid metabolism in C. neoformans will make this fungus a valuable experimental system to develop anti-fungal agents and to investigate physiology of hydrogen sulfide.
cysA− mutants of Aspergillus nidulans lacking serine transacetylase were isolated. cysA− mutants are cysteine auxotrophs only when a second mutation either blocking cystathionine β-synthase (mecA−) or γ-cystathionase (mecB−) is present. These findings prove that homocysteine originating from O-acetylhomoserine and sulfide can be converted not only to methionine, but also to cysteine via the reverse trans-sulfurylation pathway.
The gene (cefG) encoding the acetyl coenzyme A:deacetylcephalosporin C acetyltransferase of Cephalosporium acremonium (synonym Acremonium chrysogenum) C10 has been cloned. It contains two introns and encodes a protein of 444 amino acids with an M(r) of 49,269 that correlates well with the M(r) deduced by gel filtration. The cefG gene is linked to the cefEF gene (encoding the bifunctional deacetoxycephalosporin C synthase/hydroxylase), but it is expressed in an orientation opposite that of the cefEF gene. Two transcripts of 1.2 and 1.4 kb were found in C. acremonium that correspond to the cefEF and cefG genes, respectively; the degree of expression of the cefG gene was clearly lower than that of the cefEF gene in 48-h cultures. The cloned cefG complemented the deficiency of deacetylcephalosporin acetyltransferase in the nonproducer mutant C. acremonium ATCC 20371 and restored cephalosporin biosynthesis in this strain. Heterologous expression of the cefG genes took place in Penicillium chrysogenum. The deacetylcephalosporin acetyltransferase showed a much higher degree of homology with the O-acetylhomoserine acetyltransferases of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Ascobolus immersus than with other O-acetyltransferases. The cefEF-cefG cluster of genes encodes the enzymes that carry out the three late steps of the cephalosporin biosynthetic pathway and is not linked to the pcbAB-pcbC gene cluster that encodes the first two steps of the pathway.
Another set of biological sequences to use as a test case was generated from housekeeping genes and a known pair of paralogs in Epichloë species and related plant symbionts and parasites in the fungal family Clavicipitaceae. We previously reported sequencing, annotation, and the identification of orthologs in genome of Epichloë amarillans strain E57, E. brachyelytri E4804, E. festucae strains E2368 and Fl1, E. glyceriae E277, E. poae As the expected phylogenetic outlier, we compiled two known paralogous proteins, namely, LolC (which catalyzes synthesis of a loline alkaloid intermediate), and the very closely related O-acetylhomoserine(thiol)-lyase (CysD, which scavenges H2S for synthesis of a methionine intermediate) (Spiering et al. 2005) . Of the 13 fungal strains, three had lolC genes but not cysD, nine had cysD but not lolC, and one (E. glyceriae E277) had both genes. Both LolC/CysD datasets had one sequence from each strain, but they differed in containing either LolC or CysD from E. glyceriae.
Commercial isolates of Saccharomyces cerevisiae differ in the production of hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) during fermentation, which has been attributed to variation in the ability to incorporate reduced sulfur into organic compounds. We transformed two commercial strains (UCD522 and UCD713) with a plasmid overexpressing the MET17 gene, which encodes the bifunctional O-acetylserine/O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (OAS/OAH SHLase), to test the hypothesis that the level of activity of this enzyme limits reduced sulfur incorporation, leading to H(2)S release. Overexpression of MET17 resulted in a 10- to 70-fold increase in OAS/OAH SHLase activity in UCD522 but had no impact on the level of H(2)S produced. In contrast, OAS/OAH SHLase activity was not as highly expressed in transformants of UCD713 (0.5- to 10-fold) but resulted in greatly reduced H(2)S formation. Overexpression of OAS/OAH SHLase activity was greater in UCD713 when grown under low-nitrogen conditions, but the impact on reduction of H(2)S was greater under high-nitrogen conditions. Thus, there was not a good correlation between the level of enzyme activity and H(2)S production. We measured cellular levels of cysteine to determine the impact of overexpression of OAS/OAH SHLase activity on sulfur incorporation. While Met17p activity was not correlated with increased cysteine production, conditions that led to elevated cytoplasmic levels of cysteine also reduced H(2)S formation. Our data do not support the simple hypothesis that variation in OAS/OAH SHLase activity is correlated with H(2)S production and release.
The photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and plant pathogenic fungus Cercospora nicotianae have been used as models for understanding resistance to singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)), a highly toxic reactive oxygen species. In Rhodobacter and Cercospora, (1)O(2) is derived, respectively, from photosynthesis and from the (1)O(2)-generating toxin cercosporin which the fungus produces to parasitize plants. We identified common genes recovered in transcriptome studies of putative (1)O(2)-resistance genes in these two systems, suggesting common (1)O(2)-resistance mechanisms. To determine if the Cercospora homologs of R. sphaeroides (1)O(2)-resistance genes are involved in resistance to cercosporin, we expressed the genes in the cercosporin-sensitive fungus Neurospora crassa and assayed for increases in cercosporin resistance. Neurospora crassa transformants expressing genes encoding aldo/keto reductase, succinyl-CoA ligase, O-acetylhomoserine (thiol) lyase, peptide methionine sulphoxide reductase and glutathione S-transferase did not have elevated levels of cercosporin resistance. Several transformants expressing aldehyde dehydrogenase were significantly more resistant to cercosporin. Expression of the transgene and enzyme activity did not correlate with resistance, however. We conclude that although the genes tested in this study are important in (1)O(2) resistance in R. sphaeroides, their Cercospora homologs are not involved in resistance to (1)O(2) generated from cercosporin.
Abstract Methionine synthesis in Neurospora involves acetylation of homoserine, catalyzed by homoserine transacetylase; replacement of the acetyl group by cysteine, catalyzed by cystathionine γ-synthase; and elimination of homocysteine from cystathionine, catalyzed by β-cystathionase. Another enzyme catalyzes reactions of acetylhomoserine with sulfide or methylmercaptan to yield homocysteine or methionine directly, but the acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase reaction does not play a major role in methionine synthesis in this organism. Three other fungi, Saccharomyces, Candida, and Cunninghamella were found to have transacetylase and sulfhydrylase enzymes similar to those in Neurospora, but only equivocal levels of cystathionine synthase have so far been detected. The Neurospora cystathionine synthase activity was very labile after extraction and was lost on dilution. Inhibition by hydroxylamine could be only partially attributed to a requirement for pyridoxal phosphate. Eight genes are known in Neurospora in which mutation confers methionine auxotrophy. None of the corresponding mutants lacked the sulfhydrylase. The me-5 mutants investigated had modified, rather than absent, transacetylase activities. Cystathionine synthase activity was absent from extracts of me-3, me-7, me-1, and me-6 mutants. The first two of these mutants have no other known defect; the second two are also blocked in the transmethylation of homocysteine. Activity was reconstituted by pairwise mixing of macromolecular fractions from the four mutant extracts in all combinations, with one possible exception, suggesting that several gene products are involved in this presumably single step reaction. Addition of methionine to minimal growth medium did not affect the wild type levels of transacetylase or cystathionine synthase activity. S-Adenosylmethionine was identified as an end product inhibitor of cystathionine synthase. Activity was inhibited 50% by 0.01 mm S-adenosylmethionine, but the inhibition was established only after the enzyme had been exposed to inhibitor for 5 min. No end product control over the first reaction unique to methionine synthesis could be detected, suggesting the existence of another, unidentified vital function for acetylhomoserine, or for the transacetylase. The concentration of S-adenosylmethionine in wild type cells which had been grown in the presence of methionine was shown to be sufficient to inhibit cystathionine synthase completely. An ethionine-resistant mutant which over-produced methionine was found to be unable to accumulate the inhibitor due to a defect in S-adenosylmethionine synthase; this is believed to be the first identification of a gene coding this enzyme.
Studies with crude preparations obtained from a cysteine auxotroph of Saccharomyces cerevisiae showed that O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase could be separated from O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase by chromatography on a DEAE-cellulose column and centrifugation in a sucrose density gradient. On the basis of sedimentation distance, the molecular weights of these enzymes were calculated to be about 99,000 and 182,000, respectively. The former did not react with the amino acid substrate of the latter, and vice versa. The wild-type strain was also demonstrated to possess O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase (molecular weight: about 96,000), in addition to a large amount of O-acetylserine-O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase (Yamagata et al. (1974) J. Biochem. 75, 1221).
A DNA fragment containing the Saccharomyces cerevisiae CYS3 (CYI1) gene was cloned. The clone had a single open reading frame of 1,182 bp (394 amino acid residues). By comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with the N-terminal amino acid sequence of cystathionine gamma-lyase, CYS3 (CYI1) was concluded to be the structural gene for this enzyme. In addition, the deduced sequence showed homology with the following enzymes: rat cystathionine gamma-lyase (41%), Escherichia coli cystathionine gamma-synthase (36%), and cystathionine beta-lyase (25%). The N-terminal half of it was homologous (39%) with the N-terminal half of S. cerevisiae O-acetylserine and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase. The cloned CYS3 (CYI1) gene marginally complemented the E. coli metB mutation (cystathionine gamma-synthase deficiency) and conferred cystathionine gamma-synthase activity as well as cystathionine gamma-lyase activity to E. coli; cystathionine gamma-synthase activity was detected when O-succinylhomoserine but not O-acetylhomoserine was used as substrate. We therefore conclude that S. cerevisiae cystathionine gamma-lyase and E. coli cystathionine gamma-synthase are homologous in both structure and in vitro function and propose that their different in vivo functions are due to the unavailability of O-succinylhomoserine in S. cerevisiae and the scarceness of cystathionine in E. coli.
Abstract 1. 1. Methylcysteine lyase, which catalyzes the breakdown of methylcysteine to methylmercaptan, pyruvate and ammonia, was purified from extracts of wild-type Neurospora mycelia. The presence of methylcysteine lyase in me-2 methionineless mutants indicates that this activity is not due to β-cystathioanse. 2. 2. Ammonium sulfate fractionation of wild-type Neurospora extracts resulted in separation of the methylcysteine lyase from the β- and γ-cystathionases. The methylcysteine lyase, which was further purified by DEAE-cellulose chromatography, is apparently able to cleave methionine and cystathionine; the latter by either β- or γ-elimination. 3. 3. Methionine synthase, which catalyzes the reaction between O-acetylhomoserine and methylmercaptan, was shown to be present in extracts prepared from wild-type Neurospora and in extracts from me-7 methionineless mutant. The latter result implies that this activity is not due to cystathionine-γ-synthase. 4. 4. Methionine synthase was separated from cystathionine-γ-,ynthase showing that methionine synthase is not the result of an abnormal activity of these known enzymes. 5. 5. The results indicated that the two enzyme activites, methylcysteine lyase and methionine synthase, are not catalyzed by enzymes of the normal methionine biosynthetic pathway. The role of the alternate pathway of methionine biosynthesis by thiomethyl transfer from methylcysteine to O-acetylhomoserine is discussed.
EXTRACTS OF PHYLOGENETICALLY DIVERSE PLANS WERE SURVEYED FOR THEIR ABILITY TO SYNTHESIZE THE FOLLOWING HOMOSERINE ESTERS WHICH ARE POTENTIAL PRECURSORS FOR METHIONINE AND THREONINE SYNTHESIS IN GREEN PLANTS: O-acetyl-, O-oxalyl-, O-succinyl-, O-malonyl-, and O-phosphohomoserine. Synthesis of O-acylhomoserine esters was detected only in Pisum sativum L. and Lathyrus sativus L. Extracts of P. sativum, a plant known to accumulate O-acetylhomoserine, catalyzed the specific synthesis of this ester from homoserine and acetyl-CoA. Extracts of L. sativus, a plant known to accumulate O-oxalylhomoserine, catalyzed the specific synthesis of this ester from homoserine and oxalyl-CoA. None of the other plants surveyed, including representatives of the green algae, horsetails, gymnosperms, and angiosperms, catalyzed the synthesis of any of the O-acylhomoserine esters studied. In contrast, synthesis of O-phosphohomoserine by the reaction catalyzed by homoserine kinase was demonstrated in extracts of all plants examined, including the two exceptional legumes.These results suggest that, among the five homoserine esters studied, O-phosphohomoserine is the major activated homoserine derivative in plants. Direct confirmation of the dominant physiological role of O-phosphohomoserine in the synthesis of cystathionine in the transsulfuration pathway of methionine biosynthesis in plants has recently been provided (Datko, A. H., Giovanelli, J., and Mudd, S. H. 1974. J. Biol. Chem. 249: 1139-1155).
PURPOSE: A method for enhancing L-methionine and organic acid productivity is provided to enhance methionine production rate and purity of L-methionine and organic acid. CONSTITUTION: A methionine is produced through enzyme reaction by mixing a mixture of methylmercaptan and dimethylsulfide with an enzyme with O-actyl homoserine, or O-succinyl homoserine, methionine conversion activity. The methylmercaptan is methylmercaptan gas or sodium methylmercaptan solution. The enzyme with methionine conversion activity is cystathionine gamma synthase, O-succinylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, or O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase.
Using a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain having the activities of serine O-acetyl-transferase (SATase), O-acetylserine/O-acetylhomoserine sulphydrylase (OAS/OAH SHLase), cystathionine β-synthase (β-CTSase) and cystathionine γ-lyase (γ-CTLase), we individually disrupted CYS3(coding for γ-CTLase) and CYS4 (coding for β-CTSase). The obtained gene disruptants were cysteine-dependent and incorporated the radioactivity of 35S-sulphate into homocysteine but not into cysteine or glutathione. We concluded, therefore, that SATase and OAS/OAH SHLase do not constitute a cysteine biosynthetic pathway and that cysteine is synthesized exclusively through the pathway constituted with β-CTSase and γ-CTLase; note that OAS/OAH SHLase supplies homocysteine to this pathway by acting as OAH SHLase. From further investigation upon the cys3-disruptant, we obtained results consistent with our earlier suggestion that cysteine and OAS play central roles in the regulation of sulphate assimilation. In addition, we found that sulphate transport activity was not induced at all in the cys4-disruptant, suggesting that CYS4 plays a role in the regulation of sulphate assimilation. Copyright © 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The primary structure of recombinant hepatitis B surface antigen protein produced in yeast has been confirmed by mass spectrometric peptide mapping. These studies corroborate more than 85% of the amino acid sequence derived by sequencing of the gene and identified the presence of an acetyl moiety on approximately 70% of the NH2-terminal methionine residues. Prior to the present work, direct structural analysis was largely prevented by the insolubility of this integral membrane protein and its primary degradation fragments in aqueous buffers and by partial blockage of the NH2 terminus. These difficulties were overcome by preparative isolation using electroelution of the monomeric 226 amino acid protein from a polyacrylamide electrophoretic gel in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate. Chymotryptic digestion of the reduced and carboxymethylated monomer produced a large number of small, predominantly hydrophobic peptides ideally suited for peptide mapping by fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry. The percentage of NH2-terminal methionine blocked by acetyl was determined by a new strategy involving cyanogen bromide cleavage, permethylation, and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry identification and quantitation of the N-methyl-N-acetylhomoserine produced.
Background: Wine yeasts can produce undesirable sulfur compounds during alcoholic fermentation, such as SO2 and H2S, in variable amounts depending mostly on the yeast strain but also on the conditions. However, although sulfur metabolism has been widely studied, some of the genetic determinants of differences in sulfite and/or sulfide production between wine yeast strains remain to be identified. In this study, we used an integrated approach to decipher the genetic determinants of variation in the production of undesirable sulfur compounds. Results: We examined the kinetics of SO2 production by two parental strains, one high and one low sulfite producer. These strains displayed similar production profiles but only the high-sulfite producer strain continued to produce SO2 in the stationary phase. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the low-sulfite producer strain overexpressed genes of the sulfur assimilation pathway, which is the mark of a lower flux through the pathway consistent with a lower intracellular concentration in cysteine. A QTL mapping strategy then enabled us to identify MET2 and SKP2 as the genes responsible for these phenotypic differences between strains and we identified new variants of these genes in the low-sulfite producer strain. MET2 influences the availability of a metabolic intermediate, O-acetylhomoserine, whereas SKP2 affects the activity of a key enzyme of the sulfur assimilation branch of the pathway, the APS kinase, encoded by MET14. Furthermore, these genes also affected the production of propanol and acetaldehyde. These pleiotropic effects are probably linked to the influence of these genes on interconnected pathways and to the chemical reactivity of sulfite with other metabolites. Conclusions: This study provides new insight into the regulation of sulfur metabolism in wine yeasts and identifies variants of MET2 and SKP2 genes, that control the activity of both branches of the sulfur amino acid synthesis pathway and modulate sulfite/sulfide production and other related phenotypes. These results provide novel targets for the improvement of wine yeast strains.
Novel protein, its mutant protein, polynucleotides encoding these, recombinant vectors comprising said polynucleotide, a microorganism transformed with the recombinant vector having the activity of O- acetyl homoserine sulfhydrylase (O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase) and a method of producing methionine or acetic acid using said protein. The method of producing the present invention has the advantage of being able to produce economically L- methionine and acetate by reduction of high conversion rate and reaction time than the existing methods, when using the mutant protein, enzyme lysate the input amount can be produced in high yield and easily minimized to L- methionine and acetate.
A new antifungal, azoxybacilin (an unusual amino acid with an azoxy moiety) was identified from Bacillus cereusd, and its in vitro antifungal activity and mode of action were investigated. Azoxybacilin was active against a broad spectrum of fungi. It was especially active against mycelial fungi, such as Aspergillus, and did not show antibacterial activity. No cross-resistance with antifungals currently on the market was observed. The IC50 values of azoxybacilin antifungal activity against Saccharomyces cerevisiae were significantly greater when amino acids containing sulfur were added to the growth medium, whereas other amino acids were not effective at all. We, therefore, tested the effect of the intermediates involved in the synthetic pathway of these amino acids. The activity markedly diminished when one of the following four intermediates was present in the medium: homocysteine, cysteine, cystathionine or methionine. These four intermediates were the same as those required for the growth of the O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase mutant, S. cerevisiae ONO726, indicating that azoxybacilin would inhibit a step or steps in the sulfur-fixation pathway.
Summary ::: We study the metaproteome of the GF/F-prefiltered fraction of a microbial community from Shantou coast summer surface waters using a shotgun proteomic approach. Spectra attributed to the marine Roseobacter clade (MRC), the oligotrophic marine Gammaproteobacteria (OMG) group and Flavobacteria dominated in the microbial community, accounting for 21.0%, 23.2% and 12.7% of all of the detected spectra, respectively, whereas the SAR 92 clade accounted for 50% of the OMG group. The abundance of TonB-dependent receptors (TBDRs) was detected and the majority of TBDRs were attributed to the OMG, whereas a large number of ABC transporters matched to the MRC, which suggests niche separation in the microbial community. Expression of proteorhodopsin and RagB/SusD from Flavobacteria facilitates their attachment and growth on algal-derived organic matter. Taurine and glycine betaine appear to be an important source of carbon and nitrogen for the Rhodobacteraceae and SAR11 cluster. The detection of carbon monoxide dehydrogenase, formate dehydrogenase, O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase and sulfur oxidation protein from the MRC demonstrated that members of the MRC play important roles in coastal ocean biogeochemical cycles. This study provides the first insight into functional processes occurring in microbial communities in coastal waters in the South China Sea.
To gain insight into the evolution of the methionine biosynthesis pathway, in vivo complementation tests were performed. The substrate specificity of three enzymes that intrinsically use different homoserine-esterified substrates and have different sulfur assimilation pathways was examined: two cystathionine γ-synthases (the Escherichia coli enzyme that naturally utilizes O-succinylhomoserine [OSH]) and the Arabidopsis thaliana enzyme that naturally exploits O-phosphohomoserine [OPH]. Both of these act through the transsulfuration pathway. The third enzyme investigated was O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) sulfhydrylase of Leptospira meyeri, representing the enzyme that utilizes OAH and operates through the direct sulfhydrylation pathway. All the three enzymes were able to utilize OSH and OAH as substrates, with different degrees of efficiency, but only the plant enzyme was able to utilize OPH as a substrate. In addition to their inherent activity in the transsulfuration pathway, the two cystathionine γ-synthases were also capable of acting in the direct sulfhydrylation pathway. Based on the phylogenic tree and the results of the complementation tests, we suggest that the ancestral gene was able to act as OAH or OSH sulfhydrylase. In some bacteria and plants, this ancient enzyme most probably evolved into a cystathionine γ-synthase, thereby maintaining the ability to utilize various homoserine-esterified substrates, as well as various sulfur sources, and thus keeping the multisubstrate specificity of its ancestor. In some organisms, this ancestral gene probably underwent a duplication event, which resulted in a cystathionine γ-synthase and a separate OAH or OSH sulfhydrylase. This led to the development of two parallel pathways of methionine biosynthesis, transsulfuration and direct sulfhydrylation, in these organisms. Although both pathways exist in several organisms, most seem to favor a single specific pathway for methionine biosynthesis in vivo.
Abstract Mutations in the Aspergillus nidulans metE gene lead to requirement for O -acetylhomoserine. The gene was cloned by complementation of the metE31 mutation. The coding sequence was found to be interrupted by two introns of 66 and 50 bp, respectively. metE codes for a peptide of 489 amino acids which belongs to the family of homoserine O -acetyltransferases and a well-defined superfamily of alpha/beta hydrolases. Transcription of the metE gene is strongly up-regulated by a severe limitation of methionine, but not of cysteine. This gene is the first sulphur metabolism gene described in A. nidulans which is not regulated by the sulphur metabolite repression system in which cysteine acts as the low-molecular-weight effector.
Four strains of wine yeasts of two different species (Saccharomyces cerevisiae var. ellipsoideus and Saccharomyces bayanus) were investigated with respect to the influence of various sulfur compounds on the formation of O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase, O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase and serine sulfhydrase. The specific enzyme activities were followed over a growth period of 96 h.In the presence of sulfate, sulfite and djencolic acid during exponential growth, a moderate increase of O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase activities was recognized. In three strains cysteine and methionine prevented this derepression. At the end of the exponential growth phase, biosynthesis of these two enzymes was suppressed again. Serine sulfhydrase showed a modified regulation which indicates that its synthesis and the synthesis of O-acetylserine and O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylases are not coordinated.
Abstract The low solubility of l -methionine and low activity of enzyme are the major hurdles during l -methionine production by the enzymatic conversion approach. In this study, we investigated various ionic liquids (ILs) as additives for the enzyme-catalyzed production of l -methionine from O-acetyl L-homoserine and methyl mercaptan. Among the ILs evaluated, we found that tetraalkylammonium hydroxide ILs enhanced the solubility of l -methionine as well as the activity of the enzyme. Methionine solubility decreased with increasing alkyl chain length but increased with increasing IL concentration. l -methionine could be dissolved up to 232 g/L in 10% tetramethylammonium hydroxide solution. The enzyme O-acetylhomoserine aminocarboxypropyltransferase reached its maximum activity when the IL concentration was 2.5% (3 times higher than that without ILs) and significantly decreased with increasing IL concentration. The stability of the enzyme also decreased rapidly after 2 h of incubation regardless of the presence or absence of ILs. Nevertheless, 74 g/L of l -methionine could be produced in a reaction media containing 2.5% tetraethylammonium hydroxide compared to 35 g/L of l -methionine obtained in a reaction system without ILs.
To gain insight into the evolution of the methionine biosynthesis pathway, in vivo complementation tests were performed. The substrate specificity of three enzymes that intrinsically use different homoserine-esterified substrates and have different sulfur assimilation pathways was examined: two cystathionine c-synthases (the Escherichia coli enzyme that naturally utilizes O-succinylhomoserine [OSH]) and the Arabidopsis thaliana enzyme that naturally exploits Ophosphohomoserine [OPH]. Both of these act through the transsulfuration pathway. The third enzyme investigated was O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) sulfhydrylase of Leptospira meyeri, representing the enzyme that utilizes OAH and operates through the direct sulfhydrylation pathway. All the three enzymes were able to utilize OSH and OAH as substrates, with different degrees of efficiency, but only the plant enzyme was able to utilize OPH as a substrate. In addition to their inherent activity in the transsulfuration pathway, the two cystathionine c-synthases were also capable of acting in the direct sulfhydrylation pathway. Based on the phylogenic tree and the results of the complementation tests, we suggest that the ancestral gene was able to act as OAH or OSH sulfhydrylase. In some bacteria and plants, this ancient enzyme most probably evolved into a cystathionine c-synthase, thereby maintaining the ability to utilize various homoserineesterified substrates, as well as various sulfur sources, and thus keeping the multisubstrate specificity of its ancestor. In some organisms, this ancestral gene probably underwent a duplication event, which resulted in a cystathionine csynthase and a separate OAH or OSH sulfhydrylase. This led to the development of two parallel pathways of methionine biosynthesis, transsulfuration and direct sulfhydrylation, in these organisms. Although both pathways exist in several organisms, most seem to favor a single specific pathway for methionine biosynthesis in vivo.
The methionine biosynthetic pathways of bacteria, yeast, and plants are identical up to homoserine and from homocysteine to methionine ( fig. 1 ). However, from homoserine to homocysteine, the pathways differ in a number of aspects: the precursor for homoserine esterification, the method by which the sulfur atom assimilates into the carbon skeleton of methionine, the branch point between the methionine and threonine pathways, the intermediate metabolites, and the enzymes that react in these biosynthetic routes ( fig. 1 ). One major variation is the homoserine esterification reaction. In gramnegative facultative aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, homoserine is acylated to O-succinylhomoserine (OSH) in the presence of succinylcoenzyme A ( fig. 1A ). This reaction is catalyzed by homoserine O-succinyltransferase, the MetA gene product (Saint-Girons et al. 1988; Old et al. 1991) . In gram-positive bacteria of the genera Bacillus, Corynebacterium, and Brevibacterium, as well as in yeast and fungi, homoserine is acetylated to O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) in the presence of acetylcoenzyme A, catalyzed by homoserine O-acetyltransferase (Ozaki and Shiio 1982; Langin et al. 1986) (fig. 1B ). In plants, homoserine is esterified with a phosphoryl group to produce O-phosphohomoserine (OPH), in a reaction catalyzed by homoserine kinase ( fig. 1C ) (Macnitol et al. 1981) .
We describe here the synthesis of selenium amino acids with O-acetylhomoserine sulfhydrylase, partially purified from baker’s yeast. The enzyme was found to catalyze the synthesis of l-selenocystine and l-selenohomocystine from Na2Se2 with the corresponding acetyl-derivatives of serine and homoserine, respectively. l-Serine-O-sulfate also serves as a substrate of the β-replacement reaction. Na2Se2 is less efficient as a substituent donor than the physiological substrate, NaHS, and inhibits the enzyme at high concentrations. Therefore, limited amounts of Na2Se2 were added to the reaction mixture to increase the yield (50 to 60%). This provides a facile method to produce optically active selenocystine and selenohomocystine.
The gene product of the open reading frame Rv3340 from Mycobacterium tuberculosis is annotated as encoding a probable O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) sulfhydrylase (MetC), an enzyme that catalyzes the last step in the biosynthesis of methionine, which is an essential amino acid in bacteria and plants. Following overexpression in Escherichia coli, the M. tuberculosis MetC enzyme was purified and crystallized using the hanging-drop vapor-diffusion method. Native diffraction data were collected from crystals belonging to space group P21 and were processed to a resolution of 2.1 A.
Experiments in which 5'-methylthioadenosine was used as a culture supplement for methionine-requiring mutants of Aspergillus nidulans with various enzymatic lesions indicated that the methylthio group derived from the nucleoside can be recycled to methionine. The results strongly suggest that methionine may be synthesized in the reaction catalyzed by homocysteine synthase (EC 4.2.99.10) in which O-acetylhomoserine is an acceptor of the methylthio group. The first step on the salvage pathway of the methylthio group is, in Aspergillus nidulans, phosphorolytic cleavage of 5'-methylthioadenosine to adenine and 5-methylthioribose 1-phosphate catalyzed by a specific phosphorylase.
The gene product of the open reading frame Rv3340 from Mycobacterium tuberculosis is annotated as encoding a probable O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) sulfhydrylase (MetC), an enzyme that catalyzes the last step in the biosynthesis of methionine, which is an essential amino acid in bacteria and plants. Following overexpression in Escherichia coli, the M. tuberculosis MetC enzyme was purified and crystallized using the hanging-drop vapor-diffusion method. Native diffraction data were collected from crystals belonging to space group P2 1 and were processed to a resolution of 2.1 Å .
In this study, we report the molecular cloning, protein purification and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of the Rv3340 gene product, which is annotated as a probable O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) sulfhydrylase (MetC). MtbMetC is an enzyme that catalyzes the final step in the biosynthesis of methionine. Structurally related enzymes include OAH sulfhydrylases and cystathionine -,and -lyases from bacteria, plants, yeast and animals, all of which require a bound pyridoxal 5 0 -phosphate (PLP) molecule as a cofactor. By sequence alignment, the closest structural neighbor of MtbMetC in the Protein Data Bank (PDB) is OAH2 from Thermus thermophilus (PDB entry 2ctz; T. Imagawa, Y. Kousumi, H. Tsuge, H. Utsunomiya, A. Ebihara, N. Nakagawa, S. Yokoyama & S. Kuramitsu, unpublished work), which has $53% sequence identity to MtbMetC. The crystal structure of T. thermophilus OAH2 shows an overall fold composed of three domains: N-terminal, central and C-terminal domains. The active site, where PLP is often covalently attached to a conserved lysine residue, is formed by residues from all three domains plus residues from a neighboring OAH2 molecule in the crystal structure. The functional assembly of these enzymes is thought to be a homotetramer.
Like most free-living microorganisms, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii synthesizes the whole range of amino acids that are required to form proteins and most important metabolites (polyamines, nucleotides, glutathione etc.). C. reinhardtii cells carry out the bulk of their amino acid biosynthesis in the chloroplast. A series of amino acids are synthesized through the aspartate pathway. Similar to higher plants (Azevedo et al., 1997; Bryan, 1980; Jander and Joshi, 2009; , the aspartate pathway in C. reinhardtii consists of three branches, one leading to lysine, another to threonine and isoleucine, and the third to methionine (Fig. 1) . The branching point to lysine occurs at aspartate-4-semialdehyde (A4S) whereas at homoserine-4-phosphate (O-phospho-L-homoserine, OPH), the pathway branches to methionine and to threonine/isoleucine. It is notable that the pathway for biosynthesis of methionine from OPH in C. reinhardtii and in higher plants differs from that of bacteria (Vallon and Spalding, 2009 ). In prokaryotic microorganisms, the analogous branch-point occurs at homoserine, with OPH used specifically for threonine synthesis, and O-succinylhomoserine or O-acetylhomoserine used specifically for methionine synthesis (Greene, 1996; Patte, 1996) .
